{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V14 1898-9","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v14_1898-9.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V14 1898-9","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OK THE
SOC1ETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
VOLUME XIV.
(CONTAINING PARTS XXXIV-XXXV.)
1898-9.
The responsibility for both the facta and the reasonings in papers punished
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUI3NER and CO., Limited,
CHARING CROSS ROAD.
189!).
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
INDEX TO VOLUME XIV.
(PARTS XXXIV -XXXV.)
1898-99.
A. PAge
A. , Miss M. O. , Case recorded by 238
A., Mr., Case contributed by ... .. ..- 273
Accidental Coincidences. {See Chance and Chance Series)
Africa, West, Forms of Apparitions in, by Mary H. Kingsley 331
„ ,, Notes on Occultism in, by J. Shepley Part, M.D 343
Alexander, Professor A., Cases communicated by ... 255, 280
Alternative Events, Chance Series with two 184-101, 293-300
,, „ ,, ,, with more than two 300-307
,, ,, of Unequal Probability ... 308
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Members 426
Anagrams ... 207, 212
" Angus, Miss," Experiments in Crystal Vision 129-131
" Annales des Sciences Psyehiques," Review of some Cases recorded in ... 115
" Annee Psychologique, L'," Review of ... 146
Artificial Chance Series, On the Construction of, by W. E. Johnson and
Alice Johnson , 293
Automatic Phenomena, Functions of the Brain in 38.5-6
" Table-tilting " Experiments 118-128
" Aunt Sally," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 34
B.
B. , Mrs., Dr. Morton Prince's Hypnotic Experiments with... 82
Bagot, Mrs. , Case contributed by ... ... 285
liaker, William (and Mrs. Piper), Experiments in Automatic Writing 22, 23, 30
Barrett, Professor W. F., Experiments in "Spirit Photography" .. ... 236
Barton, G. B., Examination of Evidence in " Fisher's Ghost" Case ... Ill
Beard, Or. George M., Case recorded by 195
Berillon, Dr. Edgar, " L'Hypnotisme et l'Orthopedie Mentale," by—
Review of 139, 143
Berry, Arthur, Case contributed by ... 274
Binet, Dr. A., " L'Annee Psychologique," Edited by—Review of 146
Bingham, Rev. C. W., Cases recorded by 194> 261
Blyth, Mrs. E. D., Case contributed by'. 265
ii Index tj Volume XIV.
" Bonney, Albert," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 41
Bramwell, Dr. J. Milne, Address on Hypnotism before the British
Medical Association 98
,, „ ,, Experiments in Curative Hypnotism ... 98-100
Brett, H. W., Case contributed by 199
British Association, Presidential Address (Part of), by Sir W. Crookes ... 2
British Medical Association, Hypnotism before the ... 98-110
Buddhist Canon, Coincidences between it and the New Testament ... 174
"Burton, J. J.," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 31
Bute, The Marquis of, Case communicated by ... ... 254
C.
Cahagnet, Alphonse, Hypnotic Experiments of 58-71
Causally Connected Events compared with Events in a Chance Series
170, 172, 182-3, 193
Causation, Coincidences Doubtfully Suggestive of 205-260
,, More Strongly Suggestive of 261-292
Contrasted with Chance 172, 176, 183
,, ,, Design ... ... 171
Definitions of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 171, 172
Indications of 173, 175
Certainty, the Conditions of, Professor Ch. Kichet on .. .. 152
Chance Resemblances between Diagrams, Colonel Taylor's Experiments on 162
Chance, Coincidences Clearly Due to 193-205, 322
,, Contrasted with Causation .. 172, 176
,, ,, ,, Design 167, 176
Definitions of 166, 167, 173, 181
,, General Discussion of 178-192
Chance Series, Artificial, on the Construction of 293
,, Composed of "Events" 173, 181
,, Definition of ... ... ... 167, 173
,, Diagrams of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 1 85
,, Expectation of Events in ... ... 178
,, General Characteristics of ... ... 183,204
,, Methods of Analysis of, into " Sets " 187
„ ,, „ "Cycles" 188,293-308
,, "Norm" 294
,, ,, Examples of 297
,, Probability of Events in 178
,, Relation of Events in, to One Another 181
„ Represented by Curves 168
Summarised into Tables 187, 189, 298, 301, 302, 304, 305, 306
Clairvoyance, Telepathic, Possible Cases of ... 48, 67-69, 345, 394, 397, 398
Coincidences, Alice Johnson on .. ... 158-330
,, Associated with " Physical Phenomena " 232-246
,, Classification of 165
,, Definition of ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 159
Due to Chance 166, 193-205, 322
„ Examples of 193-292, 309-330
Premonitory 214, 246-260, 266, 309, 317, 322
,, Summary of Article on ... 158
,, Suggestive of Causation ... ... 165,261-292
„ „ Design 166, 205-232
Index to Volume XIV. 111
Coincidences, Suggestive of Subliminal Mental Action 261-270
Telepathy 270-291
Columba, Saint, Psychical Incidents in the Life of 394, 395
Corbet, Miss S. R, Case contributed by 234
Costello, Dr. W. B., Case recorded by 56
Crookes, Sir Wm., F.R.S., Presidential Address before the British
Association 2
Crystal Vision, Experiments in 129-131
,, ,, Hypnotic ... 367-371
" Cycles," Analysis of Chance Series into 188-191,293-308-
D.
D. , Mrs. , Case contributed by 266
Dailey, Judge, " Mollie Fancher," by—Review of 396
De la Bastie, M. "Dejean, Case recorded by ... 63
De Morgan, A., Cases recorded by 249, 264
Desbeaux, M. E. , Case recorded by 214
Design, Coincidences Suggestive of 205-232
,, Contrasted with Causation 166, 171
Chance 167, 176, 181, 206
,, Definition of 167
„ Indications of 169, 176, 206, 207
De Solla, I., Case contributed by 286
Didier, Alexis, Alleged Clairvoyance of 51, 53-58, 74, 373
" Direct Writing," Experiments in ... 121-126
Du Potet, M., Hypnotic Experiments of 61-63
E.
ErMACOrA, Dr. G. B., " La Telepatia," by—Review of 392
,, ,, On the Theory of Premonitions 246, 254
Evans, H. Ridgely, "Hours with the Ghosts," by—Review of 147
Expectation Compared with Probability 178
,, Of Events in a Chance Series 178, 183
,, Possible Causal Efficacy of 180
F.
V., MrS., Case contributed by ... 242
" Fancher, Mollie, The Brooklyn Enigma," by Judge Dailey—Review of 396
Feret, C. J., Case recorded by .. 226
Ferguson, Mr., Clairvoyance of 345
Ferroul, Dr., and Grasset, Professor, Experiments in Clairvoyance of ... 115
Fisher, Mrs., Case contributed by 287
" Fisher's Ghost," Note on, by H. Arthur Smith ... ... Ill
Flechsig, Professor, Investigations into the Anatomy of the Brain ... 81
Fry, G. W., Case recorded by 239
G.
Gale, Professor Harlow S., Case communicated by 272
,, ,, ,, Reviews by, Dr. Ermacora's "La Telepatia" 392
,, ,, ,, „ Herr Midler's " Naturwissen-
schaftliche Seelenforschung " 389
Glanlon, Rev. A., Case communicated by 242
Uoodru-h-Freer, A. ("MissX."), "Essays in Psychical Research," by-
Review of ... 393
Index to Volume XIV.
Grasset, Professor, and Ferroul, Dr., Experiments in Clairvoyance ... 115
Green, Dr. C. Theodore, On Dreams " Dramatised Backwards " 263
Gritting, Mrs. C. K., Case contributed by 282
Guessing Competition, Case of a ... ... 322
Gurney, Edmund, On a Case of Apparent Thought-Transference 245
,, ,, Memorial Library, Supplementary Catalogue 399
Hackett, J. T., Case contributed by 199
Hanna, Rev. T. C., A Case of Secondary Personality 388
Hansen and Lehmann, Messrs., Experiments in Unconscious Whispering 163
Haslam, Mrs. F. W., Case contributed by 250
Hicks, Colonel C. F. , Case contributed by 288
Hodgson, R., LL.D., Reviews by :—
"Essays in Psychical Research," by "Miss X.'" (A.Goodrich-
Freer) 393
" Hours with the Ghosts," by H. R. Evans ... 147
Holmes-Forbes, A. \V., Case recorded by ... ... 203
Holmes, Oliver Wendell, Cases recorded by 276
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of 136-138, 149, 150
Houdin, Robert, Experiments with Alexis Didier ... 374-381
Howard, Dr. L. O., Case contributed by 253
Hulin, Professor G., On Premonitions of Conscription Numbers 253
Humble-Crofts, Rev. W. J., Case recorded by ... ... ... ••, 227
Hypnotism :—
Anaesthesia, Hypnotic 96-97, 99, 100
British Medical Association and 98, 100, 109, 110
Clairvoyance, Hypnotic, Alleged 53-71, 115-118, 366-371
Curative 98-100, 109, 110, 140 143
Drugs, I,se of in Inducing ... 140
Hysteria and Hypnosis, Study of Cases ... ... 79
Memory, Conditions of 80, 92, 388
Miscellaneous Phenomena 53-71, 79, 98-100, 109, 110, 139, 141, 143,
366, 373, 388, 389
Moral Aspects of 99, 100, 109, 110, 143
Organic Disease in 109
Personality, Hypnotic 101,366-369
Psychology of 100
Reviews of Recent Works on 139, 366, 386
Sensation, Return of, Under 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 94-97
Suggestion and, Limits of ... 100, 107, 108, 110, 140, 141, 386
Time-Sense, Hypnotic .. .. ..• 100
Uses and Dangers of 109
Hyslop, Professor J. II., Cases communicated by 253,266
,, „ Review by, " The New Psychology," by E. W.
Scripture ... •,• 144
Hysteria and Hypnosis, A Contribution to the Study of, by Dr. Morton
Prince "9
J.
"James, AArON," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 41
James, Professor Wm., Introduction to the "Psychology of Suggestion,"
by Boris Sidis 386
Index to Volume XIV. v
Jerome, Mrs. C. T., Case contributed by 272
Jevons, W. S., Coincidences recorded by 219
Johnson, Alice, On Coincidences 158-330
Johnson, W. E., Diagrams of Chance Series 184 ",
,, and Alice Johnson, On the Construction of Artificial
Chance Series 293-308
Jones, Rev. H. E., Case contributed by . ... 291
K.
Kingsley, Mary H., Forms of Ap]iaritions in West Africa 331
Kingston, Dr. H. D. R., On "Spirit Photography " 137
Kobbe, Bt. Major, Case recorded by 230
L.
Lane, Frederick, Case contributed by 309
Lang, Andrew, On Coincidences between Myths ... 17">
On " Fisher's Ghost" Case Ill
„ " The Making of Religion," by—Review of 128
Leaf, Dr. W., Case contributed by 263
Lehumim and Hansen, Messrs., Experiments in Unconscious Whispering 163
Lodge, Professor O. J., Cases communicated by 229, 230
Lottery, Definition of Legal Term 322
,, Discussion of Theoretical Meaning of 324-330
Louis Philippe, Coincidences Regarding Dates in his Life 216
Loze, M., Experiments in " Table-Tilting " and "Direct Writing" 118, 121
Lukens, Dr. Anna, Case contributed by .. ... 233
M.
MAGINOT, Adele, Hypnotic Experiments with 59-7 1 , 74
Marcillet, M., and Alexis Didier 53-58
" Martin, Mrs.," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 31
Massey, C. C., Cases recorded by 203, 208
Meetings of the Society ... 1, 151
Melbourne Cup Dreams 317
Members, Associates, and Hon. Members of the S.P.R., List of 402
,, ,, ,, American Branch 426
Merrier, Ch. A., M.B., K.R.C.S., "Suggestion and Crime" (British
Medical Association) 110
Mirville, J. E. de, " Des Esprits et de leurs Manifestations Fluidities,"
Extract from 373
Monte Carlo Roulette. Professor Karl Pearson on 176, 182, 191
" Morton, F. A.," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 12-22, 24
Moses, W. Staunton, Alleged Communications from (through Mrs.
Piper) 36, 47
,, ,, "Spirit-Identity," Cases through 51, 52,73,74
Miiller, Herr R, " Naturwissenschaftliche Seelenforschung," by —
Review of 389
Miiller, Professor Max, On Coincidences 174
Miinsterberg, Professor, Psychology and Psychical Research, A Reply to,
by F. C. S. Schiller .' 348
"Murdoch, Kitty," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 22
Murray, Donald, Cases communicated by 317
Myers, F. W. H., Case communicated by 244
,, ,, On Subliminal Perceptions 261
vi Index to Volume XIV.
Myers, F. W. H., Psychology and Hypnotism (before the British Medical
Association) ... 100
„ ,, Reviews by—
" L'Annee Psychologique " 146
" Experimental Study of Visions," by Dr. Morton
Prince 366
" Peculiarities of Secondary Personality," by Pro
fessor G. T. W. Patrick .-82
N.
NASCIMENTO, J. C. F., Case contributed by .. 280
Newbold, Professor Wm. Romaine :—
A further Record of Observations of Certain
Phenomena of Trance... .. 6
,, ,, ,, ,, Detailed Cases 11-49
,, ,, ,, ,, Discussion of Evidence
of "Spirit-Identity"
8, 9, 10, 21, 22, 29, 30, 33, 41, 44
,, ,, Renew of " Mollie Fancher, the Brooklyn
Enigma," by Judge Dailey 396
" Norm Chance Series " 294
,, „ Examples of 297
" Norm Numbers " in Chance Series ... .. 293
O.
Occultism in West Africa, Notes on, hy J. Shepley Part, M.D. ... 343
Officers and Council of the Society for Psychical Research (1899) 401
P.
PAlAdINO, ElTSAPIA, Note on the Alleged Powers of, by F. W. H. Myers 157
,, „ Professor Richet's Sittings with ... 155
"Parker, Mr.," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 45
Part, J. Shepley, M.D., A Few Notes on Occultism in West Africa, by ... 343
Patrick, Professor G. T. W., "Some Peculiarities of the Secondary
Personality," by—Review of ... 7". 382
Pearson, Professor Karl, On Monte Carlo Roulette ... 182, 191
Pelbam, George ("G.P."), Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 16, 19, 30,
34-42, 45
Personality, Secondary, Cases of 366, 397
,, ,, Some Peculiarities of, Professor (!. T.W.Patrick on 382
Petiet, M., Case recorded by 60
*' Phantasms of the Living," Note on a Case in 114
"Physical Phenomena" involving Coincidences 232-246
,, „ '" Lcvitation " ' 135, 136
"Slate-Writing" 119 124
"Table-Tilting" 118-127
Piper, Mrs., The Trance Phenomena of :—
Lang, A., on ... 131
Newbold, Professor W. R., on 6
Patrick, Professor G. T. W., on 382
Podmore, F., on 50
"X., Miss," on 395-6
Pitkin, Rev. John, Case contributed by .. 254
Index to Volume XIV. vii
Podmore, Frank, Case communicated by 309
,, ,, Discussion of the Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper ... 50
,, ,, Review, " The Making of Religion," by Andrew Lang 128
Powles, L. C., Case contributed by 271
Premonitions 214, 24(5-260, 266, 309, 317, 322
Prince, Dr. Morton, A Contribution to the Study of Hysteria and
Hypnosis, by .. 79
,, ,, " Experimental Study of Visions," Review of ... 366
Probability Compared with Expectation 178
„ Formula for 182
,, Of Events in Chance Series 182, 293
,, „ „ Formula; for 293-308
Proctor, R. A., Cases recorded by 225, 249
Psychology of Hypnotism, F. W. H. Myers on .• 100
,, „ Hypnotism and Genius 103
,, ,, ,, and Hysteria 101
,, „ ,, and Sleep 105
,, ,, „ and Sleep-Waking States ... 106
,, ,, ,, Submergence and Emergence 103
,, ,, ,, Suggestion and Self-Suggestion 107
Psychology and Psychical Research, A Reply to Professor Miinsterberg,
by F. C. S. Schiller 348
R.
R., MrS., Dr. Morton Prince's Hypnotic Experiments with ... 84-86, 94, 95
Ramos, C. G., Case contributed by 255
"Residual Cycles," Occurrence of, in Chance Series 190, 294, 297-308
„ Formuhe for 294, 300, 307
Retrocognition, A Case of 255
Reviews 115, 128, 139, 144, 146, 147, 382, 389, 392, 393-396
" Revue de Psychologie, La," Review of 141
Richet, Professor C, Note on MM. Loze and Vidal's Experiments ... 124
„ ,, On the Conditions of Certainty 152
Kostan, J. J., Case recorded by .. 64
Rouillon, Professor, On Some " Table-Tilting" Experiments ... 118-128
Roulette at Monte Carlo, Professor Karl Pearson on 176, 182, 191
S.
S., A., Case contributed by 258
Sandby, Rev. G., Case recorded by ... 55
Schiller, F. C. S., Psychology and Psychical Research, A Reply to
Professor Miinsterberg 348
Scripture, E. W., "The New Psychology," by—Review of 144
" Sequences " of Events in Chance Series ... 294-308
Shuttleworth, Miss C., Case contributed by .. 199
Sidis, Dr. Boris, " Psychology of Suggestion," by—Review of ... . 386
" Slate-Writing " Phenomena 119-124
Smith, H. Arthur, Note on " Fisher's Ghost" Ill
,, J. G., Review of Cases in the " Annates des Sciences Psyehiques" 115
Spirit-Identity. (See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.)
" Spirit-Photography," A Case of Supposed 234
Subliminal Mental Action, Coincidences Apparently Due to ... 261-270
Possible Instances of 213, 244, 245
Swift, Dean, Imaginary Discovery of Satellites of Mars 247
viii Index to Volume XIV.
T.
TAYlOr, Colonel, Experiments on Chance Resemblances between
Diagrams 162
Taylor, Dr E. W., Review of the " Psychology of Suggestion," by Dr.
Boris Siclis 386
Telepathy, Coincidences Suggestive of 270-291
Telepathic Clairvoyance. {See Clairvoyance and Hypnotism.)
Terriss. William, Premonitory Dream of the Murder of 309
Townshend, Rev. C. Hare, Case recorded by 56-38
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper :-
Newbold, Professor W. Komaine, A Further Record of
Observations of 6
Podmore, F., Discussion of 50
,, Fraud, Possibilities of 71-78
Spirit-Identity, Examination of Facts Suggestive of 8-10, 21, 22, 29,
30, 33, 41, 44
Tuckey, Dr. Chas. Lloyd, Reviews by :—
" Hypnotism and its Application to Practical Medicine," Dr.
O. G. Wetterstrand 139
" L'Hypnotisme et l'Orthopedie Mentale," Dr. E. Benllon ... 143
" Revue de Psychologic " 141
U.
Unconscious Whispering, Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen's Experi
ments in 163
V.
Van Renterghem, Dr., Hypnotic Experiments of 142
Vidal, M., Experiments in "Table-Tilting" and " Direct Writing " 118-128
W.
Wait, Marshall, Case communicated by 258
Wallace, A. R., F.R.S., Note to Extract from J. E. de Mirville's " Des
Esprits et de leurs Manifestations Fluidioues " .. .. 373
Ward, W. E., Case contributed by 233
West Africa, The Forms of Apparitions in, by Mary H. Kingsley ... 331
,, Occultism in, J. Shepley Part, M.D., on 343
Wetterstrand, Dr. O. C, "Hypnotism and its Application to Practical
Medicine," Review of 139
" White, Joseph," Communications (through Mrs. Piper) 35
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Case contributed by 284
Woods, J. F., M.D., Hypnotism in Organic Disease (before the British
Medical Association) 109
"Worksop" Case, The 134,135
X.
"X., Miss" (A. Goodrich-Freer), "Essays in Psychical Research," by—
Review of ... 393
"X.," Miss, Dr. Morion Prince,s Hypnotic Experiments with 366
Y.
YEllOWlEES, D., LL.D., M.D., The Uses and Dangers of Hypnotism
(before the British Medical Association) 109
Young, Dr. Thomas, Case recorded by .„ 219
C03STTE3STTS.
PAUK
PART XXXIV.
General Meetings 1
I. Part of the Presidential Address delivered to the British Associa
tion at Bristol, September, 1898. By Sir Wm. Crookes,
F.R.S 2
II. A Further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of
Trance. Part II. A. —By Professor Wm. Romaise Newbold li
III. Discussion of the Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. I.—By
Frank Podmore 50
IV. A Contribution to the Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis ; being
Some Experiments on Two Cases of Hysteria, and a
Physiologico-Anatomical Theory of the Nature of these
Neuroses. By Morton Prince, M.D. . . 79
Supplement.
I. The British Medical Association and Hypnotism.
I.—Address by Dr. J. Milne Bramwell . . . .98
II.—Frederic W. H. Myers. The Psychology of Hypnotism 100
III.—David Yellowlees, LL.D., M.D. The Uses and
.Dangers of Hypnotism ...... 109
IV.—John F. Woods, M.D. Hypnotism in Organic Disease 109
V.—Chas. A. Mercier, M.B., F.R.C. S. Eng. Suggestion
and Crime 110
II. Note on " Fisher's Ghost." By H. Arthur Smith . . . Ill
Note on a Case in Phantasm* of the Living .... 114
III. Reviews :—
Some Cases Recorded in the Anwiles des Sciences Psychiques.
By J. G. Smith 115
Mr. Andrew Lang's "The Making of Religion." By Frank
Podmore 128
Dr. Otto George Wetterstrand's ', Hypnotism and its Applica
tion to Practical Medicine." La Revue dc, Psychologie.
Dr. Edgar Berillon's " L'Hypnotisme et l'Orthopedie
Mentale." By Dr. Chas. Lloyd Tuckey . . . 139
Mr. E. W. Scripture's "The Now Psychology." By Pro
. fessor James H. Hyslop ...... 14-1
L'Annee Psychologiqne. By F. W. H. Myers . . . 146
Mr. Henry Ridgely Evans's "Hours with the Ghosts." By
Richard Hodgson, LL.D 147
[p.t.o.
PART XXXV.
General Meetings 151
I. On the Conditions of Certainty. By Professor Charles Richet 152
II. Coincidences. By Alice Johnson.
Summary and Introduction ....... 158
Chapter I. Classification of Coincidences .... 165
Chapter II. General Discussion of Chance .... 178
Chapter HI. Examples 193
Chapter IV. Examples,—continued 261
Appendix I. (written jointly with W. E. Johnson) On the
Construction of Artificial Chance Series . 293
Appendix II. Examination of a Premonitory Case . . 309
Appendix III. Some Premonitory Dreams .... 317
Appendix IV. A Guessing Competition. Was it a "lottery "? 322
Supplement.
I. The Forms of Apparitions in West Africa. By Mary H. Kingsley 331
II. AFewNoteson Occultism in WestAfrica. ByJ. ShepleyPart,M.D. 343
III. Psychology and Psychical Research : a Reply to Professor Miinster-
berg. By F. C. S. Schiller 348
IV. Dr. Morton Prince's "Experimental Study of Visions." By
F. W. H. Myers 366
V. Extract from J. E. de Mirville's "Des Esprits et de leurs Manifesta
tions Fluidiques." With Introductory Note by Alfred R.
Wallace, F.R.S 373
VI. Reviews :—
Professor G. T. W. Patrick's " Some Peculiarities of the
Secondary Personality." By F. W. H. Myers . . 382
Dr. Boris Sidis' " Psychology of Suggestion." By Dr. E. W.
Taylor 386
Herr R. Muller's " Naturwissenschaftliche Seelenforschung."
By Professor Harlow Gale 389
Dr. G. B. Ermacora's "La Telepatia." By Professor
Harlow Gale 392
Miss X. (A. Goodrich-Freer)'s "Essays in Psychical Research."
By Richard Hodgson, LL.D. 39J
Judge Dailey's " Mollie Fancher ; the Brooklyn Enigma."
By Professor W. Romaine Newbold .... 396
Supplementary Catalogue of the Edmund Gurney Library . . 399
Officers and Council for 1899 401
List of Members and Associates . ....... 402
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch . . . 426
PART XXX [V.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 91st General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, March 11th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Professoi:
Henry Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. Frank Podmore gave an address on " The Trance Phenomena
Manifested through Mrs. Piper."
The 92nd General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
April 22nd, at 4 p.m. ; Colonel J. Hartley in the chair.
Dk. R. Hodgson read a paper by Miss Alice Johnson on
" Coincidences."
The 93rd General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
May 20th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Professor Henry Sidgwick in the chair.
Mr. St. George Lane Fox read a paper by Dr. C. Lloyd Tdckey
on " The Influence of Suggestion on Health, with Special Reference
to 'Christian Science.' "
The 94th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
June 24th, at 4 p.m. ; Mr. F. W. H. Myers in the chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett gave an address, " A Second Report on
the So-called Divining Rod," the paper being a sequel to the Report
published in Part XXXII., Proceedings S.P.R.
I!
2 [part
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
I.
PART OF THE PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS DELIVERED TO
THE BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL, SEPT., 1898,
By Sib William Crookes, F.R.S.
These, then, are some of the subjects, weighty and far-reaching, on
which my own attention has been chiefly concentrated. Upon one
other interest I have not yet touched—to me the weightiest and the
farthest reaching of all.
No incident in my scientific career is more widely known than the
part I took many years ago in certain psychic researches. Thirty
years have passed since I published an account of experiments tending
to show that outside our scientific knowledge there exists a Force
exercised by intelligence differing from the ordinary intelligence
common to mortals. This fact in my life is, of course, well understood
by those who honoured me with the invitation to become your
President. Perhaps among my audience some may feel curious as to
whether I shall speak out or be silent. I elect to speak, although
briefly. To enter at length on a still debatable subject would be
unduly to insist on a topic which— as Wallace, Lodge, and Barrett
have already shown—though not unfitted for discussion at these
meetings, does not yet enlist the interest of the majority of my
scientific brethren. To ignore the subject would be an act of cowardice
—an act of cowardice I feel no temptation to commit.
To stop short in any research that bids fair to widen the gates of
knowledge, to recoil from fear of difficulty or adverse criticism, is to
bring reproach on science. There is nothing for the investigator to do
but to go straight on, " to explore up and down, inch by inch, with the
taper his reason " ; to follow the light wherever it may lead, even
should it at times resemble a will-o'-the wisp. I have nothing to
retract. I adhere to my already published statements. Indeed, I
might add much thereto. I regret only a certain crudity in those
early expositions which, no doubt justly, militated against their
acceptance by the scientific world. My own knowledge at that time
scarcely extended beyond the fact that certain phenomena new to
science had assuredly occurred, and were attested by my own sober
senses, and, better still, by automatic record. I was like some
two-dimensional being who might stand at the singular point of
a Riemann's surface, and thus find himself in infinitesimal and in
explicable contact with a plane of existence not his own.
xxxiv.] Part of Presidential Address to British Association. 3
I think I see a little farther now. I have glimpses of something
like coherence among the strange elusive phenomena ; of something
like continuity between those unexplained forces and laws already
known. This advance is largely due to the labours of another
Association of which I have also this year the honour to be President
—the Society for Psychical Research. And were I now introducing
for the first time these inquiries to the world of science I should choose
a starting-point different from that of old. It would be well to begin
with telepathy ; with the fundamental law, as I believe it to be, that
thoughts and images may be transferred from one mind to another
without the agency of the recognised organs of sense—that knowledge
may enter the human mind without being communicated in any
hitherto known or recognised ways.
Although the inquiry has elicited important facts with reference to
the Mind, it has not yet reached the scientific stage of certainty which
would entitle it to be usefully brought before one of our Sections. I
will therefore confine myself to pointing out the direction in which
scientific investigation can legitimately advance. If telepathy take
place we have two physical facts—the physical change in the brain of
A, the suggester, and the analogous physical change in the brain of B,
the recipient of the suggestion. Between these two physical events
there must exist a train of physical causes. Whenever the connecting
sequence of intermediate causes begins to be revealed the inquiry will
then come within the range of one of the Sections of the British
Association. Such a sequence can only occur through an intervening
medium. All the phenomena of the universe are presumably in some
way continuous, and it is unscientific to call in the aid of mysterious
agencies when with every fresh advance in knowledge it is shown that
ether vibrations have powers and attributes abundantly equal to any
demand—even to the transmission of thought. It is supposed by some
physiologists that the essential cells of nerves do not actually touch,
but are separated by a narrow gap which widens in sleep while it
narrows almost to extinction during mental activity. This condition
is so singularly like that of a Branly or Lodge coherer as to suggest a
further analogy. The structure of brain and nerve being similar, it is
conceivable there may be present masses of such nerve coherers in the
brain whose special function it may be to receive impulses brought from
without through the connecting sequence of ether waves of appro
priate order of magntiude. Rontgen has familiarised us with an order
of vibrations of extreme minuteness compared with the smallest waves
with which we have hitherto been acquainted, and of dimensions com
parable with the distances between the centres of the atoms of which
the material universe is built up ; and there is no reason to suppose
that we have here reached the limit of frequency. It is known that
b -2
4 [PART
Sir William Crookes, F.RS.
the action of thought is accompanied by certain molecular movements
in the brain, and here we have physical vibrations capable from their
extreme minuteness of acting direct on individual molecules, while
their rapidity approaches that of the internal and external movements
of the atoms themselves.
Confirmation of telepathic phenomena is afforded by many con
verging experiments, and by many spontaneous occurrences only thus
intelligible. The most varied proof perhaps, is drawn from analysis of
the subconscious workings of the mind, when these, whether by
accident or design, are brought into conscious survey. Evidence of a
region below the threshold of consciousness has been presented, since
its first inception, in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical
Research ; and its various aspects are being interpreted and welded
into a comprehensive whole by the pertinacious genius of F. W. H.
Myers. Concurrently, our knowledge of the facts in this obscure
region has received valuable additions at the hands of labourers in
other countries. To mention a few names out of many, the observations
of Richet, Pierre Janet, and Binet (in France), of Breuer and Freud
(in Austria), of William James (in America), have strikingly illustrated
the extent to which patient experimentation can probe subliminal
processes, and can thus learn the lessons of alternating personalities,
and abnormal states. Whilst it is clear that our knowledge of sub
conscious mentation is still to be developed, we must beware of rashly
assuming that all variations from the normal waking condition are
necessarily morbid. The human race has reached no fixed or change
less ideal ; in every direction there is evolution as well as disintegration.
It would be hard to find instances of more rapid progress, moral
and physical, than in certain important cases of cure by suggestion—
again to cite a few names out of many—by Liébeault, Bernheim, the
late Auguste Voisin, Berillon (in France), Schrenck-Notzing (in Ger
many), Forel (in Switzerland), van Eeden (in Holland), Wetterstrand
(in Sweden), Milne Bramwell and Lloyd Tuckey (in England). This
is not the place for details, but the vis medicatrix thus evoked, as it
were, from the depths of the organism, is of good omen for the upward
evolution of mankind.
A formidable range of phenomena must be scientifically sifted
before we effectually grasp a faculty so strange, so bewildering, and for
ages so inscrutable, as the direct action of mind on mind. This delicate
task needs a rigorous employment of the method of exclusion—a
constant setting aside of irrelevant phenomena that could be explained
by known causes, including those far too familiar causes, conscious and
unconscious fraud. The inquiry unites the difficulties inherent in all
experimentation connected with mind, with tangled human tempera
ments and with observations dependent less on automatic record than
xxxiv.] Part of Presidential Address to British Association. 5
on personal testimony. But difficulties are things to be overcome
even in the elusory branch of research known as Experimental
Psychology. It has been characteristic of the leaders among the group
of inquirers constituting the Society for Psychical Research to combine
critical and negative work with work leading to positive discovery. To
the penetration and scrupulous fair-mindedness of Professor Henry
Sidgwick and of the late Edmund Gurney is largely due the establish
ment of canons of evidence in psychical research, which strengthen
while they narrow the path of subsequent explorers. To the detective
genius of Dr. Richard Hodgson we owe a convincing demonstration
of the narrow limits of human continuous observation.
It has been said that " Nothing worth the proving can be proved,
nor yet disproved." True though this may have been in the past, it
is true no longer. The science of our century has forged weapons of
observation and analysis by which the veriest tyro may profit. Science
has trained and fashioned the average mind into habits of exactitude
and disciplined perception, and in so doing has fortified itself for tasks
higher, wider, and incomparably more wonderful than even the wisest
among our ancestors imagined. Like the souls in Plato's myth that
follow the chariot of Zeus, it has ascended to a point of vision far
above the earth. It is henceforth open to science to transcend all we
now think we know of matter, and to gain new glimpses of a
profounder scheme of Cosmic Law.
An eminent predecessor in this chair declared that "by an in
tellectual necessity he crossed the boundary of experimental evidence,
and discerned in that matter, which we in our ignorance of its latent
powers and notwithstanding our professed reverence for its Creator,
have hitherto covered with opprobrium, the potency and promise of all
terrestrial life." I should prefer to reverse the apophthegm, and to say
that in life I see the promise and potency of all forms of matter.
In old Egyptian days a well known inscription was carved over the
portal of the temple of Isis : " I am whatever hath been, is, or ever
will be ; and my veil no man hath yet lifted." Not thus do modern
seekers after truth confront Nature—the word that stands for the
baffling mysteries of the universe. Steadily, unflinchingly, we strive
to pierce the inmost heart of Nature, from what she is to re-construct
what she has been, and to prophesy what she yet shall be. Veil after
veil we have lifted, and her face grows more beautiful, august, and
wonderful, with every barrier that is withdrawn.
6 [part
William Romaine Neivbold.
II.
A FURTHER RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF CERTAIN
PHENOMENA OF TRANCE.
PART n.
A.—By Professor "William Romaine Newbold.
§ 1. Introductory.
I have been present at twenty-six sittings with Mrs. Piper, and Dr.
Hodgson kindly supervised seven others at which I was not present,
although the communicators invoked and the topics introduced were
suggested by me. Fifteen sittings, including two of those at which I
was not present, were devoted for the most part to getting evidence to
prove the identity of the alleged communicators ; the remainder to
getting from them their own theory of the phenomena and their
description of the conditions under which they were working and of
the life they live. While it is impossible at present to accept these
statements as true, it is of the greatest importance to put them on
record as affording clues for the guidance of experiments with other
automatists. The material got from this latter series I shall leave
entirely to Dr. Hodgson. I am myself concerned with the evidence
for identity only.
Of the general character of that evidence the following pages
will give a sufficient account. In making my abstract I have tried to
include the more important passages which are relevant to the question
of identity. I have been especially careful to bring into prominence
all distinct failures and any other facts which would tend to detract
from the surprising character of many of the statements made. As a
rule I have not transcribed verbatim pages of confusion from which no
coherent thought can be extracted. But in the cases in which such
confusion immediately precedes the appearance of some surprising bit
of information, it has been in several cases given in full, that the
reader may form his own opinion of the methods by which such results
are attained. For examples ef. the giving of the names of Morton,
Murdoch, and the introduction of Mr. Burton (pp. 15, 27, 32). When
clearly intelligible passages contained repetitions of the same word due
to the inability of the sitter to decipher the first attempt, or words and
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 7
phrases which have nothing to do with the general tenor of the
communication, the extraneous material has frequently been omitted
without indication of the fact.
Names of persons and of places have been in nearly all cases sup
pressed. In the selection of pseudonyms I have taken great pains to
represent familiar names by names at least as familiar, and unfamiliar
names by names as unfamiliar. So also in the transcription of
phonetic approximations to the real names, I have taken great care to
make the representatives letter for letter analogous to their originals.
A few other changes have been made in order still further to conceal
identity, but nothing which could at all affect the value of the evidence.
With regard to the origin of the information given, I have no
theory to offer. I can frame none to which I cannot myself allege
unanswerable objections. I am satisfied, however, as is every one
so far as I know who has studied the case at any length, that it
was not consciously got by Mrs. Piper during waking life and then
fraudulently palmed off on the sitter as supernormal. There is every
reason for believing that there is no memory bond between Mrs.
Piper's waking consciousness and that of her trance life.
A question more difficult to answer is that which inquires into the
amount of information which Mrs. Piper's trance personalities get
from the sitter. Even without resorting to the assumption of a tele
pathic relation between the sitter and the " medium," no one who has
seen how readily an acute " medium " will construct an appropriate
" spirit " message upon the suggestions furnished by a sitter's looks
and words will be easily convinced by any such record as I here offer.
This is a legitimate objection, and to some extent impairs the value
of the evidence. In dealing with personalities who had had much
experience in writing, and occasionally with those who represented
themselves as having been long dead, it was usually possible to keep
complete notes of the sitter's questions and answers. The writing was
relatively slow, and illegible words were readily rewritten. But the
alleged spirits of those who had but recently died, or who had died a
violent death, or who had been bound to the sitter by strong emotional
ties, nearly always display great excitement and confusion. The time
and attention of one and even two sitters is fully occupied in con
trolling the violent convulsions which seize the writing arm, keeping a
constant flow of cheering talk going for the benefit of the communica
tor, replacing broken pencils and at the same time deciphering the
pages of delirious nonsense which the hand scribbles off as fast as it
can tear over the sheets, any misreading of which greatly increases the
excitement and confusion.
Under such circumstances, our notes necessarily became frag
mentary, and when the sitting was written up a few hours later, many
8 [pabt
William Romaine Newbold.
of our questions and answers had to be supplied from memory. It is
possible that some suggestions given by sitters have escaped our notice,
and the evidence is to that extent untrustworthy.
I am myself satisfied that the percentage of error thus introduced
is not considerable. Both Dr. Hodgson and I have seen much of pro
fessional mediums, and are thoroughly familiar with the methods of
"fishing" upon which they generally rely. Hence we always had
such possibilities in mind, and it would have been impossible for any
large amount of detailed information to have been extracted from
us in this way without our knowledge. Occasionally our vigilance
relaxed, and we made careful note of the fact. For examples see the
quotation "Fama tempus vivat" (p. 45), and Mr. Bonney's name
(p. 43). Probably it occasionally relaxed without our making any
note of it, but that could not have happened very often.
The reader will observe that " yes " and " no " are often written
when no questions are recorded. This is due to the fact that, the
writing being exceedingly illegible and coming very rapidly, the sitter
reads aloud with a slight interrogatory inflection at any convenient
resting point, as at the end of a sheet or at an apparent pause in the
sense. To this the writer responds with "yes" or ' no," to show
whether he is being correctly understood.
If these utterances are, as I believe them to be, entirely dissevered
from the normal consciousness of Mrs. Piper, they as truly reveal to us
a new world of mind as the microscope reveals a new world of matter.
George Pelham and his companions undoubtedly record for us conscious
experiences which are subjectively as real as any that you or I ever
experienced. But when we ask to what metaphysical category of Being
they are to be assigned, we find no satisfactory answer. Are they
merely unusually stable dream states, generated in connection with
Mrs. Piper's brain, interrupted perhaps during her normal life, but
resuming the thread of their phantasmal existence with the recurrence
of the convulsions which usher in her trance 1 Or are they what they
profess to be, human minds, divested of their mortal bodies, and lead
ing an independent existence in a supersensible world?—a world as real
as this present world in the only true sense of real, being an inevitable
portion of the common experience of conscious beings.
Of the existence of such a world we cannot satisfy ourselves by
any of our usual tests. We are confined to the evidence for the iden
tity of the alleged communicators. Of the extent and value of the
evidence to be got from my series of sittings the reader can himself
judge. Much of it seems to me strong, and much more I cannot
reconcile with the theory of identity.
The only alternative to the " spirit " theory is the theory which
ascribes the phenomena to secondary personalities, derived from the
xXXiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 9
weaving together by Mrs. Piper's nervous mechanism of all the
complex suggestions of the seance room, supplemented by telepathic
and clairvoyant impressions got in connection with the sitter and with
the articles which he brings. For this we can find some analogies on
a smaller scale ; the greater part of my own experiences, if taken
severally, seem to me susceptible of such an explanation, and there
are a few items, such as the Morse incident (p. 24), which almost
irresistibly suggest it.
Taken as a whole, however, I do not think that the phenomona
can be satisfactorily explained by reference to telepathy or clair
voyance. Indeed the phenomena which those words vaguely designate
are themselves too little known to provide principles for the elucidation
of the less known, and although, as I have said, individual scraps of
information may be ascribed with some show of plausibility to a
telepathic or clairvoyant origin, the arrangement of these scraps into
mosaics of thought, which, however defaced, still often irresistibly
suggest the habits, tastes, and memories of some friend deceased—for
this I know of no telepathic or clairvoyant analogy. For example,
the demand made by " aunt Sallie " that I should identify myself by
expounding the significance of "two marriages in this case, mother and
aunt grandma also," admits of no satisfactory telepathic explanation
The fact was known to me and might have been got telepathically.
But why is the dream personality of the only communicator who died
in my childhood the only one who seeks to identify me ? Why does
she allude in so indirect a fashion to the mode of her death (see p. 34)?
Certainly no stratum of my personality would have felt hesitation in
alluding to so commonplace a matter as a laparotomy, or would have
lacked suitable language in which to express the allusion. Whence
came the reference to " Carson the Dr.," a circumstance which I had
totally forgotten, if I ever knew it ? And, finally, why was the faded
personality of this almost forgotten maiden aunt evoked at all 1 I
was not ten years old when she died, and she had been dead twenty
years. She was a teacher, lived in Philadelphia, died in a hospital in
New York, and was buried near Philadelphia. I do not know the
exact date of her death or the exact place of her burial. Probably
few persons beside her immediate relatives know that such a person
ever existed, and even her relatives seldom think of her. Why were
these dim memories so clearly reflected, while others, far stronger,
produced no effect 1 Why were my memories, in process of reflection,
so refracted as to come seemingly not from my masculine and adult
point of view but from that of a spinster aunt who could not at first
recognise me with confidence, and who, taking it for granted that her
little nephew of ten had not been informed as to the precise cause of
her death, expected him, although grown to man's estate, to convey a
10 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
very obvious allusion to his mother for interpretation without himself
knowing what it meant 1
The telepathic interpretation of my other sittings might be criti
cised in much the same manner. Evidence of this sort does not
suggest telepathy, it suggests the actual presence of the alleged
communicators, and if it stood alone I should have no hesitation in
accepting that theory.
Unfortunately it does not stand alone. It is interwoven with
obscurity, confusion, irrelevancy, and error in a most bewildering
fashion. I agree with Dr. Hodgson that the description given by the
writers themselves of the conditions under which they are labouring
would, if accepted, account for a very large part of this matter. But,
even after the most generous allowance on this score, there remains
much which the writers cannot explain. Easily first comes their
almost total inability to observe and report the phenomena of the
material world, coupled with their reiterated assertions that they can
and will do so. Second should be put, perhaps, the unaccountable
ignorance which they often betray of matters which upon any theory
should have been well known to them. In the third place, the general
intellectual, as distinguished from the moral and religious, tone of the
more recent communications is far lower than we would expect of
beings who had long enjoyed exceptional opportunities for the acquisi
tion of knowledge. Concrete descriptions of the other world can be
had indeed ad infinitum, but of organised, systematised, conceptual
knowledge there is little trace.
From such inconsistent material one can draw no fixed conclusions.
But there is one result which I think the investigation into Mrs.
Piper's and kindred cases should achieve. For any theory some
intrinsically strong evidence must be adduced, even if there be but
little of it, before the theory can be given any standing in court
at all. Until within very recent years the scientific world has tacitly
rejected a large number of important philosophical conceptions on the
ground that there is absolutely no evidence in their favour whatever.
Among those popular conceptions are those of the essential independ
ence of the mind and the body, of the existence of a supersensible
world, and of the possibility of occasional communication between
that world and this. We have here, as it seems to me, evidence that
is worthy of consideration for all these points. It was well expressed
by a friend of mine, a scholar who has been known for his uncom
promising opposition to every form of supernaturalism. He had had
a sitting with Mrs. Piper, at which very remarkable disclosures were
made, and shortly afterwards said to me, in effect, " Scientific men can
not say much longer that there is no evidence for a future life. I
have said it, but I shall say it no longer ; I know now that there is
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 11
evidence, for I have seen it. I do not believe in a future life. I
regard it as one of the most improbable of theories. The evidence is
scanty and ambiguous and insufficient, but it is evidence and it must
be reckoned with."
If the evidence which the Mrs. Piper case affords proves sufficient
to draw any considerable body of competent men into these lines of
research, it will have done as much as, and more than, I can venture
to expect.
,
Detailed Cases.
Case I.
Submission to Mrs. Piper ofarticles with which few living persons liad
any associations and the sitter none at all.
In the winter of 1890-1891 my interest in the problems commonly
termed psychical was aroused for the first time by reading the report of
sittings held with Mrs. Piper in England. Soon afterwards, February
18th, 1891, I wrote to Dr. Hodgson, with whom I had at that time
no personal acquaintance, saying that I would be glad to arrange
for some experiments with Mrs. Piper with a view to discover the
source of the information conveyed or suggested by articles. I told
him that I had in my possession articles that had belonged to persons
long since dead, of whom few living persons know anything. I
hoped, in the course of my work as an amateur genealogist, to discover
more about some of these persons, and might be able to verify state
ments now made by Mrs. Piper, which are absolutely unknown to
anyone living.
Dr. Hodgson replied accepting my suggestion, but asking me care
fully to refrain from telling him anything whatever about the articles
which I would send. On the 9th of the following May I received a
letter from him asking for the articles, and I at once sent them on.
Each was wrapped in paper, sealed with sealing-wax, and then
wrapped in rubber cloth.
Dr. Hodgson submitted these articles to Phinuit at sittings held
May 15th, 21st, 25th, June 4th, and June 5th, 1891. Phinuit talked
volubly about them, but said little that was in the least relevant ; a
large part was distinctly false, and the balance either unverifiable or
so vaguely stated as to be worthless for evidential purposes.
[The above series of sittings were those to which I referred, in
connection with the articles furnished by Mr. "V.," on p. 132 of my
previous Report on Mrs. Piper, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VIII. It
appeared that none of these articles fulfilled the condition of having
been much handled or worn exclusively by only one or two persons j
12 William Romaine Newbold. [part
and these experiments, with others of a like nature, incline me to think
that this condition is practically necessary for any success. I shall
refer to this question in Part II. of my Report.—R. H.]
Case II.
Frederick Alkin Morton.
In the spring of 1893 I met a man whom I shall call William
Morton. He was an intelligent man, by profession a dealer in real
estate, loans, and mortgages, of limited education and of rather feeble
health. In 1894 I found that his tactile sensibility on one side was
defective. He told me that he had for some time heard rapping
sounds, often saw apparitions, and at any time, by allowing himself to
fall into an abstracted mood, could hear faint voices whispering to him.
He found it very difficult to hear what the voices said. On one
occasion, during a seance in May of 1892, he had fallen, he told me, into
a trance and believed himself to have passed into another world. He
described his experiences to me in detail. His hand frequently wrote
automatically, and at the inception of the writing the arm was much
convulsed, much as in Mrs. Piper's case. The content of the writing
gave no evidence of supernormal powers, but in the whispered voices
I detected what seemed to me indubitable evidence of telepathy,
possibly of clairvoyance.
On March 24th, 1894, I happened to meet Mr. Morton unexpect
edly, and in the course of conversation he told me that he had
predicted a suicide, which was afterwards verified. I pressed him to
give me names and circumstances, but he refused on the ground that
the person who had committed suicide had borne the same name that
he did. I then said that a friend of mine, Frederick A. Morton, had
taken his own life not long before. Mr. Morton replied that that was
odd, the person of whom he had been speaking was an uncle of his
own, yet he thought that a person calling himself Fred Morton had
presented himself to him at a seance some time in the preceding
December, said that he had committed suicide by shooting himself
through the head while standing before a mirror, and wished to
send a message to someone whose name W. M. could not remember.
The death of Mr. Frederick Atkin Morton took place under the
circumstances above described, but as full accounts appeared in the
papers at the time, and as I had mentioned the name, W. M.'s
knowledge of it was not surprising. After this I frequently had,
through the automatic writing of W. Morton, what purported to be
messages from Frederick A. Morton, but found in them not a sugges
tion of the alleged writer's presence.
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 13
On April 13th, 1894, I had a sitting with Mrs. Piper arranged for
me by Dr. Hodgson, but she was unable to go into a trance at all.
W. M. knew on this occasion that I went to New York, but I have
every reason for thinking that he did not know my errand. On my
return, I procured from Dixon Morton, a brother of Frederick A.
Morton's, a tie, a bunch of keys and two small books, which had
belonged to F. A. M. I did not tell D.M. what T wished them for.
On the evening of April 26th we had a sitting with W. M., at which
alleged messages came from F. A. M. I asked the writer whether he
would appear to me the following day through a medium I expected to
see. At first he refused, on the ground that I did not believe in his
identity, but after a little persuasion he agreed to do it. I offered to
tell him the address to which I was going, but this he refused, saying
that he knew it already. He gave an .address in New York, at which
Mrs. Piper had never been. Moreover, in the two weeks which had
elapsed since my first sitting, Mrs. Piper had changed her address. I
learned it myself late on the afternoon of April 26th and immediately
destroyed the letter. I went to New York early on the morning of
April 27th, taking with me the articles. The first sitting was
extremely confused.
At this, as at the former sitting, I passed under the name of
" Smith." Mrs. Piper went into trance almost immediately. The
articles were at first grasped by Phinuit and held against the back of
the neck. Later, they were attached by a rubber band to the back of
the hand. (N.B.—That notes marked D. M. are by Morton's brother,
whom I have termed Dixon Morton ; others are by myself.)
[Phinuit began by making some complimentary remarks about me and
ventured a prophecy that I would soon go abroad. Then follow in my type
written MS. two pages of confusion, in which several persons seem to be
talking at once. The names Perkins, Ransom, Clarance (sic), and Edith are
mentioned. Such scraps, as] Where are my books and how about the
papers let me . . . isn't this strange to see the keys where ... do
not worry, I shall be very clear soon and then remember . . . oh, do
try to remember me I am . . . my head is troubled . . . my head
and face hurt terribly . . . my head was very bad . . . [might
plausibly be ascribed to the speaker who afterwards becomes more coherent.]
B i Hie B i 1 1 i E. [Very few of my friends call me Billie ; F. A. M.
did, and in a letter received a short time before his death he spells the name
in this way. I have always spelled it Billy.] [R. Hodgson makes some
remark.] Don't worry about me sir I want to see my brother . . .
also mother tell her I am . . . Billie dear old chap ... I see you
Billie . . . Billie speak ... I have been . . . yes and
. . . (Shall I tell you your name ?) No don't please Billie, speak don't
please tell me my name because I'll tell it you in a clear CLEAR LIGHT
for I am getting better now. [The foliowing clause is indistinct, seems to
14 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
be] what if we will have it yet [?] my head is getting clear and I shall soon
prove to you who I am J [?] Read dear DU[! perhaps B O] B your uncle's
BOY. [I was educated by an uncle who had no son of his own and was
much attached to me.] Yes B. 0 yes b B. yes. Do you know Jack.
(No.) [For the moment I had forgotten our friend Jack McKenzie Walker.
He tells me that F. A. M. seldom called him Jack, but usually John.] Yes,
don't you know Jack and what became of him, Billie . . . Sharpless
(Did you know him ?) Yes, I knew him Billie old chap. Yes, he had my
book on Philosophy and never returned it look it up for me . . . (What
book?) One of the old ones. Plato, yes I want [?] [F. A. M. was
acquainted with Paul Sharpless. Theie is no truth in the account about the
book. — D. M.] [N.B.—I do not know anyone named Sharpless. —W. R. N.
All that follows is very illegible.]
W at att at kennn k ke kenn, connect it together and you will have
part of my name. [It was not until we were copying this section that I
deciphered this ; the writer is clearly trying to write Atkin.] Oh yes, my
head Billie is muddled a little . . . Billie what are you doing here,
[hand reaches up and feels my face, strokes, and grasps my beard, pats me
appreciatingly, and writes] changed a little. [I had seen F. A. M. only
once in about five years. Prior to that I wore a moustache only. On that
one occasion we took dinner together and I then wore a beard. The hand
throughout betrayed a great deal of emotional excitement which, as well as
the affectionate expressions, was very unlike the F. A. M. whom I had
known. In its convulsions the hand at this point came near striking a finger
which Mrs. Piper had crushed not long before and which was very painful.
Hodgson warned the writer to be careful of it.] Fingers don't trouble me.
. . . How are you getting on with your work, old man. (Very well. I
am still at the University.) Yes, I know it and (You know I have tried to
communicate with you before?) [This was a most stupid remark of mine, and
consequently is duly recorded.] Yes, but did not succeed. (Where was it ?)
At a ladies' place. I saw you. I tried. [I had seen a medium named Miss
Gaule in Baltimore, in March, 1894, but no reference was made to F. A. M.
and I was satisfied that she was fraudulent.] (You tried to communicate ?)
Yes. I am telling you this . . . Walker . . . WALKER . . .
don't you remember [v. sup.] (No.) No I gave you a message for him. Yres.
(When did you do it?) longtime How long have I been here? (Nearly a
year.) yes yes S [illegible ; looks like] GUPLI I can't do it [H. talks to
him. To H.] Can't you leave me alone till I see B. (H. : Shall I go out ?)
Will you sir you make me confused, confuse the head. (H. : You mean I
confuse you?) Yes I think so. [H. goes out. The hand writes more freely
and betrays increasing excitement.] I am [?] longer LEW do you know
me T O M I am T O M a s . . . now don't you know . . . where
am I . . . what have I in mind . . . FRED . . . [the
emotional excitement appeared to reach a maximum at this point. The
gestures indicative of friendliness and affection, warm handshaking, caresses
about cheeks and head which had already often occurred became more
violent and frequent. My hand was wrung repeatedly. Taking up the
pencil again, the writing was resumed.] I am only teasing you Billie . . .
I am F R E D I wanted him [pointing toward door] to go out till I could
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 15
tell you all I feel for you. [I make similar protestations.] Well don't I
know that ... I think mother and all . . . yes what can I toll
them. [D. M. : The word mother was never used in address or reference
by F. A. M.] (I'll let them know I have heard from you.) Good Oh
Billie old chap how are you getting on do you ever see any of my folks
(I have seen your brother once or twice) I ... I told you about him,
my brother . . . I . . . too hard . . . where is he . . .
tell Cha don't you know him . . . Charles I mean, what has
become of him. [D. M. : Unrecognised.]
(I don't know, but I will try to bring some of your family to see you.)
Good good (Shall I give his name ?) No I'll tell you . . . get him . . .
yes . . . Will are you still there (Yes, I'm here, go on, old man) tell
George (Who is he?) don't you know? to come in and help me . . .
(You mean you want George Pelham to help you ?) Yes too bad [I turned
to Phinuit—i.e. addressed Mrs. Piper's ear, instead of her hand—and said,
" Doctor, this gentleman wants George Pelham to help him." "All right,"
said Phinuit, "I'll go and get him." After a slight pause, the writing
recommenced.]
Billie where are you . . . tell me something . . . yes . . .
how and who is Edith ... I see her in your life . . . [Not
significant.] I am not dead old chap, I told you about him D.D. yes too
bad D I ck [I could not at the moment read this.] Richard over there.
(Do you mean Mr. Hodgson ?) No J [?] ick (Do you mean your brother
Dick ?) Yes [much excitement] my brother's name. [A confused medley of
capitals follows, in which D, I, and M can be discerned.] FRED [Then
but not very legible, comes] Dick [Some large illegible scrawls. I asked
again whether he had tried to communicate before] speak to . . . Billie
speak to you do you mean did I try to speak to you . . . yes I did at a
man's house (Who was he ?) I don't know anything about who he was O I
was going about and wrote to you . . . Yes and let me get clear
and I will do all . . (Did you promise to talk to me to-day 1) I
said I will when I saw my keys. I knew them immediately . . . Read
Read [?] also my diary and you bet I am not dead if FRED Morton ever
lived I am he and there is no use disputing my identity any longer (I am
not disputing it, Fred ; don't suppose I doubt you) I don't I don't Billy
[much excitement and illegible scrawling.] (You need not prove your
identity any further.) Yes I will Yes I will now look here Billie do you
remember the little scar . . . [scrawling and excitement] yes I will
. . . do you remember I had one [the hand here dropped the pencil,
reached up and felt my temple to show where the scar was. At the time of
writing up the sitting I thought it was my right temple but was not sure ;
later the hand said it was the left. When the scar was first mentioned I
had no recollection of it ; in a moment or two a faint recollection began to
take shape in my mind and it has ever since been quite distinct. I think it
must be an hallucination of memory, of which I have had several, for I have
found only two other persons who had any recollection of it at all ; neither
is sure of it, and those who knew him best, including all the members of his
family, know nothing of it]. This f?] I say to prove my identity. [I express
conviction.] Good old chap, love to Dick, Alice. [D. M. : Unrecognised.]
16 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
mother . . . until I see you again ... I must fly away old boy
. . . be good. [Pencil is dropped.]
I then telegraphed for the brother Dick. He came on the evening
of the 28th. I met him, and on the morning of the 29th we went to
the house where Mrs. Piper was staying. He was introduced as Mr.
Jones. The first writing was by George Pelham ; after alluding to some
other matters concerning some of Dr. Hodgson's earlier experiments,
he said, "There is a young man here who is extremely anxious to speak
to his brother. I'll help come in here and speak to him." While
G. P. was writing Phinuit was talking to me. Several times he made
remarks such as, " Now, don't be in a hurry, you'll have plenty of
time to talk soon," which I could not understand. I asked him what
he meant, saying that I was not in a hurry and never said I was. To
this Phinuit replied that he was talking to a young man in the spirit
who was in a great hurry to begin communicating.
[F. A. M. writes]
Oh my dear Dick I am so glad to see you here my deareat brother for I
love you [D. M. : Not characteristic] . . . come nearer to me . . .
I am no longer dead ... do not shed tears for me ... I am in
another life and not far remote from your own material . . . Where are
. . . oh speak to me Dick and Billie I love you both more and more
spiritually, love to dear mother how is she 1 . . . dear Dick speak that
I may hear your voice dear Dick Oh speak to me dear just as you would if
you could see me I know you cannot yet trust me dear and I shall always be
with you ... do you know how I left everything . . . too bad
, . . . my head was in a terrible state, dear. [The autopsy revealed
extensive congestion of brain.] ... I did not suffer as you may have
thought, yet . . . (Didn't you have pain ?) No dear ... no I was
unconscious of pain I assure you L know and remember very well . . .
there is . . . too bad ... I [undec.] not know pain ... I
could not help it Dick . . . no, my head was in a delirious state
. . . I leave all things to you, dear Dick, and I wish you to think all is
for the best. God is wise and good and I leave all in his holy care, Dick,
and believe me when I say I am sorry for you all—yet I can no longer worry
with you. ... I am happy now.
[In response to leading questions from D. M., the writer claims that he
had been in a confused condition a few days only, that his mind was affected,
that he suffered little, knew that he was out of his mind and tried to save
himself. None of this is verifiable, but is not improbable. When questioned
about the alleged attempt to communicate through the medium W. M. he
said that the errors were due] to his mind acting . . . his own mind
acted in error.
(Where were you on the Saturday and Sunday ?) Where was I at the
time, Dick ? . . . In the room. (All the time ? ) All Sunday, if I
remember rightly . . . Not Saturday, but Sunday. [D. M. : Not
verified but not improbable.] [When asked whom he saw on Saturday,
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 17
after considerable confusion he said he saw a person named Parker Howard.
He had red or sandy hair; he was in trouble and wished F. A. M. to help
him. Said that ho [P. H. ] was a newspaper man ; named the paper upon
which he was employed. For further history of this incident see p. 19.
After much confused and irrelevant material occurs the remark]
Who is taking my place now ? [Apparently referring to paper edited by
F. A. M.] (You mean on journal ? ) Yes. (It has been discontinued.) Too
bad ; I n sorry it is dropped. Could you not keep on with it ? It would
help you Dick, and be a success I am sure. ... [I asked if he promised
to come here.] I did promise, [to] Now if I could see you I would. (The
blunders were the medium's.) [?] Yes . . . Yes. (You must have been
very angry.) I never get angry nowadays ; you see I cannot hold him in
check, B. [Asked whether the medium cheats.] I do not think that he
does. . . . I do go there sir [to R.H.] I see a light. . . . Do you
know, dear fellows, you will ever be rewarded for helping mo to reach you
in this light and trying to free my poor imprisoning mind. [R.H. explains
this remark to us. Writer is struck with his ready comprehension.] Yes.
. . . Yes, exactly, sir, who are you 1 I cannot touch you sir, or
reach you, sir. [R. H. moves his head forward ; hand feels his head.] Do
not know you, sir. [It is explained who R. H. is.] . . .
[D. M. : I want to know something more than anything else—will you
tell me ?]
What !—you know I will if in my power.
(Were you disappointed about the paper ?) Yes, a little.
(Did you think it wouldn't prove a success ?) I feared so . . . not
yes, 1 feared very much. (Were you much depressed by it ?)
Certainly [?] yes . . . this is what overpowered me, and led me to
take my life.
(I thought you said you took your life in delirium.) You don't under
stand. Now listen, dear.—Viz. I was depressed, and very much so, but
began to recover, as I thought. When I saw P. H. on Sunday, Saturday I
mean, I told him I was feeling badly, but I truly did not realise how badly.
When on Sunday I began to lose my mental equilibrium, then suddenly I
realised nothing and nobody. This is absolutely true, Dick. [F. A. M. was
found dead on Monday morning, but the question, " Where were you on
Saturday and Sunday ? " had before been asked.]
(R.H. : And what was your next experience?) I found I was in this
world. ... I did not know for the moment where I was, only I felt
strange and freer. . . . my head was light in weight, also my body
. . . my thoughts began to clear when I observed I had departed from
my material body. Ever since then I have been trying to reach you, Dick.
I saw a light and many faces beckoning me on and trying to comfort me,
showing and assuring me I should soon be all right, and almost instantly I
found I was. Then I called for you, and tried to tell you all,—where I was
. . . after all)) after all, sir,—put this)) after the word all)
[N. guesses at meaning.] Not at all . . . after the) after the)
[meaning understood, vise, comma after all.] Yes, I never used to write
badly, what's the matter with me now, Dick, don't I write well ?
— Then I called for you and tried to tell you all about where and how I
c
18 William Romaine Newbold. [part
was, and with one exception, this is the only chance I have had .
Now you see I am making . . . taking advantage . . .
(R. H. : You are writing over the other words. ) Why did you let me do it.
(R.H. : We tried to prevent it—did all we could.) . . .
don't scold me, sir, I am doing my best.
. . . advantage of the opportunity . . .
[R. H. tells Phinuit that it is time to stop, etc.]
Yes, D., I wish I could ... I want ... I will ... I
wish . . . and have you know all I feel, sir . . . Oh, Dick, I did
not mean to do anything wrong . . . stick . . . yes, sir, I will go
in presently.
(R.H. : You mean out.)
Out, sir . . . Dick . . love to Ma . . . Dick, God bless
you and B. always . . . must I go . . . good bye . . . not
good bye . . . not good bye.
I'll see you again ... fid [find ?] P [?] H.
[Hand takes pencil again later, and writes Pistol.]
[D.M. : Death resulted from a pistol shot.]
The account here given of F. A. Morton's death is correct as far as
can be verified. He had been engaged in editing a paper for a few
weeks only. One Monday morning in the summer of 1893 his body
was found lying before his bureau, a bullet through the head and a
revolver lying on the floor beside him. No reason could be assigned
for the act ; no one could be found who had seen him for some days,
but those who had last seen him thought him as cheerful as usual.
The autopsy showed that the brain was much inflamed, and the
physicians said that he was probably in the first stages of brain fever
at the time of his death.
In the course of the month of May I had some sittings with an
educated young woman, not a spiritist, who had shown tendencies
to automatism. Her automatic writing was of the most rudimentary
kind and never became legible. She told me she had once seen a table
rise from the floor while no one but herself was touching it to a height
of a couple of feet or so above its normal position, but I was never
able to repeat this experiment and never myself saw anything which
would lead me to think that she had any supernormal powers. On
June 7th, 1894, Dr. Hodgson had a sitting with Mrs. Piper at
Arlington Heights at which Fred Morton presented himself. He
said he had had great difficulty in reaching Billie although he, Billie,
had been asking for him, that the light was not sufficient to enable
him to give clear and accurate messages. This light was a woman but
not so much entranced as Mrs. Piper :—•" we see this one's spirit as
we see our own, but not the other's as clearly, only part of that spirit
is visible to us sir. "We communicate through the mind of the half-
intelligence ... I have seen him in two distinct places, one a
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 19
lady, the other a gentleman, the last one is a lady and the first a man."
Dr. Hodgson saying something which implied that he supposed this
medium was impressed by hearing only, the writer interrupted " Look
here sir, I can make her write as well."
At my request, R. H. had a sitting with W. M., at which nothing
of interest occurred. Upon his return, R. H. was informed by Phinuit
and G. P. that W. M. had a little light, but was not altogether honest.
Being unable to discover Parker Howard, Dr. H., at my suggestion,
asked the writer whether he had meant Philip Hoard, whose name had
been mentioned to me by Dr. M. The writer showed excitement and
claimed that this was the person whom he had had in mind, reiterated
the statement that he had seen him just before his death, and that
they had spoken of doing some " journal work " together.
I found that Mr. Philip Hoard was paying teller in a bank ; he
had known F. A. M. very slightly and had not seen or communicated
with him for three years before his death. Nothing that was said of
Parker Howard is at all applicable to Mr. Hoard save the allusion to
sandy hair, Mr. Hoard's moustache being reddish brown, while his hair
is quite dark. See the further statements of June 23rd.
Sitting of June 21st, 1894, Inter Alia.
[F. A. M. commences.] How are you B ? Philip Hoard and Frank
Bezay.
[I was so surprised at seeing this name appear that I interrupted him.]
(Why, I know him, did you ? )
Good ; give him my love and ask him if [then after some confusion] I
remember the evening we went up to the office and opened our window, sat
iu the moonlight, talked over the subscription for our [ ? ] paper.
[I tried to get an explanation of his statement about Mr. Philip Hoard
without success. Writer insists that ho did see him.]
Do you remember Jack ? (Give me his whole name) McKenzie. (Is that
his whole name ?) two names B at the Club yes you have it B but
let me tell you all. [I try to read] keep still ... Sa ... do
. . . Sur [?] Sa [at this point there comes an interruption referring to
one of G. P's. relatives.] Marion will be all right G. P. says—good. . .
Now about our Club. [I still fail to understand ; to me "the Club" is tho
University Club, but F. M. was not a member.] Why don't you wake up
B. and understand me. [Then it occurred to me that he meant the
Survivors' Club and I asked whether that was right. Much handshaking,
efforts to turn back to portion not before deciphered—writes] S U
. . . and are new addition. . . (You mean are any more married ?
We had our dinner early in May). [Much handshaking—writes] I was there.
* * * [Statement here made strikingly relevant to a member of the
Club.] (It was at Bickford's you know I last saw you) [much excitement.]
Oh, I tried and tried to think of him but no, I declare I could not before
where is he, he is a good fellow. [This entire incident is curious. In May
o 2
20 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
of 1893 nine of us of whom John MoKenzie Walker and F. A. M. were two,
met at the house of a friend, celebrated our escape from the matrimonial
snares into which so many of our friends had fallen, and formed the
"Survivors' Club." We agreed to meet yearly thereafter and drum out of
the club those who had in the interim engaged themselves to be married. As
the "Club "had no existence save at the annual dinner and its members
seldom met during the year, I hardly thought of it as a club at all.]
The writer then asked me how things were going "at the college." I
gave him some items of University news which were appropriately received.
He mentioned himself the surname of a University officer ; when I read it
with the name of the office attached and asked whether that was what he
meant, he replied] yes I do, the old idiot [which was a rather emphatic ex
pression of a sentiment which is quite widespread. I do not know whether
F. A. M. shared it. The writing then becomos very much confused,
and when] J. McWalker . . . Jack McKenz . . . and . . .
Walker is in my mind [was written, Phinuit said the light was bad, and
I put my hand over and about a half inch away from the writing hand.]
Yes, thanks, I am so delighted to free and clear up my thoughts . . .
How is Phi Phil, Philo (Is that all ?) No Philoe oh you know [There
is a literary society at the University of Pennsylvania,—the Philomathean
Society, commonly known to the students as " Philo," and F. A. M. was a
member. Here follows a page of confusion, scarcely any of which is in
telligible. The writer asked again after his book on philosophy and repeats
that he lent it to Sharpless ; the remainder of the sitting is of no evidential
value.]
The sitting of June 22nd was devoted to the F. A. M. case, Dr.
Hodgson, Dixon Morton and myself being present. I give here
merely the gist of the statements which were unverifiable or untrue,
and copy in detail those which proved true.
[F. A. M. stated that his mother was at the time suffering from severe
dizziness and headache : this cannot be verified. The location of the scar
was given as on the left temple. It was] quite conspicuous ; I parted my
hair to cover it. Ask Mother if she does not remember the fall I had from
the steps at Carter,s years ago. She and I were together when I fell I
know and remember it very well and if you ask her she will know what 1
moan. [Mrs. Morton remembers nothing of the kind. D. M. asked what
the writer called his mother during life. After four or five attempts, during
which D. M. was careful to refrain from any sort of suggestion, the Writer
wrote distinctly] M A M A' [with the accent upon the last syllable. D. M.
read it so, asking whether that was right, and was told it was. This was
correct. D. M. then asked about a difficulty which his brother had had
with a certain man. The writer professed to remember it well, but when
asked for the name gave it incorrectly as Henry Hollis. D. M. then asked
about F. A. M.'s plans for a country house and got a good many confused
statements involving this Hollis and a man named Frank Eliot. None of
this can be verified and most of it is known to be untrue. No such persons
as Eliot and Hollis have been found. I asked again about the Frank Bezay
whom the writer had mentioned before.] (What is his profession?) medicn
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 21
[very illegible] Dr. Dr. (What does ho look like?) can't get it on here
B . (Hiis he any hair on his face ? ) [Hand pulls my beard.] (Ah! so
he had a beard like mine?) [Assent] (What is its color;) Dark B
Brown or dark Brown or Red . . . Red . . . Dark Brown or Red
we call it. . . . Yes, Dr. B Red . . . Why don't you say yes
when you hear me ? (Where did you have this talk with Bezay of which
you spoke ? ) [In this I was wrong for it is not quite clear whether the
writer intended to ascribe the talk to Mr. Hoard or Dr. Bezay] at the . . .
in his office when my head was muddled. (Do you remember where it was ?)
Yes I do. (Could you tell us ? ) Yes, in—Philda. (What street ? ) on Broad.
[Here R. H. suggests that the first thought occurring to a writer is often
written. ] Yes I remember this street. (Is Bezay's office on Broad street ? )
I can't recall this B .
[This Bezay incident is most perplexing. In the winter of 1890-91 I met
at the house of my brother-in-law a friend of his named Dr. James Bezay. I
saw Dr. Bezay perhaps two or three times. In the winter of 1892-93 I saw
him once or twice. He sometimes wore a beard of rather light tint but not
red, as I recollect it, and sometimes a moustache only. At the time of the
sitting I thought his name was Frank. Upon my return home I endeavoured
to find Dr. Bezay and at first without success. But I did find that there
was another physician named Frank Bezay who had an office on street
just off Broad and the above description exactly fits him. He is rather tall
and heavily built and wears a beard and moustache of a dark reddish brown.
Although I had no conscious acquaintance with him it is very probable that
I had heard his name and had possibly seen him. Dr. Bezay's office is about
five squares distant from F. A. M.'s former rooms, but Dr. Bezay tells me
he never knew Mr. Morton and can recall no such visit. I afterwards found
Dr. James Bezay and learned that he also did not know F. A. M. The
occurrence of the name, coupled with so accurate a description, is therefore
very puzzling.]
[We enquired again about Philip Hoard. Were told that Mr. Hoard has
a moustache and wears eyeglasses. The moustache is described as light
Mr. Hoard is tall, slight, has dark hair, dark reddish brown moustache, and
wears eyeglasses. He was so kind as to read over my accounts of all theso
sittings, but was entirely at a loss to explain the allusions to him.
The writer now spontaneously attracts my attention to what he is about
to say, and after some difficulty, during which I was very careful to give
him no assistance whatever, succeeds in writing the name]
Andie Le Grand
[which was the name of a common friend of ours who was much better
known to F. A. M. than to me. He lives in New Orleans ; I have not seen
hiin for more than ten years. The writer proceeded to give us a long
account of a prank in connection with a bat and ball, which he says that he,
A. Le G., and Jack Mackenzie Walker had played. It was impossible to
verify this incident. Mr. Le Grand and Mr. Walker remember nothing
about it.]
The chief points given by this communicator which would go to
show his identity with the real F. A. M. are :—(1) His use of the word
22 [part
William Romaine Ncwbold.
Billie. (2) The giving of his own name in full. (3) The mention of
Jack McKenzie Walker, Andie Le Grand, Sharpless, and the name of
the University officer of whom I have spoken. (4) The mention of his
brother's name Dick. (5) His evident acquaintance with the manner
of F. A. M.'s death, especially in the second sitting. (6) The allusion to
the Survivors' Club. (7) The spontaneous references to college news—
F. A. M. having been a college friend of mine, and seldom seen else
where. (8) The statement that he called his mother Mamma'. As
ambiguous items are to be mentioned:—(1) The statements about
Mr. Hoard and Dr. Bezay, which show a curious mixture of truth and
error. (2) The reference to the scar, which has neither been proved
nor disproved, but is probably erroneous. (3) The "prank" episode,
which is possibly true, but probably not. (4) The statements as to
the circumstances of his death, which fit very well with all that is
known, but cannot be demonstrated. (5) The allusion to Philo, there
being nothing in the context to show what is meant by the word. (6)
The fall from the steps. The most important points which are
wholly false are the statements about Henry Hollis and Frank Eliot,
about seeing Mr. Hoard and Dr. Bezay. The case is further com
plicated by the statements made about Wm. Morton. Phinuit, George
Pelham, and F. A. Morton are responsible for the statement that
W. Morton " had light," i.e., was a medium. I do not think anyone
could draw that inference from Mr. Morton's own performances,
although it is possible that he had some supernormal powers. On the
other hand there is nothing intrinsically impossible in the supposition
that W. Morton both had supernormal powers, and was also an
hysterical automatist. A somewhat similar problem arises in the case
of Baker (see Case III).
Case III.
Kittie Murdoch, involving thai of William Baker.
In the spring of 1894 I had the opportunity of studying at length an
interesting case of automatic writing. I shall term the subject William
Baker. Mr. Baker was a man of education and had been known to me
for some years. He had dabbled more or less in spiritism, had seen auto
matic writing, and had once been told by an automatist that he could
write automatically himself. He tried to do so several times without
success. In the spring of 1894 he chanced to be at a seance at which
no professed spiritists were present, and while sitting with his hands
upon the table, suddenly felt a sharp contraction in his left upper arm.
This surprised him, as he had no expectation of any " manifestations "
occurring in connection with himself and was interested in another
person present who was supposed to be a medium. The contraction
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 23
presently disappeared. A few moments later, after walking about the
room, he sat down and took a pencil ; immediately the contraction
recurred in the right arm ; and the hand made desperate efforts to
write. It produced nothing save scrawls and a few words which
happened to be in his mind. That night upon getting home he tried
again without success, the hand remaining motionless. The following
evening he tried again, and after waiting about forty-five minutes
attempts at writing were made. The words " Yes " and " No " were
written and questions were answered, but the replies were often incon
sistent or untrue. Finally the hand spelled out, letter by letter, the
syllable m-u-r-d, or at least Mr. Baker so read it. I examined the
writing myself carefully and found the letters by no means clear,
although they look more like m-u-r-d than anything else. It then
flashed into Mr. Baker's mind that a certain lady named Murdoch had
died about three weeks before. He had not known her. but knew her
brother. As soon as this occurred to him the letters och were rapidly
written, and when asked whether the writer was Miss Murdoch there
followed a series of violent contortions and blows, covering the paper
with huge scrawls, and making a " pool " of pencil lead in the midst of
the sheet. Finally the pencil was driven through the paper and the
point broken. Mr. Baker was sure that this demonstration did not
come from his upper consciousness, but in view of the later develop
ments of his case I do not think his confidence is entitled to much
weight. He called my attention to these phenomena and we got Miss
Murdoch's brother, Mr. Edward Murdoch, to assist us in trying to
determine their origin. At this time the writing was produced slowly
and with difficulty, only one letter being written at a time and that
usually only after many attempts. Mr. Baker distracted his attention
by reading aloud. Nothing was written that would at all suggest the
actual presence of Miss M. save one sentence :—"The homefolks have
forgotten, Ted, before I was dead, how wrong it is to grieve." This
struck Mr. M. as curious, because the name " Ted " was never used
outside his home, and Mr. Baker had seldom, if ever, heard it. Many
other statements were made by the hand which were found to be false.
Before long the writing became more facile ; other alleged spirits
appeared and wrote messages which were easily shown to emanate
from no other source than Mr. Baker's own consciousness. This
development was attended with various unpleasant symptoms, chiefly
of a choreic character, and in about three weeks Mr. Baker refused to
allow his hand to write automatically any more, being convinced that
spirits had nothing to do with it and that it was having a most
injurious effect upon his health.
When I went to Boston for my series of sittings in June of 1894
I secured the consent of Mr. Murdoch and of Mr. Baker to attempt
24 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
getting into communication with the alleged spirit of Miss M. in order
to see what explanation, if any, would be offered of Mr. Baker's experi
ences. I said nothing however to Dr. Hodgson of the Murdoch case.
At my first sitting of this series, June 20th, 1891, [Present : R. H. and
W. R. N.] Phinuit asked me whether I knew a "lady who is a teacher.
She is going over her school and college experiences." "Yes," I said, "I
do ; ask her to write. " [I did not then know that she had been a teacher,
but the allusion to college led me to reply in the affirmative.] " Lady who
tiught," said Phinuit, "is going over things that happened in college. She
wants to come and thinks she knows you. '' [Miss M. had been a teacher
for some years and at the time of her death was attending a well-known
college. Phinuit then slid :] This young lady who used to teach recognises
you faintly. Young man [i.e., F. A. Morton] is trying to get her to wake
up and realise she is talking to you. (How long has she been there ?)
Only a few years, long enough to get far from earth and we have to get her
attention. [Miss M. had been dead about seven weeks.]
The following day a curious incident occurred. While experi
menting with Mr. Baker I had heard Mr. Murdoch speak of a
gentleman in such a context as to lead me to suppose that there might
have been something in the way of an attachment between him and
Miss M. I have since learned that this was not true ; that the
gentleman in question had been dead for several years, and that Miss
M. had had only the slightest acquaintance with him. I shall term
him Morse—the real name is much more unusual. Towards the end
of the sitting of June 21st [Present: R. H. and W. R. N.] the
writer, who was the alleged F. A. Morton, fell into hopeless confusion
in the midst of which comes the following :—
Here B . . . what is M O R 1) . . . go [?] to [illegible] with
it . . . ES . . . MORTIN . . . Na . . . MOR
yes she speaks and is saying not right yet B
MORESE . . . MORRES . . . Dear M yes . . .
[More confusion] I'll speak to P and he will say Morres Morriss.
(N. : Very good, I understand.) How do you speak it ... it sounds
thus . . . He says this and knows what he is saying. (N. : Try to
give her name.) [Another mass of confusion without relevance to the
question.]
On June 22nd [Present: R. H. and W. R. N.] I asked the F. A. M.
writer to find for me the lady who said Morse, and he said he would. On
the 23rd [Present : R. H. and W. R. N.] in the midst of an alleged
communication from an aunt of mine given through G. P., there came an
interruption . . . Morr . . . Morrsa . . . Errsa
[Another interruption] Morrs (N. : Does my aunt say this ? ) No .
how do you pronounce it sir ? (Morse) Yes exactly. [Towards the
end of the same sitting comes another mass of confusion, in which I
find] his mother . . . Fred's . . . Morrs . . . Mora , .
Mortons . . . tell him his sister wishes to say this also
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 25
no not at all only she calls this in connection with himself
her name . . . Morton's . . . Morres . . . (N. : Can't you
give me her name or his name 1) Oh I do not know only she keeps repeating
E ... oh no ... it is too bad . . . could I not give it to
you next time sir ... I cannot tell [?] I'll talk with her and tell you
all she says about . .
[While 1 was in Boston I received from Mr. Murdoch by express an old
copy of Shakespeare which had belonged to his sister. It contained upon
the flyleaf the name of her father, but her own name was not in it. I pro
duced it at the sitting of the 25th of June [Present : R. H. and W. R. N.]
and asked G. P. to find the owner. The hand replied :] she taught when in
the body and knows this and says she will try to speak to you (Could you
give her name ,{) I'll ... I don't believe it because I can scarcely hear
her, she seems so far away. [Motions to book] let me see this again will
you ? [After the writing stopped and Phinuit appeared, I called his atten
tion to the book, and he said he would find the owner, she taught. Upon
his disappearance the right hand and arm were violently convulsed, arm
twisted backwards, and the hand pressed in the back between the shoulders,
the fingers moving as if to write. I was unable to dislodge the arm. I then
put pencil in the fingers and paper under the hand against the back ; a few
scrawls were made, then the arm began to thresh violently about, grasping
at papers and overturning the table. Becoming more quiet it began writing,
slowly, and in small characters] Give me my book . . . [illegible]
(what is your name V) Adelina [I read it] No . . . I cannot . . .
(Tell me your brother's name) Ed . . . (Would you like to see him ?)
Yes yes [The writing then degenerated into mere scrawling. Hodgson took
the pencil from the writer, saying that the light was nearly gone and she
must wait until next time. While coming out of trance Mrs. Piper began
describing what she saw.] " I saw a pretty young lady, she had her hair
done up on her head back from her forehead . . . She's leading a little
girl by the hand who passed out with a throat trouble, she has light curly-
hair . . . the lady is not very fair—rather medium. " [Miss Murdoch,
I understand, was short, quite stout, and had brown hair, neither very light
nor very dark. This I did not know at the time. Her two sisters, whom I
did know, are fair, and I had pictured her as fair also. She had lost a little
sister, but the child did not die of a throat trouble, nor had she light curly
hair. Her hair was light brown with a ripple in it but not noticeably curly.
I knew nothing of the little sister.]
[At the opening of the sitting of June 26th [Present : B. H. and
W. R. N.] Phinuit said] Oh, Hodgson, if you only knew what people said
of you here ! (What do they say, doctor ?) They say you are a brute,
Hodgson. I tell you that lady won't come back for you now. Why did
you speak so roughly to her. [H. expresses his regret and says it was
necessary that she should go and she did not do so when asked, etc.] You
ought to coax and not drive her away. George and I have been trying
to coax her to come but her feelings are hurt and I do not believe
that she will. [The book was put on the back of the medium's neck. G. P.
begins writing on other topics ; finally I ask him about the lady to whom
the book belongs. He asks] " who is this Elver whom she continually calls
26 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
for 1 [and adds that] Elver is her cousin. [No such person is known.
In the confusion which follows May and Alice are mentioned. H. is told to
go out and goes. Gr. P. continues :]
Here she stands and is trying to come close to me . . . Alice V (Is
that N?) No . . . (Try to give her last name.) Yes I will Mic
. . . Mi . . . Ba , . . strange name sir . . . her brother's
Christian name she calls E. Ned . . . yes he . yes a
queer . . . byren . . . Byron it sounds ... [I read this] no
. . . now not this my friend . . . sister Alice is hers also . . .
May a sister . . . Alice I . . . and LI zzie ... A. E. M. .
. . artha called Patty . . . that is your mother and . . . (Just
now, Mr. Pelham, I wish to hear from this other lady.) I understand, she is
trying her best to tell me something but why do they keep calling Mrse now
. . . yes I do I think Mattie ... is she one of your friends .
give me the book will you. [Takes the book and without opening it more
than was necessary inserts hand between the leaves in various parts of the
book, allowing it to rest awhile in each. I watched to see whether the fly
leaf was uncovered ; it was not.] No it is heard distinctly by yours [i.e.,
truly] A. W. M.
[Miss Murdoch has a sister Alice, a brother Ned, sometimes called Ted in
the family, and a sister Mary who was formerly usually called May but for
the past four or five years more commonly Mary. The allusion to Pattie is
correct {cf. case. . . . Lizzie is not significant to E. W. M. The
initials A. E. M. probably stand for K. E. M. which are the initials as later,
although erroneously, given as those of Miss M.] (Try again to give the last
name.) Well it is W I R . . . no . . . MIRR ... MIR
. . . MUR . . . yes . . . MUR . . . no . . . 11
. . . yes ... I am listening [with all] my ears but . . . M o r
. . . oc . . . she says this distinctly . . . (That is partly right.)
I know it sir but she is still speaking it . . . Mur [scrawl] . .
good, I hear . . . Mur oc [scrawl] no oh dear . . . Mur .
II . . . LL . . . A. VV. M. . . . (I read it. Is that what you
mean ? ) I do, this is exactly what she repeats to me A. W. M. [Motions
towards book.] Give it me. [Handles it as before.] This will . .
she will have it O. K. sir . . . MUR. . . P . . . D . . .
[I read this as P] yes only make it this way D . . . E . . . rive
[feels book] . . . C . . . Murd C ... D C ... yes
. . . DC. . . E . . . yes . . . it is i M U R D E C
[strikes out E and writes] i [after the C]. I can't quite catch it . . .
yes . . . E . . . yes . . . i C . . . [scrawl] N . . .
h ... H ... I just heard it now, wait . . . M rdoch . .
. yes . . . she says yes . . . I am A. W. M U doch . . .
D () C H . . . [I call to H. that time is up.] I am not going yet sir,
no sir, I don't care about Hodgson . . . no sir I am struggling to bring
this Ettie . . . May . . . look sir she says she has a sister May and
a brother Ed or . . . (Did she know me in life ? ) Oh yes she knows you
but only since she came out. She used to teach. . . . (Did she ever
try to communicate with me ? ) Yes, once she succeeded in giving you this,
viz. ," 1 am with you tell Ed . . . do hear . . . tell Ed I am here,
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 27
don't worry " something to this effect ... I will try . . . you see
she has a peculiar voice and it is difficult to hear all she says [I] . . . yes
. . . my name sir is Miss Murdoch . . . [Then follow confused
scraps purporting to be spoken by Miss M. in. which she sends message to
May not to worry because she lost the brooch ; she will find it again. This
is not intelligible to Miss Mary M. She also wishes to know what May has
done with the rest of her books. It seems that some of the books which
she used at college were brought home and the remainder given to her
room-mate. . . . Then G.P. writes "adieu my good friend" after which
comes a sudden burst] K it . Kittie . . . yes Kittie W.
Murdoch K Kittie W. Murdoch . . . yes . . . adieu I am
perfectly exhausted H want to go to H [scrawl] I wish to go to Heav
. . . Heaven . . . yes . . .
[Mrs. Piper began talking while coming out of trance.] I understand
you . . . oh I do Kittie . . . [feels chest. Miss M. died of
typhoid pneumonia.] The lady was telling me about her sister and I will
tell you. I hear the voice say tell her she must tell somebody of the
name of Edward to ... he works too hard . . . Will you let go
my brain . . . he'll come out all right, can't hear any more [Relapses
into unconsciousness. Considerable difficulty in getting her awake.]
The name Kittie is correct. Miss M. was christened Kate, was
afterwards called Kittie or Kit. For some years before her death she
signed herself and was usually called Katharine, although many
persons still called her Kittie. She had no middle name at all.
I telegraphed to Mr. Edward Murdoch and he came on and was
present at the sitting on the following day, June 27th. [Present : Pi. H.,
W. R. N., and E. M.] Phinuit talked with him for awhile, making
sundry statements about his health, none of which were strikingly
correct. He also asked him point blank where he lived. The latter
part of this talk was interrupted by remarks apparently addressed to a
spirit, such as " All right, dear, you may, be a good girl," and " Don't
be afraid." The writing now begins, at first with difficulty. The
entire sitting is much confused and I give only an abstract.
My dearest Eddie [This name has not been applied to E. M. since his
childhood] where is my brother Ned Murdoch [?] . . . where am I
Oh Ned tell me where you are dear and where is Bessie . .
and tell me are all together . . . Oh do help me do . . . I do not
remember all my life but I see hear think speak and everything . .
I wish to know about mother Ned, I wish to tell you that she is long [ing] to
be with [me] . . . where is my Picture and what is the matter with my
scarf I made . . . where is it now and where are the brushes who has
them . . . [There is no significance in the allusion to picture and
brushes. For the scarf see below.]
(M. : Have you heard my voice since you left us ?) I went . . . yes
. . . I told you this ... I heard you of course I did . . . Yes
but don't you think I used to be a little stubborn ... I did not mean
to be did I . . . but nervous . . . give me my . . . where is
28 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
B.iily [As I had had alleged communications from an aunt of this name I
said, "That is for me. Never mind about it."] Thank you I just heard it
[!t appears that Miss M.'s trained nurse was named Miss Bailey, and her
room-mate says that she often called her Bailey. The words "Give me
my " . . . may be a vagrant reminiscence of the same sort.] Where is
May, Ned ? does her head trouble her any . . . what is the matter with
her hair she looks different dear [Miss Mary M. has made no change ill the
mode of wearing her hair.] Oh dear this is all new to me and I wish I
could tell you all I remember and feel . . . will you send your thoughts
to me dear Ned and let me recall the school ... 1 wish to know who
is in my place dear (M. : I don't know.) Why dear don't you remember
the scarf . . . it is the last thing I ever made dear. [About a half
hour after this question was written, as nearly as can be ascertained, Miss
M.'s mother, while going over her things, came across a pink silk scarf
which had been sent her a few months before her death, and noticed how
neatly it had been hemmed. It was not the last thing she did however.]
Ned, do you remember this . . . this, Ned [touching E. M.'s watch-
pocket in which was her watch] do you dear (Yes.) Thank you dear, don't
tell these people what I am saying, I never did like to ... I must be
[used to be ?] a little reserved once in a while, dear.
[The writer then mentioned "Kittie Marston or the young girl to whom
I gave the flowers "—no such person is known—and asked after John —the
name is not very distinct,—whether he were well. Her sister was engaged to
a man of this name. When asked whether she had tried to communicate
through Baker she said] yes but I could not speak distinctly dear although I
tried my best [When the inquirer made it clear that it was of writing we
asked she said] I tried, yes I do, I took his hand and wrote [Here follow
scrawls such as Baker's hand made.] (How many times ?) Not many but I
impressed my thoughts on his hand and it was truly I your sister K .
1 wrote this [something that looks like S E V E T ; is probably meant for
the next word] SISTER but my dear little brother hardly knows or
realises where I am and how clearly I can see him and Ned I see all that you
do and all you say or think ; when you sleep I am with you, when you walk
I am with you, and now that you are going away down to the water I shall
be there with you. [M. notes that such terms as "dear little brother,"
were occasionally but seldom used by his sister. The " down to the water "
may have reference to the fact that he returned home that night with me by
boat, although he had not then decided to do so, but the remark is too vague
to be of value.]
(M. : Did you give us a message containing the word Ted ,?) Yes . . .
this is the very first thing I ever said, T E D, but the rest was not my own
thought dear [We read it : "The home folks have forgotten Ted, before I
was dead, how wrong it is to grieve."] Oh the words are put backwards
(Is any of it right ?) Yes . . . Yes I said it was wrong to grieve only
the folks at home do, and you got it backwards. [We then went over the
message phrase by phrase, and all was accepted except the " before I was
dead," of which, when asked whether she said it, the writer said] No not
at all. [Then followed a good many confused allusions, among them one to
a hat she did not like, which is not intelligible. M. asked her whether she
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 2f)
remembered a certain concert to which she had gone with him and who went
with them. This was answered by a series of confused phrases, the gist of
which was that she had written it already on back sheets. It was not there.
She also alluded to the names Hayes and Adams. Miss M. was acquainted
with persons bearing these names, but not very well. She also said] How
long is it since I came here ... I mean when I passed out [at] [here
comes the name of the college town in which she died. This name had been
mentioned during the sitting, but no reference had been made to her having
died there. In the conclusion she asked] Where is Abbott (Miss?) Yes
tell me Ned (What is her first name ?) Kittie [illegible] May . . .
Oh do May ... oh May will you ever understand . . . Jessie
I send love [(] to Jessie Abbott. [M. remarks that a cousin named
Bessie Abbott (cf. the occurrence of the name Bessie at the beginning of
the sitting), was staying at his house at the time of Miss M.'s death, but at
this time had left.]
The main points of evidence in favour of this communicator's
identity with Miss Murdoch are :—(1) Phinuit's point blank allusion
to the lady who had been a teacher and was going over things that
happened at college. (2) The giving of the names Ed, or Ned, May
and Alice—Miss M. had no other living brothers or sisters than these;
(3) The giving of her own name as Kittie Murdoch. (4) The allui-ion
to the scarf. (5) The reference to the watch. (6) The reference to
Bessie Abbott. (7) The allusion to her having died at the college
town.
Against the theory of identity are :—(1) The insertion of the
initial W. in her name. (2) The description of the little sister as
having died of throat trouble. (3) The statement that "Elver" is
her cousin. (4) The message about the losing of the brooch. (5) The
references to Kittie Marston, and to the hat she did not like. (6) Her
inability to name the person who went with them to the concert.
(7) The Morse incident.
As ambiguous:—(1) The claim that she knew me only since she
came out, which is true but might obviously have been suggested by
my question. (2) The claim that she tried to use Baker's hand and her
asserted recognition of the message which it wrote. (3) The query
about the rest of her books. (4) The message to Edward about
working too hard, which is true but commonplace. (5) The allusions
to the picture and brushes. (6) The reference to her own stubborn
ness. (7) The mention of Bailey. (8) The query about her sister's
hair. (9) The references to Hayes and Adams.
The Morse incident calls for special mention. It is the one item in
my series of sittings which, although represented as the remark of a
spirit seen and known to be a spirit by the communicator, is indubit
ably of telepathic origin. I have already told how the name Morse
came to be associated in my mind with Miss Murdoch. There is no
30 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
conceivable reason why Miss M. or any other spirit should be con
stantly alluding to a man whom Miss M. had never seen but once or
twice, and who had died some years before she did. If, however, we
suppose that Mrs. Piper's nervous mechanism merely catches and
reflects the sitter's own subconscious memories and associations, the
incident is readily explicable. It is perhaps worthy of note that
William Morton told me several things which I think he must have
got in this way, telepathically from my mind, although they were
presented to him as the whisperings of distant voices.
At a later sitting, November 7th, 1894 [Present: Miss Edmunds]
a few messages were given from the alleged Miss Murdoch, but nothing
was said that was either clearly true or false. For further develop
ments in Mr. Baker's case, see below.
Case IV.
William Baker.
After getting these statements from the alleged Miss Murdoch, Mr.
Baker was persuaded to allow some more experiments to be made with
his automatic writing. He came to Boston and had a few sittings
with Mrs. Piper, or rather was present at a few. George Pelham and
Phinuit gave him the fullest explanation of his past experiences and
minute directions for future experimentation.
He was, they said, a very fair medium but " mixed." He had
"light" in the thumb, forefinger and middle finger of his right hand,
and with practice could be made a very good instrument of communica
tion. George Pelham especially was anxious to get a chance to
experiment with him. He was told that he could improve his "light "
by getting into better health and by abstaining from animal food ;
when he wished to try writing he " should keep perfectly calm, sit in
as quiet a place as convenient " and call mentally for G. P. His past
failures were due to the fact that his own mind interfered, so that it
was almost impossible for the spirit to get his thoughts expressed
independently.
We then endeavoured, with Mr. Baker's aid, to get some objective
verification of these statements. Mr. Baker tried automatic writing
both in Mrs. Piper's presence and at a distance from her. The writing
produced when at a sitting seemed, Mr. B. said, different from that
which he experienced at other times ; the movements were more
abrupt and were accompanied by tingling sensations which he did not
feel at other times. But such sensations cannot be regarded as of any
evidential value, nor did he so regard them. Our frequent attempts
to get messages given to the alleged writer by Mr. Baker's hand
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 31
written by Mrs. Piper's hand or vice versa proved absolute failures,
pave in one rather questionable case. Dr. Hodgson asked George
Pelham, referring to Mr. B., " Did he make any definite request of
you?" The reply was, "Yes, in this line. Go to this medium soon.
All I think of him." The last clause, as well as the tenor, seems to
show that G. P. has misunderstood the question and supposed it to be,
" Did you make any request of him " ; the last clause then means,
'This is all I asked, I think, of him." This happens to be right, as the
first thing written by Mr. Baker's hand on that occasion was, " Go to
Boston soon." This single success in the midst of so large a number
of failures does not amount to much ; it might well have been chance.
Moreover it is not merely a matter of failures. G. P. claimed that he
had often written by Mr. Baker's hand, said that he had heard Mr.
Baker say this and that, and that he had himself said so and so.
None of this was true. It might be alleged that G. P. had no means
of knowing how much of what he said was understood, and he himself
once stated that he thought he understood what was said to him
better than what he said was understood. But in no case did he
repeat what was said to him or anything like it. Whence then came
the remarks which he claimed that he had heard Mr. Baker and myself
and others make? Furthermore, he never succeeded in telling what
Mr. Baker was doing at a given time or who was with him when he,
G. P., attempted communicating, yet he always professed to see it all
clearly. What then did he see, supposing him to be a spirit ? These
are questions which the spiritistic theory, as propounded by the
alleged communicators, does not answer.
Cases V. and VI.
Mrs. Martin and John James Burton.
Emily Stevenson, a great aunt of mine, married Robert Martin and
lived in a town about thirty miles from my home. It was rather an
out of the way place and in course of time we lost sight of her. I
never saw her myself until the year 1889 when I went to call upon
her, introduced myself and was received with open arms. I saw her
only once or twice after that ; last in 1891. She died two years later.
[My connection with her being so slight I was much surprised when
Phinuit said to me, June 20th, 1894, [present R. H. and W. R. N.,]]do you
know who's Mrs. [?] Miss [?] Martin? (I do.) She's an aunt of yours and
wants to speak to you. (I'd like to hear from her.) You were smaller when
she passed out. [She had been dead about fifteen months. The writing
then begins and it would seem that a large part of it is supposed to emanate
from Mrs. Martin, but the whole page is much confused and apparently
more persons than one are talking.]
32 [PAKT
William Romaine Neivbold.
[The writing contains allusions to] My will [which I have been told
caused dissatisfaction in the family.]
"Ellen," "Emilia," and "Eliza," [These are the names of three of Mrs.
Martin's nieces, two of whom, Ellen and Elizabeth, known as Lizzie, lived
together alone near her, were very intimate with her and were her chief
legatees.
At the sitting of June 25th there occurs a curious interruption. G. P. is
talking of confusion, etc., when the word "James" is written several times.
The left hand of the medium becomes much convulsed and grasps the right
hand. The right hand forces it away several times, and finally, beinij-
almost reached by it, writes] Keep it out of my reach, keep it quiet. [R. H.
grasps and holds it by main force. After some confused and unrecognised
messages comes] Here is a relative of mine, sir, in the person of Wm.
Newbold. [Confusion] what has become of Burton ? Let him and . .
both him and her free their minds. . . . my sister and aunt M will
tell you about your uncle also my son [?] . . . what and where is
Burton ... I am with ... we are together and ... [A
certain John James Burton, whose wife was a relative of Mrs. Martin's, had
died a short time before. He knew Mrs. Martin very well. I was scarcely
acquainted with him, having seen him not more than two or three times in
my life, and was much surprised to have the name mentioned in this con
nection. 1 said] (Is Mr. Burton there ? ) No, she was calling to Burton
and I through mistake wrote it down as I heard her say it . come
here B and speak to Will . . . B , come here . . . B
and speak to Will .
Cass . . . Carson, the Dr. took away my medicine much against my
will yet it is all right now. [This appears to be an interruption ; cf. Case
VII. (p. 35)].
Who is Helen . . . [Mrs. Burton's name is Helen] she is always
interrupting and this I hear . . . too bad, it is not legible yet . .
I will make it clear soon . . . [illegible] . . . D N . . . D K
. . D N . . . [I am standing ; hand gently presses me down] will
you sit ? I see your etherial in full sir and I am not specially anxious to see
you and I am more so to get these messages straight my friend. [The writer
then asked R. H. to go out ; then to me] Burton wishes me to say to you
that if you are New . . . you will recognise me by this. [Here follows
a rude diagram which looks somewhat like an open book. It is drawn
several times. I said—Why can't he tell us in words ?] He will do .
No ... [It is drawn again.] I am not good at this business, yet this
is as he gives it me D i p 1 o m a. [Then follows confusion in which occur
the words] LAW in or dor of the LIB erty . . . Law and (Was he
a lawyer ? ) No, this rofers to somebody that is with you. [The drawing is
again given. R. H. guesses that it is a book.] yes and it is . . . indeed
yes and now he wishes to know where it is. It was a distinct part of himself
in a way and he says you should know this . . . what about Andrew
. . . (N. : I don't understand at all.) Oh my friend this is a friend of his
Mr. Andrews or Andrew by name . . . did you hear your aunt who
calls herself Mrs. Martin is connected with Burton and also you .
hhe is an [?]... her [?] husband . . father . . . no, your
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 33
grandpa . . . was her father—no his . . . wait I dislike any
mistakes in this . . . her brother . . . is . . .
[Seeing that the communicator was getting confused I asked him whether
he remembered a call I paid at his house. He said that he did, and that,
after I left, he had sent me a box of fruit. I cannot learn that he did any
thing of the kind. He sent his love to his wife and said] she must know I
live here and if she changes her place again she will hear from me. [Mrs.
Burton had been thinking of moving.] (Tell me of your death.) I came
here quite suddenly and on account of my head trouble. [Mr. Burton was
apparently in his usual health one morning, but after breakfast complained
of feeling a little ill ; he lay down on a sofa, soon became unconscious and
died later in the day. The cause of death was apoplexy.] (Did you suffer
at all ? ) No conscious pain at last . . . none although she thought I
did. [Mrs. Burton was heard to ask the doctor whether Mr. Burton had
suffered any pain.]
[The next day Phinuit called to me and said :] I want you Billie.
[Speaking in the name of a spirit] Tell gentleman in the body that, in my
hazy communication to him in expressing myself I made a mistake. It was
to Burton's friend Mr. Dycon or Deacon, or—something like that he says,—
that the fruit was sent and he mistook you for him. Ask Helen [Phinuit
pronounces the word Heleen]. At first he recalled the circumstances and
connected them with you. [When Phinuit said this I had no notion whom
he meant. One of Mr. Burton's sons told me that his father was an
intimate friend of Mr. Anthony Deacon—cf. the Andrew above. I knew Mr.
Deacon myself very well but did not know that he knew Mr. Burton. Mr.
Deacon died after a long and painful illness only three days after Mr.
Burton. The sending him a basket of fruit seems therefore plausible, but
no one can be found who knows anything about it. Mrs. Deacon thought
the words "Law and Order of the liberty" might possibly be connected
with the fact that Mr. Deacon and Mr. Burton were both officers in the late
Civil War, members of the Loyal Legion and spent much of their time
together fighting their old battles over. The "diploma " may be connected
with "commission."]
The evidence for the identity of these two communicators taken
singly is not strong. Mrs. Martin's name and relation to me is
definitely given ; the other statements ascribed to her are too ambiguous
to be worth much. In Mr. Burton's case the name and cause of death
are correctly given. The allusion to Helen is significant, but it is not
definitely stated that she is his wife. To my mind, however, the
collocation of these two was one of the most striking facts developed
in the course of my sittings. My acquaintance with both was so slight
that I could scarcely name anyone mention of whom would have
surprised me more ; the manner in which Mr. Burton is introduced,
his name being first mentioned in what purports to be Mrs. Martin's
words as she calls to him to come and speak to me is very curious.
The statement that "your aunt, Mrs. Martin, is connected with
Burton " is also noteworthy.
D
34 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
Case VII.
"Aunt Sally."
[At the beginning of the sitting of June 24th, (present R. H. and W. R.
N.) I am informed that " Sally "] wishes to be remembered to your mother
[sends my mother a message with reference to something which she says my
mother once did. My mother has no recollection of this. I had an aunt
Sally who died early in 1875.]
This is a difficult matter to explain yet . . . yes . . . there
were two marriages in this case of mother and aunt grandma also. Conse
quently it seems they will never cease to taunt me until I explain matters to
you. Sally is the lady, elderly lady, who says she gave Marie the message
. Maria ... [I ask if it is Maria] not quite Martie . . .
yes . . . Martha . . . yes . . . she says Martha [My mother's
name is Martha] do you see these people. (R. H. : No George, not we.)
Why is it possible when they are so near, yet I know you do not, yet it
seems as though you must . . . Yes . . . she says this distinctly
and is still coming nearer and now requests you to speak. (Can she hear
me ?) I can and I am the telephone [I ask for something to prove identity]
Yes yes . . . Sally . . . [To me, who am still talking] don't you
speak please unless you speak to H. . . your mother had a message
from her . . . ask me the question you asked before . . . now all
is well, your aunt—she is your aunt—at first she could not make you out
and it was as difficult for her as for you at first yet she knows you now very
well [I was ten years old when she died] and the instant I understood your
question she answered. [I send affectionate messages] Yes and she says
Martha knows she did, ask her if she remembers what she says . . .
[Here come confused statements in which the word Morse frequently occurs ;
(c/. p. 24) I ask whether my aunt says this word and am told] No. [Finally
the hand stops writing and motions to me. After several changes of position,
which seem unsatisfactory to G. P., I get on my feet and the hand feels
around the lower edge of my waistcoat, pausing to write] excuse this uncanny
procedure [finally presses firmly on median line about the lowest button of
my waistcoat and writes] ask mot [her ?] if she remembers this, Will. . . .
[My aunt died of the effects of an operation for the removal of an ovarian
cyst. When this was written I looked over to Dr. Hodgson and said, " She
refers to the cause of her death ; she died of a laparotomy." The hand at
once wrote] Yes, yes yes yes yes sir.
[After an interruption.] There is or was two marriages in the elderly
lady's family ["Sally" was grey when she died] which they do not seem to
be able to unravel just now (I understand, Mr. Pelham.) O.K. . . .
just say this for their satisfaction so they may be quite sure you understand
them and that you are you. [I explain that my paternal grandfather was
twice married, that his second wife had a younger sister whom my father
married many years after his father's death ; she is my mother. The elder
sister is still living, and is therefore both my aunt and my step-grandmother.]
Yes, yes, yes, O.K. now you know what the aunt grandma meant together
aunt and grandma if you recall were given at the same time. . [This is a very
interesting incident. My grandfather died more than forty years ago, only
~ I
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 35
eleven months after his second marriage. We only recognise the tie of
blood, and many persons do not know that my aunt is also his widow. The
supposed speaker was another sister. ]
[At the sitting of June 26th, (present R. H. and VV. R. N.) occurred
the interruption which I have already given under Case V., p. 32] Cass
. Carson, the Dr. took away my medicine much against my will yet
it is all right now. [I supposed at first that this applied to Mr. Burton, but
on inquiry could learn nothing of any doctor of the name in connection with
him. Then it occurred to me that an old doctor named Corson had lived
not far from our home when I was a child ; I wondered whether he could
have had anything to do with my aunt Sally. T knew that she had lived
near Philadelphia and had died at a hospital in New York. Upon inquiry I
learned that she spent two weeks at our house near New York before going
to the hospital and was attended by this Dr. Corson. I must have known
this at the time but have totally forgotten it. The incident of the medicine
cannot now be verified. A little later on in the same sitting G. P. writes.]
Sallie wishes to be remembered . . . she thinks everything of you. [I
was a great favourite of hers I believe. I asked whether she remembered
her hymnal which I now have, and the writer said she was] delighted to hear
this. [I then asked whether she could tell me what she did just before her
death. I have heard that she sang the hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee"
and hoped to elicit some reference to it.] Gave her this for you (Gave
whom ?) Mattie ... (Is that Mattie '!) No F . . . wait sir
. . . [Apparently to the spirit.] I can't give it unless you make it plainly
. . . attie . . . P a 1 1 i e I called her. [This is true. My mother
is always known as Pattie. I always understood that the hymnal was sent
me as a parting gift by my aunt, but I cannot learn whether she gave it to
my mother or not.]
Case VIII.
Joseph White.
[I have lost but one relative within recent years who was closely bound
to me by ties of affection. I shall call him Joseph White, and I had fully
expected upon any theory, telepathic or otherwise, to get some messages
from him. I was consequently very much surprised to hear almost
nothing from him. I did not at first, however, make any attempt to open
communication with him. On June 23rd, 1894, G. P. says] who is this uncle ?
[G. P. proceeds to say quite clearly, although with many repetitions and
interruptions, that this uncle calls me Willie and his Will ; that I am his
nephew, and desires me to give his daughter Edith his love and to say that
Tom her husband will come out all right ; that the bronchial trouble will
disappear. That Tom had feared his lungs were affected, but in fact it was
only his throat and bronchial tubes. All these names and allusions are
strictly pertinent, save that Tom had never supposed that his lungs were
affected by the cold from which he was then suffering.
At the sittings of June 20th, 1895, and June 26th, 1895, I inquired after
my uncle, and told G. P. that I desired to communicate with him, but
without success. G. P. claimed to have seen my uncle but informed me]
d 2
36 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
as regards actual communication from him I am afraid you will not get much
conversation from him as he has been extremely happy here and his
thoughts have been thus far undisturbed, yet, of course, there will always
remain a fondness for you, i.e. in his heart.
Cask IX.
IF. Stainton. Moses.
[At the sitting of June 19th, 1895, (Present : W. R. N.) George Pelham
was telling me how the future state of the soul is affected by its earthly life]
—It is only the body that sins and not the soul (Does the soul carry with it
into its new life all its passions and animal appetites ?) Oh no indeed, not at
all. Why my good friend and scholar you would have this world of ours a
decidedly material one if it were so. (Do you know of Stainton Moses ?) No,
not very much. Why ? (Did you ever know of him or know what he did ?)
I only have an idea from having met him here. (Can you tell me what he
said ?) No, only that he was W. Stainton Moses. I found him for " E. " and
Hodgson. (Did you tell Hodgson this ?) I do not think so. (Did he say
anything about his mediumship ?) No. (His writings claimed that the soul
carried with it all its passions and appetites and was very slowly purified of
them.) It is all untrue. (And that the souls of the bad hover over the earth
goading sinners on to their own destruction.) Not so. Not at [all] so. I
claim to understand this and it is empathically not so. Sinners are sinners
only in one life.
[The next day, June 20th, I said] (Can you bring Stainton Moses
here ?) I will do my best. (Is he far advanced ?) Oh no, I should say
not. He will have to think for awhile yet. (What do you mean ?) Well,
have you forgotten all I told you before ? (You mean about progression by
repentance ?) Certainly I do. (Wasn't he good ?) Yes, but not perfect by
any means. (Was he a true medium ?) True, yes, very true. (Had he
light ?) Yes. (Yet not all true ?) Yes, but his light was very true, yet he
made a great many mistakes and deceived himself. [At the close of the
sitting I said :] (I want to see Stainton Moses.) Well, if I do not bring him
do not be disappointed, because I will if I can find him.
[On the 21st, I asked again about Stainton Moses.] I cannot bring
Stainton Moses because he is not in my surroundings yet. (Can you explain
this further ?) Well, of course I cannot bring every known person here just
when you wish. (How about your surroundings ?) This is a large sphere. I
have the doctor after him now [To some forgotten question] No, wait
patiently and I will wake him up when he arrives. (Is he asleep ?) Oh, B
you are stupid I fear at times, your mind is like a lightening . .
machine ... I do not mean wake him up in a material sense. (Nor
did I.) Well then, old man, don't be wasting light. (I'm not wasting light
but I'm bound to find out what you mean.) Well, this is what I wish also.
(Stainton Moses has been nearly three years in the spirit—a long time.) Yes.
(Do you mean to say that ho is not yet free from confusion i) No. (Do you
mean that he will be confused in getting at the medium ?) Certainly, a
little, this is why I use the expression, wake him up.
xXXiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 37
[On the 22nd, Phiuuit said], do you know Billie, George is talking to
such a funny looking man ; he has a long double coat with a large collar and
cape,—a long beard, large eyes with drooping lids, [fairly shouts with
laughter]. George is shaking his fingers at me. He sent me after that
gentleman. I found him in another part of our world. (Faraway?) It
would be a long way to you Billie but not so far to me. George had difficulty
in having him come but they had a long talk and George made it all right
with him. He didn't understand what we wished of him. (Who is he ?) I
don't know his name. George called me and sent me after him—you under
stand Billie—said, "You go and find him for me, doctor." (How did you
know whom he wanted?) He said, "I want you to find a friend of mine
who used to be a medium in the body," used the light, you know. Oh he
has a great deal of light, more than anybody. (Do spirits have light too ?)
What d'you mean Billie ? Spirits are all light. (I mean does a person who
has light in the body have in the spirit also more light than others ?) Yes
indeed. (Tell me how George made you know whom he wanted.) He
described him. (And his influence ?) Of course. (You know it's very hard
for us to believe in spirits at all. Do you remember your life on earth,
doctor ?) Oh ye*, but I've been here a very long time. (Did you believe in
spirits while you were on earth ?) [Phiuuit gives a short derisive laugh.]
Not much. Not I. (Then you should sympathise with us.) Oh, I can't put
myself in your place. [The above description of S. M. answers to the notion
I had of him at the time, derived from portraits.]
[G. P. writing :] Here is Stainton Moses, do you wish to see him ?
(Yes.) Well, now let me give you a bit of advice. Speak slowly and dis
tinctly, making sure that you articulate properly, or in other words well.
(I know my articulation is very bad.) Yes, then he will answer to me all
questions distinctly. You see he is talking to me now. Fire away. (Tell
him I have read with interest his book, Spirit Teachings, but find in it state
ments apparently inconsistent with what you say and I would like to know
his explanation of the fact.) Believe you in me and my teachings? (I was
much impressed with them, Mr. Moses, especially as your statements and
Mr. Pelham's agree in the main. But how about the inconsistencies ?)
Contradict the genuine statements made by our friend Pelham, whom I am
delighted to meet. (I did not say contradict, although it appears so. Can
you explain them?) I do not understand your question. (Will you explain
these seeming contradictions ?) What are they, please sir ? (You taught
that evil spirits tempt sinners to their own destruction.) I have found out
differently since I came over here. This particular statement given me by
my friends as their medium when I was in the body is not true. (The second
is that the soul carries its passions and appetites with it.) Material passions.
U N true. It is not so. I have found out the difference. (Thank you)
Not at all. (Would you like to make any other corrections in your book ?)
There are a few. One is I believe that our thoughts were practically tho
same here as in the body, i.e., that we had every desire after reaching this
life as when it . . . but I find that we leave all such behind, in other
words it dies with the body. You will understand I do not mean thoughts,
but only evil [thoughts] (Are you willing to give me as tests the names of
your "guides.") Guides, well I object to the expression. (Indeed.) I do
38 [part
William Romaine Newbold.
now, yet I did not before. (These names have never been made public
since your death. If you are willing to give them I would be glad to know.)
I will give you one [I hand a new pencil. Hand turns and twists it some
moments before writing] Pencil—well, well— oh I see. (Who was
" Rector 1 ") Dr. (I repeat, Dr. ?) Yes sir. Rector applied for
convenience instead of Dr. (You mean the true name of the spirit
Rector was Dr. ?) I do mean just this, but I had no authority to speak
of Rector as Dr. (But there was another spirit known as Doctor.) I
was obliged to distinguish one from the other according to their wish.
(Who was the spirit "Doctor ? ") . (Indeed. No one will be told of
this save Mr. Myers and Dr. Hodgson.) Thanks. (May I tell the latter ?)
Certainly sir, if he is reliable. (He is.) I'll ask Mr. Pelham . . .
Certainly sir. was a very good man sir and was always with me.
Have you these 1 Did you hear me? (Yes. Now are you willing to tell
me the name of "Imperator" also?) Well, I have never divulged this
name to anyone. I'll think it over and let you know. (These names have
never been made public and they will afford excellent proof of your identity.)
I understand sir. ... I know Albert ... I do—never mind
. . . this had to do with . . . understand . . . (How about
the physical phenomena produced through you ?) It was not done by any
effort of mine or on my part. (Could such be produced through this
medium ?) Oh I do not know sir. Generally the intelligences have their
own phases sir and work accordingly. (In your book, Mr. Moses, you made
certain statements about some historical personages, such as Abraham,
Moses, the Prophets, and Jesus Christ. Do you wish to modify any of
these ?) Not at all (All are true ?) To the letter sir (You recollect
nothing else in your book that you would desire to change ?) Not at all sir
(Have you any messages to send to friends ?) I have had a wonderful
experience here sir and I am extremely happy and I consider myself
extremely fortunate sir to have been brought here by this gentleman . . .
Spear [I spell it, spear. Hand writes] e (Oh you mean speer?)
Certainly . . . letter . . . my thoughts are not quite clear, sir, yet
. . . . Speer ... I have a friend . . . recollection of speer
[Writing is growing dreamy. I say] (You mean Charlton T. Speer, the
musician ?) [Excitement and pounding.] Yes, yes, why certainly, give my
love to my affectionate brother worker in the body, my dearest love, iucc
. yes sir, I do wish to give it very much this reaches every chord in
my soul sir. (Do you remember Mr. F. W. H. Myers ?) Oh I think I do
sir. Are you he ? (No. I am a stranger to you. He is editing and
publishing some of your MSS.) Good, good, good. ... I think I do
. . . thanks sir for giving me this information regarding my book (I
wished those names as proof of your identity.) [Question misunderstood]
Certainly I am Stanton [only one stroke for n] Moses. (Do you remember
Richard Hodgson?) No, I think not sir, are you he ? (No. But he was a
member of the Council of the Society for Psychical Research while you
were.) [At or about the word " Society " the hand displayed great excite
ment.] Of course I remember him. (He went to America.) Yes, I
remember he went there some time ago. (You are now in America, near
Boston.) Well, I longed to go to America and this will open up a great field
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 39
to me. (Good-bye. Will you come again and speak to Dr. Hodgson ?) I
am of course a little strange here, yet nothing would give me greater
pleasure than to prove to the world my identity I am sure. I was a great
sufferer physically and I could not do altogether as I wished in consequence,
yet I am strong and well here and as I can see through this light clearly
I should be pleased to help you all. (You will come again ?) Yes sir.
(And then explain the reason for your mistakes '<) Certainly sir. Oh I
am so pleased to return. [Further writing, on personal matters, by G. P.
At the close of the sitting Phinuit returns. Speaks with difficulty]
"George has been teaching that man a lesson, showing him how to use
the light."
[Sitting of June 24th, 1895. Present : R. H. and W. R. N. Mrs. Piper
goes into trance easily, without the usual struggles. R. H. remarks that
this is a new control. Her hands move aimlessly about, touching her
eyebrows and temples with the finger tips and feeling Hodgson's face.
Gasps, peculiar rattling in her throat, her face is very much contorted.
Ineffectual attempts to speak, finally gasps out] Moses [Hodgson encourages
communicator. Head nods] (H. : I'm Hodgson) [Head nods, she groans
and grunts, hands move about. Right hand begins to write. R. H. asking
questions ] I am W. Stainton Moses I am he in reality. Oh my dear sir I
am so very delighted to find this bright path to earth. (I'm very glad
indeed.) I am here in every organ of a human body. (Yes, you're
occupying the medium's body.) I am a medium also. (Yes, we know.) I
did see my spirits plainly. How strange you look. Are you still in the life
on earth. (Yes.) You must necessarily be I am sure. (Yes.) Do you
remember one of our friends and fellow workers Dr. Wallace ? (You mean
Alfred R. Wallace ? ) Certainly, very well, my friend Wallace. (In the
body?) Yes, give him my love. (I will certainly.) Also Myers (Yes
indeed) whom I remember well (Yes I certainly will) all right. I had a
spirit once named Wallace. You never knew did you V (No I didn't.)
He was one of my guides when on earth. (What name did you give
him, i.e., .) Rector, and not Dr. as I had explained to some friend
of yours. Rector was ( 1 ) Yes distinctly, he was Rector. (Who
was Doctor ? ) Not Wallace, but a Dr. whom I used to know at college.
[R. H. pronounces and spells the name over.] Yes sir. It is very singular
how the names of my former friends and guides run in my mind . . .
run through my mind just now, at this moment. (Mr. Moses, I wish to
tell you something that will interest you. Mr. F. W. H. Myers, whom you
knew) quite (has been publishing a full account of your life experiences
in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research.) Viz., S.P.R.
good ... oh glad I am to meet you here ... 1 will help
you in your work. (We shall be glad indeed. I wish to ask you one
important question) let me clear up all m}' thoughts and I will help you.
(Do you wish to write your own thoughts or answer questions ? ) I would
like to become acquainted with these conditions. (Good.) Myers what
about Myers. (Myers has been publishing a record of your experiences and
has referred to Rector, Doctor and Imperator, but explains that the persons
whom these names represented are not to be mentioned.) Private. (But I
understand that Myers knows.) Yes, he mud. (We are not going to
40 William Romaine Newbold. [part
publish them.) Do not. (But you understand if we tell Myers who
Imperator is, it will be strong test of your identity.) Yes . . . Rector
. . . I know . . . the name was taken expressly for distinction,
i.e., to distinguish one from the other, and Dr. was Dr. whom I knew
very well at college. (Could you tell us, if it will be kept private, who
Imperator was ? ) T should hope so. Question, I did not catch sir. (Can
you tell us who Imperator was ? ) Certainly, a young lady friend of mine.
(Are you sure ? 1 mean the famous communicator from the spirit world
whom you spoke of as Imperator.) Oh no, but she in my spirit teachings
is mentioned. (I mean the Imperator also mentioned in your Spirit
Teachings.) Yes. Yes. Must I tell you who it was. (Let me explain.
I wish you to use your own judgment. Mr. Myers knows) he does (and we
do not know. Nobody in the United States knows. If you tell us and we
send it to Myers privately, it will be a very good test of your identity, being
information to him which nobody possesses on this side of the water.)
. ( ? ) Certainly. ( 1 ) Yes. Now I know wherein I s1ieak.
I never during my illness when being helped by him told or divulged his
name to anyone and I only left it written ( ) in my MSS. (Very good,
Mr. Moses. This will be a splendid test) in or among my private papers.
(Good. That's first rate.) No more sir. (You are getting exhausted, aren't
you ?) [Here the left hand becomes convulsed and rubs Mrs. Piper's right
cheek in a manner characteristic of Phinuit.] I wish to change my position
sir if you please. (Yes, do so.) Help me to remain here I wish very
much to continue my remembrances. (Yes, we shall be very glad too.) I
remember Mrs. Speer very well. [While the last sentence was being written
Phinuit remarks to Newbold :] "That gentleman's a nice fellow, he's a
clergyman." Give my love to all on earth. . . . yes . . . who can
deny my existence ... oh my existence I say, who can deny that I
exist? (We do not.) Stainton Moses. (Can you write your full name?)
What Stainton . . . W. . . . Moses always Stainton Moses and
always will be. . . .
(Now we wish your explanation of certain things. What was the origin
of this mistake about evil spirits taking possession of men and leading them
on to do wrong ?) Experience here has taught me the difference. This was
more my own theory. (You mean that when you were in the body you
misunderstood the communications 1) Yes often, especially when I was not
feeling well. (The thoughts of the communicating spirit got confused with
yours ?) I mean of course to go back to the body i.e. to go back to my
earthly experience . . . Yes and not so much that altogether as that I
misunderstood. (You misunderstood yourself, so to speak.) Certainly,
materially. (You had your own theory and misinterpreted the communi
cator's meaning ?) Yes exactly, as I thought this very strongly I felt sure of
having been told this. (Were all those physical phenomena that you got
due to spirits ?) No not all. They were due to material causes, etc. as well.
(Do you mean persons in the body produced them ?) Not at all, I mean to
say that from the energy which they took from my own body, medium power
etc. they were moved. (Were they moved by the action of spirits ?) Action
of spirits ? Oh yes. (I'll state my impression. Certain spirits used the
"electrical" in connection with your body to produce the physical
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 41
movements.) Yes, this is what they did. Objects etc. raps ... (If
you have anything special to say to us we shall be glad to hear it, but
if not, we have something especial which we wish you to do for us.)
Well [writing begins to look dreamy] I must say that I will have many
things special to say to you, but I am forced to admit that this is all new
to me now and it seems very strange indeed ... I am (we shall be
grateful to you for help in proving to the world the truth of spirit com
munications.) Yes, glad I will be to be able. (Can't read that word)
enabled to communicate, giving tests etc. in my own language. (Do you
think you could translate some Greek into English ?) Do what ? Greek
. . . why I used to be as familiar with Greek as English. (Better
wait for next time.) Well, yes. (Think up your Greek and the next
time we will give you some to translate. Everybody knows that the
medium does not know Greek and if you could translate some for us it
would be good proof) what could a medium have to with me and my
Greek. [R. H. explains further that proofs must be got that the medium's
manifestations are not fraudulent.] Well I suppose they said the same
of me. (Mr. Moses, aren't the conditions getting strange ? Don't you
think you had better go now and come to us another time 1) Yes I do
[scrawls] auf wiederseheu (auf wiedersehen.)
In this case we have the difficulties which attach to the spiritistic
theory brought out in the highest relief. The general tenor of the
communications, the allusion to Mr. Speer, the reception of the names
of Myers and Hodgson, have an air of verisimilitude. The communi
cator then gives us, with the most solemn asseveration of their accuracy
and with apparent consciousness of the importance of his statements to
a cause which he had in life much at heart, three names which the
real Mr. Moses must have known and which of all possible things
would seem to be the hardest for the spirit to forget—the names
of the spirit friends who, as he claims, opened his eyes while still
on earth to the realities of the eternal life. And not one of those
names is true or has the least semblance of truth ! Furthermore,
of all the points touched upon during the sitting this was the only
one that was unknown to both the sitters—another item in favour
of the telepathic theory. To my mind this failure on the part of
the alleged Moses is an obstacle to the acceptance of the spiritistic
theory which has not as yet been set aside and which must be
satisfactorily explained before that theory can be regarded as meet
ing the requirements of the case.
Cases X. and XI.
Aaron James and Albert Bonney.
[Sitting of January 27th, 1896. Present: W. R. N. and Mrs.
Edith Waldron, the latter for the first time and under assumed
name.]
42 [part
William Romaine Neivbold.
At the outset of the sitting Phinuit made the most remarkably
correct diagnosis that I have ever seen him make. He told Mrs. W.
that she suffered much from flatulent dyspepsia, that she got dizzy
sometimes and sometimes fell or felt like falling, all of which was due
to dyspepsia. That she was subject to severe attacks of despondency.
All this is literally true, and as Mrs. W. is vivacious and seems in the
best of health, I do not think it could have been got from any
superficial inspection. Phinuit then told her that her mother suffered
from a cough, was very "positive," sometimes a little too "positive,"
that her father was a good man but "a little cranky from his
rheumatism " which occasionally made him cross. This is also
strictly true.
[G. P. begins writing. After a warm welcome to me and a few words on
sundry topics I asked for Mrs. W.'s relatives, to me wholly unknown save
by name, and even of their names I know little.] Oh, I see. Yes. There
first of all is a gentleman who is a relative of hers [lighter pressure in
writing and smaller script.] Come nearer, sir, do not fear. You will be
able to clear your thoughts. [To me.] Will you not leave your place for
her ? [Mrs. W. takes her place by the writing hand.] Thanks. He says
Ask this little lady if she remembers UNCLE. [Then follows confusion
connected with me. Then :] George. [Following statement seems due to
G. P. 's misunderstanding speaker; cf. below.] Yes I am he. Fire away
old man. Tell Edith if she is my sister's child. [She was the granddaughter
of his wife's sister.] Charles . . . Charles . . . will you hear me
. . . yes . . . yes . . . Give me one little answer . .
[We ask who this Charles is.] Charles in the body. [Apparently an uncle
of Mrs. W. 'sand nephew of speaker's wife.] And I wish you to speak to
me and let me get a little clearer . . . Love to Charles ... he is
still with you. [Here comes more confusion in which several of my former
communicators seem to be trying to slip in a word edgewise ; in the course
of it occur the curious expressions.] Speak to him for heaven's sake. Let
him throw off his mantle. [It concludes with.] Your father . . . who
in thunder is George. [Pointing to E. W.] He says your father. (Yes.)
Well I thought all the time he was speaking to me . . . calling me
I thought JAMES . . . yes I am his brother . . . Barker
... I know George Barker and I am his UNCLE JAMES. (Is
James his surname or Christian name?) [Great excitement and tearing of
paper.] James is his surname. And I know NOW the whole world is
thought, developes with reason. What has become of Mary Bacon ? [Mrs.
Waldron's father is George Barker. His mother's sister married one Aaron
James who was always known to his nephews as Uncle James. Mary Bacon
is not recognised.]
Don't you know Mary Bacon ? Yes I wish to give my message distinctly
and clearly . . . John [to me] this is yours B. . . . (Well, never
mind, Mr. James.) Speak to Mary Bacon for me . . . Yes she will
understand, Mrs. Your mother he says is not quite well, is this so ?
(Yes.) Well, did you know I thought I would live somewhere and I am
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 43
really your uncle. If any other person my thoughts would not be clear. I
was a level-headed man. [This is very significant. Mr. James was a
clergyman ; he became interested in spiritism and carried it to great excess,
so much so that in the later years of his life he was regarded by his relatives
as not quite sane.]
Do you remember me little girl. [She never saw him. But immediately
after this comes a mass of confusion in which Mr. James' remarks seem to
be mixed with those of the communicator who next comes to the front, and
are interpeised with a few of G. P.'s words, as " cannot quite hear you,"
"who in thunder is he talking about." This other communicator knew
Mrs. W. very well. It begins to get more coherent.] I wish to enquire for
your mother . . . yes . . . also Mary. [The wife of the com
municator who next appears is named Mary and is living.] Will you tell
me where she is? I have asked, asked, asked . . . Mary, my Mary
. . . tell me quick ... I wish to know ... I am living .
. . I am . . . gentlemen I hope [A gentleman, I hope ?] and I see
my niece but she does not seem to recognise me. She loves me still and
will do a great deal for you. You will see her soon. (E. W. : Is she
coming to see ine ?) Yes. [Untrue of his wife.] Very happy, as happy as
I could be without her . . . [Remark forgotten.] Well I know that
well and I wish my wife Mary to know that I am alive. [We asked for
some proof of identity.] Well, ask her what I asked her to do for me just
before I left the body in regard to seeing Joseph. [Unrecognised.] . . .
yes . . . about the insurance. [There was no insurance.] (Was there
anything you were very fond of ?) [This question was asked with the horse
in mind ] I told you about this long ago viz. HORSE and you kept calling
it house. [This was true ; it occurred amongst the confusion which I have
not transcribed. He had an old horse of which he was very fond. In con
nection with it came the sentence "Go and see Austin."] (W. R. N. : Write
your name.) Yes, of course I will. I am al Fred James. [This falls rather
fiat.] You don't understand. [Repeated attempts at writing the name
Alfred] Barker and I am James. Yes certainly. (N. : Is this your
name ?) Yes this is mine and I am Alfred. Ho . . . No . . . K
. . . I am Alfred . . . Bacon . . . [Apparently G. P. now
speaks to communicator.] You must clear up, clear up, clear up, clear up,
clear up Bacon . . . Bacon . . . Bacon . . . Bacon . . .
BURNER . . . [At some point hereabout Mrs. W. said in a low
whisper, "It is Uncle Bonney."] ku . . . ka . rner .
sounds . . . [much excitement] give me [We produce an old glove that
had belonged to alleged communicator and hand it to the writing hand. It
feels it over.] Bennett . . . Alfred Bonney . . . [Alfred Bonney had
been the husband of Mrs. W.'s paternal aunt ; he had died about eighteen
months before] my gloves quick [We give them back] hold it straight up
in his face [I hold the glovo in a place over the table to which the hand has
been pointing.] Alfred Bonney, yes . . . and Uncle James both. Do
let me speak, we are both alive and well. Edith, if you remember Uncle
. . . speak to me as you used to do when you w ere a little girl. Whero
is Dick . . . [Unrecognised.] Never mind. Charles is still in the
world with you, how is he ? George too.
William Romaine Newbold, [part
[I abbreviate the remainder of the sitting.] Do you remember N E B
Old Tom . . . he is with me this number of years. [Unrecognised.]
(E. W. : What did you die of?) What ! I am not dead. Don't think I am.
[Feels about E.'s chest and mine.] Heart trouble [Points at E.'s heart]
there . . . Yes I lost my breath ... in my bed ... I went
out ... I remember sitting in my chair . . . the last thing I
recall . . . do you remember my chair—and I passed out there. (E.W. :
I do not think he did.) I did. I lost my breath in my chair and . . .
[He died of heart disease but not in a chair ; he had not been out of bed for
some days.] . . . (E. W. : What did you and Papa and Uncle Charles
do in the summers ? ) Go trout fishing. [True.] ... I was most fond
of . . . [E. W. reads this aright ; I say there is no word "trout."]
Yes, it is trout, too. (E. W. : When you passed out you left my father
some things ; what were they ? ) [This is a mistake. He did not leave him
anything. Mrs. Bonney gave Mrs. Barker her choice of some of Mr.
Bonney's things and she chose a rod for her little boy.] Gave him my tackle
. . . Gave George [She misunderstands and says (That is wrong) ] my
whole outfit. (What did you give my brother ? ) My watch. (No.) I
cannot seem to keep this in my mind but I keep this pocket in my coat, oh
no this is not what I wished to say . .
[While coming out Mrs. Piper says] Tell Edith's mother I am alive and
well. Alfred Bonney. I want everybody to know.
The striking points in favor of the theory of identity are : ( 1 )
The statement that Mrs. Waldron's father is named George. (2) That
the speaker is his uncle James. (3) The emphatic and characteristic
statement ascribed to " Uncle James " : "I know now the whole
world is thought, develops with reason," and the allusion to his belief
in spiritism while living. (4) The allusion to the horse. (5) The
giving correctly the relationship of Mrs. Waldron to Albert Bonney.
(6) The mention of heart trouble as the cause of Albert Bonney's
death. (7) The allusions to trout fishing.
As ambiguous : (1) A statement that Edith is his sister's child,
whereas she was his wife's sister's grandchild. (2) The allusion to
Charles in the body. (3) The mention of the name " Barker" which
had been mentioned in a former sitting and might have been guessed.
(4) The allusion to Joseph. (5) The giving of the name " Alfred
Bonney," which was, unfortunately, mentioned during the sitting.
(6) The allusion to " Old Tom."
As untrue and pro tanto against the theory of identity : (1) The
allusion to Mary Bacon. (2) The allusion to what Albert Bonney
asked his wife to do for him before he left the body. (3) The
reference to Austin, (4) The reference to "Old Tom." (5) The
statement that he passed out in a chair. (6) The statement about his
bequests.
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 45
Case XII.
Mr, Parker.
On November 7th, 1894, Miss Edmunds submitted to Phinuit, at
my request, certain articles belonging to a relative of mine who has
been living abroad for a number of years, and whom I shall term
Mrs. Parker. She has had many experiences of an apparently
supernormal order, and I had hoped that the Mrs. Piper communi
cators might in some way manifest themselves to her. The articles
were incorrectly ascribed by Phinuit, who had been informed at
the outset that they had been sent by me, to Fred Morton and
Miss Murdoch. On the following day a person unknown to me was
having a sitting, and in the course of it the following remark was
interpolated :—
Mr. Packer [?] (Is that name Packer ?) No, Parker desires to send hia
love to his wife in the body.
[Mrs. Parker's husband haB been dead some years. She secured a divorce
from him some years before his death. I communicated these facts to her
but she made no comment thereupon.]
Case XIII.
Apparent Knowledge of Foreign Languages.
Frequently in my sittings George Pelham used French and Latin
words and phrases—e.g., "inter nos" (June 20th, 1895), "coup de
main" (June 21st, 1895), " de die in diem " (June 22nd, 1895). This
last phrase I could not decipher until the writer added " from day to
day." Then I read it and added, "I never saw that phrase before."
"Well," the hand replied, "I never saw it, it just popped into my
mind." This is found in Webster's Dictionary in the list of foreign
words and phrases.
[At the sitting of June 20th, at which I was alone, immediately after the
occurrence of the words "inter nos " I said with reference to the matter in
hand, (no one knows but Hodgson.)] Hodgson, what the old chap, Fama
. . . [I thought of the well-known passage in Virgil beginning with the
word and said, jokingly,] (Hello, you've not forgotten your Virgil, George ?)
[The hand pounded excitedly and continued,] tempus viat—vivat G.P. [With
unpardonable stupidity, I failed to look closely at this, merely catching the
general sense, and went on with the sitting.]
While deciphering this sitting I noticed that this sentence made
no sense as it stood ; it occurred to Dr. Hodgson to look in the list of
quotations in a dictionary, and there we found the original " Fama
semper vivat." At the sitting of June 22nd, at which I was again
alone, I asked G. P. about this with very unsatisfactory results. G. P.
William Bomaine Newbold. [part
translated it, " May his fame live for ever." In spite of my constant
questions, he was unable to note that "semper" should be substituted
for " tempus." On June 21st [Present : W. R. N. and H. W. 0.] I
tried to get the motto of the Tavern Club (of Boston), and was given a
medley of almost illegible scrawls in which I thought I could decipher
the words, "offere," "datum," "due," and " vir." When I asked
whether this was "due vir," the writer assented, and assented also to
my translation, " Hero, go ahead," or, " Lead the way." This has no
resemblance to the motto of the Tavern Club.
(Will you translate Greek for me ?) Certainly Greek. (You remember
it 1) I ought to. [I then said the first scrap of Greek that happened to
come into my head : —ndrtp ripoiv 6 iv rois oipavnh.] (Did you catch it?)
No, not exactly, slowly, (riarep.) Parter ... I say . . . Pae
Pater . . . pater . . . good (fjfiiav) hemon
[illegible] he . . . hemon . . . urano is . . . and translation
. . . Good . . . love [?] [illegible] Love [?] Love [?] . . . father
is in . . . that is right . . . (All right but go ahead.) I cannot
quite catch that B . . . yes . . . Patience . . . well you
have it B . [Throughout, both Mr. O and I frequently repeated the
words and spelled them both in Greek and English.] Father is in . .
tois ou ou nois our . . . B . Patience my boy . . . Father is
in Heavens. (One word is left out, (Jeorge.) Spell it slowly. (Greek or
English?) Greek of course. [We do so, r]n&v.] Father is in the Heaven
I [do] not catch [it] . . . slowly now, speak those letters
separately my boy . ae . emon. (Rough breathing, now,
i)lia>v.) Heaven . . . Yes . . . too bad old chap ... [I read
bad as "hard."] Bad I say, I'll catch it. [Hand points to 0 .] Now
you say it, let me see if it will reach me any better. [0 says it. Hand
gesticulates and twists so as to get O 's mouth close to outer side of hand
just below the root of little finger.] My ear. [I explain he means that his
spirit ear is located there.] Certainly, my ear . . . E M O .
that is what bothers me . . . Father is . . . was . . . now
. . . no . . Father . . . our. [Quickly and with excite
ment.] OUR O U. [Then slowly and reverently, in capital letters.]
OUR FATHER IS IN HEAVEN. (Good.) [We all shake
hands over it.] (W. N. : We generally put it, " Our Father who art in
heaven.") [Excitement.] Yes, I remember that too. Well, if you only
knew how difficult it is to catch the sound of your voices you would wonder
how I could speak at all to you because I have difficulty in making you
hear also, when a thing is very clear to me. (Shall we try another ?) One
more (Shall it be in Latin ?) . . . yes. (What pronunciation did
you use, Roman, English, or Continental ?) Roman. I asked for Greek,
but never mind old chap . . . wait ... I am not quite satisfied
. But you mentioned the fact which I wished to explain. (Go
ahead then and explain.) [Slowly.] WHO ART IN . . . O.K.
fire away . . . [We have scarcely given the new sentence Tu iie
cede malis sed contra aitdentior ito before G. P. changes the subject by
introducing two or three Latin and French words which he knows will
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 47
be significant to me but not to Mr. O . He then asks that Mr. 0
should go out, and begins writing upon a topic which he does not wish
him to know of.]
This case is more significant than the others because it does seem that the
writer has some knowledge of Greek, whereas the familiar phrase before used
might be picked up by anybody. It is also difficult to explain this transla
tion by the telepathic theory. The writer seems not to recognise the familiar
words but to translate afresh from the words he hears ; if it were merely
reflected from my mind one would hardly expect it to take this new form.
In order to test G. P.'s knowledge of Greek still further I wrote a sen
tence, making the first three words give the keynote of the whole, using
very simple and familiar words, and purposely choosing the thought from the
group that was uppermost in the minds of the writers. The sentence was :—
Ovk eort Bdvaros, ai yap rtov $vt]Tcov yjrvxai £o)rlv £uhtiv aQavarov, didtoy,
fuiKupiov. We first gave this to G. P. at the sitting of June 25th, 1805
[Present : R. H. and W. R. N.]. At our suggestion G. P. calls the alleged
Mr. Moses to help translate it. The result is confusion worse confounded.
Apparently the writers cannot hear what we say, Odvarot is at first written
fanvis. In this confusion words and sentences occur which appear to
emanate from Moses, such as " I could in time recall all the Greek I ever
taught and why should I not," "It seems like awaking from a dream to
recall this to mind." When the writer finally gets the word ovk he translates
it "light," apparently from association with the Latin word "lux." On
June 26th and 27th, further unsuccessful attempts at translation were made.
G. P. said that he remembered his Greek well enough when he was away
from the "light" but the effort of communicating confused him and drove
it out of his head. On July 1st, at a sitting at which Dr. Hodgson only was
present, and in the midst of a communication from G. P. upon another
topic, the following interruption occurs :—
Who said there was no death ? [Hand moves forward as though " speir-
ing" into the " vacant space."] Moses (Ask Moses what he means by that.)
Well, you interrupt me. Well, I must say old chap (I did not mean to
interrupt you.) No not you H . . . Moses . . . Ouk esti thanatos.
Moses (that's first rate. Is this Mr. Moses translating ?) Ouk esti thanatos.
There's no death. Repeat it to me in Greek Hodgson for him. [R.H.
repeats, says it is correct and suggests getting the rest of the passage
translated.] Come H. Come here a moment. Hurry up H. [R. H.
repeats the rest of the passage.]
Again . . . Good oh good may God preserve you always H., and
keep you alive on earth until you have accomplished a thorough work. I'll
help you in every way possible (Shall I repeat the Greek again ?) Yes, some
thing new . . . Yes he's listening . . . too fast H . . . wait
. . . ready he has it very nearly . . . not the last H ... no
before . . . yes . . . not quite . . . got it. [R. H. had
been repeating the first five words only several times.] I'll go now and
translate it and return sir.
This promise was never kept and we heard no more of the Greek. At
later sittings other matters came to the front and Moses did not reappear to
complete the translation.
48 [part
William Ronudne Newbold.
At a sitting held June 27th, 1895, .at which I alone was present,
G. P. told me that he had understood Romanic (sic) and a little Celtic,
and told me to ask Mr. Howard about it. Dr. Hodgson asked about
the Romanic and found that Mr. Howard knew nothing whatever
about it. G. P. spent some time in Ireland and wrote a book on Irish
affairs.
Case XIV.
Apparent Clairvoyance or Telepathy.
Several times I got apparent evidence for the acquisition of know
ledge in some supernormal way which seemed to suggest rather
telepathy or clairvoyance than extraneous intelligences. Thus
(June 20th, 1894, present R. H. and W. R. N.) Phinuit said to me :—
Who is this Edith in your surroundings. (There are several.) Yes, I
know it [Counts on fingers] one, two, three. This is the young one, dark
hair, pretty complexion, nice young lady. [This struck me at the time as a
description of a young cousin of mine as I last sow her. She is usually
lacking in colour, but was then flushed with exertion.]
At another time, on or about June 26th, 1894, while in Dr.
Hodgson's study, I picked up a volume of poems by G. P. with a
preface by Rogers. I had not known that G. P. had written poems,
and exchanged a few words with Dr. Hodgson about it. At the
sitting of the 27th, Dr. Hodgson was endeavouring to get from G. P.
some evidence of having heard a message which he had tried to give
him. The writer seemed to know nothing about it, but wrote :—
No,—but I did hear you tell about the memoriam Rogers . . . [We
make some remark.] Yes, I caught it as you were telling him and it
attracted me.
Just a year later a similar incident occurred. As the alleged
Walter Scott was concluding a sitting he told me that there were
monkeys in the sun. That night while writing up the sitting at Dr.
Hodgson's rooms, ten miles from Mrs. Piper, Dr. Hodgson and I fell
to laughing over this preposterous statement ; so loudly indeed did we
laugh that I finally cautioned Dr. H. that we would be wakening the
whole block. The next morning the writer, without my saying any
thing about it, explained that he did not mean to say there were
monkeys in the sun; the light of the medium was failing him and gave
rise to this error. He meant to say that we would follow the light
of the sun as far as the tropic of Capricorn and there we would see the
monkeys flying in and out of sand caves. I do not see that this
explanation betters the matter very much. A little later on, as the
writer was professing to show me the moon, the hand suddenly
stopped :—
xxxiv.] Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance. 49
Excuse me sir, a moment. Who was the gentleman with whom I saw you
seemingly laughing over my journeys with you ! Actually laughing . . .
yes sir . . . and roaring enough to split the canopy of space. [I con
fess I was much taken aback by having my sins thus unexpectedly brought
to light ; I explained who it was and how absurd the statement about the
sun had seemed to us. I begged the writer's pardon.] Not at all, sir, thank
you sir . . . exceedingly kind sir. No intelligent spirit would convey
for a moment this impression.
At a sitting held June 21st, 1895, at which Mr. H. W. O. was
present for the second time, G. P. towards the close, when getting
dreamy, said to him.
Give my love to Norton when you see him again. [I ask 0. whether he
knows Norton ; he says yes.] Of course you will and tell him I do not
care about Jane Austin, [sic] . . . The old essays, read them and you
will find out . . . Norton, the dear old chap. Adieu. [Professor C. E.
Norton is meant. Mr. O. was under a false name at both sittings.] [See
Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 333-4.—R. H.]
v.
50 [part
Frank Podmore.
III.
DISCUSSION OF THE TRANCE-PHENOMENA OF
MRS. PIPER.
I.—By Frank Podmoke.
In considering the phenomena presented by Mrs. Piper's trances, I
do not propose to follow Dr. Hodgson in his speculations on the ultimate
significance of the trance-utterances. Not indeed that those specula
tions can fairly be held illegitimate, or even premature. It is difficult,
indeed, to discuss the coriJ(»irr^-thes^~i5l*«r^nces at all apart from the
dramatic form in whiotwt&ey are cast ; ^n'd^k would be ridiculous to
pretend that the invari»He assumption by tn^estranced Mrs. Piper of
an alien personality-+-a perAjR^tfj* ^ft^gQ-galiseclJwith startling fidelity
—is a fact wholly ^iffcout evidential weighty But before entering
upon the difficult probi^ms/suggested by these^irramatic impersonations,
there is a preliminary qne^ti&£$oAbTSj^*<xi —a question which Dr.
Hodgson himself, and those other members of the Society whose
acquaintance with Mrs. Piper's trances has given them the best right
to form an opinion—to wit, Professor William James, Professor
Oliver Lodge, Mr. Frederic Myers and Dr. Leaf—have already
answered to their own satisfaction. But it is well, perhaps, in view
of the importance of the issues now clearly seen to be involved, that
this preliminary question should once more be definitely stated, and
the answer already given, as above indicated, be reviewed. In brief,
is it certain that we have to deal with supernormal faculty— say
telepathy, to put it at its lowest—at all ? Is it not conceivable that
the whole of the information given in the trances may have been
acquired by normal means, either by unconscious elaboration of hints
undesignedly furnished by the sitter, or by a deliberate system of
private inquiry 1
Now the obvious preliminary remark is that Mrs. Piper does not
stand alone. She is a member of a large class. Clairvoyante mediums
of one type or another have been numerous, since, at any rate, the
days of Mesmer. And, speaking generally, the claims put forward
by them, or on their behalf, have been the same as the claims now
advanced for Mrs. Piper—the power of diagnosing and prescribing for
the diseases, even of absent persons ; of seeing events and places at a
distance ; and of communicating with the world of spirits.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 51
But in attempting to compare the utterances of Mrs. Piper with
those of previous mediums, we encounter at the outset a serious—and
in most cases an insuperable—difficulty, the meagreness, namely, of
the records. Of some clairvoyants, no doubt, no such deficiency can be
asserted ; he would be an insatiable student, indeed, who would demand
an ampler unfoldrneut of the Arcana Caeleslia ; or would desire to add
to the volumes of the Great Harmonia. But whatever the philosophic or
theologic value of the utterances of Emanuel Swedenborg and Andrew
Jackson Davis —and in ranking the two names together as members of
the same class no comparison of the two men, or judgment on their
respective systems, is intended to be conveyed—it is clear that their
writings offer little external evidence to support their claims to inspira
tion. Some few instances, indeed, are alleged in which Swedenborg
clairvoyantly became aware of events at a distance ; but it would
scarcely be profitable at the present time to inquire into the sufficiency
of the evidence. And I am not aware that Davis' claims to the
possession of information supernormally acquired have ever been
substantiated in concrete cases. Again, there were many German
ecstatics in the first few decades of the present century, of whom the
Seeress of Prevorst may be taken as the type, whose delineation of the
spiritual spheres, journeys to the moon and the interstellar spaces, and
the like, fill many closely printed volumes. But here, again, evidence
for terrestrial clairvoyance, though not altogether wanting, is hardly
sufficient to call in itself for serious consideration. With these excep
tions then, which are scarcely profitable for our present purpose, the
records of clairvoyance are for the most part both meagre and sporadic;
so that we are unable to judge how much of the alleged success might
have been due to information surreptitiously obtained at the time from
the sitters themselves ; nor what proportion of the statements made
on any single occasion were correct, and what were inaccurate or
irrelevant; nor again have we any data for estimating the proportion of
successful and unsuccessful sittings. Naturally, it is "good" sittings
which are recorded ; the rest are forgotten. Moreover, an additional
element of uncertainty is introduced by the fact that the accounts
given are frequently undated, and were certainly in many cases written
down months or years after the events. In a few cases, however,
there seems to have been a fairly full record of the sittings of some
one medium, based upon contemporary notes. In no case, indeed,
with which I am acquainted, does the record profess to approach,
in accuracy or completeness, the practically verbatim series of reports
edited by Dr. Hodgson. But in a few cases—of which the best known
are Mr. Stainton Moses, Alexis Didier, and Adele Maginot—the
accounts given are sufficiently full and appear to have been prepared
with sufficient care to admit of some useful comparison being made.
2 E
52 [part
Frank Podmore.
I propose then to give a brief outline of each of these series of trance-
utterances, in its purely evidential aspect, and to consider how far the
information displayed can plausibly be assigned to normal sources.
Some account of the alleged spirit communications made through
the medium of Stainton Moses—based almost exclusively on his own
statements of what took place—is given by Mr. Myers in Proceedings,
Vol. XL, pp. 24-113. To the comments made by Mr. Myers I
have to add one important detail, viz., that all the information as
to the names, ages and dates of death of the three Jones children
which was given at the seance of February 10th, 1874, had, it
has since been ascertained, appeared in the obituary column of the
Times (London) on February 4th, 1874, six days before the seance.1
In the article referred to, 38 spirits are enumerated as having com
municated through the medium of Stainton Moses, either by raps
or by automatic writing. Of these 38 communicators, 8 or 9 had
teen personages of some historical importance ; 13 were individuals
of no special distinction apparently unknown even by name to Mr.
Moses or any of the circle ; the remainder had been personal acquaint
ances of the medium or of the Speer family, who formed the usual
sitters. The historical personages sometimes signed their names in
handwriting which was reported to be more or less characteristic, and
sometimes communicated facts in their life history which could have
been ascertained, and were actually verified, by reference to their
biographies ; the unknown persons gave their names, the date of their
death, and the disease of which they died, in many cases reproducing
verbatim the obituary notice which had appeared shortly before in the
daily papers. Of the personal friends, one was a friend of Mrs. Speer,
of whom Mr. Moses writes that he had never previously heard ; the
only facts given were the initials and surname in full—A. P. Kirkland.
Another was a sister of Dr. Speer, who had died as an infant before
his birth ; three Christian names and a surname and particulars as to
the death were eventually given. Other relations of the Speers gave
their names and relationship correctly ; the medium's grandmother and
other friends conversed with him, and gave him particulars of incidents
known to him, or subsequently verified.
Finally, in one of Mr. Moses' notebooks there were discovered, after
his death, communications from President Garfield and a well-known
lady, called by Mr. Myers " Blanche Abercromby," which communica
tions purported to have been made in each case some hours before news
of the death had reached Mr. Moses through ordinary channels.
Setting aside the last two facts—for which we have no other
evidence than the medium's own statement—there is nothing to
1 See Prncerdings, Vol. XL, pp. 75-90.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 53
forbid the supposition that the whole of the information given at these
seances was the reproduction of facts consciously or unconsciously
acquired by the medium from the daily papers, from books, or from
conversations with his friends.
Nor do the alleged communications, it is interesting to note, bear
in most cases any marked resemblance to those made through Mrs.
Piper's organism. Apart from the initial difference that Mr. Moses'
spirits mostly communicated by raps, and, when they wrote, wrote not
infrequently in a hand simulating the characteristic handwriting of
the alleged communicator, it is to be remembered that the names, dates
and other obituary particulars, which is practically all of an evidential
nature that the " spirits " offer, are precisely the details which are
least conspicuous in Mrs. Piper's trance utterances ; whilst conversely
Dr. and Mrs. Speer do not seem to have been favoured with any of the
curiously subtle character sketches, personal descriptions, odd bits of
old family history, etc., etc., which form the staple of the later
medium's communications.
There have been numerous exponents in England of " travelling "
clairvoyance, especially in the decade 1840-1850. But the records are
in most cases fragmentary and sporadic, or contain too little detail.
Of one clairvoyant medium of that period, however, we have several
tolerably full records by competent observers ; and the fact that the
clairvoyant was well paid for his performances, and that some of his
phenomena, at any rate, were almost without question to be accounted
for by the exercise of normal vision, render his case a valuable one for
our present purposes.
Alexis Didier was a young Frenchman who was brought to this
country in the summer of 1844 and exhibited by one Marcillet, whom
Elliotson and others vouched for as a gentleman of high character and
undoubted integrity. Alexis was apparently in the first instance
thrown into a deep trance ; his eyes were then bandaged, generally as
follows :—A pad of leather would be placed over each eye, and then
two handkerchiefs would be tied diagonally across ; over these a third
handkerchief would be tied horizontally, and the interstices would
be filled up with cotton wool. In these circumstances he would play
ecarte with great skill and rapidity ; would know not only his own
cards but frequently those in his adversary's hand as well ; would
play correctly with his own cards face downwards on the table ;
would frequently, by request, pick out any named card when the
whole pack was face downwards. Further he would— though generally
with his eyes unbandaged and merely closed—read words written
in sealed envelopes, describe the contents of closed packets, and read
words and sentences several pages deep in any book which might be
presented to him.
54 [PAltT
Frank Podmore.
From the detailed descriptions of these performances given by
various observers in the Zoist itself and in the periodical literature of
the time, we can gather many indications that the power exercised
by Alexis was perfectly normal.1 In any case bandaging such as that
described could not have been accepted as satisfactory. But a writer
in the Morning Chronicle tells us that he had himself been bandaged
by a friend in the same way and had managed to read distinctly. It
was noticed, moreover, by several persons that Alexis contorted his face
both during and after the process of bandaging ; that he frequently
touched or fidgeted with the bandages ; that he held the objects given
to him at curious angles, and often changed their position as if trying
to get a better view ; envelopes and closed paper packages would be
carried, for instance, to the stomach or the top of the head. Moreover,
the card-playing appears to have been the only form of experiment
which was pretty uniformly successful ; even here there were
many failures, but the failures seem to have predominated over the
successes in other cases. He appears to have selected the packages
which he was to read from amongst a large number presented to him ;
the contents of sealed envelopes could not be read in the hands of a
sceptic—the seal must be broken and the contents shown to a
sympathetic witness. Marcillet was present in the room throughout
the performance. Of all the feats, that of reading the words several
pages deep in a book was the most strongly suggestive of trickery.
This appears not to have been attempted, as a rule, until Alexis had
already read some words on the open page, the book in his hand, with
the text covered by a piece of paper or a handkerchief placed there by
himself. Alexis would then separate a number of pages, from ten to
150, holding them edgeways before him, and offer to read some words
on a particular part of the page several pages further on. It is not
stated in any account which I have seen whether Alexis or the
audience chose the particular spot on the page ; but it is certain that
Alexis could not indicate with even approximate correctness the
number of pages deep. In one case the words read were found 80
and 150 pages further on respectively.
If this were all that Alexis had to show, we could only wonder at
the simplicity of the numerous witnesses—lawyers, medical men,
members of Parliament and others—cited in the Zoist, who vouched
for his performances. But there are two considerations which give us
pause. In the first place, though it would have been difficult to prove
1 See especially Zoist II. pp. 393-409, 477-52!) ; the detailed, and, on the whale,
impartial account by Dr. Forbes, F.R S., in the Lancet, August 3rd, 1844 ; a letter in
the Morning Chronicle, June 28th, 1844, signed No Go ; the Times, June 25th, 1844 ;
Medical Timet, July 27th, 1844, and subsequent dates ; various articles in the Critic
for 1844 and 1845 ; etc.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 55
this even at the time, and of course no certain proof is now possible,
there are indications that his trance was genuine ; and if genuine, it is
permissible to suppose, though the knowledge which he displayed had
clearly been acquired by the exercise of the normal senses, that he
himself was innocent of deception in the matter. In the second place,
at every seance, together with this display of conscious or unconscious
jugglery, there occurred instances of " travelling clairvoyance " and
thought-reading, which, if not genuine, involved deception of a more
hazardous and complicated nature. Of course, fraud is the first
explanation in a case of this kind. Alexis was a professional—he
received five guineas a seance ; there is no strong improbability in the
assumption that the respectable M. Marcillet was a confederate ; and
perhaps the most probable, though not necessarily the correct, ex
planation of his card-playing performances is that of deliberate fraud.
But in the following instances, which are selected from numerous
other accounts in the literature of that time as having apparently
been reported with due care, the fraud must have been of a different
kind. The first account is compiled from notes made by Lord Adare
of a sitting with Alexis which took place on July 2nd, 1844, at
the house of M. Dupuis, in Welbeck-street. A corresponding, but
rather fuller and more dramatic account of the incident is given
by the Rev. G. Sandby, in a letter to the Medical Times, dated
July 8th.
Col. Llewellyn, who was, I believe, rather sceptical, produced a
morocco case, something like a surgical instrument case. Alexis took it,
placed it to his stomach and said, "The object is a hard substance, not
white, enclosed in something more white than itself ; it is a bone taken from
a greater body ; a human bone—yours. It has been separated, and cut so
as to leave a flat side." Alexis opened the case, took out a piece of bone
wrapped in silver paper, and said " The ball struck here ; it was an extra
ordinary ball in effect ; you received three separate injuries at the same
moment ; the bone was broken in three pieces ; you were wounded early in
the day whilst engaged in charging the enemy." He also described the dress
of the soldiers, and was right in all these particulars. This excited the
astonishment of all the bystanders, especially the gallant colonel. This
account is drawn up, not only from my own notes, but from Colonel
Llewellyn's statement made after the seance, and from a written account
given me by a lady who was sitting close by.—(ZoUt II., pp. 510-11.)
On the hypothesis that the information given was normally
obtained, we must suppose that Colonel Llewellyn was a garrulous
old gentleman, who had betrayed his secret to someone in the room at
the time ; or that Marcillet or Alexis had by some means acquired
beforehand knowledge of his history, and of his intention to attend the
seance. Neither supposition can, of course, be dismissed as altogether
improbable.
50 [part
Frank Podmore.
The next case is taken from a letter by Dr. W. B. Costello, which
appeared in the Medical Times of July 27th, 1844. Dr. Costello ex
plains that, though personally unknown to Marcillet, he had obtained an
introduction to him (apparently through a friend), and had accordingly
presented himself with Marcillet's card at a seance held in a private
house. It may be presumed, therefore, that Marcillet was aware of
Dr. Costello's intention to be present, and had had the opportunity of
working up his dossier. After relating two " clairvoyant " descrip
tions of distant scenes and houses given to other guests, which were
apparently recognised as substantially correct, Dr. Costello proceeds :—
The sitting was now drawing to a close, and ... I asked permission
to put a question as to a fact in which I was engaged early on Monday
morning. I said I was aware that coming there under the auspices of the
mesmcriser, and, moreover, labouring under the disadvantage of not being
known to himself, I could well understand that if the answer was satis
factory it could be only to myself, but if it were otherwise I should state
it to be so without hesitation. Permission having been courteously granted,
I took Alexis by the hand and asked him to describe the persons, the
room, and the act in which I was engaged on Monday morning. He
answered, after brief musing, " You are in a room with a person, not on a
bed, but a couchette ; this person has suffered a great deal ; you have been
doing something to his head—there is another person also—there are
instruments with screws laid out on the table (des objets mécaniques et a
vis)." While speaking he kept moving his hands over the front of his
person, till he reached the lower part of the abdomen, when he exclaimed
suddenly, "Tiens, vous l'operez aussi au bas ventre, vous operez pour la
pierre." I was astonished at the minuteness and truthfulness of his
description. I asked him if the patient was old or young. He answered
young. The truth was I was performing the operation of lithotrity on a
gentleman, not young, but eighty years of age, at Clifton, on the morning
of that day, and the room, sofa and position of the table on which my instru
ments lay were as correctly described as if he had been present. It is, more
over, not a little singular that the patient has an ulceration behind the ear,
which his servant dresses for him. This closed the sitting. Of course the
correctness of Alexis' answers to me had no influence on the mind of Air.
. It might, however have puzzled him, as it has me, had I been known
to him, as I trust I am to the rest of the members of my own profession.
The next account is extracted from a long letter, dated Mon Loisir,
Lausanne, November 25th, 1851, written by the Rev. Chauncey Hare
Townshend to Dr. Elliotson, and containing a minute description of a
seance with Alexis, at which Marcillet was not present. Townshend
relates that he had paid a surprise visit to Marcillet in passing through
Paris the previous month ; he had introduced himself as a friend of
Elliotson, and found that both his name and the fact that he had
written a book on mesmerism were unknown to Marcillet. The latter,
at Townshend's earnest request, had sent a messenger for Alexis, and
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 57
brought him round to Townshend's hotel some hours later. As soon as
Alexis was in the " mesmeric " trance Marcillet left the room, and
I began to test the clairvoyance of Alexis, in the matter of seeing distant
places. I asked him if he would visit my house (in thought). He im
mediately asked, " Which, for you have two ? You have a house in London
and one in the country. Which shall I go to first ? "
1 said, " To the house in the country."
After a pause, Alexis said, "J'ysuis!" and then, to my surprise, he
opened wide both his eyes, and stared about him. I saw, however, at once,
that he had the fixed rigid gaze of a sleep waker. As far as I could
perceive, he never once altered the fixed position of the lids during the
whole time that he was in distant clairvoyance. The pupil looked dilated
dull, and without any movement of conscious activity.
" Well," I asked, " what do you see 1 "
" Je vots," said he, " une maison d'un moyen apparence. Cest une maison,
pas un chateau. II y a un jardin autour. A cote" gauche il y a une maison,
plus petite, sur la proprieU.',
All this was said in breaths, with some effort, and with a hurried gasp,
as it were, between each sentence. I own I was surprised at the accuracy
of the description of my house near Lausanne, particularly at the mention
of the small house on the left-hand side, where, according to Swiss custom,
dwells my landlady. It was, in fact, a marking feature of the place, not to
be guessed at by a stranger, and, as such, brought much conviction to my
mind. "Now," said I to Alexis, "What sort of view do you see?"
" De I'eait, de Veau," said he hurriedly, as if he saw the lake which indeed
spreads out before my windows. Then " II y a des arbres en face tons pris
de la maison" (all true). "Well now," I said, "we will go into the
drawing-room" (salon). " What do you see ? " He looked about, and said
(where my memory fails as to the exact words I give the sense in English),
" You have a good many pictures on the walls. But now, this is curious—
they are all modern, except two."
"And these two," said I ; " can you see the subjects ? "
" Oh, yes ! One is a sea-piece ; the other is un snjet religieux."
I really felt something of a shudder at this extreme precision. How
then was I astonished when Alexis went on to describe minutely the snjet
religieux, which was a picture I had lately bought of an Italian refugee, and
which had many striking peculiarities. He said at once, " There are three
figures in the picture—an old man, a woman, and a child. Can the woman
be the Virgin ? (he asked of himself musingly) No ! she is too old (pro
ceeded he, answering his own question, while I remained perfectly silent).
The woman has a book upon her lap, and the child points with its finger to
something in the book ! There is a distaff in the corner." Effectively, the
picture represented St. Ann teaching the Virgin to read, and every
particular respecting it was correct.
I asked, "On what is the picture painted ? "
Alexis answered, " It is neither on canvas nor copper (metal). It is on a
curious substance." After some consideration he began to rap on the table
with his knuckles, as if trying to ascertain the nature of the substance.
Then he called out "Cest sur pierre." (The picture is in fact on black
58 [part
Frank Podmore.
marble.) " Now," said he, "I am looking at it behind. It is of a curious
colour entre noirdtre et gris (the exact colour it is behind). It is also rmigh
behind. El tiens," added he, " c'est bombe."
This last peculiarity would have convinced the most incredulous. The
picture, from a warp or curve in the stone, had been very difficult to frame.
(Zoist IX., pp. 405-6.)
Alexis then proceeded to give an equally detailed description of
Townshend's house in Norfolk Street, London ; of the maid-servants
there, the horse in the stables, etc. ; and furnished various other proofs
of clairvoyance.
The obvious remark on a case of this kind is that Townshend was
a well-known writer on mesmerism ; that it was practically certain
that he would at some time or another come to see Alexis ; and that
it would probably be worth while for Alexis and his agents to "get
up " as many facts as possible in connection with him, in order to afford
a convincing proof of supernormal faculty. That the description of
the maidservants in the house in London, and the grey horse in the
stable with sores on its flanks, applied accurately to the time of the
seance would only prove, on this hypothesis, that Alexis' Intelligence
Department was up-to-date. It is true that this explanation becomes
more and more difficult as it has to be applied to a wider and wider
circle. But though successful clairvoyant descriptions of the kind
appear to have been given at every seance, the reports which we
possess are mostly at secondhand, or insufficiently detailed, and the
names of persons concerned are frequently not given. As a " sitting "
with Alexis appears to have been a kind of levee attended by some
thirty or forty persons, it is clear that Alexis had considerable chances
of utilising any information which he might have surreptitiously
acquired ; and the supposition that his display of apparent clairvoyance
was, in fact, to be so explained, though it certainly implies the
possession of highly-trained confederates and singular good fortune in
the chance of sitters, is not perhaps to be summarily dismissed. It
is interesting to remark that Alexis himself expressly disclaimed any
assistance from spirits in the matter.
The revelations of the two clairvoyants so far considered bear little
resemblance to those of Mrs. Piper. Our next seer is of a different
type, and presents, so far as I am aware, as close a parallel as any in
later spiritualistic literature to the American clairvoyant*.
Alphonse Cahagnet describes himself as a simple ouvrier. He
was, in fact, as we learn from an authoritative account of him in the
Journal du MagnUisme,1 originally a journeyman cabinet-maker, and
subsequently took up the trade of restoring old furniture. In January,
1848, he published at Paris the first volume of his Arcanes de la vie
i Vol. XIII., p. 3+0.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 59
future devoih's, in which he gave an account of communications received
through eight somnambules, which purported to proceed from thirty-
six persons of various stations, who had died at different epochs, some
of them more than two centuries previously. The seances had extended
over some years. This first volume contained " revelations " of the
usual post-Swedenborgian kind about the constitution of the spirit
spheres, the occupations of the deceased, the bliss of the after life, and
so on, together with more personal messages from deceased friends of
those persons whom Cahagnet admitted to witness the manifestations.
But there is little or nothing to show that the so-called communications
did not emanate exclusively from the imagination of the medium, and
we are dependent solely upon Cahagnet's good faith and competence
for the accuracy of the reports given. Cahagnet appears, however,
to have been a man of quite unusual sincerity and teachableness.
The criticisms on his earlier work showed him where the evidence
was defective ; and in the later seances described in his second
volume, which was published in January, 1849, he appears to
have done his utmost to establish the authenticity of the alleged
spirit communications by procuring, wherever possible, the written
attestations of the other persons present. The medium in all these
later sittings was a young woman named Adele Maginot, whom he had
known for many years. A natural somnambulist from her childhood,
she had allowed Cahagnet to " magnetise " her, in order that he
might put a Stop to the spontaneous attacks which were impairing her
health. He soon found her an excellent clairvoyante, especially for
the diagnosis and cure of diseases.
In the later seances, however, which took place in the spring and
summer of 1848, Adele was chiefly consulted by persons who wished
for interviews with deceased friends. Cahagnet drew up a statement
of the communications made at each of these sittings, and asked the
sitters to sign the statement, indicating how far the particulars given
were true or false. These statements, with the signed attestations, are
published. In the few cases where the names are not given in full,
Cahagnet explains that for sufficient reasons the sitters had desired
that their names should be withheld from the general public, but that
they were at the disposal of any private inquirer who might wish
to satisfy himself of the genuineness of the accounts. Of course these
reports, which do not profess to be verbatim, do not show what indica
tions the clairvoyante may have received from leading questions or
undesigned hints by the sitters.
Cahagnet, indeed, seems to admit a certain amount of editing on
his part. His words are :—
"Cet ouvrage est loin d'offrir l'intéret du roman par son style forcément
coupé, accidenté. Aussi conviendrait-il mieux aux amateurs de la science
60 [part
Frank Podmore.
qu'aux lecteurs passionnes des descriptions po&iques de nos romans du jour.
J'ai chercM a reiidre le style le plus clair possible en le depouUlant de eel
entourage de questions, de scenes e'tranqires a ce genre de revelations. Je tiens
moins a bien ecrire qu'a bien persuader . . . Je suis rested dans les
limites de l'austere verité, du role impartial de 1'historien, presentant a la
philosophic du jour, des faits dans toute leur nudity, mais aussi dans toute
leur sincerité." (Vol. II., p. 233).
But it is evident from the accounts given that many of the sitters,
at any rate, were sceptical, and on their guard against deception.
And in some cases it is clear that no hints received from the sitters
could have furnished information, as in the case of Rostan, quoted
below. Another possible evidential defect is that, though Cahagnet
tells us that he has recorded all the somnambule's mistakes as well as
all her correct statements (Vol. II. p. 126), he does not expressly say
that he has published the records of every seance. As, however, we
have numbered records of forty-six seances in the interval between
going to press with the first volume in the autumn of 1847, and the
end of August, 1848, twenty-eight of which sittings took place between
the 6th of March and the latter date, it may, I think, fairly be
assumed that the sittings here recorded represent at least a substantial
proportion of those which actually took place. Lastly, to complete the
enumeration of the more prominent evidential defects, very few dates
are given. In this respect also, however, the second volume shows a
marked improvement over the first. The ninety-six seances there
recorded contain hardly a single date. But of the later seances several
are dated, and the rest, from internal evidence, appear to be printed in
chronological order. I can pay M. Cahagnet no higher compliment
than to say that, taken all together, he seems more nearly to approach
the evidential standard which the investigators of the S.P.R., after
long years of work, have elaborated for their own guidance, than any
previous worker in these obscure regions.
The following are a few representative records :—
No. 129.1—M. Petiet asks for M. Jerome Petiet. Adele sees a young
man, about twenty-four or twenty-six years of age (he was thirty), not so tall
as his brother now present ; auburn hair, rather long ; open forehead, arched
and very pronounced eyebrows, brown and rather sunken eyes, nose rather
long, pretty well formed ; complexion fresh, skin very white and delicate,
medium sized mouth, round dimpled chin. " He was weak in the chest ; he
would have been very strong had it not been for this. He wears a rough
grey vest, buttons with a shank and eye such as are no longer worn. I do
not think they are brass ones, nor of the same stulT as the vest. They don't
look to me very bright. His pantaloons are of a dark colour, and he wears
low quartered shoes without any instep.
1 Vol. II., pp. 170-2. The sittings are numbered in one series through the two
volumes : Vol. II. begins with Seance No. 98.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 61
"This man was of a stubborn disposition, selfish,without any fine feelings,
had a sinister look, was not very communicative, devoid of candour, and had
but little affection for anyone. He had suffered with his heart. His death
was natural, but sudden. He died of suffocation." Adele chokes as this man
choked, and coughed as he did. She says that " he must have had moxas or
a plaster applied to his back, and this accounts for the sore I see there. He
had no disease, however, in that part. The spine was sound. Those who
applied this remedy did not know the seat of the disease. He holds himself
badly. His back is round without being humped."
M. Petiet finds nothing to alter in these details, which are very exact, and
coufirni him in his belief that the application of this plaster, advised by a
man who was not a doctor, brought on his brother's death, which was almost
sudden .
" Signed the present report as very exact.
Petiet,
19, Rue Neuve-Coquenard."
Note.—The buttons that Adele was unable to describe were of metal, a
dirty white ground, and surrounded by a blue circle. In this apparition there
is a remarkable fact to be noted—viz., that Adele experienced the same
kind of illness as this man. I was obliged to release her by passes, she
suffered terribly.
In the sitting next to be quoted, M. du Potet, a well-known writer
on Animal Magnetism, and editor at that time of the Journal du
Magniligme in Paris, had brought with him the Prince de Kourakine,
who is described as being "Secretary to the Russian Ambassador."
The Prince had asked for his sister-in-law, and a striking personal
description had been given by Adele, which was acknowledged by
the Prince, in the hearing of M. du Potet and two other witnesses,
to be accurate. Unfortunately, the Prince's signed attestation was
not procured on the spot ; he had promised to come again, but—as
Cahagnet delicately puts it—" les eVenements survenus en France
l'ont force1 de partir," and the promised testimony was never obtained.
After the apparition of the Russian Princess, however, the record
continues :—
No. 117*.—M. du Potet wishes in his turn to call up M. Dubois, a doctor,
a friend of his who had been dead about fifteen months.
Adele said : " I see a grey-headed man, he has very little hair on the
front of his head ; his forehead is bare and prominent at the temples, making
his head appear square. He may be about sixty years of age. He has two
wrinkles on either side of his cheeks, a crease under his chin, making it look
double ; he is short-necked and stumpy ; has small eyes, a thick nose, a
rather large mouth, a flat chin, and small thin hands. He does not look to
me quite so tall as M. du Potet ; if he is not stouter he is more broad-
shouldered. He wears a brown frock-coat with side pockets. I see him
1 Vol. II., pp. 118-120.
62 [part
Frank Podmare.
draw a snuff-box out of one of them and take a pinch. He has a very funny
walk, he does not carry himself well, and has weak legs ; he must hare
suffered from them. He has rather short trousers. Ah ! he does not clean
his shoes every day, for they are covered with mud. Taking it altogether,
he is not well dressed. He has asthma, for he breathes with difficulty. I
see, too, that he has a swelling in the abdomen, he has something to support
it. I have told him that it is M. du Potet who asked for him. He talks to
me of magnetism with incredible volubility ; he talks of everything at once ;
he mixes everything up ; I cannot understand any of it ; it makes him
sputter saliva."
M. du Potet asks that the apparition may be asked why he has not
appeared to him before as he had promised? He answers: "Wait till I
find out my whereabouts ; I have only just arrived, I am studying everything
I see. I want to tell you all about it when I appear, and I shall have many
thiiigs to tell you."
" Which duy did you promise me you would do so ?" " On a Wednes
day." Adele adds : " This man must be forgetful ; I am sure that he was
very absent-minded." M. du Potet asks further : "When will you appear
to me?" "I cannot fix the time, I shall try to do so in six weeks."
" Ask him if he was fond of the Jesuits ? " At this name he gives such a
leap in the air, stretching out his arms and crying "The Jesuits," that
Adele draws back quickly, and is so startled that she does not venture to
speak to him again.
M. du Potet declares that all these details are very accurate, that he
cannot alter a syllable. He says that this man's powers of conversation
were inexhaustible ; he mixed up all the sciences to which he was devoted,
and spoke with such volubility that, as the clairvoyante says, he sputtered in
consequence. He took little pains with his appearance ; he was so absent-
minded that he sometimes forgot to eat. When anyone mentioned the
Jesuits to him he jumped as Adele has described. He was always covered
with mud like a spaniel. It is not surprising that the clairvoyante should
seo him with muddy shoes. He had, in fact, promised M. du Potet that he
wonld appear to him on a Wednesday or a Saturday. M. du Potet has
acknowledged the accuracy of this apparition in No. 75 of the Journal du
Magnitisme.
In effect, in the Journal of August 10th of the same year, in
reviewing the first volume, Du Potet gives handsome testimony to the
striicing nature of the impersonation, " si bien que je croyais le voir
moi-meme, tant le tableau en était saisissant. Bient6t cette ombre
s'est enfuie en effrayant la somnambule ; un seul mot avait cause cette
disparitiou subite, et mon etonnement en fut porte1 a son comble, car
ce meme mot le mettait toujours en fureur." But Du Potet, for all
that, is inclined to attribute the phenomenon to transmission of
thought from his own mind ; 1 and a few months later,* in review
ing the second volume, he takes occasion to give the result of his
1 Journal du MagnUiamc, Vol. VII., p. 89.
s Journal du Magntliime, Vol. VIII., p. 24.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 63
further inquiries on this seance. Generally, the minute description of
the personal appearance and other particulars which were prominent
in Du Potet's own mind at the time were correct ; and other details
were correctly given which Du Potet might have heard, but had
certainly not remembered at the time. He had ascertained, however,
from the widow and children, that Dr. Dubois took no tobacco ;
never had a redingote of the colour described ; had no hernia, and
consequently wore no bandage. Moreover, the apparition predicted
never came off. Du Potet, however, adds expressly that Dr. Dubois
was unknown in life to Cahagnet and his somnambule.
The explanation by telepathy becomes a little more difficult in
the seance next quoted. The sitter in this case, Dejean de la Bastie,
Delegate to the Government from the Isle of Bourbon, had come a
few days previously, and received a personal description of his father,
which he acknowledged to be exact with a few trifling exceptions,
together with much excellent paternal advice.
No. 141.1—M. Dejean de la Bastie, already quoted in Seance 138, desires
another apparition. He asks for M. Marie-Joseph-Theodore de Guign6.
Adele sees a man about forty years of age, rather tall, with brown hair. M.
Dejean interrupts Adele by saying that this is not the portrait of the person
for whom he asks. We see that this gentleman wishes for perfectly accurate
information. At the words " rather tall, with brown hair," he says, "He
was tall and not brown-haired." AdMe answers that the person whose
appearance sho is describing must have the same name and belong to his
family, that she is conscious that it is so ; but he again asks for this gentle
man, and a second person appears. The first remains. " The newcomer,"
she says, " is thirty years of age and over ; he is tall and thin, has dark-
flaxen hair, a pale face, with rather sweet, dark-blue eyes ; a long nose, a
mouth that is large rather than small, a long chin. I see he wears a sort
of great coat, such as is no longer worn. It is not at all becoming ; it
resembles a dressing-gown, but is not one ; it is dark-blue or black.
This garb proclaims him to be a man in orders—a priest or something
of the kind. He looks stern. He must have had chest complaint. I see
that his lungs are distended with blood. He has been ailing a long
time. He is very weak. I think that privations have caused this, and
made his chest so delicate. I do not see, however, that he has the
germs of any fatal disease, and this makes me believe that his death was
violent, accidental, unexpected. His hand is large and thin. I see a
medal on his breast, the size of the palm of a hand. He wears low-cut
shoes, such as are not worn now. He will not speak to me, so I conclude
that he did not speak French."
The following remarks precede the signature of M. Dejean: —"This
person had more of gentleness and kindness than severity in his disposition.
He died of a malignant fever, accompanied by delirium lasting several days,
i Vol II., pp. 219-220.
Frank Podmore. [part
and attributed by the doctor to the needs of a vigorous constitution
thwarted by absolute continence."
" These details acknowledged to be accurate.
(Signed) De.tean de la Bastie,
This 25th August, 1848. 18, Rue Neuve de Luxembourg."
In some cases, with the express object of excluding thought-trans
ference, the sitter came armed with the name of some dead person
of whom he knew nothing—as in the following case. M. 1'Abbe
A , mentioned at the beginning of the record, had had a successful
experiment of the same kind at a previous sitting (No. 112).
No. 1221.—Pastor Rostan, who is referred to in the preceding séance in
connection with the conversion of M. l'Abbe A , desired in his turn to
obtain an apparition. He asked for a person unknown to him, whose name
had been given to him ; but there had been a mistake made in giving hi:n
this name ; in consequence a person appeared whose description we took,
but who could not be recognised. At least, such is this gentleman's version,
and I do not imagine that I was imposed upon. I suggested a second seance
to him, especially as he persisted in asking for a person entirely unknown to
him, to such an extent had he been influenced by M. Hebert's arguments.
He then asked his maid-servant to give him a name of one of her acquaint
ances who had been dead some time ; he came armed with this name, and
asked for Jeannette Jex. Adele replied : "I see a woman who is not tall,
she may be between thirty and forty years of age ; if she is not hump-backed
she must be crook-backed, for she carries herself very badly. I cannot make
her turn round. Her hair is auburn, approaching to red ; she has small
grey eyes, a thick nose. She is not good-looking. She has a prominent
chin, a receding mouth, thin lips ; her dress is countrified. I see that she
has a cap with two fiat bands, rounded over the ears. She must have
suffered from a flow of blood to the head, she has had indigestion. I see
she has a swelling in the abdomen on the left side and in the glands of one
breast. She has been ill a long time."
M. Rostan handed over the report to his servant, and gave it back to me
after adding his signature and the following remarks :—
" This is correct as regards stature, age, dress, carriage, the disease and
deformed figure.
(Signed) J. J. Rostan."
But if M. Rostan was staggered by the result of his test, his
friends apparently still ascribed the results to thought-transference,
which gives Cahagnet occasion for some argument on the subject.
There are, indeed, if a digression from the main argument may be
permitted, indications that some at least of the alleged apparitions
were subjective—inspired, that is, by the imagination of the medium,
supplemented occasionally by telepathic drafts from the sitter. We
1 Vol. II., pp. 142-144.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 65
should probably bejustified in assuming —in default of any corroborative
evidence as to their reality—that the accounts of Heaven and of the
occupations of the spirits therein, given in the first volume, had no more
remote origin than the medium's own mind, whose workings were no
doubt directed, now by memories of lessons learnt in childhood, now by
hints of the Swedenborgian philosophy received from Cahagnet
himself.
Here, for instance, is an account of a heavenly vision vouchsafed to
Bruno, Cahagnet's first ecstatic, a young man of 27, of mild dis
position, and apparently limited education.
No. 10.i—Bruno is in a deep ecstasy ; he enters heaven for the first time,
and there see3 his father, who is seated at a small table reading. " What
is the book which your father is holding ? " "It is like oura, but the print
ing is not the same." " What is it like ? " " It has letters in the shape of
a D, then others shaped like little hooks and crescents. I can hardly de
scribe it to you. My father closes the book and says that we can understand
nothing in this writing. Allow me to return to heaven for a moment." After
a quarter of an hour he awakes, looks at his bed with contempt, and exclaims :
',Oh ! I understand why the dead do not regret the earth. Who would
wish to vegetate on this mud-heap after seeing what I have just seen ?"
•'What have you seen, then?" "Heaven." "Yes, well, what is heaven
like I " " Oh ! I was in a place without any horizon, illuminated by a
superb light. Before me was a being who, I believe, was God, seated on a
throne ; his head was covered with a shining turban, his beard was grey.
I think his arm was resting on the arm of his chair. He was robed in
crimson velvet studded with golden fleurs-de-lis. His mien was majestic ;
he was speaking to his ministers, six or eight in number. I did not count
them. They were all seated on the steps of the throne, and were clothed in
robes of the same material and the same colour as the robe of God ; but I do
not think there was any gold embroidery on them. All round them and in
the distance walked a multitude of beings. Oh ! how ugly are the men of
the earth in comparison with those beautiful faces, those fair skins ! A
gauze-like scarf covered one shoulder, and, besides that, they had a little
skirt of such transparent gauze that every limb was easily distinguishable.
Their feet were shod with sandals, fastened with broad laces (eothnrnes) ;
but, oh, God ! how beautiful it was ! I was lifted up into the air, I beheld
the earth under my feet, and all these little men, so proud, so vain-glorious,
how ill-favoured and poor they seemed to me by the side of those divine
beings around me.
At a later sitting, it should be observed, it was revealed to Bruno
that the figure seated on the throne was the angel Gabriel.
And here are some extracts from Adele's visions of Heaven.
Louise, her spirit niece, comes to the entranced Adele to announce the
appearance of her second brother [her first had appeared at a previous
sitting.]
1 Vol. I., pp. 18-19.
F
6C [part
Frank Podmore.
No. 40.1—"Which brother is this?" "It is Jean-Marie ; he, too, died
in Africa three years ago." Adele looks with joy on these three members of
her family ; the latter is also in a dragoon's uniform ; as in previous seances,
she talks to them for a very long time without informing me of the subject
of their conversation. "What are your brothers doing up in heaven?"
" They enjoy themselves, they walk about." " Eternity cannot be spent in
aimlessly walking up and down and enjoying oneself?" "Oh! they play
music, study sciences ; they are better and more pleasurably occupied
than we."
No. 41.—" Here they are. " "Do they seem pleased to see you?" "I
should think so, indeed." " Is your niece with them ? " "No." "Are they
glad that they are dead?" "Who would not be glad! they are so happy.
They tell me I shall see my mother."
Adele waits a moment, then all of a sudden she stretches out her arms,
seems to embrace her mother ; her heart beats violently, her face expresses
emotion, she is very joyful and sheds tears. " Does your mother seem as
glad to see you as you are to see her ? " "Oh ! yes." " What does she do
up in heaven ? " " She is with my father, my brothers, my sister, in short
with all the family ; she is very anxious about me, she is very happy ; she
reads, and takes pleasure in hearing my brothers play." "Then there are
books in heaven?" " Yes, certainly, and they are not romances such as
those of earth." " What do they tell of?" "They tell of the mysteries of
God, of science ; but they are not written as on earth, so my mother
tells me."
******
No. 452.—"Are all your relations along with you?" "Four of them
are." " Do you expect any others ? " " I expect my sister who is also dead,
and whom I have not seen as yet. Oh, there she is ; how beautiful she is !
Oh, God ! how beautiful one is after death ! " "How is she clothed?"
"In her betrothal garments ; she died on the eve of the day fixed for her
marriage ; she is in white, her hair is fastened back ; she, too, is barefoot
like my little niece ; how curious that is ! " " Ask them why they have no
shoes?" " My mother answers that where they are there are no stones."
" On what are they standing now ? " " On a beautiful green sward." "By
what are they surrounded ? " " By a vast and beautiful blue horizon."
"What kind of light have they?" "A very pure light which I can only
compare to the light at the close of a fine summer's day."
******
No. 49s.—Second apparition of Adele's little godson. She seemed to
take the greatest interest in this little creature, and when she saw him go
away it seemed to her that he was going to fall ; she followed him, and then
entered upon the state of complete ecstasy from which I did not find it easy to
rouse her ; she signified her displeasure by saying to me, as she did before,
" Why compel me to return to this globe of mud and wretchedness ? I was
so happy following this little creature with his pretty little white wings, as
1 Vol. L, pp. 89, 90, 91. 2 Vol. I., pp. 96, 97.
» Vol. J., p. 107.
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 67
M. Bruno saw him. It is I who was wrong in this respect."1 "How far
did you go?" "I ascended very high up; then I went through a great
archway, at the end of which there were very beautiful gardens, and every
thing in them was remarkable for its grace and freshness. There were many
people walking in the alleys ; some were reading, others played music ; they
all seemed very happy. Such perfect harmony seemed to exist among them
that one could not but long to be with them. I saw there my father, my
mother, all ray family, which is a very large one. I wished to remain, but
my mother and your will obliged me to descend." "How were all these
people clothed ? " " They all had a kind of gauze robe in all sorts of colours ;
their physiognomy was quite different, but I easily recognised my relations,
although if they were to appear to us thus dressed they would not be easily
recognisable."
But there are other iiccounts which, while they point to the
action of telepathy, are extremely difficult to reconcile with the theory
of spirit-intercourse held by the recorder.
On two occasions Adele was asked to search for a long-lost relative
of the sitter. On each occasion she found the man alive, and conversed
with his spirit.
M. Lucas, a carrier (messager), of Rambouillet, came to inquire after
the fate of his brother-in law, who had disappeared after a quarrel
some 12 years previously.
Adele in the trance found the man at once, said that he was
alive, and that she saw him in a foreign country, where there
were trees like those in America, and that he was busy gathering
seeds from small shrubs, about 3ft. high. He would not answer
her question, and she asked to be awoke, as she was afraid of
wild beasts.2 M. Lucas returned a few days afterwards, bringing
with him the mother of the missing man.
No. 99s.—Adele, as soon as she was asleep, said:—"I see him."
', Where do you see him ? " " Here. " " Give us a description of him again
and also of the place where he is." " He is a fair man, tanned by the heat
of the sun ; he is very stout, his features are fairly regular ; brown eyes, large
mouth ; he appears gloomy and meditative. He is dressed as a workman, in
a sort of short blouse. He is occupied at present, as he was last time, in
gathering seed, which resembles pepper-corns, but I do not think it is
pepper ; it is larger. This seed grows on small shrubs about one metre high.
There is a little negro with him occupied in the same way." " Try to obtain
some answer to-day. Get him to tell you the name of the country where
youseehim." " He will not answer." "Tell him that his good mother,
for whom he had a great affection, is with you, and asks for news of him."
"Oh ! at the mention of his mother he turned round and said to me, 'My
mother ! I shall not die without seeing her again. Comfort her, and tell
1 Adele had on a previous occasion differed from Bruno—another subject of
Cahagnet's—as to the existence of wings on the little child.
VoL II., pp. 32-33. » Vol. II., pp. 34-37.
F 2
68 [part
Frank Podmore.
her that I always think of hor. I am not dead !'" " Why does he not write
to her?" "He has written to her, but the vessel has no doubt been
wrecked—at least he supposes this to be so, since he has received no answer.
He tells me that he is in Mexico. He has followed the emperor, Don
Pedro ; he has been imprisoned for five years, he has suffered a great deal,
and will use every effort to return to France ; they will see him again. "
" Can he name the place in which he is living ? " " No ; it is very far inland,
those countries have no names." " Is he living with a European ? " " No,
with a coloured man." " Why does he not write to his mother 1 " "Because
no vessels come to the place where he is. He does not know to whom to
turn. Besides, he only knew how to write a very little, and has almost for
gotten. There is no one with him who can render him this service ; no one
speaks his language ; he makes himself understood with great difficulty.
Besides that, he ha3 never been of a communicative disposition or a talker.
He seems to be rather a surly fellow. It ia very difficult to get these few-
words out of him. One would think he were dumb." " In short, how can
one manage to write to him or hear news of him?" "He knows nothing
about it. He can only say these three things : I am in Mexico, I am not
dead, they will see me again." " Why did he leave his parents in this
manner, without saying anything to them, as he was happy at home ? " " This
man was very reserved ; he hardly ever spoke. He loved his mother very
much, but he had not the same affection for his father, who was a passionate,
surly man, and often treated him brutally. The cup had long since been
full. It was not the trifling dispute that he had had with his father the day
before his departure that made him decide to go away ; it had been his fixed
determination for some time past. He told no one of it. He went away
on the sly. Having kissed them all the evening before, he made good his
escape next day, without another word. Do not be uneasy, madam ; you
will see him again ! " This good woman burst into tears, because she recog
nised the truth of every detail given her by Adele. She did not find
anything at fault in the description. The disposition, the education, and
the departure of her son were as Adele said ; but a greater semblance of
probability is given to the clairvoyante's account by the fact that his rela
tions had an idea that he had enlisted in Don Pedro's army, and at one time
took some steps to ascertain the truth of it. M. Lucas told me of this detail
on a journey which he afterwards made to Paris. No information was, how
ever, obtainable. What no less contributed to the astonishment of this
good woman, of M. Lucas, and the other people present at this curious
séance, was to see Adele put up her hand to the left side of her face to keep
off the fiery rays of the sun in those countries, and appear to be suffocated
with heat ; but the most extraordinary part of this scene was that she had
a severe sunstroke which turned the whole of that side of her face, from
forehead to shoulder, bluish red, whilst the other side remained dead
white. This dark colour did not begin to disappear till twenty-four hours
later. At the time the heat of it was so great that one could not hold one's
hand on it.
This simulation, by the subliminal consciousness, of the effects of
severe sunburn is no doubt not more incredible than the production in
hypnosis of mimic stigmata. Such physical effects of the imagination,
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 69
if rare, are well authenticated. But if Cahagnet's last sentence refers
to the heat of the medium's skin, I am afraid we must admit that the
imagination of the recorder possibly played as prominent a part in the
marvel as that of the patient.
Shortly after this incident, M. Mirande, the head of the printing-
office in which the first volume of the Arcanes had been printed, came
to Cahagnet, and asked for a sitting. He was much impressed with
what he saw and heard, and finally
No. 1051.—. . . begged Adele to ask for the apparition of his brother,
who, he believed, had died in the Russian campaign. As Adele did not see
him in the spirit world, she said that he was not dead, that she saw him on
earth ; she described him thus : "I see a fine stout man, with brown hah-,
black eyes, bright, beautiful, and with a gentle expression ; a medium-
sized mouth, with good teeth, a well-shaped nose, fresh-coloured cheeks ; he
is courteous and lively. He looks to me about thirty years of age, he is
somewhat taller than M. Mirande. His uniform is that of a non-commis
sioned officer (I think), for I only see one epaulette, a blue coat, blue trousers
with red braid, a shako with a small peak ; taking him altogether he is a
fine man." "Ask him in what country he is?" "He does not know, or
will not tell me. He replies that he has suffered much. He has been made
prisoner and sent into the interior of Russia, to the country bordering on
China, I think ; he says that his brother will see him again." " Why has he
not written to him?" "He has done so, but the letters have either been
lost or gone astray." "Why does he no linger write?" " He does not
know whether his brother is still alive." "Tell him that he is alive, and is
making it his business to discover the place of his retreat." "He answers
that he cannot tell me that, but that he is in hopes of surprising his brother
some day." " What is he doing over there? " "He is very happy, he has
some estates of his own which he farms, and employs many people. If he
had found the means of getting rid of them by selling them he would have
returned to France already, but there purchasers are not to be as easily
found as they are with us : he does not know when he will be able to do
this." "Ask him to write to his brother." "He has no chance. You
think it is easy ; he is far away from the sea, and then he is anxious to
surprise his brother by returning to him rich and happy. He is not selfish,
he is good-hearted, but he is not free from ambition, and never was. The
one and only dream of his life has been to end his days as a rich man, and
he has reached the height of his desires." " Is he married 1 " " Yes ; but
he has no.children. Next time I will ask him to let me see the country in
which he lives, and also his house and his wife." Adele is tired, and wishes
to be awakened. M. Mirande asks for some further information concerning
his brother's uniform. Adele repeats what she has already said, and adds
that she thinks she saw some lace, what we call brandebourys, on his breast,
and also that he had white facings to his coat. M. Mirande acknowledged
that all the details of the physique were very accurate, as well as those of the
disposition, and his brother's ambition for a fortune, his good-heartedness.
i Vol. II., pp. 60-63.
70 [pakt
Frank Podmore.
liveliness, affection, etc., were all quite true. He does not so clearly
recollect the details of his dress ; however he is satisfied that it is sub
stantially correct. This gentleman's brother had served in the departmental
guard before the Russian campaign. M. Mirande believes that this was
the uniform belonging to it, only he never knew him as non-commissioned
officer. He is much surprised that his brother, who must be fifty-six, only
looks thirty. Adele reminds him that she sees him at the time of his leaving
France. "Then he was only about twenty-one," replies M. Mirande, "you
see him about thirty years of age ; doubtless the fatigue he has gone
through has aged him very much." Adele replies : "Whilst you only knew
him as a soldier at the age of twenty-one, he appears to me as an officer and
older. Several years may have gone by between that time and the time at
which I see him, that is quite admissible. If I saw him at the age of twenty-
one, it would be said that I see in your mind. If I, on the contrary, saw
him at his present age of fifty-six, his brother would not recognise him,
which M. Mirande understands well enough. He in no wise doubts that it
is his brother who appeared. He cannot recover from his astonishment."
We have, unfortunately, no corroboration of the truth of the state
ments made about those two persons. A third volume of the Arcanes
were published some years later, which went into a second edition
in 1860, and it is perhaps fair to assume that, if news had come that
either of the missing persons was still alive, and had passed through
the experiences described by Adele, Cahagnet would not have missed
the opportunity of making public such a striking testimony to his
subjects' clairvoyance. It follows, then, that in these two seances all
that we are entitled to say is that Adele was able to divine with, it
may be admitted, singular accuracy, the ideas present in the minds of
her interlocutors. It was a striking example of telepathy ; but we
have no kind of proof that it was anything more, and from internal
evidence it seems very unlikely that it was anything more. In our
total ignorance of all conditions and limitations, it is perhaps fair to
say that the assumption that the spirits of the dead are ready to
attend at any moment the summons of the living does not in itself
constitute an additional obstacle to accepting the accounts of Adele's
seances in general as evidence of spirit intercourse. But it is quite
another matter when we have to deal, as in the two cases now in
question, with the spirits of men still living. How did Adele manage
to discover the whereabouts of those two persons 1 And, still more,
how did she contrive that they should speak with her, and that at
a time when one of them, at least, was wide awake and engaged
in earning his living by the work of his hands 1 And was Adele's
power of communicating with the spirits of the living restricted to
persons who had gone away to distant climes in order to escape from
their relations? If Adele, or any other of Cahagnet's clairvoyantes,
really had possessed the power of conversing with the living at a
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomenu of Mrs. Piper. 71
distance, I cannot doubt that Cahagnet, in the course of his many
years' experiments, would have been able to present us with some
evidence of such a power that was not purely hypothetical. Nothing
would be so easy to prove. The fact that no such evidence is forth
coming affords, I submit, a strong presumption that Adele did not
possess that power, and that the conversations here detailed were purely
imaginary, the authentic or plausible details which they contained
being filched telepathically from the minds of those present. The
curious similarity of the two accounts also points in the same direc
tion. Both men profess to have written home, but the letters must
have miscarried. Neither can write now, because they are far from
the sea, in the interior. Both have suffered much ; both have been
prisoners ; both protest that their relations will see them before they
die ; neither, however, is in a hurry to come back ; and neither is
willing to discover the name of his present place of abiding.
To suppose, as the recorder supposes, that these narratives are
authentic revelations obtained from actual conversations with the
spirits of men living in unnamed, and—as Cahagnet explains at length
—probably nameless localities in the interior of Mexico or Asiatic
Russia, is to strain credulity to the breaking-point. But if these two
narratives are not what they seem to be, what are we to say of the other
narratives in the book, which are cast in the same dramatic form, and
contain similar details harmonising with the expectations or memories of
the interlocutors? If those are not authentic messages from the distant
living, we require some further warrant for the assumption that these
are authentic messages from the spirits of the dead. Considered in
conjunction with the almost certainly subjective visions of Heaven and
dead playmates which characterised the earlier trances, these later
seances certainly point to an exclusively mundane origin.
But, after all, to enquire too curiously whether the information dis
played by Adele reached her hidden consciousness from the minds of
the dead or the living, is hardly germane to our present purpose.
It is enough, here, to note that all the witnesses cited by Cahagnet
seem to have been satisfied that nothing less than thought-transference
would explain the revelations, and that any candid reader now must
find it hard to resist the same conviction.
To turn now to the consideration of Mrs. Piper's trance-utterances.
The first point to be brought out is that the abundance of the material,
the fulness of the records, the watchful supervision exercised over the
medium herself for some years past, and the extraordinary and almost
uniformly high level of success, make these records much more note
worthy than any previous accounts of the kind. Practically we are
justified by the fulness and accuracy of the records in leaving altogether
out of account certain sources of error which vitiate to a considerable
72 [PAKT
Frank Podmore.
extent any conclusions which might be based even on the sets of docu
ments which I have already cited, and which render almost worthless
in themselves the great mass of similar narratives in the literature of
the past century. It is tolerably clear that Mrs. Piper's success, at any
rate, cannot be plausibly attributed to the unconscious reproduction
of knowledge normally acquired ; nor to the skilful manipulation of
information extracted at the time from the sitters themselves ; nor to
misrepresentation and exaggeration as to what was actually said at
the sittings ; nor—if we may trust Dr. Hodgson's honesty—to the selec
tion of the " good " sittings and the suppression of the failures.
" Fishing" for information, indeed, as Dr. Leaf pointed out nine years
ago, may reasonably have been supposed to operate to some extent at
the sittings then given in this country ; but it is clearly inadequate
to explain even a small fraction of the later records. Our choice now
seems clearly defined between deliberate and systematic fraud on the
one hand and supernormal faculty on the other.
Now as regards fraud, there is, of course, no a priori improbability
involved in such an assumption. The position of the Society in such
investigations has always been that, while no dishonesty is necessarily
imputed to the medium, every possible precaution should be taken
against dishonesty ; and that no experiment can be regarded as conclu
sive in which the conditions allowed the honesty or dishonesty of the
medium to be a factor in the problem. The mere fact that Mrs. Piper
has been paid—at the rate lately of 10 dollars a sitting — has in no
way affected the precautions taken. The motive to dishonesty in such
matters, as we know from long experience, is not necessarily the
anticipation of pecuniary reward. The precautions taken in Mrs.
Piper's case were not increased because Mrs. Piper was paid, and
should not have been relaxed if she had given her services for
nothing. But nevertheless, the fact that Mrs. Piper has received pay
ment at the rate of something like £200 a year for about five years
past is of some importance, because fraud of the kind here supposed,—
the employment of private inquiry agents, —would have necessarily
involved considerable expenditure.
If we turn to the case of the three other mediums cited, we see
that the motive for fraud was primd facie stronger in the case of
Alexis Didier, who received a handsome payment for his performances,
than in that of Stainton Moses, whose reward was certainly not of
the substantial kind, and whose whole career is difficult to reconcile
with the assumption of dishonesty.
Again, if we defer for the present the consideration of the internal
evidence afforded by the trance utterances, the presumption of fraud
in the case of Alexis Didier, based upon the extremely dubious character
of his demonstrations of clairvoyance at close quarters is, as has been
xxxiv.] Discussion of Traace-Plieiiomena of Mrs. Piper. 73
shown, overwhelmingly strong ; whilst the fact that Stainton Moses'
spirit communications were associated with physical phenomena of a
kind which are known in other cases to have been fraudulently pro
duced will afford to some minds a presumption hardly less cogent of
fraud in the trance utterances also. There is no such presumption in
the case of Adele Maginot or of Mrs. Piper.
There are, indeed, three preliminary arguments against dishonesty
on Mrs. Piper's part, to which some weight should be allowed.
(1) Mrs. Piper has produced on nearly all those who have come into
contact with her—even those who, (see e.g., Report, p. 524), were
predisposed to think her an impostor—the impression of transparent
honesty. (2) By an almost universal consensus of opinion her trance
is a genuine one, and the association of a genuine trance condition
with preconcerted fraud of the kind here supposed would be unusual,
if not altogether without precedent. It should, perhaps, be added
that, whilst we have no independent evidence of any value as to the
nature of Stainton Moses' trance, the descriptions given would seem to
indicate that in the case of Alexis Didier the trance was genuine, and
the contortions observed both on entering and leaving the trance state
seem to have been not unlike those observed in Mrs. Piper. There
would appear to be no reason to doubt the genuineness of the somnam
bulic state in the case of Adele. (3) In all these y ears—now thirteen or
more—during which Mrs. Piper has been under the close observation,
first of Professor William James, and afterwards of Dr. Hodgson and
other competent persons — though she has been shadowed by detectives,
though her personal luggage, as Professor Lodge has told us, has been
searched, her correspondence read, her goings-out and comings-in
closely watched—during all these years not the smallest circumstance
has come to light reflecting in any way upon her honesty. Certainly
no other medium has been exposed to so stringent an ordeal. How
much weight should be attached to general considerations of this
kind it is difficult to say, but in view especially of the fact that the
researches of Dr. Hodgson himself, and of many less competent
inquirers, have succeeded in bringing home the charge of dishonesty
to very many professional mediums, that this medium should have
passed through the most searching and prolonged inquiries without
even a rumour of an exposure, or the discovery of any suspicious
circumstances, is a fact entitled to some weight.
Let us now consider how far we can account for these various
trance-utterances without having recourse to supposed supernormal
sources of information. As regards Stainton Moses, the case seems
to me quite clear. Practically all the particulars which his " spirits "
furnished were names, dates, and other concrete facts, such as could
have been culled from the daily papers, published biographies, and
74 [part
Frank Podmore.
conversations with his friends. In fact there could be no difficulty in
accounting for the whole of these communications, with two exceptions,
on the hypothesis that they merely reproduced facts already present
in his subconscious memory. The two exceptions—the entry of com
munications from the spirits of President Garfield and " Blanche
Abercromby," at an hour when their deaths could hardly have been
known by normal means—seem to preclude this simple explanation,
and compel us to choose, for these two cases at any rate, between
supernormal faculty and deliberate fraud. In the absence of any
corroborative evidence we should not be justified in pressing the
former explanation.
The problem presented by Alexis Didier is more difficult. It is true
that the kind of information given—description of scenes, the exterior
and interior of houses, and occasionally the recent occupations of the
sitters—is not beyond the competence of a smart inquiry agent ; and
the circumstances were no doubt favourable ; there were nearly always
a crowd of persons present at the seances; no doubt he and Marcillet
could form a pretty shrewd guess beforehand at some of the sitters ;
and probably Alexis was free to choose at each seance from amongst
the thirty or forty expectant recipients the two or three about whom
he had the most to tell. But his frequent and conspicuous success
makes this explanation extremely difficult. If fraud is really the
explanation of Alexis' clairvoyance at a distance, I think we must
regard it as the high-water mark of achievement in this line.
With Adele Maginot we are carried one step further. We are no
longer concerned with names and dates merely ; or merely with descrip
tions of houses and parks ; nor is the medium any longer free, within
wide limits, to choose what information she will give, and to whom.
Adele, as we have seen, had only one or two sitters at a time ; and
she had to fulfil the tests which were prescribed to her by them. And
the particulars given in response to the requests of her sitters— minute
descriptions of the personal appearance, the ailments, the character,
and so on of persons often dead many years before —sometimes of
persons not known even to the sitters themselves—were not such as
any inquiry agent could have ascertained, one supposes, without grave
risk of detection ; even had the sittings been fixed some time before
hand, and all the other circumstances been favourable to the under
taking of such inquiries. On the whole, notwithstanding the various
defects already enumerated in the record, I find it almost impossible
to doubt that Adele's success was due to some kind of supernormal
faculty.
But now turn to Mrs. Piper, and note that the conditions of the
experiment are in her case incomparably more stringent than in any
previous clairvoyante. She could not pour out information at her own
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 75
fancy ; she could not, even within the narrowest limits, select her
sitters; and,—if we admit that the precautions taken were effectual to
that end,—she did not even know their names. Practically, of course,
the proof of her supernormal powers very largely depends upon the
effectiveness of those precautions to secure the anonymity of the sitters
in the first sittings,—and I do not propose here to consider any others.
What those precautions were are described in general terms in the
Report. The arrangements for sittings were made by letter or verbally
with Dr. Hodgson ; the correspondence and diary of engagements were
kept in a locked desk at Dr. Hodgson's office. The sittings were fixed
sometimes a fortnight, sometimes only two or three days beforehand ;
the dates were sometimes changed ; in one case for instance (p. 527,
Dr. F. H. K., Illinois) the sitting was fixed at two or three days' notice
only, the sitter coming from a distant State, and being a stranger even
to Dr. Hodgson. Moreover, one series of sittings were held in
Cambridge (U.S.A.), under the direction of Professor James ; another
in New York, under Dr. Thaw ; and similar precautions against
revealing the sitters' names were taken in this country ; at Liverpool
by Professor Lodge, at Cambridge (England) by Mr. Myers, in London
by Dr. Leaf. That in one or other of these instances the precautions
taken may have been insufficient ; that letters may have been left
lying about ; desks left open ; false keys found serviceable ;—that by
some carelessness or malign chance there may have been a loophole for
fraud, is, of course, conceivable. But it would be very difficult to
suppose that that loophole was always left open, that that malign
chance favored Mrs. Piper for nine years so punctually that the
sittings which have to be written down as failures now number barely
10 per cent. The case in that respect could easily be made very much
stronger ; in England, for instance, there were several successful sitters
who came as chance callers and were introduced without any previous
notice at all. And it is at least worth remarking that the one series
of sittings where it would have been least difficult to anticipate the
names of the probable sitters and to provide for their advent —the
well-known Professors of Harvard, who came when Mrs. Piper was
under Professor James' direction,—was one of the least successful here
recorded.
But let us dismiss the initial difficulty and assume that Mrs.
Piper, by skill of her own, by fatuity of the investigators, or by some
incredible chance, had kept herself through all these years posted up
in the names of the sitters and the dates of their coming. She would
then be in the same position as Adele Maginot. But if we find it
difficult to believe that the information given by Adele could have
been acquired by normal means, what shall we say of the much more
detailed and intimate revelations of Mrs. Piper ? There are two ways
76 [part
Frank Podmore.
in which details of the kind given might conceivably have been
obtained ; either from other mediums, or, directly, by means of
inquiries made for the express purpose. Now it is no doubt permis
sible to assume a freemasonry amongst professional mediums leading
to a continual interchange of useful information about persons who
are in the habit of resorting to clairvoyants. There is evidence that
some such system does exist. And it is the case that several of the
sitters mentioned in Dr. Hodgson's Report had previously paid visits to
other professional mediums. But, so far as we can judge, that applies
only to a small portion of the sitters ; and in any case this would not
be a complete explanation of the matter. Mrs. Piper's unquestioned
superiority to all other professional mediums is in itself sufficient proof
that she is not dependent solely on common sources of information.
We are driven, then, ultimately to the supposition that Mrs. Piper has
in her employment one or more inquiry agents or private detectives.
Suppose, then, Mrs. Piper's agent, armed with the name and
address in some distant State, to go on the quest of information about
an intending sitter. He would find no difficulty in ascertaining such
bare external facts as the locality of the house, nature of business,
social standing, etc. The local papers, the public registers, the family
lot in the cemetery, the gossip of the local tradesmen would furnish
him with additional particulars. In the role of book-canvasser, say,
he would obtain entrance to the house, and would thus be competent
to furnish accurate descriptions of the living rooms and the servants'
quarters. By chatting with a sympathetic nursemaid he could learn
more personal details—names, age, appearance, disposition, etc., of
children, near relatives or intimate friends of the household, and
recent accidents, illness or death amongst them. By the more
hazardous process of bribing servants to read letters and open desks,
and so on, he could in some cases no doubt obtain more intimate
details of family troubles, distant friends, relatives dead years ago.
But it is clear that the further he pushed his inquiries by such
methods—even did time permit—the greater the risk (which on the
average of so many cases would amount to a certainty) of ultimate
detection. Moreover, such proceedings would be costly and the results
very uncertain.
To turn now to the contents of the messages The first salient
point is that Mrs. Piper is weak precisely where Stainton Moses was
strong—in names and dates. Dates appear to be given very rarely.
Names, of course, appear frequently ; but the Christian names are given
as a rule first ; and both Christian and surnames emerge frequently
piecemeal, and obviously with considerable effort. This tentative
exhibition of important information was naturally regarded at the
earlier sittings as a suspicious circumstance, pointing to " fishing " ;
xxxiv.] Discussion of Trance-Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. 77
and indeed I imagine that Phinuit's evil reputation rests mainly on
this characteristic. But in so far as it is founded on this circumstance,
that reputation is apparently undeserved. For this same tentative
and piecemeal emergence of proper names appears In the most fully
reported sittings, where it is tolerably certain that no hints were given,
and even in those sittings where the communication is made entirely
by writing. So that now it may fairly be urged that the sparing use
of dates and the difficulty in eliciting proper names are arguments so
far as they go against fraud —against fraud, that is, of the only kind
that can reasonably be supposed to have operated.
There are indeed several cases referred to in Dr. Hodgson's previous
report (Vol. VIII., pp. 37-42, p. 104, etc.) in which the information
volunteered by the trance-intelligence (without any reference, or only
an indirect reference, to the sitter) was such as might easily have been
got from the newspapers, inscriptions on tombstones, etc. Such are
the cases of Porter Brewster, William N , Gracie X , and the
Rev. Robert West. Now it is interesting to note that in these cases
no precise dates are given ; the approximate date furnished in one case
is four years out ; the names and other details in the first case are
hopelessly jumbled up and incorrect ; whilst in the second case the
" spirit " can only indicate the place of his death as " some Western
City." The obvious comment is that the " spirit-guides " of Stainton
Moses did this sort of thing much better.
Again, in marked contrast, not only to Alexis Didier, but to the
great majority of clairvoyantes, Mrs. Piper comparatively seldom gives
descriptions of distant localities, houses, rooms and so on ; and her
success in such delineations, when they have been attempted, seems
not to have been conspicuous.
It is hardly necessary to point out what Mrs. Piper's trance-
utterances do include —detailed personal descriptions of deceased
persons, their diseases and manner of death, their moral and intel
lectual characteristics ; dramatic and lifelike representations of such
persons, their mode of address, their attitude towards, and relation
with, others still living, references to cherished personal possessions,
conversations on various intimate and private matters ; revival of
forgotten family histories ; and so on, and so on.
And in all this enormous mass of information poured out by one
to whom —on the assumption of fraud —it represents only indifferent
details learned by rote, we find no hint of self-betrayal. The dramatic
impersonations are almost uniformly consistent ; the complex relation
ships and varying attitudes are kept distinct ; there are indeed
irrelevancies and incoherencies ; but they are not such as to suggest
confusion between different family histories or the attachment of
dossiers to the wrong person, or any of the innumerable mistakes of
78 [part
Frank Podmore.
omission and commission into which an impostor, one cannot but
suppose, must necessarily fall.
On the almost inconceivable hypothesis that Mrs. Piper has obtained
all this information fraudulently, we can but view with amazement her
artistic restraint in the use of proper names ; her masterly reticence
on dates and descriptions of houses and such concrete matters, which
form the stock-in-trade of the common clairvoyante ; the consum
mate skill which has enabled her to portray hundreds of different
characters without ever confusing the r61e, to utilise the stores of
information so laboriously acquired without ever betraying the secret
of their origin. In a word, if Mrs. Piper's trance-utterances are
entirely founded on knowledge acquired by normal means, Mrs. Piper
must be admitted to have inaugurated a new departure in fraud. '
Nothing to approach this has ever been done before. On the assump
tion that all so-called clairvoyance is fraudulent, we have seen the
utmost which fraud has been able to accomplish in the past, and at
its best it falls immeasurably short of Mrs. Piper's achievements.
Now, that in itself requires explanation. "We know somewhat of the
conditions and the limits of fraud, and if all clairvoyants are simply
tricksters it has to be explained why Mrs. Piper is so incomparably
superior to all her fellows. For whatever differences there may be
in the conditions and opportunities, be it noted, are differences which
must have operated to the disadvantage of Mrs. Piper. On the
assumption of fraud the tremendous gulf between her and them is an
almost insuperable obstacle. But, on the other hand, if it be conceded
that Mrs. Piper has genuine supernormal powers, the concession is no
bar to recognising similar powers in a greatly inferior degree in other
reputed clairvoyants. For whilst we know something of fraud, we
know nothing at all of the limits and conditions in which such super
normal faculties must be supposed to operate.
i
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 7J)
IV.
A CONTRIBUTION TO THE STUDY OF HYSTERIA AND
HYPNOSIS ; BEING SOME EXPERIMENTS ON TWO
CASES OF HYSTERIA, AND A PHYSIOLOGICO-
ANATOMICAL THEORY OF THE NATURE OF
THESE NEUROSES.
By Morton Prince, M.D.
(Instructor in Nervous Diseases, Harvard Medical School, Physician for
Nervous Diseases, Boston City Hospital.)
[Preliminary Note.—The following observations were made some
eight or nine years ago, while the paper itself was written seven years
ago, and was presented at that time to the American Neurological
Association at its annual meeting in 1891. It was then laid aside,
with the intention on the part of the writer of further carrying on
the experiments with the expectation of obtaining more light on the
matter, and either substantiating the theory of hysteria propounded
or controverting it. Other work has prevented this intention from
being carried out, and the existence of the paper was forgotten. It is
now published, at the request of Dr. Hodgson, in its original form,
excepting that certain parts have been expanded with the view of
making the theory more intelligible to the reader who is not an
expert in neurology. This much is due in explanation, as, while
the observations themselves have long since lost their novelty, the
phraseology would imply the contrary, and would seem, perhaps, not
to take cognisance of the work that has been done of late years in
this field.
During the last decade much work has been done, especially in
France, in the field of hysteria, resulting in very extensive contribu
tions to our knowledge of the subject. The studies of M. Janet
in particular have given us a new insight into this neurosis, and
it may be said that as a result of the accumulated facts we have
been obliged to recast our conceptions of the disease. This new work,
however, has been for the most part along psychological lines. The
theory here offered is an attempt to find a physiologico-anatomical
basis for certain psychological phenomena. It can be regarded only
as suggestive and tentative, but it seems to the writer that the later
80 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
additions to our knowledge of the subject tend to strengthen this
theory rather than oppose it.
One of the greatest obstacles to finding a satisfactory explanation
of hysterical and hypnotic phenomena is the tacit assumption that the
psychical and physical condition must be respectively always the same,
and hence the hunt for a universal law governing these phenomena—
for an explanation that will comprehend all the phenomena of hysteria
in the one case, and another that will do likewise for all phenomena of
hypnosis. The phenomena of hysteria are so complex, so various, and
involve so many different functions, that in individual cases we must
invoke more than one psychical and physical principle. In a given
case, for example, the phenomena may depend in part upon the con
traction of the field of consciousness and conscious or subconscious
fixed ideas ; in part upon the lack of cerebral inhibition, on the law of
association of nervous processes and organic nervous memories (asso
ciation neuroses) ; in part upon the abnormal diffusion of nervous
stimuli beyond their customary channels ; in part upon auto- or external-
suggestion, and so on.
Likewise in hypnosis, in consequence of the complexity of the
human brain, we have to deal with such varied phenomena that no
single law will cover all cases. For instance, even in somnambulism
the phenomena in individual instances are so fundamentally dissimilar
that any attempt to refer them all to a single physiologico-anatomical
basis must necessarily be unsuccessful. To be more specific, there may
be a complete loss of memory, in the somnambulistic state, of the whole
previous normal life, including even a loss of educational acquirements,
as for instance in the case of Mary Reynolds.1 This young lady not
only had forgotten all her previous life but had forgotten even how to
read and write, and was obliged to learn these accomplishments over
again. In either state, normal or somnambulistic, she had no know
ledge of the other. The cerebral process affected in such a case, and
the functioning centres, or association tracts remaining, must be very
different from that of a case like the well-known Felida, reported by
Azam. Felida in her second state not only remembers the whole of her
past life, but has more acute powers than in the normal state. Again
there are fundamental differences between these cases and that of M.
Mesnet's sergeant, who in his normal state had lost every sense
excepting that of touch ; and all these cases of so-called somnambulism
show marked differences from the induced somnambulism as ordinarily
observed in healthy subjects. It may be convenient, in view of our
deficient knowledge of the nervous processes involved, to define all
1 This case, originally reported by Dr. Mitchell, of New York, is the one referred
to by M. Binet in his Alteration) of Personality, p. 4. The fullest account of it will
be found in Harper's Magazinc for May, 1880.
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 81
these states as somnambulism. A single term emphasises the analogies
between in other respects different classes of facts ; but it should not
be lost sight of when we seek a physiological explanation, that, in
spite of the general similarities, the physiological processes or cerebral
areas involved must be dissimilar, and the adequacy of an explanation
designed for one set of facts must not be measured by its adequacy for
another. It is probably after all a question of cerebral localisation.
Just as an impairment of the functions of the Rolandic region will
exhibit itself by loss of muscular power, slight or absolute, limited to
the hand, or involving the whole side of the body, and an impairment
of the function of the occipital lobe by impairment of vision, according
to the extent of cortical territory involved and intensity of the morbid
change, so probably different varieties of somnambulism and hysterical
states may be obtained, according to the extent of area or number of
centres in the highest level whose function is suppressed.
A point which may be parenthetically raised here is whether in
some cases of hysteria with physical defects like anaesthesia and
paralysis, the so-called somnambulistic condition with restored func
tions is really a somnambulistic condition at all, but rather is not the
normal state, the subject having been restored to a normal state out of
a hystero-hypnotic state. It must not, then, be assumed that the
anatomico-physiological theory here advanced is intended to cover all
forms of hysteria or hypnosis. The theory supposes a localised " going
to sleep " of certain portions of the brain (highest level of Hughlings-
Jackson). Such an explanation is applicable only to the classical but
probably most numerous class of cases, viz., to that " automatic con
dition " to which the ordinary but fully hypnotised person is reduced.
In those more elaborate states to which so much prominence has been
given of late years, and which have been described as spontaneous
somnambulism, double personalities, etc., disturbances of other portions
or localised areas of the brain are probably involved.
In this connection the recent anatomical investigations of Flechsig,
and the theory which he has propounded are of interest. In his late
address " Gehirn und Seele," Flechsig claims to have demonstrated
the existence of regions in the brain unconnected with the projection
system of fibres ; but in connection with the various sensory centres
by means of association fibres. These regions, the so-called silent
areas of the brain, Flechsig looks upon as association centres, where
the various sensory impressions are associated together to form
memories. The frontal lobe is one of these association centres, and
here, perhaps, in particular are stored the memories which make up a
person's individuality. This is only putting in different language the
same conception advocated by Hughlings-Jackson, the " association
centres" taking the place of the "highest level " It is noteworthy that
Q
82 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
Flechsig by the anatomical method should have arrived at conclusions
practically identical with the inductions which Hughlings-Jackson
reached from the clinical side. Bianchi1 has also offered a similar
theory, viz., " that the frontal lobes are the seat of coordination
and fusion of the incoming and outgoing products of the several
sensory and motor areas of the cortex. . . . The frontal lobes
would thus sum up into series the products of the sensori-motor regions
as well as the motive states which accompany all the perceptions, the
fusion of which constitutes what has been called the psychical tone of
the individual."
If Flechsig's observations shall be confirmed, it may be that many
of the phenomena of hysteria and hypnosis are to be explained by a
suppression of function of these association centres, the variations in
the phenomena depending on the extent to which the centres are
affected, or the number of centres involved. In principle this would
be identical with the theory advocated in my original paper, to which
I now proceed.]
The cases on which the theory mentioned in the title to this paper
is based, if not unique, nevertheless are worth reporting because of
the light they help to throw upon the nature of certain forms of
hysterical anaesthesia and paralysis, and if they do not make clear the
exact cerebral defect underlying this affection, they at least indicate
what it is not.
More than this, it may be said that the one truth taught by cases
of this sort is that the brain of such hysterics really does react to
external impressions, notwithstanding the apparent presence of
anaesthesia. In other words, that an hysteric who has, to all outward
appearances, lost the perception of sensation over a part of the body
as well as the special senses, really does feel and see and hear. We
may say that such a person feels, but is not conscious that he feels.
The corresponding portion of the brain functions, but may be said
(for purposes of making the clinical facts more comprehensible) not to
be in physiological connection with other portions of the brain.
Paradoxical as this may seem, a few simple experiments will easily
demonstrate the fact. The cases I have to relate present many points
of interest, but I shall confine myself to such parts of their histories as
bear directly upon the subject matter of this paper.
The first case, Mrs. B., is one of traumatic hysteria and neuritis.
The patient fell off a railway baggage truck, striking upon her left
shoulder. In consequence of the accident, a number of mental
symptoms developed, such as insomnia, melancholia with mild suicidal
1 Quoted by Thomas, American Journal Medical Science, November, 1896.
XXXIV.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 83
tendencies, inability to concentrate the attention, etc. ; but besides the
hysterical symptoms there is present a neuritis involving a portion of
the brachial plexus. This neuritis has been of rather moderate
intensity but irritative in character, affecting the sensory more than
the motor nerves, so that the patient has suffered almost continuously
ever since the accident (a period now of about two years) from most
intense pain about the shoulder and down the arm. Almost any use
of the arm causes severe pain, so that it is difficult to determine how
much of the inability to use the arm should be ascribed to the effects
of the pain, and how much to real paralysis. There can be no doubt,
however, that decided functional paresis of nearly the whole arm exists.
The absence of all trophic and electrical changes in the muscles shows
that the paresis is not due to the neuritis, but is hysterical. Besides
this, nearly the only other objective symptom that was present from
the first has been a very slight anaesthesia, detected only by very
careful and delicate examination over the whole inner side of the arm
and hand, corresponding to the distribution of the inner cord of the
brachial plexus.
After this condition had existed for about a year and a half, it was
noticed that this anaesthesia suddenly had become profound, so that
the skin over the ulnar side of the hand could be most severely pinched
and pricked without being felt. Most careful and accurate tests were
made to demonstrate the actual presence of this loss of sensation. As
the patient was a good hypnotic subject it was seen at once that this
was a chance not to be lost.
After placing a screen between the patient's face and her hand, I
took a pin and pricked the hand several times, then laid gently upon it
a pair of small nippers with flat surfaces (such as are used in micro
scopical work) and pinched the skin with the same. She did not feel
the pricks of the pin, nor did she know that anything had been done
to her hand. It should be said that care was taken not to give the
patient any hint of the nature of the experiment, or even that any
experiment was being made. She was then hypnotised. While in the
trance, I asked her, " What did I do to your hand ? "
" You pricked it."
" How many times ? "
"A good many times, more than twelve."
" Where did I prick it ? Show me."
[Patient indicated correctly with her finger the part that was
pricked.]
"What else did I do?"
" You laid something on it."
"What?"
" Something long and flat."
G 2
84 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
"What else did I do?"
" Pinched it."
"With what?"
" Something you had in your hand. I don't know what it is."
The patient was then awakened and the experiment repeated with
variations. After being again hypnotised, she was asked what was
done.
" You pricked my hand."
" How many times 1 "
" Eighteen."
" All at once ? "
" No ; first five times, then thirteen."
" What else was done ? "
"You pinched it."
" How many times ? "
" Five."
" What did I pinch it with ? "
" Your fingers."
These answers were all correct.
These experiments were afterwards repeated publicly before the
Boston Society for Medical Improvement. Another fact of some
importance, though one that has been noticed before in similar cases,
should be mentioned here, namely, that during the hypnotic trance,
sensation completely returned in the previously anaesthetic hand, so
that any manipulation of the skin was immediately noticed by the
patient. It may be said incidentally, and as further evidence of the
merely functional nature of the anaesthesia, that normal sensation was
restored later by means of hypnotic suggestion.
Before commenting on this case I will describe my second patient,
who presented somewhat similar phenomena. Only a few of the more
prominent features need be referred to here.
Case 2. Mrs. R.'s most prominent disability is hemi-anaesthesia.
The loss of sensation over the right half of the body is only slight in
intensity, but in the arm it is marked. In the hand there is an
absolute loss of tactile, thermal, muscular and pain sense. You may
pinch, prick and rub the skin, twist and bend her fingers without her
having any knowledge of the fact. The wrist may also be bent
without her knowledge, unless the movement be rough. You may
place in her hand objects, such as a knife, pencil and a pair of scissors
(the thumb and forefinger being thrust through the holes), without
her being aware of the fact. She fingers them, handles them, but
does not feel them. A bracelet-like line limits the absolute anaesthesia
of the hand at the wrist joint. Right hemianopsia is also present.
[The line of division passes through the centre of vision.]
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 85
Hearing, spiel] and taste are diminished on the right side ; in fact
smell and taste are almost lost.
There is no paralysis, although there has been a history of impaired
muscular power on the right side fn the past.
There is gray atrophy of both discs. This has been confirmed by Drs.
Wadsworth and Williams. The acuteness of vision is nearly normal.1
In considering the nature of the affection from which this woman
suffers, I think there are few who would not say at first sight that we
have to do with a lesion of the internal capsule. The hemianopsia
with optic atrophy certainly means a focal disease somewhere between
the cortex and the optic chiasm, and if it be placed in the neighbour
hood of Charcot's sensory crossway it would cause the hemianaesthesia
in the classical way. But it is very easy to demonstrate that the
hemianaesthesia, at least, whatever be the cause of defect of vision, is
not due to a lesion in this situation, or at any rate to one that causes
an interruption to the centripetal fibres that pass upwards through this
portion of the capsule on the way to the cortex. Indeed, it is very easy
to demonstrate that in one sense of the word there is no loss of
sensation in this case at all, in spite of all the tests that have been
given. In one sense of the word this patient feels perfectly, and if she
feels, if it can be shown that by changing the conditions of the
experiment the patient is conscious of every impression given to her
hand and has a thorough knowledge of the location, etc., of her fingers,
it must be admitted that the paths of conduction from the periphery
to the cortex, as well as the cortex itself, must be intact. To show
this, we have only to hypnotise her. Now touch her hand or body or
foot ever so lightly and she feels it perfectly. You may place objects
in her hand, the same that she failed to recognise before, and she tells
their names immediately, without hesitation. She says at once knife,
scissors, rubber bands, etc. The translation from an insensible hand
to one that is perfectly normal, is startling. The special senses have
returned as well. In fact so far as her physical powers are concerned,
she is perfectly normal. Wake her up and the hand and the whole
right side lose at once what they recovered. One symptom alone
persists during the hypnotic state—she does not see out of the right
half of each eye ; a further proof that the hemianopsia is due to an
organic lesion.
It is a necessary induction from these facts that the centripetal
fibres to the inner capsule and the sensory centres in the cortex must
be intact, and the anaesthesia must be functional.
It may be suggested that, although there is no organic lesion
causing the hemianaesthesia, yet there may be some change, dynamic
1 The macula apparently was not involved in the atrophy.
86 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
or vasomotor, which prevents the passage of impressions in the waking
state and disappears during hypnosis, allowing sensory stimuli to be
felt. In other words, under hypnosis the cortex and sensory paths
resume their activity but lose it again when the subject is awake. But
it is not difficult to show that this is not the condition of affairs we
have to deal with, for it can be demonstrated that this patient feels
with her right hand, not only when hypnotised, but when awake.
The following is one of numbers of experiments made for this
purpose :—While Mrs. R. is awake I squeeze the fingers of the right
hand, prick the hand with a pin, close and open the fingers, place a
pencil, scissors and my knife in the palm,—and she has no knowledge
of what has been done. She says she feels nothing. She is now
hypnotised.
" What did I do to your hand when you were awake ? " I ask.
" You stuck a pin in it."
" How many times ? "
" One, two, three, four, five."
"What else?"
" You put a pencil, scissors, and your finger in it."
"What else?"
" Nothing."
" What else did I do ? "
" Pinched it."
"What else?"
" Doubled it up."
" Anything else t "
" No."
"Sure?"
" Yes."
These answers were correct,i The anaesthetic hand then really did
perceive, so to speak, the impressions, and that, too, as intelligently as
a normal hand, although at that time the patient was not conscious of
it. From this it seems to me that the conclusion is inevitable that the
sensory conducting fibres from the periphery to the brain, as well as
the cortical sensory centres, are physiologically normal in this case.
These cases seem to me to show that in hysterical anaesthesia of this
sort the sensory cortical centres receive and record external impressions
in a perfectly healthy way, and whatever may be at fault in such cases
the defect is not to be found in these regions.
There is another piece of evidence which goes to show that the
anaesthetic hand of such patients really, so to speak, feels. It will be
1 The only answer about which there may be doubt ia the number of times the
hand was pinched.
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 87
remembered that Mrs. R. was described as deftly fingering and turning
over in her hand any object placed in it, but was unconscious of the
nature of the object. Unless the hand " felt " the object she could
not possibly use the hand in this way.
One naturally asks for an explanation of such phenomena as these.
Can we find any physiological basis upon which they may rest 1
Hughlings-Jackson has pointed out that three different levels of
evolution may be distinguished in the central nervous system. These
three strata are both anatomically and physiologically distinct, but are
arranged as an hierarchy. In the lowest level are to be found the most
organised, the most automatic, and the least complex nervous arrange
ments. The highest level contains the least organised, the least
automatic (or most voluntary) and most complex arrangements. The
array of evidence which Hughlings-Jackson marshals in support of this
plan of development is so strong and convincing as almost to take it
out of the field of hypothesis. I shall not be able here, however, to
refer to the mass of facts physiological and pathological on which it is
based, but shall only state briefly so much of the general scheme as
may be necessary for my purposes.
In the lowest level are included the spinal cord, medulla, and the
brain-stem as high as the nuclei of the cerebral nerves. The middle
level contains Terrier's motor region and certain portions of the sensory
region. The highest level includes much of the sensory region and all
that portion of the brain anterior to the so-called motor region, that is,
the greater part of the frontal lobes. Ferrier's motor region (central
convolutions, etc.) Hughlings-Jackson has named " middle motor,"
because he believes all the frontal lobes anterior to Ferrier's motor
region to be also motor in character. These are the highest motor
centres. The highest level is concerned with the more complex forms
of ideation.
The centres in the lowest level are the most simple and the most
organised. They represent comparatively limited regions of the
body. For example, a nucleus in the lumbar enlargement represents
only a limited number of movements. These movements are simple
and they are most automatic, in the sense that they may go on by
themselves with greater or less independence of all other centres. These
centres are also most organised. Comparatively simple combinations
of movement are developed at an early period, which persist with
relatively little modification.
In the middle stratum, Ferrier's motor region, the movements are
more complex, and they represent wider regions of the body. The
same parts are represented as below in the lowest level, but in a more
complicated manner. They are less automatic, and the centres are
less organised, as development is continually taking place in them,
88 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
allowing new combinations of movements. It is here, probably, that
originate the movements engaged in writing, sewing, typewriting, and
the various manual occupations after they have been once acquired.
In the highest level, in the anterior lobes, all parts of the body are
represented, but in more complex combinations still. This level repre
sents over again what has been represented in the middle motor region,
which re-represented in its turn what was represented in the lowest
level. In passing then from the lowest level (the spinal cord) to the
highest level (the anterior lobe), we meet with "increasing complexity
or greater intricacy of representation, so that ultimately the highest
motor centres co-ordinate movements of all parts of the body in the
most special and complex combinations."
The highest centres, like all other parts of the brain, are sensori
motor, and it is probable that they supply the greater part of the
physical basis of consciousness.
Looked at from a purely physical point of view, all parts of
the brain must be " sensori-motor." The term sensori-motor is not
synonymous with sensation and volition, but refers to the physical
cerebral process alone. It is impossible to conceive that at some
particular point, the brain processes cease to be "sensori-motor," and
become something else. It would be opposed to the doctrine of evolu
tion. The highest centres can differ from the lower centres only in
more intricate combinations of movements and impressions. There is
every reason to believe that the highest centres represent movements
as well as impressions. This conclusion is based on a study of many
clinical facts, and particularly those of epilepsy. I will not dwell on
the evidence which may be adduced in support of this statement, as
we are more particularly concerned with the sensory centres. It is
mentioned here only for the sake of completeness.
The highest sensory centres likewise represent all parts of the body
in intricate combinations. Sensory impressions received in the middle
centres are co ordinated in the highest centres with other impressions
and with movements, and there have their psychical counterparts as
ideation, volition, emotion, and other states of consciousness.
Accepting, then, this anatomical scheme as approximately correct,
let us see if we can build upon it a psycho-physiological scheme which
will correspond with normal psychological experience on the one hand,
and pathological facts on the other.
In the first place, it is a familiar fact that there is a sort of duality
to consciousness, which exhibits itself in two ways. One way is that
while intently thinking about one thing we may be doing another of
an entirely irrelevant character, and the thing we are doing may not
only involve movements of considerable complication, but these move
ments may be constantly corrected and guided by sensory impressions
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 89
from our environment. Furthermore, these impressions, although thus
acting on the organism, may not be perceived by the individual.
Movements of this kind are recognised as in a greater or less degree
automatic, according to the vividness with which they and the incom
ing sensory impressions enter into consciousness.
The second way in which duality is exhibited is in compound
movements which are primarily and as a whole the result of direct
volition, yet are made up of a series of simpler and co-ordinated
movements ; these simple movements are not directly willed, but
seem to take place automatically, without our being conscious of any
effort in, or with almost no knowledge of, their production. In fact
we may have to direct special attention to learn how we make such
movements, and to analyse the successive steps in the synchronous
occurrences. As familiar instances of this may be mentioned the
movements concerned in buttoning a coat, or those of a well-drilled
soldier doing the manual at arms, or in shaving the beard. "When we
button our coats, we may do it while we are thinking of something
else, in which case we have an example of the first form of dual
consciousness ; or the act may be initiated by volition, and thus be
an act represented in consciousness, but in most instances we do not
consciously move the different fingers by successive efforts of volition,
as I do now,—first the thumb and forefinger, then removing the fore
finger, bring into play the thumb and middle finger, and then removing
the latter, complete the act by the tip of the thumb. The co-ordination
of these different movements seems to take place unconsciously and
automatically. In fact I did not know how I did it in detail until I
watched my hand and observed the sensory impressions guiding each
step. My conscious mind wills the resultant act as a whole, and the
component movements are made unconsciously. A little observation
will show that a very large number, if not the majority, of our acts
are thus made up of these two kinds of movements, the volitional
and the unconscious (automatic). It would seem as if there were two
minds, one the self-conscious mind which gave the general order, and
the unconscious mind which carried out the details. A very pretty
experiment in evidence of this was the following. Writing is an art
which is partly volitional and partly unconscious. Very few of us
probably have any idea what contractions of the fingers we make in
forming the letters, or, for that matter, are conscious of crossing our
t's, dotting our i's, or forming our letters. Now it is very easy to
obtain automatic writing with Mrs. R. On one occasion the automatic
and an»sthetic hand wrote the verse, " Mary had a little lamb," etc.,
without Mrs. R. being conscious of it. She was then hypnotised and
asked what the hand had written. She answered correctly. When
asked if she had made any mistakes she said " Yes," and added that
90 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
she had left out such a letter, failed to cross such a t, and dot such an
i, which was correct. This would indicate that such details were
directly controlled by one part of the mind.1
This duality of consciousness (the conscious or volitional and the
unconscious or automatic), exhibits itself in the greater part of our
daily acts.
Now if Hughlings-Jackson's anatomical scheme is correct, it would
presumably follow that the conscious movements originate in the fore
brain, or highest level, and the greater part2 of the unconscious move
ments, in the middle level, or Rolandic-motor area. Otherwise this
scheme is unintelligible.
Let us now go one step further, and see if we can make out the
probable relationship between the middle motor and sensory regions
and the frontal lobes, on the basis of our present physiological and
pathological knowledge.
In the first place, we know that sensory impressions arriving
simultaneously from the eye, the ear, the skin, and various parts of the
body, are primarily received and recorded as sensations in the second
level. Here we also fairly may claim to know that they are associated
together among themselves and to a certain extent with the vestiges
(memories) of similar impressions of the past. At this level then, our
daily experiences may be recorded and become chains of memories, or
associated impressions which may make up a personality, but a
personality of limited attainments. The activity of such a personality
is comparatively simple and automatic. That is to say, the sensory
impressions received at the second level may result at once in outward
expression or muscular action (through its Rolandic-motor centres) ;
but such immediate response means automaticity and simplicity. The
movements are a little complicated. It is probable, for example, that
the elementary movements concerned in writing, sewing, speaking,
warding off an expected blow, changing the posture, altering the
direction of our walk to avoid obstacles, playing games, like tennis,
etc., etc., are all performed at this level. But the sensory impressions
received at the middle level may not result in immediate movement, or
whether they do or not they (generally) are transmitted to the highest
level (the frontal lobes), where they become associated with that great
network of vestiges (memories) of past impressions which constitutes
the whole experience (intellectual and physical) of the individual. The
activity of this level is the dominant consciousness for the time being
of the individual, and so long as it is in activity, its the personality of
1 The conditions were such that Mrs. R. could not see the writing. Of course in
this experiment all the writing was done automatically, but in ordinary conscious
writing we are not conscious of such details.
2 Not all, for many undoubtedly originate in the third level.
xxxiv.] Contribution to, Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 91
the individual. Now, in so far as a sensory impression at the middle
level is transmitted, received, and associated with the complicated
processes of the highest level, is it perceived (recognised) by the
personality, becomes a part of the dominant state of consciousness,
and the " person " is said to perceive this or that. If the highest level
is in activity, even though a sensory impression is received at the
middle level, and therefore " felt," so to speak, by this part of the
brain, it is not felt by the individual unless it becomes associated with
the processes in the fore brain (highest level). If it stops at the
middle level, it becomes a part of a definite personality if the highest
level is not in activity ; or, as associations are necessarily formed in
the middle level, whenever the activity of the frontal lobes alone is
suppressed the dominant consciousness becomes that of the middle
brain, and all the impressions that have been there received and
welded together stand out as a personality which has " felt " all the
sensory impressions composing it.
Now it may be that the highest level and the second level may act
more or less independently and simultaneously, like two distinct but
connected brains. While the highest level is carrying on a complicated
train of thought and even expressing these thoughts in words, the
second level may be automatically doing something else, like guiding
the individual in his walk through a crowd, or sewing, knitting,
playing a game, etc.
Although, for the most part, the highest level is so in rapport with
the second level that it is cognisant of the greater part of that which
the second level feels and does, and maintains a guiding control over
its actions, this is not wholly nor always so. Many sensory impressions,
—sounds, sights and tactile feelings,—may enter and be recorded at the
second level which never reach the highest level, and therefore do not
enter the dominant consciousness. This is particularly exemplified in
absent mindedness, i.e., where a person is not conscious of impressions
from his environment ; and yet such impressions were recorded as
sensations, for they afterwards may be remembered in dreams and
hypnosis. Similarly, the union may be so severed temporarily that
the middle brain may perform many acts of which the frontal lobes
are unconscious. Such acts are typically automatic. The more
unconscious the highest level is of the middle level, or, to speak more
precisely, the less the activity of the latter enters into association with
that of the former, the less controlled and less complex and the more
" unconsciously " automatic are the actions of the middle level.
This dual activity of the two levels may be illustrated on the sensory
side by the well-known observation of Dessoir. A gentleman was
absorbed in reading a book while a conversation was going on about
him in the same room. On being questioned it was found that he was
92 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
entirely unconscious of what had been said. He was then hypnotised,
and while in hypnosis was able to repeat the conversation. Here we
may assume that the highest level was entirely occupied with the
thoughts suggested by the book, while the middle level was receiving
and recording the language of the conversation. The association
between the two levels was temporarily suspended. Dual activity, of
which that of the second level is motor and purely automatic, probably
has been experienced by every one on similar occasions ; as when
engaged in deep thought while dressing, the wrong clothes have been
put on, or, at other times, objects have been taken up and misplaced,
or, to use more common illustrations, sewing, knitting and other
mechanical work has been done. This dual activity, when persisting
with complete independence by the middle level of the highest level, is
is called absent mindedness. A good illustration is an observation of
himself by the writer. On a late occasion, being impatient to learn the
news, he read the newspaper while walking along the street. After a
time he became conscious of the fact that, although completely absorbed
in the newspaper he maintained his direction and avoided obstacles
as accurately as under ordinary circumstances, while occasionally his
attention would be awakened to exceptional objects in the sidewalk
(hydrant covers). It required only a moment's observation to discover
that, although central vision was upon the newspaper, the peripheral
parts of the retina saw the sidewalk and the houses on the one side, and
the curbing and street on the other. Walking was here probably
directed automatically by the occipital lobes (middle level). Similar
experiences are well known and have happened to us all, as when
engaged in deep thought or animated conversation we have walked
along a crowded street, avoided the passers by and vehicles, perhaps
nodded to acquaintances, all automatically, without remembrance of
the facts. These unconscious experiences may, nevertheless, come out
afterwards in dreams. Parenthetically I may remark that in this way
may be explained many of those so-called extraordinary dreams in
which a person has dreamed of the arrival of a person, or of some
accident happening to a person of which he imagines he never heard,
and yet, as a matter of fact, he " unconsciously " saw that person or
heard of the accident under conditions which made no impression upon
the dominant consciousness ; that is, there was a dual activity of the
two levels.
Thus far I have emphasised the independent activity of these levels.
But of course, such independence is not the rule. The inter-dependence
of one level upon the other is essential for mentation that shall com
pletely subserve the intellectual wants of the individual. This
interdependence and co-working of the two is probably very complex,
and with our present knowledge cannot be understood in its details.
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 93
\
It may be, and possibly justly, denied that the different levels ever
function absolutely independently of each other. I think this is very
likely true. At one moment or another, in a normal healthy individual,
the sensory impressions and movements of the middle level make
connection with the highest level, and thereby come into consciousness,
and what would have been purely automatic movements are reco-
ordinated and adjusted as volitional movements. And conversely,
the conscious ideation of the individual is being constantly corrected
by sensory messages from below. Nevertheless, approximately or
relatively, the middle level may act as an independent organised
centre.
Ordinarily, as I have said, there is mutual interaction of which the
details can be but imperfectly understood. We cannot more than grasp
the general scheme, but there are three principles in this relation
ship which are important and have a practical bearing on the present
problem.
First, the highest level requires, and is entirely dependent upon,
the second level for all intercourse with the outer world. That
consciousness which we call self sees and hears and feels only through
the consciousness of the middle level, and also acts only through this
level ; that is, the highest level has to make use of the so-called sensory
and motor centres of the middle level to feel on the one hand and act
on the other. This would seem to be a necessary inference from the loss
of function—of sensation and movement—which always follows injury
to these centres. The middle level, therefore, would know a good deal
of the conscious life of the highest level.
Second. As the second level feels and acts directly without any
intervention of the highest level, when acting automatically it would
receive a great many impressions and do a great many things of which
the highest level was unconscious ; that is, this conscious life of the
second level would not always enter into that group of mental states
which we call personal consciousness.
Third. The more complex states of consciousness which make up
the conscious waking state of the individual have their seat in the
highest level, and in order that an impression received in the lower level
may be perceived, it must be united in the highest level with all the
other impressions which constitute consciousness at any given moment ;
or, in other words, inasmuch as in the last analysis consciousness must
consist of a compound of feelings or sensations (vivid or faint), any
given state of consciousness must depend upon the combination of
numerous sensory [and motor] centres. And unless a given centre A
in the middle level is physiologically associated with that group of
centres B, C, D, in the highest level which for the time being subserves
consciousness, the sensation corresponding to the given sensory centre
94 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
A cannot be brought into the consciousness of the individual and
cannot be perceived and recognised as belonging to the individual.
If, further, all the highest centres were removed or their power to
function suppressed, then consciousness would be limited to the activity
of the middle level, which would constitute a second personality, and
would be of a more or less automatic character.
In this psycho-physiological scheme which has just been outlined,
it may be well at this place to point out that there is only one assump
tion that is novel. The three automatic levels of evolution we owe to
Hughlings-Jackson. The duality of consciousness, that is, the division
of mental processes into the higher complex processes of ideation and
volitional movements on the one hand and into the automatic subcon
scious, or almost subconscious, processes on the other, is well recognised
as characteristic of every mind. This duality has been more precisely
worked out of late as conceptions of personality ;—-the most complex
associated states of consciousness and chains of memories constituting
the self conscious personality of the ordinary waking state,—and the
more automatic subconscious states constituting a second personality
which plays a constant, but more or less hidden, part in the mental
drama of life. Subliminal consciousness is but another term to specify
certain particular associations of this second personality.
The thesis here put forward is the identification, or rather, if it is
preferred, the correlation of the higher complex states of self con
sciousness (first personality) with the highest level of Hughlings-
Jackson, and the correlation of the automatic more or less subconscious
states with the second level (the middle motor and sensory region). It
must be admitted that it is hardly possible, with our present knowledge,
to offer any satisfactory proof of this correlation, such as we are
accustomed to look for in the experimental sciences. Nor should it be
forgotten that the same is true of our conceptions of anatomical levels
and personalities. The best we can do is to offer a theory, provisional
perhaps, which shall harmonise our anatomical conceptions on the one
hand and our psycho-physiological experiences on the other. In so far
as it does this and explains what are otherwise paradoxical phenomena
is it of value. It seems to the writer that the theory here suggested,
so far as it goes, fulfils the demands of the problem.
Accepting this scheme, then, the further question arises, how does
it correspond with observed pathological facts 1 Will it render
intelligible the phenomena of hysterical anaesthesia as observed in
the two cases above reported 1 It seems to the writer that the
apparently paradoxical phenomena are just what would be expected
from this scheme ; in truth they are the direct corollary of it. The
explanation has already been outlined above. It was observed in the
cases of Mrs. B. and Mrs. R. that, notwithstanding apparent loss of
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 95
sensation, tactile impressions were really felt but not perceived, that is,
did not enter into the group of conscious states which constituted the
self-conscious personality. How can a person at the same time both
feel and not perceive that he feels ? Now according to this hypothesis,
ancesthesia of hysteria is the inhibition or going to sleep of certain
limited areas {or centres) of the highest level [frontal lobes), while
hypnosis is the more or less {according to the stage) complete inhibition
or going to sleep of the frontal lobes as a whole.
In hysteria there is a local suppression offunction ; in complete
hypnosis, a total suppression offunction of the highest level.
Take the case of Mrs. R. I prick her anaesthetic hand a definite
number of times ; I place in it a pair of scissors, which she fingers.
Neither the pricks nor the touch of the object does she "feel." What
is the matter t Where is the fault 1 We know it is not in the nerves.
It cannot be in the middle tactile centre, for then not only would any
given tactile impression, a prick, be not perceived, but it would not
be received at all, and by no device (like hypnosis) could what never
had been received be revived as a memory. If on the other hand
we suppose that there is a local suppression of function in the frontal
lobes (highest level), Mrs. R. would not " feel " the pricks given her
hand nor recognise the scissors, for although these sensory impressions
were recorded in the middle level, they stopped here. They did not
reach the frontal lobes, and consequently become associated with
all the other impressions of movement and sensation which, as
normally associated together, constitute perception. Her conscious
ness is therefore minus any given tactile impression which stopped at
the middle level.
Now we hypnotise Mrs. R. What happens 1 We recognise at
once two phenomena.
First. Sensation has returned to her hand. That is, she perceives
tactile impressions, etc. Why ? Evidently because (under the terms
of our theory) the activity of the frontal lobes being suppressed as a
whole, the states of consciousness which are "awake " and in rapport
with the outer world are those of the middle level. The association
of these states constitutes a " second personality," which feels all
impressions.
Second. This personality remembers the pricks before given the
hand. Why ? Evidently because they were received here (although
they did not reach the frontal lobes), and were associated with the
other conscious states of the personality of this level, and therefore are
now revived as memories.
Third. The hypnotised subject is largely devoid of spontaneity, and
her acts are more or less automatic. Why 1 Because these are the
characteristics of the middle level.
96 [part
Dr. Morton Prince.
Thus by our theory we have an intelligible explanation of the
ansesthesia of hysteria and its relation to hypnosis. It becomes com
prehensible why a sensory impression is recorded but not perceived
during the waking state and yet is remembered during the hypnotic
trance.
Regarding the nature of the suppression of function of hysteria,
I do not think we are in a position to speak with any positiveness. I
termed it an "inhibition" or "going to sleep," for the reason that
the process seems to have more analogy with sleep than any other
condition ; but I do not wish to be understood as insisting upon any
precise condition as the cause of the suppression of function. Even
if the process were like that of going to sleep we have little idea what
it is, but it would seem plausible that if this process should affect
definite and limited areas of the brain it would account for the
phenomenon of hysteria.
There are a number of other phenomena allied to those of hysteria
which seem to harmonise very well with this explanation. Among
them may be mentioned those of double consciousness and automatic
writing. 1 have succeeded in obtaining automatic writing from both
these subjects. I will not describe these experiments at length, as
they have already been published1 elsewhere, but will merely mention
a few of the more important phenomena elicited. There are several
ways of obtaining writing of this sort, but a simple method is to
hypnotise a subject and during the trance state to tell her she is to
write something—a verse or anything one pleases—when awake.
After being awakened, a pencil is put in her hand and she is given a
book to read aloud, or told to count backwards, or do some mental
problem. While her attention is occupied with this, the hand holding
the pencil, if placed over a sheet of paper, will write what was desired.
The subject herself has absolutely no knowledge of what her hand
writes. It was found by Professor William James that the automatic
hand while writing became perfectly anaesthetic. I found the same
thing with my subject, Mrs. B., after her anaesthesia was cured.
Her hand could be severely pricked without her being conscious of
it. It seems to me that this phenomenon may be explained by the
theory of hysterical anaesthesia just advanced. If there is a local
inhibition of the highest sensory and motor centres, the hand would
be moved automatically by the remaining middle centres. The pain
following the pricks would not be felt, because it would not be
associated with the conscious states induced by reading the book, or
whatever the mental problem was. The impression of pain would
remain isolated on a lower platform.
1 Boston Medical and Surgical Journal, May 15th and 22nd, 1890.
xxxiv.] Contribution to Study of Hysteria and Hypnosis. 97
There are also a number of very remarkable phenomena connected
with hysterical anaesthesia, which have been observed by Binet. Binet,
following an entirely different method, has also shown that the
anaesthetic hands of hysterics do feel, or at least in some way do record
the impressions given to them. He has succeeded in obtaining
very elaborate movements from the hands simply by means of
tactile impressions given to the anaesthetic skin. But even more
interesting, he has found that many hysterics perceive as a visual
sensation any tactile or muscular impression. Such an hysteric sees,
visually, any figure or letter written on the skin. If the finger be bent
three times, the number three is seen as an indistinct image. The
subject can also tell the position given to the hand by seeing it as a
visual image. But after seeing the image of the hand in this way he
cannot modify the image by any mental effort, so long as the operator
does not change the position of the hand.
All these phenomena, it seems to me, are physiologically intelligible,
if we assume that in anaesthesia of this kind there is an inhibition of
the highest centres, while the middle centres still react. Although in
this case the impressions received at the middle level cannot excite the
highest tactile centres and be perceived, they may still continue to
excite the highest visual centres which are normally co-ordinated with
the tactile centres in the perception of one's hand. The perception of
one's own hand includes a number of associated sensations, some vivid
and some faint. Among them is the visual sense. Though the tactile
sense fails, one of the others may be excited by an impression in the
middle centres.
98 Br. J. Milne BramweU. [Supplement.
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
THE BRITISH MEDICAL ASSOCIATION AND HYPNOTISM.
I.—Address by Dr. J. Milne Bramwell.
At the annual meeting of the British Medical Association, held in
Edinburgh last July, the subject of hypnotism was again brought before the
medical profession. A discussion, as to its phenomena and theories, was
opened in the Psychological Section, July 29th, by Dr. J. Milne Bramwell
(by invitation of the Council of the British Medical Association), followed by
Mr. F. W. H. Myers (who was invited by the Council to read a paper), Drs.
Yellowlees, Benedikt, Woods, Mercier, etc.
Dr. Bramwell commenced his address with a short account of a few of his
hypnotic cases, selected for the following reasons :—(1) The patients were
natives of our own country. (2) -All the observations had been checked by
independent witnesses. (3) Sufficient time had elapsed to enable the
permanence of the therapeutic results to be fairly estimated.
Of these the following are examples :—
Case 2.—Pruritus and eczema. Mrs. A., aged 49. Suffered from
pruritus and eczema, which four years' careful treatment had failed to
relieve. At night the irritation was intolerable, and produced insomnia.
The disease, in the opinion of a well-known surgeon, was due to an organic
cause which interfered with the circulation. An operation, performed in
order to relieve this, proved unsuccessful. In August, 1889, Dr. Bramwell
tried to hypnotise the patient, other treatment being abandoned. The
attempt failed, and was repeated unsuccessfully on sixty-six occasions during
the next four months, the condition meanwhile growing steadily worse. At
the sixty-eighth séance somnambulism was induced. All irritation vanished
immediately, and the patient slept soundly on that and the following nights.
In a fortnight all trace of disease had disappeared, and treatment was
abandoned. Three years later there had been no relapse.
Case 3. —Hyperhidrosis. Miss B., aged 15, January, 1890. On the back
of the left arm, just above the wrist, a patch of skin, two and a half inches
long by one and a half broad, was the seat of constant perspiration. This had
existed from early childhood, was always excessive, and invariably rendered
more so by emotion or exertion. The forearm was always enveloped in
bandages, but these rapidly became saturated, and the perspiration dripped
upon the floor. On January 10th, the patient was hypnotised for the first
time, and somnambulism induced. By the following day the symptoms
had markedly diminished : the patient was again hypnotised, when the
perspiration ceased. Two years later there had been no relapse.
Part xxxiv] British Medical Association and Hypnotism. 99
Case 5.—Neurasthenia ; suicidal tendencies. Mr. D., aged 34, June 2nd,
1890. Barrister. Formerly strong and athletic. His health commenced to
fail in 1877, after typhoid fever. He was compelled to abandon work in 1882,
and had since been a chronic invalid. He was constantly depressed, and
suffered from amemia, dyspepsia, insomnia, etc. He had frequent suicidal
impulses, and once attempted suicide. The least exertion produced acute
pain in the lower part of the spine, and he was unable to walk 100 yards
without severe suffering. He had constant medical treatment, including six
months' rast in bed, without benefit He was hypnotised from June 2nd to
September 20th, 1890. By the end of July all morbid symptoms disappeared,
and he amused himself by working on a farm. He has not relapsed since,
and can walk forty miles a day without undue fatigue.
Case 6.—Dipsomania. Mr. E., aged 33, April 30th, 1890. He had a
family history of intemperance, and commenced to take stimulants in excess
at seventeen. In 1884, his friends induced him to place himself under
control. This was repeated thrice without good results. In 1887, he
entered a retreat for a year, but soon after leaving it began to drink as badly
as ever. From this time he does not appear to have taken stimulants daily,
and, according to his own account, struggled hard against the temptation to
do so. Any physical pain or mental trouble, however, would start a
drinking bout, and of these he had on an average one a week. He was
hypnotised from April 30th, to May 17th, 1890, and during this time kept
sober. He returned home and relapsed in less than a month. He was
again hypnotised daily for a week, and from that date, June 1890, until the
present time, he has not relapsed.
Case 7.—Dipsomania. A patient, aged 47, with bad family history of
alcoholism. He had taken stimulants to excess for seventeen years, had
had three attacks of delirium tremens and seven of epilepsy. He was first
hypnotised on April 22nd, 1895, and has not relapsed since.
Case S.~Neuralgia of the leg. Miss F., aged 28, July 17th, 1896. She
complained of pain in the leg of five years' duration, supposed to be due to
sciatica. During the first two years of her illness she never walked more than
a quarter of a mile, then this was abandoned, and she took to a bath-chair.
Treatment :—Rest on back in bed for two months ; careful drugging ; Weir
Mitchell ; massage ; electricity ; baths at Droitwich and Bath ; Paquelin's
cautery to leg, seventy applications daily from July, 1895, to May, 1896,
about 20,000 in all. During this time her condition steadily grew worse ; all
treatment was then abandoned, and she was considered incurable. When
Dr. Bramwell saw her she was emaciated ; complained of constant pain ; was
unable to walk ; suffered from insomnia ; had lost all interest in life. She
was hypnotised on July 17th, 1896 ; completely recovered in two days, and
learned to cycle. At the present date she is well, active, and strong.
In March, 1890, Mr. Turner, of Leeds, performed many painless dental
operations upon Dr. Bramwell's patients, and recorded the results in the
Journal of the British Dental Association. The most remarkable case was
that of a young girl, suffering from valvular disease of the heart, from
whom he extracted five teeth.
On March 25th, 1890, a number of Dr. Bramwell's patients wero
operated on at Leeds, in the presence of some sixty medical men, including
H 2
100 [Supplement.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
such well-known surgeons as Pridgin Teale, Mayo Robson, etc. A delicate
girl was put to sleep by written order, while Dr. Bramwell remained in
another room, and sixteeen teeth were extracted. She showed no signs of
pain, there was no corneal reflex, and the pulse fell during the operation.
A boy, aged 8, suffering from exostosis of the great toe, had only been
hypnotised on two previous occasions. Mr. Mayo Robson first performed
evulsion of the great toe-nail, then removed the bony grownth, and part of
the first phalanx. Some of the patients were strong, healthy labouring men,
others were weak, nervous women. None suffered from pain afterwards,
and all returned home by train—a journey of over an hour. In every
instance the healing process was remarkably rapid.
Dr. Bramwell then gave a short account of some of his experimental
researches in reference to automatic writing, the appreciation of time by
somnambules, and more especially the condition of the volition in hypnotised
subjects. Taking his personal observations as a basis, he discussed how far
the theories of others were satisfactory in explaining them. It is unnecessary
to refer to this portion of the paper in detail, as the greater part of it has
already appeared in the Proceedings of our Society. It is worthy of note,
however, that although two years have elapsed since then, further experi
ment has not caused Dr. Bramwell to alter his opinions.
He still regards the theories of the Nancy school, especially in reference
to so-called automatism, and the possibility of successfully suggesting crime,
as untenable. The further evidence he has collected shows, he thinks, more
and more clearly, that the phenomena of hypnotism are due to the intelligent
and voluntary action of a secondary consciousness.
II.—Frederic W. H. Myers,
Hon. Secretary of the Society for Psychical Research.
The Psychology of Hypnotism.
I must begin what I have to say by warmly thanking the officers of this
Association for allowing a layman in this place to say anything at all, and by
thanking this learned audience also for showing themselves thus willing to
hear me. I feel a quite special diffidence in undertaking my present task ;
but I can best show my sense of the honour done me by speaking frankly
on, without further preface or apology.
I understand that what is asked from me is some attempt at a coherent
psychological presentation of the multifarious and perplexing facts now
commonly grouped under the name of hypnotism. Purely physiological
explanations thereof have, by common admission, thus far failed ; and little
attempt has yet been made by the able practical hypnotists, to whom the
recent advance in our knowledge is owing, to correlate their ever-growing
observations from a purely psychological point of view. My late friends,
Edmund Gurney and Professor Delbteuf of Liege, did, indeed, apply to
these problems minds of unusual acuteness. They and others have said
much of value ; but much more remains to be said than any of us in this
generation can hope to say. My own attempt at synthesis will fall far short
both of certainty and of completeness ; but its very imperfections may
Part xxxiv.) The Psychology of Hypnotism. 101
indicate how great the difficulties are which have to be faced ; how wide and
penetrating a survey is needed if these phenomena, often so superficially
described, are to carry us, as they ought some day to do, deep into the
mysteries of human personality.
I say then, as my first and surest remark, that in order to understand
hypnotism we must bring into comparison a great mass of cognate life-
phenomena, both spontaneous and induced. From the lack of wide
comparison, from the confinement of attention to some few of the commoner
and more obvious manifestations of hypnosis, have sprung most of those
narrow and misleading theories of which Br. Bramwell has spoken. But
there is now no excuse for such narrowness. Far more facts have become
matter of common knowledge than Despine, or Heidenhain, or Charcot knew ;
and even a cursory glance at the recent annals of hypnotism will show at
how many points its problems touch on problems already familiar in other
fields of research.
Let us briefly dwell on each main group of these problems in turn. In
hypnotic records we find, to begin with, abundant instances of isolated
losses and gains of faculty resembling the fantastic associations and
dissociations, dynamogrnies and inhibitions, which characterise hysteria.
We find, too, that uprush into consciousness of ideas or impulses, matured
beneath the conscious threshold, which forms, in my view, the best definition
of genius. We find that interruption of external attention, along with that
profound organic recuperation, which are the marks of sleep. We find the
change of personality, the intercurrence of memories, which in their slighter
forms are called somnambulisms, or sleep-waking conditions, and which may
exist quite apart from hysteria. Finally, we observe in hypnosis—rarely
indeed, yet, as I hold, unmistakeably—certain forms of supernormal
sensibility which bring hypnotism into connection with all those facts (as I
must needs regard them) to which I have given the names of "telepathy"
and " tehesthesia."
Hypnotism and Hysteria.
Let us begin with one of the most obvious of these analogies,—the
analogy between hypnotism and hysteria. How far does this analogy
extend ? In broad outline the answer is plain enough. Both in hypnosis
and in hysteria there is a disaggregation of the personality. Instead of the
continuous personality of common life, with its one familiar alternation of
sleep and waking, there are minor changes of phase, interruptions of
memory, irregularities of will, inhibitions of faculty, something capricious
and multilated in the manifestations of the self. In the case of hysteria
these changes are plainly degenerative. They indicate what Dr. Pierre
Janet calls misere psychologique, some weakness in the grasp which holds
together all our separate fragments of motor and sensory capacity under
that central dominance which makes the organism a unity. Scraps of
capacity drop out from that dominance ; the muscles, for instance, which are
innervated by some special centre, sink down beneath the threshold of con
scious will. The hysteric, let us say, gets a fixed idea that he cannot move
his left arm. So long as this idea persists,—and there is no trustworthy
medical method of removing it,—the man's arm is in effect lost to him ; it is
psychically paralysed, and as useless as if the governing brain-centres were
102 [Supplement.
Frederic W. 11. Myers.
actually destroyed. And here the thought at once occurs that this is exactly
the kind of effect which the platform hypnotist produces by suggestion. His
suggestion, like the hysteric's self-suggestion, deprives the man of the use of
his arm ; he induces a form, though a brief and curable form, of psychical
paralysis. The recognition by the Paris school of analogies of this kind
between hypnotism and hysteria was originally, as I conceive it, a forward
step—a result mainly of the increased care and intelligence with which
hysteria had been studied by Charcot and his disciples.
But the last word on the matter has certainly not yet been said. If we
look a little deeper into those analogies, we shall discover the point at
which they begin to be misleading—the point at which hysterical and
hypnotic workings, although in pari materia, begin to be in effect almost
exactly opposite the one to the other.
Expressed in a sentence, the difference is this : In hysteria we lose from
supraliminal control portions of faculty which we do not wish to lose, and
we cannot recover them at will. In hypnotism we lose from supraliminal
control portions of faculty which we wish to lose, or are indifferent to losing,
and we can recover them the moment that we will.
A good way, I think, of presenting these two notions together is to call
that stratum into which the faculties submerged in hysteria sink the hypnotic
stratum, and to describe hysteria as a disease of that stratum ; or say an
undue permeability of the psychical diaphragm which separates ordinary
consciousness from the deeps below. This or that group of sensory or motor
ability drops out of waking knowledge or out of control of waking will.
In hypnotism, on the other hand, we gain instead of losing control.
Instead of losing control over the supraliminal stratum, we gain control over
the hypnotic stratum. We purposely increase the permeability of the
psychical diaphragm in such a way as to push down beneath it various forms
of pain and annoyance which we are anxious to get lid of from our waking
consciousness ; while, on the other hand, we stimulate in the depths of our
being many sanative and recuperative operations whose results rise presently
into the perception of our waking life.
An example will make my meaning clear. One frequent symptom in
hysteria is a retrenchment or deformation of the visual field. The hysteric,
with his weakened central authority, his enfeebled attention, has lost the
use of the outer margin of his normal field ; he cannot see a moving finger
till it is almost directly in front of him. But now, instead of the finger,
bring within the disused margin of the visual field some object associated
with the patient's hysterical terrors, as a lighted match or a stuffed mouse.
In that case, as Professor Janet has ingeniously shown, the patient will
scream and go off into an accte long before the mouse has reached the point
at which the mere finger would have been noticed. This means that the
power of vision over the margin of the field, although lost for practical use,
is retained in the hypnotic stratum, and manifests itself again at the bidding
of a hurtful hysterical caprice.
Now compare the result if a hypnotic suggestion is made to the patient
with the diminished visual field. Professor Janet, for instance, suggests to
her that she can really see with the whole normal field. Apparently this is
nothing more than an empty remark from which no results can be expected
Part xxxiv.] The Psychology of Hypnotism. 103
to follow. But if the patient is suggestible, if a certain appeal—whose
nature we must discuss further on—is effectively made to the patient's
subliminal region of personality, to the hypnotic stratum in particular, then
a result does follow. The power of vision begins to return over the outer
parts of the field—fitfully, perhaps, and with relapses ; but if the suggestion
is repeated the sight is often permanently restored. That is to say, hypno
tism has exactly repaired the mischief which hysteria has done. It has
acted on the same stratum, but with an increase instead of a diminution of
central control. In just the ways in which hysteria can destroy hypnotism
can fulfil.
Submergence and Emergence.
In describing that most complex of known entities, the human mind, any
physical illustration whatever seems even absurdly inadequate. Yet such
illustrations we are compelled to use, and, when not pressed too far, they
may be more suggestive than long abstract phrases could be. The
notion of upper level, middle level, and lower level nerve centres has started
many a fruitful thought. And somewhat similarly this present notion—in
which the terms upper and lower are used in a different metaphorical sense,
this notion of a kind of stratification of the personality above and below the
threshold of ordinary consciousness—will be found to suggest new and
practical questions to which it is possible to find some beginning of answer.
Thus, it is now natural to ask whether, if faculty which has existed above
the conscious threshold and has been unduly submerged may then emerge
again above that threshold, other faculty which has not ordinarily existed
above the threshold may ever emerge from beneath it ? Does this happen in
the psychical storm of hysteria ? Does it happen in normal waking life ?
Does it happen as a result of hypnotic suggestion ?
Our answer must be, Yes,, it happens in all these cases. Even in hysteria
we often observe great tactile hyperesthesia, as in Binet's experiments,
where the hysteric perceived the relieved surfaces on an unknown coin
pressed to her skin with a delicacy immensely—fifty times, as Binet thought
—beyond the range of normal sensibility.
I do not say that this hyperaesthesia was of any practical use, but it was
faculty ; it was faculty previously unknown, but borne upwards into the
conscious stratum by that same psychical disturbance which carried down
wards, and away from conscious control, many more important fragments of
that patient's sensory and motor power. From the practical or therapeutic
side the hysteria brought nothing but loss to the patient ; from the psycho
logical side it brought also a certain gain. For the physician man's faculties
exist for the benefit of man ; if he comes upon rare and useless capacities,
he dismisses them as probably morbid, and at any rate uninteresting. For
the psychologist, on the other hand, man's faculties exist for the knowledge
of man ; the more rare and useless the faculty, the more interest it has for
him as a possible inlet into some human mystery yet unexplored.
Hypnotism and Genius.
And here, in this very question of the emergence of unfamiliar faculty
from a subconscious stratum, our next step shows us faculty thus emerging
which is of real use ; products of subliminal mentation uprushing into
104 [Supplement
Frederic W. H. Myers.
ordinary consciousness with actual benefit to the waking life. This is the
reply to our question asked a little way back : Does this emergence occur in
normal life ? My answer is that it does, and that when it does it constitutes
genius.
Here again the psychological view of human faculty will differ from the
[esthetic criterion in much the same manner as we just now saw that it
differed from the medical. The aesthetic critic asks whether the thoughts
and images which surge up ready-made into the artist's or poet's mind—his
inspirations, as he calls them—are such as to give delight to other men.
Unless they are such, the critic refuses to him the name of genius. To the
psychologist, on the other hand, it matters little whether other men find joy
in the artist's inspirations or no. The question which interests him is, how
those inspirations arise ? Can we prove that they were matured by sub
liminal mentation, beyond the artist's conscious control, and then presented
to him as finished products from his subterranean workshops ? If so, I
submit they all share a certain definite character, to which the name of
genius might with real significance, although not with practical convenience,
be given. And this is true, although the results which can most easily be
proved to be of subliminal manufacture are not likely to be results in the
highest order of art. Psychologically the best specimen of genius may
be the calculating boy's vision of the product of two factors of six figures
each, seen in a flash upon a mental blackboard, with no consciousness of the
process by which it was attained. The calculating boy's achievement,
indeed, may seem a mere curiosity ; but without the type of faculty which
that boy has shown, the inspirations of a Shakespeare or a Raphael could
never have arisen to bring joy to mankind.
Thus prepared, let us go on to the next question, which to-day most
concerns us, the question whether hypnotism succeeds in bringing up faculty
from submerged strata into conscious control or enjoyment. My answer is
that to do this very thing is of the essence of hypnotism. We have seen
how hypnotism brings up again to the surface the portions of faculty which
hysteria has submerged. We have seen also—it is an obvious inference
from Dr. Bramwell's cases—how hypnotism acts in parallel fashion to genius,
by elaborating subliminally certain intellectual results which are then pre
sented ready-made to the waking intelligence. Dr. Bramwell's milliner,
computing subconsciously the far-off dates when her suggestions fell due, is
a precise parallel to the calculating boy inspired with arithmetical results
reached by no conscious working. Or again, when she solved in the trance
a difficulty in her work, and that solution came to her in waking hours as an
inspiration, she underwent exactly the poet's experience, though the subject-
matter may have been only the set of a skirt or the trimming of a bonnet.
That which the gift of Nature does in certain limited directions for some
few delicately constructed men, that can hypnotic suggestion do for the
ordinary clodhopper, with results of course grotesque in comparison to the
triumphs of art, but yet quite as striking in proportion to the common
man's inferior powers. That " objectiration de types," for example, which
Profeasor Richet has best described, that assumption in speech, writing,
demeanour, of some suggested character which is one of the commonest
platform phenomena, is in fact an inspiration of genius as remarkable for
Part xxxiv.l The Psychology of Hypnotism. 105
the rustic as the triumphs of a Duse or a Sarah Bernhardt are for their
much higher organisations.
And here I come to one of the commonest phenomena of hypnotism—
usually spoken of as a mere jest or a mere indication of the hypnotiser's
power over his patient—but which the psychologist, I think, is bound to
regard as one of the most striking of all our indications of latent faculty.
I speak of the hallucinations which the hypnotiser suggests in the entranced,
or sometimes even in the waking, subject. Such a hallucinatory image is,
strictly speaking, an inspiration of genius, even if it represents nothing
better than a black cat. The painter's highest joy consists in the sudden
emergence into perceptibility of some fair form created below the threshold :
the "flash upon the inward eye " of some remembered or transmuted image
which deliberate efforts could neither shape nor recall. As the Sistine
Madonna was to Raphael, so to the hypnotised girl is the delusive cat. The
girl in her ordinary state can no more conceive with deceptive distinctness
that feline image than Raphael every day could hang in heaven a form of
supernal beauty. Hypnotised, the girl can see the creature's very crouch
and spring ; she has evoked from her subterranean treasure-house of
imagination a picture incomparably more vivid than waking imaginative
effort could have afforded her.
Yet all this lies, so to say, but on the fringe of hypnotic power. The
main interest of hypnotism lies in a still deeper evocation of latent faculty.
The fact which is bringing hynotism before the medical profession is not its
power to imitate and in some sense to outdo the achievements of genius, but
its power to imitate, and greatly to outdo, the achievements of sleep.
Hypnotism and Sleep.
The relation of hypnotism to sleep was the next point marked out for our
discussion. Here, again, I must begin by giving to sleep a psychological
definition.
I regard sleep as an alternating phase of our personality, distinguished
from the waking phase by the shutting off of the supraliminal life of
relation, of external attention, and by the concentration of subliminal
attention upon the profounder organic life. To sleep's concentrated inward
attention I ascribe its unique recuperative power. Our entry into this
phase of our personality is not wholly a voluntary thing. Sometimes it is
hindered by physical causes, as by pain ; always (as some hold) it needs to
be helped on by physical causes, as by the accumulation of waste products
in the brain. The first obvious effect of hypnotism is to bring sleep more
fully under our control. Under hypnotic suggestion people fall asleep
without fatigue to help them, and sleep on so that no tortures can wake
them—sleep on in the dentist's chair or through the great pain and peril of
childbirth. They can remain at will in that regenerative phase of person
ality which for us needs so much physiological preparation, and is subject to
so many pathological checks.
It is, of course, from my point of view, perfectly natural that an
increase of power over the personality should facilitate our transitions between
its different phases. But when a phase so profoundly withdrawn from
outward stimulus can thus be produced, ought we to give it the name of
106 [Supplement.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
sleep, or rather of trance 1 Trance is the better word ; for to identify
hypnotic with ordinary sleep is to underrate the modifiability of this almost
infinite complex of sentient units which we call a man. I have called the act
of falling asleep a passage into another phase of personality ; but such
passages are like the irregular heatings and coolings of a molten mass ; the
gaseous, the liquid, the solid state each has certain stable laws of its own ;
but every transition involves millions of molecular changes which can never
occur twice in just the same way. There is something in sleep that reminds
one of some increase of internal heat caused by the collapse of a cooled
surface ; for in sleep, along with the decrease of responsiveness to the
external world, certain inward movements become more active, more pro
foundly recuperative ; fulfil more subtly the organism's hidden need. In
this respect hypnotic trance is like a further stage of sleep. Not that it is
necessarily more lethargic, more comatose ; it has forms so alert as to be
hardly distinguishable from waking. Trance is a further stage of sleep in
the sense that it accomplishes more powerfully sleep's characteristic task ;
the subliminal plasticity is more marked, the subliminal control intenser ;
until hypnosis sometimes seems to be to sleep what sleep is to waking.
Hypnotism and Sleep-Waking States.
Nay, more. In ordinary sleep, neither hysterical nor hypnotic, certain
phenomena from time to time occur which the physician may sometimes
wish to check as inconvenient, but which to the psychologist should yield
lessons much deeper than he has yet drawn from them. I speak of somnam
bulisms or sleep-waking states, which in my view are rudiments of new
phases of personality, useless for the most part, and destined to be abortive
and to die away. To these nascent rearrangements of personality the
hypnotic trance furnishes abundant parallels. Sometimes it has even hap
pened that for long periods—in one case at least for a lifetime—the new
phase of personality, developed by hypnotic suggestion, has been more
salutary for the patient than the old. Here also hypnotic artifice has
improved upon the hints which Nature spontaneously gave, and has shown
that there is no real certainty that the particular disposition of personality
with which each man is born must be absolutely the best for all his life on
earth, no proof that the kaleidoscope of his being may not be sometimes
shaken into a more satisfactory pattern. And setting aside those extreme
cases where one phase of personality is marked off from another by an actual
break in the chain of memory, many of the sanative changes which hypno
tism effects are morally and physically so profound as to deserve the name
of regenerations. The suicidal melancholic, tho brutaliaed morphinomaniac
are hardly the same persons as the active hospital nurse, the successful man
of business, into whom hypnotic suggestion transforms them. And be it
remembered that these sanative regenerations are both for physician and
for psychologist the leading facts of hypnotism—the facts which call most
pressingly both for explanation and for development.
I have now briefly reviewed the relation between hypnotism and certain
comparable, if not strictly cognate, conditions—namely, hysteria, genius,
sleep, somnambulism. I have shown by each comparison that the essential
meaning of hypnotism is always the same—a fuller control over subliminal
plasticity.
Part XXXIV.] 107
The Psychology of Hypnotism.
Suggestion and Self-suogestion.
But how, after all, is this fuller control effected I How is this subliminal
plasticity—this c« medicatrix Natnne—actually reached ? On this question
Dr. Bramwell has demonstrated, with all the advantage of actual experience,
what some of us foreshadowed long ago— I mean the absolute insufficiency at
present of any purely physiological explanation. No such explanation, iudeed,
now survives with sufficient vitality to be worth the trouble of killing anew.
The main consensus of living hypnotists declares that hypnotic phenomena
are due to suggestion almost or quite alone. We need not reject their
dictum, but we must make it our task to try and find out what that word
suggestion can mean. One thing the word certainly cannot mean, if it is to
have any explanatory value at all ; and that is—more ordinary persuasive
ness. Dr. Bramwell (to take his own instance) is not the first person who
has advised the dipsomaniac not to drink. If he succeeds in reforming such
a patient, it is because he has managed to touch not his supraliminal reason,
but his subliminal plasticity. He has set going some intelligent organic
faculty in the man which has laid dormant till that moment, and which
proves more effectual for healing than the man's conscious will. How then,
has he done this ? He has either infused power, or he has merely evoked it.
Either he has added power by some influence, such as Cuvier and many
competent men have believed in—some influence itself subliminal, and akin
to what I have called telepathy ; or else in some empirical way, not as yet
understood, he has simply started a self-suggestion ; has unlocked, as 1 say,
some fountain of energy which was latent within the man's own being.
Now for my part I certainly believe that subliminal relations between
man and man—influences and transmissions as yet unknown to science—do
play a real part in hypnotic phenomena, especially and manifestly in the
rare cases of the induction of trance from a distance. But I shall not here
insist on these transmissive influences ; for I believe that the great mass of
hypnotic results can be, and are, accomplished without them, especially
and manifestly in the fairly common cases where the subject can bring on the
trance for himself, with no external suggestion to help him.
Whether, indeed, those results are accomplished without invoking the
same agency, whatever it be, which manifests itself in telepathy, is quite
another question. What we see in hypnotic recuperation is an apparent
dynamogeny, or increase in organic energy ; but whence that new energy
comes we can only conjecture. As to this, all that our review of hypnotism
and allied conditions has made plain is that it is from the subliminal region
that any new energy or new modification of energy must needs proceed.
Beneath the threshold of waking consciousness there lies, not merely an
unconscious complex of organic processes, but an intelligent vital control.
To incorporate that profound control with our waking will is the great
evolutionary end which hypnotism, by its group of empirical artifices, is
beginning to help us to attain.
In waking consciousness I am like the proprietor of a factory whose
machinery I do not understand. My foreman—my subliminal self—weaves
for me so many yards of broadcloth per diem (my ordinary vital processes)
as a matter of course. If I want any pattern more complex, I have to
shout my orders in the din of the factory, where only two or three inferior
108 [Supplement.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
workmen hear me, and shift their looms in a small and scattered way. Such
are the confined and capricious results of the first, the more familiar stages
of hypnotic suggestion.
At certain intervals, indeed, the foreman stops most of the looms, and
uses the freed power to stoke the engine and to oil the machinery. This,
in my metaphor, is sleep, and it will be effective hypnotic trance if I
can get the foreman to stop still more of the looms, come out of his private
room, and attend to my orders—my self-suggestions—for their repair and
rearrangement.
The question for us proprietors, then, is how we can best get at our
potent but secluded foremen ; in what way we can make to our subliminal
selves effective suggestions. And here, I think, we are for the present at
the end of theory. We must look for guidance to actual experience ; not to
the experience of the hypnotic clinic alone, but to all forms of self-suggestion
which are practically found to remove and soothe the pains and weariness of
large masses of common men. Apart from recognised forms of hypnotic
suggestion by others, two popular forms of self-suggestion may here stand,
for brevity's sake, as types of the rest. Each of these appeals to deep-
seated faiths ; each is preached in a crude extravagant form from which the
man of science turns with repulsion.
The healing fountain of Lourdes draws its prestige from the ancient
belief in beings higher than man who concern themselves with even the
details of man's physical welfare. So-called Christian Science—or mind-
cure, to use its less presumptuous name—while still relying on Christian
revelation, appeals most directly to the optimistic instinct in man, main
taining that pain and evil are non-existent shadows, and that the only
realities are love and joy. The conception of the miracles of Lourdes is too
mediaeval, perhaps, to maintain itself for long. The vaguer impulse which
prompts to mind-cure may prove more capable of adaptation to whatever may
hereafter be learnt as to the true relation between man's central will and his
bodily organism.
Questions like these as to the relative efficacy of various self-suggestions
belong indeed to the inmost meaning of hypnotism ; but they lie beyond the
facts with which the physician needs at once to deal. What is now to be
desired is that medical science should recognise that a new task has opened
before her ; that these hypnotic artifices, empirical as they may be, do yet
lie in the true path of therapeutic progress ; that hypnotism is no more a
trick than education is a trick ; but that just as education develops obser
vation and memory, through alert attention, so hypnotism develops organic
concentration and recuperation, through their adjuvant phase of sleep.
Finally, if beneath the fanaticism and the extravagance of men blindly
seeking relief from pain some glimmering truth makes way, that truth also
it must be for science to adopt and to utilise, to clarify and to interpret. By
one method or other—and her familiar method of widespread cautious
experiment should surely be the best—science must subject to her own
deliberate purposes that intelligent vital control, that reserve of energy,
which lies beneath the conscious threshold, and works obscurely for the
evolution of man.
Part XXXIV.l 109
Addresses on Hypnotism.
III.—David Yellowlees, LL.D., M.D.,
Physician Superintendent, Glasgow Royal Asylum, Gartnavel, Glasgow.
The Uses and Dangers of Hypnotism.
I must express the highest appreciation alike of the striking and forcible
address of Dr. Bramwell and of the highly philosophic and admirable paper
of Mr. Myers. I believe the popular impression that some mysterious
power resides in the operator is unfounded, and that the President, for
instance, could exert the same influence as Dr. Bramwell over a hypnotised
patient. The essential thing is the abnormal condition induced in a patient.
My own experience enables me to believe even in the extraordinary cures
related by Dr. Bramwell. I have obtained some remarkable results from
my own endeavours. On the whole, however, these have been disappoint
ing, chiefly because I have failed to hypnotise the very patients whom I
could most have benefited thereby. I have not persisted in my attempts
more than six or seven times, and the attempts have been chiefly among the
insane, hence perhaps the very partial success. I cannot regard hypnotism
as free from danger, nor think it possible that we could often reach and
awaken "the subliminal strata of mind" without the risk of injury. I
therefore utterly condemn the use of hypnotism for mere experiment or
amusement. As to crime in relation to hypnotism, it may be true, as Dr.
Bramwell has said, that a hypnotised patient would revolt from any manifest
or gross crime, but might she not be told to sign a document, and very
great evil thus be wrought ?
IV.—John F. Woods, M.D.,
Medical Superintendent, Hoxton House Asylum, London, N.
Hypnotism in Organic Disease.
Having now treated over 1,000 cases of disease by so-called suggestion,
I have, like Dr. Bramwell, come to the conclusion that it is a potent remedy,
and that much good may be done by it if rightly employed. It is commonly
thought that only functional nervous disorders, such as neuralgia, are
benefited by this treatment. This is not my experience, and my chief
object in speaking is to draw attention to the fact that it is applicable to a
much wider field of disease. Let us not forget that the nervous system is
implicated in almost all disease, and in so far as we can influence it for good
we can benefit the disease. Take the case of organic heart mischief. At
first sight it may appear irrational—I had almost said ridiculous—to treat it
by suggestion. We must remember, however, that in all cases of serious
organic disease of the heart there is a strong nervous element ; the patient
is apt to be agitated, perhaps he sleeps badly, or there may be pain. Now,
if we can soothe the nervous system, secure sleep, and remove pain—we can
do all this—we are going a long way to improve the patient's condition.
Moreover, in addition to these general effects we can produce a direct and
Bpecific effect upon the heart by placing one hand upon the epigastrium and
suggesting that the heart shall quiet down, and beat more slowly and
110 [Supplement.
Addresses on Hypnotism.
calmly. Again, let us take such a disease as rheumatic fever. It might,
perhaps, be thought that this was the very last disease to be benefited by
suggestion, and yet, when we come to think of it, we shall find that the
nervous symptoms in it are very pronounced ; they are evidently produced
by the toxins of the disease. Now, although we are powerless to touch the
root of the disease by suggestion, we may do much to alleviate symptoms ;
by removing pain and mental distress, quieting restlessness, and securing
sleep. We may even lower the temperature. This I have succeeded in
doing not only in rheumatic fever, but in pleurisy, pneumonia, and typhoid.
Nothing could more eloquently show the value of suggestive treatment in
diseases other than the purely nervous. I will instance just one other
organic disease that can be benefited by this treatment—tabes dorsalis—a
very unlikely malady, one might think, to be improved by it. In a patient
now under observation I can always remove the girdle and lightning pains,
and improve his appetite, spirits, and sleep. As the result of this treat
ment, he can now walk much more steadily than before, and considers
himself a great deal better than when he first came under observation. One
word as to the necessity of sending the patient to sleep. This is, in my
experience, by no means essential. I have cured many cases without it ; we
may often succeed in getting the patient into a receptive condition by
making him relax all his muscles to the utmost, and composing himself to
complete mental and bodily inactivity. I do not agree with Mr. Myers that
hypnotic phenomena cannot be explained on physiological lines. Mr.
Myer3 would appear to assume that the subliminal processes to which he
refers are purely psychic. I contend that they must have a physiological
basis. Time does not permit me to say more than this concerning Mr.
Myers's valuable and interesting remarks.
V.—Chas. A. Mercier, M.B., F.R.C.S. Eng.,
Lecturer on Neurology and Insanity, Westminster Hospital Medical School.
Suggestion and Crime.
I desire to point out that the cases of suggested crime instanced by Dr.
Bramwell are entirely beside the question. He has instanced cases in
which it was suggested to a patient that the patient should commit a crime
as a crime ; but this is not the point. The point is, and the fear is, that a
patient may be made to commit a crime which has been suggested to him as
a purely innocent act. The common exhibition of the itinerant mesmerists
is to make a patient eat a tallow candle on the suggestion that he is eating a
stick of celery, or to drink soap and water under the suggestion that he is
drinking beer. Why, then, might not a butcher cut the throat of a child
under the suggestion that he is cutting the throat of a sheep 1 Why should
he not be made to poleaxe a man under the suggestion that he is poleaxing a
bullock ? Or, to put a more probable and more practical case, why should
not a man be induced to sign an important document under the suggestion
that he was signing something of a totally different character, and of no
importance ?
Part xxxiv.] Note on "Fisher's Ghost." Ill
II.
NOTE ON "FISHER'S GHOST."
By H. Arthur Smith.
I think I am right in saying that in the general experience of psychical
investigators, the more dramatic and interesting a ghost story is, the less
likelihood there is of its heing well authenticated. " Fisher's Ghost " is,
however, certainly an exception to this rule. It has been as carefully
examined as any event so distant in time well can be, and this by enquirers
who have brought to the task special and varied qualifications. It is probably
unique, in that it in some degree, at least, connects the question of ghostly
phantasms with the severe principles of evidence which regulate the pro
ceedings of a Court of Law.1 Many years ago De Morgan, though he had
probably never heard of this case, conceived and considered the possibility
of some such association. In his introduction to " From Matter to Spirit,"
he wrote : "If the ghost of a murdered man were to make his appearance
in court in a form which no one could possibly attribute either to imposture,
optics, or chemistry, and were solemnly to declare that the prisoner was not
the murderer, and then to vanish through the roof, the judge would, no
doubt, instruct the jury that they must dismiss the respectable apparition
from their minds altogether ; that even if the spirit had offered to be sworn
and to stand cross-examination, there would be very grave doubt whether
his evidence could be received, from his probable want of belief in a future
state ; but that as matters stood, it was clearly their duty to take the vision
pro rum viso. To which the jury would reply, if they believed the ghost,
by a verdict of not guilty." It is true that in Fisher's case the ghost
was considerate enough not to embarrass the court by any such entry as Mr.
De Morgan supposes, but it adopted a no less effective way of working its
ends, the difference being that in this case the ghost was on the side of the
prosecution.
The story, which was investigated a year or two ago by Mr. Andrew
Lang, and fully related by him in Blackwood's Magazine for July, 1897, has
quite recently been minutely examined from a lawyer's point of view by Mr.
G. B. Barton, the official historian of New South Wales, who has of course
had special opportunities of testing it by reference to the records of the
colony. The bare facts, as now stated by Mr. Barton, may be very briefly
summarised.
In 1826, a ticket-of-leave holder, Frederick Fisher by name, was farming
a tract of land at Campbell-town, near Sydney, with the assistance of one
George Worrell, who acted as overseer, and was thoroughly conversant with
all Fisher's concerns. On or about the 17th of June, Fisher suddenly
1 Since writing this sentence I have observed that Mr. Andrew Lang, in the
paper referred to below, gives some analogous cases from the English Courts.
112 [Supplement.
H. Arthur Smith.
disappeared, and in answer to enquiries as to what had become of him,
Worrell gave it out that he had taken passage in the Lord St. Vincent and
gone to England. Some of the neighbours were rather incredulous as to
this, inasmuch as nothing in Fisher's proceedings had pointed to any such
sudden removal, and this incredulity was by no means decreased when it
was observed that Worrell was taking steps to sell off some of Fisher's
horses and farm stock. When asked for his authority for this procedure,
Worrell produced a paper purporting to be a receipt signed by Fisher for
the purchase money of the horses ; but the signature was, to say the least,
doubtful, and the sale was not effected. Other features in Worrell's conduct
fomented the suspicion that there had been some foul play in the business,
and when three months had passed by without any news of Fisher, the
police authorities were moved to offer a reward of £20 for the discovery of
his body, or of £5 for proof that he had quitted the colony. This naturally
drew attention again to the case, and set many men to work, searching the
bush in every direction ; but a month elapsed without any discovery. At
last, however, a settler named Farley created a sensation by alleging that
when driving home at night from Campbell-town and passing the corner of a
paddock that had belonged to Fisher, he suddenly saw the figure of a man,
to all appearance Fisher himself, seated on the top of the fence. Taking
it at first to be Fisher, he went up to speak to him, but as he approached, the
figure slowly rose from the fence, raised its right arm in the direction of a small
creek, and gradually disappeared, apparently followiug the windings of the
channel. This was at once reported to the police and the magistrates, who
eventually determined to have a search made on the spot. On the last day
of October two constables, taking with them a native tracker named
Gilbert, proceeded to the spot. They at once found appearances as of blood
stains on the fence indicated by Farley, and, with confidence increased by
this discovery, proceeded to the creek. On coming to a pool of water covered
with scum, Gilbert took a corn stalk from the neighbouring field, passed it
over the scum, put it to his nose and said " White man's fat." Then he led
them up the creek about 40 rods to some swampy ground, took the ramrod
from his gun, drove it into the ground, drew it out, smelt it, and again said
"White man's fat, dig there." Spades were procured, and in a few minutes
the body of a man was discovered. The features were not recognisable, but
on getting one of the hands clear, constable Newland1 said "That's the hand
of Frederick Fisher; I will swear to it." He also recognised the body by
its general appearance and by the clothes.
Of course arrangements were at once made for an inquest. Medical
evidence shewed that the skull had been fractured in several places. The
identification of the body as Fisher's was complete ; but though the suspicion
against Worrell was keener than ever, the verdict was an open one— " wilful
murder against some person or persons unknown." Worrell was, however,
arrested, and when before the magistrates made a declaration in which he
accused four men who were in his kitchen on June 17th, as the guilty
persons. This story, inconsistent as it was with his previous statements,
made little impression, and he was committed for trial at the Criminal
Sessions at Sydney.
1 Mr. Lang gives this witness's name as Leonard.
Part XXXIV.] 113
Note on "Fisher's Ghost."
The trial took place on February 2nd, 1827, before Chief Justice Forbes
and a military jury of six officers, the prosecution being conducted by
Acting-Attorney-General Moore, and the defence by an attorney named
Rowe. Farley was not called as a witness, he having nothing to depose
which the rules of evidence could admit. Worrell's conduct, however, was
so unsatisfactorily explained that the jury had no difficulty in convicting.
The verdict was "guilty " and the death sentence pronounced.
The prisoner was attended by the Rev. W. Cowper, to whom he made a
qualified confession, denying his declaration as to the four men whom he
had accused, but representing that he had accidentally struck and killed
Fisher while aiming a blow at a horse which he saw straying among the
wheat crop. He was, however executed on a scaffold in front of the old gaol
off Lower George Street in the presence of an enormous crowd.
Such, in outline, are the facts as narrated by Mr. Barton after examina
tion of the court and official records ; and they agree in every important
point with the story as it was first told in R. Montgomery Martin's History
of the British Colonies published in London in 1835 ; and a little later in
Tegg's Magazine published in Sydney, under the title of " Fisher's Ghost,
a Legend of Campbell-Town." It appears also in Rusden's History of
Australia (1883) and with more or less intentional embellishment in House
hold Words for 1859.
A friend of my own who was Secretary of the Navigation and Pilotage
Boards in Sydney in 1852, has recently given me his recollections of the story
as it was told him by his father-in law, who was present at the trial and well
conversant with the facts. His version again is in substantial agreement,
but there are certain variations of detail which it may not be uninteresting
to indicate. In the first place his impression was that the locality of the
murder was near Parramatta, on the opposite side of Sydney from
Campbell-town. In this he is doubtless wrong. Again in his version he
represents Worrell as having despatched to England a letter addressed to
himself and signed in Fisher's name, in which letter Fisher is made to say
that, having come into a good fortune in England, he does not intend to
return to Australia, and that for old acquaintance sake he makes Worrell a
present of the farm and stock. This letter was to be posted in England
so as to confirm Worrell's alleged title. There is nothing in Mr. Barton's
narrative to contradict this, but obviously such a letter, if written, could
have had no effect whatever on the case, inasmuch as the interval between
the murder and the trial was not sufficient for it to have been despatched
and returned. If it happened at all it could only have come to light
afterwards. My friend's recollection is quite distinct as to the " White
man's fat', expression. In fact this is a point which would be little likely
to escape any memory. The identification of the body he ascribes partly to
the peculiar "basket" pattern on the buttons, and partly to the discovery
in the pockets of a large comprehensive sort of knife with corkscrew and
other attachments, which Fisher was known to have recently received from
England. My friend is under the impression that the prosecution was
conducted by Mr. Alfred Stephen. This is not inconsistent with Mr.
Barton's story, as Mr. Stephen must have been a young man at the time,
and may well have held a junior brief with the Attorney-General.
114 Note on a Case in "Phantasms of the Living." [Supplement
The most important deviation, however, concerns the confession.
According to his account, a petition for a reprieve was got up by some
people who were convinced of Worrell's innocence, and presented to Governor
Darling ; and the Governor, strongly impressed with the peculiar circumstances
which led up to the conviction, determining at the last moment to stay the
execution, despatched an orderly to the gaol for the purpose. Before his
arrival, however, Worrell had made and signed not a qualified but a complete
confession, giving details of the murderous assault which explained some of
appearances on the spot. On this confession being at once reported to the
Governor, the reprieve was withdrawn and the execution proceeded with.
One can scarcely hesitate in choosing between this and the narrative given
by Mr. Barton, whose sources of information are much more trustworthy.
It is just one of those dramatic embellishments which are likely to find their
way in course of time into any story which has excited strong public
interest.
On the whole the various accounts of the event which have appeared are
singularly free from decorative additions, and though of couise there is room
for sceptical criticism as to the real origin of Farley's story, there is a
vraisemblance therein which has been admitted by every narrator. One
would like to know whether Farley received the £20 reward offered by the
police, for one cannot help suspecting that he may have known the details of
the murder from the beginning, and that on hearing of the reward he
ingeniously invented the ghost to explain the four months' delay in making
the disclosure. If so, being on the spot, he would have little difficulty in
assisting the tracker to identify the locality of the grave. Mr. Lang
considers this hypothesis, but rejects it as an improbable explanation of
Farley's conduct. But is the apparition less improbable 1
NOTE ON A CASE IN "PHANTASMS OF THE LIVING."
The Editor of these Proceedings is of course not responsible for state
ments appearing in any other book ; but by the wish of the two surviving
part-authors of Phantasms of the Living, and considering the close connection
between that book and the S.P.R., under the auspices of whose Council it
was published, we think it right to mention here that one of the cases in the
" Additional Chapter," Vol. II., p. 671, must now be withdrawn. There is
no reason to doubt the bona fides of Mr. Sparks, the principal informant :
but Mr. Cleave, then 18 years of age, whose evidence is essential to the case,
has admitted that the alleged apparition of himself, when entranced, to a
young lady in London, was a hoax.
Part XXXIV.] 115
Reviews.
III.
REVIEWS.
Some cases recorded in the " Annales des Sciences Psychiques."
Professor Grasset published in the Annales des Sciences Psychiques for
Nov.-Dec., 1897, and in the Semaine Medicate of Dec. 1st, 1897, an account
of an experiment made by him in Oct. 1897, with a subject of Dr. Ferroul's
of Narbonne, in reading through opaque bodies. Reports of this experiment
have appeared in most of the chief English and American newspapers, and
as these reports were in the main accurate it will be unnecessary here to
enter into details. Suffice it to say that the subject read the contents of a
sealed envelope sent by Professor Grasset to Dr. Ferroul with substantial
accuracy, and Professor Grasset was satisfied that the envelope had not been
tampered with in any way. Sufficient precautions had been taken to render
it impossible to see the writing through the envelope, and the words written
were known only to Professor Grasset and not to Dr. Ferroul.
I propose to comment on two points only in the record of this experiment,
and then to give a brief account of a second experiment undertaken by a
Committee appointed by the Académie des Sciences et Lettres of Montpellier
at the request of Professor Grasset.
(1.) Dr. Ferroul writes to Professor Grasset as follows :—
" When your packet arrived here this morning my subject was not at
hand . . . Having to go my rounds I decided to arrange for my subject
to come to my house about 4 o'clock, and I went to her house to make the
appointment. Having learnt what I wanted she proposed to read the
contents of the envelope immediately."
Now in view of the evidence of the committee of investigation which will
be given later, it would be of interest to know whether Dr. Ferroul proceeded
directly to the subject's house 300 metres distant, after leaving the envelope
on his study table, or whether any considerable interval of time elapsed—
say 20 minutes or half-an-hour—before he went there ; and also whether the
subject was at home on Dr. Ferroul's arrival at her house.
(2.) Professor Grasset opened the envelope before a meeting of the
Académie des Sciences et Lettres of Montpellier, and the members present
did not find any trace of the borders of the envelope having been tampered
with, after examining the inside of it.
Professor Richet has had the goodness to send two photographs of the
envelope, and another of the sheet of note paper which was enclosed in it.
Too much importance must not be attached to criticisms founded on a
photograph, the opinion of the members of the Academy who saw the
original being naturally entitled to more weight. But with this proviso,
the following observations may be of some value.
A safety pin which had been inserted in the envelope, and which
Professor Grasset himself states had only caught some silver paper wrapped
I 2
116 [Supplement.
J. 0. Smith.
round the document, did not pierce the document itself, so that if the
envelope had been opened, the document could have been removed without
causing a tear.
The appearance of the inside of the envelope strongly suggests that the
flap most remote from the safety pin was loosened (by steaming or some
similar method) and withdrawn from under the seal and afterwards replaced.
There are three separate indications of this at least.
(o) A torn hole in that flap of the envelope through which the greater
part of the safety pin ran.
(6) A considerable tear in the (supposed) removed flap.
(c) A crumpled margin of one of the side flaps, perhaps caused by
dragging on replacement.
Also the margins of two of the flaps have darkened aspects, which some
what suggests that fresh gum may have been used to keep the removed flap
in place. The supposed removed flap also looks as if it might be dirtier, and
there appear to be indications that fresh gum has diffused itself beyond the
edges where two of the flaps join.
So much for the first experiment.
The report of the committee appointed by the Academie des Sciences et
Lettres of Montpellier, appeared in the Semabie Medicale, pp. 18-20, 1898,
and in the January-February number of the Aunales des Sciences Psychiqiies,
1898. It is admirably written, and with much detail, and is signed by all
the members of the Committee, including Professor Grasset himself. I
attempt no more than to give the salient points. Three envelopes were
prepared by the Committee before leaving Montpellier ; but as two only were
used in the experiments we may dismiss the third from our minds. Most
elaborate precautions were adopted in the matter of sealing, gumming and
wrapping, and the documents placed inside the envelopes were so selected
from many others that their contents were unknown to any of the Committee
or in fact to anybody, a condition which is strongly criticised by Dr. Dariex
in the Anntdes in his comments on the report. But it should be borne in
mind that the subject claimed not the faculty of telepathy but of reading
through opaque bodies. Arrived at Narbonne, the committee proceeded to
Dr. Ferroul's house. Contrary to their wish, Dr. Ferroul insisted that the
first experiment at least should be made under the conditions already familiar
to the subject ; namely, that the envelope should be placed on the writing
table in his study, and that no one should be present in the room, not even
if concealed ; as the subject found the presence of any body in the room,
where the envelope was, disconcerting. Prepared for some such difficulty,
the Committee had placed one of the envelopes in a box filled with shavings
and wrapped in stout paper ; and the additional precaution had been taken
of inserting a sensitive plate inside the envelope, so that if the envelope
were opened the plate would be affected by the exposure.
The box was placed on the writing table. Dr. Ferroul then proposed to
seal and lock the door of his study. The Committee saw no use in sealing
the door, as they had no private seal with them : and on search being made
for the key it could not be found—a significant fact. A start was then made
for the subject's house, which, although but 300 metres distant, it took 7 or
8 minutes to reach. At the moment of their arrival the subject was out.
Part XXXIV.) 117
Reviews.
She arrived about 3 minutes afterwards and was at once hypnotised by Dr.
Ferroul. No mention is made of any means having been taken to test the
genuineness of the trance.
The trance began about t.5. The subject almost at once stated that the
box contained shavings.
At 2.15 she was awakened.
At 2.25 her sister, who, though present on the arrival of the Committee
at 2 o'clock, had left the house almost immediately, re-entered the room.
At 2.27 the subject was re-hypnotised, and at 2.35 stated that the box
was made of wood.
At 2.40 a servant who had gone out just as the Committee arrived,
re-entered the house.
During the next hour the subject, who was awakened and re-hypnotised
several times, had ample opportunities of conversing with her sister away
from the observation of the Committee.
About 3.30 the sister left the house taking with her some paint brushes,
saying that she was going to do some photo-miniature work. A few moments
before she had had in her hand a small bottle containing a transparent liquid
of a yellowish tinge.
At 3.40 the subject, when in trance, described the contents of the box in
disconnected sentences. She mentioned black sealing-wax (correct), a large
paper—shavings—glass (i.e. the sensitive plate)—green paper ..." the
letter 'f—I think—an 'r' a 'g' or an '£'—and something else—I'm not
sure if there aren't numbers—then a ' 4 ', I think."
The document inside the envelope really bore the following inscription.
At the top, the letters "adf" on one line—on the line below, the letters
"g r." At the bottom are placed the numbers 8, 7, 4, upside down.
At 3.50 the subject was awakened and wished to walk alone to Dr.
Ferroul's house. The Committee followed and entered the study at the
same time.
Immediately on entering the room two members of the Committee in
dependently noticed that the box was not in exactly the same position as it
had been left in, and that the seals on the top were no longer intact.
The subject tried to tear the envelope—presumably with the purpose of
destroying all traces of injury to the seals etc., but the envelope was quickly
recovered, before she had time to do it more than a trifling injury, which
was carefully noted.
At 4.15 an experiment was made with the second envelope, which
was held all the time by one of the Committee. The subject made three
absolutely unsuccessful attempts to read the contents. The third attempt
was distinctly amusing as it opened with a repetition of the words written in
Professor Grasset's envelope—"The deep heavens reflect in stars our tears :
then they said to themselves as they wrote it—What does it matter, since
she has read it at a distance once."
The real contents of the envelope were a Knave of Clubs with the word
"amour" written on one side of it, and a plain white card with the number
"24" in one corner, and these words: "It is a square courtyard with
nothing peculiar about it."
118 [Supplement.
0. Smith.
The young lady then had an attack of nerves, which brought the seance
to an abrupt conclusion. Dr. Ferroul and the Bubject explained the failure
by the sensitive plate which acted on the subject, who at such moments is
stored with electricity, as an insulator.
The Committee conclude their report as follows :—
" We made two experiments with Dr. Ferroul's subject.
In one, the envelope remained in the possession of one of us all the time,
and the subject's answers were completely wide of the mark.
In the other, if the subject succeeded in indicating more or less correctly,
though not fully, the contents of the box, it is essential to a proper
appreciation of the value of this experiment, to collate from the evidence
given above with regard to the condition of the box and its contents the
following facts :—
(1) The box had to be left unwatched.
(2) The subject was absent from her house at the moment of our arriving
here after having relinquished the box.
(3) The details relating to the contents of the box were furnished only
after an interval of 1 hour 40 minutes, and after the subject had communi
cated several times with her sister, to whose frequent comings and goings we
have already drawn attention.
This summary will enable anyone to draw his own inferences and to find
an explanation both simple and natural of the more than surprising keenness
of vision of the subject whom we examined in deference to the request of
the Academy."
I need only add that the seals on one side of the box were impaired, the
paper-cover of the box was torn and had holes in it, and fresh gum had
been used to refasten it, one of the seals had been bodily removed and stuck
back again, and the sensitive plate showed unmistakably signs of having
been exposed to the light.
Dr. Dariex, the editor of the Annate*, pleads for a suspense of judgment
on various grounds, chiefly on the ground that Professor Grasset's first
experiment remains unaffected by the evidence of the committee. It would
be hard, however, to believe that anyone will be found inclined to waste time
on further experiments with Dr. Ferroul's subject of the "X rays eyes," as
the New York Herald called her, at least on experiments of this nature,
though if the evidence of some other experiments made with her in 1894
can be relied upon, there is reason to suppose that she is not always
fraudulent, but occasionally clairvoyante. (v. Annates, May-June, Jnly-
Angust, 1896.)
I now proceed to consider two articles on table-turning phenomena by
M. Rouillon, Professor of German at PeVigueux College, which appeared in
the Annates des Sciences Psychiqnes for Sept. -Oct., 1897, and Jan. -Feb., 1898,
respectively. I give the séances in their chronological order, thus slightly
altering M. Rouillon's arrangement, and I discuss only those sittings at
which two gentlemen, MM. Etienne Vidal and Loze, were present, either
alone or with others.
Séance on the 28th November, 1893, in M. Loze's room at Limoges
College.
Part XXXIV.) 119
Reviews.
Translation.
"Seated at the table, MM. Vidal pere—Etienne and Marcel Vidal, his
sons, Loze and Rouillon. We make a chain with our hands on the edge of
the table.
At the end of 35 minutes movements begin.
I ask for the name [of the Saint] on the almanac under the date of the
12th June. None of us know it, and the same remark applies to all our
seances. The almanac is on a writing table at three paces from us, resting
against the lamp (the only light in the room) and so serves us as a screen.
This almanac has six months on each side. When the question was put, the
side containing the first six months of the year was turned towards the light
of the lamp ; none of us can see it. The answer is ' Trinité,' we proceed to
verify, and this is found to be correct.
I leave the circle. The other four keep one hand only on the table,
without forming a chain.
Question. ' The name under the date of the 2nd January.' Answer.
' Basile.' Correct.
Question. The name given for the 2nd September? Answer. 'Firmin.'
I proceed to verify the answer. The month of September is on the side
of the almanac placed in the shade. The answer is wrong, but M. Loze
observes that Firmin does come in the month of September, that the word
is written in large characters, and that there is a 2 in the date [of S. Firmin],
the 25th. The almanac is put back in its place, with the second six months
towards the light.
M. Vidal asks for the name under the date of the 5th December.
Answer. Sabas.
This name, absolutely unknown to any of us, strikes us all with astonish
ment, and we regard the result as negative, as simply a fortuitous combina
tion of letters. A verification is made, and Sabas is given under the date
in question.
At the conclusion of the seance, we all signed a record vouching for the
reality of these occurrences."
The presence of the almanac in the room to my mind deprives the results
obtained of all value, as it is practically impossible to decide with certainty
what is or is not within the range of vision of five different persons,
especially as the 35 minutes' concentration of mind before the table began
to move may well have produced hyperaesthesia in the visual organs of any
or all of the experimenters. It would have seemed the obvious precaution
not to have had an almanac at all in the room. The answers could have
been written down and verified afterwards. The remark that the almanac
was on a writing-table at "three paces from us" is very loose evidence, it
being clear that the writing-table could not be equidistant from the five
different persons sitting at the table. Out of the four questions asked, the
name of the questioner is given in two instances, once M. Bouillon, once
M. Vidal, in the two remaining instances the name of the questioner is not
given. This is a point of some importance. M. Rouillon does not state
whether these four dates were the only dates asked, and it is possible that
he has recorded the successes or partial successes only.
120 [Supplement.
J. G. Smith.
M. Bouillon does not say what position relatively to the almanac he took
up after leaving the circle at the table ; nor does he say, except in one
instance, who verified the answer by referring to the almanac. The phrases
employed are "nous verifions," "on verifie," once "je verifie," and in one
instance the verification is not expressly mentioned, but left to be inferred.
And even when M. Rouillon says " je verifie," it does not amount to much,
for the expression does not exclude the co-operation of the other experi
menters. M. Rouillon is looking to see if the almanac gives Firmin as the
saint for September 2nd. It does not ; whereupon M. Loze draws attention
to the fact that S. Firmin's day does occur in the month of September,
but on the 25th, instead of on the 2nd. Now we gather from M. Rouillon's
repeated assertions that neither M. Loze nor any other person knew
the dates of the various Saints' days. It follows then that although M.
Rouillon is said to have verified the reference, still M. Loze or M. Vidal may
have been examining the almanac as well at the same time. Ho only ones
mentions the act of replacing the almanac after verification, and then uses a
charmingly vague French expression "on replace." Obviously the person
who handled the almanac would have an opportunity of consulting it either
consciously or sub-consciously, and would then perhaps choose the next or
some subsequent date for the table to answer. And even in those instances
when one experimenter is stated to have replaced the almanac, and another
experimenter to have put the subsequent question, there is no reason against
supposing, for any evidence to the contrary, that the person who replaced
the almanac may not have suggested a date to the next or some subsequent
questioner.
I now pass on to the second seance, held in M. Loze's room on October
30th, 1893, two days later.
Translation.
" At the table, MM. Etienne Vidal, Loze, Martin, licentiate in mathe
matics and science, and tutor at Limoges College, and Duris, tutor.
Same conditions as before, no one either in the room or at the table
knew the names asked for. The following questions were put by M. Vidal,
who appears to have the greatest influence on the table.
The name for Jan. 14. Ansuvr. Hilaire. Correct.
Feb. 21. „ Pepin. Correct.
Jan. 28. „ Charlemagne. Correct.
Dec. 27. ,, Innocents. (Error of one day,
Innocents' Days falling on December 28th.)
May. 16. Answer. Cyriaque. (Error of one month,
Cyriaque being June 16th.)
May. 26. Answer. Clet. (Error of one month, Clec
being April 26th.)
A more curious thing still. Abdon was given us for July 30th. This name
does not occur on the almanac that we used, neither on the date named, nor
at any other date. In the evening being in the bursar's office I consulted an
almanac hanging on the wall and found under the date of July 30th the name
'Abdon.' The same thing has happened several times in the course of my
experiments with my two children alone. We have sometimes had to consult
11 11
li 11
tl 11
il 11
11 11
Part XXXIV.] 121
Reviews.
a dictionary to find the name indicated by the table (the name ' Cunegonde '
for instance) or another almanac (for the name ' Rose.') The name dictated
by the table always corresponded perfectly with the date named by us."
My observations on the first seance apply equally to this second séance.
The conditions we are told were the same. Are we to understand that the
almanac was still three paces from the persons sitting at the table ? If so, it
follows that the table was in precisely the same position as two days before.
The errors of one day and in two instances of exactly one month do not seem
to have struck M. Rouillon as suspicious. They can hardly fail to strike
others so. The fact that the name "Abdou" had to be sought for in
another almanac in the bursary, and other names in a dictionary, are also
accepted by M. Rouillon without misgiving.
It will be noticed that other persons besides the actual experimenters
were present in the room.
It is difficult to accept M. Rouillon's assurance that the date, or at least
the approximate date, of Holy Innocents' day was unknown to any person
present, particularly in a Roman Catholic country. Five out of ten persons
of education would be aware that Innocents' day falls soon after Christmas
and before the beginning of January.
As in the two remaining seances at which MM. Vidal and Loze assisted
no further experiments were made with the almanac, it is only fair to state
now that M. Rouillon had obtained similar successes with other persons at
the table, but the success was intermittent and except in the case of one
seance, at which he and his ten year old daughter alone were present, the
proportion of failures to successes is not given. In this latter seance, out of
30 dates 24 saints were correctly named by the table ; but this seance was
held on January 3rd, 1894, and M. Rouillon had been engaged with his
daughters and others in these almanac experiments off and on ever since
September 1893. In three or four months he ought to have become an
expert in Saints' Days, and at the least he ought not to expect his readers to
believe that the saints corresponding to the dates that were chosen were
absolutely unknown to him or others present in every instance after the
game had been played so often.
I now pass on to the most remarkable of the series of table-turning
seances, which is described as follows in Annates des Sciences Psychiques,
Jan-Febr, 1898, pp. 1-5.
Translation.
A Case From Limoges. By M. Rouillon.
An account is here given, drawn from careful notes and circumstantial
reminiscences, of two experiences, which, considering the excellent conditions
under which they took place, constitute a contribution of great value (as I
venture to believe) to psychical research. The two experimenters have been
personally known to me for several years ; their sincerity and critical habit
of mind offer an unimpeachable guarantee of their accuracy.
Identification of a name with a dead person unknown to the experimenters,
obtained by direct writing.
On Christmas evening 1893 M. Loze, bursary clerk at Limoges College,
had invited his friend M. Etienne Vidal to come to his rooms to take a glass
122 (Supplement.
J. G. Smith.
of white wine. It was about 10 o'clock. There was a good wood fire
burning in the grate, in front of which stood a small round table with a
bottle and a plate upon it. M. Vidal had his forearm, and M. Loze his
elbow, on the top of the small table. The conversation was in no way
connected with the subject of psychical experiments. All of a sudden M.
Vidal felt the table rise once, then twice, and so forcibly that there was
only just time to clear the tray. " Hullo," said M. Vidal, "one would think
the table wants to talk. Let's wait a minute." They placed their hands on
the table and asked,
" Who is there ? " " Demi-Siphon."
" Dead or alive ? " ( " Mort ou vivant ? ") "Dead." ("Morte.")
" Ah, it's a woman then ! What were you ? " "Adancer."
"Where?" " Moulin Rouge."
" What did you die of ? " " An accident."
" What accident ?" " Rupture of the perinaeum—in doing ' a split.' "
" Will you provide an interesting seance for our benefit ? "
Thereupon followed some extremely curious phenomena, but of a nature
which cannot be recorded here ; and afterwards the table spelt out " Slates."
Some time before this M. Loze had procured two slates in thick wooden
frames, which he had fixed together by means of two brass screws.1 The
screws were unfastened and the slates separated. M. Loze washed them with
a wet sponge and put them to dry by the fire in a good light. Then he went
to look in a drawer for a piece of pencil, and placed it between the two slates.
M. Vidal, after examining the slates again on both sides, in front of the
lamp and in the presence of M. Loze, who made a simultaneous and equally
careful examination, laid them one against the other and screwed them
together. They were then placed flat on the table away from all contact with
the experimenters' hands. The table seemed to rap impatiently. On being
asked what it wanted, the reply came: "Remove the lamp." M. Loze
carried the lamp into an alcove about two paces away, whence it still threw
some light, while at the same time the glow from the fire was fairly bright.
It would have been quite easy to read the time by a watch. All this time
M. Loze did not lose the slates, which were resting on the table, from sight,
nor did M. Vidal touch them.!
" Write something, and when the writing is finished, rap once."
The table remained motionless for a moment, then gave two raps
signifying, according to the usual code, "No."
' ' There is something not quite right ? " " Yes. "
"What?" "Hands."
"Do you want our hands on the slates ? " " Yes."
This was done,3 and after a moment the table rapped once.
' ' Is the writing finished ? " " Yes."
1 These were stout screws, at least four centimetres long.
2 This mutual supervision on the part of both experimenters was the method of
procedure adopted throughout.
3 It must be understood that during these experiments the slates rested on the
table, and were held (maintcnues) by both experimenters simultaneously in an amply
good enough light Each time that they were opened, it was in a strong light and
under the closest supervision of both operators. (Note by M. Vidal.)
Part XXXIV.] 123
Reviews.
The lamp was then brought close, and on the slates being unscrewed by
M. Vidal, extremely distinct tracings were discovered on one of them
resembling figures of 8 interlaced. Encouraged by this result, M. Vidal,
without rubbing anything out, screwed up the slates again, and put them
back on the table.
The lamp was again removed, and a request was made for something
more definite. The table remained stationary, but the movement of the
pencil was heard, and one rap was given. By the light of the lamp M. Vidal
unscrewed the slates and on one of them some characters were seen which at
first sight seemed to have no meaning. On questioning the table it replied :
"reversed." M. Vidal thereupon made out an L, and then M. Laze a
flourish, which he occasionally uses as a signature. With his eyes away from
the slate the latter took a sheet of thin paper, on which he traced in his
ordinary style the flourish in question ; and on placing it, with the back
side towards himself, against the lamp, he stated that the strokes which he
had just made were practically identical with those on the slate.
The slate was held before a glass, and M. Loze's signature was perfectly
recognisable.
Without effacing anything the slates were again screwed together and the
table was requested to be good enough to write in the ordinary way. The
noise of the pencil was noticed, and one rap was made. The slates were
opened by M. Loze, and on one of them was found written in most satis
factorily clear characters "Demi-Siphon." The slates were closed again by
M. Loze.
"By one single word, applicable strictly and solely to yourself, indicate
the kind of life that you led." The noise of the pencil was once more heard,
and once more there was a rap. The slates were unscrewed, and on one of
them was found very legibly written the word " Vadrouille." The writing
was remarkably clear and firm. 1
Some more questions were put to the table, which all of a sudden came
to a standstill, and did not budge again.
Neither M. Vidal nor M. Loze had ever heard of Demi-Siphon, and they
were puzzled both by the name and the details connected with it, of which
they knew absolutely nothing.
The next day, when talking of their experience before several colleagues,
they learnt that a few days before, Le Temps had announced the death of a
dancer at the Moulin Rouge who went by the nickname of Demi-Siphon.
M. Vidal told me at the time that he did not know whether the cause of
death (rupture of the perinaeum) as indicated by the table was correct. But
I feel sure I remember that this point was corroborated by inquiries made at
the time. During the whole evening M. Vidal and M. Loze were alone in
the room where the seance took place, and also at the following sitting. By
way of invitation to a fresh seance, the intelligent force was requested to be
so good as to give a palpable manifestation.
" Cross." An explanation was asked for.
1 It will be observed that in these various experiments MM. Vidal and Loze took
it in turn to open and shut the slates, one opening and the other shutting, and vice
versa on the next occasion, without affecting the result in any way. (Note by
M. Vidal.)
124 [Supplement.
J. 0. Smith.
" Wall,"—but nothing was to be seen.
Some days later, about half-past seven in the evening, M. Vidal was alone
in his room, which no one else could have entered.1 All of a sudden on
turning round he saw on the glass a cross about 10 centimetres long, traced,
as if by a finger, in ink. The ink was still wet. About three metres from
the glass, on a table, stood an inkpot containing ink identical with that
in the drawing. Now M. Vidal had not left his room for half an hour, and
some ten minutes or so previously he had just completed his toilet in front of
the glass, in a strong light, before going to the theatre. It can be said then
that this cross was produced in his presence.
About the same time M. Loze also had found several crosses in chalk in
his room, and in various other places, but in this latter case the conditions
were not sufficiently stringent (le manque de controle) to warrant us attaching
the same importance to it. Still it seems likely, after taking into considera
tion all the circumstances, that these marks proceeded from the same cause
as the cross in ink. I append the attestations of MM. Vidal and Loze, and
can only add that these incidents were related to me by the two witnesses
the very day after they took place (le lendemain meme de leur constatation)
with all the details as given above.
M. Rouillon,
Professeur d'allemand au lycee de Périgueux.
Périgueux, January 2nd, 1898.
This account is scrupulously accurate. Vidal
This report of the various experiences related (slates and cross) is in
strict conformity with the truth.
L. Loze.
In connection with this case Professor Charles Richet writes as follows
in a letter addressed to Mr. F. VV. H. Myers.
" I draw your attention to the paper by M. Rouillon in the Annates its
Sciences Psychiqiies. The value of the experiences depends wholly on the
worth and honourable character, and above all on the scientific abilities of
the witnesses. M. Vidal, who was one of the witnesses and probably the
medium, is a man of great intelligence. At the time of the experiences he
was only 20 years old. Since then he has passed his medical examinations
with great brilliancy, and is now a Doctor of Medicine. He worked for
three years in my laboratory, and I consider that he possesses a scientific
mind of an high order. The strange thing is that he should have had these
mediumistic experiences during 6 weeks, and then never again." M. Richet
adds that he has no personal acquaintance with M. Loze.
It is much to be regretted that the report was not written by M. Vidal or
by M. Loze, or by both in collaboration, as M. Rouillon's paper exhibits the
usual deficiences of second-hand evidence. Regrettable also is the interval
1 The rooms of M. Vidal's family are separated from the rest of the college by a
glass partition. Access is gained by a door which, from the outside, can be opened
only by a latchkey. This dcor leads into a large lobby with rooms on either side.
One of these rooms is M. E. Vidal's.
Part XXXIV.] 125
Reviews.
of four years between the date of the seances and the publication of the report.
This interval of four years must detract substantially from the value and
reliability of M. Rouillon's record. Mention is made of contemporaneous
notes, by the aid of which the report published in the Annates was written.
But although not directly admitted, it seems a fair inference that the report
was not written by M. Rouillon until quite recently. Nor did M. Rouillon
depend entirely upon written notes ; he speaks of " des souvenirs precis."
After a lapse of three or four years it is quite true that our memory of any
event may be precise, or distinct or circumstantial, however we prefer to
translate the word ; in fact it not seldom happens that our recollections
become more precise, even too precise, as time goes on ; but it does not
follow that because our recollections are distinct they are necessarily
accurate. It would be interesting to know how far these contemporaneous
notes preserve a record of the conditions, and how far the information about
the conditions given in M. Rouillon's paper, incomplete though it is, has
been drawn from the memory of the experimenters 3 or 4 years after the
occurrences.
M. Rouillon makes a point of the fact that prior to the first and sudden
appearance of Demi-Siphon the conversation was in no way whatever
connected with matters psychical. But we know that both M. Vidal and
M. Loze had been attending table-turning seances quite recently, and so it
is not unfair to presuppose a state of mental expectancy. An accidental
movement of M. Vidal's forearm or of M. Loze's elbow, both of which are
recorded to have been resting on the table just before it began to move,
may well have supplied the necessary stimulus to start the table on its wild
career.
M. Loze had " some time before " procured two slates joined together by
brass screws, presumably for experimenting at some seance which he had in
view. Note the strange coincidence. M. Loze has "some time before"
("depuis qnelque temps")—a vague expression like many others used by M.
Rouillon—provided himself with two slates and screwed them together with
brass screws. Then lo ! and behold an obliging spirit named Demi-Siphon
arrives in the most opportune manner and performs upon them.
It is a pity that M. Rouillon did not take the trouble to search the issues
of Le Temps about Christmas 1893 to make quite certain whether the details
there given of Demi-Siphon's death were identical with those given by the
slate, or whether the table supplied any information which did not appear
in the newspaper.
Also it would be most desirable to know whether Le Temps alone among
French newspapers contained a reference to the death of Demi-Siphon, and
whether MM. Vidal and Loze were in the habit of reading Le Temps, as
were evidently some of their colleagues. For it is quite conceivable that,
though the experimenters did not consciously acquire the information, it
may have been acquired subconsciously by either or both of them.
One would like to know too where exactly the screws were placed in the
slates, what was the size of the piece of pencil, and what was the size of the
slates ; especially the latter, because unless they were fairly large, the
communications must have got a little mixed before the end of the seance,
as we are told that nothing written on them was rubbed out.
126 J. 0. Smith.
Were the slates shown afterwards to any other persons, with the writing
still on them? Before the slate-writing began, the table, or rather the
influence that controlled it, impatiently demanded the removal of the lamp,
but it is noticeable that, though the table insisted on the removal of the
lamp at the first seance, yet one would infer that the material manifestation
of the ink cross, which, by the way, could not be produced then and there
at the second seance, occurred in a strong light, for the cross was on the
glass before which M. Vidal had been dressing " en pleine Inmiire."
The day after the first seance MM. Loze and Vidal spoke of their
experiences before several colleagues. One may naturally suppose then
that they spoke of the unexplained incident of the " Cross " " Wall," which
occurred at the second seance, before other persons also. If this was the
case, there arises a formidable suspicion of a practical joke. Neither the
fact that M. Vidal did not see the cross on entering his room and when
occupied with his toilet, nor that the ink was still wet, nor that the ink on
the wall and the ink in M. Vidal's ink-pot were identical, exclude such an
explanation ; and no capable practical joker would be baffled by so slight an
obstacle as a door which could be opened from the outside only by a
latchkey.
And be it noted in this connection that it was not the door of M. Etienne
Vidal's room that could only be opened by a latchkey, but merely the front
door of the suite of rooms occupied by M. Vidal pere and his family.
Again, to assume, as M. Rouillon does, that, because M. Vidal only
noticed the ink cross after having been some time in his room, therefore the
cross was actually inked on the wall in his presence, is to assume a very
great deal too much.
Note also that M. Vidal did not see the cross in process of being drawn,
only when completed.
It is difficult to understand whether the " Vadrouille " incident was
recorded simply because of the production of clear and distinct writing when
the slates were screwed together, or whether because the answer was
considered particularly apposite to the question asked. If the latter, it may
be remarked that this term might have been applied to many dancers at the
Moulin Rouge without much risk of its proving inappropriate.
Lastly Professor Richet excites our curiosity by fixing on M. Vidal as
" probably the medium," but, like the wise judge, does not give his reasons,
which we should very much like to hear.
I come now to the last seance of the series. It is remarkable for having
produced a communication very similar in style to the communication made
by "Demi-Siphon." I translate the account given in Atuiales des Sciences
Fsychuiues, Sept.-Oct., 1897, p. 261.
"The following seance was held about January 13th, 1894, in M. Loze,s
room at the College. I give below a passage from a letter that I addressed
to Professor Charles Richet on January 21st, as it correctly records what
took place :—
' Monsieur le Docteur,—Eight days ago we made some new experi
ments in psychic force. One startling incident remains in my mind, which
after several days' consideration I have decided to communicate to you.
At the table were MM. E. Vidal, Loze and myself.
Part XXXIV.] 127
Reviews.
Without any preliminary question the table dictates :
Jeanne Eymery.
Are you dead } Yes.
Where ? Barnab6.
What did you die of 1 Murdered.
By whom 1 Husband.
When ? January 10th, 1894.
Has your husband been arrested ? Yes.
Where is he ? Perigueux.
We took the whole thing as a joke, merely astonished at the part played
by the unconscious self with its faculty of inventing elaborate stories, and
we didn't even think of verifying these fantastic lucubrations.
In the evening, at supper, M. Vidal pere said to his son : ' Well, have
you seen anything ? ' M. Etienne Vidal replied with a laugh, ' Oh nothing.
We had a visit from a woman named Jeanne Eymery who was murdered by
her husband, etc.'
Whereupon Mme. Vidal exclaims, 'Why, it's in to-day's Petite Gironde.'
Amazement of M. E. Vidal who, after ascertaining that this affair was
related at length in the Petite Gironde, runs off to find M. Loze in order to
acquaint him with this strange discovery.
I send you the newspaper in question .
Your first idea, Monsieur le Docteur, will certainly be that one of us had
read or learned in some way or other the story so strangely communicated to
us. This is not the case, and we append our three signatures at the end of
this letter in support of our unanimous assertion.'
"From inquiries that I made by letter of the schoolmaster at Trelissac, of
which Barnabo is a suburb, and also of the secretary of the mayoralty of the
parish where Jeanne Eymery was born, it appears that her only Christian
names were Marie and Francoise. But it may be observed that the husband's
name was Jean Eymery and that the wife is often known by the name and
Christian name of her husband. It is true that 'Jeanne' is not 'Jean,'
but perhaps we may have borrowed the letter E of the surname Eymery and
tacked it on to the Christian name ' Jean.' This would give the pronuncia
tion ' Jeanne,' though one letter would be wanting to complete the proper
spelling of the word. Assuming this to have been the case, there would be
no contradiction on any point between the facts communicated by the table
and those given in the newspaper."
Again a most important detail in the evidence is omitted by M. Rouillon,
for as before he does not state who put the questions to the table. No
difficulty seems to have been felt at the time when the table rapped out
the name " Jeanne." The question " Are you dead 1" " Vous etes Morte V
(feminine) follows pat. The attempted explanation of the confusion between
' ' Jean " and " Jeanne " strikes me as particularly feeble. I am afraid that
the unsympathetic sceptic would point out that the substitution of the name
"Jeanne" for " Marie Francoise " was far more probably caused by a slip
of the memory on the part of one of the experimenters, who had read the
account of the murder in the Petite Gironde and confused the names of the
husband and wife, or who had read a report in some other newspaper where
the murdered woman's name was incorrectly given as "Jeanne." For we have
128 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
no reason to suppose that the affair was reported only in the Petite Gironde.
And surely a spirit who three days after death could make such admirably
lucid communications would not be likely to fail in such a personal detail as
its own Christian name. Does not the inquiry "Has your husband been
arrested?" look like a " leading question " ? It suggests the methods of a
counsel examining a well primed witness. Perhaps the parts of examining
counsel and witness in this case were played by the same person. Strange
too that, the experimenters should have regarded what M. Rouillon seven
days afterwards in his letter to Professor Richet calls "a striking incident,"
as a joke. Why, little more than a fortnight before, they had been treated
to a communication from Demi-Siphon, the details of which had been verified
by means of a paragraph in Le Temps. These two spirits, Demi-Siphon, late
of the Moulin Rouge, and Jeanne Eymery, were reiilly most accommodating.
With a thoughtfulness, which I am sure Dr. Hodgson would like to see
emulated by the spirits communicating through Mrs. Piper, they refrain from
giving any information which cannot be verified in a newspaper published
the same day or a day or two before. They evidently shrink from giving any
reason for suspecting them of being "lying spirits." Everything that they
rap out on M. Loze,s table has already appeared in print, with the exception
of the single word Vadrouille, and a conversation unsuitable for publication.
What more can one say than that !
Yet there is one little point more in their favour.
Jeanne Eymery can communicate clearly and unconfusedly three days
after she is murdered, and Demi-Siphon also a very short time after her life
of degraded excess had come to an end. The promptitude and precision of
these communications would seem to show that a table is a more easily
manipulated medium than a human organism.
But are we bound to balieve that these are really messages from another
world ? Well, M. Rouillon can find no other explanation that fits the facts ;
for, says he, "suggestion or transmission of thought (in other words, tele
pathy), presupposes a knowledge in the mind of one or of several persons
present of the facts revealed by the subject." Now we are assured again
and again that none of the persons present at these seances were cognisant
of the facts revealed by Demi-Siphon and Jeanne Eymery.
Possibly M. Loze could solve the mystery.
J. G. Sshth. ,
The Making of Religion. By Ankrew Lano, M.A., LL.D. (Longmans,
Green and Co., London, New York and Bombay, 1898, pp. 380.)
This volume is full of interest for students of our evidence. It may, in
fact, be defined as an essay in applied Psychical Research. Mr. Lang's object
throughout the first half of the book is to compare primitive and savage
beliefs in various classes of marvels—clairvoyance, possession, poltergeists,
the fire-ordeal, etc.—with modern civilised testimony to the same effect,
and to suggest a modification of current anthropological theories, in so far as
they assume the baselessness of these primitive beliefs. The noble savage,
Mr. Lang argues, is not such a fool as the anthropologists make out : he had
IVrt XXXIV.] 129
Reviews.
at least as good ground for believing in powers transcending the material
universe as any modern Spiritualist. The present writer does not feel
competent to criticise Mr. Lang's views as to tho origin and growth of
religious ideas, nor is it necessary here to consider them. Special training is
no doubt required to enable one to appreciate the value of the evidence
offered. To the layman, indeed, it looks as if in the vast field of anthropology
each inquirer is free to select whatever facts best fit his views, and still
leave enough for those who come after to confute him withal. But no doubt
there are rules of the game to be observed.
In support of his position, however, Mr. Lang quotes a good deal of
modern evidence for clairvoyance, " opening the gates of distance " and the
like. The most striking are the crystal visions of the lady whom he names
Miss Angus, some account of which has already been given in a paper read
before the Society last year. ,Mr. Lang met "Miss Angus" early in 1897,
and received from her accounts of some curious hallucinatory experiences.
Mr. Lang then induced the lady to look into a glass ball, and she shortly
developed an extraordinary faculty of seeing visions of persons and places
unknown to her, but known to or connected with those in her company at
the time. Here is one account of the kind given in Miss Angus's own words
(pp. 97-98).
" II.—One afternoon I was sitting beside a young lady whom I had never
seen or heard of before. She asked if she might look into my crystal, and
while she did so I happened to look over her shoulder and saw a ship tossing
on a very heavy choppy sea, although land was still visible in the dim
distance. That vanished, and as suddenly a little house appeared with five
or six (I forget now the exact number I then counted) steps leading up to
the door. On the second step stood an old man reading a newspaper. In
front of the house was a field of thick stubbly grass where some lambs, I was
going to say, but they were more like very small sheep . . . were
grazing.
" When the scene vanished the young lady told me I had vividly
described a spot in Shetland where she and her mother were soon to spend a
few weeks."
[Mr. Lang adds]—"I heard this case from Miss Angus within a day or
two of its occurrence, and it was then confirmed to me verbally by the other
lady. She agam confirms it (December 21st, 1897). Both ladies had
hitherto been perfect strangers to each other. The old man was the school
master apparently. In her MS., Miss Angus writes 'Skye,' but at the
time both she and the other lady said Shetland (which I have restored). In
Shetland the sheep, like the ponies, are small."
The next case to be quoted is more striking, as being strictly ex
perimental. Mr. Lang writes (p. 99) :—
" The next case is attested by a civilian, a slight acquaintance of Miss
Angus's, who now saw him for the second time only, but better known to
her family.
"IV.—On Thursday, March ? 1897, I was lunching with my friends
the Anguses, and during luncheon the conversation turned upon crystal
balls. The subject arose owing to Miss Angus having just been presented
with a crystal ball by Mr. Andrew Lang. I asked her to let me see it, and
K
130 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
then to try and see if she could conjure up a vision of any person of
whom I might think ... I fixed my mind upon a friend, a young
trooper in the [regiment named], as I thought his would be a striking and
peculiar personality owing to his uniform and also because I felt sure that
Miss Angus could not possibly know of his existence. I fixed my mind
steadily upon my friend and presently Miss Angus, who had already seen two
cloudy visions of faces and people, called out, ' Now I see a man on a horse
most distinctly ; he is dressed most queerly and glitters all over—why, it's
a soldier ! A soldier in uniform, but it's not an officer.' My excitement on
hearing this was so great that I ceased to concentrate my attention upon the
thought of my friend, and the vision faded away and could not afterwards be
recalled.—December 2nd, 1897."
" The witness gives the name of the trooper whom he had befriended in
a severe illness. Miss Angus's own account follows : she had told me the
story in June, 1897.
" Shortly after I became the happy possessor of a ' crystal ' I managed
to convert several very decided 'sceptics,' and I will here give a short
account of my experiences with two or three of them.
" One was with a Mr. , , who was so determined to baffle me, he said
he would think of a friend it would not be possible for me to describe !
" I had only met Mr. the day before, and knew almost nothing
about him or his personal friends.
"I took up the ball, which immediately became misty, and out of the
mist gradually a crowd of people appeared, but too indistinctly for me to
recognise anyone, until suddenly a man on horseback came galloping along.
I remember saying, ' I can't describe what he is like, but he is dressed in a
very queer way—in something so bright that the sun shining on him quite
dazzles me, and I cannot make him out ! ' As he came nearer, I exclaimed,
'Why, it's a soldier in shining armour, but it is not an officer, only a soldier!'
Two friends who were in the room said Mr. 's excitement was intense,
and my attention was drawn from the ball by hearing him call out, ' It's
wonderful ! It's perfectly true I I was thinking of a young boy, a son of a
crofter, in whom I am deeply interested, and who is a trooper in the in
London, which would account for the crowd of people round him in the
street.' "
One other case may be referred to, as illustrating the intrusion on a
vision of the ordinary kind of an alien impression—which, if due to thought-
transference, may have had its origin in the mind of a lady at a considerable
distance, through the mediation, it may be conjectured, of her mother, who
was present in the room with Miss Angus.
Miss Angus, on February 2nd, 1897, was looking in the crystal and
describing what she saw—a man with an agreeable smile, whose appearance
and surroundings were described with some detail and recognised by the
persons who had set the test. " The vision, which interested Miss Angus,
passed away, and was interrupted by that of a hospital nurse, and of a lady
in a peignoir, lying on a sofa, with bare feet." The vision was apparently
not recognised at the time ; but a few days later, a Mrs. Cockburn, who had
been present, struck by the exact fulfilment of a later vision, wrote to her
young married daughter, then some fifty miles away and much in her
Part XXXIV.] 131
Reviews.
thoughts, "and asked whether on February 2nd, she had been lying on a
sofa in her bedroom, with bare feet. The young lady confessed that it was
indeed so ; and when she heard how the fact came to be known, expressed
herself with some warmth on the abuse of glass balls, which tend to rob
life of its privacy." The incident, however, occurred between 4.30 and
7.30 p.m., whilst the crystal vision was seen about 10 p.m.
As an alternative to the hypothesis of thought-transference from the
younger lady's mind, it may be suggested that the attitude was perhaps a
not unfamiliar one ; and that Mrs. Cockburn may have subconsciously
pictured her daughter as so placed at that time.
It is curious to note the effect produced on Mr. Lang by Mrs. Piper's
trance-revelations. This is how he refers to the most astonishing body of
testimony which has ever been published for supernormal faculty ; the only
testimony of the kind, indeed, in which every evidential flaw has been, as
far as possible, eliminated.
" In this treatise, I may have shown the ' will to believe ' in an unusual
degree ; but, for me, the interest of Mrs. Piper is purely anthropological.
She exhibits a survival or recrudescence of savage phenomena, real or
feigned, of convulsions and of secondary personality, and entertains a
survival of the animistic explanation." But this sentence was written,
apparently, before the publication of Dr. Hodgson's last Report. Mr.
Lang, after that publication, adds the following:—"The published reports
do not produce on me any such impression [i.e., as they have produced on
Dr. Hodgson]. As a personal matter of opinion, I am convinced that those
whom I have honoured in this life would no more avail themselves of Mrs.
Piper's ' entranced organism ' (if they had the chance) than I would
voluntarily find myself in a sitting with the lady." All which means, I take
it, that Mr. Lang does not like Mrs. Piper.
Mrs. Piper, no doubt, makes—or used to make—ugly faces in going into
the trance: and her "spirits" use various Americanisms, and say "Sir"
to each other and the sitter with irritating frequency. But setting aside
such aesthetic considerations (which can hardly be supposed to affect a
critical estimate of the case) I can suggest but one explanation for what
seems a curiously inadequate appreciation on Mr. Lang's part of evidence
valuable not less for his purposes than for ours. Mrs. Piper's trance
utterances are presented in all their original crudity, with repetitions, in-
coherencies, loose tags, and irrelevant—or seemingly irrelevant—digressions
and interpolations. As such they form a striking contrast to the smooth
and finished narratives with which Mr. Lang has so often delighted himself
and us—witness, The Book of Dreams and Ghosts.
The difference, of course, is the difference between the elaborate
antiquities which are the produce of Birmingham or Soho, and the battered
and wormeaten fragments with which the genuine amateur has often to be
content. Mr. Lang, if the figure is allowable, likes his psychical bric-a-brac
"restored" and decorated.
Mr. Lang is very happy in his treatment of Herr Parish, one of the
most recent critics of our evidence. There is no doubt that Parish,
though more candid and more painstaking than most persons who have
undertaken to demolish the evidence for telepathy, has made several
K 2
132 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
blunders, has fallen into many singular misconceptions, and has committed
himself to some untenable positions. Mr. Lang deftly criticises the critic,
and illustrates from Herr Parish's own argument the various sources of
error—want of attention, inaccuracy, fallacious memory and all the rest of
them—with which Parish charges our witnesses. Here for instance is an
example :—
" A lady, facing an old sideboard, saw a friend with no coat on, and in a
waistcoat with a back of shiny material. Within an hour she was taken to
where her friend lay dying, without a coat, and in a waistcoat with a shiny
back. Here is the scientific explanation of Herr Parish :—' The shimmer
of a reflecting surface [the sideboard ?] formed the occasion for the
hallucinatory emergence of a subconsciously perceived shim/ black roaist-coat
[cpiotation incorrect, of course], and an individual subconsciously associated
with that impression.' I ask any lady whether she consciously or subcon
sciously associates the men she knowB with the backs of their waistcoats.
Herr Parish's would be a brilliantly satisfactory explanation if it were only
true to the printed words that lay under his eyes when he wrote. There
was no ' shiny black waistcoat,' but a waistcoat with a shiny back. Gentle
men, and especially old gentlemen who go about in bath-chairs (like the man
in this story), don't habitually take off their coats and show the backs of
their waistcoats to ladies of nineteen in England. And, if Herr Parish had
cared to read his case, he would have found it expressly stated that the lady
' had never seen the man without his coat ' (and so could not associate him
with an impression of a shiny back to his waistcoat) till after the hallucina
tion, when she saw him coatless on his deathbed. In this instance, Herr
Parish had a hallucinatory memory, all wrong, of the page under his eyes.
The case is got rid of then by aid of the ' fanciful addenda ' to which Herr
Parish justly objects. He first gives the facts incorrectly, and then
explains an occurrence which, as reported by him, did not occur, and was
not asserted to occur.
"I confess that, if Herr Parish's version were as correct as it is
essentially inaccurate, his explanation would leave mo doubtful. For the
circumstances were that the old gentleman of the story lunched daily
with the young lady's mother. Suppose that she was familiar (which
she was not) with the shiny back of his waistcoat, still, she saw him
daily ; and daily, too, was in the way of seeing the (hypothetically) shiny
surface of the sideboard. That being the case, she had, every day, the
materials, subjective and objective, of the hallucination. Yet it only
occurred once, and then it precisely coincided with the death agony of the
old gentleman, and with his coatless condition. Why only that once ?
Cest la le miracle .' ' How much for this little veskit ? ' as the man asked
David Copperfield."
It is delightful to have the tables turned in this fashion. There is space
for but one more quotation. Parish, following Professor Royce, argues that
many cases of so-called fulfilled presentiments are really due to hallucination
of memory, started by the news of some sudden and painful event ; ignoring,
or making light of, the fact that many of these "pseudo-presentiments"—
as he styles them—are attested by a second witness, to whom the vision was
told before the news came.
Part XXXIV.] 133
Reviews.
This is Mr. Lang's humorous presentation of our critic's argument :—
" Jones tells me that he has just seen his aunt, whom he knows to be in
Timbuctoo. News comes that the lady died when Jones beheld her in his
smoking-room. 'Oh, nonsense,' Herr Parish would argue, 'you, Jones,
saw nothing of the kind, nor did you tell Mr. Lang, who, I am sorry to find,
agrees with you. What happened was thi»: When the awful news came
to-day of your aunt's death, you were naturally, and even creditably, excited,
especially as the poor lady was killed by being pegged down on an ant-heap.
This excitement, rather praiseworthy than otherwise, made you believe you
had seen your aunt, and believe you had told Mr. Ling. He also is a most
excitable person, though I admit he never saw your dear aunt in his life.
He, therefore (by virtue of his excitement), now believes you told him about
seeing your unhappy kinswoman. This kind of false memory is very
common. Two cases are recorded by Kraepelin, among the insane. Sure
you understand my reasoning ? '
"I quite understand it, but I don't see how it comes to seem good logic
to Herr Parish.
"The other theory is funnier still. Jones never had a hallucination
before. ' The rarity and the degree of interest compelled by it ' made Jones
' connect it with some other prominent event,' say the death of his aunt,
which really occurred, say, nine months afterwards."
Naturally, Mr. Lang appears to me less convincing when he turns to
criticise my own views on Poltergeists. I submit, indeed, with some diffi
dence—a diffidence not lessened by the suspicion that to Herr Parish,
perhaps, his own case may present itself in a similar light—that Mr. Laug
has not fairly represented my argument. Briefly, that argument is as
follows : I took all the cases of mysterious stone-throwing, etc., which the
Society during its existence, i.e., from 1882 onwards, has investigated at or
shortly after the time of their occurrence. Naturally, these eleven cases,
selected for investigation out of a much larger number reported in the news
papers during the last fifteen years, were selected because they were primd
facie good cases—that is, good for the supernormal interpretation which Mr.
Lang here champions.
Now, until I carefully collated these eleven cases, I held it not im
probable that there was something inexplicable in these Poltergeist
manifestations. I expressed that opinion, indeed, in my report on the first
case which I personally investigated in 1883. That I now hold the contrary
opinion is not because I find the intervention of a new physical force ante
cedently incredible. It is solely a question of evidence. I cannot find any
evidence that would justify such a supposition, even as a working hypothesis.
There are, broadly, two qualities which wo demand in evidence for the
operation of a new cause. It must be good as evidence, that is, it must be
recent, and must proceed from witnesses of good intelligence and character ;
and it must be demonstrative, that is, the things attested must be of such
a kind that no other interpretation is possible. Now, by a careful analysis
of these eleven selected cases, and of others gathered from various sources,
I endeavoured to show that these two qualities in the evidence are never
found together. There is much testimony that is credible, but inconclusive,
as where, to quote a case investigated by Colonel Taylor, the new servant's
134 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
best hat is reported by her mistress, a respectable householder, to have been
found in the water jug, and a pair of stockings were revealed in the kitchen
boiler.1 And again, there is much that would be conclusive, if its remote
ness, the defect of education on the part of the witness, or other circum
stances, did not lessen its credibility ; as where, to take another illustration
from a case investigated by Colonel Taylor, a rustic is reported two or
three weeks after the event to have seen a shadowy hand upset a tray of
potatoes.2
My argument then proceeded to infer that since over so wide a field
the qualities of conclusiveness and credibility were never found combined,
this characteristic of the evidence was probably not accidental, that the
evidence which was credible was for that reason necessarily inconclusive ;
and that, when the evidence seemed demonstrative, its conclusive quality
was due to the circumstances which lessened its credibility.
This argument was strengthened by the demonstration of trickery in some
cases, of strong grounds for suspecting trickery in others ; and, generally,
of errors, discrepancies, and sources of weakness in all the testimony
available. Mr. Lang meets my argument by taking one case and analysing
it. The case which he selects is the case which I reported upon in 1883—the
first case investigated by any representative of the Society. Let me at once
admit that Mr. Lang points out one or two flaws—one of considerable
importance—in my treatment of this case. The evidence of the Worksop
disturbances does not altogether, as erroneously stated, rest on reports
made several weeks after the events. Mr. Lang has done what I ought to
have done, and has compared the version of the events given to me by one
of the principal witnesses on April 10th, with an earlier account by the
same witness, published in the local papers on March 9th. These two
accounts are in almost complete agreement. And this disposes of my
statement as regards this witness, at any rate, that the testimony to the
marvels must be discounted in view of the long interval which elapsed
between the events and their record. Mr. Lang is also clearly justified in
pointing out that in my original report (of 1883) I ought to have quoted the
evidence for certain statements made as regards the servant gill concerned
and her mother. In fact, they were based, if I remember right, on common
—and possibly inaccurate—report.
For the rest, Mr. Lang devotes several pages to shewing that the
descriptions given by the various witnesses, and even my own report (of
1883) are inconsistent with the hypothesis of trickery. In all this he does
me the honour to reinforce my own argument. The various witnesses are
doubtless honest and intelligent ; and the things which they say they have
seen cannot be accounted for by trickery. That was the impression pro
duced on me by the reports in 1883 ; it is the impression produced on me
still ; and it is interesting to note that such is also the impression produced
on so acute a critic as Mr. Lang.
But beyond this point our views diverge. To charge Mr. Lang—the
champion of our English tongue against all irreverent assailants—with
1 S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XII., p. 86.
2 S.P.R. Proceedings, Vol. XII., p. 71.
Part XXXrV.] 135
Revieius.
misunderstanding an English sentence savours of impertinence, almost of
impiety—as if a schoolboy should accuse his headmaster of a false quantity.
And yet: I wrote, of the Worksop case, "The phenomena described are quite
inexplicable by ordinary mechanical means." Mr. Lang quotes this sentence
(p. 357) and a few lines lower down, twice over, converts it into "Yet a
half-witted girl, in Mr. Podmore's theory, can do what is quite inexplicable
by ordinary mechanical means." But I did not say the things done were
inexplicable ; I said the phenomena described were inexplicable ; and I meant
what I said and no more. It is hardly necessary to point out that the
difference is something more than a mere verbal nicety. -It is of the very
essence of the argument which Mr. Lang does me the honour to criticise. My
contention is that things described are by no means the same as things done.
Mr. Lang's view apparently is that they are. And so a page or two further on
he introduces a highly decorated piece of bric-a-brac—Mr. Bristow's account
of the Swanland disturbances. The disturbances took place in 1849, when
Mr. Bristow was a joiner's apprentice. In 1854 he made some rough notes
of the occurrence ; in 1891 he expanded those rough notes into the account
printed in our Proceedings.1 This account, as already said, is highly
decorated. Mr. Lang introduces it as follows : "The most curious modern
case known to me is not of recent date, but it occurred in full daylight, in
the presence of many witnesses, and the phenomena continued for weeks."
Mr. Lang finds this case interesting, notwithstanding that unlucky interval
of five years ; to me it seems probable that the interest which the case
possesses for Mr. Lang is due mainly to the interval. If those " moving
odds and ends of wood " had been watched by Mr. Westlake, say, instead of
by Mr. Bristow : or, if the account had been written down in full the next
day, instead of in brief five years afterwards, it may be suggested that the
narrative would hardly have possessed sufficient interest to tempt Mr. Lang
to quote it.
For myself, I am grieved to think that the Poltergeist should go. He was
a more picturesque figure than the naughty little girl who takes his place.
There are too many naughty little girls on this planet already.
Mr. Lang next criticises my suggestion—often, of course, made before—
that in certain cases the witnesses to alleged "physical phenomena" may
have been hallucinated. In two instances, indeed, owing it is likely to a
want of clearness of expression on my part, Mr. Lang hits misunderstood me.
Thus he quotes the account given by the Master of Lindsay of Home's
levitation, which was briefly to this effect : that the witnesses—Lord Lindsay,
Lord Adare and Captain Wynne—heard the window in the next room lifted
up ; that Home was carried out of the window, and in at the window of the
room in which they were sitting ; that Lord Adare then went into the next
room, to look at the window, and "expressed his wonder how Mr. Home
had been taken through so narrow an aperture. Home said, still entranced,
'I will show you,' and then, with his back to the window, he leaned back,
and was shot out of the aperture, head first, with the body rigid, and then
returned quite quietly."
In arguing for the hypothesis of collective hallucination, built up on
a nucleus of physical fact supplied by the medium, I suggested, as an
i Vol. VII., pp. 384-394.
136 (Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
illustration of my meaning, that Home on this occasion, " at least thrust his
head and shoulders out of the window."1 Mr. Lang quotes this sentence
and rejoins, "But if he did, they could not see him do it, for he was in
the next room. A brick wall was between him and them." But as they
didn't see him do it, and only inferred it from a noise, which again they
inferred to come from the opening of the window in the next room, it is
clear that the suggested explanation, so far as regards that part of the
lierformance, is superfluous. As a matter of fact, of course, the suggested
explanation was intended, not for the first "levitation"—which as having
been led up to and introduced by Home at a time and under conditions of
his own choosing, can scarcely, I submit, be claimed as a strong case even by
those who are convinced that such levitation does occur—but for the second,
which was of the nature of a direct experiment.
So again with the fire-test ; as performed by Home I should suppose—still
on the theory of hallucination—that the manifestation was generally worked
by the substitution, aided by a subdued light, of a cold cinder for a hot one ;
and that ho " possibly on some occasions (as when the hot coal produced a
blister on the hand of Mr. Lang's friend) held the live coal in his hand,
protected by some non-conducting substance.2" Mr. Lang, on the authority
of Sir W, Crookes, tells me that there is no substance known which can
protect the skin from the effects of great heat, and challenges me to produce
my non-conducting substance. Well, I was thinking of nothing more
recondite than a piece of asbestos cloth.
Mr. Lang does not find the theory of collective hallucination a satisfactory
explanation of the alleged physical phenomena commonly called Spiritual
istic. Nor do I. But I- prefer it, as regards the cases just quoted, to any
other hitherto advanced. If I may venture, indeed, to interpret Mr. Lang's
position, he is arguing not so much in favour of explanation by supernormal
forces, as against an indolent acquiescence in the explanation by hallucina
tion. Of those alleged physical phenomena, the greater part, Mr. Lang
would no doubt agree, are due to trickery pure and simple. But there are
some recorded cases in which the explanation by trickery pure and simple
would amount almost to an outrage on common sense. Mr. Lang and I
should possibly differ pretty widely as to the size of this residuum. But we
are both agreed that some of the manifestations in Home's presence recorded
by Sir W. Crookes and others fall within it. Now, on the assumption that
trickery is inadequate in these cases, we have the choice, broadly speaking,
of two other explanations : (1) that the things really happened—say that
Home really took a live coal out of the fire in his naked hand and was not
burnt ; (2) that Home did not take up a live coal in his naked hand, but
that, partly by exercise of the ordinary conjurer's art, partly by the aid of
such verbal suggestion as is employed by the hypnotist, he succeeded in
inducing in Sir W. Crookes' mind, at the moment or subsequently, the belief
that he had done so. Let us admit that whilst neither explanation is
impossible, both go beyond common experience. But the first is without
1 Studhs in P$>ichical Jtcsearch, p. 121.
- Op tit., p. 121.
Part XXXIV.] 137
Revietvs.
parallel or analogy of any kind, and involves the assumption, so far
as we can at present see, of an entirely new physical law ; the other
involves merely tho intrusion into a new region of tolerably familiar
mental processes. It is perfectly true, of course, that whilst we know of
sense-deceptions of many kinds, and occurring under various conditions
to various subjects, we know of no other case in which a Fellow of the
Royal Society has been hallucinated in the course of a scientific experi
ment. But then other Fellows of the Royal Society—more's the pity—
have not had the courage or the curiosity to place themselves under the
same conditions.
Mr. Lang raises two special objections to the theory of collective hallu
cination ; first that all the witnesses, as in the levitation case, are affected in
the same way (p. 362). But if the hallucinations are suggested by the word
or gesture of the performer, we should expect them, as at a hypnotic seance,
to be uniform. We should marvel rather if like causes did not produce like
effects. And again, "contagious hallucination cannot affect witnesses
ignorant of each other's existence in many lands and ages, nor could they
cook their reports to suit reports of which they had never heard " (p. 361).
No doubt the uniformity of testimony to these occurrences indicates a
uniform cause. But a uniformity of mental constitution in the human
race predisposing to similar tricks or similar delusions, will fit the facts just
as well as a hypothetical mode of physical energy. And we have some
evidence for the one view, and none for the other. In brief, since we
have to make some assumption—for merely to admit that these phenomena
are of interest is to uphold a theory about them, viz., that they are
not yet explained by trickery,—it seems clear that, other things being
equal, we should make, as tentatively and undogmatically as we please,
the assumption that involves the least departure from the established
order.
But other things are by no means equal ; there are two special con
siderations which point very strongly towards hallucination rather than
" ectenic " force. The first is the extreme diversity of the effects reported
—the levitation of the human body, the handling of red hot substances, the
apports of Howers through closed doors, the " materialisation " of objects,
the production of musical sounds, the lengthening of the human body, etc.
Each new kind of manifestation increases the difficulty of the physical
hypothesis. It is apparent, if all—or several—of these alleged phenomena
really occurred, that we have to deal either with several new forces, or with
one force altogether remote from familiar analogies. An "ectenic " or psychic
force wielded by the medium's automatic consciousness can only appear
an easier hypothesis than that of the Spiritualists because some of the
phenomena are ignored, and some of the difficulties evaded. Unless, indeed,
adopting a suggestion made by Mr. Myers, we are willing to credit the
automatic consciousness of the medium with the power of dealing, like
Clerk Maxwell's demon, with molecular forces. If Home could handle
molecules with as much ease as the rest of us can play at marbles, no doubt
he could perform all the marvels reported of him. But that is a larger
assumption than the champions of "ectenic" force have hitherto shown
themselves willing to make. The second set of considerations is, to my
138 [Supplement.
Frank Podmore.
thinking, even more decisive. Sir W. Crookes, at the beginning of his own
investigation, indicated very clearly the rules to which proof of the alleged
new physical forces should conform. The Spiritualists, he says, tell us of
flowers and fruit and Mrs. Guppy being carried through closed doors and
brick walls. "The scientific investigator naturally asks that an additional
weight (if it be only the 1,000th part of a grain) be deposited on one pan of
his balance when the case is locked, and the chemist asks for that 1,000th
of a grain of arsenic to be carried through the sides of a glass tube in which
pure water is hermetically sealed."
In other words, the phenomena should be performed under strict ex
perimental conditions. The proof of the thing done should depend upon
something else than the mere observation of the experimenter, however
skilled. There should be a permanent automatic record. Now when Sir
W. Crookes wrote the words above quoted—more than 25 years ago—the
absence of any evidence of this kind, though a serious defect, was scarcely
in itself suspicious. These alleged phenomena had for the most part up to
that time been investigated by persons without any scientific training, who
were not aware of the kind of proof required. The spirits, or the "ectenic"
force, could not have failed to meet tests which had never been demanded.
But in the 25 years which have passed since then, not only Sir W. Crookes
himself, but many other trained and capable investigators have examined the
subject, have witnessed the phenomena, have, on occasion, propounded tests
of the exact kind indicated. And yet the evidence stands now exactly where
it stood when the words were written ; but with a difference. There are
plenty of competent persons who have seen things which neither they nor
we can explain ; but no one can yet point to the fulfilment of the simple
test proposed. Many eminent persons can vouch for movements or altera
tions in the weight of heavy bodies—but the balance in its locked glass case
remains unaffected ; flowers and fruit and Parian statuettes have continued
to make their appearance in closed rooms—but that small particle of arsenic
has not yet found its way through the walls of the hermetically sealed tube.
Intense cold has been felt at a seance ; but has never been recorded by a
self-registering thermometer. Strange draperies, delicious scents, solid
luminous bodies, even material human forms, have been produced out of the
viewless air ; and into the viewless air have returned unweighed, unanalysed,
and rarely photographed.
Now, whether these tests have been applied and evaded, as we know to
have been the case in certain experiments with Eglinton and Slade ; or
whether the inquirers have simply forgotten to apply them, the result for
us is much the same. Twenty-five years ago the hypothesis of fraud plus
hallucination was at least as probable as the alternative hypothesis of a new
physical force. It is now so much more to be preferred, because the tests
which alone could distinguish between fact and fantasy have been tried and
have failed ; or, in the alternative, those who have examined the phenomena
have proved themselves unfitted for their task by omitting to apply the tests
at all.
Frank Podmore.
Part XXXIV.] 139
Reviews.
Hypnotism and Its Application to Practical Medicine, by Dr. Otto George
Wetterktrand, M.D. Translated from the German Edition by Henrik
G. Petersen, M.D. London and New York. Putnam's Sons. 8vo.,
pp. 166.
La Revue de Psychologic Paris.
L'Hypnotisme et L'Orthope'die Mentale, by Dr. Eikiar Berillos, Medical
Inspector of Public Asylums, and Editor of La Revue de L'Hypnotisme.
8vo. pp. 45. Paris, 1898.
Among the medical pioneers of hypnotism no one fills a more prominent
place than Dr. Otto George Wetterstrand, of Stockholm, and we welcome a
book from his pen, especially so as he is a corresponding member of the
S.P.R. and displays this title of honour on the title page.
Though the English translation bears the date 1897, we find the German
edition was published in 1891, and we must express regret that the results
have not been brought up to a later date, for much has been done in the
last six years to systematise and develop the use of hypnotic suggestion.
However, we are glad to have the results of Dr. Wetterstrand's early years'
experiences, and hope he will soon supplement them by a new edition. We
would then suggest the addition of an index.
Dr. Wetterstrand is above all things a practical physician, and his book
is written for medical men. He modestly disclaims any pretension to
scientific completeness, and he refers the reader who requires a text book
to the works of Liebeault, Bernhcim, Moll, etc. But scattered throughout
the book are many practical observations and reflections which are of
great interest to the student of psychology as distinct from the physician.
It is more especially this psychological aspect which it is proposed to
notice here.
Dr. Wetterstrand at once proclaims himself as a follower of the Nancy
School, as opposed to that of Charcot or the Salpetriere. As is well
known, Charcot investigated hypnotism almost entirely on hysterical women
at the Salpetriere, and he regarded the hypnotic state as morbid, and, in
fact, as an induced neurosis. Whereas Liebeault and Bernheim working
among ordinary men and women at Nancy came to exactly the opposite
conclusion, and consider hypnosis closely allied to ordinary sleep and a
physiological condition to which almost every healthy person is susceptible.
The Nancy theory is that now generally held, and no one with practical
experience can fail to endorse it. The Swedes are not supposed to be
neurotic, or even highly imaginative, but they are noted for their fine
physique and practical common-sense. It is therefore interesting to compare
Dr. Wetterstrand's experience with that of other observers in other parts of
the world. Some years ago a German medical writer, after visiting Nancy
and Paris, expressed his thankfulness that he was not a neurotic Frenchman,
but belonged to a nation whose people were insusceptible to hypnotic
influence. The experience of Moll, Forel, Schrenck-Notzing and other
physicians in all parts of Germany, does not bear out this boast, and it is
instructive to find that the results achieved are very similar, whether
reported from France or Germany, England or America, Sweden or Italy,
140 [Supplement.
Dr. Charles Lloyd Tackey.
Dr. Wetterstrand finds temperament an important factor in hypnotism,
and holds that fidgety, querulous and contentious persons are the most
difficult to influence. Age is a consideration. He says that all children from
4 to 15 are hypnotisable, and he admits no exceptions except those of weak
intellect. As one gets older, susceptibility, he says, seems to decrease, but
he finds that even in old age the majority of people are susceptible to a
greater or less degree.
He employs the method of persuasion, and in all cases endeavours to
gain the patient's confidence before attempting to hypnotise him. When
there is apparent insusceptibility he often uses chloroform as a predisposing
agent and endeavours to make the chloroform anaesthesia pass into the
hypnotic state. He has been successful in several cases of this kind after
repeated attempts without chloroform had failed, and susceptibility once
induced the drug can be dispensed with. (p. 4.)
On several occasions he has obtained acceleration and retardation of the
pulse ratio by suggestion, and he has raised blisters on the skin and caused
local bleeding in several susceptible subjects, (pp. 30, 32.)
As bearing out his idea that hypnotism is closely allied to ordinary sleep,
he relates (p. 34) how sleeping persons, especially children, can be made to
pass from one condition to the other. He places one hand lightly on the
forehead, while with the other he makes some passes over the body, at the
same time telling the sleeper not to awake but to answer him. The sleeper
soon becomes cataleptic and replies to questions without waking.
He has endeavoured to repeat the phenomena of transference of paralysis
from one side to the other by means of magnets observed by Charcot and
Binet and Feri, but he has not obtained their results, and believes that
suggestion is the cause, as he has seen similar transference occur when a
sham magnet made of wood has been substituted for the metal one.
In the therapeutic part of his book, Dr. Wetterstrand classifies diseases
and gives his experience with hypnotism in each class. He finds it very
useful in the treatment of drunkenness and relates several striking cases.
One is that of an engineer who had had delirium tremens three times.
His wife was on the point of getting a divorce on the ground of incurable
drunkenness (this being possible in Sweden). He went to Dr. Wetterstrand
for treatment and was hypnotised fourteen times. A complete cure resulted
and the couple went to America, where they got on well.
Dr. Wetterstrand notices, as do many other observers, that amemic
persons are particularly good hypnotic subjects, and he has found that many
bad cases of anaemia, especially those dependent on shock and depressing
emotions, are cured by hypnotic treatment after ordinary remedies have
failed .
As he has succeeded in inducing hemorrhage by suggestion it is not
surprising to learn that he has seen it rapidly stop severe bleeding from the
nose in a highly susceptible phthisical patient (p. 74).
He remarks (p. 79) that ho knows no remedy which exerts so soothing
an influence over the dying person as hypnotic suggestion. His experience
is borne out by other observers. At such times drugs often lose their effect,
or become inadmissible, and the patient's last hours are rendered distressing
by restlessness, irritability and sleeplessness.
Part XXXIV.] 141
Revieiv8.
The rapidity with which suggestion acts, even in removing such objective
symptoms as the swelling of joints after injury is shown by some of the
cases. For instance, a boy of sixteen went to Dr. Wetterstrand on October
13th, 1887. As the result of a blow about a month before on the knee, the
joint was swollen, and he could neither bend nor straighten it, but kept it in
a semi-flexed position. Strong fluctuation could be felt in it, and there were
two places above the patella painful on pressure. After being hypnotised he
was able to walk without limping, all pain had disappeared, and he could
bend and extend the leg without difficulty. The next day the effusion had
almost entirely disappeared, and he could walk quite well (p. 108). Such a
case reminds one of many similar instances reported by Braid fifty years ago,
and perhaps throws some light on the success sometimes attending the
operations of " bone-setters." These are often men of great ignorance, but
of unbounded confidence, and they practically hypnotise many of their
patients.
Dr. Wetterstrand says he knows of hundreds of people in whom he can
produce anaesthesia in any part of the body by a word, and he finds this of
great advantage where he has to examine a sensitive part, «.;/., the larynx
with the laryngoscope. The patient seems perfectly awake and yet the
back of the throat may be tickled with a feather without producing any
cough or sputter. Dr. Wetterstrand is extremely careful (p. Ill) not to claim
too much for hypnotism, and states nothing but the results of his own
experience and observation. He reports failures as well as successes, which
is not the invariable rule with medical men ! He confutes with much indig
nation some of the theoretical objections levelled against hypnotism, and
while acknowledging that it might be employed for evil purposes by bad
people, asserts that he has never seen anything but good follow its use in
medical practice. He finds that the cures are real and permanent, and that
there is no reaction to combat as is sometimes the case with other methods
of treatment.
In a new edition perhaps Dr. Wetterstrand will tell us of the results he
has found to follow prolonged hypnosis, especially in cases of epilepsy. He
has in some cases—reported in the Revue de VHypnotisme—kept patients in
the somnambulic state for over five weeks at a time, eating, drinking, and
the natural functions being carried on in obedience to suggestion. One can
well understand the benefit which should follow such prolonged rest of the
highest brain centres in cases of " nerve strain, " cerebral exhaustion and
recurrent attacks of mania. We should also like to learn the result of the
experiments he stated his intention of making, with Professor Tigerstedt,
the physiologist, concerning the raising of blisters and the slowing of the
heart's action, etc., by suggestion in somnambulists.
The last fifty pages of the book are devoted to four letters by the trans
lator, Dr. Peterson, in which he gives a very clear account of his experience
in Professor Bernheim's clinique at the Hopital Civile, Nancy, and expresses
his own views as to the value of hypnotism in disease and especially in the
treatment of moral obliquities.
£« Revue de Psychologie is the second medical journal devoted especially
to hypnotism and allied subjects published monthly in Paris. It is well
142 Dr. Charles Lloyd Twckey. [Supplement.
edited by Drs. Hartenberg and Valentin, and is now in its second year. In
the numbers for March and April Dr. Van Renterghem contributes two
articles, in which he summarises his experience of hypnotism during the
four years 1893-97. As he, in collaboration with Dr. Van Eeden, has
previously related his experience in the two previous similar periods,1 we
now have available the carefully prepared record of this successful doctor's
hypnotic practice for twelve years. During this third period he treated 488
patients, 248 women and 240 men. Of this number 55 persons proved
insusceptible to hypnotic influence, about 11 per cent. ; 142 persons, or
about 29 per cent., were only slightly hypnotisable ; about 56 per cent., or
271 persons, were profoundly hypnotised ; and about 10 per cent, of the
whole, or 47 persons, were hypnotic somnambulists, i.e., they had no
memory on waking of what had happened while asleep.
These figures are extremely interesting and instructive and will be
found to correspond pretty closely with those reported by other observers
in different parts of the world when dealing with private as compared with
hospital patients. In hospitals, as Bornheim finds at Nancy, the patients
are more thoroughly under the physician's influence, and the atmosphere is
charged with suggestion ; hence the proportion of insusceptibles is much
smaller and that of somnambulists is much larger.
Cure, however, in psycho-therapeutics does not depend upon the depth of
the hypnotic state induced, and some of Dr. Van Renterghem's best results
have been obtained with patients who were only slightly hypnotisable. With
such a treatment as the hypnotic at present it is found that the physician's
clientele is largely made up of patients who have exhausted all other methods
of cure, and Dr. Van Renterghem is therefore justified in expressing satis
faction that he has succeeded in curing 158 or 33 per cent, of his patients
and in improving the health of about 36 per cent., or 176 patients. In 84
cases, or 17 per cent., there was no effect, and in 70 cases, or about 15 per
cent., the result of treatment was unknown.
Dr. Van Renterghem follows his previous classification and divides the
diseases he has treated into :—1. Those afl,ecting the nervous system. 2.
Those affecting other parts of the body. The classification is rigorous and
the results are noted with accuracy. To the medical inquirer, therefore,
this record must be of great help, and much credit is due to Dr. Van
Renterghem for the care and thoroughness he has shown in the task.
We note that he has treated ten cases of real epilepsy without a single
cure or oven any marked improvement, and this unfortunate result is the
more disappointing since most observers have claimed at least to get some
amelioration in the severity of the cases they had treated. But in hystero-
epilepsy, which is often confounded with real epilepsy even by some medical
men, he has been very successful, and also in that distressing and intractable
condition known as neurasthenia.
As one would expect, his greatest success has been in the treatment of
neuralgias of functional origin, headaches, occupation neuroses (writers' and
1 Comptes-renduH, etc., Bruxelles. A. Naucereau, 1889. Psychotherapie, Paris,
Soc. d'edit., ScieiK., 1894.
Part XXXIV.] 143
Reviews.
telegraphists' cramp) nervous dyspepsia, insomnia, and bad habits in children.
But he has also had considerable success in treating old paralyses of organic
origin, locomotor ataxy, and the painful symptoms of phthisis, cancer, and
Bright's disease.
Among mental diseases he classifies chronic alcoholism, and he has been
successful with the two cases he has treated ; he has also cured some cases of
melancholia and/oZie dudonte.
Dr. Berillon has made a special study of the application of hypnotism in
the education and treatment of children for over twelve years, and his
official position has given him many facilities for experimenting in this field
on a large scale. The present pamphlet is the twenty-third contribution he
has published on the subject. In it ho treats of the method of procedure he
adopts, the class of cases in which he applies hypnotism, and the results he
obtains.
From his personal experience of several thousands of cases, he deduces
the following conclusions :—
1. Eight children out of ten are hypnotisable to a profound degree at the
first or second sitting.
2. Normal children are more easily influenced than abnormal ones. The
more intelligent the child the more open he is to suggestion.
Dr. BeVillon thinks children should only be hypnotised by cautious and
experienced medical men for a definite purpose, and with these precautions
he considers the treatment absolutely free from risk, physical, moral, or
mental.
It is in the treatment of degenerate children that he has found hypnotism
most valuable. Among the characteristic signs of degeneracy he places the
existence of certain habits which in these children tend to become automatic.
Holding a first place among these is nail-biting, which is, however, generally
associated with other habits. By hypnotic suggestion he endeavours to raise
these automatic actions into the domain of consciousness, and then to arouse
or create centres of inhibition. For instance, he tells the nail-biting child
that in future he will always be conscious of the habit, and will feel a weight
and tension in his hand which will make it difficult for him to put it to his
mouth, and that this feeling will call up a desire and power to resist the
habit. The same idea applies to kleptomania, of which he has cured many
children. He observes that in a real kleptomaniac the impulse to steal is
automatic, beyond the control of the will, and the act often is only im
perfectly remembered.
Dr. Berillon quotes some remarkable cases of extreme idleness, inatten
tion, and pusillanimity which he has cured by suggestion. A medical man
was once heard to say that he should prefer to have his children naturally
naughty than hypnotically good. We imagine the question turns upon the
degree of naughtiness which may be considered natural. No sensible
person would advocate the indiscriminate hypnotising of young children,
but for cases where ordinary educational methods have failed hypnotic
suggestion is certainly a most valuable auxilliary and may save the child
from an adolescence of misery and crime.
Chas. Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
James H. Hydop. [Supplement.
The New Psychology. By E. W. Scripture, Ph. D., Director of the Yale
Psychological Laboratory. 8vo. pp. 500. London : Walter Scott. New
York : Charles Scribner's Sons. 1897.
This work is a revision of a more popular treatise by the same author.
The popular features are still retained to some extent, but are supplemented
by matter of more scientific interest. The animus of the book is a strong
defence of experimental methods in Psychology, especially the quantitative
measurement of mental phenomena, as opposed to the introspective policy
of the past. In the course of the work, the author meets psychical research
in his path and assumes the office of fool-killer in seven pages ! The main
body of the work requires no discussion here. This belongs to the ordinary
psychologist. It would also be as unnecessary to notice the author's
animadversions upon psychical research were it not for the persistent
demand all through the work for the utmost thoroughness and accuracy in
the investigation of facts.
The criticism which must be directed against the author is that he
betrays absolute ignorance of the subject which he attacks and ridicules.
And this after such repeated demands for thoroughness. The accusation
thus made can be easily substantiated by an examination of the author's
remarks, (pp. 62-69.)
Professor Scripture's mode of attack consists in a comparison of what he
regards as the slipshod method of psychical research and the more scientific
procedure of Hansen and Lehmann in their criticism of the Sidgwick
experiments. How much he knows about the Society's work is shown by
the single fact that there is not the slightest evidence of his ever having
seen the Society's Reports. The first instance of this negligence is found
in the reference to some experiments alleged to have been made by Dr.
Ochorovicz, and ridiculed here with a persiflage that is wholly unscientific.
The character of the experiments I do not defend. They may be anything
you please. But we are entitled to know where they were published and
how much weight was given them by Ochorovicz himself. Not a reference
is given, while it would seem from the very language that Ochorovicz
attached no value to them. The record of them is not found in any of the
publications of the Society, nor can I find any trace of thom in Ochorovicz's
book on "Mental Suggestion." A few of his experiments were mentioned
in Phantasms of the Living, ("Vol. II., p. 660 ff. ), but not a word in them
refers to the instances criticised by Professor Scripture. If psychical
research is to be held responsible in this way for matter to which it has never
given its imprimatur, what is to be said of the author's boasted scientific
method ? I do not say a word in defence of either the method or the results
of the Society's work. Any man may think what he pleases about this. I
only hold up the standard which Professor Scripture had set for himself.
The failure in this respect is seen in another incident.
The example of scientific method here recommended for imitation is that
of the two Danish students, Hansen and Lehmann. The value and sugges-
tiveness of their experiments I shall not question, but recognise with
unstinted praise. But Professor Scripture shows no knowledge of either
Professor Sidgwick's original experiments or his reply (Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vol. XII.) to Hansen and Lehmann. Moreover, there are distinct indications
Part XXXIV.] 145
Reviews.
in the author,s statements that he has relied altogether on the article in
Wundt's Studien for both his material and his judgment of the subject. He
says : " If we look through the hundreds of drawings in Richet's work, and
in the Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, we readily see that
the resemblance of the two drawings [referring to the example taken from
Hansen and Lehmann's paper] is in only extremely few cases more than in
the one given." (p. 67.) This is an exact translation from the article in the
Slndien, and is not included in quotation marks,1 as it should be, unless
Professor Scripture intends to imply that he has examined the publications
of the S.P.R. But if he had done this he would have found no basis for
such a reckless statement. I may refer him to the following places for proof
of my allegation :—Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I., pp. 39-48 ; Proceedings,
Vol. I., pp. 83-98, and 175-216 ; Vol. II., pp. 33-42, 195-200, and 208-215 ;
Vol. III., pp. 425-452; Vol. IV , pp. 116-126, and 324-337; Vol. V., pp.
58-112, and 174-191; Vol. VI., p. 398, five pages; Vol. VII., p. 22, seven
pages, and p. 382, five pages. The statement quoted cannot be honestly
made by any man who has examined the diagrams given in these references,
and it only shows that the author under review has abandoned his own
injunction to be thorough when he merely translates Hansen and Lehmann
without sufficient acknowledgment, and without himself consulting the work
of the S.P.R.
Further, Professor Scripture says :—"Hysterical or hypnotised persons
are the most frequent percipients in such experiments." (Translation again
without quotation marks.) But what evidence is produced for this state
ment ? None. Professor Scripture lays groat emphasis on quantitative
measurements, and surely here is a statement that is capable of statistical
proof if anything is. But not an iota of proof is given. This is scientific
method ! The statement, indeed, is a pure assumption entirely without
foundation. But what if it were true 1 What difference would that fact
make in careful experiments of the kind under review, viz., drawings? The
percipients could just as well be insane. It matters not who or what the
percipient may be, if the precautions are sufficient to prevent fraud. If we
should prove telepathy, and assume or prove that the percipients were
abnormal, the fact might require us to abandon the materialistic theory of
insanity.
Not only, however, is Professor Scripture completely ignorant of the
actual work of the Society for Psychical Research, but he is also apparently
completely ignorant of the simple doctrines of chance that need to be
applied for any exact estimate of the probable results in experiments in
thought-transference. He supposes (p. 65) that if a counter be drawn by
chance from a total of 90 counters, the probability that a random record out
of the 90 figures will agree with it is only 1 in 8100 ! ! His words are :
" We might, like the psychical researchers, proceed to calculations of
probability, e.g., if a counter be drawn by chance from the total of 90
counters, the probability of drawing any particular one is 1-90, and likewise
the probability of recording at random any particular one of 90 possible
1 The paragraph of which the above extract is part begins on the previous page
(G6) with the remark : " This case, continue the authors, seems to be quite note
worthy," but no marks of quotation are used.
h
146 [Supplement.
F. W. H. M.
figures is 1-90. Now, the probability that the two agree by chance is equal
to the product of the separate probabilities, or 1-8100. Only once out of
8100 times ought an experiment to succeed." The probability that Pro
fessor Scripture describes is the probability that the number drawn and the
number recorded will both agree with a previously designated number. But
this is not the question. For example, to take one of the instances quoted
by Professor Scripture, the problem is not the determination of the chance,
prior to the experiment, that the agent would draw the particular number
33, and the percipient also guess 33. The problem is the determination of
the chance, that after the agent has drawn one of the numbers, no matter
which, the percipient should guess the same number. The agent having
drawn 33, this number is already settled, and is calculated as a certainty.
It is one of 90 numbers, any one of which the percipient may choose, and
the chance that he will guess right is obviously 1 in 90. I do not blame
Professor Scripture merely for being ignorant of the very simplest applica
tion of the laws of probability, but 1 do blame him for being ignorant and
at the same time attempting, in a professedly scientific work, to deal with a
subject where some elementary knowledge of these laws is absolutely
essential for even a superficial judgment.
In ordinary controversy, among persons not claiming to be "scientific,"
we rightly condemn any expositor who offers only a gross misrepresentation
of the views he attacks, and shows an ignorance of the fundamental
principles pertaining to the subject-matter ; but what shall we say of the
culpability of a professed scientific investigator who in a professed scientific
work, actually makes a charge of " unscientific methods of experimentation"
against a body of investigators of whose publications he shows absolute
ignorance, holding up to ridicule a gross travesty of the experiments upon
which their conclusions are founded, and betraying at the same time a
sublime ignorance of the quantitative estimate to be applied to their
results ? James H. Htslop.
L'Annee Psychologiqne. Publiee par Alfred Binet, quatrieme annee.
Schleicher Freres, Paris, 1898.
The fourth number of the Annee Psychologique has recently appeared
under M. Binet's editorship. It is only fitting that students of every branch
of Experimental Psychology Bhould express their gratitude to M. Binet, M.
Victor Henri, and their collaborators for this masterly annual summary of
work done over a wide and various field. The summary itself is invaluable,
—is practically indispensable to serious students ; and each volume contains
in addition a mass of original work largely due to MM. Binet and Henri,
and in this last volume to M. Vaschide. The labour, patience, and skill
involved in the production of each successive volume is positively astonishing.
The mere amount of accurate precis-writing and reviewing seems enough to
occupy nearly the whole year, and when all M. Binet's own experiments are
added, one fancies that night and day, without intermission, his hands must
have grasped a dynamometer, a chronograph, an ergograph, a pneumograph,
a plethysmograph, or a pen. I will not venture to review his work in detail,
important though it be to students of "psychical" phenomena to keep
Part XXXIV.] 147
Reviews.
themselves au courant of the labours and results of this growing multitude
of workers. The relation of their work to ours may be compared without
offence to the relation of surface-mining to deep-level mining among the
auriferous reefs of the Witwatersrand. The surface-miners are certain of
finding payable gold, scattered pretty evenly through a stiff conglomerate.
Here and there the reefs trend downwards, but uncertainly ; and work
at deep levels at first ruined more companies than it enriched. I offer here
no prospectus of our assets or profits ; and assuredly the modern machinery,
the regular dividends of the surface-miners, may well attract the admiration
even of those who are themselves impelled to push on for gold towards the
unknown heart of the earth. [,w u u
Hours with the Ghosts. By Henry Ridgely Evans. (Chicago : Laird and
Lee. Pp. 302. 1897.)
This book, which is also otherwise entitled by the author as "Nineteenth
Century Witchcraft—Illustrated Investigations into the Phenomena of
Spiritualism and Theosophy," scarcely pretends to add anything that is
new, of a constructive character, in the way of contribution to Psychical
Research.
Mr. Evans states in his preface that he " has had sittings with many
famous mediums of this country and Europe, but has seen little to convince
him of the fact of spirit communication. The slate tests and so-called
materialisations have invariably been frauds. Some experiments along the
line of automatic writing and psychometry, however, have demonstrated to
the writer the truth of telepathy or thought-transference. The theory of
telepathy explains many of the marvels ascribed to spirit intervention in
things mundane." The author professes his belief that " we bear within us
the undying spark of divinity and immortality," but after giving, in the first
part of his book, a description of various " mediumistic manifestations," con
cludes that the majority of these are due to conjurmg, and that telepathy
will account for the rest without " spirit intervention." He holds, however,
that the supernormal phenomena which he does accept seem to indicate that
the human personality is a "spiritual entity" which survives death.
The second part of the book is devoted to an account of " Madame
Blavatsky and the Theospphists," and includes references to the chief
exposures which have thrown light upon the fraudulent methods used by
some of the leaders of the Theosophical movement. The author finds it
"difficult to place any reliance in the accounts of Mahatmic miracles." He
also adopts the conclusion justified by the researches of Mr. W. E. Coleman,
that " ' Isis Unveiled ' and the 'Secret Doctrine,' by Madame Blavatsky
. are full of plagiarisms and garbled statements." Mr. Evans
draws attention to facts concerning the early period of the Theosophic move
ment which many of Madame Blavatsky's followers to-day either are
ignorant of or prefer to forget. One of these facts is that Madame
Blavatsky first located her Mahatmas in the ruins of Thebes and not in
Thibet. Another is that a lecture given by a certain George H. Felt was
the circumstance that primarily led to the founding of the Theosophical
Society. Mr. Evans should have given further details on this point, which
l a
148 [Supplement.
Richard Hodgson.
may be found in the New York Herald for November 10th, 1895. The
information given in that article was furnished by Mr. Henry J. Newton, a
well-known spiritualist of New York, since deceased, who had furnished me
with a similar account some years previously and had shown me the
documents in his possession. It appeared that Mr. Felt asserted that
phenomena of " materialisation " could be produced " by a combustion of
aromatic gum and herbs." Mr. Newton claimed to have taken the first step
in forming a society for the investigation of these particular phenomena, and
to have himself proposed the name " Theosophical Society." He also stated
to me that the term Theusophy was chosen expressly on the basis of the first
meaning given to that word in IVebster's Dictionary: "Any system of
philosophy or mysticism which proposes to attain intercourse with God and
superior spirits, aad consequent superhuman knowledge, by physical pro
cesses, as by the theurgic operations of some ancient Platonists, or by the
chemical processes of the German fire philosophers." And hence the first
sentence of the original preamble of the Theosophical Society read :—
" The title of the Theosophical Society explains the objects and desires
of its founders ; they seek to obtain knowledge of the nature and
attributes of the Supreme Power and of the higher spirits by the aid of
physical processes. "
The date of its organisation was October 30th, 1875, and not, as Mr.
Evans states, November 17th. Even as late as the early part of 1879 the
first of "the general plans of the Society" was declared to be : "To keep
alive in man his belief that he has a soul, and the Universe a God," which
was revised, at the end of the same year, into : "To keep alive in man his
spiritual intuitions." Indeed, the true inner history of Madame Blavatsky
and the Theosophical Society yet remains to be written, though the sketchy
account given by Mr. Evans may sufficiently serve the purpose of the
outsider who wishes to get a brief popular history of the movement.
In the first part of his book Mr. Evans relates several apparently super
normal experiences coming under his own notice, but it is to be regretted
that he gives no corroborative testimony in the cases where this seems to
have been obtainable. Thus he describes a railway accident, where an old
man was decapitated by a locomotive between Washington and Baltimore.
Mr. Evans was on the train and saw the head, with white hair and beard,
standing in a pool of blood. Other details are given. On reaching
Baltimore, Mr. Evans went to a newspaper office and wrote out an account
of the accident, and did other work at the office before going home. His
brother, who slept in an adjoining room, had then gone to bed, and in the
morning related to the family a dream which he had during the night and
which agreed in the main details with his brother's actual experience in
connection with the accident. Yet no statement is offered by the brother
or any other member of the family, and the date of the incident is not given
any nearer than ' ' the fall of 1890. " Corroborative details should have been
given either in a footnote or an appendix.
Following these telepathic experiences, after a few pages concerning
"muscle-reading," Mr. Evans describes some of the trick methods used by
fraudulent mediums, — among them, Henry Slade, The Davenport Brothers,
Annie Eva Fay, Charles Slade, Pierre L. O. A. Keeler, and F. W. Tabor,—
Pari XXXIV.) 149
Revieiv8.
and has a little to say about " Spirit-Photography " and "Thought-
Photography." If Mr. Evans had confined his attention to this part of his
subject and taken special pains to produce as far as possible a complete
classified exposition of the various trick devices used by mediums, he might
have rendered much more efficient service. It is a good work to popularise
the knowledge of the trick methods of fraudulent mediums, and we com
mend Mr. Evans for what he has done in this direction. He offers a very
meagre account of Eusapia Paladino, and quotes from a statement in the New
York Herald, as though it had been communicated to that paper by myself,
whereas it is a grossly inaccurate account of a reporter's interview with me.
In describing the method of writing on the under surface of a slate held
against the under surface of a table, Mr. Evans appears to think that the
" ability to write in reverse " is involved. This is not necessarily the case.
The writing as " visualised " from above would appear in reverse, but the
motor changes, which are the most important, are largely the same as in
ordinary script. On p. 156 Mr. Evans writes :—
"The 'spirit necktie' is one of the best things in the whole range of
mediumistic marvels, and has never, to my knowledge, been exposed. A
rope is tied about the medium's neck with the knots at the back and the
ends are thrust through two holes in one side of the cabinet, and tied in ii
bow on the outside."
Manifestations follow which indicate that " either the medium gets loose
the necktie and impersonates the spirits or the materialisations are
genuine." The explanation given by Mr. Evans is "substitution." The
medium cuts the cord round his neck, thus releasing himself, and after pro
ducing the manifestations takes a second cord from his pocket, ties it round
his neck, and calls for the cord to be unfastened outside the cabinet. He
then pulls the first cord into the cabinet and conceals it in his pocket. The
general method of substitution in rope-tying tricks is not new, nor, indeed,
is the general method of " taking up alack," which, in this particular trick at
least, I think is superior to the method described by Mr. Evans, and of
which an account was published by Col. Bundy in the Religio-Philuso1ihical
Journal for May 9th, 1891, on information given by myself. The medium
was a Mrs. Martin, who was giving sittings in New York. She pulled in
" slack " after she was in position in the cabinet, and before the rope was
tied on the outside. She was thus able to widen the loop round her neck
And slip it off, replacing it in position after producing the manifestations.
I suspected the method used, did all the tying and untying myself, marked
the rope privately with a piece of crayon which I had "palmed" for the
purpose, and examined the rope at leisure afterwards.
Although Mr. Evans devotes more than forty pages of his book to
D. D. Home, there is clear indication that he has not made any careful
examination of the mass of testimony to Home's phenomena, and in fact
it is difficult to understand that, if he had ever even read the bulk of this
tehtimony, he could have offered the "cheap and ready-made" accounts
of the music-box tricks and fire-tricks as providing in themselves an
adequate explanation of certain notable incidents described by Home's
witnesses. I refer to two other instances of the want of care shown by
Mr. Evans. He quotes a statement from " Celia Logan, the journalist,"
150 [Supplement-
Richard Hodgson.
concerning "one of Home's seances at a nobleman's house in London,"
in which occurs the charge that the host saw Home place a bottle on
the mantelpiece just before leaving the room for the staircase where
luminous hands wero seen. The host, it is alleged, seized the bottle and
found later that it contained " phosphorated olive oil or some similar
preparation," and "after the discovery of the phosphorus trick he dropped
Homo at once." Who is Celia Logan ? Where and when did this account
originally appear, and who was the host 1 We protest against any such
vague and uncorroborated charge. At least two such charges against Home
have come under my own direct notice ; in each case the person making the
charge was compelled to acknowledge that the charge was completely un
founded, and, oddly enough, one of the charges was based upon a quotation
from Home himself, who was describing the tricks of another medium.
This question as to the proof of fraud on the part of Home was considered
fully in the article in the Journal S.P.R. for July, 1889, by Professor
Barrett and Mr. F. W. H. Myers, and at that time no proof of fraud was
forthcoming. Later, in 1897, Mr. Podmore writes (Studies in Psyehicat
Research, p. Ill) : " I am not aware that clear proof of imposture was ever
brought forward against him." Again, Mr. Evans quotes the statement
made by Dr. Carpenter in the Contemporary Review for January, 1876,
concerning Home's alleged levitation, that " a single honest sceptic declares
that Mr. Home was sitting in his chair all the time." This was proved to be
a gross misstatement, and was so proved by Captain C. Wynne, the supposed
"sceptic" himself, who actually corroborated the account of the levitation.
(See D. D. Home: His Life and Mission, by Madame Dunglas Home, p. 307 ;
also Journal S.P.R., July, 1889, p. 108.) In dealing with Home, Mr. Evans
seems to have followed blindly the lead of Dr. W. A. Hammond's inadequate
treatment in his book Spiritualism and Nervous Derangement, published in
1876. Whether Home's phenomena can be explained away or not—and
there is a large mass of testimony to be taken into consideration—they most
assuredly have not been satisfactorily accounted for as yet by any ordinary
explanations which I have seen offered, and we cannot but condemn such
ignorant and superficial treatment as that accorded to them by Mr. Evans.
I should, however, regret if I did Mr. Evans an injustice. Possibly he may
have intended merely to present a loose and popular view of Home by
quoting various opinions for and against him ; but this would be hardly
consistent with his professed intention in his preface "to give an accurate
account of the lives and adventures of celebrated mediums and occultists."
Generally I may say that much of the book consists of a compilation of
extracts from various sources, many of which appear to have been selected
without sufficient discrimination, and after a very partial and superficial
survey of the subjects considered. I regret that I cannot speak more favour
ably of a book which is evidently written with sincerity and earnestness, and
which recognises so sympathetically the value of the work performed by the
S.P.R. There may be a class of readers to whose less substantial wants
the book may provide some temporary supply, but I should be surprised if
our members found anything enlightening in the volume, unless it were, as I
have already indicated, some of the descriptions of trick-devices.
R. Hodgson.
PROCEEDINGS
OK THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCH1CAL RESEARCH,
PART XXXV.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 95th General Meeting of the Society was held at the West
minster Town Hall on Friday, November 4th, 1898, at 8.30 p.m. ;
Dr. A. W. Barrett in the chair.
Mr. F. Podmork read a paper on " A Predecessor of Mrs. Piper,"
which was embodied in his article published in Proceedings, Part •
XXXIV., under the title of " Discussion of the Trance Phenomena
of Mrs. Piper."
Mr. F. W. H. MYers gave a "Discussion of some Reciprocal and
other Cases recently received."
The 96th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
December 9th, at 4 p.m. ; the President, Sir William Crookes, in
the chair.
Mr. H. Arthur Smith read " A Note on ' Fisher's Ghost.' "
A paper by Professor W. Romaine Newbold, entitled " A
Further Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance,"
was read by Mr. Myers.
Both these papers were included in Proceedings, Part XXXIV.
The 97th General Meeting was held in the Lower Hall of the
same place (a larger room than that generally used) on Friday,
January 27th, 1899, at 4 p.m. ; the President in the chair.
Professor Richet delivered an address in French, " On the
Conditions of Certainty," a translation of which is printed below.
The 98th General Meeting was held in the Council Chamber of the
same place on Friday, March 10th, at 8.30 p.m. ; Dr. G. F. Rogers
in the chair.
Miss Mary H. Kingsley read a paper on " The Forms of
Apparitions in West Africa," printed below.
The 99th General Meeting was held in the same place on Friday,
April 28th, at 4 p.m. ; the President in the chair.
Some portions of the paper by Miss Alice Johnson on "Coin
cidences," printed below, were read by Mr. Myers.
A paper by Dr. Morton Prince entitled, " A Case of Triple
Personality and Crystal Vision," was also read by Mr. Myers, and
some extracts from it are printed below.
M
152 [part
Professor Charles liichet.
r.
ON THE CONDITIONS OF CERTAINTY.
addrbss dEliverkd
By Professor Charles Richet.
{Translated.)
Mr. Chairman,—Ladies and Gentlemen,—I do not propose to
address you upon the Conditions of Certainty from a philosophical
point of view. That theme has been often treated by learned meta
physicians ; and the present occasion is ill-suitod for metaphysics.
Whatever my own respect for that science (of which, by the way, I
am entirely ignorant), I think that here and now we had better take
our stand upon the more solid ground of actual experiment. That,
indeed, is a view to which you have all, more or less explicitly, given
your adhesion ; and your illustrious President has at different times
given to the world examples of the value of experiment,—however
daring and unforeseen, —too brilliant to leave me any scruple in
speaking to you of Experiment as the true and rightful mistress of
scientific enquiry.
The problem before us is how it comes to pass that the facts,
so numerous and often so decisive, which you have accumulated
during the last twenty years have not carried with them any general
conviction. The problem, I say, lies in the disaccord which still
exists between the state of public belief and the existence of authentic
facts whose cogency would under other conditions have been by this
time admitted without dispute.
To explain this persistent incredulity, my simplest plan will be to
give you a sketch of my own history. I know well that l« moi est
ha,issable :—"I is a hateful word,"—as the great Pascal told us. But I
use myself only as a concrete example ; and a narrative of actual
experience may illustrate more convincingly than any theoretical
explanation could do, the strength of the resistance which the human
spirit can sometimes oppose to proofs which the reason cannot but
admit as complete.
Conviction, indeed, cannot be achieved like a geometrical demon
stration ;—and it often happens that even a geometrical demonstration
does not carry conviction to all minds. M. Thiers, it is said, when no
longer young, was anxious to get some notion of mathematics. His
excellent teacher one day proved to him, with all the rigidity of
XXXV.] 153
On the Conditions of Certainty.
geometrical reasoning, that an oblique section of a cone, in whatever
direction it was made, was a regular ellipse. But this M. Thiers would
not admit. "It is simply impossible," he said, "there cannot be the
same ellipse at the cone's base and at its summit." To persuade him
his instructor had to send for a sugar loaf to make the oblique section,
and to show him the actual ellipse. Experiment convinced the learner
whom theoretical demonstration had left incredulous.
All of us, indeed, are recalcitrant in accepting facts which do not
seem concordant with the facts of every day. We are incredulous of
the extraordinary; and how incredulous I could hardly illustrate better
than by my own prolonged and almost invincible opposition to the facts
called occult.
And now, to begin with, we must get rid altogether of this word
occult;—or rather we must give it the only sense which it ought to
bear. Occult means unknown. Alchemy, before it became chemistry,
iistrology, before it became astronomy, medicine, before it became
liacteriology, were nothing more than occult sciences. Nor, indeed,
would it be very hard to show that the classic sciences, of which we
are so proud, are not yet far removed from the occult stage. We may
know certain phenomena, and even the laws which govern their
appearance; but we do not adequately understand a single one of them.
To say of the stone which falls to earth that it obeys an attraction
which varies directly as the mass and inversely as the square of the
distance, is not to understand the stone's fall. Familiar though that
phenomenon is, it is not a phenomenon which is understood in all its
elements. Not one phenomenon, I repeat, is fully understood. All
.ire linked together, and if we really understood one, we should under
stand all.
When I first began to occupy myself with the sciences called occult
it was to make experiments in somnambulism. At that time, —it was
in 1873, very long ago!—somnambulism was still a mysterious, magical
science ; and in the account which I gave of my experiments I began
by saying, " It needs a certain courage to pronounce the word
somnambulism." I was right, I think, to have this courage ; for a few
years later,—and possibly my own efforts helped towards this change,
—somnambulism had taken its place among facts which no one denied.
As you know, the hypnotic trance is now matter of common know
ledge ; it forms a theme of ordinary medical instruction, and is no
more a subject of doubt than is small-pox or cholera. Thus may an
occult science become a classic science in twenty years.
In the course of these studies I had here and there observed
certain facts of lucidity, of premonition, of telepathy ; but since these
facts were denied and ridiculed on every side, I had not pushed indepen
dence of mind so far as to believe them. I deliberately shut my eyes
m 2
154 [PAHT
Professor Charles Richet.
to phenomena which lay plain before me, and rather than discuss them
I chose the easier course of denying them altogether. Or, I should
rather say, instead of pondering on these inexplicable facts I simply
put them aside, and set them down to some illusion, or some error of
observation.
Nay, in my servile respect for the classic tradition I mocked at
what was called spiritism ; and after reading the astounding state
ments which Mr. Crookes had published, I allowed myself—and here
do I publicly beg his pardon for it !—to laugh at them as heartily
as almost every one else was doing. But now I say just what my
friend Ochorowicz says in the same matter ;—I beat my breast and I
cry Pater, peccavi! How could I suppose that the savant who has dis
covered thallium and the radiometer, and foreshadowed the Rontgen
rays, could commit gross and inexplicable blunders, and allow himself
to be duped for years by tricks which a child could have exposed ?
A certain experiment in spiritism (I keep the word, although it
corresponds to no theoretical idea at all) came to shake my disbelief.
One of my friends discovered that he possessed the curious faculty of
causing a table to go through certain movements—for him involuntary
and unconscious—but which were nevertheless intelligent. That is to
say, one could put questions and get answers of which he had no know
ledge, although he remained fully awake, and his own personal
consciousness seemed quite intact. Unwilling to look for any cause
outside the causes of familiar phenomena, I invented as an explana
tion of these strange facts a theory which has not survived, and did
not deserve to survive,— the theory of hemi-somnambulism. This was
in 1883.
Several years before this date, one of my relations had experienced
in my presence a telepathic hallucination, under circumstances of the
most striking kind. But of this I had taken no serious thought.
Little by little, however, as you went on accumulating in your
Proceedings facts of just the same order, this veridical hallucination
of which I had been cognisant returned more strongly to my memory,
and a kind of suspense and floating uncertainty took possession of
my spirit.
It must be remembered, too, in my excuse, that as a professional
physiologist I moved habitually along a road quite other than
mystical. I had been taught a scrupulous respect for fact, a habit of
exact and prosaic observation, controlled by rigorous tests ;—by the
balance, the myograph, the chemical reaction. I began to feel myself
dragged in two directions by contrary currents.
It would have been something if psychical experiments had been
susceptible of exact measurements ! But you know too well that this
is not so. In the best experiments with sensitives there is always a
XXXV.] 155
On the Conditions of Certainty.
caput mortuum which escapes analysis,—something loose and approxi
mate which fails to satisfy men who have taken as their motto these
words of the Preacher which govern science : " Omnia in numero et
pondere."
But on the other hand the history of science showed me into what
strange mistakes men fall by ignoring facts plain to see. The wisest
of our forerunners was blind to many a conspicuous phenomenon,
simply because it was a phenomenon which he could not understand.
" And may it not be thus," I said to myself, " with these psychical
phenomena? The unlearned deny them ; the learned exclude them
from their text-books ; but they may exist for all that."
Then, as my next step, I imagined,—I ask your pardon for this
public confession,—that certain psychological facts of lucidity, of
telepathy, perhaps of premonition, were true ; but that no occult facts
actually affected the material universe. Our human intelligence, I
said to myself, is perhaps endowed at certain moments with extra
ordinary powers, with faculties which remain latent in the mass of
men ; but that is all ; it cannot act directly upon matter.
This novel power of insight—I thought— will in no wise alter our
fundamental conception of the world ; the only truth in spiritism
is just this lucidity. Nay, the lucidity itself, although it seems
possible, even probable, is not as yet established by vigorous proof.
I was at this point when M. Aksakoff came to see me in Paris,
and reproached me for not interesting myself more keenly in experi
ments with mediums. "Well," said I, "if I were sure that a single
true medium existed, I would willingly go to the end of the world to
see bin) ! "
Two years later, M. Aksakoff wrote to me : "You need not come
to the end of the world ; if you come to Milan it will do." Milan !
that was not far to go to find the key of the mystery.
I took part, then, in those celebrated Milan seances with Eusapia
Paliidino; and while those seances were going on I was fully convinced
of the reality of the phenomena. Numerous precautions were taken ;
the incessant repetition of tests and experiments satisfied the most
scrupulous mind. When I left Milan I was fully convinced that all was
true;—as also were the eminent savants who took part in the sittings;
—Brofferio, Gerosa, Finzi, and the great astronomer Schiaparelli.
But at this point a remarkable psychological phenomenon made
itself felt,—a phenomenon deserving of all your attention. Observe
that we are now dealing with observed facts which are nevertheless
absurd ; which are in contradiction with facts of daily observation ;
which are denied not by science only, but by the whole of humanity ;
—facts which are rapid and fugitive, which take place in semi-
darkness, and almost by surprise ; with no proof except the testimony
156 [part
Professor Charles Richet.
of our senses, which we know to be often fallible. After we have
witnessed such facts, everything concurs to make us doubt them.
Now, at the moment when these facts take place they seem to us
certain, and we are willing to proclaim them openly, but when we
return to ourselves, when we feel the irresistible influence of our
environment, when our friends all laugh at our credulity;—then
we are almost disarmed, and we begin to doubt. May it not all have
been an illusion ? May I not have been grossly deceived 1 I saw, no
doubt ; but did I see aright 1 who can prove to me that I did so 1
And then, as the moment of the experiment becomes more remote,
that experiment which once seemed so conclusive gets to seem more
and more uncertain, and we end by letting ourselves be persuaded
that we have been the victims of a trick.
Our own conviction, —the conviction of men who have seen, —
ought properly to convince other people ;—but, by a curious inversion
of roles, it is their conviction, the negative conviction of people who
have not seen, and who ought not, one would think, to speak on the
matter, which weakens and ultimately destroys our own conviction.
This phenomenon occurred in my case with such intensity that scarcely
a fortnight after witnessing the experiments with Eusapia Paladino, at
Milan, I had persuaded myself that there had been nothing beyond
fraud and illusion.
Nevertheless, I wished to repeat those experiments ; and at Rome,
in company with an eminent savant, Schrenck-Notzing, and a
celebrated painter, H. Siemiradzki, I again made experiments of the
most decisive kind. But a second time I found that doubt seized me
after a short interval. I was not yet satisfied ; and I invited Eusapia
to my house for three months. Alone with her and my excellent
friend, Ochorowicz, a man of penetrating perspicacity, I renewed
the experiments in the best possible conditions of solitude and quiet
reflection. We thus acquired a positive proof of the reality of the
facts announced at Milan.
Other friends belonging to your society, Messrs. Myers and
Lodge especially, came and shared our conviction. It has since
undergone serious oscillation,—partly from that psychological process
of recurrence to habitual modes of thought already described, partly
through the fault of the medium herself ;—but my own fourth series of
experiments in Paris, brought with it for me, as also for Mr. Myei s,
a conviction of reality even stronger than before. Nevertheless,
before discussing or publishing experiments in detail, a yet further
series should be held under the most careful conditions.
In the meantime it is quite possible that my friends and I may lose
that vigour of conviction which recent experience gives. We may
return to that curious state of mind of which I have already spoken.
xxxv.] On the Conditions of Certainty. 157
The real world which surrounds us, with its prejudices, well or ill-
founded, its scheme of habitual opinions, holds us in so strong a
grasp that we can scarcely free ourselves completely. Certainty does
notfollow on demonstration, itfollows on habit.
But the duty of the savant is precisely not to allow himself to
follow the routine of unreasoning respect for what Bacon termed idols.
Our mission is to seek truth, without caring for the opinion of the
vulgar. What should we care for popularity t Sarcasm or indiffer
ence ought to leave us equally unmoved.
If we have been credulous, our credulity has not been spontaneous
and easy ; we have made, as you have seen, an obstinate defence. It
took me twenty years of patient researches to arrive at my present
conviction. Nay,—to make one last confession,—I am not even yet
absolutely and irremediably convinoed ! In spite of the astounding
phenomena which I have witnessed during my sixty experiments with
Eusapia, I have still a trace of doubt ; doubt which is weak, indeed,
to-day. but which may perchance be stronger to-morrow. Yet such
doubts, if they come, will not be due so much to any defect in the
actual experiment, as to the inexorable strength of prepossession
which holds me back from adopting a conclusion which contravenes
the habitual and almost unanimous opinion of mankind.
Note.
[To explain what is here said of " oscillation," it must be briefly
stated that a series of experiments with Eusapia Paladino was made
at Cambridge in the summer of 1895 ; that the chief investigators
arrived unanimously at the conclusion that systematic fraud had been
used from first to last in these experiments ; and that reference to a
description given by Professor Richet himself, in February, 1893, of
the manner in which Eusapia's hands were held " en general," showed
that her main method of cheating in the Cambridge experiments must
have been practised by her systematically for years.
It ought to be added, in justice to Dr. Hodgson, who rendered
much important aid in the exposure of her trickery at Cambridge,—
since admitted by her own trance-utterance,—that his opinion of
Eusapia Paladino's performances has been in no way modified by the
brief notes which were all that it was possible for Professor Richet
and myself to make of certain experiments in Paris, on December 1st
and 3rd, 1898, which appeared to us conclusive.—F. W. H. Myeks.]
158 [PArT
Alice Johnson,
II.
COINCIDENCES.
By Alice Johnson.
Associate of Nemiham, College, Cambridge,
SUMMARY.
Introduction.—Definition of " Coincidences." Application of
subject to Psychical Research ; work already done by the Society in
this connection. 159-164
Chapter I. —Division of Coincidences into three classes: (A)
those suggestive of " Causation " ; (B) those suggestive of " Design " ;
(C) those due to " Chance." Definition of " Design." Theoretical
distinction between Chance and Design. Representation of Chance
series by curves. Grounds on which we may form an opinion whether
artificial series or single conjunctions of events are due to Chance or
to Design. The operation of Chance in Nature. Distinction between
Causation and Design. Causation and Design (?) in Nature. Dis
tinction between Chance and Causation. Grounds for judging
whether series or single conjunctions of events are due to Chance or
Causation. Chance is not the negation of Law, nor inconsistent with
the hypothesis of Universal Design. 165-177
Chapter II.—General Discussion of Chance. Probability and
Expectation. Relation of Events in a Chance Series to one another.
Consequences of the absence of causal connection between them.
The Aggregate Results of Chance Series ; order in the mass, com
bined with disorder in the units of the mass. Methods of analysis
of Chance Series. " Residual Cycles," an example of the fact that a
few extraordinary coincidences are less instructive than a large number
of trivial ones, all pointing in the same direction. Professor Pearson
on Monte Carlo Roulette. 178-192
Chapter III.—Examples : Section I.—Coincidences clearly due to
Chance. Section II.—Coincidences with a doubtful claim to causal
production. (A) Cases suggestive of Design. (B) Cases of " physical
phenomena " in which the evidence for a supernormal cause depends
on a coincidence. (C) Premonitions. 193-260
Chapter IV.—Examples of Coincidences with a stronger claim to
causal production : Section I.—Cases apparently due to subliminal
mental action. Section II.— Cases possibly or probably due to Telepathy.
261-292
Appendix I. (written jointly with W. E. Johnson).—On the
construction of artificial Chance Series. 293-308
XXXV.] 159
Coincidences.
Appendix II.—Examination of a Premonitory case,—Mr. Lane's
dream of the death of Mr. Terriss. 309-316
Appendix III.—Some premonitory dreams of races. 317-321
Appendix IV. — A guessing competition case. Discussion of
whether it was a " lottery " in the legal sense of the term. 322-330
INTRODUCTION.
By a " Coincidence " is meant any conjunction of circumstances
that would primarily be regarded as accidental, but in which a special
aspect is involved, suggesting a causal relation. It is always this
special aspect that attracts our attention, not the fact that the con
junction is in itself a particularly unlikely one to occur. It has a
certain antecedent probability, which—theoretically—can always be
calculated ; and the calculation always shows it to be no more unlikely
than many other possible conjunctions. For instance, suppose that
some one had correctly prophesied what a certain hand at whist would
be. We can calculate what is the antecedent probability of getting
this hand and it will be found to be very small, but no smaller than
the probability of any other specified hand. The only noteworthy
point in the matter would be the correspondence between the actual
hand and the prophesied hand, and this would suggest some cause,
such as a preconcerted arrangement of the pack.
The consideration of the special aspect that attracts our atten
tion in a coincidence is useful, because it may lead to the
discovery of a cause hitherto unknown, or at least unrecognised by
science. The appearance of a causal relation, however, is often
fallacious ; the circumstances may seem to come under the operation of
a common cause when they are really produced by entirely independent
causes, and such conjunctions or coincidences are accidental.
In psychical research we are constantly confronted with the
question :—are those coincidences which form the main material of our
study,—the apparitions seen at the time of death or of some crisis in
the life of the person represented, the cases of detailed apparent
foreknowledge of events, the mass of correct information to be found
among the utterances of at least one trance medium, the precise
resemblances between the thoughts of two persons in successful
experiments in thought-transference, the movements of the divining-
rod over concealed underground water,—are all these coincidences to
be put down to chance, or is there something more in them 1
It may be thought that we have already discussed this question
ad nauseam and decided it. But this is at most true only in regard to
some sections of the above-mentioned classes of facts, and there is room
for difference of opinion about many of them. Thus, some persons may
160 [part
Alice Johnson.
think that the evidence for telepathy is conclusive, but not that for
clairvoyance. Some may be convinced of the possibility of telepathy
between the living, but yet remain dubious as to communications from
the dead. In deciding on this latter question, there are of course other
points to be taken into consideration besides the possible scope of
chance coincidence. But I think the main doubt is whether—after
excluding the cases that may be explained by telepathy from living
persons —those that remain are sufficiently numerous to be beyond
chance. I do not propose to discuss this difficulty at all now,—still
less to pronounce any opinion upon it,—I merely wish to point out
that in many lines of our work the question of chance coincidence is
still to the front and refuses to be shelved.
The chief reason why apparently telepathic phenomena may
be thought accidental is that we have no notion how telepathy—
assuming that there is such a thing—causes the phenomena. We may
some time find traces of the method by which it works ; that is, we
may find some of the intermediate links between the cause and the
effect. But, so far, we not only have no knowledge of any inter
mediate links, but there is nothing which even affords any clue as to
the direction in which they should be looked for. Telepathy is
generally defined as the action of one mind on another otherwise than
through the recognised channels of sense. The action may be an
exclusively mental one. Of course, in the case of telepathy between
living persons, the brain of each person must be supposed to be
concerned in the action, but the communication between the two
minds may be exclusively mental, involving no physical energy of any
kind. This would make it much more difficult—if not impossible—to
discover the laws of the transmission, on account of the difficulty of
direct observation of any mental action outside our own minds. At
all events, the evidence for telepathy rests for the present on two
main lines of argument. The first is the fact that a large mass of
apparently miscellaneous phenomena, for the occurrence of which
there is strong evidence, can be reduced to order and coherence by the
hypothesis. It does not account for all the phenomena with which
the Society for Psychical Research deals ; but if we confine ourselves
to really well-authenticated cases, we find that it covers a large pro
portion, if not the great majority of them, just as the hypothesis or
theory of gravitation covers the apparently chaotic motions of the stars.
It is true that the theory of gravitation not only covers a much larger
number of cases than the theory of telepathy, but also involves all
sorts of complicated consequences, nothing clearly contradictory of
which has ever been observed. Still, it seems to me that the evidence
for both theories is practically the same from a qualitative point of
view, though so obviously not the same in quantity.
XXXV.] 161
Coiricidencen.
The second main argument for the existence of telepathy is that
the number of cases—which may he spoken of here as "coincidences,"
because it is always some kind of coincidence in them that indicates
their supposed telepathic nature—are far too numerous to be reason
ably attributed to chance. The argument is used for instance by De
Morgan (see A Budget of Paradoxes, pp. 279-280) with regard to
apparitions seen at the time of death. He points out that if there
was no causal connection between the apparition and the death, we
should expect to find a comparatively large proportion of cases of
what he calls " the wrong spectre,"—that is, cases in which it is seen
"at the moment of the death of one or another of all the cluster
who are closely connected with the original of the spectre," instead of
at the time of death of the original himself. But, says De Morgan,
this class of cases is "almost without example." As a matter of fact,
among our own more recent evidence, perhaps as many as half-a-dozen
cases are to be found in which a near relative of the dying person was
seen at the time of the death ; but this as compared with hundreds of
cases where the dying person himself was seen.
In the present state of obscurity as to the mode of action of
psychical causes, the statistical argument is the strongest one that we
can bring to bear in proof of their reality. Though we find its
importance recognised now and again by thinkers like De Morgan, and
even in much earlier times, and hints thrown out as to the necessity of
statistical investigations for settling the question of chance coincidence,
the first serious attempts to collect statistics on anything like an
adequate scale were made by the founders of the Society for Psychical
Research,— pre-eminently by Mr. Edmund Gurney,—and some of the
most important work done by the Society since has been on these lines.
I may recapitulate briefly some part of what has been done up to
the present. First, as to spontaneous cases of apparitions at the time
of death of the person seen. Apparitions of persons known to the
seer are not uncommonly seen when nothing particular is happening to
the person represented by the apparition. On the other hand, this
person sometimes dies at the time. Statistics have been collected by
the Society on an extensive scale to test whether the well-authenticated
coincidences of this kind are more numerous in proportion to the non-
coincidental apparitions than would be the case by chance, and they
were found to be very considerably more numerous.
Next, with regard to experiments in thought-transference. In the
early days of the Society, some of the most striking results obtained
were in experiments in which the percipient attempted to reproduce
drawings or diagrams made by the agent,—care being of course taken
to prevent the former from gaining knowledge of them through any of
the ordinary channels of sense,—and much useful work might be done
162 Alice Johnson. [part
now by persons who have opportunities of repeating these experiments.
They were criticised on the ground of the familiar fact that the minds
of men have a tendency to run in certain grooves,—so that, for
instance, if one is asked to think of or to draw objects, or to think of
playing-cards or numbers, each person, though he may not be aware of
it, has favourites and is more likely to think of some objects, cards, or
numbers, than others. These mental " habits," as they are sometimes
called, may be alike in several persons ; and when this is so in the case
of two experimenters, a certain proportion of the diagrams drawn by
the percipient may resemble those drawn by the agent, and thus
simulate the phenomenon of thought-transference. Similarly, if cards
or numbers are chosen by the agent, his mental habits may lead him to
choose a large proportion of those that happen also to be favourites
with the percipient, who will therefore have a better chance of guessing
right. This is, of course, one reason why it is always best for the agent
in experiments with cards or numbers to draw them at random from a
batch and not to choose them.
In order to test how far mental habits might have simulated
thought-transference in the experiments with diagrams, Colonel Taylor
carried out a series of dummy experiments, made in the same manner
as the experiments in thought-transference, but with the element of
thought-transference eliminated (see Proceedings of the S.P.R.,Yol. VI.,
p. 398). He got eighty persons to draw twenty-five diagrams each,
and so obtained 1,000 pairs of diagrams, which could be compared
according to a pre-arranged plan. The comparison showed how
many resemblances were actually produced by chance, combined with
similarity in the mental habits of the persons who drew the diagrams ;
and the number of resemblances were found to be proportionately far
less than those found in the experiments in thought-transference. 1
In experiments with drawings, where the number of possible
drawings is unrestricted, it is, of course, impossible to calculate how
many successes might be obtained by chance ; the question can only be
1 To this it may be objected that the persons who drew the diagrams being taken
at random, there was no reason to expect similarity in their mental habits ; whereas
—since some experiments in thought-transference fail, while others succeed—it might
be argued that only those succeed where the mental habits of agent and percipient
happen to be similar. Similarity of mental habits could not, of course, in any case
ensure success, because it would be very unlikely that the percipiont would think of
his favourite forms in the same order as the agent ; but it might increase the chance of
success. In many of the experiments in thought-transference, however, the diagrams
were drawn or selected by some person other than the agent, and not always the same
person, so that a yeneral similarity in mental habits—as well as a general tendency to
think of the favourites in the same order—would have to be assumed, and this seems
to be negatived by Colonel Taylor's experiments. The most crucial test of the hypo
thesis would be to see whether any considerable proportion of the diagrams in
successful experiments are those which there is reason to regard as general favourites,
and I do not think it is possible to maintain that this is the case.
XXXV.] 163
Coincidences.
tested empirically, and a very large number of trials is necessary to
ensure a completely satisfactory test.
Taking next the thought-transference of numbers, two Danish
psychologists, Messrs. Lehmann and Hansen, have attempted to prove
that unconscious whispering—a possible source of error which, I need
hardly say, had been present to the minds of the experimenters from
the first—accounted for the successes obtained. They found that
when they tried similar experiments with one another they had a
tendency to whisper the numbers unconsciously, and the one who was
playing the part of percipient at a little distance from the agent heard
indistinctly what was whispered, and thus often got the number right.
But the most important part of their criticism consisted in showing
that, when the number was guessed wrong, through being heard too
indistinctly, the same mistakes were often made as were made in the
experiments in thought-transference. For instance, 2—when it was
not guessed right—was guessed as 3 more often than anything else in
both sets of experiments. This suggested that the mistake was due
to the same cause, viz., indistinct hearing of a whispered sound, in
both cases. The argument was founded on coincidences in mistakes,
which were certainly striking at first sight. Further investigation,
however (see Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XII, p. 298), showed the
inconclusiveness of this reasoning. There was a certain series of
experiments in thought-transference in which agent and percipient
were in different houses, so that the hearing of unconscious whispering
was out of the question. In this series, the number of successes was
not above what might have been produced by chance ; so that all the
results that occurred in it—both right and wrong—were to be put
down to chance alone. Now it was found that there were quite as many
correspondences (as to the mistakes that were made most frequently)
between this series and Messrs. Hansen and Lehmann's whispered
series as between theirs and the thought-transference series. It follows
that the correspondences or coincidences that seemed so remarkable
were not beyond what chance could produce, so that no argument as
to the cause of the mistakes made could be founded on them.
In the present paper, no attempt is made to carry on further any
statistical inquiry of this kind, but rather to compare on more
general grounds the curious coincidences sometimes met with in
ordinary life to those met with in psychical research. With regard to
the examples selected, I have tried to consider as far as possible
whether they are due to some cause which is not immediately obvious ;
and if not, whether there is any reason to suppose that they are not
the result of chance. For this end, I endeavour to consider whether
the probability of their occurrence is great or small. In choosing
cases, I have been guided chiefly by the apparent improbability of
164 [PART
Alice Johnson.
their occurrence,—the common sense impression of their oddness. The
degree of improbability is sometimes less than the narrators of the
incidents seem to think ; but in most of my cases, no numerical
calculation of it is possible ; only a very rough estimate can be formed,
and on general grounds alone. There is, however, a case of two
persons guessing independently the numbers drawn in a lottery, where
the chances against the double event were calculated by a competent
mathematician as about 22 billions to 1 (see p. 249). It is very
remarkable that a coincidence such as this should occur,—by which I
mean that it must be so exceedingly rare that we are justified in
feeling surprised when we meet with it. But if nobody ever met
with such a coincidence, we should be still more surprised ; as the
very reasoning which shows us that it is not likely to occur more than
once in a certain large number of times, shows us also that it is not
likely to occur less than once. The improbability in this particular
case is enormously in excess of the improbability of any one of the
coincidences we meet with in psychical research,—so far as we are able
to estimate them numerically. But, as already implied, for the proof
that these psychical coincidences are beyond chance, we do not depend
on the degree of improbability of any one coincidence, but on the
accumulation of many coincidences of certain well-defined types ; and
in deciding whether other coincidences are accidental, we have to
consider whether they too fall into natural classes too numerous to be
accounted for by chance.
Since we are dealing with cases which —like apparitions seen at
the time of death —obviously might be due to chance alone, the
question is complicated by an inevitable uncertainty as to which
coincidences, if any, are due to chance and which are not. All that
the theory of probability can tell us is that out of a certain number of
events, the most likely number of coincidences is so-and-so. If we find
the actual number to be largely in excess of this, we are justified in
thinking it probable that something beyond chance has operated in the
whole group of events taken together. But we are not justified in
drawing any conclusion about any individual coincidence. The very
same reasoning that has led to the conclusion that the whole group of
coincidences taken together is not due to chance involves the assumption
that some of the coincidences are due to chance, and affords no criterion
by which we can distinguish these coincidences from the others. In
course of time, however, we may learn enough about all the circum
stances and processes concerned to enable us to distinguish between
casual coincidences and those which arise from a cause, and reasoned
speculation based on psychical research has, in fact, already reached
such a stage that we may often be more or less convinced on rational
grounds as to the nature of a given coincidence.
XXXV.] 165
Coincidences.
CHAPTER I.
ON THE ClASSIFICATION OF COINCIDEncES.
" To understand what a thing is, one must generally give some attention
to appreciating what it is not. . . . Applying this plan to the term
' Chance,' there will be found to be two sets of terms which are very com
monly used to indicate an antithesis. One of these is 'Causation,' and its
synonymes, and the other ' Choice ' or ' Design.' These two sets of terms
mark in strictness ... a very different kind of opposition ; but the
controversies to which they give rise will be found to overlap, and in some
instances to merge into one another."—J. Venn. The £u>/ic of Chance.
(2nd Edition, p. 224).
The quotation just given suggests a basis for the provisional
classification of Coincidences which I propose to adopt. I divide
them accordingly into three classes:— (A) Coincidences suggestive of
" Causation " ; (B) Coincidences suggestive of " Design " ; (C) Coin
cidences due to " Chance."
(A) Coincidences suggestive of "Causation." In this class there
seems to be a definite causal connection between the coinciding events.
Either one causes the other, or both are due to a common cause, such as
thunder and lightning resulting from a certain condition of the atmo
sphere. The mere fact of two events frequently happening together
may lead to the discovery of new causes. Many scientific discoveries
have, indeed, resulted from the observation and study of coincidences.
When the things that coincide are due to chains of causes that are
up to a certain point independent, the coincidence may yet be by no
means accidental. Examples of this may be found in the extra
ordinarily minute imitation of plants or other objects by some animals,
especially insects, the imitation being so close as frequently to deceive
both other animals and human beings. For instance, the following
account of an incident observed by Mr. Belt in Nicaragua is given
in Wallace's Darwinism (2nd Edition, p. 203). Describing the
armies of foraging ants in the forests which devour every insect they
can catch, Mr. Belt says :—" I was much surprised with the
behaviour of a green leaf-like locust. This insect stood immovably
among a host of ants, many of which ran over its legs without ever
discovering there was food within their reach. So fixed was its
instinctive knowledge that its safety depended on its immovability,
that it allowed me to pick it up and replace it among the ants without
making a single effort to escape. This species closely resembles a green
leaf." Now the ants no doubt took the locust for a green lea?, and if
166 [part
Alice Johnson.
they had been able to consider how it had been produced, they would
probably have argued that, like other green leaves, it had grown on a
tree. A very little knowledge of natural history suffices to show that
the antecedents of a locust are totally different from those of a green
leaf,—that two independent chains of antecedent events have in this
case produced two closely similar effects. But a good deal of further
investigation is required to prove that the similarity is not accidental,
but was brought about by a definite cause, —the gradual selection in
one generation of locusts after another of the individuals who escaped
destruction through a constantly increasing resemblance to their
surroundings.
(B) Coincidences suggestive of "Design." Design is, of course,
a cause, but from some aspects of such a different character from
other causes that it is convenient to treat it separately. Typical
instances of the class are coincidences or combinations of events that
make so decidedly for the convenience or inconvenience of particular
individuals that—to their minds, at least—the idea of a special
intervention on their behalf or against them may be forcibly suggested.
Yet these combinations of events may seem to be of exactly the same
character as many other combinations which affect nobody, and are
therefore considered accidental, their only distinguishing feature being
their importance to the individual. Thus, supposing a man misses a
train through his watch being slow and the train meets with an
accident in which all the passengers are killed ; or supposing he
misses a train which meets with an accident in which no one is
injured. The two coincidences would be of just the same apparently
accidental character ; yet he would probably be inclined to attach
much more significance to the first than to the second. It is, of
course, easy to suppose that the man's watch would have been slow
that day in any case, quite irrespective of what was going to happen
to the train—that, in fact, it was not specially contrived to make him
miss the train; just as we assume, speaking generally, that the numbers
that turn up in a lottery are determined by chance, without reference
to the question whether any one has a stake on them or not. Still,
coincidences of this kind may conveniently be treated as a separate
class.
(C) Coincidences due to " Chance," that is, those in which the
coinciding events are due to independent causes. Mr. Gurney
makes the following remark on casual coincidences (see Phantasms
of the Living, Vol. II., p. 18, foot-note) :—" In a general way,
coincidences where previous experience affords some ground for
suspecting (however faintly) a cause other than chance are distin-
guished*from coincidences where no such ground exists by this fact—
XXXV.] 167
Coincidences.
that the latter sort of cases, if a priori highly improbable, are
not mentioned or described until after they have happened. From
the mere fact that they do not belong to any known or surmised type,
they do not enter into any one's head ; no one suggests, without any
sort of grounds, that a particular thing will happen to some one at
a particular time, or predicts any particular highly improbable coin
cidence, and then afterwards finds this thing or this coincidence
actually occurring." For instance, he says, "The odds are very great
against two of the foremost men in a century being born on the same
day ; yet this happened in the case of Darwin and Lincoln, and no
one imagines that the one birth depended on the other."
There are two obviou3 difficulties in making use of the provisional
classification suggested: (1) we often cannot tell to which class a
given coincidence belongs ; and (2) doubts may arise as to what dis
tinctions really exist between the classes. The second point needs
discussion first, the words " Design," " Causation," and " Chance "
having been used above in their ordinary popular sense, which perhaps
requires definition.
Design and the antithesis between it and Chance.
The word " Design " is generally intended to convey the idea that
an intelligent Will is manipulating circumstances with some pur
pose—some end in view. When we speak of the means as being
considered more important than the end—if, e.g., a man refuses to
gain some advantage for himself by an immoral action—this is rather
a loose way of speaking. We do not really mean that the end is
disregarded ; but that the end ultimately aimed at is not the particular
advantage, but morality. Whatever the end may be, and though it
may vary from moment to moment, there is always at any given
moment in the case of intelligent human action, some end which is
aimed at. Effort is concentrated and attention chiefly fixed on one
circumstance or condition, all the others being regarded as relatively
unimportant. For a finite intelligence with personal interests, it is
indeed inevitable that certain things should seem vastly more important
than others.
The antithesis between Chance and Design is clear, so long as we
confine ourselves to human action. To say that a series of events is
a Chance series, and not produced by Design, means that human voli
tion determines that some events of certain kinds shall occur, but does
not choose exactly which event it shall be each time, leaving this to
depend on the external physical conditions, which are expressly
arranged in such a way as to allow of several alternative events. For
instance, in games of pure chance, the player places the object used in
N
168 [paut
Alice Johnson.
such a position (e.g., up in the air) that one of several things must
happen (e.g., if the object has several flat faces, it must fall on one of
them) ; but he expressly abstains from determining which of the things
shall happen. If, instead of behaving thus, he deliberately aims at
producing one event to the exclusion of the other possible ones, the
event is said to be due to Design.
Another typical case is that of a marksman, with some degree of
skill, firing at a target, when the particular arrangement of any large
number of shots on the target will be the result of Chance. Here the
centre of the target may be compared with the particular event in a
game of chance on which the player stakes at any given moment. It
is true that the two cases are not altogether analagous, because the
general distribution of the shots depends to a considerable extent on
the skill of the marksman. The greater his skill, the more will they
cluster about the centre. Whereas in a game of pure chance, the
variations in the events depend merely on the external conditions, and
not at all on the actions of the player. But the marksman also de
liberately leaves something to be determined by external conditions,—
such as gravitation and the wind,—which he does not attempt to con
trol, though he varies his own action to allow for them. If he simply
determined to touch the centre of the target with the bullet, he might
carry it in his hand up to the target and do so, just as the player
might keep his dice in his hand and turn them at will. This would be
the work of Design in both cases. But whenever Design, of its own
accord, stops short of deciding between several alternatives, the final
result is due to Chance.
A Chance series such as the distribution of shots on a target is often
represented by a diagram like the following.1 BAC is a horizontal
BKHGADEFC
straight line, whose central point A represents the centre of the target ;
other points, D, E, F, G, H, K, in the line to the right and left of A,
represent areas in the target at distances to the right and left of its
1 The samediagram can be used to represent various features in a series of throws
of dice, etc., but the method of doing so is a rather more complicated one, and the
explanation of it is therefore omitted.
xxxvl] 169
Coincidences.
centre,1 proportionate to the distances of the respective points from A.
From all these points vertical lines are drawn upwards, proportionate
in length to the number of shots that hit the corresponding areas in
the target. If the upper ends of these lines be joined together, the line
joining them approaches to the form of a curve, as shown in the figure.
The larger the number of shots, the smaller is it feasible to make the
subdivisions in the target and the corresponding subdivisions in the line
B A C, and the smoother and more symmetrical will the curve repre
senting the distribution of the shots become. The ideal chance distribu
tion in such a case is represented by a perfectly symmetrical curve,
and when any curve representing a large number of incidents or events
approximates closely to this, there is strong presumption that the whole
series was due to Chance and not to Design (or any other cause).
It is, however, often very difficult to find out what has produced a
single event. For instance, if we only saw the upshot of a single
event—say, a pair of dice lying on a table with certain faces upper
most—it would be impossible to say whether this had been produced
l>y Chance or Design.
In some individual cases, however, there may be grounds for form
ing a judgment on this point. Suppose, for instance, that in a game of
whist all the thirteen trumps are found in one hand. A hand of thirteen
trumps is a highly improbable hand, but is just as likely to occur by
chance as any other given hand. In other words, among all the millions
of possible hands, there is no one individual case which is more likely
to occur than the case of thirteen trumps. It is, of course, infinitely
more probable that some other one among the millions should turn up,
hut not at all more probable that any particular one should do so.
It was, then, quite possible that the thirteen trumps came into one
hand by Chance. The reason why we may doubt if they did so has
nothing to do with our knowledge of the workings of Chance, which
practically gives us no help in the case. It is simply that some one
profits by the hand of thirteen trumps more than he would by any
other hand, and there is therefore a motive for him to manipulate the
pack with a view to this result. Such a case does not, of course,
afford conclusive proof of Design, but it certainly affords evidence of
it—evidence more or less strong, according to the circumstances.
T/ie Operation of Chance in Nature.
There are many groups of things in Nature, altogether outside
human control, which it is possible to represent by diagrams like the
1 The particular method of subdivision of the target into areas is a matter of detail.
Perhaps the best way would be to divide it into concentric ring-shaped areas round the
bull'seye, and then draw a vertical line through the centre and take as units the halves
of the areas on the right and left sides of the vertical line.
N 2
170 Alice Johnson. [part
one given above ; for instance, the heights of a large number of men,—
if represented in the same way as the shots on the target, —will form a
similar curve, the number of men of the average height being indicated
by the central vertical line, and the numbers of men of various
heights in excess or defect of this by the vertical lines on either
side of the centre. These become shorter as they recede from the
centre, showing that the more any height differs from the average,
the fewer men of that height are to be found. The average in this
case may be called the type, and the analogy is suggested of Nature
aiming at the type, as the marksman aims at the centre of the target
This is, of course, nothing more than an analogy, though in some
respects a very close and instructive one. Among the two series, we
may find several instances of (a) two men of the same height, and of
(6) two shots hitting the same spot on the target. All these are
accidental coincidences, that is, similar effects produced by independent
causes ;—the heights do not influence one another, nor do the shots.
The coincidences obviously become more numerous as we approach
the average height in one case and the centre of the target in
the other; since in doing so, there are a greater number of heights or
shots, as the case may be, per unit of area. This, however, does not
make the coincidences any the less accidental ; they are only the more
likely to occur.
The same remarks would apply to the heights of a number of hills
as to the heights of the men. If any of them coincide, it is not the
result of some force directed towards making one the same height as
another. Separate causes have acted in each case, and it is only by
accident that similar effects have been produced.
Suppose, however, we compare with this the heights of the tide in
a number of different places. If the tide is at the same height at a
given moment in two places a little way off each other, this coincidence
is not accidental, but produced by a common cause,—the combined
attraction of the sun and moon on the two places.
A practical criterion of whether these three kinds of coincidences
are accidental or not may be afforded by asking the question :—
Does knowledge of the height of one man, or hill, or tide, enable us to
infer what the height of another specimen of the same class will be 1
After measuring the height of one man, we should expect to find
that another will be more nearly of his height than of the height, say,
of a giraffe or of an ant ; and the more men we measured, the greater
would be our confidence that any other man's height would come
within certain limits ; similarly with the heights of hills (though here
a certain vagueness would be introduced by having to settle arbitrarily
what height must be attained before a rising of the ground can be
called a hill at all). A.similar method might also be applied to tides ;
XXXV.] 171
Coincidences.
we might satisfy ourselves by a large number of measurements that the
heights of all terrestial tides would be almost certain to lie within
certain limits.
The distinction between the classes lies in the fact that in the cases
of men and hills, we should never reach the point of predicting exactly
what the height of any one specimen would be, because the heights
are produced in each specimen by causes that are to a large extent
independent of the causes that affect the other specimens ; whereas
exact measurement of the height of one tide (combined with other
ascertainable facts) might theoretically give us the heights of all other
individual tides, because of the common cause producing all of them.
(For a full discussion of a case illustrating this theoretical distinction,
see Appendix IV.)
Distinction between Causation and Design.
By " Causation " we mean such a connection between events that
the same consequences always follow from the same antecedents.
Causation is a more general term than Design—Design being merely a
special case of Causation. There is therefore no antithesis belween
the two terms, and they are sometimes used to imply two different
aspects of the same thing. When we speak of Design in an action
we are thinking of the subjective aspect, —the point of view of the
active Intelligence controlling it. When we speak of Causation we are
referring to the objective aspect—the method of action used to produce
the result.
Causation and Design in Nature.
Many of the operations of Nature—of inanimate Nature, at least
—carry with them no suggestion of their existing for the sake of any
purpose or end. They merely present the appearance of a number of
events inevitably following by fixed laws the events that have gone
before them, and inevitably leading on in a similar way to future
events—that is, they seem simply to exemplify the working of Causa
tion. When we come to sentient living organisms, individual Wills
and Designs begin to come into existence, and there begins to be
scope for the pursuit on their part of the one most obvious and rational
purpose of Happiness. We may next imagine a Universal Design,
embodying and transcending the designs of all the individuals. But
the working of Causation is in no way excluded or superseded by the
existence of Design. The conception of Causation seems to imply that
each separate item with which it is concerned forms part of one large
scheme of which every portion is important as regards the whole,—since
the character of the whole would be altered if it were absent, or in any
way different from what it is,—but of little or no importance as regards
itself taken alone. Supposing that the whole of creation were made
172 [part
Alice Johnson.
up in this way of parts, past, present and future, all rigidly determin
ing one another, it would not even then follow that Design was
absent, for the whole scheme might obviously be the work of Design.
Further, this Design might—as a human being would in an analogous
case,—regard some parts of the scheme as more important than others,
and construct it with some view to the happiness of individual
organisms.
To illustrate this point, let us consider the case of eclipses of the
sun or moon. These eclipses can only be of extremely slight im
portance in the solar system, involving nothing more than a brief
interception of the rays of light falling on part of the earth or moon,
while the effect of gravitation on the sun, earth, and moon at the
time is very slightly different from its effects under other circum
stances. That is, on the whole the condition of the three bodies at
the time of an eclipse is imperceptibly different from their condition
an hour before or an hour after the eclipse. For the astronomer,
however, there are few events that can compare in importance with
these eclipses, from which a great part of his knowledge has been
derived. Yet we do not suppose that the solar system was arranged
so that eclipses might occur with a special view of instructing
astronomers ; because we see that it would be difficult,—if not im
possible,—to construct a solar system in which eclipses did not occur
on anything in the least like its present plan. They are clearly a sort
of bye-product of the general scheme, and the fact that their
occurrence tends to facilitate scientific discovery does not affect our
view of them. Still, it does not seem altogether irrational to suppose
that this incidental advantage may have been one of the points taken
into consideration in constructing the whole plan.
At the same time, it is difficult to see how there could be any clear
proof that the universe was the work of Design and not the result of
unintelligent mechanical forces, except through some striking change
in the known and more or less familiar course of Causation ; while,
even if such a change occurred, it would always be possible to put it
down to the action of a cause, similar in kind to known ones, but
manifest only on rare occasions.
Distinction between Chance and Causation.
The distinction between Chance and Causation is theoretically
a perfectly sharp and clear one. Causation is an even and inevitable
flow of sequences, unhurried and uninterrupted. If we were able
to isolate a simple series of events causally connected (as we can isolate
a chance series of events) it would appear that each event depended
on the preceding ones, and contributed to the sum of conditions
by which all the following ones were determined, so that knowledge of
XXXV.] 173
Coincidences.
what had happened up to a certain point would help us to guess what
would happen next. There are a great many cases in which we are
practically certain about the future, e.g., that the sun will rise
to-morrow morning, or that if we throw a stone up in the air it will
fall down again. The convenience of this practical certainty is too
obvious for remark. There are a great many other cases in which we
are only uncertain of the future for want of knowledge of the
circumstances. An extension of the same sort of knowledge we now
possess would add—it seems that it might go on adding almost
indefinitely—to our power of predicting the future. But this would
hold only on the assumption that the same consequences would always
follow the same antecedents ; that is, it is only true when we are
dealing with events that are causally connected.
Chance may be regarded either as a constant interruption of a
sequence of causally connected events, or—what is the same thing—
the breaking up of a long sequence into a number of little short
separate sequences, to each one of which the term " event " is applied ;
for instance, in throwing a pair of dice several times, the whole of
what happens from the beginning of one throw to the beginning
of the next is called an " event." In a Chance series each " event "
is determined independently of all the others, so that the events
exercise no influence on one another. The result is that what has
already happened gives us no indication whatever of what is likely
to happen next. We know that it will be one out of several things,
, because we arbitrarily limit the conditions so that only certain things
can happen ; but we cannot possibly tell which of these things will
happen.
As was said above in contrasting Chance with Design, it is com
paratively easy to determine whether a long series of events has been
produced by Chance or by some cause, but it may often be difficult to
judge of the origin of a single conjunction of events, or coincidence.
Even here, however, some principles are available for guidance ; e.g.,
an exact and detailed agreement or resemblance between two things
will suggest a cause for the resemblance, and it may be so detailed
that we are practically certain that it is not accidental.
Theoretically, no degree of complexity and exactness would conclu
sively prove this. Thus, Dr. Venn remarks, in his Logic of Chance
(p. 380) :—" [Suppose that all the letters of the alphabet are contained
in a bag and that one is drawn at a time from the bag and then
replaced.] If the letters were written down one after another as they
occurred, it would commonly be expected that they would be found to
make mere nonsense, and would never arrange themselves into the
words of any language known to men. No more they would in
general, but ... if the process were continued long enough,
174 Alice Johnson.
words making sense would appear ; nay more, . . . any book we
chose to mention,—Milton's Paradise Lost or the plays of Shakespeare,
f )r example,—would be produced iu this way at last. It would take
almost as many days as we have space in this volume to represent in
figures, to make tolerably certain of obtaining the former of these
works by thus drawing letters out of a bag, but the desired result
would be obtained at length."
Practically, however, if we come across a book with the title,
Paradise Lost, we are absolutely certain that its close agreement with
other books bearing the same title has not been produced accidentally by
putting together a number of letters taken at random, but is due to
their all being copies of the same original. And a very much lower
degree of correspondence in detail may lead to the view that a
coincidence of this kind is not accidental. As an illustration, I
give the following extract from an article on "Coincidences" by
Professor Max Miiller in The Fortnightly Review for July, 1896
(Vol. IX., p. 48). The article relates to some of the resemblances
between Christian and Buddhist writings. Professor Max Miiller
tells us that the Buddhist Canon was reduced to writing between
88 and 76 B.C., and he gives several instances of stories in it closely
resembling some Bible stories, e.g. ;—
We read in Jdtaka, 190 (Vol. II., p. 77):—"One evening, on his way
to Jetavana, he, the disciple of Buddha, came to the bank of the
river Achiravat!, when the ferrymen had pulled up their boats on
the shore in order to attend service. As no boat could be seen at
the landing-stage and our friend's mind was full of delightful thoughts
of the Buddha, ho walked into the river. His feet did not sink below
the water. He got as far as mid-river, walking as though he were on
dry land ; but there he noticed the waves. Then his ecstasy subsided and
his feet began to sink. Again he strung himself up to high tension and
walked on over the water. So he arrived at Jetavana, greeted the Master,
and took a seat on one side. The Master entered into conversation with
him pleasantly. ' I hope, good layman,' said he, ' you had no mishap on
your way.' ' Oh, sir,' he replied, 'on my way I was so absorbed in thoughts
of the Buddha that I set foot upon the river ; but I walked over it as
though it had been dry ground ! ' 'Ah, friend layman,' said the Master,
' you are not the only one who has kept safe by remembering the virtues of
the Buddha.' "
In this case the more walking on the water would not startle me so much,
for among miracles this is not a very uncommon miracle. But walking on
the water by faith, and sinking from want of faith, seems a coincidence
that can be accounted for by some historical contact and transference only,
and in this case we must remember that the date of the Buddhist parable is
chronologically anterior to the date of the Gospel of St. Luke.
One more coincidence and I have done. You all know the parable of
Christ feeding the five thousand. . . . Well, in the 78th Jataka, as
pointed out to me by Professor Estlin Carpenter, we read of Buddha receiving
XXXV.] 175
Coincidences.
one cake in his alms-bowl, and after he had fed his five hundred brethren as
well as his host and hostess, nay, all the people in the monastery, there were
still so many cakes over that they had to be thrown into a cave near the
gateway.
Here again, there is, no doubt, some dissimilarity, but the similarity is
far stronger, and requires some kind of explanation. We should remember
that the Greeks also did not tell their ordinary fables exactly as the Hindus
did, nor need the Jatakas of Buddha be the mere copies of the New
Testament parables, or pice versa. Yet we could hardly deny that commu
nication and exchange there must have been. The chapter of accidents may
be much larger than we imagine, but when we have to deal with fully
elaborated stories, with tales composed for a moral purpose, we can hardly
fall back on mere chance.
. . . It is not enough that these coincidences should be pointed out ;
they should be traced to their real source. We have to decide once for all
whether we can honestly ascribe them to mere accident, or to our common
human nature, or whether we must ascribe them to some real historical
intercourse between Buddism and Christianity. If they can be accounted
for by our common human nature, let it bo done by pointing out analogous
cases. If they can be ascribed to mere accident, again I say let us have
similar cases from the chapter of accidents.
Similar evidence of a cause for such coincidences is afforded when
the resemblances, although not very close, are repeated several times ;
for instance, when all the main incidents of a story, though with
more or less varying details, are found among several distinct
races, like the "far-travelled tale" of Jason and Medea, variants
of which Mr. Andrew Lang has pointed out in Zulu, Gaelic,
Norse, Malagasy, Russian, Italian and Japanese mythology. He
gives this (in Custom and Myth) as an instance of a story which
" may have been diffused by slow filtration from race to race all over
the globe." Speaking of the resemblances between myths in general,
he remarks {op. cit , Preface, pp. ix.-x.) :—
"As a rule, the incidents in Marchen are common to all races;
an artistic combination of many of these in a plot must probably be
due to a single imagination, and the plot must have been diffused in
the ways described in Custom and Myth. Independently evolved
myths may closely resemble each other when they account for some
natural phenomenon, or are based on some common custom. Where-
ever a sequence of such incidents is found in a distinct and artistic
plot, we may provisionally assign diffusion from an original centre
as that cause. Singular as are the coincidences of fancy, it is unlikely
that they ever produced exactly the same tale in lands which have
never been in communication with each other. . . . The suggestion
that exactly the same plot, in exactly the same shape, and with
exactly the same incidents, can have been invented by several persons
independently, seems to me inconceivable. ... I believe in no
176 [pakt
Alice Johnson.
such exact coincidences of imagination, though how far precisely
coincidence may go is a delicate question."
It is, of course, possible to attribute a great many of the slighter
coincidences met with in folk-lore and other forms of literature to the
fact that a large proportion of the current stock of ideas in religion,
poetry, and philosophy are the common property of the human race.
But whether any given coincidence of this kind is to be put down to
this or some other cause, or to chance, is obviously a question which
only scholars can settle.
Chance not the Negation of Law. ,
Many persons are unwilling to admit the agency of Chance in any
matter outside games of chance and the like, because they imagine
that this is tantamount to admitting that phenomena may belong to a
realm of chaos, and not of law. But more careful investigation shows
that it is merely a question of whether they come under the jurisdic
tion of one set of partiallyknown laws—the laws of Causation, oranother
set—the laws of Chance. The second set is perhaps even less known,
and in a certain sense more mysterious, than the first set. Yet there
are clear traces of some definite method in its operation, and it does not
even entirely supersede the .first. Chance is not the destruction of Causa
tion, but merely a peculiar relationship of Causes to one another. The
principle governing it may be described briefly as that of order in the
mass, combined with disorder in the constituent units of the mass,
and some of the various features and developments of this principle
are discussed more fully in the next chapter. Meanwhile, since we
sometimes find the same characteristics occurring in nature as in the
chance series produced by art and man's device, the question arises
whether to apply the same rules of interpretation to tbem, —the same
tests for deciding whether a given coincidence or combination of events
is really produced by a discoverable natural cause, or by an intelligent
extra-human design, or by chance. When studying an artificial series
of events we first try to find out if there is anything in it different
from what generally occurs in a chance series. If not, we regard it
as due to chance, and this method is generally valid, because it is
very difficult to simulate a chance series by design. Yet such an
imitation may be so skilful as to escape detection for a long time (see
the account of Monte Carlo roulette below, p. 191 ). If the operation
of design has been long overlooked at Monte Carlo, afortiori we may
fail to detect evidence of it in the universe.
Again, it has been remarked above that if we only see a single
event, or group of events, in an artificial series, we may have reason to
think that it was produced by Design, and not by Chance, if there is
some one who profits greatly by it. Is it altogether irrational to apply
XXXV.] 177
Coincidences.
the same argument to things that are beyond human control, and to
maintain that events making for the special advantage of individuals
afford some evidence of Design—not conclusive proof, of course, but
evidence 1
The reply is fairly obvious that we do not know what is really and
ultimately for the best advantage of individuals. An optimistic
philosophy will hold that everything that happens is for the best ; if
so, it follows that Design is manifested in everything, not only or
specially in certain cases. And this indeed seems the only possible
philosophic interpretation of Chance itself—that it is produced by a
supreme Design. In our artificial chance series, it is human design
that brings the series into existence, while cutting short its own
influence at a certain stage in each event of the series. In the
universe, we can hardly suppose that Design, if it exists at all, can stop
short anywhere ; rather we must conceive of it both as producing and
using either causally connected groups of events, or chance series of
events, at will. All existing entities may be " Pieces of the Game,"
which may be in reality a game of skill, and not of chance.
178 [part
Alice Johnson.
CHAPTER IL
GEnerAl DISCUSSION OF CIIANCE.
Though the word " Chance " is one in constant use, there are
perhaps few terms about which so much real obscurity of thought
exists ; it may therefore be worth while to discuss it at some length.
The difficulty of defining Chance consists in its attributes being
chiefly negative ; for this reason any general assertions about it often
fail to convey any precise meaning, unless reference is made to special
cases in what is called a " Chance series of events," such as throws
of a penny.
In speaking of a Chance series, it must be remembered that what
we are considering is an ideal Chance series ; that is, one in which (1)
the penny or whatever other object is used is so constructed as to be
without any bias which would cause one side to be uppermost oftener
than the other ; and (2) the person tossing it takes care to avoid any
procedure which would cause one side to turn up oftener than the
other. This ideal may never be perfectly attained in any actual
series, but it must be assumed in discussing the subject of Chance ;
just as in geometry the properties of ideal circles and straight lines
are considered, not such circles and straight lines as are seen in
diagrams, however accurately drawn.
Probability and Expectation.
If we say that at any point in a series of throws of a penny, the
chances of heads or tails turning up are equal, we mean—for one
thing—that our expectations of them are equal,—that we do not
expect one event at all more than the other. The expectation is then
expressed numerically by the fraction \.
The first explanation that would occur to us of this state of mind
would perhaps be that it was founded on our ignorance, inasmuch as
we know of no reason why one side should turn up rather than the
other. Further consideration shows that it depends rather on our
knowledge, derived from experience, that the two events occur on the
whole equally often.
Expectation is equivalent to what may be called the subjective
probability of the events ; the objective probability having reference
to what actually happens.
The term "objective probability " may be applied either to a single
event or to a series of events. The objective probability of a single
event, say, a head, is always the same, viz., 1 or 0, since a head must
XXXV.] 179
Coincidences.
either turn up or not. The expectation of a single event can never
correspond to its objective probability, since we cannot confidently
expect either a head or a tail. The expectation is therefore a fraction,
—in this case
When we speak of objective probability with reference to a series
of events, we mean the comparative frequency with which the various
events occur. Having found by experience what this has been in a
large number of series, we draw the inference that it is likely to be
the same in future series of the same kind. In this case, subjective
probability (or expectation) may correspond more or less closely with
objective probability (or comparative frequency) : in throwing a coin,
the expectation of a head is which is what its comparative
frequency has been in a very large number of previous cases. The
expectation, therefore,—unlike the objective probability,—is the same
in the single event as in the series, since it is founded solely on
experience of the series.
The expectation depends on the assumption that the series under
consideration is essentially similar in all respects to the series of
previous experience. If we know that it is similar in some respects,
but not in all,—without knowing exactly in what the difference con
sists,—we can only found our expectation on what we know,—namely,
the similarity, as far as it goes. Thus, supposing that the penny used
in our series has a decided bias, from being made unsymmetrically, or
that the person throwing it has a decided tendency to throw in a certain
way, one side would be likely to turn up oftener than the other. We
might know that there was a decided bias from one or other of these
causes ; but, unless we knew which way the bias tended, we should
have no more reason for expecting one side than the other, so that our
expectation of heads or tails would still be \. But the objective
probability (or comparative frequency) would of course be different.
Now, in each individual event of any series, there always must
be a bias, that is, the forces tending to make one side turn up must
be stronger than those tending to make the other side turn up, or else
neither side would turn up ; that is, the objective probability of the
single event, as already remarked, is 1 or 0. The ideal chance series
may be described as one in which there is a bias, but the bias varies
from moment to moment, and what we expect is very much the same on
the whole as what happens.
The same equality of expectation and objective probability is found
in series where there is a constant bias, provided we know enough about
it to be able to estimate its effects numerically. Thus, suppose we have
a bag containing 75 white balls and 25 black ones, and draw out a ball
without having seen it a number of times (putting it back after each
draw). We should then expect to draw a white ball three times as
180 [part
Alice Johnson.
often as a black one, and both the expectation and the probability of
a white ball being drawn can be expressed by the fraction ^. This
is, of course, a mere extension of exactly the same sort of condition as
that in which the chances of the two events are equal.
But if there were a constant bias of whose nature, or even of
whose existence, we were ignorant, expectation and objective pro
bability would no longer be equal, but might diverge greatly ; the
results expected might be very different from those that actually
occurred. In trying to estimate what those results were likely
to be, we could, of course, only go by what we knew ; our estimate
would represent expectation, not probability ; and it would be the
divergence found between the expected and the actual results that
would reveal the bias to us.
So far, I have spoken of expectation that is founded on purely
rational grounds, on inference from known matters of fact—not neces
sarily what people do expect, but what they should expect. In the
ordinary affairs of life, we are, of course, guided by many other influ
ences besides reason in forming expectations; emotions, such as desire
and fear, play a large part in producing them. Thus the divergence
between what we expect and what happens is due not only to our
ignorance, but to a varied complication of causes. For instance, if a
man himself or some one in whom he is greatly interested is in danger,
—say, in a battle,—his expectation of a fatal result may be much
greater than would be warranted by a calculation of the actual pro
portion of persons killed out of all those who had taken part in the
battle (which would give roughly the rational basis for expectation
that any particular person should be killed). Similarly, there is a
case in my possession of a veridical dream about a shipwreck (which I
have been obliged to omit for want of space, but which will, I hope, lye
printed soon in the Journal S.P.R.) in which the narrator, apparently
through his emotional interest in the story, calculates the chance of
survival after shipwreck as being almost infinitesimal ; whereas if he
had considered the actual number of survivors, say, of all the ship
wrecks that had occurred during the present century, the chance
would, I think, have appeared very much greater.
In judging of the origin of some kinds of coincidences, however,
expectation is the more important consideration, because it may have
some causal efficacy in producing them. If, e.g., we are discussing
whether an apparition seen at the time of death was produced by
telepathy or by anxiety about the person seen, it is important to know,
not so much whether there was reason for expectation that the person
would die, but what degree of emotional interest the seer took in him,
and the extent to which he was likely to allow this to influence his
expectation.
XXXV.] 181
Coincidences.
The Relation of Events in a Chance Series to one another.
If we have two ideal chance series, produced, say, by two persons,
A and B, tossing pennies simultaneously, it is obvious that the two
series do not affect one another in any way, so that if A's penny turns
up a head at the same time as B's, the coincidence is not due to any
influence of the throws on one another, but is accidental,—due to
Chance. In other words, it was not caused by anything. In saying
that nothing caused the coincidence, I do not, of course, mean that
nothing caused the coinciding events. We do not know exactly what
made the penny turn up a head in either case, but we know it was
some definite cause in both cases. Given all the conditions,—the
resistance of the air, the smoothness of the surface it fell on, the
particular way it was thrown, and so on,—the result of the throw was
definitely determined from the instant the penny left the thrower's
hand, or perhaps a little earlier. The point is that the chain of
causation breaks off completely at the end of each throw or event,
and begins entirely afresh at the next one, so that what is true of the
relation of the events in the two series to one another is equally true
of the relation of the events in each series to one another. The whole
of each series is like a number of " broken arcs " to which there is no
corresponding " perfect round," since the breaches are absolute.
Since there is no causal connection between the events, it makes no
difference whether they occur simultaneously or successively. Further,
their order can be changed in any way we like—provided it is done on
some arbitrary principle, irrespective of the nature of the events,—
and the nature of the series will remain unaltered. Thus, we might
take them in the reverse order, or reverse the order of each successive
pair of events, or of every alternate pair ; we might omit every other
event, or every third event, without changing the nature of the series,
if it were a sufficiently long one. If, however, we began to change the
series with reference to the nature of the events, we should at once
introduce a fresh element. Thus, if we omitted every fifth head, or
changed every tail coming after a succession of three tails into a head,
the series would no longer be a Chance series, but one produced, or at
least affected, by Design. Conversely, if, in a long series, we find any
principle of arrangement recurring much oftener than would be likely
by chance alone (the probability of such recurrence can, of course, be
estimated precisely) we suspect, with more or less confidence, that the
series is not due to Chance only, but to Design. A mere omission of
an improbable event may lead to suspicion if continued long enough.
For instance, if we went on tossing a penny 20,000 times and never
got more than six heads or six tails running, we should know that
there was some special cause at work, preventing a longer succession.
182 [part
Alice Johnson.
Something very much like this has been discovered by Professor Karl
Pearson in the case of Monte Carlo roulette (see p. 191).
Another result of the fact that events in a Chance series have no
influence on one another is that, if all the events are equally probable,
any set of events is as likely to occur as any other set of the same
length. For instance, a hand of thirteen trumps (as mentioned
above) is as likely as any other specified hand at whist. Or, again,
in twelve throws of a penny we are as likely to get twelve heads as
to get (1) six heads followed by six tails, or (2) heads and tails
alternately. There is, I think, a real practical difficulty in grasping
this idea, which seems to me to arise from failing to realise that the
whole twelve throws are being considered in each case. We know
that six heads running is more likely than twelve heads running, and
that one head followed by one tail is more probable still ; also that in
twelve throws we are much more likely to get some tails than no tails.
All these facts seem at first sight inconsistent with the statement that
twelve heads running is as likely as the other two cases given. But
the twelve heads are to be compared not to six heads, but to six heads
followed by six tails ; and not to one head followed by one tail, but to
six such successive pairs of events.
The probability of any set of events depends merely on the number
of possible alternatives (supposing that all are equally probable) and
the number of events in the set, and has nothing to do with the
nature of the events. It is expressed by the following formula : If a
be the number of possible alternatives, the probability of occurrence of
any events, n in number, in any order we choose to specify, is
Since in questions of pure probability, it does not, as already
remarked, make any difference whether we are referring to events
occurring simultaneously or successively, or to events past, present, or
future—so long as we are equally ignorant of all of them—the formula
can be applied equally well in psychical research to cases of prediction,
clairvoyance or telepathy, or retrocognition. It shows the degree to
which such cases become more valuable as evidence of something
beyond chance in proportion to (1) their complexity, that is, the
number of simple events involved in the perception ; and (2) the rarity
of the events, that is, the number of possible alternative events that
might have occurred.1
So stated, the remark sounds sufficiently obvious. But one fact
in connection with it is sometimes overlooked, namely, that it applies
only to events that have no causal connection with one another. Most
of the events of ordinary life are causally connected, each event being
1 Assuming that all the alternatives ate equally probable. If not, a rather more
complicated formula has to be used.
XXXV.] 183
Coincidences.
influenced by what has gone before and exercising influence on what
follows, and it is to such events that spontaneous cases of apparently
supernormal perception generally relate. For instance, crystal visions
of facts unknown to the seer are generally of this kind, and it is im
possible to say in these cases how large a part is played by inference
in elaborating the details of the perception, though of course there
must be some basis of perception for inference to work on. On the
other hand, in successful experiments dealing with the events in a
chance series (e.g., experiments in guessing cards or numbers) it is not
necessary to allow anything for the action of inference. For this
reason, such experiments afford more satisfactory proof of supernormal
power than spontaneous cases. Incidentally, they possess the further
advantage that the degree of probability of success in them is not a
matter that admits of difference of opinion, even though it may not be
easy to determine what degree of success justifies the conclusion that
something beyond chance is producing it,.
To the above argument it may be objected that we cannot exclude
the action of inference from any mental process whatever. In guess
ing a number of playing cards, say, drawn from a pack at random, and
not seen by any one, the person guessing cannot affirm that each guess
is uninfluenced by the previous ones. Apart from the "mental habits"
leading him more or less unconsciously to prefer certain cards to
others, he can hardly help forming some expectations based on previous
results, as that a card once drawn will not recur for a little time.
Inference probably guides him to a certain extent in making guesses.
But the point is that inference is just as likely to guide him wrong as
right, because—in a truly chance series—there are no rational grounds
for drawing inferences. The action of inference cannot, therefore, in
the long run add to the number of his successful guesses, which
consequently need not be discounted on this account.
On the other hand, in considering events that are causally con
nected, there always are, from the nature of the case, rational grounds
for inferring from one event something about another one, and infer
ence is then likely to lead us right oftener than wrong on the whole.
The Aggregate Results of Chance Series.
So far we have considered the relation between individual events in
a Chance series and the consequences that follow from the absence of
all causal connection between them. One of these consequences is the
impossibility of predicting what is going to happen in the case of any
one event. It would seem that no extension of knowledge about the
circumstances and conditions of the events would give us any help in
this ; an extension of the ordinary human faculties would seem to be
required for it.
o
184 [part
Alice Johnson.
But the most interesting and important feature in a Chance series,
—the point at which the attributes of Chance cease to be exclusively
negative—is that absolute uncertainty about individual events is com
bined with practical certainty as to the general characteristics of the
series, if a sufficiently long one be taken. Experience shows that the
longer we make the series, the nearer will the results approximate to
the theoretically " most probable " results. This fact is so familar
that one may easily fail to see how remarkable it is that out of the not
only apparent but real disorder of the single events arise, as if by a
sort of spontaneous generation, the order and regularity of the series
taken as a whole.
The accompanying diagrams, for which I am indebted to my
brother, Mr. W. E. Johnson, may serve to illustrate this point.
Figure 1 shows a short series—100 throws of a penny—recorded by a
graphic method on paper ruled in small squares.
The throws are represented by the thick zigzag line drawn along
the sides of the squares, the length of one side of a square representing
one throw. At every change in the series to h^ads or tails (which,
for the remainder of this chapter I will call, for brevity, H or T) the
zigzag line turns respectively to the right or left. It starts at the
point A, which is one end of a straight line, AB, drawn diagonally
through the squares, and the first turn being to the right of this
straight line indicates that the series began with an H.
Any point where the zigzag touches the diagonal line indicates an
epoch in the series at which the numbers of H's and T's are exactly
equal ; the diagonal representing, in fact, the most probable result
theoretically. The zigzag being on the right of the diagonal at any
point indicates an excess of H's at that point, while its being on the
left indicates an excess of T's. The exact difference in number of
H's and T's at any point can be measured by a straight line drawn
from the point in question on the zigzag line to the line AB, the
straight line being drawn either in continuation of the zigzag line or
at right angles to it, and the number of squares along which it passe*
showing the excess of H's or T's over each other. Thus, at the point
C in the series, the dotted line drawn from C (either in continuation
of or at right angles to the zigzag) passes along four squares before it
reaches the diagonal line AB, showing that at the point C, four more
H's than T's had been thrown. Further on, at the point D, the T's
had amounted to three more than the H's.
The diagram is like a view of an object seen under a microscope,
the individual features being brought into great prominence, so that
the more general aspects are masked. The irregularity and disorder of
the separate throws are strongly marked, while the general tendency to
equality of H's and T's is only very faintly and dubiously indicated.
186 [part
Alice Johnson.
Figure 2 represents in a similar manner the general results of
considerably longer series, ignoring altogether the individual results,
and the difference in appearance is very striking. The diagrams (a)
and (b) record two series of 1,000 and 4,000 throws respectively. The
ideal or most probable result—equality in number of H's and T's—is
represented in both by the thick vertical straight line, while the zigzag
shows the actual results reached at the end of each hundred in the first
series, and at the end of each thousand in the second series, these epochs
being marked by the letters A, B, C, etc. The position of the zigzag
to the right of the straight line shows excess of H's, and the position
to its left shows excess of T's —the. vertical distances of the various
points, A, B, C, etc., from the straight line being roughly proportional
to the excess. At the point 0 in diagram (a) equality happens to
have been exactly reached, so that the point C lies on the straight
line. The greatest deviation from equality in this series appears at
the point K (at the end of the ninth hundred) when 34 more T's than
H's had been thrown. At the end of the thousand the excess of T's
was 16.
The longer the series, the more chance there is for large deviations
from equality ; but it is important to note that the deviations, though
absolutely larger, become relatively smaller as the series grows in
length. Thus, in Fig. 1, the greatest deviation occurs at the point E,
where there is an excess of 9 H's, or 60 per cent, of the total number
of throws (15). In Fig. 2 (a), at the point D, the excess of T's over
H's is 22, or 5-5 per cent, of the total number of throws (400). At K
the excess of T's is 34, or 3-8 per cent, of the total number of throws
(900). At C, in Fig. 2 (b), the excess of H's is 44, or rather less than
1-5 per cent, of the total (3,000).
These deviations from equality might be represented graphically by
the angles which lines drawn from the points in question to the
starting point of the series would form with the straight line. Such
angles would obviously tend to become smaller as the series proceeds.1
In other words, the zigzag line (representing the actual results of
experiments) tends to approximate more and more closely to the
straight line (representing the theoretically most probable results).,-
1 Unless the excess of H's or T's became proportionately larger, in which case we
should have strong ground for suspecting a bias—for thinking that the series was
not a purely chance one.
2 This form of diagram might be used statistically to discover the comparative
frequency of two alternatives, by recording them as they occurred. An oblique line
joining the initial point to each successive terminal point would represent with con
tinually increasing exactness the required ratio of frequency.
In any case where the a priori ratio of frequency is known,—as in the example
given in the text,—the oblique line can be drawn beforehand, and the deviations from
it show the actual results.
XXXV.] 187
Coincidences.
Methods of Analysis of Chance Series.
These diagrams illustrate the relation of actual to theoretical
results in shorter or longer series only with regard to the number of
times each of the two simple alternative events, H and T, occurs.
We may further consider different groups or runs of events in the
same series, instead of the simple events.
There are many different ways in which such series can be
analysed into groups of events. The usual method is to record the
number of times different runs of each alternative have occurred, for
comparison with the most probable number of times that they would
have occurred by theory. Thus Buffon (quoted in De Morgan's
Budget of Paradoxes, pp. 169 to 171) analysed his series into "sets"
of one alternative, say H. Every time that H is thrown it is called a
"set"; if there are several H's following one another, each is a " set "
of one throw ; if the H is preceded by one or more T's, these form
part of the same " set," of two or more throws. The " sets " may
thus consist of H, TH, TTH, TTTH, etc., and may be written briefly
as H, TH, T2 H, T3 H, etc. The following (see Table I.) are the
results obtained by Buffon in 2,048 " sets," as given by De Morgan,
compared with the most probable results, and with those of a corre
spondent of De Morgan's whom he calls A.
Table I.
"Sets." Most probable
results.
Button's
results. A.'s results.
H 1024
512
256
128
64
32
16
8
4
2
1
1061
494
1048
507
248
99
71
38
17
9
5
3
1
TH
T2H 232
137
56
29
25
8
6
T3H
T4H
T6H
T0H
T7H
T8H
T9H
T„H
T„H
T12H
TUH 1 1
1
T„H
T16H
Totals 2048 2048 2048
188 [part
Alice Johnson.
This method shows only the runs of one alternative, T, but of
course the same series could be analysed over again, so as to show
the runs of H's.
I have adopted a rather more complicated analysis, which seems
to me more instructive, showing in one Table: (1) the numbers of
runs of different lengths of both alternatives, and (2) in the case of
one alternative, H, the runs of each length subdivided to show what
length of run of the other alternative they were followed by. This is
done by dividing my whole series into consecutive groups of events,
each group beginning with an H (which has been preceded by a T)
and ending with a T (which is followed by an H). Thus HHHTT,
HT, HHT, HTTT, HHT, are 17 consecutive throws divided into
groups, shown by the commas. These groups I call "cycles," because
they all begin and end in the same way. The plan involves the
necessity of regarding the series as a circular one ; i.e., one in which
the end is continuous with the beginning. So that if the series
actually ended with one or more H's, these would be brought round to
the beginning to form the first part of the first cycle. And if it
actually began with one or more T's, they would be carried round to
the end to form the last part of the last cycle.
Table II. gives a summary of all the cycles in an actual series of
4,096 ( = 212) 1 throws, the number in each square referring to cycles
which began with the number of H's stated at the beginning of the
line in which the square is, and ended with the number of T's stated
at the top of the column in which the square is. Thus, the first line
shows that a single H (that is, an H preceded and followed by at least
one T) occurred 495 times. (See column headed "Total Cycles").
On 257 occasions it was followed by a single T; on 121 occasions by
two T's; on 61 occasions by three T,s, and so on. The second line
shows that the group of two H's (preceded and followed by at least
one T) occurred 262 times, being followed by one T on 137 occasions,
by two T's on 59 occasions, and so on.
The column headed "Total Cycles" gives the totals of the different
runs of H's, while the bottom line gives the totals of the different
runs of T's. The column headed "Total Throws" gives the total
numbers of throws corresponding to the total numbers of cycles.
This is, of course, a simple matter of calculation. Thus, taking, e.g.,
the second line from the top, the first square gives a number of
cycles consisting of three throws each, the second square a number of
cycles of four throws each, and so on.
1 The series was stopped when thisnumber was reached for convenience in calculat
ing the theoretical or most probable numbers, some of which would be fractional if
the total number of events in the series was other than some power of 2.
xxxv.] Coincidences. 1.S9
Table II.
T, Ts T3 T, T6 T„ T7 T8 T„ T10 Total
Cycles
Total
Throws
257
?56 121
128 61
04 24
32 15 8
8 9 495 1459
76 4 * 7 1 — — 512 1535
128 59
64 29
a* 9
17 6 2
7
1
1
2 — 262
H2 137 — K»6S
16 8 — 1023
64 26
32 15 8
8 5
*
1 1 o
1
— 121
128
609
H3 63
24
16 g 7 — — — 639
33 76 13 2 3 1 1
1
04 464
H4 # 7
i t
383
76 6 2
g
1
7 3
1
207
H3 12 4
—
— 28
H0 5 6 1 1 13 102
4 Q 7 1 16 127
4 2 2
1
H7 6
1
10 88
77
Hs 2
7 1
1 3 34
g 39
H, 1
1 1 12
1 21
Hio 2
1
2
7
22
77
H„
— 1 1 13
H„ 1 7
H13
B.
.',50 125
1
64 41
55 19 1 1 5
4
2 2
7
1 18
Totals 517
57* ,24.-.
/ .,N 48 76 S
1 — 7 1014
7tt?4
409(1
4090
Figures in ordinary type show actual results.
Italic figures show theoretical or most probable results.
Figures in thick type show "residual cycles," see p. 190.
Total H 2057
Total T 2039
Total number of throws ... 4096
190 [part
Alice Johnson.
The convenience of this method is that, in a series composed of only
two alternative simple events,—the probability of occurrence of each
of which is one-half,—we are able to show in a single Table the occur
rence of a number of compound events (each made up of two or more
simple events) of varying degrees of probability, and to compare actual
results in regard to all these events, —both simple and compound,—,
with the theoretical or most probable results. The latter are given
in each square of the Table in italic figures, below the figures in
ordinary type, which give the actual results. (For the method of
calculation by which the theoretical numbers are obtained, see
Appendix I., p. 293.)
This Table is a further illustration of the fact that the longer the
series, the smaller in proportion become the deviations from theory. In
a series of 997 throws, which formed part of the large total series of
4,096 throws, the cycles of H T were 8 per cent, in excess of their
most probable number, whereas in the total series, as seen in the Table,
they are about 0 4 per cent, in excess of the same.
But—and this is an equally important point — this closer corre
spondence with theory is only found in the case of events having a
comparatively large probability. Even in the next longer cycles— those
containing three events,—viz., H2 T and H T2,—the deviations from
the most probable numbers are 5 per cent, and 7 per cent, respectively
(in the shorter series just referred to, they were 13 per cent). In the
cycles of four events, the deviations range from 1"6 per cent, to 7,8
per cent, and in those of five events from 3 per cent, to 25 per cent.,
and in still longer cycles, the deviations amount often to 100 percent,
or more.
Another feature which is rather surprising at first sight is the
exact correspondence with theory of some among the very long cycles,
e.g., H T,., H3 T4, H6 T3, H7 T2. It will, however, be seen on consider
ation that, though the relative deviation from probability in the case of
these very long cycles is likely to be often great, the absolute deviation
is likely to be almost always small, so that there is really a greater
chance of such exact correspondences occurring than in the case of the
shorter cycles.
" Residual Cycles."
There is one further point to which attention may be drawn. On
Buffon's method of analysis of 2,048 "sets," the longest "set" which
is likely to occur as often as once is T10 H. But if we add up the
most probable numbers of this and of all the shorter sets, the total
comes to one less than 2,018. It is, therefore, necessary for one of
the longer sets to occur to make up the total. Now the most probable
number of any longer set is a fractional number, less than unity.
XXXV.] 191
Coincidences.
But as no case can occur a fractional number of times, it is assumed
that one of the longer sets will most probably occur once. The choice
in Table I. of T13 H as the most probable one is arbitrary, though
we should naturally expect one not very much longer than T10 H.
If a similar series of 4,096 throws be analysed into " cycles," and
we add up all the cycles the theoretical number of which amounts
to one or more, we find that they fall short of the theoretical total by
11 cycles —corresponding to the single "set" left over on Buffon's
plan. These I call " residual cycles." We have, therefore, to fill up
the Table by putting in 11 longer cycles (see the figures in thick type),
the most probable number of each of which is really a fraction less
than unity. Their position in the Table (like the position of Buffon's
extra " set ") has to be settled in an arbitrary manner, and the
particular position chosen in Table II. must be understood to be
not more probable than several others. But the " residual cycles "
must lie within certain definite and assignable limits, which are
explained in Appendix I., with a fuller discussion of the whole
subject. It is only necessary to remark here that while, on Buffon's
method, there is always one set left over,—whatever the length of
the whole series may be,—the number of " residual cycles " varies
with the length of the series, increasing absolutely, but decreasing
relatively with it.
By taking into consideration, therefore, more complicated groups
of events—" cycles " instead of "sets"—we find that the theoretical
distribution involves the necessity of occurrence of a considerable
number of groups, each of which, taken alone, should theoretically
occur only a fractional number of times. In other words, these are
groups which in longer series would be expected to occur only once
each.
If, then, we were trying to judge whether there was evidence of
any agency beyond chance in an actual series of this kind, we should
have to be very cautious in drawing conclusions from these apparently
remarkable occurrences, unless they were very numerous. We should
be on much safer ground in dealing only with the deviations from
the theoretical results shown by the shorter cycles. Similarly, a
few extraordinary coincidences, though much more striking to the
imagination, afford much less reliable evidence of something beyond
chance than a large number of trivial ones all pointing in the same
direction.
As an instructive illustration of this point, I may refer to Professor
Karl Pearson's investigation of the published results of two months'
roulette playing at Monte Carlo (Essay on " The Scientific Aspect of
Monte Carlo Roulette," in The Chances of Death and other Studies in
Evolution, Vol. I., pp. 51 to 57). The total number of trials examined
192 [part
Alice Johnson.
was over 32,000, with some very curious and anomalous results, which
may be briefly stated as follows : —
(1) In the 32,000 and odd trials, the total numbers of rouge and
noir results were about what they should have been by chance.
(2) In a series of 4,052 throws, the runs of odd and even numbers
(i.e., among the numbers 0 to 36 which mark the 37 compartments of
the roulette table) were also "obedient to the laws of chance."
(3) In a series of 16,563 throws examined to find how frequently
each of the 37 numbers occurred, (all the 37 numbers should, of course,
have occurred about the same number of times), the deviations from
the most probable results were in some cases enormously greater than
would have been expected theoretically.
(4) Even greater divergences from the most probable results were
found in the case of runs of the two colours. The omission of the
number zero (which is black) from the calculations made the chances of
red or black in the remaining 36 numbers equal, so that the chances of
runs of red and black were equivalent to those of runs of heads and tails
in tossing a coin. Calling a " set " the number of throws of the
roulette ball till a change of colour comes, in 4,274 "sets " (resulting
from 8,178 throws of the ball in one fortnight), the "sets" of one
were found to be enormously more frequent than they should have
been, and the " sets " of two, three, and four enormously less so.
The writer sums it up by saying (p. 57) : " Short runs are deficient,
and the colour changes much more frequently than the laws of chance
prescribe " ; and he observes (p. 55) : " If Monte Carlo roulette had
gone on since the beginning of geological time on this earth, we
should not have expected such an occurrence as this fortnight's play
to have occurred once on the supposition that the game is one of
chance." These remarkable results were still further confirmed by
independent investigations of the play of two more fortnights taken
separately, and Professor Pearson remarks, after describing the last
of them (p. 55) : " That one such fortnight of runs should have
occurred in the year 1892 might be looked upon as a veritable
miracle ; that three should have occurred is absolutely conclusive.
Roulette as played at Monte Carlo is not a scientific game of chance."
XXXV.] 193
Coincidences.
CHAPTER III.
EXAMPlES.
Section I.
Coincidences clearly due to Chance.
An artificial Chance Series, such as a number of throws of a coin,
is in many respects so unlike the events of our ordinary existence that
it might be supposed impossible that any analogy could exist between
coincidences occurring in the former case and those occurring in the
latter.
Yet, from a certain superficial point of view, the whole existence of
each individual may be compared with a single " event " in a Chance
Series, the successive stages of the existence—like the successive
positions of a coin during a single throw—being causally connected
together, while a sort of definite break occurs at the beginning and end
of the life, as at the beginning and end of the throw. Further, the
various positions of the coin are produced by the interaction of several
forces or causes, and so are the various stages in the man's life. We
may, if we choose, assume that all these stages are rigidly determined by
what has gone before, and by the conditions surrounding the man at the
moment (all of which, in their turn, may be supposed to be determined
by previous conditions) ; just as we assume that what happens to the
coin is the inevitable result of the way it is thrown, etc. In any
case, whether we take a strictly deterministic view of the individual's
actions or not, there is no question but that they are greatly influenced
by one another,—that causation plays a large part, if not the whole
part, in producing them, as in producing the successive positions of
the coin during a single throw.
The analogy is of course an ancient and familiar one, but if we
attempt to carry it far, it soon breaks down. A human life is not an
isolated "event," cut off from all other such events by the two epochs
of birth and death ; the causal influence is continued into the next
generation and radiates out into the whole of the individual's present
environment, as well as into the future, so that the relation between
two contemporary lives is something quite different from the relation
between two simultaneous chance series.
This being so, it might appear at first sight that there could be no
scope for chance coincidences between the events in two human lives.
There are, however, many cases in which two events having some kind
of agreement with or similarity to one another are brought about by
entirely independent causes —just as the causes that make two coins
194 [part
Alice Johnson.
turn up heads at the same time are entirely independent of one
another—and all such coincidences are due to chance.
Thus, if two acquaintances meet in the street, the meeting may be
due to chance, or it may not. It is not by chance if they both have
a habit, either from choice or necessity, of going there at that time ;
or if they are drawn to the spot at the same moment by a common
attraction, such as a circus passing by. But if they were accustomed
to go out at various times in various directions, their meeting would
be due to chance. The probability of the meeting might, of course,
be fairly large ; the times at which they went out and the directions
they took would be limited ; and the more similar their tastes were,
the narrower would these limits become, and they would consequently
meet oftener. In the case of each meeting, we should have to know
all the circumstances in order to know whether it occurred by chance
or not. In any case, each of the persons would have had some
reason for being at the place just then,—some cause would have
brought him there, —but if there was no reason why both should
choose the same time, the meeting would be accidental.
We should hardly, however, call such a meeting a coincidence,
unless there was some special feature in it that attracted our attention,
—something that made us ask why it happened ; even though con
sideration of it might show that there was really no cause for it, that
is, that it was accidental.
My first example is a case of this kind, the point of which consists
in the meeting of two persons of the same name,—both Christian and
surname.
Case 1.
The account is taken from Notes and Queries, 5th Series, Vol. XII.,
p. Ill, August 9th, 1879, the writer being the Rev. C. W. Bingham.
Another coincidence recorded by him is given below on p. 261.
. . . Till within the last few years, the Clergy List contained the name
of a highly respected clergyman, in no wise related to me, but bearing and
called by the same first Christian name as myself. We had been introduced
to each other, but had had no opportunity of cultivating each other's
acquaintance. It chanced that in 1867 I was visiting the Paris Exposition,
and passing one morning through the building, my attention was arrested
by the kind of trophy of Bibles which was raised in the centre of one of the
alleys by the British and Foreign Bible Society. On the opposite side
stood an English gentleman, who was engaged in a similar survey, and as
our eyes fell from the object of our gaze, they met each other and a slight
smile of recognition gradually lighted up both our countenances. We advanced
towards each other and shook hands, but it was obvious from his manner
that we were in precisely the same case—were aware that we had met else
where, but had no recollection whatever as to who we respectively were.
XXXV.] 195
Coincidences.
"I beg your pardon," was our common exclamation, " but I cannot at this
moment remember your name." I forget which was the 6rst to reply, but
the answer was identical : " My name is the Rev. Charles Bingham," and
"My name is the Rev. Charles Bingham." . . .
C. W. Bingham.
In this episode there are several different conjunctions of events
whose antecedent probability might be estimated, and I give the story
partly because it illustrates the difficulty of disentangling among a
mass of incidents the salient ones for the present purpose. For this,
I think the only important point, as already indicated, is the meeting
of two persons of the same name. As in other analogous cases (e.g.,
the case of thirteen trumps in a hand at whist) this conjunction of
events, as far as its antecedent probability can be calculated, is no
more unlikely than any other similar conjunction. It is not more
unlikely for two specified persons of the same name to meet than for
two specified persons of different names. The only point that could
affect the calculation would be the question of how common the name
was. The account implies that there were only two English clergymen
then living of the name of Charles Bingham. Crockford's Clerical
Directory for 1898 gives seven clergymen of the name of Bingham,
among whom is one Charles Bingham. If the name were a very
common one, it would, of course, increase the probability of the
meeting of some two persons of that name (though it would not
increase the probability of the meeting of two particular individuals
of that name). Evidently the particular point in the incident that
struck the persons concerned was their both giving the same answer
to the same question. But the case depends, I think, as to its ante
cedent probability, on nothing else than the rarity of the combination
of the Christian and surnames.
The next is a case of a remarkable resemblance between a real
and a fictitious individual.
Cask 2.
The account is a reproduction of an article called " A Remarkable
Coincidence ;—Letter from Dr. George M. Beard " 1 in The Popular
Science Monthly, Vol. XV., (May-Oct., 1879), p. 628.
In the April number of your Journal for this year (1879) I discussed the
subject of coincidences as one of the six sources of error in experimenting
with living human beings,2 and stated in substance that this department of
1 Author of "The Psychology of the Salem Witchcraft Excitement of 1G92"
(New York, 1882), and "Trance and Muscle-reading" (New York, 1882).
2 In an article called "Experiments with Living Human Beings" (Popular
.Science Monthly, Vol. XIV., pp. 611 and 751), containing some useful discussion of
the sources of error to which such a subject as psychical research is liable.
196 [part
Alice Johnson.
logic had been most imperfectly studied, and that the mathematical doctrine
of chances especially had been abused and misunderstood, to the great
detriment of Bcience. The following very remarkable correspondence illus
trates my position so forcibly that I beg leave to present it to your readers.
The first letter is a so-called " April-fool " letter, as the date suggests,
and is wholly imaginative. It was written for amusement purely, and
obtained a very different reply from what was expected.
The author of the communication is a well-known merchant of this city
and a friend of mine. The person who replied is also well known in the
region where he resides.
This coincidence is certainly one of the most remarkable of any recorded
in the history either of logic or delusions.
" 202, Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, April 1st, 1879.
"My Dear Sister Velina, —You will no doubt be somewhat surprised
to receive a letter from me, but I have a little matter of business, and if you
will attend to it, you will place me under obligations to your good self.
" Some time ago a man by the name of John Nasium lived in New York.
His father was a Southerner and died last summer of yellow fever. He had
two brothers, James and George. The former some years ago went to
California, and the latter, I understand, resides somewhere in Kansas.
"This John Nasium seems to have been the black sheep of the family,
and when he left New York, he did not leave a very good record behind him.
He went from here to Toledo, Ohio, and afterwards, we hear, he went to
Tecumseh, Michigan, no doubt thinking that in a quiet country place he
would be more secluded than he could be in a city. I and several of my
friends would like to get track of him, if it can be done quietly and without
exciting any suspicion. He may have changed his name and so I will
describe the man as nearly as I can, which may be some help to you. John
I never knew very well, but his brother Jem, as they called him here, I
knew very well indeed. John is rather tall, weighing about 180 lbs., I
should think. He stoops a little and is slightly lame in the left leg. You
would not observe his lameness unless you were to pay particular attention
to him while walking. His hair is a dark sandy colour, in fact, almost a
red, and his side-whiskers are almost the same colour, but a little darker.
He is about 38 years of age, but really does not look over 30. His eyes are
a very dark brown, and the left eye looks a little peculiar, i.e., unlike the
other—looks as if, some time or other, a cataract had been removed by an
operation. To look at him you would at once see a difference in his eyes,
and yet I cannot describe the difference any better than I have done. While
he lived here, he usually wore his hair rather long and carried himself in a
style peculiar to the Southerner.
" Now perhaps the best and most prudent way for you to do would be
for you to go up and read this letter to Uncle Hiram first. He is a very
careful, discreet man, and he can make enquiries and excite less suspicion
than you could.
" I am real sorry to make you any trouble and much less Uncle Hiram,
but this is a matter, if it can be properly done, which may be of considerable
importance to me and several of my friends, and perhaps further the ends of
justice.
XXXV.] 197
Coincidences.
"There is one other mark which may aid you, which ia—this man was in
the rebel army, and his forefinger on his left hand was shot off. His nose is
quite prominent, and he has a very mild and quiet look, and he is the last
man you would pick out for the scoundrel that he is. —Yours very truly,
R. T. Bush.
P.S.—Please attend to it, and oblige."
Shortly after this letter reached its destination, Tecumseh, Mr Bush
received a telegram stating that the man had been found, and asking if they
should arrest him. The correspondent had not observed the date of the
letter, nor suspected that he was reading a novel ; and in a few days the
following letter was received:—
"Tecumseh, April 18th., 1879.
" Mr. R. T. Bush, —Dear Sir,—Velina read to me a letter Wednesday
evening from you, describing a certain man that was wanted in New York,
who had recently left Toledo for this village.
"The next morning, after hearing the description, T informed our marshal
of the fact, and requested him to keep a look-out for such a man. In the
course of half-an-hour he came to me, saying that he had just seen my man,
—with sandy whiskers, rather tall—would weigh 170 or 180 lbs., —wearing
specs., and the front finger of the left hand missing ; and was very anxious
that he should be immediately arrested, as he was then at the livery stable, for
a saddle-horse to ride away. I told him we had better wait and be sure that
he was the one we wanted, and also find out if we could whether you wanted
him arrested, should he prove to be the right man. I saw the man and he
answered the description so well, even to the finger, that I thought it best to
telegraph you for instructions. The marshal, in the mean time, was to keep
his eye on him (as he failed to get a horse). Seeing him walk down to
dinner with one of our townsmen, the first opportunity he made some
enquiries of this townsman, and found that he was not the man —that he
was the cousin of this man that took him to dinner, and was brother to a
Mrs. Palmer, whom he was visiting—that he lives in South Cleveland, Ohio,
and is a lawyer by profession.
" That he answered the description, both in size and the loss of the finger,
as well as the colour of his whiskers, there could be no doubt. Wearing
specs, we supposed was to hide the defects of that eye you mentioned, and
he looked as though his side-whiskers had recently been cut or shaved ; but
if, as we are told, his homo is in Cleveland and his name is Hick, why of
course we were deceived in the matter. And, if his friend has not informed
him, he is still ignorant of our suspicions.
" Now, as this is my first experience in the detective business, you will
pardon the blunder. Hoping that it has put you to no inconvenience, I
remain, yours, etc. H Raymond »
The one striking feature of this coincidence is, of course, the loss of the
forefinger in the left hand.
Both the imagined and the real case possessed this very exceptional
peculiarity. This is a subject on which statistics cannot be gained ; but it
is certain that in the whole continent not a small roomful could be found
possessing precisely this deformity at the age specified ; and it may well be
198 [part
Alice Johnson.
doubted whether in the whole world there is another person thus mutilated
and at the same time possessing all the general physical characteristics of the
individual described in the letter.
More striking still is the fact that this individual did not reside in the
place where the letter was sent (which is not a large place) and was there by
chance only the day that the letter reached there.
Those who believe that the mathematical doctrine of chances can solve
the complex problems of coincidences will find in this case material for
consideration. I may here quote a single sentence from the second of my
series of papers on "Experiments with Living Human Beings," in the April
number of the Monthly: "In these and all studies of a like character it is
to be recognised that coincidences of the most extraordinary character and
astonishing nature are liable to occur at any instant, and that they are as
likely to occur on the first trial as on the last of a long series."
A second point of great psychological interest in this case is the attempt
made by the person to whom the letter was addressed to overlook certain
discrepancies between the imaginary and real individual, and to twist and
pervert and reason upon the facta of the case, so as to bring them into
harmony with what he was expecting to see. While the man corresponded to
the description in size, in the colour of his whiskers and especially in the loss
of his finger, he did not correspond in the fact that he wore spectacles, and
had no side-whiskers. The detective reasoned that he wore spectacles to
hide the defect in his eye, which defect he did not see ; and he assumed, on
thought, that the side whiskers had been recently shaved or cut. Nothing
is said of his stooping, or of his being lame in the left leg, or of the colour of
his hair, or of its length.
The bearings of this whole history on the delusions of clairvoyance,
mind-reading, animal magnetism and spiritism are apparent. A successful
coincidence of this kind would have made fortune and favour for any
clairvoyant or medium or mind-reader. —Truly yours.
George M. Beard.
New York, Jidy, 1879.
In addition to the comments of Dr. Beard on this case, it may
be observed that the greater part of the general description of the
supposed individual—apart from the point of the missing finger— might
have fitted very fairly, say, one out of every thirty middle-aged men
in England or in America. " He is rather tall—stoops a little— his hair
is a dark sandy colour, almost a red, and his side-whiskers are almost
the same colour, but a little darker—his eyes are a very dark brown
and the left eye looks a little unlike the other." Finally, " his nose is
quite prominent, and he has a very mild and quiet look and is the
last man you would pick out for a scoundrel." The village of
Tecumseh probably contained several persons like this. But Mr.
Raymond no doubt knew all his fellow townsmen, at least by sight,
and it would never occur to him to compare any of them with the
description given. He naturally looked out for the first stranger he
could find, and it is not very surprising that the first stranger turned
XXXV.] 199
Coincidences.
out to have a general resemblance to the fictitious scoundrel. But it
is certainly remarkable that in both of them a finger was missing,—
and that the same finger,—a deformity which, as Dr. Beard says, is
extremely rare.
The next case—of similar incidents occurring in two contemporary
lives—presents a curiously close analogy to the coincidences that may
occur between events in two simultaneous artificial chance series. The
account was obtained by Dr. Hodgson.
Dr. M. and the undersigned H. W. B. are brothers-in-law. Dr. M. resides
and practises in London ; H. W. B. lives in a suburb, but is engaged in
business in the city. In December, 1897, he was temporarily staying with his
brother-in-law Dr. M. The undersigned J. T. H., an Australian on a short
visit to London, was detained there by illness. He had not previously
known Dr. M. or H. W. B., but in November, 1897, he made the acquaintance
of Dr. M., who, on account of the ill-health of J. T. H, was kind enough to
invite him to stay at his house. In December J. T. H. went to stay with
Dr. M., and there for the first time met H. W. B.
It transpired in conversation that H.W.B. and J.T.H.
1. Were both born on May 13th, 1858.
2. Their christening was in each case delayed until the completion of a
new church, one church being in England, the other in Australia.
3. At that time (December, 1897) they each occupied a house (one in
England, the other in Australia) which house in each case consisted of two
small cottages knocked into one by connecting doorways.
Mr. Hackett is an Associate S.P.R. He is an old friend of mine, and
gave me the above account orally, and afterwards wrote it out at my
request.—R. Hodgson.
The following is a series of trivial coincidences recorded by Miss
C. Shuttleworth, of 10, Cottesmore-gardens, Kensington, W , who
writes that the " coincidences are all strictly true."
1. On one of the coldest days of the bitter frost in the beginning of 1895
I went, at about half-past six in the evening, to pay a visit to a near neigh
bour in London. Two ladies were sitting with her—an aunt and a niece—
and whilst she talked with the aunt, I had to talk to the niece. When the
degrees of cold had been disposed of, I could think of nothing else to say
to this stranger than to ask if she happened to have read a book which just
then had been much interesting me, "A Colony of Mercy," being an account
of the work of Pastor von Bodelschwingh in Westphalia. "No," she replied,
" I have not read it, but I know all about Von Bodelschwingh. I am going
Case 3.
London, January 21st, 1898.
[Signed] j
Herbert Wilfork Brett.
J. T. Hackett.
Case 4.
p
200 [PAHT
Alice Johnson.
there to-night." I thought I must have misunderstood her. "Goingto
Bielefeld to-night 1 " I exclaimed. "Yes," she said, and glancing at the clock
she added, " And I must be off, for my train leaves Victoria at eight." It
appeared she had a friend living in the "Colony." The lady of the house
had never heard of the place or the Pastor, and I knew no more of her
friends than if they had dropped from the moon.
******
2. From a country house, some years ago, we drove over, a large party,
to some distant ironworks. During our walk round them we had to stand
for a while by a little railway waiting for an engine to get out of the way.
Whilst we did so I asked a man of the party who had only arrived the
evening before whether he had ever been on an engine. I forget what he
said, but I remember expatiating on the fun of driving one—an accomplish
ment I had lately practised. He seemed confused, and some elderly ladies
who were listening looked shocked, which I fear prompted me to enlarge on
the topic. On the way back he confided to me that this was the anniversary
of his wife's death. She had died that day three years. In the evening I
repeated this to our hostess, who then told me the cause of her death. It
appeared that once indeed the poor man had been on an engine and it was
with his wife. It had overturned going round a curve, and his wife was
crushed to death beneath it.
3. Many years ago a neighbour was dining with us. He told a story of
Mrs. H., a propos of something that had been said, and stated that he had
only once met her, more than thirty years before. I asked if she was now
Lady H., as, if so, she might be identical with a funny old person whom an
old governess of ours used to tell us about, but whom we had never seen. She
was a neighbour of hers in a remote village nearly 300 miles away, and we
had heard her speak of her kindness and her eccentricity. She had told us
that when walking home in an evening she would often accost a stranger,
usually a labourer, and saying, "I am Lady H., I will take your arm,"
would proceed to do so, and thus walk home with him, perhaps a mile or
two. And with this anecdote I capped our friend's. But he could not tell
us whether she was the same person or not, as he had never heard of his
Mrs. H. again.
The next morning, whilst we were at breakfast. Lady H. walked in. She
had already paid our friend a visit, having arrived at his house at 8 o'clock.
She was his Mrs. H., and having been told he lived in the neighbourhood,
had walked a couple of miles over the fields to breakfast with him. The
temptation to tell her how we had discussed her the night before was too
strong for him, and, alas ! he could not even resist the diabolical suggestion
to repeat my bit of gossip about the labourer. So she came on to inquire
how it had reached us. We never told her, though we spent the morning
under cross-examination. But she was pacified with luncheon, and being
afterwards driven back to the house where she was staying. " It was quite
true, my. dear," she freely admitted ; " and only last night, whilst you were
talking about me, I was walking home from the station arm-in-arm with the
ticket taker. "
4. A few years ago my sister asked me as we sat over the fire whether 1
ever now heard anything of a Mr. M. I was surprised at the question, as
XXXV.] 201
Coincidences.
she had known him less than I had done, and I had only once seen him, and
had never heard from him in about ten years. I was not aware that he
knew my address. But whilst I was answering her question, he came in.
He was living in Cambridge and I in London.
5. " Is not ' Seend ' an odd name for a place ? " a friend once asked me,
as we sat writing letters in Tyrol, she at one end of a long room, and I at the
other; " Yes," I said, "but how in the world did you know?" "Know
irhat? she inquired. "Why, that I have this instant directed an envelope
"there ! " It then transpired that her uncle had just taken a house in the
village in which a friend of mine was living, but neither of us knew that the
other had ever heard of the place. q g
In reply to a request for corroboration of these incidents, in so far
as it could be had, Miss Shuttleworth writes to me :—
June 22nd [1898].
. . . My sister, Mrs. Moore, says her recollection of the No. 4
coincidence is so vague that it would be no use her saying anything in
corroboration. That is to say, she remembers it now I have reminded her
of it, or thinks she does, but at first could not recall it at all. I find it must
have happened in 1886—longer ago than I thought.
No. 3 she remembers perfectly. The " friend" on whom Lady H. first
called is dead, and none of his family were at home at the time. That was
why he dined with us most evenings.
My friend Mrs. Russell, of 9, St. Albans Road, Kensington, has sent
me the enclosed letter from Iter friend, the " aunt " of No. 1. As you will
see, she fully corroborates it so far as she goes, though she evidently thinks
I was requiring information about Von Bodelschwingh's institutions. Her
niece is in America, but I remember she told me that she was taking Biele
feld on her imy to Leipzig, and was to stay there about a fortnight. I have
never seen her or her aunt since. The whole of the aunt's letter was not
sent me, so there is no signature.
The smaller enclosed note concerns No. 5. That is all I can do.—Yours
Miss Shuttleworth's sister, Mrs. Moore, writes :—
I remember Lady H. suddenly making her appearance under the
I see on referring to my diary that on January 1st, 1895, 1 and E. C. had
tea with you, and I saw E. off for Leipzig by the 8 o'clock train from
Victoria. I remember meeting Miss Shuttleworth at your house, but cannot
speak as to the date. E. is now in America. . . . E. C. has a brother
who has been several years at Bielefeld, and E. has visited him there several
times. ... I have the book "The Colony of Mercy," and would lend
it to any one who wanted to see it. . . .
faithfully, C. Shuttleworth.
circumstances described in No. 3.
Agnes E. Moore.
p 2
202 [part
Alice Johnson.
The note referring to coincidence No. 5 is as follows :—
29, Cyril Mansions, Battersea Park, S.W., June 18th.
. . . Yes, certainly I can verify No. 5. I remember it perfectly, and
you are quite accurate in what you say. ...
Ethel Moffatt.
Case 5.
A further coincidence in relation to Miss Shuttleworth's account
(No. 2) remains to be mentioned. A portion of the present paper,
including her narrative, was read by Dr. Hodgson at a general
meeting of the Society for Psychical Research on April 22nd, 1898,
and the next day he received the following letter :—
April 22nd [1898].
Dear Sir,—Having been at the meeting this afternoon, at Westminster
Town Hall, I write to tell you about a further coincidence in connection
with one of the examples recorded by Miss Shuttleworth. The gentleman
with whom Miss Shuttleworth spoke upon the subject of driving engines
was, I feel almost sure, my father. The lady who lost her balance while
rounding a corner, and who was killed on the spot, was my mother ! It was
quite a chance my being at the meeting this afternoon, as I am not a member
of the Society, and it will probably be the only meeting I shall be able to
attend this year, as I live altogether in Ireland. On coming back here'this
afternoon I said to my father, " Did you ever meet a Miss Shuttleworth ?"
and on hearing he had done so, I proceeded to tell him of this afternoon's
meeting. He says he remembers having spoken to Miss S. about engines.
It would be a satisfaction to discover for certain whether the gentleman in
question was Captain whose wife, Mrs. , was accidentally killed
from a traction engine at in 1869, August 31st.—Yours very truly,
[Signed] .
Dr. Hodgson asked if Captain would himself furnish a state
ment of- the circumstances, and Miss replied :—
April 25th, 1898.
Dear Sir,—I am very curious to know if it was my father to whom Miss
Shuttleworth alluded : Captain (now Lord ).
I hardly like to ask him to write down a statement ; first of all, because
he does not like, even now, speaking of the accident, as he is of a highly
nervous temperament, and secondly, because his memory is not as good as
it used to be, but I gather that it was at the house of Mr. , , that
he met Miss S., to whom he remembers speaking on the subject of my
mother's death.
It was either in '71 or '72. My mother was on a small traction engine
built by her cousins, the present Lord and his brothers, and in turning
a corner, she put up her hand to steady her hat, and in so doing, she lost
her balance and fell off the engine—being killed on the spot.
I thought it odd the other day that this should be alluded to at the
one meeting of the year at which I happened to be present, and that the
subject of the meeting should be " Coincidences."
XXXV.] 203
Coincidences.
We wrote to Miss Shuttleworth to enquire if it was Captain ,
now Lord , to whom she had referred in this case, and she replied
in the affirmative.
Cask 6.
The following case was contributed to Light (Vol. X., 1890, p. 371),
by Mr. C. C. Massey. He says :—
At the Boaid meeting of the Brecon and Merthyr Railway 1 last month,
a serious and fatal accident to a train of the Company, owing to a "wild run"
down the incline at Tallybont, on December 2nd, was reported. At the
same meeting also was reported the death, within an hour and a half of the
time of the accident, of one Thomas, who had been in receipt of an
allowance of seven shillings a week from the Company ever since 1867, in
consequence of injuries sustained by him in that year from an accident to a
train at the very same spot and from the very same cause.
In this case the coincidence of the man's death at the time of the
second accident was clearly due to chance ; but it was not by chance
that the two accidents occurred to the train in the same place, since
they were due to the same cause.
On the other hand, when a somewhat rare event occurs several
times, — either simultaneously or in rapid succession,—being due to a
different cause each time, the repetition is an accidental coincidence.
The following are instances of this type.
Case 7.
In Time, of September, 1890, (New Series, Vol. II., p. 978),
occurs an article by Mr. A. W. Holmes-Forbes on " Contemporary
Coincidences," containing a curious collection of groups of similar
events occurring at about the same time in various parts of the world,
—mostly in England. These are extracted from newspaper reports,
viz., from the Times, Daily News, Echo, Standard, Daily Telegraph,
Globe, and Evening Standard, and are not confirmed in any way, but
one may probably assume that reports of events such as these are
accurate in the main.
The following is a summary of the events reported, with their
dates:—(1) Fall of buildings, five cases, July 22nd to 24th, 1885;
(2) burning of churches, five cases, December, 1886, to February, 1889,
two occurring on the same day of February, 1889 ; (3) fall of bridges,
two cases, on September 16th, 1889; (4) theatres burned, three cases,
January lst-5th, 1838; (5) explosions—mostly serious ones—seven cases,
October 6th to November 30th, 1888 ; (6) burying empty coffins, three
cases, December 17th to 23rd, 1888; (7) great finds of honey, two
cases, September, 1888; (8) marriages interrupted, two cases, February,
1 1 was then a director of that Company and was present.
204 [part
Alice Johnson.
1886; (9) women in men's clothes, three cases, March and April,
1889 ; (10) actions for libel, nineteen cases in the Michaelmas Sittings
of 1889—all apparently in London; (11) similar robbery of lawyers,
two cases, on August 16th, 1886 ; (12) death in the legal ranks, four
cases, March, 1883 ; (13) constables in trouble, three cases on August
20th, 1887, and three on November 30th, 1889 ; (14) riots, six cases,
July 24th-31st, 1885 ; (15) discovery of prehistoric remains, one in the
United States and one near Milan, November, 1889 ; (16) asylums
burned, two cases (in America), May 8th, 1890.
The writer says that these sixteen series are taken from a list of
more than 140 similar groups, in some instances more than twelve
serious accidents of the same kind (other than wrecks) having occurred
within a few days ; and, in conclusion, he observes :—" Taken all
together the catalogue seems to contain some element beyond that of
mere coincidence." He explains that his collection is merely the result
of cases taken at random in the course of his ordinary newspaper
reading, and states, " We are not coincidence-hunters. Not one
coincidence has been the result of searching."
There is a certain analogy between incidents of this kind and
repetitions of the same event in an artificial chance series ; e.g.,
suppose, in tossing a coin, the sequence of seven heads followed by
three tails occurred twice running. This sequence is likely to occur
twice running in a series of 1,048,576 throws. But it is, of course,
not more likely to happen at one time than another in the series ;
so that it might happen during the first hundred throws as well as at
any other point. Regarded as part of a series of 100 throws, it would
be highly improbable that it should occur at all ; while, regarded as
part of a very long series, it is not improbable.
Now, there is always something arbitrary about the length of a
series to which we choose to assign a certain event or sequence of
events. Even if we are considering an actual series of a certain finite
length, it is always possible to regard it as part of an imaginary longer
series; just as an actual line may be treated geometrically as part of an
imaginary longer line. The whole conception of the events as consti
tuting a series is, in fact, an arbitrary one,—-which we adopt for con
venience, because this is the only way in which it has been found possible
to formulate any principles with regard to the events. One of these
principles is that, if we wish to be able to judge whether certain events
have actually occurred by chance or not, it is necessary to take an
actual series so long that the events in question are likely to have
occurred by chance a good many times in the course of it. The
greater the probability of the events, therefore, the more practically
reliable is any evidence for a cause which depends on the frequency
of their occurrence. The " residual cycles " in the chance series
XXXV.] 205
Coincidences.
described in Chapter II., p. 190, afford an instructive illustration of
this point. These were sequences of events having a very small
probability, and it was shown that their occurrence in the series in
question proved nothing.
Still less is it possible to draw any conclusion from the repetitions
of events described by Mr. Holmes-Forbes in the above narrative ;
first, because it is clear that their antecedent probability is com
paratively small ; and, secondly, because there are no grounds for
judging what length of series they could reasonably be regarded as
belonging to.
Section II.
Coincidences toith a doubtful claim to causal production.
(a) Cases suggestive of "Design."
In describing the classification of Coincidences here adopted, I
referred to incidents involving an unusual combination of circum
stances, whose characteristic is that they are specially convenient for
some person or persons,—something that would be called particularly
"lucky" for them. The word " lucky " implies that the conjunction of
circumstances is thought accidental. Yet, if it implies something of
real moment to the persons concerned, it can hardly fail to suggest—,
to them, at least—that it did not come about by chance, nor through
the ordinary course of events causally connected together, but was
due to a special intervention on their behalf,—a sort of slight bias
given to the circumstances by an overruling Design. There is no
doubt that this idea is distinctly suggested by such cases as the last
one I give in this section, and by other cases (not given here) which
are regarded as answers to prayer.
I do not, of course, put forward the cases cited, or the comments
made on them, as any contribution towards settling the question
whether such a special intervention ever really occurs. They are
intended merely to illustrate the difficulties met with in considering
the question. The first of these is that the " lucky " incidents are
sometimes so trivial that it seems absurd to attribute any importance
to them as evidence of anything ; while there is no obvious point at
which to draw the line between these and the more momentous ones.
Again, very "lucky" events generally consist in the extrication of
somebody from some unpleasant or dangerous situation ; and then the
evidence for special intervention on his behalf is certainly dubious ;
since as much seems to have done against his interests in involving
him in trouble, as for him in taking him out of it.
206 [part
Alice Johnson.
Both these considerations would tend to show that what had
happened in all the cases supposed was part of the ordinary course of
events, and that no special intervention had taken place.
We need not, however, hold that Design operates by any kind of
interference at the moment, but might rather hold that all events in
the universe were pre-arranged by it from the beginning. The only
essential feature in the conception is that things are, in one way or
another, arranged with some purpose—some end in view. We can
hardly in any case suppose that Design is only, or chiefly, concerned
with " lucky " or " unlucky " events. If we believe in it at all, we can
hardly help believing that it takes cognisance of everything that
occurs. But it might easily happen that only a certain number of all
the events that occur were what mightbe called " evidential " of Design,
just as believers in telepathy generally hold that it occurs frequently,
but only now and then in a manner susceptible of proof.
It is these apparently " evidential " cases that may be instructively
compared with the events that afford evidence of human design.
If some one wins by cheating in a game of chance, the fact
of the results being specially fortunate for him may, under some
circumstances, lead us to guess that he is cheating. Similarly, when
circumstances beyond human control concur in an unusual manner to
produce some great benefit to a human being, this may suggest to us
that a superhuman Design is working for the benefit of that person.
In the case of the fraudulent player, we might find conclusive
proof through detecting the agency at work,—a kind of evidence which
we can hardly conceive of obtaining in the other case. But we might
also find evidence of what the fraudulent player was doing by observing
that in a very large number of instances, the results of the game
differed from what would be expected to occur by chance. This would
only make it more or less probable that some cause, not chance, was
acting, and a very large number of instances would be necessary for
practical certainty. Even then we should have to investigate further
to discover what the cause was.
The consideration of games of chance and the like has no very
direct bearing ou the question of the existence of a superhuman
Design. But without some knowledge of what can be, and in fact
constantly is, produced by chance in such cases, we should hardly
be able to realise what a multitude of incidents,—incidents either
specially "lucky" or specially "unlucky" for some individuals—might
occur by chance alone, and this ought to make us very cautious in
attempting to found arguments on any particular instances.
There are other kinds of Coincidences which, on somewhat different
grounds, are occasionally regarded as indicative of Design in the
XXXV.] 207
Coincidences.
universe ;—namely, coincidences in which events of a certain order
seem susceptible of a special interpretation having relation to other
,events, apparently unconnected with them and of an entirely distinct
•order. It has been a favourite idea of mystics in all ages that most
,events are symbolic of something else, which can be discovered
,through the use of a sort of hypothetical cipher,—the great object of
,ambition being to find out the universal cipher that will fit every
thing, and in the light of which everything would seem, as it were,
to make sense.
The cipher must be supposed sometimes to take a very simple form,
such as the famous anagram: Horatio Kelson = Honor est a Nilo.
Here it would have to be supposed that Nelson,s parents were guided
to give him the name in a spirit of unconscious prophecy. But the
practical certainty that the coincidence was accidental is shown by
the fact, which any one can verify for himself, that there is little
difficulty in making more or less appropriate anagrams out of almost
Any names, since most of them contain a fair proportion of vowels and
the common consonants, while the very large number of incidents in
any one life afford unlimited scope for choice of words to compose
the anagram.
In many instances some special significance has been attached to
certain numbers as portents, the numbers having attracted attention
for some reason ; for instance (as in the case of Mr Massey and the
number 99, given below), on account of their being associated several
times with similar events. Or in some cases the same number is
produced repeatedly in several different ways, e.g., in adding up the
digits of different dates, chosen for some reason irrespective of the
numbers. (See Case 10, below.) The histories of all religions are full
,of this tendency to attach special significance to all kinds of objects or
incidents which have been supposed to give information or super
natural guidance.
Astrology and Palmistry form some of the best known historical
instances of this. The ancient astrology of course involved, and was
to a great extent based on, the belief that the earth was in all respects
the centre of creation, so that there seemed to be nothing unreasonable
in the idea that one of the main functions of the stars was to record
its history or to guide men in their affairs. Apart from this obsolete
belief, the theory depended for its philosophic basis on the notion of a
pre-existing (or co-existing) coherence of all phenomena,—the universe
•being regarded as a continuous structure, every part of which depended
on, or was determined by, the rest, and might therefore be supposed to
•explain the rest. On this assumption, the universe as a whole might be
,empirically recognisable in the relative positions of stars, or the flights
,of birds, -or the lines in a human hand or anything else ; complete
208 [part
Alice Johnson.
knowledge of any one portion of the universe both requiring and
involving complete knowledge of all the rest of it.
This main principle is not only generally accepted in the present
day as an axiom of science, but is formulated in a much more precise
manner than formerly. But it is difficult to realise exactly what it
means when we come to apply it to specific sets of facts. We are
accustomed to state it confidently in complicated cases where we are
too ignorant of the circumstances to permit of a definite contradiction
of the assumption (e.g., in the case of the " flower in the crannied
wall.") But there are many simple cases that we know enough about
to see that complete knowledge of one part does not necessarily involve
complete knowledge of the whole. For instance, complete knowledge
of what has happened in ten throws of a coin will not tell us what
will happen if we go on throwing. Again, the most perfect know
ledge of one side and one angle of a triangle will not suffice to tell us
the form of the whole triangle. The whole science of Mathematics
rests, of course, on the fact that certain things are involved in
certain others, so that knowledge of the former is implied in know
ledge of the latter ; but the science shows exactly what and how much
is required to be known in order to give certain further knowledge.
The science of Mathematics owes its certainty to the fact that the
objects of which it treats have no real existence. There is thus no
possibility of the disturbing influences that may come in in the case of
real events that succeed one another in Time—events that have to one
other the relation of what we call cause and effect. The absoluteness
of Mathematics depends on the assumption of the absence of anv
disturbing influences ; it treats merely of what would happen if nothing
interfered with whatever forces are taken into consideration. It is
conceivable that all successions of real events might be predetermined
from the beginning,—as they are assumed to be in Mathematical
problems,—with no disturbing influences ever coming in; also that
each portion might involve and be involved in the rest with the same
inevitableness that, say, the circumference of a circle involves its radius.
But we cannot prove the absence of all disturbing influences ; nor are
we justified in assuming that any one portion, if sufficiently known,
would give us knowledge of all others.
In the first case given in this section, the repeated association of a
certain number with trivial incidents, occurring spontaneously, sug
gested to the person to whom they occurred the action of an external
Intelligence.
Case 8.
The following case was contributed by Mr. C. C. Massey to Light
of November 14th and 21st, 1885. It must be observed that Mr.
XXXV.] 200
Coincidences.
Massey does not represent the case as valuable evidentially, but merely
as illustrative of a certain class of experiences.
November 1st.
I am so little of a psychic that I know nothing of my somnambulic con
sciousness in general, and though once or twice before I have, while falling
asleep, detected something like an attempt (quite inarticulate) at a whisper,
nothing at all similar to the experience of a few nights ago had ever occurred
to me. . . . Certain numbers haunt me ; they have very distinct associa
tions for me, but into these I will not enter here. Suffice it to say that one
of them especially recurs in a certain month of the year, now just past, and
even on certain days of that month. Latterly, to narrow the problem of
coincidence as far as possible, I have refused to take note of mere multiples,
and have even only given special heed to a certain high number, [99]
being the repetition of the root number [9]. This number is presented
to me in various objective and seemingly accidental ways, often directly,
but more usually by the following mode. My attention will be directed to
some slight incident readily to be characterised by one word or two words.
Now, though the letters of the modern derivative alphabets are not natural
numbers, conventionally, so to speak, for this purpose they maybe treated as
having the numerical value of their order ; thus, a = 1, o = 15, z = 26, etc.,
in the English. It frequently happens, no doubt, that the same incident may
be equally well characterised in brief by different words or expressions, and
then, of course, the exact summation of the letter values of one of them to
the required number is less remarkable, the favourable chances being
multiplied by the alternatives. In every case, however, the natural odds
remain largely adverse. But as, when attention has once been drawn to this
sort of sympathy (or whatever it should be called) others may seek it in
their own experience, I should add that any seeking or solicitude is perfectly
idle. To be always on the look-out for such coincidences means spending
half the day in doing silly addition sums. Attention must be awake to them,
of course, for the incidents will be mostly trivial in themselves. But when
the method has been discovered—and how it occurred to me would take long
to tell—it is only necessary to remember that if there is anything in it at all,
attention will he arrested sufficiently often to make it almost impossible
to doubt a significance. The condition seems to be some true and deep
feeling concerned. To such, apparently unconscious sympathies respond.
Mere idle curiosity, or scientific interest, will not elicit them. And now,
having premised an explanation which seemed necessary, I will come to the
occasion of my hearing the " voice."
It was at Eastbourne, October 23rd. I had been rather preoccupied
all day, and late in the evening, having finished some writing, I took up a
book and lit a pipe. It then occurred to me that the "number" had not
that day been given. I felt rather disappointed, when in a few minutes one
of the little, commonplace incidents with the numerical value occurred in
the room where I was sittmg with no other companion than a kitten (who,
by-the-by, had nothing to do with it). I made the calculation, and soon
went on with my book. Later I went to bed, my thoughts occupied with
certain abstract speculations unconnected with these experiences. In bed I
was still drowsily meditative on the same ideas, when suddenly, to some
210 [part
Alice Johnson.
internal sense of hearing, perfectly articulate, yet with a sort of quick, jerky
intonation, suggestive of a spasmodic, but successful effort to overcome
obstruction or difficulty—a breaking in, as it were—sounded two whispered
words. Two more common or simple words are not to be found in the
language (one was only a preposition), nor more utterly foreign to any
conscious context in my mind. For I was not asleep, though drowsy. They
roused me instantly, and almost instantly, struck with the absence of any
intrinsic sense for me in them, I said to myself : "they will sum out my
number." The calculation was quickly made and the result icas exactly as
anticipated.
[Mr. Massey informs me that the words were " To dinner."]
Whatever the explanation, the case certainly has a psychological interest,
for it can hardly be ascribed to chance coincidence. Allowing that a sub
conscious dream faculty—the " masked "consciousness—could start an audible
hallucination of spoken words for the waking consciousness—(the proof that
I was not asleep is in the fact that a course of waking, though weak,
thought was distinctly interrupted by the sound, and I could clearly recall
that course of thought)—it is not for a moment to be supposed that the
numerical coincidence was accidental. It may be suggested that I had sub
consciously gone in search of words suitable to my purpose ; I can only say
that consciously the process of search would be long and tiresome, as I have
tested by actual trial. So that the least the case would prove would be
the instinctive superiority of the sub-conscious faculty of calculation, coupled
with a power to project the result as a hallucination into a waking con
sciousness not in the least habituated already to such hallucinations.
I record this case because I can bring it to book for others better than
the other modes of my numerical experiences. For myself, those other
modes are alone significant, on account of the objective character excluding
deceptive agency. In the case in question, even supposing that a spirit
(perhaps an '"elemental") impressed my sense of internal hearing with
words of the numerical value, that value would have little more significance
for me than if some friend—or some one wishing to play upon a weakness—
purposely suggested such words to me. The marvel is when strangers,
letters, chance occurrences, incidents wholly undesigned, and which, in the
nature of things, must have been determined by endless antecedents,
co-operate for a result having a particular subjective relation, so that it is
the time problem that here presents itself, but with far greater complexity
than in the case of prevision. Nor have I anything to urge against those
who altogether decline to accept an indefinite statement of such experiences.
They are only adverted to here in order to explain the principal incident.
C. C. M.
November 14th.
Here is a case in which a numerical coincidence, I think of a very
extraordinary character, was actually predicted by myself, and that not by
any occult prevision or impression, but simply by inference from a large
experience of similar instances. Those who read my communication in
last week's Light will remember the reference there to a certain high number,
to which the letter values (ascertained by alphabetical order), of words
XXXV.] 211
Coincidences.
suggested to me in a particular relation, sura up. For better appreciation
of the following case, I will now mention that this high number is 99—the
repetition of the root number 9.
Last night, I took up my new, uncut copy of Notes and Queries, and
glanced at the contents page—having seen no other. One of the topics
indexed was "Smoking in Church." This immediately recalled to my mind
the incident, heard long ago, of a young pedestrian on the Welsh hills, being
caught in a storm, finding shelter in a little church or chapel, and solace in
a cigar there. The recollection belonged to the personal associations for me
of the aforesaid number, and assuming that the "Note" in Notes and
Queries would be of some specific instance, I said to myself (there was no
one else to say it to), with a confidence amounting to positive assurance,
that the name of either smoker or church would sum out the number 99. 1
then turned to the place referred to (N. and Q. 6th S. XII. 385), and found
an account, in a letter of the last century, of how a certain Archbishop
Blackbourn (so spelt) of York had ordered pipes, tobacco, &c., into the
vestry of a Nottingham church for his refreshment after a confirmation !
Now, if any reader will take the trouble to make the calculation, he will find
that " Archbishop " sums to 99, " Blackbourn " sums to 99, and " of York "
sums to 90 ! From experiments I have made with books and. directories, I
believe the odds against any word or name taken at random giving a
particular number to be considerably larger than the odds against naming
the particular card to be drawn from a pack of 52. Indeed they are
probably not much under 100 to 1.
The first word of the title of the book cited for the account in Notes and
Queries is "Letters," also = 99.
I know well that readers will be inclined to suspect that I have overrated
or overstated my expectation of this result. No one but myself can know
how jealous I am of self-deception, or how used I am to instant analysis of
my own feelings and beliefs. But make what abatement you will on this
account ; there remains the fact, quite independent of the degree of my
expectation, that I was led to seek and to find a very improbable numerical
result in particular words of a particular passage out of the whole contents of
the paper. c c M
I have referred to the number of Notes and Queries. The " Con
tents " with the item : "Smoking in Church " is on p. 381, so that it
would be impossible to see the " Note," which occurs on p. 385, while
looking at the " Contents " page, and Mr Massey informs me that the
copy was uncut.
In answer to questions, Mr. Massey has kindly given me the
following further information :—
124, Victoria Street, S.W., August 11th, 1898.
I made brief notes of many of the incidents in question at the time of
their occurrence. But they were of little evidential value, being merely
memoranda of dates and words, to enable me to recall the occasions, but
giving no detail, usually, of the latter. And they have long been destroyed.
. . . So I can only repeat generally what I said in Light, that the number
212 [part
Alice Johnson.
was given especially at the (for me) significant season of the year, in quick
repetition, by "strangers, letters, chance occurrences, incideuts wholly
undesigned." Sometimes three or four or even more such occasions would
occur in the course of a single solitary walk (usually across country from
Eastbourne). To give particulars from memory at this distance of time
would be useless, even if I could recall a number of them (some, I certainly
can), because you could not " control " my statements. At first I took note
of 9 and its multiples ; but not being able to assign any ratio of probability to
the frequent recurrence, I determined to confine my attention to the less
likely repetition, 99. The sort of thing went on day after day, more or less,
for weeks, and in successive years at the same season, for some four or five
years ; now, hardly ever. ... c c Massey
August 19th, 1898.
The brief memoranda—words I jotted down immediately after
the occurrences—were merely that I might know accurately at the end of
each day how frequent the coincidences had been. Otherwise they would not
help you now, even had they been kept, as particulars would still depend on
my present recollection. But I am sorry that they are not extant, because
it was just the frequency of the coincidence in a brief period that in my view
excluded any merely subjective explanation. Obviously, the latter is not
available, if the frequency of objective facts with the numerical signification
is in excess of any reasonable estimate of what might be ordinarily expected
daily for, say, a few successive days. My subliminal self would be
dependent on external circumstances for the selection, and it was the
frequency of circumstances lending themselves to such selection that I say is
beyond common probability. We can test this to some extent by experiment,
and I did so. Often, moreover, only common attention by a mind openly on
the alert (as mine was) was requisite, the significant number presenting
itself without any calculation, e.g., in ticket numbers, numbers of railway
carriages (entered before the number was seen), the number given in the
course of a letter from a correspondent wholly unaware of its significance for
me, and so on. In other cases, no doubt you would have to be satisfied that
the key words, so to speak, with the numerical value, were in all cases the
simple and obviously descriptive ones, not forced for the purpose. . . .
C. C. Massey.
The explanation of this case that first suggests itself is obviously
the one referred to by Mr. Massey—that he " had subconsciously gone
in search of words suitable to his purpose." The experiences might
then be considered akin to the anagrams sometimes occurring in
automatic writing,—a striking case of which is given in Mr. Myers'
paper " On a Telepathic Explanation of some so-called Spiritualistic
Phenomena" in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. II., pp. 225-231. The
particular interest of these anagrams is, as Mr. Myers says, that " the
result of the involuntary movement of the pen is altogether puzzling to
the writer,—is something which he has to make out with difficulty as
if it were the product of another brain." They were "anagrams,
XXXV.] 213
Coincidences.
indeed, of the crudest kind, consisting of mere transpositions of letters,
but still puzzles which the writer had to set himself to decipher ab
extra. The chances against drawing a group of letters at random
which will form several definite words and leave no letters over are, of
course, very great indeed." An instance was " Tefi Hasl Esble Lies "
( Life is the less able).
In cases like this, we may suppose that the real order of the mental
processes involved is the reverse of the apparent order. In inventing
a riddle in the ordinary way, we first invent the answer and then
concoct a suitable question ; but in propounding it to another person,
we put the question first. In dreams it sometimes occurs that we our
selves have a riddle propounded to us ; we then seem to hear the
question first, with no consciousness of knowing the answer, which
comes to us later as a surprise, although we must really have known
it beforehand. Such a dream is " dramatised backwards," like the
example given below (see p. 263). The apparent mystery in these
anagrams is of the same kind ; it consists in the writer seeming to put
the question to himself and subsequently finding out the answer, which
he must have known subconsciously all the time.
Similarly, in Mr. Massey's case, his subliminal self may have
started with the number 99 and made up words, e.g., "To dinner,"
whose letters summed up to it, presenting the finished result of its
labours to his supraliminal self. To the latter, this might appear
like a riddle propounded by some external source, the answer to which
it worked out and found to be 99. The explanation depends on the
assumption that mental processes can be apparently reversed as
described, but it seems to me that the large number of cases that can
be thus explained justify the assumption.
It is not even necessary to assume the apparent reversal in all the
instances referred to by Mr. Massey. In cases where an incident
occurred that could be described briefly in several different terms or
expressions, the subliminal self might be supposed to select the term
suited for its purpose and to reject altogether cases in which
it could find no suitable words. This would merely imply that
the finished result alone would be presented to the supraliminal self,
the mental processes leading up to it being performed unconsciously.
The cases where the number was presented directly, as on tickets or
railway carriages, might be merely instances of selective attention to
it. (The incident of " smoking in church " cannot be thus explained,
but a single case like this cannot, of course, be regarded as evidence
of anything beyond chance.)
All this implies no further assumption than that Mr. Massey's sub
liminal self acquired a special readiness in playing a sort of game,—
rather more difficult than the making of anagrams, but a person who has
214 [part
Alice Johnson.
spent a little time over puzzles of this kind soon acquires what seems
to one totally inexperienced in them great quickness and skill. "With
regard to the number 99, it will be seen at once that at least 7 or 8
letters would generally be required to form it, since—if all the letters
of the alphabet occurred equally often—13 would be the average value
of any letter taken at random. But more than 8 letters would generally
be wanted, since the letters in the first half of the alphabet occur much
oftener than those in the second half. That this is so with initials can be
seen in any dictionary, e.g., I see that the first 13 letters—A to M —take
up about TV of the space in an old edition of Johnson's Dictionary.
This shows roughly the actual proportion of words beginning with
these letters. The greater frequency with which such words occur may
be shown roughly by the fact that the same initial letters take up 16 out
of the 24 volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica. (It is instructive
to observe that the letter M—which Napoleon is said to have regarded
as having a special significance in his life—takes up a little more than
two out of these sixteen volumes). Words clearly too long or too short
for the number would be at once rejected, and it is not very difficult to
imagine that the subliminal self could memorise all the letters of the
alphabet so as to substitute at once for the letter its numerical -equiva
lent, and add up the numbers rapidly whenever it saw that they would
come to something like 99. The interest that Mr. Massey had come to
attach to the number might furnish a fully sufficient motive for the
exercise, which otherwise would have seemed trivial and childish.
In the next case the apparently significant numbers were presented
in a simple and direct fashion.
Case 9.
The account is translated and slightly abridged from the Annate*
des Sciences Psychiques for March-April, 1899.
The narrator, M. E. Desbeaux, writes to Dr. Dariex that these cases
are extracted from his private diary, under their respective dates ; that he
has been to Monte Carlo twenty-three times, and has never had any other
premonitions.
His account is as follows :—
Case 1. —On Wednesday, February 6th, 1889, at Monte Carlo, taking a
walk in the afternoon, I found a rusty horse-shoe. Being superstitious, like
all gamblers, I picked it up, since—as every one knows—a horse-shoe,
especially a rusty one, brings luck ! On standing up again my eye fell on the
number 6, painted red on a mile-stone. I said to myself, "That is the
number to bet on to-day," but I had hardly finished making this reflection
when I found myself gazing at the number 28 imprinted on the lamp of a
carriage that had stopped in front of me. I thought at once that, if I saw the
6 turn up on one of the roulette tables, I ought next to stake on the 28.
XXXv.] 215
Coincidences.
Two hours after this little incident, which I had almost forgotten, I went
into the gambling saloon. I went up to a table, and almost at once saw the
6 turn up. Then, but only then, I remembered that I ought to stake on
the 28. As I had been losing for several days, and had but a very limited
confidence in my prognostic, I hesitated, and instead of staking a louis on
the 28 alone, I merely staked 5 francs on the six numbers (transversale)
28—33. The croupier threw the ball, and the 28 turned up.
Case 2.—On Tuesday, December 26th, 1894 ... just as I was
coming out of [a house] 1 was obliged to start back out of the way of a
carriage, with lighted lamps, driving hurriedly by. The number of this
carriage—22—was flashed on my eyes. Then it occurred to me that this was
the first number I had seen since [an incident which he had amused himself
by regarding as a lucky portent], I entered the Casino, but there was no
prior indication which could serve as my cue (point de depart) as in the
previous case ; it was therefore with no confidence that I placed five or six
coins on the 22. This number did not turn up, and I retired. I had
dinner and then came back, convinced of the necessity of having a cue, and
Destiny not having indicated one to me, I decided in my own mind that this
should be the number 1. I then walked about among the tables, waiting for
the moment when I should see No. 1 turn up. At the end of an hour,
having seen nothing, I went towards the door to smoke a cigarette in the
anteroom, when passing by a table I heard the croupier call out, " 1, red,
odd number, manque.1 " Here was my cue. I put down a Join,s on the 22.
The croupier threw his ball again, and 22 turned up.
The next day we lunched with our friends, the B.'s, at the Hotel du
Cap Martin. The first thing I noticed on the table at which we were sitting
was a white card, supported on a copper stand, bearing the number 222
(a number referring to the service of the hotel and restaurant). My
superstitious mind was struck with the oddity of finding again under my
eyes the 22 which had favoured me the evening before. I wondered if this
was not another gracious guidance from Fate, and I thought that the first
2 probably meant that 22 would turn up twice for me that day. These
reflections were, of course, made rapidly and internally, without conviction.
At nine o'clock in the evening I went into the rooms, and had hardly
approached one of the tables when 1 saw the number 1 turn up. Then,
thinking of nothing but the system which had succeeded the evening before,
I put a louis on the 22. Then the 22 turned up. " Here is one," I thought,
"and if my prognostic is correct, there should be a second." Having picked
up my winnings, I left on the 22, as my custom was, the louis which had
just won. The croupier threw the ball, and called out : " 2, black, even
number, manque." This time my louis returned to the bank, and I was going
to look for another table where 1 might see the 1 appear, when I suddenly
remembered for the first time the card numbered 222 at the Cap Martin,
and I thought at the same time that 1 had the initial indication which had
failed me the evening before ; it was this 2, preceding a 22, which should be
my cue. I hastened to throw a louis on the 22. The ball twisted and
turned and fell into the 22. This happened under the eyes of two of my
1 Manque indicates any of the numbers from 1 to 18 inclusive, being contrasted
with paste, which indicates any of those from 19 to 36 inclusive.—A.J.
21G [part
Alice Johnson.
friends, 1 who, not being aware of the course of my thoughts, were
astonished to see me hit off the precise number twice in three turns—both
the winning numbers being 22.
Case 3. —On Friday, February 3rd, 1899, at Monte Carlo, I waa walking
about before lunch, thinking sadly that ever since my arrival in this beautiful
country, namely, for three days, the roulette had been treating me unkindly.
Suddenly at a street corner my glance fell on the number 11 painted on a
wall. "Can this.be. an indication of Destiny?" I thought, half sceptically,
half credulously. But at once I remembered my two previous cases, and I
recognised the necessity of having another indication to act as my cue, as
before. "Well," I said, " the first figure that I see shall be this." At once
I saw coming towards me an electric tram with the figure 4 on its front,
large and standing out clearly. I took note of it.
At about four o'clock I entered the Casino. I walked about among the
tables, hoping to see my 4 turn up. At the end of an hour I had seen
nothing of it. Becoming bored, I began to play, thinking no more of my
prognostic. I played for an hour with 5 franc pieces only, and did not win
once. At last, at six o'clock, I went up to a table in the large room, and saw
the 4 turn up. There was my cue. I at once put a louts on the 11, and the
II came next.
Satisfied. I went towards the door, but, crossing the last room, I glanced
at the table on the left, where there were comparatively few people. At
that moment the 4 turned up before me. At once I put a lonis on the 11,
and—actually—the 11 came next ! . . .
M. Desbeaux discusses with some ingenuity the metaphysical diffi
culties of any theory of premonition as applied to these cases; but,
curiously enough, among the various hypotheses he suggests to explain
them, that of chance coincidence is not mentioned ! With a view to
testing this, it is unfortunate that his diary—like so many other
diaries—recorded the number of hits only, and not the number of
misses. Still it is made clear that the latter were very numerous, and
the narrative, as a whole, is hardly calculated to increase one's
confidence in portents.
There is another kind of numerical coincidences in the collection
of which much time and ingenuity has been expended by various
persons : I mean, coincidences relating to dates. I give an instance
which I have seen quoted more than once as an especially noteworthy
one, though, so far as I know, no estimate has ever been made of the
degree of its improbability.
Case 10.
Louis Philippe became King of France in 1830, and abdicated
in 1848. There are three important dates connected with his life—
1 M. H. M., who has recently reminded me of the incident, would, if necessary,
bear witness of it. and Mm« S., his sister. [The names of these persons were given in
confidence to Dr. Danes.]
XXXV.] 217
Coincidences.
the date of his birth, of his wife's birth, and of their marriage — the
four digits of each of which, added to the date of his accession,
makes the date of his abdication ; in other words, the four digits
added together are in each case equal to the number of years that he
reigned, namely, 18. Thus :—
Date of accession ...
Date of
birth
1830
n
7
7
3
1848
Date of
wife's
birth
1830
n
7
8
2
1848
Date of
marriage
1830
fl
8
0
9
1848
A somewhat similar,—but, as will be seen, far less remarkable,—,
series of coincidences is to be found in the life history of Napoleon III.,
who became Emperor of France in 1852 and abdicated in 1870. The
four digits of the corresponding three dates in his life, added to the
date of his accession, come in each case to a year short of the date of
abdication ; that is, they each add up to 17, which is one less than
the number of years that he reigned. Thus :—
Date of accession 1852
fl
Date of
birth
Date of
wife's
birth
1852
fl
1869 1809
1852
n
Date of
marriage
1869
In the case of Louis Philippe, the coincidences consist in the digits
of all the three dates summing up to a given number, 18. This number
may be said to be " given," because it is obtained independently of the
sum of the digits, namely, from the length of the reign. Thus, three
numbers, taken more or less at random, are all equal to a given
number.
In the case of Napoleon III., the three numbers are all equal to
one another, but are not equal to a given number ; the length of reign
is 18 years and the digits sum up to 17. The antecedent improbability
of their summing up to 17 is exactly the same as that of their summing
up to 18 (this would not be the case with all possible sums of four
digits, but may be found to be so in the case of the sums 17 and 18,
when the first digit is 1, as in all the dates now being considered).
But 17 only happens to be the number that they sum up to; it is
not a number obtained independently of them, as the 18 is obtained in
Louis Philippe's dates.
Q 2
218 [part
Alice Johnson.
Taking Louis Philippe's dates we may first consider what is the
probability that the digits of the date of his birth should sum up to
18. As he came to the throne in 1830 he must have been born either
in the 18th or 19th century, therefore the first digit must be 1 and the
second 7 or 8. It will be found that a date whose digits sum up to 18
occurs once in every ten years between the dates 1719 and 1890,
which are respectively the earliest and the latest dates in the two
centuries fulfilling the condition required, and as it is obvious from the
circumstances of the case that the birth must have taken place
between these limits, the probability that the digits would sum up to
18 was T'^. The date of his wife's birth and of their marriage must
also have come within these limits, so that the probability in each case
that the digits would sum up to 18 is and the probability that they
would do so in all three cases is l0100.
Taking Napoleon III.'s dates, we have to ask what is the proba
bility that the digits of the three dates should all add up to the same
number ; or, in other words, what is the probability that the sum of
the digits of two of the dates should both be equal to the sum of the
digits of the third—this sum being 17. A date whose digits sum up
to 17 occurs once in every ten years between 1709 and 1880, and as,
from the circumstances of the case, both dates must be within these
limits, the probability is in each case y^, and the probability of its
occurring in both cases is T^-,j.
A little consideration will show that the particular dates involved
are specially favourable ones for the occurrence of these coincidences.
In each series, all the dates must, from the nature of the case, fall
within 100 years of one another. Practically then, it is a question of
all the possible sums of the last two digits. There are nineteen
possible sums (from 0 to 18 inclusive) of two digits, and a hundred
different ways of obtaining them ; but while 0 and 18 can each be
obtained in only one way, so that the probability of the occurrence of
each of them is the sums that can be obtained most frequently
are 9 (in ten different ways), and 8 and 10 (each in nine different
ways). Now it is either 8, 9, or 10—the chance of whose occurrence
is most favourable —that is required as the sum of the two last digits
in all the dates (since the first two digits are always 1 and 7 or 8) to
make the four digits add up to 17 or 18.
If any argument is needed to show the utter irrationality of
attaching any significance to coincidences such as these, one might be
furnished by observing that there are cases in which they could not
possibly occur. Thus, if a man were born in the first year of any
century, say, in 1800, the digits of the date of his birth could not
sum up to the same as the digits of any other date in his life, but
must always fall below them; or if he were born, say, in 1799, a
XXxv.] Coincidences. 210
coincidence would be almost impossible, as it could not occur before
1 889, and so on.
Further examples of a similar kind, to which similar reasoning is
applicable, are to be found in the following passage, which is taken
from a discussion of "fortuitous coincidences" in Jevons' Principles
of Science. (Third Edition, p. 263.)
Case 11.
In historical and social matters, coincidences are frequently pointed out
which are due to chance, although there is always a strong popular tendency
to regard them as the work of design, or as having some hidden meaning.
If to 1794, the number of the year in which Robespierre fell, we add the
sum of its digits, the result is 1815, the year in which Napoleon fell ; the
repetition of the process gives 1830, the year in which Charles the Tenth
abdicated. Again, the French Chamber of Deputies in 1830 consisted of
402 members, of whom 221 formed the party called '• La queue de Robes
pierre," while the remainder, 181 in number, were named " Les honnetes
gens." If we give to each letter a numerical value corresponding to its
place in the alphabet, it will be found that the sum of the values of the
letters in each name exactly indicates the number of the party.
The remaining cases I give in this section relate to "lucky " events
of greater or less importance to the persons concerned.
Cask 12.
The first is a case of scientific discovery being hastened by a
fortunate coincidence,—that of an Egyptian papyrus and a Greek
translation of the same papyrus coming into the hands of the investi
gator, Dr. Thomas Young, through two independent sources, almost
at the same time. The narrative is taken from Dr. Young's
Account of some recent discoveries in Hicroglyphical Literature and
Egyptian Antiquities (London, 1823). He was engaged in 1814
in comparing and deciphering the two forms of Egyptian inscriptions
on the " Pillar of Rosetta " (commonly known as the Rosetta Stone).
He had made tome progress with the work, and—
In 1821 he discovered "at Leghorn among a multitude of Egyptian
antiquities belonging to Mr. Drovetti, the French Consul at Alexandria, a
stone containing an enchorial1 and a Greek inscription, which was known to
have existed formerly at Menouf, but which had been lost and almost forgotten
by European travellers in Egypt and I believe by Mr. Drovetti himself."
Drovetti refused his request to be allowed to take a copy of this. Soon after
occurred (op. cit., p. 38) " the arrival of Mr. Casati at Paris, with a parcel of
i Young used the term " enchorial " because this form of writing is called in the
Greek Enchoria Grummata. Champollion preferred the word " demotic," or writing
of the people, and the latter term is used in the description of the Rosetta Stone in
the British Museum.
220 [part
Alice Johnson.
manuscripts, among which Mr. Champollion discovered one that considerably
resembled, in its preamble, the enchorial text of the Pillar of Rosetta ; "
(p. 43) ' ' Mr. Champollion had ascertained the analogy of one of the
manuscripts, purchased of Casati, to the enchorial inscription of Rosetta,
and he had obtained from it without difficulty, the mode of writing the name
Cleopatra in that character. He did not, however, then mention to me the
important consequences which he had derived from this discovery." . . .
Later came (p. 55) ' ' an event which is the most important, considered as a
single occurrence, that has taken place since the commencement of my Egyp
tian researches. It was very soon after my return from France that George
Francis Grey, Esq., of University College, Oxford, having been at Naples
upon his return from Egypt, . . . had the kindness, on the 22nd of
November last, to leave with me a box containing several fine specimens of
writing and drawing on papyrus ; they were chiefly in hieroglyphics, and of
a mythological nature ; but the two which he had before described to me as
particularly deserving attention, and which were brought, through his
judicious precautions, in excellent preservation, both contained some Greek
characters, written apparently in a pretty legible hand. He had purchased
them of an Arab at Thebes, in January, 1820 ; and that which was most
intelligible had appeared, at first sight, to contain some words relating to the
service of the Christian church. . , .
"Mr. Champollion had done me the favour, while I was at Paris, to copy
for me some parts of the very important papyrus, which I have before
mentioned as having given him the name of Cleopatra ; and of which the
discovery was certainly a great event in Egyptian literature, since it was the
first time that any intelligible characters, of the enchorial form, had been
discovered among the many manuscripts and inscriptions that had been
examined, and since it furnished Mr. Champollion at the same time with a
name which materially advanced, if I understood him rightly, the steps
that have led him to his very important extension of the hieroglyphical
alphabet. He had mentioned to me in conversation the names of Apollonian,
'AiUiochut,' and Antigomu as occurring among the witnesses ; and I easily
recognised the groups which he had deciphered ; although, instead of
Antiochus, I read Antimacltus, and I did not recollect at the time that he
had omitted the m.
"In the evening of the day that Mr. Grey had brought me his manuscripts
I proceeded impatiently to examine that which was in Greek only ; and I
could scarcely believe that 1 was awake and in my sober senses, when I
observed, among the names of the witnesses, Antimachus Antigenis ; and a
few lines further back, Purtis Apollonii, although the last word could not
have been very easily deciphered, without the assistance of the conjecture,
which immediately occurred to me, that this manuscript might perhaps be a
translation of the enchorial manuscript of Casati. I found that its beginning
was ' A copy of an Egyptian writing . . . ; ' and I proceeded to
ascertain that there were the same number of names intervening between the
Greek and the Egyptian signatures that I had identified and that the same
number followed the last of them ; and the whole number of witnesses
appeared to be sixteen in each. The last paragraph in the Greek began with
the words, ' Copy of the Registry ; ' for such must be the signification of
XXXV.] 221
Coincidences.
the word n T Q M A T O 2, employed in this papyrus, though it does not
appear to occur anywhere else in a similar signification. I could not, there
fore, but conclude that a most extraordinary chance had brought into my
possession a document which was not very likely, in the first place, ever to
have existed, still less to have been preserved uninjured, for my information,
through a period of near two thousand years ; but that this very extra
ordinary translation should have been brought safely to Europe, to England
and to me, at the very moment when it was most of all desirable to me to
possess it, as the illustration of an original which I was then studying, but
without any other reasonable hope of being able fully to comprehend it ;
this combination would, in other times, have been considered as affording
ample evidence of my having become an Egyptian sorcerer.
" Mr. Ohampollion had not thought it worth while to give me a transcript
of the original Greek endorsement ; he seemed to consider it as not fully
agreeing with the Egyptian text, or at any rate not materially assisting in
its interpretation : . . . [and] after an accidental delay of a month, the
answer that I received from Paris was only such as to enable me to state
that my opinion of the identity of the two endorsements is fully confirmed.
I have lost, however, no time in sending to the Conservators of the King's
cabinet a copy of my registry ; with a request to be favoured with theirs in
return .... in order that the duplicates may stand side by side in
the lithographical copy. . . . My application for the copy of the
Registry has been received with the liberality which was to be expected
from the directors of a great institution, and I have to return my best
thanks to Mr. Raoul Rochette for a correct copy of the whole of this highly
important manuscript.
"The contents of Mr. Grey's Greek manuscript are of a nature scarcely
less remarkable than its preservation and discovery : it relates to the sale,
not of a house, or a field, but of a portion of the Collections and Offerings
made from time to time on account, or for the benefit, of a certain number
of Mummies, of persons described at length, in very bad Greek, with their
children and all their households. The price is not very clearly expressed ;
but as the portion sold is only a moiety of a third part of the whole, and as
the testimony of sixteen witnesses was thought necessary on the occasion,
it is probable that the revenue, thus obtained by the priests, was by no
means inconsiderable.
" The result derived at once from this comparison is the identification of
more than thirty proper names as they were written in the running haud of
the country. . . .
"A second papyrus, [obtained by Mr. Grey] of considerably greater
magnitude, contains three Egyptian conveyances in the enchorial character,
with separate registries on the margin in very legible Greek. These
.... afford us also many additional examples of enchorial proper names,
besides a general idea of the subjects of the respective manuscripts, all of
which relate to the sale of lands in the neighbourhood of Thebes."
On pp. 69-75 of the book Dr. Young gives translations of " the enchorial
papyrus of Paris containing the original deed relating to the mummies " and
Mr. Grey's "Greek Antigraph," which begins,— "Copy of an Egyptian
writing respecting the dead bodies in Thyn. . . ." On comparing these
222 [part
Alice Johnson.
two translations, it appears that the Greek is a slightly abridged copy of the
Egyptian document, the preamble ("in the reign of So-and-So"—giving a
list of kings, priests, and gods) being omitted ; after the name of each of
the dead persons, the phrase " with his children and his household " found
in the Egyptian is mostly omitted in the Greek, as well as a short passage
which seems to give a sort of summary of the persons after enumerating
them. The Egyptian document, before the names of the witnesses, ends
thus:—"Executed and confirmed: written by Horus the son of Phabis,
clerk to the chief priests of Amonrasonther and the contemplar? Gods, of the
Beneficent Gods, of the Father-loving Gods, of the Paternal God and of the
Mother-loving Gods, Amen " ; while the Greek says merely—" Written by
Horus, the son of Phabis, the writer of the [priests] of Amonrasonther and
the other gods of the Temple." The main parts of the documents, however,
judging from the translations, undoubtedly correspond so closely that there
can be no question that the Greek is a translation of the Egyptian.
The date of the documents was supposed by Dr. Young to be from
146—135 b.C.
The probability of occurrence of this coincidence may, I think, be
taken as equivalent to the probability that an MS. taken at random
out of all the MSS. so far discovered in Egypt should turn out to be a
Greek translation of a given demotic MS.
Greek being the official language in Egypt at the date when the
MS. was written, legal documents would often have been written in it;
and if one of the contracting parties did not understand the language
of the other, which might often be the case, the document would
probably be duplicated in the two languages. Of course only a small
proportion of these legal documents would be preserved up to the
present century. But it is practically certain that, when they were
duplicated, the duplicates would have been originally kept together in
the same archives (see Mr. Griffith's letter, below), so that, when first
unearthed, they would be unearthed together, and if one was pre
served, probably both would be. Therefore Dr. Young's duplicates
were almost certainly included originally in the same find and
separated later.
Now, if the duplicates had been kept separate to begin with, so
that one of them might have been preserved and the other not, the
chance that one document found in Egypt should turn out to be the
duplicate or translation of a certain other one would depend on the
total number of documents of all kinds that had ever existed in Egypt,
and would thus be very small. But since, as just remarked, it is pretty
certain that both duplicates or neither would be preserved and found,
the chance depends practically on the total number of documents of all
kinds that had been found in Egypt at that date (about 1820), and is
thus comparatively large. By the word " found," I mean merely
unearthed and preserved. I do not mean to imply necessarily that
XXXV.] 223
Coincidences.
any discovery had been made of the nature of the documents, or even
of the language in which they were written, but only that —whether in
the hands of investigators or dealers—they formed part of the total
material then accessible for study. Probably no one knew at that
time that any of the Greek MSS. were translations.
The chance in question may, then, be expressed as follows :—
Let e be the number of documents in the Egyptian language that
had been found, of which t had been translated into Greek and ex
hypollieai found, and g the number of Greek documents — not transla
tions—which had been found. Then the chance that there had ever
been a translation of a given Egyptian document is — and the chance
e
that a particular document taken at random out of all the documents
found should be the translation in question is - that is, it
e (e+g + t),
increases with the extent to which translations were made, and
decreases with the extent to which documents of all kinds had been
found. It cannot possibly be greater than i this being the
e+g+t,
value on the extreme supposition that all Egyptian documents had
been translated, in which case t = e, and the chance then depends
merely on the total number of documents found. Actually, no doubt,
I is considerably less than e and the chance is decreased accordingly.
In considering this problem, it may appear at first sight that the
Greek MS. was not taken at random at all, as Grey had specially
drawn Young's attention to it. But there was no idea on the part of
either of them that it might turn out to be a translation ; from the
point of view of its being such, it was quite at random that Young
examined it first out of all those that Grey had sent him.
From the same point of view, it was, as it seems to me, quite at
random that the MS. to which attention was drawn was a Greek MS.
And for this reason I have treated it simply as an MS. taken at
random. But if it be considered that this view is not legitimate, we
should then have to regard it as a Greek MS. taken at random, which
of course increases the probability of its turning out a translation.
Using the same notation as before, the chance may be expressed as
follows :—
The chance that there had ever been a translation of a given
Egyptian document is, as before, — The chance that a particular
e.
document taken at random out of g + t Greek documents should be
the translation is - If g = 0, that is, if there are no Greek
e{g + l).
224 [part
Alice Johnson.
documents except translations, (which, of course, is infinitely far from
fact) the chance is simply that is, depends only on the number of
Egyptian documents and is independent of the number of translations
that were made. Otherwise, it depends on I and increases as t
increases. On the extreme supposition that t = e, that is, that every
Egyptian document was translated (likewise utterly contrary to factJ,
the chance is simply - — that is, depends merely on the number
of Greek documents. These two formulse, — and —-—. give the
e g + t,
greatest possible values of the fraction, — being the case in which the
e
denominator is as small as possible and — that in which the
v g + t
numerator is as large as possible.
It is important to note, further, that the chance of the duplicates
coming together again, after having been once separated, depended
largely on the number of places in which any exploration had been
made. Obviously, the fewer places had been explored, the greater is
the chance of the reunion of the duplicates. It seems possible (see
below) that only two places had been explored then, so that the
chance was much increased by this.
In whatever form the problem be stated, there are, unfortunately,
too many unknown quantities in it to admit of an exact solution.
However, through the courtesy of Professor Ernest Gardner, I was put
into communication with Mr. F. L. Griffith (Editor of the Archaso-
logical Survey of the Egypt Exploration Fund), who is well-known as
the leading authority on Egyptian manuscripts, and who has very
kindly given me what information is available towards the solution.
He writes :—
Riversvale, Ashton-under-Lyne, August 21st, 1898.
The coincidence you treat of, wonderful as it seems, is by no means so
extraordinary as it appears at first sight. It is quite true that the copy or
"antigraph " in Greek would be kept with the original demotic. The latter
was the real instrument, the former was only intended to make it intelligible
to the Greek officials, etc., and naturally they would be kept together. The
Greek antigraphs, of which several are known, are more or less abbreviated ;
the example in question is singularly full. Of course theso bilingual* only
exist for a short period under the Ptolemies and Roman emperors and form
only a minute portion of the MS. documents from Egypt.
It was very usual to endorse, demotic documents in Greek giving a brief
indication of the contents ; the Greek documents themselves were likewise
endorsed in Greek.
I am afraid I could give no estimate of the number of Greek translations,
Greek originals, or of the total number of MSS. from Egypt discovered and
XXXV.] 225
Coincidences.
preserved down to 1820, unless indeed after long research, which I must not
undertake now. The trade in antiquities and papyri was then very active,
and while very few lists existed of the collections, numbers of objects were
being hawked about or brought home by travellers. . . .
F. LI. Griffith.
P.S.—Unfortunately, "unearthing" documents did not always lead to
their preservation. Except in the few places where their value was
understood, they were burnt or thrown away.
There was no systematic exploration in Egypt before 1820, but Thebes
was the hunting ground and next to it Memphis. I doubt whether
documents were preserved from any other sites at that time.
Case 13.
With the foregoing we may compare another instance of quite a
different kind taken from the history of Astronomy, where two
independent discoveries, completed almost at the same time, led to
results correlated to one another in an important way.
The account is taken from an article on " Coincidences and
Superstitions " in the Cornhill Magazine, Vol. XXVI. (July to
December, 1872), pp. 684 et seq. The article in the Cornhill
Magazine is unsigned, but is reprinted under the same title in
Knowledge, Vol. V. (1884), the authorship being there disclosed as
that of R. A. Proctor. He writes :—
The history of Astronomy has in quite recent times afforded a very
remarkable instance of repeated coincidences. We refer to the researches
by which the theory has been established that meteors and comets are so far
associated that meteor systems travel in the track of comets. It will readily
be seen from the following statements .... that the demonstration
of this theory must be regarded as partly due to singular good fortune :—
There are two very remarkable meteor systems—the system which
produces the November shooting-stars, or Lermides, and that which produces
the August shooting-stars, or Perxides. It chanced that the year 1866
was the time when a great display of November meteors was expected by
astronomers. Hence, in the years 1865 and 1866, considerable attention
was directed to the whole subject of shooting-stars. Moreover, so many
astronomers watched the display of 1866, that very exact information was for
the first time obtained as to the apparent track of these meteors. It is
necessary to mention that such information was essential to success in the
main inquiry. Now it had chanced that in 1862 a fine comet had been seen,
whose path approached the earth's path very closely indeed. This led the
Italian astronomer Schiaparelli to inquire whether there might not be some
connection between this comet and the August shooting-stars, which cross
the earth's path at the same place. He was able, by comparing the path of
the comet and the apparent paths of the meteors, to render this opinion
highly probable. Then came inquiries into the real paths of the November
meteors, these inquiries being rendered just practicable by several coinci
dences, as—(1) the exact observations just mentioned ; (2) the existence of
22G [part
Alice Johnson.
certain old accounts of the meteor shower ; (3) the wonderful mastery
obtained by Professor Adams over all problems of perturbation (for the
question depended on the way in which the November meteors had been
perturbed) ; and (4) the existence of a half-forgotten treatise by Gauss,
supplying formula which reduced Adams' labours by one-half. The path
having been determined by Adams .... the whole question rested on
the recognition of a comet travelling in the same path. If such a comet were
found, Schiaparelli's case was made out. If not, then, though the evidence
might be convincing to mathematicians well grounded in the theory of
probabilities, yet it was all but certain that Schiaparelli's theory would
presently sink into oblivion. Now there are probably hundreds of comets
which have a period of 33^ years, but very few are known— only three
certainly—and one of these had only just been discovered when Adams' results
were announced. The odds were enormous against the required comet being
known, and yet greater against its having been so well watched that its true
path had been ascertained. Yet the comet which had been discovered in
that very year 1866—the comet called Tempel's, or I. 1866—was the very
comet required to establish Schiaparelli's theory. There was the path of the
meteors assigned by Adams, and the path of the comet had been already
calculated by Tempel before Adams' result had been announced ; and these
two paths were found to be to all intents and purposes (with an accuracy far
.exceeding indeed the requirements of the case) identical.
Case 14.
The next case, referring to a curiously lucky little incident, was
contributed to Notes and Queries in 1895 (8th Series, Vol. VIII., p.
270), by Mr. C. J. Feret, F.R.G.S., F.R. Hist. Soc., author of an
exhaustive history of the parish of Fulham, which is about to be
published under the title of Fulham Old and New.
Mr. Feret writes :—
49, Edith Road, West Kensington, W.
. . . Christmas, 1892, I spent at Southsea. One day I wanted to get
some envelopes of a somewhat unusual size. I tried some dozen stationers'
shops in the town, but not one could supply me. I gave up my quest in
despair and was returning home to dinner. T had nearly reached the top of
Palmerston Road when I saw a small parcel lying on the pavement. I
picked it up, and, as it bore no printed address of a shop, I took it back
with me to my apartments. You may judge my astonishment when, on
opening it, I found it to contain a packet of twenty-five envelopes of the
precise size for which I had fruitlessly enquired ! My sister, who was with
me at the time, can vouch for the truth of this incident.
Chas. Jas. Feret.
I wrote to Mr. Feret asking for his sister's recollections of the
incident, which she has kindly sent me.
She writes :—
49, Edith Road, West Kensington, April 19tfc, 1898.
My dear Madam,—I have referred to the paragraph in Notes and
Queries which my brother wrote. It is perfectly accurate in every detail.
XXXV.] 227
Coincidences.
My brother and I, after having failed to get the envelopes we wanted
(rather an extra size), were returning home to dine. Just as we were cross
ing the Palmerston Road to go down Marmion Road I noticed a small
parcel on the pavement. I picked it up, but as there was no name on the
packet and no one seemed to be looking out for anything lost we took it
home and there opened it. As we could hear of no owner, and the packet
afforded no clue, we used them, as they were precisely what we wanted.
We have often talked about it. A stranger coincidence, except in the
realm of fiction, it would be impossible to conceive. I hope these facts may
be of use to you.-Yours faithfully, c TkR^
The next case relates to the finding of a lost object, much valued
by its owners.
Case 15.
The account appeared in T/te Spectator of August 27th, 1898,
among " Letters to the Editor," under the title of " The Romance of
a Ring."
Waldron Rectory, Sussex, August 22W.
Many years ago, when at Oxford, my father gave me as a
heirloom a ring presented to him by au old friend, and bearing an inscription
stating that it contained the hair of the Duke of Wellington. This ring I
gave to my wife on our marriage in 1876. In October, 1879, when we were on
a visit to Mr. W. Arkwright, of Sutton Scarsdale, my wife felt the ring slip
off her finger at the dinner-table, and although careful search was made,
nothing more was seen or heard of it for eighteen years, so far as we were
concerned.
At the commencement of this year, however, my wife received a letter
from her half-sister (Mrs. Hodge) in New Zealand, which stated incidentally
that a church in which she was interested out there had received unexpected
help some years ago from a curious source. Her sister (Miss White) had
sent out from England at her request some gloves purchased at Bide's [a
London shop], and on trying on a pair of these gloves she, to her astonish
ment, found inside one of them a ring containing the hair of the Duko
of Wellington, which had evidently been drawn off the finger unconsciously
by some one trying on the glove at Bide's. Unable to find the owner of the
ring and not liking to keep it, Mrs. Hodge thought it would be a fair thing
to sell it and apply the proceeds to the church fund. She did so and the
purchaser was a Mr. Frank Arkwright, of Overton, Marston, New Zealand,
whose grandmother had given the ring to my father, and who has most
kindly replaced it in my possession.
Now, here are a series of coincidences which are only likely to happen
once in a life-time. That of all the thousands of people who purchase gloves
my wife's half-sister should have lighted upon this particular pair and,
unknown to herself and to Bide, should have sent out this ring in them to
her sister in the Antipodes, and that there it should have been recovered in
the house of a cousin of the Mr. Arkwright in whose house it had been lost
eighteen years ago, surely goes to show that sometimes, at any rate, truth is
228 [part
Alice Johnson.
stranger than fiction. As a minor coincidence I may perhaps mention that
the letter which, by the merest chance, happened to mention the finding of
the ring, was dated from Wellington, in New Zealand.—I am, sir, etc.,
W. J. Humble-Crofts.
I wrote to Mr. Humble-Crofts, asking if any corroboration of this
account was obtainable, and he replied :—
Waldron Rectory, Sussex, September 19th, 1898.
I shall be glad to put you in possession of any information you may
require as to the ring, and my wife is, of course, quite willing to corroborate
what I say and to copy the extract from Mrs. Hodge's letter which first
informed us of the discovery.
But I do not see how this would help you, as Mrs. Hodge had no know
ledge of the fact that we had lost any ring, and the reason why she happened
to mention it (which she would not have done otherwise) was that my wife
had sent out some little help towards the church in which Mrs. Hodge was
interested. In acknowledging this, she proceeded to state what a curious
addition they had received to their church fund.
W. J. Hcmble-Crofts.
Mrs. Humble-Crofts wrote to me later :—
Waldron Rectory, Sussex, October 11th [1898].
I beg to enclose copy of extract from letter received by me from my
half-sister in New Zealand, and also extract from letter from the other half-
sister in London about the lost ring. I also corroborate all the statements
made in the account of the loss and recovery of the ring, as given in the
Spectator.
B. Humble-Crofts.
The copies enclosed were as follows :—
Copy of letter written by Mrs. Hodge, December 19th, 1897.
" We are hoping to get our church built by the end of February. I am
now collecting for the organ, and sold a ring, which I daresay D will
remember came out by a strange chance in one of the boxes she sent me
long ago, and which belonged to the Arkwrights, and contained the Duke of
Wellington's hair.
" Mr. Arkwright, who is out here, was very pleased to get it, and sent
me £5 for it, which I shall place to the Organ Fund. "
Copy of letter written by Miss White {sister of Mrs. Hodge, ami half-sister of
Mr*. Humble-Crofts), dated January 31st, 1898.
"The history of that ring I remember perfectly, and it was this :—
" B and L wrote asking me to send out one dozen kid gloves. I
was in London, and went to Byde's glove shop, North Audley-street, chose
a dozen of gloves, and sent them out to New Zealand. When L tried
them on, behold in one pair was this ring. Someone buying gloves at Byde's
XXXv.] 229
Coincidences.
must have been trying them on, and left the ring in the gloves. I wonder
who that could have been ? "
The next case relates to a matter of still greater urgency, and, as
will be seen, admits of being explained by telepathy.
Case 16.
The account is an extract from a narrative printed in the Journal
S.P.R, for July, 1898, under the title of "Three Generations of
Psychical Faculty." Professor Lodge, who obtained the account,
says: — "The following narrative has been recently written by a
gentleman well known to me, an active clergyman of the Church of
England. Of his good faith there can be no doubt, and the narra
tive may, I believe, be regarded as substantially accurate." Several
incidents are described, and the writer continues :—
. . . These curious experiences generally occur in groups, and are
simultaneous with the close of a period of excessive mental activity. A
very singular one occurred last January, when I went to D. with my wife
for a few days' quiet. While there, I remembered that E. was in the
neighbourhood, where I had a cousin residing, a brother of a distinguished
artist, and that he had written to me some time before about a picture of
his brother's, which he wanted to sell. I at once resolved to ride over next
morning. Upon enquiry from the manager of the hotel, I learnt that the
road was bad, the weather unpromising, other directions more interesting.
But I stuck to my purpose and went, through the road was atrocious, and,
within three or four miles of my goal, I was so dead beat that I almost
turned back.
However, I reasoned with myself that I might perhaps never have the
chance of seeing my cousin again, and that I might even find him in some
great need of my help. I continued my journey, found out his cottage and
knocked at the door. He opened it himself and said, without showing any
surprise at my appearance, " It's very good of you to come so promptly,
but I didn't expect you to-day." " Why did you expect me at all 1 " I said.
"Haven't you got my letter?" he replied, "I wrote to you last night."
"To W. ?" I said. "Yes," he answered. "But I am staying at D., and
have had no letter," I said. He then took me in, and, to make a long story
short, I found him in very great distress, and my coming on the scene really
proved a sort of lifebuoy to a drowning man.
Through the kindness of Professor Lodge, I was put into com
munication with the writer, who replied to my enquiries :—
July 24th, 1898.
Fortunately, I made notes at the time of all the incidents
referred to. ... As regards my cousin, I had certainly no idea that he
was in trouble. His letter was addressed to me at [the writer's home], and
he had no knowledge that I was at [D]. I have his letter somewhere, but
cannot lay my hands upon it at the moment. Mrs. was quite as much
struck with this coincidence as I was. ... . .
230 [part
Alice Johnson.
Mr. was unable to send me his notes, as they were embedded
in manuscript relating to other matters ; but Mrs. kindly sent
the following corroborative statement :—
July 25tfi, 1898.
Dear Madam,—I have much pleasure in endorsing my husband's
account of the coincidences recorded since our marriage. . .
The call on his cousin from [D] was made last January, so is quite recent,
and clearly in our minds.
[Signed iu full] .
A case very similar to this, but involving a more strongly marked
coincidence, is related by Bt. Major Kobbe\ U.S. Array (see Pltantasnu
of the Living, Vol. I., p. 288). While at home in New York city he
felt a sudden desire one day to visit a cemetery some six or seven miles
distant, on Long Island, where his family owned a vault. None of
them had ever beeu accustomed to go there and there was no reason at
all to suggest the idea to him ; but on arriving, he found his father
standing at an open grave, in which he had just had placed the remains
of an infant son who had died before Major Kobbe^s birth ; the remains
having been removed from the vault of the new grave. It appeared
that the father had left a message at home for him to meet him there
just at that time, but he had not gone home and consequently had not
received the message.
Mr. Gurney prefixes this case by the caution that "it is scarcely too
much to say that cases of this character, in whatever number accumu
lated, could never decisively exclude the hypothesis of accident."
It must be admitted that the same remark applies to the following
case, which may also be explained as due to telepathy. But I place it
here because, among all those I have come across in this connection,
it is the one that seems to me most strongly to suggest a special
intervention.
Case 17.
The account was obtained by Professor Lodge, who writes :—
October 1Hh, 1896.
The enclosed statement is the record of what was carefully and precisely
told me yesterday by the son of the old lady, who calls himself C. B. in the
narrative, a personal friend of mine. He is a solicitor (and a recent M.P.)
and thoroughly understands about evidence. He is an ideal witness, but is
doubtful whether it is worth recording. It may be considered either a
coincidence, or a telepathic leading, or an answer to prayer. As a coinci
dence, the chances are remarkably heavy against it.
C. B.'s account is as follows :—
At the beginning of the present year, 1896, after fifty-two years of ideal
married life, A. B. lost her husband, a clergyman then in his eighty-first
XXXV.] 231
Coincidences.
year. For some time before her husband's death, she had shown signs of
failing memory, but not in any remarkable degree. Immediately upon his
death, her memory began to show signs of failure, which increased very
rapidly. Soon after the death, A. B. was taken from the provincial town
in which she had lived to live in London (Kensington) with her sister. By
the 16th May, 1896, the date which is important for the present purpose,
A. B. had failed so much that she was not always aware that she had left her
old home, often fancied she was there or elsewhere in her old town. She was
quite incapable of finding her way from one part of London to another, and
unable to state her own address in London. On the morning of 16th May
at 10 a.m., she left her house alone, carrying a parcel which she intended to
leave at a shop a very short distance off. I believe her sister was unaware
of her intention, and it does not seem to have occurred to the servants that,
as the distance was so short, there would be any risk of loss of way.
At 9.30 p.m., C. B., one of the three sons of A. B., arrived at his house
in London, having travelled up from the country. He there met his sister-
in-law, wife of another son of A. B. She informed him that A. B. had left
home at 10 a.m. under the circumstances stated and had not been heard of
since ; that in the meantime her husband and his brother had communicated
with Scotland Yard, and with the district police office, giving a description of
A. B. ; that the description had been duly circulated throughout the Metro
politan District ; that communications had been sent to all the London
hospitals ; and that in the opinion of the police authorities nothing further
could be done.
C. B. (that is, the son who had arrived in London) waited for a few
moments until his wife came in. When she came in, the three people (that
is, C. B., his wife, and his sister-in-law) drove first to A. B.'s house. They
saw there A. B.'s sister and the servants, but learnt nothing more than the
facts already stated.
C. B. went to the local police-station with his wife, and found that all the
notices had been properly circulated. He asked the Chief Inspector whether
any useful purpose could possibly be served by going to Scotland Yard.
The Inspector said it would be useless, as the system was such that if news
of the missing lady were known at one police office, all the other offices
would instantly be made aware of it.
C. B. then went with his wife to the house of his brother, quite close to
where A. B. lives. He found that his brother was then receiving telegrams
from various hospitals saying that they had seen nothing of A. B.
By this time it was past 10 p.m. C. B. had no idea that anything further
could be done. He thought that all that remained was to await news, and
never expected to see his mother alive again ; but as under these circum
stances no rest is to be had by sitting still, he said to his wife that he
intended to take the Underground Railway to Westminster, and to call at
Scotland Yard. He thought it possible that he might find some official in
high authority who would give him some ideas based upon wide experience.
C. B.'s wife offered to accompany him. Accordingly these two people went
to Westminster Bridge. ""\
On leaving the station C. B. asked a porter the way\to Scotland Yard, for
the purpose of making enquiry as to a missing person. ^The porter directed,
232 [part
Alice Johnson.
him to go on to the Embankment, the Thames Embankment, and to take the
second street to the left. C. B. and his wife went along the Embankment
and took what they thought was the second street to the left. It was in fact
the third turn, so that they were in error. On taking the turn they could
see nothing of Scotland Yard and they called at a large block of flats and
asked the porter the same question as that put to the railway porter. He
told them to go straight on into Parliament Street and then to turn to one
side, C. B. forgets whether to the right or left. They followed the direction
and found themselves in Parliament Street, Westminster clock then striking
eleven. C. B. saw a young man passing along Parliament Street and turned
after him a few paces in order to find out whether he should turn to the left
or the right. The young man pointed in the right direction. C. B. then
turned round to tell his wife, who was a few paces behind, and saw her then
talking to A. B.
A. B. was then taken back to her own home, a distance of about four
miles. She could give no account of herself. The parcel she started with
in the morning was still in her hands. She thought she had been twice in
church. She thought she had been to the docks, evidently confusing the
river at Westminster Bridge with docks in her old town. She was not aware
that she was not in her old town until the lamps were lighted. She then
realised that she was lost, but I believe she did not know then that she was
lost in London. Her purse contained no money, but it did contain two
tickets, showing that she had been first to Tottenham Court Road, ami
afterwards to Charing Cross. On meeting C. B., A. B. said she had never
prayed so earnestly in her life, that " one of you," meaning one of her sons,
' ' would come. '
Neither C. B. nor his wife felt any impulse drawing them by the way
they took, and which resulted in the meeting. On the contrary, they had
no expectation of hearing of A. B. except from the Police.
(b) Cages of " Physical Phenomena " in which th« evidencefor a super
normal cause depends on a coincidence.
In cases of "physical phenomena"—effects on matter which are
by some attributed to the action of disembodied ,spirits—we have, of
course, first to consider whether the conditions sufficiently exclude the
agency of ordinary known causes,—whether there can have been any
deception or mistake on the part of the witnesses. Supposing that
we have satisfied ourselves on this point, the next question bearing on
the spiritistic interpretation is whether any intelligence has been
manifested suggesting the agency of spirits.
Case 18.
In this case the evidence on both the points just mentioned is
obviously very weak ; the action of known causes is certainly not
excluded, and there is merely a slight indication of intelligence, which
depends on the incident happening just at the time it did. That is,
XXXv.] 233
Coincidences.
it is a rather curious coincidence, but pretty clearly nothing more.
This is the view taken of it by the witnesses, who were two members
of the American Branch of the Society, Mr. W. E. Ward and Dr.
Anna Lukens. Mr. Ward writes :—
(Russell, Burdsall, and Ward, Manufacturers of Bolts and Nuts.)
Port Chester, N.Y., May 13th, 1897.
Dear Dr. Hodgson.— ... A queer thing happened in the Doctor's
[Dr. Lukens'] office last Sunday afternoon. We had been talking about our
old friend Professor Cope, who died about four weeks before we returned
home from our three months' trip through Mexico, California, and the
North-West.
I was referring to Cope's interest in psychical matters, and saying how
satisfactory it would be if we could get some reliable report from him of his
impressions of the real life he has so lately entered into. And immediately
the Doctor's large musical box commenced plaging, and continued to play for
over five minutes, to our great and almost bewildering astonishment, and
ceased playing only when I commenced trying to account for such an
unexpected entertainment through ordinary natural methods. Just as
soon as I remarked how it might be accounted for, it stopped as abruptly
as it began.
The instrument had 7wt been wound up in over three months, and when
last used, if there had remained unused any tension of the spring, it might
have been released long before by the jarring it had been subject to through
the occasional shifting of the furniture in the room. . . .
W. E. Ward.
Mr. Ward writes later :—
Port Chester, N.Y., May 26th, 1897.
. . . The most simple material cause I can attribute the playing to
is mainly surplus spring tension, for some unknown reason unexpended
during the last use of the instrument and held until favouring conditions of
temperature would probably release any frictional restraint in the working
parts, together with an imperceptible vibration from unnoticed jar, [which]
might have aided in removing the obstruction to the playing.
A curious part of the experience, which I perhaps omitted to mention
in my last, was the response I received to a mental question I asked some
ten or fifteen minutes after the playing ceased. The question was addressed
to Professor Cope in about this form, " Edward, are we indebted to you for
the music we have just heard?" and immediately a response of three loud
raps came on the floor apparently quite near me, but this was after Dr. Lukens
had left the room, so is unsupported by another witness.
Dr. Lukens will probably write and tell you what her opinion is about
the experience. I don't think she has any faith in Cope having anything to
do with the playing. . . .
W. E. Ward.
Dr. Lukens writes :—
1068, Lexington Ave., May 30th, 1897.
Dear Dr. Hodgson,—I have nothing to add to Mr. Ward's report of
,the musical box experience except to say that I doubt very much that it was
B 2
234. [PAKT
Alice Johnson.
produced by any supernormal cause. It was, indeed, a rather startling
circumstance that, as we sat in my office that Sunday afternoon (May 9th)
talking of Professor Cope and wishing we might get some report from him,
the musical box should at that moment begin to play, and continue for
a few minutes. But I am inclined to believe it was merely a coincidence,
due probably to the natural causes Mr. Ward suggested in his last letter
to you.
Anna Lukens [M.D.].
Cask 19.
This case was brought to our notice as one of supposed " spirit-
photography," the importance of which seemed to be considerably
enhanced by its involving a very well-authenticated coincidence. It
will be seen, however, that the lady who took the photograph—
Miss S. R. Corbet—was from the first fully alive to the inconclusive
nature of the evidence for any supernormal agency being concerned
in its production. We are indebted in the first instance for informa
tion about the case to Lady Fitzgerald, through whose kindness
Professor Barrett was put into communication with the persons con
cerned. From a mass of correspondence on the subject, Professor
Barrett put together in June, 1895, the account printed below, which
was afterwards corrected and signed by Miss Corbet.
Miss Sybell Corbet, when staying with her sister, Lady S., at D. Hall
[assumed name], took a photograph of the library in the afternoon of
December 5th, 1891, between 2 and 3 o'clock. The exposure was rather a
long one. No one was present with Miss Corbet when the picture was
taken, but on developing the negative, the head and body of an elderly
gentleman appeared seated on a high-backed, old oak chair, one arm resting
on the arm of the chair, the other arm of the figure and the legs being
invisible. The figure, in fact, only went down to the waist, and though the
face was rather indistinct, it appeared to have a short beard. When the
picture was shown to one of the nearest relatives of Lord D., the late owner
of D. Hall, she thought it exactly like him ; others, however, who knew
him, think it too indistinct to be sure of any likeness. Strangely enough, it
turned out that the funeral of Lord D. was taking place on the very same
day and hour at which the photograph was taken.
Miss Corbet is sure the plate had not been exposed before, and was one
of a parcel of dry Ilford plates. Unfortunately, the exposure being some
what long, she was not in the room the whole time, and did not lock the
doors when she left the room ; but the only men in the house were her
youngest brother, the butler, and two footmen, and all these four were
young men and beardless. In answer to inquiries, Miss Corbet states that
the servants would not be at all likely to have entered the room, and her
brother declares he did not. None of them would, she is certain, be likely
to play a practical joke, and even if they did, the difficulty would be to
explain the production of an older, bearded figure, without legs, and one
considered by some of his near relatives to be very like Lord D., and entirely
unlike any men living in the house.
XXXv.] .235
Coincidences.
The men were all young and clean-shaven, except Miss Corbet's brother,
who had a moustache, and who is not in the least like the figure indepen
dently of this.
I certify the foregoing account to be correct in every particular.
Sybbll R. Corbet.
The date is fixed by two separate notes made by Miss Corbet,—
at a time, when, as explained below, she had not observed the
coincidence,—as follows :—
Entry in photographic note-book.—December 5th, 1891 : subject, library,
D. ; exposure, 60 minutes ; plate, Ilford Ordinary ; hour, 2 to 3 p.m.
Entry in diary.—December 5th, 1891 : Lord D. buried at W. Church [two
miles from D.]
The following extracts from letters written by Miss Corbet give
further details.
Kingsland House, Shrewsbury, May 2nd, 1895.
There are the most contradictory opinions about the likeness of the figure
in my D. photograph to Lord D. My sister thought it so like him that she
begged me to look out the date on which I had taken it, when I first noticed
that it was taken at the very time of Lord D.'s funeral. Since that, people
who knew him well have declared it was not in the least like him ; others
who knew him equally well that it was. But to my mind it is not clear
enough to form a very definite opinion about, as the features are hidden by
a standard lamp.
It is a curious coincidence ;—an unaccountable figure appearing in a
photograph taken at that particular date, and that the figure should, in the
opinions of some who knew him most intimately, resemble Lord D.
June 12th, 1895.
You ask if there is any possibility of the plate having being exposed
before. So far as I am aware, lutue, as I always keep a very careful account
of every plate 1 expose ; or rather I should say, no probability, as I have
never exposed a plate twice without becoming aware of my mistake on taking
out the dark slides ; and, moreover, I had in those days never taken a human
figure—excepting as a minute object in a landscape—so the figure would still
be unaccounted for. However, I am told by some photographers and others
that the pre-exposure may happen during the sensitising of the dry plate.
Of this, of course, I know nothing. The fact remains a curious one, I
think, although some photographers declare there is nothing odd in it—mere
accident and chance. But I quite agree with you that, as it is impossible to
prove that no one entered the room, it cannot be regarded "as affording
indubitable evidence of a ' spirit photograph.' "
July 22nd, 1895.
I did not develop the plate until August of the following year, when I first
became aware of the presence of an unexpected figure ; but it was not until my
eldest sister, Mrs. R., suggested a likeness to the late Lord D., and asked me
if it was taken before or after his death, that I referred to my note-book and
diary, and found that it was on the day of the funeral (he died in London,
236 [part
Alice Johnson.
but was buried in the Church near D.). On later inquiry, I also discovered
that the time corresponded, the funeral being a little late, in consequence of
the lateness of the special train ; in fact, that during part of the exposure,
the service was waiting the arrival of some of the principal mourners. My
sister, Lady S., was renting D. Hall at this time ; and so far as I can
remember, several of us (my sisters) were there when I arranged the camera,
after which we all went out, leaving the plate exposed, and the room quite
empty ! I had no particular interest in [the] arm-chair, and have never been
able to discover that Lord D. was in the habit of using it, as he usually
occupied a smaller room, on the ground floor, when alone.
In the photograph, which is here reproduced, half of the upper
part of the figure of a man appears seated in the large chair on the
left. The high stand, carrying a flower-pot, in front of the chair seems
to cut off the other half of the face and body of the figure. The lower
part of the body and the legs are entirely wanting ; the head is semi-
transparent and the face very indistinct. A vague semblance of an
eye-brow, an eye, and a nose is seen on careful examination to be
really the carving of the back of the chair showing through.1 It is
impossible to make out with certainty whether the face wears a beard
or not, but the head appears to be quite bald, and there is something
like a stock round the neck, which adds to the appearance of age.
These features were perhaps mainly instrumental in suggesting the
likeness.
With regard to the possibility that one of the footmen might have
got taken, either accidentally or as a practical joke, Miss Corbet points
out that the dress of the figure is apparently that of a gentleman,
whereas her sister's footmen always wore livery, although at that time
they were in mourning. She thinks it more possible, although very
improbable, that some stranger came in for a few minutes ; the butler
declared that no one did so, but, unfortunately, enquiry was not made
until some time after the event.
The incompleteness of the figure, together with the supposition
that the room was empty while the photograph was being taken,
having suggested the possibility that it was produced by something
other than an ordinary man, the interest of this suggestion was much
heightened by the undoubted fact that Lord D.'s funeral was actually-
occurring at the time.
Professor Barrett, however, with the aid of Mr. Gordon Salt,
experimented on the effects that could be produced by the transitory
introduction of a figure during a long exposure of a plate. The results
thus obtained by a person coming into the room, sitting on a chair
1 All these points, as well as the semi-transparency of the figure as compared with
the solid objects surrounding it, are naturally shown more clearly in the photograph
than in the reproduction.
XXXV.] 237
Coincidences.
and moving his legs, were so very like the reputed ghost picture that
Professor Barrett writes :—
September 5th, 1895.
I can see how the " Ghost " picture may have occurred, as I have
succeeded in reproducing it almost exactly. I believe that one of the
servants came into the room, sat down in the chair, crossed his legs and then
uncrossed them, looked down for a moment and then at the camera, saw he
was being taken, so got up and went away, having been in the chair about
20 to 30 seconds. This will give the ghost of an apparently older man from
a young man, with no legs, and a semi-transparent face, &c.
Professor Barrett's photograph is also reproduced here, and will be
seen to be very similar in appearance to the other, only half of
the upper part of the figure—the half most strongly lighted — being
shown, and this being semi-transparent. There are very faint indi
cations of features in the face, and the chin, being abnormally long
and with no distinct outline, looks as though there were a short
white beard. A similar indefiniteness of outline on the right side
of the collar simulates the folds of a stock, and, as in Miss Corbet's
photograph, the legs are entirely absent.
Further light was thrown on the possible method of production
of Miss Corbet's photograph by Dr. H. D. R. Kingston, of Stor-
mont Lodge, Willesden, N.W., an Associate of the Society, who has
had a long and varied experience in the investigation of "spirit
photography." He observed a point which,, though not at all con
spicuous at first sight, is very evident when once attention has been
drawn to it,—viz., that almost all the white lines or marks in the
photograph are doubled, the brightest or best-lighted lines being most
so. The doubling is clear, for instance, in some photographs and
candles standing on two tables, various parts of some chairs, some
of the handles of the drawers of a cabinet, and finally in the books
and mouldings of the bookshelves 1 In each case there is a faint
image to the right side of and slightly lower down than the bright
image of the same object. This shows that the camera must have
been moved slightly during the exposure, as no movement of the
furniture could have produced such complete uniformity of the double
appearance. Since one set of images is much clearer than the other,
the camera must have been moved either near the beginning or near
the end of the exposure. Miss Corbet, however, informs us that the
camera was placed in the open doorway and partly outside it, and
thinks it possible that she herself may have shaken it in passing out of
1 The doubling is not shown very satisfactorily in the reproduction, but is fairly
clear in the photograph standing on the small table to the extreme right, also in
another photograph in a high stand on the large table and a candle to the right of
this, and may be seen more faintly in the books.
238 [part
Alice Johnson.
the room. This also makes it possible that another person passing by
may have moved it slightly without coming into the room at all.
It is important to ascertain whether or not the "ghost"—the
figure in the chair—has a double outline as well as the other objects
in the room, as, if so, it would prove that the figure had been
in the chair during the whole of the exposure, and, therefore,
could not be that of the person who moved the camera. Unfor
tunately, it is altogether so faint, and its outline is so much blurred
that it is impossible to make certain of this point. So far, however,
as there can be said to be any double outline, it clearly does not
correspond with the double outline of the other objects. It is possible
to trace more than one outline in the head and stock or collar, but
impossible to say that the one on the right is lower down than the one
on the left ; if anything, it is slightly higher up. Further, there are
two distinct images of the elbow, but one is resting on the arm of the
chair, while the other projects some way below it. This seems to
prove conclusively that the figure—unlike all the other objects in the
room— moved during the exposure, and that the multiplication of its
outlines was not due to the movement of the camera.
Thus the camera may have been moved by some one who came into
the room while the photograph was being taken, and Professor Barrett's
experiments prove that the semi-transparency and whole appearance of
the figure may have been caused by the person in question sitting in
the chair for a short time, and moving about in it while he did so.
In the remaining four cases given under this head an apparently
telepathic impression, relating to the death of a distant person, is
described, the " physical phenomenon " being stated to occur at the
same time. In two of the cases the object affected had some special
association with the dying person. But the evidence for the physical
effect having been produced supernormally is generally very slight, and
I do not think that the association with an apparently telepathic
incident can reasonably be held to add any weight to this evidence.
Case 20.
From the "Appendix to the Report on Phantasms and Presentiment* "
in the Proceedings of the American Society for Psydiical Research, p. 433.
[Miss M. O. A. sends the following account.]
February 8th, 1888.
"A strange and curious dream came to mo one night last autumn, which,
from the events that followed, made a deep impression upon me. I dreamed
that my mother's brother died, and I went to Brooklyn to attend the funeral,
but was intensely annoyed at arriving too late, as the service was over, and
the body being carried out of the house. I saw my aunt and cousins, but
could not speak to them. In the midst of this distressing scene I awoke,
»
XXXV.] 239
Coincidences.
hearing a loud crash, as of something falling. This was a decided reality,
but I could discover nothing in my room that had been disturbed. In the
morning I related my dream, and felt as though I should hear some news
that day. The noise I heard was accounted for by the falling of a weight in
a tall clock which stood in the hall. Two days passed, and on the morning
of the third day the paper contained a notice of my uncle's death (my
father's brother), stating that he died on the night I had my dream. It was
then too late for me to go to the funeral ; for some unknown reason I had
not been notified by the family, although my dream had informed me,
l>erhups, of the very hour that he died. ^ q ^ „
[In reply to Dr. Hodgson's inquiries, Miss A. informed him that the date
of the dream was September 2nd, 1887, and sent the following statements
from two ladies to whom she had related it in the morning before the news
of the death came.]
"Philadelphia, March 4th, 1888.
" My sister's dream of our uncle's death, as related by her, occurred at
the time she mentions. I was visiting her at the time, and distinctly
remember being told the dream, and being asked if I had heard a peculiar
sound in the night. The sound I did not hear, but was present when it
was discovered that the weight of the hall clock had fallen down. My
uncle's death occurred at that time, and the news of it was so late in
reaching us that we were unable to attend the funeral. jSAbEllA a »
"March, 1888.
" Miss A. related to me the dream which she had relative to her uncle's
death the morning afterward, and I also heard the noise made by the fall of
the clock-weight the same night. „ elizabeth g jj »
This case is one of the best^evidenced that I have found of this
type. It will be observed that the object affected —the clock-weight—
had only a very remote connection, if any, with the dying person, and
it is hardly possible to regard its fall at the time of his death as any
thing but a mere coincidence.
The dream may no doubt have been telepathic—though its reference
to the wrong person is a reason for doubting this—-but even if it were,
it does not, I think, add to the significance of the clock-incident ; a
clock-weight might as easily fall at the moment that its owner was
having a telepathic impression as at any other time.
In the next case the great anxiety of the percipient about the
dying person is a weak point, as this,—rather than telepathy,—may
have caused the hallucination experienced at the time of his death.
Case 21.
[This case is slightly abridged from an account given in the " Appendix
to the Report on Phantasms and Presentiments," Proceeditujs of the
American S.F.R., p. 429.]
240 Alice Johnson.
Our attention was first drawn to this case by the following account, which
appeared in the Oil City Derrick (Oil City, Pa.), December 12th, 1887 :—
" Depot-master George Fry, whose brother Gideon died at Big Rapids,
Mich., Sunday night, December 4th, had a strange presentiment of his
death. On Monday morning Mr. Fry received a telegram, announcing the
death of his brother, but giving no further information, and in the afternoon,
in conversation with a Derrick reporter, said, ' I wrote a letter to Gid last
night, and just as I had finished it I glanced up and noticed the clock had
stopped. I got up and wound the clock and pulled out my watch to set it
by. It was 15 minutes to 10 ; I set the clock and, just as I started it, I
heard the words, " I'm gone ! I'm gone ! " It was Gid's voice, and it seemed
to come out of the clock. I heard it as distinctly as I ever heard anything
in my life. It startled me and I related the occurrence to my family. I am
no Spiritualist, but I believe that must have been the time, and those the
last words of brother Gid.' Yesterday, Mr. Fry showed the Derrick a
letter from Big Rapids, giving an account of his brother's last moments.
The letter stated that Gideon died at 15 minutes of 10, Sunday night,
December 4th, and his last words were, 'I'm gone ! I'm gone ! ' the identical
time and words as related to the reporter Monday last. . . ."
" In a later account Mr. Fry is described as saying—
" . . . . I am not a Spiritualist and never had any such experience
before. The clock that stopped belonged to brother Gid. . . ."
" In reply to our inquiries Mr. Fry wrote as follows : —
" 106, Sycamore-street, Oil City, Pa., July 9th, 1888.
" Richard Hodgson, Esq.,—Dear Sir,—The account of my experience
in regard to my brother's death is true ; that is, the way the Oil City or
Pittsburgh papers had it. ... "G W Fry"
Later some further evidence was received through Mr. R. W. Criswell,
Editor of the Oil City Derrick, who obtained, in January, 1889, the
statements that follow from various witnesses in the case. He remarks that
" George Fry has been a resident of Oil City for 25 years. He is now about
39 years of age, a member in good standing of the Second Presbyterian
Church and a man who is regarded as a good citizen in every respect. At
the time of the above occurrence he was depot-master, employed by the
Allegheny Valley and New York and Western Pennsylvania Railroads."
Mr. Fry states : —
" My brother Gideon and I had been much together and were more
intimate in our associations than other members of the family. I was much
attached to him. On Friday, December 2nd [1887] I received a telegram
from his physician at Big Rapids that ho was ill and could not live over 24
hours. I had known of his illness, but he had not been regarded in a
dangerous condition. I could not leave my business to go to him and I was
greatly troubled on this account. I was thinking of him almost constantly.
In church, Sunday, he was the chief subject of my prayers. Sunday evening,
after church, I sat down to write him a letter and while writing it, I observed
that the clock in the room—his clock, by the way,—had stopped. I got up to
start it, and looking at my watch saw that it had been stopped but a few
XXXV.] 241
Coincidences.
minutes. I started to wind it up and found that it had not run down. As I
mured the hands around, a strange light flooded the face of the clock, and
the words issued from it in the voice of brother Gid, ' I'm gone, I'm gone ! '
The words were distinctly uttered. 1 was so impressed that brother Gid had
died at that moment and that these were his last words, that I hastily sealed
the letter, laid it away, and did not mail it. I noted the time as 9.45.
. Next morning early before going to work, I told my wife of the
incident. At about 11.30 that forenoon I was handed a telegram that had
been received by my brother, Daniel P. Fry, in these words only, ' Gid is
dead. Come to Montague.' This was signed by my sister Lizzie, who was
at Big Rapids. That afternoon I told S. W. Turner, a newspaper reporter,
of the death of my brother ; and also told him ... of the strange
presentiment of the evening before. I had received no word of my brother's
death, except the message given above, nor did I receive any more intelligence
regarding it until some days later, when a letter came from my sister, giving
particulars. This letter added that Gideon had died at 8.45 Sunday evening,
December 4th, and his last words were ' I'm gone, I'm gone.' It was at 9.45
that I had heard the voice in the clock ; but the difference in time between
Big Rapids and Oil City is just enough to cover this discrepancy. My sister,
who was with Gideon when he died, is now at home, in Oil City, and she tells
me that for some time before he died he was unconscious, and imagined that
I was with him. When any one would leave the bedside, he would say
'George, don't leave me.' "
The following statement was obtained from Mrs. Fry :—
" Oil City, January 13th, 1889.
" In regard to the presentiment of Gideon P. Fry's death, December 4th,
1887, my husband told me, early Monday mornmg, December 5th, 1887, of
the voice in the clock, which he had heard the preceding evening.
"Mrs. Kate J. Fry."
Mr. S. W. Turner, the reporter above referred to, gives a statement, dated
January 13th, 1889, substantially the same as the original newspaper account
which he had written at the time, but somewhat briefer, and omitting the
incident of the clock stopping. On January 18th, 1889, Mr. Turner wrote a
more detailed account, in which he mentions that Mr. Fry told him the clock
had stopped while he was writing a letter to his brother. He continues :—
[Mr. Fry] "said the exact time was 9.45.
"On the following Sunday, the 11th, Mr. Fry reminded me of our con
versation on the 5th, and showed me a letter from his sister, Lizzie
Thompson, dated Big Ripids, giving particulars of the death of Gideon.
This letter, which I read, said that Gideon had died at 8.45 p.m., Sunday,
December 4th, 1887, and his last words were ' I'm gone, I'm gone ! '
" With the permission of Mr. Fry, I went to the telegraph offices here
Wednesday, December 14th, and . . searched their files for copies of
any messages relating to the death of Gideon Fry. Below is a copy of the
only message bearing on the case :—
" 'Big Rapids, Mich., December otlt.
" ' Daniel P. Fry, Oil City, Pa. Gid is dead ; come to Montague.
'Lizzie K. Thompson.'
242 [part
Alice Johnson.
"This message was received in Oil City at 9.40 Monday morning,
December 5th. No message was received at the postal telegraph office. . . .
"S. W. Turner."
With regard to the clock stopping, it may, of course, be supposed
that Mr. Fry, in his great anxiety about his brother, forgot to
wind up the clock the night before. Against this we have to set his
statement that he found on investigation that it had not run down.
But this statement does not occur in the newspaper account, presum
ably given by him at the time, but only in the narrative written rather
more than a year later. In the agitation of the moment he may easily
have omitted to notice whether the clock had really run down or not,
and may have assumed afterwards that he must have taken this
elementary precaution. On the other hand, as a " depot-master," he
was probably more careful instinctively to keep his clocks in good
order than the average man would be, so that it is comparatively
unlikely that he forgot to wind it up. Even if he did, this would not
cause it to stop at the moment of his brother's death ; it would only
give it a better chance of doing so.
Then, again, what is the evidence that the clock really did stop "i.
The detail is omitted from the corroboratory statement of Mrs.
Fry, and it is omitted from one of the three statements of the news
paper reporter, being mentioned in the other two. I do not think,
however, that much stress can be laid on these omissions, as it is very
doubtful whether any of the witnesses realised that the stopping of the
clock—supposing it to be causally connected with the brother's death—
was at all more remarkable than the hallucination—telepathic or
subjective —of the voice that seemed to come out of the clock.
The connection of the hallucination with the clock suggests, no
doubt, that the same agency produced both the veridical impression on
the man and the effect of stopping the clock. On the other hand, the
clock face may simply have acted as a point de repere for the hallucina
tion because Mr. Fry's attention was directed to it at the moment, and
any other object would perhaps have served this purpose equally well.
The next case is not, strictly speaking, at first hand, but depends
on the kind of evidence that was called, in Phantasms of the Living,
" second-hand, as good as first "—evidence, namely, from a witness
who knew of the percipient's experience at the time and before it was
ascertained whether or not it was in any sense veridical.
Case 22.
The account was sent by Mr. A. Glardon, whose interesting
experiments in thought-transference at a distance are well-known.
(See Journal S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 98, and Vol. VII., p. 325).
XXXV.] 243
Coincidences.
The name of the witness was given us in confidence. Mr. Glardon
writes :—
Tour de Peilz, Vaud, August 31st, 1894.
A friend of mine, Mrs. F. . a daughter of the well-known geologist, ,
has related to me a rather striking instance of telepathy of which she was a
witness.
A few years ago, she was sitting on the rocks above the sea, at Nervi,
near Genoa, where she resides habitually, with an American young girl, who
has since become her son's wife. The young lady, her gloved hands resting
on her knees, was talking with Mrs. F., when all at once she gave a slight
scream.
" What is the matter ?" asked Mrs. F.
" My finger has been stung."
She took off her glove, and discovered that a ring of hers had snapped.
She looked at it with a scared look and exclaimed :
" Oh, Mrs. F., a dear friend of mine has just died."
She went on to explain that the ring had been given her by a young man
at the time of her leaving the United States and that he had said : "If I
were to die, this ring would apprize you of the fact."
Mrs. F. pooh-poohed the matter, being not herself a believer in psychical
matters. But, a few weeks later, came the news of that young man's death.
Mrs. F. could not tell me if it was on the very day of the breaking of the
ring ; but she has little doubt about it.
I doubt if Mrs. F. reads English, but if you write to her, she can, I dare
say. get your letter translated and will doubtless answer you, confirming
my report.
Her address is Auo Glakdon
We wrote to Mrs. F. asking for her recollection of the incident and
its date, and also whether she could obtain for us any statement from
the lady to whom it actually occurred, and she replied as follows : —
Nervi, le 10 Octobre, 1894.
Monsieur,—En reponse a votre honoree.lettre, je ne puis que confirmer
les faits dont Monsieur Aug. Glardon vous a fait mention.
En effet, au mois de Janvier, 1877, j'etais assise avec une jeune demoiselle
a Nervi au bord de la mer. Nous causions, elle avait les mains immobiles,
lorsque tout a coup elle se sentit fortement piquee au doigt. En otant son
gant elle vit qu'une bague qu'elle portait toujours, s'était cassee et l'avait
ainsi piquee.
Cette jeune personne qui avait habité auparavant l'Amerique recut au
moment de partir pour l'Europe, d'un monsieur cet anneau. II lui dit que
s'il devait lui arriver un malheur, elle en serait avertie. Quelques semaines
apres ce fait qui l'avait peniblement emotionnee elle recut la nouvelle de la
mort de ce monsieur arrivee a la meme date et meme heure que celle de
la rupture de la bague.
Je ne pense pas que cette dame desire maintenant que son nom soit
publie, cause pour laquelle je ne puis vous en faire part. . . .
(Signed in full) E. F.
244 [part
Alice Johnson.
Further inquiries as to the evidence for the closeness of the
coincidence remained unanswered, and we have been unable to obtain
any more information about it.
It will be observed that though this case, assuming the complete
accuracy of the report, points primd facie to telekinetic agency—an
effect produced by unknown means on matter at a distance—it may
easily be explained as merely telepathic—an effect produced super-
normally on mind at a distance (Mr. Glardon, in fact, calls it an
instance of telepathy). It may be supposed that a telepathic impulse
from the dying man reached the subliminal consciousness of the
percipient and produced a motor instead of a sensory effect, which
led to an involuntary muscular spasm in the fingers, resulting in the
breaking of the ring. We should expect that a motor impulse
originating in this way would attach itself, if possible, to some object
associated with the agent, just as we should expect chat a sensory
impulse telepathically started would produce a hallucination represent
ing the agent, either in form or in voice. We have many instances
recorded of motor effects apparently due to telepathy, though they do
not seem to be so frequent as sensory impressions from the same
cause. But it is obvious that as long as any human being is in
contact with the object affected, as in this case of ring breaking, we
must put down the effect to the action, conscious or unconscious, of
that human being, as in all cases of so-called " physical phenomena "
where the objects moved are in contact with the so-called " medium."
Case 23.
In the following case, an intelligent message, apparently relating
to a death that had occurred a few hours before, was received through
raps. I have ascertained that the death took place in 1887. The
account, dated November 29th, 1890, was written by Mr. Myers,
from details furnished to him by the witnesses, who, he says, were
" well-known to me and entirely trustworthy." We are not allowed
to print their names. There can, I think, be no doubt as to what the
name given through the raps was intended to be.
A group of persons in a country houso were amusing themselves by
getting a table to tilt out messages. The name of a deceased friend—of
whom they were not consciously thinking—was given (as often happens in
such cases) as the communicating intelligence. Suddenly the tilts changed
to raps, which gave an unintelligible sentence. (I am obliged to change the
name, but I give what is a fair parallel.) " Spare us Maroribnks." While
they puzzled over this message, a ring was heard at the front door. The
host went out to greet some guests fresh from London. These guests
brought with them the news that Mr. Marjoribanks, a valued friend of all the
party, had expired suddenly a few hours before. It should be added that
the deceased friend whose name had been given as "control " was also a
XXXv.] 245
Coincidences.
friend of Mr. Marjoribanks, and that Mr. Marjoribanks, whose life was a
very valuable one, had been supposed to be in perfect health.
With regard to the raps here described, I need hardly say that
there is no reason to doubt the good faith of the witnesses ; but we
require also to exclude the possibility that any of them might have
produced the raps automatically and unconsciously. For my own
part, I believe it possible that the most honest persons may occa
sionally act in this way, with entire unconsciousness of what they are
doing. But the interest and importance of the incident lies in the
fact of the intelligence manifested by the raps, however they were
caused. Even if we adopt the supposition that one of the party
rapped automatically, at least information unknown to any of them
was elicited,—as information unknown to any one present is some
times received through automatic writing.
In connection with this interpretation, it may be instructive to
refer to an incident described by Mr. E. Gurney {Phantasms of the
Living, Vol. I., pp. 76 to 78) to show that apparently genuine instances
of thought-transference may sometimes occur even in connection with
fraudulent phenomena. The following is Mr. Gurney's account, some
what abridged :—
On September 2nd, 1885, Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Dr. A. T. Myers, and
the present writer paid an impromptu visit to a professional "'medium"
[a person who has been detected in the production of spurious phenomena]
in a foreign town. We had decided beforehand on a name on which to con
centrate our thoughts, with a view to getting it reproduced. The medium,
her daughter, and the three visitors sat round a table on which their hands
were placed, and the present writer pointed to the successive letters of a
printed alphabet ; at intervals the sound of a rap was heard and the letter
thus indicated was written down. Now these conditions could not have
been considered adequate, had the result been that the name in our minds
was correctly given ; for though our two companions were not apparently
looking at us and not in contact with us, it might have been supposed that
some involuntary and unconscious movement on our part revealed to one of
them at what points to make the raps. But as the result turned out, it will
be seen, I think, that this objection does not apply. The name that had
been selected was John Henry Pratt. The result obtained in the way
described was JONHN YESROS AT. From the N in the fifth
place to the end, Dr. Myers and myself regarded the letters that were being
given as purely fortuitous and as forming gibberish ; and though Mr.
F. W. H. Myers detected a method in them, he was as far as we were from
expecting the successive letters before they appeared. On inspection, the
method becomes apparent. If in three places a contiguous letter be sub
stituted, the complete name will be found to be given thus :—
R PT
JON HNYES ROSAT,
the first word being phonetically spelt and the other two being correct
246 [PABT
Alice Johnson.
anagrams. It is highly improbable that such an amount of resemblance
was accidental ; and it is difficult to suppose that it was due to muscular
indications unconsciously given by us in accordance with an uneouacunu
arrangement of the letters in our minds in phonetic and anagrammatic order.
If these suppositions be excluded, the only alternative will be thought-
transference.
But in whatever way the knowledge of the letters or syllables reached
the " medium's" mind, I see no reason to think that the expression of it by
rapa was other than a conscious act. The sounds were such as would be
made by gently tapping the foot against the wooden frame of the table ;
and at « subsequent trial with one of these so-called "mediums"—the
daughter—I managed by very gradually advancing my own foot to receive
on it first a part and ultimately the whole of the impact. The movement
required to make the raps may have become semi-automatic from long
habit, but can hardly have been unconscious.
(c) Premonitions.
I include Premonitions among the class of Coincidences having a
doubtful claim to causal production, partly because of the difficulty of
forming any satisfactory theory of what mental action or faculty cau
be involved in a genuine premonition,—that is, a real foreseeing of a
future event which could not by any exercise of the reasoning powers
be inferred from a knowledge of present or past conditions. There
are, of course, a great many so-called premonitions or presentiments
which can be explained by supposing some supernormal knowledge of
present facts ; and a large number of predictions no doubt bring
about their own fulfilment in various ways through self-suggestion or
suggestion acting on others. All these explanations have been fully
discussed in articles on the subject that have appeared from time
to time in our Proceedings (see especially " On the Evidence for
Premonitions," by Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Vol. "V., p. 288; and "The
Subliminal Self—The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena to Time—
Precognition," by Mr. F. W. H. Myers, Vol. XI., p. 408). I may
refer also to a more recent article by Dr. G. B. Erruacora in the
Rivista di Studi Psichici (of which a translation, under the title,
" Sur la possibilité des theories rationnelles de la premonition,"
appeared in the Annates des Sciences Psychiques for Jan.-Feb., 1 899),
showing how other cases may be explained by a supposed combination
of telaethesia and telepathy, and discussing theories of interpretation
of those residual cases that may be called genuinely premonitory.
Apart from all theoretical difficulties, however, the cases I give under
this head afford but very inadequate evidence of a real premonitory
faculty. Some of them share the weakness so frequently found in
such cases in that the prediction does not refer to any stated time of
fulfilment, and therefore allows comparatively large scope for
XXXV.] 247
Coincidences.
accidental coincidence. Some, e.g., the predictions of the results of
races, refer to events in which only a small number of alternatives
was possible, which again, of course, increases the chance of accidental
fulfilment.
In the first two cases given the fulfilment of the premonition seems
clearly accidental, although highly improbable.
Case 24.
This case is Swift's prediction—if prediction it can be called—of
the discovery of the then unknown satellites of Mars. The coincidence
is well-known, at least to astronomers, but as I have not been able to
find any complete account of the relation of the prediction to the
actual facts, it seems worth while putting together all the details
relevant to it.
The following passage occurs in Gulliver's Travels (published in
1726) Part III., Chapter III :—
[The astronomers of Laputa] " have likewise discovered two lesser stars,
or satellites, which revolve about Mars, whereof the innermost is distant
from the centre of the primary planet exactly three of his diameters, and the
outermost five ; the former revolves in the space of ten hours, and the latter
in twenty-one and a half ; so that the squares of their periodical times are
very near in the same proportion with the cubes of their distance from the
centre of Mars : which evidently shows them to be governed by the same
law of gravitation that influences the other heavenly bodies."
In order to judge how unlikely it was that any one should make
this guess, it is necessary to consider how much was known about the
planets and their satellites at the time. The two outermost planets,
Uranus and .Neptune, had not been discovered; but the other six
principal ones, Mercury, Venus, the Earth, Mars, Jupiter and Saturn,
had been known for centuries. Four out of the five satellites of
Jupiter had been discovered, and five out of the eight now known to
belong to Saturn. As Mars comes between the Earth with one
satellite and Jupiter with four, it was not unnatural, in making a
guess about its satellites, to imagine that their number was two.
With regard to the theory of gravitation, this had been established by
the publication of Newton's Principia in 1687, and the law as to the
proportion which the periodic times of satellites bear to their distance
from their planet had been shown to be a consequence of it ; so that
the different facts imagined in Swift's narrative were all scientifically
consistent with one another.
But these facts involved a remarkable result, namely, that, on
account of the closeness of the satellites to Mars, the time they took
to revolve round it was less than the time taken by it to rotate on
its own axis,—in other words, that the months were shorter than the
s
248 [part
Alice Johnson.
days. This was a state of affairs that no scientific man would have
been likely to predict, because there was, and still is, no known
parallel to it.
However, the imaginary conditions suggested in 1726 were to
an important extent verified by the discovery of the two satellite
of Mars by Professor Asaph Hall at the observatory of Washington,
in 1877. The facts are given in the following quotation from Sir R.
S. Ball's Story of the Heavens, p. 190 (Edition of 1893).
"The outer of the satellites revolves around the planet in the period of
30 hours, 17 mins., 54 sees. ; it is the inner satellite which has commanded
the more special attention of every astronomer in the world. Mars turns
round on his axis in a martial day, which is very nearly the same length as
our day of 24 hours. The inner satellite of Mars moves round in 7 hours,
39 mins., 14 sees. The inner satellite, in fact, revolves three times round
Mars in the same time that Mars can turn round once. This circumstance is
unparalleled in the solar system ; indeed, as far as we know, it is unparalleled
in the universe."
The diameter of Mars is 4,200 miles, and the period of his axial
rotation is 24 hours, 37 mins., 22-7 sees. It may be convenient to
show the exact degree of correspondence between Swift's statement
and the actual facts in a tabular form, assuming that he knew what
the diameter of Mars was.
Inner Satellite (Phobos)
Mean distance from centre
According
to Swift. As now kitow>i.
of Mars 12,600 miles. 5,800 miles.
Periodic time 10 hrs. 7 hrs., 39 mins., 14 sees.
Outer Satellite (Deimos)
Mean distance from centre
of Mars 21,000 miles. 14,500 miles.
Periodic time 21 hrs., 30 mins. 30 hrs. 17 mins., 54 sees.
It will be seen that there is no very close resemblance between the
two sets of figures. But the unique characteristic of the inner satellite
—that its periodic time is less than the period of rotation of its
primary—is brought out in both. This would cause the satellite to
appear to a dweller on Mars to rise in the west, instead of—like all
other heavenly bodies—in the east. Swift's knowledge of astronomy
was probably sufficient to show him this anomalous result of the figures
he gives for his imaginary moon ; but as he does not state it explicitly,
it is not quite certain that he realised it. It must be observed also
that, according to him, the outer satellite would have exhibited the
XXXV.] 249
Coincidences.
same anomalous feature, which, as a matter of fact, it does not.
The correspondence was, however, sufficiently striking to produce a
strong impression on the mind of at least one astronomer, as is shown
in another passage which I quote from Sir R. S. Ball (op. cit. p. 192).
'' A curious circumstance with respect to the satellites of Mars will be
familiar to those who are acquainted with Gulliver's Travels. The
astronomers on board the flying Island of Laputa had, according to Gulliver,
keen vision and good telescopes. The traveller says that they had found two
satellites to Mars, one of which revolved around him in ten hours. The author
has thus not only made a correct guess about the number of the satellites,
but he actually stated the periodic time with considerable accuracy ! We
do not know what can have suggested the latter guess. A few years ago any
astronomer reading the voyage to Laputa would have said this was absurd.
There might be two satellites to Mars, no doubt ; but to say that one of
them revolves in ten hours would be to assert what no one could believe.
Yet the truth has been even stranger than the fiction."
The coincidence would, of course, have been more complete if it
had not been stranger, but only equally strange !
Cask 25.
The next case is a coincidence whose improbability enormously
exceeds that of any other treated of in the present paper in which
a numerical calculation of chances is possible. I take the account
of it from two sources, De Morgan's Budget of Paradoxes (p.
168), and the chapter on "Lotteries" in R. A. Proctor's C/tance and
Luck (pp. 139-148), the facts having been originally recorded in a
book called Almanach Romain sur la Loterie Royale de France, ou lex
strennes ne'eessaires aux Aclionnaires et Receveurs de la dite Loterie, by
M. Menut de St. Mesmin (Paris, 1830), which contains all the draw
ings of the French Lottery (two or three each month) from 1758 to
1830. It was intended for those who thought they could predict the
future drawings from the past, and various sets of " sympathetic
numbers " were given to help them. In the French Lottery, five
numbers out of ninety were drawn at a time. Any person in any
part of the country might stake any sum upon any event he pleased,
viz., that one or more of the numbers drawn would be a certain
number or numbers, which was called a simple drawing ; or that a
• certain number or numbers would be drawn in a certain order, which
was called a determinate drawing. If he won, he received a certain
multiple—which, of course, increased with the improbability of
success—of the value of his stake.
De Morgan remarks that " the enormous number of those who
played is proved to all who have studied chances arithmetically by
the number of simple quaternes [successes in four out of the five
s 2
250 Alice Johnson. . [part
numbers] which were gained : in 1822, fourteen; in 1823, six; in
1824, sixteen; in 1825, nine, etc."
The case I refer to occurred in July, 1821, when one gambler
selected the five numbers, 8, 13, 16, 46, and 64; and for the same
drawing another had selected the four numbers, 8, 16, 46, and 64.
The numbers actually drawn were, 8, 46, 16, 64, 13, so that both
gamblers won. Their stakes were small, and their actual winnings were
only 131,350 francs and 20,852 francs respectively. "The coincidence,"
observes Proctor, " was so remarkable (the antecedent probability
against two gamblers winning on a simple drawing [a] simple
qnine and a simple qualeme being about 22 billions to one) that one
can understand a suspicion arising that a hint had been given from
some one employed at the lottery-office. M. Menut insinuates this,
and a recent occurrence at Naples suggests at least the possibility of
collusion between gamblers and the drawers of lottery numbers. But
in the case above cited, the smallness of the stakes warrants the belief
that the result was purely accidental. Certainly the gamblers would
have staked more had they known what was to be the actual result of
the drawing. The larger winner seems to have staked two sous only,
the prize being, I suppose, 1,313,500 times the stake, instead of
1,000,000, as on a similar venture in the Geneva lottery. Possibly
the stake was a foreign coin, and hence the actual value of the prize
was not a round number of francs. The smaller winner probably
staked five sous, or thereabouts, in foreign coin."
Since lotteries and all kinds of sports with which betting is asso
ciated are events in which large numbers of persons are interested, we
should expect premonitory impressions about them—other than mere
guesses, like those in the case just given—-to occur fairly often and
to be occasionally fulfilled. But I have been surprised to find how
rarely such premonitions seem to be recorded, even after the event.
One case, dating from 1857, was given in the Journal for March, 1890
(Vol. IV., p. 226) and among all the records, printed and unprinted,
of the Society, I think there are hardly a dozen of the same kind.
The following is a recent premonition of this kind, experienced by
Professor F. W. Haslam, of Canterbury College, Christchurch, New
Zealand, an Honorary Associate of the Society.
Case 26.
Mrs. Haslam writes to Mr. Myers as follows :—
St. Barbe, Riccarton, Christchurch, New Zealand,
November 10th, 1897.
Dbak Mr. Mykrs,—I do not know whether the following little circum
stance will be at all interesting to you as, perhaps, an example of the working
of the subliminal self. I send it on the chance.
XXXV.] 251
Coincidences.
Yesterday, being the Prince of Wales' birthday, was a holiday in the
Colony, and Frank meditated going to see the racing for the New Zealand
cup. He has been so busy with exams, that he haH not had a moment
to think about the horses, and was absolutely ignorant of their names,
qualities, etc.
But as he lay between sleeping and waking he tried to imagine the
winner, and a jockey with all scarlet cap and jacket passed before his eyes,
pulling his horse in hard and finally arriving at the winning post. He
thought " scarlet is a common colour to see,,' but again the same jockey ^
passed before his vision. He told Clarke, our Riccarton blacksmith, that
morning, and before the race was run he also told Dr. Nedwill of Oxford
Terrace, and Dr. Moorhouse, in the hearing of other people, also of Christ-
church. He then took me all about the saddling paddock before the race to
see what jockey was in all scarlet, and what sort of a horse he rode, and
finally he laid a little money on the race and won it. The horse was
"Waiuku," and was not the favourite, and all round us they were saying
he had not a chance ; but he seemed to become more popular towards the
approach of the race, and was about second in the popular estimation. I
will ask Frank to read this and correct if necessary. —Sincerely yours,
Rose St. Barbe Haslam.
The above is a correct statement of what happened.
F. W. Haslam.
Mrs. Haslam adds:—
P.S. —Waiuku's jockey did two or three times during the race sit back
and pull the horse in hard. Just at the end he passed everything and won.
In reply to enquiries, Mrs. Haslam writes :—
St. Barbe, Christchurch, Canterbury, N.Z., March 22nd, 1898.
Dear Sir,—In answer to yours of January 1st, 1898, I am trying to get
a list of the horses that ran for the N.Z. Cup in November last, also state
ments from Dr. Nedwill and Dr. Moorhouse. As to newspaper accounts of
the prospects before the race, I am afraid that the points upon which
Mr. Haslam's word alone must be taken are these. He did not know before
he readied the course and bought a card of the races anything about the horses
to run for the "Cup," except "St. Paul," a very well-known horse, who
he believed would win. He had no notion of the colours the jockeys wore,
excepting those of the local owner, Mr. Stead, whose jockeys always wear
yellow. He did not dream of a Iwrse. He saw an all scarlet jockey riding
to win, and on obtaining a card at the races his first thought was to look
if there were an all scarlet jockey riding. As it turned out, there was, and
he rode ' ' Waiuku " the second favourite—the first being St. Paul. Waiuku
was a horse from the north island utterly unknown to him. He is not a
race goer, and has generally been busy at lectures during the most im
portant race meetings at Christchurch. He had never seen the jockey
before to his knowledge, or the colours, or the horse, and knows no jockeys
by sight. After his vision of the jockey he thought to himself that scarlet
might be a usual colour for people to see with their eyes shut, so he tried
again to imagine the winner, and again saw the all scarlet jockey riding in
252 Alice Johnson. [part
to win, and he immediately apprised me of the fact. He cannot remember
any similar experience, and I think that your magazine put the idea of
trying to see the winner into his head. ... I first asked Drs. Nedwill
and Moorhouse to tell me if they recollected anything about Mr. Haslam'a
vision. You see that Dr. Moorhouse says "night," whereas it really was
early morning, but I expect he naturally concluded that.
Rose St. Bakbk Haslam.
Mrs. Haslam enclosed corroborative notes addressed to herself by
the two gentlemen mentioned in her letter, Dr. Nedwill and Dr.
Moorhouse, as follows : —
Christchurch, New Zealand, February 21st, 1898.
On meeting my friend, Prof. Haslam, at the races at Riccarton in
November last, he said to me, "let us look at the card to see if there is a
jockey in all scarlet, as I dreamed a horse came in a winner in this race,
with these colours." Courtney Nedwill, M.D.
Christchurch, March 20th, 1898.
Deak Mrs. Haslam,—My recollection of the N.Z. Cup day and Professor
Haslam is as follows. But I might first mention that the reason I have for
remembering the circumstances especially well are that for a good many race
meetings Professor Haslam and I have been in the habit of discussing the
horses and agreeing on the one we elected to bet on, and backing the horse
together as a sort of partnership. On the Cup day I arrived at the course
somewhat late and did not at first see Professor Haslam, and had made my
bets on the Cup before I found him ; but shortly before the race he came up
to me and suggested that we should continue the partnership bets, at the same
time telling me that he had dreamt the previous night that he had seen the
race run and that a horse with scarlet colours had won. I turned up the race
card and saw that the only horse carrying scarlet colours was " Waiuku." I
said I was sorry that I had made all the bets I intended to on the race, so did
not join him in backing the horse. The Professor left me with the intention
of backing " Waiuku," but as 1 did not see him again for some time that day
I don t remember whether he told me he had backed him, and I have had no
conversation with him since on the subject. Of course you remember that
" Waiuku " did win the race. In future if the Professor tells me he has had
any more dreams about winners, I shall not fail to back them.
B M. Moorhouse.
Mrs. Haslam sent us also a programme of the meeting, dated
Tuesday, November 9th, 1897. From this it appears that 14 horses
were entered for the New Zealand Cup, the third on the list being
Mr. S. McGuinness' " Waiuku," colours " All scarlet " ; and that no
other horse in the list had any scarlet in its colours.
Some further cases of dreams about races, narrated by an
Australian member of the S.P.R., Mr. Donald Murray, will be found
in Appendix III., p. 317.
XXXv.] 253
Coincidences.
We have another case, which I think hardly worth printing in full,
of two dreams about the result of a boat race between the crews of
Columbia College, Cornell University, and the University of Penn
sylvania in June, 1895. (1) Dr. L. 0. Howard, Entomologist in the
U. S. Department of Agriculture, dreamt the night before the race
that Columbia would win, which actually happened, and his statement,
written in 1896, is confirmed by four persons to whom he had told the
dream before its fulfilment. Professor Hyslop gives a careful analysis
of the criticisms of the crews made in the New York papers beforehand,
which were on the whole favourable to Columbia, though the betting
was in favour of the other two boats. Dr. Howard, who was living at
Washington, expressly states that being, as a Cornell graduate, very
much interested in the race, he had read all the newspaper accounts of
the condition of the crews, and on the day before his dream had been
made rather anxious on Cornell's account by a somewhat unfavourable
review in one of the New York papers. (2) Professor Hyslop
happened to mention this dream to one of his own students at
Columbia College, who informed him that he also had dreamt on the
same occasion that Columbia had won, with other correct details of
the race. His account is confirmed by a friend of his, whom he had
told of the dream before its fulfilment. He, like Dr. Howard, was
keenly interested in the race.
In connection with these premonitory dreams of races, I may refer
to a small group of much more impressive predictions of numbers to be
drawn in the conscription for the Belgian army ; the report of which
was sent in 1894 by Professor G. Hulin, of the University of Ghent,
to Professor Sidgwick, and is given at length in Mr. Myers' paper on
"The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena to Time" (Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. XI., p. 545). Five cases of the right numbers being pre
dicted, during the eight years, 1886-1894, are given on good authority ;
the numbers in the first four cases being respectively 90, 112, 216, 111.
The first case was an especially striking one ; a clearly externalised
vision of the number 90 appeared to the percipient, and produced a
strong impression on his mind, convincing him that he would draw that
number. In the fifth case, the man who was to draw first announced
that his number would be 116, and on being told that that was already
drawn, said it would be 115, which turned out correct. The report
only professes to give correct predictions, and we have no means of
knowing how often predictions of these numbers are made which
turn out wrong. Neither are we told how many numbers there were
to draw from, except in one case, where it appears that there were at
least 150, the lowest of them being 46 and the highest 223. In this
case, the number 216 was the one rightly guessed. We must assume,
1 think, that these facts were known to the man who was to draw,—
254 [part
Alice Johnson.
the narrative certainly does not exclude this supposition, and, in fact,
rather suggests it,—and, if so, the chance of his making a correct
guess was, of course, about 1 in 150. The success of the prediction is
thus much more noteworthy than in the dreams of the boat-race
mentioned above, where the chance of guessing correctly was at least
1 in 3. Still these conscription cases are hardly numerous enough
to exclude the explanation of chance coincidence.
Dr. Ermacora in the article already referred to (see Annales (its
Sciences Psychiques, January-February, 1899, p. 46) suggests that the
fulfilment of premonitions about the results of drawing by lot—when
the drawing is done by the person who experiences the premonition—
might be explained by telaesthesia, as we might suppose that in such
a case the drawing of the number is not accomplished blindly, but is
guided by a supernormal perception which leads the subject to select
automatically,—and probably unconsciously,—the particular number.
Case 27.
The next is a case of a premonition which I print because it is
well-authenticated, but the fulfilment of which hardly suggests more
than a chance coincidence, since it seems not unlikely that on occasions
so momentous presentiments of the kind might occur.
The account was obtained for the Society by Lord Bute from
Lord Halifax, and is as follows : —
Powderham, April 8th, 1885.
Account of the attempted execution of John Lee for the murder of Miss
Keyse, at Babbicombe, February, 1885, with letter to Lord Clinton enclosing
statement of prison warders as to his dream on the preceding night.
Copied by me from account lent me by Lord Clinton, who was staying at
Powderham when he received them.
(Signed) Charles L. Wood.
H.M. Prison, Exeter, April 8th, 1885.
My Lord,—The following are the particulars of the dream of John Lee,
which your lordship has requested me to supply.
After the attempted execution of Lee on February 23rd, 1885, I went to
his cell, and spoke to him on the extraordinary event that had happened in
his case. He replied by saying that he had dreamed last night that it would
so happen.
At my request he then related the nature of his dream.
He said he saw in his dream that he was led from his cell down through
the reception basement to the scaffold, which was just outside the door of
that basement.
He saw himself placed upon the scaffold, and efforts made to force the
drop, but it would not work. He then saw himself led away from the
place of execution, as it was decided that a new scaffold must be built before
the sentence of the law could be carried out.
XXXv.] 255
Coincidences.
He then told me that he had mentioned the dream to the two officers
who were in the cell with him, when he awoke at six o'clock in the morning.
The officers were not present when he told me this, nor had they been
with him since the attempt was made. But in the meantime the officers had
reported the dream to the Governor of the prison, to whom also I had gone
to make a similar statement.
I ought to add, my lord, that John Lee did not attach any weight to the
dream, but had fully believed up to the time of execution that he would be
hanged, nor did he think of it while the attempts were being made. The
force of the dream came to him after the state of semi-consciousness, into
which he had apparently relapsed during the attempts, had passed away.—I
am, your lordship's obedient servant,
(Signed) John Pitkin, Chaplain.
The Right Hon. Lord Clinton.
(Signed) A true copy, Clinton.
Ftbntary 23rd, 1885.
A true account of a dream dreamed by John Lee on the night before the
execution.
At 6 a.m., when he arose from his bed, he said, "Mr. Bennett, I have
dreamed a very singular and strange dream. I thought the time was come,
and I was led down through the reception out to the hanging place ; but
when they placed me on the drop they could not hang me, for there was
something wrong about the machinery attached to the drop, and then they
led me off from the drop, and took me (instead of the way I came) around
the A Wing, and back through the A Ward to my cell."
He told me this in the presence of Mr. Milford, who watched with me
through the night.
(Signed) Samuel D. Bennett, Assistant Warder.
James Milford, Superior Officer.
(Signed) A true copy. Clinton.
The letter from the Rev. John Pitkin, Chaplain to the Prison, enclosing a
copy of the statement of the warders, was written to Lord Clinton at his
request when he was staying at Powderham in the beginning of April, 1885,
he being in the Chair at Quarter Sessions at the time.
The drop was contrived by two doors secured underneath by a bolt ; the
prisoner was made to stand with a foot on each door and on the bolt being
withdrawn the doors would naturally fall apart.
The drop had been tried four [five.—C.] times on the Saturday previous
to the execution and had answered perfectly [twice in the presence of the
executioner, who expressed himself satisfied with it.—C.]. It was again tried
after the attempted execution, but without any weight on the scaffold, when
it also succeeded.
On the occasion of the execution, at each successive attempt, the bolt
could not be withdrawn from the socket by hardly the eighth part of an inch.
Case 28.
The following is a case of retrocognition, not precognition,— an
apparently supernormal perception of a past, not a future event,—but it
256 Alice Johnson.
is convenient to class the two kinds of cases together, as is done in
Mr. Myers' article above referred to, and this one is accordingly
placed here. The percept takes the form of a communication from a
deceased person and there is, no doubt, some evidence for post-mortem
knowledge of and interest in trifling circumstances like the one
described. But it will be seen that the case may easily be explained
by telepathy.
The account was sent to us by Professor A. Alexander, of Rio
Janeiro, who in a letter to Mr. Myers, dated July 21st, 1896, writes:—
Together with this letter, I send you the evidence for a veridical border
land hallucination. The people who sign the depositions are quite reliable
and the facts no doubt occurred as they are stated. The case, however, does
not stand altogether outside the possibility of chance coincidence.
Professor Alexander sent us the original depositions signed by the
witnesses, with translations kindly furnished by himself. His own
statement is as follows :—
Constante Gardonne Ramos, the principal informant in the following
case, is employed as a foreman in the bookbinding department of the
" Benjamin Constant Institute for the Blind," one of the public establish
ments of Rio de Janeiro. He has himself been totally blind from his first
year, and he is therefore entirely destitute of visual memories. This will
account for the fact that the experience related by him was auditory and
tactile, and not visual. From his description, it would appear to have been
a hallucination of the borderland type rather than a mere dream.
I called on him for the first time on May 30th of this year, and then
took the notes from which his written declaration was drawn up. After the
correction of some minor points, he agreed that the account was a faithful
statement of his memory of the occurrence, and requested his wife, Donna
Julieta Ramos, to sign for him.
17, Rua de Todosos Santos, Rio de Janeiro,
June 13th, 1896.
On the 17th of January of this year I went to the house of my mother,
Donna Emilia Ramos, at No. 55, Rua Sao Joao Baptista. She was out, and
while I stayed there, I talked to a parrot, which belongs to me, and which
has a value for us because of family associations. My father, who died on
the 4th of February, 1895, was, indeed, very fond of this bird.
On the following day in the very early morning, while I was yet lying in
bed in that half conscious state of somnolence that precedes waking, I felt
twice the pressure of a hand placed on my body, and I then heard the familiar
tones of my father's voice saying, " Nenem, send for your parrot. I have
already given orders to deliver it up. It is in the house . . . and street
. 1 with two doors closed on the side of the street." The voice sounded
as if it were external and came from a person standing near me.
1 In a later letter, Professor Alexander explains that neither the number of the
house nor the name of the street was given in the message about the parrot ; the dote
are intended to indicate their omission.
XXXV.] 257
Coincidences.
Now, as above stated, I had been with the parrot on the preceding day
and had observed nothing which might lead me to suppose that there was a
possibility of its escaping. A very heavy rain was falling, and no one came
on the evening of that day to tell me what had happened.
About 9 o'clock on the same morning of the 18th, as I was just finishing
the narration of my experience to my wife, the black woman came from
the other house to give us the news that my parrot had in fact escaped. It
had got away in the afternoon, after I had left the house in the Rua Sao
Joao Baptista, and it had been caught by persons at the grocery store [venda]
at No. 100, Rua General Polydoro.
As the grocer refused at first to restore the bird to us, we were obliged,
in order to regain possession of it, to have recourse to the intervention of
the police.
(Signed at the request of my husband, Constante Gardonne Ramos),
JulIETA FlGUEIrEDO CarVAlHO RaMOS.
As the result of my interrogation, Donna Julieta Ramos confirms the
references to her part in the above incidents as follows :—
17, Rua de Todosos Santos, Rio de Janeiro,
June 13th, 1896.
I perfectly recollect that my husband related to me his having heard
the voice of his father telling him of the escape of the parrot. The
particulars of the deposition bearing his signature are substantially the same
as those he gave me on that occasion. I recollect how the black woman
arrived with her news just as he was finishing the narration of his
experience, and I am quite sure that, up to that moment, none «of the
persons that were in the house knew of that escape by any normal means
[of communication].
(Signed) Julieta Fiuueiredo Carvalho Ramos.
Donna Emilia Ramos, from whose house the parrot made its escape,
assured me that there was nobody at home on the occasion, and that, there
fore, it was impossible that the occurrence should have been communicated
to her son on that day. The black woman, when questioned by me, seemed
to confirm her mistress's statements. The positiveness of the witnesses
that no communication prior to the hallucination passed between the two
houses is important, for it is hardly two minutes' walk from one place to
the other.
Donna Emilia Ramos declares :—
55, Rua Sao Joao Baptista, Rio de Janeiro,
June Uth, 1896.
The parrot escaped from my house on the day preceding the dream of
my sou Constante. It appears that on the afternoon of that day it broke
the chain that secured it and escaped out of one of the windows. I arrived
home in the evening, and it was only on the following morning that I sent
the cook to tell my son what had happened.
In his lifetime my husband made a great pet of this bird, and every day
on coming home fed it with ears of Indian corn or other things.
(Signed) Emilia Ramos.
258 Alice Johnson.
Senor Constante Ramos has two brothers in Rio, one of whom his a
business in Botafogo, the other being a public employei. It was through
their instrumentality that I first heard of the case, and to their perusal I
finally submitted their brother's deposition. They were quite sure that the
narrative thus written out was identical with that which they had heard from
his mouth at the very beginning, and at my request they very willingly made
the following formal statement to that effect :—
77, Rua da Passagem, Botafogo, Rio de Janeiro,
June Wh, 1896.
We have just read the account given by our brother Constante, and we
are sure that it is in every respect a true one.
It is exactly in this manner that he has told us, from the very first, of
the dream in which he was informed of the escape of the parrot.
(Signed) Carlos G. Ramos.
Fernando Gardonne Ramos.
The grocery store in the Rua General Polydoro has three doors on the
side of the street. The grocer assured me that none of these have
remained closed in the daytime. The parrot had been caught in the street
and brought to him by some labourers, and he had been unwilling to give it
up without a reward.
Cask 29.
The following is an instance of a fulfilled prediction of death and
probably belongs to the class of premonitions that bring about their
own fulfilment through self-suggestion. The account of it was
obtained and sent to Dr. Hodgson by Mr. Marshall Wait, who writes
that the main facts of the case were told to him within two days of
Mrs. X.'s death, and the story in full a week after. Her name and
the names of the witnesses are withheld by their request.
Mr. Wait writes :—
5,144 Madison Ave., Chicago, September 25lh, 1896.
Dr. Richard Hodgson,—Dear Sir,—I enclose you herewith a state
ment of Mrs. X.'s premonitory dream signed by several members of her
family. The first account which I received was from Mr. J. S., a brother
of Mr. A. S., and was somewhat inaccurate, as you will see. I then
called upon Mr. A. S. and after conversation with him wrote out an
account, at his request, in the name of his wife. When I presented the
letter to him for signature, he told me that in talking over the subject with
his wife, he found that his statement was inaccurate in one detail. Mrs.
X. was anxious to procure the services of a certain nurse for her
confinement and heard in the dream her father say to her mother " You had
better engage that German girl now, as she is not at work." He then walked
to the wall and put his finger on the calendar. Mr. S. promised to
rewrite the letter with this correction, but he has returned it to me as I wrote
it, saying that it was otherwise accurate and the family preferred to sign it
as it was.
XXXV.] 25»
Coincidences.
I have seen Dr. T., who attended Mrs. X. He expressed great
interest in the case and signified his willingness to give me any information
he could about Mrs. X.'s condition. But he is an extremely busy man
and lives at a great distance from me, and thus far I have been unable to
have more than a few minutes' talk with him. I will try again to see
him.-Yours respectfully, Marshall Wait.
The account enclosed, which is signed by Mrs. X.'s mother, her
three sisters, and Mr. A. S., her brother-in-law, is as follows : —
Chicago, September 18th, 1896.
Dr. R. Hodoson,—Dear Sir,—In March of this year, my sister, Mrs.
X., was expecting her confinement. She was very apprehensive about
the result and expressed her belief that she was going to die. On
March 5th she dreamed that she was in the kitchen of her house, but at the
same time could see her father (who has been dead eleven years) in the room
above, talking with her mother, but did not hear what he said. She saw
him hold in his hand a large printed calendar and put his finger on the
date of March 22nd. She told her dream the next morning anil inter
preted it to mean that the baby would be born on that date The
accouchement occurred, however, on March 12th. Much fun was poked at
Mrs. X. about the mistaken warning in her dream. Whether she put
any other interpretation on it we do not know, as she never said anything
to indicate that she did so. Her condition was in every way satisfactory
to the attending physician until the afternoon of March 21st, when she
suddenly became unconscious and died on March 22nd, having never entirely
regained her consciousness. The cause of her death was a throat trouble,
not connected with her confinement.
My husband, my sisters, and my mother, who were all familiar with
the facts and knew of the dream before the death, sign this with me
in confirmation, but in case of publication we request you to withhold
names.
No memoranda were made of the dream, but the dates were fixed in our
minds by the death occurring while our remembrance of them was fresh.
(Signed)
Mr. Wait writes further :—
October 19th, 1896.
I called this morning upon Mr. A. S. He requests me to say that
Mrs. X. told her dream the next morning to [her mother and two sisters],
who were all members of one household. Mr. and Mrs. S. heard of the
dream later, but before the birth of the child. . . . The relations
between the family and Mr. X., the widower, are strained, and I did
not ask for his signature. I enclose a certificate from the Health Office,
which I thought would be the best independent evidence of the death and
its date.
The certificate states that the Heath occurred, on March 22nd, 1896,
of Mrs. X., aged 27 years ; " cause of death, Tubercular Meningitis ;
duration of disease, three days."
2C0 [part
Alice Johnson.
Attempts to obtain further evidence from Mr. X. failed, but Mr.
Wait succeeded later in obtaining a statement of the case from the
physician in attendance, Dr. T. [assumed initial]. He writes :—
December 4th, 1897.
At last I am able to send you a statement by Dr. T. in the X. case. Dr.
T. did not answer my appeal for a special appointment, so as a last resort I
wrote out a statement from my memory of our conversation, and last
evening I got him to sign it. I would have preferred to have him make out
his own statement, but as that seemed impossible, I did the next best thing.
He said that my statement was perfectly correct, and that I might have
made it even stronger—that Mrs X.'s condition throughout her pregnancy
and up to the moment when she complained of sudden severe pain in her
head was " absolutely normal." Marshall Wait.
Chicago, December 3rd, 1897.
I was the physician in attendance upon the late Mrs. X. at the time of
her death. I was well acquainted with Mrs. X., having been a friend of the
family as well as their physician for many years. She was of the tubercular
diathesis, but had had no trouble of the kind for some years. Her condition
after her accouchement was apparently satisfactory. I called upon her the
morning of the day before her death, —more as a friendly matter than as a
professional duty, —and found her apparently in so good condition that I
jokingly told her that 1 would not have wasted my time if I had known how
well she was. I believe that in the processes of elimination and repair
which follow child-birth, the glands in her throat became overtaxed and
discharged tuberculous matter into the base of the brain, causing the
meningitis which resulted in her death. But at the date of her dream (of
which I was told before her death) there was no more reason why she should
have anticipated death than at any time for ten years before.
In case of publication I would prefer to have my name withheld.
(Signed in full) M.D.
It is an obvious weakness in this case, as Mr. Wait remarked in
sending it, that Mrs. X.'s condition at the time of her dream might
have predisposed her to presentiments of the kind. This does not,
indeed, account for the exactness of the coincidence—in the absence
of which the case would, of course, be entirely worthless as evidence
of anything supernormal —but it adds considerably to the likelihood
that, if not the result of self-suggestion, it was merely due to chance.
Further instances of premonitions, the accounts of which would
have made this section too long, are to be found in Appendices II.,
III., and IV.
XXXV.] 261
Coincidences.
CHAPTER IV.
EXAMPLES OF COINCIdENCES WITH A STrONGEr ClAIM TO
CAUSAl PrODUCTION.
Section I.
Coincidences apparently due to Subliminal Mental Action.
Case 30.
The following case was recorded by the Rev. C. W. Bingham,
apparently within three weeks after it occurred, in Notes and Q,ieries
(5th Series, Vol. XII., p. 256 ; September 27th, 1879). He writes :—
On Sunday evening, Sept. 7th, as I was reading the 37th Psalm in
church, my attention was suddenly drawn away, and there happened to me
what I never remember to have happened to me before in the course of my
long ministry, viz., an utter inability to recover my lost place. After an
awful pause, the clerk proceeded with the next verse, and a neighbour
kindly directed me where to go on. On returning home, my wife pointed
out the remarkable coincidence that the clause I had omitted was the latter
part of verse 37 : " His place cmdd nowhere be found ! " 1
C. W. Bingham.
I should be inclined to apply to this case a suggestion made by
Mr. Myers in his discussion of what he calls promnesia,—the feeling,
often experienced by some persons, that what is going on at the
moment is a repetition of what has happened to them before, so
that they feel able to predict the next step. (See " The Subliminal
Self. The Relation of Supernormal Phenomena to Time : Retro-
cognition and Precognition," in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XI.,
pp. 341-344.)
Mr. Myers imagines that the subliminal perception of what is
going on may sometimes be slightly in advance—say, by a small
fraction of a second— of the supraliminal perception. Then, when
the subliminal percept emerges into the supraliminal or ordinary
consciousness, there may be a sort of double consciousness of the
percept—or a consciousness, together with an apparent memory of the
same consciousness. The memory might appear to relate to a period
some time back, whereas it would really relate to a past only just past,
The effect would be that what is happening appears to the observer to
1 The whole verse (in the Prayer-Book version) is :—" I went by, and lo, he was
gone : I sought him, but his place could nowhere be found."
262 [part
Alice Johnson.
be a repetition of what has happened some time ago,—the repetition
being really in his own perception of the incidents, not in the incidents
themselves.
According to this view, we may suppose that Mr. Bingham'i-
subliminal self was reading on a little ahead, and that the phrase,
" His place could nowhere be found," shot up into his supraliminal
consciousness a little too soon, namely, at the moment when it was
occupied with the first part of the verse. This may have produced a
dream-like confusion, in the midst of which, as in a dream, the phrase
was totally misapprehended and applied by the reader to himself,
instead of to " the ungodly," to whom it really refers. Thus, it may
actually have caused him to lose his place, and so —possibly—the
coincidence was produced.1
In further illustration of this view, I may refer to three cases given
in Mr. Myers' paper just referred to (op. cit. pp. 411-415). In the
first, Mr. Newnham, walking in a field, hears a voice telling him that
he will find a certain rare moth — Chaonia—on a certain oak. Here,
as Mr. Myers suggests, he may subconsciously have seen the moth
settle on the oak, and the fact may have been conveyed to his ordinary
consciousness in this hallucinatory form. In the second case, M.
Adrien Guebhard, on a geological excursion, is suddenly reminded of a
rare variety of fern with bifurcated fronds (in which he had once been
much interested, but had never been able to find a specimen of it),
and immediately afterwards sees a plant of the variety in question on
the ground close to him. The same experience with regard to this
abnormality in ferns occurred to him twice more in the course of the
same year. We may suppose that on the two latter occasions he was
subconsciously on the look-out for further specimens, which might
otherwise have escaped his notice altogether. The third case was an
experience that occurred to Dr. Hodgson. Walking in a garden and
engaged in a train of thought that made him oblivious to his surround
ings, he " regained his consciousness of them suddenly to find himself
brought to a stand, in a stooping position, gazing intently at a five-
leaved clover." Several years earlier he had been interested in getting
extra-leaved clovers, but had not for years made any active search
for them.
The same superior alertness of the subliminal self seems to be
shown in the familiar cases of dreams dramatised backwards, when
the dreamer first becomes consciously aware on waking of the noise or
other stimulus which has apparently started the dream, and which,
therefore, must have been perceived earlier by his subliminal self.
1 Even if his attention was drawn away by something external, such as a sudden
noise, it may have been a subliminal perception of the content of the verse that
prevented him from finding his place again.
XXXV.] 2G3
Coincidences.
The following is an instance experienced by Dr. C. Theodore
Green, an Associate of the Society, who writes :—
Birkenhead, June 2Sth, 1896.
While reading Mr. W. R. Newbold's "Sub-conscious Reasoning,"
Proceedings S.P.R., Part XXX., p. 19, I was reminded of a dream I had
last winter which may have been "dramatised . . . from its apparent
conclusion to its apparent initiation." I thought I was invited by some
friends to an Elizabethan mansion in the north of England, as they knew
that I was desirous of seeing a ghost. I was told that I should be sure to
see some, as they were as "common as blackberries" nearly every day in
that house, and that even the children and servants had got used to them.
So I went there in my dream, thinking that I should at last have something
veridical for the S.P. R. So I wandered through the quaint galleries of the
rambling old house, and slept in it for four nights without hearing or seeing
anything in the least supernormal.
But during the fifth night—I was to return home next day—a ghost put
its long white cold arm slowly up from under the bed and touched me on the
right cheek. I instantly sprang up and seized the arm, feeling sure that I
had caught a ghost this time. Alas, I awoke, and found myself sitting half
up, grasping the cold iron arm of the bedstead, which had evidently touched
my cheek as I rolled over in bed.
I have since then been half awaked several times by touching this
same iron bar with hand or face, but have not had any dream connected
with it.
Assuming that dreams may be "dramatised backwards" as well as
forwards in point of time, it follows that the mental process involved was
extremely rapid, for I must have awaked to ordinary consciousness within a
very few seconds of grasping that cold iron bar in midwinter.
(Dr.) C. Theodore Green.
Cask 31.
Perhaps few experiences are more familiar than to meet with a
name or a fact in reading or conversation almost immediately after
hearing of it, as we think, for the first time. This familiar experience
generally strikes us, even though we are quite aware that the coin
cidence is due to nothing more than selective attention to a point
which—for some reason—interests us, and selective disregard of
other points. The same explanation obviously applies to such cases
as the three following, the first of which was sent to me by Dr.
Leaf. He writes :—
Beechwood, Pembury Road, Tunbridge Wells, May 5th, 1898.
[The following is] a sufficiently absurd coincidence which happened to
.myself.
When I was an undergraduate at Cambridge in 1871, I had an accident
at a practice-wicket at cricket, by which two of my teeth were broken out.
This was on July 9. I had a good deal of pain , which gave me such a rest
less night that I was glad, contrary to my usual habit, to get up early next
T
264 Alice Johnson. [part
morning and go to early chapel. In the Psalms for the morning (lviii., 6)
came the verse : "Break their teeth, O God, in their mouths."
Walter Leap.
Case 32.
The other two cases were recorded by De Morgan in A Bridget of
Paradoxes (reprinted from the Athenatnm), 1872, pp. 280-282. Such
coincidences must, of course, be met with much more frequently by
omnivorous readers like De Morgan than by persons of more limited
intellectual interests.
The purely casual coincidence, from which there is no escape except the
actual doctrine of special providences, carried down to a very low point of
special intention, requires a junction of the things the like of each of which
is always happening. I will give [two] instances which have occurred to
myself within the last few years ; I solemnly vouch for the literal truth of
every part of [both].
In August, 1861, M. Senarmont, of the French Institute, wrote to me to
the effect that Fresnel had sent to England, in or shortly after 1824, a paper
for translation and insertion in the European Reciew, which shortly after
wards expired. The question was, what had become of that paper.
I examined the Review at the Museum, found no trace of the paper, and
wrote back to that effect at the Museum, adding that everything now
depended on ascertaining the name of the editor, and tracing his papers ; of
this I thought there was no chance. I posted this letter on my way home,
at a post office in the Hampstead-road at the junction with Edward street,
on the opposite side of which is a bookstall. Lounging for a moment over
the exposed books, stent mens est mos, I saw, within a few minutes of the
posting of the letter, a little catch-penny book of anecdotes of Macaulay,
which I bought, and ran over for a minute. My eye was soon caught by
this sentence : " One of the young fellows immediately wrote to the editor
(Mr. Walker) of the European Review." I thus got the clue by which 1
ascertained that there was no chance of recovering Fresnel's paper. Of the
mention of current reviews, not one in a thousand names the editor.
In the summer of 1865, I made my first acquaintance with the tales of
Nathaniel Hawthorne, and the first I read was about the siege of Boston in
the War of Independence. I could not make it out : everybody seemed to
have got into somebody else's place. I was beginning the second tale when a
parcel arrived ; it was a lot of old pamphlets and other rubbish, as he called
it, sent by a friend who had lately sold his books, had not thought it worth
while to send these things for sale, but thought I might like to look at them
and possibly keep some. The first thing I looked at was a sheet which, being
opened, displayed "A plan of Boston and its environs, showing the true
situation of his Majesty's army and also that of the rebels, drawn by an
engineer, at Boston, Oct., 1775." Such detailed plans of current sieges being
then uncommon, it is explained that "the principal part of this plan was sur
veyed by Richard Williams, Lieutenant at Boston ; and sent over by the son
of a nobleman to his father in town, by whose permission it was published."
I immediately saw that my confusion arose from my supposing that the
king's troops were besieging the rebels, when it was just the other way.
XXXV.] 265
Coincidences.
Another instance of a coincidence produced in great part by
selective attention to a subject in which the narrator was specially
interested is the following.
Case 33.
The account of this case was sent to Mr. Myers on the day of
its occurrence by Mr. Edward D. Blyth, of 12, Belgrave Crescent,
Edinburgh. The account was written by Mrs. Blyth, and corrobora
tive notes by her daughter, Mrs. Henry Anderson, and Mr. Blyth
are appended.
12, Belgrave Crescent, Edinburgh, January 5th, 1893, 8.55 p.m.
I am at present engaged in tracing the pedigree of an old Irish family of
which I am a scion. I expressed a wish to my daughter, Mrs. Henry
Anderson, that I could find a book which would give me a full account of the
Irish Brigade (time of James II.), two members of which, Colonel Shee
and Count D'Alton Shee, were my kinsmen. I expressed this wish several
times. Later in the day, accompanied by Mrs. H. A., I went for the first
time to the Advocates' Library in the Parliament House in the High-street
of Edinburgh. Not knowing the way, by mistake we entered a room
reserved for members only. Finding we were in the wrong place, Mrs. H. A.
said, "Wait here, mamma, while I go and find out where we ought to go,"
and left me standing in the middle of the large room, surrounded by thousands
of books. I crossed the room with no particular end in view, and stopped
in front of a division filled with books, and the very title my eyes fell upon
was the Army List of the Irish Regiments of King James II., in two volumes,
cavalry and infantry, by J. Daltim, published in Dublin, in 1860. I have
not yet recovered from the curious shock I then received and am immensely
impressed. I told my husband of the curious incident when I saw him after
returning home. Kate m Blyth
Mrs. Henry Anderson writes :—
January 5th, 1893, 9.25 p.m.
I can testify to the above occurrence. In the morning my mother
repeatedly expressed the wish to obtain a book on the subject of the Irish
Brigade, in order to find some kinsmen's names. I left her, as stated, in the
large private room, and coming back after an absence of four or five
minutes, met her coming out through the swing doors with such an agitated
expression that I thought she must have had a start of some kind. She
said immediately, "Kate, such a very extraordinary thing happened just
now. I went towards one of the divisions of books, and the first title my
eyes fell on was ," and she gave the name of the book. She was
quite startled and nervous all the afternoon and evening.
Kate Henry Anderson.
Mr. Blyth adds :—
January 5th, 1893, 9.40 p.m.
The above accounts are in perfect harmony with what my wife and
daughter related to me some hours ago.
Edward D. Blyth.
t 2
266 [part
Alice Johnson.
This case is clearly not an accidental coincidence. It must, indeed,
have been merely by chance that the particular part of the book-case
Mrs. Blyth first approached happened to contain a book with the
information she wished for ; that is, it was not her wish that caused
the book to be in that part of the room, or, indeed, in the room at all.
But given that there was such a book in that part, it was not chance
that led her at once to pick it out, but hgr interest in the subject,
making her on the alert for anything relating to it.
Case 34.
The following case is extracted and somewhat abridged from an
article on " Psychical Research and Coincidences," by Professor J. H.
Hyslop, in The Psychological Revieiv for July, 1898. It relates to
some of the experiences of Mrs. D., a lady with whom Professor
Hyslop has been long acquainted (an earlier report of her crystal
visions was given by him in the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XII., p. 259).
The central incident in the present account is a premonition of Mrs.
D.'s of the death of one of her children. The case therefore properly
belongs to the preceding section, but I place it here on account of the
very careful and complete analysis of all the evidence for its possibly
subliminal causation given by Professor Hyslop, which—for want of
space—I do not reprint in full, but for which I may refer the reader
to his original article.
Some time in July, 1897, Mrs. D. had a strong impression that some
unusual " burden " was going to fall upon the family. She could describe
the feeling in no other way, and it will be noticed that the expression is a
common one with religious minds, which often employ the term to denote »
providential affliction. This meaning Mrs. D. gave to the term herself.
But the feeling was too vague to identify with any past cause or any incident
to be forecasted in the future. Mrs. D. was in good health ; there was
nothing in her physical condition that would suggest a clear physical cause
of such a feeling. I am not implying that there were no such causes, for
there may have been conditions that a skilled physician would detect. But
to the consciousness of the subject there was no indication of indisposition
of any kind. In fact, she has answered all my inquiries on this point to the
effect that her peculiar experiences always occur most frequently when her
health is at its best, so far as her own judgment can determine. Throughout
the whole period over which the present narrative extends her health was
good. In the month of August this premonitory feeling repeated itself very
frequently, and became so annoying that Mrs. D. mentioned it to her
husband, who confirms her statement in regard to both facts, and hence
supports the supposition that the location of the experience previous to its
real or supposed fulfilment is not due to an illusion of memory. Finally,
the feeling became so intense and persistent that Mrs. D., as is often the
case with religious minds as deeply imbued with piety as is her own,
sought relief in prayer. But though this resource had in her estimation
XXXV.] 207
Coincidences.
been effective in other cases where it had been instigated, as might well
be in a mind so sensitive to automatisms as is her own, yet the feeling
could not be dismissed.
To make the matter clearer it is necessary to anticipate the sequel of the
story, to which the incidents of the narrative are supposed to refer. This
is that the little daughter, whom I shall call Lettie, and who was just one
year and nine months old, died on December 2nd, 1897, from the burning of
its cradle.
At odd times between August and December Mrs. D., in her thoughts
about the child's future and while planning some little thing for her, would
hear a voice saying, "She'll never need it." One of these occasions was
the following : The family live in a house with few accommodations for a
clergyman who requires a study, and Mrs. D. planned to give Lettie a
certain room for a bedroom when she grew older, and was running over how
she would furnish it, and this voice came as described. It was not exactly
what one could describe as an external voice, nor, again, a mere thought
impression or product of the memory and imagination, as we usually
characterise such things, but one of those internal voices with which
psychical researchers have become familiar and which Mrs. D. herself dis
tinguishes as neither a real voice nor a memory reproduction, but an
impression with all the characters of a real voice except the sense of
external reality.
There were many repetitions of this voice in about the same language.
One of them occurred about two weeks before the child's death. Mrs. D.
had resolved to write a little diary which she could give to the child when
it became older. She wrote down two separate accounts on different days
of certain events having an interest to the little girl. But, while writing
them, this voice came as before : " She'll never need them." The day before
the child died the same voice appeared, and on the morning of its death the
child was running about the house in a rather dilapidated pair of shoes,
when Mrs. D. remarked to the child that her feet must be cold and thought
she must have a new pair of shoes. In the midst of her thoughts came the
voice again, " She'll never need them." It must be added also that, pre
vious to the impression of a coming "burden" above described, this voice
had been heard several times.
About a week before the child's death Mrs. D. thought she smelled fire
at night, and feeling afraid of it went to the cellar to look after the matches
and to see that there was no danger. She found no traces of fire and
nothing to explain her impression. But from that time she began to be
careful about matches, seeing that they were in safe places and out of reach.
She even went so far as to look over the house for the matches, and felt a
strong impulse to burn all parlour matches which were of that kind that is
easily lighted. Once the impulse to do this was attended with something
like a voice warning her to the same end, and about the danger of fire.
Nothing definite enough having been suggested by the voice to guide her
actions directly, Mrs. D. could only imagine the necessary precautions, and
finally thought to hang a dripping pan in front of the range fire, a thing
Mrs. D. had never done before, to prevent coals from falling out during the
night. Nor had any apprehensions of this kind ever been felt before, within
268 [past
Alice Johnson.
her recollection, and there were no special reasons to suppose that any
danger of fire in this way existed.
On the morning of the child's death, and during family worship, another
incident of some interest occurred. In the midst of the petition for
individual members of the family, when she came to the phrase with which
she besought divine care for each one, and attempted to apply it in behalf
of Lettie, though no difficulty was encountered in the case of the other
children, in this case something seemed to stop Mrs. D.'s voice, and she
could not repeat the usual language. She recalls no similar previous
experience.
On the same morning, about an hour before the fatal disaster, the pro
pulsion to destroy the matches that were dangerous became stronger and
stronger, until Mrs. D. turned and reached for the box to destroy it. But
as she picked it up she thought, No ; L. (the elder boy) is gone, aud she
thought that she might need the matches to light the gas stove. She then
said aloud to herself, " I'll destroy it as soon as he comes back." She then
went on with her work in the kitchen. When the time came, about ten
o'clock, Lettie was taken up to her crib for the morning sleep, and as Mrs.
D. was putting her into the cradle a voice, such as has been described above,
said: " Turn the mattress." This Mrs. D. was accustomed to do, though
she had never experienced any voice before in connection with it. But,
being in a great hurry, she simply said in a motherly way to the child that
she would turn the mattress after the child had taken her nap. She then
went downstairs to her work. After a while she heard the child cry, and
hurrying up to the room, found the crib and its bedding on fire, and the
child so badly burned that it died in three hours.
The only possible way to account for the accident was to suppose that
the child had found a match, possibly in the crib or on the mantelpiece,
which she could reach, and, lighting it, had set its bedclothes on lire.
The other two children were not present. L. had gone down town on an
errand and E., the younger boy, was at school. No fire was on this floor
of the house, hut in the kitchen and the dining-room, both below.
Now, another incident of much interest had occurred many times
during the two or three years' residence of the family in this house. Mrs.
D. had often had a visual apparition of this very crib on fire, but, as
her apparitions or visual automatisms are very frequent, she had not
thought to assign it any meaning or possible coincidental value until after
the accident.
These were the experiences of Mrs. D. previous to the event, but
there were two other incidents by other persons than Mrs. D., that lend
themselves to a construction of coincidence in connection with the accident.
The first is exactly like the one narrated as occurring at family devotions.
Mrs. D. has a sister living in Connecticut, some seventy-five miles from B.,
the home of Mrs. D. No correspondence has passed recently between them,
and the sister was not given to as devotional a life as Mrs. D. It must also
be remembered that the sister had ridiculed Mrs. D.'s stories of her
experiences, and even went so far as to half jestingly criticise Mrs. D. for
her extravagant piety. She discouraged Mrs. D.'s tolerance of possible
significance in many of the coincidences which I have recorded in the
XXXV.] 269
Coincidences,
Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research (Vol. XII., p. 259 seq.),
when they were the subject of conversation. But on hearing of the child's
death she came to B. and narrated an experience of her own. It was to the
effect that about a week before the death of the child she had had such an
experience as she had never had before. An overwhelming impression of
some great calamity to occur in the " family " (the incidents show that the
term included the whole family connections), and the impulse arose in her
to pray for each one, which she did, feeling, as she expressed it in her
narrative, that this was an unusual procedure for her. She went over each
person among parents and relatives, until she came to the child, Lettie,
when her voice suddenly stopped and she could not pray for her as for the
others. She finally managed, however, to utter with struggling voice a
petition for " our little blossom," the name which she was accustomed to
apply to Lettie when speaking of her.
The second incident was an experience of the next door neighbour to
the D.'s. I shall call the lady who had it Mrs. G. On the afternoon of the
child's death Mrs. G. came in about three o'clock and, a propos of the
accident, remarked that on the night before, I believe it was, she had been
wakened by the fear of fire and had gone down to the cellar to search for it,
and exclaimed while making the search : " Oh ! if our little baby would
burn up ! " Her own child was about the age of Lettie. I ascertained the
facts of Mrs. G.'s experiences from her own statements, and found that
they were exactly as told me by Mrs. D.
The night after the burial of the child Mrs. D. could picture to herself
nothing but the little coffin and the grave. To remove the unpleasant feeling
Mrs. D. prayed to have a realising sense and the power to know that the
child was a spirit and did not lie in the grave. At this time she was at the
home of her sister, whither the family had gone to seek a burial place. One
morning, soon after this prayer, she awakened and lay for an hour thinking
over family affairs. The sun was shining brightly in the room, and while
thinking, suddenly she saw a form by the bedside, and, turning, saw an
apparition of little Lettie with her hands on the bedside and smiling at Mrs.
D. By her side was the form of a woman, holding her hands about the
child, as if to assist it. Mrs. D. sprang up in bed and unconsciously
exclaimed, "Good morning, Lettie," and both figures immediately vanished.
The forms were transparent and objects could be seen through them. The
grown form was not recognisable as any one that Mrs. D. knew. Mrs. D.
retained a strong sense of satisfaction from the vision. She is disposed to
interpret it as a providential comfort for her sorrow.
At the end of December another incident took place that will have some
interest. This time it was the experience of the little boy E. It was first
told me by Mr. D. The following letter from Mrs. D. narrates the details
of the occurrence :—
" January 5th, 1898.
"You requested a note of E.'s recent experience. It occurred on
Thursday eve, December 30th (1897).
"I lay down on the sofa to rest in the evening, and, as he often does, he
climbed back of me to rest with me. I do not remember what my thoughts
were, but feel quite confident I was not thinking of my experience at
270 [part
Alice Johnson.
S , Conn., when E. said : 'Mamma, is little Lettie air now? Is she
like smoke ? ' Why, darling ? ' 'Cause I just saw her and put my anas
around her and she was like air.' I will endeavour to keep account of any
thing further. jj n
On inquiry about the incident I could find no trace of any story to the
child that might lead to a belief on its part in such a reality as its experience
might be taken to describe. The child was only four years old. The
incident impressed both parents as very striking, and they were eviJeutly
puzzled by it, having a strong aversion to the apparent meaning of such
occurrences.
The apparition of the burning cradle is one of the most striking coin
cidental features of the whole narrative. The fact is that the crib stood
within a few feet of a fire grate. But as there had been no fire in this
grate for a year or more the accident could not have been caused by this.
Mrs. D. herself had all along explained the vision of the burning crib by
this very proximity to the fire grate. Almost every one would have such
a possibility suggested to the mind by this situation of the crib. But nut.
every one ia subject to automatisms, and such thoughts are easily referred
to their proper source in association. Mrs. D., however, as we have found,
is liable to these occurrences. Now it is the unusual occurrence anil
character of automatisms that call special attention to them. They are
easily remembered as interesting and significant if any coincidence with
them is remarked. If the accident of the child's death had occurred only
in connection with an association of a burning crib, every one would have
dismissed it as a coincidence not worth taking seriously, and no significance
would be given it. But when an accident of this sort occurs in coincidence
with an apparition apparently premonitory in character, we forget associa
tion and are tempted by the unusual nature of the phenomenon to ascribe
it a value that it may not deserve. We may concede that such an
experience might have some significance if not connected with automatisms
as frequent or habitual occurrences. But here we have in this very subject
the existence of automatisms which can be traced directly to emotional
influences of various sorts. There is a frequent connection between pas;
thoughts and associations and certain sensory automatisms, and we have
only to suppose this case one of them in order to explain it in a natural way.
Section II.
Coincidences possibly or probably due to Telepathy.
Among all those apparently supernormal faculties which form the
subject of the investigations of the Society for Psychical Research,
Telepathy is probably the one whose existence most persons interested
in psychical research regard as the most firmly established. I there
fore place in my last section coincidences suggestive of Telepathy.
I cannot claim that the cases given here add in any at all material
XXXV.] 271
Coincidences.
degree to the evidence for telepathy already published, and several of
my most evidential ones have already been printed in the Journal.
No one denies that merely accidental coincidences between the thoughts-
and expressions of two different persons often occur, and we cannot,
of course, treat any coincidences as telepathic unless we have strong
reason for thinking that they are not accidental. But since, as
already observed, we have no means at present of discovering for
certain whether telepathy has operated or not in any individual case,
because of our ignorance of its method of operation, the main object
of this section is to illustrate the difficulty of drawing the line between
accidental and telepathic coincidences For this purpose I arrange
my cases in a sort of rough order of merit, beginning with those that
seem to me evidentially weakest and ending with the stronger ones.
The weakness of the first case consists in the absence of any
sort of connection between the persons whose thoughts coincided.
Case 35.
This case, which was recorded a few days after it occurred,
was sent to Mr. Myers by Mr. L. C. Powles, an Associate of the
Society. He writes:—
9, Queen's Gate Place, London, S.W., March 1st, 1898.
Dear Sir,—I hardly know whether the dream given on the other side of
this is worth sending you. I should be more inclined to set it down as a
mere coincidence if it were not that I am somewhat easily impressed by the
thoughts of others. I ought to add Mrs. Wellesley is known to me.—
Yours truly, L Q powlE8
March 1st, 1898.
On the night of the 26th ult. I had a vivid dream to this effect ; that I
had determined to commit suicide and had made arrangements to do so, even
to the extent of ordering my coffin of the village carpenter ; but I was
profoundly disinclined to carry out these arrangements when the time had
come and confided to a friend that I should put off the deed till Thursday nest.
My friend in the dream replied grudgingly, "Well, I suppose it can be
managed." This dream, which I attributed to a reminiscence of a book I
had been reading the day before, Tim Early Life of Wordsworth, I related
to Lady Eden and Mr. Wellesley on the 27th.
[These persons add]
We certify this I , ^lIiE1^"
I Victor vv ellesley.
On the 28th came a letter from the Hon. Mrs. Wellesley to Mr.
Wellesley, dated 26th February, Wiesbaden, of which I send you part.
The coincidence is very curious.
272 [pakt
Alice Johnson.
The passage in the letter in which the coincidence occurs is as
follows :—
Homan's establishment is in a great state of excitement and scared,
as a chap there contemplates committing suicide and goes about with a
revolver. He has tww put it off till next Thursday.
Case 36.
The following is a coincidence whose triviality throws doubt on
its telepathic character. It was obtained by Professor Harlow S. Gale,
of the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, from Mrs. Charles T.
Jerome, who writes to Professor Gale :—
Minneapolis, February 20t.h, 1896.
. . . On the afternoon of October 29th, 1895, at ten minutes past
four, I stepped upon a chest in my closet to reach my muff which was lying
on a high shelf. As I turned, my muff brushed across the top of the door
casing, and a key fell to the floor. I picked it up and recognised it as the
key to a cash box belonging to my son, Albert C. Jerome, which he had
supposedly lost about a year previous.
When he returned home in the evening I said, " Albert, I found the key
to your cash box to-day." " Did you 1 " he replied, " I was thinking about
that key like everything this afternoon." " Have you thought of it
frequently?" I asked. "No," he replied, "I haven't thought of it before
in six months that I remember. I had given up finding it."
I inquired at what time he was thinking of it, to which he answered,
" A little after four o'clock, about ten minutes after. I know the time
because I was thinking about it just as I reached the Great Western freight
depot, and looked at the clock as I entered, not with reference to that, but
on account of my errand there I took note of the time." I had not then
mentioned at what time I found the key.
I had also noted the time, simply because I was just then going out to
drive, and taking my muff down passed immediately out.
Incidents of a similar nature have several times occurred between Albert
and myself, but I have never regarded them of sufficient importance to
interest any one but ourselves. . .
Mrs. Chas. T. Jerome.
As far as I am concerned this is O.K.
Albert C. Jerome.
On the afternoon of October 29th, 1895, very shortly before ten minutes
past four, Mrs. Charles T. Jerome was standing on a chair-seat before an
open chamber door. To keep her balance she put forth her hand, laying
her fingers upon the ledge above the doorway, and at the same time, by
merest accident, upon the key of her son Albert's cash box—the key having,
no doubt, been laid there t > hide it ; but the place and circumstance of its
hiding had been quite forgotten. Indeed, it had been missing for about a
year, and its loss had been nearly dropped from memory.
Upon her son's return she told him of her finding his lost key. He
asked when it was found ; and learning that, exclaimed in surprise that at
XXXV.] 273
Coincidences.
just about that time he had been thinking very intensely of the key, and
said furthermore that he did not remember having thought of the key before
in six months.
I knew the time when the key was found, because it was just before
going to drive with my mother, and at starting looked at the clock.
Albert knew approximately the time when he was thinking of the key,
bocause he was on his way from McMillan and Co. 's warehouse (cor. 2 St.
and 1 Ave. N.) to the Chicago Great Western freight depot (cor. 10 Aves.
and Wash.), and noted the hour and minute of leaving for the depot.
Charles W. Jerome.
The next case, again, may possibly have been telepathic, though
there is no proof that Miss M. was thinking of her friends just at the
time when they began to talk about her. The coincidence seems to
relate to the place rather than the time of the conversation.
Case 37. [L. 1099.]
The account was received from one of our Associates who wishes
that the names and address should not be given.
Cheltenham, December 11th, 1897.
. . My wife was walking with her married daughter in Cheltenham
to-day, December 11th, and when they arrived at Montpellier Walk, about
Tthe centre of the town, my wife remarked to her daughter that she would
like to receive some information about a lady whom she had met several
years ago at her daughter's bungalow in Ceylon. They continued talking of
this lady for some minutes, and were much surprised to find on their return
home that the lady in question had called only half-an-hour previously, and
expressed great regret at not finding them at home, as she had to leave
Cheltenham by the next train. The coincidence is rendered the more
remarkable by the fact that my son-in-law had met the lady, at the exact
spot in the town where, about half-an-hour afterwards, my wife had the
impression that she would like to receive some news about her. I may add
that the lady does not live at, or near, Cheltenham, and beyond knowing
ithat she had left Ceylon, and was residing in England, neither my wife nor
•daughter knew where she was living, or had the remotest idea that she was
in Cheltenham, and would call upon them.
(Signed) [Mr. A.]
In reply to inquiries we received the three following letters :—
Cheltenham, December 17th, 1897.
Dear Sir,—On the morning of the 11th inst. I met Miss M. on Mont
pellier Walk. She had been to call on my wife, and, failing to find her at
home, was walking down town in hopes of meeting her. I turned and
walked with Miss M. for some time, looking for my wife until it was time to
return to where she was staying, as she had to catch the train to Malvern.
At lunch my mother-in-law remarked to my wife that it was a curious
•coincidence they should have been talking of Miss M. on their way home. I
274 [pai.t
Alice Johnson.
asked if they remembered whereabouts they began speaking of her, and it
turned out that it was on the exact spot to a yard where I had met Miss M.
-Yours faithfully, (signed) [Mr r]
December 17th, 1897.
Dear Sir,—I was walking home from town, and when at the Montpellier
Walk I said to my daughter (Mrs. " B.") that I wondered if had arrived
from Ceylon and where she would pass the winter. We continued talking
about her almost the whole way home. At the Christ Church crossing we
met my son-in-law (Mr. "B.") on his bike and he called out something
about which we did not understand. On reaching home we found a-
letter from this lady saying how vexed she was to miss us, as she was leaving
by next train. At lunch my son-in-law remarked how curious we should
have talked of during the morning, and asked where we were when the
conversation began. We said, "At the Montpellier Walk," which proved
to be exactly where he had met about half-an-hour before we returned
that Wfty- (Signed) [Mrs. A.]
December 17th, 1897.
Dear Sir,—I was walking home with my mother when she asked me if
I had had any news of Miss M. and where she was, and wondered where she
was going to live. We began talking of her on the Montpellier Walk, and
continued chatting about her nearly the entire way home. At the Christ
Church crossing we met my husband on his bike, who shouted out something
about Miss M., which we failed to understand. But when we arrived at the
house we found that Miss M. had called and was so sorry to miss us, as she
was leaving Cheltenham by the next train. At luncheon we were telling my
father and husband how curious it was that we were talking of Miss M. s>i
much and that she should be in Cheltenham, and my husband asked us where
we began to speak of her, and we told him at the Montpellier Walk, which
proved to be exactly where he had met our friend before we returned
that way.
(Signed) [Mrs. B.]
Case 38.
In the following the detailed nature of the agreement suggests more
strongly, though still by no means conclusively, that the coincidence was
due to telepathy. I received it from Mr. A. Berry, Fellow and Lecturer
in Mathematics of King's College, Cambridge, who writes to me :—
Fairseat, Wrotham, April 3rd, 1898.
Dear Miss Johnson, —The circumstances relating to the coincidence of
which 1 was speaking are as nearly as I can recollect as follows :—
I was taking part in an Intercollegiate Examination in Mathematics in
1890. In addition to papers on specific subjects, there is also a paper of
problems, which may be chosen from any of the subjects of examination.
The other papers contain " bookwork " questions and problems, or " riders,"
connected with them. Shortly before the examination it appeared that Mr.
A. Larmor, of Clare, and I proposed to set closely similar problems—one in
the " problem paper " and one in the paper on a specific subject, Statics.
XXXV.] 275
Coincidences.
I find that Mr. Larmor's version was actually printed and set in the
Statics paper. I infer that I was setting mine in the problem paper, but I
have no independent recollection of this. The problem paper is made up by
contributions from each of four Colleges which join in the examination ; it is
edited by one examiner and circulated in proof to all. I imagine that Mr.
Larmor saw my question in proof and then noticed that it was substantially
his own. My question was then withdrawn.
I was not able to find the question among the old examination papers
which I possessed, but satisfied myself by a process of exclusion that the
year must have been 1890, and after leaving Cambridge asked Mr. Richmond,
giving him this date, to send me a copy of the question (Mr. Larmor's
version), which I enclose.
I have no copy of my own version, but my recollection is that the data
of the problem—as contained in the first sentence—were identical, but that
I only asked for a certain result which expressed the stresses (tensions) along
the four strings, whereas Mr. Larmor asked also for the stresses along the
rods, and expressed the whole result in a singularly elegant form, which I had
missed. I do not think that the result asked for is nearly as characteristic
of a problem of this class as the data, so that the resemblance between our
two versions is greater than might perhaps at first sight appear.
A new text-book on Statics (by J. Greaves of Christ's) had recently come
out, and it is possible that something in that may have suggested the problem
to both of us, but I have no recollection of anything of the sort.
I have written to Mr. Larmor for his recollection and enclose a copy of the
letter, so that you may be able to judge how far his reply is suggested by my
letter. When 1 hear from him I will send the letter on. —Yours sincerely,
Arthur Berry.
The copy of the question as finally printed, furnished by Mr.
Richmond to Mr. Berry, was as follows :—
A parallelepiped formed of twelve weightless rods freely jointed together
at their extremities, is in equilibrium under the action of four stretched
elastic strings, connecting the four pairs of opposite vertices. Show that the
figure is its own stress-diagram.
The following is Mr. Berry's letter to Mr. Larmor, asking for his
recollection of the incident :—
April 3rd, 1898.
Dear Larmor, —Do you happen to remember any details of the circum
stances under which we both set, or wanted to set, a problem about a
parallelepiped in the Mays, about 1890 ? A friend of mine is interested in
coincidences, and has asked me to get, if possible, your statement of the
matter as well as my own. If you could give me your recollections I should
be much obliged.—Yours sincerely,
Arthur Berry.
Mr. Larmor replied : —
April 6th, 1898.
Dear Berry,—My recollection of the curious coincidence to which you
refer is as follows :—Clare, Caius, King's and Trinity Hall were grouped for
276 [part
Alice Johnson.
examination purposes ; you were one of the examiners representing King's,
and I one of those representing Clare. I believe Statics was one of the
subjects assigned to me, and we were each requested to supply three or four
problems for the problem paper, representing more or less the subjects
assigned to us for the ordinary papers. The procedure was as follows. An
editor was appointed who should collect the problems from the various
examiners, arrange them, and see to the printing of the problem paper, its
circulation among the examiners, and the insertion of corrections suggested
by them. This was, I believe, Stearn (or Bell?). The problem was set by
me as an example of the principle of Virtual Work. On receiving the proof
of the problem paper, I saw that it had been printed twice and drew the
editor's attention to it. It turned out, however, that the explanation was
that j'ou had also sent it in among your problems. While the problems were
practically identical, I recollect that my version was a trifle more general
than yours, inasmuch as it had reference to the diagonals as well as the edges
of the parallelepiped. [The italics are mine. A.J.] This version was
retained in the paper and you sent a substitute for the other. We were
both struck at the time by the curious coincidence and discussed the matter,
but were unable to come to the conclusion that we were led to set the
problem by any train of ideas we had in common.
The problem was quite new, I had not discussed it with anybody, and
the editor of the problem paper was the only person to whom I had
communicated it.—Very sincerely yours, Alex Larmor
Mr. Berry wrote, enclosing Mr. Larmor's letter :—
King's College, Cambridge, April 8th, 1898.
Dkar Miss Johnson,—Here is Mr. Larmor's "narrative." The only
discrepancy which I notice between his account and mine is in the sentence
[italicised]. It is quite irrelevant to the coincidence and merely affects the
question of our "credibility." I think that my problem referred to the
diagonals (strings) only, and he thinks that it referred to the edges (rods)
only, omitting the strings, so that virtually the results which he thinks that I
asked for and those which I think that I asked for are exactly comple
mentary, and together make up practically what he (as we both agree) asked
for.-Yours sincerely, Arthur BEKry
I first heard of this case orally from Mr. Berry, when he drew
a diagram of a parallelepiped with dotted lines connecting the four
pairs of opposite vertices, to explain to me what the problem wa.s.
This diagram shows that his recollection of the general nature of
the problem at that time was correct, as afterwards verified by refer
ence to the printed question.
Case 39.
The next is a series of three coincidences,—all apparently purely
accidental with the possible exception of the first,—taken from Over
the Teacups, by Oliver Wendell Holmes (3rd Edition, 1891, p. 12, tt
XXXV.] 277
Coincidences.
seq.) We are told in the Introduction that the part of the book
containing these cases was written in March, 1888.
(p. 12) ... I relate a singular coincidence which very lately
occurred in my experience. ... I will firat copy the memorandum
made at the time :—
" Remarkable coincidence. On Monday, April 18th, being at table from
6.30 p.m. to 7.30, with and [the two ladies of my household], I
told them of the case of ' trial by battel ' offered by Abraham Thornton in
1817. I mentioned his throwing down his glove, which was not taken up by
the brother of his victim, and so he had to be let off, for the old law was still
in force. I mentioned that Abraham Thornton was said to have come to this
country, ' and [I added] he may be living near us for aught that I know.' 1
rose from the table and found an English letter waiting for me, left while
I sat at dinner. I copy the first portion of this letter :—
' 20, Alfred Place West (near Museum), South Kensington,
London, S.W., April 7th, 1887.
' Db. O. W. Holmes,—Dear Sik,—In travelling the other day I met with
a reprint of the very interesting case of Thornton for murder, 18 L7. The
prisoner pleaded successfully the old Wager of Battel. I thought you would
like to read the account, and send it with this . . . —Yours faithfully,
' Fred. Rathbone.' "
Mr. Rathbone is a well-known dealer in old Wedgwood and eighteenth
century art. As a friend of my hospitable entertainer, Mr. Willett, he had
shown me many attentions in England, but I was not expecting any com
munication from him ; and when, fresh from my conversation, I found this
letter just arrived by mail and left while I was at table, and on breaking
the seal read what I had a few moments before been telling, I was greatly
surprised, and immediately made a note of the occurrence, as given above.
I had long been familiar with all the details of this celebrated case, but
had not referred to it, so far as I can remember, for months or years. I
know of no train of thought which led me to speak of it on that particular
day. I had never alluded to it before in that company, nor had I ever
spoken of it with Mr. Rathbone. . . .
The case I have given is, I am confident, absolutely free from every
source of error. I do not remember that Mr. Rathbone had communicated
with me since he sent me a plentiful supply of mistletoe a year ago last
Christmas. The account I received from him was cut out of The Sporting
Times of March 5th, 1887. My own knowledge of the case came from
Kirby's Wonderful Museum, a work presented to me at least thirty years ago.
I had not looked at the account, Bpoken of it, nor thought of it for a long
time, when it came to me by a kind of spontaneous generation, as it seemed,
having no connection with any previous train of thought that I was aware of.
I consider the evidence of entire independence, apart from possible
"telepathic" causation, completely waterproof, airtight, incombustible, and
unassailable.
(p. 18). I referred, when first reporting this curious case of coincidence,
with suggestive circumstances, to two others, one of which I said was the
278 [part
Alice Johnson.
most picturesque and the other the most unlikely, as it would seem, to
happen. This is the first of those two cases :—
Grenville Tudor Phillips was a younger brother of George Phillips, my
•college classmate, and of Wendell Phillips, the great orator. He lived in
Europe a large part of his life, but at last returned, and, in the year 1863.
died at the house of his brother George. I read his death in the paper ;
but, having seen and heard very little of him during his life, should not have
been much impressed by the fact but for the following occurrence : between
the time of Grenville Phillips's death and his burial I was looking in upon
my brother, then living in the house in which we were both bom. Some
books which had been my father's were stored in shelves in the room 1 used
to occupy when at Cambridge. Passing my eye over them, an old dark quarto
attracted my attention. It must be a Bible, I said to myself,—perhaps a rare
one,—the " Breeches " Bible or some other interesting specimen. I took it
from the shelves, and as I did so, an old slip of paper fell out and fluttered
to the floor. On lifting it I read these words : The, name u> Grenville Titdor.
What wras the meaning of this slip of paper coming to light at this time, after
reposing undisturbed so long ? There was only one way of explaining its
presence in my father's old Bible,—a copy of the Scriptures which I did not
remember ever having handled or looked into before. In christening a child
the minister is liable to forget the name just at the moment when he ought to
remember it. My father preached occasionally at the Brattle Street Church.
I take this for granted, for I remember going with him on one occasion when
he did so. Nothing was more likely than that he should be asked to officiate
at the baptism of the younger son of his wife's first cousin, Judge Phillips.
This slip was handed him to remind him of the name. He brought it home,
put it in that old Bible, and there it lay quietly for nearly half a century,
when, as if it had just heard of Mr. Phillips's decease, it flew from its hiding
place and startled the eyes of those who had just read his name in the daily
column of deaths. It would be hard to find anything more than a mere
coincidence here ; but it seems curious enough to be worth telling.
The second of these two last stories must be told in prosaic detsiil to show
its whole value as a coincidence.
One evening while I was living in Charles Street, I received a call from
Dr. S., a well-known and highly respected Boston physician, a particular
friend of the late Alexander H. Stephens, vice-president of the Southern
Confederacy. It was with reference to a work which Mr. Stephens was
about to publish that Dr. S. called upon me. After talking that matter over
we got conversing on other subjects, among the rest a family relationship
existing between us,—not a very near one, but one which I think I had seen
mentioned in genealogical accounts. Mary S. (the last name being the same
as that of my visitant), it appeared, was the great-great-grandmother of Mrs.
H. and myself. After cordially recognising our forgotten relationship, now
for the first time called to mind, we parted, my guest leaving me for his own
home. We had been sitting in my library on the lower floor. On going
upstairs where Mrs. H. was sitting alone, just as I entered the room she
pushed a paper across the table towards me, saying that perhaps it might
interest me. It was one of a number of old family papers which she had
brought from the house of her mother, recently deceased.
XXXV.] 279
Coincidences.
I opened the paper, which was an old-looking document, a^nd found that
it was a copy, perhaps made in this century, of the will of tiat same Mary
S., about whom we had been talking downstairs.
If there is such a thing as a purely accidental coincidence, this must be
considered an instance of it. All that one can say about it is that it seems
very unlikely that such a coincidence should occur, but it did.
Dreams about letters, coinciding with their actual arrival and
correctly representing some part of their contents, are comparable to
Dr. Holmes' first case, but belong to a class which is stronger
evidentially, since dreams about any subjects must be on the whole
less frequent than mere impulses to talk about them. I give two
cases of such coincidental dreams.1
Case 40. [L. 955.]
The first comes from Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart.,2 ; the account has
the advantage of having been written on the day of the incident.
Ventnor, March 23rd, 1891.
I was called at eight this morning, and my letters left outside the door.
I fell asleep again, and had what seemed a long and troublesome dream
about a cheque which I had to fill up and sign. At nine I awoke, with a
vivid recollection of my dream, got up, opened a packet of letters forwarded
from home, and found among them a registered letter containing a cheque
for a large sum, which I had to sign as trustee. L J J
N.B. —1 had no reason to expect the receipt of the cheque. The dream
was not in any way concerned with the real cheque, but was rather my
ineffectual attempts to draw a cheque properly on a blank sheet of papor.
But the coincidence was very remarkable.
Lady Jones writes :—
April 1st, 1893.
I can entirely corroborate from my own memory the story of my
husband's dream about the cheque. Evelyn M. Jones.
1 For other instances of this kind, see the Journal S.P.R., Vol. VI., pp. 103 and
105, and Vol. VII., p. 257. In connection with these cases, I may refer to a curious
non-coincidental case published in the "Report on the Census of Hallucinations"
{Proceedings, Vol. X., p. 91) of an extremely vivid, though apparently not fully
externalised, vision of a number of letters lying on a (real) table in a room adjoining
that in which the percipient was lying in bed. The door was shut, so that he could not
really see the table ; but along with the vision came the conviction that the letters
contained news of the death of all his relations. On going into the room, he found
no letters there and nothing occurred later to confirm the presentiment. The
percipient (who is personally known to some members of the Committee who drew
up the "Report on the Census ") declared that he was certainly awake and with his eyes
open when the vision occurred, and he seems to have had no sense of awakening
from it.
• For another experience of Sir Lawrence Jones', see below, p. 290.
C
280 [part
Alice Johnson.
Sir Lawrence Jones writes later :—
Cranmer Hall, Fakenhara, April 1st, 1893.
I related my dream to Lady Jones immediately after opening my letter.
This dream was unusually vivid, and the impression of it remained with me
much longer than usual. I dream a good deal, but rarely remember any
thing except in the case of morning dreams, when I have woken early and
gone to sleep again.
Case 41. [L. 998.J
The next case rests on unusually good evidence, since it was noted
before verification, while the full account of it was written from notes
made immediately after by Professor A. Alexander, of Rio Janeiro.
He says, in sending the account :—
My informant, Senhor Nascimento, is a life member of the " Society oi
Arts," and received his technical education in London.
A recent case of apparent clairvoyance has been communicated to me
by a Brazilian engineer, called Jos(S Custodio Fernandes do NascimenUi,
who is himself the percipient. I have been acquainted with this gentlemau
for several years and know him to be a careful and trustworthy witness. It
will be seen that he has enabled me also to give direct testimony to the
care with which he has provided for proper evidence.
In thus proceeding, he endeavours to atone for former laxness, inasmuch
as some seven or eight years ago he failed to take adequate note of a
probably veridical dream, in which he seemed to be trying to escape with
his family from the deck of a burning vessel, and to witness the jumping
overboard of a man whose clothes had caught fire. A telegram from a
northern Brazilian port subsequently gave the news that about that time
fire had broken out on board a certain vessel, and that on the occasion some
individual had in reality jumped into the sea, more or less in the manner
perceived in the dream.
Shortly after three p.m. on Saturday, January 11th, 189G, I met Senhor
Nascimento in the Rua do Ouvidor in this city, and he at once gave me
verbal particulars of a second experience of the kind, which he had had on
that very date.
He stated that, as the result of slackness in his business, he had lately
been straitened for want of means, and had felt this impecuniosity all the
more that his eldest daughter is shortly to be married to the son of a Don
J., a merchant resident in Montevideo.
On the preceding evening of the 10th, the young man J. came to visit
hisfiancee at the usual hour, and mentioned that a letter from his father was
waiting for Senhor Nascimento in the Rua da Alfandega at the firm of Jorge
Dias Brothers, the correspondents in Rio of Don J. He had not brought it
himself, as it was to be delivered to Senhor Nascimento personally.
My informant awoke on the following morning at an early hour, and fell
again into a state of slumber between 5 and 6 o'clock. He then dreamt
February 41h, 1896.
Rio, Felmuiry 3rd, 1896.
XXXV.] 281
Coincidences.
that he had called at Dias Brothers and that they handed him a present
from Don J. of one conto of reis (about £40), which he was so glad to
receive that he embraced the members of that firm with an effusion of tears.
In the dream he seemed to count the money.
He rose with the conviction that his vision would be realised, although
no ordinary reasons concurred to make him suppose that such would be the
case. This belief led him to write down on a slip of paper (which is here
with enclosed) the following note :—
' ' Sonhei que ao ir receber a carta dos Senhores Jorge Dias estes me
entregaram a somma de 1 : 000 $ 000 de reis, e que eu commovido abracei-os
chorando." ' 11-1-96.
(" I dreamt that on going to receive the letter from Senhores Jorge Dias,
the latter delivered to me the sum of 1 : 000 § 000 of reis, and that I, being
moved, embraced them with tears." 11-1-96.)
Senhor Nascimento said nothing to his wife or children about the dream.
He merely put the above note under other papers in a pigeon-hole of his
bureau, which he then locked. He went into town ; called at half-past ten
at the house of Jorge Dias Brothers, and received the letter, which he
afterwards opened in the street. This letter he showed to me when we met.
In it Don J. makes a present of one conto of reis to his future daughter-in-
law, and instructs Senhor Nascimento to draw the money at the house of
John Moore and Co. of this city. This sum Senhor Nascimento had duly
received about 1 o'clock on that day, and he invited me to accompany him
home to verify what he had stated regarding the note taken in the morning.
The conto of reis was shown to me ; the bureau was opened in my presence,
and the slip of paper was taken out of the pigeon-hole and immediately
delivered into my keeping.
On Monday the 13th, I returned for further information. By direct
questioning, Senhor Nascimento had learnt that his friends, the Dias
Brothers, were not aware of the contents of the letter at the time of its
receipt. A similar declaration was made in my hearing by the young man
J. who added, however, that he had afterwards (i.e., at an hour later than
that of the dream) been informed by a brother of his what their father
had done.
John Moore and Co. are not personally known to my informant. J.'s
brother has no other connection with him than that established by the
coming union between the families, and yet the dream coincided with the
arrival of the letter at Rio and not with its despatch from Montevideo. The
circumstances of the case, then, seem to render the explanation by clair
voyance more plausible than that by telepathy.
Senhor Nascimento states that, although he sometimes has waking
presentiments, the two dreams above narrated are the only vivid ones of the
kind he recollects having had in his experience. He does not remember
ever receiving similarly positive indications in a vision, which have remained
unfulfilled.
(The above is written out from notes taken by me on the date of the
occurrence.)
A. Alexander.
V 2
282 Alice Johnson.
Professor Alexander's account is confirmed as follows by the
percipient :—
Rio, February 3rd, 1896.
I can testify to the fulness and exactness of all the details above given.
I still have a vivid remembrance of the dream of the burning vessel, the
confirmation of which came on the same day. A man was reported to have
jumped overboard with his clothes on fire, just as I saw him in my dream.
I reside at No. 33, Travessa de S5o Salvador, Haddock Lob«, half-an-
hour's journey from town in the tramcars, and I never come home during
the course of the day. Jorf 0. Fernandbs do Nascimento.
The original note, made by Senhor Nascimento on the morning
after his dream and before its verification, was sent with the narrative
by Professor Alexander.
Cases referring to the arrival of persons may be compared with
those relating to the arrival of letters. Here is one in which the
impression about the arrival seems to have coincided with the sup
posed agent's planning of his arrival. It is in one respect somewhat
stronger evidentially than the cases just given, since the impression was
a waking one—though possibly an illusion rather than a hallucination.
On the other hand, the incident to which the impression referred was
of a less unusual kind.
Case 42. [L. 995.]
This case was received from Mrs. C. R. Gritting, an Associate
of the American Branch of the S.P.R., who is well-known to
Dr. Hodgson. She made the following note of what she had heard
from the percipient, her daughter-in-law, before they knew that it had
any correspondence with the actual facts :—
Box 14, White Plains, New York, June 13th, 1891.
Just now I am feeling much worried about my son Horace, who is
away. My sister, who has many times made correct predictions, wrote me
that she saw Horace very ill, and last evening my daughter-in-law, after she
went to her room, heard Horace, as she supposed, enter the basement
kitchen ; she heard him rock in his favourite large chair and move about.
This morning, when I went down to breakfast, she said, " Horace came,
didn't he ? " She was so sure that he came that she had more coffee made
for him. Just now I am the only one who drinks coffee. She thought she
heard me early this morning ask him how he was feeling. All this may not
be premonitory, but it worries me. JaN8 r. Griffh.g.
Her son actually returned home the next day, and Mrs. Griffing
wrote shortlv after :—
[June 28th, 1891.]
The morning of June 13th, when I went down to breakfast, my daughter"-
in-law remarked carelessly, "Horace came last night, didn't he ?" "No,'"
XXXV.] Coincidences.
I said, "he did not come." "But I heard him come," she exclaimed, in a
surprised tone. "Are you sure he isn't here?" I answered that I was
sure. "But," she persisted, "did you look into the room? I am sure I
heard him." It was difficult to convince her that he was not .somewhere
about. He had been away only a few days, was well, as far as we knew, and
we had no reason to be anxious about him. The next day he returned and
told me that he came very near coming the evening before, but after talking
it over with Charley he decided to wait until the next day. They both told
me of their discussing it about eight o'clock.
Jane R. Griffing.
The precipient describes her impression as follows :—
During the evening of June 12th, about eight o'clock, I went to my
room. Some time before nine, I heard my brother-in-law, Horace, come to
the basement-kitchen door ; finding it locked he went to a window, raised
it and stepped in. I heard him strike a match, move about the room, and
sit down in a large rocking chair. I was so absolutely sure that it was
Horace that I did not go down to see who it was, or speak to my mother-in-
law about it. I supposed she knew that Horace was there. The reason I
was so sure that it was Horace instead of any one else was that my other
brother-in-law was in the house, my husband would not come until the next
day, and all the movements I heard were exactly like Horace's habits when
he had been out and came in by the basement, especially his sitting and
rocking in that particular chair.
Phebe L. Griffino.
Mr. C. L. Gritting and his brother give the following account of
what they were doing at the time :—
The evening of June 12th, my brother Horace and I were together for an
hour or so before nine o'clock. It must have been about eight when we
were discussing the question of his returning to White Plains that night, or
waiting until the next day and [going] up with me. He was quite inclined
at first to go by a late train that evening, but decided to wait until the
next day.
Chas. L. Griffing.
My brother's account of the conversation between us in regard to my
returning home during the evening of June 12th is correct. It could not
have been far from eight o'clock, as we were not together until after seven,
and separated before nine.
H. M. Griffing.
In answer to Dr. Hodgson's further enquiries, Mrs. Griffing
writes :—
Box 14, White Plains, New York, April 1st. [1892.]
In reply to your enquiry, at the time of the telepathic incident of
June 12th, it was entirely uncertain when Horace would return ; he might
come at any time and might not for weeks. He was in the City for a
special purpose and did not know what the result would be. I was not ex
pecting him at that time, as it was too soon for him to know what his plans
284 [part
Alice Johnson.
would be, and he returned only for two or three days. I was not in the
least anxious about him, as he was well and in no trouble of any kind.
Jane R. Gripping.
Case 43.
The following case comes from Dr. A. S. Wiltse, whose name will
be familiar to readers of the Proceedings and Journal. His success
as agent in many experiments in thought-transference adds consider
ably to the probability that the apparition was veridical. On the other
hand, the absence of anything at all remarkable or strikingly unusual
in his condition at the time is, of course, a weak point. The per
cipient, Dr. VViltse's son, writes to Dr. Hodgson :—,
Lancing, Tenn., February loth, 1896.
Dear Sir,—On the night of the 15th of January last my father was away
from home.
As the night was somewhat cold and there was fire in his room, I occupied
his bed. During the night I awoke and saw, as I supposed, my father lying
in bed on the front side. He seemed to be sleeping quietly, and his left
arm was lying at full length on the top of the coverlet.
I got carefully out of bed, thinking not to awaken him, covered up the
fire to keep for morning, and stood close to him looking at him, and cogita
ting whether to go back to my own bed ; but, preferring the warm room, I
said to myself, " He sneaked in with me, so I'll sneak in with him." I got in
bed, and fell to sleep, but afterwards, waking up, discovered that he was
gone. I supposed he had been called away, but learned in the morning that
he had not been at home. —Yours truly,
Jason Wiltse.
Dr. Wiltse adds :—
Lancing, Morgan Co., Tenn., February 14th, 1896.
My Dear Dr. Hodgson,—. . . I send an account of an apparition > >f
myself.
My share in the apparition is this :—
On the night in question I was staying at the hoVise of Mr. W. T.
Howard, two miles from home. I was tired out, and stopped because 1 really
could go no farther.
I had to sleep with two boys who had bad colds, and was so annoyed with
them that I laid awake wishing I was at home in my own room, and pictur
ing to myself the comfortable fire, bed, &c., that I was missing, until I was
near atone time rising and going home, but concluded I was feeling too weak
to make the journey.
On my arrival home my son told me of seeing me, as he supposed, in my
bed before I had mentioned the matter, or, in fact, thought of the possi
bility of my having produced any telepathic impression.—Yours truly,
A. S. Wiltse.
I give next two cases of apparent thought-transference relating to
animals. There is of course no prima facie reason why people should
not have veridical impressions about animals as much as about any
XXXV.] 285
Coincidences.
other beings in whom they are strongly interested. It has often been
pointed out that such cases do not involve, of necessity, an animal
" agent," since—at least in all that I have ever met with—there is
always a human being concerned from whose mind the percipient
might have gathered the intelligence, apart from the possibility of
independent clairvoyance. It is clear that the idea of a dog might be
conveyed from one mind to another as easily as the idea of any other
object—neither the dog nor the object taking any part in the process—
and a real dog just as well as the imaginary dog, who figures in one of
my cases.
It is, however, altogether irrelevant to the main purpose of this
paper to discuss how this or that supernormal or apparently super
normal incident may have been caused. I am not concerned to argue
that the mind of an animal cannot communicate directly —by thought-
transference—with the mind of a human being. I maintain only that,
however probable such a hypothesis may be, the evidence in our
possession so far hardly even suggests it; because the well-authenticated
cases of supposed telepathy from animals are so few that they can
easily be put down to chance. Regarded, however, as cases of clair
voyance, or of telepathy from one human being to another, they go to
«well the bulk of cases of these classes, and consequently to reduce the
possibility of attributing them to chance.
Cask 44. [L. 1075.]
This case was received by Mr. Myers in December, 1890,1 from Mrs.
Bagot, writing from The Palace, Hampton Court. Both Mrs. Bagot
and her daughter, who confirms the account, are known to Mr. Myers.
In the year 1883 we were staying at the Hotel des Anglais, at Mentone.
I had left at home (in Norfolk) in the care of our gardener a very favourite
little dog, a black and tan terrier, named Judy. I was sitting at table d'hote
and suddenly saw my dog run across the room, and unthinkingly exclaimed,
" Why, there's Judy ! " There was no dog in the hotel, and when I went up
stairs I told my daughter, who was ill, what I had seen. A few days after
I got a letter saying that Judy had gone out with the gardener as usual in
the morning quite well, but when he returned at breakfast time she was
suddenly taken ill, and died in half-an-hour. At this distance of time I
cannot distinctly remember whether the dates agreed, but my impression is
that she had died the day I saw her. Mary Bagot
Mrs. Bagot's daughter, Mrs. Wodehouse, sent to Mr. Myers on
February 9th, 1896, the following corroboration, stating that the
1 In February, 18UU, Mrs. Bagot wrote a second account of the same incident,
which was printed in the Journal S.P.R. for April, 1S96, with her daughter,s con
firmation, then obtained for the first time. Theearlieraccount, here given, is practically
identical with the later one, so that Mrs. Bagot's recollection of the circumstances
does not seem to have varied.
286 [part
Alice Johnson.
quotations were an exact copy of the references to the dog in her diary
for March 24th and 28th, 1883. It will be observed that there is no
proof that the dog was seen on the day of its death, but it is clear
that the death was not heard of till afterwards.
56, Chester Square, S.W.
{Copy of Diary.) March 24th, 1883. Easter Eve (Mentone).—" Drove with
A. and picked anemones. Lovely bright day. But my head ached too
much to enjoy it. Went to bed after tea and read Hettner's ' Renaissance.'
Mamma saw Judy's ghost at table d'hote !
March 28th, Wednesday (Monte Carlo).—" Mamma and A. came over for
the day. Judy dead, poor old dear."
Note. —I distinctly remember my father and mother and sister (Mrs.
Algernon Law) and my cousin (Miss Dawnay) coming into my bedroom all
laughing and telling me how my mother had seen Judy (black and tan
terrier) running across the room whilst they were at table d'hote. My
mother was so positive about it, that one of the others (I think my father)
had asked the waiter if there were any dogs in the hotel, and he had answered
in the negative. I can find no further mention of the time or day of the
dog's death in my diary.
I may also be mistaken in the day on which my mother saw Judy, for
although I usually write my diary every evening, I sometimes leave it for two
or three days and then write it in as best I can remember. But I distinctly
remember lying in my bed at Mentone when they told me the story, and
equally clearly I remember receiving the news of Judy's death at Monte
Carlo.
Adela H. Wodehouse.
Case 45. [L. 1000.]
The following case was obtained through Dr. Bramwell. The
percipient, Mr. de Solla, is a gentleman well known in the musical
world. He writes to Dr. Bramwell : —
February 5th, 1896.
Dear Dk. Bramwell, —As promised I now send an account of my little
thought-transference experience. 'Twas thus. I sat opposite my eldest
daughter, who was reading a book by the fireside. Presently I exclaimed,
"Good gracious ! " My daughter saying, "What is it ? " 1 replied, " I could
have sworn I saw a dog enter the room." I described the dog minutely.
My daughter in great surprise told me that she had that moment read a
description of just such a dog. I do not even now know the title of the
book. We kept no dog at the time, nor had we conversed about one.—
Faithfully yours, Isidore de Solla.
In reply to our enquiries, Mr. de Solla writes :—
5, Harrington-square, London, N.W.. March 8th, 1896.
Dear Sir,—In reply to yours of 4th inst., the incident re thought-
transference 'twixt my daughter and myself took place on a Sunday about »
year ago. My daughter would he willing to give an account of the matter.
She does not remember my giving a detailed description of the dog, but
simply that I exclaimed, "I just saw such a big dog rush into the room.,'
XXXV.] 2S7
Coincidences.
My daughter tells me that immediately before my exclamation she had read
the following words from a book (Leipis Arundel):—"As he spoke, he
uttered a low peculiar whistle ; in obedience to his signal a magnificent
Livonian wolf-hound, etc., etc., sprang into the room."
It is not a common experience of mine to imagine I see anything
anywhere which is not tangibly present, and I am very sceptical about other
folks' reports re such things.
Isidore i>e Solla.
Cask 46. [L. 1100.]
This case, like the one just Riven, is an instance of close corre
spondence between two persons' unspoken thoughts.
Sir William Crookes writes on December 13th, 1897 : —
' I enclose a letter from Mrs. Fisher (Arabella Buckley) which- is of
interest, not so much on account of the instance of telepathy, which is slight,
and possibly a coincidence, but as coming from a lady well known for having
written good books on science and knowing how to observe."
The account of Mrs. Fisher (Associate S.P.R.) is as follows :—
Elmcroft, Newton Abbot, S. Devon, December 9th, 1897.
Dear Sir William Crookes,—. . . An instance of telepathy has just
occurred, which I think, on account of its triviality, may be worth putting on
record with names and date.
This evening my step-daughter (Mrs. Heriot) and I were sitting together
in the drawing-room, no one else being present. She was working and I was
reading to-day's Times. We had not spoken for some time. I had read
through the correspondent's article on the " Engineering Dispute " and the
leading article on the same subject.
As I finished, my eye fell on a small print paragraph telling of a gas
explosion caused by looking for an escape with a light. Without reading it I
exclaimed aloud " Oh ! What idiots some people are ! " Mrs. Heriot replied
instantly " Yes, aas."
So far the bare fact. Much astonished I said, " How on earth did you
know I meant gas ? " "I do not know," she replied, " but as you said ' Oh ! '
I saw a man looking for a gas escape with a light."
My step-daughter and I have been close friends for more than thirty
years, and have often noticed how we speak of the same things simul
taneously. But nothing so striking as this has occurred before. .
-Yours very sincerely, Arabella B. Fisher.
I should perhaps say that Mrs. Heriot was sitting on the opposite side of
the fire, that she had not read the paper, and had no clue as to what part
was reading.
In reply to inquiries Mrs. Heriot writes :—
Elmcroft, Newton Abbot, S. Devon, December 17th, 1897.
Dear Sir,—. . . Mrs. Fisher has asked me to write to you about
what occurred the other evening. I was sitting on one side of the fireplace,
working, she on the other, reading the Times. She looked up, saying, "Oh !
'what fools some people are ! " As she spoke, it flashed through my mind,
288 Alice Johnson.
as if she had read aloud, that some person had taken a light to look for an
escape of gas, and thereby caused an explosion—so I at once answered
" Yes, gas."—I am, yours faithfully,
Rose Mackay Heriot.
Case 47.
The next—a case in which a dying mother had an apparently
telepathic vision of an absent son who happened to be dying at the
same time—is one of those cases which seem to indicate a heightening
of certain faculties at the approach of death.
From Colonel C. F. Hicks.
46, Valplaisant, St. Heliers, Jersey, December 23rd, 1889.
Agreeably to my promise I now give you a statement of my late wifeV
last moments. Some days beforehand I was informed she would not last
long ; and it was in the evening about 5 or 6 o'clock p.m., on 3rd October.
1887, I went into her bedroom. There was the nurse, my second and third
daughters in the room with me. The door was a little ajar. She was look
ing at it very earnestly when she said to my second daughter, Flo, " Then.-
is some one outside, let him in." Flo answered and said, " Oh, no, mamma:
there is no one—look," and she opened the door wider. We then talked to
her gently for some little time. After a pause she said, " Poor Eddie (my
second son, who had gone out to Australia) ; oh, he is looking very ill—be
has had a fall—broken his leg—poor Eddie." When we all assured her such
was not the case—that the last news we had heard from him was that he
was quite well—she became more pacified, although restless and doubtful,
as she continued to say new and then, " Poor Eddie ! " She died at about
20 minutes to 2 a.m., early on the 4th October. We little thought that her
words would be verified, with the exception of the broken leg.
Some time afterwards I received a letter from Mr. Thomas Williams
announcing my poor son's death. For he left a place called Wyndham on
the Cambridge Gulf, N.W. of Australia, on the 4th [evidently meaning 3rd.
see below] October, 1887, with a young man of the name of Russell. He
suddenly felt ill and called for some water. The latter went off to a spring
to get it, but coming back he found that he had fallen from his horse and
was lying quite dead. So his poor mother's vision turned out to be quite
true, excepting his leg being broken.
Now, the only question is about the time. Did the son die before the
mother or after the mother ? as, taking the longitude of Wyndham N.W. of
Australia, so far to the east of us, there must be a good eight or ten hours,
difference, and a ship going round the world making east all the way would
gain a day, and by westing would lose one.
I give you a few extracts from letters I have received. The one from Mr.
Thomas Williams, with whom my son left a letter to be sent on to me. Mr.
T. VV.'s letter is dated the 5th October, 1887 : "Your son left Wyndham togo
to Duraok station on the 3rd October, in company with Louis Smith and John
Russell. They had to go over a very rough country, and your poor boy
Buccumbed to the pangs of thirst, suffering at the same time with fever. I
am glad to inform you that his sufferings were short, and that the great God
was pleased to take him away quickly. He spoke very affectionately of hi*
XXXV.] 289
Coincidences.
mother, and what he would do if he could only get back to Jersey, for he
was heartsick when he was here."
I give you another extract from his employer, a Mr. Durack, a gentle
man who dealt largely in horses, and had a great number of horse stations
in Australia :
" When I left your son at Wyndham on 27th September last, 1887, he was
to start back to the station, as he had a horse, bridle, and saddle to ride."
In conclusion, I have now given you as succinctly as I can the death of
the mother and son, the one having taken place here and the other at our
Antipodes, both on the same day and date, and as far as I know about the
same time. It is more than a coincidence—it is very mysterious.
(Signed) C. F. Hicks.
Colonel Hicks writes later :—
February 22nd, 1890.
. . . The witnesses in my wife's late case are none of them present
here. My second daughter, whom I was expecting from Bombay when I
received your letter, has arrived here. Her statement I enclose. My third
daughter, another witness, is at present at Brisbane, in Australia. It will
take some time before I can receive an answer from her. As to the nurse
who was attending my late wife, She is residing in Dublin ... I must
write to her, as her address is Miss E. Fenn, 16, Adelaide-road, Dublin, to
give her statement of the case.
Discrepancy in dates : my late wife died at about 40 minutes to
2 a.m. on 4th October, 1887—that is taking the time from 12 a.m. on
the 3rd to 12 p.m., after which it becomes the 4th. So all the conversa-
sation that took place with the above-named witnessses, viz., the nurse,
Miss E. Fenn, two daughters and self, took place in the evening of the
3rd, about 5 or 6 p.m., as she died the same night, or more correctly speak
ing, being after 12 p.m., it was early in the morning of the 4th.
Now for my son's death. Mr. Thomas Williams' letter is dated the 5th
October, 1887. He says my son left Wyndham, on the Gulf of Cambridge, on
the 4th [the date given ill Mr. Williams' letter is 3rd, see below] October,
1887, but he does not mention at what time. But being within the tropics,
where people generally travel as early as they can to escape the heat of the
sun, it is presumed that he and his friend, Mr. Russell, must have started
early, and it is certain that they could not have gone far before he met his
end, and most probably Mr. T. Williams must have heard of it the same
day, as his letter is dated the 5th October, 1887. . . .
(Signed) C. F. Hicks.
The following letter from Miss Hicks was enclosed :—
February 27th, 1890.
I was in my late mother's bedroom between the hours of 5 and C in the
evening, on the 3rd of October, 1887, when she asked me to open the door,
as some one was outside and wanted to come in. I answered and said, "Oh,
mother, the door is open, and there is no one outside," and then I opened
the door wider. Then I shut the door. She then said, " Poor Eddie, he
looks very ill ; he has had a fall." 1 said to her, " Oh, mother, how you go
on ; he is all right the last time we heard." She said, "Oh, he is looking
-290 Alice Johnson.
very ill." The next morning, at about 40 minutes to 2 a.m., she died. 1
heard from letters received that my poor brother Eddie died in Australia >m
the same day and about the same time. j. Hicks.
Colonel Hicks also sent us the letter from Mr. Williams, giving
an account of his son's death. The exact time is, as Colonel Hicks
says, not stated, but the letter is dated October 5th, 1887, and stata
that Mr. E. Hicks started on his journey on October 3rd. It seem?
probable that the death took place on the same day.
The following case affords perhaps stronger evidence for telepathy
than any others in this section, on account of the collective nature of
the experience.
Case 48. [L. 953.]
Mr. Myers writes :—
The following case was sent to me by Sir Lawrence Jones, Bart., a
member of the S.P.K. In conversation he described to me the singular and
persistent distress accompanying the nocturnal alarm.—F.W.H.M.
Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk, April 26th, 1893.
On August 20th, 1884, I was staying at my father-in-law's house at Bury
St. Edmunds. I had left my father in perfectly good health about a fort
night before. He was at home at this address. About August 18th I had
had a letter from my mother saying that my father was not quite well, and
that the doctor had seen him and made very light of the matter, attributing
his indisposition to the extreme heat of the weather.
I was not in any way anxious on my father's account, as he was rather
subject to slight bilious attacks.
I should add, though, that I had been spending that day, August 20th,
at Cambridge, and should have stayed the night there had not a sort of
vague presentiment haunted me that possibly there would be a letter from
home the next morning. My wife, too, had a similar strong feeling that if
I stayed the night at Cambridge I might regret it. In consequence of this
feeling I returned to Bury, and that night woke up suddenly to find myself
streaming with perspiration and calling out : " Something dreadful is
happening ; I don't know what." The impression of horror remained some
time, but at last I fell asleep till the morning.
My father, Sir Willoughby Jones, died very suddenly of heart, disease
about 1 a.m. on August 21st. He was not in his room at the moment, but
was carried back to his room and restoratives applied, but in vain.
My brother Herbert and I were the only two of the family absent from
home at the time. The thoughts of those present (my mother, brother, and
three sisters) no doubt turned most anxiously towards us, and it is to a
telepathic impression from them in their anxiety and sorrow that I attribute
the intimations we received. Lawrence J. Jones.
Lady Jones writes :—
I have a vivid remembrance of the occurrence related above by my
husband. I was sound asleep when he awoke, and seizing me by [the]
XXXV.] 291
Coincidences.
wrist exclaimed : "Such a dreadful thing is happening," and I had much
difficulty in persuading him that there was nothing wrong.
He went to sleep again, but was much relieved in the morning by finding
a long letter from Sir Willoughby, posted the day before, and written in
good spirits. Having read this and gone to his dressing-room, however, he
soon returned with the telegram summoning him home at once, and said as
he came in : " My impression in the night was only too true."
Evelyn M. Jones.
Mr. Herbert Jones, the other percipient, describes his experience
as follows :— ,
Knebworth Rectory, Stevenage, April 4fh, 1893.
Recollections of Aitgnst 20th, 1884.
I had spent the day at Harpenden, and returned home about 8 p.m., and
went to bed about 10.30.
I woke at 12 o'clock, hearing my name called twice, as I fancied. I lit
my candle, and, seeing nothing, concluded it was a dream—looked at my
watch, and went to sleep again.
I woke again and heard people carrying something downstairs from the
upper storey, just outside my room. I lit my candle, got out of bed, and
waited till the men were outside my door. They seemed to be carrying
something heavy, and came down step by step.
I opened my door, and it was pitch dark. I was puzzled and dumb
founded. I went to my sitting-room and into the hall, but everything was
dark and quiet. 1 went back to bed convinced I had been the sport of
another nightmare. It was about 2 a.m. by my watch. At breakfast next
morning on my plate was a telegram telling me to come home.
This whole story may be nothing, but it was odd that I should have
twice got up in one night, and that during that night and those hours my
father was dying.
H. E. Jones.
Sir Lawrence Jones adds :—
My brother was then a .curate in London, living at 32, Palace Street,
Westminster, where the above experience took place.—L. J. J.
CONCLUSION.
In conclusion, some justification may appear necessary for dis
cussing at so great a length and with so much detail the possible
scope of accidental coincidences in various departments of Psychical
Research.
Any empirical treatment of a subject partakes to some extent of
the nature of statistics, and to persons who are not actively engaged
in collecting and studying them, statistics generally appear not only
intolerably tedious, but essentially unreliable. Statistics—it is com
monly said—can be made to prove anything. And it is quite true
292 Alice Johnson.
that they can be made to prove anything, so long as arguments are
drawn—as is too often done—from mere collections of percentages,
while the possible agency of Chance in producing many of the
percentages is ignored.
The general necessity of allowing for Chance in the ordinary
empirical sciences, indeed, has always been recognised. If a bac
teriologist is trying to discover what will destroy certain germs, he
is aware that the fact of their dying the first time he introduces a
certain substance into their environment does not prove that that
substance caused their death ; their death at that time may have
been an accidental coincidence. This does not discourage him from
further search, as he knows that something caused the death and it is
his business to find out what the cause was. But he will never be
able to prove what it was if he ignores the possible agency of
Chance.
Similarly, we cannot substantiate the claims of telepathy or any
other supposed supernormal faculty by ignoring what Chance may
bring about. At the same time, there is no necessity for concluding
that if supernormal faculties are not at work in all incidents that
suggest them, they do not exist at all.
But in dealing with the most difficult and obscure of all sciences
—that of Psychical Research—the necessary process of eliminating
one possible agency after another must be even more lengthy and
tedious than in any other subject. The present article is nothing
more than an attempt to clear some of the ground in a preliminary
fashion, and is intended to suggest problems rather than to solve
them, — their solution being, as it seems to me, impossible for the
present.
Some points with regard to the construction and characteristics
of artificial Chance Series are put into Appendix I., so as to avoid too
much interruption of the text ; while the later Appendices contain
detailed discussions of individual cases, too lengthy to be included
in the article itself.
XXXV.] 293
On the Construction of Chance Series.
APPENDIX I.
0\ TIIE CONSTrUCTION OF ArTIFICIAl ClIANCE SErIES.
[Written jointly with Vf. E. Johnson.]
This section contains a further discussion of the method of analysis
of Chance Series of events into " cycles," of which an example was
given in Chapter II., Table II., p. 189. The series there analysed
consisted of 4096 ( = 212) throws of a penny, which were divided into
consecutive groups of events, to which the name " cycles " was given,
each group beginning with a head (which had been preceded by a tail)
and ending with a tail (which was followed by a head). Henceforth
throughout this section, we write "head" and "tail" respectively as
H and T for brevity. Thus, 17 consecutive throws, HHHTT, HT,
HHT, HTTT, HHT, would be divided as shown by the commas
into five groups or " cycles." The series has to be regarded as a
circular one, that is, one in which the end is continuous with the
beginning. So that if the series actually ended with one or more
H's, these would be brought round to the beginning to form the first
part of the first cycle; and if it actually began with one or more T's,
they would be carried round to the end to form the last part of the
last cycle.
The theoretic number of every different cycle, etc., included in the
Table was given in each department in italic figures, and it must now
be explained how these theoretic numbers, which for the future we
will speak of as " norm numbers" were obtained.
Each cycle involves by definition the occurrence of a group of
events two more in number than itself, viz., a preceding T (belonging
to the end of the previous cycle) and a following H (belonging to the
beginning of the next cycle) e.g., the cycle HT involves the occurrence
of the group of events THTH, and so on. Therefore, since there are
two alternative events, the probability of any cycle of events r in
number is (that is, the product of the probabilities of all the
single events) ; and the norm number of such cycles in the series of
4096 ( = 212) events is — . For instance, the norm number of cycles
\ ; 2r+'i J
2n
of HT in that series is -si = 256.
2*
The same method gives the norm numbers of the different runs of
each alternative. Thus, all the single H's in the top line of the Table
involve the group THT ; all the runs of two H's involve the group
294 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson. [past
THHT, and so on ; the probability of the former is A and of the
latter ~ ; and the norm numbers of them in the series are respectively
and -jg-- Similarly with the different runs of T's, shown in the
bottom line of the Table.
Again, each cycle—whatever its length may be—involves a single
occurrence of the group TH at its beginning ;—the occurrence of this
serving, as it were, to inaugurate each cycle. For instance, taking
seven throws as follows :—
T) Hs T2 (H
one complete cycle is included in the middle of this,—between the two
brackets,—preceded by a T, which belongs to the previous cycle, and
followed by an H, which belongs to the next cycle. The remainders
of these two cycles are indicated by the dots. The seven throws
include two occurrences of TH, but it is clear that there is only one
such occurrence for each cycle ; so that the actual number of cycles
must always be the same as the actual number of times TH occurs.
The norm number of occurrences of TH in our series is 1024.
This must therefore be the norm number of cycles in the same series.
Residual Cycles.
It was shown in Chapter II., p. 191, that if we made up the Table
out of all the cycles the norm number of which is one or more, we
get only 1013 cycles, instead of the theoretic total of 1024. The
11 remaining cycles were called "residual cycles." In every series
analysed in this way, some residual cycles are found, the number of
which increases absolutely, but decreases relatively, with the length
of the series; this number being (n — 1) in a series of length 2".
It was remarked in Chapter II. that their exact position in the
Table had to be settled in an arbitrary manner, but that there were
definite and assignable limits within which they must lie. We now
proceed to explain how these limits are ascertained.
Norm Series.
To find the limits of the norm distribution of the residual cycles in
any series, we have recourse to a second method of analysis of the
series.
The analysis into cycles is a division into mutually exclusive sets
or "sequences " of events ; every event in the series is included in one
sequence, and in one sequence only. These may, therefore, be called
" closed sequences."
xxxv.] On the Construction of Chance Series. 295
Another method is to divide the series into overlapping sequences,
of any length we choose to adopt,—so that every event belongs to
several sequences. These may be called " unclosed sequences " to
distinguish them from the cycles, or 1' closed sequences."
Sequences are successions of events, arranged in a denned order ;
e.g., HHT, HTH, and THH are various sequences of three events, or
what may be called sequences of length 3. A series of events of length
m may always be regarded as containing m sequences of length r,
where r is any number not greater than m.
A complete analysis of a brief series on this plan is perhaps
required for clearness, and we will take as an example 5 throws of a
penny, HHTHT. This must—like the long series already discussed—
be conceived of as a circular series ; i.e., we may suppose it to be
repeated, so that its initial terms would follow after its final terms. It
could be represented in a circular diagram thus :
where the final T is followed by HH, etc., as if the actual series were
repeated.
Now, this circular series of length 5 contains (a) 5 sequences of
length 5, viz., HHTHT, HTHTH, THTHH, HTHHT, THHTH ; (b)
5 sequences of length 4, viz., HHTH, HTHT, THTH, HTHH, THHT;
(c) 5 sequences of length 3, viz., HHT, HTH, THT, HTH, THH,
(d) 5 sequences of length 2, viz., HH, HT, TH, HT, TH ; (e) 5
sequences of length 1, viz., H, H, T, H, T. In all these cases the
several sequences begin at the several successive throws in the series.
Hence the number of sequences is equal to the number of throws.
It will, of course, be noticed that all the m sequences in a series of
length m are not necessarily different in formation from one another.
We count them as m by distinguishing, not their kind or formation,
but their position in the series.
We may define an ideal or Norm Chance Series as follows :—
Definition : If t be the number of alternative events in a series, a
Norm Series of length tn is a series which contains all the possible
different sequences of length n which can be made with t alternatives.
X
296 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson, [past
It has just been shown above that a series of ln events contains
tn sequences of any length that we may choose (up to tn). Hence the
series of length tn contains, in particular, 1" sequences of length il
But with t alternatives we can (by the rules of Permutations)
construct tn differently constituted sequences of length n. Hence,
according to the definition of the Norm Series, each of these differently
constituted sequences occurs once, and once only, in it. The occurrence
of each once corresponds to its probability, which is -~; that is, in any
series, tn in length, the norm number for each sequence of length n
is one.
Definitions. In a series of length tn any sequence of length n may
be called a unit sequence ; sequences of lengths smaller or greater than
n may be called minor or major sequences respectively.
It will be obvious that in a Norm Series of length tn, every
" minor sequence " (as well as every " unit sequence ") will occur as
often as its probability requires. For the probability of a specific
sequence of length r is —; it ought, therefore, to occur in P* event*
tn -r ~= tn~r times. But tn~r is the number of ways in which ■
given sequence of length r could be extended into a sequence of
length n. Hence the proposition follows.
But in the Norm Series of length tn the " major sequences " cannot
occur according to their probability number. For the probability
number of each would be fractional. Thus the probability of a given
sequence of length n + 1 is ; hence, in tn events, this should occur
tn 4- *n+1 = — times, which is impossible.
Hence Tio finite series can be regarded as norm with reference to
its " major sequences." It will however, of course, contain major
sequences, since any sequence of length greater than n is a major
sequence. These have, therefore, to be introduced arbitrarily.
To sum up, the conditions of the Norm Series may be stated in the
form of the rule that in a series of length all the " unit sequences "
of length n must occur each once, so that all the "minor sequences,"
of length r will occur each tn~r times.
For instance, out of three alternative events, a, b, and c, 3 sequences
of length 1, 32 sequences of length 2, and 33 sequences of length 3, can
be made. So that a Norm Series of length 32 would contain three of
each sequence of 1 and one of each sequence of 2 ; and a Norm Series
of length 33 would contain nine of each sequence of 1, three of each
xxxv.] On the Construction of Chance Series. 297
sequence of 2, and one of each sequence of 3. The following are such
Norm Series :—
(1) Series of length 32
aabacbbce.
(2) Series of length 33
aaacacbccabacccbbcbaabbbabc.
The following are examples of Norm Series with two alternative
,events, viz., throws of a penny, H and T.
(1) Series of length 21 : Hi Tr
(2) Series of length 2* : H, T2.
(3) Series of length 23 : H3 T3 Hi Tr
(4) Series of length 2* : Hi T, H2 Ti H4 T4 Hi Tr
<5) Series of length 2* : H3 Ti H, T, H2 T, H6 T6 Hi T3 H2 T2
Hi Ti Hi T2.
<6) Series of length 2« : Ht Tg Tl H3 Tt H2 T3 H3 T„ H, Ti Hi
T4 H2 T2 H2 T, H, T, H, T, H2 T, H„ T^ H, T2 H4 T, H, T2.
<7) Series of length 2" : H4 T2 H, T, H4 Tt Hi Ti H3 T2 Hi Ti
H2 T3 Hl Tl Hl T3 H2 Tl Hl T2 H3 Tl H2 Tl Hj T2 H2 T2
H, T, H, T, H, T„ H, Tt H2 T, Ht Tt H, T2 Ht T3 H, T2
H2 T, H3 T, H, T4 H, T, H7 T7 H, T6 H2 T4 H8 T3.
<8) Series of length 2» : H, T, H4 Ti H2 Ti H8 T2 H2 Tl H2 Tg
H2 T2 H, T3 Hi T2 H2 T2 H3 T, H2 T2 H, T, H, T, H2 T,
H2 T, H, T, H, T, H, T3 H, T, Ht T, H, T, H3 T, H3 T,
Hi Ti Hi Tj Hi Tj Hi Tj Hi Tj Hj Tj Hi Tj Hi Ti Hj Ti
Hi T, H, Ti Hi Tg Hj Ti Hi Ti Hj Tj Hj Tg Hi Tg Hj Ti
H4 Ti Hi T6 Hi Ti Hg Tg H, T6 Hj T6 H3 T4 H4 T3 H5 T2
H, Ti H6 Ti Hi Ti H, Tj Hi Ti Hg Tg Hi Ti Hj T, Hi Ti
Hl T4 H2 Tl Hl T3 H3 Tr
The reader will find that, as the length of the series is increased, it
becomes increasingly difficult to solve the problem of constructing the
Norm Series, although, of course, the mere number of cycles of each
order is a matter of simple arithmetical calculation.
Residual Cycles in the Norm Series.
The constitution of the Norm Series shows us the limits within
,which the residual cycles must lie. Table III. (A) and (B) gives an
ideal series of 1024 ( = 210) throws of a peony, analysed twice over,
into cycles beginning with heads and tails, called respectively Head-
Cycles and Tail-Cycles, to illustrate this. From the formula given
x 2
298 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson. [part
Table III. (A)
T, 1
Total Total
Throws.
64 Ts T3 T4 T. To T, T9 T. T Cycles.
MO
32 16 8 4 2 1 1 — — 128 383
H2 32 16 8 4 2 1 1 — - - 64 255
H3 16 8 4 2 1 1 — — — — 32 159
H4 8 4 2 1 1 — — — — — 16 95
H6 4 2 1 1 8 55
H« 2 1 1 4 31
H- 1 1 2 17
Hs 1 1 9
H9 — — — — — — — — — —
1 1 20
128 64 32 16 8 4 2 1 — 1 256 1024
Series of 210 events.—Head-Cycles.
Figures in thick type show residual cycles.
Table III. (B)
H2 H3 H4 H6 H« H, H8 H9 H10
Total
Cycles.
TotaJ
Throws.
M 64 32 16 8 4 2 1 — — 1 128 385
T2 32 16 8 4 2 1 1 — — 64 256
T3 16 8 4 2 1 1 — — — 32 160
T4 8 4 2 1 - 1 — — — 16 96
T6 4 2 1 1 — — 8 56
To 2 1 — 1 4 32
T7 1 - 1 2 18
T8 1 1 10
T„ —
T10 1 1 11
128 64 32 16 8 4 2 1 — 1 256
Series of 210 events.—Tail-Cycles.
Figures in thick type show residual cycles.
XXXV.] 299
On the Construction of Chance Series.
above (p. 293) of the probabilities of cycles, the probability of each
cycle of length 8 is There will, therefore, be one of each of
the cycles of length 8, which are seen along what may be called the
" diagonal " from H. to Tr But these are the longest cycles whose
norm number amounts to one in this series, and their norm numbers,
together with those of all the shorter cycles, amount only to 247,
2io
whereas the total number of cycles should be — = 256. There are,
therefore, 9 residual cycles to distribute.
Since there are 210 different sequences of length 10, each of these
must occur once, and once only, in a Norm Series of length 210.
Similarly, since there are 29 different sequences of length 9, each of
them should occur twice ; and since there are 2s different sequences of
length 8, each of them should occur four times, and so on. We cannot
here enter into a complete explanation of how all these different
sequences occur in the series which is summarised in Table III. ; but
it is obvious that certain sequences of 8, 9, and 10, which are absent
from the part of the Table up to and including the "diagonal " from
H- to T7, —viz., H8, T8, H9, T9, H10, T10,—have to be introduced. This
can be done by putting one cycle into each square along the next
" diagonal " (from H8 to T8) and adding a single cycle, H10 T10 (see
figures in thick type in Table III. A). The cycle H10 T10 contains
(a) one each of the sequences H10, T10 ; 1 (b) two each of the sequences
H9, T9 (since the sequences, by definition, overlap one another) ; and
(c) three each of the sequences H8, T8. We require, then, one more of
the sequences H8 and T8, which are to be found respectively in the
cycles H8 T, H Ts. Similarly, there are 2" different sequences of
length 7, which should, therefore, occur eight times each in the series ;
hence H7 and T7 should occur eight times each. They occur four times
each in the cycle H10 T10, and twice each in the cycles H8 T, H T8.
Two more occurrences each are required and are to be found in the
cycles H7 T, H. T2, H T7, H2 T7. Similarly for all the shorter
sequences.
It must be observed that the distribution shown in Table III. is
not the only possible arrangement satisfying the conditions of a Norm
Series of this length. Any arrangement will do by which, after first
distributing all the cycles whose norm number amounts to one or more,
one cycle, and one only, is added to each line and to each column of the
Table, with the exception of the line beginning tf9 and t/ie column
1 It also contains one of all the sequences of length 10 which can be made out of
combinations of single runs of both alternatives, viz., H9 T, Hg T2. H7 T3, He T4,
H6T6. H4T„ H3 T7, H2T8, H T9.
300 [part
Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson.
headed T9. (This exception has to be made, because, as already
explained, the necessary introduction of the sequences H10 and Tvi
involves the introduction of all the required sequences of Hg and T9.)
It is not difficult for the reader to assure himself that this is the only
distribution which would ensure an equal number of H's and "Fa in
the whole series. As soon as the position of the cycle in each line is
fixed, it will be found that there are two alternative positions for the
cycle in the line below, until the last line is reached, when only one
position is possible. This gives in general 2n_2 varieties of the Norm
Series 2n in distributing the (n — 1) residual cycles which occur. There
are two symmetrical ways of filling up the Table according to this
rule, which are shown in Table III. (A) and (B).
All these results can be immediately generalised.
Series with more than two Alternative Events.
A series with any number of alternative events may be analysed
into cycles on the same method as that used when there are only two
alternatives, by taking one of the alternatives as the invariable first
term of the cycle and beginning a new cycle whenever this alternative
occurs after any one of the other alternatives. Thus, supposing there
are three alternatives, a, b, c, and we choose to begin the cycles
with a ; the series a c, a a b b, abbe, a e c c b b, a c c, a b c, would
be divided into the cycles shown by the commas. These cycles, like
those in a series with two alternatives (or, for that matter, with any
number of alternatives) may consist of two events, or of any number
of events more than two. But the cycles composed of one event
following the a or a's are of two different kinds, as this event may
be b or c ; those composed of two events following the a's are of
four different kinds, as the events may be 62, be, 0%, or c b ; those
composed of three events following the a's are of eight different kinds,
and so on.
The probability of each cycle depends, of course, on the num
ber of events in it, being the same for all cycles of the same
length, no matter what the events are. As before, any given cycle
involves the occurrence of two more events than are comprised in
itself, viz., a b or a c preceding it, and an a following it. Thus
the cycle a b implies either b a b a or c a b a. The probability
of the cycle a b is therefore the sum of the probabilities of the
sequences b a b a and c a b a. Since there are three alternative
events, the probability of each of these sequences of four events is
1 2
k-4 ; therefore the probability of the cycle a 6 is „4. The probability
xxxv.] On the Construction of Chance Series. 301
of the cycle a c is of course the same.1 Similarly the cycle a b c
implies either babe a or cabca, the probability of each of which is
^ ; therefore the probability of the cycle abc (or any other cycle of
2
three events) is g=. It is obvious that the same method of reasoning
ipplies to the cycles of all the different lengths ; so that the probability
of a cycle of r events (in a series with three alternatives) is gr + 2 , In-
j, series with t alternatives, the probability of a specific cycle of length
- is. then,
Again, every cycle, whatever its length may be, involves at its
beginning the occurrence of either b a or c a, the probability of each
of which is so that the norm number of cycles in a series of x
events is %, of x.
Table IV.
b c h 6c c2 cb 63 b2c 6cj beb CS cb.2 cbc Total
Cycles.
Total
Events
a 18 18 6 6 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 76 208
6 6 2 2 2 2 — 20 68
«3 2 2 - 4 16
100 292
Series of 729 (=3«) events.
The Table shows only the cycles whose norm number amounts to one or more,
omitting the " residual cycles " and corresponding " residual events."
If we take a series of a definite number of events (choosing some
power of 3 as the number, for convenience of calculation) and sum
marise the cycles in a Table (see Table IV.), we find as before that
there are some "residual cycles," (not shown in this Table) the number
of which always increases absolutely, but decreases relatively, with the
length of the series. The formula for this number is given below
(see p. 307). These residual cycles can be distributed according to the
rules of the Norm Series, the conditions to be fulfilled being that the
sequences of the various lengths must occur in the series according to
1 These being the shortest possible cycles, it follows that 31 is the shortest series
in which the norm number of any cycle will amount to one.
302 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson. [part
Table
6 c b. 6c e2 c6 62c fcc2 ici c26 chi cbc 6C3 Clij 6e6elc*i
a 6 6 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 — — 1 1 j 1
>H 2 2 1 1 — 1 — 1
°3 — -
«4 — -
«6 — -
Seiixes 01 2i3
Showing a possible distribution oi tie
their respective probabilities. In this calculation we must remember
that, as before, a certain number of the shorter sequences are included
in the longer ones. Thus, there are :
3 different sequences of length 1,
32 different sequences of length 2,
3s different sequences of length 3,
34 different sequences of length 4,
36 different sequences of length 5,
and so on. Therefore in a Norm Series of 35 ( = 243 ) events, there
should be
1 of each " unit sequence " of 5
3 of each " minor sequence " of 4 (viz., 1 in addition to those in the
longer sequences)
9 »i tt 3 ( 4 )
27 „ „ 2 ( „ 12 „ „ )
81 n i) 1 ( i] 36 ,, „ )
e.g., a, must occur 36 times in the series, a, 12 times, a3 4 times,
and so on. This gives the total number of cycles in each line of a
complete Table.
In Table V. is given a solution of the series, fulfilling these
conditions. It will be observed that th« total number of cycles (see
column headed " Total Cycles ") correspond to the sequences (or runs)
of a of the different lengths, and inspection of the Table will show
that the different runs of 6 and c also occur in the required propor
tions. The Table has to be extended as far as a,y bb, and cv in order to
include all the different sequences of 5, so that the longest cycle that
xxxv.] On the Construction of Chance Series. 303
V.
k 1 Vs b.p.,b b.fbz b3cb bc3b hfhrh cj>c2 cb3c cbc3 cbcbc Total
Cycles
Total
Events
1 — 1 — — 1 — — — 1 1 1 36 128
1 — 1 — — — — — 1 1 — — — 12 64
\
^ — 1 — 1 1 — — — 1 — — — 4 32
X 1 9
1 1 10
54 243
( = 36 ) EVENTS
"residual cycles" (figures in thick type).
might have to be included would be a6 bs c0. For simplicity all the
columns containing no cycles are omitted.
General Solutions.
The conditions which have to be fulfilled in the case of three
alternative events may be expressed in a more general form ^see
Table VI., A and B). These Tables give a general solution of a series
of 729 ( = 3«) events, the numbers and formuhe given being applicable
to all the possible different arrangements of the series. They show in
the case of every cycle, etc. : (1) the sequence of events involved;
(2) the calculation used in consequence, and (3) the resultant
number.
Taking R to represent any of the alternatives except a (that is, in
this case, either b or c) all the cycles involve at their beginning the
occurrence of the sequence Ra ; there must, therefore, be as many
2
cycles as there are occurrences of Ra. The probability of R is , and
o
1 2
of a — , so that the probability of Ra is Therefore, the total
2
number of cycles will be -gj of the total number of events. All the
cycles in the first line of the Table (see " Total Cycles " in Table VI., A)
involve the sequence R a R, the probability of which is — . Similarly,
all the cycles in the second line involve R a2R, the probability of which
is — and so on. Again, all the cycles in the first column (see " Totals "
304 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson. [paht
Table VI. A.
R, Rt
Total
Cycles
RaRa = 16 ■ ' RaR
1 °f 3«
= 36 Ra Rtfi
— of 3«
= 24
RaR& Ra R^ ....
%«» s-» 33
= 32 = 108
Ra2R(i J2o, Hi
£>* 3=
Jot*
= 12
|o£3»
= 8
= 16 go. *
= 36
3»
= 4 V " Y
3"
.Ra3iRa Ifcjg 22j . . . .
a3
?-»
2!0f3«
3s
ai jRa4 jRi ....
= 8 = 12
< ' ' 1
Ra6
2! of 3«
3«
= * * of 3«
3«
= 4
"6
|flof3«
Rab....
— of 3*
= 2
H = 2
3s
= 162
Series of 3« events
Showing limits of distribution of residual cycles (figures in thick type)
in lines.
xXXv.] On the Construction of Chance Series. .305
Table VI. B.
Total
Cycles
iia Ra R3 R< *6 B„....
Ra Rja
1^ of 3"
3s
| of 3-
= 36
= 24 £ of 3«
3«
= 16
Ra% R/i
5of3«
= 12 = 8
I•! of 3»
36
>
= 4 CO M
^ ° 1 "g «
8 S; ft* "
05 CO
• CM |C5
at
At «
e ° II
" f 0 II
. >m m
-
e • CM ICO
«B
««
-6 W M
. CM |C0
•
> ) •
a Ra a R/, a Rja
!! of 3«
36
a -R4o
I4 of 3« a iJs ....
Ra
|of3«
= 162
Totals i°f3G S°f3«
3"
= 54 =36 = 24 = 16 = 32
Series of 3« events
Showing limits of distribution of residual cycles (figures in thick type)
in columns.
306 Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson. [part
in bottom line of Table VI., B) involve the sequence a R a, the
2
probability of which is All the cycles in the second column involve
2s
the sequence a R0a, the probability of which is and so on.
The calculation used for the " residual cycles " (figures in thick type
in the Tables) differs in one respect from that which applies to the other
cycles, because we have solved it in the general form, by taking cycles
of all the possible lengths that could occur in a Norm Series. All the
residual cycles that are contained in the first line (see Table VI., A)
are cycles of a followed by at least 4 R's ; those in the second line are
cycles of a0 followed by at least 3 R's, and so on. The respective
sequences involved are Ra Ri . . . . and Ra0 R3 . . . .
Taking the residual cycles contained in each column, (see Table
VI., B) the number of a's is similarly indeterminate : the residual
cycles in the first column involving at least 4 a's, followed by one
R ; those in the second column at least 3 a's, followed by 2 R's
and so on. The respective sequences involved are .... a4 R a,
. . . . a3 R2 a.
The brackets indicate respectively the lines or columns in which
the numbers of cycles included under them must occur, leaving the
distribution of the cycles among the squares undetermined.
It must be observed that the limits in regard to residual cycles
shown in the two Tables VI. A and VI. B have to be jointly satisfied.
In attempting to make any particular solution of such a series, it
has to be remembered that the various sequences of a and R must
Table VII.
Total
Ri R, *3 Rt R* ^0 R- Cycles Total
Events
>h 36 24 16 — — 32 108 464
>h 12 8 — 16 — — — 36 164
>h 4 — 8 — — — — 12 64
"4 — 4 4 24
«6 1 — — — — 1 •"
"« 1 1
'_
Totals 54 36 24 16 — — 32 162 729
Series of 3« events.
Residual cycles in thick type.
XXXV.] 307
On the Construction of Chance Series.
occur in their due proportions ; and also that the cycles roust be of
such a length as to include between them all the events of the series.
The latter condition, taken alone, is of course comparatively easy to
fulfil, and Table VII. gives an example of it, which it may be in
structive to compare with Table II. (See Chapter II., p. 189.)
General Formula for Series with any number of Alternative Events,
The method of reasoning and calculation used with regard to series
with three alternative events can without difficulty be extended to
series with any number of alternatives, a, b, c, d . . . . , if we take
£ to stand for any of the alternatives except a, say, which is chosen
as the invariable first term of the cycles, and calculate the fractional
probabilities of the various cycles in the same way as shown above.
Thus, in a series with t alternatives, the probability of the sequence
Ra is
{ - 1 1 _ t - 1
t t t-
Therefore in a series of length <n+2 the norm number of cycles is
x f»+» = (<-l)t«
out of which total it will be found that the number of residual
cycles is
£M >.-.>"'-.}.
All the cycles containing s a's involve the sequence
. . . . Ra,R. . . .
and the norm number of these cycles in the same series is
iLz_il2 x ««+2 = (f - i)2 *»-»
This formula gives the norm number of cycles in any line of the
Table.
All the cycles containing s R's involve the sequence
.... a Si a . . . .
and the norm number of these cycles is
(t ~ x t»+s = (t-iy t»-«
This formula gives the norm number of cycles in any column of
the Table.
Any cycle containing s a's and m R's involves the sequence
,,..£) a, Rm (a . . . .
and the norm number of such cycles is
(t - !)">+■ tn+i = it _ i)n+i x tn-i-m
308 [part
Alice Johnson and W. E. Johnson.
Series in which all t/ie Alternatives are not equally probable.
It may be worth while to note further that the same method may
be used for series in which one alternative is more likely to occur than
the other or others.
One of the simplest cases would be that of a series with two alter
natives, a and b, in which the chance of 6's occurrence was twice as
great as the chance of a's occurrence. Table VII. just given would
show the proportionate numbers of the various kinds of cycles in a
series of this kind of 36 events, since the fractional probabilities are
exactly the same whether R is taken to represent two out of three
equally probable alternative events, or an alternative whose occurrence
is twice as likely as that of the other alternative.
Similarly, if there are two alternatives one of which is three times
as likely to occur as the other, this would be equivalent to a series in
which R represented three out of four equally probable alternatives.
For instance, in a series of guesses of the mils of playing-cards, when
each card to be guessed is drawn at random from a full pack, the
results may be treated as two alternatives : (a) right guesses, and (b)
wrong guesses ; and of these two, (b) is three times as probable as (a).
XXXV.] 309
Coincidences.
APPENDIX II.
Examination of a Premonitory Cask.
Mr. Lane's dream of the death of Mr. Terries.
P. 174.
This is a case which has attained some notoriety on account of its
association with the well-known actor, William Terriss. Mr. Frederick
Lane, his " under study," dreamt the night before the murder that he
saw Mr. Terriss lying unconscious in a certain part of the Adelphi
Theatre where he actually saw him the following evening. The
narrative shows that Mr. Lane had apparently no reason for expect
ing the event. But it is also clear that the premonition might be
explained as a clairvoyant or telepathic perception of the result of
the intentions of the unfortunate man who committed the murder.
The preliminary statements were obtained by Mr. Podmore, who
writes on January 4th, 1898 :—
I enclose accounts of a dream of Terriss's death.
(1.) By Mr. Lane, the dreamer.
(2.) By Miss Haygate, the first person to whom the dream was told.
(3.) By Mr. Carter Bligh, one of several to whom the dream was told at
the theatre, in the early afternoon of the 16th : Terriss was stabbed at 7.20
on the 16th.
Mr. Lane and Miss Haygate were understudies for Terriss and Miss
Millward respectively.
Miss Haygate is a connection by marriage of a friend of mine, Mr.
Ronald Hepburn. Mrs. Hepburn was dining with the D 's on the
evening of the 16th when Miss Haygate came in and told them of the
murder and of the dream which she had heard a few hours before.
Mrs. Hepburn told me this the next day, and arranged a meeting for me
on the 18th.
The accounts are as follow :
1. From Mr. Frederick Lane.
Adelphi Theatre, December 20th, 1897.
In the early morning of the 16th December, 1897, I dreamt that I saw the
late Mr. Terriss lying in a state of delirium or unconsciousness on the stairs
leading to the dressing rooms in the Adelphi Theatre. He was surrounded
by people engaged at the theatre, amongst whom were Miss Millward and
one of the footmen who attend the curtain, both of whom I actually saw a
few hours later at the death scene. His chest was bare and clothes torn
aside. Everybody who was around him was trying to do something for his
good. This dream was in the shape of a picture. I saw it like a tableau on
310 [part
Alice Johnson.
which the curtain would rise and fall. I immediately after dreamt that we
did not open at the Adelphi Theatre that evening. I was in my dressing
room in the dream, but this latter part was somewhat incoherent. The neu
morning on going down to the theatre for rehearsal, the first member of the
Company I met was Miss Olive Haygato, to whom I mentioned this dream.
On arriving at the theatre I also mentioned it to several other members i f
the Company, including Messrs. Creagh Henry, Buxton, Carter Bligh, etc.
This dream, though it made such an impression upon me as to cause me U>
relate it to my fellow artists, did not give me the idea of any coming
disaster. I may state that I have dreamt formerly of deaths of relatives, and
other matters which have impressed me, but the dreams have never impressed
me sufficiently to make me repeat them the following morning, and have
never been verified. My dream of the present occasion was the most vivid
I have ever experienced ; in fact, life-like, and exactly represented the scene
as I saw it at night. Frederick Lake.
Mr. Podmore appends the following note :—
January 4th, 1898.
At a meeting on the 20th December Mr. Lane gave me first a rind w<
account of his experience, and then wrote it down, as above. He explained
that he was in the neighbourhood of the theatre when Mr. Terriss was
stabbed on the evening of Thursday the 16th December, 1897, and ran to
the Charing Cross Hospital for a doctor. On his return he looked in at
the private entrance, and saw Mr. Terriss lying on the stairs aa in the
dream. -p p
2. From Miss Haygate.
Adelphi Theatre, December 18th, 1897.
On Thursday morning about twelve o'clock I went into Rule's, Maiden
Lane, and there found Mr. Lane with Mr. Wade. In the course of
conversation after Mr. Wade had left, Mr. Lane said that he had had a
curious dream the night before, the effects of which he still felt. It was to
this effect : he had seen Terriss on the stairs, inside the Maiden Lane door
(the spot where Terriss died), and that he was surrounded by a crowd of
people, and that he was raving, but he (Mr. Lane) couldn't exactly tell what
was the matter. I remember laughing about this, and then we went to
rehearsal. 0live Haygat*.
3. From Mr. Carter Bligh.
Adelphi Theatre, W.C., January 4th, 1898.
Dear Sir, — ... I have much pleasure in being able to state that
Mr. Fred Lane, on the morning of the 16th ult., at rehearsal at the Adelphi
Theatre, told me among others in a jocular and chaffing way (uot beliering in
it for an instant), how he probably would be called upon to play Captain
Thomas, that night, as he had dreamt that something serious had happened
to Terriss. I forget now, and therefore do not attempt to repeat, the exact
words Mr. Lane used as to the reason (in the dream) why Mr. Terriss would
not appear that night, but I have a distinct recollection of him saying that he
(Terriss) could not do so, because of his having dreamt that something had
XXXV.] 311
Coincidences.
happened. It was all passed over very lightly in the same spirit in which it
was given, i.e., in the spirit of unbelieving banter. . . .
H. Carter Bligh.
In reply to further inquiries, Mr. Podmore received the following
letter from Mr. S. Creagh Henry :—
5, Milborne Grove, The Boltons, S.W., January 20th.
Dear Sir,—With reference to your letter concerning Mr. Lane's dream,
he mentioned it to me at rehearsal during the morning of the day which
proved fatal to poor Terriss. The description he gave me was that he
saw Mr. Terriss on the staircase (upon the landing where he died) sur
rounded by several people who were supporting him in what appeared to
be a fit.
Something serious seemed to have happened, and no performance took
place that evening, —another fact which was verified. As far as I recollect
this was all Mr. Lane mentioned.—I remain, yours faithfully,
S. Creagh Henry.
Mr. Terriss, whose real name was William Charles James Lewin,
was murdered by a man named Richard Archer Prince (Archer being
apparently his family name and Prince his professional name), an
actor out of employment, who was afterwards proved to be insane
at the time.
The value of this case as evidence of supernormal perception of a
future event of course depends primarily on whether Mr. Lane had any
reason for anxiety on Mr. Terriss's behalf. The account of the murder
given in the Times of the next day shows that Archer was known by
some persons to have a grudge against Mr. Terriss, but it seems clear
that very little attention was paid to this and that no one had any
suspicion of the length to which he was prepared to go. And the
evidence given later seems to show that this account exaggerated the
suspicious incidents, in accordance with the common and natural
tendency to imagine, after an event, that one has noticed some
indications of it, if one did not actually expect the thing itself. The
evidence further shows that, though Archer had expressed hostility
to Terriss, he seems to have avoided doing so to persons in any way
connected with the Adelphi Theatre ; also that there were several
other persons besides Terriss whom he had a grudge against, on account
of their fancied ill-usage of him. Mr. Lane did not know him, except
perhaps by sight, and had only heard of him as previously connected
with the theatre and that he had the night before asked for Terriss.
To this very common incident he could hardly be supposed to attach
any importance.
I do not think, therefore, that anxiety about Terriss could have
had any share in causing the dream ; but it seems desirable to give the
Y
312 [part
Alice Johnson.
evidence for and against this view, and I therefore quote the account
in the 'rimes of Friday, December 17th, and give an abstract of all the
evidence given in the Times reports of the inquest, the examination
before the magistrate, and the trial, which seems to me to have
any bearing on the point. (See Time* of December 18th, 20th, 21st,
and 30th, 1897, and January 14th, 1898).
The evidence shows further the close correspondence of the events
of the death with Mr. Lane's dream.
From the Times of Friday, December 17th, 1897.
Last evening, Mr. William Terriss, one of the most popular actors on
the London stage, was assassinated at the private entrance to the Adelphi
Theatre in Maiden Lane, Covent Garden. He had spent the afternoon with
some friends, and had gone home to dinner at about 5 o'clock. Sub
sequently, he proceeded as usual to the theatre, where he was taking the
chief part in Secret Service, and on reaching the private entrance he was.
suddenly attacked by a man between 30 and 40 years of age, who stabbed
him in the region of the heart and again in the back. The weapon employed
is described as a long, thin-bladed knife. Mr. Terriss at once fell to the
ground, exclaiming : " He has stabbed me, arrest him." The assassin, after
a struggle, was captured, and straightway conveyed to Bow Street Police-
station. Mr. Terriss, meanwhile, was carried inside the theatre and medical
aid was at once summoned from Charing Cross Hospital and obtained. It
was not possible, however, to convey him further than the foot of the
stairs leading to his dressing-room, and here, after lying in a state of
semi-consciousness for about a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes, he
died. . . .
The assassin is known by the name of William Archer, or William Archer
Flint. Some years ago he was employed as a supernumerary at the
Adelphi, one of the pieces in which he appeared being In the Ranks. It is
understood that he had frequently applied to Mr. Terriss and other members
of the company for help, and a great deal had been done for him by them.
Recently, however, ho had become so importunate in his demands that Mr.
Terriss refused to do anything more for him, but referred him to the Actors"
Benevolent Fund, from which association he received a grant. For several
nights past, Archer had been noticed hanging about the private entrance to
the theatre, and on Wednesday night, it is reported, he made an enquiry of
the stage-door keeper as to Mr. Terriss's whereabouts. He is said to have
been known in the theatre as " Mad Archer," but the stage-door keeper and
others last night expressed a doubt as to whether he is insane. ... In
reply to the charge of murder, he is reported to have said : " He has done
me out of the Benevolent Fund this morning, and I am out of it for life."
Mr. Frederick Lane, who " understudies " Mr. Terriss in the part of
Captain Thorne, had a peculiar story to tell. He said :—
"I dreamt about this very thing last night, and when I came to the
theatre this morning for the rehearsal, I told all the ' boys ' about it. I
dreamt I saw Mr. Terriss lying in the landing, surrounded by a crowd, and
that he was raving. I seemed to seo it all and then it all seemed to fade
XXXV.] 313
Coincidence*.
nway. It was a horrible dream, and T could not tell what it meant. I tried
to forget it during the day, but to-night again, when I came to the theatre,
I was going down Bedford Street, when something seemed to say, ' Do not
go there.' I then went round to Maiden Lane, and there I saw this villain.
I had heard of him as being an old super, and I knew he was asking for Mr.
Terriss last night. His appearance struck me as peculiar. He wore a big
cloak and a slouch hat. I, however, do not know him, and he said nothing
to me. I walked on, and then a few minutes afterwards I heard a great
noise and found that he had stabbed Mr. Terriss. I rushed back and saw
Mr. Terriss taken indoors. If it had not been for the police, I believe the
man would have been lynched. He was a fellow of average height, had a
dark moustache and a somewhat foreign appearance. I can suggest no
motive whatever for the crime. The man may possibly have been refused
money. I cannot tell, though ; and it is at any rate certain he had no
reason to go to such an awful extreme. Mr. Terriss was the kindest of men,
and we loved him both on and off the stage. He was, indeed, ' one of
the best.' "
Another member of the Adelphi company further corroborated the
statements previously made in reference to the personality of Mr. Terriss's
assailant, mentioning that at the theatre he was generally known as " Mad
Archer." When seen by Mr. Nicholls on the previous evening and told that
lie could not see Mr. Terriss, he is stated to have gone away murmuring
',Not yet." . . . Archer is alleged to have nursed a grievance against
Mr. Terriss even before he left the employ of the Adelphi, and is reported
to have more than once stood in the wings and made sarcastic remarks at
the expense of the deceased actor. One of his remarks is quoted as an
instance of this : " Fools often succeed in life where men of genius fail."
Abstract of Evidence Given in "Times'" Reports.
Mr. J. H. Graves said that he spent Thursday afternoon with Mr.
Terriss and at about 7 o'clock drove with him to Adelphi Theatre—driving to
corner of Maiden Lane, Strand, where they both alighted and walked to the
private entrance a few yards up the lane. This entrance was only used by
Mr. Terriss and one or two others. As he was putting his key into the
lock, the prisoner rushed forward from across the lane and stabbed him.
Mr. Terriss fell and Mr. Graves seized the prisoner and gave him in charge
to a constable, whom he accompanied to Bow Street. He went back to the
theatre and found Mr. Terriss lying at the foot of the stairs a few paces
from the door, attended by a doctor and several others. He died a few
minutes later.
The prisoner said to him that Mr. Terriss had kept him out of employ
ment for ten years, and he had either to die in the streets or take his
revenge on him. The truth was that Mr. Terriss had often helped him and
had recommended him to the Actors' Benevolent Fund, from which he had
got help many times. He had called at the office of the fund on that day,
and had been told that the Committee could not meet then to reconsider his
case. He had for some time been almost a weekly applicant there.
Sub-Divisional-Inspector William French waB at Bow Street when the
prisoner was brought in and returned with Mr. Graves to Adelphi Theatre,
Y 2
314 [part
Alice Johnson.
entered private door in Maiden Lane, and found Mr. Terriss lying in the
passage. He was unconscious and remained so until his death. Three
doctors were present, and Miss Millward was supporting his head. She
asked him if he knew her. He made no reply to her, but shouted out
several times : " Get away, get away."
Mr. Bragg, Police-Constable, who arrested the prisoner, said the latter
had been asked by Graves on the way to Bow Street why he did it, and he
answered : " In revenge. He has blackmailed me for ten years. I gave
him due warning. I should either have had to die in the streets or have my
revenge."
Inspector Wood, before whom he was brought at Bow Street, said he
gave same answer to him. To Inspector Croxton he said that his sister
was in league with Terriss in blackmailing him.
At the trial, Mr. Gill, the Counsel for the Crown, said there could be w>
question but that the prisoner had some years ago conceived a violent hatred
for Mr. Terriss, and would appear to be under the impression that Mr.
Terriss was in some way preventing him from getting on in his profession.
That was shown by statements made at different times to persons to whom
he complained that Mr. Terriss was preventing him from getting employment
and was blackmailing him. As far as could be ascertained that was a
complete delusion on his part ; Mr. Terriss had, on the contrary, assisted
him to obtain charitable relief and employment. The point at which the
evidence commenced was in October last, when the prisoner came into
contact with Mr. Croydon, a theatrical manager at Newcastle. About the
end of October he came to London and purchased a knife (probably the one
with which the murder was committed). It was during the period between
this time and the murder that he was getting assistance from the Actors'
Benevolent Fund. On .November 'Jth he obtained a letter of recommenda
tion to them from Terriss, on the strength of which he received various
small sums from the fund.
After being arrested, prisoner said to the Inspector about the knife.
" That is what I stabbed him with. He had due warning, and if he is dead,
he knows what he has to expect."
It was clear that he was acting with the greatest deliberation and that,
cherishing a feeling of hatred against Mr. Terriss, he was uttering threats as
to what he proposed to do. During the time he was in London at the end of
October, he was obviously contemplating the crime, because they found him
purchasing the knife and uttering the threats against Mr. Terriss.
Mr. R. Croydon, theatrical mauager, had engaged the prisoner in
October last to take a part in his company at Newcastle. The prisoner told
him he had only left the Adelphi through one man, and might have starved
but for the Actors' Benevolent Fund, and that he would be even with thii,
man some day. He did not learn his part and behaved very strangely, and
consequently was discharged next day. He said he had then two enemies,
and on being asked who the other was, said it was Terriss. Mrs. Croydon
said "You are mad ; " and he replied, "Yes, and the world will ring with my
madness." Ho then left and they had not seen him again.
Mr. Denton, theatrical manager, of Maiden Lane, said he had known
the prisoner for some time, and had then lost sight of him till October or
XXXv.] 315
Coincidences.
November last, when he called nearly every day at his office for employ
ment. He tried to get him employment and offered him a week's engage
ment, which he would not accept. On the afternoon of December 16th,
prisoner called to ask if he had got him any employment and he said he had
not. Cross-examined, said the prisoner did not appear to have any particular
animosity against Mr. Terriss ; was peculiar, and could easily be put into a
temper by chaff—he seemed to think he ought to play more important parts
than were given him.
Mr. Colson, Secretary to the Actors' Benevolent Fund, said that help
had been given to the prisoner on the recommendation of Terriss in his
letter of November 9th. He read seven letters from the prisoner to the
managers of the Fund asking for help, saying that he was in great trouble, on
account of having lost an engagement "through no fault of my own," but not
complaining of any one otherwise than in that phrase, and expressing great
gratitude for what they had done for him.
Mrs. Darby, his landlady, had seen the knife in his room upon more
than one occasion before the murder, but she never saw him use it for
anything. She had seen marks on it as if it had been used for cutting
bread. She knew he was in trouble for want of money, as he could not pay
his rent.
G. Lorbero, cutler, Brompton Road, said in October he had knives for
sale similar to one produced, price 9d., and one evening in October, a tall,
.shabbily-dressed man bought one. (Evidence at police-court made it almost
certain that this was the knife with which the murder was committed.)
Mr. Thomas Terriss, son of the deceased, said he never knew him to
be threatened at all, did not know he had an enemy in the world. "He
had not to his knowledge ever seen the man who was charged with his
murder until he saw him at Bow Street on Friday morning, when he found
he was not a man whom he had previously known as ' Mad Archie.' "
Henry Si'rATT, stage door keeper to the Adelphi, said he first saw the
prisoner about two months ago, when he brought a letter for Mr. Terriss to
the stage door and waited for an answer. Half an hour later a message came
down, "All right." A few nights after this Mr. Terriss spoke to witness
about messages. Witness saw the prisoner about half a dozen times after
this. He would wait outside the door for half an hour or so and then
go away without saying anything, except on December 15th, which was
the last time witness saw him, when he asked if Mr. Terriss came out that
way, meaning by the stage door. Witness replied that he did, which was not
the fact ; but he said it in consequence of what Mr. Terriss had said to him,
in order to keep the man away from the private entrance in Maiden Lane.
Cross-examined, said it was not an uncommon thing for persons who had
been employed at the theatre to wait about the stage door, nor was it an
uncommon thing for persons to come there and enquire in regard to others.
W. Ali;er, dresser to Mr. Terriss, said that he did not know the prisoner.
On the night of December 15th he saw the prisoner at about 8.30 watching
the people coming out of the stage door, but did not speak to him.
The Defence was directed towards proving insanity. Evidence was
given that the prisoner had had many delusions of persecution, thought his
316 Alice Johnson,
mother and others had put poison into his food; that Mr. Arthur, the
" theatre-master " at Dundee, " blackmailed " him. He had also worked as i
labourer and thought his fellow workmen and others had tried to keep him
out of work, had violent fits of passion, thought his brother was in league
with Mr. Arthur in blackmailing him and had attacked his brother several
times, once with a knife and poker. Two of his brothers had been iusane.
-It. Beveridoe, attendant at the Dundee Theatre, gave evidence of his
thinking himself a great actor and badly used in general. Once he wanted
to " go for " an actor named Stewart, and when Beveridge turned him oat.
prisoner pulled out a revolver from his pocket and threatened him.
A. Husband, foreman at Wallace Foundry, in Dundee, said prisoner
worked there in 1896 (in the intervals of his being employed as an actor),
and said Mr. Terriss blackmailed him. He showed him a letter from
Terriss saying that he should be glad to hear of his getting an engagement,
and that he might give his name as a reference. The prisoner had asked
Mr. Terriss for a character, and he thought that letter not sufficient, and
called it blackmailing. He said the same thing about Mr. Elliston, who, he
said, was in league with Mr. Terriss.
Mr. Elliston, theatrical manager, who had employed prisoner, said
since prisoner had left him, he had received a number of letters and post
cards from him stating that he had not given him a reference, that he had
blackmailed him and tried to prevent his getting employment, which was
not true.
Dk. Bastian gave opinion that he was insane, and his mind saturated
with delusions of persecution. He did not attach any importance t.,
purchase of knife ; did not think prisoner contemplated doing the murder a
month before he did it. If he had premeditated it, he might have been
insane all the same, but he did not believe he had. Did not believe prisoner
went to theatre with intention of committing the act, but that he wanted to
speak to Mr. Terriss, and as Mr. Terriss did not speak to him, he struck
him, having the knife in his hand.
Two other medical experts gave very decided opinions as to his insanity,
but said nothing as to whether the act was premeditated or not.
The verdict given was to the effect that the prisoner was guilty of wilful
murder—that he knew what he was doing and to whom he was doing it, but,
on the medical evidence, that he was not responsible for his actions.
XXXv.] 317
Coincidences.
APPENDIX III.
Some Premonitory Dreams of Races.
The following narrative, which is of interest in connection with
Professor Haslam's dream of the winner of the New Zealand Cup (see
above, p. 250), was compiled by Mr. Donald Murray, Editor of the
Sydney Morning Herald, a Member of the Society.
Melbourne Cup Dreams.
The race for the Melbourne Cup has acquired such celebrity in Australia
that it has come to be regarded as a national event. It attracts visitors from
all parts of Australia, and for weeks beforehand the Melbourne Cup is one
of the chief subjects of conversation over a continent as large as Europe.
Culi Day is the culminating point of a saturnalia of gambling, the results of
which penetrate to every corner of Australia. Under these circumstances it
is not surprising that there is always a large crop of dreams of the Winner
of the Cup. It is also not surprising that, as there are never more than
about 150 entries and seldom more than about 20 or 30 starters for the
Melbourne Cup, and as the dreams must be numbered by thousands, one or
two of the dreams occasionally come true. The odds are heavily in favour
of such a contingency. As an illustration of the fact that racing dreams are
fairly numerous in Australia, I encloso an extract from the Sunday Times of
November 1st, 1896, a Sydney paper, in which mention is made of half-a-
dozen Cup dreams. The Cup was run two days after the publication of these
dreams, and it is notable that not in a single instance was either the first,
second, or third horse correctly indicated. The extract, however, serves to
show how widespread is the tendency amongst sporting people to dream of
the Cup, and consequently the extreme probability of one or two of the
dreams occasionally coming true by chance coincidence.
Another, and a very droll aspect of the matter was revealed to me by
the sporting editor of the Sydney Morning Herald. I asked him if he
thought there was much betting on dreams of the Cup. "Of course there
is," he replied, " why, some people make a practice of taking a heavy dinner
of pork in order to dream of the winning horse." The same authority
informed me that entries for the Melbourne Cup took place about the second
of June each year, and that the Cup is run in November, or about six
months afterwards. Bets used to bo made as much as a year beforehand,
but long range speculation of this kind is not now practised to any extent.
The entries number from 100 to 150, and of these usually not more than
from 30 to 40 horses actually take part in the race. The odds against some
of the individual horses, rank outsiders, may be as long as 1,000 to 1, while
the chances against other horses may be as short as 5 to 1. On the average,
however, the odds against any horse selected at random six months before
hand would not be more than 150 to 1, and a few days before the race not
318 Alice Johnson.
more than about 50 to 1. The names of the horses entered for the race are
published all over Australia for months previously, and there is consequently
plenty of opportunity for the dreamers. If there were only 1,000 dreams
(possibly there are 10,000) then the odds would be about 10 to 1 in favour of
at least one dream coming true. For this reason—because racing dreams
come so completely within the range of explanation by ordinary coincidence
—but little importance can be attached to such occurrences.
On at least two occasions, however, Cup dreams have occurred of such a
remarkable character that they have received notice in the public press.
One of these I shall describe as the " Auraria dream," and the other is the
so-called " Nimblefoot Mystery." The latter seems to have impressed the
public mind to such an extent that twenty years afterwards it was remem
bered and used as a heading for a Cup dream paragraph. A passing
acquaintance in a boarding-house was also able to tell me about it. I will
deal first with the "Auraria dream."
On November 6th, 1895, the Evening Neics, a Sydney evening paper,
published [a] paragraph [about it, which, however] gave no clue for further
enquiries, but the following paragraph from the Australian Star, another
Sydney evening paper, on November 9th, 1895, dealing with the same
subject, mentioned the name of Mr. J. Dalveen, from whom I obtained
some corroboration of the story :—
"With the majority of sensible folk, dreams of the Melbourne Cup
winner are regarded in the light of a time-honoured joke. One instance,
however, has come under our notice which it is impossible to accept other
wise than as a truthful and remarkable occurrence. Some four months ago
a working man resident in Redfern had a remarkable dream in which he saw
Auraria win the Melbourne Cup ; he also dreamt that before the Cup was
run he (the dreamer) died. So vivid was the impression that he backed
Auraria to win £200—the odds at that time were very long. He gave the
tickets to his wife. At the time of the dream he was in his usual health,
but he took ill and died some weeks before the race was run. One part of
the dream coming true, the story was circulated among the neighbours,
several of whom backed the horse. Our informant was among these. He
put £1 on the filly, with the result that he won £,50. He laid the wager
with Mr. J. Dalveen, who at the time laughed at the idea. But the laugh
was on the other side when settling time came, and the young man who
backed the dream fancy has now the bank deposit slip to show for his faith.
Numbers of his friends also chaffed him about his superstitious fancy—
before the race. Now he is engaged in the pleasant pastime of asking them
whether their opinion is shaken. And the widow of the man who dreamt
the winner is the richer by £200. Truth is still stranger than fiction."
I wrote to Mr. Dalveen, a bookmaker, asking him whether the paragraph
was true, and if so, whether he could supply me with the name of the gentle
man who laid the wager with him, or better still the address of the widow of
the man who had had the dream. After some delay my letter was returned
with the following note written upon it by a Mr. J. W. M .
" Mr. Dalveen has handed me this letter of yours, as I took the bet of
£50 to 1 about Auraria from him. I spoke to the widow and she does not
wish to have her name published in any paper about the sad affair. The
XXXV.] 319
Coincidences.
dream was, sad to state, quite true in every detail. —Yours faithfully, [signed
in full] J. W. M . Don't publish my name."
I wrote to Mr. M. explaining that I simply wanted more precise details.
I got no reply. Finally I called on Mr. Dalveen and obtained Mr. M.'s
address. He was an employe1 of a clothing company in George-street,
Sydney. He assured me that the paragraph was perfectly true, and he
added :— "When I heard of the death, I said to myself, 'Here's a leg in' .and
I laid the wager." Mr. M. is a respectable young man, and the details of
the dream may, I think, be relied on as far as they go. He told me he must
decline to give me the address of the widow, as she had been worried so much
by people calling to see her about the dream that he did not care to subject
her to any further annoyance. I made some more attempts to find out the
address, but without success, and being very busy at the time I had to
abandon the quest. It will be seen that there are certain features about
this dream which would have rendered more precise details very desirable.
For instance, the odds, as already explained, against the dreaming of the
winner of the Cup were not more than about 100 to 1. In the Star account
the date of the dream is given as "some four months" before the day of the
race, and the paragraph says, "At the time of the dream he was in his usual
health, but he became ill and died some weeks before the race was run."
Much would depend on the nature of the illness. At the time of the dream
it is quite possible he may have known he had not much longer to live—or
he may at least have had a subliminal consciousness of the fact, arising from
unnoticed inroads of the malady, whatever it was. In that case the additional
coincidences of dreaming of his death before the Cup and of his widow
drawing the money, would not increase the probabilities against chance
coincidence. These incidents would be merely deductions from facts known
to the subliminal mind. Unfortunately, as I was unable to obtain the
address of the widow, I was also unable to obtain the address of the doctor
who attended her husband.
The mention of the "Nimblefoot Mystery" in the heading to the
Evening jVeirii paragraph led me to make enquiries about this case also. A
boarding-house acquaintance told me it was most remarkable, that it had
involved a "bet on a double" of £20,000, and that there had been a big
lawsuit about the payment of the bet after the death of the owner of
Nimblefoot. He also mentioned that it had been fully reported in the
- 1 nstralasian, a well-known Melbourne weekly paper. I wrote to the
editor asking him for the date, and the reply under the head of answers to
correspondents was as follows :—
" S.P.R. (Sydney). We do not remember any lawsuit about Nimblefoot.
J. Day, the lad who rode him in the Melbourne Cup, and W. Lang were
parties in some action in which the question of Day's engagement to Lang
was concerned."
The boarding-house acquaintance then recommended me to write to the
proprietor of Craig's Royal Hotel at Ballarat, and ask for the date of the
Australasian containing particulars of the Nimblefoot dream. I did so,
and a reply came from Mr. W. L. Bentley, giving the date as October 31st,
1891. On enquiry it turned out that there were no copies of the
Australasian of this date for sale, but the following is a copy of a
320 [part
Alice Johnson.
paragraph it contains refeiring to the Nimblefoot dream. It occurs in the
Australasian of October 31st, 1891, page 865, in a sporting article by
"Augur," entitled " A Cup Chronicle.—Past and Present."
"While in 1870 Nimblefoot was victorious, and the alleged dream of his
dead owner, Mr. Walter Craig, was said to have been realised. It will be
remembered that by Nimblefoot's triumph the veteran bookmaker. Slack,
had been struck for a double which he had laid to Mr. Walter Craig ; but if I
mistake not, the bet was in reality taken by Mr. Stephen Holgate in
conjunction with Mr. Craig. It was £1,000 to several drinks and cigars
against Croydon winning the A. J. C. Metropolitan and Nimblefoot the
Melbourne Cup. The double came off, and it was generally believed that
Slack paid the £1,000 to Mrs. Craig, but he gave her only half. It was ii
splendid advertisement for the rough old penciller, and ever afterwards he-
did a roaring business as a layer of double events."
. . . In 1870 there were 29 competitors for the Cup. The Argus tip
for the Cup on the morning of November 10th was :
1. Trump Card, 4 to 1 against.
2. Croydon, 100 to 14 against.
3. Nimblefoot or Strop, 100 to 7 against.
The Argus of Friday, November 11th, the day after the Cup, has a
aragraph as follows :—
"A remarkable circumstance in connection with the victory of Nimblefoot
formed matter for a good deal of comment and wonder yesterday ; that was
the fact that prior to his death Mr. Walter Craig had dreamed of a horse
carrying his colours, but with the jockey wearing crape, winning the Cup
this year. Differing from the great majority of prophetic dreams, this one
was on record prior to the event, and at the beginning of the week appeared
in the following form in the Bendijo Independent :—
" 'It is said that the late Mr. Walter Craig, of Ballarat, told some of hi*
friends a short time before his death that he had dreamed that he saw a
horse, ridden by a jockey wearing his well-known colours, but with crape on
his left sleeve, coming in first for the Melbourne Cup. Now Nimblefoot, Mr.
Craig's horse, won the Hothara Stakes on Saturday, and his jockey, who
wore crape on his sleeve in memory of the late Mr. Walter Craig, was loudly
cheered on coming to scale. . . . Whether Nimblefoot will win the
Melbourne Cup is another matter, but should that bo the case, it will be
somewhat startling.'"
It will be noticed that nothing is said in this paragraph about the double
event bet, but apparently there was such a transaction, and that it was
widely known may be fairly inferred from the paragraph in the Australasian
of 1891, or 11 years afterwards. It is, of course, impossible after so many
years to obtain any further corroboration of this case, beyond perhaps looking
up the files of the Bendigo Independent to verify the foregoing paragraph.
That could be done, but it seems hardly necessary, as the Argns is recognised
as a careful and accurato paper.
Details such as those about the jockey wearing crape on his sleeve, the
death of the owner of Nimblefoot before the Cup, the betting on the double
XXXV.] 321
Coincidences.
event (if the accounts about the latter can be relied upon) seem to me to
bring this case out of the ordinary ruck of Cup dreams.
As a further illustration of the likelihood of chance coincidence being the
true explanation of ordinary Cup dreams, it may be mentioned that a few
years ago, when the last wave of spiritism, culminating in the exposure of
Mrs. Annie Mellon, passed over Sydney, several members of the New South
Wales Parliament held a table-tilting seance, and, taking a published list of
the entries for the Cup, tilted through the list for the winner. The table
persistently bumped at one name, and this horse was backed by about a
dozen prominent members of Parliament. The horse won the Cup, and as
the odds were fairly long, the members who laid the bets won sums ranging
from £10 to £100. The result was that for a time table-tilting as an adjunct
to horse-racing became very popular in Sydney ; but the method was found
to be unreliable, and racing speculators have been compelled to fall back on
pork suppers as a stimulant of supernormal faculty.
Donald Murray.
322 Alice Johnson.
APPENDIX IV.
A Guessing Competition Case.
The following account refers to a success in a guessing competition
,of one of the kinds now constantly being advertised in weekly papers.
It happens that a good deal of information is available about it, as it
was the subject of two trials, the proprietor of the paper having
refused to pay the prize money to the successful competitor, who
therefore brought an action against him. The jury gave a verdict for
the plaintiff, but this was disallowed by the Judge, on the ground
that the competition was a "lottery" (that is, a distribution, of
prizes determined by lot or chance, and involving no skill) and there
fore illegal. The judgment was appealed against, and the Court of
Appeal determined that the competition was not a lottery. The
question is important theoretically, as well as legally, and as my
own view is that it was a lottery, I reprint all the arguments used
on both sides.
The case was first tried at the West Riding Assizes at Leeds, on
March 22nd, 1898, and I give the report published in The Yorkik,rt
Post of the following day in full, in order to show what evidence there
is that the correct guess was really made.
NISI PRIUS COURT.
(Before Mr. Justice Lawrance and a Special Jury.)
A CURIOUS GUESSING COMPETITION.
A SHEFFIELD BUTCHER CLAIMS £1,000.
John Henry Hall, butcher, near Sheffield, brought an action for breach
•of contract against William Henry Bingham Cox, printer and publisher of a
paper called the Rocket. The claim was for £1,000, alleged to have been
won by the plaintiff in a guessing competition in December last. Mr.
Walter Beverley appeared for the plaintiff, and the defendant was repre
sented by Mr. Tindal Atkinson, Q.C., and Mr. Longstaffe.
Mr. Beverley, in opening the case, stated that Mr. Bingham Cox, in
copies of the paper of November last, had offered a prize of £1,000 to any
one who should predict the exact number of male and female births, together
with the number of deaths in London for the week ending December 11,
1897. There was also a number of consolation prizes offered for those who
might not predict the exact figures, but get very near to them. Hoping to
be the £1,000 prize-winner, the plaintiff bought 252 copies. From these
,copies he cut out the coupons, filled them up in the required manner, and
.forwarded them to the offices of the Rocket. In one of these coupons,
XXXV.] 323
Coincidences.
according to counsel, he predicted that the number of male births for the
week ending December 11 in London would be :—Males, 1,244 ; females,
1,245 ; and deaths, 1,866. Plaintiff afterwards obtained from the Registrar-
General or from the Queen's Printers (Messrs. Eyre & Spottiswoode) the
returns of the male and female births and of deaths for the week in question,
and it was alleged that the figures were precisely the same as those that had
been forecast by the plaintiff. On the Kith December plaintiff wrote to the
Rocket office calling attention to the fact that he had been right in his
forecast, and congratulating himself on his luck. To this letter there was
no reply. He again wrote on the 29th December but got no reply. He
wrote again on the 3rd January, and received as reply that when the result
had been arrived at, it would be made known in the Rocket. The plaintiff
put the matter into the hands of his solicitor. In the course of further
correspondence it was contended on behalf of the defendant that the com
petition had been declared to be an illegal lottery, that he had been fined
£20, and that the coupon on which the plaintiff contended he had written
tbe exact figures had got gummed or fastened to another coupon, and had
consequently been put to one side, and not deciphered. Even if these
statements were true, the defendant, counsel contended, had made them too
late to allow him to break away from his contract. The plaintiff, concluded
Mr. Beverley, had taken extraordinary pains to win the £1,000, and having,
as he thought, become entitled to it, he ought to succeed in this action.
The plaintiff gave evidence bearing out counsel's statement. During his
evidence a kettle was brought into court with the object of separating two
coupons, one of which the plaintiff contended contained the figures entitling
him to the £1,000 prize.
The Associate (Mr. Wade) held the papers over the kettle, and whilst the
process lasted, the business of the Court was brought to a standstill.
His Lordship : I think this process might be carried on outside by two
solicitors. The first who sees anything favourable to his side can come
running back. (Laughter.)
The kettle and documents were here taken out of court by the solicitors.
After the supposed winning coupon was brought into court, it was passed
up to the Judge, and the jury afterwards examined it.
Mr. Atkinson contended that it was impossible to make out what figures
had been on the coupon, and that in the space for the number of deaths
there never had been any figures filled in at all.
Plaintiff, in cross-examination by Mr. Atkinson, said he had been obliged
to file his petition through speculating on a stand on the occasion of the
Queen's visit to Sheffield.
Mrs. Hall, wife of plaintiff, and a letter carrier also gave evidence for
the plaintiff.
For the defence, Mr. Atkinson submitted that the coupon in question
did not contain the necessary figures. The question, however, was one
entirely for the jury. The defendant had carefully refrained from touching
the coupon that was glued to another, and which, according to the plaintiff,
contained the exact numbers. It could not be suggested that the defendant
had caused the coupons to be glued together. There was every indication
of these coupons and others sent by the plaintiff having become glued
:J24 Alice Johnson. [past
Lefore they left plaintiff's possession. Again, was it possible that any one
would be able to guess the exact number of male births, of female births,
and of deaths in London in one week ? With regard to the letters of the
plaintiff not being replied to, it was to be borne in mind that there had
been thousands of coupons sent in for this competition, and that much time
was required to go through them.
Mr. Kennedy, assistant manager to Mr. Cox, gave evidence to show that
the coupons sis produced in court were the same as had been forwarded ui
the office. He had not glued them, uor had any one else in the office, nor
had any one tampered with the coupons in question or with any of them.
Mr. A. Allison, also in the employment of the defendant, spoke to the
care with which the coupons had been examined.
Mr. Bingham Cox, proprietor of the paper, gave evidence. The coupon
on which it was alleged the correct figures had been written was glued to
another when he first saw it. It was afterwards placed in the hands of his
solicitor, and had not left that gentleman's hands since. It was quit*
untrue that either himself or any one in his employment had tampered with
the coupons in any way whatever. There would be from 80,000 to 100,000
coupons.
The Judge, in his address to the jury, laid stress on the fact that it was
for the plaintiff to make out his caso.
The Jury retired to consider their verdict. On returning into court
.,ifter half-an-hour's absence they gave a verdict for the plaintiff.
Mr. Beverley : I formally ask for judgment.
Mr. Atkinson, Q.C. : Before judgment is given, I shall have to argue
the point as to whether this competition was a lottery or not, and whether
the £1,000 can be legally paid over.
The Judge : Very well ; that is clearly a point that must be argued. It
may be argued at the next sitting of the Court.
Judgment was accordingly deferred until to-day (Wednesday), in order
that this point of law might be discussed.
On the following day the point was argued whether the competition
was a lottery or not. As this question is important, not only as a
point of law, but, as I have said, from a theoretical point of view,
I again give the report in The Yorkshire Post (of March 24th, 1898)
in full.
Mr. Atkinson, Q.C, who appeared for the defendant, addressing the
Judge, now contended that although the jury had given a verdict for the
plaintiff, judgment ought clearly to be given for the defendant, and that the
plaintiff was not in a position to recover. That the competition was a
lottery had already been decided, inasmuch as Mr. Cox had been fined £20
and costs in respect of the competition on which the present action was
based. A lottery had been described to be "a distribution of prizes
determined by lot or chance." This had been well illustrated in what had
come to be known as the " Missing Word Competition "—Barclay v.
Pearson. In that case Mr. Justice Stirling, before whom it was tried, ruled
that if the competition had been one that involved the skill of finding out
XXXV.] 325
Coincidences.
the most appropriate word in a particular sentence, that would not have been
n lottery, because there would have been an element of knowledge or skill.
The word in question was not necessarily the most appropriate one, but
merely a word which the publisher of the piper in question had himself
decided to be the word which was the most appropriate word. Mr. Justice
Stirling had held that under these circumstances it was necessarily a matter
of chance that the word could be selected, and consequently no skill what
ever entered into the competition. There was, said Mr. Atkinson, just as
much of the element of chance in the present case as in the one known as
"the Missing Word Competition." The competitors in the present case
were to guess the number of male and female births, and the number of
>leaths in a certain week. In such a calculation there could be no element
of skill in arriving at the particular results. There wore he did not know
how many billions to one against any one arriving at the accurate figures.
In roulette, in spite of all its elements of chance, there was a certain margin
of skill, although it might be almost infinitesimal. The case of horse-racing
tipping might be drawn into the question before the Court. That case, how
ever, as had been shown in Sagar v. Stoddart, was entirely different. There
was some knowledge on which the first, second and third horses in a race
might be prophesied. There the matter was to some extent a matter of
experience and knowledge. There were the performances of the horses and
other matters tending to raise the prediction from the domain of mere
chance. As he had said, however, the case of the Rocket was one of pure
chance, and therefore came under the Lotteries Act. Being a lottery the
plaintiff was not entitled to recover, and judgment should be entered for
the defendant.
Mr. Walter Beverley, who was counsel for the plaintiff, proceeded to
argue in support of the verdict of the jury, and in refutation of the plea
that the competition was a lottery. In a lottery there was, he said, no
opportunity given for the employment of any skill or judgment whatever.
It depended purely on chance, and no exercise of skill or knowledge entered
into it. The present case was entirely different, for the plaintiff had clearly
shown that he had taken a considerable amount of trouble to obtain
information to enable him to form a correct judgment.
The Judge : He could scarcely inquire at a house when a baby was
likely to be born. (Laughter.)
Mr. Beverley repeated that he had done much to obtain information to
form a correct judgment, and if with the aid of such knowledge the plaintiff
had guessed the correct figures, he was entitled to win in the present
action.
The Judge said the case before the Court was one full of difficulties.
He had not had an opportunity of looking into all the cases bearing on the
subject, but so far as he had formed an opinion, he was inclined to the belief
that there was more of the element of chance than of skill in the matter.
The case, however, was a very important one, and one on which there ought
to be a definite pronouncement. He was going to give the judgment he
intended in order that there might be another lottery, and that the plaintiff
might go to the lottery of the Court of Appeal if he wished, and try his
luck there. (Laughter.)
326 [PAKT
Alice Johnson.
Mr. Atkinson : I take it there will be judgment for the defendant with
costs, with stay of execution.
The Judge : That is so ; and with a further stay of execution if necessary
for the appeal.
The judgment was appealed against, and the case was tried again
before the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of Judicature, Lord
Justices A. L. Smith, Rigby and Collins on the bench, on December
2nd, 1898.
The following report of the trial appeared in The Times of
December 3rd.
hall v. cox.
This was an appeal by the plaintiff from the judgment of Mr. Justice
Lawrance at the trial of the action, with a jury, at Leeds. The defendant
advertised in a paper called the Rocket that a prize of £1,000 was offered for*
correct prediction of the numbers of male and female births and the number
of deaths in London during the week ended December 11, 1897; the com
petitors to fill in and sign the accompanying voucher, paste it on a sheet of
paper, and send it, with a coupon cut from the front page of the Rocket, in
accordance with the instructions given. The voucher contained the following
words :—" 1 say that the number of births and the number of deaths in
London during the week ending December 11, 1897, as disclosed by the
Registrar-General,s returns, will be ." Then followed spaces for the
number of births (male), births (female), and deaths. The answers were to
be sent in by December 10 ; and if more than one correct prediction was
received, the £1,000 would be divided. The advertisement also stated that,
"according to the Registrar General's returns, the number of births and the
number of deaths in London during the week ending December 12,
were as follows :—Births (males), 1,342 ; ditto (females), 1,213 ; deaths,
1,539." The plaintiff, having sent in a correct prediction, brought this
action to recover the £1,000. The action was ordered to be tried without
pleadings under order 14. At the trial before Mr. Justice Lawrance, a!
Leeds, the defence was that the answer had not been received ; but the jury
found that a correct answer had been sent in by the plaintiff, and gave a
verdict for him for £1,000. The learned Judge then, upon the application
of the defendant, entered judgment, for him on the ground that the competi
tion was a lottery. The learned Judge, in giving judgment, said that the
case was full of difficulty, and he had not an opportunity of looking at all
the cases bearing upon it, and he did not think he would be very much wiser
if he did look at them. The foundation of a lottery was chance, and he
should have thought the foundation of guessing how many children would be
born next week or next month was a matter more of chance than of skill.
Of course, with a verdict of £1,000 in question, neither party would rest at
that Court : and the case seemed to be eminently one on which the Court of
Appeal should give their opinion. For the purpose of sending it there he
would not take time to consider his judgment, but would hold that the
competition was a lottery, and that the plaintiff might once more be put into
a lottery which might be as much a matter of chance as of skill—go to the
Court above. He accordingly entered judgment for the defendant. Since
XXXV.] 327
Coincidences.
the trial the defendant had died. His personal representatives did not
appear upon the appeal.
Mr. Brooke Little, for the plaintiff, contended that this was not a
competition of mere chance, but some skill came into it—namely, calculating
from previous returns of the Registrar-General how many births and deaths
would be likely to take place in London in a particular week. It was not,
therefore, a lottery. He referred to "Caminada v. Hulton" (60 L.J., M.C.,
116), "Morris v. Blackman" (2 H. and C., 912), "Taylor v. Smetton "
(11 Q.B.D., 207). "Barclay v. Pearson" (1893, 2 Ch., 154), "Stoddartv.
Sagar" (1895, 2 Q.B., 474).
The Court allowed the appeal.
Lord Justice A. L. Smith said that, in his opinion, this was not a lottery.
The solution of the question did not depend upon mere chance. It depended
very largely upon chance, but there was an element of statistical inquiry
brought into it. The advertisement which offered the prize set out the
number of births and deaths for the corresponding week of the preceding
year. A statistical calculation was imported into it, and it was not all
chance. In " Caminada v. Hulton," a Divisional Court, consisting of Mr.
Justice Day and Mr. Justice Lawrance, held that an offer of prizes to any
purchaser of a book who should fill up a coupon with the names of the
winning horses in certain races about to come off was not a lottery. How
the learned Judge reconciled his judgment in the present case with his
decision in that case he (the Lord Justice) did not quite understand.
Lord Justice Rigby and Lord Justice Collins concurred.
In reply to an inquiry made later in the same month, I was
informed that " the Rocket and its late proprietor are both dead," so
that it seems very doubtful whether the prize money was ever paid.
I have ascertained that the numbers of births and deaths quoted
are the same as those given in the Registrar-General's Annual
Summary of Births, etc., in London, for 1896 and 1897.
The question whether the competition was one of pure chance or
whether any skill entered into it is very complicated, and I venture
to think that the arguments used by the Counsel and Judges betray
some obscurity of mind on the subject. There are, however, certain
statistics which it might be supposed would afford help in the guessing,
and I give a few figures taken from the Annual Reports and Annual
Summaries of the Registrar-General about those facts which seem to
have the most direct bearing on the question, and then proceed to
consider what inferences may be drawn from them.
(1) The Marriage Rate (i.e., number of persons married per thousand of
the population).—This has been steadily rising in the whole of England and
Wales during the last ten years, the rate of 1896 being higher than it had
been any year since 1876. In 1896 it was 15,8, the average of the ten
previous years being 14,9. In London the same rise was observable ; and
the rate was also higher, being 18,0 in 1896, while the average of the ten
previous years was 17 ,2.
z
32S [part
Alice Johnson.
It would not of course necessarily follow that the births were more
numerous, as the birth rate might be decreasing at the same time, which in
fact has been the case. Still, if the marriage rate rises in any year, we
should rather expect t'> find the birth rate rising in the following year.
Investigation of the rates of each year from 1847 to 1896 bears this
out to some slight extent ; in 24 cases the birth rate of one year increases
or diminishes according as the marriage rate of the preceding year increases
or diminishes ; while in 23 cases no such influence is discernible. Taking
the rates, however, in periods of 5 years, from 1841 to 1895, there are
7 cases in which the birth rate increases or diminishes in accordance with
the marriage rate of the preceding period, and only 3 cases in which it
does not.
There would therefore be some slight presumption that the births in
1897 would be rather more numerous than they were in 1896. (As a
matter of fact, they were in London 215 less in 1897 than in 1896.)
(2) The Birth Rate (number of births per thousand of the population). —
The birth rate has been steadily decreasing since 1876, the rate of 1896
being 29-7 in England and Wales and 30"2 in London, while the average of
the ten preceding years was respectively 31 "0 and 31 "6. In 1897 the rate in
London was the lowest on record, viz., 30 0.
The proportion of male to female births (counted as births of males tu
1,000 females) has been decreasing since 1840 in the whole country. Taking
periods of five years, it was at its highest, viz., 1,052, in 1841-5, and
decreased steadily to 1,036 in 1886-90, remaining the same in 1891-5. The
average of all the periods recorded is 1,042. In London, however, the pro
portion was 1,048 in 1896, whereas the average of the ten preceding years
was the same as that in the whole country, viz., 1,036. But the proportion
in London fell again in 1897.
(3) The Death Rate (number of deaths per 1,000 of the population).—
The death rate has also been steadily decreasing on the whole since the
period 1846 50, when it was 23 3. In 1896 it was 17 1 in England and
Wales and 18-2 in London, while during the preceding 10 years it was
respectively 18 8 and 19,9.
There is another general consideration with regard to all three rates,
viz., their variation at different times of the year. The Registrar-General's
Table giving the rates during the different quarters of the year since 1840
in periods of ten years shows that
(a) The Marriage Rate was always highest during the last quarter of the
year and lowest in the first quarter.
(6) The Birth Rate was nearly always highest during the first quarter,
though in 1891-6 it was slightly higher in the second quarter than in the
first. It was always lowest in the last quarter.
(c) The Death Rate was always highest in the first quarter and lowest in
the third.
Now, speaking generally, all these facts help to limit somewhat the
ranges within which the numbers required to be guessed will probably
, lie. But they are really of very little practical use, because, in such
XXXV.] 329
Coincidences.
short periods as weeks, the numbers vary very much more in pro
portion than they do for longer periods.
The only practical plan, then, is to find the actual range of the
variations that have occurred during a large number of weeks, and
make enough guesses to cover all the possible combinations of numbers
within the range, —or, better still, a little beyond it.
The following Table gives under each heading the highest and lowest
numbers recorded in any week of the two years 1896 and 1897.
Deaths.
In 1896. Maximum , s
Births.
Minimum 3041
1829
Total. Male. Female.
1563
904
1478
925
2146
1238
Difference 1212 659 553 908
460 1427
1027
2360
1158
In 1897. Maximum
Minimum 2928
2106
1519
1059
Difference 822 400 1202
It will be seen that in 1896 there is a greater range of variation in all
the numbers of births, while the range of variation in deaths is greater
in 1897.
With regard to the proportion of male to female births, the extreme
limits in any week were as follows :—
In 1896, greatest excess of male over female births, 183, greatest excess
of female over male, 52 ; total range of variation, 235. In 1897, greatest
excess of male over female births, 131, greatest excess of female over male,
65 ; total range of variation, 196.
During the weeks of 1896, the female births exceeded the male in 6
cases ; during 1897, in 7 cases.
These variations, however, are much more than covered by the differ
ences between the maxima and minima in the Table. Supposing that the
latter represent the greatest ranges that can occur, the chance of getting all
the three numbers (male and female births and deaths) right in a single
guess is one in 438,770,108 (the product of the three greatest differences,
659, 553 and 1204).
Since the successful competitor made only 252 guesses, it was extremely
unlikely that he should have got one of them right ; while the chance
against some one of the total 100,000 guesses said to have been sent in
being correct (assuming that the guesses were all different, which they
probably were not) was about 5,000 to one.
These considerations seem to me to show that no more real skill
can enter into such a competition than into the guessing of numbers in
a lottery. If the ranges of the numbers in the lottery were known—
z 2
330 Alice Johnson. [pakt
as they probably are in some cases—it would be easy to calculate how
many guesses must be made to ensure one being right, and the most
ignonant person would know that the more guesses he made, the
greater would be his chance of getting one right. Similarly the
previous statistics of births and deaths can only tell us what the
general trend of things has been so far ; that is, they afford rational
ground for expectation that the numbers will lie within certain limits,
but no rational ground for expecting any particular numbers within
these limits.
On the other hand, in the case cited by the Judge as a parallel
one—that of guessing the name of the horse that will win in a race
—the kind of knowledge from which some particular inference may
reasonably be drawn is available, and there is consequently scope for
skill. It appears to me, therefore, that the two cases are not really
analogous.
XXXV.] 331
Apparitions in Wed Africa.
SUPPLEMENT.
i.
THE FORMS OF APPARITIONS IN WEST AFRICA.
By Mary H. Kingsley.
Gentlemen and Ladies,—I have accepted with much hesitation
the honour of addressing the Society for Psychical Research, for I
know the object of this society is the determination of the truth
regarding apparitions ; whether they have a separate existence apart
from their human seers and so on. With this branch of the study of
apparitions I have no concern ;—all I am interested in is the discovery
of the ideas that the natives of West Africa have concerning appari
tions ; what position they have in West African native religion ; and
what the West African holds to be their significance and their
characteristics.
Briefly, I entirely believe the West African sees apparitions, but I
do not think this any evidence that the apparition has a separate
existence. I have had an extensive and sad experience with people,
—white and black, strong-minded and weak-minded, educated and
uneducated,—suffering from delirium, which has taught me that men,
under certain physical conditions, can and do see things that men in a
normal state cannot and do not see. I also know that the African, in
spite of all his hard-headed common sense, is endowed with a super
sensitive nervous organisation —he is always a step nearer delirium, in
a medical sense, than an Englishman ; a disease that will by a rise of
bodily temperature merely give an Englishman a headache will give
an African delirium and its visions. Whether this indicates a differ
ence in physical make between Africans and Englishmen, I do not
know. It may be that the African, by his long process of acclimatisa
tion to malarial districts, has a chronic state of malarial delirium ; or,
on the other hand, it may be that his undoubtedly more sensitive
nervous system enables him to see things the duller-nerved English
man does not ; or, as one might say, the African mind may be a more
perfect photographic plate on which the spirit world can print itself.
332 Mary H. Kingsley. [Supplement-
I do not know one way or the other ; all I am concerned in is that I
should give you as clear and unbiassed an idea as lies in my power of
the spirit world as an African sees it.
First, therefore, I would like to state what the spirit world h
that the African sees and believes in. All the world is a spirit workl
to him—he has not, as many Europeans have, a feeling that there are
two distinct worlds, a world of spirit and a world of matter ; neither
has he the idea that there is certainly a world of matter, and there
may be, or there may not be, a world of spirit ; the thing is one to him
from the highest to the lowest. From the supreme Godhead to the
pebble on the seashore, it is merely a matter of grade.
I beg you will allow me to detain you a few minutes with the
statement of what any one man, woman, or child is to an African
who has not been influenced by a Semitic Religion—Christianity or
Mohammedanism. To the pure pagan African what we call a man is
not an individual one soul,—he is a syndicate of souls, usually four,
details of which I have given elsewhere. Well, this syndicate wear
flesh and blood, and they wear clothes, require and like ornaments
and food, exercise functions, and use tools, and so on, presided over
by the soul syndicate. But the soul syndicate has other business to
deal with besides that of these things it lives in and directly lives
by ; it also deals with other soul syndicates called men, with other
non-human souls of equal power to its own, with other souls of
lower power to its own, and with other souls of greater power than
its own, in grades of power right away up from dust to the Godhead
who is above all things that are. You may notice I am dodging
crediting the African with holding the idea of this over-god being
the Creator. This interesting point is not yet worked out. I my
self at present regard creation-myths, which abound in Africa, as
being the resultants of European and Mahommedan teaching. The
native African, as far as I know, has not the same feeling about
time that we have ; he does not see why things should come to an
end, or have a beginning ; he recognises that they change, but I do
not think he would commit himself further. I cannot, however,
detain you with these, to me, interesting points in African philosophy,
but return to the position of the human soul—the syndicate of dream
soul, shadow soul, bush soul, and surviving soul. This syndicate
deals most intimately with those souls most nearly connected with
its interests, but it knows of the souls beyond, upper and lower, in
ultimate power. I do not think I should be going too far if I were
to say you will find in West Africa no people who have not the
conception of the idea of the supreme Godhead at the apex of things,
and matter, the very lowest form of soul, at the other end of the
scale ; or to put it in other words, you will find no people who have
Part XXXV.] 333
Apparitions in 'Went Africa.
the European conception of matter at all. There is to them no
conception of the difference between these things, but an infinitely
intricate conception of degree, and herein is the secret of the terror
of Africans for what are to Europeans material objects. The thing
is perfectly clear in itself, but it is complicated by the fact that an
African can conceive a powerful spirit wearing a silk cotton tree, a
rock, a fierce river rapid, or the everlasting, booming, man-killing
surf itself, as a garment. The African sees the spirit inside that
garment ; he no more worships, or fears the garment than you would
fear, or worship a great man's chimney-pot hat, or pocket handker
chief, or pen, and when he chooses to think the spirit that he fears
or worships has cast these things off, has done with them, the
African also has done with them, and if it is necessary to him, tries
to find out the spirit he wants to get on with in its new clothes ;
with this difference, mind you, and it is an important one,—the
African, regarding such things as clothes as being in a measure
possessed of life and responsibility, is liable to think that the thing
was cast off because it was bad and unsatisfactory to the spirit who
once used it as a garment, and this explains a certain quantity—
but not all,—of the cases in which an African smashes and
vilifies his idol ; the other cases in which he does this arise from
his feeling the spirit itself has behaved unfairly to him, a fine
instance of which has been given in Mr. Dennett's Folk-Lora oj the
Fjurtes, published by the Folk-Lore Society —you will find it in the
chapter on the Burial of the Fjorte. The far more common thing,
however, is the absolute carelessness as to what becomes of the
garment of the spirit, the thing that was the idol or the charm.
The spirit has thrown it off, it can itself be thrown away, or left to
rot, it does not matter ; though it is not matter as you conceive it, it
is in itself merely too low a grade of spirit to be worth troubling
about. The African thinks no more of it than you think of a
harmless insect, or any other inferior living thing. I apologise for
detaining you on this point, but until you have grasped this position
you cannot understand the African's mind, and its attitude towards
apparitions ; it is a position you cannot avoid grasping when you
live among Africans who ate unadulterated. The result of this point
of view is intricate, complex, and so on, but it is never for one single
moment confused.
I will now turn to the forms of apparitions of the various grades
of spirits, and we will commence with those of the great over-god you
find among all the West African peoples under varying names. This
god has no organised worship given to him, he is regarded as an
unmanageable being, who has no interest in human affairs in detail,
but who now and then manifests an interest in, what one might call,
334 [Supplement.
Mary H. Kingsley.
the higher politics ; he can interfere and save, or scourge a people, but
it is no use for any gentleman or lady who has lost property, or got a
disease, to appeal to him. As far as I know the Krumen call on this
over-god of gods more frequently than other West Africans. When the
surf on the shore of their country is very bad, and the men cannot get
out fishing, they will go in numbers to the beach and talk to the great
god about it ; most carefully explaining to him the whole of the circum
stances of the case,—how the women and children want food, and food
depends on fishing, and so on, just as if they were addressing a great
judge who had no personal knowledge of human affairs, but who could
be depended on to be just if you could only get him to be interested
and to understand. Sometimes it takes a week to get the great god to
understand, but he always does in the end, and the surf becomes pass
able, for a time at any rate. Also among the noble tribes of the Bight
of Panavia you find a regular talking to the great god, and among them
you find his apparition in some way connected with the moon ; at each
new moon the chief of a village goes out and stands alone in the open
and talks to Anyambie. He does not praise Anyambie ; he does not
request him to interfere in human affairs ; he, the chief, feels competent
to deal with them, but he does want Anyambie to attend to those
spirits which he, the god, can control better than a man, and he always
opens the address to the great god with a catalogue of his, the chiefs,
virtues, saying : " I am the father of my people ; I am a just man : I
deal well with all men," etc. The chief s account of his own virtues
is naturally too long to detain you with here, and after this he winds
up with a request that all spirits may be kept away from his village.
At first hearing these catalogues of the chief's virtues used to strikf
me as comic, and I once said : •' Why don't you get some one else Ui
say that for you ; praising yourself in that barefaced way must be
very trying to you." " Oh, no," said the chief, " and, besides, no ma:i
knows how good he is except himself," which is a common West Coast
proverb. But by-and bye—when I had been the silent spectator of
several of these talks with the great god — the thing struck me as
really very grand. There was the great man standing up alone,
conscious of the weight of responsibility on him of the lives and
happiness of his people, talking calmly, proudly, respectfully to the
great god who he knew ruled the spirit world. It was like a great
diplomat talking to another great diplomat of a foreign power, saying,
" Let us keep our people from interfering with each other ; " there
was no whining or begging in it, and as I have said, the grandeur of
the thing charmed me. But you must not think I am one of the
modern school who believe that great over-gods are always moral gods
in a human sense, because the African over-god is not. I have often
asked carefully, "Is he good?" and I never found an African who had
:Part XXXV.] 335
Apparitions in West Africa.
not been in touch with mission influence say Nzambi, Nyankupong,
or whatever other name he was called by, was good. He is a thing
apart from the human moral code. No ! they say firmly, he is not
what you would call good ; he lets things go too much, he cares about
himself only, and I have heard him called " lazy too much, bad person
for business," and a dozen things of that kind, and very rarely do you
•come across any one who speaks of an apparition of him. You will
find in the Folk-Lore of the Fjortes an account of a man who
went aloft and had a chat with him, but this is not a common
tale, and, I think, shows mission influence. The most frequent form
of apparition spoken of as appertaining to this great god is some
tremendous elemental catastrophe : he rides upon the whirlwind and
the pestilence.
I think I may say all the various names given to the over-god can
bear the translation of the Awakener, the Lord of the sky. I think
this great over-god is just merely a realisation of the fact that there
is something outside and beyond the earth we know and the sky we
see to the African mind. It seems that this thing can also include
terrestrial things. I myself, therefore, completely accept Dr. Sneider's
statements that the African is a monotheist ; but a dissertation by
me, the diffuse, on a German philosopher, also diffuse, is not a thing
suited for an evening's address ; it would be more of the nature of
a Chinese play that takes a week or so to get acted, so I turn
to the apparition of the gods below the over-god, but above the
grade of power of man.
The apparitions of these gods are very frequent ; you will hardly
find a man or woman who does not know a man or woman who has
seen them, while the priests belonging to their various cults are always
in ready touch with them,—on terms of easy familiarity. Sometimes
the god takes possession of the priest or priestess, talking through him
or her, but always with a strange voice. This occurs when the priest
has to arrange an affair between the god and the laity when the laity
are present, but at other times the priest when he is out alone meets
the god in a visible form, and you often hear a priest say, " I met —
whatever the name of his god may be—this afternoon," in the most
casual way, and when asked after the god's state of temper, the
important thing about a deity to the laity, the priest will say, " Oh,
pretty fair," or, "rather bad," or "much as usual," and will advise
any one who wants to do business with him to seize the opportunity of
the state of amiability, or to leave any little affair until a more hopeful
time. Down below the Negro districts you very rarely find these
gods with a regular priesthood ; there they are dealt with by the
headmen of the villages, and at Emfetta when one night there was a
.row on, a headman, one of the parties involved in the discussion,
Mary H. Kingdey. [Sappleroeut.
roaring like a bull with rage, spun round and charged at a steep dwaif
cliff to make a short cut to the residence of his village god above ;
when he was half way up, the bit of cliff came away with him, and
flump on his back our friend landed on the beach below. There was a
general grunt, and the man picked himself up and returned to the
discussion in a more reasonable frame of mind, recognising it was m>
good expecting spiritual support that evening, and that he had only
got himself to depend on. You will find in Ellis's works many de
scriptions of the form of these gods when they appear ; you will find
their apparitions are almost all of human shape, that their appearance
is almost always gigantic and terrifying, and that some of them are
males, some females ; frequently they are married, and strangely
enough, many of the worse gods are white.
There is a certain amount of reason in some of them being white.
Fohsu is monstrous in size and whitish in colour, but that may be
because of her association with salt making. That most horrible Aynfwa
who lives at Moree, whose name signifies •' not to be looked upon,,
and whose priests say she is covered with white hair like a goat, being
the protectress of Albinoes, also has a reason for being white, though
why she should be hairy I do not know. But why Ihturi, the god or
the rivers, iSirwi and Kakum, on the Gold Coast, should be white there
seems no reason ; any more than there is for Bons'ahm, the swallower
of men and a marine god, being exceedingly black like Fuan Fuan-Fo,
driver of men and war-god of Moree ; while Auipah, the good person,
who appears always with a casting net in his hands, being attached t,>
the fishing industry, is brown in colour ; while—to make this question
of colour more difficult —Bobowissi, blower of clouds, chief god of
the Southern Tshi, is as black as night, and Tando, chief god of
the Northern Tshi—the Hater—the god to whom driver ants are
sacred, is a sort of golden brown. There is, I am convinced, some
strange stuff involved in this question of colour. I do not believe
whiteness has anything to do with white men, for people who have
no direct intercourse or experience of white men have white gods,
and if you enquire if these white gods are like white men, you will be
told, no, they are white like chalk, not like white flesh. You will also
find a feeling of veneration for chalk, it is used in ceremonial decora
tions ; a gentleman engaged in some particularly important fetish
affair paints a ring with white chalk round one eye : when you have
had a stroke of luck, people say, God has thrown chalk to you, and so
forth. I should incline to the belief that this whiteness had a connection
with the rarity ot the colour in West Africa as a colour at large, and
also with its occurring in connection with those two important things—
so valuable and so dangerous respectively —namely, salt and the surf
that unceasingly breaks on West Africa's seashore.
Part xxxv.] Apparitions in West Africa. 337
I will now leave this class of gods, whom Ellis has so admirably
described in his works on the Ewe Tshi and Yoruba-speaking peoples
of West Africa, merely remarking that they have a characteristic in
common with their representative forms further south down the coast,
and that is that it is a dreadful thing for any one but a priest belonging
to them to -see an apparition of any one of them. To the layman
seeing one of these gods means death in the Bight of Benin, and in
the Bight of Biafra it means disaster to the tribe to which the layman
seer belongs.
I need not detain you here with details of the apparition form of
that god and goddess to whom I have given most especial attention,
Sasabonsum and his wife Srahmantin, for I have published observa
tions on them already. These two deities have a great fascination for
me, they are so widely diffused, so powerful, so unlike those local
deities I have named, and they are equally unlike the great over-god
and the lower range of spirits equal to and inferior to man. They are
the rulers of the witchcraft world ; hated by priests and respectable
house fathers from one end of West Africa to the other, and feared
exceedingly. No man dare openly brag of having had dealings with
Sasabonsum ; to see him is to die ; to be touched by him is to rot ; but
if you are very brave and bad, and want a power from him, you risk
this and go into the forest, try and gain from him a power, a suhman ;
if he grants your request for one, you do not see him, nor feel him, you
hear him. If he refuses, there is a vacancy in your family circle, and
it may be fragments of your remains are some day come across in the
forest in a very scattered state; or merely a few rags of your garments
are found sticking to the trunk of one of Sasabonsum's silk-cotton
trees ; and then your family and friends say that while you were going
to see a sick friend, the awful thing grabbed hold of you and took you
to his under-world home to suck your blood at his leisure (Sasabonsum
never eats flesh) and your enemies say you were in that forest for no
good, you were making witch, and there is a row, and actions for libel
and trials by ordeal break up the peace of your town for months after.
I fear I have detained you too long already in my attempt to place
before you the thing that in the African mind is behind the mere
thing seen, this great, very-real-to-the-African spirit world. When
people up here see a ghost, I find it is usually a ghost of a departed
human being, or the vision of a Saint or Angel. Out there the
majority of ghosts seen are not human at all ; a very high percentage
do not take human forms. One of the most important of the Fjorte
gods is Nkala the Crab, who comes now and then from his kingdom
under the sea ; and lower in power, but very terrible, are the ghosts
that are flying spears, ghosts that are paths leading men to destruc
tion, ghosts that are blood ; in fact, there is nothing we know that
338 [Supplement
Mary H. Kingsley.
cannot be to an African an apparition, the cloth of a spirit, and just as
a learned African man can put on to his spirit the form of a leopard
or a crocodile, so can a great spirit put on the form of man, beast,
storm, pestilence or thing.
Tando the Hater comes among people he has a grudge against in
the form of a weeping miserable orphan child, and woe to those who
take that child in, for he gives them a disease that they give their
neighbours, and all die of. Nzambi, of the Fjorte country, comes
among people as a woman carrying a child, and begs for food or drink
for it, and woe to those who refuse her. The contradictory conduct of
these two gods is not isolated—many gods do that sort of thing—and
it makes the human being very careful how he deals with strangers.
There is an immense amount of very curious stuff connected with what
one might call the natural history of African apparitions. I should
much like to know whether any other apparitions are divided—like the
West African ones—into those whose disappearances leave ash, or leave
a common object like a fallen bough, or a pool of water, and those
who leave no sign behind them at all. These apparitions that leave no
ash are the most dreaded.
I fear I have neglected too much to-night the legitimate ghost, the
human soul out of a body, but I have said all I can say on Ensisa and
Aszahmanfo ; but tiresome as they are and on occasion dangerous,
they are not to be compared in danger with the gods—the Imbuiri or
local deities, or Sasabonsum. Human souls, if properly buried and
looked after, are manageable beings, commonly called the well-disposed
ones, but no one would dream of regarding a local deity as a
person as easily managed as an ancestor ; while a Sasabonsum with
his temper well up is the most awful and unmanageable thing West
Africa knows. But, besides apparitions of dead human beings, there
are apparitions of live ones. You will hear many stories of people who
have been belated at night on a journey, coming to a village, and after
dark finding heaps of people in the village merry-making ; and seeing
that none of them wore clothes, knew they were witches, and, hiding
themselves, have spent an awful night, for if the witches had found
them out, they would have torn them to shreds. These stories are
very cheery when you hear them at a bush fire in the heart of a
forest, whose local geography ycu know little of in detail, and they
are told in most dramatic convincing fashion, and the witches in the
tale always keep on leaving off dancing and saying " I smell live flesh,'
and go hunting round for that live flesh, which is you. It recalls ones
early terrors of Fee-fo-fum vividly, and you wonder if you may not
yourself some night stray into a witch town. Then you will hear
story after story of people who have been alone on the path, women
and children chiefly, who have been seized and carried away by th«
Part XXXV.] 339
A2yparitions in West Africa.
bibendi and kept by them in their town, may be for years, or until
they have had sense and opportunity to get a handful of red pepper
and seizing a favourable opportunity, throw it in the faces of the
guardians of the gate, and flee for it hard all back to real life. I
came across a very pathetic affair connected with this at Adenolo'ongo :
a couple had lost a child, it had strayed away and been no more seen,
but they heard it sometimes crying at night, and they said " the
bibendi have got it," and they used to go out and search for it,
calling it by its pet names. There are, in fact, endless tales of
the bibendi and their ways and their towns and their markets,
whereunto by day live people sometimes unintentionally go, and buy
at the market-place goods that vanish before they reach their own
homes, or goods that turn into horrible useless things. I may remark
for the benefit of any one who is going to the land where such things
are, that if you get among spirits, never touch the food they offer you,
or you will have to stay with them for a long time, and never give
them your clothes in exchange for finer raiment, for if you do you
will alarm your relations by coming in without a rag on you, and, as
a man said to me, " One's wife never believes when one says one's
cloth has been given to a bibendi man. She always thinks it is living
women who have got it." And if you deliberately go to a spirit town
to find out something from them, never drink water, or anything else,
until you get home ; if you do you will forget what the spirits told
you. These bibendi are the souls of dead human beings, and Mr.
I)u Chaillu got himself more discredit up here than he need have by
repeating the tales he had heard about the bibendi and their towns,
and crediting them to gorillas,—I expect from a confusion in the
native words.
Although throughout all West Africa there is, as Merolla says,
" an exceeding plentie of Devils," there are some places where they
are so numerous as to make the place almost uninhabitable to the
human being, used as he is to their goings on and manners and
customs. Of course I, being out there for the purpose of studying
Fetish, have always had, when I heard of such a region on good
authority, to go and potter quietly into it. I am not a person who
would violate any man's temple or sanctuary, but miscellaneous devils
do not count in that category ; the greatest difficulty you experience
in getting into these devil haunts is getting respectable people to go
with you. This, however, you can do without, provided there is even
a small resident human population therein. Your friends among
the surrounding tribes will, it is true, tell you the men who
live in such places are little better than the devils, but that may
be just prejudice : at any rate my personal experience among the
human residents in the notorious devil regions of the Sierra Del
34.0 [Suppleiatm.
Mary H. Kingsley.
Crystal and the Ourounougou swamp has been exceedingly
pleasant and friendly, and although I, according to local opinion,
have suffered grave inconvenience from the devil population upsetting
my canoe, making me lose my way, and on one awful occasion grabbing
a box of most valuable fishes, that by natural laws ought to have
floated on the water after an upset in a swamp but did not,—these ai>
not things to discourage an enthusiastic observer of the ways of
devils, but rather stimulating than otherwise. Well, the straws
thing about these particular devil haunts is that the people who lh>
in them hold the same opinion about their spirit co-residents that thf
outside world does, and they simply glory in the richness in horrors of
their homes ; nothing, indeed, pleases a Nkama or Ourounougou man
more than when on one of his visits to a town on the border of his
region, he succeeds in making the flesh crawl of every man and
woman in it. Round among the villages by Lamberenie, a little
experience soon taught one that a night of excursions, and alarms,
and shrieks, meant that one of those swamp men had been up telling
tales and disorganising the nervous systems of the respectable Ajumba
and Igalwa population, and when I was down in the swamp myself
staying with the swamp men, the local conversation was just a'
alarming and lurid, but being used to that sort of thing it did not
upset people so much. I well remember, the first night I spent at
one of their little islands, asking why there were no window holes is
their houses like there were in the Ajumba and Igalwa houses : and
being told quietly that the fewer holes a house had down there the
better, because things looked in through them. Then followed a
catalogue of things that had been seen through holes : one large eye
occupying a hole all night, a horrid but complete face, a red-hot plaU-
of metal (a neptune, as those plates are called), a hand hanging out
the sill that, when you cut at it with a knife, bled and bled but
did not go away, and had no body belonging to it, and so on ; and I
gathered that, when my friends came down to occupy these houses on
the islands in the swamp for the fishing season, they had for the
first week, until things were tidied up, a very lively time of it, and I
am bound to say that when things were tidied up and quite all right,
from my host's point of view, the time, to one not brought up to
that sort of thing, remained lively. I do not think I have ever seen a
weirder scene anywhere than I saw nightly at full moon from the door
of my perched up little pigeon-house on one of those low clay island*
named Njuki ; there was clear water right round it, some 200
yards across, and then rose up the black forest wall a hundred
feet high, so dense that neither sun nor moon could illuminate it
The black shadow of the forest wall would cloak the water and be
withdrawn off it as the moon rays struck it, like drawing a velvet
Part XXXV ] 34,1
Apparitions in West Africa.
cloth off a bright silver table ; and in moonlight and in darkness
shone the light of the fireflies ; while the beach below and up under
the house was in the possession of crocodiles, squattering about as
gracefully as swans upon a gravel walk, quite different things to the
sleepy log-like things crocodiles are by day, save that they stank just
as bad. But they were now in their clumsy way active and noisy,
giving their quaint bark that ends in a moaning whine, and evidently
generally enjoying themselves, and making you understand why the
natives went to bed early, and built their houses on the tops of poles,
but poles not quite high enough or strong enough, to my way of
thinking. Now and again the great black mass of a hippo would raise
itself out of the water, and come ashore and have a look round, or
just give a great soughing grunt of satisfaction and sink again, and
during the early hours of the night there would be strange wandering
wefts of silver and white mist that trod the water solemnly, gracefully,
and now and then waltzed together into one mass that would sink into
the lake, or stroll away and stand showing white in the darkness, or
glide away among the tall columns of the forest wall ; it was a scene
to make one believe in ghosts, and see them, if you could see a ghost at
all. I cannot,—never have,—but my African friends can and do to
any extent, in tamer surroundings than the Ourounougou country,
which I have never dared attempt to describe, which haunts me and
calls me more than any other thing I have ever seen. Then there is
another region I love well, but where all spirits are not bad, — though
most of them are,—-the region of the rapids of the river Ogowe ; there
from Boue and Lope down to Otala Amagonga are the fearful spirits of
the rapids and the Okanda gorge, ever quarrelling with each other, and
with the rocks and with the whirlpools in between ; ever ready to kill
the man who comes near them ; but there are other spirits there who
are kinder to him and who call him off from danger, and these are the
singing sands of Okanda. There are, as I have elsewhere described,
beautiful sand-banks of white sand, that owing to the fall of tempera
ture at night, emit a long faint musical note, which you can hear
through the noisy squabble and roar of the rapids, if you keep your
head bowed low near the surface of the water as you toil up or flash
clown the Okanda in a canoe at night, and you know that there is
slack water where the sound comes from, and keep into it. Naturally
the Adooma canoe men who work the regions of the rapids feel a
gratitude to these spirits and give them things, and I confess I got used
to giving them things when with the native canoe men, and use grows
on one there, and I had to pull myself up one night and say to myself,
" Look here, you don't believe in these things," for coming down alone
that night I found myself flinging tobacco to the spirits of the singing
sands. This passive growing into a belief in fetish is a thing liable to
342 Mary H. Kingsley.
happen to one when one lives among such scenes and surrounded by
people who so simply and so thoroughly do believe in fetish, and yoe
will hardly find a white man who has lived long alone in West Africa
who does not think there may be something in fetish. I fell more
rapidly into the fetish line of thought than a trader or official would,
because my mind was carefully kept swept of preconceived notions, and
I was profoundly interested in the thing and anxious to follow it
through all its varied twinings and turnings. A little practice, &
great deal of patience and sympathy with the African, which he
completely won from me by his kindness to me, soon taught me to
think fetish, and when you once think fetish, it is so easy,—the outside
world and circumstance are so readily explained by it, —that you find
it difficult—it requires an effort — to think in any other way. You ali
know up here people who have a great knowledge of French 1 Well
they always, when there is anything particular to be said, use a French
phrase. I use a fetish phrase—that is all.
You will often hear this religion of fetish called a religion of
terror and painted black with crimson patches. Well, facts are facts :
find me a more cheerful set of human beings in this wide world than
the West Africans who believe in fetish ; find me a region where
crime for private greed is so rare as in AVest Africa, and then, and not
till then, will I say fetish is a horrible thing. I will grant you there
is human sacrifice under it from Sierra Leone to the Niger ; I will
grant you there is a sending down with the dead of their wives,
slaves, and friends ; I will grant you it kills witches, that it produces
cannibalism in this region ; but before you write down the men who do
these things as fiends, I ask you to read any respectable book on
European history, to face the Inquisition and the fires of Smithfield,
and then to go and read your London Sunday newspapers. West
Africa could not keep a Sunday newspaper going in crimes between
man and man ; its crimes are those arising from a simple direct
absolute belief in a religion. From no region that I know can so truly
go up the sad cry to God, Doch, alles was dazu mich trieb, Gott, war so
gut ! ach ! war so lieb ! as from West Africa. Down below the Niger
you strike two schools of fetish who do not care so much for religion
in a religious sense. I do not care so much for the Bantu negro, and
the true Bantu you meet below Cameroons, as for the true Negro.
I like them, but the Negro is an infinitely finer man, physically and
morally, than the Bantu; so the mere fact of the Bantu doing little or
nothing in the way of human sacrifice or sending-down killing, does
not make me prefer him to the Negro. But to both alike everything
is an apparition, and what matters about an apparition is its grade of
power.
Part XXXV.] 343
Occultism in Went Africa.
II.
A FEW NOTES ON OCCULTISM IN WEST AFRICA.
By J. Shepley Part, M.D.
Late Assistant Colonial to the Gold Coast Colony.
When I first went to Africa, few men probably were more sceptical on
such subjects as clairvoyance, apparitions and the so-called supernatural
generally ; I had of course heard the popular smatterings of these
things and when I did, had, in the usual style, put all down to fiction,
over-excited brain, suggestion or auto-suggestion and the like. I hope to
advance in what follows some evidence that phenomena do at times occur
that are not explainable by ordinary scientific methods and that certain
men can avail themselves of forces which are beyond the ken of the
ordinary individual. It is certain that when I was first brought into con
tact with these things I was incredulous, and, as a consequence, put them
on one side for a considerable time as not worth investigation—much to my
subsequent regret.
I propose to roughly divide the paper into divisions, as stories T have
heard and facts observed, but under the former heading I only propose to
include those stories which, unless otherwise stated, I believe to be worthy
of credence from personal knowledge of the men who told them.
I do not intend always to mention my authorities by name, as in some
cases I am under obligations not to do so, and in others it would possibly be
distasteful to them did I do so, and, owing to the short time at my disposal,
I am unable to ask for their permission.
There are many tales told by natives of the haunting of roads by the
spirits of the deceased, but of these I do not purpose to treat, not having
had means of investigating ; but when travelling in the interior I have
repeatedly been told of what the English-speaking native of the uneducated
classes calls, for want probably of a better word, ghosts, i.e , of messengers
having been seen on the approaches to villages and so on, and we are told
that these " ghosts " are men who go out to keep a look out on the road to
give timely warning of the approach of strangers. This matter will be dealt
with later on in more detail.
In cemeteries the presence of apparitions is looked upon by the native as
die usual thing, and these are said to be the spirits of the departed buried
there. They make their appearance as usual at night and take various
forms, sometimes appearing as replicas of their once living selves, either
material or in ghostly form—more often in an undefined (more or less)
ghostly or cloudy condition, luminous or otherwise, as the case may be.
These forms are looked upon with fear by the ordinary people and it is
considered dangerous to come into personal conflict with them at times—
this idea leading occasionally to blackmailing by personators ; it is also
2 A
344 [Supplement
Shepley Part,
thought to be very wrong to grapple with a genuine ghost, as it may probably
injure him (or it) greatly, though, as to why, I have not been able to gain
any enlightenment. These stories of graveyards I have quoted in outline
here as showing the general drift of ideas on the subject, and certainly I
have had luminous appearances in the form of an apparent nebulous mass
of light pointed out to me in these situations as being what are described as
ghosts of the dead.
Many of the old castles and ports teem with accounts of ghosts of old
officials haunting them at times ; of these I propose to give one or two in
outline as given to me by men whom I believe to be absolutely trustworthy,
Englishmen holding administrative and judicial appointments.
At one port is a very fine old castle, built, I believe, by the Portuguese
about the seventeenth century, still used as temporary quarters for officials
travelling through or visiting the place. On one occasion a district commis
sioner went to the place on official business and arrived after dark. lit
proceeded to change and during this time his boys prepared the table for
dinner in the hall, and on his going out of his room to have a walk round,
his boy met him and said, " a white man come for chop, sar, 1 tell cook get
chop for two." My informant said this was nonsense—where was the white
man ? and went into the hall, on which the boys said " he sit for table " hi
the commissioner's place, and pointed to the head of the table, apparently
astonished that my friend did not see him, but they stuck to it he was there,
and, on being asked what he was like, described a man with a pointed grey
beard and moustache, dressed in Spanish or Portuguese style of the last
century. My friend said he could see nothing whatever, but he was quite
satisfied that several of his boys did see the man and they were unanimous
in their descriptions of him. Furthermore they refused to stop in the castle
at night, and preferred to camp out where they could.
The gentleman who told me this I knew well, and am aware that he wa>
a thoroughly hard-headed reliable man, who was not given to romancing, and
as entirely free from superstition as any one I ever met. Of the facts I am
satisfied—explanations I must leave to others.
While passing through one of the outposts, I was informed of an extra
ordinary case of murder. The crime was seen to be committed by competent
and credible witnesses at a place some 80 miles from the coast—some five
days' marching—but equally credible witnesses, including white evidence,
vouched for the man's presence on the coast on the same day and at the time
of the murder. The interest in this case lies in the fact that the accused
was a known witch doctor (not fetich man) of no mean ability.
With regard to the transmission of intelligence by occult means, the
matter is treated by the better classes of natives as everyday knowledge, the
medicine men occasionally being asked to obtain or transmit information for
various purposes.
I have repeatedly been told by well-educated and broad-minded natives
(and such do exist) that it is possible for certain trained individuals to
" project their consciousness" to a distance irrespective of time or distance,
and to do so while retaining a continuity of consciousness with that in their
ordinary condition. We also hear the same fact stated in this way : That
the individual has the power to go to any place without regard to time or
Part XXXV.] 345
Occultism in West Africa.
distance, etc., and it is not an uncommon remark to hear that so-and-so
had been to such-and-such a place "during the night," or" yesterday
afternoon," or "this morning," such journey being out of all possibility by
ordinary means.
In respect to the transmission of articles, such as letters, from place to
place, the accounts are fewer, but more precise, if anything, than those of the
mere transmission of intelligence or the obtaining of information by personal
observation of the seer ; but very few seem to be possessed of this power,
and only a few seemed to me to be acquainted with its existence, and it was
always spoken of as being rare ; but on one occasion a witch doctor under
took to do this for me, but, owing to peremptory orders to change my
station at short notice, I was unable to put this to the test.
I feel that I must depart from my general rule and mention one name
among my informants, that of the late Mr. Ferguson, who was murdered by
Samory's (or Samoli's) men at Wa, in Dagati, whilst engaged as a member of
the expedition under Lieut. Henderson, R.N., in 1897, to which party I had
also the honour to be attached. I do this in consequence of Miss Kingsley's
having already quoted him at the meeting of the Society on the 10th inst.,
when I had the pleasure to be a guest. Miss Kingsley stated then that Mr.
Ferguson claimed to have the power of projecting his intelligence (I use this
as a convenient and non-committing phrase) to a distance and making
personal observations. Now I know that he did make this claim, and I
propose to relate an incident here which goes far in my mind to substantiate
it. When we had "sat down" at Wa for some time, and were anxiously
waiting for reinforcements and renewed supplies, we were exercised much in
our mind as to what had become of the relief column, as it was considerably
overdue, and Mr. Ferguson undertook to try and find out its whereabouts.
He did so, and reported that he had discovered an armed party travelling
from East to West through a certain district which had better be nameless.
He said that this party had but one white man with it, whereas we knew that
the one we expected should have had three. He also said that he did not know
them, although he was acquainted with two of the expected officers, neither
could he recognise the uniforms of the men. Now the point here is that the
place where this party was reported was many miles east from the route to
be followed by our relief party, and their direction of march was at right
angles to what our party would have followed. Further, there was no column
of which we had been advised anywhere near this place. The sequel appeared
upwards of two months after this, subsequent to the evacuation of Wa, when
we had joined a second British column under Captain Donald Stuart, then in
command of the Hinterland forces. On our leaving him to proceed to the
coast, he gave instructions to us to enquire at a certain town into the truth
of a native rumour which had just reached him of a party belonging to
another nationality having passed from East to West through that town
about two and a-half months previously. It can easily bo imagined how
interested I was thereat.
When we reached the town named in our orders we found that
undoubtedly their party had passed as described, and answered in every
particular to Mr. Ferguson's description given three months before, and at a
distance of some 130 miles.
2 A 2
346 [Supplement.
/. Shepley Part.
Now this incident occurred under circumstances, as it happened, that-
precluded any possibility of personal communication with Mr. Ferguson by
any one without my knowledge, as the whole time the whole of Mr.
Ferguson's tent was in my view, backed by a high swish wall. There was
no transmission by water, as he had no stream there, and drums are not
used by the Soudanese tribes in the West to anything like the extent
they are by the pure negro tribes on the coast belt, and, in addition,
Mr. Ferguson was not a drummer or a king's linguist. They are
hereditary posts, and indeed his native rank was superior to them, high
as they stand.
On the way up to the Hinterland, shortly before leaving the forest country,
we were benighted one night, and our guide did not know how far we were
from the town to which we were bound. We had been marching for some
hours in the dark along one of the forest roads when I and others saw what
we took to be a lantern in the thick bush. It was peculiar, as it moved as
fast as we did. It presently came out on the track, and an attempt was
made to capture the bearer, which failed, and Mr. Ferguson said we had
better leave it alone. The impression that I retain of it is as a focus of
light throwing a circle of light round it, much as an ordinary stable lantern
would, but afterwards I could not say that I actually saw the wires of the
lantern, but that was the general impression.
As we approached, the light eluded us, and then followed the path ahead
of us for some few miles, and then disappeared, just outside the town we
were approaching ; it moved exactly as if carried by a man. The explana
tion given to me was that this was the "double " (or " Ka " of the ancient
Egyptians) sent out along the route to act as our guide.
Towards the end of the last Ashantee expedition I happened to be
stationed on the coast at the termination of the shortest route from Kumassi
to the coast. A day before the expected entry of the expedition into
Kumassi, I was informed by my boy that the Governor had entered the
town at noon (this was about 1.30). About an hour later I was told the
same thing in the town by an old chief, an educated man, who, when I
laughed at it, remarked that native means of communication were much
more rapid than ours.
I may mention that the upper portion of the line was in charge of the
Royal Engineers, and the coast lines under reserve for Government wires
only. The news was confirmed the following evening by official wire. The
head of the military wire was some 30 to 36 hours' distance from Kumassi,
so this excludes irresponsible chattering by the operators. As to runners,
we were five days at the shortest for special runners from the front. The
route is entirely through forest country, and, in regard to water transit of
sound from drums, there is no direct access to the coast from Kumassi by
water.
With regard to the means by which these phenomena are obtained—these
are secret, and their professors are members of a secret society ; but I was
informed on good authority that the process gone through to obtain the
power of clairvoyance as exemplified above is purely physical, and requires—
when the means have been taught—but constant practice to bring the
several stages to perfection, but that special means are used in each stage.
rart XXXV.] 347
Occultutm in West Africa.
initiation being necessary to each stago of development and then only on
approval of the chiefs of the order, which is very stringently guarded. Only
a very few are initiated into the highest development.
The stages may be divided as under :
1. Simple Clairvoyance.
2. The paying of " Astral visits " or projection of the consciousness
only.
3. The same as 2, with power to materialise the entity projected or
(which I am not certain) to transport the body itself and to
affect material objects.
Mr. Ferguson's name having been mentioned in public in connection
with this subject, I should like in justice to him to say something as to his
character as I knew it.
I found him to be a most modest and retiring man with regard to those
subjects, and not inclined to talk about even the possession of the power of
clairvoyance, which he treated as a great honour to have, and as a sacred
trust not to be reposed in any one who came along. He was a well educated
man and a most competent surveyor and mathematician, as can be verified by
the honours obtained for work done in the field from the R.G.S. I may add
that I have myself the utmost confidence in what he said to me on the subject
of this paper, and I have not trespassed on any confidence shown me, as I
have confined myself to those points which are common knowledge among
many on the coast, and which Mr. Ferguson was willing to confirm.
In conclusion I can only reiterate that, as to ways and means in detail, I
am in the dark, and should be pleased to correspond with any one in the
position to enlighten me.
As to any criticism not dealt with in the paper, I shall be glad to give any
further information in my power to any one addressing me through the
Editor, who has my address.
348 [Supplement,
F. C. S. Schiller.
in.
PSYCHOLOGY AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH:
A Reply to Professor Miinsterberg.1
By F. C. S. Schiller.
Boss locntua est: Professor Hugo Miinsterberg, of Harvard University, the
lord of I don't know how many thousand dollars' worth of psychological
machinery, has planted the banner of the ' only genuine ' psychology amid
the pulverised fragments of ' Mysticism, ' and sent back ' the Cinderella
of the sciences,' Psychical Research, to supervise what alone she is fit for,
viz., the culinary operations of the witches' caldron. And yet, perhaps, in
a critical age, such ex cathedra pronouncements, even of the greatest
scientific dignitaries, are not as safe nor as effective as the lofty and scornful
silence affected by most of his confreres on the General Staff of the Army of
Science. The Goliath of Authority cannot stalk forth into the field of
debate without a risk that a little pellet of reason may pierce through the
thickness of his skull and put an end to his pretensions. For too often the
effect of authority is impaired by argument, and the impressiveness of a
judgment is destroyed by divulging the reasons on which it was based.
Professor Miinsterberg should have remembered Lord Mansfield's advice to
the man who undertook the job of judging what he did not understand, or,
as one must say in Professor Miinsterberg's case, what he wonbi not under
stand. For Professor Miinsterberg's inability to grasp the nature of the
ease for Psychical Research is manifestly of an emotional rather than of an
intellectual character, and affords as fine an example of the effect on the
mind of a passionate ' will to disbelieve ' as I have had the pleasure of
meeting. I am accordingly confident of expressing only the sentiment of
every psychical researcher when I thank Professor Miinsterberg for the
interesting light he has (however inadvertently) thrown on the psychology
of psychologists, and the nature of the fixed ideas by which they seem to be
obsessed.
And, personally, I owe Professor Miinsterberg a debt of gratitude also
on account of the undesigned, exquisite, and almost ideal illustration which
his remarks yield of the aptness of a comparison I ventured to institute in
reviewing Mr. Podmore's book in the pages of Mind,2 when I called
'psychical' phenomena "the Dreyfus Case of Science." I then pointed
out that they had never received a fair and open trial, coram popido, that
1 Of. his article on "Psychology and Mysticism" in the Atlantic Monthly,
January, 1899.
3 For January, 1899. No. 2!), N.S.
Part xxxv.] Psychology and Psychical Research. 349
the evidence on which they had been condemned had never been published,
and could not be produced, that their banishment from the society of
scientific fact and their relegatiou to the company of the Devil had been
effected by a secret and nameless court-martial, which made no serious
pretence of examining the evidence, and that for nearly two centuries the
authorities who professed to speak in the name of Science had, when
questioned, done nothing but invoke the sanctity of the chose jugee, and
intimidate inquirers with solemn prophecies of the absolute ruin that would
overtake the whole scientific order if any investigation or revision of the
matter were to be attempted.1
I also drew attention to the fact that, in spite of all discouragements
and threats, a demand for ' revision ' had grown up, which was supported
by an increasing number of 'intellectuals,' who were not afraid of being
maligned as the hirelings of "a conspiring syndicate of all the super
stitions." But I could not anticipate that Professor Miinsterberg would
simultaneously have been goaded into divulging the contents of the secret
dossier, of which we have heard so much and seen so little, that he would
have exhibited to an astonished urbi et orbi the ridiculous documents on
which he relies to substantiate his case. In short, it was finals o]ioiov that
among the Anti-Dreyfusards of Science there should so soon be found a
champion to emulate the career of M. Cavaignac I Once more, therefore,
let me express my gratitude for the service he has done to the cause of
Psychical Research.
Nevertheless, gratitude must not prevent us from exposing the extra
ordinary nature of the misrepresentations and misconceptions to which he
has attempted to give currency, from drawing attention to the weird
character of the arguments whereby he seeks to appease his intellectual
conscience, in his hurried return to the shelter of the ancient prejudices
from which he ought never to have emerged.
I.
Professor Miinsterberg does well to open his article with a definition of
his subject : but, unfortunately, this definition would be scouted as
ridiculous by every psychical researcher. He defines ' mysticism ' 2 as " the
belief in supernatural connections in the physical and psychical worlds."
Assuredly he did not discover this, or anything like it, in the Proceedinys of
the Society for Psychical Research, which he professes to have included
among the 100 volumes he claims to have read—(p. 78)—with more speed,
apparently, than care. In fact, if he had paid the most ordinary attention
1 Professor Miinsterberg, of course, trots out this old bugaboo also. Courageous
confidence in the ability cf science to deal with every order of fact—with "the
psychology of spirits, angels, and demons, if such things there be, as well as with
that of men and beasts " (as I said in Mind), he declares to be " wrong and dangerous
from beginning to end " (p. 76). Can it be that he has a lurking fear that if he
attempted to investigate demons, they might fly away with him?
2 Which term, by the way, he uses in a wholly popular and unphilosophic fashion,
in order to include under a common name widely divergent attitudes towards these
matters.
350 [Supplement.
F. G. 8. Schiller.
to the continually reiterated 'declared objects of the Society,' he could
not but have observed that no more grotesquely inappropriate travesty of
its object and method could possibly have been devised. The notion that
any phenomenon in God's world could be meant to be supernatural, i.e., put
there to provoke and to baffle inquiry, is one of the very worst of the super-
stititions which the Society for Psychical Research set out to slay. Its
fundamental postulate was that no fact could possibly be supernatural, that
however anomalous it might appear, it must yet admit of investigation by
the appropriate methods, and that to declare it supernatural was simply .in
obscure and offensive way of declaring one's unwillingness to have it inves
tigated. From the psychical researcher's point of view, therefore. Professor
Miinsterberg is himself a supernaturalist of the worst type, little better than
the advocate of the Satanical explanation. The very term "supernatural"
is eschewed by the Society for Psychical Research, and ever since its
foundation it has striven to supplant the ' supernatural ' by the ' super
normal,' aiming at the momentous consequence of substituting something
which courts and challenges, for something which discourages and denes,
inquiry. Either, therefore, Professor Miinsterberg has wholly mistaken
the purpose of the psychical researchers ab initio, or he has grossly libelled
them in the rest of his article by representing them as ' mystics ' and
advocates of a ' supernatural ' view of the alleged phenomena. Among
the horns of this dilemma I must leave him to choose the one on which to
impale himself, and would ask him only to look up S.P.R. Proceedings, No.
1, p. 4.1
It is because of this initial misrepresentation of the aims of the Society
that he seems throughout incapable of conceiving any other motive for
taking an interest in anomalous phenomena than a morbid love of the mar
vellous qua unintelligible, or, as he would call it, ' supernatural. ' That it
is possible to contemplate such matters in the spirit of an explorer, of a
C.O.S. worker, or of a detc.tive (those who are familiar with the practical
working of the Society and have suffered at its hands, indeed, have often
complained of the excess to which it had carried this last spirit), that it is
possible to he animated by a desire to extend the sway of scientific method
over unconquered ground, and to rejoice rather than repine when the new
facts have been connected with the old principles (which, however, they
often transform), that it is possible to take up the subject from a keen sense
of the scientific scandal and social dangers perpetuated by abandoning it
to the vagaries of superstition, in short, from a self-sacrificing willingness to
"take up the white man's burden"—all these are alternative motives which
Professor Miinsterberg is sedulous to ignore. Yet he might have found one
1 Perhaps, however, in view of the difficulty he seems to find in grasping the
point of the literature he reads with such rapidity, I had better quote for him an
extract from the inaugural circular: "The aim of the Society will be to approach
these various problems without prejudice or prepossession of any kind, and in the
same spirit of exact and unimpasaioned inquiry which has enabled Science to solve
so many problems once not leas obscure nor less hotly debated. The founders of the
Society fully recognise the exceptional difficulties which surround this branch of
research ; but they nevertheless hope that, by patient and systematic effort, some
results of permanent value may be attained."
Part xxxv.] Psychology and Psychical Research. 351
or other of them expressed on almost every page of every presidential
exhortation ever delivered unto the members of the S.P.R. !
But not only is Professor Miinsterberg's definition of mysticism in
applicable to Psychical Research, it is also liable to grave exception in itself.
Is it possible, e.;;., to put an intelligible interpretation on the phrase 'super
natural connection' ? Prima facie it seems a contradiction in terms ; for to
Professor Miinsterberg the ' supernatural ' is that which is not connected
with nature. If it is connected in any stable and calculable fashion, it ipso
farlo becomes a fit subject for scientific investigation, i.e., becomes natural.
If, therefore, Professor Miinsterberg had thought his definition sound, he
might have contented himself (and his readers) by pointing out that the
conception of 'mysticism' was self-contradictory, by inferring 'ergo cndit
qiwstio ' and stopping ' right there.'
Again, a dangerous ambiguity seems to lurk in the phrase about the
connections being ' in ' the physical and psychical worlds. As a philo
sopher who ventures to soar to the metaphysical heights he reaches later,
Professor Miinsterberg must of course know quite well that these worlds
( are not separate universes, but aspects of the world (of experience), or
rather, the results of special methods of handling our experience. Hence, in
one sense, any fact will be ' out of,' e.g., the physical world, when it does
not lend itself to treatment by the established methods of physics, and so is
ignored by them. But of course it goes on existing just the same, and may
receive recognition in another science or by other methods. That is, it will
remain ' in ' the physical world in a wider sense, and so long as it coheres
with other facts (or aspects of facts) it must be capable of scientific explora
tion, and the only question will be as to the proper method of investigating.
The only sin against the Holy Ghost of Science or, less metaphorically,
against the fundamental assumption of all science, which it is possible to
commit, is the assertion that any fact can be incapable of being connected
with others. This offence is far from the thought of the psychical
researcher, but by implication Professor Miinsterberg commits it whenever
he argues against the recognition of any fact on the ground that it is
' supernatural,' and allows his fears to dictate his arguments.
Having started from a vicious definition, Professor Miinsterberg is forced
to justify it by ascribing to his 'mystics' an utterly anti-scientific attitude.
A lay observer is not allowed to use the teleological language of ordinary life
in expressing the connection of phenomena as they appeared to him, without
having his words twisted into a denial of the possibility of a scientific con
nection of events. Now, of course, Professor Miinsterberg may nourish
whatever metaphysical prejudices he pleases1 against the teleological
explanation of tilings, but there are two things which they do not entitle
him to do : (1) They do not entitle him to treat a teleological ordering of
events as no order at all—that is merely begging the question, and brings
him into conflict with all the religions as well as with ' mysticism ' ; and
(2) they do not entitle him to overlook the fact that in many sciences the
1 His argument on p. 83 amounts to an assertion that a final cause is no cause—
a doctrine open to much objection philosophically, and only apparently borne out by
the present practice of the natural sciences.
352 [Suppkment.
F. C. S. Schiller.
teleological explanation often yields the clue which leads on to the discovery
of the mechanism whereby the effect is mediated. Thus, in biology, the
purpose of an organ is often far more easily apparent than the mechanism
by which it functions. Similarly, if departed spirits did communicate, we
might detect tchy long before we discovered how they did so. To declare,
then, one's belief that certain events are purposive does not in the least
imply that they are not also mechanical, according as we contemplate them
in one way or in another.
n.
I do not know whether the true mystic, if such there be, would resent
Professor Miinsterberg's account of his mental attitude as a distortion, or,
as is more probable, would remain profoundly indifferent to anything that
might be urged by so unsympathetic a critic. But I do know that Professor
Miinsterberg's distortions of his opponents' views must not be acquiesced in
when they affect people who do aim at precision in the use of their technical
words. His caricatures are not even correctly drawn, and are hardly recog
nisable. Thus he does not scruple freely to use the technical term which
the S.P.R. has introduced in its infancy, and has clung to ever since, viz..
Telepathy. But this is how he defines it (p. 68) : "To perceive in an incom
prehensible way the ideas and thoughts of others." On the other hand, the
Society has unvaryingly defined its meaning as "the transmission of
thoughts and feelings from one mind to another by no recognised channel oi
sense."1 It seems impossible to ascribe to Professor Miinsterberg either
such linguistic ignorance or such logical incapacity as would lead to the
substitution, without a suspicion of the scope of the change, of "incompre
hensible " for " uncomprehended." By what psychological processes, then,
did he extract his interpretation from the literature which he claims to have
examined ?
At any rate, a candid critic could not but have observed that the official
definition of telepathy in no wise excluded transmission either through as
yet unrecognised sensory channels or through a supernormal intensifying of
the recognised channels ; i.e., telepathy includes both hyperesthesia and
physical hypotheses of the ' brain wave : type, and it is simply one of
the many delusions with which the subject teems to suppose that the
recently alleged extensions of hyperaesthesia constitute a refutation of the
telepathic hypothesis. They simply show how completely right the S.P.R.
was 15 years ago in holding that the bounds of science had to be enlarged to
take in the new facts. On the other hand, the suggestion that telepathic
transmission is incomprehensible is a request that the S.P.R. should
gratuitously commit suicide.
Not but what a strong criticism might be directed against the telepathic
explanation on grounds other than those Professor Miinsterberg saw fit
1 "All impressions received at a distance without the normal operation of the
recognised sense organs" are telepathic. S.P.R. Proceedings, I., p. 147, ef. 1L.
pp. 44, 117, et passim. Mr. Podmore, whom Professor Miinsterberg hold* up to
scientific execration, explicitly states that, "though there are grounds sufficient to
justify telepathy as a working hypothesis, the proof of its transcendental nature is still
wanting." Studies in Psychical Research, 1897, p. 8.
Part XXXV.] 353
Psychology and Psychical Research.
to adopt. For telepathy is, after all, not a positive explanation but a
negation, arrayed in the garb of an affirmation, and crying aloud to gods
and men for a more positive definition. Hence the effect that it seems to
triumph to its own loss, that in proportion as the facts for which it obtained
recognition find positive grounds of explanation and enrich the sphere of
science, its own foundations seem to be withdrawn. But this would be
distressing only if the psychical researcher were, as Professor Munsterberg
insinuates, interested in the growth, not of knowledge, but of mystery.
And if the S.P.R. be accused of having been somewhat slow in develop
ing the positive content of 1 telepathy,' it may fairly urge in defence that
its workers were few, and that other needs were more pressing. The main
use of the conception of telepathy was to assist in the analysis of the far
more anomalous phenomena of spiritism and ghost-seeing. Of the con
sequence that the proof of spirit-life, spirit identity and spirit agency was
thereby rendered indefinitely more difficult, Professor Miinsterberg betrays
not the least suspicion. He treats telepathy throughout as but the most
modern avenue to the Hall of Illusion. And yet, if he had only seen it,
telepathy would have served his purpose far better if he had not abused
it, but used it, like, e.g., Mr. Podmore, to arrest the premature flights of
superstition. Hence the ingenious author of the tftvilies in Psychical
Research figures only as " the most ardent believer in telepathy " (p. 77),
anxious to credit needless marvels. Just as if his perhaps somewhat hyper
critical studies did not embody incomparably the most successful attempt to
take a sceptical view of the phenomena as a whole, as if they did not strike
a far more telling blow at superstition than the collective efforts of all the
a priori scoffers from the days of Hume onwards !
It is clear, then, that Professor Miinsterberg has grossly misrepresented
both the aims and methods of the S.P. R., and the character of the explana
tions which it has, quite provisionally, suggested. In other words, the
secret dottier which he reveals does not refer to the S.P.R. " Ve canaille
de D." is not Dreyfus, and whoever reads it thus reads it wrong, and
knows it. Professor Munsterberg owes the Society an apology, and in
view of the extent of his obligations to its critical work (from which his
explanations derive all the real force they possess), poetic justice would
seem to demand that he should at least contribute to its funds the ill-
gotten gains of his Atlantic Monthly article !
III.
Strictly speaking, I might end here—after vindicating the integrity of
the only approximation to a Cour de Cassation which exists in this
analogue of the Dreyfus Case against the irresponsible attack of a would-
be Quesnay de Beaurepaire. But I cannot resist the temptation of
commenting still further on some of the many delectable passages in Pro
fessor Miinsterberg's article.
Professor Miinsterberg has a pretty knack of enunciating sonorous
maxims which, upon examination, turn out either not to be relevant or
not to be intelligible. Let us take, for instance, the impressive dictum
which tells us (p. 69) that "the psychologist insists that every perception
354 F. C. S. Schiller.
of occurrences outside of one's own body, and every influence beyund
one's own organism, must be intermediated by an uninterrupted chain ot
physical processes." Surely Professor Miinsterberg need feel no anxiety
lest this should seem "an apparently arbitrary decision"—for no require
ment can be more easily complied with. Does not the continuity of
Space mediate between all processes that occur in the perceptual universe x
and would not the weirdest miracle that a theological imagination ever
concocted be accompanied by "an uninterrupted chain of physical pro
cesses " ? And, contrariwise, would not the laxness of the maxim open
wide the door to the wildest claims of hyperiesthesia that might be
advanced by any pseudo-scientific 'crank'? Professor Miinsterbers s
admissions arouse the gravest apprehensions. A blind man, he tells us.
may perceive distant obstacles by touch (p. 70), ', but that does not con
flict with the propositions of psychology, and is not mystical," and "even
if a man . . . had a sense-organ for electric currents more sensitive
than the finest galvanometer, the psychologist would have no reason rot
skepticism, so long as the physical nature of the transmission from the
outer object to the brain is admitted." Such portentous credulity would
render him the victim of any swindler who claimed to perform his tricks
by ' physical ' means, while to the honest investigator, who observed the
facts but did not come prepared with figments to ' explain ' them, Science
would say: " Avaunt, vile mystic, if thou canst not show thy physical
mediation, thy physical substrata " ! Something must somehow have gone
wrong with critical canons which lead to such results !
The truth is, of course, that Professor Miinsterberg is once m'ire
juggling with the double meaning of 'physical' mentioned above (p. 351).
and trying to infer from the (assumed) impossibility of treating an alleged
fact by the present methods of the special science of physics that it can
have no existence in a world which (among its many other aspects) is al&>
physical. But, to my limited intelligence, it appears almost inconceivable
to suppose that any fact should not have a physical aspect, however sub
ordinate, while it is obvious that the principles of physics are not rigid and
immutable, like the famous ' laws of the Medes and Persians.' Hence I
cannot but think that the attempt to proscribe any fact a priori, on the ground
of the le-ie majeste it commits against the laws of physics, necessarily fails. No
independent jury would convict a fact of the humblest and most suspicious
character on such grounds—whatever verdict might be extracted from a
packed and hoodwinked court-martial of Professor Miinsterberg's laboratory
assistants.
And the same objection disposes also of Professor Miinsterberg's laboured
contentions that (for some reason which he never succeeds in making clear)
' mystical ' phenomena are incompatible with the causal connection and
mechanical treatment postulated by science. Professor Miinsterberg, I
make bold to say, is perfectly aware that this is all moonshine, that the
mechanical explanation, just because it is a method of science, is universally
applicable ; that the causal connection as an 'a priori ' postulate is the
same ; and that if, for the purposes of special sciences or for the sake of
excluding distasteful facts, its scope has been unduly narrowed, nothing is
easier or more imperative than to expand it to any requisite degree. I
Part XXXV.] 355
Psychology and Psychical Research.
should also like to credit him with the knowledge 1 that a mechanical and
(in his sense) causal explanation of a fact in no wise excludes, prejudices,
or dispenses with, its explanation by higher categories, and that all the
High Priests of all the Sciences in solemn conclave assembled could not
effectively taboo the ' romantic ' and teleological interpretation of the
facts of life.
IV.
I may pass next to what is perhaps the cleverest thing in Professor
Miinsterberg s article, viz., the splendid audacity with which he interprets
away the rout to which scientific dogmatism has so often been put by the
victorious intrusion of new facts. "It is absurd," he says (p. 83), " for the
mystics to claim the backing of history, because it shows that many things
are acknowledged as true to-day which were not believed in earlier times.
The teaching of history, on the contrary, annihilates almost cruelly every
claim of mysticism, as, far from a later approval of mystical wisdom, history
has in every case remoulded the facts until they have become causal ones.
If the scientists of earlier times disbelieved in phenomena as products of
witchcraft, and believe to-day in the same phenomena as products of
hypnotic suggestion and hysteria, the mystics are not victorious but defeated.
As long as the ethical (sic) category of Satanic influence was applied to the
appearances they were not true ; as soon as they were brought under the
causal categories they were accepted as true, but they were then no longer
mystical—it was not witchcraft any more. This process of transformation
goes on steadily ; millions of propositions which life suggests remain untrue
till they are adjusted."
If Professor Miinsterberg means what he says by his last remark, it
would follow that for lack of a little ' adjustment ' he was losing his chance
of becoming the greatest discoverer of truth the world has yet seen, a
veritable millionaire of verities, in fact ! If, again, he means what he says
in his last sentence but one, it would follow that he should swallow any yarn
so soon as any one has taken the trouble to coat it over with an illusory
varnish of ' causal ' phrases.
But I am loth to think that he should really believe that the truth or
falsehood of reported facts can depend on the atmosphere of worthless a
priori theories with which we surround them before investigation. If that
were all, it would be contemptibly easy to make the extremest assertions
look respectable, and to put Professor Miinsterberg in a hole whence he
could extricate himself only by conversion to the principles of psychical
research ; I myself should not need that provocation to undertake to show
that, with unlimited license of conjectural extension, the orthodox principles
of suggestion, hallucination and the ' threshold ' of consciousness would be
quite capable of ' accounting for ' far more marvels than have ever been
1 He has read his colleague, Professor James', Will to Believe, though he mis
represents it. And though his metaphysics, as will be shown (p. 307), result in an
impossible separation of the world of phenomena from that of reality, they do contain
a sort of admission that both the mechanical and the teleological explanations are
(in different senses) true.
356 [Supplement
F. C. 8. Schiller.
alleged,1 whereas the real difficulty of the subject is to authenticate thefads,
and as soon as a sufficient supply of authentic facts has been accumulated, no
difficulty has ever been encountered in fitting them on to previous facts. To
Professor Miinsterberg the important aspect of this process is that the facts
should have fitted ; to the psychical researcher, that the facts should have
been admitted—the one is anxious to recover from the shock to his prejudices,
the other to obtain recognition for unappreciated truth. It is obvious
which of these is the more scientific attitude. And the triumph of
science over ' mysticism ' which Professor Miinsterberg here discovers
is a triumph only over his own absurd conception of mysticism, while the new
facts triumph, not over science, but over the prepossessions of the scientists
who arrogated to themselves the monopoly of truth. If any historical fact
is certain, it is surely this, that if those who had faith in the unknown
possibilities of existence had allowed themselves to be deterred by the ,i
priori denunciations of those who thought like Professor Miinsterberg, the
existence of, e.g., hypnotism would never have been brought to light. And
if Professor Miinsterberg regards the hundred years' struggle before the
facts were grudgingly admitted a creditable chapter in the history of science,
I can comparo his audacity only to that of a theologian who should regard
the history of witch-burning as a credit to theology, or of a member of
certain historic Sanhedrim who should take credit for his part in promoting
the establishment of the Christian religion by stimulating Pontius Pilate's
somewhat torpid zeal for the discharge of his official duties !
V.
At intervals in the course of his article Professor Miinsterberg betrays
symptoms of an uneasiness about the progress of his crusade against
' mysticism.' Thus, when about half-way through, he confesses (p. 75) that
so far "we have given decisions, but not arguments." One cordially agrees
and after this expects a revolution in the logical texture of the article. But,
alas, it goes on very much as before. Then Professor Miinsterberg makes
another effort and invokes the suprasensible truths of metaphysics to supply
him with reasons for the utter rejection of mysticism a priori. The appeal
is successful, and for the rest of the article the lay reader struggles gallantly
with Professor Miinsterberg's attempts to express thoughts that lie too deep
for words and intelligible statement, and to bring them to bear on a very
simple dispute about facts. At first one is inclined to hold that this recourse
to metaphysics is merely due to Professor Miinsterberg's inability to find
any more conclusive reasons, and forms his version of the old story : '' Xo
case—abuse the plaintiff's attorney," viz., "No case; drag in metaphysics!,'
But attentive reflection soon discovers that the real reason is somewhat
different.
Professor Miinsterberg is a victim of the Germanic spirit. So he cannot
content himself with simply telling the ' mystics ' that their facts are in
point of fact illusory. He cannot be happy until he has convinced himself
1 As, indeed, I pointed out five years ago in Philosophical Review, Vol. Ill-
No. 4, pp. 488-9.
Part XXXV.] 357
Psychology and Psychical Research.
that they are a priori impossible. Before he can be got to admit a fact as a
fact, he must be provided with a proof that it is possible, and see that it has
a passport duly vised and officially stamped, entitling it to find a home in
the world of science. He can no more help doing this than the British
spirit can help ferreting out the facts first of all and postponing to sub
sequent leisure the task of devising an explanation for them.
Now personally I have much sympathy with metaphysical prejudices,
and am reluctant to sacrifice their brilliance to the laborious pertinacity of
the sounder British method. I do not therefore propose to be hard on
Professor Miinsterberg's metaphysics. They are a national infirmity rather
than a personal eccentricity or an attempt to confuse the issue, and I will be
merciful to them (and to my readers). Hence I shall say as little aa
possible about them, and, lest I should spoil their aesthetic effect, shall
confine myself to quotations.
"Our real inner life is a system of attitudes of will which we do not per
ceive as objects of consciousness," and the "causal view has not the slightest
meaning for this inner reality." "The real inner life in its teleological
reality is spaceless and timeless" and is "in short not a psychological fact at
all." " Life as seen from a psychological point of view . . . is utterly
worthless." A future life, therefore, as understood hitherto, is "a violation
of the ethical belief in immortality " which " means that we as subjects of
will are immortal ; that is, we are not reached by death." Nay, (in this
sense) " immortality is certain ; for him, the denial of immortality would be
even quite meaningless." This, then, is the real idealism and the true
immortality, which cannot become a vulgar object of desire to any one, while
with the exception of a few professorial ' immortals ' ' every one escapes his
own notice possessing it.' No wonder Professor Miinsterberg gets angry
with those who are trying to profane his transcendental ideals by dragging
them down to a world in which they themselves live, and change, and
suffer, and speak intelligibly !
When such monsters of metaphysical mountains labour to crush Mrs.
Piper, the unsympathetic comment of bystanders is not wanted. I shall
remark, therefore, only that Professor Miinsterberg's metaphysic is Schopen-
hauerism, that it has inherited Kant's insoluble difficulty of the double
causation of every event, phenomenally and really, and that in any case it
is not really relevant to the point under dispute.1
The only thing that really matters about Professor Miinsterberg's meta
physics is that they constitute him a mystic of the most pronounced type—
in his own sense of the word. For he denies all connections between his two
worlds, that of psychology and that of reality : hence each is 'super
natural,' and neither is intelligible, to the other. Our experience as a whole
also becomes unintelligible, because it is cleft in twain irremediably by the
two worlds Miinsterberg the Professor has set up. And this is sad, but it is
so ; though it need not have caused any surprise to those who have observed
1 If I were disposed to make trouble I might say a good deal more. I should
urge, e.g.,that acts and purposes in a world which is out of time would seem to be sheer
nonsense ; that ethical valuations are facts in time as much as any other, and have
nothing to do with Professor Miinsterberg's " ethical belief in immortality " ; that he
is inconsistent in a variety of ways, etc., eto.
358 [Supplement
F. G. S. Schiller.
how often extremes meet and how truly Aristotle held that excellence lay
in a mean. Once more a priori scepticism has played into the hands of
superstition and puts obstacles into the intermediate path of Psychical
Research !
VI.
Minora canamiui. It is a relief to turn from such excursions into ' the
vast inane ' to the pleasant side-lights Professor Munsterberg sometimes
throws on his personal characteristics. He is a very Galahad among
psychology professors. He has never, he assures us, " taken part in a
telepathic experiment or in a spiritualistic seance." But he once had a
thrilling adventure " with two famous telepathists in Europe " (p. 77), who
had discovered "a medium of extraordinary powers" at a distance, unfor
tunately, which would have involved him in "15 hours' travelling"—no slight
journey even for a well-girt man. For a moment the professor wavered iii
his decision, and his mighty mind was nigh o'erthrown. But, before he had
started, the telepathists had discovered the fraud. A most providential
escape, surely ; for if the professor had come and seen, he might have been
conquered, and then a flood of superstition might have swept us all back
into the Middle Ages ! But, after all, his (and our) escape was not, as he
confesses, so much due to his scientific caution as to his dilatoriness ; the
virgin purity of his scientific character was preserved unsullied only by hi*
professorial slowness in packing his trunks ! 1 Perhaps his readers would
have been more interested to hear the reason why he has never expended a
couple of hours and of 5-cent car fares and, fortified only with, say, a
couple of bags and a choice selection of psychological instruments, tried his
luck with Mrs. Piper ! After such heroic readiness to pack his trunks for
a 15-hour journey, that seems a little strange.
The reason, doubtless, lies in his sense of the surpassing innocency of
his character. He is in very deed "the Israelite in whom there is no guile"
we read of in the Scriptures. " Why do I avoid these seances?" he asks
pathetically. " It is not because I am afraid that they would shake my
theoretical views and convince me of mysticism, but because I consider it
undignified to visit such performances .... and because I know I should
be the last man to see through the scheme and discover the trick " (p. 78).
And, after an appeal to the effete old ignava ratio that a conjuror and
not a scientist is the proper person to detect trickery,2 he proceeds to
1 Note the plural.
,2 This seems a truism a. priori, but is not borne out by experience. For such ex
perts have often most unreservedly admitted the supernormal character of many of
the disputed facts—even where the scientists subsequently discovered trickery. The
explanation, of course, is that the expert is quite as liable (or in some cases, because
of his conceit of knowledge, even more liable) to be deceived by trickery on lines
which are unfamiliar to him. And, as Messrs. Hodgson and Davey have shown, the
subtler sort of spiritistic fraud really rests on a higher plane than ordinary conjuring".
It rests not so much on the deception of the senses by apparatus and prestidigitation,
but on the fact that the spectator is induced to deceive himself by lapses of attention
and errors of interpretation. Hence his mental processes present far subtler, more
complicated and interesting psychological problems than those of the conjuror,s
audience.
Part XXXV.] 35!)
Psychology and Psychical Research.
commend himself, and his science, for his lack of detective insight. As an
experimental psychologist he is by his whole training " absolutely spoilt for
the business of a detective." He does not know "another profession in
which the suspicion of constant fraud becomes so systematically inhibited
as it does in that of the scientist." Daily work in a scientific laboratory he
regards "as a continuous training of an instinctive confidence in the honesty
of one's co-operators." Hence, he implies, Zollner, Richet, Crookes, etc.,
were deceived, aud he was saved from a like fate only by his resisting the
temptation to investigate—or, more precisely (as we saw above) by the
fortunate delay in packing his trunks !
Now, of course, we must accept Professor Munsterberg's description of
his own idiosyncrasy. I am quite ready to believe that he is as easy to
deceive as he is difficult to convince. But on the other points of this argu
ment I take leave to differ.
I think he exaggerates the incompetence of other scientific men in
psychical research when he judges them by himself. They are, of course,
not born experts in psychical research, but become such by a pretty
severe training, in the course of which they may often fall into error.
For they are no more infallible in their observations than in their
a priori convictions. An instinctive insight into the possibilities of
fraud comes to them, as to the detective, only as the fruit of long
experience. (That is just why I am not impressed by the authority of
scientists whose qualifications resemble Professor Munsterberg's.) But they
can make themselves very fair judges of trickery, though perhaps they
would do well, both before and after investigating, to consult with a real
expert with the long and varied experience of, e.g., Dr. Hodgson. And it is
just because isolated investigation is so hazardous, because experience and
special study are so valuable, that it is so desirable that the S.P. R. should
have the means to employ dozens of trained investigators, who ' know the
ropes,' and are fully alive to all the difficulties of the subject, instead of
one. For our science here stands shivering on the shore of an ' unharvested
sea ' of unknown dimensions.
Again, I am a little reluctant to accept Professor Munsterberg's account
of the experimental psychologists' superhuman guilelessness. This may in
part be due to the unfortunate outcome of my only attempt to enlist an
experimental psychologist's co-operation in a ' psychical ' experiment. He
took advantage of the opportunity to secure the failure of the experiment.
No doubt his scientific conscience permitted, nay, persuaded, him to protect
' science ' against the possible inroads of ' superstition ' by such means,
but after this I naturally incline to guard myself against the possibilities of
deception on both sides. For it is decidedly humiliating to have escaped
the wiles of the professional mediums only to fall a victim to the excessive
zeal of a professorial psychologist, whose good faith one had taken for
granted !
Further, and this is a contention which has a wider scope, I would main
tain that, whatsoever may be the natural and acquired guilelessness of
psychologists de facto, they have no business to pride themselves on it and
to cultivate it de jure, and that if Professor Munsterberg's account of the
mental attitude of himself and his ' experimental ' confreres is correct, it pro
2 B
360 F. C. S. Schiller.
tanto unfits him, and them, for the prosecution of delicate psychological
inquiries. For the obstacles which impede the attainment of truth in
Psychical Research and in ' experimental ' psychology are in many important
respects identical. And if the psychical researcher has to recognise the
superior position of experimental psychology in many respects,1 and may
learn not a little from its ingenious use of mechanical contrivances for
recording and controlling observations, yet on the other hand the psychical
researcher has acquired an openness of mind and a practical experience of
the sources of psychologic error, which might be applied to psychological
experiments in a most fruitful and revolutionary manner.
Very possibly such assertions will strike Professor Miinsterberg as novel
and preposterous, and he will feel inclined to retort that he puts his trust in
instruments which cannot lie, and apparatus which cannot be hallucinated
And in a limited sense this is doubtless true : instruments are a migbty
defence against fraud, though, like all fortifications, they require to be
manned by the right sort of garrison and to be properly looked after, in the
absence of which care it is, c.;y., perfectly easy to produce bogus 'spirit,
photographs from the most trustworthy cameras. So that the use of instru
ments of the most marvellous exactness alone will not prevent deception if
the experimenters cannot be trusted.
But the charge is that in psychical researches they cannot be trusted,
whereas in ' experimental ' psychology they can, and it is here that 1
find the home of the delusion which purl,s up the psychologist with su
overweening a conceit of his own superiority, with so overbearing a
contempt for the poor psychical researcher struggling amid the pitfalls of
deception. But this view of the situation may be shown to be utterly
erroneous.
In the first place, it is not true that exposure to deliberate deception is
the only or the chief difficulty which besets psychical research. No one whu
has had any considerable practical familiarity with the evidence and the
process of collecting it, believes that conscious deception is the source of
any considerable part of it, or that an appreciable percentage of thr
narrators of marvellous stories are liars, pure and simple. There are such
cases, and they throw much valuable light on the study of human mendacity
(even though it may not be possible to determine by their means the co
efficient of human mendacity with mathematical accuracy), even as one hv-
heard of bogus statistics and bogus surveys in other sciences. Occasionally
a well-constructed and well-sustained lie may impose even on an expert,
though, fortunately, this danger is rapidly diminishing as the methods of
criticism of 'psychical' evidence are becoming better understood, and as
the social atmosphere grows more favourable to the truthful reporting o:
such experiences. Even the possibilities of fraudulent ' mediumship '
have become pretty well understood, with the result that the area of the
phenomena calling for investigation has been correspondingly restricted-
On the whole, therefore, the danger of deception from deliberate and con
scious fraud and mendacity is not serious, and it would be as absurd to
1 Especially as regards its financial resources and its command of the well-paid
services of hundreds of workers with a high academic ttatut.
Part XXXV] 361
Psychology and Psychical Research.
explain the mass of phenomena in this way as to hold that the constancy of
the experimental results obtained by psychologists was due only to a tacit
conspiracy to foist a profitable pseudo-science upon the universities of the
world. The real danger lies elsewhere. It is, as Plato says, a ' lie in the
soul' and not 'in words.' It lies in the as yet unexplored possibilities of
unconscious and self-deception, of hallucination and suggestion. Of the
subtle sophistications which lurk in these agencies we know as yet so little
that one sometimes thinks that a new era in psychology might spring from
an attempt to answer the question—How are collective hallucinations
possible ? It must be admitted that the psychical researcher is here largely
groping in the dark, sustained only by the consciousness that every moment
he stumbles upon something new and unexpected, and that his best security
lies in his acute appreciation of the peril of his position.
But what about the 'experimental' psychologist? His position is pre
cisely analogous, only he does not appear to know it !
(1) Like the psychical researcher with his 'sensitives,' he has to confine
most of his experiments to a very limited section of the human race, viz.,
those who are not only educated up to the point of understanding them, but
are also constitutionally endowed with a rare capacity of resisting the tedium
of performing them.
(2) Like him, he puts his subjects under abnormal conditions and assumes
that what is found to hold of mental processes under ' experimental '
conditions will apply also to them under the normal conditions of natural
life. This he does, although he knows quite well that the limen of conscious
ness and the capacity of attention vary most surprisingly according to the
interest which the subject inspires.
(3) Like the psychical researcher he is dealing with conditions which
give the widest possible scope to mguestion. But unlike the former ho
seems to have been (at all events until recently) blissfully unconscious of the
fact and to have taken no appreciable precautions against the vitiation
of his results from this source.1 Yet the conditions of the ordinary
psychological laboratory are almost the ideal conditions for inducing a
maximum of suggestibility. First of all the subject's mind is prepared by
impressive and dogmatic statements of his professor to expect certain results.
Then he is steeped in a literature admirably calculated to lower his vitality,
to stupefy his critical capacity, to abase his imagination, until no thought can
enter it of any but a certain sort of result. Meanwhile he is subjected to a
thorough course of ' ward training ' in the laboratory, receiving all the
time frequent 'hints' from his director and breathing an atmosphere
which simply reeks with suggestion. When finally he produces his research,
is it a wonder that in 99 cases out of 100 its results should be found faith
fully to reflect the assumptions of ' experimental ' psychology in general
and to confirm the views of the director of his laboratory in particular ?
And do not the training and the ideas instilled in the Leipzig laboratory still
1 It will suffice to refer to an exception which proves the rule, viz., Professor
G. A. Tawney (justissimus unui qui fuit in Teucris), who, in an article in the
Piychological tievicw (Nov., 1897), shows that the 'double-point illusion' is mainly
due to auto-suggestion.
2 b 2
3G2 [Snpplenwol.
F. C. S. Schiller.
play much the same part in ' experimental ' psychology as the ' three-
stages ' view of the Salpétriere School once did in the theory of hypnotism 7
And is it not generally admitted that the wonderfully symmetrical results
originating from the Salpétriere were mainly the result of suggestion, though
the fact could not be proved until independent centres of experimentation
imbued with different notions had come into prominence ? We have then
positive proofs that the effects of suggestion can vitiate a whole science ; and
suggestion can be brought to bear on the youthful minds that frequent
psychological laboratories with far greater force than even in the palmiest
days of the Salpétriere theory. Would it not then border on a miracle if
such strong suggestions had failed to produce their effect, would it not be
still more marvellous if such a ' failure ' should ever be thought worth
printing ?
(4) Like the psychical researcher, the psychological experimenter deals
with mental processes whose delicacy renders them peculiarly liable t,>
hallucination. And when we bear in mind the powerful suggestions that
are operative throughout the process, it will hardly seem surprising that n»t
only, e.g., the ' perception ' of infinitesimal differences in sensory stimuli and
the reactions of an expectant attention upon an imagined signal, but even the
readings of a micrometer or the chronoscopic estimates in thousandths of a
second which are needed to produce the required conformity in the results
should often be explicable as sheer hallucinations fostered by the peculiar con
ditions of the experiment. Indeed, we even find some such results recorded
by the psychologists, though without any consciousness, apparently, of their
methodological significance. At all events I feel that I personally could
match Professor Miinsterberg's avowal of his limitless capacity to be deceived
in 'psychical' experiments by an equally frank avowal of my capacity t"
deceive myself in psychological experiments. If I did not succeed in getting
myself turned out as an unsuitable subject by failing to see anything at all.
I am sure I should delude myself into fancying that I saw wh.-i'ever was
expected of me. For in such experiments one cannot trust onesulf : there is
often just the same difficulty about distinguishing a real from a hallucinatory
sense-perception, as there is in some ' borderland ' experiences about
saying whether one is asleep or awake.
(5) Like the psychical researcher, the psychologist cherishes a weakness
for figures—in the one case in the shape of statistics ; in the other in shape
of 'exact quantitative measurements.' And though, of course, a method
of inquiry which can use figures is far more provocative of confidence
than one which cannot, it may be questioned whether in both cases the
Pythagorean reverence for Number is not often carried to a superstitious
intensity. To swamp the inquirer with a flood of figures is not necessarily
to solve a problem, especially while one of the chief doubt* is as to the
relevance of the figures. And, on the other hand, it is well known that
with skilful manipulation, statistics and ' exact quantitative determina
tions ' may be made to prove many things, while they serve as opiates to
the critical faculty and induce a comfortable glow of scientific rectitude.
Hence the pride which the psychologist takes in his figures may often prove
a snare, and a prelude to his fall from his fancied eminence of uncontested
truth.
Part XXXV.) 363
Psychology and Psychical Research.
In addition to the above five points, in which the problems of the psychical
researcher and the ' experimental ' psychologist are analogous, I may briefly
allude to two others in which there is a divergence, significant as bearing on
the attitude which tho latter so often takes up towards the former.
(6) The psychologist deals with partial processes of human mentality,
isolated as far as possible from their context ; the psychical researcher
generally experiments with the psychical organism as a whole. The former
procedure is more in accordance with the analogy of the other sciences
(though, to be sure, it is here a question how far the analogy holds), but it
renders him liable to the charge of false abstraction in ignoring the context
and the connection of the phenomena studied with the whole mental life.
The latter runs the risk of treating as a simple fact what is really the com
plex resultant of many factors. But, being more concrete, this method is
more interesting and more human, as the psychologist cannot but himself
feel. And, being irritated both by the popular preference for the wider
sweep of the more concrete method and by his consciousness of the respon
sive note it strikes in his own bosom, he reacts upon the temptation by
pouring out the vials of his wrath from time to time in indiscriminate abuse
of Psychical Research and all its works and ways. Which, though very
human, is foolish, and not science.
(7) The psychical researcher is aware that he has to deal with what
appears a more aberrant type of fact, and to exercise the greatest care to
take nothing for granted. He must state all the conditions of his experi
ments with the utmost fulness and the greatest attainable accuracy,
legarding nothing as too trivial for mention, and sedulously eschewing
anything like 'cooking' of the evidence And I think that no candid
reader can deny that such has been the aim of the S.P. R., and that the
evidence it publishes conforms to the highest standards in an ever-increasing
>legree as time goes on, and the knowledge of its methods becomes more
widely diffused.
The facts of the ' experimental ' psychologist, on the other hand, are
intrinsically of an entirely commonplace character. They are so closely
connected with those of the recognised science of physiology, that their
dependence on it has often seemed mere parasitism. Hence the psychologist
feels freer from the restrictions which are imposed on psychical research,
and his accounts show that he enjoys his freedom to the full. He appears
to recognise no limits to the suppression of unsuitable records and to the
selection of the ' facts ' he propounds. And in any case his statement of
the conditions is hardly ever full enough to disarm the suspicion that the
first four sources of error I have mentioned have not been adequately
guarded against. Hence the reports of psychological experiments are
hardly ever such as to carry conviction to any one disposed to dispute their
results ; they are accepted because, as a rule, they shock no antecedent
prejudice. But this uncritical na'u-ele can hardly be esteemed a recommenda
tion by an impartial student of the methodology of the sciences, and hence
Professor Miinsterberg's complacent delight in the absence of suspiciousness
fostered by his psychological methods vividly reminds me of General
Mercier's innocent surprise at being informed of the illegality and impro
priety of his use of the documents whereby tho condemnation of Dreyfus
364 [Supplement.
F. C. S. Schiller.
was secured. It would be far better if, instead of propagating misrepre
sentations of the S.P.R., Professor Miinsterberg imitated its methods
somewhat more closely, and got, e.g., his fellow-townsman, Dr. Hodgson,
to open his guileless eyes to some of the sources of illusion which infect his
most favourite assumptions.
VII.
Now why, it may be wondered, have I done Professor Miinsterberg s
incoherent and ridiculous reasonings (" R/iisonniren " as the Germans aptly
say) the honour of so detailed a refutation ? It is not that so elaborate
a counterblast is needed against sophistries which can hardly impose on
their author. It is not for the sake of gaining a dialectical victory and
humbling his professorial pride. It is not in the hope of effecting
his conversion. For if any man can remain deaf to the charming of
his colleague, Professor James, no power in heaven or earth can move
him in his prejudices. It is simply because I would put it to MM. Us
Generaiu de VEtat-major that, even from their own point of view, they arc
making a mistake in their conduct of this awkward little affair. Their
methods of suppressing the 'revisionists' are too crude and inefficient.
We want something fresher than a re-hash of the old a priori prejudices in
lieu of conclusive documents. We want something more unlike the belated
forgeries of Colonel Henri than Professor Munsterberg's perversions of the
S.P.R.'s attitude. He is simply adding blunders to the ancient crime*,
and, from the point of view of humanity, adding crimes to the ancient
blunders.
For, socially speaking, the policy pursued in this Dreyfus Case of Science
has been criminal as well as stupid, criminally stupid and stupidly criminal.
The success of the S.P.R. , to say nothing of more fanatically 'Dreyfusard'
associations, must make it obvious even to the obtusest professor that the
policy of the choxe jnyde has failed. It has not achieved what was expected
of it—it has not burked inquiry. And it is quite plain that it cannot do so
in the future, however great becomes the growth of Science. For, as the
sciences grow more specialised and their language more technical, the radius
of their influence contracts rapidly, their ideas affect the minds of men less
and less. Already in Professor Miinsterberg's article (unless its obscurity was
intentional) the real ground of his technical objection to ' mysticism ' can
hardly have been intelligible to one out of a thousand of educated readers.
And experimental psychology is still in its infancy, crying aloud to every
alma mater to notice and nourish it. To what depths of technicality and
obscurity may we not then expect it to descend by the time it is full
grown ?
Now the impotence of science is the opportunity of superstition. It
flourishes unchecked all around the scientist, who will not compromise his
dignity by recognising its existence. He cannot check its growth by
arguments so technical that they are understood only by the very few who
have been able to spend the best years of their youth in his laboratories.
His attitude of a priori disgust is too unsympathetic to have the slightest
effect upon the convictions of his adversaries who, as Professor James hv
well pointed out, "are indifferent to Science, because Science is so callously
Part XXXV.I 365
Psychology and Psychical Research.
indifferent to their experiences." 1 In fact, it stands to reason that one
cannot expect to convince any adherent of mistaken views by either ignoring
him or saying to him : " Now, my good man, you are either a liar or a
lunatic. "
And for the scientists to hold utterly aloof from the beliefs of the vulgar
is just as stupid and dangerous a practice in the end as was that of the
Roman philosophers to discourse about humanity, while leaving untouched
institutions like that of the gladiatorial games. Similarly the psychologist
consumes his energies in researches which, from a social point of view, can
only appear ingenious modes of academic trifling, while leaving unexplored
subjects which prima facie raise the most stupendous issues, have the
most direct practical bearing on society, and most naturally fall into his
province.
No wonder, then, that the policy of the clwse jurjee, as practised for the
last two centuries, has not eradicated superstition : it has been a blunder.
By the same token, it has also been a crime ; for a different policy
would have eradicated superstition. And thus the real responsibility
for the persistence of superstition lies not with the ignorant masses,
who interpreted their experience according to their lights, but with the
educated Pharisees, whose delicate nostrils were offended at the very
idea of associating with publicans and sinners. It is these latter who
are the true obscurantists, who by keeping aloof have kept alive the belief
in witchcraft, Satanism, and the offensive aspects of supernaturalism
generally, whose consciences ought to be burdened with the unspeakable
evils these beliefs have brought upon mankind. And if they knew not what
would be the effect of their attitude, they were foolish ; if they knew it,
they are, to put it mildly, disingenuous. Does it not behove, then, every
good scientist and every good citizen to work for the ' revision ' of the
Dreyfus Case of Science 1
1 TViU to Believe, p 323. Professor Miinsterberg has apparently read this excellent
essay, and that after doing so he should write as he does gives the measure of what
one would be disposed to call either his moral bias or bis mental obtuseness, if one did
not know to what lengths the pathological obfuscation of the psychological intellect
may be carried in the discussion of these matters.
.366 F. W. H. Myers.
IV.
DR. MORTON PRINCE'S "EXPERIMENTAL STUDY
OF VISIONS."
By F. W. H. Myers.
The paper which Dr. Morton Prince allowed us to read at the
last meeting of the S.P.R. has now appeared in Brain under the above
title. It describes one of the most curious cases of split personality
yet recorded ;—a case, however, which is somewhat tantalising, since
it seems plain that, had Dr. Prince chosen, he might have pushed his
experiments in yet more interesting directions. Let us hope that he
may in fact have done so, and may ultimately give his observations to
the world. Meantime some quotations, with occasional comment, raaj
be acceptable to our readers.
I have had, says Dr. Prince, an opportunity to make some experiments
of this kind on a particularly favourable subject. In most of the obserra-
tions reported hitherto, it has not been possible to thoroughly investigate
the relation of the vision to antecedent events in the subject's life, beyond
the evidence of the waking memory of that person. But in this instance,
the fact that it was possible to hypnotise her and obtain tiro additional and
distinct personalities, three in all, each with distinct memories, gave an
opportunity to search in the hidden depths of consciousness, and obtain
information about facts long forgotten by the normal personality. Further,
it was possible to experimentally study the relation of the sub-conscious
personality to, and the influence of this upon, the production of visions.
To understand this, it is necessary to state a few facts regarding the
subject. Miss X.1 suffers from what is ordinarily called neurasthenia, or
hystero-neurasthenia, but what I think is more correctly called hysterical
neurasthenia. But she has no physical stigmata, excepting a possible con
traction of the field of vision.2 She is easily hypnotised ; first passing into
a state which resembles that of the ordinary classical deep stage. After
waking there is complete loss of memory of this state. During hypnosis she
is very susceptible to suggestion ; but on the whole there is nothing very
remarkable about the mental condition, which does not materially differ
from one of the deeper stages of hypnosis as ordinarily observed. The only
points to which I would call attention are that Miss X. in this stage of
hypnosis knows all about Miss X. awake, and apparently remembers all that
1 Dr. Morton Prince's subject, "Miss X.," is, of course, not to be confused with
the former pseudonym of Miss A. Goodrich-Freer.
* At the time these observations were made this seemed to have disappeared, or,
at least, could not be recognised by the finger test.
Part xxxv.] Br. Morton Prince on Crystal Visions. 367
Miss X. remembers and some other things besides, which she has forgotten
when awake ; but Miss X. when awake knows nothing of what has occurred
in this hypnotic state. For convenience' sake I have called Miss X., in this
stage of hypnosis, X. 2, as distinguished from Miss X. or X. 1.
Now, on commanding X. 2 to sleep more deeply, there appears a third
personality, whom I have called X. 3. This person knows all about both
Miss X. and X. 2, everything they do and think, but is unknown to both.
Her memory, also, in some respects, is much fuller than that of either Miss
X. or X. 2, so it comes about that X. 3 can tell much in the past life of Miss
X. that that person has forgotten, and can explain much that the waking
personality is at a loss to account for. X. 3 even knows all about many of
the little absent-minded and half-voluntary doings of Miss X., nor does she
hesitate to voluntarily tell of them, although Miss X. is morbidly and
unnecessarily reserved about her whole life.
Thus far this case seems quite in accordance with analogy. An
unusual point, however, now follows ;—in the relation of the different
characters of the personalities to each other. In cases already
observed we have generally found that the deepest attainable per
sonality, besides possessing the completed memory, possessed also, on
the whole, the most intelligence. In this case, on the other hand,
the deepest phase of personality at which we seem to get is the least
satisfactory of all.
It may only be added that the characters of the three personalities were
very different and distinct. Miss X. is reserved, morbidly conscientious,
self-contained, serious, deferential, and dignified. X. 2 is sad, serious, and
gives the impression of weariness and suffering. X. 3. is flippant, jovial,
free from all physical infirmities, full of fun, reckless, and contemptuous of
Miss X., whom she stigmatises as silly, stupid, and dull, and in an
apparently heartless way enjoys every trouble that comes to her. X. 3
always speaks of Miss X. as "She,"1 and insists that they are different
persons—that they don't think the same tilings or know the same things.
She speaks of X. 2 as " Miss X. asleep."
This tripartite personage looked in a crystal,—or rather in " an
<-lectric-light globe or lamp," of course not connected with a circuit,
but held free in the hand. The mode of vision was just such as our
readers are accustomed to hear of.
The visions were not seen like small objects reflected in or oil the glass
bulb, but Miss X. stated that the bulb disappeared, and she saw before her
the scene she described, which appeared real, the characters being life-size
and like living persons. I should infer that she saw them, much as one
sees the characters on the stage of a theatre, but she saw them, nevertheless,
where the bulb was. Perhaps the illustration of looking through an opera-
glass at the stage is apposite, for she several times at first broke off from her
1 In the following account, She, with a capital S, always refers to Miss X. (X. 1).
368 F. W. H. Myers.
inspection and examined the bulb to see if there was any explanation of the
vision to be found in the glass, much as one who had never seen an opera-
glass or a kaleidoscope might examine it for this purpose. To me as I
observed her she appeared like one who, at a theatre, was completely
absorbed by the play, and in that sense was unconscious of surroundings, bat
not at all in a trance state. Her absorption and the exceeding mobility and
expression of her face when describing a vision gave the impression that she
was entirely oblivious of myself and surroundings, until spoken to, but not
as one hypnotised, but rather as one who is intensely absorbed in the scene
of a theatre and has forgotten where she is. Every feeling, timidity,
surprise, interest, seemed to be expressed by the play of her features, and it-
times, especially at first, she seemed rather frightened by the uncanniness of
what she saw. Most of her descriptions were given in answer to my
questions, which were continuous but never suggestive. They were simply
expressions like " What else ?" "Go on," " Is there anything more ?" etc.
It may be noted, then, as psychologically of interest, that the visions
appeared like ordinary hallucinations or vivid dreams, the scenes real,
of life size, but dissociated from her surroundings, and not as part of them.
The substance of the visions consisted largely of memories of past
visual experiences, but partly also of scenes which the percipient had
at any rate never discovered with ordinary consciousness. I give first
an instance of a scene On which Miss X.'s eyes had no doubt looked,
but without conscious attention.
Experiment 4. —X. 3 now (after explaining the last vision) volunteered
the following remarkable story, telling it with great gusto and as a joke ou
Miss X., and speaking with great rapidity, so that it was difficult to follow
the sequence of events. The language was substantially that of X. 3, bat
condensed. ',She" yesterday received a letter from a photographer. She
had it in her hand while walking down Washington Street, and then put it
into her pocket (side pocket of jacket) where She kept her watch and money
(bank notes). Then as She walked along, She took out the money and tore
it to pieces, thinking it was the letter from the photographer. She threw
the money into the street As she tore up the money she said to herself :—
" I wish they would not write on this bank-note paper." At my request
X. 3 repeated the words of the photographer's note, which was to say some
photographs were ready. As to the money, there were twenty dollars—
two ten-dollar notes ; this, at my demand, X. 3 counted mentally, with
some difficulty and concentration of thought. X. 3 manifested considerable
unwillingness to show me the letter, which she said was in "her" pocket
still, and which She still thought to be money. Finally, after some insist
ence, she did so. It was folded up into a small square, just as one often
folds bank-notes. The language of the photographer's note was identically
the same as quoted by X. 3. X. 3 said that "She " was absent-minded, and
thinking of something else, when " She " tore up the money. I then gave
X. 3 the note to put back in her pocket preparatory to waking her up.
This impish, hypnotic personality remarked upon what a joke it would be
when Sho found it there instead of the bank-notes. I will say here the
Part xxxv.] Dr. Morton Prince on Crystal Visions. 36f>
heartless, cold-blooded delight which this almost Iago-like personality found
in the loss of the money, which was a very great one to Miss X., was.
appalling. To X. 3 it was a splendid practical joke.
Miss X. was now awakened. I asked her whether she did not have some
money and had not received a letter from a photographer. She said " Yes,"
but seemed to think it rather queer my asking these questions, but by this
time she had become accustomed to being astonished. In reply to a series,
of questions she said she had not the letter with her, but had torn it up
and thrown it into the street (Washington Street) The bank bills she had
in her pocket. They were two ten-dollar bills. I asked her to show them to
me. She put her hand in her pocket to take them out and brought out the
photographer's letter. She evidently received a shock, although she tried
not to show it. I asked her where the bills were, and after searching hor
pocket, she insisted that she must have left them at home. I remarked that
she must have destroyed them by mistake instead of the letter ; she refused
to admit it. I pointed out the circumstantial evidence ; she recognised that
it was suspicious, but could and would not believe it. The loss meant a
great deal to her, and she evidently encouraged herself with a forlorn hope.
I then said, taking the glass globe :—" We will see whether it is not true.
Look in and you will see what you have done." At first she saw only in
different things ; then I said:—"Think of bank-notes and the feeling of
tearing them up." Now, to her astonishment, she saw herself walking along
Washington Street and putting the letter in her pocket, then taking out
what looked like bank-notes, that is, green pieces of paper, and tearing
them into pieces and throwing them into the street. The vision in all its.
details corresponded to the account given by the hypnotic personality.
This curious story shows us a secondary personality in (so to sav)
its most alien and even hostile form ;—such a form as might well
suggest actual possession by a malign sprite. Yet the truer analogy ia
probably the madman who beats one side of his own body under the
impression that it is an enemy.
I add another quotation which shows the third personality in a
striking light;—as remaining alert and unconfused throughout the
perilous delirium of the primary personality.
(B) Experiments in which the hallucination was not a revival of a past
visual experience, but was largely a newly-created visual representation of a
past experience other than visual.
Experiment 5.—I will give this in the brief language of my notes : Miss
X. looked again into the globe ; she saw a room with a bed in it. There waa
a figure in the bed ; the figure threw off the bed-clothes and got up. Miss
X. exclaimed :—" Why, it is I." (Appeared rather frightened at what she
saw, but went on to describe it, largely in answer to my promptings, such
as, "Goon," " What do you see ? " etc.) She saw herself walking to and
fro, up and down the room. Then she climbed on to the window sill which
is the deep embrasure of a mansard roof. Then she climbed outside the
370 LSupplcz&ent.
F. W. H. Myers.
window and from the sill looked down into the street. It was night—the
street lamps were lighted, there was also the gas light in the room. As she
looked down she felt dizzy. Here Miss X. turned away frightened, saying
she felt the same dizziness as if she were standing there. She soon con
tinued. She saw herself throw an inkstand into the street below, which she
had seen herself take before climbing on to the window. Miss X. was again
obliged to stop looking because of dizziness. After a time she returned to
the globe. She saw herself go back into the room and walk up and down ;
the door opened and she jumped into bed and lay quiet. Miss L. (a friend)
,entered, went out and returned several times ; brought a poultice which she
put on Miss X.'s chest ; Miss X. herself remaining quiet. Then Miss L
went out and Miss X. got up and took the poultice, rolled it up into a little
bunch and hid it in a corner, putting a towel over it. Here the experiment
ended.
Miss X. stated, on being questioned, that she could not remember any
incident like the vision, excepting that she recognised the room as the first
one she occupied when she came to Boston four or five years ago. It was in
the top storey of a house on Columbus Avenue ; she was ill there, and Miss
L. took care of her. But she did not remamber ever havi?ig climbed on to
the window, or having thrown an inkstand, or any of the incidents of the
vision. She could throw no light on the affair. She was now lightly
hypnotised and X. 2 was present. X. 2 could add very little to Miss X. 5
statement. (My notes of X. 2's memory are somewhat confused ; it is not
plain from them whether or not she remembered ever having done any of
the things seen in the vision, although it is stated that she had an imperfect
memory of the incident. It is possible X. 2's statement as noted was mixed
up with that of X. 3, but X. 2 remembered being ill in the room described,
and that ink was found in Miss X.'s shoes ; X. 2 did not know how it came
there, but Miss L. had said that Miss X. had poured ink in her shoe. At
any rate, X. 2 could not explain the incident as X. 3 did later.)
Deep hypnosis ; X. 3 appeared with great vivacity and amusement. X. 3
explained the whole scene. (As was customary with her, X. 3 spoke of Miss
X. (X.) as " She," as if it were an entirely distinct person and not herself.)
" She" had pneumonia and was delirious, and She imagined She was on the
sea shore and was walking up and down the sand. This was why she walked
up and down the room, and She stuck her toes in the carpet, thinking it was
the sand. There were rocks there, and the window sill was one of them and
when She climbjd out upon the window sill She thought She was climbing
upon a rock, and she took up a stone, as She thought, and threw it into the
sea. This was the inkstand that she threw into the street. Then when She
took the poultice and hid it in the corner, She thought She had buried it in
the sand. She had not poured ink into her shoes, but her hand shook and
She had spilled it into her shoes. Miss L., seeing the inkstains, had
inferred that Miss X. had poured the ink into the shoes, and had told Miss
X. so. Hence the statements of X. and X. 2. X. 3 was highly amused at
all the mistakes of Miss X's. delirium.
Finally, one more quotation, —the last which can be here admitted,
—indicates the line of inquiry which one must hope that Dr. Morton
Part xxxv.] Dr. Morton Prince on Crystal Visions. 371
Prince has followed, or will yet follow ;—however cautious he may be
as to printing the results to which it leads.
Experiment 8. —Miss X. had lost a scarf pin she valued. 1 suggested
that she should try to find it by looking in the globe. After looking a few
minutes, she saw a bed room with a brass bedstead, and on the dressing-
table was a pin-cushion (described in detail), and in the pin-cushion were
several pins. Amongst them she recognised her own, and exclaimed
somewhat excitedly "Why, that is my pin!" Involuntarily she reached
out to seize it. During this her face was very expressive, and showed great
astonishment. She did not recognise the room, and was certain she had
never seen it before, but thought it a city room, and not a country one, from
its general appearance and furnishing.
In hypnosis both personalities were also ignorant of this room ; but X. 3,
being asked to tell the last time that Miss X. had the scarf pin, recollected
perfectly. "She" (Miss X.) came into her room (in the country, not in
Boston) one day with a very severe headache, took the pin out of her dress
and stuck it into the head of the couch, then doubled up the pillow and
placed it over it, and lay down on the couch with her head on the pillow and
rested. "She" forgot all about the pin, and had no recollection of putting
the pin where She did, and, in fact, did it rather absent-mindedly. This
was several months ago, and X. 3 presumed the pin was gone. On Miss X.
being awakened, I told her what she had done with the pin, but still she had
no recollection of the affair.
Was that pin actually in that pincushion 1 Perhaps it was ;—and
if it was, that fact has no inconsiderable bearing upon the way in
which the world is made.
Meantime there is one practical lesson—often urged already in
our Proceedingn,—which these experiments should plainly reinforce.
Crystal-vision should become one of the habitual and recognised
occupations of the psychological laboratory. I know of no real
reason whatever for supposing that the power of seeing these visions
is commoner in hysterical than in normal patients, or is a token of
any kind of ' disaggregation." This has, indeed, been assumed on
a priori grounds by some writers. And the fact that a good many
hysterical patients, being under their doctors' control, have been
induced to look in the crystal, has inevitably tended to foster the
assumption. But the relative proportion of normal to hysterical seers
is as yet undetermined ;—and cannot be determined until a far
greater number of normal persons have seriously made the attempt.
The instances of normal seers quoted in our Proceedings and in Mr.
Andrew Lang's Making of Religion represent but the very first hasty
ingathering from a vast and unworked field. And I believe that
that field will never be adequately worked until the scientific world
shall frankly adopt the view which I have often suggested :,—namely,
372 [Suppkrast
F. W. H. Myers.
that these crystal - pictures are experiments in the extension and
«xternalisation of inward or central vision ; and that the inward or
central vision which we thus externalise by empirical artifice may
ultimately become for us even fuller of instruction than that outward
or peripheral vision on which mankind are accustomed exclusively u,
rely. The highest use, perhaps, of this optical vision of the material
world is to teach us an alphabet,—a scheme of visual presentations.—
whereby we may behold, "as in a mirror, darkly," truths not only
material but spiritual which lie outside and beyond our optical scope
and horizon.
Part XXXV.] 373
De MirviUe on Houdia and Alexis.
V.
EXTRACT FROM J'-E DE MIRVILLE'S
"Des Esprits kt de leubs Manifestations Fluidiques."
(Paris, 1854). Third Edition, Vol. I., Ch : I : pp. 18-32.
Introductory Note by Alfeed R. Wallace.
In the last Part of the Proceedings (December, 1898) Mr. Podmore,
in the preliminary remarks to his " Discussion of Trance-Phenomena
of Mrs. Piper," devotes more than five pages to an examination of the
•evidence for clairvoyance in the case of Alexis Didier, which evidence
he depreciates throughout, and arrives at the conclusion that Alexis
might have been, and probably was, a clever impostor. He urges
that " bandaging the eyes," as described, was not " satisfactory ; "
that many indications showed " that the power exercised by Alexis
was perfectly normal " ; that the reading a book several pages in
advance of any page opened at random was " the most strongly
suggestive of trickery " ; and that the most probable explanation of
his card-playing performances " is that of deliberate fraud." He
urges that his manager, Marcillet, might have been a confederate,
and that the reports " are mostly at second-hand or insufficiently
detailed." He quotes lengthy reports of some of the special instances
of clairvoyance which were of such a nature as to be explained by
thought-reading, but says nothing of those in which facts were
correctly given which were not known to any one present ; and,
finally, he omits all reference to the most remarkable and convincing
evidence of Robert Iloudin, whose testimony has been quoted by
Dr. Lee, by myself, and by many other well-known writers, while a
detailed report of it is to be found in the great work of the
Marquis de Mirville to be seen in the Society's library.
When preparing my reply to Mr. Podmore (which appeared in
the Journal of February) I borrowed De Mirville's work, and for
the first time read his detailed account of Houdin's experiences
certified as correct by Houdin himself. This account seemed to me
to be so important, as well as so intrinsically interesting, that I
suggested the printing of a translation of it in our Proceeding*. To
this the Editor has assented, and the following very close translation
has been kindly made by Mr. J. G. Smith. So far as I am aware, it
now appears for the first time in English, although it has been known
374 [Snpplemefit
Alfred R. Wallace.
to a few students for nearly half a century ; and, if it is admitted
that the question is one of evidence, it must be held to. prove the
reality of the clairvoyance of Alexis, both that kind due to thought-
reading and that termed " true clairvoyance " in which the object
described is not known to any one present or, as in the case of the
cards dealt by Houdin and the book brought and opened by himself,
to any living person.
In his rejoinder (in the March Journal) Mr. Podtnore admits
that " Houdin's testimony is, no doubt, very striking " ; but he
urges that it is not conclusive as against the theory that subjects
in trance may possess " preternorraal acuteness of vision." To this
I would reply that any such preternatural acuteness of vision as is
here required has never been proved to exist, but has been suggetttd
as the only means of explaining phenomena deemed too incredible
for acceptance on any testimony; and, further, that if trance patients
can see through cards, and tables, and eight pages of a printed b wk,
to admit such " acuteness of vision " is only to admit " clairvoyance
under another name.
I would here earnestly call the attention of our members to a very
important elementary principle of sound reasoning too often neglected
in discussions of these questions —that, as tersely stated by J. S. Mill,
"an argument is not answered till it is answered at its best," and that
no amount of negative or indirect evidence is of any weight as against
good, positive, and direct evidence on the other side. I ask them to
compare carefully this evidence of De Mirville and Houdin with that
adduced by Mr. Podmore, and they will find that while the former
consists of the very best direct evidence of facts, the latter is wholly
negative, consisting of doubts, suspicions, and possibilities, every one
of which is excluded in the direct evidence here given.
This fundamental defect applies, in my opinion, to all Mr.
Podmore's writings on this subject.
Translation.
You all know Robert Houdin, and you will deny to this Prince of
Conjurers neither the pre eminence to which his skill entitles him, nor,
consequently, his entire competency as a judge of the skill of others.
Evidently, to put an end to this everlasting and unsound argument,1 the
only thing to do was to go and find Robert Houdin himself.
No sooner said than done. I am shown into his drawing-room, and our
interview begins.
1 [i.e., that aa Robert Houdin could, by trickery, do everything that clairvoyants
did, aud even more, there was no reason to suppose supernormal power in the case of
clairvoyants.—Translator's note.]
Rirtxxxv.l De Mirville on Houdin and Alexis. 375
I am going now to give a careful word-for-word report, with all the
accuracy of the Moniteur, of everything that subsequently took place.
M. Houdin's signature will guarantee the truth of the record.
" Monsieur Robert Houdin, I am an admirer of your second sight, but
will you kindly tell me if you have any knowledge of magnetism 1 Have
you seen any somnambulists 1 "
" A slight knowledge, Monsieur ; I have seen only two somnambulists."
"What did you think of them ? "
" Their tricks were so badly done, so contemptible, that I could, then
and there, have given them a lesson."
"So you regard a somnambulist as a brother conjuror, and often as a
clumsy one."
" But how elxe ,could you regard him ? After all, as I said before, I have
seen only these two poor specimens. All I can say is that in the course of
a journey that I made in Belgium, to Brussels, Liege, and Aix-la-Chapelle, I
constantly followed M. Laurent and Mlle- Prudence, two of your ' magnetic '
celebrities, and I can assure you that the day after their seances I in
variably dissipated, as if by enchantment, their triumph of the previous
night. Whereupon, to my great regret (for I have always a genuine dislike
to causing any one the smallest injury), the kind of stupor of admiration that
they had caused was suddenly turned into sarcasm, insults, and even coarse
abuse, the outcome of absolute incredulity. However, to do them justice, I
must add that, a few days later, and with a courage that I can only describe
as heroic, they returned to the charge, and succeeded in the very same towns
in reversing public opinion, and in conquering afresh what I had just
deprived them of. I have often since reflected on this fact, and have found
no explanation of it."
" Do you want an explanation, and would you be curious to see a genuine
magnetic, or rather somnambulic phenomenon ? "
" That has long been my wish."
" Would you consent to accompany me and spare me a few moments of
your time 1"
" Although I am very busy just now, nothing would give me greater
pleasure. "
"Very well, I will not ask you, in the unlikely event of your being
convinced, if you would have the honesty to acknowledge it and further to
subscribe to your convictions ; I will not ask you to do so, for I already read
in your face the entire frankness of your reply."
"Rest assured, Monsieur; in that case you will have no cause to be
dissatisfied with me."
" It will be delightful then to show the savants, whom we were speaking
of just now, that love of truth has flown to you for refuge. But don't
forget to bring with you some cards (orthodox ones, mind, not yours), a
book, some hairs, etc., in fact anything which could best contribute to 6ettle
your convictions."
"Have no fear. I know what I'm about. Can Madame Houdin come
with us ? "
" Most certainly."
" All right, I will come back at one o'clock to fetch you."
2 c
37G [Suppkteeat
Alfred R. Wallace.
It was then 12 o'clock, and when I got into my carriage, R. Houdin
heard me give the address of 42, Rue de la Victoire for the first timt. I
have underlined the words "/or the first time," because there are plenty
of magnetisers in Paris, and nothing having intimated beforehand our choice
of one more than another, there could have been no time to foresee or to
forestall that choice.
On the way the future neophyte employed all the resources of his
dialectic (no difficult task in such cases) to prove to me what he con
sidered as self-evident, namely, that it was all a question of dodges more
or less elaborate, and of a repertoire better " staged " chan the average.
... At the moment of our arrival the oracle is performing in the
adjoining room for the benefit of several people. Presently one of theiu
(M. Prosper G 1) comes out, greatly impressed by having just been
given a description of his country house, situated at the opposite extremity
of France, down to the series of pictures hanging in his bedroom. Further
than this, after a description of all the out-houses, stables, and finally of the
dog kennel, M. G 1 had added :
" Could you tell me the name of the powerful animal that sleeps in the
kennel ? "
"His name is—wait—his name's Es . . Esterl—and it's the name of
the guide who got him for you."
Here we, too, found ourselves on familiar ground ; for who does nut
know Esterl, the smartest and wiliest of all the Eaux Bonnes guides 1
I have often passed several hours together in Marcillet's salon, amusiria;
myself with the kind of stupefaction (there is no other word for it) stamped
on the faces of the sitters, very different from the expression which they
wore on entering.
Evidently, it had required very personal and private revelations to upset
them to such a degree. But I was fonretting that the persons who attended
there one after another, from morning to night, were, one and all, primed
accomplices.
However, to return to the investigation of M. Houdin, who is now face
to face with Alexis.
Alexis exhibits on waking the drawn features, the peculiar look, ami
neurotic stamp so characteristic of somnambulists, which alone would he
amply convincing to a doctor's eye. Then gradually the face regains its
composure, the colour returns, until on being put to sleep again by hi<
magnetiser by means of a simple pressure of the arm, a slight and barely
perceptible convulsion once more shakes his whole system, and plunges him
into a somnambulic state.
Robert Houdin, who is an adept in such matters, asks leave to bandage
Alexis' eyes himself. After a careful examination of the wadding and the
enormous silk handkerchiefs that were handed to him, he covers the whole
of the subject's face with the wadding. But after folding two of the hand
kerchiefs over the rolls of cotton wool, which enveloped the face as though
it were a most precious statuette, and which from the top of the forehead to
below the lips did not allow of the very tiniest opening, he declined to use
the third, and did not require, as certain doctors do, a complete mask. The
reason being that R. Houdin knows his business and the Prince of Conjurors
Part xxxv.) . De Mirville on Houdin and Alexis. 377
does not bother about such trifles. These two most suspicious eyes once
well encased in wadding and covered with bandages, with all the chinks
stopped up, so to speak, R. Houdin drew from his pocket two packs of cards
still in their wrappers with the Government stamp intact, opened them,
shuffled and asked Alexis to cut. He does so, and, I must admit, does so
in some special way, which I do not remark, but which brings a passing
smile to the lips of the expert observer. It is clear that Robert Houdin
has noticed something, and thinks he recognises the trick, and any one
but myself would have trembled for the success of the experiment.
Nevertheless he lays down five cards before his opponent, who takes good
care not to touch them, gives himself five and is just going to pick them
up, when Alexis stops him with the words : "You needn't do that. I take
every trick," and names the ten cards which are still lying on the table face
downwards.
"Let us begin again," says R. Houdin coldly, stunned though he was, as
if by a heavy blow.
" With pleasure."
Ten fresh cards are substituted for the first lot, and this time there was
no smiling.
"I discard," says R. Houdin.
" Why do you keep these two cards, and this very weak trump too ? "
" Never mind, give me three more."
" Here they are."
" What are they ? " says Houdin, covering them with both hands.
" Queen of Diamonds, Queen of Clubs, and eight of Clubs."
"Go on, a third round."
Same accuracy and infallibility.
It is now my turn to watch, and what do I see ?
R. Houdin fixes Alexis with those remarkable eyes of his ; he changes
colour, his face grows livid, and a kind of nervous quiver passes over his
features, and then, with the passionate excitement of an artist who suddenly
recognises his master, cries,
" What is this 1 What's happening 1 It is splendid."
Then, as used to happen in the Chamber after a fine speech, the sitting
is perforce suspended for a time. A fresh start is made, and R. Houdin,
after taking off the somnambulist's useless bandages, draws a book of his
own from his pocket, and asks him to read eight pages further on, starting
from a given place. Alexis pricks the page two thirds of the way down with
a pin, and reads, Apres cette triste ceremonie."
" Stop," says R. Houdin, " that's enough. I will look."
Nothing like it on the eighth page, but on the next page at the same
height are these words, " Apres cette triste ceremonie."
"That's enough," says Houdin. "What a marvel! Can you tell me
who wrote me this letter ? " Alexis feels it, puts it on the top of his head,
and against his stomach, and describes the writer fairly accurately, but he
makes what a doctor would call mistakes. Trifling mistakes, however ; for
instance, he is mistaken as to the shade of the hair, and as to his profession,
calling him a librarian, because he sees him surrounded by books. Briefly,
errors of detail, such as somnambulists are constantly being forced to.
2 c 2
378 Alfred R. Wallace.
commit when too closely pressed. . . . R. Houdin does not allow these
errors of detail to stop him, and, returning to the subject of the letter,
asks : " Where does it come from ? "
" From "
"Ah," says R. Houdin, "and the postmark. I never thought of that.
But since you see this house, can you tell me in what street it stands I "
"Wait. Give me a pencil." After five minutes' reflection, he wrote
rapidly, "Rue d'A , Number ." "This is too much, says R.
Houdin. '"It's beyond me. I don't want any more. One word more,
though. What is the writer of the letter doing at this moment ? "
" What is he doing ? Take care. Be on your guard. He is betraying
your confidence at this very moment."
" Oh I that is an utter mistake," says Houdin," " for the writer is one of
my best and most trusted friends."
"Take care," repeats Alexis, this time in an oracular tone, "he is
deceiving you shamefully."
" Nonsense, " 1 replies Houdin.
Madame Houdin now takes a turn at asking questions.
"Could you tell me, Monsieur, what I am thinking of at this moment?'
"Give me your hand. What are you thinking of? Wait. You are
thinking of a child, of a very young child. Ah ! poor mother, how sorry I
am for you ! "
Madame Houdin, who, so far, had endeavoured to keep a smiling
countenance in order to mislead him, sheds a few tears.
" But, Monsieur, you can see him, then ! "
" Yes. He died on the 15th of last July."
"At what o'clock ?"
"Four o'clock in the morning."
"At Paris?"
" No. Three leagues from Paris. Wait. Ah ! It was too late."
" What do you mean ? "
" I mean that you changed the wet nurse too late. You know that
well ; the child was poisoned by the first nurse's milk. The poor woman
was very ill. "
"Oh ! that's quite true, quite accurate. And could you tell me what I
am thinking of now ? "
"Alas! You're thinking of a still younger child, for it is not yet
alive. "
This was as a matter of fact the subject of Madame Houdin's thoughts,
whose maternal hopes were anticipating the future. Thereupon Alexis,
seeing me writing in a pocket-book, snatches it from my hands, places it
quickly on his head and reads from it two or three lines written in pencil,
which we find on the page named.
1 We hasten to add that last year, on my paying another visit to Robert Houdin,
in company with my friend, M. Lacordaire, Manager of the Gobelins Manufactory
his first words were: "You remember, Monsieur, the famous letter of my friend,
living at , and my repeated denials to Alexis." "Yes." "Well, this wretched
friend was robbing me of 10,000 francs at the very time of the sitting." It will be
admitted that this development has given a more serious turn to the matter.
Part xxxv.] De MirvUle on Hoiulin and Alexis. 379
A curious thing then occurred, which we submit to the consideration of
persona interested in this inexplicable agency. In the pocket-book was a
loose object.
"What is it, Alexis?"
"A piece of cardboard."
"Yes, but what exactly is the cardboard ? "
"I don't know; it is surrounded by little short engraved lines, but I
don't know what they are."
" Try hard. It isn't difficult ; a piece of cardboard in a pocket-book."
" Wait. It's a large visiting card—a card on which steel pens are dis
played for sale—a tradesman's address."
Nothing of the kind, and the capricious faculty of the somnambulist
could not succeed in guessing an almanac. A certain doctor of my
acquaintance would have been triumphant and have quickly closed the
sitting as usual. We continued.
" And the paper next to it ? "
"The one folded in four ? " %
"Yes."
"Oh, that's very different and not difficult. 'Receipt of MM. Saquier
and Bray, booksellers, 64, Rue des Saints-Peres, for 15 francs, 20 cents. '"
R. Houdin opens the paper and verifies the correctness of this state
ment. Astonishment greater than ever. On second thoughts, however,
he says :—
" As far as I'm concerned this is not evidence, Monsieur, for I have not
the honour of your acquaintance, and though I am, personally, convinced
that you are not in league with the somnambulist, yet I must act as though
you were so on this occasion. Allow me then to confine myself to matters
within my own personal knowledge, and to make one last experiment.
" To whom does this hair belong ? "
" To a young man."
" Who may that be?"
" Your son."
" What age ?"
" Three years less than you allow him to be."
" True. What is he suffering from I He is ill."
"Yes. He suffers much pain in the right side. But wait. You have
just touched these hairs, and I have made a confusion in the fluids. It's
you who are suffering in the right side, and at this very moment."
"That's quite true ; but how about my son ? "
" Your son 1 He has nothing the matter with him."
"Yes, he has. Try again; there's something wrong with him. Don't
you see anything ? "
Alexis feels himself all over, moving his hand over his legs, stomach,
heart, chest, and head, but perceives nothing.
" Try again."
" Ah ! I've got it. But do you mean to say you worry about that ?
About this faint little speck that I can just see on the right extremity of the
right eye ? You think that it's the beginning of amaurosis, and he is miserable
about it. It's true the doctors . . . but make your mind quite easy.
mo [Snppkiaret
Alfred R. Wallace.
Don't do anything. Your son, I tell you, is in perfect health. He's now
sixteen years and three months old ; at eighteen it will have disappeared."
"It's astounding," exclaims R. Houdin. " That's enough. Let us go
away. Wake him up."
Marcillet breathes upon the somnambulist's face, tho nervous symptoms
which accompanied the entrancement reappear, but in reversed order, the
vital functions gradually resume their ordinary course, and finally the
medium returns completely to his ordinary every-day existence.
The two investigators withdrew in silent astonishment, and on reaching
the street, I said :—
" Well, what about jugglery ? "
"Monsieur, if the world contained a juggler capable of performing such
miracles, he woidd, qua juggler, astound me a thousand times more than the
mysterious agent whom you have just shown me."
" If you like I will take you straight away to see ten others, and you will
witness more or less the same phenomena."
"I assure you that there is no necessity."
" I can rely then on your keeping your promise."
" I am a man of my word, Monsieur, and no base promptings of self-
interest or of vanity will have any effect on me."
" Quite so, and the moment I saw you I never doubted your good faith.
But explain to me then why you smiled when the cards were cut before the
first hand of eearte."
"I merely thought I noticed a coincidence between the cards cut and the
number of cards required."
" But I always hear it said that your games of ecarte and those of Alexis
are as like as two peas."
"Ah ! Monsieur, that may seem so to a man of no experience in these
matters, to the ordinary person, (though even then such a mistake is hardly
admissible), but to the expert '—Just consider, Monsieur, that all my cards
are faked, marked, often of unequal sizes, or at least artistically arranged.
Again, I have my signals and telegraphs. But in this case a fresh pack was
used, which I had just taken out of its wrapper, and which the somnambu
list cannot have studied. There is another point, where deception is
impossible, namely, in the handling of the cards : in the one case, the entire
artlessness of the performance, in the other, that tell-tale air of effort which
nothing can entirely disguise, Add to that his total blindness, for need I
insist on the impossibility—the absolute impossibility—of his having seen.
Besides, even supposing he could see, how can m account for the other
plienomena ? With regard to my own ' second-sight ' performances, without
being able to divulge my secret to you now, bear in mind what I am careful
to tell you every evening, that I only promise a second sight ! consequently
in my case a first sight is indispensable."
The following day R. Houdin gave me the following signed statement :—
" While I am by no means inclined to accept the compliments which
M is kind enough to pay me, and while I am particularly anxious
that my signature should not be held to prejudice in any way my opinion,
either for or against magnetism, still I cannot refrain from affirming that the
incidents recorded above are ABSOLUTELY CORRECT, and thai the more
Part XXXV.) 381
De Mirville on Houdin and Alexis.
/ think about them the more impossible Ifind it to class them icith those which
form the subject of my profession and of my performances.
" May 4th, 1847." " Robert Houdin."
A fortnight later, I received another letter, as follows :—
" Monsieur, —As I informed you, I was anxious to have a second sitting.
This sitting, which was held at Marcillet's house yesterday, proved even
more extraordinary than the first, and has left me without a shadow of doubt
as to the clairvoyance of Alexis. I went to this seance fully determined to
keep a careful watch on the game of ecarte, which had astounded me so
much before. This time I took much greater precautions than at the first
seance ; for distrusting myself I took with me a friend, whose natural
imperturbability enabled him to form a cool judgment and helped to steady
mine. I append an account of what took place, and you will see that
trickery could never have produced such results as those which I am about
to recount. I undo a pack of cards, which I had brought with me in a
marked wrapper to guard against another pack being substituted for it. I
shuffle, and it's my deal. 1 deal with every precaution known to a man well
up in all the dodges of his profession. It's all of no use, Alexis stops me,
and pointing to one of the cards that I had just placed in front of him on the
table, says :
" ' I've got the king.'
"'But you can't possibly know yet; the trump card has not been
turned up.'
"' You'll see,' he replies. 'Goon.'
"As a matter of fact I turn up the eight of Diamonds, and his was the
King of Diamonds. The game was continued in an odd enough manner, for he
told me the cards that I had to play, though my cards were hidden under the
table and held close together in my hands. To each lead of mine he played
one of his own cards without turning it up, and it was always the right card
to have played against mine. I left this seance then in the greatest possible
state of amazement, and convinced of the utter impossibility of chance or
conjuring having been responsible for such marvellous results. —Yours, etc.,
"(Signed) Robert Houdin."
"16 May, 1847."
F. W. H. Myers. Suppleaent.
VI.
REVIEWS.
"Some Peculiarities of the Secondary Personality." Professor G. T. VV.
Patrick, University of Iowa. (The Psychological Review, Nov. 1898.)
This article by Professor Patrick, which is to some extent a
Review of Dr. Hodgson's Report on Mrs. Piper's trance-phenomena,
(S.P.R. Proceedings, Part XXXIII.), although not throwing much new
light on the problems at issue, is, nevertheless, a very welcome utteranct-.
For we have here, in one of the foremost psychological journals of the
United States, a strong appeal to experimental psychologists to occupy
themselves with the phenomena of automatism. The fact is, as Professor
Patrick delicately hints, that there are a great many experimental psycholo
gists in America,—solidly established in a great many " psycho-physical
laboratories,"—and that they are not all of them precisely overwhelme.1
with important jobs to do. "It has been felt," says Professor Patrick,
" that to maintain the dignity of experimental psychology, this subject and
certain related ones must be ignored—they have been almost uniformly
kept out of American psychological laboratories, where infinite labour has
been spent upon other probably less fruitful problems. But experimental
psychology has now long passed its probationary period, and may quite
freely choose its subjects for research ; and at present there is perhaps no
other subject promising to throw more light upon certain dark chapters in
mental science than that of automatism." Some of my readers may
remember my often expressed hope that the generation of young American
savants, whom psychology attracts, would some day let some of those
" probably less fruitful problems" wait a little, and make n methodical
attack upon the problems which a very few very busy persons have been
gradually eliciting out of the mixedness of things for organised Science to
deal with as best she may. That is what we pioneers desire ;— the repetition
of our experiments, the discussion of our provisional conclusions, with
diligence and competence ;—no matter how much or how little credit may
be allowed to our own work. What we do not want, on the other hand (to
speak at least for myself), is the hasty adherence, the facile eulogy which,
indolently assuming that all we have even conjectured is positive truth, uses
our Proceedings as a foundation for all kinds of whimsical speculations,
without a particle of fresh work or fresh experiment to support them. For
heaven's sake, I would say, do not accept our conclusions too easily ; revise
our methods and improve them if you can ; re-travel again and again the
early stages of our road ! All this is needful, if a number of able young men
(in whom is our hope !) are to feel that the subject is, indeed, their mm ;—a
subject which they have pursued from its beginning, and in which they
mean to make their mark.
P»rt XXXV.] Review.
Just of the required type, as it seems to me, is this {taper of Professor
Patrick's. He is not, of course, convinced of the agency of spirits of the
dead (and I for one desire no easy convictions !) ; but he puts the questions
which suggest themselves to all of us in a clear way, and he has himself
made experiments of a kind to us familiar, in automatic writing. I quote
his concluding passage, which may serve as the text for some brief
comment :—
"As regards the various traits of the secondary personality, some of
which have been referred to in this paper, it has been suggested by Mr.
Podmore and others that they are instances of survival or reversion. One
cannot indeed fail to be impressed by the similarity of these traits to what
we know or conjecture about the primitive mind. The general low moral
and intellectual tone of the communications, the vulgarity and mild profanity,
the frequent impersonation of the medicine-man, Quaker doctor, Indian
doctor, etc., the keen memory and dull reason, the vivid constructive
imagination, the deception and prevarication, the unwavering belief in
spiritism, and the superstitious devotion to amulets, trinkets, and petty
articles of ornament or apparel, all point to an early stage in the evolution
of mind. Even the peculiar intuitive power sometimes exhibited by the
secondary personality may be compared to the superior intuition of woman,
whose mental peculiarities are in general representative of the more stable,
basal and abiding phenomena of mind. Both may point to some nearly extinct
faculty no longer serviceable. Still other peculiarities suggest the same
theory, such as the extreme suggestibility and motor force of ideas, marks of
automatism and of the hypnotic state, and at the same time characteristic of
the child and savage mind. In close relation to this is the peculiar intimate
connection between ideas and organic, nutritive and circulatory processes,
best shown in hypnosis, and common to this group of phenomena. In view
of such facts as these, certain of the more simple physiological theories of
double personality gain considerable plausibility, such, for instance, as the
revival of disused and outgrown brain tracts, particularly perhaps those of
the less specialised hemisphere. The frequent appearance in automatic
writing of Spiegelnchrift, which occurs also among children, lends some
support to this view."
I will endeavour to disentangle from this resume some elements, as it
seems to me, both of truth and of error :—
(1) "General low moral and intellectual tone." I think that this very
frequent criticism of automatic utterances depends largely on a misapprehen
sion, which mistakes baffled effort and incoherence for lownt ss or savagery.
The so-called Phinuit, for instance, who has been much attacked on this line,
did undoubtedly fish for information and pretend to possess information,
(though how far with definite intent to deceive, I cannot say), and did
undoubtedly talk in the slangy, tiresome style of a man who has a very
poor vocabulary at his disposal. But so far as I heard him, or heard of
him, he was neither immoral nor stupid. On the contrary, he gave much
advice on private and delicate matters ; and that advice, so far as I heard
it, was always both shrewd and kindly. 1 feel bound to say this : since
from having often acted as amanuensis in Phinuit's days, I have heard many
criticisms and admonitions of his, which naturally did not appear in printed
384 F. W. H. Myers.
reports. Professor W. James and Professor Lodge, who also heard much
of this intimate talk of Phinuit's, will, I think, agree in this view.
(2) The " mild profanity " of which Professor Patrick speaks is,
in my experience, so mild that I confess that it has never succeeded in
shocking me. The pencil, or planchette, will sometimes, as though in
fatigued impatience, write devil, dent—just as it will write no, no, or
yes, yes, or Mary, Mary. This means, I think, a mere inability to use
the instrument (whatever the real instrument may be '.) in any but rudi
mentary fashion. But if the word devil is received by bystanders as
mysterious and interesting, the incoherent intelligence (whatever the
Teal incoherent intelligence may be !) may even pluck up spirit to add
the word d h. Ignore the rubbish and it ceases to appear. But.
indeed, in my view, the sources of automatic writings (confining ourselves
to cases of genuine automatism) are far from being one. They may, e.g.,
originate in the subliminal self of the medium, or in the minds of still
embodied other human beings present or absent, acting telepathically on the
subliminal self of the medium, or from spirits, and there may be. and,
in my opinion, in most cases usually is, an admixture of these various
influences.
(3) " The unwavering belief in spiritism." Are we not in some danger
of question,begging if we treat this belief as an indication of reversion to
savage conceptions, when the actual problem is really whether that belief he
true or no ?
(4) "Superstitions, devotion to amulets," etc. I have nothing to say for
amulets!—but I think that what Professor Patrick really alludes to here is
Phinuit's custom of asking for ' hair cut close to the head, or old hat-linings,"
«s a way of getting " into the atmosphere" of the former wearers of hat or
hair. Now, one might well wish to be summoned from the realms of day by
some appeal more attractive than the posthumous traces of one's having
worn a particular cricket-cap on a hot afternoon. But if the immaterial and
the material worlds are really continuous, it is conceivable that what has been
closest to the living brain may retain the most perceptible earthly indication
of that special personality. We are dealing here with an empirical suggestion
rather than with a traditional superstition.
(5) " In peculiar intuitive power," etc. This sentence seems to be a
mere play on the word intuitive. A woman, say, with delicate half-conscious
observation, and without formal reasoning, might have discovered (although
Kmma did not) that Frank Churchill was somehow secretly linked with Jane
Fairfax. This would be called feminine intuition ; but such a guess is
absolutely different from the bits of knowledge which really need explaining
in these trance utterances ;—the utterance, say, of the names of dead
,strangers, to which nothing has led up. A woman is no better able than a
man to tell you straight out the Christian name of your grandfather. There
is nothing "stable, basal, and abiding" about such intuitions as that.
(6) And here I may touch on the general question as to whether these
supernormal powers,—telepathy and telnesthesia,—are instances of "'survival
or reversion " ;—reversion to primitive ancestors, survival of " some nearly
extinct faculty no longer serviceable." I cannot understand the view of
protoplasmic evolution here implied. Protoplasm (as the text-books tell us)
Part XXXV.] 385
Review.
from its primary inexplicable irritability gradually develops specific sensibili
ties, in response to specific stimuli, and by the survival of individuals best
fitted to secure food and to escape enemies. Thus faculty rises from touch
and smell, which act near at hand, to sight, which acts at great distances.
At what point would the struggle for existence develop, say, the power of
symbolically cognising the death of a kindred individual beyond the range
of sight 1 Such a faculty would be profoundly indifferent to a hedgehog or
a crab. How could a savage acquire it f and of what use would it be to
him i I am not aware that, except by a few Psychical Researchers, the gift
is particularly valued even now.
Of course this line of argument takes us further still. I frankly find it
inconceivable that at any period of man's history, this faculty of far-feeling,
this cognisance of distant minds, should have been developed by the actual
need and stress of earthly existence. I can imagine no gift which, for the
ordinary purposes of living and propagating, would be either more unpractical
or more unattainable. "Conscience," says Huck Finn, "takes up more
room than all the rest of a person's insides, and yet ain't no good, nohow."
If the moral sense acquired by our race after long and painful tribal training,
thus often appears worse than useless to its possessor, what should we say of
the policy of acquiring a faculty incomparably more elaborate and expensive
than sight itself, whose upshot is to give its owner an occasional peep at
a ghost ? The case might be changed, could we show that savage races
habitually acted \oilh adeantaye on messages given through medicine men.
I doubt, however, whether those messages are more often of practical use to
them than trance utterances are to us.
But, in truth, to a deeper gaze, the problem of telepathy shows itself as
something quite apart from questions of earthly use or advantage. Telepathy,
in my own view, involves an opening out of inner vision, bearing a relation
different from that borne by any human sense, certainly to space, and perhaps
to time. It involves a communicfitio idiomatum, —& contact and converse of
minds as minds, different altogether from any known contact or converse of
organisms. It belongs primarily,—as I needs must think,—to an environ
ment quite other than that we know. It may be a vestige, a survival ; but,
if so, it is the vestige of prenatal faculty, the survival of something which
existed in the universe before the individualisation of incarnate man.
(7) And now a few concluding words as to the possible preferential use
of the right cerebral hemisphere in automatic messages. This suggestion
was, I believe, first made by our valued correspondent, the late Rev. P. H.
Newnham, who was struck with peculiarities, very unlike his wife's
character, in certain messages which both he and Mrs. Newnham believed
to proceed ultimately from some stratum of her mind. I developed this
hypothesis in a long paper in Proceedings, Vol. III., p. 1 (January, 1885),
dwelling especially on the rather frequent occurrence of mirror-writing
(Spiegelschrift) in automatic script, as a clear indication of dextro-cerebral
preponderance where it occurred. The suggestion was coldly received at the
time, but in some recent papers in Brain and elsewhere I observe that
the idea of an oscillation between the two hemispheres, as regards pre
ponderance in verbalisation, is again renewed. And to me it seems that
many automatic messages received since I first wrote—and those of Mrs.
3*6 [Supplement
E. W. Taylor.
Piper's especially—do increasingly suggest a difficult or makeshift usage of »
human brain. The brain may conceivably be thus used in a makeshift
way either by a subliminal stream of consciousness or by an external
intelligence. On the assumption that there is an invading intelli
gence, that intelligence (as Dr. Hodgson somewhere says) is employing
a kind of imperfect typewriter ;—which, one may add, is also an erratic
calculating machine—you drop your thoughts into it. and some of them
come out somehow. But the machine has holes in it ;—places where the
thoughts which the spirit puts in drop through ineffectively ;—and it has als»
strains or cramps in it ;—places where it has got set or stuck in a way which
the spirit cannot alter. This last fact resembles the well-known difficulty in
the way of miking therapeutic suggestions to a hysteric. She has already
given henelf such strong suggestions on certain points that no counter-
suggestions of ours can shake her.
Now, I think it possible that our left hemispheres, having been more
constantly used than our right hemispheres, may be more crowded anil
blocked (so to say) with our own already fixed ideiis. An external
intelligence, wishing to use my brain, might find it convenient to leave
alone those more educated but also more preoccupied tracts, and to use the
less elaborated, but less engrossed, mechanism of my right hemisphere.
If this be thus, we should have here a striking instauce of light thrown
upon our own being by the procedure of beings almost incredibly remote. Bu".
this would not surprise me. As I have elsewhere remarked, such an incident
would resemble the light thrown upon the elements which constitute our
familiar earth by spectroscopic analysis of the radiance of distant suns. It
would be another step in the reconstruction of what once seemed so
solid and self-contained—what now seems so diffused and unseizable—the
personality of man.
" Humpty Dumpty "—the Self, totus teres at^ne rotundns—"sat on the
wall" of the old psychology. " Humpty Dumpty has had a great falL "
"Not all the King's horses nor all the King's men"—nay, not the allied
battalions of the Great Republic—"can set Humpty Dumpty up again.'
Yet they may find, perhaps, that only his shell is broken, and that some
thing has somehow hatched out of him which, instead of sitting on his wall,
will fly over it. p w H Mysj&
The PsycJiolotiy of Suggestion: A Research into the Subconscious Nature of Man
and Society. By Boris Sidis, M.A., Ph.D., Associate in Psychology
at the Pathological Institute of the New York State Hospitals. With
an introduction by Professor William Jambs, of Harvard University•
pp. X. +33(5. New York : D. Appleton and Co., 1898.
The book before us is a type of work which should be encouraged. It is
an attempt to establish on a basis of observation and experiment facts which
have too long suffered from the failure to apply to them exact methods.
The general subject of subconsciousness, with which the author deals, is
naturally elusive, and capable of varied interpretations. It is for this
reason that it demands our most unprejudiced and exacting research, in the
Part XXXV.] 387
Review.
light of recent advances in the anatomy and physiology of the nervous
system. This is Sidis's attitude towards the problem he has undertaken to
solve ; he is critical throughout his discussion, excepting where demands for
explanation of psychical facts lead him too definitely to the assumption
of underlying physical causes, as, for example, in his free adoption of the
retraction theory.
The book is divided into three parts : Suggestibility ; the Self ; Society.
Each of these demands consideration.
After a brief discussion of the careless way in which the term " sug
gestion " has come to be used, Sidis commits himself to the following
definition (page 15) : " By suggestion is meant the intrusion into the mind
of an idea ; met with more or less opposition by the person ; accepted
uncritically at last ; and realised unretlectively, almost automatically." It
is evident that this definition will not pass wholly unchallenged. The fact
of opposition is certainly not essential to suggestion ; not infrequently the
most powerful suggestion is that which is accepted uncritically at first, and
to which not the slightest opposition is made.
An interesting series of experiments into the evidence of normal sug
gestibility is given, from which the conclusion is drawn that normal
suggestibility exists as an undoubted fact, and that "Man is a suggestible
animal, par excellence." Following this is a critical analysis of both normal
and abnormal suggestibility, with a discussion of the hypnotic state, and
illustrative cases, all of which constitutes an excellent, brief presentation
of matters of vital concern both to the neurologist and psychologist. The
result of the analysis is that " suggestibility is a disaggregation of con
sciousness," in which the subconscious self enters into direct communication
with the external world, hence the general law :—" Suggestibility caries as the
amount of disaggregation, and inversely as the unification of consciousness."
The next section of the book is concerned with the "Self." The
argument already begun is carried to its conclusion, and the •'subconscious"
is given a place of dignity in the realm of mind as a consciousness of relative
independence; "it is a secondary consciousness, a secondary self." This
conception Sidis reaches not by a priori methods, but by experiment with
numerous subjects both in and out of the hypnotic state. He places his two
personalities, as it were, side by side, and studies their character, their
methods of inter-communication, and their general inter-relations. This is
extremely well done, and while constantly feeling that the problems are
being stated in too diagrammatic a way, the reader cannot fail to see the
force of the argument, and the suggestiveness of its treatment. "The
Problem of Personality " is the title of a chapter which is largely taken up
with an adverse criticism of Professor James,s theory of personality, and is of
interest to those whose concern is with the more metaphysical side of the
question. We cannot pass over the chapter on "The Physiology and
Pathology of Sub-conciousness," without a word of comment. Sidis here
sketches very briefly the new anatomical theory of the nervous system, and
commits himself unhesitatingly to the so-called retraction theory. This
chapter is superficial and dogmatic, and brings no adequate evidence in
support of its position. A postulate so vague and so iucapable of demonstra
tion as the retraction of neuron terminations should certainly be approached
388 [Supplement.
E. W. Taylor.
tentatively and not dogmatically. Such allegiance to an unproved, and to
many minds fanciful theory, is not in accord with the spirit of scientific
exactness, and repels the unprejudiced reader.
The author is on much safer ground when he discusses in the following
chapter the case of a Rev. Thomas C. Hanna, in whom a complete amnesia
followed an accident. The history of this case is worked out in admirable
detail, though given merely in outline. By means of a method which the
writer calls " hypnoidization," he was able to prove that the patient had all
his lost memories stored in his subconscious mind, which could temporarily
be brought to the surface of consciousness. By degrees the two personalities,
which had developed since the accident, were fused into one, and the patient
completely cured. This case must be regarded as one of the most valuable
contributions which the book contains. Its practical bearing needs
only to be mentioned to be recognised. Much more regarding the sub
conscious self is of great interest, as, for example, its characteristics, as
distinguished from the waking self, and its relations to insanity. These are,
however, matters for which we must refer the interested reader to the teit
for further detail.
The volume concludes with a section on "Society," in reference par
ticularly to social suggestibility. This is by all means the most entertaining
part of the entire book, and is most cordially to be recommended to the
student of social movements. The psychology of the mob and the crowd,
and mental epidemics, are described in a highly original and graphic
manner. Some of the author's statements are extreme, and must be con
demned by a sober judgment, as, for example, (page 362) : " American
society oscillates between acute financial mania and attacks of religious
insanity"; or (page 363), "Woman cannot leave long the routine of her
life, the beaten track of mediocrity ; she can rarely rise above the trite :
she is a Philistine by nature." These and many other statements are un
necessarily sweeping, but the faults of these chapters are so inherently a
part of their excellence that we refrain from further criticism. Were Sidis
not an extremist the chapters might better have been left unwritten. As it
is, they are full of suggestiveness and undoubted truth, in spite of the
occasional extravagance of expression.
In general, we have no doubt the book will fill a place and supply a
want. It has in a rare degree the qualities of originality and forcible
expression, tempered by a guarded scientific spirit, except in a certain
tendency toward a too free acceptance of unproved theories of physiological
nervous action. The author has done a good service, however, in stating
clearly a doctrine of consciousness, and substantiating his claims by an
appeal to experiment, which is likely to throw light on various morbid
mental states, notably hysteria, and so indirectly on the nature of mind
itself.
An introduction by Professor William James adds to the interest of the
book. It is noticeable that James is careful to avoid committing himself to
Sidis's views, while clearly recognising the intrinsic merit of his work.
The typography and general appearance of the book are excellent. It is
embellished by a few illustrations and charts, which tend to make clear the
text, and has a good index. _ ~. _
Part XXXV ] 389
Review.
Natarwissensclutftliche Seelenforschung. I. Das Veriindernnqsyesetz. Von
Rudolf Muller. Leipzig. [1897.] pp. VIII., 168.
Das Hypnotische Hellseh Experiment im Dienste der Natiirtcnssenschaftlichen
Seelenfvrsehung. Bund II. Das Normale Beirusxtsein. Von Rudolf
Muller. Leipzig. [1898.] pp. 173-322.
In this first instalment of his planned work the author seeks to sketch
the foundations of a scientific method of the investigation of mind, and of
the points of view from which it proceeds. (Vorrede VII.) The small pro
gress of psychology beyond description to the real end of a science in
explanation is ascribed, in spite of the late great activity in psychological
study and laboratories, to the want of courage in breaking from old
prejudices and speculative theories. (V. and VI.) As against this the
author's method needs no hypothetical presuppositions, and will give to
psychological phenomena a real explanation in harmony with the other
results of exact investigation. (VII.)
The special interest of the book for our Society lies in the importance
the author attaches to hypnotism and telepathy as psychological methods of
investigation. "Even more than the successes of objective science, the
hypnotic and occult phenomena have lately called forth a mental movement
embracing ever wider circles, and which seeks to solve the riddle of the
mind by an experimental investigation of these phenomena. Several
learned societies, foremost the ' Society for Psychical Research ' in London
and the ' American Psychical Research ' in Boston, and numerous clubs of
all civilised lands, are concerned with this kind of experimental study of
mind, which direction has already found numerous zealous literary
champions. But here again the old fault has not been avoided, since the
temptation has been too little resisted of seeking the goal on the wings of
uncertain speculation, instead of trusting alone to the gradual and slow,
but so much the surer, progress of experimental study No wonder that
the official representatives of psychology do not follow this flight. On the
other hand, all honour is due to those few earnest psychological students
who have the courage to extend their investigations to the hypnotic and—-
even though in the beginning with caution and sceptical predisposition—
also to the occult phenomena, and to use, not speculation, but observation
and verification of facts and experimental methods." (VI. and VII.)
Three divisions of psychology are made :—(1) Psychical physiology ; (2)-
Psychology in the narrow sense ; (3) Hypnology. (pp. 110-118.) It is the
methodology of hypnology with which the author is chiefly concerned, and
which he believes will be of such great service to psychology in the narrow
sense. Stimulated, apparently, by the suggestion of Miinsterberg,1 and by
the hypnotic experimental method of Dr. O. Vogt,2 the author extends this
introspection in hypnotism to the condition of clairvoyance in hypnotism.
1 Aufyaljen und Mcthoden der Psychologic s. 120.
a Die direete Psycltologitche Expcrimcntal-mcthode in Hypnotischen Bewusstseinszu-
stdnden, Leipzig, 1897 ; abstract in Proceedings of the Dritter InternaUonalcr Con
gress fur Psychologic in Miinehen, s. 250-259.
390 [Supple-nest.
Harlow Gale.
But under clairvoyance seems to be included also thought-transference
(pp. 152-3). The knowledge so reported is not to be taken with
uncritical belief, but is to be proved and verified by the usual objective
methods (pp. 156-7). Thus three methods of hypnotic clairvoyant
introspection are made :—(1) Introspecting self-observation ; (2) Intro
spection of some third person put into rapport by the hypnotiser : (3)
Introspection of the hypnotiser. These three simple methods are also to be
used in combination (pp. 158—163.) The author has used these methods
some years (p. 154), and reserves for his second volume of this work »
detailed account of his clairvoyant experiments in hypnotism and their
foundation principles (pp. 139 and 158).
Yet from this introductory volume one has some glimpses of the
author's own results and his real methods as compared with the above
excellent plan. For " the fact of the existence of a subject, which is
denied by pure psychology, the Naturwixseitsciiaftiiche Sedenforschnng will
undertake to prove" (p. 14).1 Then specially, " it is the truly astonishiiu;
effects which come to light in the phenomena of hypnotism and clairvoyance
which force us to recognise the real and actual existence of this something,
called soul, within the human organism. . . . The psyche is nothing
else, and can be nothing else, than a force" (p. 102). "It must here be
expressly emphasised that under the idea of soul is not meant any spiritual
substratum of life- and thought-force, but the force itself, i.e., that effective
activity, evidencing itself pre-eminently in the matter of the nervous
substance, which produces the process of life and thought " (pp. 102
and 103). The Natuncissenschaftliche Seelenforschung has no other problem
than to investigate the laws of the changes effected by the soul-force"
(p. 108).
Indeed, the discussion about this mental subject fills the greater part of
this present introductory book, and it does not seem possible to reconcile the
author's different standpoints and reasonings. For though the study of the
brain mechanism as making possible and conditioning the mind is counted is
one of the most important problems (p. 132), and though hypnotic introspec
tion reports " without brain function, no consciousness " (pp. 154 and lofi),
yet the aim of physiological psychology in seeking to know the causal
connection of motions in the nerves, in the hope of ultimately inferring
therefrom the causal connection of mental processes, is considered a dream ;
and were it even reached, it " would neither satisfy our demands of know
ledge nor afford an explanation for psychical phenomena " (p. 29 ; see
also pp. 99, 112, 146-7).
The fact appears to be that the author's "subject" has been antici]»t«d
in this methodology volume by being carried back from the subsequent
metaphysics to which he thinks all science leads. "Force, and therewith
also matter, is physical ; the substratum of force, the subject of activity, is
metaphysical. . . . Since the subject of activity is metaphysical, so all
branches of science lead to a natural metaphysics as the real basis of all
natural reality " (p. 52 ; see also pp. 12, 33, 109, 168). This attitude is
shown in his vehement protest that Du Bois-Reymond and Helmholta have
1 For a dramatic 6gure of the death of "psychology without a soul," see p. 4.
Part XXXV.] 391
Review.
poured out the child (life-force) with the bath,1 as compared with his highest
admiration for the work of Du Prel (pp. 106 and 120). However different
judgments may vary as to the possibility or value of real knowledge leading
ultimately to any metaphysics, it is at any rate discouraging to find another
author straying so soon from his scientific method.2
In the second instalment of this work the experimental results with a
female clairvoyant medium are given ; yet only scattered direct quotations
of the medium's descriptions, and no attempt is made at giving a full record
of even one sitting. When asked to look into her own or the hypnotisor's
brain, the hypnotised medium, who was ignorant of such matters, gave the
following characteristic descriptions:—"There is so very much together,
and all in movement and alive ; there and there and here something springs
up, in many places at once, and then immediately again at other places, and
they are interwoven through and over one another,—that is by no means
easy to describe ! . . . . There are many and many little points like
poppies, and thousands and thousands of little threads in which currents run
forwards, backwards, from within upwards and downwards. This looks
like the foaming on pouring out soda-water or beer " (p. 188). The author
wondered if by these "little poppy points" was meant the pyramid and
other nerve cells of the cortex, and considered these first descriptions so
correct and exact, in spite of the primitive modes of expression, that his
beginning doubts gave way to confidence in the medium (p. 189). Asked
what that springing up at so many places occasioned, she replied slowly,
" That makes thinking, speaking, hearing; for when I or you speak there
arise such—how shall I name them ?— little bits of balls or knots, I might
almost say bubbles, but very small, now like the finest needle points, some
larger, some smaller, variously formed" (pp. 189 and 190). Such popularly
vague and figurative descriptions can be translated into almost any technical
brain language.
Her scheme for the optic tract and chiasma is considered much more
probably right from its simplicity and naturalness (pp. 209 and 210).
Sensation is made out to be due to a double-sided fluctuation, resulting in a
tension of the fibrillated nerve endings (p. 234), and consciousness from the
union in the cortex of the biochemical hunger from the cerebellum with the
positive fluctuations from the sense organs (p. 235). The cerebellum is the
stomach of the nervous system, in that it secretes the nutritive fluid which
is taken into the nerves through the fibrillated endings, (pp. 212, 195.)
With her "accustomed precision" (p. 221) the heart is the seat of the
feelings (p. 220), being dark blue in bitterness and light red in joy (pp. 288
and 291). Such fantastic anatomy and physiology is to be taken as true
because it is not self-contradictory (p. 186). But in addition to this
deductive logical test of metaphysics, the author awaits experimental
verification for the clairvoyant descriptions which he could not bring into
harmony with the already acquired scientific knowledge (p. 286).
1 Of. Hermann : Lekrbuch der Phytiologie, 9te Auf. S. 4-8, for a historical
sketch of the final elimination of " Lebenskraft " as an explanation in physiology.
2 As, e.o., in Hudson's Scientific Demonstration of the Future Life. See Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. XII., p. 330.
2 d
392 J.Supplement
Harlow Gale.
With the difficulty of separating the medium's descriptions from the
author's technical interpretation, and with the slight evidence for the
existence of strict clairvoyance, anyway as beyond telepathy, these result*
can hardly be considered of any value. The value of the book is in its
advocacy of more use of hypnotism in experimental psychology, and in
many just criticisms of much modern psychology. Though the book
is difficult reading owing to its metaphysical mixture, yet it is writteu
for the laity, and it is hoped it will stimulate—especially in the authors
country—to more knowledge and results in this important work.
Harlow Gale.
La TeUpatia. By Dr. G. B. Ermacora. Padova, 1898, pp. 150.
This "summary exposition of real studies on the transmission of
thought" is a collection of the author's articles which have been appearing
irregularly in the Rivista di Studi Psichici, edited by himself and Dr. G.
Finzi. The sudden death1 of Dr. Ermacora a year ago has left these
articles somewhat incomplete as a review of the subject. Yet the book as
it stands is a most hopeful and valuable work. It is hopeful as an evidence
itself of the progress of psychical research which the author sketches in his
Introduction. In this general progress it may be an encouragement to the
workers in the S.P.B. to find that nearly 60 per cent, of all the citations
and references are from English sources.
The work deals only with the experimental evidence for telepathy. An
excellent introduction discusses the methods and the cautions against
illusion and fraud. The evidence begins with the production of hypnotism
at a distance and of telepathic perception in hypnosis. Before going on to
the experiments in the normal condition there is an interpolation of some
theoretical considerations on the various effects in telepathy. These are
fortunately not concerned with speculations as to the means of telepathic
transmission, but with the forms in which the telepathic influence mamfest*,
itself in the percipient. This analysis and classification gives the basis for
the subdivisions of the experimental evidence which follows. These
remaining sections are :—Alterations of function, perception of ideas,
perception through internal sensory images, hallucinations hypnotic and
post-hypnotic, dreams, waking hallucinations (with subdivision on
hallucinations in general), emotions and alterations of personality, and
motor perceptions. The author left the titles only of two planned chapters
on post-hypnotic suggestions, and the phenomenon of so-called magnetic
attraction.
The work then, as a complete review of the evidence for telepathy, is
wanting in the spontaneous cases of veridical hallucinations, and in more
than a passing notice of the Census of Hallucinations. Strangely enough, too,
there is no reference to the mass of evidence in the case of Mrs Piper
1 Noticed in the Journal S.P.R. for May, 189S, Vol. VIII., p. 224. See also thr
Rivitta di Studi Ptichici, Anno IV., pp. 103-108, for his portrait, and for a most
interesting sketch of his specialised education in physics, with his subsequent
attraction and complete devotion of his means and leisure to psychical research.
Part XXXV.] 393
Review.
This oversight can hardly be intentional, because of her phenomena being
classed as "clairvoyance," or because of their spiritistic form. For of his
own very original and highly valuable study on dreams 1 produced through
the "Elvira" personality of Signorina Marie M., he said: "It seems
important to me to remark once for all that supposed spiritistic intervention
is certainly able to become an important factor in explanations of telepathy,
but one ought not now to make a distinction a priori (and founded on simple
difference of form in phenomena) between messages transmitted by telepathy
and messages transmitted by spirit intervention. We ought to remain
bound to the definition adopted, according to which all communication
between mind and mind that does not come by known sensory means is
called telepathy." (La Telepatia, p. 74, note.) And as, against these
omissions, the book offers only four cases which are not included in
Phantasms of the Living or Mr. Podmore's Apparitions and Thought-Trans
ference, the work cannot be regarded as so complete and thorough a review
of telepathy as Apparitions and Thought-Transference. The high admiration
for this work which Dr. Ermacora expressed in his thirteen-page review of
it in the first number of his Eirisla 2 in January, 1895, and his desire for its
translation, had apparently been preceded by his beginning this series of
articles which made up La Telepatia. And probably his form of popularisa
tion and critical education in this difficult subject may be more fitted to his
own country and readers.
Thus, in spite of its more or less necessitated incompleteness, La Telepatia
is a work of most timely and even permanent value, a worthy monument—
together with the three volumes of his Kivista—to its open-minded, untiring,
and scholarly author. It is surely to be greatly hoped that the work in its
collected form may hasten the renewed formation of an Italian Society for
Psychical Research, to which the family of the author carry out his spirit in
dedicating the income from this work.
Harlow Gale.
Essays in Psychical Research. By Miss X. (A. Goodrich-Fiiebr) (London :
George Redway. 1899. pp. XV., 330.)
Miss Freer, who, under the name of " Miss X.", has made several
contributions to our Proceedings, tells us in the preface to this volume of
essays that "the papers which are here collected from various periodicals
in which they have appeared, are in every sense essays in Inquiry," and she
states that she has " no claim to the attention of others, but such as they
may grant to a lifelong experience of the phenomena under consideration."
Miss Freer is indeed most at home in describing her own experiences and
commenting upon them, and is, I think, seen at her best in the article
entitled " How it came into my head. The Machinery of Intuitions "
—which is substantially, as she reminds us, the reproduction of an article
1 "Telepathic Dreams Experimentally Induced." Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XI.,
pp. 235-308.
2 See Dr. Leaf's notice of the Rivitta in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XL, pp. 171
and 172.
2 d 2
394 Richard Hodgson.
published in these Proceeding* (Part XXVII.) under the title of "On the
Apparent Sources of Subliminal Messages." The other essays in the book
are all reproduced—with some slight changes by omission or addition or
re arrangement, chiefly verbal in character— from articles by Miss X. which
appeared in the magazine Borderland, published quarterly by Mr. VV. T.
Stead, the first number of which appeared in July, 1893, and the last, and
expiring, number in October, 1897.
The book, as a whole, is rather of the literary than the scientific order,
and deals with the subjects under consideration in the somewhat popular
manner suitable to Borderland. This fact will doubtless make the present
volume more rather than less interesting to many readers. Besides the
article referred to above as republished from our Proceedings, the book con
tains, in addition to the Introductory sketch of " Psychical Research in the
Victorian Era," papers under the following headings : "Haunted Houses."
"Another Theory of Hauntings " (really about "The Land of Faery," as
it was originally called in Borderland), " On the Faculty of Crystal Gazing,"
"The Divining Rod, or the Faculty of Dowsing," "Hypnotism," "Obses
sion : or the Imperative Idea" (about fads and idees fixes), " Holywell—
Psychic Healing : The Welsh Lourdes," " Saint Columba, the Father of
Second Sight."
Of these articles, that on Crystal Gazing has special value owing to the
practical experience of Miss Freer in this subject. On the Divining Rod,
however, the reader will do well to refer to Professor Barrett's report
published in Part XXXII. Proceedings S.P.R. It is odd that Miss Freer
makes no reference to this in her book, although there are indications which
suggest that in revising her article from its original form in Borderland, she
was indebted for some of her new statements to that report. Of excellent
reading is the account of Saint Columba, who, according to Adamnan
(whom Miss Freer summarises), united various kinds of psychical gifts, from
"thought-transference and clairvoyance" up to "premonitions" of things
both small and great. Many instances are quoted by Miss Freer, from
which I take the following :—
"The saint called two of the brethren, Lugbe and Silnan, and gave
them this charge : ' Sail over now to the Malean Island, and on the open
ground, near the seashore, look for Ere, a robber, who came alone last
night in secret from the Island Coloso. He strives to hide himself among
the sandhills during the daytime under his boat, which he covers with hay.
that he may sail across at night to the little island where our young seals are
brought forth and nurtured. When this furious robber hath stealthily
killed as many as he can, he then fills his boat and goes back to his hiding-
place.' They proceeded at once, in compliance with their orders, and found
the robber lying hid in the very spot that was indicated."
', On another day a shout was given on the other side of the Sound.
The saint . . . said : ' The man who is shouting beyond the Sound is
not of very sharp wits, for when he is here to-day he will upset my inkhorn
and spill the ink.' Diormit, his minister, hearing this, stood a little in front
of the door, and waited for the arrival of this troublesome guest, in order
to save the inkhorn. But for some cause or other he had soon to leave hU
place, and after his departure the unwelcome guest arrived. In his eager
Part XXXV.] 395
Review.
haste to kiss the saint, he upset the inkhorn with the hem of his garment
and spilled the ink."
" One day S. Coluraba was sitting by a well near the fortress of Cethirn
with Abbot Coragell. Water was brought to them to wash their hands, and
the saint said to the abbot : ' A day shall come, O Comgell, when the well
whence this water now poured out for us was drawn will be no longer fit for
man's use.' 'How shall the water of this be defiled?' said the abbot. 'From
this,' answered the saint, 'that it shall be filled with human blood; for thy
relatives and mine—that is, the people of the Cruithni and the race of
Niall—shall be at war in the neighbouring fortress of Cethirn. At this well
an unhappy relative of mine shall be slain, and his blood, mingling with
that of many others, shall fill it up.' An old man present at the battle,
many years after, referred to this prophecy, and pointed out its literal
fulfilment in the dead bodies in the well and the death of S. Columba's
kinsman."
With so much that is of interest in this collection of Borderland articles,
it is to be regretted that Miss Freer has repeated an important misrepre
sentation of fact concerning Mrs. Piper, my correction of which had been
previously brought to her attention. She gives her readers to understand
(pp. X. and 21) that Mrs. Piper's trances involve "the extreme cost of
personal suffering," and she speaks of "the convulsed countenance, the
gnashing teeth, the writhing body, the clenched hands." Miss Freer gave
utterance to similar remarks at a meeting in London, reported in the
magazine Light, for December 17th, 1898. In a communication to the same
magazine for February 4th, 1899, I pointed out that her assertions on this
matter were entirely baseless. I drew attention to the fact that "the con
vulsive movements which usually in past years marked Mrs. Piper's going
into and coming out of trance " had ceased two years previously, and I
referred to the statements which I had already made to this effect in the
Journal S. P. R. for January, 1898 (p. 167) and in the Proceedings S. P. R.,
PartXXXUI, February, 1898 (p. 403). I also emphasised the fact that
Mrs. Piper's trances did not involve any personal suffering by quoting a
statement from Mrs. Piper herself that she had never suffered any physical
pain in connection with her trances, and that during the past two years she
had experienced better health than before since she was thirteen years old.
It is therefore surprising to find that Miss Freer in the volume before us
repeats her misrepresentation, and to find further that the latest words
which I have quoted above (from the paper on " Psychical Research in the
Victorian Era," p. 21), do not occur in the original paper in borderland
(July, 1897). Miss Freer is evidently labouring under an idee fixe, which
perhaps began between two and three years ago, and has become more
strongly established since. That this is the explanation of her curious mis
statements may appear to the reader who will compare what she says about
Mrs. Piper in the book before us (as well as in her remarks reported in
Light for December 17th, 1898) with what she wrote in Borderland for
January, 1894,—" Character Sketch. Mrs. Piper"—and for July, 1896,—
" The Progress of Psychical Research. Professor James's Address." (Miss
Freer's sittings with Mrs. Piper, it should be noted, were as long ago as
December 7th to 9th, 1889.) Not only, in these articles, is there not the
306 [Supplement
Wm. Romaine Newbold.
slightest reference of any kind whatsoever to any personal suffering of Mrs.
Piper, but it will be very plain to the reader that no thought of any such
suffering had entered Miss Freer's mind ; and it seems that as late as July.
18%, Miss Freer wrote as follows, after quoting Professor James's now
famous remark that his own white crow was Mrs. Piper : " It is well known
that Mrs. Piper is Professor James's own particular show, as they say over
in his country. We have learnt many things from Mrs. Piper, and are glad
to feel that she is in hands so thoroughly capable of making the most of
what she has to teach, as are those of Professor James and Dr. Hodgson.,
(borderland. July, 1896, p. 310.)
That Miss Freer's recent utterances concerning Mrs. Piper must be
regarded as unreliable may be illustrated by another instance. She recently
stated that the few prophecies upon which Mrs. Piper had '' ventured in
regard to her had none of them ' come off.' ' (Light, December 17th, 189*.
p. 613), but several years previously and when her recollections were
presumably more trustworthy, she stated that " four important prophecies ',
were made to her, that two of these had been fulfilled, and that the
remaining two " were only prevented by my own will, and both were
prominently brought before me as suggestions." (Borderland, January, 1894,
p. 230.)
Richakd Hodgson.
Mollie Fancher: The Brooklyn Enigma. An Authentic Statement of Facts in
the Life of Mary J. Fancher, the Psychological Marvel of the Siineteentii
Century. Unimpeachable Testimony of Many Witnesses. By Abram H.
Dailey, Brooklyn, N.Y. pp. XIII., 262.
This book consists of a rather disconnected narrative by Judge Dailey,
abstracts of a diary kept by Miss Fancher's aunt, a series of signed state
ments made by friends, and a number of reprints of articles which had
originally appeared in the daily papers. No attempt has been made to
reduce this mass to a coherent whole. It abounds in repetitions and irrele-
vancies to such a degree that it is far from easy to extract from it a clear
history of the very interesting case which it is designed to put on record.
The main facts may be outlined as follows : —
Miss Fancher was born August 16th, 1848. As a child her health was
good, but in March of 1864 it began to fail. She had "nervous indigestion,,'
inability to retain food, "fainting spells," "weakness in the chest," and
she "wasted away." May 10th, 1864, she was thrown from her horse and
severely injured. In the course of the following summer the lower part of
her body suddenly became paralysed. She seemed to recover from the
effects of this accident during the autumn, but on June 8th, 1865, as she
was stepping from a street car, the car started too soon, she was throwu
to the ground, her skirt caught upon a projecting hook, and she was dragged
some yards, again receiving serious injuries. This was followed by weakness,
transient paralyses, pain, cough, and luemorrhages from the lungs. In
February, 1866, convulsions appeared. Soon afterwards she lost, in rapid
succession, sight, speech, and hearing. From that date to 1894, when the
book was written, her history was that of a hysteric of the worst type—
Vart XXXV.] 397
Review.
anaesthesias, paralyses, contractures, and convulsions involving now this,
now that organ of sense or group of muscles, and succeeding one another in
bewildering variety. Her sight, however, was never restored, although in
recent years she seems to be recovering some portion of it. Throughout
this period normal sleep seemed to be replaced by " trance," in which the
whole body became rigid.
In 1875, after a trance lasting a month, it was found that her memory
of the nine years immediately preceding had been totally obliterated, the
contractures which had marked those years had disappeared, and all the
skill in embroidery, etc., which she had acquired during them was lost.
From 1875 to the date of the book Miss Fancher's memories were
approximately continuous, the only exceptions being found in the lives of her
secondary selves. She also remembers the events of her early life up to
the beginning of the nine-year period. About 1878 a new memory-synthesis
appeared, but soon vanished, and was not again observed until 1887.
It was then named by her friends " Idol." Others of later date were named
"Rosebud," "Pearl," and "Ruby." The "normal" Miss Fancher was
named " Sunbeam," to distinguish her from these. Each of these memory-
systems or personalities calls itself Mollie Fancher, possesses a portion of
Miss Fancher's memories, and remembers its own previous occurrences.
No one has any knowledge of any other save in so far as informed by other
persons. " R>sebud " seems to be identical with Mollie Fancher as she was
at six or seven years. "Idol" and "Pearl" are young girls of about
sixteen, but neither recalls the first accident, while "Ruby," who seems
to be about the same age, recalls the first, but not the second accident.
"Idol" and "Pearl" are quiet, and not markedly unlike one another, while
"Ruby" is vivacious, cheerful, and talkative. None of them possesses
" Sunbeam's " acquired skill, and all are extremely unstable, appearing only
during the night, and lasting but a few minutes.
During her years of blindness Miss Fancher has convinced her friends
that she possessed supernormal powers of vision. It is claimed that she has
repeatedly read sealed letters, described events at a distance, and found lost
articles. She also believes that she sees the world of spirits, but is extremely
reticent upon that topic.
One is disappointed to find that Judge Dailey adduces little evidence of
value in support of these claims. He has, indeed, recorded the narratives
of many witnesses whose truthfulness no one would question, but in not one
of these narratives are the facts given with that attention to details and that
care to avoid misdescription which the nature of the case demands. Many
are vague in the extreme, and very few tell us how much time elapsed
between the event and its committal to writing. To glance at only the best
of these : Prof. Parkhurst submitted to Miss Fancher a sealed envelope con
taining a slip of printed paper, the contents of which he did not himself
know. She told him it contained the words "court," "jurisdiction," and
the numerals 6, 2, 3, 4. These he wrote in his notebook, took the envelope
away still sealed, read Miss Fancher's statement to two friends, and in
their presence opened the envelope. Miss Fancher's statements were
found to be correct. But we are not told how large the type was, how
many thicknesses of paper covered it, how Miss Fancher handled the
398 [Supplement.
Wtiu JRomaive Newbold.
envelope, how long she had it in her possession, or whether she had it at any
time when Prof. Parkhurst was not present.
Dr. Speir states that Miss Fancher once wrote for him upon a slate the
contents of a letter which had just been brought to her by the postman, and
was as yet unopened. We are not given copies of the two, nor are we told
how much time elapsed between the event and the record, nor who wrote
the letter, nor whether Miss Fancher could have known that Dr. Speir
would be present when the postman came.
Miss Fancher once told Judge Dailey that she had seen him upon a
given evening with a gentleman whom she described. After some difficulty
Judge Dailey recollected that upon that evening he had been with a friend
named Sisson. We are not told how he identified the evening. Some
months later Judge Dailey, Mr. Sisson, and another person called upon Miss
Fancher. She at first said she had not before seen either of the two gentle
men, but after a moment's reflection said that one, pointing to Mr. Sisson,
was the man she had seen with the Judge. This is one of the best cases, as
it is corroborated by Mr. Sisson, and it appears that his account was written
only six months or so after the event. We would like to know, however,
whether any further questions were asked Miss Fancher after she had first
stated that she did not recognise Mr. Sisson.
In brief, the evidence which Judge Dailey has collected will seem satis
factory only to those who are already satisfied of the possibility of clair
voyance. It will do little towards establishing that possibility. And as Miss
Fancher's clairvoyant powers are said to be much less keen now than they
were some years ago, it is not probable that her case will contribute much of
value to the evidence for the supernormal. One can readily appreciate the
repugnance which Miss Fancher felt to submitting herself to the commission
of experts suggested by the New York Medico-legal Society, but it is much
to be regretted that her friends should have allowed the value of her case t,>
be lost through mere negligence.
Wm. Romainb Newbolp.
University of Pennsylvania.
Edmund Gurney Library. 399
EDMUND GURNEY LIBRARY.
SUPPLEMENTARY CATALOGUE, 1898-9.
Additions since the list in " Proceedings," Vol. XIII.
Binet (Dr. Alfred), The Psychology of Reasoning. Translated by
A. G. White, B.Sc Chicago, 1899
Bramweix (J. Milne, M.B.), On the Evolution of the Hypnotic
Theory (Brain, 1896.) London, 1896
Hypnotic Anaesthesia (The Practitioner, 1896) London, 1896
Suggestion : Its Place in Medicine and Scientific Research
London, 185.7
James Braid : His Work and Writings (S.P.R. Proceedings,
Vol. XII.) London, 1896
Charcot, (J. M.), The Faith Cure (The New Review, 1893)...London, 1893
Colquhoun (J. C.), History of Magic, Witchcraft, and Animal
Magnetism. 2 Vols London, 1851
Du Potet (de Sennevoy), An Introduction to the Study of Animal
Magnetism. From the French London, 1838
Ethnology (14th Annual Report of Bureau of). Parts I. and II.
Part II. The Ghost Dance Religion Washington, U.S.A., 1896
James (Prof. William), Human Immortality. Two Supposed Objec
tions to the Doctrine London,, 1898
Myers (F. W. H.), On Some Fresh Facts Indicating Man's Survival
of Death. (The National Review, October, 1898) London, 1898
Nkilson (William), Mesmerism in its Relation to Health and Disease
London, 1855
Nevius (John L., D.D.) Demon Possession and Allied Themes
London, 1896
Schofield (Alfred T., M.D., F.R.C.S.), The Unconscious Mind
London, 1898
Statham (F. Reginald), Magnetism and Morals (The Westminster
Review, November, 1898) London, 1898
Wetterstrand (Dr. O. G.), Hypnotism and its Application to Practical
Medicine. Translated by Dr. H. S. Petersen London, 1897
Auguez (Paul), Spiritualisme ; Faits Curieux Paris, 1858
Charcot (Prof. J. M.), La Foi qui guerit Paris, 1897
CHArDEl (C.), Essai de Psychologie Physiologique. 2nd Edition. ..Paris, 1838
[Dalloz], Entretiens sur le Magnétisme Animal Paris, 1823
400 Edmund Gurney Library.
Demarquay (Dr. et Dr. Giraud-Teulon), Recherches sur l'Hypno
tisme Paris, 1860
[De Puységur (A. M. J. Chastenet)], Mémoires pour servir à
l'Histoire du Magnétisme Animal. 2nd Edition Parit, 1809
Suite des Mémoires Paris, 1809
[Dbslon (Ch.)]. Satire. Supplément aux deux Rapports de la Faculté
de Médecine Amsterdam, 1784
[Didier (Alexis).] Le Sommeil Magnétique, expliqué par le Somnam
bule Alexis Paris, 1856
Fabre (Dr.), Le Magnétisme Animal Paris, 1838
Frapart (Dr.) Lettres sur le Magnétisme Paris, 1840
Gasc-Desfossés (Ed.), Magnétisme Vital Paris, 1897
H[annapier] (C. H.), Tératoscopie du Fluide Vital Paris, 1822
Janet (Dr. Pierre), Névroses et Idées Fixes Paris, 1898
"Journal du Magnétisme Animal" fan,s, 1840-1
Mesmer, Aphorismcs Part>, 1785
Raymond (Prof. F. et Dr. P. Janet), Névroses et Idées Fixes II.
Paris, 1898
Sére (Dr. G. Louis de), Application du Somnambulisme Magnétique
Pari*, 1855
Beitràge zur Grenzwissenschaft Jena, 1899
Mùller (Rudolph), Hypnotismus und Objective Seelenforschung
Leipzig, [1897]
Naturwissenschaftliche Seelenforschung.
I. Das Veriinderungsgesetz Leipzig, [1897]
Das Hypnotische Hellseh-Experiment im Dienste der Natur-
wissenschaftlichen Seelenforschung.
II. Das normale Bewusstsein Leipzig, [1898]
Ermacora (Dr. G. B.), La Telepatia Padua, 1898
A full Catalogue of the books in the Edmund Gurney Library uxts printed
at the end of Vol. V. of the Proceedings. Supplementary Catalogues toeit
printed at the end of Vols. VI., VII., VIII., IX., A'., XI., XII., and
XIII. Separate copies of these Catalogues are still on hand, and can U
,obtained from the Secretary.
Officers and Council for 1S99. 401
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Profksbob H. Sidgwick - - ... 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S. - - - 1885-1887.
Professor H. Sidgwick 1888-1892.
Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S. - - 1893.
Professor William James (Harvard, U.S.A.) 1894-1895.
Sib William Crookes, F.R.S. 1896-1898.
OFF1CERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1899.
PRESIDENT.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T.
ProfessorVV.James, Harvard,U.S. A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithson
ian Institution,Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
council,.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P.
A. W. Barrett, M.B.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
Montague Crackanthorpe, Q.C.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.R.S.
Hon. Everard Feilding.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
Mr. Registrar Hood.
Walter Leaf, Litt.D.
Professor Oliver J. Lodge, F.R.S.
ProfessorMacalister,M. D. ,F. R.S.
Frederic W. H. Myers.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
George F. Rogers, M.D.
Sydney C. Scott.
Professor Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
H. Babington Smith, C.S.I.
J. G. Smith.
Sir A. K. Stephenson, K.C.B., Q.C.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
J. Venn, D. Sc., F.RS.
Abraham Wallace, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY.
Frederic W. H. Myers, Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
MICHAEl Petrovo-Solovovo, 38, Sergievskaia, St. Petersburg.
SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5, Boylston Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
ASSISTANT-SECRETARY.
Edward T. Bennett, 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
402 Lint of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
{June, 1899.)
PRESIDENT.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Thk Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 10, Downing-street, S.W.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., Royal College of Science, Dublin.
The Marquis of Bute, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A.
ProfessorS. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S. , Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripo.v, The Palace, Ripon.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge.
HONORARY MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., Royal College of Science, Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, F. R.S., 7, Kensington Park-gardens, Loudon, W.
John Ruskin, LL.D., D.C.L., Brantwood, Coniston, Lancashire.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset.
G. F. Watts, R.A., Little Holland House, London, W.
CORRESPONDING MEMBERS.
Alexander N. Aksakof, 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Prof. H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Route d'Antibes, Cannes, France.
Professor Bernheim, H6pital Civil, Nancy, France.
Prof. H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston, U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia College, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6, Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 31, Goltz Strasse, Berlin, W.
Dr. Fere, 37, Boulevard St. Michel, Paris.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, 22, Rue de Bellechasse, Paris.
List of Members and Associates. 403
Or. A. A. Liebeault, Nancy, France.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43, Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,U.S.A.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15, Rue de l'Université, Paris.
Professor Sabatier, Montpellier, France.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2, Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Dr. H. de Varigny, 18, Rue Lalo, Paris.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
Dr. G. C. Wittig, 22, Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
MEMBERS, HONORARY ASSOCIATES, AND ASSOCIATES.
Names of Members are printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10, St. Colene-street, Edinburgh.
Adair, Desmond, Bank of England, Plymouth.
Adams, Mrs., 4, Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. Henry, Heathcote, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Adkins, Henry, J.P., Leyhill, Northfield, near Birmingham.
Ainslie, Douglas, St. James's Club, Piccadilly, London, W.
Alban, Miss Mary H., Hotel Bellevue, Via Nazionale, Rome.
Alexander, Professor S., M.A., The Owens College, Manchester.
Allen, Mrs. M. S., Picton House, Ealing.
Allen, Rev. W. O. B., M.A., 83, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Allin, Rev. Thomas, Donnington Rectory, Ledbury.
Amery, W. C., 34a, Corporation-street, Birmingham.
Appleyard, Walter, Endcliffe-crescent, Sheffield.
Argles, Miss Edith M., The Deanery, Peterborough.
Armstrong, Miss C. M., 31, Hereford-square, London, S.W.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Ashburton, The Lady, Kent House, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Astley, Miss, 3, Halkin-place, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Bacchus, Mrs., The Presbytery, Henley-on-Thames.
Bacle, E., 57, Rue de Chateaudun, Paris.
Badelier, Emile, Rangoon, British Burmah.
Baggally, Wortley W., 23, Lower Phillimore-place, Kensington, W.
Bagnell, Mrs., 22, Down-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Baines, Miss W., Kames Cottage, Port Bannatyne, Bute, N.B.
404 List of Members and Associates.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, Keston, 27, Burnaby-gardens, Chiswick, W.
Baker, Edmund G., High View, Shooters-hill, Kent.
Baker, Miss Morrant, Boston Lodge, Harvard-rd., Gunnersbury, S.W.
Balfour, The Right Hon. A. J.,M.P.,F.R.S., 10, Downing-st.,3.W.
Balfour, The Right Hon. G.W., M.P., 24, Addison-road, London,W.
Balfour, Miss, 10, Downing-street, London, S.W.
Ballard, Rev. P., M.A , B.Sc, Morschach, Anlaby-road, Hull.
Bannerman, Colonel P. W., 8, Somers-place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Barclay, Rev. Chas.W., M.A.,TheVicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
Barkly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, near London.
Barkworth, Thomas, J. P., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
Barlow, Miss Jane, The Cottage, Raheny, co. Dublin.
Barlow, Colonel W. R., 56, Penywern-road, London, S.W.
Barrett, Ashley W., M.B., 7, Cavendish-place, Cavendish-square,W.
Barrington, Hon. Eric, 62, Cadogan-place, London, S.W.
Bartholomew, Colonel, Bantry Lodge, Glengariff, co. Cork.
Bates, Colonel C. E., c/o London and County Bank, 1, Connaught-
street, London, W.
Bates, Miss, c/o London and County Bank, Maidstone.
Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Baudains, Miss M. G., Parade House, Jersey.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., M.A., The College, Eastbourne.
Bean, Rev. Edwin, M.A., The School House, Brentwood.
Beatty, Octavius, Fairholt, Merton-hall-road, Wimbledon, Surrey.
Beazley, Lieutenant-Colonel George G., 74, Redcliffe-sq., S.W.
Bective, The Countess of, Barnacre Lodge, Garstang.
Beer, Mrs., 7, Chesterfield-gardens, London, W.
Beeton, Miss Florence, 2, Adamson-road, S. Hampstead, N.W.
Bell, Charles W., J. P., D.L., Yewhurst, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Bell, Major Wm. Morrison, Thor, Birchington, Thanet, Kent.
Bellasis, Major G. M., c/o H. S. King and Co., 45, Pall Mall, S.W.
Bennett, Edward T, Devonshire House, Richmond, near London.
Bennett, Ernest N., M.A., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Mrs., 9, St. Thomas-street, Winchester.
Benson, Miss Annette M., M.D., Cama Hospital, Bombay.
Berens, Rev. Randolph, M.A., 14, Prince's-gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von,- Harewood Hill, Darlington.
Bergen, Dr. Carl von, 32, Karlavagen, Stockholm.
Bernard, John, Major, R.M.L.I., H.M.S. "Nelson," Portsmouth.
Berry.Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D.,60,Welbeck-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W.
Bevan, Miss N. H., Chalet Passiflora, Cannes, France.
Bevan, Hon Mrs. R. Yorke, 9, Rutland-gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131, Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Lixt of Members and Associates. 405
Bickford-Smith, R.A.H., B.A., 19, Endymion-road, Brixton Rise, S.W.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, M.A., Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, Mrs., 10, Queen's Gate-gardens, London, S.W.
Bidder, George P., Ravensbury Park, Mitcham, Surrey.
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19, Ennismore-gardens, S W.
Bielby, Horace C. V., 67, Lord-street, Liverpool, W.
Bigg, Miss Louisa, 40, Chester-terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Birrell, Mrs., Placilla, Lansdowne-road, Worthing.
Blackburn, Ernest M., 38, Egerton-gardens, London, S.W.
Blackwell, Elizabeth, M.D., Rock House, Hastings.
Blackwood, Mrs., Norton Court, Sittingbourne, Kent.
Blakelock, Rev. R., M.A., Horbury Bridge Vicarage, Wakefield.
Bois,HenryG., c/oH.Bois, Esq., 5, Attwood-rd.,South Kensington, S.W.
Bois, Herbert G., 4, Clarendon-place, Hyde Park-square, W.
Boldero, Lieut.-General G. N., 20, Westbourne-gardens, Folkestone.
BollANd, Mrs., 7, Cranbury-terrace, Southampton.
Bolton, Miss A. J., B.A. (N.Z.), Hillside, Bourton-road, Buckingham.
Boorne, Herbert H., 9a, Sackville street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Bosanquet, Mrs. O. V., Annandale View, Simla, India.
Boscq de Beaumont, G. du, Airel (Manche), France.
Boswell-Stone, Miss E. L, Dayrells, 47, Wickham-road, Beckenham.
Boulnois, H. Percy, M.Inst.C.E., 7, Devonshire-road, Liverpool.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., at Carey's, Brockenhurst.
Bowell, Ernest W. W., Mostyn House School, Park Gate, Cheshire.
Bowness, William Wilson, 26,Campden grove, Kensington, London,W.
Boyd, C. W., 7, Abbotsford-crescent, St. Andrews, N.B.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham-close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., St. Grimbald's, Winchester.
Bramwell, John M., M.B., 2, Henrietta-street, Cavendish-square,W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Bertram, D'Eresby House, Marina, Bexhill-on-Sea.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21, Park-valley, Nottingham.
Briggs, Mrs., Welbury Drive, Bradford.
Brill, Alice B., M.D., New York, U.S.A.
Britten, James, F. L.S., 126, Kennington Park-road, London, S.E.
Broderick, Mrs. Alan, 31, Greenheys-road, Liverpool.
Brooke, Lady, Ranee of Sarawak, Villa Raffo Bogliasco, near
Genoa.
Brooke, Col. C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
Brooke, Rev. Stupford A , M.A., 1, Manchester-square, London, W.
Browne, Edward G., M.A., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. W. P., Bidston, 97, Gipsy Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
406 List of Members and Associates.
Bruhns, Theodore, Simferopol, Russia.
Bryant, A. C., B.A., 2, Langham-road, West Green, London, N.
Bryant, Captain G. E., R.A., c/o J. M. Edwards, The Elms, Ramsgat*.
Bryce, J. P., J. P., Bystock, near Exmouth, Devon.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15, Campden Hill-square, W.
Buchanan, H. B. M., B.A., 9, Upper Beulah Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E
Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Neston, Cheshire.
Bullock, Mrs., St. Margaret's, Mitcham, Surrey.
Bunshaw.N.F., Med. Off., B.G.J.P. Railway.Ghadechi, Kathiawar, India.
Burton, Mrs., Logner Hall, Shrewsbury.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bushell, Rev. W. D., M.A., Harrow-on-the-Hill".
Bute, The Marquis of, K.T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of Bute.
Butt, Lady, c/o London Joint Stock Bank, South Kensington Branch,
Gloucester-road, London, S.W.
Buttemer, Robert William, St. Mary's, Godalming.
Caillard, Sir Vincent, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, Wilts.
Calcutta, The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of, Calcutta.
Caldecott, Rev. Professor Alfred, M. A., Ljpham Rectory, Thetford.
Callaway, Charles, D.Sc., M.A., 16, Monpelier Villas, Cheltenham.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., B.A., 22, Market Hill, Cambridge.
Campbell, Mrs. Napier, 81, Ashley-gardens, London, S.W.
Campbell, Lieut. N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Colchester.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, 3, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, London,W.
Candler, H. A. W., 37, Commercial-road East, London, E.
Cannon, Mrs., Hillcot, Sharpies, near Bolton.
Carbery, William E., 21, Eldon-road, Kensington, W.
♦Carlile, W. A., 101, Whitehead-road, Aston, Birmingham.
Carmichael, Rev. Canon, D.D., LL.D., Ranelagh, Dublin.
Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Carnegie, Lady Helena, Kinnaird Castle, Brechin, N.B.
Carter, Mrs. L. Brudenell, Kenilworth, Clapham Common, S.W.
Cathels, Rev. David, M.A., The Manse, Hawick, N.B.
Cave, Charles, J. P., Binsted, Cambridge.
Cazalet, Mrs., Grenehurst, Dorking.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 76, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Chase, Capt. W. St. L., V.C., care of Messrs. William Watson and
Co., 28, Apollo-street, Bombay.
Chattock, Prof. Arthur P., 1, Rockleaze-avenue, Sneyd Park, Bristol.
Chichele-Plowden, Trevor, C.S.I., The Residency, Hyderabad,
Deccan, India.
Chichester, Miss May, Wotton Rectory, Dorking.
List of Members and Associates. 407
Childers, Miss F. I., 261, King's-road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Chrouschoff, Michel de, Binnbrooke, Grange-road, Cambridge.
Clark, W. W., Denehurst, Dorking.
Clark, Miss, Suffield Park, Cromer.
Clarke, Francis, 17, Hornsey Rise Gardens, London, N.
Clarke, J. F. Howard, M.D., M.R.C.S., 99, Shaftesbury-avenue, W.
Clarke, John Henry, M.D., 30, Clarges-street, London, W.
Clarke, Robert H., M.A., M.B., M.R.C S., Clarence Lodge, Redhill.
Clarke, The Rev. Father R. F., S.J., 40, St. Giles, Oxford.
Clarke, Rev. W. J., 186, Bristol-road, Birmingham.
Clayton, Charles E., 152, North-street, Brighton.
Clemens, S. L., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Cleveland, The Duchess of, 18, Grosvenor-place, London, S.W.
Clissold, Edward M., Fawley Lodge, Lansdown-road, Cheltenham.
Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Close, Miss Etta, Lamperri, Dursley, Gloucestershire.
Close, Rev. Maxwell H., M.A., University Club, Dublin.
Coffin, Walter H., F.L.S., 94, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C. B., Cosheen, Castle Townshend, co. Cork.
Colegrane, Mrs. E , Bracebridge, Norwood, S.E.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collier, Mrs., St. Mary's Entry, Oxford.
Collingwood, Miss A. M., 6, Powis-square, Bayswater, W.
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Collison, Mrs. Henry C., 17b, Great Cumberland-place, London, W.
Colthurst, Lady, 47, Hill-street, Berkeley square, London, W.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D. (Lond.), M.R.C.P. (Lond.), High-street,
Dunedin, New Zealand.
Colvile, Colonel Henry E., C.B., 24, Chapel-st., Belgrave-square, S.W.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7, Balfour-place, London, W.
Cooney, Rev. Stewart E., M.A., 28, Donegall-passage, Belfast.
Cope, Rev. C. H., M.A., Churchills, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
Cotterell, James, 140, Earlsfield-road, Wandsworth Common, S.W.
Cort van der Linden, Dr. P. W. A., Ministre de Justice, Suriname-
street, The Hague.
Cousens, Charles H., Star Chambers, 30, Moorgate-st., London, E.C.
Cousens, John S., Wanstead, Essex.
Cowan, William H., 11, Marlborough-road, Bournemouth.
Cowper, The Hon. Mrs. Spencer, Grosvenor Hotel, London, S.W.
Crackanthorpe, Montague, Q.C., 65, Rutland-gate, London, S.W.
Crackanthorpe, Mrs., 65, Rutland gate, London, S.W.
Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2, Caven
dish-square, London, W.
Crawford, F. Marion,Villa Crawford, Sant'Agnellodi Sorrento, Italy.
2 K
408 List of Members and Associates.
Crawford, W. C., 1, Lockharton-gardens, Colinton-road, Edinburgh.
Crawley, Mrs. Chas., 1 1, Little Stanhope-street, Mayfair, London,W.
Crawshay, Robert, 16, Berkeley-square, London, W.
Crespo, J. Charters, Casilla, 63d, Santiago de Chili, South America.
Crewdson, Miss Gwendolen, The Barons, Reigate.
Crooks, Miss, Kensington, South Australia.
Crowe, W. Leadham, 10, JefFrey's-square, St. Mary Axe, London, EC.
Cruise, Sir F. R., M.D., 93, Merrion-square, W., Dublin.
Crump, Harold E., M.A.,
Cuffe, Honble. Otway F. S., 23, Cambridge-street, London, W.
Cunningham, G.,D.M.D. (Harvard, U.S. A.), 2, King's-parade,Cambridge.
Currie, Andrew S., M.D., 81, Queen's Road, Finsbury Park, N.
Currie, Mrs., Warders, Park-avenue, Bedford.
Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 15, Barton-street, Westminster, S.W.
Cushing, Mrs. F. W., 4, Rue Chalgrin, Paris.
D'Abbadie, Antoine, 120 Rue de Bac, Paris.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, M.A.,Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., 116, King Henry's-rd., South Hampstead, N.W.
Damania, Surgeon-Major P. J., National Liberal Club, London.
Darley, Lady, Quambi, Woollohra, New South Wales.
Dartnell, George E , Abbottsfield, Stratford-road, Salisbury.
Darton, Hugh, Beninghoe, Hertford.
Darwin, Mrs. Francis, Wychfield, Huntingdon-road, Cambridge.
Davidson, J. Mackenzie, M.B.C.M. (Aberdeen), 76, Portland-place, W.
Davies, Benjamin, 26, Moscow Drive, Liverpool.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S. (Ed.), L.R.C.P.I., 20, Great George-square,
Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Gatefield, Clarendon-road, Lcwisham, S.E.
Davison, Miss Annie, 41, Roland-gardens, London, S.W.
Dawson, Lieut.-Col. Henry P., Hartlington, Burnsall, Skipton.
De Grey, The Countess, 1, Carlton-gardens, London, S.W.
Dell, Rev. Russell St. John, A.K.C., Earnley Poppleton-road,
Leytonstone, E.
Delouest, Edward, Ocala, Florida, U.S.A.
Dun, John, Walsingham, Chislehurst.
*Despard, Miss, 77, Chesterton-road, North Kensington, London, W.
De Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid, 13, Albemarle-street, London, W.
Dewar, Rev. Peter, M.A., The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., Greville House, 3, Greville-place, St. John's
Wood, N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.A., M.B., 6, Brunswick-place, Brighton.
Dixon, Edward T., 4, Cranmer-road, Cambridge.
Dixon, Hugh N., M.A., F.L.S., East Park Parade, Northampton.
List of Member* and Associates.
Dixon, Prof. W. Macneile, M.A., LL.B., Litt. D., 5, Carpenter-
road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler-place, Adelaide, South Australia.
Dodge, Miss Mary M. H., 39, Brompton-square, London, S.W.
Donnelly, Mrs., Kendall-street, Cowra, New South Wales.
Dorchester, The Lady, Greywell Hill, Winchfield.
Dougall, Miss Lily, 463, Elm-avenue, Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
Douglas, Rev.Dr. G. W., 239,Whitney-avenue, Newhaven,Conn.,U.S.A.
Dovetox, F. B., Karsfield, Torquay.
Dowson, Mrs., L.K.QC.P, L.R.C.S.I., 91, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, S.W.
Doyle, A. Conan, M.D., Haslemere, Surrey.
Drewry, Mrs. George, Melrose, Buxton.
Duke, Thomas, M.A., M.R.C.S., 33, Bilton-road, Rugby.
Dulley, Rev. B., M.A., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
Duncan, Harold M., Hyde Park-court, Albert-gate, S.W.
Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom-road, Guildford.
Dunham, Miss Helen, c/o Messrs. Morton, Chaplin and Co., 6,
Princes-street, London, E.C.
Dutt, R. C., CLE., Burdwan, Bengal, India.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, (Retired) Bengal Staff Corps, 11, Chepstow-villas,
Bayswater, London, W.
Eagle, Frederick, Devonia, St. Andrew's-road, Henley-on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4, Lancaster-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Earle, Mrs. C. W., 5, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., 31, Bold-street, Warrington.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., Alma Lodge, The Mount, York.
Elder, Frederick, 21, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elliot, Gilbert, Tednambury, by Bishops Stortford, Herts.
Elliot, Gilbert, 10, Hanover-square, London, W.
Elliot, Miss, Sandecotes, Parkstone, Dorset.
Elliott, Sir Charles A., K.C.S.I., LL.D., Wressil Lodge, Wimbledon-
common.
Elliott, Rev. W. A., 54, Kirkgate, Shipley, Yorkshire.
Ellis, Mrs. Robert, 4, Rylett-road, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Ellison, Rev. John H., M.A., The Vicarage, Windsor.
Elvey, Miss Mary M., 3, Palace Mansions, Addison Bridge, W.
Elworthy, Arthur K., Foxdown, Wellington, Somerset.
Encombe, Viscount, Bachelor's Club, 8, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Duhvich, London, S.E.
Ermen, Walter F. A., 14, Kent^street, Great Yarmouth.
Esterhazy, Count Michael, Cseklesz, Pressburg County, Hungary.
Evans, Kirkham, Adelaide, South Australia.
Falcke, Dudley C, 5, Pump-court, Temple, London, E.G.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Institute Tecnik, Alessandria.
Farmer, W. M., 18, Bina-gardens, London, S.W.
2 e 2
410 List of Members and Associates.
Farrer, The Lady, Abinger Hall, Dorking.
Faulkner, Miss A. A., Inglewood, Barnt Green, Worcestershire.
Fawssett Thomas, 97, Philbeach-gardens, Earl's-court, London, S.W.
Feilding, Hon. and Rev. Basil, Ph.D., Scot's College, Rome.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5, John-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Feilding, The Lady Louisa, Broome Park, Betchworth, Surrey.
Ffrench, Mrs. Sophy A., Golovino, Kanadeista, Syzran-Viazma
Railway, Govt, of Simbirsk, Russia.
Field, Allan B., St. John's College, Cambridge.
Field, E. M., M.A., Cotswold, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N.
Finch, H. Wynne, Junr., M.A., 6, Oakley-crescent, Chelsea, S.W.
*Finzi, Dr. George, 11, Monte di Pieta, Milan.
Fisher, Mrs. A. B., 24, Duke's avenue, Chiswick, London, W.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
FitzGerald,DesmondG.,M.S.T.E.,94, Loughborough-rd., Brixton, S.W.
Fletcher, Mrs. K. R., The Orchard, Buckland,nearBetchworth,SurTey.
Florence, Ernest B., 33, Redclitfe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Ford, Mrs. Gerard, 7, Mandeville-place, London, W.
Forrester, Mrs., Gavell House, Kilsyth, N.B.
Foster, Miss Lucy E., 42, Lexhara gardens, London, W.
Fotheringham, W. B., 19, St. John's-road, Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex.
Frasek, Col. A. T., R.E., Junior Athenaeum Club, Piccadilly, W.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Belgrave Mansions,Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Freemann, Rev. H. B., M.A., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent.
Fry, Lewis George, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fry, Oliver A., M.A., 41, Portsdown-road, Maida-vale, London, W.
Fry, R. E., B.A., 11, Palace Houses, Bayswater Hill, London, W.
*Fryer, Rev. A. T., 13, Dumfries-place, Cardiff.
Galloway, The Countess of, 17, Upper Grosvenor-street, W.
Gardiner, Rev. Edward R., M.A., Long Wittenham, Abingdon.
Gardner, Mrs. Ernest, c/o Miss Wilson, 33, Ladbroke-square, W.
Garet-Charles, Georges, The Nook, Titchfield-rd., Regent's-pk., N.W.
Garner, Edwin T., Glendale, Alexandra-road, Selhurst, Surrey.
Garth, Henry, M.B., CM. (Edin.), 4, Harrington-street, Calcutta.
Gernet, Miss Nina,
Ghose, N. N., the Indian Nation Office, 43, Bancharam Unkoor's-lane,
Calcutta.
Ghosh, Rai Kali Prasanna, Dacca, Bengal, India.
Gittermann, Rudolph C., Odessa, Russia.
*Glardon, Rev. Augoste, Tour de Peilz, Vaud, Switzerland.
Glover, John J. T., 124, Stephen's Green, W., Dublin.
Godfrey, Mrs., c/o Col. C.W. Godfrey, Bombay StaffCorps, Poona, India.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., M.A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford.
♦Goodrich-Freer, Miss, 27, Cleveland-gardens, Hyde Park, W.
List of Members and Associates. 411
Gordon, George H., 1 Clare-road, Bristol.
Goring, Lady, Strettington, Chichester.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Govett, The Ven. Archdeacon, M.A., Gibraltar.
Govett, F. Molyneux, Veytaux, Canton de Vaud, Switzerland.
Gow, William, 184, Earl's Court-road, London, S.W.
Graham, Henry R., 8, Marble Arch, London, W.
Graham, J. W., B.A., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Graham, William W., 4, Elm-court, Temple, London, E.C.
GrAY,EDWArdW.,SurGEON-CAPTAiN,c/oMessrs.Holt,17,Whitehall,S.W.
Green, C. T., M.R.C.S., L.R.C P. (Lond.), 33, Grange-mt., Birkenhead.
Green, Miss Marian, Wagner House, Belsize-grove, Hampstead, N.W.
Greener, W. O., 2, Kent Villas, Ealing.
Greig, Rev. David, M.A., Cottenham Rector}-, Cambridge.
Griffith, Mrs. Robert W., The Old House, Llandaff.
Grignon, Rev. W. S., M.A., 30, Blenheim-gdns., Willesden Green, N.W.
Grist, Rev. Gordon C., B.A., Church Cottage, Madresfield, Malvern.
Groom, Ernest, Dothill Park, Wellington, Salop.
Grove, Mrs. Edward, 22, Dover-st., Piccadilly, London, W.
*Grubb, Edward, MA., 5, 22, Crosby-road, Birkdale, Southport.
Grubbe, Hubert H., 35, Hazlewood-road, Northampton.
Grunbaum, O. F. F., B.A., D.Sc, Ladbroke-grove, London, W.
Gudgeon, James, Stowmarket.
Guinness, Miss, Tibradden, Rathfarnham, Dublin.
Gdrney.Rev. F., M.A., St. John's Cottage, BoveyTracey, Newton Abbot.
Hackett, James T., B.A., 71, King William-street, Adelaide, Australia.
Haggard, John G., H.B.M. Consul, Trieste, Austria.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Hales, Frank N, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 3, Pitt-street, Campden Hill, W.
Hall, Wilfred, Dilston Hall, Corbridge-on-Tyne.
Hall, Mrs., 3, St. Alban's-road, Kensington, London, W.
Hamilton, Colonel G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, J. J., 70, Cecile Park, Crouch Hill, London, N.
Hannah, Robert, 82, Addison-road, Kensington, W.
Hansford, Charles, 3, Alexandra-terrace, Dorchester.
Harding, G. Palmer, Trouville, France.
Hargrave, Joseph G., The Larches, Heaton Mersey, Manchester.
Hargreaves, Miss, 69, Alexandra-road, Southport.
Harpur, Rev. George, B A., Clifton Vicarage, Newark.
Harris, Rev. Chas., M. A., The Institute, Mansfield-st., Haggerston, N.E.
Harris, Capt. C. S., 37, Wellington-square, Oxford.
Harris, Mrs. Leverton, 4, Green-street, Park-lane, London, W.
Hartshorn, Miss C., P.O. Box, Milton, Mass., U.S.A.
412 List of Memhem and Associates.
Hakvey, Alfred S., Hurstbourne, Bishopswood-road, Highgate, N.
♦Haslam, Prof. F. W., M.A., Canterbury College, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Hastie, Miss, 11, Ashburn-place, Cromwell-road, S.W.
Haweis, Miss, 127, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Hay, The Hon. Mrs. Alistair, 8, Upper Belgrave-street, London, S.W
Hayes, Frederick W., 12, Westcroft-square, Ravenscourt Park, W.
Hayvvard, Miss Grace G.. 25, St. George's Road, Kilburn, N.W.
Heard, George Henry, 2, Argyle-street, Sunderland.
Heard, Richard, 37, York-place, Portman-square, London, W.
Heath, Mrs. Cuthbert, 47, Portman-square, London, W.
Hebert, P. Z., M.D., L.R.C.P., 16a, Old Cavendish-st.,Cavendish-sq.,W.
Hehner, Mrs. Otto, 126, St. James'-road, West Croydon.
Henley, Hon. Ernest, Watford Court, Rugby.
Henniker-Major, The Hon. Mary, 4, Berkeley-street, Piccadilly, \V.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1, Argyll villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert. Hon. Auberon, M.A., Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Herringham, Mrs., 22, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Herschel, Colonel John, Royal Engineers, Slough.
Hewitt, Mrs., Southernhey, Knighton, Leicester.
Higford, Miss Katharine, 23, Eaton-place, London, S.W.
Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hildyard, F. W., Gwyder Lodge, Forest, Snaresbrook.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Trinity College, Vancouver, B.C.
Hocken, Thomas M., M.R.C.S. (Eng.), F.L.S., Moray-place, Dunedin,
New Zealand.
Hodding, Miss, Selwood House, Barnard's Cross, Salisbury.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Henry R., M.A., Melbourne Club, Melbourne, Australia.
Hole, Rev. Donald, A.K.C., 2, Busby-place, Camden-road, N.W.
Holland, Hon. Lionel R., M.P., B.A., 58, Conduit-street, W.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Hollander Bernard, L.R.C.P., Gl, Chancery-lane, London, W.C.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., 77, Park-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Hollond, John R., M.A., Wonham, Dampton, Devon.
Holmes, Edmond G. A., 4, Rawlinson-road, Oxford.
Holstein, Madame Alexandra de, 29, Avenue de Wagram, Paris.
Hood, H. J., M.A., 115, St. George's-road. London, S.W.
Hood, Mrs., 115, St. George's-road, London, S.W.
Hooper, Gordon, L.D.S.R.C.S., 21, New Cavendish-st., Harley-st., W.
Hooper, Mrs. Pitman, 6, Morland Villas, Boxmoor, Herts.
Hopkinson, Prof. Alfred, M. A., B.C.L., The Lodge, 32, Heme Hill, S.E.
Horrack, Philip J. de, 4, Rue du General Foy, Paris.
Horsley, Gkorge F., 26, Parliament Hill-road, Hampstead, N.W.
.Lixt of Members and Associate*. 413
Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Surgeon-Major, Hammam Chambers,
67, Jermyn-8treet, London, S.W.
Howard, The Lady Mabel, Greystoke Castle, Penrith.
Howe, E. R. J. Gambier, 7, New-square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hudson, Norman W., B.A., Pebble Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
HcGheS, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Rose Bank, Marden Park, Caterham
Valley, Surrey.
Hughes, Mrs., Gwyunondale, Lanarthney R.S.O , Carmarthenshire.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., B.Sc. (Lond.), The Pines,Worcester Pk.,Surrey.
Humfkey, Miss L. R., 8, Hyde Park Mansions, London, W.
Hunter, Thomas, Elmhurst, Hillmorton-road, Rugby.
Huntingford, Miss, North End House, Winchester.
Hutchins, D. E., Conservator of Forests, Cape Town.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., M.A., Brooklands House, Avenue, Cambridge.
Hyamson, Albert M., Secretary's Office, General Post Office, E.C.
Hyslop, Dr., Bethlem Hospital, London, S.E.
Tliffe, Mrs., 13, Warnborough-road, Oxford.
Infield, H. I., 130, North-street, Brighton.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingram, Hon. Mrs. Meynell, Temple Newsam, Leeds.
Innes, Lady, Winslow, Darling Point, Sydney, New South Wales.
Ireland, Wm. W., M.D. (Edin.), Mavisbush, Polton, Midlothian, N.B.
Jackson, Rev. F., The Vicarage, Newton-upon-Rawcliffe, Pickering.
Jackson, William H., M.A., F.L.S., PenWartha, Weston-super-Mare.
Jackson, Miss E. R., S. Hilda's School, Clifton-road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Jameson, F., 6, Westbourne Park-villas, London, W.
Jeaffreson, Rev. H. H., M.A., Villa degli Angoli Fiesole, Florence.
Jebb, Rev. H. Gladwyn, M.A., Firbeck Hall, Rotherhara.
Jebb, Mrs., Springfield, Newnham, Cambridge.
Jebb, Miss S. G., Overton, Lansdowne-road, Bournemouth.
Jeffreys, Mrs., Glandyfi Castle, Glandovey, R.S.O., North Wales.
•Jenkins, E. Vaughan, Energlyn, 38, St. Margaret's-road, Oxford.
Jervis, Mrs., 30, Ladbroke-square, London, W.
Jessop, A. E.,Villa St. Dominique, Valescure, St. Raphael (Var), France.
Jeune, Lady, 37, Wimpole-street, London, W.
Jevons, F. B., Litt. D., Hatfield Hall, Durham.
Johnes, Mrs., Dolaucothy, Llanwrda R.S.O., South Wales.
Johnson, Miss Alice, Llandaff House, Cambridge.
Johnson, Rev. Wayland, LL. D., Fredon, Sussex Co., NewJersey, U.S.A.
Johnston, Miss M. F., The Writer's Club, Hastings House, Norfolk-
street, Strand, W.C.
Jones, E. Lloyd, M.D., Corpus Buildings, Cambridge.
414 List of Members and Associates.
Jones, Captain Henry Michael, V.C., H.B.M. Legation, Lima, Peru.
Jones, Sib Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Professor P., 64, Via Sta- Lucia, Naples.
Jones, Rev. T. Lloyd, B.A., B.D., Ffynonfair, Pencader, Carmarthen.
Jordan-Smith, Benj., A.R.C.S., F.C.S., Lower Chaplin-road, Longton,
Staffs.
Kane, J. G. Acriol, Sloperton Lodge, Kingstown, co. Dublin.
Kay, H. A., 71, Maida-vale, London, W.
Kearne, Percy, 37, Avonmore-gardens, West Kensington, W.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, M.A., 26, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Kelso, Commander R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester.
Kerr, George, M.A., M.B., 6, St. Colme-street, Edinburgh.
*Keulemans, J. G., 13, York-terrace, Brewery-road, Southend.
King, Miss, 50, Gloucester-gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Kinsgbury, George C., M.D., 3, Brighton-parade, Blackpool.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.B., Macra, Eltham, Kent.
Knight, Charles N., M.A., 31, Holland-park, London, W.
Knowles, Ernest, Inglehurst Park-road, Bolton-le-Moors.
Knox, Nathaniel, Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Knutsford, The Lady, 75, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27, Mikealsgatan, Helsingfors, Finland.
Lach-Szyrma, Rkv.W.S., M.A., F.R.H.S.,Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
Lafone, A.W., M.P., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R.M.,M.A.,B.Sc.,Boys'High School, Christchurch,New Zealand
Lambert, Edward W., F.R.G.S., 13, Great James-st., London,W.C.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, M.A., Rokeby Rectory, Barnard Castle.
Lancaster, Ernest Le C, M. B., Winchester House, Swansea.
Laurie, Prof. H, LL.D., Melbourne, South Australia.
Leadam, Isaac S., 1, The Cloisters, Temple, London, E.C.
Leaf, Arthur H., Crown Hill, Norwood, S.E.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
Leaf, Walter, Litt. D., 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6, Sussex-place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Lee, Rev. W. T., 4, Edith-terrace, Mount Gold-road, Plymouth.
Legge, The Lady Frances, Woodsome, Huddersfield.
Lehmann, Miss B. Hoyt, 22, Walpurgis Strasse, Dresden.
Leigh, W. Austen, M.A., 2, Norfolk-crescent, Hyde Park, London, W.
Leopold, Dr. H. M., 8, Verversdyk, Delft, Holland.
Lethbridge, Alan B., 26, Oxford-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Levy, Mrs., 16, Campden House-road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Lewis, C. W. Mansel, Stradey Castle, Llanelly, Carmarthenshire.
Leycester, Mrs., 6, Cheyne-walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland-av.,W.C.
List of Members and Associates. 415
Librarian, Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial-street, Leeds.
Librarian, New York Public Library, New York, U.S.A.
Librarian op the Public Library, Adelaide, South Australia.
Librarian of the Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, School of Arts, Brisbane, Queensland.
Limond, Miss Catherine, 15, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Linden, Miss Olga, 3, Versailles Road, Anerley, S.E.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, Bohemia, Port St. Mary, Isle of Man.
Lindsay, R., L.R.C.S., M.B., The Oaks, Botley, Hants.
Lloyd, Major Francis, 22, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Otho Holland, 6, Place dArnies, Canton Neuchatel, Switzerland.
Lloyd, Thos. Edward, J.P., Coedmore, Cardigan.
Lodge, Professor O. J., D.Sc, F.R.S., 2, Grove-park, Liverpool.
Lodge, Robert, Laurie Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Logan, Miss Isabel, 6, Richmond-terrace, Whitehall, London, S.W.
Lovell, Reginald H., 449, Collins-street, Melbourne.
Lucas, Henry, "Thirlmere," Anderton Park-rd., Moseley, Birmingham.
Ludlow, Col. William, Army Building, New York, U.S.A.
Lunn, Charles, 24, Avomnore-road, West Kensington, W.
Luxmoore, Miss, Bryn Asaph, St. Asaph, North Wales.
Lyell, David, Ard-choille, The Ware Road, Hoddesdon, Herts.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Arthur, The Vicarage, Eccles, Manchester.
Lyttelton, Sybella Lady, 9, Bryanston-square, London, W.
Macalister, Professor A., M.U., F.R.S., Torrisdale, Cambridge.
MacColl, Rev. Canon Malcolm, M.A., Devonshire Club, St.
James's, S.W.
*Macdonald, Rev. J. A., 6, Queen's-avenue, Freshfield, Liverpool.
Macintyre, John, M.B., F.R.S.E., 179, Bath-street, Glasgow.
Mackay, George D., Inveralmond, Cramond, Midlothian, N.B.
Macky, Dr., 4, Curzon-street, Mayfair, W.
Malevsky-Malevitch, Madame S., 23, Millionnaia, St. Petersburg.
Manders, H., F.R.C.S., 33, Gloucester-ter., Hyde-pk., London, W.
*Mangin, Marcet, 102, Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, M.A., Grange House, Chigwell, Essex.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 6, Shalston Villas, Ewell-road, Surbiton Hill.
Marsh, Edward H., B.A., 30, Bruton-st., Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Marshall, Arthur, 13, Belsize-aveuue, London, N.W.
Marshall, Dr. Thomas, 95, Fortess-road, London, N.W.
Marshall, William Cecil, M.A., 28, Bedford-square, London, W.C.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78, Vanbrugh-park, Blackheath, S.E.
Martin, Miss A. E., 15, Thurloe-square, South Kensington, S.W.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
416 List of Members and Associates.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddclph, 17, Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
Martinez, Mrs., 16b, Hyde Park-mansions, London, W.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Jullundur, Punjab.
Mason, Miss M. H., Morton Hall, Retford, Notts.
MaSSey, Charles C, 124, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Masterman, Charles F. G., M.A., 17, Dean's-yard, London, S.W.
Math ews,G.B. , B. A. ,9, Mcn.-ii View-terrace,Upper Bangor,North Wales.
Matthews, Frank H., 22, Wentworth-street, Bolton, Lancashire.
Matthews, Mrs., 15, Stanley-gardens, London, W.
Maud, Miss Constance, Sanderstead Rectory, near Croydon.
Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart, M.P., 48, Belgrave-square.
London, S.W.
Maxwell, Joseph, 37, Rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
Mayo, Ernest S. G, 5, Castle-arcade, Cardiff.
Mayor, R. G., 13, Charing Cross-mansions, Charing Cross-road, London,
W.C.
McAlpine, Mrs., Dalnottar, Kirkpatrick, Dumbartonshire.
McClure, Henry, M.D., Cromer, Norfolk.
McCoNnel,H.W.,M.A.,M.B.,M.R.C.S.,ManorHouse,Ryburgh,Norfolk.
McHugh, P. A., M.P., Sligo.
McKerlie, Miss Helen G., Monkstown, co. Dublin.
McLachlan, David B., Grosvenor House, Ridgway, Wimbledon.
McLaren, Mrs. C, 43, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
McLaughlin, E. N., Trinity Villa, Spanish Town, Jamaica.
McNeily, A. J. W., Q.C., Supreme Court, St. John's, Newfoundland.
Meath, The Most Rev. the Bishop of, Navan, Co. Meath.
Medeiros e Albuquerque, Jose de, Rua S. Christovam, 36, Rio
Janeiro, Brazil.
Mellor, Miss Emily, The Cottage Hospital, Wellington, Somerset
Merrilees, J. F., M.D., Auburn, Victoria.
Metcalf, Rev. Francis W. R., Wolsey, Christchurch-road, Boscombe.
Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsley House, Barnsley.
Middlemore, Mrs., Melsetter, Orkney, N.B.
Miers, Ronald H. M. C., Lieut., c/o Messrs. Cox and Co., 16, Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
Milburn, Rev. R. G., M.A., Trinity College Mission, Tenby-road,
Stratford, E.
Miles, Miss, Woodhill, Gerrards Cross, Bucks.
Milford, The Lady, 16, Hill-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Miller, Mrs. W. Pitt, Merlewood, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., 195, Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Mitchell, Miss, Ballynure, Grangecon, co. Wicklow, Ireland.
Mitchiner, J. H., Acacias, Barham Road, South Croydon.
Molesworth, Sir Guilford L, K.C.I.E., Simla, India.
List of Members and Associates.
Money, Colonel Gerard Noel, C.B., F.R.G.S.
Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett, Walsingham House, Piccadilly, W.
Montagu,The LadyCecil Scott, The Lodge, Beaulieu, Southampton.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, co. Limerick.
Montebello, La Comtesse de, 44, Rue Copernie, Paris.
Monteith, Mrs. James, The Worthys, Kingsworthy, Winchester.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9, Hartley-road, Exmouth.
MoNTMOrencY,J.E.G.de,B. A., LL.B.,20,Old-bldngs., Lincoln's Inn.W.0.
Moore, General Montgomery, Gipsy Lodge, Norwood, S.E.
Morell, Mrs. Waldo., 9, Claremont-terrace, Francis-st., Nottingham.
Morgan, Rev. Edward, B.A., Penmark Vicarage, Cowbridge.
Morison. Mrs. Miller, 3, Douglas-crescent, Edinburgh.
Morisov, Theodore, M.A., Aligarh, N.W.P., India.
Morris, Charles A., 10, Throgmorton-avenue, London, E.C.
Moul, Mrs., 12, Queen's Mansions, 58, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., c/o Low's Agency, 1,123, Broadway, New York,
NY., U.S.A.
Mount-Temple, The Lady, Babbacombe Cliff, Torquay.
Moynihan, B. G. A., M.B. (Loud.), The General Infirmary, Leeds.
Monro, H. A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Lulworth, Bushey Green, Catford.
•Murray, Donald, M.A., " Morven,,' Lane Cove-road, St. Leonards,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Murray, Professor Geo. G. Aime, B.A., Barford, Churt, Farnham.
Murray, Mrs. G. A., 10, Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Murray, Colonel Hugh H., R.A., 28, Gower-street, London, W.C.
Murrvy, Oswald, Rose Croix, Alumhurst-road, Bournemouth.
Murray, R.M., M. A.,M.B.,M.R.C.P.(Edin.), 1 l,Chester-st., Edinburgh.
Murray, T. Douglas, 29, Albemarle-street, London, W.
Murray, Hon. Mrs., 50, Grosvenor-gardens, London, S.W.
Myers, Frederic W. H., M.A., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Mylne, Mrs., 83, Gloucester-terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Neate, P. J., F.G.S., M.T.M.E., Belsize, Watts-avenue, Rochester.
Nelson, Rev. George, LL.D , St. Michael's Vicarage, Bromley, Poplar, E.
Nelson, Mrs. H. A., Redbourne, East Molesey Park, Surrey.
Newbold, Miss A., 4, Artillery-buildings, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Newmann, Oscar P., 84, Newman-street, London, W.
Newton, Rev. R. Hkber, 781, Madison-avenue, New York, U.S A.
Nicholl, Iltyd B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
Nicholls, Rev. T. B., M A., St Oswald's College, Tynemouth.
Nicholson, Sir Charles, Bart., D.C.L., LL.D., M.D., The Grange,.
Totteridge, Herts.
NicholSON, Mrs. R. W., 32, Cadogan-square, London, S.W.
Nicolson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Legation, Tangier, Morocco.
418 List of Members and Associates.
"*Nisbet, E. T., 17, Latiraer-street, Tynemouth.
Noble, James B., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 167, Kennington Park-road, S.E.
Noel-Cox, H. L. N., 33, Sydenham Park, Sydenham, Kent.
Norman, Mrs. Herbert G. H.,5, Southwell gdus, S.Kensington, S.W.
Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., Birchfield, Aston,
Birmingham.
Nobthcote, Hon. Hugh Oliver, The Hyde, Luton.
Nugent, Mrs. Arthur, 83, Eaton-terrace, London, S.W.
Nutter, Mrs., Fairseat, Wrotham, Kent.
Oates, F. Edward, St. Peter's Presbytery, Gloucester.
"*Ocnono\vicz, Dr. J., 23, Rue Vladimir, Warsaw.
O'Donnell, Elliott, Henley House School, Sc. John's Wood, N.W.
Ogilvy, Mrs. N. Hamilton, Biel, Prestonkirk, East Lothian, N.B.
Ogilvie,Mrs.,c/o Dr. Ogilvic,H.M.Chief Inspectorof Schools, Edinburgh.
Oman, Charles W. C., M.A., All Souls' College, Oxford.
O'Neill, Gregory L., M.B., 291, Elizabeth-st, Sydney,NewSouth Wal«.
Opie, Edward A. D , J.P., Pirie-street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Orr, Mrs. Sutherland, 11, Kensington-park-gardens, London, W.
Owen, Miss Lilian S., 5, Whitehall-gardens, London, S.W.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. Carlow.
Pagan, Miss O, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Lady, Villa Bellosguardo, Florence.
Palmer, Miss, 3, Carlisle-place, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Panton, D. Morrieson, 84, Park-street, Grosvenor-square, London, W.
Passingham, Mrs., Fermoyle, Castle Gregory, Co. Kerry.
Patterson, C. B., 19, West 31st-street, New York, U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, M.A., A.I.E.E., Hatchlands, Cuckfield, Sussex.
Pedley, Charlks Herbert, Winterley House, near Crewe.
Pennington, Mrs., Fairholm, Bushey Grange-road, Bushey, Herts.
Percival, Mrs., 2, Southwick Place, London, W.
Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, TenerifFe, Canary Islands.
Perry, E. C, M.D., M.A., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital, S.E.
Pethybridge, Walter, 3, Rhodesia-road, Clapham Rise, S.W.
Petrovo-Solovovo, Michael, 38, Sergievskaia, St. Petersburg.
Phillips, Rev. J. T., 147, Beaufort-hill, Beaufort, Mon.
Phipps, Miss, Knebworth House, Stevenage, Herts.
Pickering, Harold J., L.D.S. (Eng.), 10, Museum-street, York.
Pickering, James R., A.I.E.E., 5, Carew-road, Thornton Heath.
Pilcher, Giles T., 29, Dawson-place, London, W.
Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, Traveller's Club, Pall Mall, S.W.
Pitter, Robert A., The School of Medicine, Middlesex Hospital, W.
Playford, Louis L., P.O. Box, 377, Johannesburg, Transvaal, S. Africa.
Plenderleith, William, 126, Stroud Green-road, Finsbury Park, N.
Podmore, Frank, M.A., 32, Well-walk, Hampstead, N.W.
List of Members and Associates. 410
Pollock, Miss, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 2, Wilton-terrace, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Rye Vale, Leixlip, co. Kiklare.
Pontifex, Miss, 72, Cornwall-gardens, London, S.W.
Pope, George H., M A., B.C.L., Merchants' Hall, Bristol.
Porter, Mrs., Sydney House, Westclifte-road, Bournemouth.
*Porter, Miss, 16, Russell-square, London, VV.C.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, 2, Abbey-gardens, Westminster, S.W.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5, Campden Hill-square, London, W.
Powell, George Thompson, Rotherwood, Sydenham Hill, S.E.
Powles, Lewis Charles, M.A , 9, Queen's Gate-place, London, S.W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 29, Albion-street, Hyde Park, Loudon, W.
Praed, Mrs. Campbell, 16, Talhot-square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Prescott, Miss Frances E., 152, Cromwell-road. London, S.W.
Pribitkof, V., 67, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Elsecar, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Derwent-hill, Ebchester, co. Durham.
Purdie, Mrs., 27, Palace-court, London, W.
Pym, Mrs. Angela, Bankside, Lunham-road, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Radnor, The Countess of, 52, Grosvenor-street, London, W.
Rae, Roderic H., 103, Sotheby-road, Highbury-park, N.
Ramsay, Professor William, Ph.D., F.R.S., 12, Arundel-gardens, W-
Ramsay, Lady, 23, Draycot-place, Cadogan-gardens, London, S.W.
Ramsden, Miss, Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Raper, R. W., M.A., Trinity College, Oxford.
Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, M.A., D.C.L., New College, Oxford.
Raupert, J. G. F., 30, Belsize-square, London, N.W.
Raworth, Edwin, 5, South Park-road, Harrogate.
Rayleigti, Clara Lady, 90, Onslow-gardens, London, S.W.
Reade, Herbert V., 6, Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London, W.
Reichel, Principal H. R., M.A., University College, Bangor.
Rensbuug, Miss Netta L., 12, Ivanhoe-road, Sefton Park, Liverpool.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Reynolds, Mrs. Henry, Tandill, Argentina, S. America.
Rich, Miss, 50, Queen's-gate-terrace, London, S W.
Richardson, Frederic William, F.C.S., 2, Farcliffe-place, Bradford.
Riddiford, Mrs. W. H., Chalfont, Barnwood, near Gloucester.
Ridley, Henry N., M.A., F.L.S., Singapore.
Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham-gardens, London, N.W.
Ritchie, Miss M., 165, Clapham-road, London, S.W.
Robb, Mrs., 46, Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Roberts, William Johnson, 146, Pembroke-road, Dublin.
Roberts, Rev. W. W., 39, Addison-gardens, Kensington, W.
Robertson, George M., M.B., Royal Asylum, Morningside, Edinburgh.
420 List of Members and Associates.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Scale Hall, Ashby-de-la-Zouch.
Robertson, Miss N., c/o Society for Psychical Research, 19, Bucking
ham-street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
Robin, Percy A., B. A., George-street, Parkside, Adelaide, Australia.
Robinson, Edward, C.E., F.R.A.S., 4, Castelnau-gardens, Barnes, S•W.
Robinson, George R., 31, James-street, Liverpool.
Robinson, Lady, 5, Cromwell Houses, London, S.W.
Robinson, Dr. William Newman, Kadina, South Australia.
Rodewald, Alfred E., The Albany, Liverpool.
*Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, N.
Rogers, Rev. E. H., M.A., Foxley Lodge, West Worthing, Sussex.
Rogers, George F., M.A., M.D., 4, King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, R. S., M.A., M.S., M.D., Flinders-street, Adelaide, South
Australia
Roome, Henry A., J.P., Oudenarde, Victoria-road, Southsea.
Rotch, C. B., Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5, Hamilton-place, London, W.
Roxburgh, R., M.B., F.R.C.S.E., 1, Victoria-bdgs.,Weston-super-Mare.
Riicker, Professor A. W., F.R.S., 19, Gladhow-gardens, S.W.
Rudolphi, Eduard, 20, Zabalcansky Prospect, St. Petersburg, Russia.
Rushton, C. H., 7, Queen Elizabeth's-walk, Stoke Newington, N.
Russell, Mrs. Campbell, Golden Mead, Chislehurst.
Russell, Rev. T. H., St. Martin's Vicarage, Gospel Oak, London, N.W.
Rylands,T.G.,F.L.S.,F.G.S.,Highnelds, Thelwall, nearWarrington.
Ryves, Miss Miriam G. B., Bentley Hall, Fenny Bentley, Ashbourne,
Derbyshire.
Sajous, Charles E. de M., M.D., 2,043, Walnutst., Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Samaldas, Lalubhai, Chief Revenue Officer, Bhavnager, Bombay
Presidency, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sams, Rkv. George F., M.A., Emberton Rectory, Newport Pagnell.
Sanders, Mrs.. 33, Buckingham-palace-mansions, Grosvenor-gdns., S.W.
Sanderson, J. Murray, B.A., London Hospital, London, E.
Sanger, Charles Percy, Trinity College, Cambridge.
Saunders, Latimer Henry, Trevone House, Padstow.
Saundkrs, Mrs. W. H. Radcliffe, 29, Bramham-gardens, South
Kensington, London, S.W.
Schiller, F.C.S., MA., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schram, Miss Lilian M.E., 178, Earl's Court-road, London, S.W.
Schreiber, Ma.ior, 27, Fopstone-road, Earl's Court, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, 22, Old Queen-street, Westminster, S.W.
Schwabe, Mrs. G. S., Lieut.-Governor's House, Chelsea Hospital, S.W.
Scott, Sydney C, Hatherleigh, 28, The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London.
Scripps, T. Cecil, 4, Drapers'-gardens, London, E.C.
List of Members and Associates. 421
Scull, Mrs., The Pines, 2, Langland-gardens, Hampstead, N.W.
Seilern, Count Charles, 23, Wolmersley-road, Stroud Green, N.
Sellin, Professor C. W., 5, Wrangelstrasse, Hoheluft, Hamburg.
Selous, Edmund, Warail Hall, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
Selous, Mrs , Leafield, Gibson's Hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Seymour, Captain Edward H., R.N., 9, Ovington-square, S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodmin.
Shand, Alexander F., 1, Edwardes-place, Kensington, W.
Sharpe, J. W., M.A., Woodroffe, Portarlington-road, Bournemouth.
ShAw, Rev. Charles J. M., The Orchard, Swanley, Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., Emmanuel House, Cambridge.
Sheavyn, Robert F., Long-street, Atherstone.
Sheldon, Mrs. L. V., 52, Queen's-rd., Marlborough-rd., London, N.W.
*Shield, Mrs., Bowers Gifford Rectory, Essex.
Shove, Miss E, K.Q.C.P.I.,M.B., 25,St. Mark's cres., Regent'sPk., N.W.
*Shufeldt, Dr. R. W., Takoma Park, District of Columbia, U.S.A.
Sidgwick, Arthur, M.A., 64, Woodstock-road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25, Collingham-road, S.W.
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sims, F. Manley, F.R.C.S., 12, Hertford street, Mayfair, W.
Sisley, Richard, M.B., Park-row, Knightsbridge, London, W.
Skeffington, Joseph B., M.A., LL.D., Waterford, Ireland.
Skene, Miss F. M. F., 34, St. Michael-street, Oxford.
Sloman, Samuel George, 39, West-street, Farnham.
Smith, Mrs. Apsley, Flore House, Weedon, Northamptonshire.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, D. R. Crawfurth, 36, Chapel-street, Belgrave-square, S.W.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Amble, Northumberland.
Smith, Henry Arthur, Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
Smith, H. Babington, B.A., C.S.I., Stokeleigh, Weybridge.
Smith, John George, 87, Sloane-street, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss J. M., Hyde Park Court, Albert Gate, London, W.
Smith, Martyn, Abberton Hall, Pershore.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson Park, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Smith, Reginald A., B.A., 48, Upper George-street, Portman-square,
London, W.
Smith, Mrs., Barnes Hall, Sheffield.
Snape, Mrs., Markland Hill, Heaton, Bolton.
Snow, Chester A., 712, Eighth-street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Somerset, The Lady Henry, Eastnor Castle, near Ledbury.
Sowrey, John, Tudor Bouse, Lower King's-rd., Kingston-on-Thames.
Speer, Mrs. Stanhope, Fairholme, Ventnor, Isle of Wight.
Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
422 List of Members and Associates.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25, York-street, Portman-square, W.
Sperling, Arthur, J.P., Lattenbuty Hill, St. Ives, Hunts.
Spinks, Judge, Vernon, British Columbia.
Squarey, Andrew T., J.P., Gorsey Hey, Bebington, Birkenhead.
St. George, Mrs., 2, Jervis-place, Clonmel, Ireland.
Stafford, Mrs., 9, Fitzwilliam-square, Dublin.
Stainforth, Miss Emily, 15, Matheson-road, West Kensington, W.
Stange, Miss F. M., 12, Holland-park, London, W.
Stanley, Sir Henry M., M.P., G.C.B., DCL., LL.D., 2, Rich
mond-terrace, London, S.W.
Stansfeld, J. B. Evelyn, M.A., Junior Carlton Club, Pall Mall, S.W.
Stapley, Richard, 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stapley, Mrs.. 33, Bloomsbury-square, London, W.C.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon, S.W.
Steam, H. T., M A., King's College, Cambridge.
Stephens, William Walker, Rosehall Lodge, Dalkeith-rd., Edinburgh.
Stephenson,SirAugustusK.,KC.B.,Q.C.,46,Ennismore-gdns,S.W.
Stepney, Hon. Lady, 3, Chesham-street, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Andrew, M.A., 16, Warrender Park Crescent, Edinburgh.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., 38, Weymouth-street, Portland-place, London, W.
Stewart, Miss Susan, 89, Philbeach-gardens, London, S.W.
Stirling, J. M. Moiiries. Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Stone, Mrs. C. H., 5,562, Clemens-avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
Stopp, Paul, c/o Dresdner Bank, Dresden, Germany.
Storrar.Wm. M., L.R.C.P., L.R.C.S. (Ed.), 57, Hoghton-st., Southport.
Stout, George F., M.A,, St. John's College, Cambridge.
Strachey, John St. Loe, SpectatorOffice, l,Wellington-st.,Strand,W.C.
Sturges, Mrs William, 32, Charles-street, Berkeley-sq., London, W.
Sturgis, Julian, M.A., 2, Gloucester-place, Portman-sq., London, W.
*Sugden, Rev. E. H., B.A., B.Sc, Bradford, Yorkshire.
Sullivan, W. R. Washington, Purleybury, Purley, Surrey.
Summerson, Samuel J., West House, Darlington.
Sutton, Mrs., 49, Lexham-gardens, London, W.
Swan, C. A., 10, Delamere street, London, S.W.
Swanwick, Miss Anna, 23, Cumberland-terrace, London, N.W.
Sweeney, Hubert J. P., Balliol House, Toynbee Hall, London, E.
Sweeting, Richard, D.H., B.A., D.P.H., 6, Hereford Mansions,
Hereford-road, Bayswater, W.
Swire, Commander H., R.N., Buxton Lodge, Rodwell, Weymouth.
Symons, Miss Jessie H., 91, Wigmore-street, London, W.
Szentikmay de Darvasto, Bela Maria Joseph de, Austro-Hungarian
Consulate General, Beyrout, Syria.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Castle View, Strood, Rochester.
Talbot, Captain Frederick G., Rifle Brigade, 15, Cromwell-road, S.W.
List of Members and Associates. 423
Talbot, The Lady Edmund, 26, Curzon-street, Mayfair, London, W.
Tanner, Ernest, Hazlehurst, Penarth.
Tanner, Slingsby, 104b, Mount-street, Berkeley-square, W.
Tattersall, James Granville, Hanover square Club, London, W.
Tattersall, Robert W., 31, New Inn Hall-street, Oxford.
Tattersall, Wm., 90, High-street, Oxford.
Taunton, Mrs. R. H., Brook Vale, Witton, near Birmingham.
Taylor, Rev. Arnold D., B.A., Churchstanton Rectory,Honiton, Devon.
Taylor, Rev. Charles J., M.A., Th« Larches, Banstead, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss Edith, 9, Milner-square, London, W.
Taylor, Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M., 6, College-lawn, Cheltenham.
Tebb, A. E., M.D , 9, Langland-place, Finchley-road, Hampstead, N.W.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, near Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W., Ashley House, Shaftesbury-avenue, W.C.
Terrill, George Morton, M.D., 336, Post-street, San Francisco,
California, U.S.A., (President of the California Psychical Society).
Thackeray, Mrs. W. G., 32, Kidbrooke Park-road, Blackheath, S.E.
Theobald, Morell, 62, Granville-park, Lewisham, S.E.
Thomas, A. O, Korumburra, Gippsland, Victoria, Australia.
Thomas, J. W., F.I.C., F.C.S., 2, Hampstead Hill Mansions, N.W.
Thompson, I. O, F.L.S., F.R.M.S., 53, Croxteth road, Liverpool.
Thompson, Mrs. Edmond, 87, South Hill-park, Hampstead, N.W.
Thomson, Edward John, Glen Tower, Great Western-road, Glasgow.
Thomson, Prof. J. J., M.A., F.R.S., Trinity College, Cambridge.
Thomson, W. B., 22, Wallwood-road, Leytonstone, Essex.
Thornton, W. M., M.Sc. (Vict.), Durham College of Science, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
Thurstan, F. W., M.A., 17, Buckingham Gate Mansions, James-street,
Buckingham Gate, S.W.
Toby, Ernest G., Denmark House, Hatfield, Herts.
Tooth, Rev. Arthur, M.A., Woodside, Croydon.
Trench, J. Townsend, J.P., Kenmare, Ireland.
Trevor, Rev. Thomas Warren, M.A., Penmon Vicarage, Beaumaris.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88, Park street, Grosvenor-square, W.
Tuker, Miss Mildred A.R., 4, Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, N.W.
Tweedale, Mrs., Balquholly, Turriff, N.B.
Tweedie, David M., Adelaide, South Australia.
Tyrer, Mrs. W., Woodleigh, Prescot.
Vacher, William H., 54, Addison Mansions, Kensington, S.W.
Vailati, Professor Giovanni, Crema, Italy.
Van Eeden, Frederick, M.D., Bussum, Holland.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 251, Keisersgracht, Amsterdam.
2 F
424 Lint of Members and Associates.
Venn, J., D.Sc, F.R.S., Sefton House, Hardwick-road, Eastbourne,
Verrall, Mrs., Selwyn-gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26, Gloucester-place, Brighton.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3, Waterloo-place, North Shields.
Vickers, Mrs., 26, Queen's Gate-gardens, London, S.W.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Home.
Vincent, Maria LadY, Southfield Grange, Wandsworth, S.W.
Wade, Rev. William, 19, St. Charles'-square, North Kensington, W.
Walford, Col. Neville L., R.A., 1, Ashbum place, London, S.W.
Wall, Miss M. M., 99, Chelsea-gardens, London, S.W.
Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39, Harley-street, London, W.
Wallop, Hon. & Rev. E, Missionary Coll., Burgh le Marsh, R.S.O.,Linc.
Warburton, Rev. W. T., M.A., St. James's Vicarage, Congleton.
Ward, Wilfrid, Molescroft, Eastbourne.
Ward, The Hon. Miss, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
Wardrop, Mrs., 10, Lower Belgrave-street, Eaton-square, S.W.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 87, Eaton-square, London, S.W.
Wassell, H. A., F.R.A.S.,Addenbrook Villa.Old Swinford.Stourbridge.
Watson, Mrs. W. C.. Colworth, Bedford.
Way, William R., Hillside, Upminster, Essex.
Webber-Smith, Colonel James, 27, Shaftesbury-avenue, London, W.
Webb, Godfrey, 167, Victoria-street, London, S.W.
Wedd, N., M.A., King's College, Cambridge.
Wells, Edmund P., C.E., 26, Cambridge-gardens, N. Kensington, W.
Wells, H. G., Arnold House, Sandgate.
Westcott, William Wynn, M.B., D.P.H , 396, Camden-road,
Lotidon, N.
Western, Rev. William T., M.A.. Bartlow Rectory, Linton, Cam
bridgeshire.
Westlake, Ernest, F.G.S., Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Westlake, Mrs Ernest, Vale Lodge, Hampstead Heath, N.W.
Wherry, G. E., F.R.C.S., Corpus-buildings, Cambridge.
Whi8Haw, Mrs. Beknhard, Heathfield Down, Modbury, S. Devon.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
White, Miss E. Hilda, 170, Queen's-gate, London, S.W.
White Leedham, D.L., F.C.S., 16, Wetherby-gdns., London, S.W.
Whitear, Rev. W., B.A., 5, St. Andrew's road, Enfield.
Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., 34, York-street Chambers, Bryanston-
square, London, W.
Whiting, J. Markby, 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone.
Wigglesworth, Alfred, 157, Fenchurch-street, London, E.C.
Wilberforce, Rev. Canon Basil, M.A., 20, Dean'sYard,London,S.W.
Wilkins, Silvanus, 15, Victoria-street, Westminster, S.W.
List of Members and Associates. 425
Willan, Miss F. M., Mayfield House, Old Ford-rd., Bethnal Green, E.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 9, Upper Beulah-hill, Upper Norwood, S.E.
Williams, Rev. Nelson G.,M. A., Ketteringham,Wymondham, Norfolk.
Williams, Miss S., The Reservoir, Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
Willmott, Miss R., Warley Place, Great Warley, Essex.
Wilson, Miss, 7, Cromwell-terrace, Scarborough.
Wilson, Robert, M.I.C.E., 7, St. Andrew's Place, Regent's Park.N.W.
Wingfield, H. E., M.A., 58, Tedworth-square, Chelsea, S.W.
♦Wingfield, Mrs., Belvidere Place, Church-road, Wimbledon.
Wisden, Lieut. Thomas F. M., Broadwater, near Worthing.
Wise, Miss, Shrublaud Hall, Leamington.
Witherby, Arthur George, B.A., 8, Kensington Palace-gardens, S.W.
Withers, J. J.,B.A., 2, Museum Chambers, Bury-st., Bloomsbury, W.C.
Woeikow, Alexis, 9 Moika, St. Petersburg.
Woodd, Mrs. Basil, Leckby, Hollington Park, St. Leonard's-on-Sea.
Woodhouse, G. H., Heath Bank, Bolton.
Woods, John F., M.D., Hoxton House Asylum, London, N.
Wright, Mrs. Almroth E., Ingleside, Netley, Hants.
Wyld, George, M.D., 7, Westbourne-street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44, Belgrave-square, London, S.W.
Yearsley, P. Maqleod, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Chalk-hill House, Kings-
bury-Neasden, N.W.
Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 32a, Orchard-street, London, W.
Young, Prof. W. H., 883, East Main-street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to the Assistant-Secretary, 19, Buckingham Street,
Adklphi, London, W.C.
2 p 2
426 List of Members and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
(June, 1899.)
Names of Members are -printed in Black Type.
Names of Honorary Associates are prefixed by an Asterisk.
Names of Associates are printed in Small Capitals.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except when another Country is named.
Adams, George S., M.D., Insane Hospital, Westboro, Mass.
Agelasto, M., Box 244, Norfolk, Va.
Albery, Mrs. H. M., Colusa, Colusa Co., Cal.
Albree, John, Junr., Swampscott, Mass.
Albrke, Ralph, 187, Western-avenue, Allegheny, Pa.
Alexander, Don, 253, Fourth-avenue, Louisville, Ky.
♦Alexander, Mrs. Kezia E., Birmingham, Mich.
Ames, Miss Evelyn, c/o Messrs. Whitby and Co., Florence, Italy.
Anderson, Professor A. W., Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.
Arguelles, Don Pedro, Collector of Customs, N. Laredo, Mexico.
Arnold, Miss Fannie, 323, North 17th-street, Omaha, Neb.
Atwood, Dr. G. Wilson, 17, Tremont-street, Boston, Mass.
Baker, Alfred L., 2,641, Prairie-Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Bancroft, Mrs. John C., 61, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bancroft, Miss M., Haddonfield Training School, Haddon Field, N.J.
Barber, Rev. George E., Marlborough, N.Y.
Barker, Mrs. C. F., Ellis-ave. and Oakwood-boulevard, Chicago, 111.
Barrett, Harrison D., Box 3, Needham, Mass.
Barrows, C. M., Brookline, Mass.
Bartlett, James W., 211, Central-avenue, Dover, N.H.
Bates, Charles F., 2,642, Euclid-avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Bates, Dr. Mary C, Exeter Chambers, Exeter-street, Boston, Mass.
Bayley, Weston D., M.D., s.e. cor. 15th & Poplar-sts., Philadelphia, Pa.
Beale, Rev. Chas. H., The Warren, Roxbury, Mass.
Beam, Mrs. John V., Jr., 10, West 30th-street, New York, N.Y.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda W., 4,722, Woodlawn-avenue, Chicago, III.
Bengler, Chas. E., Box 2,851, Boston, Mass.
Bickford, R. G., Newport News, Va.
List of Members and Associates. 427
Bigelow, A. E., First National Bank, New Hampton, Iowa.
Bill, George E., M.D., Harrisburgh, Pa.
Blakeslev, Theodore S., 286, Marshfield-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Block, Louis, 211, Main-street, Davenport, Iowa.
Blodgett, C., M D., 238, Maple-street. Holyoke, Mass.
Blodgett. Mrs., 238, Maple street, Holyoke, Mass.
Boardman, Hon. W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Booth, Mrs. Lucy C.. Great Barrington, Mass.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 166, Macon street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bowditch, C. P., 28, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Bowditch, Professor H. P., Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Boyd, Mrs. Ella F., Hyde Park, Mass.
Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass.
Brewster, Edwin T., Andover, Mass.
Briggs, Mrs. N. R., Bismarck, N. Dakota.
Brimmer, Mrs. Martin, 47, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Henry, 115, Milk-street, Boston, Mass.
Brown, Alfred S., 195, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Brown, Henry T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Mrs. H. T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Rev. Howard N., 79, Mount Vernon School, Boston, Mass.
Browne, G. II., 16, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Brush, W. Franklin, 16, E. 37th-street, New York, N.Y.
Buffet, Dr. E. P., 520, Bergen-avenue, Jersey City Heights, N. J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Bulley, R. H.. Canton, Ohio.
Bundy, Mrs. John C., 624, Sheridan-square, Evanston, 111.
Butler, Miss Virginia, Stockbridge, Mass.
Cabot, Caroline A., M.D., 126, West-48th St., New York City, N.Y.
Callender, Ira S., Galesburg, 111.
Carey, A. A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carey, Mrs. Arthur A., 29, Fairfield-street, Boston, Mass.
Carnochan, Gouverneur M., 46, Exchange-place, New York, N.Y.
Carpenter, Mrs. Franklin R , Deadwood, South Dakota.
Carpenter, W. O., 517, Adams-street, Chicago, 111.
Carr, Lucien, 163, Brattle street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, Robert S., Hamilton, Ohio.
Casey, Theodore B.,The Empire,333,Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10, Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Caulkins, Silas, 310, Requena-street, Lo? Angeles, California.
Chard, Thomas S., 534, North State-street, Chicago, 111.
Chase, G. N. (Lieut. U.S. Army, Rtd.), Box 198, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Chase, Harvey S., 8, Congress-street, Boston, Mass.
428 List of Members and Associates.
Chatwin, James, 926, Fairmount-avenue, Phila., Pa.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 120, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Cheney, W. T., Box 184, Rome, Ga.
Chick, Frank W., Madrid, Franklin Co., Maine.
Christine, G. Maxwell, A.M., M.D., 2,043, N. 1 2th-st., Philadelphia, Pa.
Clark, Miss F. Bknita, 578, East 60th-street, Chicago, HI.
Clarke, Miss Rebecca S., Norridgewock, Maine.
Closson, Dr. James H., 53, West Chelton-avenue, Germantown, Pa.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Clough, H. W., 2,018, H St., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Cockerill, Mrs. R. D., Glasgow, Mo.
Coe, Mrs. Andrew J., P.O. Drawer, 101, New Haven, Conn.
Coe, Miss M. A , 55, Brook street, Brookline, Mass.
Coffin, Abraham B., Winchester, Mass.
Coleman, Miss Anne C, Lebanon, Pennsylvania.
Coleman, Geo. E., Santa Barbara, California.
*Coleman, William Emmette, Chief Quartermaster's Office, Phelau
Building, San Francisco, Cal.
Conklin, Roland R., 524, Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y.
Cooke, Dr. Joseph B., 269, West 138th-street, New York, N.Y.
Coolidge, Mrs. J. T., Junr., 114, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Cope, Porter F., The Bertram, 33rd & Chestnut-sts , Philadelphia, Pa.
Cortis, Miss Grace M., 126, West 70th-street, New York, N.Y.
Coryell, V. M., 20, Lincoln-road, Flatbush, N.Y.
Cozens, J. C., Amsterdam, N.Y.
Crane, A. J., 218, Walnut-street, Montclair, N.J.
Crosby, Professor W. O., Institute of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Crothers, Dr. T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Cruft, George T., 433, Shawmut-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Culin, William D., M.D., Parrish-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Curran, Richard L., 114, W. 34th-street, New York.
Curtis, W. E., 14, W. 20th-street, Manhattan, New York, N.Y.
Cushing, Miss Eleanor P., 76, Elm-street, Northampton, Mass.
Davidson, H. A., 179, Montague-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Davis, Dr. D. W., 402, Land Title Building, Philadelphia, Pa.
Dawson, Miles M., 11, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Delabarre, Prof. E. B., 9, Arlington-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Denton, Miss Jane A., Palo Alto, Cal.
Derby, Captain George McC, 3,232, Prytania-st., New Orleans, La.
Dewing, O. M., M.D., State Hospital, King's Park, Long Island, N.Y.
Dexter, Mrs. George, Egmont-street, Brookline, Mass.
Dickerman, Rev. W. F., 276, Orange street, New Haven, Conn.
Dickey, Calvin, M.A., Room 22, 94, Washington-street, Chicago, 111.
Dixon, George E., 82, West Jackson-street, Chicago, 111.
List of Members and Associates. 429
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass.
Dodge, Joseph T., 346, West Washington-avenue, Madison, Wis.
Dorr, Mrs. C. H., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dorr, George B., 18, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dow, Alexander, 255, W. 92nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Dow, Lorenzo, 255, W. 92nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., Auburndale, Mass.
Draper, George Otis, Hopedale, Mass.
Drown, T. Pickering, Framingham, Mass.
Dyer, Walter H., Knightsville, Maine.
Easton, Prof. Morton W., M.D., Ph.D., 224, South 43rd st., Phila., Pa.
Edmunds, Miss L., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Eldridge, Prop. E. H., The Temple College, Broad &, Berks-streets,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Elliott, Miss Alma C., 4,916, Washington-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Kllis, Miss Lucy, 480, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Esty, Professor William C., Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186, North-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Mrs. Glendower, 12, Otis-place, Boston, Mass.
Everett, Professor C. C., 53, Garden-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Farmer, Miss Sarah J., Eliot, Maine.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 157, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Finnigan, John, 61, Beekman-street, New York, N.Y.
Fitts, William B., Calumet Club, 267, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Fluhrer, Rev. Charles, D.D., 95, Main-street, Albion, N.Y.
Forman, G. A., 824, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Forman, Lawrence C., 25, Dunster Hall, Cambridge, Mass.
Forwood. Peploe, c/o California Fig Syrup Co., 398, Church-street,
San Francisco, Cal.
Frankland, Frederick W., 346, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Fuller, S. C., M.D., Insane Hospital, VVestborough, Mass.
Fullerton, C. W., 94, Dearborn-street, Chicago, 111.
Fullerton, Professor G. S., Univ. of Perm., West Philadelphia, Pa.
Gage, Hon. Lyman J., 1,715, Massachusetts-ave, Washington, D.C.
Gale, Prof. Harlow S-, Univ. of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23, Crafts Avenue, Northampton, Mass.
Gardiner, J. Hays, 18, Grays Hall, Harvard Univ., Cambridge, Mass.
Gay, Walter, 73, Rue Ampere, Paris, France.
Gehring, Albert, 109, Edgewater-street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675, Congress-street, Portland, Maine.
Gibier, Dr. Paul, 313, West 23rd-stieet, New York, N.Y.
Goddard, George A., 1, Mount Vernon-place, Boston, Mass.
Goodale, EIe.vrv Sterling, 400, West 57th-street, New York, N.Y.
Goodnow, H. R., 95, Riverside Drive, New York.
430 List of Members and Associates.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Greene, Bertram, 6, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Gridlky, J. N., Virginia, 111.
Griffin, Mrs. J., 1105, Davis-street, Evanston, 111.
Griffing, Mrs. Jane R., 1,976, Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y.
Griffith, Mrs. Mary E., Room 603, Ne>v England Building, Euclid-
avenue, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gross, Mrs. S. E., 48, Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, 111.
Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass and Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Hall, James P., 6, Poplar-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Hamilton, C. M., M.D , Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Territory.
Hapgood, Mrs. Charles H., Alton, 111.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2,922, Locust-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harris, William T., LL.D., 1,303, P.-street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 239, Washington-street, Jersey City, N.J.
Hartzell, F. S., 726, North Market-street, Canton, Ohio.
Harvey, Anson B., M.A., 140, North 16th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Haworth, George D., 20, Groveland-park, Chicago, 111.
Haynes, Henry W., 239, Beacon street, Boston, Mass.
Hayward, Alvinza, 532, Market-street, San Francisco, Cal.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 2,434, Marshall-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Henshaw, Mrs. Harriet A., The Kempton, Berkeley and Newbury-
streets, Boston, Mass.
Herrick, Wilbur F., Haworth, N.J.
Heysingkr, Dr. Isaac W., 1,521, Poplar-street, Phila., Pa.
Heywood, Charles, Exchange Court Buildings, New York, N.Y.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y.
Higbee, Col. George H., Burlington, Iowa.
Hill, Mrs. A. S., 9, Massachusetts-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Hill, Rev. John J., Sewickley, Allegheny Co., Pa.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5, Boylston-place, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson. Dr. Thomas, Gertrude-street, Kitzroy, Melbourne, Australia.
Hoffman, Prof. F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Holbrook, Francis W., Haworth, N.J.
Holbrook, Levi, P. O. Box 536, New York, N.Y.
Holbrook, Dr. M. L., 46, East 21st-street, New York, N.Y.
Holladay, Prof. Waller, 120, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Mrs. Julia Sadler, 28, West 120th-st., New York, N.Y.
Holmes, Rev. S. V. V., 724, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Holt, Henry, 29, West 23rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Holt, Dr. L. E, 15, East 54th-street, New York, N.Y.
Hoskin, John, 4,100, Locust street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Howard, Rev. Arthur B., 224, Waverly-place, New York, N.Y.
List of Members and Associates. 431
Howland, Miss B. M., cor. Carver and Museum-sts., Cambridge, Mass.
Hudson, Thomson Jay, 10, Ninth-street, S.E., Washington, D.C.
♦Hull, Miss P. C., 134, West 1 16th-street, New York, N.Y.
Hunter, Mrs. M. L., Lewisburg, Penna.
Huse, Wm., Pouca, Dixon Co., Nebraska.
Hutchinson, Miss Mary S., 2,006, De Lancey-place, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
James, Dr. H. F., 2,627, Olive street, St. Louis, Mo.
James, Professor William, 95, Irving-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Jamison, A. B., M.D., 43, West 45th-street, New York, N.Y.
Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Jeschke, Harry, Hackensack, N.J.
Jessop, Dr. Halton I., 1,829, Arch-street, Phila., Pa.
Jewett, Professor Franklin N., Fredonia, N.Y.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405, Main-street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, Professor Roger B. C., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Johnston, Rev. Howard A., Madison-ave. & 53rd-st., New York, N.Y.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Jones, Miss Alice, Santa Monica, Los Angeles Co., Cal.
Jones, George H., 561, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Judah, Noble B., 2,701, Prairie-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Kempton, C. W., c/o Percy B. McCoy, 29, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Kennedy, Harris, M.D., Readville, Mass.
Kidd, G. W., 853, Fifth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Kimball, Dr. F. H., Rockford, 111.
Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 325, Commonwealth-ave., Boston, Mass.
Kingsbury, Hon. B. B., Defiance, Ohio.
Kinraide, T. B., 38, Spring Park-avenue, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Knowles, Rev. Edward R., LL.D., Lock Box 15, Oxford, Mass.
Kopta, Madame Flora P., Gut Podmok in Podmok, Post Shiitten-
hofen, Bohemia, Europe.
Krebs, G. W. O, 26, East Baltimore-street, Baltimore, Md.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Reading, Pa.
Kuhn, Hamilton, 36, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Langley, Professor S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Lawrence, A. E., 1, West 81-street, New York, N.Y.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 116, West 103rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Lay, Dr. Wilfrid, 251, W. 109-street, New York, N.Y.
Layman, Dr. Alfred, 1,630, N. 18th-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y.
Leonard, Thomas, 628, N. 22nd-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania.
432 List of Members and Associates.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.
Librarian, Cazenovia Public Library, Cazenovia, N.Y.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Haverhill Public Library, Haverhill, Mass.
Librarian, Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111.
Librarian, Public Library, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Nebraska.
Lindesley, J., No. 200, Yokohama, Japan.
Lippitt, General Francis J., 1412, Hopkins-street, Washington, D.C.
Llewellyn, F. T., B.A., C.E., 1,012, Hennen-bldg., New Orleans, La.
Logan, W. S., 58, William-street, New York, N.Y.
Lombardi, C., 265, Hth-street, Portland, Oregon.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J.
Loughnane, John, 78, Duane-street, New York, N.Y.
Lounsbery, Mrs. Richard P., 12, East 35th Street, New York, N.Y.
Low, Clarence F., Common and Carondelet-sts.,New Orleans, Louisiana.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 1068, Lexington-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Marchand, G. L., 112, Clark-street, Room 516, Chicago, 111.
Marson, W. G., 311, Sykes Block, Minneapolis, Minn.
Martin, Mrs. A. W., 409, North E.-street, Tacoma, Wash.
Martin, Mrs. Emma H., 71, Scio-street, Rochester, N.Y.
Marvin, Walter T., 6, West 130th-street, New York, N.Y.
Mason, Miss Ellen F., 1, Walnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Mason, R. Osgood, M.D., 348, West 58th-street, New York, N.Y.
McClellan, Mrs. Clara D., Box 152, Galena, 111.
McEwen, Alfred, 512, La Salle-avenue, Chicago, 111.
McEwen, Mrs. D. C., 160, Stirling-place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
McGee, W. J., Bureau of Amer. Ethnology, Smithsonian Institution,
Washington, D.C.
McHenry, Miss J. Howard, Garrison, Balto. Co., Maryland.
McKesson, J. E., Lebanon, Mo.
Means, Miss Evelyn B., care of Miss Gano, Asheville, N.C.
Mendenhall, Mrs. E. R., 1,804, Green-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Meyer, J., 10, Chestnut street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Millet, Josiah B., 150, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Mills, Rev. Benj. Fay, 22, Cypress-street, Brookline, Mass.
Moffett, F. L., 204, Flour Exchange, Minneapolis, Minn.
List of Members and Associates. 433
Moody, Harry L., 27, Crescent-street, Greenfield, Mass.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 2,909, Groveland -avenue, Chicago, III.
Moslky, Prof. J. R., Mercer University, Macon, Ga.
Murphy, Hon. Franklyn, 1,027, Broad-street, Newark, N.J.
Murphy, M. J., 614, Center-avenue, Bay City, Mich.
Myers, W. H, M.D., 157, West Wayne-street, Fort Wayne, Ind.
*Nkwbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., Univ. of Penna, Philadelphia, Pa.
Newton, Mrs. Mary B., 1,722, Capitol-avenue, Omaha, Neb.
Newton, Rev. Dr. R. Heber, East Hampton, New York, N.Y.
Norbury, Mrs. J. F., Plaza Hotel, oth-ave. it 59th-st.,NewYork, N.Y.
Norbury, Miss Mary, 206, West 71st street, New York, N.Y.
Norton, Mrs. F. L., 30, Gloucester-street, Boston, Mass.
Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 119J, York-street, Savannah, Georgia.
Olcott, Miss Edith, 4, East 53rd-street, New York, N.Y.
Oliver, George S. J., Santa Barbara, Cal.
Osbom, General F. A., 236, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Osborne, A. E., M.D., Ph.D., Eldridge, P.O., Sonoma Co., Cal.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510, Delaware-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parsons, A. J., 1,818, N-street, Washington, D.C.
Parsons, John- E., M.D., 6, Grove-street, Ayer, Mass.
Paxson, W. L., c/o Messrs. Baker and Hamilton, San Francisco, Cal.
Paxton, Miss .Josephine E., Bethany College, Topeka, Kansas.
Peabody, Mrs. A. P., 47, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Peckham. Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111.
Peebles, J. M., M.D., 3,121, K-street, San Diego, Cal.
Pellew, Mrs. Henky E., 1,637, Massachusetts-ave., Washington, D.C.
Perry, George S., Binghampton, N.Y.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48, East 34th street, New York, N.Y.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 362, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C., Junr., 299, Berkeley-street, Boston, Mass.
PhilPOTT, A. J., c/o Boston Globe, Boston, Mass.
Pitman, Stephen M., Wayland-avenue, Providence, R.I.
Platt, J. C, 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Post, C. W., Battle Creek, Michigan.
Powers, Mrs. Ellen F., Townsend, Mass.
Pratt, Fred. H., c/o W. B Cannon, Harvard Univ., Cambridge, Mass.
Price, Miss Lavenia, 815, W. 13th-street, Des Moines, Iowa.
Prince, Dr Morton, 458, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Annie 0 , 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 50, State-street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
44, Sakurada, Mashi, Asalu, Tokio, Japan.
434 List of Members and Associates.
Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
Qllincy, Josiah P., 82, Charles-street, Boston, Mass.
Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Rand, Mrs. J. L., 49, Kirkland-street, Cambridge, Mass.
Rane, Dr. C. S., 121, North lOth-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Ransom, Frank H., 137, Main-street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Rayson, Miss Amy, B.A., 176, West 75th-street, New York, N.Y.
Reed, S. A., 208, Century-building, Minneapolis, Minn.
Rees, Mrs. Janet E. Ruutz, Rosemary Hall, Wallingford, Conn.
Reiff, Josiah C., 247, 5th-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Reininger, E. E., M.D., 353, South Oakley-avenue, Chicago, 111.
Reynolds, Mrs. James B., 184, Eldridge-street, New York, N.Y.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2, Wellington-terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, M. T., Ridgewood, N.J.
Ring, Dr. Arthur H., Arlington Heights, Mass.
Rinn, J. P., 166, Reade-street, New York, N.Y.
Robbins, Miss A. M., 29. Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Rockwell, A. E. P., 80, East Concord street, Boston, Mass.
Rogers, Dr. Oscar H., 346, Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Rolfe, Alfred G., The Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.
Ropes, John C, 99, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Royce, Professor Josiah, 103, Irving street, Cambridge, Mass.
Russell, Arthur J., Minn. Journal, Minneapolis, Minn.
Russell, Mrs. Henry E., Haddon Hall, Berkeley-st., Boston, Mass.
Savage, Rev. Dr. M. J., Church of the Messiah Study, 34th-street
and Park-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Sawyer, Mrs. A. M., 188, Institute-road, Worcester, Mass.
Sawyer, Edward W., 6, Chester-street, Melrose, Mass.
Schubmehl, Frank E., M.D., 87, Brighton-avenue, Allston, Mass.
Scott, Prof. W. H., 131, Fifteenth-avenue, Columbus, Ohio.
Seabury, Mrs Clara E., 139, West 72nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Sears, Mrs. J. M, 12, Arlington-street, Boston, Mass.
Shaw, Miss Emma G., 34, Linwood-street, Roxbury, Mass.
Shaw, Mrs. G. H., 23, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Shed, Z., 1,622, Arapahoe-street, Denver, Colorado.
Sheets, John C., College Hill, Station K, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Riverside, Cook County, 111.
♦Shufeldt, Dr. R.W., 2,508, University-place, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Smith, Bolton, 405, Washington-street, Memphis, Tenn.
Smith, Francis, Muskegon, Mich.
Smith, Philip Sherwood, 46, Johnson Park, Buffalo, N.Y.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Inst, of Technology, Boston, Mass.
Smith, Winfield, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Sparhawk, Dr. Samuel, Burlington, Vermont.
List of Members and Associate*. 435
Sprague, Mrs. E. E., Flushing, N.Y.
Steedman, J. G. W., A.M., M.D., 2,803, Pine-street, St. Louis. Mo.
Stephenson, J. E., Ansonia, Ohio.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C., 22, Westmoreland-place, St. Louis, Mo.
Stewart, Joseph, P. O. Department, Washington, D.C.
Stewart, Mrs. K. G., Hillsborough, 111.
Stillman, Mrs. W. O., 287, State-street, Albany, N.Y.
Stokes, J. N. P., 118, East 22nd-street, New York, N.Y.
Stone, Charles W., 68, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, Junr., 18, Chestnut-street, Boston, Mass.
Street, Miss Ida M., 191, Prospect-avenue, Milwaukee, Wis.
Strong, Charles A., Box 208, Lakewood, N.J.
Sturgis, Chas. Kussell, 63, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sumner, Dr. A. M., 336, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Sumner, Francis B., Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
♦Sutton, Mrs. Katharine P., The Highlands, Athol Centre, Mass.
Swift, William H., Wilmington, Delaware.
Symonds, Brandreth, M.D., 410, West 20th-street, New York, N.Y.
Tafft, Hknky S., 174, Weybosset-street, Providence, R.I.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 44, Beacon-street, Boston, Mass.
Temple, Rev. H. W., 400, Locust-st., Washington, Pa.
Tetzel, Mrs. F. G., 817, Newhall-street, Milwaukee, Wis.
Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., Montecito, Santa Barbara Co., Cal.
Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, Montecito, Santa Barbara Co, Cal.
Thompson, E. H., 10, Winthrop-street, Watertown, N.Y.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1,426, Walnut-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 19, Pemberton-square, Boston, Mass.
Tighe, Judge J. G., 350, Fulton-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Totten, Mrs. Enoch, 1,708, I-street,Washington, D.C.
Tralles, William A., 1,189, West-avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Tripp, Dwight K., 1,317, Monadnock Block, Chicago, 111.
Turnbull, Miss K. E., 113, East 39th-street, New York, N.Y.
Tweedy, Edmund, Newport, Rhode Island.
Twitchell, H. E., M.D., 323, North Third-street, Hamilton, Ohio.
Tyler, Mrs. Moses Coit, 5, East-avenue, Ithaca, N.Y.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314, Dartmouth-street, Boston, Mass.
Vail, Rev. W. S., Woodman-building, Atlanta, Ga.
Vaill, Miss Annie E., 23, East 48th-street, New York, N.Y.
Van Baun, Du. Wm. W., 1402, Spruce-street, Phihv, Pa.
Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., LL.D., 1,827, H-st., Sacramento, Cal.
Vischer, Carl V., M.D., 1429, Poplar-street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Wainwright, Mrs. W. P., 121, Newbury-street, Boston, Mass.
Wait, Marshall, 5,144, Madison-avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago, 111.
Wake, C. Staniland, 411, East 45th-street, Chicago, 111.
436 List of Members and Associates.
Walker, John A., 260, Montgomery-street, Jersey City, N.J.
Ward, Professor Duken J. H., Ph.D., State Agricultural College,
Manhattan, Kansas.
Ward, Mrs. L. A. Coonley, 620, Division-street, Chicago, 111.
Ward, W. E., Port Chester, N.Y.
Warren, Lyman Otis, Rockland-street, Brighton, Mass.
Waterman, L. E , 265, Macon-street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Watson, Thomas A., Weymouth, Mass.
Watson, Professor William, 107, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Watts, H. M., " The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Webb, Mrs. W. G., c/o E. D. Ropes, Esq., Salem, Mass.
Wells, David W., M.D„ 391, Boylston-street, Boston, Mass.
Wendell, B. B,., Cazenovia, N.Y.
Wheeler, William, Concord, Mass.
Whipple, L. E., 272, Madison-avenue, New York, N.Y.
White, H . Laurence, 75, Genesee-street, TJtica, N.Y.
Whiteside, Miss H., c/o A. A. Carey, 29, Fairfield-st., Boston, Mass.
Whiting, Miss Lilian, The Brunswick, Back Bay, Boston, Mass.
Whitman, Mrs. Henry, 77, Mount Vernon-street, Boston, Mass.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph. D., 287, Fourth-avenue, New York, N.Y.
Whittlesey, Mills, 301, Chestnut-avenue, Trenton, N.J
Wilcox, Mrs. H. H., Box 626, Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands.
Williams, Charles R., Indianapolis News, Indianapolis, Ind.
Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium, Chicago, 111
Wilson, Miss Martha, 564, Dearborn-avenue, Chicago, 111.
*Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Lancing, Morgan Co., Term.
Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, Mass.
Woodbridge, Professor F. J. E., Univ. of Minn., Minneapolis, Minn.
Woodman, Walter, M.D., Hubbard-park, Cambridge, Mass.
Wright, Miss Henrietta C, Old Bridge, New Jersey.
Wright, Major-General H.G., 1,203, N.-st., N.W., Washington, D.C.
Wright, Colonel J. P., 500, N. Commercial-street, St. Louis, Mo.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18, Louisburg-square, Boston, Mass.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63, Marlborough-street, Boston, Mass.
Zug, C, P.O. Box 1,053, Sable Iron Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
N.B.—Members and Associates are requested to send information of any
change of address to Thb Secretary, 5, Boylston Plaob, Boston, Mass.
PBOCEEDHsTGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
Part II. A.—By Pr
tho Trance-Pheiiome
Iewbold 6
1.—By
I. The British Medical Association and Hypnotism.
Dr. .1. Milne Bra.mwbll
H. Myers. Tim Psychol
jers of Hypin'tism . >
9. Woods, M.D. Hypnotism •vu i
A. Mrkcier, M.B., F.R.C.S. Eng.
»on and (-rime . . . . -, . .
ir's Ghost." By H. Arthur Smith
109
103
110
111
.Some Cases recorded in the Annalm des Sciences
Psyehiqiu;.s. By J. G. Smith '. ,
Mr. Andrew Lang's "The Making of Religion." By
Dr. Otto George Wetterstrand's "Hypnotism and Its
et L'OrthopeVlie Mentale." By Dr. Chas. Li.ovi>
Mr. E. W. Scripture's "The New Psychology." By
Prop. James H. H\slop. . . / . . .
L'Annee PgyvKdugique, ByF.W. H.M. .
Mr. Heury Ridgely Evans's "Hours with the Ghosts."
128
144
140
147
London :
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER & CO., Limitkd,
CHARING CROSS ROAD, W.C>
Agkith for America : SUBSCRIPTION NEWS CO. (CHICAGO).
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHK
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1898.
The
M.
Pnot
Might
P.. F.R.I
PRESIDENT.
,,ik William Crookes, F
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
TT, F.R.S.J
. K. r.
The
A. W
Prof
J. Mi
The
CAI
St. G
Rich.
Mr. I
Wal-
Prof
COUNCIL.
ilfour, M.P. . Fra:
r Hood.
r, Litt.D.
Professor H.
Professor Ba
Professor H.
Sir Wn
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
iur, M.P.,
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, hearing o
which are being investigated by the Society, wi
whether from Members, or persons intending
from others.
Jt is hoped that Members and Associates i
researches, will put themselves in communi
11 "0to
JIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
jcipal Contexts or Parts XXIX.—XXXIII.
Sheet of the whole Sent* can he obtained on application to the
itary, 19, Buckingham Street, Ailelphi, W.C.]
XII.—Price 8s. 1896-
S
By UK.
11
21
45
116
127
Bv V. W. H. Myers. l«6
176
204
•Price 12s. 1897-8. (tioutu
316
319
338
'rOFESSOB W.
24
220
237
Part I.
§ 2. Development of Automatic Writi
§ 3. History of the G. P. Commaoioat
§ 4. Brief Accounts of Oth-r Common
§5. The "Spirit" Hypothesis and t
SUPPlemENT. ^
II. Reviews. . . .
Supplementary Catalogue of the E.lmnr
separately, can be obtained throug
Paul. Trench. TrtJbner & Co., (
Or, in America, to the Secretary
Part may be purchased separately i
Vol. I. (Part* iv.)pp.33(i. 5
„ II. ( „ v.—vti.ipp. 340. 5
,,111. ( vui.—ix.)pp. 500. 6
„ IV. ( ,, x.—xi.) pp. 605. 4
,, V. ( „ xh.—xiv.) pp. 606. 5
,, VI. ( ,, xv.—xvh.) pp. 707. 5
,, VII.( ,, xvni.—xx.)pp. 442. 4
Cloth-lettered covers for bindin
Thb Society also issues a
culation among members and
Any well-attested information,
W.C.. or, in America, to The Secrt
KEGAN PAUL, TRENCH, TRUBNER
Charing Cross Road, W
ROOMS OF THE AMERICAN
5, Bovlston Place, Boston,
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
iJ*iw XXXV. Vol. XIV. July, IMt Pmee 5s.
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL KI-sF
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR i899.
^ScVfl.MYKBS.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
NOTICE.
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
ice 83. 1896-7. (Bound in Cloth.)
i .lu„... 1SOS.
8
S
kMi.toi•Aiit->niiiti*m-By F.W. H. Myers
M M« l'inPr\ Trance
In M,-. Upcr.s linnce
