{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__firebrace_et_alia___mind_of_the_medium_in_communication.pdf","mytitle":"Mind Of The Medium In Communication","mylang":"de"}
FOURTEEN GROUP
THE MIND OF THE MEDIUM
IN COMMUNICATION
By
BRIGADIER R. C. FIREBRACE, C.B.E.
COMMUNICATION AND THE
MIND OF THE SITTER
By
HAROLD L. VIGURS
THE MIND
OF THE COMMUNICATOR
By
HORACE LEAF
MEMBERSHIP OF THE GROUP
Air Chief Marshal Lord Dowding
Lady Dowding
Brigadier R. C. Firebrace
Mr. Maurice Barbanell
Mr. Ronald P. Beesley
Mr. H. F. Bendall
Mr. A. W. Challis
Mrs. Muriel Hankey
Mr. Percy J. Hitchcock
Mr. Horace Leaf
Mrs. Meurig Morris
Mr. Charles R. Probert
Mr. T. Ralph Rossiter
Mr. J. P. Shaw
Mr. John M. Stewart
Mr. Eric W. Stuart
Mr. John W. Symonds
Mr. Harold L. Vigurs
Mr. G. A. Williams
Mr. Percy Wilson
The FOURTEEN GROUP came into being in June 1947 when
the Presidents of the three largest Spiritualist organisations in
Britain met to confer on matters of common interest. They felt
th.at a few other outstanding Spiritualists of repute should be
invited to join them for the purpose of lending to the deliberations
the benefit of their experience and knowledge, and from this
beginning emerged the periodical meetings of fourteen men
prominent in their respective spheres.
It was made clear from the start that members of the Group
expressed their personal views only and in no· sense represented or
spoke on behalf of any organisations to which they belonged or of
which they happened to be officers.
More recently membership of the Group has been extended by
inviting several additional members (including three ladies) to
join, and the functions of the Group have also been somewhat
modified in the light of other developments in the Spiritualist
movement, in order to avoid overlapping.
The present aim is to examine evidence and offer·guidance to
Spiritualists at large on fundamental matters of immediate concern
to all who are interested in the scientific, religious and philosophical
aspects of Spiritualism.
It is emphasized that the individual views expressed in the
papers and discussions reported herein are those of the speakers
and should not be regarded as in any way representative of the
opinions of any organisations to which the speakers may happen
l to belong.
Mr. Percy J. Hitchcock acted as Chairman until his passing in
April, 1953. Subsequently Brigadier R. C. Firebrace, C.B.E., was
elected Chairman.
•
I
THE MIND OF THE MEDIUM
IN COMMUNICATION
by
BRIGADIER R. C. FIREBRACE, C.B. E.
I
THINK this is one of the most important questions that we have
to deal with in Spiritualism. Sometimes we meet opposing
camps; one camp will say that everything comes from the
mind of the medium and the other that everything is from spirit.
To make my own views clear, I am in the middle of the two
camps. ·Why do some o'f us think that the mind of the medium
does enter into statements made by them?
There are many ways of dealing with this question, but I am
going to start the ball rolling by discussing errors in communication.
If communication were perfect there would be no errors, but I
think it is evident to everyone who has studied mediumship- and
not in the least surprising- that there are errors, incorrect state-
ments that come through even the very best sensitives.
Of course, I accept fully the idea that there is communication
which we obtain through our sensitives. As regards these errors,
the question arises why they occur. There are several possibilities.
One is that they arise from the inherent difficulties of communica-
tion, i. e. that there are difficulties inherent in communication be-
tween two different states; you get errors because the communicator
is finding it difficult to convey to the medium exactly what he wants
to say. I accept that fully as one source of error; a medium has
misheard, as you can mishear on a long-distance telephone call.
Another cause can be telepathic impressions reaching the
medium from incarnate minds.
A third possibility is that some errors are due to thoughts or
impressions originating in the medium's mind, conscious or sub-
conscious. Perhaps someone will challenge the statement that
thoughts arise and mingle with other thoughts in the medium's
mind, but I consider that they do. I think that on the whole this
is the main source of error. It is most understandable if you consider
that with normal mediums the mind is still to some extent active.
It may be disputed whether the subconscious mind of thE;>
medium is to any degree active in trance communication. In my
opinion that subconscious mind is normally active to a greater or
lesser extent even in deep-trance mediumship. I do, however,
Th,ee
allow for the possibility that in rare cases the medium's subconscious
mind can be completely stilled. However, I think that is the
exception rather than the rule.
You can probably recall statements that have been made in
the course of your own sittings, but to attempt to prove my point,
I will quote the case of a very celebrated medium, Mrs. Piper,
through whom evidence of survival was given that convinced quite
a few scientists and sceptical researchers. I am not going to
belittle the brilliant evidence given by her, but there were occasions
when she uttered statements which it would be extremely difficult
to accept as originating in a discarnate mind-they were often too
absurd to be attributed to such a source.
Many will remember that one of her controls, Julius Cesar,
came in shining white armour and said that he was still engaged
in galloping over the plains of Arizona. I would not attribute that
type of statement to a spirit communicator.
On another occasion, another control, George Eliot, referred
to the talks she had had in the other world with Adam Bede.
Adam Bede was a character out of one of George Eliot's novels.
I feel that these two statements would never have been made by
Mrs. Piper in her normal state; but they arose frcim her subconscious
mind, which at times had a dreamy tendency. I think they were
similar to dream-fantasies.
Does the mind of the medium enter into the direct voice and
other forms of physical phenomena? There are different opinions
about this, but my own view is that it can, that the thoughts behind
these manifestations can be from spirit, or can be also the result
of a mental process of the medium.
I will give you one example. In a fairly recent sitting with
a direct-voice medium, which was being recorded by a tape machine,
a voice gave a quite unusual name, which I heard myself on the
record. We will say that the voice said, "Warriston." This was
at once recognised by a sitter. The medium (who, I believe, is
slightly 'deaf) said, " Oh, I think it was Woolason." The voice,
after having given its rather difficult name correctly, then said,
"Yes, Woolason," and proceeded to give, under what I can only
think was the influence of the medium's mind, a completely wrong
name.
I accept in all forms of phenomena a degree of colouration
of what is being given from spirit sources. The source of
communication can be spirit or it can in some way be the mind of
the medium, but more often it is an admixture of the two. I am
not entirely alone in that opinion.
By chance-if there is such a thing-I was reading a book last
night, " Anchors to Windward," by Stewart Edward White, who
Four
•
•
has had very considerable experience of sitting with fine mediums.
I would like to finish by quoting what he says:-
" One of these difficulties is the tendency to mix, with even
genuine communications, contributions from the states of the
medium's own subconscious. Sometimes entire passages have that
origin. In any case it is very difficult, sometimes impossible, to
pick out which is which, to determine what originates from outside
and what is supplied quite unknowingly by the sitter's own mind.
In psychic research this latter is technically known as ' colouring '.
Its character is determined by what sort of person is the medium,
what are his customary habits of thought, and what are the terms
of belief in his environment, which means not only his physical
person but his thought and spiritual surroundings."
That quotation covers almost exactly what I believe.
DISCUSSION
Mr. H. F. Bendall: I can throw a little light on that point.
I remember a friend saying that on one occasion his mother went
under deep-trance control, and there was a long talk on re-
incarnation. After that, there was a statement that reincarnation
was a fact. The spirit communicator said: " Thank goodness I
got that out of her mind!" The communicator had to clear away
the thought in the mind of the medium before she was able to get
on with the work she had to do. There have been many other
cases.
In the mediumship of other mediums I have often heard
teaching which was _
contrary to their own personal opinion. In my
early days I experimented with a table and I found that mischievous
spirits can influence results. In a sitting I had with a direct-voice
medium words were put into the mouth of my wife which I find
did not come from her but from a friend of hers who had committed
suicide. I have also found that telepathy between the sitter and
the medium freqlllently affects the message.
There was another interesting case when I was attending a
seance where the medium was in deep trance, and the message
given to me was, "You have been communicating with someone
whose name begins with an S." Before leaving home that evening
I had written to a Mr. Saunders. The medium said, " It was
Saunders." I replied, " Quite right." Then she said: " It was
with reference to Abdul Latif. " Saunders was not a Spiritualist
and had certainly not beard of Abdul Latif. It was a clear case
of the mind of the medium affecting the message, because she
thought it referred to the Saunders who had so many commrnnica-
tions from Abdul Latif.
Mr. M. Barbanell: I think I would only take exception to the
phrase, " normal medium," because I would contend that mediums
Five
are never normal. As for the suggestion that where an opinion
contrary to the medium's is expressed, either in trance or in some
other form of phenomena, I do not think that is evidence that the
medium's mind is necessarily absent during that communication.
It could be that, through the subconscious mind, there was a desire
to express a contrary opinion in order to suggest that the
communication was in no way discoloured.
In my view it is axiomatic that all communication, whether
in mental or physical phenomena, reaches us through the sub-
conscious mind of the medium and therefore I assert that there is
no such thing as one hundred per cent. spirit communication and
no per cent. of the mediuun. With every communication there
must be some form of colouration-for example, the receiving of
communications by symbols and the medium's misinterpretation of
them, which might be unconscious. The medium's wishful thinking
must colour any communication and the medium's likes and
prejudices must affect whatever comes through.
This raises the very difficult question, which has not been
touched upon-whether mediums are better or worse as instruments
when they are cultured or when they are not cultured; whether
culture is a help or a hindrance; whether it is like the violinist, who
can play better on a Stradivarius than on an ordinary violin,
or whether the medium's education and beliefs are always an
impediment.
Mrs. Meurig Morris: We have been talking about the sub-
conscious minds of the medium and of the sitter. H ow are you
going to differentiate where the subconscious mind of the medium
ends and that of the communicator begins? In deep trance the
medium undergoes a physiological and psychological change.
While in this state the medium's conscious mind is not functioning.
I think that during this state there must be a merging of the
medium's subconscious mind with that of the controlling entity,
for it is only in the conscious mind that a demarcation is
experienced.
There is also development from the deep trance state to one
I call the dualistic state in which the medium and the control
function at the same time through the body and mind of the
medium. The larynx of the medium and a portion of the brain
are used by the control while the medium, as a silent listener, is
able to think and reason about what is being spoken and to accept
or reject such ideas. In this state the mind and will of the medium
are operative, yet do not retard the entity who is·speaking.
This is a development from the deep trance state and is not
semi-trance as commonly understood. It suggests the need for a
deeper study of the mind of the ·medium in communication and
the methods used by communicators. The dualistic state is an
evolution of the trance condition and greatly surpasses it.
Six
Mr. J. M. Stewart: There is no doubt that there are mediums
who think that everything comes from the Spirit World and who
do not appear to realise the part played by their own minds, either
conscious or subconscious. Apparently, more often than other-
wise, spirit people work through the subconscious mind of the
medium. If the medium has a well-stored mind for the control to
draw upon, the work of the control is simplified and the output is
improved. If that is so, it is obvious that, the wider the medium's
knowledge and the better trained his mind, the more effective will
his work be.
On the other hand, I have heard of a trance medium of high
standing who was more or less forbidden by her controls to read
books on religion or philosophy because these books might put
certain ideas into her mind and give a turn to her thoughts which
might impede, distort or colour their ideas flowing through her.
These are two points of view we have to reconcile. We have to
discover the laws which govern the production of phenomena.
Mr. R. P. Beesley: There are many different methods of
deception and we have not enough research. I can quote at least
twelve known methods by which messages can be passed, \Vhich
means that on three planes of consciousness- the physical, mental
and spiritual-we do not need any communicator. There can be
impressions emanating from the desire-body, a physical complaint
reflecting itself on the body of the person, or a strong mental thought
which the other person has fixed in the mind of the individual he
wants to hear about.
We can have a perfectly good communication corning through
backwards-an example of the mirror-mind. As one woman's
message was recorded it was nonsense, but when reversed every-
thing was found to be perfect. Did the medium's mind enter into
that message? Obviously not.
On another occasion a suicide came back and described the
gruesome method by which he took his life. The following night
we had great difficulty in preventing that medium from repeating
the action. We can get a two-way series of impressions, each
dependent upon the sympathy between the communicator and the
transmitter. The error in all these different methods is so vast
that we cannot be dogmatic at this stage. We need more research
and training.
Mrs. M. Hankey: I believe that the medium's subconscious
or conscious mind can colour certain things. It is only by training
that the mind can be subdued. I think that communication is not
entirely from the subconscious level.
An interesting point for investigation would be the results of
proxy sittings, such as transatlantic sittings. The proofs I have
received rest more upon proxy sittings than on personal ones.
Mr. P. J. Hitchcock: You may remember the Rosemary case.
Seven
Rosemary, a normal woman of normal education, was a brilliant
medium. In trance she gave forth what appeared to be gibberish
until an Egyptologist was taken along, listened very closely for the
vowels and gradually mastered them. He then fitted them into
ancient Egyptian, which is made up of consonants only. She was
speaking ancient Egyptian, which became a dead language about
roo B.C. This seems to me to be communication without anything
to do with the mind of the medium, unless she was in communica-
tion with someone else who had been reincarnated.
Mr. Barbanell: There is some misunderstanding. When I
said that all communication is effected through the subconscious
mind of the medium, I did not wish to imply that that means
necessarily a subconscious interference by the medium. They are
two entirely different statements. We can all quote evidence,
statements which are roo per cent. evidential and which the medium
could not normally have known.
In the case of Rosemary, the claim is made that Rosemary is
the reincarnation of Vala, a contemporary of the Lady Nona who
transmitted messages in ancient Egyptian. Whether you accept it
or not is an entirely different matter. The point I was trying to
make was that everyone agrees that the subconscious mind is the
means by which communication is effected. To what extent does
the subconscious mind colour the communication? In some cases
it might be none; in others quite a lot.
Brigadier Firebrace: I claim that communication is very
often influenced by the mind of the medium. I accept the possibility
of roo per cent. or 99 per cent. accuracy, but in the majority of
cases there is evidence of some interference from the mind.
Mr. Beesley: We have to decide where telepathy starts.
The mind and telepathic communication are the crux of the matter.
Is it really possible by training to get the medium by a conscious
effort of will to fight inhibiting intrusion to any serious extent of her
own ideas?
Brigadier Firebrace: There might be a question of degrees of
elimination. I have had evidence through the direct-voice medium-
ship of Estelle Roberts which was absolutely factual and conclusive
and not in her mind, and therefore could not originate from her
mind. On the other hand, in my own voice circle I have had good
evidential communication which has been followed on a number
of occasions by the same voice making statements which came from
the mind of the medium. I think the origin of what was said varied
on different occasions. There is no line of demarcation; they
intermingle.
Lord Dowding: There does not seem to be difference of
opinion between any of those who have spoken. I think every-
body agrees that occasions arise when the material comes from the
medium which was not in the mind of the medium. I think many
Eight
o{ our troubles arise from trying to get cut-and-dried rules about
what happens. It seems that a part of this very important question
is the origin of the messages and the means by which they are
transmitted to the medium from the Other Side. I feel there is a
great \'ariety of method , particularly when advanced spirits are
communicating. A person living on earth a year ago might find it
easy to make contact with a medium and give an intelligible
message, which might be right or wrong; it might be perfectly
communicated without any colouration, but wrong because the
communicator did not know what he was talking about.
It may be that an exalted spirit, in order to talk to us, has to
go through a much more complicated business. His vibration may
be so far separated from that of the medium that, unless the medium
is exceptionally receptive, direct communication is not possible.
There are various methods. One is described in Vale Owen's
" Life Beyond the Veil." Forty-nine or fifty discarnate persons
received the message from the high spirit-you can think of it as
an inverted pyramid. It came down through all those people to
the person on earth, the seamstress who had looked after Vale
Owen's little girl when she was alive. This is a complicated
process and you can imagine errors arising from it. Another
method is the re-adoption by the elevated spirit of one of the astral
bodies which he has occupied in the past.
I think that it is possible for material to come through the
medium with no distortion at all; it is equally possible for a true
message to be distorted , or for a false message to be received from
a playful spirit.
Lady Dowding: I have had many messages in which I have
been able to trace the medium's mind working through them.
I had one that was in nobody's mind.
Mr. Hitchcock: I think we can come to the conclusion that
mediums differ. There is the case of a medium telling a sitter that
her husband was there, yet she had no husband. Then we can
continue to the top of the tree where there are cases of communica-
tion so pure as to be almost unaffected by the medium. In the
vast majority of cases they are so affected.
Lord Dowding: I think at some of the very low levels there
are more cases where the story coming through is coloured by the
medium in some measure.
Mr. Beesley : In all these types of communication we are
dealing with telepathic communication between mind and mind.
Therefore, because a certain amount of the medium's influence is
there, it is only because mind is relative to mind in that degree.
The error is there, but it is not a deliberate fault. We can say it is
telepathy, but where does that telepathic line run from? The mind
and telepathic communication are the crux of the matter.
Nine
COMMUNICATION AND THE MIND
OF THE SITTER
by
A. H. L. VIGURS
W
E are primarily concerned not to expound text-book points
of view but our own thinking, so as to give people
something fresh to break the habit of mind.
To do this and think creatively is probably the most strenuous
of mental exercises. Faithfully to communicate that thought to
another afterwards demands special skill which comes only from
long application and practice. Every branch of study demands
its own terminology and system of presentation and, even when
this is relatively mastered, we are painfully conscious of our own
incapacity to convey adequately the full richness of our concepts,
and more especially those relating to subjective matters. Words
are limited symbols and thought is rarely purely intellectual.
Generally there is an emotional element linked with thought and
for this reason the spoken word, aided by gesture, intonation and
probably the impact of certain psychic influences, is more effective
for communication than the written word.
Moreover, in communication words are limited by the scale of
values that our hearers attribute to them. These values are
derived partly from the personal impact of our own experiences
and partly from the traditional background of the social world to
which we belong, and usually these differ from the corresponding
values in the minds of our hearers. In general, all communication
is to conditioned minds.
If this is our difficulty under normal conditions, how much
more imposing is the task when we try to explore those less familiar
realms where the psychic levels of consciousness have no well-
defined terminology or definitions, where in the main we have to
resort to analogies related to our sense-experiences and where the
basic necessity of mutual experience for true understanding is so
very limited? In short, in all communication there are three
limiting factors, viz. (r) the mind of the communicator, (2) the
means adopted for communication and (3) the mind of the
recipient; and each of these factors is capable of being broken down
into many sub-divisions.. The lirr,iiting effect~ of. these factors are
even more pronounced m psychic commumcahon; they are all
indissolubly connected, and our constant problem is to exercise
Ten
keen vigilance to discard colouration due to human frailty, so that
we can get a larger conception of the message that the communicator
intends to impart.
In my psychic experiences with sensitives (and I prefer the
word " sensitive " to " medium ") I stumbled upon this limitation
very early. About 30 years ago I had a sitting vvith a trance
medium and during the communication was told, among other
things, that fairly soon I should be going to Canada. I was told
that I should make my home there for many years and was also
correctly given the names of the two companions who would
accompany me, my wife and a very close friend. At the time, I
did not pay serious attention to _
the message and merely noted it
for reference should confirmation in any way be received.
About a month later, during a private sitting with a sensitive
who operated out of trance, I received a forther " spirit message "
which confirmed the previous one and I began to wonder whether,
after all, this was not a genuine communication. I told my wife
and my friend, Jimmy, about the two messages. They were
interested and we decided to explore the matter further. They had
a series of sittings with other sensitives, were told substantially the
same message of going to Canada, and in two cases the names of
the other companions were correctly given. At this stage we all
oegan to think that the message was really genuine and came from
spirit. Though we made no active preparations, to some extent it
entered into our calculations for our foture.
Confirmations continued. Through automatic writing a
sensitive gave me the name of the ship we should sail in and this
was subsequently confirmed at a direct-voice sitting. Tentative
dates were advanced for the time of sailing. I was even advised
to sell my house in preparation, and so on. Time eventually proved
that all this was incorrect and it was only my early scientific train-
ing, which had taught me that as much can be learned from failure
as from success, that determined me to follow this question of
communication further. ·
Clearly the conventional . Spiritualist explanations were in-
adequate. To suggest that a person on the other side of life was
trying to pull my leg was a bit thin. All the sensitives consulted
were well known London ones, working for our larger Associations
and obviously had proved their capacity to act as channels for
communication with spirit. It is true that some of the messages
had been given by the sensitives when in a normal state of conscious-
ness, but quite a number of the messages purported to come from
their guides, whose names are household names in the Spiritualist
movement. Surely these guides could not be hoodwinked by a
hoaxer on their side of life? It was a challenging problem, for we
had had at least twelve confirmations.
Now as to my present views regarding communicatior. I
Eleven
think it is common ground between us that man has an etheric body
and that consciousness, memory and character are linked with that
body and not with the physical body; that all our experiences, and
what we have assimilated from those experiences, in some way are
registered or integrated with that etheric body and its emanation,
the aura; that to a truly developed sensitive there can be no
dissimulation, for by contact-somewhat akin to a psychometric
contact-with that aura and etheric body he is able to _
discern what
we really are, feel and think. To a developed sensitive all is
revealed and man is known for what he really is.
I want to take this a step further. We also claim that man is
spirit; that the etheric body is but a vehicle for the manifestation
of spirit, just as the physical body is but a vehicle for the etheric
body. We all have some concept of God and generally we
postulate that spirit is the God-like, divine part of us, the real ego.
For simplicity's sake I have ignored sub-divisions of this etheric
body into emotional, mental, astral bodies, etc. As the Bible talks
of body, soul and spirit, for convenience I am referring to the
physical body, the etheric body and spirit.
There is contact between the physical sense system and the
etheric body; there is also contact between our spirit consciousness
(often not known to normal consciousness) and the etheric body.
The etheric body, therefore, is the matrix of our consciousness
where the past, through physical experience, is recorded and where
that larger knowledge which comes from spirit is also recorded and
awaits our growing efforts through prayer, aspiration, silence,
worship or any other form of spiritual exercise, to be assimilated
into conscious knowledge.
Now what happens when the sensitive and the sitter are together
for communication? There must be sympathy in the common
experiment for communication, and this sympathy enables the aura
of the sensitive to harmonise with and to some extent to blend with
that of the sitter. In this condition it is relatively easy for the
sensitive to record impressions psychometrically obtained from the
aura of the sitter-impressions which, when communicated to the
sitter, correspond with facts and happenings having relation to
that sitter.
If the sitter is able to confirm the facts so given, this augments
the sympathetic link between the sensitive and the sitter and, if this
is continued and the sensitive is able to raise himself into the higher
levels of consciousness, he (the sensitive) may be able to record and
translate some of those psychometric impressions he is receiving
from the sitter's auric influences that originate in the spiritual ego
of that sitter.
Spiritual knowledge is not limited by time. It may relate to
the past but is more likely to relate to the future and to forthcoming
conditions, and so the sensitive may make prophecies which do not
Twelve
originate from any discarnate entity but are gleaned from the
larger consciousness of the sitter himself, though naturally not
known to the sitter's normal consciousness.
I am convinced from close observation of many experiments
that this is the source of many prophecies. When we talk of our
spirit friends' inability to gauge earth time accurately it would
probably be nearer the mark to look for this chronological limitation
to the fa ulty interpretation by the sensitive of the psychometric
contact that he is making with the sitter's spiritual nature. Not
all prophecies originate from spirit, unless we also include the spirit
of the sensitive and the spirit of the sitter.
In this contact with the aura other factors also have to be
allowed for. The aura records not only our worthy side, our
successes in life, but also those frustrations when opportunities have
slipped from our grasp or perhaps not even come our way.
Normally, by the deliberate action of the will, these aspects are not
allowed to find expression in our consciousness. Nevertheless,
though suppressed, they are not eliminated and can be picked up
by the sensitive. If the sensitive is not aware of the source of
these impressions he may be confused into thinking that they come
from spirit and in his ignorance they may be passed to the sitter
as part of genuine communications.
Where a sitter thinks, or even feels, that in this world he has
not had the opportuniti·es his abilities merit, such thoughts or feel-
ings, though suppressed from normal consciousness, can be the
trigger action for psychometric contact by the sensitive which, if
not clearly understood by the sensitive both as to nature and origin,
may easily be confused into a spirit message. As the sensitive
usually feels very kind towards mankind, this contact may become
so coated with comfort-and perhaps kindly encouragement-that
it appears to be a direct calling from the spirit world to greater office
and function. How many people have been supposedly " told by
spirit '' that they should go on to the platform and speak, that
they are to be the champions of the spirit world to put the Church
to which they belong or the special society to which they are attached
in proper order, that they are to lecture, as they are the chosen
vessels of spirit for the real revelation?
The aura is an open book to the well-developed sensitive, but
unfortunately all our sensitives are not well developed and often,
in the elation of getting a contact with something not from them-
selves, they utter what they get as a message from spirit. I am
afraid that too often it has little to do with communication from
spirit, other than from the deeper levels of the sitter's mind.
Now let us examine the auric field between 1he sensitive and
the sitter a little more closely and try to relate it to spirit com-
munication. A worthy sensitive, actuated by the desire to serve
humanity and not to display his own gifts, must, because of the
Thirteen
spiritual law that like attracts like, attract to himself tnose in the
higher life who are also actuated by a similar altruism. Where
there is true community of interest there is no separation, and those
from the higher life will be concerned not only to develop the
sensitivity of such an individual but to consolidate its working to
give more effective service to those who are seeking enlightenment
and truth. Consequently the aura of such a sensitive will link
with those similarly minded in spirit and will gradually become
impregnated with the influences which they radiate to him for the
unfoldment of his gift. These may lead to further earthly experi-
ence to ripen the understanding or may pave the way for an
initiation from within to a larger measure of spiritual awareness.
The limitations of three-dimensional space are not in point, for
we are dealing with consciousness on levels where these limitations
do not apply. This new infL1ence in the life of the sensitive can
very well be termed that of a " guide " and at this stage the aura
of the sensitive will be a composite of the sensitive and the guides
or helpers. In addition, there will be those who are drnwn by
similar ties to the sitter, i.e. those who wish to communicate and
those interested in the sitter on more altruistic grounds and by
their efforts to assist the communication process.
Now, though a sensitive and / or his guide can make a direct
contact with the communicator, my experience points (and I would
not put it higher than that) to the fact that more effective com-
munication takes place when the communicator has a sympathetic
love interest with the sitter, so that the contact for communication
is strengthened by the further correspondences that can be made
by the sensitive directly through attunement with the sitter's aura,
in which the aura of the communicator also blends. The auric
field in which the sensitive is working is coloured, therefore, not
only by the qualities {i.e., thoughts, feelings, memories, scales of
value and, in fact, the whole character) of the sensitive and sitter
but also by those qualities of the many friends in spirit who are
co-operating with both. It is like a restless pond where the water
is constantly coming to the surface bringing all sorts of matter with
it. So this auric field consists of very many elements derived from
the life-force of all those co-operating with the experiment of
communication.
We know that mental processes, even on the normal level, are
not logical, and that is why we all have mental complexes. It
requires constant effort of the will to direct our normal process of
thought-images, to suppress those which are not sequential, in
order to think logically. How much more difficult, therefore, is
the task when, as far as the sensitive is concerned, the will-power
is deliberately laid aside and out of the welter of impressions which
impinge upon his consciousness, he has to try to sort out those
which are germane to any communication and then to arrange
Fourteen
them in a logical order? No doubt this is a very complicated process
and the probability is that the major part of the work is undertaken
by those spirits who are co-operating in the capacity of " guide "
to the sensitive.
In this medley of impressions to be gleaned in this auric field,
a fact (such as a name, Christian or surname, village, street,
number, etc.) can be fairly clearly isolated and is less likely to be
adulterated by associative or accruing impressions in the mind of
the sensitive. So it is logical to expect that facts and evidences
can be communicated with relatively little confusion; but when it
comes to the transmission of a stream of ideas such as a teaching,
the limitations of all our normal processes of thought become
heightened. It is my experience that so-called communication of
this class is rare and, in the main, consists of a series of impressions
buried deep in the subconsciousness of both the sitter and the
sensitive, not forgetting those impressions attributable to those
operating from spirit.
This fundamental difficulty was early recognised by Stewart
Edward White and no doubt you will recall· the great lengths to
which he and the spirit helpers went to try to eliminate this very
serious limitation in Betty's communications. It is relatively easy
to prove survival by transmission of evidential facts but it is
extremely difficult to transmit thought which is new and does not
fit in with the general pattern of impressions in the minds of both
sensitive and sitter.
Just recall the " no war " prophecies of 1939, and the fact
that most sensitives in this country and in the U.S.A. do not
pronounce in favour of reincarnation, whereas most sensitives in
other parts of the world almost take it for granted. I suggest that
for the explanation we must look to the loaded mental content of
all taking part in the communication. It is, perhaps, not without
wisdom that the old schools of religious training required the
sensitive to undergo long periods of strong mental training and
discipline, long periods in the quietness of the secluded cell, to call
forth that sensitivity within that would enable the sensitive to make
contact with minds apart from his own.
The preacher's exhortation for man to offer himself as an empty
vessel for service to God (i.e. humanity) probably was rooted in
a profound psychic truth and, in order that Spiritualism shall make
that impression on world thought that we all so desire, it may well
make us ponder on the necessity to organise centres of retreat where
the sensitive, under wise direction, may not only make himself
more sensitive to outside influences from spirit but will develop ·
that discipline of his faculties that the work of selection by the
guides will be eased and will enable truer communication to be
experienced.
If this is the background of our difficulties with a private
Fifteen
sitting, how much more difficult must be the task of sensitives of
the cali?re of, say, Mrs. Estelle Roberts when, at a big meeting
such as m the Albert Hall, she has to find that poise of consciousness
within her, not only to respond to the auric field generated by
that vast audience but to be able -to remain detached from it to
such an extent that she is able to pick out those impressions that
relate to an evidential communication from a communicator in
spirit?
As far as my Canadian episode is concerned, when I thought
deeply and honestly about the state of my own mind, I felt that it
could be associated with a deep desire by my friend and myself
to escape from the tyranny of a desk and the routine of being a
cog in the large Governmental machine. Though our work had
interest because of its complexity - no two cases were alike - it
had little creative value compared with the making of things,
whether in the arts or in the world of industry. Moreover, there
was the natural longing to be out and about and for an open-air
existence.
It can easily be seen, therefore, how this frustration could be
picked up by a sensitive and then probably dramatised into some
venture in Canada by an experience already recorded in the mind
of the sensitive. Once our minds were loaded with this suggestion
it would be readily available for confirmation and enhancing by
other sensitives. They picked up this impression; it was something
impinged upon them and, in their confusion, attributed to spirit
and passed over as a spirit message. Here is our Achilles' heel.
The tragedy is that the majority of our sensitives are not aware
of these difficulties and do not want to knmv of them_ With the
minority who are aware there is often a reluctance to break with
the easier but traditional "hit-or-miss" method of giving off which
is so prevalent to-day, for such a break would involve long and
arduous training to develop that fine discrimination so essential for
spirit communication.
The minds of both the sitter and the sensitive are very limiting
factors in communication and only as we train our sensitives, first
to recognise these limitations and then to rise above them, shall we
pave the way for real spirit communication. In fact all com-
munication hinges on the capacity of the sensitive to lose his
normal consciousness-his stream of individual sense-impressions.
In this condition, as he identifies himself with the communicator
and to the degree that he is able to do this, eliminating extraneous
influences from the mind of the sitter and from the environment in
which both are placed, is spirit communication possible. It will
mean a complete remodelling of the activities of our movement so
that we open up something akin to the old idea of the temple and
its training. We shall still be propagandists to meet the challenge
of current materialistic thought, but on the other hand we shall
Sixteen
recognise the bigger responsibility arising from our claims for spirit
communication.
In my own research work along these lines, direct contact with
the sitter has been eliminated so far as physical presence is
concerned. Eventually we shall take similar measures so far as
the presentation of our public demonstrations is concerned. The
sensitive will not be present on the platform when the address is
being given and, when the time for the demonstration arrives, he
will be led on to the platform, but will remain behind a screen until
after his demonstration. H e will give his evidences somewhat on
these lines: " I have here a gentleman who tells me that his name
is (say) John Spencer Lawton, that he lived at 45, Brunswick
Terrace, Abingdon, and that he wishes to communicate with a
lady in the audience named Alice Kingshott.'' The Chairman will
then ask if such a lady is in the audience and, if so, whether she can
identify such a gentleman. On getting a reply in the affirmative,
the sensitive will ask no further questions but will proceed with the
evidence and the communication. He will make no visual contact
with the recipient until after the evidence and the communication
have been given.
Provided a link has once been established between sensitive and
sitter, that link can function at any later time and is quite
independent of any separating distance. Moreover, the reading
then given can embrace those who are then with the sitter, even
though completely unknown to the sensitive. The contact springs
from the original contact with the mind of the sitter.
F urthermore, in this type of experiment even time is not
material. I have experimented with people unknown to either the
sensitive or myself, who were due to meet the sitter in, say, two
hours' time. The result has been that information has been given
-often of a very striking nature-which related to that individual.
I am sure that there is significance in these experiments.
Spiritualistic experiences are continually breaking new ground
to the open and receptive mind. The call to our leaders and to us
as a Group is to question traditional views which may have become
inadequate to give constructive yet progressive thought along
research lines, that we may explore the implications that arise from
these ever-growing frontiers of mental activities and then pioneer
new concepts to give expression to our larger understanding.
DISCUSSION
Mrs. Hankey : I welcome the reference to disciplining the
sensitive, for so many lack it. I agree J:hat sensitives should be
secluded and protected while developing and training, as was done
in Biblical days.
Mr. Hitchcock: To dn this the whole Spiritualist movement
Seventeen
will have to be re-organised, since no organisation exists which can
do this kind of work.
Mr. Vigurs: The sensitive should submit voluntarily to it.
No organisation can direct him to such training.
Mr. Hitchcock: What is the place of the a uric field in relation
to communication ?
Mr. Vigurs: Just as physical organs register sensation for the
physical mind, sensations can be received in other parts of the
being, the etheric side, bringing greater awareness. Time and
space have not the same values as to the physical senses. I often
experiment with a sensitive who gives diagnosis by making tele-
phonic contact through another person. I have checked this by
ringing a healer and asking for an immediate diagnosis of a patient
who would not arrive for treatment for another two hours. The
diagnosis was subsequently proved correct.
Mr. Challis: Do you not distinguish between the limit of
the auric field and the extent of consciousness which is limited?
Mr. Vigurs : I meant the capacity of the auric field to sensitise
itself to response.
Brigadier Firebrace: There is the famous case of Pascal
Forthuny, who, one-and-a-half hours before a large meeting,
described in detail the life and circumstances of the person who
later would occupy a particular chair in that hall. Interference
from the mind of the sitter is possible-probably less from the
conscious than from the unconscious or subconscious mind.
Occasionally a sensitive will repeat to a sitter something he gave
that person earlier, perhaps years ago . That probably comes from
the deep subconsciousness of the sitter. Ideas may be easier to
transmit than facts, provided they agree with the sensitive's opinion.
It is· very difficult for a spirit to communicate anything opposed to
the sensitive's beliefs. I think the sensitive has to blend with the
sitter and the communicator.
Mr. Challis: I sat, at a fortnight's interval, with two mediums,
each of whom gave me the outcome of a perplexing situation I was
in and how it might be resolved . Later it was resolved in a quite
different way, but subsequently I found that someone interested in
me and aware of my problem had hoped consistently that it would
be resolved in the way described by the two mediums. How far
had these thoughts impinged on my aura and been picked up by
the mediums?
Mr. Vigurs: That is going a step further. Thought-forms
can be anchored in an individual's auric field and a sensitive can
pick them up and, through the sensitive's ignorance, give them as
coming from spirit.
Mr. Barbanell: The most satisfactory communications are
Eighteen
'
achieved when there is love between the sitter and the communi-
cator. Screening the medium will prevent all the natural emotions
associated with love when it returns, and destroy the basis on which
communication rests.
Mr. Vigurs: Definitely, screening is going to be tried and will
be a success. It can be done now and will be the standard for
future demonstrations. The sensitive will first tune in to the
conditions of the hall, then to the sitters and positively open u·p
clairaudiencec-and thereby two-way communication-and obtain
evidence for transmission. It will come within relatively a few
years.
Mr. Challis: This will involve the old idea of the medium
being segregated from all contact with the everyday world .
Mrs. Morris: What will come through mediums in the future
will be impersonal communications relating to humanity, evolution,
etc.
Lord Dowding: I have had several personal experiences
germane to this subject. Two people, "A" and "B", wanted to
do two opposite things. "A" went to a deep-trance medium who,
as far as I know, had never seen her before. In deep trance he
gave her a message from his guide which indicated that what she
wanted to do was correct. So she vvent to "B" and said: " Go
and have a sitting with this medium, whose guide wants to talk to
you. " "B" therefore went to the medium and, while in deep
trance, the guide gave "B" the opposite advice.
Mrs. Ena Twigg told me that when on the platform she saw
things like rays reaching out from individuals towards her and she
had to repel these, because, if one of them connected with her,
she would be reading the person's mind and not giving true
clairvoyance.
During the war I received many letters by people who did not
know what had happened to their relations in the Forces who had
been reported missing. I counted about seventy of these stating:
"Your husband (or son) is not with us. H e has lost his memory.
He had a head wound and is being looked after by monks (or the
underground or fishermen) and will return to you when the roses
bloom.''
As soon as I began to read one of these messages I could almost
finish it myself. Some of them may have been right, but in not a
single case was I told that it was correct; in a number of cases they
were proved wrong. A peculiar feature of these messages was that
they generally involved a request that I would intervene with the
authorities to make a search which would cause maximum expense
and involve the risk of the greatest ridicule of Spiritualism -when
the search proved abortive. One message concerned an uncharted
Nineteen
istland in the mid-Atlantic. Most of these cases came through
reliable mediums.
I do not offer any explanation, but I think that underlying
these cases was the sitter's tremendous desire for the person
to be safe.
Mr. Leaf: There is also the desire of the medium, who is
very anxious to comfort people. There is some kind of mechanical
factor connected with all phases of mediumship. When develop-
ing mediums I have studied their physical and psychological re-
actions. I do not think there is any law governing them. There is
often a reaction on the heart. There are other psychological factors,
particularly a feeling of pressure around the head, like a band round
the forehead, which may become quite painful. I know of no
explanation for this; the difficulty is to ascertain how it is done.
In the next world there are extra dimensions and a different
time-factor, and probably for that reason they cannot tell us how
they do it. I think we shall never know how mediumship is
developed and functions. I think that the attitude of mind of the
sitter is less important than we suppose. Antagonistic people, who
have concealed their feelings, have had good results; others, how-
ever anxious, never get results. The auric field may not mean an
extension of space, since the mind is qualititive, not quantitative.
When sitting for development one occasionally has transcendental
experiences. I have had one. I found myself returning to my
body and had the amazing experience that this world did not exist
at all. · Plato said that this world is a reflection of a reflection of a
reflection. The spirit people may sometimes think this world of so
little importance that they play ducks and drakes with it.
Mr. Stewart: I believe that the mind of the sitter, in moulding
conditions, is not properly realised. The sitter does not prepare
himself properly but brings all his worries to the circle. The
medium does not get a fair chance and, being sensitive, picks up all
the depression and hostility. If half the sitters in the circle expect
fraud they will get it.
When I see the facility with which some people get communi-
cation, I wonder what they have that others lack. There may be
something in their personality. P erhaps it is a cold approach to
the subject. We know that the results obtained by psychic
researchers have been meagre compared with those obtained by
Spiritualists.
In one circle I kn0w of the sitters were arranged in the order of
the colours of the rainbow according to their auras, the idea being
that the violet rays sent a charge of power round the circle until the
red vibrations were raised to the level of the violet. They got ex-
cellent results. If the sitters are arranged in proper order-positive
and negafrve, etc.-results may be better.
Twenty
THE MIND OF THE COMMUNICATOR
by
HORACE LEAF
I
T is difficult to determine how much custom enters into some
attempts to classify the spirits who communicate through
mediums. The subject is, in common with others arising from
mediumship, so abstruse and complicated that no-one is justified
in claiming to be a perfectly reliable authority on it. This is shown
by the fact that many investigators of great experience and
sympathetic to mediumship are not prepared to accept the spirit
hypothesis and lean heavily towards the subconscious theory.
Experienced mediums will doubtless excuse this scepticism for,
unless one has irrefutable evidence of the existence of spirits,
communications through mediums may well be attributed to the
creative power of the human mind. Even qualified mediums are
not exempt from doubt. Quite recently a popular London medium
assured me that he does not believe in spirits, although his demon-
strations in private and public assume that he is communicating with
them.
Such scepticism is justified in the case of the average medium,
whose messages and descriptions are of what is called the
" impressional " order, and this is by far the most frequent form
of mental mediumship.
Occasionally there turn up a series of impressions, retailed as
from the spirit world, which leave little room for doubt that that
is their real source. For the past few months I have been question-
ing experienced mental mediums on this matter and have been
surprised at the relatively few messages they have conveyed which
fall into this important category. Very rarely is one able to rule
out all possibility of the information having been obtained from
some " natural " source. Mediums, of course, deplore this and
wish it were different.
On closer consideration, however, the evidence for spirit inter-
vention is much stronger than at first appears. If those who base
their scepticism of spirit communications on scientific grounds
compare the communications received through mediumship with
those received in scientific telepathy, the difference will be found to
be so great that the spirit hypothesis seems pretty secure.
Scientific experiments in telepathy between the living have
always been reduced to the simplest kinds of objects, such as the
Twenty-On6
five patterns compnsmg the Zener cards. The average so-called
' ' spirit message '' received through mediums often comprises long
and complicated references to numerous affairs. There is in the
whole of scientific telepathy nothing comparable to the results of
the average private sitting that strangers have with qualified
mediums. This fact has never been sufficiently valued by critics
of the spirit hypothesis.
This preamble is mainly to assure you that, in accepting the
spirit hypothesis, I consider there are sufficiently strong grounds to
support it. They justify me in speaking positively, as I shall now
do, in my attempt to describe what may be called the orders of
spirits connected with mediumship. I will, however, mention one
instance as a useful example for our purpose.
While delivering a Sunday evening discourse from the platform
of a Kingston Spiritualist Society, I was astonished to see two
apparitions descend from the ceiling to the platform. Both were
elderly and both were dressed in what may be termed orthodox
spirit robes. They were very unlike in stature, one being short and
the other tall. It was obvious that they were in earnest about
something, and what it was was soon made plain. The shorter
spirit pointed to the organist, a young man quite unknown to me,
and said: " There he is; will you undertake to c.ontrol him?" It
was clear that he was anxious for the taller spirit to agree, but
without success. The taller man gazed for some seconds steadily
at the organist, arrived at no decision, and both took their departure
without further comment in the same way as they had come. After
the service I spoke to the young man, saying nothing of what had
happened but asking him how long he had been interested in
Spiritualism. This elicited a very illuminating statement. " I am,"
he said, " sitting for mediumistic development and in a peculiar
position. My guides assure me that I am quite ready to be used
as a medium, but they are unable to find a spirit to undertake the
job! "
It is unnecessary for me to elaborate the subject with many
illustrations. Suffice it to say that on equally convincing grounds
I have arrived at all my conclusions on this aspect of the subject.
There may be nothing original in these conclusions, but they are
definitely my own. Should they be confirmed by other students
I shall rejoice because it will make them more reliable.
I believe mediumship, when properly developed, is based upon
well-organised techniques applied by spirits interested in the
medium. All techniques are not the same and in consequence
variable results may be obtained. This conclusion fits in very well
with the famous instance when Professor William James and Dr.
Richard Hodgson agreed to permit the displacement of Mrs. Leonora
Piper's control Phinuit by the Imperator group which had formerly
superintended the mediumship of the Rev. Stainton Moses. The
Twenty-Two
grounds on which Imperator advised this was that Phinuit's method
was a bad one and ruining Mrs. Piper's mediumship, which he
likened to a battered and worn machine. The Imperator group
claimed to have a better method and after they took charge
improved results were obtained.
My classification of the spirits who communicate through
mediumship is: guides, controls, communicators. Their functions
may differ widely, although they fit in together well enough. Care
should always be taken to distinguish them by their scientific tasks,
although this is not always easy between guides and controls.
Psychical researchers do not, as a rule, recognise the existence of
guides, classifying all controlling personalities as controls.
There is certainly a marked difference between guides and
controls when the guide is not also a control. A guide may be
compared with a machine-minder, a control with a printer. The
one keeps the machine in a state of efficiency, the other merely
works it. The difference lies deeper than we at present understand.
Guides often claim to be connected with the medium by
a " spiritual bond " which relates them to some sort of" affinity."
The ancients appear to have known this, especially the ancient
Greeks. They maintained that every man had a Genius and every
woman a Juno. The duty and aim of the spirits was to ensure,
to the best of their ability, the well-being of their earthly charges.
When the Romans adopted the Greek faith they modified the mean-
ing of the Genius, dropping altogether the idea of a Juno. With
them a Genius became a man's alter-ego although it was obvious
that it had not entirely dissolved into his spiritual make-up. Later
a further change in the meaning of the word took place, and to-day
we usually regard genius as a superior manifestation of an
individual's own mind. It is conceived as being superlative,
inspirational, original and unteachable. It thus retains something
of its old Greek meaning. We also see something of the guide idea
in the Christian teaching of guardian angels. I happen to know
that the belief in spirit guides exists among the Maoris of New
Zealand. The guide of the Tohunga of Hinemutu, whose whare
(house) I visited, was the spirit of his grandfather.
Summarising briefly the principal duty or task of a spirit guide,
I would say that it is to develop the supernormal powers of the
medium and if possible to use them. Where he cannot use them,
he obtains the assistance of a spirit who can. That spirit becomes
the Control. The terminology is, of course, my own and is open
to criticism. My aim is merely to distinguish the orders of spirit
communicators with a medium by the work they do.
A control apparently does nothing without the consent and help
of the guide or guides- for it is well known that some mediums have
several. Guides have definite moral obligations and responsibilities
Twenty-Three
towards the medium, which the controls have not, and the bond
between them is much stronger, for a control may regard the medium
in a very impersonal way, much as an engineer regards a machine.
He will use it only so long as it can be of use, and then discard
it. Naturally, a bond of affection may develop, and the control
become as firm in his regard for the medium as a guide. Indeed
I have seen this happen. There may, of course, be a multitude
of reasons why a guide cannot control and use the powers of a
medium after they have been developed; some of these we may
never .be privileged to understand . One is, I think, the fact that
the guide lacks the kind of mental development that the medium's
powers may call for. Another is that the environment in which
the guide lived when on earth may have been so different from
that of the medium that he finds no real point of contact. You
may think of others.
What about the other spirits involved in mediumistic com-
munications? There is nothing really technical about them and of
themselves they can do nothing. It is people's ignorance of this
that makes the exercise of mediumship so difficult. Sitters often
expect too much. They have a belief that if spirits can return
they can do anything, and the question of difficulties does not exist
for them.
There can be little doubt that it is the communicators who
cause most of the- failures in mediumistic communications. They
are, as a rule, grossly ignorant of the rationale of mediumship and
its use. There is good reason, I think, for believing that many of
them do not even believe that communication with this world is
possible. During a seance with Mrs. Etta Wreidt I heard a
communicator exclaim in amazement: " Can you really hear me?
Well, this is remarkable!" On his friend asking him why he had
come to the seance, he replied: " I heard it could happen and I've
come to see how it works.''
Communicators therefore communicate only with the consent
of the guides and controls, principally the former. Professor
James Hyslop was of the opinion that it was probably the duty ol
one of the spirit " band " to select from among the would-be
communicators who should do the job-a kind of master of
ceremonies. Hyslop further maintained that communications did
not necessarily come direct from the communicator, but through a
chain of spirit operators. He called it the chain method, and there
is plenty of evidence to support it. It is not, however, the sole
method.
The chain method is based on the principle of various spirits
connected with the medium's powers entering into different densities
of matter as they approach the medium, and any message coming
through passes down the chain. A brief consideration of this
proces~ will show how numerous are the possibilities of error. The
Twenty-Foitr
theory certainly accounts for many of the defects of mental
mediumship.
You will observe that the chain theory implies or even
necessitates the making of a number of physical organisms in which
the members of the chain must work and these must be constructed
of matter denser than that which co~stitutes the spirit world. This
is interesting, for the common opinion is that mental mediums
receive their communications in a purely psychological way. A
closer inspection of mediumship indicates that this notion is wrong,
because the development of mental mediumship is (perhaps
invariably) accompanied by physiological changes.
This fact can be supported by examining the state of the
medium's pulse. My method has been to take the pulse beat of
members of a developing circle five minutes after the members were
comfortably seated and before proceedings began. The pulse beat
should then be about 72 with normal, healthy people. Twenty
minutes after the proceedings have commenced and when the
sitters have relaxed mentally and physically, the pulse is again
examined and marked changes may be discerned. The following
figures taken with a developing class will illustrate what I mean.
In this instance a third examination was made at the close of the
meeting, which lasted one hour and a half: -
Sitter No. Pulse Beats
I. 72 78 78
2. 66 66 66
3. 66 66 72
4. 72 60 75
5. 84 84 84
6. 102 102 72
7. 78 78 go
8. 90 60 96
9. 90 60 84
IO . 72 60 66
II. 78 132
Increase after 20 minutes, 6 beats.
No increase throughout.
Increase at conclusion, 6 beats.
A decrease after 20 minutes of 12
beats, raised to 15 beats at conclusion.
No change.
Variation of 30 beats.
Variation of 12 beats.
Variation of 36 beats.
Variation of 30 beats.
Variation of 12 beats.
Variation of 54 beats.
It will be noticed that there is a considerable eccentricity in
some c;ases.
My opinion is that when the pulse markedly decreases the
medium inclines to trance mediumship, although even this is not
constant. They nearly all indicate that a decided metabolic change
has taken place, and in instances where the pulse has increased there
must have been a considerable amount of combustion, which shows
that work was being done. This is probably due to the making of
some refined form of ectoplasm for the construction of the subtle
bodies required by the controlling entities. I merely suggest this;
you may have other ideas on the subject. But, on the face of it,
Twenty-Five
it seerns as if mental mediumship is allied in some way to
physical mediumship and reactions are not entirely psychological.
My reason for referring to these interesting reactions is to
show that there is a considerable amount of mechanism involved
and, although we do not know exactly what form this takes, it must
be regarded as an important factor modifying the communications.
Apparently mental mediumship involves more than the use of what
F. W. H. Myers calls the telepathic law. Undoubtedly telepathy
is the chief means by which spirits communicate through mental
mediums, but it is not so simple and easy as that. Whatever these
physiological changes are, they improve telepathy compared with
its use between living persons, as in extra-sensory perception.
Unless we consider such possibilities we shall not be able properly
to appreciate the difficulties spirits face when working through
mediums.
We are not entirely in the dark regarding the condition in which
spirits find themselves when communicating. Long ago notable
members of the English Society for Psychical Research, after they
had passed on, tried to explain the situations in which they found
themselves when communicating with this world of ours. They
declared that they seemed to be immersed in a denser kind of matter
which greatly inhibited their intelligence. They likened their
condition to being encased in armour, or in a dense fog, or in a kind
of glutinous substance which made them uncertain of what was
transpiring.
Confirmation of this has been shown at physical seancPs'.
Once, when assisting Dr. W. J. Crawford in his telekinetic seances
with Miss Kathleen Goligher, I witnessed an example. One of the
group was a well-known mental medium who was quite un-
expectedly used by an entity claiming to be the chief director of
the experiments in the spirit world. Wishing to give advice to Dr.
Crawford, this entity spoke through this medium, and every now
and then anxiously enquired whether he was " making this
instrument work." The medium was shouting at the top of his
voice, yet the spirit was unaware of the fact but hoping for the best.
He explained that he was acting on the medium from a position
far removed from the earth and was uncertain of what was
happening. The impression conveyed was that the control was
working downward through a complicated system of communication.
Those of you who had the good fortune to sit with that
superlative voice medium, Mrs. Etta Wreidt, may have heard
" Dr. Sharp " (who supervised her seances from the Beyond)
advise sitters not to interrupt the voices too soon by asking questions.
He explained that the communicators acted by rote at the beginning
of their talks, after the manner of a person reciting a poem, and
that to interrupt them broke the continuity of their thoughts.
Twenty-Si:i:
Later one could question these entities freely and would get
spontaneous, intelligent answers.
All this, I think, helps us to form a clearer idea of the difficulties
in which spirit communicators are embroiled when workjng through
mediums.
It is unnecessary for me to say anything about the conscious
and subconscious difficulties relating directly to the medium's own
mind. The last two papers dealt very effectively with these. I
would, however, like to say something about an aspect of the
subject not yet dealt with. I refer to the medium's brain. There
is a tendency to regard the brain as a passive instrument on which
the mind of the medium plays as a musician plays a musical
instrument. I am confident that this is a serious mistake; that the
brain is a very lively and reactionary agent.
The human body is a living entity independent of the soul,
and has powers and tendencies of its own. The instinct of self-
preservation shows this. This dominant instinct is essentially
physical in its application and does not originate in the mind or
soul. Its primary object is to ensure the survival of the body, if
necessary in opposition to the soul. Of course, it reacts on the
mind, but entirely in its own interest. Many a person would
willingly die, but the instinct of self-preservation will not allow him
to if it can help it. There is, I think, plenty of evidence of this
independent action of the brain, memory affording excellent
examples. The frequent difficulty of recall is a case in point.
Memory is a very mechanical affair, and invariably depends upon
the brain. That is why we know so much about it.
Aristotle recognised this and mentioned three of the laws
governing it. Since then three others have been discovered and
are laid down in all reliable works on psychology. They are: -
·the Law of Association by Continuity;
the Law of Association by Succession;
the Law of Association by Similarity;
the Law of Association by Contrast;
the Law of Continuity in Space;
the Law of Continuity in Time.
One is born with tendencies favouring some of these laws, which
explains why some people have good memories and others bad,
and why some people have the capacity of remembering well
certain things and not others. These laws are so definite that they
are often hereditary, as doubtless you know. Because of this,
memory is a very strong determining factor in spirit communications.
May I mention myself as a case in point? I have always had
a poor memory for proper names but a good one for abstract ideas.
The reaction on my mediumship has been profound and persistent.
I have always found it difficult to obtain names when functioning
Twenty-Seven
mediuniistically, notwithstanding my long endeavour to improve
along this line. Obviously it is not my mind, as such, that is at
fault, but an inherent incapacity. Deploring this weakness and
striving to overcome it has merely improved me but not cured me.
Apply this principle widely and it will not be hard to appreciate
the difficulty it must impose on spirits communicating with us.
One cannot expect a stranger to use so personal a faculty better
than the medium can.
Of course, there are always exceptions, and a medium defective
in certain ways may be astonished and delighted to find every now
and then that his weakness has been over-ridden. How this is
done no one can say, but it shows that some spirits are more
expert than others.
There is this left to say: When all the difficulties that hedge
mediumship around have been seriously considered, we find more
reason for rejoicing at success than complaining of failures. Who-
ever has been fortunate enough to have out-of-the-body experiences
and remember them will know more about this than those who
have not.
Of one thing I am convinced, that those who pass into the
Beyond find it difficult to recall some of their earthly experi-
ences, partly because they belong to the body and remain in their
primeval freshness in the brain and not in the mind. They can be
recalled but not more easily than we are able to recall even
impressive dreams, that vanish soon after awakening and refuse
to respond to memory. This may be because we have passed from
fancy to fact.
If it be true that at death we pass from Illusion to Reality,
we must not be surprised if we find we cannot recall earthly events
very well, and when we do they may be fragments only. The
absorption of consciousness into total mind, which presumably
occurs after death, may be compared with pouring a cup of coloured
water into a bucket of water. The colouring will be dispersed
throughout the bulk, and when recalled may be in patches only.
This would account for the well-known characteristic of mental
mediumship, that when facts are recounted by spirits they are very
partial and often have no proper relation to sequence in time.
DISCUSSION
Mr. Vigurs: Regarding the pulse records taken with sitters,
I kept records of my own pulse reactions and those of a lady while
music was being played and was surprised to find that there were
startling differences of an order such as this. Then I stopped the
music and let a mental reaction take its place and again found
variations in pulse-rate comparable with those recorded in the paper.
I think we might all usefully do this.
Twenty-Eight
Mr. Leaf: I think the answer in the second column of figurer,
is that there is no difference at all.
Mr. Vigurs: But there was no sensory disturbance in my
experiment. You could have an equal disturbance of another kind
producin_
g s~milar reactions: I still support the view_ that in all
commumcahon the operat10n is from the subconscious of the
sensitive, and that development consists in training the normal
consciousness to allow the minimum of colouration to occur to the
message that is being picked up in the subconscious. The most
forthright clairvoyance I have ever had has always been dissociated
from the body and it has required a strain to remain dissociated
while keeping control of the normal faculties of consciousness so as
to pass on what I wanted to pass. In such circumstances the clair-
voyance has been minutely detailed. The element of strain might
be comparable to some of those things which happen in develop-
ment. But you cannot take your own pulse in such conditions.
Mr. Barbanell: I have never read of any explanation of
phenomena that really explained what takes place and it seems to
me that this information is deliberately withheld from us. You do
not need to die to produce an apport: I feel that the information
is deliberately concealed because, if we knew how to create the
direct voice and to materialise, we should be going round to seances
producing the phenomena ourselves and interfering with the pro-
cesses of communication. I sat with Mrs. Estelle Roberts in her
direct-voice seances, which were admirable for obtaining evidence,
and began to notice some of the technique employed by Red Cloud.
It was obvious that every communicator was rehearsed beforehand.
They had been drilled, questioned as to what they were going to
say, and only when their prepared statements had passed the
scrutiny of Red Cloud were they allowed through. He always
said: " Just let them say their piece. Do not ask questions. You
will find they are giving you evidence because they have already
prepared it." The new communicators were obviously excited and
did not realise that they were being heard. You could catch the
surprise in their voices-" Can you really hear what I am saying?"
Another interesting factor which has not been mentioned is that
there are people on the Other Side who have no desire to com-
municate. I once took a friend to Mrs. Estelle Roberts. After ten
minutes he came out and Red Cloud said to me: '' H e wants his
father but his father does not want to come back.''
We must disabuse our minds of the idea that all guides are
good at everything. Some are good at evidence, some at philo-
sophy, some at foreseeing the future. The possession of one quality
does not mean the possession of other qualities.
Mr. Leaf: If the next world is an extra-dimensional world it
would be impossible for the way in which things are caused there
to be explained to us here.
Twenty-Nine
Mr. Barbanell: How do you explain the fact that so many
yogis and fakirs perform what is equivalent to psychic phenomena?
Mr. Leaf: They don't. In their case it is control of the
physical body and telepathy. I once employed a yogi to den')On-
strate before a group of doctors. We saw exactly what he did in
thirty experiments and he told us how to do them. There was
nothing that went outside the physical make-up.
Mr. Barbanell: Blanche Cooper, the voice medium, had at
one of her seances a living man communicating in the direct voice
for Dr. Soal.
Mr. Leaf: I have had a living man materialise. In most cases
it was done with a materialising medium who had produced other
forms of communication.
Mrs. Morris : I do think we shall be able to find out
the method by which these communications take place. It is a
matter of time and scientific approach. Proving the continuity of
life is a primary step, not the only one-there are many more
important steps in the great design. The things we are discussing
now have been proved and recorded in books by scientific men.
As we believe in survival of the personality and communication,
what next have we to off.er to humanity after this proof is given?
Mr. Leaf: No scientist has ever been able to throw any light
on the subject, however much he has agreed. The spirit people
do not attempt to explain it to us.
Mr. Stewart: You say that " impressional mediumship is the
most prolific type of phenomena.'' That suggests that spirit
phenomena take place in the everyday affairs of life far more than
in the seance room and that spirit intelligence can reach us through
our thoughts, inspiration, etc. I think that is a valuable idea.
You also say, " Spirits sometimes have difficulty in remembering
details of their earth lives. " I have always understood that our
mem01ies are perfect and that our punishment lies in them. If
we can conveniently forget details of our earth life there seems to
be a weakness.
Mr. Leaf: The answer to the question about memories is to
be found in an ordinary sitting, when you will notice how frag-
mentary are the communicator's: memories. It also applies in
physical mediumship. I have also mentioned that there is no
sequence in time in their memories, which are picked up haphazard.
I am particularly interested in this aspect.
In 1917, during my military service, I had to undergo an
operation in University College Hospital. When recovering from
the anresthetic I found myself beside my body, aware of the fact
and about to enter. it. I was exquisitely happy. I knew that I
was returning to finish a sentence which had been imposed upon me
for things done wrong. At that time I had no recollection of this
Thirty
world, and then I began to recover it. '' I shall think that is the
real world and this is a dream ''-it took me two hours to
recover. And then I found that the things of this world existed in
my brain. My first thought was, " My God! I'm married!'
And then other things followed. They came to me like tentacles
binding me to this world.
Mr. Symonds: Is Mr. Leaf sympathetic to the view that often
we have communication on a wave system similar to earth radio, so
that all who are in tune will receive it irrespective of their location?
People outside this building are linked with us.
Mr. Leaf: We have no evidence of communication by waves.
There is such a thing as mental energy, which is some kind of
nervous energy capable of being registered. E.S.P. indicates that
we do not use any kind of wave system. That was pointed out
years ago by Lord Balfour when, as a member of the S.P.R., he
was dealing with telepathy . H e ·asked whether, when we send a
thought, it goes directly to the person at whom we direct it or
radiates in all directions like the light from a candle. If we com-
municate directly with a person, how are we to discover where he
is so as to direct the ray? Telepathy is almost always restricted to
a single person. Dr. Rhine's experiments show that the energy
does not vary in relation to the distance travelled; indeed there is
evidence that the impact is greater when the distance is greater.
There is another theory, the direct-contact theory, based on the
assumption that there is no such thing as space. Mind does not
need space to exist in. ·We reveal this when in dream we people
space with things of our own making. This theory has much more
to support it than the vibration theory, which is based on the fallacy
that if you make vibrations in the atmosphere by speaking the
recipient of the sound-waves is reading your mind. You do not
really communicate directly with his mind at all. If the sounds
you make do not mean anything to the recipient he will receive
merely a s.ensation of noise. In other words, each individual does
his own thinking. You merely disturb the atmosphere and the
recipient does the rest.
Mr. Symonds: Would you say it is likely that spirit communi-
cators can work in bands and be so sensitive to one another's
perceptions that when one of them is nominated as spokesman they
can convey their joint message?
Mr. Leaf: I cannot answer that because I do not know what
spirits can do.
Mrs. Hankey : I do not think pulse differences teach us
anything. They would be important only if we had the same read-
ings over a period of six or twelve months. On what do you base
your opinion that when the pulse decreases markedly the medium
tends to be a trance medium?
Thirty-One
Mr. Leaf:
when a person
temperature.
It is based upon the knowledge that occasionally
is completely entranced there is no pulse and no
Mr. Barbanell: I ·was interested to hear that " guides often
claim to be connected with the medium through a spiritual bond '',
because in my own home circle the guide has said repeatedly:" You
are a part of me," but he does not explain what that means.
I thought this was peculiar to our circle.
Mrs. Morris: I can understand such a bond. During a certain
type of trance experience I am vitally aware of conditions upon the
interior planes, which are most difficult to express in words yet arc
the cause of my belief that many guides are in reality a part of the
medium's microcosmic nature.
Mr. Barbanell: It raises the profound question of all that is
involved in individuality-that mediums and guides may be parts
of the larger self.
Mrs. Morris: I believe that to be so.
The text of the three papers is printed herein as delivered:
the records of t'he discussions upon them have been edited and
somewhat abbreviated with the approval of the members.
Printed by
~]morris ~ress, J!.tl.l.
3, Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London, W.11
1954
--
