{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1954__dickson___daylight_materialization_and_psychic_power.pdf","mytitle":"Daylight Materialization And Psychic Power","mylang":"de"}
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION
and
PSYCHIC POWER
of
THE REV. JAMES]. DICKSON
Copyrig ht, 1954, by T he REV. ] AMES j. D1cKsON
All Rig hts Reserved
CONTENTS
LESSON PAGE
1. How to Sit in a Psychic Unfoldment Class . . 1
2. Vibrations 2
3. Class Conduct
4. Vibrations II .... . . . .
5. Healing Power ............ . .
3
5
6
8
6. Calling up the Dead .
7. The Soul ................. . .
8. Mental Mediumship
9. Trance Mediumship .
10. Controlled-Sleep Mediumship
11. Spirit Materialization
12. Why Try to Explain? .
13. Death
14. Heaven, The Spirit Realm
.10
.11
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
15. Human Thought . . ... .. . . . .
. ..... 14
.. .15
. .. 17
.. 18
....... 20
. .... 21
16. Religious Superstition . . . . . . . . . ..... 23
17. Spirit World Assistance . . .... 25
18. Origin of Religion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 26
19. Dream Realm . . . . . . ... . .. . .. 29
20. The Mediumship of
The Rev. James J. Dickson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .30
21. Divinity ... . .. . . . . . . .... 32
Prayer ... . . . . . . . .. .. ... .34
Answers to questions . . .. 35
11
CONTENTS
ARTICLE
1. Solid Proofs of Survival-All in Bright Light
Materialization Under Extra-ordinary Conditions
by AMY MARSHALL. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... . . . .
Courtesy of Psychic Observer, Inc., Chesterfield, Indiana.
PAGE
. ... .39
2. While Medium snores materialised figures roam his apartment
by CARL ScHY
BERG. . . . . . . . . .. 51
Psychic N ews, London, England- first printing.
3. The Technique of Daylight Materialization
As explained by AMY MARSHALL . ..... .. .... ... 54
Courtesy of Psychic Observer, Inc., Chesterfield, Indiana.
4. Daylight Materialisations through James Dickson
Two Spirit forms appear together; Mother materialises on
public highway
From JosEPHINE HAWTHORNE.
T wo Worl ds, London, England- first prin ting.
5. Daylight Materialization with J. J. Dickson
... .61
As told by MA
RIA ALEXAND
ERto RuTH G. SVENDSEN .. ... .. . . . .63
Courtesy of Psychic Observer, Inc., Chesterfield, Indiana.
6. What Spiritualism Is Not
by DAISY GIBSON BUETTNER ... .. . . . . ..... 69
Songs by DAISYGrnsoNBuETTNER
Angels, Guide Me . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77
The Open Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .78
Just Away . . 79
Abide With Me, Sweet Angels. . . . . . . . . . .. 80
Courtesy of DA ISY GrnsoNBUETTNER, 150 Belvedere Street, San Francisco, California.
7. Daylight Materialization
by DR. M. A. BuLMAN to RuTH G. SvEND
S
EN . .. .. . . . .. . . . . . 81
Courtesy of CHIMES, P. 0. Box 308, Brea, California.
8. Aged 74, He Gets Materialisations- and in Sunlight . 84
Two Worlds, London, England-first printing.
111
INTRODUCTION
For many years I have been asked by the members of my
church to incorporate into a book the teachings of Juanita, my
Spirit teacher and Guardian Angel, so that tl;e world would be
able to learn what true Spiritualism really is.
The majority of thinking people wonder why we have This
Earth Life with all of its trials and tribulations and is life
really eternal and if so where did we come from and where do
we go?
After more than fifty-five years of experience before the
public giving Materialization and other Spirit Phenomena I have
answered these and other questions by presenting the lessons
given by the Spirit Juanita while she was fully materialized
through independent voice.
This Book represents clearly and simply the facts about real
Spiritualism which by quiet meditation and close contact with
our loved ones can bring Health, Happiness and Success if care-
fully studied and the right application is made. The pages also
contain accounts taken from leading Spiritualist Newspapers and
Journals of the world relating remarkable experiences during
my materialization seances making them unique indeed as ever
was given in modern times.
These Materializations were given in broad daylight with the
Sun Shining upon the Sitters Spirit Friends.
I\'
JAMES J. DICKSON
1420 Meridian Road
San Jose 25, California
U.S. A.
LESSON 1
HOW TO SIT IN A PSYCHIC UNFOLDMENT CLASS
The world needs psychics, what the world terms mediums. Sometimes
we have to use the word medium, but we prefer to say psychic.
Everyone in the material body has psychic power. If you did not have
a Soul, you could not have psychic power. Soul means psychic, Spirit.
The first thing to do in developing your psychic power is to soften
the light. It is not necessar~ to be in a dark room for spiritual unfold-
ment.
The next thing to do is to seat yourself in a comfortable position.
Sit up straight in your chair. Lean against the back of the chair. Try
not to allow your body to lean forward or your head to fall forward.
See that your clothes are comfortable.
Then place your feet Bat on the Boor. Place your hands on your
knees. Don't lean forward to do that. You can place them anywhere
above the knees, palms down. In this way, even if you are sitting in
rows, no matter how far back in the rows you sit, the vibrations will
run along the Boor to the psychic and the curtain.
Then forget the things of the day. Blot them out of your mind.
Constant thinking of things out of the meeting, constantly checks
your unfoldment, places a damper on it.
Close your eyes for amoment, not long.
Relax thoroughly and begin, not forcibly as if you were pleading,
but gently, softly, to think of your Spirit Loved Ones.
While you are thinking, relaxing, meditating, also send your thoughts
to Dr. Dickson.
If one is in the proper thought, his vibration will continue to Bow
to the psychic through the whole meeting.
When thinking of your Guides, do not plead with them as though
you were pleading in prayer. These thoughts hold you back. They
tire you, wear. you out.
The one sitting next to you does not interfere with your unfoldment,
nor does he take your strength.
Never join hands unless Minnie, or I, tell you to do so.
At the beginning of the meeting, discard all unpleasant thoughts,
or ill will, toward anyone in the class.
In a class one gets psychic unfoldment, spiritual healing, vlSlons,
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
forms, materialized forms, and voices. You may hear voices that others
do not hear. .
During the meeting, if you fall asleep it is all right, but if you start
to snore, it would be well if someone would gently arouse you. However,
please don't be uncouth or noisy.
Never offend anyone in the meeting. Remember, you are Spiritualists.
A Spiritualist should be gentle and kind and careful so that the sitters
will come again. Our mission is not anger but love.
If one is tired or worn out, if he sits in the right way, in the proper
understanding, the vibrations from the me~ting and the Loved Ones
should make him feel much better, if not well rested again.
LESSON 2
VIBRATIONS
Human vibrations are human chemicals in constant motion. They
play a big part in psychic phenomena, also a very big part in man's
everyday life.
The human body, like the earth, has an outward force and an inward
force. The body both draws in and sends out vibrations. Again, the
human body, like the earth, has various kinds of vibrations, incoming and
outgoing. The human body contains the same elements, or chemicals,
that are in the earth but in different proportion.
No two human bodies contain the same amount of any chemical.
This is why everyone has his own rate of vibration which makes his
personality different from all others. So it is with different worlds in
the universe.
Man's vibrations are often called animal magnetism. These vibra-
tions are so different in the individual that any person through his
scent vibrations, that is, chemicals, can be traced down by a bloodhound,
or any animal that can sense such vibrations. This is how a dog can find
his way home from a long distance if his chemical vibrations fall along
the way on the trip. It can sense its own chemicals as well as another
being's chemicals.
Human beings are constantly casting off their own vibrations wher-
ever they go. Sufficient chemicals fall along the wayside so that the
scent of any person can be followed by any animal that can distinguish
separate scent vibrations, and follow the one he chooses to follow.
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON
Your vibrations permeate your clothing. They not only fall along
your pathway but they also blend out into space. Everything you touch
retains a part of your vibration.
Material vibrations are of the earth. Spiritual vibrations are of the
Spirit. In earth life, both kinds of vibrations are needed.
Remember, vibrations fall from every human being no matter in
what state of mind he is in.
In the seance, or meeting room, we want the best thought vibrations..
Do not attend our class unless you are in perfect harmony with our
work.
When vibrations are good, they build, unfold, develop the sender's
psychic power, and help in the seance room. When vibrations are bad,
they do not help the sender, and are of no use to the class, or the seance
room.
You send out your vibrating thoughts to the cabinet. We direct them
to, or from the cabinet. We neutralize the good, and the bad, if possible.
If not possible, we turn the bad vibrations away, and cause them to
blend out into space.
In a phenomenal meeting, we are constantly on our guard to keep
the good vibrations flowing in the right way to the curtain, to the psychic,
that the best results can be given. We direct the vibrations to the psychic.
They contact his vibration, then they are generated, and given out for
Spiritform illumination. They never become a part of the Spirit, nor
do they become a part of the psychic's body.
It is quite necessary for those who are sitting for psychic unfoldment,
or development, to know something about vibrations and also proper
sitting in the phenomenal meeting. There is much to be said about
vibrations, and, from time to time, I will give you more about vibrations.
LESSON 3
CLASS CONDUCT
At all times there should be an atmosphere of reverence in the class,
or seance room. That is very important. Keep in mind that while the
class, or seance, is in session, you are in the presence of Divine Angels,
your Spirit Loved Ones from the Land Beyond the Grave.
It is not showing a lovely disposition to laugh at anyone's unlettered
remarks.
4. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
One must always avoid arguments in the class, or seance room.
In your development, do not leave all the work of contacting the
vibrations to your Spirit Loved Ones.
Do what you can to abstract yourself from your st~rroundings. Retire
into your inner self, which is your Soul. Yet, always be on the alert to
all manifestations that are taking place. This is part of your unfoldment.
Don't try to monopolize the whole meeting. Let someone else have a
part in it also.
Don't talk to Minnie, or me, when someone else has the floor.
Don't all talk at once.
Give out what you get in manifestations from the Spirit side if there
is an opportunity.
Put yourself into a state where nothing annoys you. This will help
to prove your psychic vibrations are under your control. This can be
done when a person is in the right vibrations and the right attitude.
In unfoldment, don't expect to get everything at once. Unfoldment
sometimes requires long and patient sitting. That does not mean in one
evening, but from time to time.
Some people receive wonderful manifestations right at the beginning.
Others must wait for their own vibrations to become properly energized.
While you sit, relax, meditate, watch, and listen for raps, sounds in
the air, independent voices and sounds, or voices in the trumpet, if you
have one. You may see the seance room aglow with light. Hands and
arms and beautiful lights may appear. At times, you may see light
forms, bright forms, black forms, or forms in technicolor, clouds, picture-
visions, et cetera. Any manifestation from the Spirit World is wonderful
no matter in what form it appears.
How easy it is to forget the astounding manifestations you received
in the first meeting, or meetings, you attended. When you lose the
brilliancy you recognized in the Il!anifestations at your first meeting,
you lose half of the joy the Spirits are trying to give you.
Too many Spirit manifestations become a mere matter of fact. The
Spirit Loved Ones should always be received with the same enthusiasm
you gave them at their first appearance. This, and this only, will give
you what you are seeking.
Anyone can sit in the Class. There are no special qualifications needed
except that the sitter should be in harmony with Dr. Dickson and our
church manifestations from the Spirit Land.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON ·5
Rainy, or foggy weather, has no effect on the manifestations.
Your unfoldment comes from within, and no one can develop you.
The Spirit World can give you the Divine plan for unfoldment, but you
must do your own unfolding. Of course, the Spirit World will help
in connecting up the vibrations.
If you wish to help Minnie and me put forth the wonderful truth
of Spiritualism and its beautiful manifestations, don't wait for Dr.
Dickson to pass over into the Spirit World. Begin right now to do your
part. That is all that you can do, your part. That may be a great deal.
Some have a great opportunity in putting forth the wonderful mani-
festations that are received through Dr. Dickson. Again, don't wait until
he is in the Spirit Land to help him. Do it now.
Don't think you are capable of doing a great deal without Dr. Dickson
and the church back of you. Oh, you may think you can try it in your
own way, but you will find that it won't work. You need us to help you
build and put forth the wonderful truth that we give through Dr.
Dickson's psychic power for the Spiritualist Church of Revelation, for
the Spirit World is back of Dr. Dickson.
LESSON 4
VIERATIONS II
There are various kinds of vibrations. Many vibrations are material.
These are the gross chemicals of earth, what we will call slowed-down
vibrations. Then there are the spiritual vibrations from the Celestial
Realm, the Spirit World. They are the highest degree, and are Divine
forces.
All vibrations can blend, but every atom of vibration is individual,
and remains intact.
Vibrations blend like groups of people blend, yet, each person in the
blended group is separate from the others.
There are discordant vibrations, and there are peaceful, harmonious
vibrations. Both are necessary in the Divine plan for the material. If
all vibrations are used in their place in the right way, they would not
conflict with one another. They would work like the wheels in a watch.
The Divine union of vibrations brings profound results.
There are no barriers between you and many vibrations, unless your
thinking m~kes it so.
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Inward expression is an outgoing Bight of vibration. The outward
appearance of anyone comes from within. ·
Vibrations travel through the body if the body is in good working
order. They enter every cell.
Vibrations also travel through the ether from one person to another.
Nerves are excellent conductors of vibration, but you are the controller
of what kind they conduct along their highway.
Wholesome vibrations electrify the nerves and energize the body.
That is what causes the difference in people. Some people are coarse,
high strung, and morose. Some are refined and harmonious. People
who are sullen and morose should carry a mirror so they can see how
they look to other people. It might help them to be more beautiful. Such
people are a detriment to the happiness of other people as well as to
themselves. You are either a good vibration, or you are a bad vibration.
Unfoldment in the physical of the spiritual in man, depends on his
vibrations as a whole.
The Spiritualist meeting never takes away any strength from you.
It always gives back any assistance that the individual lends. The
human body only gives out the overflow of vibrations.
There are people who may tell you that the seances, or class, hurts you,
makes you sick, to keep you from attending such meetings. Remember,
this is an old orthodox trick used not only by orthodoxy, but by many
Spiritualists, to hurt the beautiful cause of Spiritualism. One would
wonder how any Spiritualist would put forth such propaganda.
If you want to be happy, and make other people happy, and unfold
your psychic power, send out sweet vibrating thoughts to all men, not
only to all men, but to those who are near and dear to you.
Nothing is more helpful than sending out good vibrations, or receiving
them. Selfish vibrations are the cause of much unhappiness, sorrow, and
pain, both mental and physical.
All psychic unfoldment, all psychic phenomena, depends on the
proper kind of vibrations.
LESSON 5
HEALING POWER
All human beings have healing power. Healing power is a phase of
psychic power. It is just a matter of classifying the different phases of
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
the psychic forces as spiritual vision, direct voice, materialization, and
healing power.
The word psychic, means Soul. All men are Souls.
Anyone can use his healing power to some extent even though he
has never unfolded it.
Human vibrations, sometimes called animal magnetism, are emitted
from man's body at all times. When human vibrations and the vibrations
of the Spirit World are blended, there is great power in the blended
forces. Healing of the human body can only be exercised through these
blended-force vibrations. This can only be brought about through man's
conscious mind with the aid of the Spirit Loved Ones.
The aspects of human consciousness are the most real of all things,
and, if man is conscious of his inward power, power he can use in
controlling the vibrating currents that fall to and from his body, he
will realize that he posseses within himself a great panacea.
When anyone is sick it is possible for him to be healed, but healing
is done entirely through vibrations. Just commanding a man who is
sick to stand up and walk, will not cause him to do so. Such an idea
was handed down from the Dark Ages of barbarism. It never happened.
Natural laws, when put into action, help to eliminate sickness.
If one is sick, it is wise to have a doctor assist the Angel World in
bringing about a cure. The man of wisdom accepts any help that can be
given.
In all sick bodies there is congestion. This congest~on is accumulated
poisonous elements, bacteria.
Man's thinking has an effect upon his body, for thought vibrations
either build for good health, or tear down his physical organism.
Through sweet-thought vibrations, the circulation of the blood can
be stimulated in and through the congested parts that the obstruction
may be removed. By exercising one's sweet vibrations, with the help of
the Spirit Loved Ones, poisonous elements can oe dislodged and carried
along in the vibrating currents that flow from the body, thus purifying
the effected parts. ·
Healing should be done in a calm and peaceful manner. Stroking,
kneading, and fondling a patient should be tabooed. These, and other
fantastic incantations, are practices of primitive men and often lead
to undue emotional behavior. Blinking the eyes, shaking, trembling,
and wobbling about, as is done so much in healing classes, is only a
staged show to make the healing appear mysterious.
DAYLIGHT M ATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
If a healer understands the healing profession, he knows that he need
not touch the patient while treating him. H e will relax mentally, medi-
tate calmly, and sincerely ask the Angel World to help the affiicted
one. This is how vibrating thoughts are blended \y'ith the vibrations
of the Spirit World.
He who pleads and begs for help from the Spirit Realm, is using the
ancient ceremonial prayer method of calling on the unseen for assistance.
This is a ritual of the Dark Ages.
In all our spiritual meetings, one can get Divine healing treatment.
Good thought vibrations produce good health and a long earth
existence. Good thought vibrations give beauty, charm, and personality.
They arouse ambition, stimulate a desire to live a long and blissful life,
and to fulfill one's mission while on earth.
Good vibrations not only help to heal the sick, but they also help
to unfold one's psychic power.
Control your thought vibrations and heal yourself mentally and
physically, then health, happiness, and success, as well as psychic un-
foldment, is within your grasp.
L ESSON 6
CALLING UP THE DEAD
Through the ages of the past, and on up to present times, many very
foolish and erroneous beliefs about the return of the so-called dead
have been spread over the earth by leaders of cults and their followers.
Few men awaken to the beautiful truths of eternal life. They prefer
to remain blindly in beliefs brought up from barbarism.
It has been taught, and still is taught, that certain persons are endowed
with mysterious latent powers that can be used to force the return of
the dead. This long-prevailing idea is a deception which had its source
ih very primitive shamanism.
According to teachings, there are people on this earth who have
influence over Souls of the dead, and that departed Souls answer their
every beck and call. Such fanciful notions are the outcome of man's
ignorance. No one can bring back even one Spirit unless it wishes to
come.
Souls in the Spirit World act of their own free will through eternal
wisdom. There is no power on earth, or in heaven, that can force Spirits
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
to communicate if they do not wish to. But there is nothing to hinder
a Spirit from visiting and helping anyone on earth at any time.
Spirits use their own intelligence, and act according to their own
desire.
If you wish to have the Spirit Loved Ones near, keep their guidance
and companionship, if you wish to see, and talk with them, seek their
manifestations by sending out sweet harmonious-thought vibrations. It
is a sweet and harmonious vibration of the seeker that helps the Spirit
Loved Ones across the border.
Spirits are not just loosely standing about waiting for you to invite
them back. Yet, they are alert to the vibrating invitations of a loved
earth mortal even at a great distance for time and distance mean nothing
to a Spirit. Rest assured, furthermore, that there is no life on earth, or in
heaven, that is universal, so-called omnipresent, as is so widely taught.
No life intelligence can be in London, New York, and San Francisco
at the same time.
When mortals open the way for communication between the two
worlds, the material and the spiritual, Immortals gladly accept the invi-
tation.
Many may seek, but that does not mean that they can always open the
·way for communication with the Spirit Land.
Not every psychic can make proper conditions for manifestations for
every person who attends the meeting, because some people's vibrations
do not blend with every psychic's forces. Vibrations just don't blend
with every desire.
The form, the voice, and the communication depend entirely upon
the conditions of the medium and the sitter. Manifestations depend upon
the material at hand.
No psychic has the power to help every Soul through. Some psychics
are weak. A few are strong. Then there are periods of earth life when
a psychic with unusual power opens wide the door between the two
worlds. Such a psychic gives to the world most outstanding manifesta-
tions, and is a blessing to mankind.
At a seance, mother may appear, but father may not. There may not
be enough strength for both. Some Souls do not try to make the grade.
Any Soul can communicate. It makes no difference how long it has
been in the Spirit Land after death of the body, one hour, or a million
years.
10. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Every Soul knows how to return. It understands all the details about
coming through. No Soul has to learn how to return.
Knowledge in earth life does not determine the Soul's knowledge in
Spirit life. In the Spirit World, one Soul is not wiser, or more powerful,
that another. All Souls are omniscient and omnipotent.
In manifestations, the psychic and the sitter furnish the vibrating
chemicals, sometimes called ectoplasm, for demonstrations, but the
Spirit does its own manifesting.
"Calling Up the Dead" is a foolish expression, for Spirits return of
their own volition.
LESSON 7
THE SOUL
Mortal man has a material body and a spiritual body. His material
body is composed of earthly elements, and is subject to things that are
material. It is of short duration. His spiritual body is his Soul. It is the
man himself, the human personality, the part of man that has intelligence
and understanding, yet is invisible to the normal human eye. It is im-
perishable. It has no elements of material, for it is a unit of Divinity,
the Spirit World.
Although man's Soul dwells in a body of flesh, it is not, in any way,
a part of the body. It is no more a part of the body than the clothes a man
wears is a part of his fleshly body.
Vibration is the connecting link that binds man's physical body to his
Soul. This vibrating link can only be severed by death of the material
body.
The Soul is a substantial being subsisting in itself, and conscious of
its own existence. It cannot be annihilated by any power, for it is indes-
tructible.
Man's individuality is no less tangible because he is a Soul, and because
his Soul is not at the mercy of the material.
The Soul was never born and can never die. It has no growth, nor
maturity,.nor can it .disintegrate.
Just one material experience for the Soul is the Divine law. The idea
of Soul progression is error. Only the physical progresses. All errors not
corrected on earth shall be corrected in the Spirit Land after passing.
The Soul in all perfection, comes from the Spirit World, and assembles
its own earth body for a short experience in the material flesh. When its
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 11
experience in the flesh comes to an end, it discards the material body,
and returns to the Spirit World in the same perfection as when it left
the Spirit World, for all evil is of the material.
Evil and error cannot tarnish the Soul. Evil loses all claim to the
Soul when the Soul discards the material body.
That entity within man which senses, which feels, which thinks,
which lives, is his Soul. The Soul possesses independent powers of its own.
Man is a free agent. Divinity does not force man to live a moderate
life, but it is Divinity's plan that man should be good, and live a spiritual
life.
The Soul of man is not magnetism, electricity, or vibration, nor is it
composed of separate parts, which parts are attributes of some entity or
oversoul. Furthermure, the Soul is not the essence of a Divine mind,
nor is it universal.
The Soul cannot be bound by spheres, space, or locality, not even by
time
The names Life, Breath, Angel, Divinity, God, and many other names,
are terms used interchangeably by religions and peoples to express the
Soul entity.
The Soul is the source of all feelings, senses, thoughts, and affection.
When a man has an understanding of what his Soul is, it makes him
real, and gives him power over physical errors. With such an under-
standing, man becomes filled with love, purity, peace, and harmony.
LESSON 8
MENTAL MEDIUMSHIP
A mental medium is a person whose mind is receptive to unseen phe-
nomena that penetrates his psychic aura. Anyone of normal under-
standing can unfold mental mediumship. It is just a matter of one's
psychic sensitivity responding to incoming wave vibrations of unseen
sense perceptions, unseen to the material eyes, and to having a keen
mind. With much practice, he can give out, from time to time, what
his psychic mind responds to.
Any mental medium may misinterpret the meaning of what he
receives, for how can he be sure of what the perceptions mean.
The student is told by his teacher, the message medium, to start his
development by giving out the first things that come into his mind, that
•
12. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
the better things will come later as he develops, so it is easy for the student
to use his own translation, if he receives any impression, or symbol, at all.
Some professed mediums claim that they can say a few mysterious
words in siJence over a person, and that these words will open his
mediumship making him a full-fledged medium ready for practice.
This is absolute!y false, for there are no key words that will open the door
.to spiritual perceptions.
Words serving to denote the means of transmission of communica-
tion are clairvoyan(:e, clairaudience, impression, inspirational writing,
influence, and vision, also controlled speech.
The phrase, controlled speech, however, is a misnomer, for disem-
bodied Spirits canp.ot control the human tongue, nor can they enter
the ~rnman body and take control. No Spirit but the man's own Spirit,
can occupy his body, or control his tongue.
. In every message given by a mental medium, the human brain, or
mind, is very much involved. Therefore, the interpretation of the mes-
sage by the mental medium may lose its purity when given out.
Message mediums are often biased by their early training in orthodoxy.
This is why they give out so many orthodox teachings. Their minds may
also be filled with erroneous teachings by unscrupulous mediums such
as black art, evil Spirits, spheres, et cetera.
Of course, every so-called trance medium must be conscious to receive
perceptions, and fully conscious to translate to the sitter what he receives
-whether he admits it or not. Message bearers know that the reading
will be more awe-inspiring if the sitter thinks he is in a trance.
Messages cannot be received and translated through a human brain
unless the one who possesses the brain is fully conscious. This is logical,
is it not?
Many wonderful things have been given in past time to mankind
through sense perceptions, but also, there has been an endless stream
of rubb:sh given out to the world by dishonest or ignorant mediums,
many of whom are leaders of Spiritualist organizations. Time will clarify
all things. Eventually the truths of Spiritualism will be brought out into
the light, and the erroneous teachings will disappear, for truth is eternal.
Ho,w grand it is that our church people can talk face to face with their
Spirit Loved Ones in our materializing seances where they are given
knowledge about the Spirit World as well as the material world. Our
people do not have to accept second-hand messages, which should make
them all very happy.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
LESSON 9
TRANCE MEDIUMSHIP
Trance mediumship is one of the phases of psychic power, that is, one
of the variations of man's spiritual forces in action.
The modern-day current understanding of what trance mediumship
is, has been established by would-be mediums and fortune tellers. Their
formulated ideas have been accepted and recorded in books as bonafide.
Many so-called trance mediums today use their hands and feet. They
stand up and walk about, talk and join in general conversation in answer-
ing questions while in what they call a trance.
The true state of trance is suspension of all animation of the body
leaving the human mind unconscious to all animate things. Every
person in a trance is devoid of all sensations of feeling, seeing, hearing,
and understanding, nor can he talk, or move about. If a sword were
thrust through his flesh, he could not feel it. Therefore, the present-day
interpretation of trance mediumship is far from the truth.
There are but a few trance mediums scattered over the earth.
Sometimes a medium remains in a trance for severa_
l days 111 an
unconscious state, immune from feeling.
When a medium comes out of a trance, he often brings back. in his
mind visions his Spirit saw while he was entranced.
It is not common for a medium to suddenly fall into a trance.
Entering a trance is not controlled by will power. As a rule, it takes
time for the human body, with the aid of the Spirit Guide, to enter such
a state, and ·sometimes several hours to become normal- again. The
struggle of going and coming is generally a strenuous experience.
Then again, when the SoLil is out of the body, and the body is in a
trance, there is nothing to.hinder the Soul from remaining out of the
earthly body if i-
t does not wish to return, for the trance state 1s~·not a
normal condition of man's natural existence.
If a person's Soul remains out of his physical body too long whil~ in a
trance, the magnetic cord, or vibration, severs, after which, his Soul
cannot occupy his body again.
It is not possible for any Spirit but a person's own Spirit to enter his
body-not at any time. This false teachingcame down through the ages
from voodoo priests, and is accepted today by the unthinking only.
Trance mediumship embraces various forms of psychic power such
as slate drawing, Soul travel, trumpet, direct voice, and materialization,
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
the lending of the medium's strength chemicals for full-form demonstra-
tions, also for apport demonstrations.
In the apport type of phenomena, the Spirits move things about the
room, lift tables, cause things to jump ofl of shelves and stands, some-
times in the light, sometimes in the dark.
While in a trance, a medium's body, tongue, or his voice is never
used in Spirit demonstrations. It is only his psychic vibrations that are
drawn upon to illuminate the Spirit's form and bring it within range
of the man's normal sight, also to amplify the Spirit's voice so it can be
heard by man's normal ear.
No medium need enter a trance state to get psychic manifestation.
Controlled sleep is the highest phase of mediumship, and the best way
of making contact with the Souls that dwell in the Land Beyond the
Grave, the Spirit World.
LESSON 10
CONTROLLED-SLEEP MEDIUMSHIP
The phase of mediumship known as controlled-sleep is the highest
phase of psychic phenomena. A well-developed medium who has this
phase of psychic power unfolded, never enters into an unnatural state
to get Spirit manifestations.
When a controlled-sleep medium wishes to obtain Spirit manifesta-
tions, he places himself under his Spirit Guide's control, and enters into
a psychic sleep. In this state of coma, chemical vibrations of his body are
used by the Spirit World to bring to man's physical eye and ear, phe-
nomenal demonstrations.
During psychic sleep the medium's body maintains its natural equilib-
rium, but his Soul withdraws from its outward consciousness.
Psychic sleep is so normal to physical man, that if the medium's
Guide for any reason has not proper control over him, the slightest
disturbance, sound, or sudden light, might bring him out of his sleep
as they would bring him out of any ordinary slumber.
In controlled sleep, there are times when such complete harmony
prevails among the people in the seance, that the Guide can bring about
outstanding Spirit demonstrations, as well as put the medium into a
lesser degree of sleep whereby he is conscious of his surroundings, and
can see the same Spirit manifestations that the sitters see, and converse
with the people in the Seance.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 15
Controlled sleep is the most natural way in which a medium can
demonstrate his physical power to the world. There is nothing more
natural than a periodical diminution of sensation in the physical body.
The greatest and most important of all phases of mediumship is Spirit
materialization, because Spirit materialization gives absolute knowledge
of eternal life. In materializing seances man can see, and talk, face to
face, with the so-called arisen dead. No other experience in earth life
gives man the complete knowledge that there is no death.
Furthermore, the perfect way for a medium to produce materialization
is under psychic sleep control, for in psychic sleep control psychic
phenomena is brought to earth through man's most normal state.
In controlled sleep, there is no long-suspended animation, or a man's
physical inability to function, and there is no complete loss of memory
for in natural sleep, the mind is always active, and many times recalls
during his waking hours, memories of his dream experiences.
Moreover, in psychic sleep there is no suspension of the physical body
between life and death as there is when the medium is in a trance.
The wide range of controlled sleep embraces all the phenomenal
phases of the psychic forces, and through controlled sleep mediumship,
the phenomena of Spirit materialization can reach its highest stage.
LESSON 11
SPIRIT MATERIALIZATION
Spirit materialization is the most illuminating phase of mediumship.
It is the Divine channel through which the Spirit World brings to
mortal man the knowledge of eternal life. Spirit materialization has
been more or less known on earth since the dawn of the human race.
Man's knowledge of immortality rests on its manifestations.
Without Spirit materialization, there could not be one iota of evidence
that man's life continues beyond the death of his body, or that death
ends all of human experience.
The marvelous process of Spirit materialization operates through the
psychic vibrations of a well-developed phenomenal medium. But to
present manifestations of Spirit return to mortal man, the psychic force
of a materializing medium coupled with the directing power of his
Spirit Guide is required. Thus, Divinity establishes a contact between
the Spirit World and the material World.
16. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
The Divine law of materialization embraces the most delicate and the
most subtle laws of chemistry. Outside this strong force there is no con-
nection between the seen and the unseen worlds.
It is a well-known fact that human bodies emit what is known as
animal magnetism, and it is known that every person is surrounded by
an auric glow unseen by man's normal vision. This auric glow is the
illumination caused by the emitting of animal magnetism, chemical
vibrations, from man's physical body.
The materializing pyschic is a laboratory where, through the psychic
power of a phenomenal medium, the process of materialization is carried
on by the Spirit World for obtaining Spirit phenomena.
When the medium is in what is called psychic sleep, and under the
control of his Spirit Guide, current vibrations of his body exercise a
gravitational force which draws chemical elements from the people in
the seance and from the surrounding atmosphere into his magnetic
aura. When the vibrating elements of the audience reach the medium,
the Spirit Guides separate the harmonious from the inharmonious
elements.
The harmonious elements are blended and energized, yet each atom,
or chemical, retains its own unit. For instance, when groups of people
are blended, each person retains his own individual entity.
In the blended state, the vibrating elements become what is called
ectoplasm. Ectoplasm is the vital substance used in the process of mater-
ialization.
Ev~ry Spirit, when materializing, exercises a special gravitational
force of its own, and draws the vaporous ectoplasm from the medium
with which it surrounds itself. Then it raises the temperature of the
ectoplasm, which brings the Spirit form within the range of mortal
man's vision, and also causes the sound of its voice to become audible
to man's material ear.
There is a difference in the quality of chemical vibrations of every
person. Thus, in materialization, is the difference in clearness of Spirit
forms, and the modulation in their voices from time to time.
The harmonious-thought ·vibrations of each sitter in the seance is a
great help in bringing to light the Spirit manifestations, but, of course,
a materializing medium can sit alone, and with the aid of his Guide, get
Spirit demonstrations and communications for himself.
It requires various kinds of chemical vibrations and the full knowledge
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 17
of the technique of materialization known only to tlie Spirit World,
to bring to mortal man Spirit manifestations.
L ESSON 12
WHY TRY TO EXPLAIN?
When strangers first attend phenomenal seances, it is not always
judicious to try to explain to them the cause of Spirit manifestations, for
the human mind is slow to comprehend the wisdom of Divine Laws.
People, you would think, should know that strangers must adjust them-
selves to the vibrations of the seances and the medium, before they can
get results, or acquire any understanding of what takes place in a
phenomenal seance.
It is not wisdom at the close of the seance, to ask the beginner his
opinion of the manifestations that were given. One attendance is not
enough for anyone to comprehend the magnitude of the celestial dem-
onstrations that occur in phenomenal seances.
The first time people witness psychic manifestations, it might be
difficult for them to understand, or accept, what they saw, because the
manifestations might be beyond their material understanding.
If people are intent in their seeking, really interested in Spirit return,
they will not need any enticing to return. The beauties of the Spirit
demonstration with their loving communications will bring them back,
and, eventually, cause them to become real Spiritualists.
It is knowledge of life eternal, life beyond the grave, that earnest
seekers crave. As a rule, what produces the manifestations, does not
enter into the mind of the earnest seeker.
If strangers are not interested in talking with their Loved Ones in
the Spirit Realm, and many are not, no matter what one says, or does,
will have an effect upon them. Even if they believe that the teachings
of Spiritualism are true, they turn from it.
No one should try to be an expounder of the beautiful phenomena of
Spiritualism unless he has studied well into all the phases of psychic
phenomena in face to face conversation with his Angel Loved Ones
in a phenomenal seance. Even then, one should be very careful to
intelligent!y explain the basic principles of Spirit return. No matter
how long one has been a Spiritualist, if one has not learned the funda-
mental principles of Spirit return through making a deep study of
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
psychic phenomena, one should not try to explain the cause of Spirit
manifestations.
Anyone can learn the truth, without error, from the Spirit Loved
Ones, the only authority ori the subject.
Real Spiritualism cannot be learned from books. Books are made to
sell. They are filled with erroneous teachings, false ideas, with a little
truth here and there. Books are filled with ideas of ancient pagan
barbarious superstitions handed down from the Dark Ages. They also
contain some very foolish and idiotic teachings invented by modern
men and women for purely mercenary purposes.
Wrong, and confusing answers to questions about Spirit manifesta-
tions by people who do not know, turn seekers against what they might
have accepted, had the right answers to their questions been given.
If one is not sure that he can explain the phenomena of Spiritualism
intelligently when asked questions on Spiritualism, it would be wise
to say, "I am not an authority on the subject of psychic phenomena. I
would not try to explain the technique of its glorious manifestations.
To me, Spirit return is a knowledge, not a belief. I am a Spiritualist
because I know what I have found."
If one has knowledge of Spirit return, one should share it with others
only if they are interested. Don't try to force Spiritualism upon anyone.
While a seance is in session, it is a mistake to attempt to explain Spirit
manifestations to either a friend, or a stranger, for this makes a menace
of one's self and disturbs the whole meeting. It is permissible, however,
if an opportunity is found, to tell the Spirit Friends about some unusual
result one has received, but not by a long, drawn-out explanation, for
this takes up too much of the precious public-seance time.
LESSON 13
DEATH
The human Soul is attached to the body of flesh by a magnetic current.
There have been times in past ages when well-developed mediums have
observed this magnetic current. Some have spoken of it as the silver
cord. While this magnetic current remains unbroken, the human body
continues to operate under the control of its Soul. When the current
breaks, it is because the physical body has ceased to supply strength to
the magnetic current, the silver cord. Once broken, the current can never
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON . 19
be repaired. When the magnetic current is severed, the Soul, the owner
of the physical body, finds itself back in the Spirit World. The severing
of this magnetic current is what is called death.
No man has passed through the experience called death and lived
again in mortal form. .
At death, man's conciousness immediately awakens as from a dream,
to the reality of the Spirit World. It retains the memory of earth life.
As the Soul enters into the Spirit Land, it finds itself in all perfection,
as it was before entering into earth life, for Soul perfection is eternal.
No Soul comes to earth for progression. In the light of understanding,
such teaching is idiotic. It is man's physical body alone that needs pro-
gression.
Man's Soul is fully conscious as it passes from the body. It realizes what
is taking place, and where it is.
No matter how much pain man has suffered before the moment of
death, there is no sensation of pain in the passing.
As the Soul passes from the body, it recognizes the Spirit Loved Ones
who have gathered round about to welcome it back into the Realm of
Perfection, the Spirit World, a land without sorrow and pain,· a land
void of evil and hatred, a land where only peace and harmony reign,
and loving Souls live in companionship throughout all eternity.
There are times when an apparent death is but a trance, when man's
mortal form, for a short interval, through suspended animation, ceases
to function normally. In trance, man's physical body is not in a natural
state. It hangs in the balance between life and death. In such a state, if
the human body is not disturbed, it may return to its physical normality.
In the dim and misty past, the term, "arose from the dead," came into
use through man having trance experience.
Every Soul who comes to earth from the Spirit Land for a material
experience, plans to assemble a physical body and, in so-doing, assist
Divinity in bringing the human race into a high state of culture. For this
experience, all is wisely planned.
Before the Soul leaves its celestial home for an earth experience, it is
well aware that its plan may miscarry, for the Soul, in its Divine wisdom,
knows the uncertainty of earth life with its inhibitions and pitfalls. The
Soul also knows that the end of the physical journey, death of the hody
of flesh, brings a glorious reward.
Death is necessary, for without death, there would be no life beyond
20. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
the dull shores of mortality. Death is the sublime awakening at the close
of an earthly career.
Death frees the Soul from the sorrow and pain of its physical body,
and the errors of mortal life, for errors of the mortal life are of the
physical body. Death is the glorious recompense to the Soul for taking on
a body of Besh.
Death cannot touch man's Soul, for the Soul is immortal. The Soul
cannot be bound by chains, prison bars, so-called spheres, or space, nor
can barriers hinder its movements.
The earth, and the universe, and all therein, are assembled by Divinity,
the Spirit World. It is not necessary that Divinity should reveal unto
mortal man the Divine purpose for assembling the material world, nor
should mankind expect Divinity to explain to mortals the way in which
they make reparation in the Spirit Realm for errors committed while
living in the Besh on earth.
Although you have the knowledge of the glorious Spirit World
which awaits, you must remain on earth as long as possible to spread
such knowledge to a world which sadly needs the enlightenment and
encouragement you have to give.
LESSON 14
HEAVEN, THE SPIRIT REALM
Heaven, the Spirit Realm, has no boundary lines. It takes in all things
that exist both spiritual and material. Heaven, the Spirit World, is
everywhere. It is endless in all directions. There is nothing that exists,
spiritual or material, but what is in, and is a part of, the Spirit Realm.
The words Heaven, Spirit Realm, Paradise, and Spirit World, are
synonymous. They are words used interchangeably by different people
for the same place, the Land Beyond the Grave, the State of Life Eternal.
Beyond the boundary line of earth's material univei-se are many other
material universes. Every material universe contains material galaxies
occupied by millio1~s of material suns with their material solar systems.
All have the various forms of physical life living upon their materiaf
planets such as human, animal, and plant life. -
There are also vast spiritual galaxies containing spiritual sun centers,
suns not used for light and heat, for the Spirit World is light itself. The
spiritual sun centers, with their spiritual solar systems, act in unison.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
Their spiritual planets are Spirit Worlds, globular in shape, rotating
around their suns. Upon these Spirit Worlds is where the Angels dwell,
loving Souls, Spirit Forms of all life, human, animal, plant, et cetera.
Upon these Spirit Worlds are mountains of great magnitude, deep
rocky gorges, low-lying valleys of wondrous beauty, cascading streams
rushing down through craiged ravines, slumbering rivers gently moving
down to azure seas.Upon the mountain sides, in the deep scenic canyons,
and along the celestial valley floors are palatial palaces of great beauty,
homes of the Spirit People which include Spirits that have lived in a
material body of flesh and those who have not, Angels in all perfection,
living in eternal peace and harmony in the Spirit Realm which is just
beyond man's normal sight and sense of touch.
In the Spirit Realm, there are no such places as purgatory, hell, or a
walled-up Heaven with pearly gates, golden streets, and throne of gold,
nor are there spheres for Soul progression, or earth-bound Spirits any-
where. Such teachings originated in pagan times during the Dark Ages
of man's earth life. They are inventions of primitive savage man.
All material things have come about through well-regulated plans
of the Divine wisdom of Heaven, the Spirit Realm. The spiritual is
eternal.
Heaven, the Spirit Realm, is a land of sublime beauty where sorrow
and pain, or errors of the material, cannot enter. It is a Spiritual Realm
where all Souls live in joy and harmony forever.
LESSON 15
HUMAN THOUGHT
There never was a time when the human Soul did not think, for its
power to think is eternal. When man's Soul comes to earth for its one
and only experience in the physical, it assembles a body of flesh with a
brain organ through which it can think. Through thinking, it takes
an active part in the general run of earth life. Thus man comes into
the physical with the power to think, and with perfection of his thought,
he enjoys the pleasures of the material world.
There is no connection between the power to think thoughts, and
the truth of their reality.
The stage of man's intellect depends upon his power to think. The
force to act, brought about by thought, is the greatest power held by
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
mankind. Earth thoughts are useless unless put into action by the physical
force of the man who thinks them. The most important things in human
life are caused by thoughts, thoughts such as those of desire, ambition,
love, and will power. Thoughts are entirely mental and are void of
material.
Thoughts have no universality as is taught by many cults, as well as
various Spiritualist leaders.
Human thought has the power to control and operate the physical
body and brain that produces them. Outside of the realm of this body
of flesh, they have no power to act. Any activity of human thoughts
beyond this, must be done by the strength and ingenuity of the man
himself.
Human thoughts have no control over the elements of the atmosphere
or disturbances of the earth's surface, and it is not true that man's
malicious thoughts become evil entities, elementals, or demons of
destruction, for there are no devils, evil spirits, or demons of destruction,
nor are there such things as goblins, fairies, or elves. Such characters
are all myths.
Obsessions, curses, black and white magic, are all nonexistent. All
such conceptions were invented by voodoo priests and savage medicine
men in the Dark Ages of mankind, during the childhood of the human
race. Such b.eliefs are the rankest kind of superstition.
Is it not amazing how modern people can accept such superstitious,
primitive beliefs? If these teachings were true life on both sides of the
veil would be illogical and Divinity's laws unjust and cruel. Heaven
itself would be a realm of hatred and revenge, not an eternal home of
love and harmony.
In Spiritualist meetings, people are constantly told to meditate and
send thoughts to Spirit Friends for material help, for healing the sick,
for psychic unfoldment, et cetera, and this is well, for while you are
meditating, Spirits pick up your wireless thought messages and send
them on over the ether waves to other Spirits who give assistance. If
these thought messages, vibrating chemicals, are not received by Spirit
Helpers, they eventually blend out into open space. But if they are
picked up by them, and the thoughts are for good purposes, the Spirit
World does the work for you. Thoughts in themselves cannot achieve,
or give, any help. .
In phenomenal seances people are also told to send thoughts to the
medium and to their Guides to help in getting manifestations. While
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON
people are concentrating and meditating, they are emitting vibrations.
If these thought vibrations are directed to the medium by Spirit Helpers,
and are combined and generated by the physical forces of the medium,
they become what is called ectoplasm.
In a materializing seance, ectoplasm that issues from the medium's
vibrations is drawn upon by the manifesting Spirit to step down its form
to man's normal sight. If the vibrations from the audience are harmon-
ious and reasonably strong, the Spirit displays its form beautifully, and
its conversation is clear and distinct.
The expression, "thoughts are things," is only a figure of speech, and
should not be taken literally, for thoughts are not things unless made to
be so by human effort.
Man's thoughts mold his every physical and mental quality, they
influence and control his whole being. Thought force is stronger than
physical force, because it rules the world, but for human thoughts to
accomplish, man's physical activity is required.
LESSON 16
RELIGIOUS SUPERSTITION
Man will never know how much the human race has stiffered through
the ages under the pressure of religious superstition. For thousands of
years priests and other religious leaders have planted in the minds of
man belief in the devil, evil Spirits, and belief in obsession. These
supposed holy men have taught that unseen devils and evil Spirits are
present everywhere just waiting for an opportunity to lead men into
all kinds of trouble and temptation, and that they obsess and afflict
men with terrible diseases.
What agony and pain, what vicious torture people have endured
through such diabolical teachings.
Priests are ambitious, cunning, and wise; and the study of human
behavior is their specialty. A well-educated priest has a good under-
standing of the human mind's reactions. He is an expert who understands
his subject. In using wisdom, he controls the populace. He claims the
power and Divine authority to drive away devils and evil Spirits, and
to forgive the sins of the people. With fear in the minds of his followers,
he can sway them at his will. You would be astounded if you knew how
many modern-day people believe in devils, evil Spirits, and obsessions.
24. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Religious superstitious beliefs of primitive man are current every-
where.
The wearing of crosses, talismans, charms, and blessed trinkets for
protection, is the rankest kind of superstition. This has been proved by
bombs in modern wars. Soldiers have worn them all, and died terrible
deaths on the battlefield. Belief in curses, black art, magic, lucky days,
lucky numbers, colors, et cetera, are just more superstition. Material
things have no virtue in them, whether cursed or blessed.
For several thousand years certain religious people have believed that
on a special day of the year they can put all their sins upon a scapegoat,
drive the goat out into the wilderness, and thus free themselves from
all their wrongdoing.
What about the miracle of the five loaves and two fishes that were
multiplied to feed "5,000 men besides women and children"? It never
happened.
The belief that a god fathered a virgin mother's child is the paramount
superstition of the ages. According to a number of religions of antiquity,
such an occurrence has happened many times.
l£ one travels about the world today, he finds all kinds of religious
superstition. For instance, on the Island of Celebes, when a family wishes
to move into another house, before they do so, the local priest gathers up
the Souls of the family in a sack, and keeps the Souls until the family is
well settled in the new home. Then he returns each Soul to its rightful
owner. It is believed that the new home may be filled with unseen
dangers, devils, and evil Spirits, which will not bother the family after
they become used to them.
Putting Souls into a sack, should not be any harder to believe than
the Bible story of Jesus transferring 2,000 devils from one man into a
herd of swine that ran violently down into the sea and were choked.
See Mark, Chapter five.
During modern yea' s in Christian Europe, one of the favorite times
for expelling devils and evil Spirits and witches, is the night before
Easter Sunday. The slogan is: "Burn the Judas," so people go about with
torches, calling on the devils and evil Spirits as well as the witches to
leave or be burned.
How deplorable it is, in this supposedly enlightened age, that the devil-
and-evil-Spirit propaganda is rampant in every country of the globe!
The educated, the illiterate, and the savage alike, accept it.
The devil-and-evil-Spirit superstition is taught today by priests and
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON . 25
other religious leaders as well as by a vast number of unenlightened
Spiritualists. But how grand it is that there are a few enlightened men
and women today who have talked face to face with their Spirit Friends
in materializing seances, and learned the truth from those who know
that there are no devils or evil Spirits in the Land Beyond the Grave.
They have learned that religious superstition had its birth and growth
in the minds of savage priests dur-ing primitive times.
LESSON 17
SPIRIT WORLD ASSISTANCE
Man's mortal life is a matter of the emotions of his m ind. His vibrating
thoughts actually induce phys'.cal sensations w:thin his bo::lily organism.
Under normal conditions, his mental power can arouse and. stimulate
his whole system, or it can bring it into the poise of peace and tranquility.
It can br1
ng sickness or health, wealth or poverty. All this must be done
from within, for outside the realm of man's physical mechan:sm, his
thoughts have no power of action.
Anything accomplished by man's mentality must be done through
the force and activities of his physical; and this is brought about by
the functioning of the brain organ. Released thoughts have no more
power of action than any wireless message carried along on earth waves.
lf they are intelligible when rec".'.ived by the Sp:rit World, much help
will be given to the transm:tter by Angel Loved Ones both spir:tual
and material.
When desiring help, it is well to give a few moments of concentrat:on
and meditation, but only to send the message. Just sitting and thinking
and concentrating in meditation won't bring you results. Every seeker
for help must do his part by working hard to bring about what his heart
desires. Help and guidance for success can be aquired from the Spirit
World.
Even though a man may have all the necessities of life he is not truly
happy unless his heart is filled with love for his family, and love for all
humanity.
A progressive man is alive to the value of ambition. H e rises mentally
and physically above average run of life. H e keeps himself in a well-
balanced state. A normal man is never satisfied with what he has already
secured whether it be in the realm of the spiritual or the realm of the
material. In acquiring success he may, in the final analysis, find some-
26. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
thing grander and better than he had hoped for in the beginning of his
adventure.
The man who thinks does not wait for help to come. He goes after it
with all his might. Thus the Spirit World, with help from the prosperity
seeker, opens the channels of success for him when they find he is keenly
alive and ambitious. They help him cultivate courage, and in so doing, he
stimulates a cheerful state of mind. Such a person never thinks he is a
martyr. A person of real character does not assume the role of suffering
innocence. Self pity is not good for the human mind.
Furthermore, the one who puts himself upon a high pedestal of
dignity is deceiving himself. True dignity always finds joy in service to
others, to all mankind.
The original understanding of dignity was regal; that understanding
today is archaic.
No one lowers himself by doing honest work.
It does not pay, in the long run, to pamper your whims; they may
only be mental fantasies.
Be prompt in all your dealings. Thinking people are always on time.
The value of human life depends upon nobility of purpose and per-
sistence of effort, the results of education, meditation, and concentration.
Don't imagine you are doing a great deed. You are only doing what
your hands find to do, perhaps just what you came to earth to do.
There is always a remedy for all imperfections of character and
conduct.
The law of human life in the light of Spiritualism is that man should
make the most of himself.
Never forget that it is for the mind and body to relax as well as to
exercise.
If men and women follow the Divine laws of the Spirit World, they
can succeed and find life sweeter and better in every way.
Call on the Loved Ones when you need help, then do your best to assist
them in getting what you want.
L ESSON 18
ORIGIN OF RELIGION
Religion is the Divine urge of man's Soul calling to his attention the
fact of its existence. Originally, to man, it concerned his Soul and its
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 27
immortality, but, during the ages, priests have set aside the real meaning
of this urge, and taught men that it is the voice of their God calling them
to worship at His alter.
Truly speaking, religion is not a system of worship, or a practice of
doctrines. Man was uncontrollably religious before he thought of a god.
He believed in another life. He believed that he had an immortal Soul
that dwelt in his body of flesh. He also believed that his Soul lived in
two worlds at the same time while occupying his physical body, the
world of his waking hours, and the world of his sleeping hours. He was
fully conscious of his waking hours, but there was much mystery con-
nected with his sleeping hours.
The first vague religious emotions were expressed in the undeveloped
mind of primitive man during the infancy of the human race. Even
though he did not understand the religious urge of his Soul at first,
he felt that there was something beyond this mortal realm which he
could not comprehend. Thus, as time passed, man began to ponder on
the shadow of his body. It could be plainly seen that it was alive, for it
would move about, extend out from his body, and draw back into it,
without him sensing its touch. It would follow him wherever he went,
or disappear from his side, so, in his primitive understanding, he thought
there was another self, his Soul. Then he believed the Soul survived the
death of his body, for at death it failed to return. Then there was early
man's reflection upon the water. He would talk to it for hours at a time.
It looked like he did, and it had movements that he had.
The shadow and the reflection of the body were used by Divinity in
leading early man into the understanding of the existence of his Soul.
Then, as time passed, primitive man began to recognize the actions of
his Soul in dreams. Thus primitive man found that his Soul left his
body in his sleep, and traveled about mingling with the Souls of other
sleepers, and the Souls of the dead. What delightful times he had with
other Souls in his dreams!
To primitive man there was no doubt about Soul travel, for did not
all men have such experiences.
Since man appeared on earth, those who have psychic power unfolded,
have received Spirit manifestations. Spirits have materialized and shown
their forms. Orthodox people, to promote their pagan religions, have
named these forms Gods, Virgin Mothers, Holy Sons, and Saints, but
this did not change the status of the moving Spirits that manifested.
Religion was one of the first dominating faculties awakened in early
28·· DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
man. If not in understanding, in reality, religion is as old as the human
race, and one of the strongest motives that guides to action the mind
of man.
The religious instinct has a powerful hold on mankind. Even in
erroneous religion, the intellects of civilization, the uncultured, and
the savage, bow at its shrine.
Erroneous religion, man's invention, has been the conflict of the ages.
When man began to think, and to reason, voodoo priests arose. It was
a very long time before priests had much of a following. But priests
never give up. They are willing to wait. They are cunning, conniving,
and mendacious. What they cannot do in one generation, they pass on
to priests of the next generation.
So there came a time when priests ruled the people. They taught them
fetishism, nature worship, and the worship of the sun. As the ages
rolled by, priests filled the minds of their followers with fear, and
invented gods for them to fear, and worship.
It was a very long and painful journey for man from the many gods
to one God, Almighty Maker of the Heavens and the earth. The priests
gave to the one god supreme power, even the power of life and death.
Yet all the power the orthodox religion has is that of brute force which
has been gained by the sword, not by Divine delegation.
Erroneous religions cloud and retard the mind of man. Real religion,
the religion of the Soul, gives man knowledge of his Soul, and that of
life eternal. It also gives man a grand understanding of earth life, and
how to live it.
During the past fifty-four years I have been giving the origin of relig-
ion, and other knowledge to the people through the psychic power of
the Rev. James J. Dickson. Scientists and writers have listened silently
and attentively, recorded the highlights, and used the knowledge as their
own discovery, or the discovery of science, in their writings. Anyone
who has studied anthropology knows that much I have given in this
lesson would be the outcome of any primitive race of man in its unfold-
ment.
All that I have given in the origin of religion are facts known to the
Spirit World.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 29
LESSON 19
DREAM REALM
The dream realm is as natural to the human Soul as the material realm.
During the slumber of every physical man, his Soul enters into this so-
called Land of Morpheus where it takes an active part in the wi1d and
fantastic experiences of the joys and the griefs fashioned after the daily
lives of mortal man. But when waking from his slumber, his Soul never
brings back to his conscious mind a full account of its wanderings in
that land of dreams. And the little it do:".s reveal to his conscious mind,
escapes his memory in a very short time.
In dreams there are wonderful flights of man's Soul, and outstanding
dramas of his material life. Furthermore, there are bad dreams, called
nightmares, caused by his eating and drinking, by organic trouble,
and the worries of his waking hours.
Man's daily activities are checked and weighed in the balance by his
Soul when he sleeps. which reflects on his physical brain.
In his sleep, he dreams of mingling with the Souls of other sleepers,
as well as the Souls of the so-called dead. Many dreams, when reflected
on the human brain, are so thoroughly blended they convey no meaning,
so they carry no oration to a wakened mind.
The dream realm, like the material realm, is a part of the Spirit
World. Even so, the Soul of mortal man, while in the state of dreams,
seldom plays an active part among the dwellers of the Spirit Land. Its
interest and devotion is given to the care of its mortal body, and the
realm of the material life.
In real sleep, the body is dead to the sensations of the material world.
It is only in the semi-sleep that physical sensations are recognized by
the flesh, for in material sleep the Soul retires from the body to give
it relaxation and rest.
While out of the body, the Soul directs its motivation by remote
control. This is well demonstrated in sleep walking. The body is directed
through dangerous places without harm. If the Soul loses control for a
moment, the body may fall to its death.
Many times, in man's sleep, his physical organs cease to function.
At such a time, even though his Soul is in the depths of a beautiful
dream, it rushes back into his body to keep it from dying. Nightmares,
as well as sleepless nights, choking for breath, and other physical dis-
turbances, are often human body savers. They arouse man from his
30. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
dreams, and cause him to change his position in sleep, many times
avoiding the death of his body.
Dreams are often warnings, but man cannot be sure of what he dreams.
Yet such dreams will cause man to sit up and take notice. They cause
him to think, and to speculate on what might happen.
The many events and Soul activities that take place in his dreams
which are brought back to man's memory of consciousness when within
the realm of dreams, is a reality. Many times when he wakes from his
dreams they are as real to his mind as any experience of his waking
hours.
No matter where man goes in his dreams, the vibrating silver cord
never breaks, not until the death of his physical body.
The dream world is vastly important to mortal man's emotionally
over-crowded brain. It is a safety channel that gives him an outlet to
bring into action his accumulated desires, the intense longings of his
human heart, a vent not always found in his waking hours.
It is Divinity's plan that every Soul that assembles a body of flesh take
an active part in the realm of dreams while its body lies in slumber
and ease.
Furthermore, science can never invade and explore the realm of
dreams for this weird and mysterious realm can be found by a mortal's
Soul only when his physical body is in a state of sleep.
LESSON 20
THE MEDIUMSHIP OF THE
REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
The words Soul and psychic are synonymous. Every human being
has a Soul, therefore every human being has Soul power more or less
developed. Soul power is called psychic power when it is unfolded and
used by Spiritualist mediums to obtain Spirit phenomena. But this
does not mean that the psychic power of every human being at birth is
unfolded and ready for getting Spirit manifestations. However, there
are people whose psychic power unfolded through the nine months
before birth, while their physical was evolving its human baby form.
After birth, such a person is called a medium, if, through this power,
he obtains psychic phenomena. Men and women of this category may
give to the world wonderful manifestations of Spirit return. The
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 31
mediumship of The Rev. James J. Dickson is the result of such unfold-
ment, for, when he was an infant, through his psychic power Spirits
materialized about his bed, and talked with his parents.
All Spirits that demonstrate through The Rev. Dickson's power always
give their names.
The Rev. Dickson's mediumship has brought to his followers a won-
derful understanding of the Soul's immortality, and a wonderful wealth
of knowledge regarding life in the Spirit Land, as well as a great comfort
to the bereaved.
The Rev. Dickson has several Guides, and a number of Spirit Helpers.
The Spirit Minnie Brown, Chief Little Navaho, and I, Juanita, take
the leading part in his spiritual work. No one needs a large number of
Guides and Helpers. One Spirit Guide can do all the work, if necessary.
But what a pleasure it is for a number of Spirits to work together in
whatever is done for mortal man.
Although all phases of mediumship when really unfolded are beauti-
ful, of the many phases of the Rev. Dickson's mediumship, materiali-
zation, independent voice, independent slate drawing, trumpet, et cetera,
materialization is his most outstanding phases, and through the years
it has unfolded until it has reached the present stage of materialization,
the outstanding and glorious stage of daylight materialization.
The Rev. Dickson is the only medium in the world today who gives
full-form materialization in the bright Daylight, with the sun shining
on the Spirit forms.
In every public meeting at his church, The Spiritualist Church of
Revelation, Incorporated, its members tell about the marvelous private
seances, daylight materialization seances, they have had with Rev.
Dickson at his home, as well as in their home, or elsewhere. The cabinet
Guide, Minnie Brown, always decides when such a seance is to take
place.
But to get these daylight materialization seances there must be perfect
harmony between The Rev. Dickson, the sitter, and the Spirit World.
In the Rev. Dickson's seances, his mind never enters into, or has an
influence on, what the Spirits say, or do. The only way in which they
are ever effected by him is through the lack of ectoplasmic chemicals
in his aura for the manifesting Spirit to finish its conversation, or mani-
festation.
But many times The Rev. Dickson's conversation and actions are
32. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
regulated by the Spirit World. He takes the advice of the Spirit World
no matter what people think, or say.
The Spirit manifestations in The Rev. Dickson's seances have brought
thousands of people into the ranks of Spiritualism. Today the leading
Spiritualist journals of the world in many nations, and in many lan-
guages, publish marvelous articles about the manifestations people have
had in his materialization seances, for any accounts given about his
daylight materializations have been most outstanding.
The Rev. Dickson has two children by his first wife, Evelyn Mason
Dickson, who passed into the Spirit Land. His second wife, Gertrude
Hascall Dickson, had three children by her first husband, who also
passed into the Spirit Life, as did the youngest child. When she married
The Rev. Dickson, she gave up her public work as a medium to care
for the family. The Rev. and Mrs. James J. Dickson now have six grand-
children and one great-grandchild. Mrs. Dickson's main Guides are
Dr. Lambert, Rosene, and Swanee. Gertrude Hascall Dickson was born
in Tower City near Fargo, North Dakota. The Rev. Dickson was born
June 16, 1880, in Beulah, Colorado.
The Rev. James J. Dickson has given public materialization seances
for about fifty-four years, most of the time in San Francisco, California.
Through all of these years he has demonstrated and taught the beautiful
truths of Spiritualism and no matter what has been the opposition, or
pressure against him (and there has been much) he has stoo::l true and
never faltered, for the Spirit World stands behind him.
LESSON 21
DIVINITY
The names Divinity and god are synonymous. They are terms used
interchangeably by the people of various religions as names for Divine
power of the universe. From the beginning of man's advent on earth,
it has been the power of Divinity that has kept his physical body in opera-
tion. Since man began to think, reason, and to speculate he has felt that
there was a something higher in existence than he, something that he
could not see, nor hear.. He was sure, at times, that he sensed its presence
around him. Of course, the something he sensed that he could not see,
nor hear, was his Spirit Loved Ones trying to make contact with him
from the Spirit World, which can be done through psychic power only.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 33
As the ages slipped by, primitive man began to live in larger com-
munities and expand in intellect. Voodoo priests came into existence,
and, as the priests advanced in knowledge, he was revered by his fol-
lowers. The early well-experienced priest spent much time in lingering
with the people of the village observing the actions and emotions, as
well as the responsiveness or the retaliatory effect to situations that came
about from time to time with the i~opulace as a whole. Thus, in time,
the priest became the intellect and controller of a community. He became
very powerful. This would be perfectly natural among people with
primitive minds.
As time passed, the priest became wise, and very cunning. The priest
told the people that the feeling they had of unseen forces around them
was the gods watching over them. This, the people accepted without
a doubt.
It was thus that the priest became the mouthpiece of the gods, and
directed his followers in all their affairs.
As we come down through the ages, we find countless statues of
Divinity represented in man y grotesque forms that were placed in
temples and worshiped with the deepest devotion and reverence. Even
today there are monstrosities being worshiped as Divinity with the
greatest religious piety.
Man's present-clay experience in Spirit materialization with its full-
form manifestations and its vo'.ce communications gives to him the
knowledge of Divinity's existence. H e learns about Divinity from his
Spirit Friends, for they are the only ones who know.
When thinking man learns the truth about the orthodox pagan go=ls,
he discards his belief, and, in time, rises to higher understanding in life.
In man-made teachings the idea as to what constitutes Divinity varies
according to the intelligence of the individual and the religion he has
been brought up in. In the orthodox religion there are almost as many
ideas as to what D ivinity is as there are human beings who accept such
belief.
Through the ages Divinity has been variously named by different
peoples of different religions, such as Osiris, Jupiter, All h, Oversoul,
Divine Mind, Lord, God, et cetera, but the name Divinity is the right
name to be used as it covers all forms of life, for such is the fact.
Today, man is taught by some religions that there is but one God
and that one God is three distinct being-God the Father, God the Son,
and God the Holy Ghost. They insist that these three Gods are just one
34. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
God. They teach that this three-in-one God creates all things both good
and bad, that he rules all, that he is a dictator over all things, and that he
is universal. They call him Jehovah, God, and Lord.
It is recorded in their Bible, Exodus, Chapter 15, Verse 3, "The Lord
is a man of war;" in Numbers, Chapter 21, Verse 14, it speaks of "the book
of the wars of the Lord;" in Revelations, Chapter 19, it says, "he doth
judge and make war ... his name is called The Word of God."
Another religious teaching is that there are thousands of gods who
rule the universe. It is claimed that some of these gods are very vicious
and destructive, and that they bring about great wars among themselves.
Another much-respected teaching is that Divinity is some sort of
essence, or vibration, that is universal, which eventually absorbs all life,
like a drop of water blends into the water of the Pacific Ocean.
Spiritualists have learned, however, while talking face to face with
Spirit Loved Ones in materialization seances, that Divinity is a combin-
ation of all the life units, mortal and immortal. They have learned that
Divinity is not a God of War, or hatred or jealousy or destruction.
Spiritualists of enlightenment know that Divinity is love.
PRAYER
WE DO NOT PRAY, NOR PLEAD
Dear loving Spirit Friends,
We do not plead, nor pray, for heavenly favor
As did we, in the days gone by,
When we were ignorant of the truth.
We gather here, for these few golden moments,
To once again commune with you,
And give our gratitude,
For your many blessings.
We do not plead, nor pray for heavenly favor,
As did we, in the days gone by,
When we were ignorant of the truth,
Instead, dear loving Spirit Friends, we thank you,
For your loving care and guidance.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 35
ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
1. WHAT IS SPIRITUALISM?
Spiritualism is nature's way of revealing divinity to man that he be
mentally and affectionately inspired to pattern his character and
civilization after life in the Spirit World. It has always existed; man
saw glimpses of eternal life when he was so unintelligent he did
not know what it was. Spiritualism is scientific because divinities'
manifestations invite and challenge systematized investigation; it
is religious because it is an inner as well as outward communication
with divinity.
2. WHAT ARE SPIRITS?
Spirits, or Souls, are the omnipotent and omniscient divinities who
assembled the universe and all therein, and who activate material
life. They are infinite and eternal; they have iridividual conscience,
memory, reason, character, and affection. Spirits are perfect in
form and attributes, are tangible and substantial to one another,
and material life pursues their likeness.
3. WHAT IS SPIRIT?
Spirit is omnipotent and omniscient divinities with individual
conscience, memory, reason, character, and affection. These divin-
ities are the energy and intelligence behind nature.
4. WHAT ARE MoRTALs?
Mortals are physically-embodied individual Spirits, deities, divin-
ities. All life on material globes has come from the Spirit World,
and at death of the material body will return to the Spirit World
in the same form and perfection it previou~ly had. Physical bodies
disintegrate and return to the elements, but Spirit bodies ar~ eternal.
5. WHERE IS THE SPIRIT WORLD?
The Spirit World is everywhere. There is nothing which is, but
what is in the Spirit World. Physical matter and ethereal substance
are but variations of the same thing. All earth life, human, animal,
vegetable, is spiritual beings temporarily in the physical.
6. WHAT HAPPENS TO ONE WHO HAS ERRED IN EARTH LIFE?
It is not necessary that divinity should reveal unto mortal man
the divine purpose for assembling the material world, nor should
mankind expect divinity to explain to mortals the way in which
they make reparation in the Spirit Realm for errors committed
while living in the flesh on earth. It is enough to say that the wrongs
36. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
and mJuries committed in earth life are cancelled only when a
mutual feeling of love is brought about and is 'well established by
the offender.
7. ls REINCARNATION A FACT?
No. Every Soul that comes to earth for a material experience does
so of its own free will, and assembles its own material body. A
material experience is just an episode in the eternal existence of
the Soul. When the physical body is discarded, the Spirit returns
to the Spirit World in the same perfection as when it departed. Evil
and error cannot tarnish the Soul, because the Soul is divine.
8. ARE SPHERES AND EVIL SPIRITS FACTS?
No. The teaching of spheres and evil Spirits is a hodge podge of
erroneous ideas brought into modern Spiritualism from primitive
pagan beliefs by Christians, prognosticators, and self-styled Spirit-
ualist leaders who do not have materialization to .find out for
themselves about conditions in the Spirit World. No two sphere
propagandists teach the same thing.
9. WHAT IS ECTOPLASM?
Ectoplasm is a substance, composed of many known elements and
many unknown elements, that is produced by external Spirit action
upon the raw material of human vibration within the medium and
his immediate physical sphere.
10. How DOES MATERIALIZATION TAKE PLACE?
Materialization is achieved entirely by Spirits applying natural laws
to matter. The perfection of the materialization, however, depends
upon the spiritual and the physical capacities of the medium. Spirits
direct elements and chemicals from the surroundings to the
medium's organism, intensify the vibration of the combined chem-
icals, and draw upon them for ectoplasm with which to surround
their forms. They then increase the temperature of the ectoplasm,
retard their own vibrations, and their Spirit forms emerge into range
of human perception. The medium's body, in the materialization
process, is employed as a magnet, a dynamo, a generator, and an
amplifier.
11. WHAT MAKES DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION SO VIVID ?
The striking of sunlight on the ectoplasm. When the sunlight strikes
the extremely thin layer of ectoplasm required for daylight mani-
festation, the ectoplasmic-molecular atoms explode. That atomic
explosion, while rendering the ectoplasm invisible, at the same time
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 37
intensely magnifies the Spirit form. With every particle of the in-
finitesimal!y-textured ectoplasm reflecting sunlight, the details
and hues of the Spirit form appear more vivid than physical life.
12. ARE THE PLANETS INHABITED?
Many planets are inhabited by Spirits in mortal form. Some have
ceased to be the abode of physical life, and have become the abodes
of Spirit life. Some are in the making, and eventually will have
physical life upon them.
13. How OFTEN SHOULD ONE SIT FOR SPIRITUAL UNFOLDMENT?
It is not necessary to sit for unfoldment at any special time unless
_
one wishes to do so. S_
ending sweet thoughts to one's Spirit Loved
Ones during the day, or quiet meditation upon them at night after
retiring or before rising in the morning, however, is good practice.
14. IN WHAT WAY DO SPIRITS TRY TO CONTACT MORTALS?
Spirits try in many ways to make themselves known to mortals such
as by impressions, lights, visions, dreams, raps, voices, trumpet,
full-form materialization, etc., but they cannot make contact with
the vibrations of all mortals in the present stage of civilization.
15. WHAT HAPPENS THE MOMENT ONE PASSES INTO THE SPIRIT WoRLD?
The moment one passes into the Spirit World he knows where he
is. He is fully conscious of everything, and is greeted by his Spirit
Friends.
16. WHAT IS THE ORIGIN OF MAN?
The present line of mankind dates back about ten million years.
The location was Nevada, at that time an island continent lower in
elevation and nearer the equator than it is tod::ty. It was a paradise
ideal of climate, had luxurious vegetations, and was free of snakes
and harmful creatures.
Souls left the Spirit World, assembled infinitesimal germ bo::lies,
and floated through the moist earth atmosphere gathering elements
and chemicals to adjust themselves to the low vibrations of the
material. When they reached the earth's surface, they descended into
the coarse earth water. Now the elements and chemicals they
gathered became protoplasm.
The tiny entities remained for ages in the water adjusting and
developing themselves until they could wiggle up and down the
warm streams. They were warm blooded and had lungs for breath-
ing air like whales.
38. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
When the psychological moment arrived, the female entities de-
posited eggs, and they were fertilized by males the same as fish
propagate. Some of the eggs hatched, tiny water babies emerged,
rose to the surface, and gasped.for air. Some fell back into the water
and drowned; others courageously gained the shore, and reached
for the tempting delicacies nature so bountifully provided.
The same procedure is followed today when a Spirit desires a
material experience except that the human blood stream and the
mother's womb take the place of the warm streams of that ancient
paradise.
17. How DOES A SPIRIT PREPARE FOR EARTH LIFE?
When a Spirit decides to have an earth experience, it does so of
its own free will, and with a definite project, as well as alternative
projects in mind. It knows exactly what it is getting into, but it
knows too that at death it returns to its original divinity. It selects
the time, location, and father for its experience, then discusses its
plans with its Soulmate, if the Soulmate is in a material life, close
Spirit friends are asked to be its guides.
Now the Spirit departs from its celestial surroundings, cognizant
at all times of what it is doing. It assembles an infinitesimal germ
body, and Boats through the moist earth atmosphere. As it descends,
it gradually accustoms itself to the increasingly coarse material
vibrations by gathering elements and chemicals, and assembling
entity helpers, cells and corpuscles, to aid it in fighting off disease,
building Resh and bone, restoring energy, and purifying the blood.
When the Spirit reaches the earth surface, it is inhaled by the male
of its choice. It passes into his lungs, blood stream, and to its destina-
tion, gathering as it does so, more cells, more elements and chemicals.
Up to here the Spirit has directed its destiny, but now uncertainty
prevails. It may have planned to be a white man, but it might be
born a red man or a yellow man or a black man, and it must accept
whatever cells have accumulated in the female egg.
A Spirit may try 10,000 times before it succeeds in getting an earth
experience. Some do not succeed. Others do not care to try.
18. Is THERE AN INFINITE MIND?
There is infinite mind controlling and guarding the world, the
combined minds of the omnipotent and omniscient individual
Spirits.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
SOLID PROOFS OF SURVIVAL
- ALL IN BRIGHT LIGHT -
Materialization under Extra-ordinary Conditions
through the mediumship of
SAN FRANCISCO MINISTER,
REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
. 39
For complete explanation by Amy Marshall, other exclusive photo-
graphs, and the story behind the story, starts page 41.
"SOLID PROOFS OF SORVIVAL" seemed to be an appropriate
title for this article but this heading is NOT NEW, for a book by that
name-"SOLID PROOFS OF SURVIVAL" by Einer Nielsen has just
been published in London.
The gist of the text of Amy Marshall's feature story (beginning below)
is NOT NEW in the sense that, for the past 52 years, thousands of words
have been written and published, describing the outstanding physical
mediumship (especially materialization) of REv. JAMES J. DICKSON.
1
!
PICTURE No. 3: That this photograph, showing the materialized form, was taken in bright light, is evidenced by the
expressions of most of the sitters facing the camera. Pictures of this nature, taken in red light, blue light or total darkness
(by infra-red) disclose different poses and expressions-none like the above, even though the picture was taken by flash-light.
The expressions are added proof that this photograph was indeed taken in bright light.
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON . 41
The picture of Spirit MINNIE BROWN, (See Page 49) Rev. Dick-
son's guide, is NOT NEW. It was taken in 1898, when the medium was
19 ... but the story behind the story is new-and most of the photo-
graphs are NEW.
But first, read the article that started it all-the article below-sub-
mitted by Amy Marshall, whose address in San Francisco is 1763 - 34th
Avenue.
Great beauty, like great music, stirs within us vibrations of sublime
magnificence too divine to be fully ex;pressed in the simple language
of earth. To attempt, through words, to convey the beauty of a rose to
one who has never seen a flower, would be useless. And my position has
been somewhat similar in trying to find words with sufficient spiritual
import to write of the most beautiful experience of my life-my recent
daylight materializing seance with the Rev. James J. Dickson, loved
and admired Pastor of The Spiritualist Church of Revelation, Inc., 2139
Grove Street, San Francisco, California.
In the many years I have studied Spiritualism and observed its mani-
festations, I cannot recall reading or hearing of daylight materializing
seances. To my knowledge, therefore, the Reverend Dickson is the only
medium who has given this type of seance.
My daylight materializing seance was not unique, however, for since
February of this year, at every public meeting of our Church, members
or followers have told of their remarkable daylight seances with the
Reverend Dickson. And all who had such seances have stressed the
beauty of the Spirits manifesting.
A prominent member of our Church, Mrs. Zeldah Zackerson, 1240
27th Ave., San Francisco, when relating her experience said:
"The first form to materialize, in the daylight was my dear husband,
Steve. He looked exactly like he did in earth life, so natural, so real, I
nearly fainted! So deeply moved was I, that Reverend Dickson closed .
the seance until I regained my composure. I'm sure, though, one who
has never seen a daylight materialization cannot appreciate how I felt.
When the seance was resumed many more of my dear relatives mate-
rialized."
Dr. M. A. Bulman, 95 Central Ave., San Francisco, a well-known
doctor, and an authority on Spiritualism, told of having a daylight
seance, also in the Reverend Dickson's home.
Dr. Bulman said:
42. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
"Minnie Brown (Reverend Dickson's Cabinet Guide), materialized
as a child and walked about the room wearing what appeared to be
yellow slacks as she talked with Reverend Dickson and me."
The doctor further said:
"My mother and father materialized at the same time and together
they stood before me, their loving faces clear and natural. And after
they left, my Indian Chief came in his native regalia. He was indeed
spectacular in his feathers and blanket."
Like many others, Dr. Bulmap. said the Reverend Dickson sat outside
the curtain, in plain view, all during the daylight seance, and also talked
with the Spirit Loved Ones who manifested.
Another Church member, and a Missionary for nearly thirty-years,
Mrs. Madeleine Pierce, 2022 Hayes St., San Francisco, told in public
meeting of her extraordinary daylight seance. Mrs. Pierce went to the
Reverend Dickson for a slate drawing of her Indian Guide, Red Lily,
(see picture page 43) and sat in the bright daylight of the seance room
opposite the curtain, holding two slates she had brought with her. These
slates never left her possession she said, nor were they touched by any
other person.
Mrs. Pierce said Reverend Dickson sat across the room to her left, out-
side the curtain, and while she sat in the daylight waiting for Juanita,
(Rev. Dickson's Artist Guide), to draw the picture, the cabinet curtains
opened and there stood Red Lily materialized in a garment of buckskin
with fringed sleeves, ornamental beaded belt and headband!
Mrs. Pierce said Red Lily stepped over toward her and while they were
talking, the curtains opened again and Juanita came out, followed by
Minnie Brown who moved over and stood beside the Reverend Dickson.
Turning to Juanita, Mrs. Pierce said: "I hoped you were going to
draw Red Liiy for me," and Juanita replied: "I am going to draw the
picture, but Red Lily and I thought it would be more interesting to you,
Mrs. Pierce, if Red Lily materialized in the sunlight while I draw her."
Continuing with her story, Mrs. Pierce said Juanita stood beside her,
opposite Red Lily, and after a short time Juanita said, "The picture is
finished." Mrs. Pierce said she was amazed, for Juanita never made the
slightest move toward the slates, never even touched them for an instant,
but that when she opened her slates there was the beautiful picture of
Red Lily, exactly as she had posed.
In conclusion Mrs. Pierce said: "Just think, there were three fully
materialized Spirits talking with Reverend Dickson and me at the same
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON
time in the broad daylight, Red Lily, Juanita and Minnie Brown. Surely,
I have never had a more wonderful demonstration."
Photograph of colored slate drawing of Red Lily (left) Indian guide of Madeleine
Pierce (above) drawn by Juanita, guide of Rev. Dickson.
44. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
THEY WERE THERE!
When photographs 1, 2 and 3 were taken, the seating arrangement
remained unchanged throughout, Mrs. Dickson being the only one who
moved ... and this was from where she held the curtain in picture 2,
to where she is standing in picture 3. Residents of San Francisco, who
attended and witnessed the taking of these photographs (all not in the
range of the camera) are: Hugo Huttmann and granddaughter, Carol
Beck, 2022 Hayes St.; Madeleine Pierce, 2022 Hayes St.; Joseph J. Vistejn,
1602 Waller St.; John and Frances Merver, 1220H - 12th Ave.; Davis
K. Lener, State Deputy Attorney General and wife Madeline, 2950 - 19th
Ave.; Louise Komp£, 733 Clayton St.; Rev. Amy Marshall; Gertrude
Dickson; Standing to right of cabinet in picture 3-R. G. Svendsen and
wife Jens, 625 Leavenworth St., Apt. No. 584; Dr. Joseph G. Lahner,
2139 Grove St.; Marie Alexander, 1091 Bush St.; Carl D. Schyberg
(standing to right) 909 Clayton St.; Mary and Nellie Bulman, 95 Central
Ave., and Beulah Miller, 172A Belvedere St.
First Lieut. Anthony J. Purcell, and his wife Mildred, from Concord,
California, were also present.
The foregoing instances are cited because they are typical of the
experiences of those members and followers of Reverend Dickson who
have had these rare daylight seances. And I know all who have witnessed
his daylight manifestations will be pleased when they read this article.
Having heard so many speak of these marvelous daylight seances, I
earnestly hoped such an experience would sometime be mine. This
Picture No. 1
(These photographs ca nnot be reproduced without special permission.)
•
.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 45
fervent desire was realized at my next private seance, for when seating
me in the seance room, through the windows of which streamed morning
sunlight, the Reverend Dickson said: "Mrs. Marshall, if you wish you
can have a daylight seance." I was delighted! Reverend DicKson seated
himself in the cabinet, then dropped the curtain.
In less than five minutes Minnie Brown appeared. "Minnie, you're so
grand," I said in astonishment, "so much more than I expected to see
in the daylight, I'm astounded! It's miraculous!" "Yes," said Minnie,
"you're right, it is miraculous, and you are privileged to have such an
experience."
And she continued: "You know, for your Spirit friends to show you
their forms in the daylight, exceptional psychic power is required."
Minnie returned to the cabinet, and I meditated a few moments with
my eyes open.
When the curtains parted again, my uncle stepped out in full form.
l gazed in wonder as he walked toward me. Never have I beheld any-
thing by day or night, which compares with the lovely Spirit forms sern
by daylight! They shine with a brilliancy, more beautiful than freshly
fallen snow iluminated by the morning sun, yet their radiance is not like
that of reflected light- it is an intensely beautiful glow which seems to be
light itself!
I said to my uncle: "I have never seen you look so natural. Really it"s
startling." He said to me: "It's the light of day, dear, which clarifies my
Picture No. 2
(These photographs cannot be reproduced without special permission.)
46. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
features and brings out the beauty of my garments. And also, you have
been so devoted to us and Spiritualism through the years, that you have
built up, within yourself, strong vibrations."
And as I listened, enraptured, he continued: "You extend great help
to this daylight manifestation because of that, although you have never
professed mediumship. Today you are reaping dividends on your spirit-
ual investments of devotion, meditation and study of this wonderful truth
through the years."
After my uncle returned to the cabinet, my aunt came out. Also young
and lovely, illuminated with the same divine glow, she left the curtain
and came over to me. Her auburn hair was somewhat covered by a
transparent soft blue veil the color of the two-piece garment she wore.
The neckline of her tunic was low-off-the-shoulder, and sleeveless, reveal-
ing in the daylight the perfection of her rounded feminine form.
A border of Persian design outlined the n'eck and deep armholes, each
design sparkling in color. The tunic reached her knees where it released
a fuli flounce of blue skirt. Unlike my uncle, she did not return to the
cabinet, but insteaq vanished before my eyes.
Eren Lash, my Guardian Angel, was my next loved one to materialize.
He opened wide the curtain, and stood before me wrapped in a shining
cape which had the texture of soft white velvet.
0
As he said "Eren Lash" he spread his arms holding his cape open so
that I could see how voluminous it was, and truly it was spectacular.
Then with a sweep of his right arm he threw the right half over his
left shoulder, and thus he stood during the remainder of our conversa-
tion. His grandeur was breathtaking!
(Reverend Dickson was fully conscious throughout the entire day-
light seance and joined me in conversation with all those who material-
ized.)
After Eren vanished, the curtains were drawn aside, and there before
me in snowy garments was Minnie Brown, standing at the knee of the
Reverend Dickson in the identical pose they assumed over fifty years
ago in the photograph of international fame. They both spoke to me,
and it was as if the old photograph came to life. Minnie left the cabinet
and came over dose enough for me to see the dainty flower-sprigged
dress she was wearing, which definitely had an early Colonial "look."
With the closing of my wonderful daylight seance with the Rev.
James J. Dickson in his home at 2940 Nineteenth Avenue in San Fran-
cisco, California came the realization that one who has never seen a
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 47
materialized Spirit form cannot appreciate the beauty of many Spirits
materializing in subdued light; and further one who has seen material-
ized Spirit forms in subdued light cannot comprehend the loveliness
and beauty of Spirit forms materialized in the light of day. Truly there
is no comparison, for to see the Spirit form materialized in the daylight
is to see its true celestial beauty.
THE DRAMA CONTINUES
This story of the records. Follow closely. Refer to pictures.
Ed. Note: When the article, you have just read, was received from
Amy Marshall, her statements about bright light, during the material-
ization seance, was not questioned but a complete explanation was
requested. The possibility of new up-to-date photographs was also
brought to her attention.
Almost immediately, these requests met with approval and a wire
stated that Rev. Dickson intended to carry out our suggestions and we
would hear from him shortly ... and the photographs came, also an
additional letter of explanation from Mrs. Marshall. Here's her letter:
1763 -34th Avenue
San Francisco, Calif.
September 6, 1950
Ralph G. Pressing,
Editor, PSYCHIC OBSERVER,
10 East Fourth Street,
Jamestown, New York
Dear Mr. Pressing:
The Daylight Article was my last
"piece of business" before leaving on
vacation, and as I was going to be away
it seemed like the time to send my type-
writer out for repair. Therefore, when
I returned and found your two letters,
it was necessary to communicate with
you by Western Union.
AMY MARSHALL
She Was There!
When I called Reverend Dickson and told him of your request, he
quickly called two well-known commercial photographers and as many
48. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Church members and friends as he could reach, and asked them to
meet at the assembly hall of our Church to see what results we might
obtain.
Neither of the two photographers are interested in Spiritualism and
knew nothing about taking pictures of this nature, therefore the results
were doubtful.
However, the enclosed pictures taken by flashlight, represent the com-
bined efforts of all, including of course the Spirit World. These are the
first pictures ever taken of Reverend Dickson by flashlight, and the
effect upon him was very severe. Our little trademark picture of him with
Minnie Brown, was taken in daylight, back in 1899. (See page 49.)
The picture designated by the number one shows Reverend Dickson
standing alone before the cabinet, with group including many prominent
people sitting along each side of the room. Those present sitting toward
the back of the room were not caught by the camera.
This seating arrangement was decided upon so that if an ectoplasmic
form manifested, it could be photographed in its entirety. Many times
I have seen Reverend Dickson standing before the curtain just this way,
prior to a materializing seance, with two or more materialized forms
standing with him.
Picture number two shows Reverend Dickson seated within the
cabinet, fully conscious, ectoplasm, or as we prefer to call it illumina-
tion, flowing abundantly from his mouth to the floor. Mrs. Dickson
stands to the right holding back the curtain.
Picture number three (See page 40) taken by Allied Photographers,
shows the ectoplasmic form of Chief Little Navajo, one of the guides
who work with Minnie Brown and Juanita in the materializing seances.
The Chief stands directly in front of Reverend Dickson. Minnie Brown
said this was for the purpose of giving him the greatest protection from
the explosion of the photographer's flashlight.
Notice the brilliant reflection of the form on the floor. Jens Svendsen,
and his wife R. G. Svendsen, world writer for Spiritualism, stand to the
right of Chief Little Navajo, and Mrs. Gertrude Dickson and I stand to
his left. Both pictures are enclosed so that you may make your own
choice. (Large picture published.)
Just as a matter of information, Mr. Pressing, in the past Reverend
Dickson was accustomed to holding three public materializing seances
each week, at each of which seldom less than one hundred forms mani-
fested, in addition to his private seances! And even today, at his recent
OF THE REV.JAMES J· DICKSON . 49
public materializing seance about seventy forms came through strong
and clear.
Considering the fact that Reverend Dickson is now in his seventies
and his health not the best, the manifestations presented through his
psychic P?Wer today are remarkable.
Now as to my feeling about editing or changing the article: Certainly
I do not mean to be abrupt or unreasonable as my wire may have made
me appear. In all articles I use restraint, for I know that a great number
of people, including Spiritualists, are not ready for real Spiritualism! But
Spiritualism is bursting from its swaddling clothes, regardless of its
throttling by many who call themselves Spiritualists. And I do not say
this in any unkind manner. I believe they are afraid to separate the false
teachings from the true.
Only because I know that you and Mrs. Pressing are liberal and broad-
minded, do I feel free to express my opinion. I know that articles on
Spiritualism, as well as other types of writing, must not disturb the
average readers' thinking, for they like the rut they are in and insist
that their reading matter soothe and entertain them along the old lines.
But, as this seems to me important, when it is the privilege of some of
us to witness such glorious and outstanding
manifestations in the bright light, (as those
noted in the article), unless they are reported
accurately in the manner of their occurrence,
they fall into the same old class of phenomena.
I certainly don't mean to disparage the
wonderful phenomena with which we are
familiar, but how can we show contrast if the
bright light is not emphasized?
I don't believe the average reader of articles
on Spirit phenomena realizes that results ob-
tained depend on one's own spiritual develop-
ment and are therefore individual. Nor do I
believe they realize that one of the greatest
factors in obtaining outstanding results is the
friendship and complete confidence neces-
sarily existing between the medium and sitter,
The medium, James Dickson, and the materialized form of Minnie Brown
(Taken 1899)
50. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
wherein both are in a condition of complete relaxation.
If this was understood more thoroughly it would better be appreciated
why these extraordinary manifestations, (daylight materializations),
are not generally presented.
I surely understand what you mean when you say that "by printing
it as is, and by stressing the bright light, I feel that a misunderstanding
may be the result, and expressions of this kind only make it tougher for
the medium."
Reverend Dickson well understands the public attitude in situations
of this nature; and when I commenced to write articles on Spiritualism
I knew they would elicit praise from many and opposition from a few.
And that this has been your experience, I can well believe.
But now that I have told you how I feel, I want you to know that if
in your capacity as Editor, you feel it would be better for PSYCHIC
OBSERVER if you edited my article' somewhat, you surely have my
permission. After all, we both are working toward the same goal, to put
Spiritualism before the entire world, and the "end justifies the means."
Thank you for your appreciation and friendly letters in this matter
and hope you are pleased with the pictures.
Sincerely,
AMY B. MARSHALL
Ed. Note: Since Rev. Marshall complied with all my requests, un-
hesitatingly; and since names and addresses of all who witnessed the
demonstration which was photographed, were submitted . .. her first
article and subsequent communication has not been edited.
Such co-operation builds confidence, not only in the mind of an
editor but in the minds of all who have read this story.
"Courtesy of Psychic Observer, Inc., Chesterfield, Indiana"
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
WHILE MEDIUM SNORES
MATERIALIZED FIGURES ROAM HIS APARTMENT
. 51
Carl D. Schyberg, the author of this article, has known James Dickson
for over 25 years. In that time he has witnessed so many remarkable
phenomena that he has come to wonder "What next?"
Yet despite his knowledge of Dickson's capabilities Schyberg could
scarcely have visualized the fantastic phenomena which unexpectedly
occurred one night-folly materialized figures walking about his apart-
ment at four in the morning while the medium was fast asleep.
We were homeward bound from vacation-THE REV. DICKSON,
MR. AND MRS. JENS M. SVENDSEN, AND I-WHEN THE
AMAZING PHENOMENA OCCURRED.
We stopped for the night at Balboa,
a seaside resort in Southern Califor-
nia, and were lodged in a luxurious,
upper three-room apartment, com-
posed of a kitchen, a bedroom, and a
large living room adaptable for two
beds.
Tired from a long day of traveling
we had retired early, the medium and
I in the living room.
At a quarter to four the next morn-
ing, I heard a voice: "Carl! Carl!
Wake up! Wake up!"
GUIDE AT BEDSIDE
I opened my eyes and saw Geolga
Emenofl, my guide, fully material-
ized beside my bed, bending over me. JAMES DICKSON
Her form was illumined by light
from an opposite apartment. The blue of her eyes, and her blonde curls,
could be clearly distinguished.
"I want you to get up and open the door to the Svendsen's room.
Juanita wants to materialise and talk·to them," said Geolga.
I arose and looked over at the Rev. Dickson, asleep in his bed. Some-
thing splendid was imminent.
Geolga vanished, and Juanita, Dickson's guide, appeared. ''I'll follow
right behind you," she said.
52. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
With her materialised spirit at my heels, I went to the door, called
and entered.
Juanita was now all of thirty feet from the medium. She greeted the
Svendsens, then returned to our room. I followed.
There, in the inflooding light and general full-moon radiance, Juanita
leisurely walked about. She wafted a panel of her gown; she fluffed
out her black, wavy tresses; she brushed at her slender waist with
exquisite fingers.
After a time I walked over ·to where the Rev. Dickson lay on his bed
asleep, and we all listened to his raucous snore. Juanita then dematerial-
ised where she stood.
Thinking the manifestations had ceased, I closed the Svendsen's door
and started for bed.
Then my "dead" wife, Mae, appeared at my side. As in life, she looked
up into my face.
To see her now again, every feature as I knew it, was heavenly.
Briefly we conversed, she extended love to our girls, then she vanished.
Now the Rev. Dickson startlingly awakened; when I related events
he calmed. We went into the Svendsen's room to discuss the manifesta-
tions.
IN THE KITCHEN
Presently I left the group and went to the kitchen for water. When I
switched on the light-there stood Geolga, fully materialised! And she
spoke to me. I returned to the living-room, related Geolga's manifesta-
tion, then we all retired and quiet prevailed.
Then again, suddenly, I heard the laugh of Minnie, the Rev. Dickson's
little cabinet control. I looked over, and saw her, a child of seven, standing
beside the Rev. Dickson's bed. The medium and I both greeted her.
Minnie summoned the Svendsens, and they, with us, observed her
until she dematerialised in the center of the room. The Svendsens then
closed their door.
Now from a light on the'rug there arose a form in a brilliant blue
and gold costume, and a long, black beard-an ancient of no little
dignity.
"Jared Chaldea," he said in a deep voice. It was Mrs. Svendsen's
Persian guide. ''I'm going in to talk with Ruth."
Majestically he strode to the door, opened it, entered, and greeted
our companions. After a bit he reappeared, banged the door behind him,
and, returning to the spot where he had materialised, melted to the floor.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 53
PHENOMENA REPEATED AT ANOTHER APARTMENT
Next to manifest was a spirit in a coral gown with a long train, a
scintillating tiara, and a glittering bracelet.
"Orly Vanene," she said. This time it was Mr. Svendsen's guide. ''I'm
going in to talk with Jens."
She went to the door, opened it, entered, and spoke. Reappearing,
she strolled about our room. With her long train and dainty hands she
was a rapturous sight! I shall never forget it! She returned to the Svend-
sen's room, reappeared, banged the door behind her, and, in the center
of our room, dissolved.
Now Chief Mohegan, another of my spirit friends, appeared in an
elegant feathered headress; simultaneously, Little Fawn revealed herself
in white buckskin, sitting on the lounge. With this superb double mater-
ialisation the phenomena ceased.
The next day we drove up to Los Angeles and found lodgings in
separate motel apartments. That night, shortly after I retired, Geolga
appeared sitting on my bed.
"I want you to come with me into the Rev. Dickson's room," she said.
I arose, entered the medium's room, and, side by side with Geolga,
stood looking down at the Rev. Dickson asleep in his bed. At Geolga's
request I raised a window to provide the medium with more air, then
retired.
Minnie now peaked around the door and giggled. After her appeared
my wife and Chief Mohegan and Little Fawn, Orly, Jared and Juanita.
They walked around my room, leaned against the wall, sat on the
chairs and the bed. It was glorious! An unforgettable exper.'.ence.
(PSYCHIC NEWS, London, England) September 23, 1950
54. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
The Technique of
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION
As Explained by
AMY MARSHALL
Based on years of experience and information received from the Spirit
collaborators of Rev. James J. Dickson, San Francisco materialization
medium, whose daylight phenomena marks a distinctive epoch in the
annals of psychic science and Modern Spiritualism.
Spiritualism in all its phases, continues to push forward the frontiers
of man's knowledge!
Through Spiritualism's phenomenal
phase known as Daylight Materializa-
tion, it has attracted world-wide atten-
tion and attained unquestionable scien-
tific status, for one of the tenets of
science is, that what is held to be true
should be capable of proof. The reli-
gion of Spiritualism holds that man as
an individual survives the incident
called "death," retains his personality
and memory intact, and returns in
Spirit form to give mortal man evi-
dence (phenomena), and knowledge
(philosophy), of Life Eternal. The
. Spirit World proves the assertions of
Spiritualism, through mediumship.
The materializing mediumship of
the Rev. James J. Dickson, Pastor of
The Spiritualist Church of Revelation
in San Francisco, California, has un-
AMY MARSHALL
From the Spirit World point o[
view, she explains the technique
oE daylight materialization.
folded to such an extraordinary extent, that Spirits usually seen in soft-
ened light can now, under proper conditions, be seen in daylight! Yes,
through the world-renowned mediumship of Rev. Dickson, Spirits mate-
rialize in full form in daylight and converse with their loved ones of earth,
whether in his public or private seances, or while he is visiting socially
with friends. What greater proof of Eternal Life could be desired ?
Daylight Materializations are not new to many of the Rev. Dickson's
followers, for in the half-century that he has been giving his public
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 55
and private materializing seances such daylight manifestations through
his psychic power have been reported innumerable times at his public
church meetings.
In one of our meetings a daylight manifestation was reported that
occurred in the downtown offices of the well-known Dr. Joseph G.
Lehner, while his friend, Carl Schyberg, was present.
Dr. Lehner said : "Carl and I were pleased when the Rev. Dickson
called at my office one afternoon, and while we three were talking, the
voice of Juanita (guide of the Rev. Dickson), came to us from across
the room near the windows."
The doctor said they turned in that direction and there she stood!
(While he was relating the incident, the .deep emotion which filled
him was evident in his voice). Dr. Lehner continued: "I shall never
forget how beautiful Juanita looked in the daylight. The pink robe
she wore revealed the soft contour of her lovely Spirit form, and her
lustrous dark hair, caught back on the right side of her face by a cluster
of flowers, hung in soft waves below her shoulders. As she said 'Juanita'
she smiled and extended her graceful arms and hands. Then, as we
silently watched, she blended into the afternoon light."
During another public meeting at the Church Mr. Schyberg told
of a daylight materialization which happened when the Rev. Dickson,
Dr. Joseph G. Lehner, Richard Cichtermann and he were ·sunbathing
at the San Francisco beach:
"We were 1ying on the sand in our trunks in a secluded nook, enjoying
the sunshine," he said, "when we were startled by the voice of the Spirit,
Minnie Brown, (the Rev. Dickson's cabinet guide), who asked: 'Can all
of you see me?' From our recumbent positions we looked up," said
Mr. Schyberg, "and there was beautiful little Minnie standing on the
sandy beach nearby. Her Spirit form and garments glistened in the
sunshine until she faded into its brilliant rays."
The great, and continued response from all parts of the world, follow-
ing publication of the account of the Rev. Dickson's daylight material-
izing seances and the phenomenal pictures taken in bright light (by
flashlight), in the October 25, 1950 issue of PSYCHIC OBSERVER,
indicates the great desire for knowledge of Daylight Materialization,
and has prompted the writing of this article. Such knowledge, can only
come from those who present the manifestations, namely: our own
Spirit loved ones, and the Rev. Dickson's Spirit guides, Minnie Brown
and Juanita.
56 ·· DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Many times in the years that the Rev. Dickson has been before the
public, the Spirit, Juanita, has materialized and lectured independently
on Materialization, through his mediumship, so that persons who have
heard her, have knowledge of it. Because many have not had that
privilege, and because of the above-mentioned desire for such knowledge,
the following few highlights on Materialization are given:
"There is no phase of mediumship more unique than Spirit Material-
ization," said Juanita, "and no meeting more sacred that a materializing
seance. Such seances give those who seek, an opportunity to hear, see
and speak with their Spirit loved ones face-to-face, thus proving that
Life is Eternal."
Juanita has said: "Nothing is more of a reality than Spirit Materiali-
zation, but when we begin to explain how Spirits materialize we enter
the Realm of the infinite, for the entire phase of Materialization involves
spirit laws, not relative to man's material world, as well as physical laws."
And, she continued: "Materialization should be within the comprehen-
sion of all mankind. It is a deplorable fact that it is not, because of the
ignorance in which the majority of mankind slumber."
"Daylight Materialization," said. Juanita, "is Materialization at its
zenith. And, of course, in the Rev. D~ckson's daylight seances which
have brought him global attention, as well as in all of his materializing
seances in softened light, neither his voice, brain nor body are used, the
form and voice belong to the manifesting Spirit alone. And this was
clearly demonstrated by the Spirit, Minnie Brown, cabinet guide of the
Rev. Dickson, when he called, recently, upon Dr. M.A. Bulman, writer
and student of psychic science. The remarkable demonstration was told
by the doctor and the doctor's sister, Nellie, at a public meeting of our
Church, The Spiritualist Church of Revelation in San Francisco, Cali-
fornia.
"One afternoon last week," said the doctor, "the doorbell rang, and
when I opened the door, there stood the Rev. Dickson. I invited him to
come in, and after he had closed the door and we exchanged greetings,
I heard several more voices, those of my Spirit friends, for Rev. Dickson
was alone. He came up the stairs in the broad daylight, and when he had
reached midway, out from behind him, fully materialized, came little
Minnie Brown wearing a blue dress! Minnie said, 'Good afternoon,
Dr. Bulman,' in a loud clear voice, and preceded the Rev. Dickson up
the stairs, Minnie arrived at the top landing well before he did, passed
me, and went down the hall toward my sister."
OF THE REV.JAMES J. DICKSON . 57
Then the doctor's sister, Nellie, said:
"I heard many v9ices, and was on my way to see who had come in. Just
as I stepped into the hall, I beheld the wonderful manifestation of the
Spirit, Minnie Brown, and a tide of ineffable joy swept over me, for
she is such a beautiful child! You cannot imagine how delighted I was!
I stood still as she approached, and not until she came up quite close
to me, did she vanish in the daylight."
All who have seen the Spirit form in the light of day, agree that it is
a marvelous revelation of celestial beauty, for to see it in daylight, is
to view it in the superb splendor of technicolor as compared to the
greyed tones seen in softened light. The high!y developed psychic power
of the Rev. Dickson allows departed loved ones to reveal themselves in
sunlight, and gives them (so they tell us) inexpressible joy in being
able to show their true beauty.
The Spirit World has at last succeeded in bringing Spiritualism into
the scientific era long desired, for with the question of light ceasing to
be a requisite upon which Materialization is contingent, the Spirit loved
ones have the opportunity of presenting eloquent and unquestionable
evidence of Life Eternal, literal!y in the sunlight!
Daylight Materialization enables important personages of past perio::ls
of earthlife also to show their Spirit forms and the splendor of their
garments, and forces the realization, that although history has relegated
them to past ages, they are vital, living Spirits of our own day. Not
only do they still live, but they are eager and willing to materialize and
correct, or confirm the historians' evaluations of them and their acts in
past years. As an instance:
At a recent Class meeting at our Church, for the unfoldment of
psychic power, a well-known California woman, Louise J. Barricklo,
told of an outstanding Daylight Materialization which occurred in a
private seance she had with the Rev. Dickson at his home, 2940 Nine-
teenth Avenue, San Francisco, California, on July 4, 1951.
"The seance was proceeding in soft light," said Mrs. Barricklo, "I
had seen and talked with several of my Spirit loved ones, and was
meditating in the calm and peaceful atmosphere of the Rev. Dickson's
seance room, when again the cabinet curtains parted and a tall, square-
shouldered figure in Colonial attire stepped forth to within less than
an arm's length of where I sat and in a sonorous voice said 'Joseph
Hewes.' (Joseph Hewes was an illustrious member of our family back
in the Revolutionary War days, and this was his first appearance to me.)
58. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
"Delighted and astonished, I said:
'It's wonderful to have you come, par-
ticularly because I was thinking of you
on the way to this meeting'. He replied:
'I was with you and caused you to
think of me.' Then he walked toward
the window, saying: "Minnie Brown
suggested that I open the blinds and let
you see me in the daylight, if I had
sufficient strength'. I watched him draw
the heavy curtains aside, open the
blinds and let in the sunlight! Then,
standing tall and handsome in the sun-
light, he said:
"'Now you can say you saw the Spirit
of Joseph Hewes, a Signer of the Decla-
ration of Independence, in the bright
sunlight, one hundred and seventy-five
years after that memorable event.'
JOSEPH HEWES
This signer of the "Declaration
of Independence" materializes.
" 'Yes,' I answered, practically breathless with excitement, 'and to
think it was your vote that decided the matter of our country's inde-
pendence!'
"'That is true,' he said, 'and I have never ceased to work for our
beloved America.'
"At this moment," said Mrs. Barricklo, "the Spirit, Juanita, stepped
from the materializing cabinet in a gown of glistening white, moved
over to the side of Joseph Hewes, and said to me:
"'This is a very wonderful occasion, Mrs. Barricklo, a wonderful
Fourth of July. Isn't it grand?'
"'The degree of perfection achieved by the Spir~t World, in present-
ing psychic phenomena,' said Juanita, 'depends upon the spiritual and
physical capacity of the medium. The Rev. Dickson's mediumship pro-
vides the Spirit World with great latitude, for he usually can give
materializing seances in various degrees of light, and through his chem-
ical vibrations, we can generally produce ectoplasm of whatever
composition we require for our manifestations.'
"Juanita said: 'Ectoplasm is a substance composed of many known
elements and many elements of which man is not as yet aware, and is
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 59
produced through the action of the physical sphere of the medium upon
the raw material of human vibrations. In Materialization, ectoplasm is
used by a Spirit to amplify, intensify or 'stepdown' the appearance of
its form, so that it can be brought into the limited range of human sight.
Man's acuity is suited to the needs of his normal earth activities. For
purposes which require his greater observation of penetration, man has
developed sensitive instruments which extend the range of his sight,
such as the microscope and telescope. A materializing medium, such
as the Rev. Dickson, is the sensitive instrument used by the Spirit
World to bring the Spirit loved ones within the range of human sight
for man's enjoyment and education.
" 'When a Spirit wishes to materialize in the bright light of day,'
said Juanita, 'it exerts a gravitational force and draws a film of ectoplasm
from the Rev. Dickson into close proximity with its form and garments.
The Spirit then raises the temperature of the ectoplasm to the degree
where every atom of sunlight, upon contact with it, causes combustion,
and the infinitesimal explosions which result, produce the fluorescence
which plays upon and illuminates the Spirit form in daylight.
" 'The delicate transparency and fluidity of the ectoplasm produced
through the mediumship of the Rev. Dickson, for Daylight Materializa-
tion,' said Juanita. 'enables the manifesting Spirit to show the color,
texture and pattern of its garments, the flowers, feathers or jewels used
in adornment, and all other minute details. And these same qualities
of the ectoplasm allow the Spirit's features to be seen.
" 'In the materializing seances of the Rev. Dickson, when a Spirit
releases the force which holds the ectoplasm in proximity to its form
and garments, what is called "dematerialization" occurs. Only the ecto-
plasm has "dematerialized,'' however, the Spirit's form and garment~
remain intact, although not visible to human sight. Drawn there by the
Spirit workers, the release ectoplasm returns to the medium or mate-
rializing cabinet, to be used by other Spirits wishing to materialize.
" 'At the conclusion of the seance, the Spirit workers return certain
vibrations to .the audience, or sitter, whence they were drawn, the vibra-
tions having only been borrowed for the purpose and duration of the
' "
seance.
Daylight Materialization! What a magnificent field of grandeur to
invade with the assistance of Spirit friends. In man's conquest of fear
and finite limitations, Daylight manifestations give knowledge which
illuminates his understanding and energizes his psychic power. Spiritual
60. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
phenomena of such pure beauty, causes puerile dreams or fancies to
vanish, and awakens man to the realization that earthlife is but the
material interlude-the physical event-in man's Eternal Life.
Mankinds' knowledge of the Spirit World, through Spiritualism,
already so imposing, could be radically transformed through Daylight
Materialization,.and those with vision, see humanity advancing rapidly
toward a new and enlightened era.
As future generations mark the progress of Spiritualism, the Rev.
Dickson's achievement as a Daylight Materializing medium will stand
among the great. And how well he deserves the praise and acclaim of
the world at the present time, for his entire life has been devoted to
preserving the purity of Spiritualism's phenomena, and presenting the
truth about Life Eternal as given directly by materialized Spirits, in
face-to-face communication!
Courtesy of PSYCHI C OBSERVER , I NC., Chesterfield, Indiana.
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON
DAYLIGHT MATERIALISATIONS THROUGH
JAMES DICKSON
TWO SPIRIT FORMS APPEAR TOGETHER
MOTHER MATERIALISES ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY
From Josephine Hawthorne
. 61
In the private materialising seances given by James Dickson at 2940
Nineteenth Avenue, in San Francisco, California, my departed loved
ones materialise so clearly and plainly in the broad daylight that I
recognise them immediately without difficulty.
Recently, at a private seance with Dickson, my father materialized
in the bright daylight. He was grand! He was as natural as he was in life.
We talked about many experiences of my childhood, which brought
back memories I had almost forgotten.
My aunt materialised following my father, and gave her name in
full. She walked over to me, entirely encircled the chair on which I
was seated, and then continued over to a table in the room upon which
were a number of Spiritualist magazines. Four separate times she picked
up different magazines. Then she came over to where I sat with a
copy of TWO WORLDS in her hands and together we discussed the
picture on the front page, and read excerpts from various articles appear-
ing therein.
Daran La Gan, my guide, then materialised and seated himself on
a chair near me. We talked for a considerable length of time about his
picture, which Mr. Dickson's spirit guide, Juanita, had drawn for me
on my slate, again in bright daylight; and during our conversation,
Minnie Brown, Dickson's cabinet guide, materialised and joined us. As
you may guess, I was delighted to witness the manifestation of two mate-
rialised forms at once for a few moments, during this outstanding seance.
DOORS OP-ENED
After Minnie Brown returned to the cabinet, Daran and I spoke of
the many times he has materialised for me in my garden, in the bright
moonlight, and also the wonderful demonstrations he gave me recently
when, for one entire week, he opened and closed the door for me, every
time I entered or left my home.
Several other loved ones then materialised to greet me before my
mother appeared. She was so very beautiful, and spoke so sweetly and
lovingly of her past earth-life and present spirit life, that I was completely
62. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
enraptured! In the bright light of day I could see her beautiful face and
also the lovely dress she was wearing. Before mother vanished, she said
tome:
"Soon I'm going to show you my form in the bright daylight, dear,
when you are out in your garden, so watch for me."
IN THE STREET
During the following week, one sunny morning, while I was working
in the garden, my attention was drawn to a lady walking on the pave-
ment nearby. To my surprise and delight, I recognised her as my mother.
She continued to walk along the sidewalk, sweetly smiling at me, till
she blended away into the sunlight.
At the very next seance I had with Mr. Dickson, my mother confirmed
her daylight appearance on the sidewalk in ·front of my home, before
I had the opportunity of speaking to her about it.
(Two Worlds, London, England ) December l st, 1951
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION
with
J. J. DICKSON
As told by
MARIA ALEXANDER
To
RUTH G. SVENDSEN
. 63
About a year ago, the Rev. James J. Dickson and his wife were spend-
ing a quiet evening with me at my apartment on the fifth Boor at Bush
and Leavenworth, San Francisco, California, when materialization spon-
taneously occurred.
We were seated in the living room,
conversing, when Minnie Brown, the
Rev. Dickson's Spirit cabinet guide,
suddenly appeared in full form as a
small child, greeted us, then said:
"Maria, I shall try to bring some of
your Spirit friends to you, if you wish."
"But Minnie, I have no cabinet cur-
tain," I replied.
"We don't need any cabinet curtain,"
said Minnie: "And don't darken the
rooms. It will not be necessary tonight'.'
Throughout the seance that followed,
the Rev. and Mrs. Dickson sat near me.
I could see them at all times.
NEVER EXPECTED
She Tells the Story
MARIA ALEXANDER
and
Her Dog, "Penny"
We meditated briefly with our eyes wide open so as not to miss any
Spirit manifestation that might occur. Suddenly, from out of nowhere,
a form appeared in front of us in a long designed purple robe fastened
at the side. It was my deceased husband, Chase. He said:
"Can you see me, darling? I have not changed."
"I certainly can see you, sweetheart," I replied. "I've never seen you
so clearly."
64. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Chase walked over to a chair, placed his hand on the back, moved it
as though he were in the flesh, then said :
"I am very happy in the Spirit Realm, Maria, dear. I stay near you so
I can help you through the material life, and will stay with you as long
as you are in earth life. When it comes time for you to pass into the Spirit
Land I shall be there to receive you, then we shall be together forever.
I love you, dear, very deeply. How grand it is that I can materialize in
your home and talk with you." ·
"This is beyond all my expectations. I am thrilled," I replied.
Chase greeted the Rev. and Mrs. Dickson, bade us good night, and
vanished without moving from the spot where he stood.
Next, my daughter, Arleta, materalized. Holding out her beautiful
feminine arms, she walked over to the electric lamp.
"Look mother," she exclaimed. "Look how wonderfully I can reveal
my Spirit form to you here in the light."
"Yes, Arleta, my darling," I answered. "To see you so clearly here in
my home is something I never expected to happen."
After Arleta and I exchanged a few love greetings, she walked into
the center of the room, and just blended out before our eyes.
While we were discussing the manifestations, Mrs. Dickson's Guide,
Rosene, appeared in flowing robes and high-combed hair. She walked
with heavenly grace and stately elegance about my apartment imposing
fantasy upon the old familiar scenes. After talking with us a few minutes,
she suddenly disappeared.
NEVER DREAMED
Up to this time, my little dog, Penny, seated in my lap, had watched
the Spirits quietly. As the Angels moved about, she turned her head, and,
when they spoke, she listened attentively to their melodious voices.
But now a dog barked.
At the Rev. Dickson's feet slowly materialized a toy bulldog. It was
Tony, the medium's beloved little pet. Penny wriggled with excitement
and tried to get down. In my fondness for dogs, I aided time and again
in Tony's care during the last days of his earth life. To see the little dog
materialized now at the Rev. Dickson's feet was a touching sight. Tony
barked again, and vanished.
Although I had been a Spiritualist for nine years previous to attending
the Rev. Dickson's materializing seances at his church, The Spiritualist
Church of Revelation, Incorporated, 1762 Page Street, San Francisco,
l never dreamed manifestations such as I have seen in his public and
OF THE REV. JAMES J· DICKSON . 65
private seances were possible. The precious home seance was the prelude
to phenomenal wonders.
PHENOMENA SURPASSES
Several months later, I went to the Rev. Dickson's residence, 2940
Nineteenth Ave., San Francisco, for my regular materializing seance
in softened light. It was about 1:00 P.M. After a number of my Spirit
loved ones had materialized and talked with me, Dr. Adams, one of
my Guides, stepped from the cabinet in full form and said:
"Maria, I will now show you my form in the daylight."
He walked over to the locked door, turned the key, opened the door
wide, and stepped into the daylight-flooded doorway.
"How do you like this, Marie?" he asked.
"Dr. Adams," I exclaimed. "What a wonderful sight! You're young
again.You haven't changed otherwise. You're as tall and slender as ever."
"Yes," he replied. "I'm more than six feet, dear, and not fat, as you see."
As I gazed upon his splendid youthful form, Dr. Adams stepped to my
side, walked completely around my chair, and faded from view.
Once having seen daylight materialization, so far did the spectacle
surpass all other phenomena, I kept hoping for a full daylight seance.
Eventually my wish was fulfilled, but for what occurred at that meeting,
I was totally unprepared.
On September 23, 1952, about 2:30 P.M., I went to the Rev. Dickson's
for another private materializing seance. I entered the seance room,·saw
the sunlight streaming in through the large uncovered windows on each
side of the cabinet, and turned to the Rev. Dickson questioningly.
''The room is not prepared for my seance."
"Minnie Brown told me that you are to have a daylight materialization
seance today," he replied.
Juanita, the Rev. Dickson's lecture and artist Guide, had once told
me that to get good daylight materialization, the sunrays should be
shining directly onto the Spirit form. It seemed to be the ideal time for
such a manifestation. My heart thumped with excitement.
Unlike ordinary softened-light seance procedure, the Rev. Dickson,
in this instance, did not pass into a psychic sleep. He sat fully conscious.
in plain sight throughout the seance. He and Minnie Brown talked with
me when I was not talking to my Spirit friends.
The curtains parted, and out into the sunshine stepped my Guide,
Wewanna, an Indian princess, wife of my Indian Guide, Black Eagle.
I have never seen anything so glorious. Wewanna was so life-like in
66. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
color, contour, and movement she might have emerged from a wooded
glen, yet, her whole being was of an indefinable exquisiteness that
transcended anything material. I gazed enthralled upon this enchanting
Indian princess. Wewanna wore a long full dress of bright red, yellow,
blue and black block-like Indian designs, gathered at the waist by a
beaded belt with designs that matched ornament designs interwoven
into her long shoulder braids. Beaded neck strands dangled low over
her full feminine form. How picturesquely did her garment and adorn-
ments contrast with her brownish-olive skin and lustrous dark hair.
DEEPLY STIRRING
This scintillating exciting entity, this dainty glamorous Indian princess
stepped forward, looked at me with her lovely dreamy black eyes, and
with beautiful shapely arms and hands held out her skirt. In silvery
tones she called my attention to its fascinating texture, design, and
intriguing sparkle in sunray angles. Three times she repeated this per-
formance. I looked and looked again. Surely, no grander spectacle had
ever been beheld by man.
I sat transported, carried away. The celestial delicacy, the radiating
colors, the ineffable sweetness of this Indian princess from the Land
Beyond defied the language. Words had yet to be coined to convey the
magnitude of a Spirit fully materialized in daylight. When Wewanna's
appearance ceased, it seemed that heaven's door, thrice ajar in my behalf,
had latched forever.
An experience such as this is deeply stirring.
Here was mediumship at its zenith. Here, in broad daylight, by
appointment, material laws were pierced. Here, in broad daylight, by
appointment, I was seeing a visitor from the Land Beyond, a gorgeous
gaudy Spirit with the sunlight playing upon her being. This was Spirit-
ualism in all its glory, wooing the heart with its gentleness, fascinating
the eye with its revelations, assuring the fear that fear is unfounded,
challenging the scientific with its mysteries.
The materializations continued.
Now from the curtains into the sunrays stepped a Spirit completely
enshrouded with white ectoplasm. This materialization, following
Wewanna, came as a surprise.
It turned out that the Spirit was presenting a phenomenal demonstra-
tion within phenomena to excite the experts.
OF THE REV. JAMES J . DICKSON . 67
How many times has the question been asked: What does ectoplasm
look like in the light of day? H ere was the answer.
The ectoplasm about the Spirit before me, while dimly transparent
here and there, was, as a whole, intensely white, and so reflecting of the
sun, it dazzled the eyes. Beneath it, the features of the manifestor were
indiscernible.
HOW THEY DRESS
"Dr. Creely," the Spirit announced; I greeted an old friend.
Ectoplasm-enshrouded Dr. Creely walked over before the sunray-
piercing window, and there demonstrated in a most spectacular way.
He commenced to pull, with graceful gestures, portions of ectoplasm
from his being, exposing by degrees his Spirit form to the glorifying
sunrays. He continued these movements, draping meticulously the with-
drawn ectoplasm over his arm, until nearly all the ectoplasm was re-
moved from his form. .
In the end, the Spirit, Dr. Creely, stood quietly before me, dressed in a
dark brown business suit, every contour in proportion, every molecule
atint, a scintillating rhapsody of psychic science with folds of dazzling
white ectoplasm draped over his arm!
What a spectacle! What a demonstration!
Lest the essence of this manifesta-
tion be obscured by its brilliance, what
Dr. Creely revealed was the difference
between the fleecy ectoplasm usually
seen in darkened, seances and the
extremely thin, invisible layer of ecto-
plasm with which the Spirits cover
themselves for daylight materializa-
tion, that the sunlight, in striking the
substance, bombast into human per-
ception the Spirit form and celestial
coloring beneath it.
This demonstration was the most
penetrating yet of the vibrations step-
down process used by the Spirits in
materializing.
Overwhelmed with awe and won-
der, I looked over at the Rev. Dickson
plainly visible between the parted cur-
He Was the Medium
REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
68. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
tains. There sat this modest little man, in a blue suit, as much absorbed
in Dr. Creeley's demonstration as was I myself. He said simply:
"Isn't that a grand manifestation of daylight materialization."
While the three of us, Dr. Creely, the Rev. Dickson, and I were
talking, Minnie Brown commented:
"It takes a lot of psychic power to She Wrote the Story
produce a materialization like that."
Dr. Creely added: "It was my
special demonstration for you, Maria,
for I knew you would appreciate it."
When Dr. Creely faded out into the
sunshine, Areleta's father stepped
from the cabinet. There, in the sun-
light, with that familiar tuft of brown
hair hanging as always over his fore-
head, he was wonderful to see.
"Hello, Ben," I greeted him. "you
haven't changed a bit."
"I tried to come just as you knew
me on earth so you would recognize
me,'' he replied.
Ben and I talked for a few minutes, RUTH c. SVENDSEN
then he returned to the cabinet.
I shall never be able to fully explain all I saw and heard on that sunny
afternoon at the Rev. James J. Dickson's. The one thing I do know is that
when I think of those glorious daylight-materialized Spirits, my heart
sings out with joy, and I feel an inner peace deeply comforting and en-
richening of my life experience.
Courtesy of PsYCHIC OnsERV ER, INc., Chesterfield, Indiana.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 69
WHAT SPIRITUALISM IS NOT
(This is a direct lecture by the Spirit teacher, Juanita, materialized, September 8, 1934)
IT IS AMAZING how many persons are interested in what Spirit-
ualism is not. It also is amazing that more do not avail themselves of
the opportunity-when it occurs-of learning what Spiritualism is not.
As a foundation for this understanding, know always that Spiritualism
is wholly truth-it is not superstition of any kind.
BELIEF IN EVIL SPIRITS
The belief in evil spirits is not a part of Spiritualism-that is, of real
Spiritualism as it is given by the Angel World to earth. It is not a part
of Spiritualism as it should be taught. The belief in evil spirits began
very early in the life of human beings on earth. People were filled with
fear about what they did not understand-fear of natural forces over
which they had no control. Their priests early discovered the people
could be most easily controlled and made to give up their possessions,
by means of this fear which priests soon turned into fear of evil spirits
who caused the catastroplies not explainable. There was observance and
sacrifice to appease these imagined evil spirits and there was worship
of them and offerings to them to entice them to use their power in favor
of the worshipers. Both of these attitudes were in vogue at times. Of
course I do not need to state it, because all of you here know that there
are no evil angels-that there are no evil-minded beings in the Spirit
Realms.
FIRE WORSHIP
In very early days fire was an evil spirit-god, it was sometimes called.
This early belief that fire represented or was an evil spirit has been
handed down the ages in various forms. Huge images of monsters were
made, inside of which fires were kindled. Sacrifices were made to these
images. Valued belongings were thrown into these flames or given to
priests for that supposed purpose. There were times when human beings
were sacrificed. At times mothers carried their babies, their little children
they loved, and threw them into the jaws of the images through which
flames were pouring, believing that this giving of what they treasured
most would soften the heart of the evil spirit of fire, and would thereby
avert calamity from a city or tribe.
The ancient beliefs and practices as to fire come down in the form
of the holy flame used in worship by a number of religions of today.
There are altars the world over.where a holy or sacred flame as it is
70. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
called, is kept burning constantly. Candles, incense, and censers used
in modern churches are but variations of the ancient barbarian fire
worship. But why not? The idea of fire in religious observances runs
all through the Christian Bible. Elijah was taken up into heaven in a
chariot of fire with horses of fire-at least that is the story in 2 Kings
ii, 11. There were lightnings on Mt. Sinai, also fire, when Moses was
given tablets of stone upon which were engraved ten commandments-
at least this is so related in Exodus xix: 16-18. And Moses, according to
Numbers xxi : 8, was commanded to raise a fiery serpent for the Israelites
to look upon in worship. In Exodus iii: 2-4, the vo:ce of God was said to
come to Moses out of a burning bush which never became consumed by
the fire. You can see the superstitious ideas about the spirit of fire all
along the way. At times, fire was supposed to purify the soul. It is given
this power in teachings of purgatory and hell. Walking across burning
bricks-hot or burning paths-is a part of certain initiations. Yes, trying
by fire, and use of fire in worship are old customs.
SACRED WATERS •
And water-water has been worshiped. It was considered as an evil
spirit; again it was worshiped as good. Sometimes it represented the
spirit, sometimes it was the spirit. Sacred waters is an old idea. There
have been many waters which at some time were considered sacred.
The Ganges river is held sacred today by certain sects; the river Jordan
is also. There are sacred pools in other countries. There have been in the
past, and still are, pools or streams to which are attributed the power
of miraculous healing. There have been deep lakes or streams into
which human beings were thrown each year as sacrifices to the water
god-water-evil spirit of water, as the prevailing idea might be. The
holy water in the churches today is but a remains of this belief that
water was an evil spirit. The holy water is blessed-as they call it-
blessed before the people use it to make it different from other or unholy
water. This shows the line of descent from the belief in the evil spirit
of water. Christian baptism is a using of water in religious observance
because water has had a prominent part in past pagan rites. Fire and
water have been worshiped as evil spirits-again as good spirits. The
idea has changed at times. But both have held conspicuous place in
nearly all ancient ceremonies of worship, and usually because they were
considered evil spirits.
And these practices have been brought into Spiritualism-or what
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 71
is passing for Spiritualism. There are Spiritualists who teach the use
of incense to attract spirits-as-an aid in gaining spirit demonstrations-
as a necessary part of services in which spirit commune is to take place.
· Friends, there is nothing to it. Your Spirit loved ones are not influenced
by any earth odors, or by fire or water or anything representing them.
Even candles and use of water are made a part of some Spiritualist
teachings, but that does not give them any right there. They have no
real meaning or power. They have no place in Spiritualism.
SPIRIT OBSESSION
Obsession is an old idea. It was long ago thought that a dumb person
was possessed by a dumb spirit, a deaf person by a deaf spirit, an insane
person by an insane spirit, etc. How absurd! This began in days when
understanding of the human body was little known, but the idea is
still being used. The Bible is full of statements which show belief in
obsession at the time it was written. In the gospel of Mark, 5th chapter,
8th to 13th verses, it is stated that Jesus drove out a legion-several
thousand-evil spirits from one man obsessed. These spirits were made
to go into a herd of swine which rushed down to the sea and drowned
themselves. I am telling you what the Bible says now, you know, not
what is true. ·
There is a sanitarium in the southern part of your state, so I under-
stand, which professes to cast out evil spirits from those obsessed. It is
supposed that an evil spirit causes a person to be angry, to be insane,
to have a craving for drink, to have physical ailments, to have bad luck.
What nonsense! There are no evil spirits. The Bible has in one place
that there was war in heaven with Satan and that he and his angels
were cast eut of heaven. It is said of God in one place that he has a sword
coming out of his mouth-a two-edged sword. Just think of such condi-
tions in heaven! They are not there, friends; they are not there.
This belief in evil gods-evil spirits-has been the greatest whip
the priests of all ages have had to wield over the people and it is still
being wielded. It is popular in the ranks of so-called Spiritualists also,
because there is money in the idea. People are gullible in this age-yes,
very gullible- and they are willing to pay good prices to have evil
spirits disattached from them. When a person is not prosperous, he or
she is told there is an evil spirit attached who is preventing good luck.
When health is poor, when misfortunes come, the same story is told.
72. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
But I am sure there is not one here tonight who does not know the fallacy
of all such teachings. I need no longer dwell on the point.
REINCARNATION-SPHERES-HOUSES
Spiritualism is not any other religion-not Mohammedanism, not
Rosicrucianism, not Christianity, not Catholicism, not Buddhism, not
Theosophy-not any man-made religion. Spiritualism does not teach
reincarnation- at least what should rightfully be called Spiritualism
does not. Theosophy teaches reincarnation but it is not true. No Spirit
ever comes into an earth life again after passing out of it-an earth life,
or a physical life on any other physical globe, or has any body change
of any kind anywhere ever. It could not be done-it is not done. Any
of the cults teaching it should not be considered Spiritualist.
And there are no spheres in the Spirit World in the sense the word is
often used-no planes. Progression is not a matter of location. Why
should it be? There are no seven spheres to pass through-no seven
times seven spheres-no 143 houses. How ridiculous! Some seekers are
told a mother is in a fifth sphere, so cannot come back to earth to give
a message! How preposterous! What would there be to prevent her
return? What could keep a spirit within any limits? Once a spirit is
freed of the physical body, there is nothing which can confine it in
any way. There are no fences, no barriers for any spirit.
EARTH-BOUND SPIRITS
There is talk, even among those calling themselves Spiritualists, of
earth-bound spirits-spirits who cannot get away from the earth after
they pass. These are often the ones who are charged with having evil
propensities- with the obsessing of earth persons. Loved ones, get this
clearly in your minds: When a spirit passes- when a spirit leaves its
physical body-it is the same spirit it was while in the body-except
that only a part of it was able to demonstrate through the earth body.
You were each of you a spirit of full divine spirit intelligence and capacity
when you began to assemble for yourself your own physical body.
Y01.i are you-you are what you wanted to make yourself be on earth.
That is, you ai-e as close to it as it was possible for you to accomplish to
be with the material you had to draw from for the physical assembling.
When you return to spirit life freed from the physical body, you will
have the full spirit intelligence and capacity that you had when you came
to earth. Those who have led wrong lives will make this up. You cannot
understand how this can be done-but it can be done and is done.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 73
Spirit is divinity. Divinity is perfection-a spirit that is perfect is
perfect-it cannot have anything the matter with it. That is an impos-
sibility. If there would be anything wrong with one spirit, there would
be something wrong with divinity. Then it would not be divinity-then
there would not be anything perfect. A thing is not perfect if any of its
parts are imperfect. Each of you is a part of divinity-each is a unit
of divinity-I think that is the better way to express it. Since spirit is
perfection, it will always see and do the right thing that should be done.
Therefore after an earth life-it was intended that each life should be
an earth life under earth handicaps and imperfections-after the earth
life, the spirit will do whatever and all that is necessary to make up for
anything not done just right during the period in the physical. Friends,
there are no earth-bound
spirits. There are no spir-
its needing any prayers or
· assistance from earth
mortals. No spirits wan-
der in darkness not know-
ing they are dead - not
knowing they have passed
into spirit life. No spirits
are asleep, insane, or in
prisons. That used to be a
favorite idea - impris-
oned spirits - the Bible
speaks of this, too. No
spirits attach themselves
to earth persons- to their
throats, their hearts, their
stomachs. Such ideas are
preposterous!
BIBLE SUPERSTITIONS
But there j re other pre-
posterous untrue state-
ments in the Bible. The
sun was never made to
stand still in the heavens a
whole day, as is recorded
DAISY GIBSON BUETTNER
Author uf " Heights of Living and Dying"- Bucttncr Press
74. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
in Joshua x; 13, that Joshua or any one else could destroy enemies in the
daylight. Your whole solar system would be a chaos did the sun pause
a moment in its course.
Too, no person has ever passed from earth to the great beyond in phys-
ical body without passing through the experience called death despite the
Bible state.ment that Elijah did-and no person ever will do this for it is
an impossibility. Any person writing such a statement shows no under-
standing of the difference between the physical condition and the spirit
life. There are teachings all over the world to this.effect, but they are
not true.
Some of the superstitions used in Christianity have come down the
ages from early Paganism in the East, but more have come direct from
Africa- from the blacks there. The blacks believe in evil spirits and
necromancy. Many of the practices advocated in the Bible were practiced
either by the Babylonians or the ancient Africans, or both. And there
are ancient artifacts being brought to light in excavations of discovery
in the Americas which show the belief in the same things-the same
handed-down ideas of evil spirits, of fire worship, of water sacrifice, etc.,
not originating in Bible times but back in the dawn of man's fear.
MISCELLANEOUS
There is the belief in Astrology. Astrology has no place in Spiritualism.
The belief in the imagined powers and influences of the planets began
in very early times. There is nothing spiritual about it-there never
was. Planets exert some physical influences that Science is looking into-
it is the province of Science-but planets exert no special influence over
certain persons born at a certain place at a certain moment. There are
no lucky or unlucky days, and Sundays or Saturdays are no holier than
Tuesdays or any other days. Each day is a day to live right in. Astrology,
Palmistry, Numerology, Fortune-telling-none of these is connected
in any way with Spiritualism. There have been those putting forth these
teachings since very early days, but they are not truths. Fortune telling!
A practice of Gypsies ! Why should that be connected with Spiritualism?
I do not know, but it is. The angels, the glorified spirit lQved ones-
they do not spend their time on these things. They are loving; they love to
help you, to assist in any manner they can. They wish to make your
earth lives as happy and worthwhile as possible. They can do much for
you if you learn how to approach-how to contact them rightly-but
they do not do fortune-telling.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 75
There are teachings about the influence and meaning of colors.
It is true there are important properties in the colors in light. It is a
fact Science is only beginning to learn, but as to use of a certain color
for luck or power, color has no effect so used. There are teachings that
by wearing and living amid certain colors, certain results can be ac-
complished, but, aside from personal pleasure in seeing and using a
favorite, colors have no powers or influences-no meaning either mate-
rially or spiritually.
Hypnotism is another subject having no connection with spiritualism.
The practice of hypnotism, of black magic, of sorcery-these have all
been popular practices in the past. They are still being practiced to some
extent, but they have no connection with Spiritualism. Spiritualism is
the religion of the angels-the teaching of the angels-the philosophy
of leading an ideal life on earth. All of these attachments to Spiritualism
do not belong there. Most of them do not belong anywhere. They are
imaginings-merely imaginings.
Some persons believe that the mind of one person set against spirit
demonstrations can cause none to show. This is not true. Even one dis-
cordant person in our gathering is a weakness-is a broken link in the
vibrations-but no mind could stop the results. I have had this tried
in our meetings many times. Persons have come and held certain thought
they believed would have power to make it impossible for spirits to
appear-but the spirits came through just the same. Not any to the
person or group holding this thought, but they came to those whose
minds were right. Persons have come-yes, many times-with articles
secreted on their person-with a rosary, with a crucifix, with a charm
of some kind, an article which had been blessed-in the belief that
there would be power in those things to prevent the appearance of spirits.
But of course the articles had no influence. Yes, these things have been
tried many times. I know. Minnie knows.
There is no power in charms, in lucky pieces, talismans, or in anything
material which may be carried or worn. The people of the earth'believe
very firmly in these things. It seems incredible that such implicit faith
should be placed in anything of the kind, but it is. The colored man
with his rabbit foot has just as much cause for belief in it as has the
church follower in the crucifix. The shape of the material has no effect.
There is no power in anything material no matter what form it may be
1' made into. A stick is a stick even if shaped like a cross. Beads are beads.
r-
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
Nor have words or letter or numbers any influence in the life scheme-
any effects good or bad. All such ideas are wholly superstitions.
Now, friends, I have told you what Spiritualism is not. I do not believe
there is any one present who believes any of these superstitions I have
named. I hope I have explained about them sufficiently clearly that you
will be able to deny them and debar them from the religion of Spirit-
ualism whenever they show their heads. You not only know they are
superstitions, but you know how and why they have come to be taught
and believed. It is a subject which should be thoroughly understood.
And you already know all are equal in the spirit life-that there are
no lords or superiors to kneel to. I am glad I was able to bring you this
message here tonight. I thank you for coming to hear it. I hope you will
not make any mistake in what I have said, and I hope you will not
forget a single point I have mentioned. Spiritualism is not a religion of
superstition. It is a religion-a knowledge-giving each one an under-
standing which should make earth life always useful and happy.
" Courtesy of Daisy Gibson Buettner, 150 Belvedere Street, San Francisco, California."
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
SONG
by
DAISY GrnsoN BuETTNER
from
SoNG BooK OF PuRE SPIRITUALISM
-91-
ANGELS, GUIDE ME
(Tune, Gospel Hymns 1-6, No. 4~7)
-1-
ANGELS, GUIDE me lest I stray,
Hover round me all the way;
I am safe when you are near,
Angel friends I hold so dear.
CHORUS-
Guide me! Guide me!
Angels, Guide me lest I stray!
Angel friends, by night and day,
Guide me safely all the way!
-2-
ANGELS, guide me every hour,
For I need your truth and power;
Fill my soul with peace and love,
Blessings only from above.
-3-
ANGELS, guide me till at last,
When this earthly life is past,
Welcomed on your heavenly shore,
I shall dwell there evermore.
"Courtesy of Daisy Gibson Buettner," I50 Belvedere Street, San Franciscn, California.
. 77
78. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
SONG
by
DAISY GIBSON BUETTNER
from
SoNG BooK OF PuRE SPIRITUALISM
-103-
THE OPEN GATE
(Tune, Gospel Hymns 1-6, No. 161)
-1-
LONG YEARS earth has suffered in darkness,
In submission to teachings untrue;
Long years earth has grieved for its loved ones
When, at last, they passed from view.
CHORUS-
The gates are open, there's naught between;
They are still with us although unseen;
They kiss our lips and beside us stand-
A reflection of Heaven-its border land.
-2-
LONG YEARS grief has silenced the laughter
That should ring in each human voice;
Long years all have feared the hereafter,
When, instead, they should rejoice.
-3-
, LONG YEARS has the toll been heavy
In the conflicts of wrong belief,
But now we have talked with departed
Who have banished fears and grief.
"Courtesy of Daisy Gibson Buettner," 150 Belvedere Street, San Francisco, California.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
SONG
by
DAISY GrnsoN BuETTNER
from
SoNc BooK OF P uRE SPIRITUALISM
- 135 -
JUST AWAY
(Tune, Gospel Hymns 1-6, No. 102)
-1-
ONE SWEET assuring thought comes to us at this hour,
Our loved ones live-there is no death-
The grave has lost its power.
CHORUS-
Just away - just away,
In beautiful realms of endless day-
Not dead, but just away.
-2-
ONE SWEET assuring thought brings comfort to our heart,
Our loved pass on to realms of light
But yet we never part.
- 3 -
. 79
ONE SWEET assuring thought quite fills our souls with peace,
W e'll with our loved ones reunite
Upan our soul release.
" Courtesy of Daisy Gibson Buettner," 150 Bel vedere Street, Sa n Francisco, Califo rnia.
80. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
SONG
by
DAISY GrnsoN BUETTNER
from
SoNG BooK oF PuRE SPIRITUALISM
- 191 -
ABIDE WITH ME, SWEET ANGELS
(Tune, Gospel Hymns 1-6, No. 317)
-1-
ABIDE with 'me, sweet angel guides of light!
Lead, thou, me on in paths of peace and right;
Guide, thou, my feet, and guard my winding way-
Angels of Heaven, oh, beside me stay!
-2-
ABIDE with me, sweet angels, when I call!
I need thy care lest, left alone, I fall;
So weak and helpless do I feel each day-
Angels of Heaven, oh, beside me stay !
-3-
ABIDE with me, sweet angels, while I sleep!
How safe I feel when, thou, a vigil keep!
No harm befalls me, ever do I pray:
Angels of Heaven, oh, beside me stay!
-4-
ABIDE with me, sweet angels, breathe thy peace
When comes the time of my spirit release;
When earthly scenes and joys shall fade away,
Angels of Heaven, oh, beside me stay!
''Courtesy of: Daisy Gibson Buettner," 150 Belvedere Street, San Francisco, Californ ia.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 81
DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION
As told by DR. M. A. BuLMAN to Run-r G. SVENDSEN
The Rev. James J. Dickson's cabinet guide, little .Minnie Brown,
materialized seated at the foot of my bed one morning long before
I had met the medium more than thirty years ago. She greeted me, then
said:
''I'll materialize to you again sometime, dear. Don't forget me."
She waved her hand, and vanished.
I later described this experience to Harry Rayne, the metaphysics
lecturer. He replied by telling my sister, Nell, and me about the Rev.
Dickson's remarkable phenomena. We attended a seance of this medium
at the first opportunity.
I cannot remember when I spent a more fascinating evening. I saw
four and five Spirit forms in flowing exotic garments simultaneously
appear out of space and emerge through the floor. I watched them move
about with fantastic grace, instantly alter their garments and adornments
before my eyes, then disappear through the wall or vanish in the air.
With each Spirit that appeared, I wondered what new physical impos-
sibility it would perform.
As the evening advanced, our mother, father, and sister, Margaret
Gore, manifested. Said mother:
"My children, we have been trying for a long time to get you to one
of the Rev. Dickson's materialization seances. When we found that
Mr. Rayne knew about the Rev. Dickson, we impressed him to tell
you about them.
"We have some marvelous sights in store for you."
When mother disappeared, a little girl materialized.
"Minnie Brown," she announced. It was the child of long ago.
Minnie chose not to speak of that manifestation then. She had a more
impressive occasion in mind.
Nell and I, intrigued with the manifestations we had witnessed, be-
came charter members of the Rev. Dickson's church, The Spiritualist
Church of Revelation, Incorporated, San Francisco, California, and, for
the next three decades, enjoyed the ultimate in phenomenal mediumship.
We obtained beautiful independent slate drawings in broad daylight
by Juanita, the medium's artist guide; we witnessed superb spontaneous
phenomena with the medium in our home; we sat enthralled before the
82. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
enchantment of his Spirit dances. In the spiritual satisfaction of these
wonderful events, we thought our cup was overflowing.
Then came the Rev. Dickson's popular broad daylight materialization
seances.
Before the majesty of the Spirits materialized in full sunlight, all
other phenomena was secondary.
One bright early afternoon recently, I accompanied Nell to the Rev.
Dickson's home for a private materialization seance.Upon arrival, Nell
went directly into the seance room. I remained in the dining room to
talk with Mrs. Gertrude Dickson.
After a time, Nell excitedly called to us to come into the lounge
adjacent to the seance room.
We hurried in. Standing there beside Nell in the middle of the
sunlit room was our mother fully materialized looking exactly as we
had known her in earth life.
I gazed upon her smiling countenance, upon her blue-lace form-fitting
short sleeved gown, upon her center
parted hair arranged with jewels at
the sides. I was overwhelmed.
"Now everyone be seated," she
calmly said. "We'll visit for awhile."
We seated ourselves as directed, but
the visit became a clamor of rapturous
exclamations. Finally mother said:
"You see, my children, I have not
changed. And I love you as always.
"To be able to materialize in the
sunlight like this gives me more joy
than you can understand.
"I should like to remain a long time
and tell you all about the beautiful
life I found on the Spirit side, but I
cannot.
"Follow me into the seance room."
THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON
Across the lounge and through the door after this lovely Spirit we
filed.
In the seance room mother walked to the side of the Rev. Dickson
fully conscious in plain sight beside the cabinet curtain. There she bade
us farewell, and disappeared.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 83
Little Minnie Brown in a pink dress immediately stepped from the
cabinet.
"Hello, everyone. Dr. Bulman, when I materialized on your bed
that time, I told you I would materialize to you again."
She gently rose several feet from the floor, and, before our spellbound
eyes, floated across a sunlit window onto a small table on the opposite
side of the room. There she stood smiling at us.
Not long did she hold our attention.
Out of space before Nell materialized a full-dressed Indian chief.
We gasped.
"Pale Moon." announced my sister's guide.
In all my experience with the Rev. Dickson's phenomena, this mate-
rialization was the most spectacular. Pale Moon was perfectly lifelike
from the tip of his towering bonnet to his beaded mocassins. Standing
there in that little seance room with the sunlight shining on his Spirit
form, he was a magnificent sight.
I gazed into his keen black eyes and rugged sunburned face; I
beheld the splendor of his feathers and the brilliance of his blue blanket.
Emotion swelled in my throat.
"Oh, you're glorious!" exclaimed Nell in ecstasy.
"What a materialization,'' said Mrs. Dickson.
"We've been wanting to give you a demonstration like this for a long
time,'' said Pale Moon. "We had to wait until the vibrations were just
right."
"Look at Minnie,'' said the Rev. Dickson.
We turned to Minnie. Now she was only materialized from the waist
up. She was blending out into the wall.
"You don't know which one of us to watch," she laughingly said.
Instantly she vanished.
Pale Moon now removed his blanket revealing beneath a beautifully-
beaded buckskin suit and many bright necklaces.
"See my blanket,'' he said, holding it up to the side. "It was my special
design."
The blanket was indeed extraordinary. Ag~inst its blue field was a
center white half moon surrounded with stars and a red horizon border.
As we admired the blanket's design and texture, it suddenly vanished,
and Pale Moon slowly blended out into the sunshine.
" Courtesy of CHIMES," P. 0. Box 308, Brea, Califo rnia
84. DAYLIGHT MATERIALIZATION AND PSYCHIC POWER
AGED 74, HE GETS MATERIALISATIONS-
AND IN SUNLIGHT
Though he has retired at the age of 74, after demonstrating materialisa-
tion mediumship for 55 years, J. J. Dickson, of California, still gets
spontaneous phenomena of an outstanding nature.
"These are daylight materialisations, seen in the sunshine.
A few days ago Mrs. Nathan L. Pierce, who has attended his seances
for 33 years, called on him. While they were sitting in the patio talking,
Minnie Brown, his control, materialised in the sunshine and moved
about among the Bowers.
SURPRISE FOR NURSE
A similar manifestation occurred for his nurse, Mrs. Zeldah Zackerson,
while she and the medium were sitting in the patio. Mrs. Zackerson's
husband, Steve, fully materialised in the bright morning sunshine and
gave his name loud and clear. Then, when he vanished, Minnie Brown
materialised. Mrs. Zackerson was overcome with joy.
A few weeks ago another manifestation took place. Mrs. Frieda A.
Huttmann, secretary of Dickson's church, paid a visit. While she and
Mrs. Dickson were sitting at his bedside in conversation, Mrs. Hutt-
mann's husband, Hugo, fully materialised in a shaft of sunlight that
entered the room from a window.
"What a magnificent sight he was standing there completely life-like
just as we had known him," they reported. "He greeted each one of us
in turn, then blended back into the sunshine." .
"A shaft of sunlight forms a cabinet for daylight materialisation,"
a spirit guide has explained in public seances.
Carl D. ·Schyberg, a member of the church for 27 years, also received
a manifestation a few weeks ago. His friend, Geolga Emenoff, mate-
rialised beside the dining room table where they sat talking.
She was clad in pale yellow, her hair a glory of blonde curls, her blue
eyes sparkled with joy. After greeting them she vanished on the spot.
Schyberg was naturally excited to see his spirit friend materialise with
the sun streaming in through the patio windows upon her.
Dickson has been very ill because an old heart ailment became chronic.
His spirit guides warned him many years ago about over-taxing his
strength in giving materialisation seances in the daylight without a
frequent rest.
OF THE REV. JAMES J. DICKSON . 85
The public was so demanding, and he was so glad to give daylight
materialisations to the world that he did not stop to think how many
seances he was giving. The weekly public and daily private seances
became a source of energy, a spur that kept him going year in and year
out, long after he knew he was in need of a prolonged rest.
AFTER 55 YEARS
At last he became seriously ill. His doctor advised him to discontinue
all psychic work and all material activities. His spirit guides agreed with
this advice.
He left his church in San Francisco in the care of an assistant pastor,
and moved about 50 miles to the south, where the climate is warmer.
"The discontinuance of my spiritual work after more than 55 years
before the public is not easy," says Dickson. "My entire life has been
devoted to the bringing of happiness to people through my materialisa-
tions.
"My parents were the first to be aware of my unusual powers; they saw
and talked to materialised spirits around my cradle."
(TWO WORLDS, London, England- May l, 1954 )
