{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__clymer___the_interpretation_of_st_john.pdf","mytitle":"The Interpretation Of St John","mylang":"de"}
THE
INTERPRETATION
OF ST. JOHN
An Exposition of the Divine Drama; the Nazarene's Life and What
It Teaches to Man. The Glory or Tragedy of Man's Soul in the
Exercise of Its Inherent Capability to Become Divine. Non-
Political and Without Creed Other Than the Absolute
ness of the Christos WITHIN Man. The Recognition
of the Achievement of All Men Irrespective
of Race, Color or Creed.
REV. DR. R. SWINBURNE CLYMER
Director General, Church of Illumination
Supreme Grand Master, The International Confederation of Initiates
Supreme Grand Matter, The Merged Occult Fraternities, comprising:
The Priesthood of AEth Frntcmitns Rosae Crueii
The Rosicrucian Order Temple of the Rosy Cross
The Secret Schools The Order of the Magi
The Hermetic Brotherhood Sons of lsis and Osiris
llluminatae Americsnae
Published by
THE PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING COMPANY
"Beverly Hall"
QUAKERTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA
UnJv. Ubixwy, UC Santa 0« 1988
COPYRIGHT 1953
BY
BEVERLY HALL CORPORATION
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
Library of Congress Catalog Card No. 5 3- 128 12
85
C.3-
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
"We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto
ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a Light that rhineth
in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise
in your hearts." —// Peter 1:19.
HE BOOK of St. John, the "Beloved disciple," opens
immediately with the most Arcane, Esoteric teachings
of the entire volume known as the Bible: the Word, or
the Mysteries of the Light; which, if solved and obeyed, will help
man, according to St. John's positive inculcations, to become
a Son of God.
St. John offers man —all men —in what one might truth
fully say, tabloid form, the DRAMA OF A WORLD TEACHER, as
well as the DRAMA OF THE SOUL OF MAN. A world leader, the
Nazarene as an instance, was shown no favors by God, or, if
you prefer, the Divine Law.
He had to live, pass through, experience everything the
ordinary man must undertake in order to become Soul Con
scious, Cosmic Conscious, or God Conscious. All of these
designations mean the same thing. He, like you or I, my reader,
was compelled to manifest the WORD in his life.
It was necessary for him to pass through the Second or
Spiritual birth; the REgeneration. Finally came the transition
which we know as death, or the PASSING OVER from one plane
to another. Before that was possible, it was essential for him
to CHANGE from one plane to another—from a lower to a
higher one.
There is only one difference between the one who comes
as a Messiah and an ordinary man: The Messiah writes: IT is
FINISHED, at the end of life. Man may fail to finish his destiny
8 THE INTERPRETATION
in the present life; hence there will be future lives and future
trials and tribulations until destiny, or Karma, is fulfilled.
". . . ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a LIGHT THAT
SHINETH IN A DARK PLACE." —II Peter 1:19.
Truly, man has "looked here and looked there," cried "here
and cried there," but never a Light was there; darkness alone
covered all.
And why? Because he did not obey the injunction to
"take heed as unto a Light in a dark place." Where is this
"dark place"?
If we would bear in mind another positive statement
Divinely given, "Ye are the temples of the Living God," we
would have the answer in easily understood words. WITHIN
MAN is the "dark place." Man is the temple of the Living
God, though it would be far more correct to say that MAN MAY
become THE TEMPLE OF THE LIVING GOD.
This will never be until man actually finds the Light in
the dark place —WITHIN HIMSELF —and that is not possible
unless and until he awakens to his destiny; puts forth effort,
and LIGHTS THE LIGHT IN THE DARK PLACE WITHIN
HIMSELF ON THE ALTAR. This is his WORK, this is to be
the DRAMA OF HIS LIFE.
This saying is not cryptic and no longer in parable if we
give consideration to the statement that follows: IN THEIR
HEARTS MUST ARISE THE DAY STAR, i.e., this Light which
will then shine in a dark place, and indicates the Consciousness
of the Soul; the Immortalization of the mortal.
Step by step, St. John points out the life of the Nazarene,
and how he gradually changed himself from the mortally born
to the Immortally BECOME.
It is necessary that we not only fulfill the Divine Law,
essential in itself, but after the fulfillment of the Law, we
have yet to be REborn; born of the Spirit, as of the body. This
OF ST. JOHN 9
rebirth will LIGHT THE LIGHT IN THE DARK PLACE —the
WITHIN, and then will the DAY STAR ARISE —bring Light—in
the Heart —the Immortal part of man.
Man's mission, though in a lesser degree, is exactly as
was that of the Nazarene. Man is here to save (Regenerate)
himself. In doing this he becomes an example to other men;
for it is written: "I, if I be lifted up, will lift other men."
Words, preachments, inculcations, may fall on barren ground,
but examples make an impression seldom forgotten.
"For as the lightning cometh out of the East, and shineth
even unto the West; so shall also the coming of the Son of
man be."— Matt. 24:27.
This was the promise of the prophets of the coming of a
world leader or teacher, but like all Esoteric inculcations, it
had a double meaning. All Arcane truths were taught by
symbolism or analogy.
"The sun riseth in the East and travels West to give light
[physical] to all the world." In like manner, the Soul center
in Man is located in his East —the Spiritual center —and, once
awakened, brought into Consciousness, will give Light not
only to his own being; the temple which he
is,
but to all the
world (by example); and when this Consciousness, this
Illumination
is
attained, then the Son of man will have BECOME
the/a Son of God.
These statements had reference to
a
distant event, but
here again there
is
the duality active in all activities.
It
also
had reference likewise to man as
of
NOW.
It
has reference
directly to each one of us.
It
plainly indicates that we, in our
carnal manifestations, are DARK PLACES; the body, the self,
being full of darkness; there being no Light WITHIN.
If
we listen to those who spake the truth, AND to the
Voice within which we are constantly trying to silence, then
we will begin to change the corruptible into the iNcorruptible.
10 THE INTERPRETATION
The Light will begin to shine, and as we progress, more and
more light will come to us as an aid in lighting up the dark
places, so that the STAR OF LIGHT may SHINE IN THE HEART;
the heart being the symbol of the Temple of the Living God.
When this work has been accomplished, the WORD that has
been lost for ages will have been found. Then the Voice
"heard from heaven" will be heard to say:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." —Matt.
3:17.
Mortality will have taken on (be transmuted into) Im
mortality.
As in the Divine Drama, the Nazarene was compelled
to "bear the cross," that
is,
fulfill his mission on the cross—
CROSSING OVER BY MEANS OF THE CROSS, SO must all men,
SOONER OR LATER, whether they will or not, take up the cross.
To suffer
is
to be on the cross. To bring life to the new
being —the Christic or Spiritual self—is
by
means of travail.
It
is
a
change from one state to another.
This
is
the crucifixion or cross-i-fi-cation —a
changing over.
When
it
is
accomplished, the Son of man will have become
the Son of God, He will have learned to know good from evil,
and have replaced evil
by
that which
is
good.
At first glance, these things are "hard sayings," and who can
bear them, but this
is
answered
by
a
question or questions simple
in themselves: "Who wants to be successful in life?" "Who
wants to be at peace and happy?" "Who seeks the best in
life with the least of sorrow and suffering?" The answer to all
of
these questions
is
the same as: "Who of ye seek the kingdom
of heaven?" THE ONE LAW GOVERNS IN ALL OF THESE THINGS.
This Law demands HONESTY, SINCERITY, APPLICATION.
The elimination of all that
is
evil; recognizing as
it
does, that
WHATEVER EVIL OR WHATEVER THE NATURE OF EVIL IN US,
IT DOES GREATER HARM TO OURSELVES, BRINGS US MORE
OF ST. JOHN 11
OF SORROW, THAN IT DOES TO ANY OTHER. Once this is fully
understood, the Path becomes brighter and easier, and St. John
shows us the "Way, the Truth, [and this will be] the Life."
Fraternally given,
R. SWINBURNE CLYMER
"Beverly Hall"
Quakertown, Penna.
February 7, 1953
CHAPTER ONE
And the Light Shineth in Darkness; and the
Darkness Comprehended It Not
1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word
was with God, and the Word was. God.
HE STATEMENT ". . . and the Word was God," ex
presses the whole idea. The "Word" indicates and
includes all that was. The Word was in God. It was
God. Out of Himself was created everything that is.
This is not as complicated as it may appear. Man is a replica
of God, though in a far less degree. Man just is. Nothing may
come of it. Worst of all, he may be a drone all his life, doing
nothing but subsisting, by one means or another, on the labor
of others.
However, man has a thinking mind. He is capable of
reasoning. He is possessed of the "Word." If he asserts himself—
that
is,
brings his mind and reasoning power into activity—he
will be able to plan and imagine and, as
a
result, things hitherto
unknown, either of benefit or to the detriment of his fellow
man, will be brought into existence.
In
a
lesser degree, he, like his Creator, will bring into
manifestation, OUT OF HIMSELF, that which previously did
not exist except in an unformed state. The Creator did just
this
by
His imaging. He brought into existence
a
world that
previously did not exist and, gradually, all the forms that now
exist. Man, the creature of God, may,
if
he will, become
a
co-
creator with God.
In these few words concerning the WORD
is
revealed the
mystery of the world and the almost unlimited possibility of
the individual man. Man has only to THINK, TO DESIRE, TO
14 THE INTERPRETATION
IMAGINE, TO MAKE EFFORT, TO UNTIRINGLY SET ABOUT
CREATING —and his desire becomes "flesh" —becomes a real,
actual and abiding reality.
2. The same was in the beginning with God.
This statement should be rendered: The same was in the
beginning in, or within God. This is actually true as it concerns
man. All capabilities, all potentialities, all creative powers, are
within man's mind, his thoughts, his imagination, and his
desires and efforts.
Equally, man's achievements are in perfect ratio to his
desires and his efforts to bring into manifestation that which
he imagines and desires.
3. All things were made by Him; and without Him was not
any thing made that was made.
4. In Him was life; and the life was the light of men.
This light which is the life of man, is the lesser light that
man possesses. It is generally termed the spirit. Unless man
seeks for the greater Light and makes an effort to manifest the
greater Light which is the Soul, the ETERNAL IN man, and
more than the lesser light, and even this is lost when life on the
earth plane ends.
5. And the Light shineth in darkness; and the darkness com
prehended it not.
This greater Light is altogether different from the lesser
light which is life. This Light which shineth in darkness is the
greater Light which is the Soul, the ETERNAL IN man, and
is obtainable only through DESIRE AND EFFORT on the part
of man. Out of the lesser light, which is life, may grow, or
be developed, this Greater Light, which is the Spark from God
Himself and gives eternal life to man, just as the lesser light
gives life to the body.
Light is the direct opposite of darkness. It can manifest
only as a reflex of darkness. The darkness can no more com
prehend the Light than can evil comprehend good. Nevertheless,
OF ST. JOHN 15
but for the darkness, Light could not exist any more than can
the great Light be made manifest except through the body,
the material man. Man is the "agent" which must bring the
Light into manifestation. It is only then that mortal man can
comprehend the Light —after he, himself, through desire and
effort, has developed it and brought it into manifestation.
This "bringing the Light into manifestation" becomes
possible only as man transmutes —changes —the grosser evils
within himself by developing Godly desires, and this trans
mutation then gives birth to the Light. This, in the esoteric or
Arcane sciences, is known as Illumination, and its achievement
is possible only after man changes his concept of what is real
and what is illusion. St. John, the "Beloved Disciple," was come
to bring to mankind this truth and its sublime possibilities.
Man cannot honestly "know" God until this Light, which is
the "life" of his Soul, is awakened and developed within himself.
6. There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.
All men who accept the truth, have the desire, and are
willing to make the effort, may attain to Illumination. In
Biblical terms, they are sent from God because as a result of
their efforts, they have become Illuminated, i.e., the LIGHT
WITHIN them has become awakened and brought into mani
festation, shining in the former darkness. In a word, they have
learned to know God.
7. The same came for a wirness, to bear witness of the Light,
that all men through him might believe.
This no longer has in mind the lesser light which is the
life of man, but the Great Light which is the life of the Soul.
If only the light of life were necessary, then St. John would
have had no mission to fulfill, seeing that all men recognize
the life or light of men by seeing them "move and have their
being."
St. John had accomplished what is known as the Great
Work; the purpose of man's mission on earth. He was not
16 THE INTERPRETATION
interested in material success; in possessions, or in honors.
He was interested only in man's attainment to Godhood; man's
search for that which was more than earthly.
He sought to teach men; to show them the way whereby
the lesser light, the light which is the life of man, might be
changed, converted, into the Greater Light which is the eternal
life of the Soul. He was the representative, the "advance agent,"
of one who was to follow, and who would more fully manifest
both the light which was then, and is now the life of man, as
well as the Great Light which is the Light of the Soul—the Soul
itself brought into Illumination or Cosmic Consciousness. This
truth, his mission, is explained in the few words which follow:
8. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that
Light.
St. John represented the personality; the human creature;
the outer manifestation of God's creation; the shell visible to
all, sealing within itself the possibilities of the future. He was
selected because he himself had accomplished this Great Work,
hence was well fitted for the mission he had willingly—aye,
anxiously—undertaken.
This Light of which he bore witness is the Awakened,
Manifested Soul WITHIN man. It is the Illuminated selfhood,
the Christos implanted within him at the beginning of life.
This Great Light, or Soul, is capable of manifesting only by
means of a body —darkness.
The body, being dense, represents, symbolizes and proves
darkness. Yet dense as it
is,
this body also symbolizes the
"temple" wherein the Soul, which
is
from God,
is
to dwell
that
it
may fully manifest its possibilities and capabilities,
whether good or evil.
John was not the Light, but the "bringer of the Light,"
the representative, the medium, through which the Light might
manifest and draw all men to itself; hence the Biblical state
ment: "I,
if
I
be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men
OF ST. JOHN 17
[who follow] unto me." It is possible for all men to become
like John and to bear witness of the Father and the reality
of the Light that is eternal.
9. That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that
cometh into the world.
This translation is in error. It should have been made to
read:
". . . which lighteth every man that cometh into the world,
accepts the truth, and obeys the Law."
Wages are paid only to the worker. Only he who sows
(makes effort) shall reap. Were it otherwise, the drone would
reap the same benefits as the honest worker; the "ne'er do
well" would bring forth as does the thinker and imaginer who
benefits mankind by his new ideas.
The statement confirms the truth that there are TWO
Lights: the one, the lesser light, which is the life of man, or
the body of man, and the TRUE or Greater Light, which is the
Light of the Soul and shows man the way to walk in the Light
of righteousness.
10. He was in the world, and the world was made by Him,
and the world knew Him not.
Here is a direct transition from St. John to the Creator
Himself. God, the Creator, generally known as Jehovah, was
the Creator of all things UP TO THE TIME HE CREATED MAN,
CONFERRING UPON HIS CREATION THE ABILITY TO BECOME
A CO-CREATOR. He, the Creator, was in the world, BECAUSE
HE WAS, AND IS, A PART OF ALL THE THINGS HE CREATED,
just as man is a part of all he produces.
Although the creation was manifest, and though He was
part of the manifested, the world, possessing only the lesser
light, could neither see Him nor recognize Him. This will
always be so until man, the individual, awakens and brings
into manifestation his Divine inheritance; the Christos resident
within himself.
18 THE INTERPRETATION
Man, so long as he possesses only the light which is life—
the lesser light —is materialistic; he is able to see only the dense;
the darkness, not the Light that dwells WITHIN the darkness.
The material, unawakened man can recognize nothing that is
eternal, hence not of dense substance; for only the spiritual Illu
minated man, he who is in possession of the Greater Light,
is capable of such recognition.
11. He came unto His own, and His own received Him not.
This might be more understandingly rendered:
". . . His own—His creation —was unable to recognize
Him."
He came — was with — His own — that which He had
created, but these being blind to the Great or spiritual Light,
they could not see Him. The spiritually blind cannot see the
Light, cannot see the Great Light; or seeing
it,
cannot recognize
it. Only those are able to see and recognize the Light who,
having accepted "the truth and the Way," and having
FOLLOWED
it,
brought the Light within themselves into man
ifestation
by
their DESIRE and continued EFFORTS, and thereby
become Illuminated, or encircled
by
the Light.
The Biblical statement apropos here is:
"When
I
was
a
child,
I
spake as
a
child,
I
understood as
a
child,
I
thought as
a
child; but when
I
became
a
man,
I
put away
childish things."—
I
Cor. 13:11.
However,
it
is
not always true that those who are in
darkness refuse the Light, because there are those who live in
darkness, nevertheless receive the stranger knocking at their
door. This
is
illustrated
by
the next statement:
12. But as many as received Him, to them gave He power
to become the sons of God, even to them that believe
on His name.
Possibly no other statement in the entire Testament ha»
been as frequently or so grossly wwinterpreted as this one
Almost universally
it
is
quoted as though
it
read:
"But as many as received Him, became the sons of God."
OF ST. JOHN 19
The all-important words "gave He power to BECOME
the sons of God," are entirely ignored. This statement is
usually interpreted as meaning that only belief or faith are
necessary for man to BECOME THE SON OF GOD. Perhaps
most of the world's evils are the result of this gross mis
interpretation, or of ignoring the fact that one MUST BECOME,
by desire and effort, by the WAY OF LIFE, THE SON OF GOD.
"Ye must sow, before ye can reap."
Believing alone will NEVER sow the kernels of wheat
whereby the life-sustaining bread may be reaped.
"Receiving Him," means to accept Him. ACCEPTING Him,
also means accepting His Law. Accepting the Law carries with
it the obligation to OBEY the Law, or live within the Law.
This LIVING is "Sowing," and the sower, we are promised, shall
reap according to his sowing and the spirit (feeling) in which
he sows.
In the exact degree to which man accepts the Law laid
down for his behavior does he "receive Him." In the ratio
that "he receives Him" will he make effort to bring into
manifestation the spiritual self, the Christos. When this has
been accomplished, then in truth has man "received Him" and
then also has he BECOME—not been made —the son of God.
Were it otherwise, the Law would not be Law, but a farce.
BECOMING THE SON OF GOD implies a prolonged stage of
growth; of inner spiritual development; of changing, by slow
degrees, the mortal into the Immortal. It is not a belief or a
faith, BUT CONTINUED EFFORT AND CHANGE AS A RESULT
OF BELIEF OR FAITH; but "faith without works is dead."
God, in His creation, was both fair and just. He gave all
men free Will, the privilege of choice, of accepting the con
structive or the destructive, the reward of one being the Light:
of the other, DEATH.
20 THE INTERPRETATION
All men have the ability and the opportunity to BECOME
that which they DESIRE. There is but one stipulation: They
must be willing to make the EFFORT, to LIVE that which they
desire to BECOME. THE PRICE MUST BE PAID. God "Plays
no favorites."
No longer is it possible to truthfully or sanely deny that
man is potentially the son of God; that he has the ability to
create or to bring new "worlds" into manifestation. No longer
can man be declared, or declare himself to be a poor, depraved
creature. The Creator of all has declared and decreed that if
man will "receive" Him, that
is,
be willing to accept His Law,
and make the necessary effort (do the "sowing"), he will in
time BECOME the
/a
son of God.
Man alone
is
responsible for what he
is,
for all that he
will be. No longer can he declare himself to be
a
mere "worm
of the dust" and place the blame on another, whether that other
be God or man. All rights and privileges are his. He may
become that which he desires to be, but he must make the
effort; he must earn that which he seeks to possess. He may
not steal from another, nor may another do his work for
him. The decree: "Whatsoever
a
man soweth, that shall he
also reap,"
is
in eternal operation and neither man nor priest
can set
it
aside. Were
it
otherwise, then God would be swayable
by
man's word; would be changeable; would be favorable to
one while denying the other.
"But as many as received Him [were willing to obey His Law
and act accordingly], to them gave He power to become sons
of God, even to them that believe on His name," and believing
[having faith] were willing to follow their belief
by
works
according to their faith.
13. Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the
flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
Whosoever
is
born of blood, i.e., of the will (desire) of
man,
is
of the flesh.
It
is
the material animal self and, as
OF ST. JOHN 21
such, is wholly lacking in the spirit or Light of God within
itself. He that has only the blood of man and the desires of man
within his being, though he may be intellectual, is of "a few
days, to be known no more."
Only he who is born both of the desire of man and of
the love which is of God, is both (a) man, and (b) potentially
(having within himself the wherewithal to become) a son of
God.
The creature known as man, may be born of flesh, of
blood, and possess mind, the possibility of choice and direction,
yet not be truly man. To be man IN FACT, there must be
feeling; there must be affection; there must be a keen desire
for the welfare of his fellow man. There must be a hunger
for the things which are neither of the flesh nor of the world;
a desire to find, and bring into manifestation, that Light
"Which is neither on land nor sea."
The intellect, however great, cannot know or recognize
this Light until the ego is made subject to the spirit; that
spirit being the spiritual self-hood received from God as a
part of the normal man's inheritance.
14. And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and
we beheld His glory, the glory as of the only begotten of
the Father,) full of grace and truth.
Interpreted, this would read:
And the Word was God; and God separated panicles from
Himself which became separate entities; these were the future
Souls. These Souls took upon themselves bodies and became
men, dwelling in the world (among men, no longer in the
heavenly sphere), and all those who lived according to His
Law GLORIFIED Him, (lived in the Light), and were (are)
full of truth, manifested by grace (graciousness).
The Soul of the Nazarene, being from God, was part of the
Word. Born in love, he took upon himself the flesh which
is of the world, in order that the Soul, the Word, the Christos,
might manifest before mankind and lead them in the path
22 THE INTERPRETATION
of righteousness (right-ness, right living). He was filled with
truth, hence was full of grace, or most gracious.
All men who will may manifest the "glory" of God, that
is,
develop and bring forth the Light which ALONE
is
the
glory of God, provided they, like the Nazarene, are willing to
live within the Law. God
is
no respecter of persons; there are
no privileged ones; none, until they have proven themselves
worthy, are to be chosen. This
is
clearly indicated
by
the
statement:
"Many are called; but few are chosen."
Each and every one must prove himself. This
is
also made
plain
by
another statement:
"By their works [their manner of life], shall ye know them."
To be "chosen" means to be "accepted," and none are ac
cepted except those who have given proof of their worthiness.
All, each and every one, have the privilege and opportunity to
prove themselves.
1
5.
John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was He
of whom
I
spake, He that cometh after me
is
preferred
before me: for He was before me.
To "bear witness"
is
to give testimony. John was fully
aware that the Nazarene would fully accept the Law and be
completely obedient to
it;
therefore, as
a
result of his obedience,
would be more acceptable than those less obedient. John was
not jealous or envious of the Nazarene. He fully recognized
that all men are given the opportunity to live in complete
obedience to the Law and as
a
result, manifest the Law, the
Light, —an attainment impossible for those who disobey the Law.
John had no self-pity for himself. Knowing the Law, he was
fully aware that
it
was "up to him" to prove himself. He was
no "cry baby," in the modern use of the term, thinking or be
lieving that someone else should do the work for him; allowing
him to take the credit, or reap the unearned benefits.
16. And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.
OF ST. JOHN 23
17. For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came
by Jesus Christ.
Moses received the Law which was to govern the action of
men. This Law is cold. It is the Law of exact exchange. Of an
eye for an eye. It represents action and Reaction, the same Law
which was enunciated by the Nazarene in his dictum:
"Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap."
There is not a particle of difference between these two state
ments, although one way sounds less harsh than the other. The
Nazarene, however, was to show men that though the Law was
hard or harsh, it also offered the blessings of the Law to all who
obeyed the Law. His statement offered the definite assurance
that they would be repaid, or rewarded for their effort; the
sower reaping the reward of his sowing (efforts) to the utmost,
even to the final or ultimate reward of sonship with God.
There has been no change in the Law or its enforcement
since it was handed down or "received" by Moses. It has been
re-interpreted from time to time, to make it plain and under
standable. The benefits of the Law have been explained as
fully as has the punishment for infringement of the Law. The
command is still "obedience to the Law."
18. No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten
Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, He hath declared
Him.
This translation is wholly erroneous and in total contra
diction of numerous other Biblical statements which clearly
show that God has many times appeared unto men, and that
they have seen Him, though always in the form of fire, Light or
lightning.
It is of course true, that the man of the flesh, he who has
made no effort to fulfill the Law and bring the "Light from out
under the bushel" has not seen Him, and cannot see Him, be
cause of the dense darkness in which he lives. Only those who
obey the injunction to seek the word, the Light, will sooner or
24 THE INTERPRETATION
later awaken the Christos hidden within, and this Christos, being
the Light or a part of the Word, will then manifest unto them
in visible form.
Once man begins to live in accordance with the dictates of
the Law, he begins to manifest the characteristics of the Law in
operation. This manifestation must begin in the innermost
Center of his being where the Christos is hidden, because it is
there that the first part of the Great Work must have its
beginning.
Even though we may experience such manifestation, we are
not yet able to see the Father. Outer manifestation is neither
more nor less than the degree of the awakening of the Christos
dwelling within the temple which is man. As we continue to
grow, hence make effort, and as we free the temple from all that
is unworthy, more and more of the spiritual self will make itself
felt and this is the Word, in the form of the Light which is God.
It is to be emphasized that Soul awakening, or Christic
awakening, is a long-drawn-out process which finds its culmina
tion in Soul Consciousness or Illumination. THIS is THE SECOND
OR SPIRITUAL BIRTH which the Nazarene emphatically taught
as necessary in order to be able to "enter into the kingdom of
heaven, or of God." Only after this Work is fully accomplished
can it be truthfully said that the Soul has become "The only
[one of] begotten of the Father," has seen Him and known Him
—and has become, in truth and fact, "one of the sons of God."
19. And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests
and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?
20. And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am
not the Christ.
The Jews, suspicious of every one who had, or was thought
to have, any connections or relationship with the Nazarene,
question who John was? What his mission? John's answer
makes it clear that they even seriously considered that he might
be the Nazarene—the Christ. John gave them a most positive
answer: I am NOT the Christ.
OF ST. JOHN 25
21. And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And
he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he
answered, No.
They were not satisfied with his answer. Deceitful them
selves, they would not accept a truthful answer, but questioned
him farther. "(Then) art thou Elias." He answered them
again in a positive manner. I am not. Still unsatisfied, they
questioned again: "Art thou that prophet?" It is not stated
"What prophet." John might in truth have answered them:
"I am a prophet here to foretell of one who is far greater than
I and who is come to teach the WAY, the TRUTH and the LIFE,
and to lead from death into life.
22. Then said they unto him, who art thou? that we may give
an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of
thyself?
23. He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness,
Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet.
John's answer is complete and to the point. "I am as a voice
in the wilderness." I am come to show unto men the way where
by they may bring order out of confusion, for truly men are
living in a "bewildered state." I am NOT Elias, but it is my
mission to further exemplify the teachings of Elias. I am the
forerunner of the Nazarene who is to manifest the Christ, who
will teach mankind to awaken the Christos within themselves
into the Light; that Light which is God or the Word. This
Light will show men the WAY, lead them into the LIFE, that
they may come out of their state of confusion into one of order
and understanding. Though John claimed to be no more than
the "voice" crying in the wilderness, it was exactly as though
he had said: "I am the Light showing you, or leading you, out
of your present state of confusion, thereby making straight the
Lord's path. I am the Light. This Light is the Christos which
all men may find if they attain the SECOND OR SPIRITUAL
BIRTH.
26 THE INTERPRETATION
24. And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.
25. And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest
thou then, if thou be not that Christ nor Elias, neither
that prophet?
26. John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but
there standeth one among you, whom ye know not;
27. He it
is,
who coming after me
is
preferred before me,
whose shoe's latchet
I
am not worthy to unloose.
Baptism
by
water has reference to the mind's awakening to
the uncertainty of all that
is
material and to
a
recognition of the
possibility of coming into an understanding of spiritual truths
which are the only reality.
The material
is
of
a
few days, passes on and
is
forgotten; but
that which
is
held imprisoned within the material, within the
physical man,
is
an eternal possibility and,
if
brought into mani
festation, becomes an eternal certainty.
It
was John's mission
to teach the way whereby men would be able to awaken within
themselves this eternal certainty, the Christos.
Before this was possible
it
was necessary to become mentally
awakened; becoming conscious of the truth that there was some
thing above and beyond the material;
a
something far more
desirable, but attainable only
if
the old way of thinking, desiring
and living was discontinued and the new Way followed. This
was
a
Great Work.
It
was /is
a
necessary Work.
Without the successful accomplishment of John's mission,
no one would have sought the Christos; awakened the Christos
WITHIN; attained to the SECOND OR SPIRITUAL BIRTH. In its
way, John's mission was as great as that of the Nazarene who
came to finish the work started
by
His messenger, John.
While man
is
in the mental "wilderness," he lives in con
fusion, does not think properly or clearly. HE ACCEPTS THINGS
AS THEY ARE. He
is
more or less satisfied with the things that
give pleasure and contentment to the flesh. Under this con
dition, his better, higher nature
is
truly asleep, or
in
a
dormant,
OF ST. JOHN 27
unawakened state. He may seem to be a success in business, in
social, or in governmental affairs; but he is not truly awake to
the higher interests of his own inner or divine nature.
As he awakens to the fact that his ultimate destiny demands
something more than material interests, as he searches for that
which will satisfy his higher nature, he is said to be in the process
of "awakening." In his search, he finds "the Way, the Truth,
and the Life" that guides his mind in the construction, or the
building, of his Soul. In the process, he is said to be "baptized
with water;" or to have become awakened in mind. To express
the thought in still other words, his mind has become the
Awakened, or the Illuminated Mind.
When the mind has become thoroughly awake to its func
tion in the Divine plan, it begins to create conditions which
permit the Soulual nature to properly unfold. It has become
Illuminated in the sense that it clearly sees "the path" that leads
to Illumination of Soul and can visualize the ideal temple
structure of the Immortal Soul. The mind then has an intelli
gent grasp of the principles and the methods that underlie the
development of Soulual powers. The truly awakened mind has
a clear knowledge concerning the principles and the methods
of Soul Building and can explain them to others.
This figure, common in sacred literature, is drawn from the
statement, "Know ye not that ye are the temples of the living
God?" The body of man is the temple of the living God. There
is a science of Soul Building —a science and an art of Soul
Architecture. The principles underlying this science and this
art are as exact as those underlying the construction of a massive
stone structure.
It stands to reason that the Master Architect must under
stand in detail the principles, the laws, the artistic devices of
temple building. Equally true is it that the mind of man must
have an intelligent comprehension of the principles, the Divine
Laws, and the artistic devices that underlie the architecture of the
28 THE INTERPRETATION
Soul. When the mind has truly awakened to a realization of
these laws and principles, and is willing to assume its rightful
place in the Divine plan as the master architect of the Soul, it
has truly become the Awakened, or Illuminated Mind.
But it is to be distinctly emphasized that the awakened, or
"baptized" mind, is not the Christ. It is the "forerunner of the
Christ." The Christ comes after the awakened mind has built
the Soul, or after the Soul has truly been awakened, when the
material mind of man is supplanted. The man whose Soul is
awakened no longer uses the mind centered in the head, or in
the brain, for the greater work of Soul Building and Soul Illum
ination; but the Light at the Center—the great Center upon
the Altar in the temple.
28. These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan,
where John was baptizing.
29. The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and
saich, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the
sin of the world.
It is not the Nazarene who calls himself "the Lamb of God,"
but John. The same might be said of all who have awakened to
the realization that the things that belong to the flesh, the ma
terial form, are not eternal, but of passing need and value to
those who have been "baptized by water" to be supplanted by
the Light which follows the rebirth or REgeneration.
This means that they have become mentally awakened.
They have come into an understanding or realization that there
is something greater, higher, beyond that heretofore recognized
and accepted. They are sufficiently awakened to recognize those
who have attained to Soul Consciousness, Illumination, or
Christhood.
After attaining to Soul Consciousness or Illumination, our
"sins are taken away," because, during the process, we, including
all that is a part of us, have passed through a form of change
or transmutation. The evils of our carnal nature have been
OF ST. JOHN 29
changed into the Godly emotions and, as a result of this change,
or REbirth, the evils that were formerly a part of us, have ceased
to exist, or, more correctly speaking, have become the Christic
attributes of our being.
Having progressed to this point, we are then able to become
"Voices in the wilderness," and to take away, i.e., remove the
sins (evils) of the world, not by forgiving them; not by taking
them upon ourselves, but by teaching the truth, by showing
others the way so that they also may find their way out of the
"wilderness of error" and into the light of understanding.
Through the transforming power of this newly-gained knowl
edge, the carnal is changed or transmuted into the spiritual,
making it possible for the inner Light to lead the way to that
which is real and eternal. Neither man nor world Teacher can
save other men. All they can do is TO TEACH MEN HOW TO
SAVE THEMSELVES.
30. This is He of whom I said, After me cometh a man which
is preferred before me; for He was before me.
Even John does not speak of the Nazarene as Christ, or the
son of God, but as a man, because he, in his wisdom, knew that
the Nazarene had not as yet attained to Messiahship. The Soul
cannot be brought into Consciousness, the Divine in man cannot
become active, until after the mind has been awakened to
spiritual truths. Until the mind of man becomes conscious of
the darkness and ignorance in which it exists, it will not, it can
not seek the Light; and until the Light is sought and found, man
cannot do otherwise than grovel in the darkness.
"For He was before me." If John here referred to the
physical man, he could not possibly have had reference to Jesus,
or more correctly, the Nazarene, unless he believed in Reincar
nation, because John was born before the Nazarene saw the
light of physical day.
But the Christ is always. There never was a time when He
was not, and never will there be a time when He is not. He will
30 THE INTERPRETATION
be even after all men have attained to the SECOND OR SPIRIT
UAL BIRTH and brought the Christos, hidden within, into full
manifestation; themselves becoming Christic; the sons of God.
31. And I knew Him not: but that He should be made mani
fest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.
"Israel" is here a synonym for darkness; the universal
ignorance of Divine Law, or the refusal to live in harmony with
it,
if
known. That this Divine Law might become generally
known, John was willing, aye, anxious, to labor, to teach all
men, so that there might be
a
mental awakening,
a
baptism
by
water,
a
way shown out of the darkness of confusion. This was
John's mission, just as
it
is the mission of every one who has
the welfare of mankind at heart.
Such
a
mission requires the teaching of truth; the con
demnation of the evils rampant in the existing order of society;
plus
a
clear delineation of the means whereby men may gain
their freedom and attain to spiritual sonship —the only reality
and the only part of man that remains active after the short
sojourn on earth
is
finished.
32. And John bare record, saying,
I
saw the Spirit descending
from heaven like
a
dove, and
it
abode upon him.
This verse offers an opportunity to explain several things
that have always puzzled the sincere seeker. The first of these
is
the use of the word "Spirit." This word
is
here used as
a
synonym for Light; the Light that
is
God. Its use
is
excusable,
though improper, because there
is
no other word to take its place.
Spirit, does not generally mean God, or the Soul, or the Christos,
but LIFE.
Secondly, this "spirit" descended in the form of
a
dove.
Biblically speaking, the terms Fire, Light, lightning and the
dove are used interchangeably. The dove, when so used and
illustrated,
is
usually in
a
halo of light, symbolizing the eternal
Ught or God.
OF ST. JOHN 31
Lastly, the use of the word "heaven." The terms "heaven"
and "from above" are likewise used interchangeably. Heaven
is always thought of as "above."
When Soul Awakening takes place, when Soul Conscious
ness becomes a reality, there is an influx of light, which appears
as a dove coming from the skies.
This is Illumination. In like manner it comes to all those
who use the awakened mind for the awakening of the Soul.
When Awakening, or Illumination, has taken place, then
do we testify of
it,
or "bear record" —not in words only, but in
deeds performed in our relations with men. Perhaps
a
word of
warning
is
needed here. We must remember that the practical
things of life are in no wise to be separated from the so-called
spiritual.
The Divine Law pertains to all our relations with men.
It
is
impossible for the habitual recluse, or hermit, to attain the
highest estate of Soul Consciousness. In other words, the prac
tical dealings of human life in relation with others on the social
and business plane, and in connection with daily home interests
—these very things, these very conditions, are in great part the
means
by
which Soul Consciousness
is
to be attained.
33. And
I
knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with
water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see
the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same
is
he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.
A
more direct statement and one more easily understood
would be:
".
. . Upon whom thou shalt see the Light descending, and
remaining with him, the same
is
he who shall baptize with the
Ineffable Light those whom you have baptized with Under
standing and the desire to bring their Souls into Consciousness."
The Holy Ghost
is
in all instances the Ineffable Light, or
the Light which
is
from, or part of, God. This term, correctly
rendered, would be Holy Spirit, or still more correctly, Holy
light.
32 THE INTERPRETATION
The voice that spoke to John was that of the Soul's Con
sciousness. It is the voice that is awakened simultaneously with
the Soul. When the baptism of water, i.e., mental awakening
takes place, the mind becomes conscious of the more desirable
things of life. The conscience gradually becomes aroused to
activity. It BECOMES AN URGE TO LEAD A DIFFERENT AND
MORE CONSTRUCTIVE LIFE; a life leading to greater life and
away from death.
Correctly speaking, the Spirit, or Light, does not descend
upon anyone. This Light, or rather, the nucleus of this Light,
in the form of the Christos, is inherent in all normal human
creatures. When it becomes awakened, i.e., brought "out from
under the bushel" (the gross body wherein it is hidden) it is
brought into manifestation from within —but encircles the
entire person; giving the appearance as of coming from above.
This is the reason why artists pictured the halo above the heads
of those they believed to be holy. This belief dates back to
ancient Egypt and the Greater Mysteries.
34 And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.
When this Light that is hidden within, this Christos, is
awakened and brought into manifestation, man attains to
Illumination or Soul Consciousness. This is actually, Biblically
speaking, the Second or Spiritual birth. It is then that man
becomes the Son of God. John, witnessing this Light surround
ing the Nazarene, knew at once that this was one "sent" from
God, capable of teaching and leading others along the way so
that they, also, might attain to Soul Consciousness or Sonship
with the Father.
35. Again the next day after John stood, and two of his
disciples;
36. And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold,
the Lamb of God!
There is not the slightest difference in the meaning and
application between the terms, "the Lamb of God," "the Son
OF ST. JOHN 33
of God," Soul Illumination, and Soul Consciousness. They all
refer to one and the same attainment.
The unenlightened are those who have not as yet become
baptized by water, or had an awakening of the mind to a
greater and more desirable life. They have not experienced
the self-effacement of the selfish self, essential to the awakening
and development of the Soul.
Those who still "walk in darkness," Biblically speaking,
should bear in mind that all who have "accepted" and attained,
never make claims for themselves, but permit their "Works"
and others to speak for them.
It is here to be emphasized that to realize the personal
experience of divinity in humanity, hence the possibility of
Godhood in humanity, demands a depth of humility and
sincere meekness —NOT SERVILITY —and a renunciation of
the selfish self that transcends the imagination of even those
versed in spiritual matters.
Genuineness of humility, graciousness (grace-ful-ness),
sincerity and effacement of the lower or carnal self, must
equal in depth the transcendant exaltation of a consciousness
that is gradually identifying itself with the Infinite.
37. And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed
Jesus.
38. Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto
them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which
is to say, being interpreted, Master), where dwellest thou?
39. He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw
where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was
about the tenth hour.
The original implication had in mind and view the attitude
of the truly mentally awakened who were seeking for that
which is greater than the personal self; for that which is the
reality of which the personal self is but the shadow. They were
seeking for the real man, the Christos buried deeply within the
34 THE INTERPRETATION
personal self and of which they possessed no more than an
inkling. Seeking this real self, this eternal possibility, they
could truthfully ask: "Where dwelleth the Christos, he who
has come from God?" They sought the privilege of attaining
to the Consciousness of God —the Second or Spiritual birth.
It is only with these facts in mind that the statements make
sense.
Having come into the mentally awakened state of con
sciousness, the aspirant after Divine knowledge must seek
further in order to be able to begin to live in what will
ultimately be the Consciousness of the Soul or the Christic
state. During this stage of development it is but natural that
the self within should ask: "Where dwelleth thou, the Christ?"
There is faith, there is desire, but as yet no actual knowledge.
40. One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him,
was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.
41. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto
him, We have found the Messias, which
is,
being inter
preted, the Christ.
Here again there
is
confusion in the original translation
and rendition, as
is
self-evident. Had Andrew actually found
the "Christ" he would most assuredly have known where that
Christ was. Biblically speaking: "Where he dwelt," he did
not know, as was clearly indicated
by
verse 38, but he was
seeking him; or the place of his "abode."
This frequent conflict between so-called "practical" knowl
edge, and Arcane knowledge,
is
confusing.
It
should be ex
plained and then set aside as of no importance. All attention
should be centered on the Way, the "Keynote" of John's teach
ings, i.e., the Second or Spiritual birth.
42. And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld
him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shah
be called Cephas, which
is
by
interpretation,
A
stone.
OF ST. JOHN 35
A stone or rock has the same symbolic meaning. To build
upon a rock is to build upon a firm, or lasting (eternal)
foundation. Jn the Arcane of Illumination, the foundation stone
indicates "obedience," and Simon means "to obey," i.e., to be
steadfast.
To the profane, this verse is entirely cryptic; but to the
knowing, it clearly indicates that, for the moment at least,
the mind of the Nazarene turned to his own long stay in
Egypt, the teachings of his Masters and his Initiation. All who
attained to Philosophic Initiation, or the Christic Consciousness,
received a spiritual name; not from the teachers, priests and
initiators, BUT FROM THE SPIRITUAL HIERARCHIES WHICH
THEY CONTACTED AS A RESULT OF THEIR ATTAINMENT
OF SOUL CONSCIOUSNESS. This manner of the reception of
the Initiate name is as true today as it was in the time of
Egypt and the Nazarene.
43. The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and
findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.
44. Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and
Peter.
Philip means "one who loves." Bethsaida means "the
house from which is brought forth." It has reference to the
physical man who must become by desire and effort, the
"Temple of the Christos," or the LIVING GOD. This is only
possible by means of the affection which is love: a keen desire
for the things we seek to become or attain; a desire so strong
that he who seeks will permit nothing to stand in the way of
his efforts of attainment.
45. Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have
found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets,
did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.
Nathanael interpreted means: the knowledge that is from
God. By means of being imbued with the love (which is God),
we can, if we desire and are willing to make the necessary
36 THE INTERPRETATION
effort, change the body, the "house of creation or production"
to bring forth the Christos hidden therein, and into man
ifestation as the son of God.
46. And Nathanael said unto him, Gin there any good thing
come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and
see.
Nazareth is the place where the Nazarene was physically
born.
Can any good come out of the carnal body? Perhaps if
you were to look back thousands of years to the time when
Nathanael asked this question, there were also those who
asked the question: Can anything beautiful come out of the
muck and slime of the Nile? Nature answered by bringing
forth the beautiful lily, the Lotus, symbolic of the Awakened
and Conscious Soul.
Nazareth actually means "the house that produces," and
the production of the body, though carnal, is in every sense
as important as is Illumination. Without the body to give
residence to the Christos, the as yet unawakened Soul, there
could be no Souls on earth to be awakened and brought into
Consciousness, and the Christos which became the Christ would
never have had existence.
The Law of opposites is paramount in this as in all else
in the universe. It is only when generation in the "house of
production," or the principle of generation, is changed into
that of REgeneration, that there can "come forth something
good out of Nazareth."
The Nazarene, born of the flesh, came forth from the
"house of production" or Nazareth. This same Nazarene,
himself a house of production, changed the procedure. By
living a life of love, or REgeneration, he brought forth the
Christos within that house of production and became the Christ.
OF ST. JOHN 37
Out of the body, the physical self, which is often so vile
and degraded, must be brought forth that which is glorious
and Immortal, just as the lily, purest and whitest of flowers,
has its roots in a bed of slime.
47. Jesus saw Nathanael coming to Him, and saitb of him,
Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!
This indeed was an implication, and because of
it,
the
Israelites had no love for the Nazarene. Nathanael, though
an Israelite, was free from the darkness that enshrouded not
only the Israelites, but most other men. He was not held in
the bondage of the darkness and ignorance of the self-
righteousness of his kind. In him there dwelt the desire for
that which was real, and he was ready to accept the Way and
follow it.
48. Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me?
Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip
called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree,
I
saw thee.
He who seeks to live in love, the Soul realm, though
still governed
by
the laws of generation, will at once be
recognized
by
those who have attained to understanding.
The love in the heart manifests itself through the entire being.
None possessed of the love that
is
unselfish are able to conceal
it. Biblically speaking: All things however hidden, shall
become revealed.
49. Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art
the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel.
The sincerity and guilelessness in the heart of Nathanael
permitted him to see and to understand that which was hidden
from most other men; thus must
it
aways be. Nothing
is
ever concealed from those who seek and whose eyes have
opened as
a
result of their sincerity and truthfulness. This
is
clearly indicated in the command: "Seek and ye shall find;
knock and
it
shall be opened unto you."
50. Jesus answered and said unto him, Because
I
said unto
thee,
I
saw thee under the
fig
tree, believest thou? Thou
shah see greater things than these.
38 THE INTERPRETATION
By doing little things, we develop power to do greater.
Works begin in faith; but, as our works show results, faith
as such is no longer necessary. Faith has given way to knowl
edge; or, faith has become knowledge; and, through knowledge,
it is possible to do still greater things.
As man continues in the path of obedience to the Christic
Ideal, the light of truth illumines his way more and more;
the warmth of love gives him more and more fervor; and the
chemic quality of a masterful Will transmutes more and
more thoroughly the undesirable tendencies of his nature into
that which is more desirable —and eventually, if he perseveres
and remains steadfast, Illumination of Soul results.
51. And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you.
Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God
ascending and descending upon the Son of man.
"Heaven," like faith and confidence, affection and graci-
ousness, is WITHIN man. As so frequently stated, man
is,
or
should be, and can be, the Temple of the Living God. Where
God dwells, there
is
heaven indeed and the angels descend
thereto and therefrom. When the body has been cleansed of
the gross carnal passions, die animal desires and longings, and
these have been replaced
by
the holier emotions, then the
Soul awakens and emerges as the Light which
is
Illumination;
this
is
the second or Spiritual birth.
Heaven, whatever its phase,
is
not
a
place, but
a
STATE OF
BEING, and though the Godly Soul were in "hell,"
it
would
still be in heaven, or
a
state of peace. Before we can know,
feel or recognize heaven, the gross must be eliminated from
the temple where heaven
is
to exist, otherwise
it
could not
by
any possibility be
a
fit dwelling place for God, or the Lord,
or the Christos. When the human temple
is
properly prepared,
then will God —the spiritual self —take possession; the Light
will be upon the altar and man will know his God.
CHAPTER TWO
"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and
that the spirit {Light} of God {may} dwell in you?"
1. And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee;
and the mother of Jesus was there:
2. And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the mar
riage.
3. And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith
unto him, They have no wine.
4. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee?
Mine hour is not yet come.
JINCE the Nazarene was speaking to his mother, it is
inconceivable that he, gentlest of all men, should have
used such harsh language in addressing her. It must
therefore be taken for granted that all said in these four verses
are cryptic, or in symbolic language.
The Nazarene's mission was to teach, to furnish mankind
with food and drink, it is true, but of a spiritual and not a
material nature.
True marriage is based on the highest spiritual truth
known to man, i.e., LOVE, and Love is of God. It is true that
there
is,
generally, feasting, but this has nothing to do with
marriage itself.
Wine, in the higher sense,
is
a
spiritual fire; so
is
love.
Unless this spiritual fire, or love
is
present, there cannot be
true marriage,
it
is
a
sham.
"Woman, what have
I
to do with thee?"
is
simply to say:
What have
I
to do with the material things of life, such as
the feast which follows the ceremony of sanctifying the new
relationship. "Mine hour
is
not yet come," an indication that
the hour of his real work had not as yet arrived. He was
40 THE INTERPRETATION
concerned only with the things that concerned man's spiritual
welfare, and the wine of the grape, unless abused, had nothing
to do with that.
3. His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith
unto you, do it.
That which the Divine Law ordains, and which he taught,
we must obey if we desire the fruits that come to us as a result
of obedience. Unless we heed the dictates of the Divine Law,
we will not be able to reap the benefits which follow obedience.
Whatsoever the Law demands, irrespective of who may voice
it,
that must be obeyed, or we suffer the consequences for our
disobedience. This
is
true in all things; both material and
spiritual.
6.
And there were set there six watcrpots of stone, after the
manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or
three firkins apiece.
7.
Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And
they filled them up to the brim.
8.
And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto
the governor of the feast. And they bare it.
9.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was
made wine, and knew not whence
it
was: (but the serv
ants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the
feast called the bridegroom,
10. And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set
forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then
that which
is
worse; but thou hast kept the good wine
until now.
The entire interpretation must be esoteric. What has the
purification of the Jews to do with the waterpots? This state
ment in itself offers us the key.
In the making of wine, fruit juices, themselves pure,
must be permitted to ferment. Fruit juices, however healthful,
are not spiritual. Fermentation does two things:
(
1
)
It
gradually
develops
a
"spirit" which
is
actually
a
fire; (2)
It
separates the
"spirit" from the material.
OF ST. JOHN 41
To digress; love may begin with respect between persons,
itself not spiritual in the true sense; then develop into affection,
and affection into the flame that is Love.
Again, water represents the mind. Unless there is "a mind
to aspire to greater things," i.e., desire spiritual awakening, the
mind will remain just water —earthly. If there is an awakening;
a desire for the higher born, then gradually there will be a
"fermentation," i.e., a dissatisfaction, an uncertainty, a seeking,
an effort followed by a purification; a spiritualization, which is
a fire just as is the "spirit" in wine and the nature of Love.
To "obey him" is to follow the Law, which requires that the
mind which is as yet water, and all its forces; the thoughts,
desires and Will, be directed in such a manner as to transmute,
change, to draw up, the physical and the mental energies so that
they become "wine."
Unless we obey the Divine Law, unless we do whatsoever
the Law of Love and Truth indicates, there can be no good
results.
"The jug," that
is,
our body, must be filled, the mind must
be whole, or complete; then we must use the mind in such
a
way
as to draw up these forces. When we do this according to the
Divine Law, they —"the waters" —are transmuted into "wine."
In other words, the mental forces have been changed into Soul
forces.
This narrative
is
a
beautiful parable of the spiritual process
of Transmutation.
It
refers to the true Alchemy, or Spiritual
Chemistry—the art of transforming undesirable tendencies of
character into Christ-like graces of heart.
The bridegroom
is
he who has accomplished the work. He
has wedded. The Soul, through its Illumination, or Awakening,
has become one with the Father;
it
is
become the Christ, the
Son of God.
42 THE INTERPRETATION
In this work, the mind forces, or "the worst wine," are used
first in order that "the good wine," or the results of transmu
tation, may be last.
11. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee,
and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed
on him.
The change or transmutation of evil into good, of the base
into the refined; the character of evil into that of nobility, IS a
miracle. Even today when we witness the conversion of one
who has been most evil, into one of honor and goodness, it is
called a miracle, and rightly so.
Moreover, the gradual change of respect between two per
sons into true Love, the fire of the Soul, is likewise a miracle,
and one of the greatest it is possible for man to experience.
These things are possible only in "Galilee," Galilee meaning
"the place of continuation," hence of effort till the Work is
accomplished; consummated; continuation signifying the long-
continued process necessary in Transmutation, or Spiritual
chemistry.
12. After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother,
and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued
there not many days.
13. And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up
to Jerusalem.
The Passover —a holy significance —of the Jews had degen
erated into nothing higher than a feast of material food and
drink, without the semblance of its former spiritual significance.
The true Passover, then as now, symbolized just what the word
means; passing, or changing, from the evil ways of the evil life,
to the true, higher or spiritual life by obedience to the Divine
Law.
14. And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep
and doves, and the changers of money sitting:
These temples of the Jews were no longer places devoted
alone to the worship of God and the finding of the Great Reality,
OF ST. JOHN 43
known as the Soul. They had become places of debased and
degraded action; not holy places of spirituality. Even though
this is true, we are not privileged to assume the "holier than
thou attitude" but to face facts squarely.
Wherein is the spiritual difference between the actions of
the Jews of that day and the man of today who has become a
member of the church, any church, for business and social
reasons; or my lady looking for an opportunity to display her
new dress, hat or furs, seeking to cause envy in the hearts of
other women? Evil is evil, irrespective of its nature or particular
manifestation.
Our churches, anciently more often called temples or syna
gogues, are material (outer) representations of the temples
wherein God may dwell. A temple, material or within man,
should always be a place of prayer ( heart feeling, internal sanc
tity, graciousness of Soul) where men should seek for, or
congregate to learn, the Divine Law.
The Church should be a place where those in attendance
may be taught how to live in accordance with God's Will; the
Divine Law, in harmony with all that is good, i.e., of welfare to
all who are willing to accept the Law as a gauge for their
relationship to their fellow men, so ail-inclusively contained in
the command: "Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that
men should do to you, do ye even so to them."
All the temples are but symbols of the temple of Man, the
center of which is the Holy of Holies, wherein is the Altar on
which burns the fire of the Vestals; the fire that should never be
extinguished, but kept burning continually so that it may become
"the Light that lighteth every man that cometh into the world."
Not only had the Jews lost the meaning of their Passover,
but they no longer had any knowledge of their own divinity.
The Father no longer dwelt within them; for they had so
degenerated that they did not even recognize the truth their
temples represented.
44 THE INTERPRETATION
Instead of being the houses of instruction, and symbolic of
the Divine Temple wherein God dwells, their temples had
become houses of trade, the homes of money changers.
15. And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove
them all out of the temple, ana the sheep, and the oxen;
and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the
tables;
16. And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things
hence; make not my Father's house an house of mer
chandise.
As the temple built by man is a symbol of the Temple "not
made by hands," so are "doves" the emblem of truth, of Light,
and of purity. There are forces in man's nature for the building
of the Immortal Soul; but man is prone to employ them for base
and ignoble purposes.
The "doves" are symbolic of these forces and energies in
man's being—forces, pure in themselves, but admitting of a
wrong, or perverted use on man's part, or of even being wasted
or "sold." Instead of using them as a means of worshipping the
one Father who is in the temple, the Jews were making mer
chandise of them, selling them, or casting them aside.
No man can find the Father unless he cleanses his temple,
and then sets free the "doves" —raises the forces he possesses,
pure in themselves, up to the Altar, and there presents them as
gifts to the Father. Only in this way can the transmutation, the
change, or Passover, be consummated, that man may pass from
the mortal to the Immortal, to God; from carnality to Souluality;
from degeneracy to Christic characteristics.
17. And his disciples remembered that it was written, The
zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
Unless the forces, abilities and possibilities inherent in us as
attributes of the Father Creator are employed for the purpose
intended, they become as ashes—dead. The zeal and zest with
which men employ them for profit and pleasure will be a fire to
destroy them, and nothing will be left wherewith to light the
OF ST. JOHN 45
Fire upon the Altar of Divinity and keep it burning until
Immortality is attained: "mortality having put on Immortality."
18. Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign
shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?
Always, throughout the ages, the demand of the masses has
been for signs, notwithstanding that the merest charlatan is able
to show "signs and wonders." "He who knows" does not profess
or display his knowledge, but is willing to go silently on his
way, without show or ostentation, helping those who earnestly
seek help.
The Jews of those early days were no different in this respect
from men of the present day. Always, humanity seeks man-
conferred authority, documents of power; meaningless creden
tials and false evidences of power and prestige. To be able to
teach the truth, man himself must KNOW the truth, and this
comes only from within. In order to heal, there must be health
within and the spirit that is Light. That Light is from God —
is God.
19. Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple,
and in three days I will raise it up.
20. Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple
in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?
21. But he spake of the temple of his body.
The Nazarene had reference to himself. To him, his body
was a temple. It was his mission to teach men that they, in truth,
were "the temples of the Living God," i.e., that they might so
live that their bodies would become so purified as to be fitting
places for God to dwell. His statement, that if they destroyed
his temple, his body, he would be able to raise it again contained
both a challenge and a promise, neither of which was under
stood by the Jews who questioned him.
The Nazarene had been instructed and trained in Egypt in
the esoteric knowledge of that country. In the religious concept
of the early Egyptians, there was a clear cleavage between body
46 THE INTERPRETATION
and Soul, and the process of establishing an equilibrium or
balance between the two constituted the Great Work. Until this
was accomplished, the body of man would be less than what it
should or could be: A temple of the Living God —the Immortal
Soul—nor would the Soul have attained to Consciousness,
typifying the second or spiritual birth.
Everything has its symbolic counterpart. "As above, so
below," was the Law of Hermes. Consequently, we find that the
body of man is the only real temple. It is in this temple that
man must truly worship the Father, not by words called prayer,
but by prayer which finds expression in true feeling, and by
deeds which have their beginning in holy desire.
The temple wherein God truly dwells is symbolized by
temples of stone where mankind attempts to worship God
through words of praise. These temples have their rightful use
and their purposes and are an honor to God when the service is
an honor to Him.
Jesus had reference to the real temple, the body of man; but
the Jews understood him to mean the temple building in which
they worshipped.
So that the seeker after truth may understand this more
fully, we will again quote this verse, to be followed by I Corin
thians 3:16-17.
"But he spake of the temple of his body."
"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the
Spirit of God dwelleth in you?"
"If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy;
for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are."
This is an interpretation which no one can contradict with
out also denying the Scriptures themselves.
22. When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples
remembered that he had said this unto them; and they
believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.
OF ST. JOHN 47
23. Now when he was in Jerusalem at the Passover, in the
feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the
miracles which he did.
It is easy for us to have faith in a man after we witness the
things he is able to perform; but mere belief, simple faith in him,
will not give us the power he possesses. Only as we obey the
same Laws, live accordingly, and make like effort, can we come
into possession of, or develop within ourselves, the same power
or forces.
Faith is a prime essential. Without faith we would be
unwilling to make the necessary effort. Faith, however, is only
the beginning. Faith without effort, without works, is dead and
to no purpose. It is through faith, accompanied by effort, that
we may BECOME, ACCOMPLISH AND ACHIEVE.
24. But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he
knew all men.
Having attained to Illumination, Soul Consciousness or the
Second and Spiritual birth, the Nazarene was enabled to look
into the hearts of men; to read there what was written in their
eyes. His intuitive powers fully awakened, he was able to feel
instantly whether those who approached him were sincere.
25. And needed not that any should testify of man; for he
knew what was in man.
It is only as we ourselves have known the passions, the
weaknesses and evil tendencies of man's being, and have over
come them, that we are truly able to understand men. It is
written: "Through experience gain wisdom." Experience is
wisdom.
CHAPTER THREE
"Except a man be born again, he cannot see the
kingdom of God."—St. John 3:3
1. There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a
ruler of the Jews:
HROUGHOUT the Old and New Testament, great care is
exercised to designate by name, creed, race and resi
dence, all of those who were part of the Great Drama.
This is because in Esoteric or Arcane science and symbolism,
every name and every place had a special or symbolic significa
tion. It is only after this special meaning is understood that the
hidden meaning links the entire Drama into a continuous
Divine activity. Nicodemus means "a man of innocence," or
"one free from guile." The account recorded carries out this idea.
2. The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi,
we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no
man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be
with him.
3. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto
thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the king
dom of God.
HERE, UNQUESTIONABLY, is THE GREATEST AND MOST
PROFOUND DOCTRINE OF THE ENTIRE SCRIPTURE!
This statement in verse 3, combined with the companion
and supporting expressions, contains within itself the secret of
the Greater Mysteries as taught by the Nazarene and all others
who became Philosophic Initiates in the Egyptian temples. In
it is found the secret and the means of the Biblical "mortality
putting on Immortality," and "the sons of men becoming Sons
of God."
50 THE INTERPRETATION
Unfortunately, for the millions who have lived during the
past centuries, as well as those living today, the Evangelists
modernized the statement so that it has lost the living, Arcane,
Spiritual, Esoteric meaning, substituting belief and conversion
(profession) for BECOMING; the necessity of the actual REbirth;
proclaiming loudly and constantly, "unless you become con
verted, accept in faith, ye cannot be saved."
Actual conversion is not a matter of faith alone. It is the
Passover; changing from one state—the carnal —to another
state; the spiritual. This is a complete making over; a change of
the passions of the animal self into the higher or Godlike self.
The correct term, then, is REgeneration, and this term should be
used instead of the word, "conversion." To become REgenerated
means to change or free ourselves from the desires of the gross
flesh (not the natural, normal desires of the body) and to
replace them with the desires of the heart, desires emanating
from, or belonging to, the Soul.
REgeneration means to change, by gradual degrees, from a
low or sinful state to the estate of the higher self. To be RE
generated requires that we be awakened first to higher realities;
those not to be found in the flesh. To become REgenerated
means to have found the WAY, THE TRUTH, AND THE LIFE, and
to be LIVING and EXPRESSING THESE REALITIES.
To be BORN AGAIN refers to the process of awakening the
Divine Spark, the Christos resident within. This Divine Spark,
when awakened, will manifest as a Light; the Light which is
from God, and it requires that this Light be located at its Center
(altar) within the Temple (regenerated body) of Man. This
is not merely a belief. IT is A WORK. It begins in belief, develops
to faith, and is accomplished by work (effort). It
is,
indeed, the
Great Work.
REgeneration or REbirth has reference to the great change
taking place when the Divine Spark, the Christos, hidden within
OF ST. JOHN 51
man, becomes the Christ child; when Illumination —encircle
ment by Light—or Soul Consciousness takes place. This is what
it means to be "born again"; it is the giving birth to the Con
sciousness of the Soul. This is the Christ of every man who
follows the WAY OF THE CROSS; the Crossification of evil into
that which is good or Godly.
Distinct emphasis must here be placed on the fundamental
truth that this does not mean the birth, or rather, the inception
of the Soul. The Divine Spark, or Soul-germ is part of the
normal man's inheritance. It has been with him since his
physical birth, though in an inert, sleeping, or dormant state —
"hidden under a bushel."
The new, or Spiritual birth is the AWAKENING of this Soul-
germ, the Christos, into Consciousness. It is the process of
arousing and developing, by gradual stages of growth, the Soul-
atom from its negative, dormant, potential state, INTO AN
ACTIVE, DYNAMIC STATE OF INDIVIDUALIZED CONSCIOUS
NESS; the consciousness, or knowledge that "though I was dead,
I now know that I liveth."
A corollary to the statement "ye must be born again," is:
"I am the resurrection and the life." A more correct statement
would be: "For if I, the Christos, be awakened and brought
forth, I will be the resurrection and the life." REbirth; or birth
into Soul or Spiritual Consciousness, is identified with the
Resurrection and the life. It is a resurrection from the condition
of the death-like sleep of the Soul to the "newness of life." The
Soul thus awakened and brought into the newness of life, lives
on and on, after all else that pertains to man's earthly pilgrimage
has returned to the natural elements.
No one can see, or enter, the kingdom of God, or know
it,
or even begin to realize where and what
it
is,
unless the birth of
Soul Consciousness has taken place.
4.
Nicodemus saith unto him, How can
a
man be born when
he
is
old? Can he enter the second time into his mother's
womb, and be born?
52 THE INTERPRETATION
Nicodemus, though free from guile, was unversed in spiritual
things and was unable to comprehend the words of the
Nazarene, assuming that the Nazarene had reference to man's
physical self. Actually, NO one is able to comprehend this
Second or Spiritual birth until AFTER it has been accomplished
In a certain sense it is actually true that the body also must
be reborn or, more correctly speaking: REJuvenated. Before Soul
Consciousness, Illumination or REbirth can be accomplished, the
body itself, as the Temple of the living God, the Conscious
Christos, must be completely changed by means of lofty desires,
thoughts and correct living. This will bring about the rebirth or
rejuvenation of every atom of the body, the transmutation of
the carnal into the natural, without the necessity of being reborn
of woman.
5. Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man
be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the
kingdom of God.
To digress in order to clarify, it is highly desirable to return
to the idea of the "changing of the water into wine," at the
wedding feast—a subject or "Work" directly concerned with the
REbirth. This does not say: ... be born of the body, or flesh,
and of the spirit, but of "water" and the spirit.
Arcanely, Esoterically, Biblically, water is Mind; changeable,
never still. Unless this mind is awakened to a dissatisfaction
with things as they are, there is no change for the better. Once
the waters become unruly —i.e., awakened, there is dissatisfac
tion with things as they are; there is a search for something
better; which ultimately leads to the inception of new ideas
leading to a higher concept; that of truth.
As it proceeds, this search gradually leads to a spiritual
concept of life; a change in thought, feeling, desire and, there
fore, action. Action, (effort) continued, reaches down into the
depths of being; making contact with the real self; the Christos.
Continued along the right lines, this action ultimately changes
OF ST. JOHN 53
the water—-the human, mental attitude and gives place to the
Spirit, that
is,
the Light of the Soul. Spirit, or the Spiritual, as
here considered,
is
an interchangeable term for the Soul.
This
is
actually the changing of water into wine. The grape
juice
is
not wine, but merely sugar and water, until after
it
ferments. When, after fermentation,
it
has become purified,
it
is
a
spirit.
A
natural spirit,
it
is
true, but
it
is
perfectly proto-
typic of the "water" of, or in, man, changing into the spirit, or
Light of man.
It
IS REbirth. Nature changes water into wine;
spiritualizes
it;
alcohol being spirit. Man must change his
"Water" into Spirit, into Light, or the Fire of God, before
REbirth can take place.
To recapitulate:
In the light of this verse, we must consider man as being
born three times. The first
is
when he comes forth into the
world from the womb of his mother. This
is
the birth of the
body, which carries with
it
the Divine Spark that
is
to become
the Illuminated Soul, or Son of God.
The second birth, or that of water,
is
consummated when
the mind awakens to the fact that
it
is
not on earth merely to
live, but to seek for better things than the mere gratification of
the fleshly being, or the material senses. When man awakens to
the conviction that his mental faculties, his creative forces, are
given him for the specific purpose of cultivating the Souhaal
nature of his own being, when he accepts this as the highest
function of mind and mental powers, and when he deliberately,
conscientiously, intelligently sets about the Great Work of
directing his mental faculties into channels of Soulual culture
and growth —this experience, this settled purpose and clear
conviction constitute what
is
meant
by
the second birth, or
"baptism
by
water."
Elsewhere called Mind Awakening, this experience actually
means that when man has
a
clear vision of the tremendous
possibilities of his own mental, creative faculties specifically
54 THE INTERPRETATION
directed toward interior development, or Soul Building, his
mind has become the Awakened, or the Illuminated Mind.
The third, the real birth, that of the "Spirit," is consum
mated when the Great Work, which the mind has previously
accepted and entered upon, of cultivating the Soulual nature,
has been accomplished. Through mental activities definitely
and carefully directed, the awakened mind has made such
conditions in its own Thought World, its own Realm of Causa
tion, that the Soul has passed from a potential, non-conscious,
non-individualized state of existence into a dynamic, conscious,
individualized state of being. Such a man has reached Soul
Consciousness; Illumination of Soul has taken place. He has
attained to Christic Consciousness. It is then that man sees
God, that he enters into the kingdom of heaven; for the
REsurrection has taken place. Like the Nazarene, he can now
say: "I am he that liveth, and was dead."
6. That which is born of flesh is flesh; and that which is born
of the Spirit is Spirit.
There is a natural body, which is Adam. It is of the flesh.
It is that which is born of mother earth.
Then there is that which is born of the Spirit. This can
come only through REgeneration. In germ or embryo, it comes
from the Father originally as a Divine Spark. It is enveloped
in the Spirit, which also comes from the Father. Man must
free this Divine Spark, or Soul-germ, from its envelope, as the
butterfly is set free from the chrysalis or, as the plantlet is set
free from the outer shell of the seed. This is that which is born
of the Spirit; for it has been carried by the Spirit.
It is this Divine Spark from the Father which is sown in
che natural body; through the activities of the Awakened mind.
From the Spiritual body in which it has been enveloped in the
chrysalis state, as it were, the Divine Spark is brought forth a
Conscious Soul, in the image of the Father, an individualized
entity, to sit on the right hand of the Father.
OF ST. JOHN 55
7. Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.
8. The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the
sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and
whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.
The Christian Scriptures makes use of the Word "Soul"
only a few times, substituting the word "Spirit." This is the
cause of much confusion, because spirit is life, and not Soul.
Whenever possible, this should be corrected. It is part of our
mission to bring about this change so that a clearer under
standing of the sacred writings may be had by all.
We may be aware of the manifestation of the Conscious
Soul as indicated by the axiom: "By their works shall ye know
them," but we cannot see the Light which animates such a Soul
unless we ourselves have accomplished this same Illumination.
He who has become Illuminated, Soul Conscious, or "born
of the Spirit," cannot do otherwise than do the works of the
Father. Man may be aware of these works, because they are
material manifestations and are recognized as "good," but he
is unable to comprehend the force or power by which these
works are accomplished.
To be "born of the Spirit," is to have come into the king
dom of heaven, or to have found the kingdom of God within.
Both statements have the same meaning. The Nazarene has
been made to say: "Neither shall ye say, Lo, here! nor lo,
there! for, behold, the kingdom of God IS WITHIN YOU." Can
any statement be more positive? Yet how many have found
the peace which is heaven, WITHIN themselves?
9. Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these
things be?
10. Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of
Israel, and knowest not these things?
11, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know,
and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our
witness.
56 THE INTERPRETATION
The Nazarene did not here speak of himself alone, but of
all those who had lived according to the Divine Law and as a
result had attained to Illumination, Soul Consciousness, by
means of the REbirth.
All who have followed in the Way and the Life and have
been witness to the REsurrection that took place within their
own kingdom; have beheld the Holy Ghost or Light which is
from God. They saw it descend upon the Altar within and
light the Flame in the temple of the Living God. Neither the
Nazarene nor these others spake of the things they merely
believed, but of that which they KNEW BY EXPERIENCE; as
may all men willing to live in harmony with the Divine Law
and follow the procedure necessary to bring about the awaken
ing of the Christos within themselves.
12. If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how
shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?
At best, the carnal, earthly man is able to understand only
those things which pertain to the material and, not always,
much of this. It is not possible for him to become conscious
of spiritual things until he has experienced them and, as a
result of the experience, become part of them.
13. And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that
came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is
in heaven.
Even the Son of man cannot enter heaven unless he has
first become the Son of God through REgeneration. The Divine
Spark comes from the Father who is in heaven; but this Divine
Spark, which dwells in the son of man, cannot ascend into
heaven until it has become the Son of God through REgen
eration.
Heaven is not a place, but a state of being, or Consciousness.
This is amply verified throughout the teachings of the Nazarene:
OF ST. JOHN 57
"And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the
kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said,
The kingdom of God cometh not with observation.
"Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the
kingdom of God is within you." —Luke 17:20-21.
There can be but one interpretation of the Divine Mystery—
that
is,
that none can enter the kingdom of heaven until they
have become enlightened, which means Illuminated, or Soul
Conscious; for, through the process that brings about Soul
Consciousness, the state known as heaven
is
established in the
temple of Man.
14. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even
so must the Son of man be lifted up:
The "lifting up of the serpent"
is
an Arcanum, but serves
the purpose as an example of the process of REGENERATION.
It
is
the act of lifting up—EXALTING —the forces within us and
part of our being; forces or habits which can be used for either
good or evil, but used mostly for evil, and changing or trans
muting them into love and the other aspects of the higher life.
These forces are constructive or destructive, depending entirely
on their use or application.
Just as the serpent was lifted up
by
Moses and as
a
result
of the uplifting, brought about
a
return to health to those who
had degraded themselves, so must the son of man, the mortal,
natural man, be lifted up
by
means of his thoughts, desires, and
acts, prompted
by
the activities of the Awakened Mind, the mind
that has been baptized with water, or understanding.
Only to the degree that this lifting or exalting process has
progressed can the son of man BECOME—be changed into—
the Son of God; and no man can enter into the kingdom of
heaven, or know the peace of the kingdom of God unless he has
changed the Christos inherent within himself into the living
Christ.
58 THE INTERPRETATION
15. That whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have
eternal life.
16. For God so loved the world, that he gave His only begotten
Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish,
but have everlasting life.
17. For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the
world; but that the world through Him might be saved.
18. He that believeth on Him is not condemned; but he that
believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not
believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.
This, seemingly is a contradiction. Properly understood, it
is not. If we actually believe in a thing, if we have faith in
it,
we are anxious to become part
of
it; to follow through until that
which we believe in
is
one with us; because faith without works
is
a
stagnant, inert faith, without life or power.
The statements to follow are in substance
a
total contra
diction of all that the Nazarene taught, such as: "As ye sow so
shall ye reap," and "Ye must be born again," not have mere
faith, or believe in what
is
taught. These four verses are inter
polations; and were no part of the original.
19. And this
is
the condemnation, that light
is
come into the
world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because
their deeds were evil.
The term "light"
is
used throughout synonymously with the
Spirit, with God Himself. Light is God; God
is
Light. The Soul
Illuminated
is
Light; Illumination being encirclement
by
the
Light.
If
faith or belief alone are required, why then
is
it
necessary
to love, or be part of, the Light? What difference whether man
love the darkness instead of the Light
if
faith or belief solves
the problem? Why should even love of darkness interfere with
a
man's salvation,
if
mere belief, without works,
is
alone suffi
cient to save
a
man's evil Soul?
OF ST. JOHN 59
If the Soul must first be free from evil, then it is certain that
purification, followed by Regeneration, is essential. If men are
condemned because they love evil and not the Light, then faith
alone certainly will not suffice. Rnbirth, we must conclude, is
essential, and this is possible only when faith is combined with
EFFORT.
During all past ages there have been those, called Messiahs
and Masters, who came to teach men the Truth and the Way.
These teachers, through obedience to the Divine Law, had
attained Illumination of Soul. They were the Light of the world,
ever ready to teach the truth and to hold out the Light to all
those that would listen and accept.
But man's nature has been more animal than Divine. Man
loves the pleasures of the flesh; consequently, he chooses those
things which will bring him the immediate though temporal
gratification of the carnal senses. Carnal senses and pleasures,
being destructive, partake of the nature of darkness and, con
sequently, are evil. Men, for the most part, are not willing to
give up the pleasures of the senses. Predominantly selfish and
materialistic, they care more for darkness than for Light. It
naturally follows that they are slow in accepting the teachings
of those who understand the true doctrine.
Because of these tendencies, men earn condemnation under
the law. Having had an opportunity to learn "the truth" where
by man becomes free from the entanglements of the carnal
nature; become acquainted with "the Way" by which carnal
desires may be transmuted into Divine passions, and shown
"the Life" by which they can become the children of the Light,
they, nevertheless have refused, preferring to follow the way
of the flesh; of darkness; error and frustration.
20. For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither
cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.
60 THE INTERPRETATION
Those living the life of the senses care naught for the truth.
They have no use for it. With minds as yet una wakened, they
are actually in their "first birth."
When, in time, they are no longer satisfied with the gross
pleasures offered by the senses, or with material success too often
gained by unfair means, they, at long last, turn to the Light.
Then if the forces necessary to bring about Illumination have
not all been burned up in riotous living, they may, through
proper effort, ultimately find the Light.
If,
however, they have
continued their evil ways for too long
a
time,
if
the "serpent"
has finished its work, then Illumination will no longer be
possible.
21. But he that doeth truth cometh to the Light, that his deeds
may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.
We lend emphasis to this statement because
it
is
further
evidence of the interpolation of the former several verses. Here
is
the plain, positive statement THAT THE TRUTH MUST BE
LIVED (doeth truth) that DEEDS, and not mere faith or belief,
must pave the way to ultimate victory. The guilty man seeks
to elude reality and to hide his face from the truth. Let us no
longer masquerade under sham or pretense, deceiving our own
selves. Rather, let us resolutely FACE THE TRUTH, HOWEVER
MUCH IT MAY HURT.
After the mind awakens, following the symbolical baptism
by
John, after we accept the fact that
it
is
not all of life to live in
the flesh, and are ready to admit that there are things in life far
more desirable than those to be had through the sensations of
the flesh, then, and then only, do we begin to see the Light, be
it
ever so dimly.
It
is
then, urged
by
an intense dissatisfaction
within, that we will begin to seek for "the Way," leading to
en//£^tfenment. We will then be willing to live
a
life more in
harmony with the Divine Law; our deeds will begin to become
manifest; while the truth within us will come to the light and
begin to bear fruit.
OF ST. JOHN 61
Once man awakens and lives rationally, in a spiritual man
ner, he will have begun the process of becoming the temple of
the living God. The more he seeks the Light, the more will his
thoughts and his desires be inclined toward heavenly interests
and purposes. Eventually, his thoughts and desires will trans
mute his entire self and it is then, Biblically and Arcanely speak
ing, that God will dwell in that temple, and the Sacred Fire,
being the Light which is from heaven, will be burning upon the
Altar within that Temple or Holy of Holies.
22. After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the
land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and
baptized.
23. And John also was baptizing in /Enon near to Salim,
because there was much water there: and they came, and
were baptized.
24. For John was not yet cast into prison.
25. Then there arose a question between some of John's
disciples and the Jews about purifying.
26. And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he
that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest
witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come
to him.
27. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, ex
cept it be given from heaven.
In the ultimate, man receives (obtains) nothing except that
which comes from himself, or from within himself. This within
himself is "heaven." This is a Law few have learned to recog
nize; hence the confusion on earth. Whether we live in the
outer, the self, or the inner, the spkit, all that we can claim for
ourselves is that which we have honestly earned. All else is
borrowed temporarily and MUST be paid for or returned. Even
that which we earned is from WITHIN, because before we are
willing to make the effort, there must be a desire—and this
desire is from within.
"Except it be given him from heaven," has reference to the
interior kingdom of man's own Divine Nature. It likewise refers
62 THE INTERPRETATION
to the infinite resources and manifold possibilities that reside,
even though hidden, in man's inner being. When considered
in the light of ultimate analysis, all things, whether good or
evil, come from within himself. This is what is meant by two
of the most important Christian teachings: "The kingdom of
heaven is within you," and "As ye sow, so shall ye reap," both
of which are generally ignored.
If our thoughts and desires (and these are within us) par
take of the good, the true, the beautiful, the exalted, then all
things concerning us are of like nature.
If,
on the contrary our
thoughts are evil, destructive, debasing, then will the things that
come out of us (Nazareth), bear witness
by
illness, failure,
misery and death.
Ours
is
the right of choice, ours to say or decide what we
will do or be. In large measure, we are the masters of our own
destiny.
28. Ye yourselves bear me witness, that
I
said,
I
am not the
Christ, but that
I
am sent before him.
It
cannot be too often repeated that the awakening of the
mind must always precede the awakening of the Soul or
Christos; because
it
is
only through the efforts of the awakened
mind and its newly inborn desires that Soul Consciousness; the
Second or Spiritual birth, becomes possible.
29. He that hath the bride
is
the bridegroom; but the friend
of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, re-
joiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice: this
my joy therefore
is
fulfilled.
He that has lived according to the Divine Law, he that has
deliberately made every effort to transmute the base and the
earthly within his own nature into qualities of Soul, he that,
through right use of the Awakened Mind, has at last reached
Soul Consciousness —such an one
is
like the bridegroom. He has
won
a
bride, and his bride
is
the Christ.
OF ST. JOHN 63
Though his friend has not yet won a bride he rejoiceth in
the good fortune of his friend; for he knoweth that he also can
do as his friend has done. He recognizes the voice of him who
has won his desire, and, in that voice, is his joy made complete;
for it assures him that he has the same opportunity that his
friend has had.
In this one statement, John shows how truly great was his
character. Himself a leader of men, he recognized and acknowl
edged the Nazarene to be the greater. He tells his followers that
the Nazarene, like the bridegroom, has won a higher estate than
himself and is therefore superior to him; and, in this knowledge,
John openly rejoices.
In this did he fulfill the Law: "Love thy neighbor as thyself."
For all men are our neighbors; and when we love them, jealousy
and envy cannot creep in.
30. He must increase, but I must decrease.
Before the Christ can manifest himself, it is necessary for the
mind to awaken to its function in the Divine plan of life. The
mind must first become convinced that material and physical
things are not lasting; it must establish a desire for higher and
better things. It must be willing to put forth effort and to use
its creative powers in cultivating the attributes, qualities and
graces of Soul. Thus, seeing its mission, even though dimly, the
mind is become, "the Voice in the wilderness." It is John, the
forerunner of the Christ.
Gradually, as the mind, thus aroused to its noble purpose,
seeks for that which is higher, it endeavors to find "the Way, the
Truth, and the Life." As the Divine Spark becomes enlivened
in the temple of man's consciousness; and as habits of thought
and desire are established in keeping with the Christ Ideal, the
mind cultivates and encourages qualities of the Soul. This
process continues while the mind acts as a creative agency,
decreasing in power while that which it creates increases in
64 THE INTERPRETATION
importance in the same ratio. The mind, as an objective factor
in Soul building, slowly gives way to that which it creates and
builds the Soul.
When the time comes that the Soul has become fully
Conscious and man has found the Christ, the mind has accom
plished its allotted task. All authority is then transferred from
the intellectual center to the Soul Center. For this reason, John
said: "He must increase, but I must decrease."
If the mind, our personal self, will not give way, to "make
place," admit its secondary importance in the Divine purpose,
if it claims to be the ultimate, then unlike John, it betrays its
trust;
it,
like Peter of old, denies the Christ.
It
then becomes
Lucifer, the "star" once greatest in the heaven, because he would
not give way but proclaimed himself equal, or greater than God
Himself, was cast out of heaven. Thus also, do men fall because
they will not concede there
is
anything greater than the personal
self, or they are unwilling to subjugate this personal self to
something higher and therefore gain all. This
is
made plain in
the following:
31. He that cometh from above
is
above all: he that
is
of the
earth
is
earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh
from heaven
is
above all
The body of man
is
of the earth,
it
is
earthly. The Divine
Spark resident in man, though as yet unconscious,
is
of the
Father and comes from "above." To be able to understand this
saying more clearly, let us supplement
it
with quotations from
Corinthians:
"It
is
sown
a
natural body;
it
is
raised
a
spiritual body. There
is
a
natural body, and there
is
a
spiritual body.
"And so
it
is
written, The first man Adam was made
a
living
Soul; the last Adam was made
a
quickening spirit.
"Howbeit that was not first which
is
spiritual, but that which
is
natural; and afterward that which
is
spiritual. —
7
Co*.
15:44-46.
OF ST. JOHN 65
There is but one visible body; the natural body; the form of
man; the first Adam. It came from the earth and is earthly.
When mental awakening takes place, when the Voice in the
wilderness comes (in the darkness within), John, the fore
runner of the Christ, appears, or is made felt, and if followed
(obeyed), then will the natural body become quickened, i.e.,
changed into a spiritual (pure, uplifted) body. This is a
mystery, an Arcanum, not understandable by the unawakened
mind.
That which comes from heaven is above all things; though
above, yet is it within. This was taught by both John and the
Nazarene. Man cannot know, that
is,
become conscious, until
the Christos within has become fully awakened; until the Center
of man's consciousness has been transferred from the mind
(Garden of Eden, Ignorance), to the Soul, the Spiritual center.
First there must be the natural body; this becomes the carnal
body, and this
is
raised into the spiritual "body," as
a
result of
the efforts of the creative activities of the Awakened mind;
obedience to the teachings of John. In this manner does the son
of man become the Son of God.
32. And what be hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and
no man receiveth his testimony.
The nature of man has changed little,
if
at all, during the
past long centuries. Man
is
unwilling to accept the teachings of
the humble and unpretentious. John was an humble man; he
received little attention from the masses; that same mass so
ready and willing to bow down and bend the knee to those who
came with the blowing of trumpets and many promises. Very
few have confidence in the meek; in those who live in the truth
and avoid display. In truth: "no man receiveth his testimony."
33. He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal
that God
is
true.
To those who will receive, who recognize the manifestation
of the Father as manifested
by
His servant, who accept the truth
66 THE INTERPRETATION
enunciated, and who follow
it,
will be offered great blessings.
These will become awakened to eternal verities; to them will be
given "all things," and, greatest of all, God's Consciousness.
34 For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God:
for God giveth not the Spirit
by
measure unto him.
That which those who accept will receive
is
not measured.
It
is
abundant and all-sufficient. Well has
it
been written:
"Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and His righteousness; and
all things shall be added unto you." —Matt. 6:33.
"All things" means without stint or measure. A sufficiency
for all purposes. Blessings unlimited and beyond all belief.
Peace that passeth understanding.
It
is
Consciousness that re
moves all doubt and uncertainty; assurance and reality impos
sible to be obtained in any other manner.
35. The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into
his hand.
To be the Son of God
is
to be like God.
God
is
Love, and Light, and Life. In order to manifest the
Father that
is
within, we must manifest the qualities of Love,
Light and Life. God being love, when we become like Him, we
also are born in love; and, being born in love, we are part of
Him. For Love recognizes Love and considers nothing apart and
separate from God.
To have become the Sons of God, means not only to have
become like God, but even to be gods. The Nazarene said to the
Jews: "Is
it
not written in your law,
I
said, Ye are gods?"
To whom God would make known what
is
the riches of the
glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which
is
"Christ in
you, the hope of glory."
Only those can understand this mystery who have become
awakened to the fact that the body of man
is
the house of that
which
is
greater, and who have made conscious effort to illumi
nate this house, the Temple of the living God. But all men who
will, may so understand
it;
for all men are gods in potentiality.
OF ST. JOHN 67
36. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and
he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the
wrath of God abideth on him.
When we believe that it is possible to become the Son of
God, we accept the Son.
In accepting the Son of God, it is incumbent upon us to
make the efforts necessary to gradually become the Son of God.
Acceptance is only the first step along the Path to attainment.
CHAPTER FOUR
"God is a spirit; and they that worship Him rmist
worship Him in SPIRIT AND IN TRUTH."
1. When therefore the Lord knew how the Pharisees had
heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than
John,
2. (Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,)
3. He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee.
4. And he must needs go through Samaria.
IAMARIA means "that which holds fast or binds." No
man is capable of reaching Soul Consciousness or the
Second, the Spiritual birth, unless he passes through
Samaria. This may be interpreted as holding fast, or being
bound to the truth which has been opened to the vision of the
Awakened mind.
It also signifies that man has liberated himself from the
' arnal, those things which bind the Soul to earth.
By becoming free from all that binds him to the undesirable,
he in turn becomes bound, or beholden, to Divine eternal truths.
The first is freedom, the other is freedom in bondage; being
"held to" Divine Law, and thereby receiving the greater and
more lasting benefits.
5. Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar,
near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son
Joseph.
6. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied
with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the
sixth hour.
7. There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus
saith unto her, Give me to drink.
8. (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy
meat.)
70 THE INTERPRETATION
9. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it
that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a
woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with
the Samaritans.
10. Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the
gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to
drink; thou wouldst have asked of him, and he would
have given thee living water.
To receive we must willingly give. This is the eternal Law.
It is the Divine fiat that necessitates our giving before we are
able to receive. The mass asks for benefits, but are unwilling to
give in return. Conversely, under the Law, it is impossible for us
to give without receiving in return. "As ye sow [make effort or
give] so shall ye reap [receive in return]."
The Law of reciprocity manifests itself throughout nature.
It is the principle underlying "equal exchange," that
is,
balance.
This principle was clearly understood by the Nazarene, having
been thoroughly instructed in all of the Divine Laws while in
Egypt.
The woman of Samaria was still held in the bondage of the
flesh and its desires. She had not as yet awakened to the truths
which ultimately bring about the exalted state of freedom from
all the things which not only hold in bondage the mind but the
Soul as well. She thought only of the water which satisfies the
thirst of the body. The Nazarene had in mind those other
"waters"; the Awakened mind which, "held to," becomes the
"Water of Life" and lead to Immortalization. This
is
the
"Truth which brings Salvation"
if
adhered to.
The Nazarene
s
purpose, though he may have been thirsty,
was not primarily to obtain water for his needs, but to test the
woman to learn of her willingness to serve those who were not
of her own race; whether or not prejudice governed her acts of
kindness. We must all pass through such tests. In serving,
Humanitarianism we may recognize neither race nor creed,
OF ST. JOHN 71
though if governed by wisdom, recognize the Law of "Every
thing after its own kind."
The Awakened mind comprehends that everything that is
of the flesh—the carnal self —the desires, the thoughts, the acts
that have their inception in the lower self, will, if continued, end
in death. Understanding this, it will be the incentive to search
for THE WAY, THE TRUTH, AND THE LIFE.
In this manner man will ultimately be able to free himself
from the desires of his lower self; desires which, once gratified,
will demand gratification time and again and never know satis
faction. This is the "thirsting time and again," but drinking of
the Water of Life will satisfy the thirst forever, or so long as
mortal life exists.
Having found the "well" wherein there is the "Living
Water," and having drunk thereof, man no longer needs to seek
after strange theories and equally strange doctrines. He has
found the Truth and that Truth will gradually bring him
freedom. Ultimately, as he follows THE WAY, he will gain con
sciousness of the Infinite and partake of the "waters" existing
eternally in his Consciousness.
That which belongs to the realm of the Spirit, or of the Soul,
cannot be sold for money; but an exchange can be made.
Whether or not man is willing to make such an exchange, the
Law compels him to do so by means of another Law, that of
"Action and REaction." He who does not willingly, aye, gladly,
make such an exchange for benefits received, will find that
unearned benefits will be taken from him in one way or another.
Like as with the payment of /for evil, we must "pay to the last
farthing."
The inexorable Law, "As thou soweth, so shalt thou reap,"
is a Divine decree. The principle underlying reciprocity is the
Law of Justice, and is absolute. They who take, no matter by
what means, from those who have rightfitl possession, and give
72 THE INTERPRETATION
to those who have not earned, irrespective of the ostensible pur
pose, will be made to pay a frightful indebtedness, as will those
who, able to prevent the injustice, make no effort to do so. The
common maxim: "Hell is paved with good intentions," most
certainly applies here.
11. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw
with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou
that living water?
12. Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the
well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his
cattle?
13. Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh
of this water shall thirst again:
14. But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him
shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall
be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting
life.
15. The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that
I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.
In this she expressed her willingness to be instructed in the
truth and to follow it until it became a part of her.
The vast majority of mankind is seeking they know not
what. They appear to desire truth; nevertheless, few who ask
are willing to give up those things which hold them in bondage.
They do not realize that only by giving up the carnal life can
they find the freedom and the peace which is heaven. They
would glady accept the truth
if,
at the same time, they were
permitted to also continue their life of error. Blessed, indeed,
is
he who
is
both willing to accept the Truth and to live according
to its teachings.
16. Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come
hither.
17. The woman answered and said,
I
have no husband. Jesus
said unto her, Thou hast well said,
I
have no husband:
18. For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now
hast
is
not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly.
OF ST. JOHN 73
Although the woman of Samaria was an outcast from
respectable society, the Nazarene quickly perceived that there
was much good in her, which, if fully awakened, would help her
to become one of his "chosen people."
There is far more hope for him who sins and is aware that
he sins and freely acknowledges
it,
than there
is
for those who
live in sin, though it be in outward righteousness, but who are
blinded
by
self -righteousness.
It
is
far easier for
a
woman, though
ostracized from respectable society, to become
a
"child" of the
Father,
if
she
is
willing to "repent" and obey the Divine Law,
than for those who, though not committing any grievous wrong,
are too self-righteous to make conscious, deliberate effort to free
themselves of their wrong-doing. Especially
is
this true when the
sinful acts are justified
by
civil laws.
The Nazarene was not come to teach those who had knowl
edge of the Truth and followed its teachings, ifsuch there were,
but to teach and guide those who were guilty of all manner of
evils, but possibly unaware of the penalty to be paid.
19. The woman saith unto him, Sir,
I
perceive that thou art
a
prophet.
20. Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that
in Jerusalem
is
the place where men ought to worship.
21. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour com-
eth, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at
Jerusalem, worship the Father.
22. Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship:
for salvation
is
of the Jews.
Men now as ever, worship in mountain fastnesses, ornate
buildings, temples and other places built of earthly material.
They have been led to believe that these places are more sacred
than others not so prepared. They cling to the illusion that the
Father, though dwelling in
a
far-off sphere, may be more readily
reached here; wholly forgetful of the command: "When thou
prayest (worship) enter into thy closet and . . . shut thy
74 THE INTERPRETATION
door."—Matt. 6:6. They actually believe that the praise they
offer Him from the lips, NOT FROM THE HEART, when in some
special edifice, will be heard and answered by Him.
But the hour cometh. Men will awaken to the truth and
will learn that the service they offered Him in the mountain or
in some temple, IF NOT FROM THE HEART, will avail them
nothing; will not be answered, because it never reached the
Father who is WITHIN and can be CONTACTED ONLY BY THE
FEELINGS IN THE HEART.
Men must become conscious of the fact that if there be any
truth, it will issue from the mouth, but the sense of the words is
to be felt in the heart. It will be more than merely a thought
born in the mind; cold, unfeeling and lacking in spirituality.
They will learn the meaning of the command: "Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." —
Matt. 5:48.
This is a direct and positive command. To become perfect
requires a great deal more than mere belief and faith. IT is TO be.
After an understanding of the Laws governing Soul develop
ment, an Awakening of the mind takes place, and it is then that
"the hour" has come. It is then that the awakened one will be
anxious to begin to think and feel in terms of fulfilling the
Divine Law, and also willing to do his Father's Works.
He becomes consciously aware that if it is his desire to con
struct the real temple, patterned after that of Solomon, he must
not merely possess the faith; believe the doctrine, or praise God
with the lips, but must think constructive thoughts and feel an
exalted desire to build his body into such a temple. He will then
become vividly aware of the fact that even in the practical
affairs of life—personal, civic, family, country—he must live the
Divine Law in its various aspects and demands.
The final verse 22 is an interpolation clearly indicated by
irs frequent contradiction throughout the New Testament. The
OF ST. JOHN 75
Nazarene's ministry WAS INTENDED FOR THE SALVATION OF
THE JEWS, BUT THEY REFUSED AND REPUDIATED HIM; finally
destroying his physical being but in no wise affecting his Soul or
inculcations. There has been no contradiction of this.
23. But the hour cometh, and now
is,
when the true wor
shippers shall worship the Father in SPIRIT and in TRUTH
:
for the Father seeketh such to worship him.
24. God
is
a
Spirit: and they that worship him must worship
him in spirit and in truth.
It
may be said with truth that these two statements are
among the most important in the entire Bible, yet are almost
wholly ignored. The clergy has evaded them, or misinterpreted
them; the laity has paid little or no attention to them.
If
the
people were to demand an explanation or interpretation of them,
and the clergy would comply, the entire system of worship would
undergo an abrupt change.
"The hour cometh." This means just what itsays —
is
NOW,
(is the eternal now) for those who REALLY wish to reach the
Father and are willing to worship Him, NOT in form, but in
spirit, that
is,
not so much
by
words, as
by
the feeling WITHIN
themselves. This emphatically implies that when you have
a
desire to pray, or to worship God, then you have already done so,
because
of
your desire and feeling, NO MATTER WHERE YOU
MAY BE. The words that follow are no more than the echo of
that desire or feeling. This
is
the meaning of worshipping God
in spirit.
God
is
a
Spirit. The word "spirit" here used has an entirely
different meaning than in the former verse. In the earlier verse
it
means the desire or feeling within. In the present verse
it
is
used to symbolize Light, or the Holy Ghost; the FLAME. God
is
a
Light;
a
Fire;
a
Flame. He
is
lightning,
a
"dove" from heaven.
He
is
the Holy Ghost,
a
Spirit or Light—
a
Spiritual Light.
To worship Him rightly we must worship Him in Spirit,
which in another sense
is
the reverence or Love which
is
not in
76 THE INTERPRETATION
the head; not in the mind; and not necessarily in temples or
churches, BUT IN THE HEART.
The true way of worship is in this spirit, and in honestly
proving it by our every effort to become like Him in our desires
and deeds: "Be ye therefore perfect, even as is your Father which
is in heaven."
To be able to become like Him, it is necessary that the
carnal desires of the flesh be overcome by changing or transmut
ing them. This stimulates the desires which come from the
inner self, from the Soul, the Christos or Light, buried within
under a "bushel" of rubbish; the mountain of debris accumulated
by ages of wrong thoughts, desires and acts.
Times without number the Nazarene made every effort to
teach those who followed Him and who would listen to Him
when He taught that man is—or should and can be—the temple
of the living God; that the Father dwells within and there makes
Himself felt, IF man worships Him in Spirit.
When man begins to live in harmony with the Divine Law,
then he has started the journey Godward and his Soul begins to
become a Center of Divine potentialities and possibilities. Man,
as a temple, then becomes a replica of the temple of Solo
mon, held throughout the Bible as a symbol of Wisdom and
righteousness.
This temple will have been built for Him; and in the build
ing the Vestal Fires, the fires which purify, burn upon the Altar,
and the incense thereof—the prayers and praise of the Soul—
rise on high. This, and this only, is the true worship of the
Father, in Spirit and in truth.
25. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias Cometh,
which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all
things.
There have been those who have come to mankind as
teachers, as leaders, hence as Messias. These, as a result of their
way of thinking, desiring and living, have become Soul-con
OF ST. JOHN 77
scious; have built the "temple of the Living God," and there
will be more such. All those of the past and all in the future can
teach but one thing; that man is NOT, but MAY MAKE OF HIM
SELF—become —the "temple of the Living God." All who do
so, worship Him in Spirit and in truth, will be LIVING THE
TRUTH. The Christos is within all normal humans, and this
ChristOS AWAKENED AND BROUGHT INTO CONSCIOUSNESS,
becomes the Christ, the Messiah.
By means of faith and consequent works, man will be able
to purify the temple by casting out the "money changers," sellers
of merchandise, and the doers of evil. This will free the
"temple" of the evils so prevalent everywhere. To the degree
that man does this, will the Christ come forth from His tomb
within, and become the Light, the Spirit, or the Holy Ghost, of
that temple.
26. Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.
The history of the woman of Samaria is the history of a
Soul; the Soul being symbolized by a woman. It is the Soul
which, in the past, has been living wholly in the desires of the
flesh; the Soul, which knew no other desire than to gratify the
senses. But the mind awakens. "She goes to the well to draw
the waters." She listens to the Awakened Mind, and believes or
accepts that which the Awakened Mind, or her own enlightened
self, reveals to her.
Through obedience, she frees herself from the desires of the
carnal self; she transmutes, or changes these deskes into a long
ing for truth and the higher worship. Through this change, this
transmutation, this building, this Higher Alchemy, she finds the
Christ, and recognizes the Voice speaking to her.
27. And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he
talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest
thou, or, Why talkest thou with her?
Even those who would follow the Christ fear to be seen
talking with those of ill repute. They fail to remember their
78 THE INTERPRETATION
own brand of evil and their obligation to help those who have
fallen by the wayside. They forget that it is the duty of the Son
of man to help all those less fortunate than himself.
The shepherd is not satisfied until every sheep is within the
fold. Though ninety and nine are safe within the fold, and only
one is lost in the hills, yet the true shepherd will leave them all
to seek that which is lost. Neither the shepherd nor the ninety
and nine can be perfecty happy until the last one is found and
brought back into the fold.
It is the same with humanity under the Divine Law. So long
as there is one Soul that dwells in darkness, that long is it
impossible for the others to dwell in perfect peace. The duty and
the mission of the Illuminated Soul is to be of service to those
not so fortunate. Service is the keystone in the building of the
most glorious temple that can be dedicated to the living God.
It is the keystone that holds together the arch.
28. The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into
the city, and saith to the men,
29. Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did:
is not this the Christ?
When the Soul has become awakened and brought into
consciousness, it is like unto a man remembering all the things
he has ever done. It is the Book of Records, now opened,
whereon is faithfully recorded every thought, desire and deed.
The Conscious Soul is the Christ. The voice that speaks is
the Conscience. It opens the leaves of the Record so that we
may read our past enabling us to free ourselves from the burden
of the past by rendering service to others truly in need. It is
thus that we pay our indebtedness to "the last farthing," and
stand free before God.
30. Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.
31. In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master,
eat.
32. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know
not of.
OF ST. JOHN 79
33. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man
brought him ought to eat?
34. Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him
that sent me, and to finish his work.
The Nazarene spoke of the food which is of the Soul. The
doing of the Father's Will, i.e., work for the benefit not only of
the Spiritual self, but for others as well. Working in the vine
yard of the Father gives strength and nourishment to the Soul.
It helps the Soul to grow strong and full of Light. The better
the work we do, the greater will be the benefit to the Soul,
despite the fact that it is EVERY MAN'S DUTY TO DO THAT
WHICH IS HELPFUL TO OTHERS, WITHOUT CONSIDERING THE
REWARD FOR THE DOING OF THAT WHICH IS GOOD.
There is material food and there is Spiritual food. One is
for the body; the other for the Soul. We must give to the body
its ample needs, and to the Soul that which it requires for its
well-being. "Render unto Caesar that which belongs to Caesar,
and to mammon that which belongs to mammon." The food
for the Soul is best found in service; in obedience to the Will of
the Father; in Righteousness —right doing. Whether we are in
need of food for the body or for the Soul, or both, only by
sowing may we reap; only by effort reach the goal.
35. Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh
harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and
look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.
In the sowing and the reaping of the harvest for material
needs there is a time and a place, but in the sowing (doing) of
Spiritual (goodly) works, there is no special or set time. Every
day, every hour of the day, every minute of the hour is the time
for the sowing.
The time for reaping is best left to God or the Law. We
can at all times help the unfortunate no longer able to help
themselves, or counsel someone against destructive action.
The time of the harvest, the reaping, is always NOW. We
are constantly paying, in weakness, sickness, sorrow, misfortune.
80 THE INTERPRETATION
for our past sowing. We will continue this paying until we cease
the sowing of weeds, and have paid our entire indebtedness. No
one can escape. Let us not mislead ourselves by false reasoning,
or the making of excuses. By our thoughts, our desires and our
acts do we sow the seeds of which we must harvest the results —
"As ye sow so shall ye reap" dictates the Divine Law.
The reaping is that which we constantly experience, be it
pain and miseries, sorrows and the losses, or the joys of life,
achievement of honor, peace of mind and Soul. Now, always
NOW, is the time to sow good seeds; always harvest, and the
harvest continues as long as the Soul exists.
36. And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit
unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that
reapeth may rejoice together.
The wise man rejoices not only in the reaping of good
things, but even more so in the sowing. He who fails to take
pleasure and do willingly, gladly, that which he does, deserves
no praise, neither a reward. It is the spirit, the feeling, the
gladness in which we do the things we do, that the reward is
found.
If our work (sowing) be good, and done in the spirit of
pleasure in the doing, then the wages will be likewise good.
Not only good insofar as we are concerned, but every good deed
is to the welfare of others as a whole. If our sowing be of weeds,
then we reap not that which is the bread of life, but the fruits
of death.
37. And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another
reapeth.
38. I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour;
other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.
It has already been stated that our acts, even our thoughts,
not alone affect us, but others likewise. In many instances, those
who are ready to receive, will have the benefit of that which
we have done.
OF ST. JOHN 81
Thoughts are realities, so are desires. To a greater or lesser
degree, thoughts are the sowing. In this connection it is well to
recall the principle enunciated by the Nazarene, when he said:
"He that looketh upon a woman with lust in his heart, hath
committed lust already." This indicates that the thought is
considered in the same light as the deed itself. A principle
of nature considers not one side only, but every side. It has a
positive and a happy application. A thought of kindness and
good-will directed toward another is also like the act.
Remembering this fact, we can see that, by holding in our
heart thoughts of good, of health, or of success toward another,
we are helping that one, and, in this way, he may reap benefits
which he has not sown. This does not free him from the
responsibility of all that he receives; but, in this case, he makes
returns for what he has received after reaping the benefits.
In like manner, there may be many who, traveling the Path
and knowing the Divine Law, are sowing good for us, which we
shall reap without having sown.
The converse is true: an evil thought or desire held in the
heart concerning another may cause him to reap tares, or un
happy conditions, which he has really not sown. But, in this
case, the evil will return with twofold strength to the one who
sows, or sends, the unhappy thought. He who has been made to
suffer innocently will reap a twofold benefit in some other
manner.
39. And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him
for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me
all that ever I did.
"By their fruits shall ye know them." The Samaritans were
fully acquainted with the manner of life the woman had led;
knowing this, and witnessing the great change in her, they could
not help but feel, hence believe, that here was a power hitherto
unknown to them.
82 THE INTERPRETATION
40. So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they be
sought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode
there two days.
41. And many more believed because of his own word;
42. And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because
of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves and know
that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.
Men are like children. They usually believe only in that
which is demonstrated to them. In the case of the woman of
Samaria, they first became aware of the great change in her, and
knowing her, could not but feel that the cause was some greater
force than her own.
They listened to her description of the power possessed by
the Nazarene, a recital which possibly was colored greatly by
her imagination, and then witnessing her great faith, they also
believed. Here we might recall the command: "Let your light
so shine. . . ."
When they listened to the teachings by the Nazarene and
his explanation of the operation of the Divine Law, they were
able to comprehend what might be the ultimate result if the Law
were fully obeyed.
43. Now after two days he departed thence, and went into
Galilee.
44. For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour
in his own country.
Men, however great their experience and wisdom, seldom
have the confidence of those among whom they were born and
lived the greater part of their lives. Irrespective of their virtues,
they are certain also to possess some of the weaknesses which
are a part of all men. It is these weaknesses, or what others
believe to be weaknesses, that take the public eye and blind it
to the virtues.
However great a man may be, those about him who know
him well, JUDGE HIM BY THEIR OWN WEAKNESSES and ask
OF ST. JOHN 83
the eternal question: "Can anything good come out of
Nazareth?" In doing this, THEY CONDEMN THEMSELVES. It
is like saying: "Witness myself, can this other, born here, and
living here most of his life, be different from what I am? If so,
why?" Men quickly see the faults in others, witness their
weaknesses, but are blind to their virtues. This fault the wise
man avoids by self examination.
45. Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galileans
received him, having seen all the things that he did at
Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.
46. So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made
the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose
son was sick at Capernaum.
47. When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into
Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he
would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the
point of death.
48. Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders,
ye will not believe.
It is regrettable, but true, that men constantly seek for "signs
and wonders" before they believe. It is this seeking for signs
and wonders that makes them the ready prey of self-seekers who
have no regard for the welfare of others.
Instead of listening attentively and examining that which is
taught by those who would really serve them, they demand
promises of an easy life and spiritual welfare. Their constant
cry is: "Heal me but do not ask me to give up my errors, and I
will believe in thee." "Show me the way to live the life of ease,
to gain riches, and I will follow thee to the end." "Show me
how to gain honors among men without making the sacrifices
necessary to earn them, and I will swear by you with all that is
holy." Promise these things and your following will be great.
Those who ask these things, but labor not, will find that
they have followed the piper leading them unto death, perhaps
not only of the body, but the Soul as well. "SEEK, and ye shall
find." Labor, and thy reward will follow.
84 THE INTERPRETATION
49. The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my
child die.
50. Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the
man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him,
and he went his way.
The words spoken by the Nazarene had, in this instance at
least, the effect of causing the nobleman to believe that his son
would be healed; and the faith of the former, like the desire in
the heart, had the effect of restoring the child to health.
The identical Law which decrees that he who "thinketh lust
in his heart, hath [by the desire} already committed lust," is in
operation when the great faith in the heart of one whose affec
tions are deep, has the welfare of another in view. This power
of faith is transferred to one who is receptive to it—"Let your
light so shine. . . ."
Absolute faith, based on reason and possibility, has the
power to accomplish any reasonable thing. It sets into motion
powers and forces which encircle the object of the desire.
Unless there is Karmic (the Will of God) interference, and if
the subject in mind is receptive, faith can accomplish wonders.
The thought and desire of an unselfish person, is like an elec
trical wave. It encircles the object against which it is directed
and which is attuned to
it,
and wonders are performed. Love
and deep affection in the heart of
a
father for his son send the
healing waves directly to the heart of the son.
51. And as he was now going down, his servants met him,
and told him, saying, Thy son liveth.
52. Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to
amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh
hour the fever left him.
53. So the father knew that
it
was at the same hour, in the
which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himselj
believed, and his whole house.
54. This
is
again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he
was come out of Judaea into Galilee.
CHAPTER FIVE
"Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a
worse thing come unto thee."
1. After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went
up to Jerusalem.
2. Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool,
which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having
five porches.
Bethesda means "the house where mercy is to be had by the
unfortunate" —"the house of the merciful."
3. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind,
halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.
4. For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool,
and troubled the water: Whosoever then first after the
troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of
whatsoever disease he had.
Because of this legend the pool received the name "place of
mercy." The afflicted, in their last hope, believed that an angel
actually came down with mercy for those who suffered and had
hitherto found no relief.
5. And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty
and eight years.
6. When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a
long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made
whole?
"To be made whole" has reference not alone to the body,
but to the Soul, the Spiritual self as well. It is questionable if
there be any man ill of the body who is not also more or less ill
of the Soul. To be made whole, is also to be made holy—pure,
free—from the iniquity which caused the disease. No one can
become whole or truly holy except as the result of obedience to
the Divine Law.
86 THE INTERPRETATION
To become whole or holy requires the awakening of the
Soul, the Christos within, by the cleansing—purification —of
the body, the temple of the living God. When this is finally
accomplished, then has the Soul become free; also become
Conscious of itself and of the Infinite.
7. The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when
the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I
am coming, another steppeth down before me.
8. Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
9. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his
bed, and walked; and on the same day was the sabbath.
"If you have faith, all things are possible." This saying, so
avidly accepted by the mass, is not as simple as it at first appears.
To begin with, we do not have faith, because we give no thought
to anything we do not desire, hence faith and desire must GO
HAND IN HAND. If we have a desire, and the faith, then there is
the INCENTIVE to activity, and the ultimate results will be de
termined by the degree of our desire and faith. Faith in itself is
dead. Desire in conjunction with faith, followed by effort or
works, makes ALL THINGS POSSIBLE.
Fear is one of the greatest determents with which man is
constantly and universally plagued. It is fear that prevents us
from doing the things we would like to do. Many times, even
when we have a desire to do certain things, and if the thing to
be done is good, the fear of consequences paralyzes action and
nothing is done. Faith casts out fear and enables us to use all
our forces in that which we seek to accomplish.
The greater number of diseases from which the human
family suffers are due entirely to fear, because fear PRODUCES or
CREATES emotional upsets, which result in a derangement of
the mental, nervous system. All are the results of the stultifying
effects of fear. Fear is the direct cause of most failures. It pre
vents us from entering heart and Soul into the work at hand.
We fear the loss of that which we already possess.
OF ST. JOHN 87
Faith is not of the mind, the intellect, but of the heart. If
true or full faith can be aroused or established in the heart, it
raises our hopes. Our hopes arouse and raise our vibratory forces
to the degree that all lower or lesser vibratory forces are elimi
nated. This helps to make all things possible.
In verses 8 and 9 this law is illustrated for the benefit of
those who expect to accomplish something worth while. The
man, though most seriously ill, all things having failed him,
believed in the command given by the Nazarene; believed so
completely that, for the moment at least, all his fears were
forgotten. He believed the implied promise; he obeyed, all his
faculties were released, he got up and walked.
We, of the Esoteric or Arcane schools have taught for many
centuries that the majority of ailments, afflictions of the heart,
emotional and physical, many evils, are due to emotional upsets.
Emotional upsets in turn are due to fear. Fear lowers the mental
and bodily vibrations to the dead levels, so that disease, mental
aberrations and failure are the results. Insofar as disease is
concerned, the medical profession, almost as a whole, at last
agrees with that which the Mystery schools have always taught.
By faith the heart is gladdened, the vibrations are raised,
energy is created. There is the Will to do or be, and, while
BEFORE, it could be truly said: "The thing I feared has come
upon me," this is now changed to: "That in which I had faith
came upon me."
If Sacred Literature, if the Arcane schools taught no more
than this, and if mankind took it to heart sufficiently to actually
"follow through," the hells on earth, the sorrows, most evils,
even failure, would cease to exist.
10. The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is
the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.
1 1. He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said
unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk.
88 THE INTERPRETATION
12. Then ask they him, What man is that which said unto
thee, Take up thy bed, and walk?
13. And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus
had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place.
14. Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto
him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a
worse thing come unto thee.
The statement ". . . sin no more, lest a worse thing come
upon thee," is direct and uncontradictable. It was made by the
One whom all Christians profess to believe implicitly. He tells
you THAT DISEASE is CAUSED BY SINNING; that
is,
evil or wrong
doing. "Sin no more" does not, as all too many think, imply
only to refrain from that which
is
evil (not right)
,
but equally
the doing of that which should be done. Sin includes both com
mission and omission. So far as disease
is
concerned, one
is
as
destructive as the other to the welfare of the body and the peace
of mind.
The statement, however, implies
a
great deal more.
It
suggests that the suffering undergone during the thirty and
eight years had expiated the sin which brought about the disease
and caused the suffering. He had paid the penalty, "to the
utmost farthing." He required only the Divine command to be
up and about, to free him from the condition brought about
by
his sins. He was free from both the sin and its results, or
reaction. This
is
implied
by
the Nazarene's statement: "Behold,
thou art made whole (holy)."
Much more
is
implied in these few words and that which
followed:
A
Divine Law
is
taught
by
words and action. Although
he had sinned and suffered for
it,
as ALL sinners ultimately
MUST, this man, during his suffering, had time to think and to
repent (regret) and to seek freedom. He had been brought to
the realization that
if
man sins, nothing can prevent his being
made to pay the penalty.
In the final analysis, all suffering, all misery, all sickness
and failure come about as the result of living or acting contrary
OF ST. JOHN 89
to the Divine Law. This is clearly implied by the statement:
"Evil must come into the world, but woe unto him through
whom it cometh." However, when sorrow, suffering, disease
and failure come upon us, for whatever reason, by whatever
means, it is OUR DUTY, OUR DESTINY, to make the necessary
effort to free ourselves from the conditions. We are NOT privi
leged to offer excuses: "lo, here; lo, there," but to do that which
will fulfill our destiny and justify us before the Law.
15. The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus,
which had made him whole.
16. And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to
slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath
day.
Here we have an example of the deadliness of form and
hidebound creed. Those who live in the material, in the form-
life, have no conception of the spirit of life. To them everything
must follow man-made law. There is no flexibility of action; not
even in the saving of a life.
It
is,
moreover, an example of the universal human tendency
to believe the gross delusion, that the one day
is
different from
another when judging good or evil. Here you have the common
belief, that
a
good deed done on
a
week-day,
is
somehow differ
ent from
a
similar one on Sunday, or that you may do on a
Monday, without ill-effects, something which you may not do
on the sabbath. "Good" and "evil" know no days. THE DEED
IS THE THING, NOT THE DAY ON WHICH IT IS PERFORMED.
Man-made civil legislation may harmonize with the Divine
Law; and
if
it
does, well and good. All too frequently, how
ever, civil codes and dogmas, creeds and opinions, are in conflict
with each other. Much evil naturally follows, because only the
enlightened man fully recognizes humanly-instituted laws as
separate from Divine Law. These man-made laws are written
so all may read; or they are enforced to
a
degree that all, whether
they obey or not, cannot but be aware of them.
90 THE INTERPRETATION
If,
as illustrated
by
the case under consideration, one sick or
ailing may not be saved on
a
certain day, or in
a
certain way,
then wee unto him who does otherwise, even though the Divine
Law is explicit in teaching that
it
is
man's duty to help his fellow
man, whenever and however he can. Defiance of such man-
made mandates always means persecution
if
not prosecution.
There
is
a
penalty for doing good. This was as true during the
time of the Nazarene, and his persecution
by
the Jews as
it
is
today when all men join in the condemnation of everything they
do not approve.
Despite the Gospels, and all preachments, men have not
changed in this respect since the days of Galilee. Men seldom
search for truth, but accept whatever
is
offered them in the guise
of truth. For this reason, men know very little of the Divine
l^aw, but much of the exactments and edicts of man. Conse
quently, persecution and prosecution must follow disobedience
ro man-made edicts, irrespective of how unjust they may be,
while peace of mind
is
the sole immediate reward of those who
obey the Divine Law despite all opposition. The Nazarene all
too soon became aware of this fact, but refused to be swerved
from the Path.
17. But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and
I
work.
The Nazarene fully recognized that the Greatest of all Laws
is
activity; and that activity in doing the Will of the Father —
that
is,
in doing good —
is
more important than all else.
If
this
be in defiance of dogmas or man-made ordinances, and persecu
tion results, such persecution must be graciously, not supinely,
accepted.
Whether recognized or not, the Divine Law, the Universal
Law,
is
in constant operation. True,
it
may be opposed
by
man,
and even those who are obedient to
it
may be made to suffer for
the moment. Sooner or later, however, the persecutors them
selves will be drawn into the "mills of the gods" which, how
OF ST. JOHN 91
ever slowly they may grind, will see that none guilty under the
Law is allowed to escape.
"The Father worketh hitherto," continually, unceasingly,
and if our works be good, we do well to imitate Him. Should
God, or, in other words, the Law, cease to operate for but an
instant chaos would be the immediate result. To the Law, i.e.,
the Father, all days are Sabbath days; Sabbath days meaning:
DAYS OF GOOD DEEDS; good thoughts, good desires, good action.
The Sabbath may be a day of rest in the sense of rest from
ordinary labor, but NOT a day of abstinence from good and
necessary deeds. To do the Will of the Father, implies doing
good, and goodness is no respecter of days.
The Nazarene had attained to God or Cosmic Conscious
ness. To him the Divine Law was God's Law to be obeyed. He
who attains to Soul or Christic Consciousness is equally anxious
to fulfill the Law as nearly as possible, irrespective of dogmas
or edicts unsanctioned by either Justice or God.
18. Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because
he nor only had broken the Sabbath, but said also that God
was his Father, making himself equal with God.
The Nazarene claimed nothing for himself but that which
had been written: "And now the sons of men have become the
Sons of God," and in other words: "Know ye not that ye are
the temple of the living God, and the spirit [Light} dwelleth
in you?" Naturally —and this must be said in the favor of the
Jews
—they did not recognize or understand these vital state
ments.
In contradiction of the last sentence in verse 18, nowhere
has a claim ever been made either in Esoteric or Arcane teach
ings which preceded the Gospels, or in the Gospels themselves,
that anything the Nazarene said or did, implied that "it made
him equal with God." The statement, variously expressed
is,
in
substance: "And now the sons of men have become the Sons
of God," not "equal with God," but of the same nature, with
92 THE INTERPRETATION
like potentialities and capabilities, wisdom and understanding,
THOUGH IN A LESSER DEGREE.
The Jews of that day, like unto the mass of the present,
knew nothing of God other than what had been preached to
them by those who had set themselves up, or were ordained,
to teach them the Law. They knew nothing of God by exper
ience; as the result of inner enlightenment, or Spiritual attain
ment; or by having passed through the Second, or Spiritual
birth. They possessed only the letter, and whether or not the
Law was known to those who taught them, is not for us to
judge.
19. Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily,
I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but
what he seeth the Father do; for what things soever he
doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.
In this the Nazarene refutes having made any claims what
soever for himself. He merely says that whatever he has done,
or is able to do, is by means of the power he has received from
the Father as the result of his obedience to the Laws governing
his activities.
Man of himself is impotent. Man naturally or carnally, is
of the earth, earthly mundane, and of temporary existence; but
there does dwell in him a Divine Spark received from God.
This Christos, part of God, is dormant; in a tomb; buried by
the debris of the gross self. This self, as we have repeatedly
stated, may be awakened and brought into Consciousness.
This is mortality taking on Immortality. It is the "son of
man becoming as the (a) Son of God." The Nazarene was
born as were other men. He passed through this Rebirth or
Spiritual birth and, having done so, BECAME the Son of God,
with the right and the power, aye, the OBLIGATION, to do the
works the Father did. It is therefore true, as he said, that the
Son of God can do nothing without the Father; but that what
ever the Father doeth, may also be done by those who have
OF ST. JOHN 93
become atone —in harmony and fellowship —with the Father
as the result of the Second birth and by partaking of the Spirit
which is of the Father.
20. For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things
that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works
than these, that ye may marvel.
The Father loveth (is pleased with) all of those who have
the desire and are trying to do the Will of the Father; that
is,
io obey the Divine Law. The Law of Hermes, "As in the below,
so in the above,"
is
apropos here. Just as the earthly father
loveth his offspring, and the more so when he
is
obedient, so
does the Heavenly Father love those who seek to become like
Him
by
being obedient to His Laws. These are rewarded, not
by
the Father, but
by
the works they do', this being the reaping
of the seeds sown
by
them; the REACTION OF THEIR OWN
ACTION.
As there
is
a
natural man, so
is
there
a
Spiritual man, and
the two must become as one. That which belongs to (is good
for) the body, belongs to the body, which
is
Caesar; and that
which belongs to God, the Soul, must be rendered unto the
Soul, that both may be raised up, themselves becoming in the
likeness of God.
21. For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth
them: even so the Son quickeneth whom he will.
Spiritually speaking, we are all as dead. We live in the
flesh. The flesh
is
temporal —of
a
few days, to be known no
more. This
is
man as he is. But there
is
within man, (Ye are
the temples of the Living God) that which may be quickened,
i.e., brought to life and activity, and this
is
the Christos who
may become the Son. This
is
the work of every man, and he
who accomplishes this work, may, in turn, help his fellow men
to accomplish the same seeming miracle. As the Father can
raise the dead; so can man raise into life that which
is
as dead
within himself and which, raised up, is GREATER THAN HE WAS.
94 THE INTERPRETATION
22. For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all
judgment unto the Son.
Correctly understood, God judges no man. MAN JUDGES
HIMSELF; i.e., man is judged by his thoughts, his desires and
his deeds. This is man's "sowing" and, without interference by
anyone, he "reaps," —that which comes upon him—that which
he has sown.
Man has within himself that which was placed there as part
of his being—his conscience. This is part of the hidden Christos.
In all too many instances this conscience is asleep or even as
dead. It may not come into consciousness until the very mo
ment of death, but if not before, then it DOES come into con
sciousness and acts as the judge of all that man has been and
has done. However, even though the conscience is asleep, there
is the constant activity of the Law of ACTION AND REACTION.
This Law is constant in bringing about a balance; this is the
reaping of that which has been sown. Nothing can be evaded;
bribery or pleading will not serve. It is the WITHIN man him
self that stands in judgment.
This WITHIN man
is,
at least in embryo, the Son.
It
is
a
part of the Christos, and whether unconscious or conscious, as
the Law of Karma, or action and REaction,
it
is
active even
though the Christos, the Son,
is
still asleep or unconscious.
Once this Christos has become awakened and brought into Con
sciousness, then he sitteth in judgment and judges before the
act
is
committed;
it
is
then the Son who judgeth.
23. That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour
the Father, He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not
the Father which hath sent him.
Man cannot truthfully profess that he believes in God and
is
obeying his Laws, without at the same time doing all in his
power to bring into Consciousness the SON-TO-BE, the Christos,
hidden within himself.
It
was for this purpose that God per
mitted the Soul to descend and take up its abode in the house
OF ST. JOHN 95
of flesh; that it might do two things: Make the body a fitting
abode for the Son, and bring about the Second, or Spiritual
birth.
He who actually has faith in the Father will make every
effort to do the Will of the Father by obeying His, the Divine
Law, and will seek for the Way, the Truth, and to find the Life.
As he makes effort and truth is revealed to him, he will apply
it in his life. By so doing, he becomes conscious of something
of which he has hitherto been unconscious and he will not rest
until he has learned what this is.
Having gained this much of the truth, he will set about
bringing this hidden something—the Christos—into life, and
in the process, he, the son of man, will become the Son of God.
Only in this manner can man truly honor God. By bring
ing his hidden potentialities into action, turning man power
into God power; transmuting the human into the Divine, man
"glorifies" God by BECOMING God-like, or as "one of the gods."
Faith without works is dead. By faith alone man cannot
sow wheat that he may have bread to eat. It requires effort;
effort is work. Faith will not bring man unto salvation, unless
the faith is strong enough to be a constant urge to make the
necessary effort to attain the Oneness which is a BECOMING, a
Second birth, gaining freedom from the bondage of carnality.
He who professes to believe in the Father, but fails to obey
His Laws, is a blasphemer. He who has learned to obey the
Father will no longer follow the will of the flesh; will not hate;
nor cheat his fellow man; nor murder; nor commit any other
crime or act of dishonor. He will have learned that while doing
these things may bring temporal benefit or profit, everything
so gained, and more, will be taken from him, and at a time
when he can least afford
it,
or
is
least able to bear up under the
exactment of the Law.
96 THE INTERPRETATION
24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that hearth my word, and
believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and
shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death
unto life.
This statement can readily be misconstrued. To get a proper
understanding we must reason by analogy. Let us suppose that
we have a desire to build a cottage or a house, but are unfamiliar
with the procedure. We then employ the help of some one
thoroughly versed in the method of construction who, in turn,
will instruct us to the degree that we know how to build the
house. WILL THAT BUILD THE COTTAGE OR HOUSE FOR us?
We may listen ever so intently to the method to be followed,
but if we do not follow, obey, employ ourselves accordingly,
there WILL BE NO COTTAGE OR HOUSE. To OBTAIN or AT
TAIN, it is necessary not merely that WE HEAR THE WORD, THE
INSTRUCTIONS. WE MUST SET ABOUT DOING THAT WHICH
WAS GIVEN us TO DO. In the preceding verse, "hearing the
word," means having an understanding of the Divine Law. It
means even more than this; IT MEANS OBEYING, OR, LIVING
IN HARMONY WITH THE DIVINE LAW.
As we do this, we no longer listen to the calls of the carnal
self, or, at least, we will listen less and less frequently until,
finally, we will ignore it altogether. Instead, we will listen
and attune our hearing to the Voice of the Father; the directing
voice of Conscience. Through obedience to the Law, we event
ually awaken the Christos, BECOMING the Son of God, who
will then direct our actions along the proper avenues of life.
When we no longer listen to the desires of the lower
self, we will really begin to hear the Word. We will cease to
do these things which bring upon us the evils of the world.
Hatred, jealousy, deception, questionable business methods,
injustices, such evils as these will no longer be part of our
lives. We will do only those things which the Voice justifies.
Let us not be misled. Such a manner of life does NOT cause
us to become impractical; a dreamer; negative to a practical
OF ST. JOHN 97
life. On the contrary, one becomes alert; active in the true
interest of the home, community and state. In these varied
interests our action will be prompted and guided by the Law
of Justice; of good Will toward all men, and on the defensive
against all evils.
25. Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now
is,
when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God:
and they that hear shall live.
"The Dead" are all of us who have "not heard the Word,"
who live entirely in the flesh, the carnal self. The dead are
also those who may believe, but who in no sense live according
to their professed faith. These are dead in God, or, Biblically
speaking, "dead in Christ," because the Christos within
is
unaroused; "buried under
a
bushel," "hidden beneath the
tomb," and will remain so until faith becomes active and we
begin to think, feel and actually live in accordance with the
faith we profess.
It
is
then that we begin to lift the "bushel," roll away
the "tomb stone," so that the hidden Christos may come forth.
To the degree that we do this, will be become Spiritually Con
scious, and once this work
is
fully accomplished, the Christ will
have risen and we will be truly alive.
The vast majority of mankind refuse, despite all teachings
to the contrary, to recognize anything except that which they
are able to see and feel. To them the material
is
the only reality.
They accept nothing which the eyes are unable to behold.
They are dead in the self.
Those are dead who refuse to believe that man
is
more
than the body and who make no effort to find the real self.
They will remain as dead until misfortune and sorrow awakens
them to the possibility of something greater and more desirable.
26. For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to
the Son to have life in himself;
27. And hath given him authority to execute judgment also,
because he
is
the Son of man.
98 THE INTERPRETATION
To have authority, is to possess the right, the privilege and
the capability of bringing about that which one desires. Man
has the ability, he has the right, he has within himself the
possibility to bring into manifestation the Son who is of the
Father. He has within himself the Christos, that which is able
to arouse this Divine Spark and bring it into Sonship with the
Father.
The Father, as the Christos, dwells in His temple, but is
unconscious and unrecognized until the temple is purified and
prepared as a fit dwelling place for Him, then it may be truth
fully said of such: "Ye are the temples of the lining God."
The Christos WITHIN is only secondary to God after it has
been awakened and brought into Consciousness. The process of
this awakening and preparing the temple proceed hand in hand.
This is the WORK of EVERY MAN BORN OF WOMAN, but to
attain to this it is first necessary that he pass through the Second
or Spiritual birth.
28. Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all
that are in the graves shall hear his voice.
29. And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the
resurrection of life; and they have done evil, unto the
resurrection of damnation.
What is this resurrection? It is in reality the Second or
Spiritual birth. So long as the Christos or Soul is unawakened,
the body is as its grave and must remain so until this Second
birth, or the "Coming forth of the Soul" takes place.
The resurrection is the coming forth from this mortal grave.
As long as man lives the carnal life, the Soul is like unto the
dead of body. The grave is the unregenerate body. When man
at last begins to follow the commands of the Divine Law —
God's Word—he will slowly but gradually eliminate the debris
known as his carnal body. In time and by effort the Soul will be
awakened and will become Conscious. The Soul, the Son of
God, will have then come forth from the tomb, the resurrection
OF ST. JOHN 99
will be an accomplished fact, and man will have entered a new
and higher phase of life.
Those who persist in disregarding the Divine Law in its
many and various applications in the every-day affairs of life
cannot possibly awaken to Soul or Christic Consciousness. By
their refusal, they fail to release the Divine Spark from the
earthly, or fleshy grave in which it lies entombed. At the
transition known as death, the body as such disintegrates and
returns to its original element whence it sprung, while the
Divine Spark, the buried Christos, UNC^ra/ianed, unindividu-
alized, returns to the Infinite, to later undertake another, or
perhaps many other, pilgrimages.
He that has not learned to know God, i.e., become Conscious
of Him, has not earned a new life; he is dead in his grave, and to
him as a person, there is no resurrection.
30. I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and
my judgment is just: because I seek not mine own will, but
the will of the Father which hath sent me.
The Soul or Christos has no Will of direction. This was its
agreement on coming to earth. The mind, with its thoughts and
desires, is the director of the earth life. The Will of the mind is
the Law that governs. If the mind wills to do wrong —that is,
if
its thoughts and desires are unregenerate —then the hidden
Soul cannot do less than receive the impression, because
it
is
the
BOOK OF RECORDS of man's life. This process of good and evil
must continue until such time when,
by
one means or another,
the mind becomes conscious of the great difference between
good and evil, and chooses the good.
31.
If
I
bear witness of myself, my witness
is
not true.
32. There
is
another that beareth witness of me; and
I
know
that the witness which he witnesseth of me
is
true.
33. Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.
John
is
symbolic of, and represents the AWAKENED mind;
the mind that has become conscious of the Truth, of the Law, of
100 THE INTERPRETATION
the Way of Life. This conscious mind —conscious of both good
and evil—is no longer satisfied with temporal, carnal, earthly
desires and interests.
It "bears witness" to the real, and seeks to free itself from
carnal entanglements and bondages. This mind, before it is
ready to give up temporal interests must be made to CHANGE —
to undergo the REbirth —to transfer its attention and affections
to the true self, the Christos, the Soul.
The mind, so awakened, becomes attuned to phases of exist
ence much higher than those pertaining to the temporal, perish
able world it had known before. This mind becomes the creator
and the builder of the "temple not made with hands" in prepa
ration for the awakened Soul—the Soul awakened and brought
into Consciousness through unceasing effort directed by the
Will, prompted by sincere Desire and mellowed by Love. This
Soul, in turn, in the fullness of time, becomes the REgenerate
man, or Son of God.
34. But I receive not testimony from man; but these things I
say, that ye might be saved.
The intellect, highly desirable when fully enlightened, is
cold, scheming, wholly selfish and irrevocably opposed to every
thing of a Spiritual nature. The intellect recognizes only that
which it can see and feel. It must have its basis in profit, in
glory and in material honors. The testimony of the intellect is
wholly betraying and nothing Spiritual can come out of it or be
saved by it. The intellect, being cold, knows nothing of affection
or Love; graciousness is of no value to it unless profit can be
realized or won by making use of it. For a witness to the Truth,
one must enter deep within, to that realm wherein dwell graci
ousness, affection and Love. These are the true witnesses to the
reality of life; not alone during the short span of our earthly
pilgrimage, but throughout all eternity. Anything not based
on these beatitudes is temporal and unreal, misleading and
betraying.
OF ST. JOHN 101
35. He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing
for a season to rejoice in his light.
36. But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works
which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works
that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father sent me.
Great as was John, he was no more than the AWAKENER of
man to the possibilities of something far better than the things of
which man is generally conscious. This is a Light; it is the Light
of truth, and without it man would not be awakened and would
make no effort. The greater Work begins where John's work
ended, and consists of fanning the lesser light into the greater
Light.
The completion of this process requires that the mind,
which John awakened, be now directed toward the awakening
of the Christos or Divine Spark within, so that it will become
God-conscious by passing through the Second or Spiritual birth.
Where the work of John ceases, the Christic Work begins,
and this may not cease until the Temple of /for the living God
has been prepared, and the Soul has become sufficiently enLight-
ened to take up its abode therein as the Son of God.
The Nazarene did not merely accept the word of John, he
was made conversant with its full meaning while domiciled in
the temple of Egypt. He imbibed, as it were, the Spirit of the
Word. In him was given birth to the feeling so vividly, that he
LIVED the truth; and all his efforts and acts were directed accord
ingly. He not only possessed the faith, but he put his faith to
work, with the result that he BECAME ALL THAT THE WORDS
IMPLIED.
The Nazarene manifested, that
is,
brought into manifesta
tion, the Christos WITHIN which WAS the Christ. Having made
manifest this inborn and now manifest Christos, he did not rest
there, but went about teaching the truth and doing the works of
the Father. This, in truth,
is
no more than all men should do—
102 THE INTERPRETATION
performing works for the welfare of all men; foreshadowing
the peace that would prevail on earth were all men to do the
Father's will.
37. And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne
witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any
time, nor seen his shape.
38. And ye have not his word abiding in you; for whom he
hath sent, him ye believe not.
The carnal man cannot hear the voice of God, nor see Him.
Only when the mind recognizes the truth that the flesh is not all
there is of man; that the desires of the flesh will not give peace;
that only as the enlightened mind makes an effort to find the
true life—only then is there a chance for man to know God.
When the mind so awakens and makes such an effort, there
will be "an inner urge" that will give man no rest until he seeks
further and further. As he seeks more and more earnestly, the
truth will unfold to him more and more clearly. By degrees, he
will learn to change his thoughts from a distinctly selfish trend
to those that are all-inclusive and constructive.
Gradually, still greater effort is made; until, eventually, the
mind has established such superior self-mastery that it harbors
only thoughts that are positive, constructive, upbuilding, and
wholesome. The thoughts and desires thus being under master
ful control, it becomes a comparatively easy matter for the acts,
words, and deeds to savor only of kindness and good-will toward
all creatures.
As the thoughts and the desires are directed toward the
higher life and unselfish service to humanity, the Soul is thus
gradually unfolded to a fuller and yet fuller Consciousness,
until, eventually, "the hour has come" when the Soul will have
become fully Conscious and Illuminated.
It is then that the conscience will be quickened, and man
enabled to hear the Voice of God and see him IN /as Light; the
same Light alight on the Altar within the temple of the Living
OF ST. JOHN 103
God. This process of disentangling the Soul from the meshes of
rhe lower nature is naturally a slow, tedious and a long-continued
growth; just as was the growth of the body from childhood to
manhood. It demands patience, painstaking effort and vision.
Unless man believes in those willing to instruct and guide
him, unless he accepts that which is offered him, he will be
unable to attain to the Second or Spiritual birth: The Father will
not be able to abide in him.
39. Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal
life: and they are they which testify of me.
In the scriptures is found the Law, but this Law is the letter,
and the "letter killeth." That is to say, the letter is dead unless
we live in accordance with the Law. To believe is necessary; to
have faith is essential, but these are not sufficient in themselves;
they are the incentives to action. "Ye think in them"—the letter
—"ye have eternal life," but this is misleading. In obedience
and the desire for that which is indicated by the scriptures will
be found life beyond the mortal.
The Nazarene was fully aware that men would accept the
letter of the Law, but fail to come into the spirit of the Law. He
saw this manifest on all sides—hence he taught: "Ye cannot
understand the scriptures, except ye possess the Spiritual under
standing of them." This, we know, is brought about solely by
living in harmony with the spirit of the Law.
Many will contend that this is not just; that only the few will
understand. This is a specious argument. All that is necessary
is to possess the inner desire to live in harmony with the Law
and to do so to the best of one's understanding —then greater
understanding will follow.
The Law is not difficult to understand. It is clearly stated
and re-stated in the simplest terms. However, it is necessary to
lay aside the selfish self and not consider immediate profits or
benefits; otherwise, it will appear as though others will be
receiving greater benefits by our fulfilling the Law, than will we.
104 THE INTERPRETATION
40. And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.
To "come to him," requires giving up the carnal tendencies
which offer pleasures of the moment, but force us to pay heavy
penalties. To live in accordance with the teachings enunciated
by the Nazarene requires a certain amount of self-denial to begin
with, but pays substantial dividends.
41. I receive not honour from men.
The mass in general do not honor the man who actually
makes every effort to live within the Law and, of course, neces
sitates that others dealing with him, do likewise. This demands
that apparent sacrifices be made. Few are ready and willing to
do this, hence will shun those who do. Honors are reserved for
those who succeed in the world's terms, and succeeding, bring
profits or benefits to their immediate associates, irrespective of
how adversely this affects those not associated with them.
42. But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.
If the love of God, of righteousness (Tightness) is in the
heart, then "God is in us." These so blessed care little for the
honors that men are able to confer upon them; knowing full
well that such honors are temporary and fleeting, and that the
slightest error on their part, or what may appear as an error,
will not only rob them of the honor, but actually bring disgrace.
This has been illustrated all too often in the lives of really
great men. He who would be happy and at peace, will shun the
honors that men can confer upon them and seek the peace
brought about by doing those things which they know to be
right and to the benefit of the many, and to live as nearly as
possible in harmony with the Law. The peace of mind and Soul
found only in well-doing is worth far more than all the honors
of the world.
43. I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if
another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.
The Nazarene came for one express purpose: To teach the
Divine Law and to demonstrate it so far as possible, or to the
OF ST. JOHN 105
degree he was permitted to do so. He came in humbleness and
not in "robes of honor."
He admittedly was about his Father's business; knowing full
well that the Way he advocated was the "straight and narrow
Path" and demanded of man that he discontinue many of the
things to which he was habituated. He was aware that few
would be willing to "right about face" in the things that con
cerned them, and in which they were engaged, particularly when
this involved —as it did in many instances, immediate temporary
losses and the derision of the many. Few, indeed, had the hardi
hood to undergo this, hence "few would receive" him.
The Nazarene was also aware that false prophets would
come after him, presuming to come "in his name." These would
offer great promises and demand few, if any, self-denials, with
the result that the people would follow eagerly. There has been
little change, if any, on this score, even down to the present day.
Today, as always, the mass is ready to follow those who
show great success; who make great display; who are boastful
of their powers or possessions, and who offer an easy life,
together with the assurance of salvation at the end of life.
These, the false prophets, are followed by millions, while
those who are "truly about their Father's business," attract only
the few; those who, as a result of sorrow, suffering and disillusion
ment, have glimpsed the realities and are seeking for that "peace
that passeth understanding"—for "the Light that is to be found
neither on land nor sea," but only in the Inner Temple of
the Soul.
44. How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another,
and seek nor that honour that cometh from God only?
There is but one true honor; that honor comes from God,
i.e., from well-doing; from fulfilling the Law. This honor comes
from the within. It is the peace that is the assurance of righteous
ness, hence it is from God, because in righteousness is found the
temple of the living God. It is God who confers the honor; an
106 THE INTERPRETATION
honor which no man can take from those who have earned
it;
an honor that cannot be brought into disgrace
by
other men, or
any number of them.
However great the the honor that men can confer, however
well deserved,
it
is
at best but temporary, because
it
comes from
without and not from within.
It
is
from men and not from
God. One might well counsel: "Seek ye not that which men
can give unto thee, but that which will be everlastingly yours;
having been earned and not received as
a
gift." Only that which
man has honestly earned belongs to him, because
it
is
the
reaping of what he has sown.
45. Do not think
I
will accuse you to the Father: there
is
one
that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust.
Men are not accused of their evils
by
the Christos, but
by
their conscience. Though men may be generally ignorant of
the Law, there
is
that within them, a feeling, which senses
whether an act
is
right or wrong, and which renders judgment.
This something intangible cannot be silenced.
It
makes itself
felt in the silence of the night.
It
brings about an uneasiness
which increases in intensity with the passing of time until
it
becomes the GREAT ACCUSER. Blame not others for your feeling
of guilt, but yourself for giving your conscience, the VOICE OF
GOD WITHIN, the opportunity to accuse you.
46. For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me:
for he wrote of me.
47. But
if
ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my
words?
Moses enunciated the Law; in tablet form,
it
is
true, but in
sufficient length, clearness and inclusiveness that all who would
study the Law as given
by
him, and live accordingly, would reap
the benefits of the Law; all its blessings, and avoid the punish
ment meted out to those guilty of infractions; the defiance of the
Law being the executor of the Law.
OF ST. JOHN 107
The Nazarene, important as was his mission, did little more
than make plain and exemplify the Law. Those who were
unwilling to accept the Laws as recorded by Moses and live by
them, would not be likely to react differently to the teachings of
the Nazarene.
It is true, of course, that he added something to the Laws
given by Moses; such, for instance, as the positive statement that
none are able to enter the kingdom of heaven, or of God, until
they are REborn; born a Second time; this time of the Spirit, as
they were previously born of the body.
For the most part, the inculcations of the Nazarene were a
restatement of the Laws of Moses, with the assurance that the
new tenets did not replace the Laws of Moses, but added to them,
and were made necessary for man's highest Spiritual attainment.
CHAPTER SIX
"Not that any man hath seen the Father, SAVE HIM
WHICH IS OF GOD, he hath seen the Father."
1. After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which
is the sea of Tiberias.
2. And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his
miracles which he did on them that were diseased.
3. And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with
his disciples.
4. And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.
5. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great com
pany come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall
we buy bread, that these may eat?
6. And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what
he would do.
7. Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread
is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take
a little.
8. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith
unto him,
9. There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes: but what are they among so many?
10. And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was
much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number
about five thousand.
11. And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks,
he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them
that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as
they would.
12. When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather
up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.
13. Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve
baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which
remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
110 THE INTERPRETATION
14. Then those men. when they had seen the miracle that Jesus
did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come
into the world.
15. When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and
take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again
into a mountain himself alone.
Although the Nazarene did his best to instruct the people
in the Divine Law, and the Spiritual WAY OF LIFE, they would
not understand. They recognized that he possessed powers others
did not have, and being a people held in bondage, felt here was
one who, becoming their leader and their ruler, would bring
them freedom and give them the things they had long been
denied. First and foremost in their minds was the desire for the
things of this world; they had little thought of a higher state of
life, and were devoid of spiritual perception.
They did not seek him as their leader and guide in Spiritual
affairs; as their savior, and could not appreciate the fact that
through spiritual upliftment they would also benefit physically
and materially.
They wanted a beneficent king here on earth; not a spiritual
guide for both the present and the hereafter.
16. And when even was now come, his disciples went down
unto the sea.
17. And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward
Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come
to them.
18. And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.
19. So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty
furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing
nigh unto the ship: and they were afraid.
20. But he saith unto them, It is
I,'
be not afraid.
21. Then they willingly received him into the ship: and im
mediately the ship was at the land whither they went.
22. The day following, when the people which stood on the
other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat
there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered.
OF ST. JOHN 111
and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but
that his disciples were gone away alone;
23. (Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto
the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had
given thanks: )
24. When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there,
neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and came to
Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.
25. And when they had found him on the other side of the
sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when carnest thou hither?
26. Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto
you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but
because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.
27. Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat
which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man
shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.
28. Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we
might work the works of God?
29. Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of
God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.
30. They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou
then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou
work?
31. Our fathers did eat manna in the desert; as it is written,
He gave them bread from heaven to eat.
32. Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
Moses gave you net that bread from heaven; but my
Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.
33. For the bread of God is he which cometh down from
heaven, and giveth life unto the world.
34. Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this
bread.
35. And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life; he that
cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on
me shall never thirst.
The word "bread" as here used, has no reference whatever
to material food, but to the "spirit of life." Just as soon as man
112 THE INTERPRETATION
accepts the Divine Law as his guide of action—thinking, desir
ing and effort—and does so willingly, he also begins to take on,
or enter into, a new, a greater and higher life. This new mode
of thinking, desiring and feeling is the spirit of a new life,
hence the bread of life. As this new life is continued, the
"bread" of life increases more and more until it is increased
many fold. This is made clear in the 27th verse, where "meat"
is substituted for "bread."
"Labour not for the meat [bread] which perisheth, but for
that meat [bread] WHICH ENDURETH UNTO EVERLASTING
LIFE, WHICH THE SON OF MAN SHALL GIVE UNTO YOU: for
him hath GOD THE FATHER SEALED:"
No statement could possibly make it more certain that the
Nazarene was NOT dealing with material substances, such as
foods for the body, but the bread and the meat for the spiritual
self; that which gives life to the Immortal self; the Christos, the
Soul that is from God. He who finds and AWAKENS the Christos
has thereby "eaten," partaken, or become part of, the BREAD OF
LIFE; that which GIVES life to the Spiritual self.
This is the Spiritual food, because it is clearly stated that
it is the "bread" that has come down from heaven and not the
material bread made from the wheat of the field.
In all of these statements dealing with the bread of life, or
the drink and wine of life, the Nazarene had in mind the LIFE
which will bring greater life; the life that will transmute or
change the mortal being into the Immortal being.
Fishes, like bread and meat, are emblematical of the Spiritual
life principles which build the Soul unto Immortality, and not
the fishes of the water that give life to the body; these having
nothing whatever to do with the Soul, or Spiritual self.
This changing of the "mortality into Immortality," is truly
a Great Work; it IS indeed a miracle. No man can be successful
in bringing this new^life into reality except he who accepts,
OF ST. JOHN 113
and lives accordingly—in harmony—with the Divine Law
enunciated by Moses and demonstrated by the Nazarene.
36. But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe
not.
37. All that the Father giveth me shall com to me; and him
that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.
The body of man does not come from the Father. It is of
the earth, earthy. It is carnal in all of its desires and naturally
seeks to satisfy these desires. The spirit of man, the life prin
ciple, is universal and common to all creatures.
The Divine Spark, the Christos that is to be awakened and
become Christic, the Immortal Soul, is from the Father and is to
become LIKE Him, returning to him while the body returns to
its original element, the earth. It is true that the spirit of life,
created by God, is given (lent) to man so that the body may
function and become a vehicle for the Immortal self, the Soul,
but, paradoxical as it may seem, the spirit is not of itself spiritual.
Those who "come to me"—that
is,
accept the Law as
exemplified
by
the Nazarene—come to "me" as the Christ,
because
by
so doing they become Spiritualized, REborn creatures
who have turned to God and have thereby found
a
renewal of
life on
a
higher plane.
38. For
1
came down from heaven, not to do mine own will,
but the will of him that sent me.
The Divine Soul, the Christos, the Spiritual part of man, has
come from, hence was sent by, the Father who
is
above, or in
"Heaven." Heaven also
is
within, but only when /after man
has accepted the Law and has harmonized himself with the Law
by
living according to the Law.
The Soul left its heavenly sphere and incarnated in
a
human
vehicle
by
means of which
it
would gain experience and, Bibli
cally speaking, acquire the "knowledge of good and evil." To
have experienced evil, many evils, all evils, does not damn
it,
but to continue in EVIL will destroy it.
It
is
Divinely decreed:
114 THE INTERPRETATION
"The Soul that sinneth, it shall die." This, however, does not
refer to the Soul itself, but to the personality in which the Soul is
domiciled for its earthly pilgrimage.
God gave man free will; the right to do as he pleases, but
in that privilege is included the penalty of being made to pay,
"to the utmost farthing" for all evil done under the privilege
of free will. Man may destroy himself; or he may accept the
direction of the Divine Law, awaken to realities, awaken the
Christos WITHIN and change his mortal self into an Immortal
being; the Son of God. He has free choice; no one has the
power to say him nay.
39. And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of
all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but
should raise it up again at the last day.
To some individuals —in fact, to a multitude of individuals
—EVERY day is a last day, and if man does not "RAISE HIMSELF
UP" by means of turning from the carnal to the spiritual, before
that last day, then there will be nothing to raise up on that last
day. To raise up, implies to //// up. To be lifted up is to be
transmuted, or changed from the lower to the higher or greater;
from the material, mundane, to the Spiritual.
"The last day" of the flesh is come when we have listened to
John and have become mentally awakened, conscious of the fact
that this earthly life, desirable as it is in many respects, is only
temporal, hence of death. We must recognize that there is
something far greater; something eternal, and that we may
partake of this greater life, become one with it. We can do this
without denying ourselves any of the really good and desirable
things of the present life, provided we are also willing—aye,
desirous —of making the effort to bring ourselves into the
greater, the Spiritual Consciousness, and undergo the "resur
rection" here and now, passing on finally into a realm of
greater Consciousness, that of Light.
OF ST. JOHN 115
40. And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one
which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have
everlasting life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
There are two conditions mentioned here, and it is well to
notice this: TO BELIEVE and to SEE the Son. We all have knowl
edge of what it is to believe, while to "see" the Son is an alto
gether different matter; but in no wise impossible for those
willing to live the life and make the effort necessary.
Time and again it has been indicated that men have seen
God, not as a person, but in the form of Fire, Light, as Lightning
or the Holy Ghost, i.e., a dove. The Son being part of the Father,
may also be seen in the Light, but this is only possible after the
Awakening advocated by John; the Christos brought into Con
sciousness, when He will appear in the form of Light —this
Light upon the Altar, WITHIN the temple of the Living God.
The ability to see and know the Son is contingent on: Mental
awakening to an altogether different concept of life than that
now held by the vast majority of mankind. We must have the
desire and make the effort to bring the Divine Spark, the
Christos WITHIN, into Consciousness; then into manifestation;
and finally find Him, as the Light WITHIN this temple of the
Living God.
This is not at all impossible, though more or less difficult, as
are all things that are worth while. One thing is always to be
remembered: That for this express purpose the Soul came to
earth and embodied in a physical body, so that it might gain
experience, learn to know both good and evil, and ultimately
arrive at the point where "mortality takes on (becomes)
Immortality."
41. The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am
the bread which came down from heaven.
Symbolically, this is true. The Nazarene came as a mes
senger; as a physician; he brought with him (down from above
where all Souls descended from ) the truth, the instructions and
116 THE INTERPRETATION
the guidance which would not only save (bring into conscious
life) the Souls of men, but, if obeyed, give them greater life. In
this sense he actually brought them that which was life itself, or
even more than life; it was both material and spiritual "bread,"
and he was indeed as the messenger, the bread of life to those
who accepted.
This is as true today as it was at that day long ago. All men
are at liberty to accept these teachings; to live and make effort
accordingly and in turn they will find that they have indeed
partaken of the bread (substance) giving them greater life of
body, and the life that is eternal and not merely temporal.
42. And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose
father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith,
I came down from heaven?
The people who saw and heard him could see only the
physical man. This physical man appeared no different to them
than they themselves. How then could he come from above
when they had no such feeling? They were unable to compre
hend that he spoke not of his body, but of the indwelling Soul;
nor that they, like him, were endowed with the Divine Spark
which, when brought into Consciousness, would also make them
as "from above."
Men judge all things by themselves. They see their own
weaknesses, ignorance and vices in others. It is only as they
themselves grow into understanding and wisdom that they begin
to see virtue in their fellowman. To the Jews, the Nazarene
was a man like unto themselves, the son of two poor people:
Joseph and Mary —could anything good or greater than they
come out of Nazareth, the lowly?
43. Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not
among yourselves.
44. No man can come unto me, except the Father which hath
sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.
OF ST. JOHN 117
The Nazarene in speaking of "no man can come unto me,"
had no reference to himself physically, but that no man could
come into the Spirit, the Christic self, unless such a man had at
least in part awakened to the truth and felt drawn—had the
desire —to give up the wholly carnal self in exchange, or by
exchange, for the Spiritual self.
When speaking of himself, of /as "me," the Nazarene never
referred to his mortal self, but to the Godly self; the God part of
himself. The Son who dwells in the Temple of the living God.
The Jews, in fact, all people he contacted, did not know that
he had spent many years in the temple changing by his thoughts
and desires and constant effort, the mortal self into the Immortal
reality. It was this Immortal self, the Christos, become the
Christ, he had in mind when he referred to himself as "me."
45. It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught
of God, Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath
learned of the Father, cometh unto me.
"Every man that hath heard" has reference to the teachings
of John; the inculcations of a life that will change man's
thoughts and desires from the purely carnal and human exist
ence to that which is greater and higher. Men accepting this
knowledge, and coming into the desire for those things which
are so clearly indicated, may be said to have "heard."
Those who, having heard, are not satisfied with hearing, but
begin to live and make effort according to what they have heard
or has been taught to them; will begin to "learn," that
is,
come
into the understanding. This understanding
is
a
Conscious
ness —
a
becoming part of the Wisdom that makes whole—and,
in so becoming, come unto (into) Christhood or "me," i.e.,
a
Son of God, or Sonship with the Father.
46. Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which
is
of
God, he hath seen the Father.
To say "save he which
is
of God,"
is
identical in meaning
to having "become the Son of God." This statement
is
positive
118 THE INTERPRETATION
that we, ALL men, may see the Father, but that in order to do so
we must become like unto the Father. That, at first, may appear
impossible, but the whole theme of John's teachings IS JUST
THAT.
This statement does not imply that we, or any man, shall
see God in person, or as a person, but in the Spirit of Himself,
that
is,
in the Fire, Light, or Lightning that
is
from above. This
Fire, Light or Lightning
is,
in embryonic form, in all men; dor
mant,
it
is
true, in the form of the Divine Spark THAT IS FROM
ABOVE. This Divine Spark or Christos may be awakened and
brought into Consciousness
by
EVERY ONE WHO HAS THE
DESIRE, THE WILL, THE PATIENCE to do SO. When
it
is
awakened,
it
appears in the form of Light, and through this Light
the Father who ALSO
is
LIGHT,
is
"seen" and recognized.
47. Verily, verily,
I
say unto you, He that believeth on me
hath everlasting life.
48.
I
am the bread of life.
The Christos WITHIN
is
the "bread" or germ of Spiritual
life, just as the germ in the wheat
is
the spirit of physical life—
yet in order that
it
may become such, IT MUST BE PARTAKEN
OF. To partake of
a
thing
is
to accept
it
and MAKE IT A PART
OF YOURSELF. Bread, however much of
it
we possess, will not
give life to the body unless
it
is
ingested, and no matter how
much we may know of the Spiritual bread,
it
will serve us naught
unless we make
it
—
by
thinking, desiring and living —
a
part of
ourselves. To really believe
is
to accept; to accept
is
to do
(
work
)
accordingly. Merely to believe
is
"faith without works
(action)."
49. Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are
dead.
This, unlike the former statement, has reference to material
bread; the substance ingested to keep us alive; to keep body and
Soul together, and
is
a
clear indication that verse 48 had an
entirely different meaning; the reference there being to
a
OF ST. JOHN 119
different bread; a "bread" for the enlightenment of the Spiritual
self, the Soul.
50. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a
man may eat thereof, and not die.
This bread, having reference to the bread mentioned in
verse 48, is the truth and wisdom APPLIED, which comes from
above (heaven), the Spiritual realm. It is not a substance but
a method of life; of thinking; desiring and living which, if
observed, will bring into life that which is dormant within, and
brought into activity, has the power to CREATE THE LIFE
WHICH KNOWS NO DEATH.
You can compare this with the air we breathe. Although
you cannot see this air, cannot even feel
it,
nevertheless
it
is
more constantly necessary to maintain life than
is
the material
food we ingest. The Spiritual "bread," which brings life to the
Soul,
is
much like this, and although
it
isn't air,
it
is
an equally
immaterial substance.
It
is
a
Fire, or Light, essential to the
Spiritual or Soul-self of man. This Light
is
as present about us
as
is
the air we breathe, yet, unlike the air that sustains life in
the body, must come down—be drawn down
by
desire and
effort —from above, heaven.
God plays no favorites. ALL men have the same privilege
and opportunity. This bread of Life
is
offered freely to every
one. Yet while
it
is
freely offered, there
is
nothing on earth less
free, because, in order to acquire
it,
we must freely and willingly
give up the non-essential, the undesirable, and replace
it
by
that
which
is
really of benefit to both body and Soul; thereby estab
lishing within ourselves the peace which
is
heaven; at the same
time, attaining to Soul Consciousness.
51.
I
am the living bread which came down from heaven:
if
any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the
bread that
I
will give
is
my flesh, which
I
will give for the
life of the world.
120 THE INTERPRETATION
The word "life," as here used, does not imply temporal life,
but the life that has no end; call it eternal life or Immortal life,
as you will. The bread made of wheat is also the bread of life,
hut this is the life of the body —and that, at best, is temporal.
The "bread which came down from heaven," and not, from
the grains in the field, is that spiritual substance which, if
properly partaken, used, or directed, will give life to the
Spiritual self; the Divine Spark—the Christos. Like the "bread
from heaven," this also came from above, or heaven. This
Divine Spark, or Christos, so often mentioned, must be spoken
of time and again, BECAUSE IT is THE THEME OF IMMOR
TALITY, mortality taking on Immortality. If it is to live, this
Divine Spark must have its "food" as certainly as must the body.
The substance of this "bread from heaven" is actually
WITHIN us. This substance, or the wherewithal for the "bread
of Life," constitutes our carnal passions: hate, anger, jealousy,
cruelty, dishonesty, UNgraciousness and all of the other passions
part of us and part of the physical, human self. These passions
must be changed, transmuted, into the Godly emotions of kind
ness, humaneness, affection, generosity, graciousness, reverence,
and all the other desirable emotions, so that they may become
the "bread from heaven" which will give life to the as yet
unawakened Spiritual self, the Christos.
There is a Spiritual self within us which came down from
above, or heaven, the REALM OF SOULS, but this Spiritual self is
inert, buried, forgotten. There also is within us the "food"
which will nourish this Spiritual self as it is awakened, and as
the undesirable in us is changed for its use. Both the awakening
and the change or transmutation must begin to take place at the
same time, and this is the Great Work; the Second, or Spiritual
birth.
"The flesh" is the material self, of the earth, earthy. It is
this flesh, this body which must be changed, transmuted, so that
the newly born (awakened) child may grow and wax strong.
OF ST. JOHN 121
Throughout all his ministry, the Nazarene spoke and taught
in parable, symbolism, and by analogy. HE HIMSELF SAID SO.
He could hardly do otherwise because this was the manner in
which the Mystery schools taught its Acolytes, one of whom
was the Nazarene during his stay in Egypt. The full under
standing of this symbolism, though not at all complex, is not the
result of reasoning and analysis, but of growth and the develop
ment of the inner self. We comprehend spiritual truths in
proportion as we become spiritualized in our nature. We will
understand the Divine Law in ratio to our obedience of the
Divine Law. The understanding of Spiritual Law is in the
BECOMING and not by reason of intellect or faith.
52. The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How
can this man give us his flesh to eat?
The Jews could not possibly understand that the Nazarene
was expounding truth by the application of symbolism and
analogy. He did not mean to offer his own body to them for
their benefit, but to make clear to them that it was necessary
for them to eat, i.e., CONSUME, raise up, change or transmute,
the carnal tendencies into spiritualized substance, which would
give life to the Infinite within them. He tried to tell them that
the personality is temporal at best, and that the Divine Spark
could not be brought to life except as a result of change, that it
might Become the Conscious Soul; mortality TAKING ON Im
mortality. The undesirable in us must "die," cease to exist, as a
result of change; that the permanent may take on the "newness
of life"; that "the rose may breathe its breath." Undesirable
tendencies, habits and practices must be sacrificed, CONVERTED,
must offer their life upon "the altar of sacrifice" that the good,
the lasting, the eternal, may take on life.
This is the Cosmic Law governing throughout the universe.
We know this Law as the LAW OF CHANGE; OF CONVERSION
FROM THE LOWER TO A HIGHER form. This process is clearly
and simply illustrated in the fermentation of fruit juices, their
122 THE INTERPRETATION
purification and clarification; material, non-spiritual substances
undergoing a change, being transmuted or transformed, emerg
ing as a spiritualized substance; the "body" of fruit changed into
purified spirits.
53. Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of Man, and drink his
blood, ye have no life in you.
Unless the body, through a process of change, is fed to the
Divine Spark, there is no Immortality. The life in the body of
man is not his own. It belongs to the Father. But, if man will
use this life to change the body (which is the Son of man) into
qualities of Illuminated Soul (which is the Son of God), then
does he become a Conscious Individuality. The Conscious Indi
viduality, the Soul, is then his own, because he himself created
it, through his thoughts, his desires, and his acts, and through
effort
—oft repeated and long continued effort to accomplish
Soul Illumination.
54. Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath
eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.
This is made comprehensible by the foregoing explanations.
But the fact should be emphasized that such interpretation as
this cannot be understood by mere intellectual comprehension.
Knowledge that comprehends such principles is not an intel
lectual acquirement, but is the result of spiritual, or Soulual
growth.
Man is not "raised up" until the "last day." To be raised up,
i.e., resurrected, is not possible until "mortality has taken on
Immortality." When this occurs it is the last day of the carnal
self, and the beginning of the REborn or Spiritual life.
55. For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
The flesh is the life of the Soul; therefore it is well said that
it is meat. Without the flesh and the blood (for they are but
the body and the vitality, or the life therein ) , the Soul could not
manifest, but the Divine Spark which can become the Illumi
OF ST. JOHN 123
nated Soul, dwells within the body, man. After the mind is
Awakened and turns from the temporal to the eternal, it makes
use of its powers, forces, and even uses its inherent evils for the
benefit of the Spiritual, or eternal self. It is then that there will
be life in the true meaning of the term; a beginning of life that
is Individualized and eternal.
56. He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth
in me, and I in him.
When the desires of the flesh have been exalted, when the
Soul has become Conscious, the Christos changed into the
Christ, man has indeed become the temple of the Living God,
and God dwells therein. The body will then have become a
living body; while the blood becomes the spirit of Immortal
ization.
57. As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the
Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.
58. This is that bread which came down from heaven: not
as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth
of this bread shall live for ever.
59. These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in
Capernaum.
60. Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this,
said, This is an hard saying; who can hear it?
The disciples meant to ask, Who is able to understand this
saying?
61. When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured
at
it,
he said unto them, Doth this offend you?
62. What and
if
ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where
he was before?
63.
It
is
the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing:
the words that
I
speak unto you, they are spirit and they
are life.
In these few statements
is
a
clear exposition of the Laws as
taught
by
the Nazarene.
It
was not "material" food he came to
bring men, but the spiritual, this spiritual accepted, i.e., separated
124 THE INTERPRETATION
or "brought out" of the material, becomes quickened; that
is,
GIVES LIFE.
It
is
well said that the body profited! nothing —
spiritually —though
it
does benefit
by
the removal of that which
is
evil, debasing and destructive; that which brings disease and
sorrow.
The Nazarene speaks, as he himself tells us, of the Spiritual,
and not of material things. His discussions deal with the spirit
ual part of man's being, the Christos RAISED UP; not of the
body or material things; things that, of
a
few days, pass on and
are known no more. In these few statements the Nazarene
speaks plainly, and not in parable.
64. But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus
knew from the beginning who they were that believed not,
and who should betray him.
Those who do not believe, will not obey. They in truth,
BY THEIR ACTS, betray that which
is
good or that which
is
higher. By refusing to follow the Law in every department of
life, in the secrets of the heart as also in their relations with men,
they make
it
impossible for themselves to attain the Christhood
that the Nazarene endeavored to bring into the lives of men.
Such men will not even understand the reason for his mission.
We are able to comprehend only that which we build into our
lives. This
is
the truth made manifest
by
experience.
65. And he said, Therefore said
I
unto you, that no man can
come unto me, except
it
were given unto him of my
Father.
66. From that time many of his disciples went back, and
walked no more with him.
This
is
a
substantiation of the axiom: "Many are called but
few are chosen [remain]." Many seek because they believe there
is
an easy way to obtain the good things of life, both material and
spiritual. They usually become discouraged when they ulti
mately realize the fact that FOR EVERYTHING THEY DESIRE,
WHATEVER ITS NATURE, THERE MUST BE AN EXCHANGE
OF ST. JOHN 125
MADE. It may truthfully be said of them: they are grossly dis
honest in heart. They are unwilling to be just and honest; not
ready to offer something of equal value for that which they
seek. The dishonest man is really a thief in spirit. He seeks to
obtain a benefit for himself at the expense of his fellow man.
His every effort is to gain by another's loss.
There are many, very many, of those who "go back, and
walk no more" with those who seek to teach them the truth that
is THE WAY OF LIFE. They refuse to give up the temporary
things of life, the pleasures, profits and honors of today for the
realities of tomorrow and future days.
67. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away.'
68. Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord to whom shall we
go? thou hast the words of eternal life.
Peter, at least, recognized that the Nazarene was teaching
them the Truth and the Law; that which would, if obeyed, bring
them the greater life; help them to change "mortality into Im
mortality." He also voiced an uncertainty; that perhaps if there
were an easier way, he might follow it: "Lord, to whom {who
else} can we go?"
69. And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the
Son of the living God.
70. Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and
one of you is a devil?
There is evil even among the good, or in the good. In mortal
life it is impossible to eliminate all that is evil. If this were
possible, life would no longer belong to the realm of mortality,
but would become entirely spiritual. We should constantly
strive to eliminate or change as much of the undesirable as possi
ble. The whole of the Work will not be accomplished until the
great change, the crucifixion itself takes place; meaning the
time when the "crossification," or "change over," is completed.
71. He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was
that should betray him, being one of the twelve.
126 THE INTERPRETATION
Whenever we are guilty of doing that which we know is not
right—righteous —we betray the Christos within us. When we
do this, we are guilty of betraying our God. There can be no
other interpretation—and how many of us—and how often—
are we guilty?
CHAPTER SEVEN
'// any man will do his will, he shall know of the
doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether
I speak of myself."
1. After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would
not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.
2. Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand.
3. His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and
go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works
that thou doest.
4. For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he
himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these
things, shew thyself to the world.
I HE DISCIPLES had not as yet learned that whatever good
a man does, HE SHOULD DO IT BECAUSE HE LOVES
THE GOOD, and not to advertise himself, or display his
powers or greatness. Even the world of today does not have a
clear conception of this LAW OF GOODNESS. The mass con
tinues to follow in the old footsteps of doing good to be seen of,
and praised by men. The masses are not conscious of the eternal
command: "Let not thine left hand know what thy right hand
doeth," nor of the other: "When ye pray [worship God] go
into thine closet and close the door thereof."
Only the righteous man does this because he loves all that
is good, and it will be accredited to him. Doing good for its own
sake will help him to pay his indebtedness to the eternal Law.
Only in this manner can he pay the Karma of past incarnations,
•as well as of the present life.
5. For neither did his brethren believe in him.
It is seldom that our associates recognize the good in us;
understand our intentions; or believe us to be other than they
128 THE INTERPRETATION
are themselves. This is natural. Those constantly neat us see
the errors we commit or, WHAT THEY, BECAUSE OF LACK OF
UNDERSTANDING, BELIEVE TO BE ERRORS. Seeing these acts
of ours which to them appear to be errors, they cannot under
stand that we might be wiser than they, or that wisdom dictates
our acts, and they judge us according to their own standards.
Moreover, being themselves steeped in error, they are un
able to comprehend that we, who are so closely associated with
them, are other than they.
6. Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come; but
your time is alway ready.
Your time, my time, is NOW, today. There is much yet un
done; much to be overcome; great changes yet to be made, and
we are commanded TO ACT NOW. Tomorrow may be too late.
The Nazarene's time for a change, a change different from that
of his disciples, was not yet; though he had overcome those
things which were yet a part of his disciples, hence they had need
for beginning in the NOW. Thus it is with all of us. There are
no exceptions.
7. The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I
testify of
it,
that the works thereof are evil.
The world resents being told of its evils, its weaknesses and
its degradation.
It
hates those who expose them; more especially
so
if
it
feels that those making the exposures have themselves
overcome these evils and speak the truth. This
is
a
double ex
posure.
It
uncovers their evils, and at the same time, reveals
to them their possibilities to do, or be, otherwise.
All the Avatars and Saviours of the past ages have faced
difficulties in this respect. Their Paths were strewn with thorns.
Men were wedded to their habits, whether in business, social,
civil, or religious activities. They prefer to continue in their
evils rather than be accused
by
them and become conscious of
them. Self-accusation —
a
coming into the consciousness of the
evils as
a
result of weaknesses —
is
galling enough to them, but
OF ST. JOHN 129
to have another, or others, expose them, is unbearable. Those
who attempt
it,
however well-intentioned, are hated for it.
8.
Go ye up unto this feast:
I
go not up yet unto this feast;
for my time
is
not yet full come.
9.
When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in
Galilee.
10. But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up
unto the feast, not openly, but as
it
were in secret.
11. Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where
is
he?
12. And there was much murmuring among the people con
cerning him: for some said, He
is
a
good man: others said,
Nay; but he deceiveth the people.
Tolstoi, the great writer, commanded: "Bethink yourselves."
This great command
is
vital today as never before and concerns
the identical subject. Men who have their own, and their fellow
man's welfare at heart, should give most careful consideration
to the evils of today, and whether or not these evils will again
lead to the identical climax they precipitated centuries ago.
If
so, how to prevent it.
No man, irrespective of his evil activities,
is
judged and
condemned so completely as he who exposes the evils rampant.
Whoever
is
hardy enough to acquaint the mass of the evils com
mitted
by
their leaders; iniquities which gravely concern them,
because they lead to debasement and destruction, must be pre
pared to meet the condemnation and fate of all those who have
served, or who are serving humanity. By those engaged in shady
practices, dishonorable conduct and degenerating acts, no one
is
more hated and to be eliminated as quickly as possible, as he
who dares to expose them.
13. Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.
14. Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the
temple, and taught.
15. And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man
letters, having never learned?
130 THE INTERPRETATION
16. Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine,
but his that sent me.
17. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine,
whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.
The Nazarene caught the people very little that was new.
What he did do, was to give the age-old teachings and Laws a
different interpretation; one applicable to both that period and
the activities of men.
"My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me." This is
clear, plain, and understandable. The Laws taught and inter
preted by the Nazarene were as old as the world. Having been
enunciated by God, they are as changeless as time. They are
eternally applicable. All that any one can do, is to interpret
them in a different manner; make them applicable to the actions
of men in different periods or ages.
18. He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he
that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and
no unrighteousness is in him.
Those who seek to awaken and bring the Christos within
themselves into Consciousness know the truth AS A RESULT OF
EXPERIENCE, and they have come to teach mankind that truth
which is the WAY. They fear no man, knowing that "If God be
with them, how can any man prevail against them." They who
seek to be praised and glorified for the good they try to accom
plish bring upon themselves the punishment such self-glorifi
cation deserves. Seek not the glory of men, but the approval of
Him who is righteousness Himself. "Not my will, but Thine
be done," and "Thine be the glory thereof."
19. Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you
keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me?
Moses was more willing to obey the Divine Law than any
of the other Jews who had been liberated from bondage. Be
cause he had made every effort to become versed in
it,
the Lord
revealed the whole of the Law to him so that he in turn might
instruct his people; guide them
by
the Law, and bring them into
OF ST. JOHN 131
Spiritual enlightenment, even as they had been brought out of
physical bondage. The Jews, however, were no more ready to
accept the Laws of the Commandments offered to them by
Moses for their guidance than they were to accept the teachings
of the Nazarene. For this reason the Law passed them by and
it was given to others than the Jews. The Nazarene, instead of
being accepted as the Shepherd of the Jews leading them to the
Spiritual Promised Land, was betrayed and sacrificed by them
to fulfill the Law.
20. The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who
goeth about to kill thee?
Throughout the ages, including the immediate present, any
one who has Awakened to the truth, has accepted it sufficiently
to LIVE
it,
and benefit
by
his obedience, becoming Soul, or Christ
Conscious, has, according to the sinning mass,
a
"devil";
is
either
considered as
a
fool, or frequently declared insane.
The Spiritual UNborn cannot understand that which they
have not themselves experienced. They are suspicious of
it,
and
ever ready to condemn
it,
in order to JUSTIFY THEMSELVES.
Those who have changed "mortality into Immortality"
by
obedience to God's Law, must either remain silent, or risk being
an outcast from their fellow men; or worse, sacrificed to Moloch
as was the Nazarene. There
is
no place for sheep (the Godly)
among the wolves (they who live
by
defiance of the Law and
at the expense of their fellow men) .
21. Jesus answered and said unto them,
I
have done one work,
and ye all marvel.
22. Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision, (not because
it
is
of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath
day circumcise
a
man.
23.
If
a
man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that
the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at
me, because
I
have made
a
man every whit whole on the
sabbath day?
24. Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous
judgment
132 THE INTERPRETATION
How often has this commandment, for such it
is,
been given
to men; and how few have obeyed it? Instead of heeding the
precept: "By their works shall ye know them," men judge their
fellow men
by
appearance, or
by
what they believe them to be
—judged
by
what they would do in their place.
They feel that those who are not "with" them in their mode
of life, social activities, church or social affiliations, must
naturally be "against" them. They judge this to be
a
crime that
must be punished
bywhatever means
is
at hand.
It
were well for
all men, unless selected for such duty, to refrain from judging
any of their fellow men, lest they be judged according to the
same judgment. Thus saith the Law.
25. Then said some of them of Jerusalem,
Is
not this he, whom
they seek to kill?
26. But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him.
Do the rulers know indeed that this
is
the very Christ?
27. Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ
cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.
A
cryptic, hence contradictory statement as ordinarily in
terpreted. We may be acquainted with
a
man, but we cannot
actually know him, unless we enter into the same spirit and
cause of action dictated from within him.
No man
is
able to say or know to what degree another may
have attained. As time and time again indicated in sacred liter
ature, those who had attained to the Second birth, or Christhood,
passed among men, and they knew him not; but each one
formed his own opinion of him; each according to his own
knowledge, feelings and outlook on life and the way they
thought life should be lived. Only those who themselves have
passed through the Spiritual birth
by
bringing the Christos
WITHIN into Consciousness can know others who also have
accomplished this.
Men cannot know God until they, themselves,
by
obedience
ro the Law, have become Godlike. None can know those who
OF ST. JOHN 133
have become the Sons of God except those who also have so at
tained. Men often condemn themselves by judging their fellow
men without full knowledge of what they really are. Truly it
is written, "... but when Christ cometh, NO man knoweth
whence he is, or in whom he is."
28. Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye
both know me, and ye know whence
I
am: and
I
am not
come of myself, but he that sent me
is
true, whom ye know
not.
29. But
I
know him: for
I
am from him, and he hath sent me.
30. Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on
him, because his hour was not yet come.
31. And many of the people believed on him, and said, when
Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which
this man hath done?
32. The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things
concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests
sent officers to take him.
33. Then said Jesus unto them, Yet
a
little while am
I
with
you, and then
I
go unto him that sent me.
The Nazarene was fully aware of the work he was to do and
when that work, so far as he was concerned, would be finished.
Me was further conscious that his REbirth, or REgeneration,
was nearly completed, and that his time of earthly pilgrim
age was coming to an end. Lastly, he also knew the temper and
the wickedness of the Jews whom he had come to lead to Spirit
ual freedom, but who misinterpreted his efforts and felt that he
had usurped their offices and their authority. Men then, as to
day, who are engaged in other than righteous works, will incite
the masses to every effort possible to destroy those whom they
so judge.
35. Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go,
that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed
among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?
The Jews, deluded
by
self-righteousness and because of non-
acceptance and non-compliance with the Law, were blinded
by
134 THE INTERPRETATION
everything except that which was material and of the flesh.
Authority of form, material success, power, carnal practices,
were their God. They were unable to see, or if seeing, to com
prehend, anything pertaining to the spiritual; that which the
Nazarene was making every effort to teach them for their own
benefit. Seeing clearly conditions as they are, can it be truthfully
said that there is the slightest difference between that far-away
day and today?
36. What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek
me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye
cannot come?
37. In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and
cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me,
and drink.
38. He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of
his belly shall flow rivers of living water.
39. ( But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on
him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given;
because that Jesus was not yet glorified.)
No attempt is here made to suggest that this "living water"
is the material liquid with which we are all familiar. It is clearly
stated that this is a Spiritual water that giveth life; which all
may partake, and which will lead those who accept or "drink,"
to things greater, i.e., the Holy Ghost, which is the Light, or the
Fire, of the Soul; the Immortal part of man.
To be glorified is to be "surrounded by Light." That man
may be so glorified or surrounded by Light, it is first necessary
that there be a "drinking of this living water." There must be an
Awakening of the mind, of the DESIRES AND LONGING for that
which is higher than we are generally familiar with, and this
will gradually, as a result of effort, lead to the Light that is the
"glorification" of the Soul.
40. Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying,
said, Of a truth this is the Prophet.
41. Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ
come out of Galilee?
OF ST. JOHN 135
42. Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed
of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David
was?
43. So there was a division among the people because of him.
44. And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid
hands on him.
45. Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees;
and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?
46. The officers answered, Never man spake like this man.
47. Then answereth them the Pharisees, are ye also deceived?
48. Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?
Passing time and experience has amply shown that with few
and rare exceptions, those in power, irrespective of the time and
place, are only a shade in advance of the mass, and accept only
that which the mass believes and demands. Irrespective of how
great a truth may be, or what benefit an idea might be to the
mass, unless it is recommended by one of recognized standing,
it is unacceptable and will remain so until the time when a
greater number will accept the idea and demand its adoption.
Any concept that is new or foreign to general acceptance
quickly offends the masses. It is condemned as untenable and
those who persist in teaching it are condemned, persecuted,
prosecuted, and even destroyed unless they have the hardihood,
the physical strength, and moral courage to fight every inch of
the way.
On the contrary, teach and preach that which has the
sanction of those in power, however much in error it may be,
and it is accepted by the many until time, experience and suffer
ing proves it to be to their detriment. The Nazarene, like others,
knew this to be true and was willing to suffer whatever was
necessary; knowing that "Blessed are they who suffer for my
[Truth's] sake, for they shall inherit (come into) the kingdom
of heaven."
49. But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed.
136 THE INTERPRETATION
In all fairness, this statement should be extended to read:
"... who knoweth not the Law, or knowing the Law, fail to
live in accordance with it."
50. Nicodemus saith unto them (he that came to Jesus by
night, being one of them),
51. Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and
know what he doeth?
52. They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee?
Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.
53. And every man went unto his own house.
The majority of those in power—there are always excep
tions —condemn those not of their rank who do not fully agree
with them, and they usually do so without investigating or
extending a fair hearing. To run counter to their ideas, plans
or actions
is,
in itself, unforgivable, so far as they are concerned.
Condemnation
is
always for those who will "not bend the
knee"; who, knowing the truth and the right, will make every
effort to follow
it
with no regard to what the end results may be.
Woe unto those who seek to be free; free both physically
and spiritually. The far greater number of men, even though
living in the most civilized countries, actually live in slavery.
Their slavery may differ in degree, or in direction, but they are
in bondage either to themselves, to their ignorance, to weakness,
and/or to their fellow men.
Blessed, indeed, are those who dare to seek their freedom;
freedom from the entanglements and fetters of their own deceiv
ing, carnal natures and the wiles and schemes of those who
would benefit or profit
by
making use of them. Blessed are
those who seek truth and permit
it
to function in their hearts
and way of life.
CHAPTER EIGHT
"Ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall
make you free."
1. Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.
2. And early in the morning he came again into the temple,
and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and
taught them.
3. And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman
taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst,
4. They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in
adultery, in the very act.
5. Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be
stoned; but what sayest thou?
6. This they said, tempting him, that they might have to
accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger
wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.
1 . So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself,
and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let
him first cast a stone at her.
8. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.
"Judge not, lest ye be judged by the same [your own]
judgment." Only he who is without sin, who has eliminated all
evil from his heart and Soul, is in a position to judge others. We
know the Law; we know what the Law indicates, hence we know
what acts are evil, but we cannot read the heart of those who
may be guilty of an evil act, we cannot know the cause, or the
reason for the act. We have a right to judge the evil that is
done, but not the evil doer, unless we are officially elected or
appointed to sit in judgment, and then our judgment must be
according to the cause, the deed, and without bias or prejudice
This woman was taken in the act of adultery, hence was
guilty; but, bearing in mind the Law: "He who looks after
138 THE INTERPRETATION
woman with lust in his heart, has already committed lust," how
many of those who stood as accusers were not guilty of the same
sin? How many were actuated by a feeling of vindictiveness
because they had the desire in the heart but were not given the
opportunity; hence their judgment being warped by envy?
Before we judge, we should search to learn whether or not our
desire to judge is not based on the denial of opportunity.
The woman taken in adultery was no more guilty nor
deserving of punishment, than he or she, who, by word or look,
causes suspicion to fall upon the reputation of another. Sin is
sin, irrespective of its nature, and the greater sin is not what we
do unto ourselves, but the evils we bring upon another.
9. And they which heard
it,
being convicted
by
their own
conscience, went out one
by
one, beginning at the eldest,
even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman
standing in the midst.
10. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the
woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine
accusers? hath no man condemned thee?
11. She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither
do
I
condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
Since no man had found her wanting, nor due to his own
guilt, dared to condemn her, why should the Nazarene do so?
"Judgment
is
mine, saith the Lord." Sins are of two general
types: Those which cause hurt or bring harm to another, or
others; and those which bring sorrow upon us, or degrade our
selves. "He that hath ears to hear, let him hear." "He who has
eyes to see, let him see." "He who
is
free from sin, let him sit
in
judgment."
12. Then spake Jesus again unto them,
/
am the light of the
world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness,
but shall have the light of life.
"I am the light of the world." This
is
to say,
I
am come to
bring the truth unto men. They who accept this truth and follow
it,
shall find the Light that
is
hidden within. This Light will
OF ST. JOHN 139
dispel all darkness (ignorance) and enable men to walk in the
light; and they who walk in the Light will have found the life
that is eternal.
The Nazarene implied that they should accept the Divine
Law even as he accepted
it,
and follow his example in living in
harmony with it. This "following him"
is
the "sowing"; he
who sows shall reap accordingly. This
is
the Law.
1
3.
The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record
of thyself; thy record
is
not true.
14. Jesus answered and said unto them, Though
I
bear record
of myself, yet my record
is
true: for
I
know whence
I
came,
and whither
I
go! but ye cannot tell whence
I
came, and
whither
I
go.
There are many who, like the Nazarene, become conversant
with the Law, live according to the Law, then pass through the
baptism of the water, i.e., the mental awakening to greater
things in life and, as
a
result of this awakening, they have the
desire, and make the effort to bring the Christos, the God Spark
WITHIN themselves, into Consciousness and final Illumination.
These will not only Know whence they came, but also what they
are, and whither they will go. As
a
result of their own desires
and efforts, they will have changed "mortality into Immortality"
and with
it,
come into the knowledge and the Light that
is
eternal.
15. Ye judge after the flesh;
I
judge no man.
The Pharisees judge after the flesh, i.e., they judged others
by
themselves;
by
what they were;
by
the things they desired;
by
their willingness to do whatever was necessary, whether good
or evil, in obtaining for themselves the things they wanted. This
is
the judgment of men, and
is
never
a
just judgment.
16. And yet
if
I
judge, my judgment
is
true: for
I
am not alone,
but
I
and the Father that sent me.
"I
am not alone, but one with the Father from whom
I
came." All men have, like the Nazarene, the privilege to bring
140 THE INTERPRETATION
into life and manifestation that which is WITHIN themselves,
which came from, and which they received from the Father. If
they will do this, then they, too, will be able to say with truth:
"I and the Father that sent me." This, however, requires a great
deal more than belief or faith. It necessitates an awakened,
enlightened desire, and the effort to arouse and bring forth the
Christos which alone can help man to become at one with the
Father.
17. It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two
men is true.
18. I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that
sent me beareth witness of me.
19. Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus
answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had
known me, ye should have known my Father also.
He who knows the Father will know the Son also. It is
equally true that he who knows the Son will also know the
Father. This "son," in embryo, or as the Divine Spark, the
Christos, is hidden within man. It is buried deeply under the
debris of the carnal life. If this carnal life undergoes a change,
if the evils inherent of the flesh are transmuted and the necessary
effort made, the Christos will be awakened and brought into
manifestation. This is a Consciousness —a KNOWING; a recog
nition that this is the Son of man, become the Son of God. He
who knows has come into recognition of the Son. He will also,
as a result of such Consciousness, know the Father. This is the
ONLY means whereby man may come to Know the Son who has
BECOME the inheritor of Immortality; the Son of God. "Know
ye not that ye are the temples of the living God?" is spoken of
those who have come into the life; awakened from the "dead,"
from their material and carnal self. Those who have awakened
from the "dead," have come into "the life," made free from
their carnal self.
20. These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the
temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was
not yet come.
OF ST. JOHN 141
21. Then said Jesus again unto them, 1 go my way, and ye shall
seek me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye
cannot come.
The Nazarene, NOT because of his birth, but as a result of
his obedience to the Divine Law, had brought about a complete
REgeneration of himself. He had followed John; that
is,
he had
obeyed John's injunctions to Awaken his mind, his thoughts
and desires to the realities of both this and the future life. In
doing this, he also Awakened the Divine Spark within himself.
He did not stop there, but continued in his efforts; bringing
the Christos into life and manifestation, "mortality had put on
Immortality." He, the son of man, had become the Son of God.
His body had been prepared as
a
temple of the Living God;
hence he would proceed to that sphere or plane of being to
which none can aspire except those so prepared.
Those who heard his words had not accepted them; they had
made no effort to change their thoughts and desires from the
mundane to the Spiritual, much less to free themselves from the
evil tendencies within themselves, transmuting the carnal desires
into godly emotions.
It
has been truly said: "whither
I
go, ye
cannot come." No person now living can experience the Second
birth so long as he
is
unwilling to listen to the inculcations of
the Law, and to actually follow
it
until his own "mortality puts
on Immortality." Although the WAY
is
open to all, few will
follow
it
because the desires of the mortal self are too insistent.
22. Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith,
Whither
I
go, ye cannot come.
23. And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath;
I
am from
above: ye are of this world;
I
am not of this world.
"Ye are from beneath,"
is
to say: you are from the earth,
earthly. The Spirit which
is
from God
is
asleep within you;
deeply buried under the debris of your earthly passions. Unless
you change your mind, your thoughts and your desires, so that
your efforts will be differently directed, you will always remain
142 THE INTERPRETATION
earthly. You will be forced to pay the penalty for not fulfilling
the Law by doing the work for which you came to earth; namely:
to change the carnal into the Immortal, by awakening the Spark
of Divinity which became a part of you at your physical birth;
the only means to the Spiritual or Second birth.
24. I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for
if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.
25. Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith
unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the
beginning.
26. I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that
sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things
which I have heard of him.
27. They understood not that he spake to them of the Father.
28. Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the
Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I
do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I
speak these things.
The "mystery hidden for ages" has been many times referred
to by John, and in many different phrases. In verse 28 there is a
direct reference that cannot be missed by anyone truly seeking
for the truth: "When [after you have succeeded] you have
lifted up the Son of man [raised up, exalted, purified your carnal
self] then shall ye know that I am he." The Son of man as he
is,
must be transmuted; the material must become spiritualized.
The dross changed into "gold"; the passions into Godly emotions.
As this
is
brought about, Intuition
is
awakened and man begins
to "Know himself," and gradually becomes conscious of all that
is
to be his eternal welfare.
There
is
no mystery in the statement "lifted up." No one
can pretend that he does not know what the phrase "lifted up"
means. The complete statement "WHEN you have lifted up the
Son of man, i.e.," YOURSELF, means that then, and only then,
will you be able to recognize the Son of God, because you have
then become "like him."
OF ST. JOHN 143
29. And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left
me alone; for I do always those things that please him.
"Ye [who succeed in making yourselves so} are the temples
of the living God." This means neither more nor less than that
He, God, is with them who have succeeded in accomplishing
this work, and that they, like the Nazarene, are never left alone.
Morover these, like the Nazarene, always do the things that
please Him. They live according to the Law that He gave for
their welfare.
30. As he spake these words, many believed on him.
31. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If
ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed.
Only those who accept the Law, who begin to live in har
mony with the Law, and continue to live in
it,
can be said to be
disciples, i.e., followers of he who teaches the Law. "Continue
in my word." This does not say, "believe in my word," but
CONTINUE in
it;
that is: LIVE ACCORDING TO THE WORD; which
is
to say: the Law.
32. And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you
free.
It
is
not sufficient to have learned what constitutes the truth.
Mere intellectual knowledge will avail nothing. We can
actually know only that which we have experienced. To experi
ence we must ACT; WE MUST "pass through." After we have
passed through an experience, we have the knowledge which
that experience has given us. WE WILL KNOW.
A
thousand
volumes may be written on the subject of affection and the
greater emotion called Love. We may read all of them, study
them until the leaves fall apart, but unless we have felt affection,
have actually loved, we will not KNOW what, in fact and reality,
constitutes affection and Love.
This
is
equally true of all things that concern the Law or the
truth. To KNOW the truth we MUST have lived the truth. To
LIVE, IS TO EXPERIENCE, TO EXPERIENCE, IS TO KNOW.
144 THE INTERPRETATION
All things are in God; all things came from God. Man,
created in the image of God, is a part of all things, though in a
lesser degree. Man though a part of God that has been separated
from Him; is unconscious of the link between himself and
his Creator, and must, by his own efforts develop his God-
Consciousness. The image of God in man is in a potential
state; must be evolved, unfolded and brought into conscious
realization. Man may do this by living the life indicated by the
Divine Law. The truth of God is potential, involved in man's
nature. But it must be evolved, made dynamic, and allowed to
function in his life.
Truth functioning in man's nature sets him free from error
and sin. Truth and goodness are already with him; but he must
come to know them by experience as a result of living them. To
know the truth means to become conscious of the Infinite.
This consciousness will set man free from the entanglements
of the self-life; enable him to move and have his being on a
higher plane of understanding and feeling. Moveover, as a
result of his experiences and Spiritual realizations following his
efforts to free himself from the carnal and wholly human, man
will become capable of expressing a love heretofore unknown to
him.
God is Love and Light and Life. The more our nature
expresses love for all things, the more of God we have in us, and
the more we will become like Him.
33. They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were
never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou. Ye shall
be made free?
34 Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Who
soever commineth sin is the servant of sin.
Man may be held in serfdom to another and still be
Spiritually free, because the God-self, the Soul, cannot be held
in bondage to anyone but to, or by the self.
He who lives a purely carnal life, is a slave. He is in bondage
to his thoughts and desires. These thoughts and desires dictate
OF ST. JOHN 145
his acts; actions which often are degrading and destructive to
his Immortal self. He who lives in the flesh, is a slave to the
flesh; just as he who is beholden to another —SUBSIDIZED— as
millions are—is a slave to that other, or others, though in theory
a free man. He who commits sin is a slave, bound body and
Soul to the devil—to the sin which is his master.
35. And the servant abideth not in the house forever: but the
Son (of God) abideth ever.
36. If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free
indeed.
37. I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me,
because my word hath no place in you.
"Ye are Abraham's seed." The "seed" is Godly created, but
has become degraded. That which the seed represents has
become enslaved. Its voice is hushed. It has been buried in the
debris of evil so deeply that it is no longer either felt or heard.
The good, "the word," which it represents, has no longer a
place in those who are degraded, or still imbued with carnality.
Only as this "seed," this God-self within, is permitted to germi
nate—come to life—will the evils be eradicated and the "Soul
of Abraham" come forth.
"Ye seek to kill"; you would much prefer to destroy than
to bring to life. You have degraded your birthright. God is no
longer IN you, nor WITH you, and will not be unless and until,
you awaken from your sleep of death, and begin to see the Light
that alone is 1ife.
38. I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do
that which ye have seen with your father.
The Nazarene, except for the period he labored with his
father Joseph as a carpenter, was concerned solely with the
moral and Spiritual life of those whom he came to teach and
guide. All that he taught and indicated that men should do was
based on the Law; that Law which was first instituted that men
146 THE INTERPRETATION
might obtain the greatest benefits from life on earth, and with
the least sorrow. The Nazarene came both as a teacher and an
exemplar.
Those whom he came to teach had lived, not according to
the Law, but after the example of their fathers before them, and
after the maxim: "That which was good enough for my father
is good enough for me." As a consequence of this erroneous
belief, they suffered from all of the evils their fathers did, despite
the fact that THEY HAD THE LAW OF MOSES TO GUIDE THEM.
In this we have a MOST VITAL LESSON FOR THE PEOPLES
OF TODAY. THE PROBLEM OF JUVENILE DELINQUENCY IS
NOW VERY PREVALENT. It is not what parents teach their
children that directs their lives, BUT THE THINGS THEY SEE
THEIR PARENTS DO; THE THINGS THEY HEAR THEIR PARENTS
SPEAK.
If the speech and actions of the parents is contrary to their
inculcations, these instructions, however correct they may be,
will make little or no impression upon the consciousness of the
children. Unconsciously or subconsciously, the children have
been impressed to do what the parents do, and not what they
say. THE SUBCONSCIOUS UNCONSCIOUSLY impresses them
with the thought, though it is UNCONSCIOUS: "If father and
mother do these things, they cannot be wrong, despite what they
say," —and they act accordingly.
39. They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father.
Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye
would do the works of Abraham.
40. But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the
truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.
The Jews were the physical offsprings of Abraham, but had
not inherited the awakened Spirit of Abraham. Abraham list
ened to the Voice of God and so far as humanly possible, lived
in harmony with
it,
forgetful or unmindful of the demands of
the carnal self.
OF ST. JOHN 147
The Jews were from the seeds of Abraham, but without the
conscious Divinity of their progenitor. They ignored the Laws
of God, hence did not come into the Spirit and understanding
that obedience to the Law offers special benefits to those who
obey the Law.
41. Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him,
We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, even
God.
42. Jesus said unto them, if God were your Father, ye would
love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God;
neither came I of myself, but he sent me.
43. Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye
cannot hear my word.
44. Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father
ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and
abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him.
When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is
a liar, and the father of it.
"The lusts of your father ye will do," is merely to say that
man born of the flesh is carnal (filled with the deskes of the
flesh, hence of the devil, that which is mortal, therefore of
death), and without the Spirit that is life. To be born of the
flesh is not in itself evil, but to live wholly in the flesh, after the
carnal self, without thought or desire of the spirit which is life,
hence from God, is evil, therefore brings death in its wake.
Whosoever doeth evil, irrespective of its type or nature,
doeth the works of the devil, for the devil is the agent of death,
and he who follows evil must ultimately pay the penalty for
the carnalities of life. Such as these cannot come into the Spirit
that is life; therefore cannot know God, and will be unable,
because of lack of desire and effort, to change "mortality into
Immortality."
Evil begets evil. That which is born of evil, or the result of
evil, must pay the penalty exacted by evil; and that penalty is
death.
148 THE INTERPRETATION
45. And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.
46. Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the
truth, why do ye not believe me?
47. He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear
them not, because ye are not of God.
The word "hear," as it is used in these statements, means to
obey, or follow the words of truth. This implies obedience to
the Divine Law, whereby alone man may "be of God," becom
ing like The Son of God.
48. Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not
well that thou are a Samaritan, and hast a devil?
This has been the "battle of the churches" throughout the
ages. It has been the cause of more sorrow and suffering than
all the wars waged by men: "If you are not of MY church, do
not believe and worship as I do, you are a Samaritan, you are a
follower of the devil."
The real meaning of the Christic teachings; the WAY, the
TRUTH, and the LIFE, is lost in dogma and form. There is but
one way; the Christos WITHIN must be awakened and brought
into Consciousness, then is man BECOME the Son of God and
the Father is with him.
49. Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father,
and ye do dishonour me.
50. And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh
and judgeth.
51. Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he
shall never see death.
The Nazarene had no desire for honors or the laudation of
the world. He came for but one purpose: To teach and mani
fest the Law. He was generally explicit in his inculcations as so
clearly indicated in his saying which cannot be misinterpreted
or twisted out of all semblance to its meaning.
"If a man KEEP my saying —the Laws that I expound—he
shall not see death." It does not state that if a man believe in
OF ST. JOHN 149
that which he taught, but if he keeps, that
is,
OBEYS (LIVES in
accordance and in the spirit of the Law) THEN, and THEN ONLY,
will man not see death, when, as
a
result of his obedience,
"mortality will have put on Immortality."
52. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou
hast
a
devil. Abraham
is
dead, and the prophets; and thou
sayest, If
a
man keep my saying, he shall never taste of
death.
53. Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which
is
dead?
and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?
54. Jesus answered,
If
I
honour myself, my honour
is
nothing:
it
is
my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that
he
is
your God:
55. Yet ye have not known him; but
I
know him: and
if
I
should say,
I
know him not,
I
shall be
a
liar like unto you:
but
I
know him, and keep his saying.
56. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw
it,
and was glad.
The Nazarene, though using the word "see," has no refer
ence to the person Abraham, but to the eternal Soul of Abra
ham. The Soul,
by
obedience to the Law, had attained to Son-
ship with the Father, and this Soul of Abraham still lived more
surely than he had ever lived on earth.
The Jews to whom the Nazarene spoke were totally igno
rant of the great truth of the Second birth or the REgeneration
of man. They were interested only in the letter of the Law.
Being born in the flesh, they were concerned with the letter of
the Law; the carnal desires, the passion for profits, and the life
of the self.
57. Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years
old, and hast thou seen Abraham?
58. Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily,
I
say unto you, Before
Abraham was,
I
am.
The Nazarene did not speak of his present personal self, but
of the Christic Soul that
is
eternal. That Soul was now Con
150 THE INTERPRETATION
scions WITHIN him and he manifested it by his works. The Soul
had its beginning in time; coming to earth in birth and rebirths,
until it had, Biblically speaking, come, by experience, into the
"knowledge of good and evil," and had succeeded in overcom
ing evil with good; attaining to the exalted status of a Son of
God, possessing all knowledge.
59. Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid
himself, and went out of the temple, going through the
midst of them, and so passed by.
CHAPTER NINE
"
. . . . whereas I was blind, I now see"
1. And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind
from his birth.
2. And the disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin,
this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?
3. And Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor
his parents: but that the works of God should be made
manifest in him.
An Arcane statement reads: "Sin must come into the world,
but woe unto him through whom it cometh." There are two
manner of evils from which man may suffer. One is the result
of his own, or his "father's" sinning, the operation of Karmic
Law; the other is the result of the evils committed by others, but
from which the innocent suffer.
One, the first, creates an indebtedness which must be paid.
The other is credited to them for which the Divine Law will
compensate them in due time.
When unavoidable and unexpected evil befalls one, it
should be accepted without grumbling, but the cause sought in
order to avoid a like occurrence in the future. If it is found to
have been caused by one's own acts, amends should be made.
The Law will always be fulfilled; payment is exacted from the
guilty; the innocent compensated for loss or suffering not the
result of their own acts. Feelings of resentment, bitterness or
hatred will delay the fulfilling of the Law.
4. I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is
day: the night cometh, when no man can work.
There is a physical body and there is a Spiritual "body";
there is material work to be performed, as there is a Spiritual
work. The Divine Law is inclusive of both, and demands that
152 THE INTERPRETATION
body and Soul shall have attention; that neither one be neg
lected. The "night" cometh when neither the body nor the Soul
can be served; this "night" comes upon us following our neglect
of one or both, and the passing of the body. This is the "night"
to be dreaded if we have failed in the command to "set our house
in order."
The body is as important to us, and to God, as is the Soul.
It is only as a result of efforts made while in the body and of the
transmutation of that which is OF the body, that REgeneration
can be accomplished. Without the body, there would be no
mind to Awaken to realities; there could be no Second, or
Spiritual birth. The Soul or Christos could not be awakened;
"mortality could not put on Immortality; the Son of man could
not become —be changed into—the Son of God.
If we do not do the WORK that is to be done while it is "day,"
that is to say, during physical life ON EARTH, it cannot be done
when the "night" cometh, that
is,
after the Soul enters the
Realm of Light without having BEEN BROUGHT INTO THE
LIGHT.
This world
is
the sphere of action; of effort; of attainment;
of enlightenment.
If
our opportunities here are neglected, we
must wait for
a
future time; another journey on earth; this
might be in the far distant future. Perhaps, because of extreme
darkness, never. Now
is
the time, not in some indefinite
"tomorrow."
5.
As long as
I
am in the world,
I
am the light of the world.
This could be worded differently to be more readily under
stood.
As long as
I
—the Arisen Christ —am in the world,
I
am the Light, bringing light into the world
for all who are ready to accept its guidance.
Each human creature
is
a
world in itself. Philosophically,
man
is
a
Microcosm, or little world, and in this world
is
a
Light,
OF ST. JOHN 153
just as there is a light —a sun —in the larger world, the Macro
cosm. However, unless the Soul, the Christos, is awakened and
brought into Illumination, it will be no light; all will be in
darkness.
That little world of man is in darkness and must remain
without light until such time as man comes into the Conscious
ness of what he may be, and proceeds to make the effort to
become in truth a light both unto his own little world, and the
world of men as was the Nazarene. This is possible only by
obedience to the mandate of the Divine Law as it concerns BOTH
the body and the Spiritual self, the Soul of Man.
6. When he had thus spoken, he spat upon the ground, and
made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the
blind man with the clay,
7. And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam,
(which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way,
therefore, and washed, and came seeing.
Man, as he now
is,
either
is
blind, or sees as through
a
glass darkly.
It
is
only as he hears, and obeys the command
of God, or the Voice of God —the awakened Conscience within
himself —that he begins to see. This requires OBEDIENCE TO
BEGIN with and obedience
is
followed
by
action in accordance
with the command of the Christos, governed as
it
is,
by
the
Divine Law. "Whereas
I
was blind, now
I
see."—John 9:25.
8.
The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen
him that he was blind, said,
Is
not this he that sat and
begged?
9.
Some said, This
is
he: others said, He
is
like him: but he
said,
I
am be.
10. Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes
opened?
11. He answered and said,
A
man that
is
called Jesus made
clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the
pool of Siloam, and wash: and
I
went and washed, and
I
received sight.
154 THE INTERPRETATION
To obey the Divine Law is the Biblical "sowing." No man
can sow and not "reap," and the reaping is ALWAYS according
to the sowing and the spirit (feeling) in which it is done.
To follow the Divine Law is to obey the master; the Master
is first of all the Giver of the Law, and second, the Christos
WITHIN which came from Him—descended from Him. To
obey is first to accept; secondly act accordingly; and, lastly,
to receive the benefit of obedience or action.
12. Then said they unco him, Where is he? He said, I know
not.
13. They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was
blind.
14. And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and
opened his eyes.
The sabbath day, is the "good day" or day of gladness and
rejoicing. It is a day of joy when Spiritual blindness is removed
and man sees clearly and no longer as "through a glass darkly,"
or with eyes beclouded by carnality—the gross desires of the
flesh.
"Rejoice ye, for the Lord [the Light] has come." All
Spiritual benefits and, in truth, ALL benefits, whether material
or Spiritual, follow obedience to the Law enunciated by both
Moses and the Nazarene. Both were messengers from God;
both were the givers of the Law; both, in a true sense, were
Saviours.
15. Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had
received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon
mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
To wash is to remove, cleanse, become free from. Material
without the spirit is dead. Those who are buried in materiality
cannot see. When this materiality (the clay) is washed away
or removed, i.e., changed or transmuted, then will the Light
shine through and we will be able to see clearly. No longer
OF ST. JOHN 155
blind, we will see plainly and not as "through a glass, darkly."
Whether interpreted literally or symbolically, this is plain,
undeniable truth.
16. Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of
God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said,
How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And
there was a division among them.
That which men cannot understand —and this is almost
universally true —they condemn. Unable to perform such work
themselves, they take the position that those who can or do
such deeds must be sinners; of the devil and —not so long ago—
witches.
Moreover, the sinful man, torn with the knowledge, or
consciousness of his own evils or sins, cannot comprehend the
possibility of another's being free from sin and, to salve his
own conscience, he judges all men guilty.
Since, in the eyes of the sinful man, all men are guilty,
the work they do, especially that which defies mortal or intel
lectual understanding, must be evil, hence certainly not of God.
In such manner was the Nazarene and all his works judged; in
like manner must all who follow his footsteps expect to be
judged and condemned.
18. But the Jews did not believe concerning him that he had
been blind, and received his sight, until they called the
parents of him that had received his sight.
19. And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say
was born blind? how then doth he now see?
20. His parents answered them and said, We know that this is
our son, and that he was born blind:
21. But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who
hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him:
he shall speak for himself.
22. These words spake his parents, because they feared the
Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did
confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the
synagogue.
156 THE INTERPRETATION
The parents of the boy who was born blind were unable to
answer otherwise. They had not come into the knowledge, the
Wisdom and the Light the Nazarene had attained as a result
of his desires and efforts.
23. Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.
24. Then again called they the man that was blind, and said
unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a
sinner.
They were apprehensive lest the Nazarene, proclaimed
the Christ had come, not as a teacher of the Divine Law and
Vice regent of God, but as an earthly ruler who would dethrone
those then in power, hence they did all in their power to
discredit both his teachings and his works. They were in fear
that the people, seeing his works, and hearing his words, would
believe and follow him; they feared his power would become
so great that it would be only a matter of time until he would
proclaim himself, or his followers would proclaim him, as
actually in temporal power; King of the Jews.
They knew full well that, should this happen, their unholy
rule would end and they would no longer be able to dominate
the people to their every advantage. They felt secure in giving
God the credit; to whom, in fact, it belonged; the Nazarene
having repeatedly proclaimed that he himself, without God
or the Father, could do nothing.
25. He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I
know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind,
now I see.
Just as long as man satisfies the desires of the flesh and
lives a carnal life, he will remain blind to all that is holy,
exalted and of a Spiritual nature. He is unable to understand
anything that does not belong to the flesh or is part of the
mortal self. He
is,
indeed, blind.
It
is
only as he begins to awaken to the temporal nature of
his self-being, glimpses something greater and higher, and fol
lows in the Light that he
is
beginning to see, that he will gradu
OF ST. JOHN 157
ally be relieved of his blindness and be able to recognize the
realities of both the body and the Spiritual self, the Christos, or
Soul. As he progresses and sees more clearly, as the REbirth,
or Spiritual birth becomes an accomplished fact, he will indeed
See, whereas he was blind before.
26. Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how
opened he thine eyes?
27. He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not
hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his
disciples?
"Will ye ALSO be his disciples?" In this question is the
implication that he actually was seeking not only for material
light, but also for Spiritual Light; that he was in truth, a fol
lower, or an "acceptor" of the inculcations of the Nazarene;
that the benefits he received were in fact the result of his seeking,
OF EFFORT MADE BY HIM TOWARD THAT END.
28. Then they reviled him, and said, Thou an his disciple;
but we are Moses' disciples.
When they finally recognized the fact that they were unable
to shake his faith or to confuse him, they condemned. It was as
if they had said: "If you are not with us, you are against us.
Being against us, you are with him who doeth these things
without the sanction of our Laws; hence a sinner, and the devil
is in you."
The pretension of being the disciples of Moses was a super
ficial one. Had they indeed been the disciples of Moses they
would have been obedient to his Laws; Laws which in no wise
differed from those enunciated by the Nazarene, except in this:
they were limited in that they did not include the cardinal
doctrine of the Second, or Spiritual birth, without which
attainment or experience, no man, whatever his nationality,
color or creed, can "enter into the Kingdom of heaven."
29. We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fallow,
we know not from whence he is.
158 THE INTERPRETATION
They spoke an untruth when they said they KNEW that God
spake to Moses. At best, they believed it. They could not know,
not having been present when the Laws were given to Moses.
They spoke truth when they admitted they did not know whence
came the Nazarette.
30. The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a
marvelous thing, that ye know not from whence he
is,
and
yet he hath opened mine eyes.
31. Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but
if
any
man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he
heareth.
There
is
both confusion and
a
great truth in this verse.
If
God did not hear sinners, then there were no reasons for God's
existence.
It
is
not the righteous who are in need of God's help,
but the sinners. Moreover,
if
sinners were not heard of God,
then none would be heard, since ALL MEN ARE BY NATURE
SINNERS.
There
is
little need for God to hear, or to listen, to the non-
sinners, the righteous; they having become, as
a
result of their
righteousness, the Sons of God, but there
is
need of their rever
ence for God and all that
is
good; reverence being second only
to Love.
The profound truth
is
in the statement: "... if
any man
be
a
worshipper [have reverence] of God, AND DOETH His
WILL, him will he hear." There
is
no such thing as worship
without obedience.
If
reverence for God be in the heart,
if
it
is
our desire to worship him, then we will also obey His Law; and
Him will WE hear; because obedience
is
"sowing," and he who
sows shall reap or receive. Obedience to the Law, is THE LAW.
32. Since the world began was
it
not heard that any man
opened the eyes of one that was born blind.
33.
If
this man were not of God, he could do nothing.
34. They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether
born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him
out.
OF ST. JOHN 159
35. Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had
found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the
Son of God?
36. He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might
believe on him?
37. And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen Him, and it
is he that talketh with thee.
38. And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.
39. And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world,
that they which see not might see; and that they which see
might be made blind.
40. And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard
these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?
41. Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no
sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.
The word "blind" should here read "ignorant," ignorant of
right and wrong; ignorant of the Law as it concerns body and
Soul. If we have knowledge of the Law, yet do contrary to the
Law, then we are guilty in the sight of the Law; we are sinning.
This statement must not be confused with the axiom:
"Ignorance of the law excuses no one." If we were to take
poison thinking it to be a curative agent, we would suffer,
possibly meet death; but we would not have sinned; there being
neither desire nor intent to kill one's self. The penalty for the
error must be paid, though the error is not sin. Sin, knowingly
doing wrong, must not only be paid for in suffering, but in
addition, restitution must be made.
CHAPTER TEN
"/ and the Father are one."
1. Verily, verily I say unto you, He that enteretb not by the
door into the sheepfold, but dimbeth up some other way,
the same is a thief and a robber.
This implies the possibility of entering the "sheepfold" by
some other way than that indicated by the Law; that those who
do so are thieves and robbers, hence thieves and robbers are able,
as such, to enter the sheepfold, or the kingdom which is God.
This would be a gross injustice; the ability to evade the
Divine Law, and favoritism on the part of God. Were such a
thing possible, then God would not be changeless, hence NOT
eternal.
Those who enter "by the door" become aware that the
pleasures of the flesh resulting from riotous living, are mere
folly. They soon awaken to the knowledge that such gratifica
tions lead to "death and damnation," and begin to change their
thoughts, their desires and actions to conform to the Divine
Law.
As they gain in knowledge of the Law and experience the
results and benefits, the satisfaction and peace that obedience
brings, they will make greater and more deliberate efforts to
obtain the wisdom that will lead them Godward, the Conscious
ness of Soul brought about by the Second or Spiritual birth.
Those who attempt to enter the kingdom by means other
than the way of the Law, are such as have spent their lives
catering to the desires of the carnal senses. They have given
little or no thought to the welfare of humanity or their own
Spiritual self. They have perhaps passed their lives in riotous
living and little care whether their fellow men have food or
drink to keep body and Soul together.
162 THE INTERPRETATION
They seek profit at the expense of others; look for honors
they do not deserve; high places permitting them to dominate
and take advantage of their fellow men. They have little love
for family or country and sell honor to the highest bidder. As
the end draws near, they die in the delusion that, accepting God
by words, i.e., by confession, WITHOUT FINDING GOD IN THE
HEART, they will be able to enter the "sheepfold" on the same
basis as did those who obeyed the Law.
They expect Spiritual equality with those who had the
welfare of their fellow men at heart; who succeeded in attaining
the Second, or Spiritual birth, and who passed on into the realm
of Light by having, while in life, become enveloped in the Light;
one with the risen (Resurrected) Christ os within; having, dur
ing life and as a reward of effort, changed "mortality into
Immortality."
2. But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the
sheep.
3. To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice:
and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them
out.
4 And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before
them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.
5. And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from
him: for they know not the voice of strangers.
6. This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood
not what things they were which he spake unto them.
7. Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto
you, I am the door of the sheep.
Only as a result of awakening the Christos WITHIN, into the
Living Christ, by means of the Second, or Spiritual birth, is it
possible to enter into the kingdom via the door. "Unless ye be
born of the Spirit as ye were of your mother's womb, ye can in
no wise enter into the kingdom of Heaven." This is a positive,
unqualified statement. The Christ is the door. The "door" is a
means of entry. The means of entry is the Risen Christ; the
OF ST. JOHN 163
risen Christ is the Awakened Christos; this awakening being
only possible by means of the Second, or Spiritual birth.
It is not sufficient to believe or have faith. This is only the
beginning. Our faith must be so strong as to be a constant and
ever-increasing urge to make effort—to "Do the Will of the
Father."
Doing this means obedience to the Divine Law; living the
life of an awakened, Soul-Conscious being; the basis of which is
honor, first to the self, then to all men, and reverence, born of
Love, to God. The kingdom of heaven is within. Is it not
written: "Ye are the temples of the living God?" Where is God
if not in His temple?
The temple of God is not a "trading post" of exchange, of
dishonor, of degradation, of selling (betraying) one's country;
of enslaving one's family as a result of failing to do our full duty.
It follows only in the wake of obeying the eternal or Divine Law
taught by Moses and made manifest by the Nazarene.
8. All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but
the sheep did not hear them.
9. I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be
saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.
10. The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that
they might have
*'/
more abundantly.
"I am the door."
A
"Door"
is
a
means of entry. However
great and beautiful
a
temple might be, unless there
is
a
door
it
would have no value as
a
place of worship or devotion. "Ye are
the temples of the living God."
A
temple must be built with
a
place of entry, both for God and that we may enter and there
find God.
What or who,
is
this door? "I am the door." The "I"
is
the
Christos; that Christos must be awakened and become the Christ,
then only
is
it
the "door," the means of reaching God.
164 THE INTERPRETATION
"Thieves," those of evil inclination, have no desire to enter
the temple unless it be to "steal" for personal gain or benefit.
They seek to trade, not to worship. They have no inclination
for devotion. Mammon is their god, and they are willing, even
anxious, to do whatever is necessary, however cruel and dishon
orable, to gain the desired end. / am the door. I, the Christos,
is within, awaiting to be called; to be brought into the Con
sciousness of Christhood; but none passing through this "door"
may make use of the temple for any selfish purpose.
11. I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life
for the sheep.
12. But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose
own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth
the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and
scattereth the sheep.
13. The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth
not for the sheep.
14. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am
known of mine.
15. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father:
and I lay down my life for the sheep.
16. And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them
also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there
shall be one fold, and one shepherd.
17. Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my
life, that I might take it again.
I, the carnal self, am willing and ready to lay down my life,
if I may thereby become the Son of God and gain the greater
life; the life that has its eternal BEGINNING NOW. I am ready
to foreswear the desires and the pleasures of the mortal self, if I
may attain the peace that is heaven, and its attendant benefits.
I am willing to obey the Law, to "sow" in accordance with the
Divine Law, that my "reaping" may be accordingly. I seek only
that which belongs to the real self; the life that is of benefit to
the present self and the Immortal self.
OF ST. JOHN 165
I do not consider this a sacrifice, but an exchange such as all
honest men should be willing to make. This should be our.
attitude, our inner secret desire. It does not require that we give
up anything that is of real value; only the tinsel and the tempo
rary. We must replace Dishonor with honor; degeneration by
REgeneration; hatred and malice by affection and Love; non-
faith by faith, devotion and reverence; all of which are of
benefit to us in every activity of life.
18. No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself.
I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it
again. This commandment have I received of my Father.
No man, not even God, can Take, that
is,
free us of the evils
of life, or of
a
nature that work toward death and destruction.
Only we ourselves have the power to lay them down, or aside;
give them up for something better and higher. We have the
privilege to make the exchange of the undesirable for the per
manent, and to change back again. The choice
is
ours.
God gave us free Will. We have the right to do as we
please, because
it
is
also we ourselves that must pay the penalty
for any infractions of the Law. We can live the life of death,
or the life that will end in eternity.
It
is
our privilege to change
"mortality into Immortality," or to destroy, insofar as we are
concerned, the Spark of Divinity.
19. There was
a
division therefore again among the Jews for
these sayings.
20. And many of them said, He hath
a
devil, and
is
mad; why
hear ye him?
21. Others said, These are not the words of him that hath
a
devil. Can
a
devil open the eyes of the blind?
22. And
it
was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and
it
was winter.
23. And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.
Symbolically the feast
of
dedication takes place at the
moment we have sufficiently awakened to the realization that
the mortal, carnal life, however pleasant or seemingly fortunate
166 THE INTERPRETATION
it may be, is only of a few days. At that time a real, permanent
desire is born to exchange the evils of the carnal self for that
which is good and lasting in the sense that it will benefit both
ourselves and others. At this time we actually begin to THINK,
FEEL and MAKE EFFORT toward bringing the hidden Christos
into life and activity so that it will be a guide unto us in all our
doings. It is then that we dedicate ourselves to the greater, the
higher, the eternal. Such a dedication benefits not only the
Spiritual part of us, but the personal self as well, because it
gradually replaces the undesirable and temporal, with the real
and lasting.
24. Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him,
How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the
Christ, tell us plainly.
25. Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the
works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness
of me
"By their fruits shall ye know them." They who do the
works of the Father are from the Father. To have sufficient faith
in the Father to discontinue the ways of the carnal life and
actually work, i.e., "sow," according to the Divine Law, is to
become His children, because we obey His Word.
By "doing in God's name," according to the Law, is to
change, by gradual degrees, the mortal, temporal self, into the
Divine self. It is bringing into life and manifestation the
Christos; the Son of God, making ourselves Godlike to the
degree of our faithfulness.
26. But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I
said unto you.
27. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they fol
low me:
28. And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never
perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.
29. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no
man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.
OF ST. JOHN 167
30. I and my Father arc one.
All who are willing to obey the Voice of God, the Divine
Law, will, as a result of willing effort, find within themselves
the Christos, and by their obedience (works) bring Him into
manifestation; thereby, and as a result, becoming as one with
Him.
31. Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.
32. Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you
from my Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?
33. The Jews answered him, saying, "For a good work we
stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou,
being a man, makest thyself God.
34. Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said.
Ye are gods?
35. If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came,
and the scripture cannot be broken;
The Nazarene here made a positive statement. He did not
proclaim himself as God or a god, but "Ye are gods." In this he
certainly had no reference to those for whom he was proclaim
ing the Law, because these by their very acts, were proving
themselves anything but gods.
He had in mind that they, and for that matter, ALL men
might BECOME gods; that
is,
SONS OF GOD,
if
willing to accept
the Law and live accordingly, changing the "mortal into the
Immortal," the carnal into the Divine.
This requires attaining to the consciousness that man as he
is,
is
"of
a
few days and known no more," but that man as he
may become, will be Christic, hence have attained Sonship with
the Father—will have become Immortal. What shall
it
be?
Biblically speaking, sons of the devil—of the dead—or Spiritu
alized, REborn, Sons of God.
36. Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent
into the world, Thou blasphemest; because
I
said,
I
am the
Son of God?
168 THE INTERPRETATION
To be sanctified is to have become holy, that
is,
WHOLE.
This holiness, or whole-ness
is
not of the Spiritual self only, but
of the WHOLE man: body, spirit and Soul; raised up, for the
benefit of the whole man. Obeying the Divine Law, "rightly
sowing," does not alone concern the Soul, but the person as well.
It
has in view the wholeness of body, of mind, of the
WHEREWITH OF LIFE AND WHOLESOME PLEASURES, and of
the Spirit or Soul. "I am the Son of God, but ye also,
I
have
said, are Gods"; i.e., can BECOME SONS OF GOD, as
a
result
of DESIRE AND OBEDIENCE.
37.
If
I
do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
38. But
if
I
do, though ye believe not me, believe the works:
that ye may know, and believe, that the Father
is
in me,
and
I
in him.
"If
I
do not the works
of
my Father," which
is
to say: If
I
do not obey and fulfill the Divine Law, the Laws of the Father,
then my "fruits" will not manifest the Father and you should
not believe that
I
am of the Father. Not faith, BUT WORKS
proclaim the Son, every Son.
".
. . that the Father
is
in me, and
I
in him,"
is
a
rewording
of "Ye are the temples of the Living God," the one having
direct reference to the Nazarene, the other to ALL men who
are willing to obey and do the Father's Will, hence His works.
This
is
one of the most positive teachings ever given man
and indicates plainly what HE MAY BE
if
he
is
willing and
ready to put forth the required effort.
39. Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped
out of their hand.
40. And went away again beyond Jordan into the place where
John at first baptized; and there he abode.
41. And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no
miracle: but all things that John spake of this man were
true.
42. And many believed on him there.
CHAPTER ELEVEN
"And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall not die."
1. Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany,
the town of Mary and her sister Martha.
2. (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment,
and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus
was sick.)
3. Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold,
he whom thou lovest is sick.
4. When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto
death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might
might be glorified thereby.
5. Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
6. When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode
two days still in the same place where he was.
7. Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into
Judaea again.
8. His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late
sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again?
9. Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day?
If any man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because
he seeth the light of this world.
10. But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because
there is no light in him.
Those who "walk in the night" walk in darkness. Darkness,
or the night, are synonyms of ignorance. They possess no
knowledge of the Law; being ignorant of the Law, they cannot
obey
it,
and they stumble; i.e., they may fall. "There
is
no light
in him."
Those living in ignorance are constantly guilty of un
righteous acts. They are unable to make the effort which would
bring the inner Light into manifestation that
it
might be
a
guide unto them. They walk in darkness; they stumble, and
unless awakened, they fall.
170 THE INTERPRETATION
11. These things said he: and after that he saith unto them,
Our friend Lazarus sleepth; but I go, that I may awake him
out of sleep.
12. Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.
13. Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that
he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.
14. Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
15. And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to
the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.
16. Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his
fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.
17. Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the
grave four days already.
18. Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen
furlongs off:
19. And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to
comfort them concerning their brother.
20. Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming,
went and met him: but Mary sat /;*// in the house.
21. Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord if thou hadst been
here, my brother had not died.
22. But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask
of God, God will give it thee.
23. Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.
24. Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again
in the resurrection at the last day.
25. Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life:
he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall
he live:
26. And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never
die. Believest thou this?
A more correct rendition would be: He that believeth in
the life (the Law) as I teach
it,
and liveth (Doeth) accord
ingly, though he were (Spiritually) dead, shall not die, but
become eternally alive—REborn
by
means of the Second, or
Spiritual birth.
OF ST. JOHN 171
Those who have not learned the Law, have not solved
the mystery of the Second, or Spiritual birth, are truly dead.
Their body lives, it is true, but it is a temporal death. However,
though dead (in the spirit, or in Christ) they may become
awakened. If they believe, and then LIVE AS THEY BELIEVE;
the Christos will be brought into Consciousness —come to life—
and THIS is THE RESURRECTION and the (new) life. BELIEVE
YE THIS? Unless you do, the mortal life is the beginning and
end of the Soul in its present habitation.
27. She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the
Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.
28. And when she had so said, she went her way, and called
Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and
calleth for thee.
29. As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto
him.
30. Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in
that place where Martha met him.
31. The Jews then which were with her in the house, and
comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up
hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goeth
unto the grave to weep there.
32. Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw
him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord,
if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.
33. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews
also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the
spirit, and was troubled.
34. And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him,
Lord, come and see.
35. Jesus wept.
36. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!
37. And some of them said, Could not this man, which
opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even
this man should not have died?
38. Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the
grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.
172 THE INTERPRETATION
39. Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of
him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he
stinketh: for he hath been dead four days,
40. Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou
wouldst believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?
41. Then they took away the stone from the place where
the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said,
Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.
42. And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because
of the people which stand by I said
;'/,
that they may
believe that thou hast sent me.
43. And when he thus had spoken, he cried with
a
loud
voice, Lazarus, come forth.
44. And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot
with gravedothes: and his face was bound about with
a
napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.
Moses came to teach men the moral law, and as much
of the Spiritual Law as men would receive. The Nazarene
came to complete the teaching of the Divine Law. the life
and the resurrection. He taught that man,
by
means of exalted
(awakened and enlightened) thoughts, desires and efforts
(works) in harmony with the awakening of his higher nature,
could arouse into activity, the dead, sleeping, bound and buried
Divine Spark received from God, and bring
it
forth (into
manifestation) as the Christ. He taught this to be the resur
rection into the eternal life; the becoming of the Son of God,
and that all men were free to accept and partake of this great
blessing.
In his teachings the Nazarene made continual use of the
symbology of the East. He admitted this many times, and on
the basis of this symbology he told the story of Lazarus and
Martha, and Mary, symbolizing the experience of the Soul of
man.
Bethany means "going through suffering," or "the place
of affliction."
OF ST. JOHN 173
It is not to be contradicted that men do not seek a higher
plane of life until after a sore affliction; after passing through
some great sorrow or loss. It is following such loss or affliction
when all things of the flesh appear worthless and when all
material things fail to satisfy, that men turn to God; to within
themselves for a means out of their dilemma.
Failure to find the help needed among men and in the
world in general, results in bitterness. This is symbolized by
Martha, for she dwelt in the place of bitterness.
Because of affliction and sorrow and failure to receive the
help needed from sources which always heretofore brought
pleasure and profit, and the resulting bitterness, it brought
about the search for something not hitherto known. When
we search, we will find, and will be given the light needed
to guide our footsteps. This is Mary, the "exalted one," having
become "uplifted" by finding the Christos; the opening up of
the Christos WITHIN. When we have succeeded in finding
and attaining to the exalted state of peace within, and the Light
of the Christos, we will also have assistance from God. This
is Lazarus COME FORTH: Lazarus is "the assistant of the Father."
The mortal who is dead in the flesh, is the man governed
by his passions, carnal desires and selfishness. Afflictions must
come upon him and all that he has hitherto held dear fails him.
As a last resource he seeks for, and ultimately finds the Light;
this is the Christ. The resurrection follows, Lazarus comes
forth. Such is the parable of life, of death, of the Soul's coming
forth."
45. Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had
seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.
46. But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and
told them what things Jesus had done.
47. Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a
council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many
miracles.
174 THE INTERPRETATION
48. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and
the Romans shall come and take away both our place
and nation.
49. And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest
that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,
50. Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man
should die for the people, and that the whole nation
perish not.
51. And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest
that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that
nation;
52. And not for that nation only, but that also he should
gather together in one the children of God that were
scattered abroad.
53. Then from that day forth they took counsel together for
to put him to death.
54. Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews;
but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness,
into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with
his disciples.
55. And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many
went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the
passover, to purify themselves.
56. Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves,
as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will
not come to the feast?
57. Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given
a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were,
he should shew
it,
that they might take him.
In the drama of the world,
a
drama that
is
being constantly
"played," the righteous, those who both live rightly, and teach
the Law, are always sought out to be persecuted and destroyed
by
those who are self-seeking.
The persecutions and prosecutions of those engaged in
teaching the truth, however much to be regretted, serve
a
most
useful purpose. But for their awakening and enlightning effect,
the mass would not become awakened to the truth and humanity
OF ST. JOHN 175
as a whole would remain spiritually blind. Evil in its many
forms would continue to pass unrecognized; those of evil
intent would not be shunned by those seeking the righteous
path, and the unrighteous would continue to reap their profits
and be those to be honored.
If, by any means, the teaching of righteousness can be pre
vented, then those engaged in unrighteousness, must continue
to be banded together to refute, by sophistry and misinterpreta
tion those who are here to liberate the people by teaching them
the WAY, the TRUTH and the LIFE. This has been the history
of mankind; the drama of the Ages, and the play will not end
until all men have become awakened to the truth which alone.
if lived, will set men free.
CHAPTER TWELVE
"And I, if I be lifted up from earth, urill draw
all men unto me."
1. Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany,
where Lazarus was which had been dead, whom he raised
from the dead.
2. There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but
Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him.
3. Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very
costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet
with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour
of the ointment.
4. Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's
son, which should betray him.
5. Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence,
and given to the poor?
6. This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because
he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put
therein.
7. Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my
burying hath she kept this.
8. For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have
not always.
In Mary and Judas we see illustrated the two extremes.
Mary, in her love for that which is good, effected a complete
self-negation; a willingness to give what, in her opinion, was
the BEST. However, this was not considered a sacrifice by her,
(selfishiness is usually interwoven in the thought that we are
making a sacrifice). She gave because the heart dictated it.
That which we do either in affection or love is never thought
of as a sacrifice, but as love's offering. Mary, in this instance,
illustrates true affection of a wholly impersonal nature; with
178 THE INTERPRETATION
no thought on her part of having made a sacrifice or of some
thing to be rawarded for.
Judas, on the other hand, did not have his heart in the
work in which he was engaged. His affection, much less his
love, was in no wise involved in his relationship with the
Nazarene or his mission. He thought only of the value of
that which, in his opinion, was wasted, because it MIGHT HAVE
BEEN SOLD AT A PROFIT. His statement that it might have
been sold and the money given to the poor, was a subterfuge.
He cared no more for the poor, than he had true affection for
the Nazarene. It was inconceivable to him that anything could
or should be offered in pure affection, WITHOUT THOUGHT
OF SELF OR PROFIT.
Mary who was to be exalted, had no sense of value for
what she was offering. It was the BEST she had, and the best
was none too good as an offering. She had awakened to the
truth that the value, and whatever she had to offer, was NOT
a sacrifice, but a love offering; a material proof of unselfish
affection; a physical out-pouring of the heart.
Judas thought only of physical, material values —of profit.
If something can be sold at a profit, why not do so and offer
something of less value? Mary's Soul was exalted, filled with
love or affection, and to give was not a sacrifice, but a blessing.
Judas did not know the meaning of either word. All he could
understand was material possessions. One is Spiritual; of the
heavens; the other of the earth, earthy.
9. Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was
there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that
they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from
the dead.
10. But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus
also to death:
If one has an understanding of Oriental symbolism, then
flic reason for their desire of the death of Lazarus is under
OF ST. JOHN 179
standable. Lazarus is "that which is assistant to God,"—"one
who does the will of God." The chief priests and Pharisees
were of evil intent and lived, for the most part, a purely
carnal life. They possessed the Law; were familiar with
it,
but
had not dedicated themselves to the living of the Law. They
lived, not as priests, but as merchantmen who had something
to sell, and did sell it. They could not brook interference
by
any one acting either as
a
teacher of the truth, or one who
would show the people the TRUTH, THE WAY, AND THE LIFE,
without merchandising. They had lived for so long in defiance
of the Laws given them
by
Moses, their former leader, that
their conscience was dead to the voice of God. All of their
thoughts and desires were toward profit and honor of position.
Nothing must be permitted to interfere with the system they
had established.
11. Because that
by
reason of him many of the Jews went
away, and believed on Jesus.
12. On the next day much people that were come to the
feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,
13. Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him,
and cried, Hosanna: Blessed
is
the King of Israel that
cometh in the name of the Lord.
14. And Jesus, when he had found
a
young ass, sat thereon;
as
it
is
written.
15. Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh,
sitting on an ass's colt.
The living Christ, the "king" of men, seeks not glory, but
is
humbly observant of the Law. He has in mind the needs
of those who are downtrodden; who, despite their lowly estate,
have not given up their ideals, but seek for that which will
elevate, or "life them" up. This
is
a
lesson in humbleness, BUT
NOT IN WEAKNESS. He who
is
jealous
of
his honor, but has
become humble in faith, knows that the flesh
is
temporal and
cannot Know Immortality unless
it
becomes transmuted or
is
"lifted up." Such
a
man will,
in
meekness, obey the dictates of
180 THE INTERPRETATION
the Divine Law and build the "temple." .To him will come the
Christos who will abide as King in that Temple not built with
hands.
16. These things understood not his disciples at the first:
but when Jesus was glorifed, then remembered they
that these things were written of him, and that they
had done these things unto him.
17. The people therefore that was with him when he called
Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead,
bare record.
18. For this cause the people also met him, for that they
heard that he had done this miracle.
19. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive
ye how ye prevail nothing? behold the world is gone
after him.
20. And there were certain Greeks among them that came
up to worship at the feast:
21. The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Beth-
saida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would
see Jesus.
22. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and
Philip tell Jesus.
23. And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come,
that the Son of man should be glorified.
"Bethsaida" means: "the place where good works are (or
should be) done." The "place of the fruit of works."
"Philip" means "one who loves"; "Andrew" means "one
who has strength"; the "Son of man" has reference to "one with
the Awakened Mind."
After the mind of man—man's reasoning and knowing
faculty— becomes conscious that the body is not all of life,
but merely the vehicle of that which is far greater than any
thing the body can ever know, he begins to seek for the way
to a higher and more enlightened life. He becomes conscious
that it is only by effort that the Christos, his Soul, can attain
OF ST. JOHN 181
to real Consciousness; a Consciousness that transcends the
merely mental to become Spiritual. He will then have entered
"Bethsaida."
He will now begin to do the Father's Will; that
is,
"good
works"; not for the selfish purpose that he may reap glory or
profit, but because, having become awakened to at least part
of the truth that
is
reality, he also has learned to LOVE THE
WORKS WHICH ARE OF THE FATHER. Such
a
man was Philip,
"the lover of good works." As he continued to do the work of
the Father, because he loved the work, he gained in strength.
This
is
Andrew.
24. Verily, verily,
I
say unto you, Except
a
corn of wheat
fall into the ground and die,
it
abidech alone: but
if
it
die,
it
bringeth forth much fruit.
The word "die" implies change. The grain of wheat sown
does not die.
It
undergoes
a
change and, by means of this
change comes into life. The Christos WITHIN
is
like an unsown
grain of wheat; unless
it
is
given an opportunity to come into
life,
it
is
as dead.
25. He that loveth his life shall lose
it;
and he that hateth
his life in this world shall keep
it
unto life eternal.
The statement: "he that hateth his life,"
is
most unfortunate
and
is
a
wholly incorrect translation of the original. We should
learn to love life so much that we not only will be willing,
but most anxious, to change the temporal (mortal) into the
eternal (Immortal) . No one who hates life will make an effort
to save
it,
or exalt
it,
and without life (of the body), there
is
no "wheat" to come forth and "bring much fruit."
The body of man
is
as important as his Soul. Perfect being
is
in equilibrium;
a
balance of body and Soul. Man, for full
attainment, must awaken to the fact that the spirit of life (the
real being within) was given to him that he could use
it
as
a
vehicle to bring the germ—the Divine Spark—into Immortali
182 THE INTERPRETATION
zation. He must think such thoughts, hold such thoughts, and
have such desires as will help him change the "mortal into the
Immortal."
It
is,
undeniably, the duty of man to look carefully after
the welfare of his body, the vehicle through which alone the
Soul can function.
It
is
to be changed into the "temple of the
living God." In so doing, he must not be forgetful of the
greater work; not yield to the carnal desires of the body, and
miss the intent and purpose of life.
He must "bury" the wheat, so that
it
may be transmuted
and come forth
a
new "plant";
a
REgenerated being.
26.
If
any man serve me, let him follow me; and where
I
am,
there shall also my servant be:
if
any man serve me, him
will my Father honour.
To "serve" the son of man has but one meaning:
It
is
to
do the Will of the Father; to obey His Law.
If
we "follow,"
then we will "serve."
If
we do not serve—work in the interest
of, or according to God —then we are not doing His will. To
"honour" God,
is
to glorify Him. To "glorify" Him,
is
to bring
the Light into being, to serve God: Whereas we were first
carnal creatures, then became the Son of man; lastly, and
greatest, we BECAME the Son of God. Such
is
the sequence of
the true life.
27. Now
is
my Soul troubled; and what shall
I
say? Father,
save me from this hour: but for this cause came
I
unto
this hour.
This
is
Golgotha.
It
is
the Cross of change. We are most
reluctant to offer up that which we possess, which we know
that we possess, for that which as yet appears as unreal to us.
We are unlike the good farmer who, possessing
a
good store
of wheat for which he could realize much money, nevertheless
is
not for
a
moment tempted to sell
it
(to accept the temporal),
but sows
it
without hesitation that
it
may, under favorable
OF ST. JOHN 183
circumstances or conditions, greatly reproduce itself. The example
of the sower was well chosen by the Nazarene, though compara
tively few are willing to follow this example.
28. Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from
heaven, saying, I have both glorified
it,
and will glorify
it
again.
To glorify
is
to surround with light. We bring glory upon
God, when we,
by
obedience to His Laws, bring into manifesta
tion that Spark of Light WITHIN us. This Light
is
part of His
being, and there
is
no glory to Him so long as we permit the
Light to remain in darkness.
If
I,
the Christos that
is
WITHIN me, be exalted, that
is,
lifted
up, elevated,
by
my efforts, then will others, as
a
result of my
works, be lifted up also, for
I
will be an example unto them.
I
will show them the way, and those that follow will, like the
Christos WITHIN me, be lifted up also.
As
by
DESIRE AND EFFORT we overcome the carnal within
us, we will free ourselves from the heavy weight of the carnal,
and this will elevate us, or lift us up. This overcoming does not
destroy anything, but
it
changes, or transmutes, from one state
to another; from the lower to the higher. This
is,
of course,
by
way of the Cross;
a
Cross-i-fication; generally known as
crucifixion.
29. The people therefore, that stood by, and heard
it,
said
that
it
thundered: others said, An Angel spake to him.
30. Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because
of me, but for your sakes.
31. Now
is
the judgment of this world: now shall the prince
of this world be cast out.
32. And
I,
if
I
be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men
unto me.
This lifting up
is
the Arcane work; the Great Work. The
Son of man, the awakened man or mind, must be directed to
arouse the Divine Spark WITHIN. This
is
brought about
by
a
NEW DIRECTION OF THOUGHT AND DESIRE.
A
new effort in
a
184 THE INTERPRETATION
different direction is necessary. Nothing that is of real benefit
to the personal self need be given up, but all that is of the carnal,
the purely temporal, must be changed into the really beneficial.
This is transmutation; transmutation is a change; this change is
the Crucification or Cross-i-fkation —meaning to CROSS OVER;
to change from one state to another. This is the Great Work.
It is man's mission on earth. For this came he here.
33. This he said, signifying what death he should die.
34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the
law that Christ abideth forever: and how sayest thou,
The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of
man?
35. Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light
with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness
come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth
not whither he goeth.
36. While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may
be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and
departed, and did hide himself from them.
This is one of the most Arcane, or Esoteric, of all the
Nazarene's teachings.
God, throughout the Scriptures, as is equally true of ancient
philosophical teachings, was always known, or made Himself
known, by some form of Light. "If [while] ye have the Light,
believe in, [follow the Light], that ye BE [become] the CHIL
DREN OF LIGHT."
Man actually possesses this Light. Unfortunately, it is in an
inactive, dormant (buried) state. This Light buried within,
deep in the carnal self, must be awakened, and when this has
been done, then, and then only, is man become THE CHILD OF
LIGHT. This is the WHOLE OF THE WORK, and none who fail
to accomplish this work, can be a CHILD OF THE LIGHT.
37. But though he had done so many miracles before them,
yet they believed not on him:
38. That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled,
which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report?
and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
OF ST. JOHN 185
39. Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said
again,
40. He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart;
that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand
with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.
41. These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake
of him.
42. Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed
on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess
him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:
43. For they loved the praise of men more than the praise
of God.
Man's greatest enemy, the greatest enemy of truth, is FEAR.
Men come into an understanding of truth, of the Law, but they
fear unceasingly: their friends, their kin, their neighbors, their
brethren and their associates. They fear excommunication from
the societies to which they belong, and because of this fear, they
deny the truth. In denying the truth that would free them from
the bondage under which they bow, they deny the Christos
WITHIN; they deny their God. There are a great multitude of
Peters in the world.
He who has learned to know the truth, but does not live
according to the truth, denies the Lord as certainly as did Peter
deny the Nazarene. He who understands the Law, and refuses to
live in harmony with the Law, is not "burying" the carnal self
as a "seed," that it may spring forth as an Illuminated, Conscious
Soul, as a Son of God.
44. Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth
not on me, but on him that sent me.
45. And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.
46. I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth
on me should not abide in darkness.
The Light is in every normal human creature, but it abides
in darkness and will continue to abide there until, by accepting
the Divine Law and following its dictates, the Light is brought
into manifestation and the darkness is dispelled. To believe in,
186 THE INTERPRETATION
is to live; to live is to become; and he who, by LIVING, brings
the Light into being, no longer is in darkness. The Light comes
to (is) IN every man, but the man, being blind to Spiritual
realities, seeth it not and continues to live in darkness.
47. And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge
him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save
the world.
To "save the world" is to teach the Law and show the world
the WAY; to show man how, by obedience to the Law, he can
bring the Christos into life and SAVE HIMSELF. This was the
Nazarene's mission; this is man's work.
48. He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath
one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the
same shall judge him in the last day.
49. For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which
sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say,
and what I should speak.
50. And I know that his commandment is life everlasting:
whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said
unto me, so I speak.
The Law was not given by any man, but came into operation
with the beginning of the world. It is THE LAW, because
ALL THINGS THAT EXIST, AND THIS INCLUDES MAN,
ARE GOVERNED BY IT, AND FINALLY JUDGED UNDER IT. None
can escape. Men are punished or compensated by the REACTION
of their actions; action and REaction being two aspects of the
Law; both under the Law.
Thus it is written that at the last day—the moment man
passes from the (to us) visible into the invisible —THE BOOK OF
THE LAMB —OF THE LAW—is OPENED, and by what is recorded
therein, will he be judged. His THOUGHTS, DESIRES AND ACTS
did the writing, and no man can bear false witness against him
self. He, that which is written, being in judgment.
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
"Love ye one another."
1. Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew
that his hour was come that he should depart out of this
world unto the Father, having loved his own which were
in the world, he loved them unto the end.
2. And supper being ended, the devil having now put into
the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him;
3. Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into
his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to
God;
4. He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and
took a towel, and girded himself.
Judas, though one of the twelve who had long been associ
ated with the Nazarene and heard the truth expounded time and
again, had never really accepted the truth and as a result of his
non-acceptance, had not actually desired or made real effort
to become REgenerated. In his heart there was no desire for an
Awakening to the spirit of the Divine Law. He was selfish;
could think only of himself, and the benefits he might derive by
following the Nazarene.
It is probable that remaining purely human as he did, he
had an innate belief that the Nazarene might, after all, become
the King of the Jews and, as such, would bring honors and profit
to all his followers.
The unregenerated, or untransmuted evil part of Judas was
never changed by his association with the Nazarene; hence he
did not actually come into the Consciousness of the Father's
Will; but remained his earthly father's son, instead of becoming
the Son of God.
5. After that he poureth water into a basin, and began to
wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel
wherewith he was girded.
188 THE INTERPRETATION
6. Then cometh he to Simon Peter; and Peter saith unto
him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet?
7. Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou
knowest not now; but thou shall know hereafter.
8. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet.
Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no
part of me.
Unless we reach that state where we will be washed, that is
to say, become cleansed, by the power which is greater than our
mortal self—by the awakened Christos WITHIN, who is from
the Father, and about the Father's business —we will not
become Christ Conscious. It is only as a result of the cleansing
of the mind and the resulting exaltation of desire and the Will
to obey the Law, that we can come into the truth that makes
man free, and thereby become enlightened, or Illuminated.
We must be washed, cleansed, made free, by the Christos
within, or we will have no part of, or with, the Christ who
(which ) alone can change "mortality into Immortality"; the
"Son of man into the Son of God."
9. Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only,
but also my hands and my head.
10. Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save
to wash his feet, but is clean every whit; and ye are
clean, but not all.
Man cannot save himself in part only. Either he must make
the effort to free himself wholly from evil, or the part that is
still evil (unclean) within himself will contaminate the rest of
him. He who is guilty of disobeying one of the commandments
is guilty of infringing upon the Divine Law which includes all
commandments.
11. For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he,
Ye are not all dean.
12. So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his
garments, and was set down again, he said unto them,
Know ye what I have done to you?
OF ST. JOHN 189
13. Ye call me Master and Lord: And ye say well; for so
I am.
14. If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet;
ye also ought to wash one another's feet.
15. For I have given you an example, that ye do as
I have done to you.
16. Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater
than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he
that sent him.
17. If ye know these things, happy are ye if you do them.
One of the most difficult lessons for mankind to learn, one
that MUST BE MASTERED BY ALL WHO SEEK TO BE FREE, IS
THAT EACH ONE MUST BE AN APPRENTICE BEFORE HE CAN
BECOME A MASTER. TO BECOME A MASTER HE FIRST
WILLINGLY BECOMES A SERVANT IN ORDER TO GAIN ALL THE
KNOWLEDGE NECESSARY TO THE MASTER THAT HE MAY
WISELY COMMAND OR DIRECT THE SERVANT.
Service is the only Arch that can hold together the structure
of humanity, as it is of the TEMPLE NOT MADE WITH
HANDS wherein the Lord, and THE SOUL, worship. No temple,
not even that "made without hands" can be built without an
Arch, and that Arch is SERVICE rightly, correctly, willingly per
formed. There is nothing more exalting than willing service in
the building of the Temple wherein the Conscious, Immortal
Soul may dwell.
18. I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but
that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread
with me hath lifted up his heel against me.
19. Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to
pass, ye may believe that I am he.
20. Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whom
soever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me
receiveth him that sent me.
21. When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and
testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that
one of you shall betray me.
190 THE INTERPRETATION
22. Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of
whom he spake.
23. Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his
disciples, whom Jesus loved.
24. Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should
ask who it should be of whom he spake.
25. He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who
is it?
26. Jesus answered, He it
is,
to whom
I
shall give
a
sop,
when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the
sop, he gave
it
to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.
27. And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said
Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.
28. Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake
this unto them.
29. For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag,
that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we
have need of against the feast; or, that he should give
something to the poor.
30. He then having received the sop went immediately out:
and
it
was night.
"It was night." Symbolically or Esoterically speaking,
it
was the "dark of life," the time when the carnal evil
is
so great
that
it
is
willing to betray, to "sell" the Christos for a few pieces
of silver. All men are tested
by
the Law. The Nazarene was
not himself immune from this test, as so clearly indicated
by
his call to the mountain for the final test; but
if
there
is
more
of good than of evil in the nature of
a
man, the test can be safely
passed.
If,
however, the Spiritual self
is
in almost total darkness
as was that of Judas, there
is
little or no hope for that Soul in
this life;
it
is
"sold" to the highest bidder.
31. Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now
is
the Son of man glorified, and God
is
glorified in him.
He spoke not thus of Judas, but rather of himself. Here
again he had met the great test. He was fully aware that he
would be betrayed; that his life would be forfeited; but in order
OF ST. JOHN 191
to fulfill the Law he was willing this should be so. If there was
any evil, any "darkness" still in him, it had left him. Esoteri-
cally speaking, Judas represented the mortal side of himself;
the self that, during a moment's weakness, might betray him.
But this test was now safely passed; he was free of the darkness,
or weakness, and in that freedom he received the FULL Light
of the Father, and the Father was glorified by his liberation
from the final weakness.
When all of the evil in man's nature has been transmuted,
hence the carnal self purified, and the Christos hidden WITHIN
brought into Consciousness, Illumination follows: This Illumi
nation is the GLORIFICATION. Glorification means "filled with
Light," or "surrounded by Light."
When this has been experienced, the Christos has awakened
and been brought into Consciousness; the Second, or Spiritual
birth has been consummated and man has become thereby the
Son of God. The temple "not made with hands," but by
desire and effort, is completed. The Light upon the Altar—
the "INMOST CENTER" or Sanctum Sanctorum, is then alight.
God is in His temple and the written Law: "Is it not written in
your law, I said, Ye are gods?" is accomplished.
32. If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him
in himself, and shall straightway glorify him.
33. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall
seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye
cannot come; so now I say to you.
This statement clearly indicates that despite his original
mission, the Nazarene was compelled to give up all hope of the
Jews ever becoming the "chosen people" by accepting him as
their prophet, and his teachings as their Law of life and
action. He thereafter devoted his efforts to others than the Jews,
and/or also to such Jews as were willing to accept his inculca
tions. As a result of his experience and conclusions, he spoke
thus:
192 THE INTERPRETATION
34. A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one
another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one
another.
35. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if
ye have love one to another.
"By their fruits shall ye know them," aptly applies here. If
man loves, i.e., has affection or kindly feeling for his fellow man,
this will manifest in all his acts. He will not do anything that
might bring loss to, degrade, or bring sorrow upon, or in any
way harm, his fellow man.
Such behavior would be the "fruits" of his inner feeling. In
the deepest, highest sense, God is love. It is only through the
love that is ingrained in our being that we can find the Father.
He who has most of love in his nature, has most of God in him
self; and the more of love man displays by his every act, the
nearer he comes to God.
It cannot be too frequently repeated, that man is—MAY
BECOME—the temple of the living God, but this is not possible
unless there is sufficient affection, devotion, reverence and love
in his nature to urge him to do only that which manifests love.
This temple for the living God cannot be built when hate,
jealousy, malice, avarice, resentment and the other evil passions
hold sway within the human heart. These things are like rotten
timbers used in building a house. Such a house would not stand.
Only by obedience to the Divine Law and by observing the
dictates necessary for such a building, is it possible to achieve
the Second, or Spiritual birth, bringing about the perfection of
this temple in which God is to dwell. This is NOT an impractical
work. On the contrary, it is most practical. That which builds
the temple will also build for material success and "peace on
earth," i.e., happiness and peace of mind.
36. Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goesc thou?
Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow
me now; but thou shah follow me afterwards.
OF ST. JOHN 193
37. Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now?
I will lay down my life for thy sake.
38. Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for
my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall
not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.
Truly it has been written: "the spirit is willing, but the flesh
is weak." The Nazarene knew all too well that well-meaning
and willing as Peter was, there still remained a great deal of the
purely mortal to be changed or transmuted before "mortality
could put on Immortality."
Peter was not yet fully prepared to follow him into the
realm of Light and, if called upon by test, Peter would deny the
spirit (the Chris tos within himself) in order to save Peter the
man.
All too frequently, well meaning though we be, we over
estimate our own strength and our willingness to give up the
things we possess for the things promised us, or we expect to
receive. We feel, in an unchallenged moment, that we are ready
and willing to lay down our life for a friend or a loved one, only
to find ourselves most weak when the test comes. Truly did
the Nazarene know whereof he spoke when he said: "When ye
stand, take heed lest ye fall," for when we think ourselves most
strong, we find ourselves weakest. How very many of us are
escapists and unaware of it and are therefore wholly unpre
pared for severe tests when confronted by them?
CHAPTER FOURTEEN
"I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life."
1. Let not your heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe
also in me.
2. In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were
not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place
for you.
The word "mansion" is here used in the same sense as
"temple." Each one must prepare himself a mansion, i.e., a
dwelling place, for the Christos. The purification and prepara
tion of the body, the physical self, is no less important than the
Awakening and Illumination of the Soul.
Esoterically speaking, each Soul will find a distinctive plane
or sphere prepared for it in the Great Beyond. This plane or
sphere was actually prepared by the individual. To the degree
that the Soul is awakened, in that same ratio is a "mansion" or
place prepared for it. There are as many "mansions" as there
are Souls. No two persons are identical in their inmost desires,
preparation or advancement.
In the Spiritual realm they are separated in like manner as
on this mundane sphere where two people may live in the same
room, side by side from day to day; one being in a hell of despair,
sorrow or guilt of consciousness; the other in a heaven of peace
and contentment. The "place" is a state of being rather than
a location.
3. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again,
and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye
may be also.
4. And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.
If we follow in the Way, the Truth and the Life, then we
know where the Christ is and, by so living, we shall follow him.
This is merely to say that when we obey the Divine Law, the
196 THE INTERPRETATION
Christos will be brought into Consciousness and we will become
Christic in nature. We must follow those who have done like
wise and gone before; but it is WE who prepare a place for our
selves and we cannot go, or be admitted, to any other place than
that so prepared.
It is this preparation on our part whereby we BECOME the
Sons of God, and where else should be the Sons of God but
with the Father?
5. Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou
goest; and how can we know the way?
6. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the
life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.
"I am the way," taught The Nazarene, meaning that what
he taught and the manner of his life, was showing them the
way. In teaching them the Law he taught them the truth. In
living the life, he showed them the WAY of life. It is not suffi
cient that we become familiar with the truth, or the way of life,
WE MUST LIVE THE LIFE. Only the laborer, he who doeth, is
worthy of his hire; hence only those who live the life will reap
the blessings of such a life.
This commands that we encourage and cultivate positive
and constructive trends of thought. We must establish in our
consciousness thoughts, desires and feelings that are in harmony
with the Christ ideal. We must direct our creative thought and
desire forces into channels that tend to change the petty, domi
neering, exacting, selfish-self into the Christ-self; into channels
that tend to renew and to rebuild the cells of the body, causing
it to become a fit representative of the Christic Temple.
We must consecrate every attribute and faculty of our being
to the sacred mission of fanning the Divine Spark within into
an all-consuming Christic Flame of Love and Good-will toward
all creatures, that by its intensity it will "burn out" all that is
evil and undesirable in us.
OF ST. JOHN 197
We must master the sacred art of feeding the Christic Flame.
We must learn how not only to direct the invisible forces,
but to use them consciously, intelligently, deliberately, con
scientiously, in harmony with the Law of impartial, impersonal,
Universal Love.
All this we must do with the settled purpose in mind of
nurturing the Divine Fire on the Altar, in order that we may be
better qualified to be of service and inspiration to others in the
practical relations of life.
In doing this, we eventually find the Christ WITHIN, who
is "the Way, the Truth, and the Life."
In the Christ are all things: wisdom, peace, love, graces of
heart, guidance, Light, inspiration and Illumination, Immortality
and Life Eternal.
More and more of those who truly seek for the Way and the
Truth, are coming into the realization that no amount of belief
in a personal, historic personality known as Jesus of Nazareth
can bring about Oneness with the Father.
They begin to realize this truth only by accepting as truth
the Laws he taught. Then they must live the life he lived as an
example, so as to be able to awaken and bring into Conscious
ness the Christos WITHIN, the Spiritual, and not historical and,
by so doing, BECOME as did the Nazarene.
7. If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father
also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen
him.
If we accept the Truth and follow the Way, then we will
Awaken and bring the Christos into Consciousness. When this
has been accomplished we will KNOW the Christ. Knowing the
Christ we will also KNOW the Father; He having come into the
temple built as a result of our living the Truth and following in
the Way.
8. Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and
it sufficeth us.
198 THE INTERPRETATION
9. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you,
and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that hath
seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then,
Shew us the Father?
10. Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the
Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak
not of myself: but the Father that dwellth in me, he doeth
the works.
This is a clear and understandable exposition of verse 6.
Whosoever lives according to the Law and, in addition, as a
result of his desires, makes the necessary effort to bring the
Christos into manifestation, will, in time, KNOW the Christ, and
whoso has become Conscious of the Christ WITHIN will KNOW
God; for God then will also be within His temple.
Only as we succeed in bringing the Christos, the Soul
within, into Consciousness do we make it possible for the Soul
to come into the Light, or Illumination. This Illumination is
enLigA/enment; enUghtenment is knowledge, or KNOWING;
hence the Soul that has gained the knowledge by experience or
the Second birth, will KNOW God.
11. Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in
me: or else believe me for the very works' sake.
This is merely a restatement that if we build the "temple not
made with hands," God will be in that temple. We in Him and
He in us.
12. Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me,
the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works
than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.
It is not infrequent to hear it said that the time has passed
when this teaching applies to man. This claim betrays ignorance
of the Divine Law, and of the power that obedience to the Law
gives man.
Little consideration is given in the present age to Divine
authority; the almost unbelievable capabilities and abilities that
result from living in harmony with the laws of the universe.
OF ST. JOHN 199
Recognition is given to documents by men in authority to
those who have followed a prescribed course, but not to those
who, by their mode of life have earned and come into knowl
edge and power generally unknown. These, like the Nazarene,
must follow their course, suffer, be persecuted and prosecuted
until they gain recognition by the people.
"He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do
also." To do his works is the natural and the inevitable result
of true belief on him. Belief, as implied here, induces man to
follow the principles of growth and training that the Nazarene
had himself observed.
Such growth and training open up to man's consciousness
the Infinite resources of a Christic life; make man master of his
inner forces and enable him to direct the Invisible forces of the
universe according to his Will. Thus, through a correct under
standing of the Divine Law which the Nazarene employed,
linked with a Godly character, man is enabled to do the things
that the Nazarene did, and even greater things.
But let no one think to attain such Mastership for the sake
of power and fame. A motive such as this, selfish and impure,
would lead to self-injury and self-destruction.
Power is safe only in the hands of him who has cleansed his
heart of selfish purposes. The road to true Mastership is long,
narrow, rugged and steep. Self-effacement and self-abnegation
(not negativism) and self-renunciation must precede and
accompany the establishment of the Christ-self in the character
and consciousness.
13. And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will 1
do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.
14. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.
To ask in his name also implies a willingness to live the life
and do all that is necessary to become like him, or Christic. Faith
and works go hand in hand; one without the other is powerless.
We cannot ask, or expect of the Christos to give us either the
200 THE INTERPRETATION
power to do, or to become, unless and until we have first obeyed
the command which tells us that it is necessary TO OBEY THE
LAW in order to succeed in passing through the Second, or
Spiritual birth.
Having actually done this, the Christos will have come into
Consciousness, into Oneness with God. Both the Christos and
God will be in the temple. These, and not we, will do the work,
but we must ask them. This is fittingly illustrated in the text
statement:
15. If ye love me, keep my commandments.
No qualification here. If there is love of God in the heart:
kindness, goodness (Godli-ness), graciousness, devotedness,
reverence, all of them principles of love; there is also both a
desire and a willingness to keep, or to live, within the Laws
taught by the Nazarene. It is in keeping (obeying, living) these
Laws, that all power is found. It is by means of this power, well-
earned as a result of obedience, that man is enabled to do the
works, or "even greater works" than those of the Nazarene.
16. And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you an
other Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;
17. Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive,
because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye
know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.
The world, the carnal, worldly man is unable to recognize
or comprehend the spirit of truth; and most unwilling to comply
with the dictates of truth because it requires of him a sane,
honest, normal life. Not feeling this spirit of truth within his
heart, he is unable to accept as a simple fact the statement: "Ye
are the temple of the Living God."
Man does not realize that obedience to the requirements of
the Law will make him "One with the Father," and by this
means attain to all that the Nazarene tried to teach and
demonstrate. Man is unwilling to make the effort; to change his
OF ST. JOHN 201
life; to give up the selfishness which he believes to be to his
benefit, but which actually denies him all that is truly worth
while.
Mankind in general is unwilling to seek the truth because
truth, understood and applied, would prevent the more fortu
nate or powerful individuals from taking advantage of the less
fortunate; or making profit by dishonorable means; or seeking
power, possessions, and honors by subterfuge and grossly under
handed methods.
Man fears the truth because the truth would point out his
errors and bring about a feeling of guilt; unleashing upon him
the uneasiness and self-accusation of a guilty conscience. Only
the few who have awakened to the illusions of the senses and
the false values of empty honors, are willing to listen and obey;
to "follow through" and to attain.
18. I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.
19. Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye
see me: because I live, ye shall live also.
If we live the life, then we shall be conscious of the Life of
others who have lived likewise. This is possible only by obedi
ence to the Divine Law and to the command to be Born again,
in the Spirit as of the body. To accomplish this requires that
man sacrifice all that is not worth while, all that is unreal and
temporal, all that profits one at the expense of another.
These things must be discarded as so much tinsel, and only
the real must be sought, found and followed, both in the
temporal and the Spiritual life. This appears difficult only
because men are blind to the real and see only the shadow.
20. At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and
ye in me, and I in you.
After we have received the baptism of water by John; the
mental awakening to something better, higher, more desirable
than the possessions and pleasures of worldly things, we, being
dissatisfied, seek further and then find the Christos WITHIN. We
202 THE INTERPRETATION
also make the necessary effort to awaken this Spark of Divinity.
When we succeed in doing this, at that moment will we have
attained At-one-ment with the Father, and the Christ, or Christic
Spirit will be BORN IN us. He in us, we in him; both in the
Father.
21. He that hath my commandments, and keepth them, he
is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved
of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest
myself to him.
This is one of the most vital statements in the New Testa
ment, though very few realize it because they do not read it
with eyes that see and an understanding mind.
"He that HATH my commandments and KEEPETH THEM."
This does not merely indicate that we should know what the
commandments are, but that WE KEEP THEM; that
is,
live up
to the Law. Even this
is
not sufficient. IT is ALSO NECESSARY
THAT WE LOVE HIM, that
is,
the CHRISTOS WITHIN.
If
we do this, then we will have
a
desire to KNOW the
Christos, and whoso
is
possessed of this desire and obeys the
commandments, will of necessity make every effort to come into
the Consciousness of the Christos. In doing this, he will in turn
become known to, and be loved by, the Father.
In other words: "Now the Sons of men have become as
the Sons of God" and are loved
by
Him. Moreover, in this
process of BECOMING, the Christos will be revealed, i.e., MANI
FEST himself to those who so love and so try. Belief in itself
is
cold. To LOVE
is
TO BE, because
it
is
to FEEL.
22. Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how
is
it
that
thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the
world?
23. Jesus answered and said unto him,
If
a
man love me,
he will keep my words: and my Father will love him,
and we will come unto him, and make our abode with
him.
OF ST. JOHN 203
"If a man love me, he will keep my commandments." This
is a positive statement and frankly tells us that if we do not keep
the commandments, i.e., the Laws taught by the Nazarene, then
we do not love him; that
is,
the Spirit of God
is
not in us.
That which we do not love, accept and live, cannot become
a
part of us, nor will we receive the benefit of
it,
irrespective
of our profession of faith. Moreover,
if
we fail to live in
harmony with the law—make the necessary effort—we will
not "build the temple made without hands." The Christos will
not be awakened in us or brought into Consciousness. God will
not be in the temple because there
is
NO TEMPLE FOR HIM
TO DWELL IN.
That which we love WE WILL ALWAYS TRY TO BECOME A
PART OF, OR MAKE A PART OF OURSELVES. This Cannot be
contradicted even
by
those who have known nothing greater
than human, temporal love.
24. He that loveth me not, keepeth not my sayings: and the
word which ye hear
is
not mine, but the Father's which
sent me.
25. These things have
I
spoken unto you, being yet present
with you.
26. But the Comforter, which
is
the Holy Ghost, whom the
Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things,
and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever
I
have said unto you.
This Holy Ghost
is
the LIGHT THAT is FROM HEAVEN.
It
is
the Light through which God always appeared to man. In man
it
is
the Spark of Divinity; but
is
hidden "under
a
bushel" until
man "loves" the Word of God, or the Commandments, and puts
forth, or makes the effort necessary to "fan" the Spark—the
Christos—into
a
Flame or Light. Then
it
is
(becomes) the
Holy Ghost, or Holy Light, upon which all truth
is
impressed,
and will, under favorable conditions—that ye love my words—
manifest itself. When the Christos has become awakened and
204 THE INTERPRETATION
brought into the Light, man's Illumination has become a reality,
and God will be with man because He is IN the temple, which
is man.
27. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not
as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart
be troubled, neither let it be afraid.
28. Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and
come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice,
because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is
greater than I.
29. And now I have told you before it come to pass, that,
when it is come to pass, ye might believe.
30. Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince
of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me.
31. But that the world may know that I love the Father;
and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do.
Arise, let us go hence.
If the commandments—the Law —be accepted, and if it be
"loved," then man will live accordingly, and in so doing, will
come into the Consciousness of his Godhood or Sonship. This
requires the elimination or transmutation of the carnal, or evils,
within him. When this has been done, the conscience will be
free and there will be peace; sorrow, trouble and fear (old
things) "will have passed away."
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
"Love ye one another."
1. I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.
2. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh
away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth
it,
that
it
may bring forth more fruit.
|E, all men, are branches of the one Tree; that Tree being
the Universal Whole; the Creator; the Giver of the
Law; that which we call God or the Father. Being
branches, or off-shoots from this one Tree, the Word in the be
ginning, we must follow the Law under which we were created.
We must "bear fruit," that
is,
produce or bring into being as did
He, fruit of like nature.
This demands obedience to the Law; enabling us to produce
according to the Law.
If
we do not do this,
if
we do not obey,
or fulfill the Law, then the Law, or God, will "purge" us.
The good husbandman, even on this mundane sphere, will
cut away all branches from his fruit-bearing trees, and branches
from his vines, that are non-bearing, knowing as he does, that
if
he did not do so, these non-bearing branches, commonly
called "water shoots," or "suckers," would destroy the tree or
the vine itself.
3.
Now ye are clean through the word which
I
have spoken
unto you.
4.
Abide in me, and
I
in you. As the branch cannot bear
fruit of itself, except
it
abide in the vine; no more can
ye, except ye abide in me.
Man, of himself,
is
"of
a
few days, to be known no more."
If,
however, he will fulfill the Law that connects him with the
Parent "Tree," he will bring into life and manifestation the
206 THE INTERPRETATION
"fruit-bearing branch," the Christos he received from the Parent
Tree, the Creator. Then will he "abide in the Christ" and he
will bear fruit —Eternal Life.
As mortals, we are cut off from the Parent Tree. We be
came so when the Soul left its heavenly sphere in search of wis
dom —to know and to experience. Now that Soul must find its
way back to the Source from which it sprang. Its work, its effort,
must be to reunite itself with the Parent Tree; to become at-one
with
it,
and abide in it.
5.
I
am the vine, ye are the branches: he that abideth in
me, and
I
in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit:
for without me ye can do nothing.
6.
If
a
man abide not in me, he
is
cast forth as
a
branch,
and
is
withered; and men gather them, and cast them into
the fire, and they are burned.
As mortals, living the carnal life, we are not as yet totally
cast off from the Parent Tree. Rather, we are temporarily
severed from
it,
with the privilege of re-uniting
by
making the
necessary effort. Unless we do this, we are as dead, or, more
correctly, we are "dead in Spirit."
To again re-connect ourselves with the Parent Tree,
it
is
necessary that we accept AND OBEY the command. This com
mand
is
that we be REborn, born of the Spirit as we were of the
body. To achieve this, we must go WITHIN ourselves, there find
the connecting link—the Divine Spark—arouse
it
from its long
slumber, bring
it
into life, and
it
will again unite us with the
Parent Tree, the God-head; that
is,
make of us
a
Son of God.
7.
If
ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall
ask what ye will, and
it
shall be done unto you.
8.
Herein
is
my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit;
so shall ye be my disciples.
It
is
not possible to "abide" in anything unless we first accept
the specified conditions, and then make that in which we wish to
abide
a
PART OF OURSELVES.
A
house
is
not ours unless and
OF ST. JOHN 207
until we have fulfilled all the conditions for ownership. As this
is true in the material world, it is equally true in the Spiritual.
"Ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you."
This promise is clearly illustrated in the promise made to
Solomon and to all men. "Seek ye first the kingdom of God
and [then] all things will be added unto you."
9. As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you:
continue ye in my love.
10. If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my
love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and
abide in his love.
The Law here stated is positive: IF YE KEEP MY COM
MANDMENTS. No subterfuge is possible. It is not said "if ye
have faith," or "if ye believe," but: IF YE KEEP MY COMMAND
MENTS. If this Law could be so deeply impressed upon man
kind that it would be a state of consciousness of being, then all
men would obey the Law; evils would cease, and all humanity
become Soul, Cosmic or God Conscious. In truth and fact,
"mortality taking on Immortality," "the Sons of man becoming
the sons of God."
11. These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might
remain in you, and that your joy might be full.
12. This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as
I have loved you.
We do not knowingly or willingly bring harm to those we
love. We do not cheat them; defraud them; dishonor them.
On the contrary, our every effort is to bring them the good
things of life; happiness and peace; showing them the things
that are to their benefit. Love is all-embracing and includes not
only affection and devotion, but a willingness to serve; a readi
ness to do all things needful—obey the Law, keep the Com
mandments and do everything possible to assure protection and
well-being to these loved ones.
It is a desire of this nature within us that will direct us to
the eternal within ourselves —the Christos—bring him into
208 THE INTERPRETATION
life and manifestation, so that we may possess the love we are
commanded to have. This will be keeping the "Father's
commandment."
13. Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down
his life for his friends.
Esoterically interpreted, this implies that we must be willing
to give up the things in life that we have come to consider as
necessities, but which we have learned are not to our ultimate
benefit.
The statement also suggests that if we are willing to sacrifice
the undesirable things in life so that they are no longer attrac
tive, we can live in harmony with the Law and, in that way,
become Christic conscious, thus obeying the great command
ment. This is vitally necessary if we seek our ultimate benefit.
He who so loves another that, in case of necessity, he is
ready and willing to forget himself and his own interests, even
to the degree of forfeiting his life in order that he may help
another, has thereby shown the ultimate of love, and should he
lose his (physical) life, he shall thereby gain his (Spiritual) life.
14. Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.
There can be no friendship, no fellowship, no association
with the Spiritual unless we are in kinship with
it;
are of the
same mind and desire. Friendship
is
never one-sided, though
love may be. Friendship
is
based on an exchange of kind for
kind; never on advantages assumed or taken. We cannot be
friends with the Spiritual unless we obey the Laws that govern
the Spiritual.
The Spiritual, so to speak,
is
friendly to us only
if
we OBEY
THE LAWS THAT GOVERN; just as we are friends to those who
will share with us; that
is,
give as we are willing to give; help
as we are willing to help, bear our sorrows and losses as we are
willing to bear theirs.
OF ST. JOHN 209
We cannot be friendly with that of which we have no
knowledge. If we have not awakened to the Christos WITHIN
us, how can we be friendly or in fellowship with this Christic
state. If we obey the Laws and make the effort, then we bring
the Christos into manifestation and we are in fellowship —
friendly —with the Christos within us.
15. Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant
knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you
friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father
I have made known unto you.
Friendship is not selfish. Friendship does not demand or
command what it is unwilling to give or share with friends. It is
unselfish in that it does not command any special standards of
those it accepts as friends. It gives freely of what it has to those
actually in need and requests nothing in return other than that
it be offered the same help under Like circumstances.
A friend is not a servant because service is not demanded
in return. A servant remains a servant only until, by effort and
application, he has attained to the status of a Master. This
attainment requires that while we are servants, seekers, suppli
cants, we willingly do what is commanded of us until, by
obedience, we have gained the knowledge the Master himself
possesses.
16. Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and
ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit,
and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye
shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.
To "ask in His name" displays a willingness to do all that
is necessary under the Law to obtain that which is lawful. To
"ask in His name" is not stooping to beggary, but expresses a
willingness to make a full exchange for that which we need or
desire. There is no Law by which something may be obtained
for nothing. The Law is exchange.
When seeking Spiritual or Godly aid, we must comply with
the terms; with the Law that governs; just as in seeking a loan
210 THE INTERPRETATION
from a bank, we are ready to offer collateral, a guarantee, for
that which we need and desire; ever bearing in mind the
Hermetic Law:
"As in the inner, so in the outer.
As in the above, so in the below."
God is not God simply because He is in a position to grant
or deny a request; but because He has established the Law that
"HE WHO LABORS COMPLIES WITH THE LAW MUST BE
PAID THE WAGES FOR HIS LABORS, in compliance with the
Law; while those who fail or refuse to labor, shall not be paid
the wages of labor."
The Law which dictates: "As ye sow, so shall ye reap," is
the identical Law which commands: "Give, [do, obey,] and it
shall be given unto you." The Law refuses to reward anyone
for being a beggar, whether the thing asked for be Spiritual
or material.
This Law is clearly pointed out in the statement:
"... I have chosen you, and ordained you, THAT YE
SHOULD GO AND BRING FORTH FRUIT, AND THAT YOUR
FRUIT SHOULD REMAIN . . ."
No man can bring forth fruit unless he labors, i.e., fulfills
the Law making it possible for fruit to be brought forth. Obtain
ing "fruit" by means other than effort, or "in exchange," is not
BRINGING FORTH FRUIT; is beggary, much the same as stealing,
and is no more than a loan which must be repaid by usurious
interest and when the debtor is least in a position to do so.
17. These things I command you, that ye love one another.
This vital command is repeated numerous times, each time
with a different application and, if obeyed, it would insure the
universal welfare of all mankind. The command does not apply
to one individual, but to groups and to all mankind. To be
hated by others does not give us the right to hate in return.
Instead, the Law demands that love, or the principle underlying
love—neutrality—be our guide and direct our action.
OF ST. JOHN 211
18. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before
it hated you.
In the phrase ". . . it hated me before it hated you," is the
implication of the world's hatred for, or resentment against,
everything that is of a Spiritual nature. This includes everything
that conflicts with, interferes with, or would destroy the estate
lished customs and systems not based on friendship, justice and
equality of opportunity.
It includes everything which permits one or many who are
parasitic in their dealings with their fellow men, to take from
them, or withhold from them, by unjust or unfair means, that
which rightly belongs to them. It includes infringement of the
rights of the weak; of those who are unprotected, or incapable
of defending themselves in any form, or in any manner, against
INJUSTICES, whatever they may be.
Moreover, it is eternally true that every man attracts hatred
if he lives in a manner THAT CAUSES OTHERS TO FEEL GUILTY;
or if he takes the part of the aggrieved. The word "me," as used
here, embraces everything of an honest, sincere, Spiritual nature;
EVERYTHING that is against UNRIGHTEOUSNESS and INJUS
TICE; against IMMORALITY and that which is by its nature
DEGRADING.
19. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own:
but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you
out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.
If we were "of the world," then we would not interfere
with injustices and gross unrighteousness. We would "go along"
with those in power, or with those who possess the authority to
force others to do their Will, however unjust might be such a
regime. To be "of the world" is to be complacent in the face of
all evils; to do nothing with which the majority do not agree.
To be "different" is to be "damned." The "world hates"
those who are different and refuse to be in agreement with the
popular trend and despises those who would set reforms into
212 THE INTERPRETATION
motion, however sorely they may be needed; hence it is written:
"If ye will suffer for my sake . . ." you will be rewarded.
"For his sake" implies that we should be on the side of
righteousness —right doing—and active in the cause of Spiritual
things; then we will "reap according to our sowing."
"Not to be of the world" requires that insofar as is humanly
possible, we obey the Divine Law. To live in the Spirit, rather
than in the outer carnal self; to be as free as a human can be,
of hatred, malice, envy, avarice, and all the other passions of
the same nature, cultivating opposite or nobler emotions that
spring from the heart, or the Higher Self.
20. Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is
not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me,
they will also persecute you (for the SAME reasons); if
they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.
21. But all these things will they do unto you for my name's
sake, because they know not him that sent me.
22. If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had
sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin.
23. He that hateth me hateth my Father also.
24. If I had not done among them the works which none other
man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both
seen and hated both me and my Father.
Had the Divine Law been withheld from men, they could
not possess knowledge of
it;
would not be conscious of right
and wrong, good and evil, and so would not be held responsible
for their acts. However, the Divine Law WAS given to man in
various forms and
by
many Evangelists throughout the ages.
Every phase of Divine Law was taught to men, so that man
today cannot plead ignorance.
Each Messiah, following the others in his turn, has made
every effort to clarify the Law —some
by
inculcations; others
by
both teaching the law and demonstrating
it
in their own
lives; but, almost without exception, they were made to suffer
for their efforts to help man.
OF ST. JOHN 213
25. But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled
that is written in their Law, They hated me without a
cause.
There was a cause, but it was a just one. The world hates,
despises and both persecutes and prosecutes those who attempt
to interfere with established customs, whether such practices be
righteous or unrighteous. The unrighteous, because of their
guilt, or feeling of guilt, are most vicious in their persecutions.
This has always been so, and will continue to be so. Those who
suffer because of such persecutions are "suffering for my sake."
26. But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto
you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which pro-
ceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me:
27. And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with
me from the beginning.
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
'The Father loveth you, because ye have loved me.''
1. These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not
be offended.
2. They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time
cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth
God service.
Throughout the ages, it has been the experience of untold
numbers that if they actually lived in harmony with the Divine
Law, obeyed the injunction to be Born again, of the Spirit as of
water, and so attained to a knowledge and the enLightenment
unknown to the mass who merely believe —and particularly
when they disagreed with established creeds and doctrines —
they would be made outcasts from the churches to which they
belonged and, in many instances, be persecuted and prosecuted.
Analyzed, this may not have been due so much to their
Jeeper realization of what the Word of God, or Divine Law
meant, but was because they dared to come into open conflict
with those in authority and the doctrines they taught. This
again is "suffering in my name," because the Nazarene's injunc
tion was that all nations should be taught, NOT A DOCTRINE OR
TREED, but "the Truth, the Way, and the Life."
3. And these things will they do unto you, because they have
not known the Father, nor me.
4. But these things have I told you, that when the time shall
come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And
these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because
I was with you.
5. But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of
you asketh me, Whither goest thou?
6. But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath
filled your heart.
216 THE INTERPRETATION
7. Nevertheless I tell you the truth: It is expedient for you
that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will
not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto
you.
Esoterically, if the Son of man, that which is born human
and is essentially human, does not give place to the Son of God,
i.e., if mortal man is not awakened to the Truth which is the
Way so that the Christos WITHIN may be awakened and brought
into Consciousness, then Illumination of the self is impossible,
and "mortality cannot take on Immortality," nor can the Son of
man BECOME the Son of God.
In the change, the Passover, there is a rebirth to a new life,
and birth, as we know, is always in pain if not always in sorrow.
After the mind awakens to the truth and begins to renounce and
efface, or replace, the carnal desires, a new birth, a change into
a new state, will take place.
Naturally, there will be sorrow in giving up those things
which have always been associated with us, hence are a part of
our very fibre. But this temporary sacrifice is essential if the
new birth, that of the Spirit, is to take place, and unless it does,
the Comforter, that which brings the peace which is "heaven,"
cannot come to us.
8. And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and
of righteousness, and of judgment:
9. Of sin, because they believe not on me;
10. Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me
no more:
11. Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.
12. I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear
them now.
13. Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will
guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself;
but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he
will shew you things to come.
Truth comes to man only by degrees and as he opens him
self to it by a willingness to give up preconceived ideas and prior
OF ST. JOHN 217
concepts for that which he begins to perceive and feel to be
truth. This is not merely a doctrine or a creed; though a doctrine
must precede its acceptance, truth being a doctrine having its
foundation in truth. Once man perceives the truth and becomes
possessed of a desire to live in accordance with
it,
he will then
be given the inner assurance that
it
is the truth. Belief and
assurance give way to certainty; as
a
light replaces darkness.
14. He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall
shew
it
unto you.
15. All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said
I,
that he shall take of mine, and shall shew
it
unto you.
16.
A
little while, and ye shall not see me: and again,
a
little
while, and ye shall see me, because
I
go to the Father.
To BECOME Christic
is
to become Illuminated; to become
Illuminated
is
to be enveloped in Light; to become enveloped in
Light
is
not only to become Spiritually Conscious, but to be
"glorified" —Lighted up—and to glorify all that
is
even greater
than the Soul.
During this process there
is
travail and sorrow; certainty
and uncertainty. For
a
little while the Light
is
with the Soul;
then because of doubt and weakening of faith, the Light may
desert the Soul. But faith and certainty will return, and with
it
the Light; hence "for
a
little while ye shall not see me," and
again;
'a
little while, and ye SHALL see me." This
is
the experi
ence
of
the Awakened, seeking Soul.
17. Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What
is
this that he saith unto us,
A
little while, and ye shall
not see me: and again,
a
little while, and ye shall see me:
and, Because
I
go to the Father?
18. They said therefore, What
is
this that he saith,
A
little
while? We cannot tell what he saith.
19. Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and
said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that
I
said,
A
little while, and ye shall not see me: and again,
a
little while, and ye shall see me?
218 THE INTERPRETATION
20. Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and
lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrow
ful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.
21. A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her
hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child,
she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man
is born into the world.
"Ye must be born of the Spirit" as ye were of the body from
out of your mother's womb. This birth of a body from a body,
is travail. The gestation of the Spirit and the birth of the Spirit
is no less in travail, and even more so, because it is a prolonged
labor; and, because of the uncertainty of the ultimate attain
ment; an uncertainty due to lack of faith and continued applica
tion, hence is a period of restlessness and of sorrow, because of
the fear of ultimate failure. There are hours of darkness when
the assurance of success is in abeyance; to be replaced by a
renewal of the Light and the expectation of success.
22. And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you
again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man
taketh from you.
23. And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily,
I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my
name, he will give it you.
All of this was said in the spirit of: "Seek ye first the king
dom of heaven and all things shall be added unto you." To seek
for, and find the kingdom of heaven, is to have come into the
new birth. This new birth is not possible until after we have
changed our mode of life; after we have changed our carnal de
sires into Spiritual ones; after we have transmuted the undesir
able, degrading habits into those that are exalting or ennobling.
In doing this, a guilty conscience, a conscience that accuses
and leaves us no peace, will give way to peace and ease of
conscience. This is the "peace that passeth understanding." It
is heaven. When we have so changed our manner of thought,
our desires—hence our habits —then all things that we need
OP ST. JOHN 219
and REALLY want, will be ours; because in the DOING will be
the BECOMING, and in the BECOMING, the RECEIVING.
24. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and
ye shall receive, that your joy (peace) may be full (com
plete).
25. These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the
time cometh when I shall no more speak unto you in
proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father.
Here is a frank admission that all the Nazarene had taught
was not always to be taken literally; that therein was a deeper,
an esoteric meaning; and that this had reference much more to
the Spiritual self, the Soul of man, the Christos WITHIN the
physical man, rather than to the physical man and his needs.
The Nazarene's entire ministry had to do only secondly
with the physical man, but primarily with the spiritual self. He
taught Spiritual truths indirectly. He was fully aware that the
mortal man would be unable to comprehend spiritual truth and
could receive Spiritual precepts only when clothed in words of
every-day usage. He was all too fully aware that men will
normally do only those things from which they expect pleasures,
profits and ease. It was therefore necessary to promise benefits
for everything it was desirable for man to do, whether material
or spiritual; hence the use of proverbs and parables.
26. At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto
you that I will pray the Father for you:
27. For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved
me, and have believed that I came out from God.
28. I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world:
again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.
I, esoterically speaking, the Christos within, came from the
Father. This Christos must return to the Father, but in order to
be enabled to do this, it must first be brought into Consciousness
and developed into the likeness (image) of the Father. When
this is accomplished, then it may return to the Father, and again
leave the Father for the purpose of helping such humanity as
will listen and obey (follow).
220 THE INTERPRETATION
It, the Christos, the Soul, the Spiritual in man, came forth
from the Father into the world. It may leave the world, must
leave the world, and may return or go to, the Father. Whether
or not this will be so depends entirely on man's obedience to the
Divine Law and its application in his daily life. If man does not
obey the injunction: "Seek ye first the kingdom of heaven"—
the Spiritual self—then he, as a person, will "pass on to be
forgotten."
The Soul, the Divine Spark, the Christos—the "talent"
unused —will return to its source, dormant as it existed in man;
non-individualized, unconscious, to again be taken up in the
first birth, or birth of a new body for another human journey,
resuming its efforts toward the consummation of the Second
birth.
Man was given free-will, free choice of action and with
it,
or in conjunction with
it,
the most precious thing in existence,
an embryonic Soul, capable of being brought into consciousness
and becoming the Son of God. This Soul from God within man,
as
a
result of experience, good and evil, has the power and
strength to turn evil into good, attaining Spiritual Conscious
ness and, as
a
result, finding the "kingdom of heaven," with
everything pertaining thereto.
To succeed in this work
is
to do the Will of God. Through
this process of change, man arouses and awakens the latent
Divine Spark within his being. This Spark becomes the Illumi
nated, Individualized Soul, because the fleshly, carnal nature, the
personality, has been transmuted into qualities of
a
Godly
individuality. When this
is
accomplished, the Divine Spark has
become the Christ.
The Christos returns to the Father; for both the Christ and
the Father dwell within the temple. Through the same process
that awakened the Soul and brought forth the Christ, the temple
has been purified and made
a
fit dwelling place for the Father
and the Christ.
OF ST. JOHN 221
29. His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly,
and speakest no proverb.
30. Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and
needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we
believe that thou carnest forth from God.
31. Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?
32. Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall
be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me
alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with
me.
33. These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might
have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be
of good cheer; I have overcome the world.
In this physical world there is no permanent peace. So long
as man is mortal and to a degree selfish for his own protection
in guarding his rights and privileges, there is strife; but man is
capable of living "in" the world, but being not "of" it and, in
so doing, finding WITHIN himself the peace that knows no end.
This, "finding the kingdom of heaven" within himself is man's
mission on earth. Having found this, all that is needful and
desirable will be his to command.
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
"/ in them, and thou in me, that they may be
made perfect in one,"
1 . These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven,
and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that
thy Son also may glorify thee:
2. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should
give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.
"The hour is come." The Nazarene was speaking of him
self. He had obeyed and fulfilled the Law. He had, as a result
of his obedience, accomplished the Work. By awakening the
Christos WITHIN, he had brought him into Consciousness,
hence into the Light. This Light was the Glory, not only of
himself, but also of God of whom it was a part. The Son of
man, through this COMING INTO the Light, had become glori
fied, or surrounded by Light, and this Light was FROM God,
WAS God.
The Light, the Spiritual self, the Christos has—may possess
—power over all flesh. But to come into possession of such
power, it must first be developed and brought into Conscious
ness. This is not possible until there is an awakening of the self.
The mind must recognize that there are indeed "greater
things in heaven than on earth," and that these may be had it
man is willing to give up the undesirable material things and
to transmute them into the eternal spiritual realities.
Nothing worthwhile or beneficial need be given up. Only
those weaknesses, habits and practices that are to the detriment
of man —body, mind and Soul—need to be discontinued or
exchanged for the things that build unto eternity. This may
mean the sacrifice, at times, of a temporary advantage for a
permanent one; eternity beginning, as it does, in the HERE
and NOW.
224 THE INTERPRETATION
3. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the
only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.
4. I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the
Work which thou gavest me to do.
5. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self
with the glory which I had with thee before the world
was.
The Soul possessed by the Nazarene was in the beginning
not only of the world, but with God before the world was.
The Divine Spark in man that may become a Living Soul, was
likewise with God; but, to be able to again return to God, it
MUST FINISH ITS WORK as did the Nazarene. It must, like the
Nazarene, glortfy itself by coming into the LIGHT which is from
God. To achieve this end, it must make use of its God-given
"talents" and develop them to the fullest extent.
6. I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou
gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou
gavest them me; and they have kept thy word.
7. Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast
given me are of thee.
8. For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest
me; and they have received them, and have known surely
that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou
didst send me.
9. I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them
which thou hast given me; for they are thine.
10. And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am
glorified in them.
11. And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the
world, and I came to thee. Holy Father, keep through
thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they
may be one, as we are.
12. While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy
name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of
of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture
might be fulfilled.
13. And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the
world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves.
OF ST. JOHN 225
14 I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated
them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not
of the world.
15. I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world,
but that thou shouldst keep them from the evil.
16. They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.
17. Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.
18. As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I
also sent them into the world.
19. And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might
be sanctified through the truth.
20. Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which
shall believe on me through their word;
21. That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and
I in thee, that they also may be one in us; that the world
may believe that thou hast sent me.
22. And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them;
that they may be one, even as we are one:
23. I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect
in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent
me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.
24. Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be
with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which
thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the founda
tion of the world.
25. O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but
I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast
sent me.
26. And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare
it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in
them, and I in them.
Summing up in matchless beauty and simplicity his life's
work and teachings, the Nazarene, in this poignantly-moving
prayer, reveals something of the intimate feeling of oneness
with the Father so strongly emphasized throughout his ministry.
Aside from being a Resume of the labors and teachings of
the Nazarene during his journey on the earth plane, this prayer
is a song of both Love and sorrow—of the things which he (the
226 THE INTERPRETATION
Nazarene) witnessed while working with, and for, mankind.
Here is reflected all that he tried to do for the human family;
the non-acceptance in general of his love for mankind and,
withal, a prayer for the welfare of those who had "despitefully
used" him. Never is there the slightest indication of resentment,
retaliation, or the desire to "get even."
Here is a song of life and love such as might come forth
from the heart of a mother who loves her children —children
who, despite all her efforts, fail to follow the righteous path. 1 1
is a plea from the heart, a heart burdened and weighed down
with the sorrow that comes upon the mercifully hearted who
must take leave of life-long companions dearly loved, knowing
that even they do not fully understand.
It
is,
all in all,
a
saga of effort, revealing
a
method for all
men who are Spiritually inclined, to ACCEPT AND FOLLOW.
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
"What is the Truth?"
1. When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with
his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden,
into the which he entered, and his disciples.
Cedron means "the place where dwells sadness." The
Nazarene was indeed sad in heart.
2. And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for
Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples.
3. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers
from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with
lanterns and torches and weapons.
4. Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon
him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?
5. They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto
them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood
with them.
6. As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went
backward, and fell to the ground.
7. Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said,
Jesus of Nazareth.
8. Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore
ye seek me, let these go their way:
9. That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, Of them
which 11H HI gavest me have I lost none.
10. Then Simon Peter having a sword drew
it,
and smote the
high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's
name was Malchus.
11. Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the
sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall
I
not drink it?
12. Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews
took Jesus and bound him,
228 THE INTERPRETATION
13. And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in kw
to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.
14. Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews,
that it was expedient that one man should die for the
people.
15. And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another
disciple: that disciple was known unto the high priest,
and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.
16. But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that
other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and
spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
17. Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art
not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith,
/ am not.
18. And the servants and officers stood there, who had made
a fire of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed them
selves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.
19. The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his
doctrine.
20. Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever
taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the
Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing.
Esoterically interpreted, this has application to each and
every one of us. The Christos is WITHIN us. We know the
Law of righteousness. When we follow the Law then we are
disciples of the Christ, because we do that which is in obedience
to the Law.
When we do that which we know is not righteous, not just,
not fair, not honorable, not spiritual, WE DENY THE CHRIST AS
CERTAINLY AS DID PETER. All too few are conscious of this
fundamental truth.
21. Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I
have said unto them: behold, they know what I said.
22. And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which
stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying,
Answerest thou the high priest so?
OF ST. JOHN 229
23. Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of
the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?
24. Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high
priest
25. And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said
therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples?
He denied
it,
and said,
/
am not.
26. One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman
whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not
I
see thee in the
garden with him?
27. Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.
28. Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judg
ment: and
it
was early; and they themselves went not into
the judgment hall, lest they should be denied; but that they
might eat the passover.
29. Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation
bring ye against this man?
30. They answered and said unto him,
If
he were not
a
male
factor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.
31. Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him
according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him,
It
is
not lawful for us to put any man to death:
32. That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake,
signifying what death he should die.
33. Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and
called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the
Jews?
34. Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or
did others tell
it
thee of me?
35. Pilate answered, Am
I
a
Jew? Thine own nation and the
chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou
done?
36. Jesus answered, My kingdom
is
not of this world:
if
my
kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight,
that
I
should not be delivered to the Jews: but now
is
my
kingdom not from hence.
Herein we are plainly told that the Nazarene's mission was
a
Spiritual one, although this Spiritual mission would,
if
ac
230 THE INTERPRETATION
cepted, profoundly affect the lives of those who obeyed his
inculcations, since that which affects the Spirit, by that same
Law also influences the physical self in like proportion. It is
also made clear that his own people, the Jews, instead of ac
cepting his ministry, actually persecuted him, and that he no
longer considered himself as one of them.
37. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then?
Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end
was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that
I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of
the truth heareth my voice.
The Nazarene spoke truly. He was a king among men in
the sense that he was willing to LIVE the LAW and to teach the
Law, irrespective of what the penalty might be. He was ever
ready to yield up the physical life, but unwilling to yield, in
the least degree, to unrighteousness. Such men are kings;
SPIRITUAL kings.
38. Pikte saith unto him, What is truth? and when he said
this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them,
I find in him no fault at all.
This query of Pilate's has come down through the ages.
What is truth?
To become fully conscious of truth, conversant with
it,
we
must first become thoroughly convinced of the fact that it
is
not to be found in the schools
of
men, BUT IN THE HEARTS
OF MEN.
.
To attain to such
a
consciousness, there must be
a
genuine
desire to KNOW the truth, and
a
willingness to accept
it
however
much
it
might condemn us, what we HAVE BEEN; WHAT WE
NOW ARE. To even begin to become conscious of the truth, we
must first of all accept the letter of the Divine Law as given to
us—accept
it
both in LETTER and in SPIRIT. As we do this,
the truth itself will be revealed to us step
by
step.
OF ST. JOHN 231
This was recognized by God himself as so clearly indicated
by His question of Solomon, and Solomon's answer: "Give me
wisdom." Having gained Wisdom —the truth—all else that is
good and desirable follows as a natural sequence.
The truth is with us. This is also made plain to us by the
Divine edict: "Ye are the temples of the living God," although
the correct rendition is: "Ye may BECOME the temple of the
Living God," because truth (righteous) must first be established
in that temple by obedience to the Divine Law BEFORE God can
take up His abode therein.
When this has been accomplished, then we will be aware
of the actuality of several other inculcations: "He is the truth
and the life," as also: "He is the life and the resurrection," be
cause the resurrection from mortal to Spiritual reality is not
possible until after the Divine Law has been accepted and
actually LIVED.
39. But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one
at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you
the King of the Jews?
40. Then cried they all again, Not this man, but Barabbas.
Now Barabbas was a robber.
Barabbas means: "the son of shame." This was to be the
shame and eternal disgrace —an irrevocable indictment of the
Pharisees and high priests and all concerned in the DIVINE
DRAMA, that they should destroy he who had come to do harm
to no man, but to show them the Way, the Truth, and the Life,
so that they, as long promised, might, by acceptance, BECOME
the "chosen people of God."
CHAPTER NINETEEN
"
because he made himself (had become)
the Son of God."
1. Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.
2. And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on
his head, and they put on him a purple robe,
3. And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him
with their hands.
4. Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them,
Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I
find no fault in him.
5. Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and
the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the
man!
6. When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they
cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith
unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I find no
fault in him.
7. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law
he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.
8. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more
afraid;
9. And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto
Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.
10. Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me?
knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and
have power to release thee?
11. Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against
me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he
that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.
He who, having found the Christos would again turn back,
or deliver the Christ to the flesh, the ruler of men, commits the
234 THE INTERPRETATION
greatest of sins. For he has known the truth, and crucifies the
truth; and he that so crucifies the truth hath the blood of Christ
on his hands, and has worked unto destruction.
12. And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him: but the
Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not
Caesar's friend: whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh
against Caesar.
13. When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus
forth, and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is
called the Pavement, but in Hebrew, Gabbatha.
14. And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the
sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!
15. But they cried out, Away with him, away with him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your
King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but
Caesar.
16. Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified.
And they took Jesus, and led him away.
17. And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the
place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha:
18. Where they crucified him, and two others with him on
either side one, and Jesus in the midst.
19. And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the
writing was, JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE
JEWS.
Pilate unconsciously wrote prophetically. The Nazarene
had come to be as a Spiritual king to the Jews; to bring to them
an exposition of the Divine Law that they might live it and in
so doing BECOME THE SONS of God, that
is,
God's chosen
people. Instead of accepting him, and following him, and BE
COMING SONS OF GOD, they refused him, persecuted him for the
VERY PURPOSE WHICH WOULD HAVE SERVED THEM BEST; as
a
result, and
a
penalty, they have been
a
dispersed people; with
out
a
king or kingdom;* i.e., country.
This will continue to be so until they accept and come
within the Law the Nazarene taught, and no earthly power can
change this.
OF ST. JOHN 235
•What, then, of Israel? It js prophesied that this will be only
temporary; that the people will again be dispersed as they have been in
ill countries; that a new trek must begin; that this will be repeated time
and again until the full penalty has been paid and the Divine Law
fulfilled; the Jews adjusting themselves in harmony with the customs
and laws of the people among whom they dwell.
20. This title then read many of the Jews: for the place where
Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city: and it was written
in Hebrew, and Greek and Latin.
21. Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not,
The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am the King of
the Jews.
22. Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.
Pilate was undoubtedly unconscious of the full meaning of
what he had written, but he was firm in his conviction that he
had written the truth and the history of the Jews during the past
centuries has amply justified his terse statement.
23. Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his
garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and
also his coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from
the top throughout.
24. They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend
it;
but cast lots for
it,
whose
it
shall be: that the scripture
might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment
among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These
things therefore the soldiers did.
25. Now there stood
by
the cross of Jesus his mother, and his
mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary
Magdalene.
26. When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple
standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother,
Woman, behold thy son!
27. Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And
from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home.
Love, or affection,
is
the cement that binds men to one an
other. Where there
is
love there
is
unity; where there
is
unity,
236 THE INTERPRETATION
harmony prevails. Without love or affection, there is disunion.
This creates inharmony or dissention. Dissention, among man
kind, is chaos, and chaos is death and destruction. Love and
affection alone is the saving grace; because love is of the Soul;
hence of God. We do not knowingly or willingly destroy or
bring evil upon those we love; therefore the command: "love
thy friend as I have loved you"; also, "love [have kindly feeling
for] thy neighbor as thyself."
28. After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now
accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I
thirst.
His mission was fulfilled. He, at least, had obeyed the Law.
He had made every effort to teach mankind THE WAY so that
they might follow in his footsteps and like him, BECOME the
Sons of God. That they failed to do so, and instead, were de
termined on destroying him — the person — did not concern
him; he was ready to pay the penalty that all flesh must pay; the
person was to be laid aside; the method did not matter.
29. Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled
a sponge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it
to his mouth.
30. When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It
is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
This giving up the "ghost" must not be confused with the
"Holy Ghost." It has reference to the giving up of the spirit
that is the life of the body; while the "Holy Ghost" has reference
to the Light that is God; the Light that is the Conscious Soul.
"Vinegar" has generally been associated with bitterness.
The giving up of life is "bitter" or sorrowful, because it is the
parting from well loved ones, whether these be of family or
friends. Sorrow is bitter, and vinegar symbolizes this bitterness.
31. The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that
the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath
day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought
Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might
be taken away.
OF ST. JOHN 237
32. Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and
of the other which was crucified with him.
33. But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead
already, they brake not his legs:
34. But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and
forthwith came there out blood and water.
35. And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and
he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.
36. For these things were done, that the scripture should be
fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.
37. And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him
whom they pierced.
38. And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of
Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that
he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave
him leave. He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus.
39. And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came
to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and
aloes, about an hundred pound weight.
40. Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen
clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to
bury.
41. Now in the place where he was crucified there was a
garden; and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was
never man yet laid.
42. There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews'
preparation day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.
CHAPTER TWENTY
"Blessed are they that not having seen, yet believe."
1. The first day of the week Cometh Mary Magdalene early,
when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the
stone taken away from the sepulchre.
We are concerned only with the spirit of the Scriptural
teachings, because this alone is our theme and of help to us.
Esoterically, there is buried within us, "hidden under a bushel,"
Biblically speaking, or "buried in the tomb,"—the body —the,
or a "Christos." This is the Soul and may become the Christ.
That this Christos may become the Christ, it must first be
awakened, brought to Consciousness, and Illuminated. THIS
IS OUR WORK.
This work is the REgeneration. It is the Second or Spiritual
birth which the Nazarene taught MUST be passed through if we
seek the "Kingdom of Heaven." When this work is ac
complished, then is "the stone" of the "sepulchre" rolled away
and the Christ is arisen, i.e., COME FORTH in his Glory—the
Light.
2. Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the
other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and said unto them,
They have taken away the Lord out of the sepulchre, and
we know not where they have laid him.
3. Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and
came to the sepulchre.
4. So they ran both together: and the other disciple did out-
run Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.
5. And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen
clothes lying; yet went he not in.
6. Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into
the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie,
7. And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with
the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.
240 THE INTERPRETATION
8. Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to
the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.
9. For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise
again from the dead.
10. Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.
11. But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and
as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the
sepulchre.
12. And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head,
and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.
13. And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She
saith unto them, Because they have taken away my Lord,
and I know not where they have laid him.
14. And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and
saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.
15. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom
seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener,
saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me
where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.
16. Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith
unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master.
17. Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet
ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say
unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and
to my God, and your God.
18. Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had
seen the Lord, and that he had spoken these things unto
her.
At first thought, it may seem strange that the Nazarene who,
by the final transition and Illumination, had become the Christ,
a Son of God, should make himself known first to this woman
of late ill-repute. This, however, is easily understood when we
bear in mind that it was she who kept vigil at the tomb, and
that she, above all others, was most willing to accept him
WITHOUT QUESTION OR DOUBT, and TO GIVE HER ALL TO HIM.
It is written in the Law: "The first shall be last, and the last
shall be first." She was one of the last to "accept him," but she
OF ST. JOHN 241
was also the most sincere, unquestioning and UNselfish, and
when "weighed in the balance," as we all will be, was not found
wanting.
True, the disciples gave up home and their former means of
livelihood to follow him wherever he went. To the extent of
their capability they helped him; but, always, there remained
something within them that caused them to doubt, to question,
and an inability to really recognize the mystery of his being
and to fully, without question, accept his inculcations.
With Mary Magdalene, it was different. She had fully ex
perienced the pleasures of life, delusive and otherwise; had be
come conscious of their folly, GAVE THEM UP WITHOUT
THOUGHT OR REGRET, and in turn, ACCEPTED THE NAZA-
RENE'S TEACHINGS IN FULL FAITH AND WITHOUT QUESTION.
The human Soul, the Christos, is symbolically buried
within and under the "stone." The stone is the carnal self; the
gross desires of the flesh. These carnal hungerings after "flesh
pots" must be willingly given up, and the Spiritual desires
awakened, before we can make an effort to accomplish the
Second, or Spiritual birth. When this is brought about, as it
may be by all who TRY, then the Christos is awakened, the
"stone"—the self—rolled away, and the Christ comes forth.
Before the stone is "rolled" away, our Spiritual state may be
compared to physical sleep. While we are asleep we are not
dead, nor are we conscious. As we awaken from the physical
sleep, we come into the consciousness of the self. While we are
spiritually asleep, the Christos is asleep in the sepulchre, but
when we make the necessary effort, then this Christos is brought
into consciousness. THIS is SPIRITUAL CONSCIOUSNESS. It is
REgeneration. It is the Second, or Spiritual birth. It is the find
ing of [entering into] heaven.
19. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the
week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were
242 THE INTERPRETATION
assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the
midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.
20. And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands
and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw
the Lord.
Although the disciples had long associated with the Naza-
rene; heard him teach the Law; saw him display his strength
and courage in resisting the Jews; they themselves had failed to
fully attain to the Second, or Spiritual birth.
They had not entirely become Conscious of the Christ
WITHIN, as so clearly illustrated by the fact that they did not
know him; failed to recognize him, and it was necessary for him
to "prove" himself to them.
Only they who have accepted, "the Truth," traveled "the
Way," and "lived the Life," and come into the Christic Con
sciousness, are able to recognize, or KNOW the Christ. KNOW
ING is AN EXPERIENCE, NOT a matter of faith.
21. Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my
Father hath sent me, even so send I you.
Peace is a state; it is heaven. Only those can KNOW peace
who have made the effort to bring about the Second, or Spirit
ual birth; brought their Conscience into harmony, and become
Christic Conscious. Peace is not a belief, not a faith, but a
STATE OF BEING. Unless this state is ATTAINED, man cannot
enter the kingdom of heaven or of God, nor can he become the
Son of God.
22. And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith
unto them, Receive ye the holy Ghost:
The Holy Ghost is the Spiritual Light which is from God,
is God. When Illumination is attained, it comes upon man like
a breath from heaven. When this Holy Ghost or Ineffable Light
is earned and received by man, he will have arisen from his
"dead" state, the carnal self, into the REgeneration. He is RE-
born; attained to Consciousness of his Godhood.
23. Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them;
and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained.
OF ST. JOHN 243
Having LIVED in the Truth, the Way and the Life, until
REgeneration is attained, man KNOWS the truth, and knowing
the truth, is enabled to teach the truth to all men, so that they,
like he, may also follow the Path—in his footsteps —and free
themselves from the domination of the carnal self.
This requires that they obey the Divine Law as taught by
the Nazarene. In doing this, their sins will be remitted —paid
"in full and to the last farthing" —by their efforts and their good
deeds, and they will become free from the evils formerly a part
of their human nature. This is a transition from a Son of man
into the Son of God.
24. But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not
with them when Jesus came.
25. The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have
seen the Lord. But he said unto them, Except I shall see
in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into
the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side,
I will not believe.
The name Thomas has been symbolic of the doubter
throughout the ages. The doubter must be shown before he
will believe. On the other hand, he is constantly misled by
appearances. He lives in mere belief and, so living, never
comes into actual knowledge. Illusion —the seemingly apparent
—is accepted by him as reality.
Thomas, though long a disciple and follower of the
Nazarene had never sufficiently accepted the inculcations of
the Nazarene to himself actually LIVE THE LIFE, and therefore
come into the knowledge—THE CONSCIOUSNESS —such a life
would have brought him. He was still little more than a
believer; a follower; one who accepted the things he saw and
could feel, and not having attained to Spiritual Consciousness,
was unable to separate the real from illusion.
It is even a question as to whether he possessed real faith.
Faith induces us to live that in which we have faith. Faith holds
a picture before us of WHAT MAY BE, and GIVES BIRTH IN us
244 THE INTERPRETATION
TO A DESIRE TO BRING THAT PICTURE INTO MANIFESTATION;
believing as we then do, that it will be to our interest and benefit.
26. And after eight days again his disciples were within, and
Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut,
and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.
27. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and
behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust
it into my side; and be not faithless, but believing.
28. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and
my God.
29. Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen
me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not
seen, and yet have believed.
Blessed indeed is he who has become awakened to the
unrealities of the carnal life and, as a result of his awakening,
has come into a realization that there must be something higher,
greater and more realistic than the things the mind can compre
hend and the body feel. He who has so awakened is usually
ready to believe in the things which he feels exist, but which he
has not as yet either seen or experienced.
It is these who, as yet blind, but with faith in their hearts,
try to live as the Law teaches, and as they live, they begin to
FEEL and to Experience the realities. They are blessed because
they will have the FEELING OF ASSURANCE, the OUTLOOK OF
FUTURE BRIGHTNESS, long before they possess actual knowl
edge; knowledge following in the wake of THEIR OBEDIENCE,
AND COMPLIANCE TO THE DICTATES OF THE DIVINE LAW.
30. And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence
of his disciples, which are not written in this book:
31. But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus
is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might
have life through his name.
This last statement is an interpolation. It was not part of
the original and is in total contradiction of the Laws taught:
"As ye sow, so SHALL YE REAP" . . . "By their fruits shall ye
know them"—and others equally positive and without quali
fication.
CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE
"What is that to thee? Follow thou me"
1. After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the
disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed
he himself.
2. There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called
Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the
the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples.
3. Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say
unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and
entered into a ship immediately; and that night they
caught nothing.
4. But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the
shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.
5. Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat?
They answered him, No.
6. And he said unto them. Cast the net on the right side of
the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now
they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.
It is only as we live in accordance with the Law, irrespective
of what we may be trying to do, that we can reap the benefits of
the Law. When we LIVE (sow) according to the Law, then we
will receive (reap) as we have lived. Having faith, AND
MAKING EFFORT ACCORDING TO THAT FAITH, is a sowing.
The Law being positive, we will be compensated accordingly.
This is the Law of ACTION and the REACTION of the action.
7. Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto
Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that
it was the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for
he was naked), and did cast himself into the sea.
8. And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they
were not far from land, but as it were two hundred
cubits,) dragging the net with fishes.
246 THE INTERPRETATION
9. As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire
of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.
10. Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have
now caught
11. Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of
great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for
all there were so many, yet was not the net broken.
12. Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the
disciples durst ask him, Who an thou? knowing that it
was the Lord.
13. Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them,
and fish likewise.
14. This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself
to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead.
15. So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon
son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith
unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He
saith unto him, Feed my lambs.
16. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of
Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou
knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my
sheep.
17. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas,
lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto
him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto
him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that
I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.
We must first come into the Consciousness of what is real
and what is illusion. Of what is temporal and of the moment,
and what may reach into the eternal. Of the things that belong
to the carnal self—to Caesar —and those which belong to the
real self —the eternal —God.
When we have awakened to this Consciousness then we
will be able to recognize and follow the good —that which is
beneficial to ourselves and to others —and our desire will be
toward the real and lasting. Thus it is to love God and associ
ated with it is the desire to do that which is good.
OF ST. JOHN 247
We concentrate on doing good, NOT PRIMARILY BECAUSE
OF A REWARD, BUT ABOVE ALL ELSE, BECAUSE WE LOVE TO
DO THAT WHICH IS GOOD AND FOR THE PEACE IT BRINGS US.
This is our part of heaven; the heaven which begins NOW and
ON EARTH.
18. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wasr young,
thou giidest thyself, and walkest whither thou wouldest:
but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy
hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither
thou wouldest not.
The Law commands that while we are strong and capable
we do all those things which can be done while the Spirit is able
to dictate to us what is necessary to fully prepare for the time
when age comes upon us. Unless we plan in advance we will be
at the mercy of others, and be compelled to do the things that
we would not do had we the means to do otherwise.
Here a positive command applies: "Set your house in order,"
not tomorrow, but today. On the morrow it may be too late,
and we may miss the opportunity to properly prepare ourselves
for the later years of life.
19. This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify
God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him.
Follow me.
20. Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom
Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at
supper, and saith, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee?
21. Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this
man do?
22. Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come,
what is that to thee? follow thou me.
This is one of the most vital statements, aye, commands, in
the entire Book of the Law. It sets at variance what all the world
has been doing: is doing. In positive terms it condemns our
habit of finding fault with the things OTHERS are doing; FOR-
248 THE INTERPRETATION
GETFUL OF OUR OWN WEAKNESSES, FAULTS, SINS. It should
open our eyes, our consciousness, that what others may do, how
ever evil, is not for us to bear; instead, that we should be
CONSTANTLY concerned about WHAT WE ARE THINKING,
FEELING AND DOING. It is OUR sowing that concerns us di
rectly; what others do, indirectly.
In the final, we pay only for that of which we are guilty; just
as ALL others must pay for their guilt. Be not too greatly con
cerned of what others do or say; but be deeply conscious of the
nature of your own thoughts, desires and actions. "Seek YE first
the kingdom of heaven;" and having found
it,
THEN you may
forget the self in the service of others —but only as they seek
your help.
"Seek YE first the kingdom of heaven,"
is
a
direct command
of what YOU should do, and do first, before you take
it
upon
yourself to dictate to others what THEY should do. This
is
a
part
of the question and COMMAND: "What
is
that to thee? follow
(that
is,
obey my Law) thou me."
23. Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that
that disciple should not die; yet Jesus said not unto him,
He shall not die; but,
If
I
will that he tarry till
I
come,
what
is
that to thee?
24. This
is
the disciple which testifieth of these things; and
wrote these things: and we know that his testimony
is
true.
25. And there are also many other things which Jesus did,
the which,
if
they should be written every one,
I
suppose
that even the world itself could not contain the books
that should be written. Amen.
CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO
The Esoteric Interpretation of the Crucifixion
in the Life of the Nazarene
THE DRAMA OF MANKIND
JVER SINCE the beginning of the consciousness of the
creature we know as man, there have been "ebbs and
flows." First there is a gradual rise in man's better or
more Spiritual nature, as indicated by humanitarianism, real
manhood, honor, and all of the other desirable qualities one
would look for and expect in one who was "created in the image
of God."
Then follows a gradual decline in all of these qualities until
finally, honor, the mainstay of all the other desirable qualities,
is all but dead, except in the very few.
During all the ages past when world affairs reached this low
tide, there was born into the world a Soul destined either by the
human need, or the Divine Law, to either teach a new Law, or
exemplify or reinterpret the old Laws.
In each instance, the one so born would recognize the con
ditions and the needs of humanity and, by inculcations and ex
ample, bring about a new consciousness in the greater number
of the masses so that there would be a re-start toward a higher
life.
At the beginning of what we call the Christian era, the hu
man family, almost as a whole, had fallen from its former high
estate, to such a degree that few things were regarded as sacred.
The better emotions had become almost submerged by the car
nal passions. There was utter selfishness, first, among the lead
ers; both religious and secular; and then, as was (is) natural,
among the people who, as always, imitate, as does the child the
parent, those in power, either upward or downward.
250 THE INTERPRETATION
The Pharisees and scribes, men mostly in high places, al
though having the laws of Moses as a guide, no longer recog
nized them as vital, or as applicable in their high positions or
activities of life.
As a consequence, their character and behavior no longer
personified the Esoteric or Spiritual side of their religious incul
cations. The Priesthoods of the day were no longer Spiritual
leaders, but "blind leaders" of the people; living wholly in
form; a mere conventionality, the spirit being as dead.
The time had come when it was essential that a new leader
or Messiah appear; one who would be a true, non-deviating ad
vocate of the Divine Law, and an Interpreter of the Law as it
applied to the needs of the period.
Without such a leader, humanity would drop into a hope
less materialism; a condition worse than carnalism; where re
spect both for God and for good in man would no longer exist;
morality, honor and all else that separates man from the beasts
of the field, being discarded; spiritual concepts based on super
stition, replacing these high qualities.
The conditions of the present day among the greater num
ber of mankind are easily comparable to those of that period.
The prophets, or men of God—those who retained their
Spiritual Consciousness despite world conditions—had foretold,
during the preceding centuries, that a great teacher, leader, or
Messiah, one having full knowledge of the Divine Law and its
application to man's needs and behavior, would come among
men. Unfortunately, the impression was universal that this new
leader would come especially for the benefit of the Jews, and
that he would be their "King." A temporal monarch, rather
than a Spiritual Messiah.
The people, the mass, looked hopefully forward to the com
ing of such a leader. They naturally expected that he would
free them from the bondage similar to that they had suffered in
OF ST. JOHN 251
Egypt. The leaders, who were in control of both religious and
secular affairs, wanted no Messiah to interfere with conditions
they had brought about, and prepared themselves to do all in
their power to prevent such undesirable opposition.
While we moderns consider ourselves highly cultured and
far advanced in wisdom, we deny by inculcations and actions,
and by the rule of edicts instead of law, that there is such a thing
as a LAW OF SUPPLY AND DEMAND. It nevertheless is A LAW
THAT CONSTANTLY FUNCTIONS AND IN TIME DESTROYS ALL
OPPOSITION TO IT.
There was a most vital need for the appearance of a teacher-
leader; one fully prepared to instruct the people in both natural
and Divine Law, and possessing the strength of character and
the faith in heart capable of meeting all opposition. Such
a leader appeared, lowly-born, destined to upset, by meekness,
strength and positive knowledge, the rule and rulers of the day.
At the time of this child's birth, there was a small group of
men who, surrounded by all that was undesirable and unGodly,
nevertheless made every effort to live in harmony with the
Divine Law. At the proper time this child, to become later
known as the Nazarene, was drawn to them, the Essenes, under
the same Law which DRAWS the magnetic needle to the North.
This group fully instructed him in all the Laws of God —laws
having the nobility of man in view—teaching the necessity
not only for living according to the letter of the Law, but also
in the spirit of the Law.
During his stay with the Essenes he was required to comply
with all of the standards as they pertained to mankind, and held
as ethical, correct civil, and moral codes.
What was of greater importance, both to himself and the
future of mankind, was the application of the Divine Laws in
his daily life; making a CONSCIOUS, DELIBERATE, CONSTANT
and INTELLIGENT EFFORT to awaken and bring into mani
252 THE INTERPRETATION
festation the REAL self WITHIN, the Soul or Divine Spark, the
CHRISTOS received from God, that it might become the Christ;
the Son of God; the Messiah, capable of leading men to God.
During this part of his life, and before he was ready for his
great mission, it was also necessary for him to live in the coun
try where Spiritual development had reached its greatest height;
Egypt, the land of the Greater Mysteries; of Sublime Initiation.
Here he was instructed in not only the Spiritual interpreta
tion and application of the Divine Law, but the spirit of the Law
itself, that he might in truth be a Savior of his people; not by
taking upon himself their sins, but by instructing them HOW
THEY COULD FREE THEMSELVES FROM THE DOMINATION OF
THEIR OWN CARNAL EVILS and SUBJUGATION TO THEIR
FELLOW MEN. Here he was also brought face to face with the
fact that no man, not even a Messiah, can save another; that
at best he can do no more than teach —show man—how to save
himself. This knowledge he later incorporated in his vital pre
cept: "Ye must be born again of the spirit, etc."
After the Nazarene had in part prepared for his mission, it
was essential that he move among the people and there, by ac
tual teaching and service, not only serve them, but, by his ex
perience, complete his own development. In this manner, in
truth and in fact, the Christos would BECOME the Christ, and
be able to exemplify man's capabilities and potentialities by both
resistance to evil and the accomplishment of good (construc
tive) works.
As a result of continual obedience —constant application
and efforts —to the Divine Law, he more and more purified the
flesh, the carnal self, until his nature was no longer subject to
the desires or calls of the flesh, or its earthly tendencies. By the
gradual formed habitual compliance with the law of positive,
idealistic, constructive thought; right thinking, lofty desire and
correct living in every department of life, even the physical ele
ments of his body were gradually transmuted (refined) into
OF ST. JOHN 253
Spiritual qualities. He became Christic in nature, and of the
nature of the Holy Fire or Light in the form of which God
Himself had always appeared to man.
As this process of purification continued, he became pos-
essed of more and greater power. He was able to perform
greater works—as may all men (so assured by him) if they will
follow in his footsteps and obey as he obeyed.
To the extent that his teachings reached a greater number
of people, and as he performed greater works, there was also
incited the wrath of those in power and high places. They recog
nized that here was one who, if permitted to continue in his
ministry, would undermine and finally destroy their position
and all they stood for, and they began to plot for either his
dishonor among the people, or his death.
To such an end did they scheme among themselves. The
Nazarene quickly was made aware of this. He by this time
realized his mission, as also the Law governing his life. He was
willing that the Divine Law, which he accepted when he under
took his journey among men, should function, even though it
might mean the loss of his liberty or his life.
He had become fully Conscious of the possibility of so
spiritualizing (transmuting or refining) i.e., yEthizing the ele
ments of the body, that once the physical self was properly puri
fied, and its powers and forces used only for good, the real self,
the Soul WITHIN, the Christos, would be the Conscious factor.
Death would be only in appearance, the transition merely a
change; this being the real Passover (changing over) or cruci-
fication (passing over).
Once attaining to this state, or degree, of Spiritual develop
ment, he foresaw that those whom he opposed for their wicked
ness and dishonor, and who opposed him because they saw an
end to their power over the people, might destroy the life of his
body by what resembled death; but the Conscious Soul WITHIN,
254 THE INTERPRETATION
that which had BECOME the Christ, or Son of God, would do no
more than lose consciousness for a moment, and that the ele
ments of even the body, being pure —of the nature of spirit or
fire—could be raised up at his wish.
This knowledge that had become a CONSCIOUSNESS and a
REALIZATION, preserved tranquility and lack of fear in the Soul
of the Nazarene. It permitted him to go "about his Father's
business" —the service among men —even among his enemies,
fully aware that they were constantly plotting his undoing.
That which the prophets had foretold, and the Nazarene, by
his clear vision, foresaw, gradually came to pass. The climax
of the opposition to him that gradually developed, as does a
destructive storm, was his crucifixion. Through crucifixion,
death and burial, a punishment then frequent for criminals, his
body achieved a final stage of purification by the fires that are
life. He stood the test, as did Elijah of old.
The elements composing the body passed from the realm
of the physical to the pure JEth, the Spiritual Fire, the ethereal.
Only for a moment of earth time, during the transition, or
"passing over," did the Soul lose its Consciousness.
Had the body retained any of its carnal substances, he could
not have raised it again. Nothing carnal remained. The earthly
principles had been completely transmuted into the qualities of
the /Eth or Holy Ghost (Fire—Light). During the process of
purification, it had become lighter than anything earthly; hence
might be taken up at Will.
It is a recognized chemical law that only that which is of a
certain heaviness or density is drawn down, to earth, while that
which is lighter, is drawn upward to the sphere of its own light
ness: "Earth to earth; Spirit (Soul) to spirit," being the Law.
The Scriptures, which in substance, are a record, both mun
dane and spiritual, tell us that Elijah "ascended to heaven in a
chariot of fire." What was this chariot of fire? What but the
OF ST. JOHN 255
spiritual—on fire —essences of a purified body. What can the
chariot (a vehicle for transition) of fire be other than the aura
of the pure ./Eth that envelopes the Soul that has become Il
luminated and attained to Christhood, or the Son of God.
This is the climax of Illumination. It is the goal of Christ-
hood; the final ascending to the Father in the form, symbol or
element of Fire. And what is the promise to those who "follow
through"? "These, and greater things than these, shall YE do,"
if you will OBEY THE LAW THAT I HAVE OBEYED AND TAUGHT
YOU.
This, and more, is clearly indicated in what followed. When
Mary Magdalene first recognized —we recognize only that of
which we have BECOME a part—the risen Nazarene, he warned
her: "Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended unto my Father."
Why did he say: "Touch me not?" Because his body was,
comparatively speaking, like a newly, fully charged electric
battery "of high voltage." It was alive with the pure JEth Fire;
destructive to all that was mortal. To have touched it might
have meant death to the physical body, as results from coming
into contact with a heavily charged electric wire.
As the risen Master mingled more and more among his
fellow men and in earth conditions, his body became enveloped
in the grosser elements which served as insulation; a protection
to bodies of lesser purity.
To the many, these deeply Esoteric truths are veiled; the un-
awakened, undeveloped Soul cannot comprehend them. This
also was well understood by the Nazarene when he said: "To
you it is given to know the kingdom of heaven (spiritual
truths), to them (others) it is not so given." Spiritual (Eso
teric) truths cannot be taught. They are revealed to the Soul
only as the Soul itself becomes conscious of them as a result of
its awakening, development and Illumination; the Soul then
becoming a dynamic center of life, power and Wisdom.
256 THE INTERPRETATION
Throughout his life, ministry and final transition, the Naza-
rene exemplified full and complete Mastership. It is to be ac
cepted as an EXAMPLE of what man may become to the degree
of his willingness to accept and Live the DIVINE LAW.
Humanly and materially his life and death are to be accepted
as an historic fact, AN EXAMPLE. That he was crucified (put to
death, or passed through death, does not matter) . What is im
portant is that he literally passed through the transition we know
as death; that his body was entombed, as is the Soul in all of us,
and that this Soul arose—as it may in all of us—proving
Immortalization.
Furthermore, we are to accept it as a fact that the Nazarene
demonstrated a power and an ability that belongs potentially to
all men, with the possibility, and the assurance, of being able
to attain to full and complete Mastership.
This Mastership is offered to all alike. It
is,
first of all,
a
mastery over our lower self; our thoughts, desires and, above
all, OUR FEELINGS;
a
direction of our acts toward wholly con
structive ends, without
a
thought of self-interest other than our
actual physical. and spiritual needs.
Mastery over conditions, circumstances and environments
that interfere with the freedom of others who have equal rights,
is
not part of the Divine plan. The Nazarene did nothing to
prevent the taunts and mockery of onlookers, because the guilt
of this was not upon himself so long as he was in the right, but
upon the Souls of those guilty. Even when wrongly accused or
abused, his prayer was: "Father, forgive them, for they know
not what they do."
A charlatan,
a
wonder-worker,
a
false leader of men might
have exercised whatever power he possessed to prevent abuse,
but this would not have been the manifestation of the Christ,
but of the evil one and would have brought punishment rather
than exaltation.
OF ST. JOHN 257
The superiority of the Nazarene, as of all those who BE
COME Soul Conscious, was that in the midst of mockery or abuse,
he preserved his tranquility which enabled him to say and
to FEEL "Not my will, but Thine, be done."
All of these things did the Nazarene, NOT to demonstrate
the possession of a power reserved for those higher than mor
tals; but to prove, and to illustrate to mankind, that there is such
a power and that it belongs, BECOMES, by Divine Right, to those
who are willing to fulfill the conditions necessary to obtain this
power.
"These things, and greater things shall ye do."—
CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE
Esoteric Interpretation of the Crucifixion as it
Affects Mankind Generally
|
AN, HAVING reference to his fourfold being, is on earth
because of two factors: ( 1 ) his physical birth as a re
sult of the desires and acts of earthly parents, and (2)
the desire of a Soul, while in the heavenly (above) spheres to
take upon itself, or enter into, an earthly environment which
would give it the opportunity to, aj God Himself is reported to
have said, gain experience that it may "know good and evil,"
overcome all that is evil, and as a result, the "Son of man BE
COME the Son of God."
It has been said that "God gave man —at his birth—the
breath of life," or that "God breathed into him the breath of
life." This is not strictly correct. God gave man free Will that
he might follow his own inclination. As a result of this privi
lege, man and woman embraced and brought forth a new issue,
which, by authority of this free Will, has the right to breathe in
the breath of life and become a living being.
It has also been written that God placed within man the
Divine Spark which, under favorable circumstances, would be
come a living Soul. This, likewise, is not strictly true. God
created Souls —threw off Sparks from Himself—and gave these
Souls the right of choice.
These Souls, becoming conscious that there were bodies to
inhabit through which they might gain experience and learn to
know and come to feel, became possessed of the desire to de
scend and, the vehicle being ready in the form of the child being
born, descended and took possession. It is therefore, correctly
260 THE INTERPRETATION
speaking, the Soul, as a Spark of Divinity, that takes upon itself
the body —enters into—and begins its journey through earth
life.
This new creature is a composite being; its component parts
being in conflict one with the other, there will be constant
turmoil until harmony is established. The Soul, or Spiritual
self, is at a disadvantage. Singly it must wage warfare for its
survival, against two inimical forces: the desires of the flesh, the
carnal self, and the mind which is mortal and not spiritual,
hence favorable to the physical.
The mind, resulting at birth from the combination of the
physical body, the spirit that is life, and the Divine Spark that
is the Soul in embryo, receives impressions from two separate
entities; the physical and carnal self on the one side, and the
Spiritual —though as yet unconscious —self on the other.
All, or nearly all the impressions received by the child,
youth and young man or woman, are of the physical nature. The
mind naturally is almost wholly inclined toward the material,
while the Spiritual self has little influence. The youth and man
usually lives a physical life until the time when some deep ex
perience, a great loss or sorrow is experienced, when everything
heretofore held as real and important utterly fails to satisfy.
It is then that the mind—we as we generally are—has no
where else to turn, and begins to think of, and seek for, some
thing that is felt to exist, and that will not fail in times of trial.
This is the AWAKENING.
Naturally, the desires and the demands of the flesh have the
"upper hand" during the greater part of life, because the carnal
self always pertains to things that can be both seen and felt. We
believe them to be real, while the unseen, though felt, appear
to be unreal. As a result of the dominant inclinations of the
flesh (the carnal self, the flesh itself actually having no desires) ,
it is said that man "is of the flesh."
OF ST. JOHN 261
Once man awakens to the unreality and undependability of
what he has always firmly believed to be the only real, dissatis
faction begins to manifest and he can never again be at peace
or feel satisfied with things as he has known them. If he does
not too stubbornly resist the new impulse, a "Divine urge" be
gins to awaken which beckons him, as it were, to higher and
better things.
In his present degree of development, he is unable to point
to anything tangible or outwardly visible. As a result, the carnal
part of man is prone to consider the promptings of the Divine
urge as foolish and without foundation. These adverse prompt
ings —the duality of his nature —result in discord, and he is in
the unhappy state of inner turmoil and unrest. He is uncertain
which "voice" to accept as real, as worthy of obedience.
The more sensual he has lived, the more difficult for him to
recognize the Divine promptings so silently beckoning him to a
purer and nobler life—a life that would take nothing worth
while from him, but add to the good he already possesses.
If his awakening becomes sufficiently pronounced to allow
him no rest until he gives greater opportunity for his Soulual or
Spiritual nature to assert itself, he will more and more heed the
inner promptings, and hence recognize more of the realities, and
experience a greater sense of peace. There will be suffering,
because this is both the "Passover" and the "Crucifixion, or
Cross-i-fi-cation," or crossing over, from one state to another.
It is also the Second birth, and all birth is in travail. The
more he awakens, the more will he seek help, comfort and
guidance from his own great WITHIN, the Divine Center, the
Awakening Christos. He will look more and more beyond the
temporal interests of an inferior nature, for Light and solace;
for the Wisdom necessary for his guidance.
Ultimately, even his mental self becomes convinced of the
fact that all superior and satisfying interests have their base in
262 THE INTERPRETATION
the Soul, with its Ineffable Light. Then the realization dawns
upon him that however important the part played by the body
and mind in the DRAMA OF LIFE, these are only as a MEANS TO
AN END; are temporary and perishable; while the Soul, the
Spiritual self, alone, is real and eternal.
He now also begins to realize that the standards of Right,
Justice and Love are aspects of the Divine Law —the Absolute
Law of the Universe —and whether he will or not, the Law will
finally demand an accounting.
Heretofore he considered ethics, morals, justice, unselfish
ness and right living in relation with other men as only an
aspect, the one requirement of the Divine Law. Gradually,
possibly very slowly, the truth dawns on his consciousness, that
these qualities can never of themselves satisfy the deeper crav
ings of his true nature. Then his cry, like that of Nicodemus,
will be: "Lord, what must I do to be saved {.become Regenerated
into Immortal Life]."
The intensifying desire for inner or spiritual victory brings a
craving for an understanding of the greater, the deeper things of
life. There is a longing to understand the Divine Law in its
Esoteric ramifications, and for harmony WITHIN himself.
These urges will lead him to a further and more earnest
search. Prejudice after prejudice will fall away as he senses the
truth. Opinions hitherto pronounced lose their hold upon him;
his nature becomes more and more open to the influx of the
Light that is Wisdom itself.
Alas, as the desire for deeper and certain knowledge in
creases, as the effort to think rightly and FEEL more exaltingly
intensifies, so does the conflict in his nature mount up. He
recognizes the seriousness of the task to overcome the undesir
able and unworthy tendencies of his own inner, hidden self.
In the meantime the Christos urges him onward. The more
earnestly he seeks "the Way, the Truth, and the Life," that
OF ST. JOHN 263
underlie moral and ethical standards of correct intercourse with
his fellow men, the more he realizes that great effort must be
made to come into the Consciousness of the Ideal, which is the
only reality. As he persists in heeding the direction of the Light
already his by right of effort, and obeying the Law as he under
stands
it,
a
fuller and greater Light, and clearer knowledge will
become part of his real, the Spiritual self.
Eventually as he proceeds, he will recognize the definite and
specific meaning of the Nazarene's words: "I am the Way, the
Truth, and the Life," and that
it
is
he himself, who must follow
THE WAY. He will then recognize that in order to KNOW "the
Truth" that will set him free from "sin and error,"
it
is
necessary
to follow in "the Way," and this
is
possible only
by
the awaken
ing of the Christos into Consciousness.
Man may long have been convinced that the Christic po
tentialities exist in every normal man; that the Divine Spark as
an embryonic Soul was implanted, or "drawn in" at birth; that
the "Kingdom of heaven"
is
awaiting its doors to be opened;
because such
is
the Divine Law. Now he will come into the
realization that there
is
another aspect of the Esoteric features
of the Divine Law: THAT THERE COMES A TIME IN EVERY
MAN'S LIFE WHEN HE MUST MAKE A DEFINITE, SPECIFIC
APPLICATION OF THE LAW IN AWAKENING AND DEVELOPING
THE CHRISTIC POTENTIALITY HIDDEN WITHIN HIS OWN
BEING.
Whether man desires
it
or not,
it
is
part of the Divine
Law that at some period of his existence he will no longer
be satisfiable
by
any means, or find peace and harmony
within himself, until he learns how to make
a
practical
application of the Divine Law and in doing so, fan into
a
Flame or Light the Christos within himself.
The principles underlying the means toward this end, are
what the Nazarene explained as the Esoteric significance of "the
Way, the Truth, and the Life."
264 THE INTERPRETATION
"The Way" requires a consistent effort in self-training and
self-discipline.
"The Truth" demands inner honesty in all affairs of life.
"The Life" demands an intelligent system of simple, normal,
natural living.
These things are conducive to health and well being; as well
as to happiness; giving, as they do, freedom from a self-accusing
conscience, while also attracting the needful things in life
through honest effort.
There is also an awakening, or bringing into Consciousness
the Christos; the Second, or Spiritual birth; the changing of
"mortality into Immortality." All of these things are promised
to those who will overcome —THEIR OWN LOWER NATURE.
During this process, perhaps requiring years, not days,
the mind of man becomes thoroughly and completely awakened
to the sacred mission of life; the directing of his own creative
abilities toward fanning into a Flame the Fires of the Soul.
He will have the certain knowledge that he must cleanse,
purify, and refine all of his desires; refuse to gratify the cravings
of the lower personal self. He must encourage and cultivate
the qualities both of strength and grace as represented by the
Christic Ideal.
This is the process of transmuting the lower tendencies
into the higher. It removes the dross and poisonous (to the
self) taints of carnality by subjecting them to the consuming
Fires of the Christic qualities. It refines the coarser, heavier
vibratory forces of his nature; removing the unworthy and
unnecessary desires that are part of the flesh, and replaces them
with those of the Soulual qualities.
This is THE CRUCIFIXION —THE DRAMA OF MAN'S EXIST
ENCE ON EARTH. He MUST pass through this Crucifixion or
die "to be known no more." THERE is NO ALTERNATIVE.
OF ST. JOHN 265
This period of a man's life is naturally attended by sorrow
and at least mental suffering. But the mind once fully aroused
and aware of its mission, will not give up for any reason. With
every hard won victory will come greater strength; with every
conquest a renewal of courage. By this process the Soul will
grow (develop) apace, and finally attain the Consciousness of
the Infinite and, in addition, mastery over the temporal.
The personality represented by the carnal man is transmuted,
(changed over—the Passover) into the Individuality —the
REAL man. Thus by Conscious experience does man attain to
Christ-hood; for as God Himself has said: "And NOW the Sons
of men have become the Sons of God."
The culmination of the crucifixion is not yet passed through.
The body that has been transmuted must pass through the final
test, and this is the death of all that remains of the physical body
and its carnality.
During this change, this Passing over, there will be what,
in time, as we know time, amounts to but a moment, but in that
"moment" the Soul must read the Scroll of its own record
during life, and be conscious of its good deeds as well as its
misdeeds. This is the accounting which NONE CAN ESCAPE.
In earth life man is frequently enabled to cheat himself out
of a just indebtedness, and the one indebted to may suffer
severely. Here this is NOT possible, BECAUSE THE SOUL MUST
READ ITS OWN RECORD AND ITS ACTS ITS GUILT. THE SOUL
BECOMES ITS OWN JUDGE.
And then the Resurrection. The coming into Consciousness
in that other sphere. If the Soul has fulfilled its mission —that
is,
has been able to awaken the mind and obtain its help in its
coming to Light—then
it
is
glorified, and
it
Glorifies the Father.
It
has been baptized
by
the Holy Ghost, or Fire from on high.
It
has become the Son of God.
It
is
of the Father, and the Father
is
of it.
266 THE INTERPRETATION
Such is the resurrection that follows the final Crucifixion, or
Cross-i-fi-cation, or Passing over. This is the aim and end of the
Great Work. It is the triumph of Love in its higher phase in
human experience. The Christic Flame is the Fire or unselfish
Love.
John, the Beloved of the Nazarene, revealed the gospel of
love in the redemption of the Soul of man from its entanglement
in materiality in which it became involved by its own desire.
More than this, he illustrated the power of selflessness in
affection by his willingness to lay aside the carnal self, that the
spiritual self might gain the ascendency and glorify the "sting"
of mortal death by means of a willing sacrifice.
This is THE DRAMA OF THE LIFE OF MAN if the L0W tS
ACCEPTED; otherwise it becomes the TRAGEDY OF MAN'S
EXISTENCE ON EARTH.
"But as many received him, [lived as he taught] to them
gave he power to become the Sons of God." —John 1:12.
"For as many as are led by the Spirit of God [willing to
follow] they are the sons of God." —Romans 8:14.
