{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1953__anonymous___aquarian_age_stories_for_children____v2.pdf","mytitle":"Aquarian Age Stories For Children","mylang":"de"}
•
AQUMIAN AG[
~STOftIES~
Volume II
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP
Mt. Ecclesia
Oceanside, California, U.S. A.
•
)
Aquarian Ase Stories
for
Children
VOLUME II
Compiled by a Student of
THE ROSICRUCIAN FELLOWSHIP TEACHINGS
The Rosicrucian Fellowship
International Headquarters
Mt. Ecclesia
Oceanside, California, U. S. A.
Representatives in Great Britain:
L. N. Fowler & Co., Ltd., 29 Ludgate Hill,
London, E. C. 4
Copyright, 1953, by The Rosicrucian Fellowship
0-
DEDICATION
A love for children, combined with a sensitivity
to the deeper truths of life, enabled the authors of
these stories, which have been published over a period
of years in ROl}Js from the Rose Cross, to express in
an appealing way many phases of the wisdom of
Nature. To these friends we gratefully dedicate
Aquarian Age Stories for Chi"ldren.
Many boys and girls are aware of the "little
people" and other forces of Nature mentioned in
these stories. Many others, we hope, will be en-
couraged to become acquainted with them through
reading this little volume.
Printed and published in the United States of America
by
The Rosicrucian Fellowship, Oceanside, California
1953
•··
CONTENTS
1. Lucile Meets the Thought Fairies......... .
Myrtle Hill Leach 5
2. The Adventurer. Florence Barr............ 10
3. The Little Shadow. D. D. Arroyo.......... 14
4. The Fairies' Ministry (poem). Clara Huffman 19
5. A Journey with the Fairies............... .
Emma Mary Coates 20
6. The Perturbed Little Tree. Kay Randall. . . . 29
7. Marky and the Angel. D. D. Arroyo........ 43
8. Sleeping Out (poem). Edna Blevins Lewelling 49
9. A Garden Fantasy. Maude H. Wilkinson.... 50
10. Felice Meets Greytail. Ellen D. Wildschut.. 63
11. The Enchanted Lake. Mary-Abby Proctor. . 70
12. Billy's Soul. Helen Boyd................ 79
13. Undines (poem). Patsey Ellis............ 84
14. The Little Prince. Florence Barr.......... 85
15. Oh I My Tummy I (A playlet for children) ..
Marjorie Brinkly 90
. ,-_: .~ :- .
.,,·__
. ~-· :....: { ~ -
:;
,_
..•:·
·.. ~
---;,.
- '
..··
- .. ~ . ..
c --1
-= :
LUCILE MEETS THE THOUGHT
FAIRIES
MYRTLE HILL LEACH
Eli:::IUCILE and Anne were cousins. · Lucile was
visiting at Anne's house, and what a good
time they were having! Anne was two years
older than Lucile and taller and stronger. But she was
very kind to her younger cousin. The largest apple,
the juiciest peach, and the calm with the most frost-
ing on it always went to Lucile. Lucile rode Anne's
pony and played with her dolls and dishes. Even
when she broke one of Anne's tiny china plates, Anne
was not cross.
But at last Lucile and Anne quarreled. They
wanted to play school, but each thought she should
be the teacher. Anne thought that she should be
teacher because she was the older, and Lucile thought
that she should be teacher because-well, just be-
cause.
So they quarreled. And Anne lay in the soft grass
under the apple tree and cried herself to sleep. And
Lucile lay in the soft grass under the peach tree and
thought angry, wicked thoughts about Anne.
Suddenly she was startled to see a great crowd of
tiny ugly, dwarfed, crooked creatures standing all
5
6 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
around her. They were all grinning at her, and she
hid her face in terror. The most hideous creatuxe
of all, who seemed to be the leader, spoke to her in
a harsh, rasping voice :
"We are the Hate Fairies, Lucile," he said. "It
is our work to carry hate thoughts and angry, unkind
thoughts from one person to another. We have had
to work very hard this afternoon carrying that kind
of thoughts from you to Anne and from Anne to
you. You are now going to the land of the Hate
Fairies, and there you must live until you find the
way out.''
Lucile tried to scream and run away, but she could
not, and felt herself being carried along by the mob
of dark, grinning creatures. They entered a dark
cave which seemed to be in the heart of the earth.
The air inside the cave was cold and damp, and
Lucile shivered and wished she could see one little
ray of sunshine. There was no light at all in the cave,
but Lucile could see the white faces of sick people
gleaming in the darkness.
"People who dwell in the land of hate and anger
are usually ill," said the leader, who was standing
close to Lucile. ''And they weep, you see. They are
never happy."
"Will I get sick and miserable like these people!"
asked Lucile fearfully.
''If you stay here long you will,'' answered the
leader. "And the longer you stay, the harder it is
to find the way out. This cave keeps getting deeper
and blacker and farther from sunshine and health
and happiness."
LUCILE MEETS THE THOUGHT FAIRIES 7
''Oh, dear!'' cried Lucile, and then a very wicked
and hideous fairy stepped close to her for she was
thinking, ''Well, maybe Anne will have to come here,
too, and then she will be sick and unhappy, and I
will be glad. "
Before she had quite finished this bad, unkind
thought, the fairy seized her arm, and on she went
still farther into the dark cave. Lucile was very
frightened now. How would she ever get out of
this place 7 She could not, would not, stay here.
"Why did not these other people get out?" she won-
dered. She turned on the leader and stamping her
foot angrily demanded that he take her out of the
cave at once.
"You must find the way out yourself," he said
calmly. "These other miserable people could get out
if they really wished to, but they had rather stay
here. They will not do the one thing that would free
them.''
"What is it?" cried Lucille. "I will do it."
But the fairies only grinned at her in their ugly
way.
Just then Lucile saw Anne. Anne's face was very
sad, and she was crying. Suddenly Lucile felt sorry
for Anne. She ran to her cousin and put her arms
around her. And a tiny ray of light seemed to shine
for a moment in the dark cave.
''Oh, Anne,'' Lucile was crying too, now, ''Oh,
Anne, you are sick and you are unhappy, and I am
so sorry. You have been so good to me. Why I love
you, Anne."
Instantly something happened. Lucile heard the
8 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Hate Fairies give a loud frightened yell as they dis-
appeared in the blackness beyond her. Then she
.was surrounded by marvelously beautiful creatures
with great white wings and shining bands around
their foreheads.
"We are the Love Fairies," said one, "and we
have come to take you to a happier place than this.
But we could not come until you found the magic
key that would free you from the spell of these evil
creatures and open the door of the cave.''
"What do you mean by the magic key~" asked
Lucile curiously.
LUCILE MEETS THE THOUGHT FAIRIES 9
"The words, 'I love you,' whether thought or
spoken aloud, are the magic key that opens wide
the heavy door and makes it possible for us to lead
you to the bright land of the Love Fairies. The
Hate Fairies are very much afraid of us for we are
stronger than they. By the way, the terrible giant,
FEAR, lives a little farther on in this cave, but he
never, never comes to our happy country. But come,
let us leave this place."
Lucile and Anne followed these glorious beings
(for Lucile's kindness had rescued Anne also-it
often happens that way) and soon they came to a
warm, sunny hilltop where little birds, joyous and
unafraid, sang and flew about. There were multi-
tudes of fragrant flowers, and everyone was healthy,
smiling, and happy. This land of the Love Fairies
was very pleasant, and Lucile decided to stay always.
Then-Lucile sat up in the soft grass under the
peach tree and Anne sat up in the soft grass under
the apple tree. Lucile smiled and Anne smiled.
''Let's play school,'' said Lucile, ''and you may
be teacher."
"No, indeed,'' said Anne, "you will be teacher."
They both laughed, and Lucile settled the matter
cleverly.
"Well, let's go make candy and divide it equally."
And they did.
And afterwards whenever Lucile happened to think
about it she could not help but wonder whether her
adventure with the thought fairies was a dream or-
not a dream. What do you think Y
THE ADVENTURER
FLORE!-lCE BARR
T WAS a dull, dark, rainy morning, just the
nicest kind of a day to stay indoors. The
............ windows were closed, and a bright fire was
burning in the fireplace.
A fly was having a wonderful time walking on a
mirror over the :fireplace. It was very much pleased
with itself and much amused at its reflection in the
glass. It would fly away, and then fly back quickly
to the mirror. This was great sport, and with its
many, many eyes it could see when a hand was
raised to catch it. Tiring of the mirror, it suddenly
remembered that flies could walk on the ceiling. So
it flew up there and walked ever so far across the
ceiling, never once falling. This made it very ven·
turesome, so it looked about for something else to do.
What a noise ! A door was opened, and someone
crossed the room and opened a window. Now that
the fly looked about, it saw the sun was shining
brightly, the rain was over, so it flew straight to the
open window and out into the warm sunshine.
It was just a little fly without much experience.
And for once it was alone-no one to say: "Don't
go there"; "Be careful." Oh, it was delightful to
be free. Now was- the time to see the great wide
10
THE ADVENTURER 11
world it had heard so much about. So it flew over
to a 'honeysuckle vine where a bee was gathering
sweetness from the flowers and buzzing merrily. It
watched the bee admiringly. Then the bee flew away
and the fly went too. Into the woods they went, for
the bee was a wild bee and lived in the woods. As
they flew along together they became good friends.
''Do you like the woods?'' buzzed the bee.
"This is the first time I have ever been here,"
replied the fly.
''Oh,'' said the bee, ''then take care where you
go. Don't be too venturesome. Be happy and enjoy
yourself, but keep a sharp lookout for flytraps or
you ma;v get caught."
''Silly pee,'' thought the fly; ''I'm all eyes, and
quick an-;l sure-footed. I have nothing to fear. I
will have/ my great adventure.''
''Well, '' buzzed the bee, ''I must be going.'' Buzz,
buzz, and it was gone. And the fly was all alone.
• Lighting on a nice cool green flower to rest, the
ai.dventurer looked down into this strange blossom.
A rustle in the leaves nearby startled the ever-
1
W
fittchful fly, and a bird warned: "Be careful; that
Ja 0
k-in-the-pulpit looks very pious, but he bears
watching." Now do you know this made the fly more
venturesome than ever. It could talrn care of itself,
it !thought, and it would make friends with this
Jack-in-the-pulpit. Was he not known as the wood-
land preacher?
'I'he fly seemed to hear a little voice saying: '' Come
down into my pulpit. Don't be afraid.''
You know · Jack-in-the-pulpit, don't you? How
12 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
straight he stands in the flower, with a wonderful
leaf folded in such a way that it makes a pulpit with
a sounding board overhead.
''Don't be afraid,'' said the wee voice.
''Who's afraid 1' ' said the fly, ''I '11 be right down.''
Down, down, ventured the tiny visitor, admiring
the beautiful shiny, striped walls of green and maroon
and black. At the foot of the pulpit were the pret-
f
/
I
I
I
tiest clusters of tiny flowers round and green.ish.
The fiy lighted on one of th~se flowers, and a ,'wee
.voice said : ''We are the little flowers that ~Tack
guards so carefully until by and by we become bright
scarlet berries. And then out of his pulpit Jack 1
• will
step so everyone can see the scarlet babies.''
The fly was quite thrilled to have discovered J ack-
in-the-puJpit's secret. It was stuffy down at the
J
1
t
'
I
I
I
;
THE ADVENTURER 13
foot of the pulpit, so the adventurer started to crawl
out for a breath of air. But that was not so easy,
for the walls were very slippery, and its feet did
not hold. Strange, it could walk on a ceiling or a
shiny mirror, but this was different. Then all of a
sudden the fly remembered what the bee had said.
Just suppose this were a flytrap ! But no, this could
not be, for Jack was a preacher. Weak and weary
and quite exhausted from trying to escape, finally
the tiny adventurer called out in a frightened, weak
little fly voice: ''Oh, kind bee, if you are near please
come to my rescue.'' Then too tired to try again the
fly dropped on the floor of the pulpit at Jack's feet
completely exhausted.
A lusty buzz, buzz, buzz, made the adventurer
stir. 'I'he bee had lighted on the same flower.
''Kind. bee, please help me,'' said the fly.
"Where are you?" buzzed the bee, looking down
into the flower but not venturing in.
"Way down here," said the fly.
"Quick !" said the bee ; "look for the opening in
the flap." So the fly made one more try for escape
and, yes-it found the opening in the flap in front
where the leaf folds together. It didn't feel very
venturesome now, just glad to be alive.
''Thank you; kind bee,'' humbly said the fly. ''You
saved my life. I was a foolish fly."
"Yes," buzzed the bee, "but we are all foolish
sometimes.. There is always a way out though if we
can only find it.''
Then the bee and the fly flew away together and
became even better friends.
THE LITTLE SHADOW
D.D.ARROYO
-
ESSIE'S small face was very red, and tears
were streaming down her cheeks as she
stamped her foot angrily and cried: "I
don't care! This doll is mine, and Marie took it away.
I slapped her and I'm not sorry!'' She held the doll
defiantly in her arms, and stamped her foot again,
still sobbing.
Mother shook her head sadly and said, "Oh, Bessie,
Marie is only a little girl. She's just barely three, and
here you are a big girl of five. It was very wrong
of you to slap her. You could have let her play with
your doll for a little while, just as well as not. You
know you always get your things back. Now, what
shall I do with you? I do so want you to under-
stand and be kind. Especially to be kind to those
who are younger than you. Little children who are
younger than you are don't understand all the things
you do. You know that, and that is why you should
be kind and helpful to them until they are as big
as you are. When Marie is as old as you are now
she won't take things, because she will know better."
Bessie had grown quieter as her mother talked. She
felt ashamed, but she did not want to admit it. This
14
THE LITTLE SHADOW 15
was what always happened to her. Her temper just
came up like a big black cloud inside of her, and she
forgot to be kind and good. She got real mad and
hurt people. Then she cried and cried and stamped
her foot. Much later when she thought about these
things she could not understand it at all. It was as
though it were some other little girl inside of her do-
ing all the bad things . . . because she knew the real
little girl she was didn't want to do them at all. Yet
they happened all the time. She didn't know what she
could do about it. She just forgot and got mad all
over again each time.
Mother took her hand now and led her out onto the
sunny porch in the back yard. ''Look,'' she said, ''see
how you have a shadow. See how much bigger it is
than you are. See how it sometimes goes in front if
your back is to the Sun. Then see how it jumps in
back of you and follows along if you are turned about.
It sometimes gets smaller than you are even. But it
always follows you as long as you are in the sunlight."
BCS$ie looked up at her mother in surprise. She
wondered what this had to do with her being a bad
girl. She knew it would have something to do with it.
Mother didn't scold very often. Instead she had ways
of telling things so that it made you want to try to
be better. That was what scolding was supposed to
do, but scolding never did.
Mother sat down on the porch steps, and pulling
Bessie gently over beside her, went on talking. "I'm
going to tell you a story about a shadow. I want you
to listen very carefully, and then I'm going to Jet you
sit here alone for a a while and think about it." That,
16 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
too, was the way Mother did things. After the story,
you had to think about it, and then you knew what
you could do about it to make the story fit in your own
life. Some stories can be made to help you like that.
Mother's soft voice continued : ''Once there was a
little girl. She was pretty and had a nice home. She
had everything a little girl needed to be a fine little
girl. Sometimes little girls don.'t have everything they
need. It's harder for these little girls, but there was
no excuse for the little girl I'm telling you about. She
had what she needed-except being nice inside her-
self. She could be very nice when she wanted to be,
but other times she had a very bad temper. When
she got mad, she did just awful things. She was cruel
sometimes. Very often she made others unhappy.
Then after she had these bad temper fits she felt un-
happy too. Still, she just kept right on having temper
fits just the same. But one day a very strange thing
happened to her. She was just terribly mad. She had
kicked her best friend. Then she stamped her foot
and screamed and cried so much that it hurt every-
one's ears to hear her. No one wanted to be near her.
They just walked away and left her alone, and that's
when this strange thing happened. Can you guess
what it was 1"
Bessie silently shook her head and Mother went on
with the story. "Well, she was left all alone in the
garden. The Sun was shining down, and her shadow
danced up and down just as she did. All of a sudden
though, it just stepped away from her. The shadow
spoke as it did this saying, 'Little girl, I'm tired of
following you around. I 'm not going to stay with you
THE LITTLE SHADOW 17
any longer. You will be the only little girl in all this
land without a shadow. And I won't come back until
you stop making everyone so miserable. Why, just
look at the way you've been shaking me up and down
every time you get into one of your tantrums. No
shadow likes that. A shadow wants to follow a nice
person around. Goodbye until you become nice I' And
the shadow walked away.
''Soon she began to feel very lonesome. She got
so she didn't like to walk in the sunshine any more,
for then everyone noticed that she had no shadow and
wouldn't come near her. They just stood a distance
away and pointed at her, some of them saying, 'Look,
there's a strange little girl. She has no shadow! She
must be very bad if her own shadow won't follow her
any morel'
''This made the little girl very unhappy, and she
began to feel sorry for the way she had treated oth-
ers. Soon she began trying to be more kindly and con-
siderate in her feelings toward others, and not to lose
her temper. She tried so hard that after a while she
didn't have tantrums any more. Losing one's temper
is just a bad habit, after all, and people can learn to
form the good habit of NOT losing their tempers-if
they try. The little girl was rather surprised to learn
that this was really true, although her mother had told
her that it was. Now her shadow came back, and all
her friends did, too. She was her real self now, and
a lovely playmate."
Mother stood up. ''Please think about this story,
Bessie. I think you will find that it will help you
with your temper.''
18 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Bessie heard the door behind her close quietly as
Mother went into the house to prepare supper. It was
only a fairy story, of course-she knew that. Nobody
ever heard of such a thing as a shadow not staying
with anyone. That was silly. But she knew what the
story meant all right. She knew how the little girl
must have felt. If such things could happen it would
be just awful. It would be almost like not having on
a dress, if you didn't have your own shadow with you.
She knew it was going to help her remember not to
get mad any more. Every time she looked at her
shadow it would be a reminder.
She slipped off the porch, and her shadow went
gaily along with her. She crossed the yard to Marie's
house. She felt very bad when she saw the sharp red
flush on Marie's small face where she had slapped her
a short while before. She sat down and handed the
doll to her, saying, ''There, Marie, you can play with
it. I'm sorry."
Marie smiled up happily with forgiveness in her
eyes. Wanting to make up for her meanness Bessie
said, "I'11 tell you a story, Marie." So she explained
about shadows to Marie, and then told her the story
that Mother had just told her. They were sitting to-
gether happily when Bessie heard Mother calling her
in to supper.
She skipped home with her shadow skipping along
in back of her. Throwing herself into Mother's arms,
she said, "Mummy, my shadow followed me. It's fun
watching it, and I '11 try to remember not to shake it
up and down by being mad any more.''
Mother gave her a kiss and replied: ''That's just
THE LITTLE SHADOW 19
what I hope you'11 do, dear. I want you just as lovely
inside as you are outside.''
Bessie laughed happily, for everything was all
right now. She' wanted to be nice inside, too, the
way Mother said. It felt so much better being that
way.
THE FAIRIES' MINISTRY
CLARA HUFFMAN
Fairies with their tiny brushes
Lightly paint the daisies' lips;
Golden hearts in pure white clusters
Blossom from their finger tips.
Orange lily, purple aster,
Bluebell, :flag, anemone,
Violet and sweet wild roses,
Gorgeous itinerancy.
All the colors of the rainbow
With true artistry they wield;
Painting from their jeweled boxes
Flowers in our woods and field.
A JOURNEY WITH THE FAIRIES
EMMA MARY COATES
lili:'W~ ITTLE TAD stood on the back porch of the
pretty white cottage where he, his mother
and daddy, and his dog, Jock, were spending
the warm, beautiful days of summer. And, by the
way, we must not forget to mention Arabella Ann.
Arabella was the cook. Tad could always coax
a cookie from Arabella, and she made the nicest
turnovers that any five-year-old boy could wish
for.
Just now, however, he wasn't thinking of either
cookies or turnovers; he was thinking of something
else. He had overheard a friend of Arabella telling
her about an echo that could be heard from the
seashore near the house. Now Tad liked to know
about everything, and he wondered what an echo
could be. So that night, when his mother had
tucked him into bed, he said, "Please, Mother, tell
me. What is an echo?"
"An echo, little son,'' repeated Mother. "Where
did you hear about an echo 1''
''I heard someone telling Arabella about one that
could be heard from the seashore," replied Tad.
"Oh, I see," laughed Mother. "Well, Tad, an
20
A JOURNEY WITH THE FAIRIES 21
echo is a fairy, and a fairy usually lives in a big,
empty cave or building.''
"A fairy. Oh! Mother, did you ever see one?
What do they look like1 .And what do they do?''
cried Tad.
''Answer to question one,'' replied Mother with a
smile. "No, I never saw an echo. No one can, we
only hear them. What do they do Y Whenever any-
one calls out near his home they always answer by
repeating just what is said.''
"But that is rude,'' objected Tad.
"Oh no," gravely answered Mother, "because
they do it in such a nice, friendly way."
"I wonder,'' Tad remarked, his eyelids begin-
ning to droop, ''I wonder if I were to go down by
the seashore, and sit very still, if an echo fairy
wouldn't just happen along."
" I'm afraid not, lad, " his mother said as she
darkened the room. "Now sleep tight and pleasant
dreams.''
The next morning, Tad and Jock stood outside.
''I think, Jock,'' Tad said reflectively, ''that we
might go down and look for one of the echo fairies.
Don't you Y'' he gravely asked. Jock replied in the
affirmative by briskly wagging his tail. Jock was
such a comfortable companion; he always agreed, no
matter what was proposed.
So the two set forth, quite forgetting to mention
their destination. They soon reached the seashore,
but didn't know just where they would find the
fairy. They wandered on and on. At last it was
Jock who found her. He paused to bark at a saucy
22 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
red squirrel, who at once began to scold him soundly.
Tad didn't notice this, for as Jock barked, from
somewhere back of them came the sound of more
barking.
"It's the echo fairy, Jock," cried Tad. "You
found her. You found her."
Then Tad called as loudly as he could, and at once
the sound came back to him, sweetly and clearly,
as only a fairy could send it. Tad called and called,
but still the fairy didn't seem to grow tired or
impatient.
"Oh Jock," cried Tad, "How I wish she would
come out so we could see her! Perhaps if we keep
very still, she will think we are gone and come out.
Let's try it."
So the small boy and the big dog curled up under
a willow tree and waited. They kept very still. It
seemed a long time; it was quite warm and soon
the small boy's head began to nod. It was almost
more than he could do to keep awake.
Then something happened, for coming toward him,
under the trees, was the prettiest little creature that
one could wish to see. She was so tiny, no. larger
than one of Tad's toy soldiers, and was dressed all in
russet brown. On each shoulder were wings of a deli-
cate shade of green, her head was covered with golden
curls, and on her feet she wore tiny, golden slippers.
Tad was sure this was the echo fairy and he didn't
dare move for fear she would disappear, but when
she came near, she waved her wand, then said gaily:
"Well, Tad, so you and Jock were waiting to see
me. I am the echo f8:iry."
A JOURNEY WITH THE FAIRIES 23
"Oh! I knew you were, I was sure of it," cried
Tad, ''and we thought you might come if we waited.
You don't mind, do you T" he asked.
"Why should I?" laughed the fairy, as she saw
the anxious look on the small face. ''I knew you
were here; if I had not been willing for you to see
me, you__wouldn't have."
''But tell me,'' said Tad, ''are there many echo
fairies, and are they all as pretty as you Y''
Again the fairy laughed, and her laughter sounded
like the ringing of silver bells. ''Yes, there are many
of us," she told him, "and we all look alike. If you
were to see any of the others, you couldn't tell us
apart."
"What are the other fairies called1" Tad wanted
to know.
''They are called Echo ; we all have the same name.
Now I am going for a ride. Would you like to come Y
You may if you wish.''
"I don't see anything to ride in," Tad told her.
''And where are you going?''
In answer, Echo placed a golden flute to her lips
and sounded a clear, sweet note.
Tad's eyes were large and bright with wonder.
What a splendid time he was having! Then he saw a
big turtle swimming toward them through the waves.
"Oh! what a big turtle," he exclaimed. "I never
saw one so large as that."
The fairy smiled: ''That is our steed,'' she told
him. ''What a nice ride we shall have.''
Tad looked at her in astonishment. ''Why, I can't
go with you, I am too big."
24 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
"You must leave all that to me," Echo told him, ..
''and trust me.''
Then she touched both Jock and Tad lightly with
her wand ; they at once began to grow smaller till
they too were the size of the fairy. How queer it did
seem, and the turtle, who all this time had been
quietly waiting, looked larger than ever. He was so
large that Tad was just a little afraid of him, until
he saw a merry twinkle in his eyes as he looked at
them.
Echo took Tad by the hand and started £or the
water, but still Tad hung back. "I'll get wet,'' he
cried, ''and both Jock and I may be drowned.''
But the fairy smiled and said again: ''You must
trust me. I will see that both you and Jock get safely
back."
Then all three climbed upon the back of the turtle,
who slowly swam out to sea. All at once he dived,
and Tad found, to his surprise, that both Jock and
he could breathe just as easily under the water as
above it.
What marvelous things Tad saw ! They passed
large fish, who looked at them curiously; some of
them came up quite close; they saw enormous caves,
all hung with beautiful seaweed. The floors of these
caves were strewn with stones of all colors, and all
through them could be seen numberless little fishes,
playing together as happily as little children do.
Once they passed something that loomed large and
dark. This, the fairy told Tad, was a shipwrecked
vessel. Tad knew all about shipwrecks, for Arabella
A JOURNEY WITH THE F'AIRIES 25
Ann's brother was a sailor, and when he came to visit
her he often told Tad marvelous tales of shipwrecks
and foreign lands.
All this time the turtle was swimming along, guided
by the fairy, who would touch him lightly with her
wand whenever she wanted him to turn.
"We had better go back now," the fairy said to
Tad. ''We have come quite far enough.''
She turned the turtle around and they started
back, but just then something happened. The turtle
stopped and refused to go farther. "I must have
something to eat before I make the return journey,''
he said firmly, and in spite of all the Echo could and
did say, he refused to take them back before he ate
his dinner.
''Oh dear, what shall I do,'' grieved the fairy. ''I
simply must get home soon and I must also see you
and Jock safely back. How dreadfully selfish of the
turtle. I will never trust him to carry me about in
the water again. Let us walk on and see if we can't
find someone who will help us.''
As they walked along the ocean floor Tad said,
"Please tell me, Echo, why is it that Jock and I can
breathe under the water¥ And why don't we get
wet Y"
Echo held out her wand. "It is this," she told
him. ''When I touched you with this, you became
the same as I. As soon as we return I am going to
change you both back as you were.''
Just then they walked around a big rock and saw
before them a large castle.
"Oh, here is where the ripple fairies live," cried
26 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Echo with relief. ''I am quite sure they will help us.''
"Who are the ripple fairies?" asked Tad. "And
what do they doY"
"They are the ones who on still days make the
ripples that you see on the surface of the water,"
replied Echo. ''But let us find out if any are at
home. It is time we were starting back."
She knocked on the door as she spoke. It was
opened by a fairy about the size of Echo, only this
one was dressed all in green, and Tad just couldn't
decide which he considered the more beautiful.
''Oh, Ripple,'' cried Echo. ''I am so glad you are
at home, we are in a lot of trouble. I do hope you
will help us. "
"Of course I will," laughed Ripple, "that is, if I
can. But who is this with you?'' she asked, giving
Tad and Jock a welcoming smile.
"These are two little friends of mine," replied
Echo. ''I brought them for a ride.'' And then she
told how badly the turtle had treated them.
''That was very naughty of him,'' responded Rip-
ple. ''I am going to tell my sisters about it and we
shall have to punish him. But come inside, and I
will try to find some way to help you."
Tad, Jock and Echo went inside and Tad looked
about him wonderingly; they were in a large room
and here were more of the colored stones he had
noticed in the caves. They sat down on a huge pile
of soft sea-moss, and watched with much interest the
tiny goldfish which flitted here and there, darting
from one corner to another and peeping out curiously
A JOURNEY WITH THE FAIRIES 27
from behind curtains of sea-weed at the strange
guests.
Just then the ripple fairy entered the room. ''Our
chariot will be ready in a moment," she said. "But
I wish you might stay longer, for there are many
wonderful places down here that I am sure Tad and
Jock would like to see. ''
"I know there are," replied Echo, "but I must
return as soon as possible, for I must have Tad and
Jock back before they are missed."
Tad was wondering what the chariot would be like
when it drew up before the open doorway. It was
an immense pearl, shaped like a boat, and attached
to it by ropes of seaweed, were six beautiful goldfish,
driven by a tiny fairy, about half the size of Ripple.
She gave them a friendly little greeting, then quickly
disappeared.
''You will soon be home now,'' Ripple said. She
had climbed into the chariot with them and carried
a wand with which to guide the goldfish, who were
restless and eager to start.
How short the journey seemed to Tad! He thought
they had only just started when the ripple fairy
stopped the chariot in the shallow water at the exact
spot where they had embarked on the turtle's back.
·They climbed out and watched her as she drove
away with a merry smile and a friendly wave of the
hand.
"Well, Tad, did you and Jock have a good time?"
the echo fairy wanted to know.
"I did," replied Tad, "and I am sure Jock en-
joyed it too. Didn't you, JockY"
28 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Jock jumped up and down and barked such a funny
little bark; he was so very, very tiny.
The echo fairy laughed and extending her wand,
touched each of them with it, then quickly disap-
peared in the direction of the cave where she lived.
The sunlight, falling on Tad's eyes awakened him.
He sat up and looked all about. Jock was standing
close beside him, whining softly.
"Oh! Jock,'' cried Tad, "didn't we have a nice
time~ I just know it wasn't all a dream. Let's hurry
home now, so I can tell Mother about it.'
They started off, then paused as Tad noticed the
ripples in the sunlight, on the surface of the water.
'' See, Jock,'' he cried, ''Those are the ripple fair-
ies, aren't they~ ''
Jock put his head on one side in a very wise way,
one of his ears standing straight up ; then he wagged
his tail and barked assent. And as he did so, from
the hillside behind them, came sweet and distinct the
reply of Echo.
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE
KAY RANDALL
HE LITTLE tree was frightened. Well,
maybe not exactly frightened-but terribly
perturbed.
Of course there had been other times. There was
that time when it had been so comfortably asleep.
Well-1-1, not entirely asleep, but dozing in the nice,
comfortably warm, dark soil. It had been so grand
just to lie there in the friendly soil, stretching once
in a while to take the kinks out. But one day a very
ambitious stretch had pushed his head out of the
soil, and a luxuriant yawn was changed into a
startled screech. The situation had really been very
difficult. Try as he might he could not withdraw his
head beneath the friendly soil.
The soil had been rather unsympathetic, too. Al-
ways before it had been very friendly, advising the
little tree to spread its roots outward to make easier
the collection of food. And this same soil had been
so helpful in storing food and moisture in just the
proper place-like spreading a banquet table right
before one, though of course the little tree did not
know about tables. But now the soil only laughed
over his awful predicament.
29
30 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
"What shall I do?" the little tree whimpered.
"It is so strange having my head uncovered."
''Strange, indeed,'' had scoffed the unfeeling soil.
''My goodness gracious, must I support you com-
pletely all your lifeY Just you stop whimpering and
absorb all you can of that wonderful sunlight.''
"What is sunlight?" the little tree had inquired.
" Silly," the soil had retorted, "just you look
over your head and you will see the Sun. No mis-
taking it. ''
Of course the little tree didn't know it, but as all
this happened rather early in the morning, the Sun
was just starting his travel across the sky. So when
the little tree looked up, there, sure enough, was the
Sun. It smiled in the most friendly fashion, so the
little tree smiled right back, feeling very good in-
deed. Why, this condition was excellent when he
stopped to think of it.
"Why did you not tell me before of this delight-
ful placeY'' he had reproached the soil, dropping his
gaze to it. "You knew about this all the time," he
accused.
The soil made no response save to chuckle heartily.
The little tree sighed in contentment. Again he
turned his face to the Sun. He gazed so long at this
friendly object that he was almost blinded. . He
:finally transferred his gaze back to the soil and
blinked and blinked until his sight became normal
again. Then he had started looking about on all
sides. He was closely surrounded by a veritable forest
of little trees just like himself-only the little tree
had not called it a forest or anything, because he
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 81
did not know what to call it. And some of his com-
panions were ever so much larger than he.
"Hi, there," he had presently called, addressing
the salutation to the nearest one, who was many
times taller than he.
''Were you addressing me T'' coldly inquired the
tall one wth great dignity-only the little tree did
not know about dignity, so he just wondered. But
it did make him feel funny.
"Yes, sir," the little tree had responded, rapidly
recovering himself. "What place is this Y"
''This,'' the taller tree had explained, ''is a
nursery."
"What is a nursery!" the little tree had wondered.
"It is a place," the taller tree had returned,
''where infant trees like you are cared for until it
is time to go."
''Go Y'' The little tree was becoming more and
more puzzled. "What is goT"
"Why, it is -er-r, go." The taller tree was evi.
dently in difficulties-maybe he really did not know
the answer.
"Don't you know what go is 7" the little tree had
persisted. But before the taller tree could answer
their surrounding fellows had all laughed right out
loud, swaying with their merriment, just as the taller
tree seemed to sway with chagrin-only of course
their swaying might have been because a little prank-
ish breeze came dancing through and pushed each of
the trees playfully back and forth.
The other trees had not offered an opinion, and
even the soil was no help, for it had advised, "Don't
82 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
ask so many questions. Just wait, and in time you
will find out. ' '
"What is time?" the little tree had wanted to
know. But the soil made no answer. After that the
little tree had contentedly spent the day alternately
looking at the Sun and his fellow trees.
But later he was again perturbed, even more so
than when he had stretched his head right out of the
soil. He had noticed that the Sun was playing some
sort of a game. It seemed to be racing or chasing
something or somebody right across the sky, but who
or what it was the little tree had been unable to
discover. And then, all at once, the Sun had run
right out of sight. It surprised the little tree so
much he screeched again-a more dignified tree
screech this time, however.
"Whatever has happened?" the little tree had
timidly inquired of no one in particular.
"It's night, silly,'' the surrounding trees had
chorused.
"What is night?" the little tree had wondered.
''Time for you to go to sleep,'' said the taller tree
who had answered his questions earlier in the day.
Then because he had felt a little ashamed of him-
self he had added, "The Sun has just gone to sleep
so he will be fresh in the morning-and you had best
do the same.''
The little tree had wanted to know what morning
was but concluded he had better not ask. He was
still perturbed, but in no time at all he was asleep
and did not even dream once through the whole night.
The following morning he had been much sur-
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 33
prised. Of course the Sun was there, and all the
other trees and the soil. But the surprising thing
was that although he could not remember stretching
-and always before he had known when he stretched
-stretched he must have because his head was much
higher-closer to the Sun, you know-than when he
had gone to sleep. Such surprising things happened
-and all at once, too.
But the little tree was happy-even with all his
scares-and as the days passed he had noted with
satisfaction that even during the day his head was
getting higher and higher, closer and closer to the
Sun. He had taken the soil's advice and scarcely
asked a question now. His surroundings did not
bother him now ; he was so accustomed to them. He
knew, without being told, that his body was called a
trunk, and was he proud the day a little leaf had
come out right on his very own trunk! It stayed
there, too, making a very beautiful decoration, the
little tree had thought. He did not mention it, how-
ever, since he had noticed that some of his com-
panions were adorned with two and even three leaves.
But he did not envy them. Not at all. There was,
it had seemed to him, a point where too much finery
just might not be in good taste. Anyway he had
decided he would just wait and see how things turned
out. And so time had passed, months of course, only
the little tree did not know this because he could not
read a calendar.
And something that moved had come among his
group and tied something to his trunk. It had felt
uncomfortable at first but soon he got used to it.
84 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
As a decoration it might have had value except that
all of his fellows had the same things attached to
their trunks, so it had not given him any advantage.
These somethings that moved among his group were
quite queer. They did not look like trees, that is,
not very much. And they made queer sounds when
they spoke. The little tree had wondered what it
would be like to move as they did, though perhaps
he could never move exactly as they did because they
had two trunks. He had tried to pull his roots loose
so that he might try the experiment, but he had
had to give it up because the soil clung to them so
stubbornly he could not budge them. And the only
answer he had received when he questioned the soil
was the admonition, ''Don't be silly.'' He had won-
dered, rather wistfully, what silly meant, but decided
against asking.
After enjoying an untroubled life for another
period of months, during which his head kept getting
nearer and nearer the Sun, he was again per . . . .
No, this time he was really frightened. Some of
those things that frequently moved among his group
had come and looked at the thing tied to his trunk.
And one of them had said, ''Here is just what you
are looking for, a sturdy Golden Glow Peach." This
had sounded so funny that the little tree was almost
convulsed. One of these things that moved had
called him a Golden Glow Peach when he, and all
his fellows knew, just as sure as sure, that he was
a tree. But his laughter had been choked o:ff when
something hard had gone down through the soil very
roughly, and had even cut o:ff a portion of one of
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 85
his roots. And then suddenly his roots were out of
the soil and he was moving right through the ranks of
his fellows without even touching the soil. He had
tried to scream but it got clogged in his sap so
that he scarcely had been able to breathe. He had
heard faintly the taunting voice of the taller tree,
who had answered so many of his questions, saying,
"Now you will know what go is."
If this was go the little tree had decided he did
not like it the least little bit. In fact when he had
recovered somewhat from his fright he resented it
greatly. Just because he had asked about go had not
meant that he really wanted to know.. He had not
been able to understand why he had to be shown
merely because he had been inquisitive. Life was
certainly becoming complex.
The go was not so bad, as he later discovered, for
his roots had been placed back into a friendly soil
that immediately closed about them in the most re-
assuring way. So the little tree had returried to his
normal state of inquisitiveness, and looked about this
new home eagerly. The Sun was still running races
across the sky, which was comforting; and the soil was
just as friendly as the old soil had been. Then he
had taken a closer view of his surroundings. His
companion trees were much farther away from each
other, he had discovered, than in the nursery, and
apparently he was the only little tree in this strange
new place.
A large, grandfatherly tree was quite near and
the little tree appealed to him for information.
"Is this a nursery?" he had wanted to know.
36 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
The grandfather tree had chuckled in a friendly
fashion and then said, "No, this is an orchard."
"What is an orchard?" the little tree had ques-
tioned.
''A place where trees live,'' had been the reply.
''But I thought that place was a nursery; at least
that is what the other little trees told me."
"Well,'' the grandfather tree had explained,
''there are places and places. Trees live in both
the nursery when they are young, and in the orchard
when they are older."
''Oh,'' the little tree had excitedly shaken the six
limbs he had grown during his stay at the nursery,
''a nursery is a nursery, but an orchard is a go.''
"A go?" The grandfather tree had been very
much puzzled until the little tree had explained
about how the taller tree at the nursery had said
there would be a time to go.
"I see." The grandfather tree had chuckled. "No,
an orchard is not a go. A nursery is a nursery, and
an orchard is an orchard, but what happened be-
tween the two is go."
.This had not really helped the little tree very
much, but he decided not to ask any more questions
about it then.
''You are quite a big tree,'' the grandfather tree
had approved, which gave the little tree a feeling
of importance which was very nice-something like
the nice feeling he had felt when stretching. "Next
year,'' the grandfather tree had continued, ''you will
have fruit."
''What is fruit?'' the little tree had demanded.
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 87
"Wait and see," the grandfather tree had re-
turned, and then, just like the soil had once said,
he added, "just wait and in time you will know."
Such queer answers, the little tree had fretted to
himself. Why were his questions not answered? It
had seemed to him that it would have been just as
easy to answer the questions as to tell him to wait.
But he soon forgot it in his interest in himself and
his surroundings. He had many leaves now, but in-
stead of being on his trunk they were on his limbs.
They gave him quite an effect, he had decided.
And so, many more months passed by. More limbs
came out, and his older limbs kept growing longer
and longer, and more leaves appeared. The little tree
really had been thrilled down to his roots. And then
one day something began to happen. He was not
scared, or even perturbed, but he did wonder when
his sap started working down to his roots instead of
upward through his trunk and limbs.
''Do not think anything about it,'' the grandfather
tree had counseled. ''You are getting ready for the
winter sleep.''
''But I sleep each night,'' the little tree had pro-
tested. "And if I am to sleep during this winter-
what is it Y Does winter come between day and night
or between night and day?''
"Neither,'' the grandfather tree had replied. "You
have been through it before at the nursery, but you
were too young to remember. Just wait, and in time
you will :find out.''
But the little tree had been experiencing such a
feeling of drowsiness that he had not resented the
answer he had so often heard before. And he kept
38 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
getting drowsier and drowsier so that he was not
aware of it when his leaves fell off. And soon ·he
forgot everything and drifted into a deep sleep.
Later, he had awakened-the grandfather tree told
him it was springtime. Of course the little tree-he
was bigger now even if he had slept-had really
wanted to know what springtime meant, but he was
too busy to ask. His sap, he had found, was coursing
strongly through his trunk and limbs ; the Sun was
shining gaily; and his leaves were fairly popping out.
Life, it had seemed to him, was very much worth
while. This feeling, he had decided, must have some
connection with the thing called spring, although he
guessed there was no use wondering how this came
about since he and all his tree friends had been
asleep, so there was no one to answer his questions
on such subjects.
And then, one day, he had been terrifically sur-
prised because little white and pink things were sud-
denly all over his branches. Nothing frightening, of
course, and really they were quite decorative, even
more so than the leaves. He had been rather proud
of this addition to his wardrobe. He noticed that
the grandfather tree also had the same things on
his limbs, only a great many more, of course, so he
asked him for an explanation.
''They are blossoms,'' the grandfather tree had
explained. ''First the blossoms, then the fruit.''
The little tree had decided against asking for in-
formation concerning fruit--he had done so once
without result. Anyway he was very much occupied
with events. Birds and bees were around all the time
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 89
now. He had secured their names from the grand-
father tree. They were lots of company and good
fun. The birds would sit on his limbs and make
pleasant noises-they were really quite pleasing. Of
course their language was much harsher than the
soft sighing tree _language. And the bees seemed to
get a great deal of pleasure from the blossoms, for
they were around them and inside of them through-
out the day.
Then there came a day of consternation-his blos-
soms were falling. He had appealed to the grand-
father tree for advice. "My blossoms are falling off,"
he had excitedly called. "Am I going to fall apart?"
"Not at all," the grandfather tree had reassured.
"You are just getting ready for the fruit. You are a
peach tree so your fruit will be peaches. ' '
"Oh!" the little tree had acknowledged the in-
formation half-heartedly. It did seem such a shame
to lose one's blossoms when they were so very attrac-
tive. He was sure he would feel naked or however
one felt with less than a full quota of adornments.
But he survived the tragedy and had become
quite engrossed watching the growth of his first fruit.
At first he had been rather disappointed. The little
green, knotty things were not pretty like his blos-
soms, and anyway he had expected something quite
different. He couldn't picture exactly that which
he had expected, the only thing he had been sure
of was that he was not satisfied. But little by little,
day by day, he had revised his opinions. There was
no denying the fact they were getting better looking
every day-all six of them. He had become quite
40 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
enthusiastic and had even bragged just a little bit
concerning his prowess to the grandfather tree. The
grandfather tree had chuckled good naturedly.
But now came the day of real tragedy-the day
we first made the acquaintance of the little tree. He
had noticed those same things that moved on top
of the soil at the nursery also moved in the same
way in this orchard. At first he had been very sus-
picious of them, for he feared that he was destined
for another go. But when nothing happened he
gradually lost his suspicions, and he had even wel-
comed them coming round in a way-especially when
they admired his dress of leaves and blossoms. But
lately they had been admiring his fruit-had even
touched them. He had not minded-much. Poor
things. They didn't have any such large golden
fruit as he had.
But horrors ! These things that moved about the
orchard pulled off his beautiful fruit-all six of
them! Dastardly! How could he survive such a blow Y
His beautiful fruit-his only fruit!
Mournfully he told the grandfather tree of the
terrible act ; told him of all the care he had taken
of his fruit; of the pride he had in them-all gone
for naught.
And the grandfather tree with gentleness consoled
him. ''Little tree, you have completed a cycle of
your life. You were placed here to perform a duty."
"Who did that Y" demanded the little tree. "No-
body ever told me about a duty. There have been
go's and times and winters and springtimes, but
never any duty."
THE PERTURBED LITTLE TREE 41
At which the. grandfather tree laughed heartily
through all his many branches. "Listen," he said.
"The things that took your fruit are called men.
They think they placed you here. But that is not
so. God, who made you, did that. And God gave
you a duty to perform. He wanted you to grow
leaves, after you had grown sturdy limbs. Then the
birds could find rest and shade with you.''
"Who made the birds ?" inquired the little tree.
"Have they a dutyY And why don't they grow their
own shade?''
"Now, now," reproved the grandfather tree, "not
42 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
so many questions. I am telling you about yourself,
though I'll tell you this about the birds : God made
them as well as all other things.''
"Is God a tree like us Y" the little tree wanted to
know.
"No," replied the grandfather tree. "Now let me
finish with you. After your leaves were grown then
the blossoms came. This you were to do as the first
step to growing fruit. But also you added beauty
to the world-and that is as important as fruit,
really-for you were very pretty in your green leaves
and pink blossoms.''
The little tree preened himself. It was good to
be appreciated, he thought.
''Also,'' continued the grandfather tree, ''the
blossoms contained food for the bees you so greatly
admired. Then came the fruit which men will eat,
for they cannot eat sunlight as you do."
"I do not like them eating my fruit," said the
little tree. "My peaches were so pretty."
''That,'' continued the grandfather tree, as though
he had not been interrupted, ''is why you are a tree.
Just look what you have accomplished. You have
sheltered birds, fed the bees, been a thing of great
beauty, and now you have fed man. That is the duty
God gave you as your share of life's work. Next
year you will do it all over again."
"Well,'' mused the little tree, "I hope God is sat-
isfied. As for next year-I'll wait and in time I'll
know-maybe.''
MARKY AND THE ANGEL
D.D.AlmoYO
ARKY sat on the porch and looked out into
the garden. He sighed deeply. It was grow-
ing dark, and the flowers were nodding gently
in the evening breeze. It was like they were bending
their heads politely saying, "Good evening, Markyl"
Sometimes he felt as though they really might say
something like that if they could talk. Some of them
had beautiful little mouths painted on their faces,
but they never said anything-not out loud, that is.
But Marky was sure they thought things you could
hear, if you listened with your heart and not with
your ears.
The fireflies winked brightly across the garden, and
for a moment Marky wished he could fly like that
and shine so prettily. And then he sighed again, this
time quite sadly. Behind him he heard his mother
ask, "Why, Marky, what's the matterY Such a deep
sigh for a little boy."
Marky looked up at his mother. You could always
tell your troubles to Mother. She wouldn't laugh the
way Sally Ann down the street had laughed when
he talked to her this afternoon about his trouble.
He tumbled his words out, "Mother, have you ever
48
44 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
seen an angel-an honest to goodness real angel?''
Mother smiled. ''Is that what is troubling you?''
Marky nodded, and Mother sat down beside him
on the porch steps. "Well, I'll tell you, Marky. They
aren't so easy to find, and maybe you don't look in
the right place.''
''Does it take awfully sharp eyes to see angels,
Mother? Maybe my eyes aren't strong enough?
Would I need glasses to see one Y'' Marky asked
excitedly.
Mother took Marky's hand in hers. "Not quite
that, Marky. Angels are different from the fairies
and gnomes and the little elemental folk we've read
stories about. Angels are-well, they are like older
brothers and sisters to us. ' '
Marky shook his head puzzedly. "How'"
"It's--well, they went through a stage of evolu-
tion similar to our human one many ages ago. It's
like your big brother, Tommy. He's already gradu-
ated from school, and you're still in school. So he
knows many things you don't, and can help in many
ways you haven't yet learned.''
"But," Marky protested, "I'll grow fast and catch
up."
''Of course, you will,'' Mother replied, ''just as
someday we 'll all be like the angels. ' '
Marky smiled brightly at this thought. ''Tell me
more about the angels.''
Mother continued. ''Well, the angels have their
work to do, the same as we do. In all of God's
universe, each Being has its own part to do, and
angels have work to do especially for us. We are
MARKY AND THE ANGELS 45
their younger brothers and sometimes we are
very difficult younger brothers to help, I'm afraid.''
"How?" asked Marky.
''Oh,'' Mother answered, ''once the angels were
closer to men, and many people were able to see
them and receive help directly from them. You know
there are stories about it in the Bible.''
"Why isn't it like that now?" Marky asked with
troubled eyes.
Mother explained, ''Because men became wicked
so their eyes no longer could see the angels. They
felt so grown up they no longer had pure enough
souls to commune with their angel brothers. They
were more interested in seeking excitement and fun-
as they called it. They hurt each other in this kind
of fun, and the angels could not come near such
wickedness. They stay away from selfishness, and
greed, and evil today, for where these things are
the heart is not pure enough to commune with
angels.''
Marky sighed. ''What work do they do?''
Mother answered, ''They have different kinds of
work to do. Some direct the fairies and the ele-
mental kingdoms so these little creatures are able to
grow and learn. Some angels are the builders of
the universe. They help nature form mountains and
rivers. They help mothers to build the tiny baby
bodies when a child is to be born. They work with
the thoughts of men ·and weave the best thoughts
that hover over a community so that the evil thoughts
will not bring evil upon the people. Sometimes the
thoughts are so horrible it is difficult for them.''
46 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Marky nodded understandingly.
"That's why you want me to not get mad and
think good things isn't it Y Do my prayers help
them, too?''
Mother nodded. ''Oh, yes, every one of us helps
in that way so the world can grow to be a hap-
pier place. You see, too, many evil thoughts make
droughts, famines, and floods. Nature returns to
man just what man sends out. The angels hovering
near try to inspire man so he can deserve a better
life. Every good deed they bless and expand so that
all men may reap the benefit.''
Marky asked, ''.And are there angels who work in
music and in the forests?''
''Yes,'' Mother answered. ''They work in the
ethers in watery substances of the universe. They
weave all the patterns we see, because they are wiser
and know how to obey all the laws. We humans
haven't learned obedience yet. Think of the damage
we would do by our ignorance without their help.''
Marky smiled. ''Do you think I'll be able to see
an angel someday, Mother-really see one 7''
''Perhaps, you will be one of the blessed ones who
have such vision," Mother answered.
Marky thought a moment. It was the dearest wish
of his heart to know more about the wonderful Beings
called angels.
The next day he told his father about the things
Mother had told him, and his father nodded and
said: "Your mother is right. There's just one thing
I can add to what she has told you. It might help
yon to see an angel some day."
MARKY AND THE ANGELS 47
Marky's face brightened and his eyes sparkled.
"What will help me to see an angel, Daddy?"
His father answered, "Well, Marky, your mother
has told you about the being good part-trying to
be like the angels so that your wishes are like their
own w:iShes and so your eyes will be more in tune
with the light. The other part is wanting. What you
want very deeply is sometimes given to you when you
do all the rest of your part. ' '
Marky clapped his hands. ''But I do want to.
All the time I keep trying. When I work in the
garden I think of the little fairies and elves also
working there, and then of the wonderful angels who
are directing the little fairies, too.''
Across the room Mother smiled at them both. She
had just come in from the garden and her arms were
full of flowers. "Still talking about angels, Marky7"
Dad and Marky laughed back at Mother, and Dad
said, "Yes, and do you know I've heard people say
it is sometimes easier to see them in great and beau-
tiful forests where the loveliness of nature is more
in tune with them than the disharmony that exists
where people are unloving.''
Mother said, "Marky, has Daddy told you about
where we are going on his vacation?"
Dad said, "No, I wanted you to be with us. You
see, Marky, your mother and I thought that per-
haps on this vacation we would go camping in one
of the national forests near here.''
Marky spoke softly, ''And I can really look for
an angel there, can't I?''
Mother and Dad nodded, and they kissed Marky
48 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
tenderly as he started off to bed to dream of his
vacation in the forest where he could see an angel.
And Marky's dream did come true. Marky was in the
forest where the family was camping. He had been
having a splendid time sitting so quietly under a tall
elm tree that the young deer had come close by. His
· heart was full of love for the beautiful little creatures
as he offered them pieces of bread from his pockets.
His heart was full with happiness and peace, and
while he sat there a wonderful thing happened. As
he looked up at the tree he saw long flowing sheaths
of light brightened into the pattern of an angelic
:figure before his eyes. The forest was still and yet
there seemed to be the swell of music everywhere
about him. He felt great waves of love washing
through him, and a beautiful face smiled upon him.
Marky felt as though all the love and light and
goodness in the world were pouring through him.
He saw the sweet face still regarding him from the
great height, and then the light was so bright he had
to close his eyes. Even with his eyes closed he still felt
the music and love and brightness all about him.
When he opened his eyes, Mother and Dad stood
beside him. Their hands rested lightly upon his
shoulders. He looked up at them inquiringly. They
smiled down upon him, and he knew from the glow
in their eyes that they had seen the angel, too.
Marky asked softly, ''Some day will I be like that?''
It was Mother who answered, "Some day all of us
will be like that, Marky, and the world will be a
very wonderful place when we all are so beautiful
and loving."
SLEEPING OUT
EDNA BLEVINS LEWELLING
Sometimes in sum.mer when it's hot,
My mother, dad, and I,
Ride 'till we reach the mountain top,
Then sleep out 'neath the sky.
We don't take tents and things like that,
Just blankets on the ground.
And then the wind comes slow and soft
And doesn't make a sound.
The leaves all whisper very low,
Indeed, they never shout I ·
I try, and try, and try to hear
Just what they talk about.
I never yet have understood
A single word they say,
Although I've listened many nights,
And thought of it by day.
The fairies, they are different,
I hear most every word,
They laugh and sing and tumble 'round,
The jolliest way I've heard.
My mother says it's just the brook,
That there's no fairy band.
But I believe that she's too old
To really understand.
49
A GARDEN FANTASY
MAUDE H. WILKINSON
llHE MOON came slowly up over the hill and
looked down on a mass of gaily colored flow-
ers which were growing in an old-fashioned
garden.
When the Moon saw the Blue Dragon-fly, for whom
she was looking, her round face beamed brighter, and
she said: "Blue Dragon-fly, it is time to get up."
Blue Dragon-fly was asleep in the heart of Pink-
rose, but when the Moon spoke to him, he moved his
wings a little, and went to sleep again.
''Is that the way you behave when I take the
trouble to call you Y
'' chuckled the Moon, as she
looked at her dainty little friend of whom she was
very fond. ''I must make a brighter light and see
if that will rouse you," s'he added as she sent a
stronger ray to him.
Blue Dragon-fly opened one eye; closed it again,
and went back to sleep.
The Moon looked very much puzzled and said:
''Dear me, I wonder if there is anything the matter
with him Y He usually gets up at once when I call
h. "
un.
"No, he is all right," replied Pink-rose, in whose
50
A GARDEN FANTASY
heart Blue Dragon-fly was sleeping. "I wished him
co stay here, so I have given him a large dose of
perfume to make him sleep for a long time; then
when I waken him, he will have forgotten all about
bis work, and will stay with me. So please go away
and leave us alone."
Pink-rose drew herself together in such a way that
the Moon saw it was of no use to argue with her, for
the little rose had folded her soft petals round Blue
Dragon-fly like a curtain, which completely hid him
from view.
"Well, well," mused the Moon to herself, "of
course I do not blame Pink-rose for loving the little
fellow, for we all do, but that is no reason why shtl
should wish to keep him all to herself. I had no idea
Pink-rose was so selfish. Anyway, seeing that Blue
Dragon-fly asked me to awaken him, I must do su,
and see that he goes to his work; but how shall 1
do it?"
The Moon remained quiet for a few minutes, won-
dering who might be ab.le to help her. Then her eyed
turned in the direction of a small village a short
distance away.
''Hello, Breezie,'' she said, addressing a small pufr
of wind, "I see you are at your pranks as usual.··
"Yes," replied Breezie laughing, "I am trying tt.
blow this old man's hat off. Look !'' and he gave i.
sharp puff that nearly did the trick. However, th..
old man was too quick for him, and caught his ha\
in time.
But Breezie was a persistent little fellow, and
always liked to have his own way. He laughed and
52 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
said: "Good for you, old fellow, but I shall get your
hat yet." So after waiting a few seconds Breezie
gave another unexpected puff; but again, the old in.an
was too quick for him; and the wind did not get
his hat.
After watching him a few minutes, the Moon whis-
pered mysteriously: ''Breezie, I know someone with
whom you can have a better time.''
''Indeed,'' replied Breezie, turning to the Moon
for a moment. "I think that is hardly possible, for
I am having a wonderful time right here.''
Then the Moon beamed brighter, for she saw some-
thing that Breezie did not see. Just then the old
man went up the steps leading to a large house,
opened the door, and went in.
Now the Moon loves a joke, and a merry twinkle
crept into her eyes as she remarked : ''Perhaps you
had better remain here, for you certainly are having
great fun. I shall find your cousin instead."
Brezzie turned a somersault as he replied: "Yes,
I think so too, but thanks for the offer. Good-bye,"
he called, as he blew round to continue his pranks.
When he saw the old man was not there, he became
very boisterous, and roared : ''Shivering icicles,
where has he gone~''
"Behind that green door at the top of those steps,"
said the Moon with an unusually sweet smile. "Now
you can come with me.''
Breezie twisted and turned for a few seconds, in
a very bad mood, but seeing nothing could be done,
he burst out laughing and replied: "It is all right
with me. Now I am ready to give someone the best
A GARDEN FANTASY 53
teasing he ever had,'' and he gave several more wild
twists and turns.
"That is good," said the Moon, "I want you to
waken Blue Dragon-fly, to whom Pink-rose has given
an over-dose of perfume. You must creep around
him and make him shiver. Then maybe his soft
couch will not seem quite so comfortable. He lives
a few miles from here in Mrs. Brown's garden; I
am sure you have been there many times.''
Breezie shook with laughter as he said: "Indeed
I have. I had a great time last winter teasing that
nice fat old lady. I am only too glad to have an
excuse to go there again, and renew our acquaint-
ance. I will be there in a few minutes.''
''Very good,'' said the Moon, as she turned toward
the garden. A few seconds later Breezie blew in, full
of mischief, and went from one flower to the other
calling: "Blue Dragon-fly, where are you?"
The Moon watched Breezie 's wild capers for a few
minutes, and then said : "It is quite possible I can
tell you where Blue Dragon-fly is.''
''Of course you can,'' Breezie replied, as he danced
lightly round a rose, "but I do not want you to tell
me, for I am having a splendid game of hide and
seek.'' Then he bounded off to another rose which
he shook quite roughly, saying : ''Is Blue Dragon-
fly's perfumed couch hidden in your heart, Regal-
rose ?"
"No, Bluf> Dragon-fly did not favor me with his
company. Go your way, you are disturbing my
petals,'' Regal-rose replied in a peevish tone.
"My dear," Breezie whispered in a tantalizing
54 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
way, "you look far more attractive when you are
slightly ruffled. I really must loosen your petals a
little more,'' and he gave her another playful shake.
"Go away, you rude fellow, or I shall prick you,"
said Regal-rose with a toss of her head.
''My dear, your prickly temper cannot hurt me.
In fact, the more you prick me, the better I like it,
for then I want to go on teasing you,'' and Breezie
shook her so hard, that her silly dignity fell from her.
Breezie danced merrily round Regal-rose saying:
"Now you look more like a regal rose. But I must
go, for if I stayed with you, I might like you too
well, and it would never do for Breezie to fall in
love with anyone. Good-bye, my dear,'' Breezie called
airily as he blew off to continue his pranks some-
where else.
"What a wild little fellow he is," thought the
Moon. It may be a long time before he finds Blue
Dragon-fly; perhaps it was not the wisest thing to
have brought him here. There is no telling what dam-
age he may do. I wonder what l had better do Y''
The Moon looked around the garden hoping to find
a solution to her problem. Suddenly she caught
sight of the garden lawyer, Brown Owl, standing at
the door of his house in the hollow stump of an old
oak tree.
"Why of course he is the one to give me advice,"
thought the Moon. Then she called: "Brown Owl, I
wonder if you can spare me a few minutes of your
valuable time on a matter of great importance Y''
Brown Owl drew himself up with great dignity
and blinking his eyes several times by way of a bow,
A GARDEN FANTASY 55
replied slowly: "I am always glad to be of service
to you, Madam Moon. What is the trouble?"
''Thank you,'' said the Moon, ''I felt sure you
could help me. A terrible thing has happened'. Blue
Dragon-fly has been drugged by Pink-rose, who has
suddenly turned very selfish and wishes to keep him
to· herself. She has locked him up in her .heart and
keeps him asleep with her perfume."
The owl settled himself comfortably, and :fixing his
large round eyes thoughtfully on the Moon remarked:
''You did quite right in coming to me; this is a very
serious matter, and will need much careful thought.
I am the one to handle such a delicate affair. Please
go away; I must be alone to deliberate over the case
quietly and carefully."
Knowing that Brown Owl prided himself on his
"slow but sure" method of thinking, the Moon
after thanking him added most emphatically: ''Blue
Dragon-fly has most important work to do, aild must
be awakened within the next half-hour."
Drawing himself up a little straighter, the Owl
remarked: "Please do not try to hurry me, for it
is against my nature to think a matter over quickly.
I am sure Blue Dragon-fly did not take time to
think, before he entered Pink-rose's heart. I have
often told him he was too hasty, and I .... "
. Once started on that subject, the owl woUld go on
for hours, if he could get anyone to listen, and realiz-
ing that time was precious. the Moon hastened to
interrupt him; "Yes, I know how you feel on that
subject, Brown Owl, but I repeat, that if you do not
:find a solution of the problem in thirty minutes, your
56 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
thinking will have been of no use,'' and she turned
away quite annoyed.
With a look of mournful wonder in his big yellow
eyes, the owl slowly shook his head and sedately en-
tered his house to ponder over the matter in his own
way.
Just then the Moon caught sight of Honey-bee,
whom she was amazed to see about at that hour.
"What on earth are you doing out of your hive,
Honey-bee?'' called the Moon. ''All good bees should
be at home this time of night.''
"Hush,'' whispered Honey-bee. "Please do not
speak so loud. I know what you say is true, but I
am so tired of making honey that I am playing
hookey."
Looking very serious, the Moon remarked: ''What
would happen if Mother Nature saw you7"
''Oh, please do not mention it to her,'' pleaded
Honey-bee, looking around nervously.
The Moon smiled, saying : ''I never tell tales, un-
less I am obliged to. But probably it is a good thing
you did leave the hive, for I need someone to help
me, and perhaps you will do.''
"Yes, indeed, if I can help you in any way, I shall
be glad to do it,'' replied Honey-bee, very much
relieved.
Then the Moon told her about Blue Dragon-fly,
adding: "If you could get inside Pink-rose's petals,
and buzz loud enough, I believe you could awaken
him.''
"Dear me," the little bee replied flippantly, "what
strange creatures roses are; you never know what
A GARDEN FANTASY 57
they are going to do next. We certainly must do
something at once. The situation needs quick action
and thought, and I am the one to do it. I shall fly
right over and demand that Pink-rose release Blue
Dragon-fly at once. If she refuses I shall tell her
that no bee will ever visit her again, and that will
be a great disgrace." And off she flew.
The Moon watched her go with a look of despair.
''I am sure she will never succeed,'' mused the
Moon sadly. "Honey-bee acts too quickly, and the Owl
too slowly; what a pity they cannot be put in a bag
and shaken up together. There is only one thing to
do; I must try and find someone else to help me."
After a moment's thought, her round face beamed
with pleasure.
"How stupid of me, to have wasted all this pre-
cious time," she exclaimed. "Why did I not think
of Love-bird? He is the very one to help me. He is
always so charming, and has such coaxing ways with
him, that he does more to keep the garden in order
than anyone else.''
Turning her bright rays on the slender drooping
branches of a beautiful weeping-willow tree in the
corner of the garden, the Moon called softly: "Love-
bird, I am sorry to disturb you, but there is a serious
matter which needs staightening out; you have al-
ways been so good in helping us when things went
wrong, that I felt I must come to you."
Love-bird looked up at the Moon, and replied in
a soft, happy little voice : ''You know, Madam Moon,
there is nothing I really enjoy better than unraveling
tangles; tell me all about it.''
58 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
As Love-bird listened, a sad look crept into his
eyes, and putting his head on one side he remarked:
"Poor Pink-rose, does she not realize that keeping
Blue Dragon-fly to herself will never really make her
happy1 I will go over at once, have a quiet talk
with her, and show her a better way." So, kissing
his little mate, and telling her where he was going,
Love-bird flew off.
"At last, I have found the right one," beamed the
Moon breathing a great sigh of relief.
When Love-bird reached Pink-rose, he could hear
Honey-bee as she talked, buzzed, and threatened Pink-
rose; but the more noise she made the closer Pink-
rose drew her petals together and refused to listen.
Finally, Honey-bee turned to the Moon, saying in a
disgusted voice : ''I have done all I can to make
Pink-rose listen to me. If I cannot do anything with
her, no one else can, so I think you are foolish to
waste any more time trying to save Blue Dragon-fly.
Anyway, I have other matters to attend to, so good-
bye," and she sailed away.
"Good-bye," said the Moon. "I hope Mother
Nature does not see you,'' she added thought-
fully.
Love-bird perched on a branch near Pink-rose and
began cooing softly. After a few minutes, Pink-rose
unfolded her petals a bit, and sent a waft of per-
fume to him, by way of a friendly greeting. Love-
bird took no notice, but went on quietly cooing. He
seemed to have a magic power, for Pink-rose gently
opened her petals saying: ''How charming you are,
little bird; your singing is very soothing. I cannot
A GARDEN FANTASY 59
understand what you are saying but I am sure it is
something wonderful.''
''Yes, love is always wonderful,'' gently replied
Love-bird.
''Love! What do you know about it?'' asked Pink-
rose in a dejected voice.
''A great deal, and it makes me very happy,''
Love-bird answered, coming a little closer.
Pink-rose gave a deep sigh and whispered sadly:
''I, too, was very happy before I loved Blue Dragon-
fly. I locked him up in my heart, because I was
60 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
afraid someone would take him from me, and since
then I have been very unhappy.'' Pink-rose gave
another sigh and two dewdrops fell from her eyes.
"My dear," said Love-bird, "the reason you are
so unhappy is because you have tried to keep Blue
Dragon-fly all to yourself. That is a very selfish
thing to do; and you know selfishness will rob you
of your beauty, and you will become bad-tempered,
withered, and have no more delightful perfume to
send to your admirers. Then Blue Dragon-fly will
leave you.
"If you will take my advice, my dear, send Blue
Dragon-fly back to her work; for we must all help
to keep our garden beautiful. While he is away,
send out your sweetest perfume, and you will grow
more charming, for that is the work Mother Nature
has planned for you. Then Blue Dragon-fly will come
back. When he sees how busy you have been, how
well you have done your work he will love you more
than ever."
''Gan that be true?'' Pink-rose whispered hopefully.
''Yes, it is very true,'' smiled Love-bird.
''And now that you know the secret of happiness,
and"-how to keep your beauty, I must bid you good-
bye, Pink-rose,'' and Love-bird flew away.
As Pink-rose watched Love-bird disappear over the
tree-tops, a radiant light shone in her face. Then
unfolding her petals very gently, she let the cool
night air lightly touch her little lover. After a
moment she whispered tenderly, "Blue Dragon-fly,
it is time to go to your work."
"Dear me," said Blue Dragon-fly drowsily, "I .
A GARDEN FANTASY 61
suppose it is. Do you know, Pink-rose, I really be-
lieve you must have some magic power, for I have
never had a more refreshing sleep.'' With an ad-
miring glance, he added : ''I wonder if you know
how lovely you look in the moonlight, or how very
sweet your perfume is 7 When I have :finished my
work, I should like to come back and see you again,
if I may, Pink-rose.''
Pink-rose was so happy that she did n,ot even
hear Breezie as he came puffing along. Finally
he blew into her face, saying: ''Perhaps you are
the rose, my beauty, who has locked Blue Dragon-
fly in her heart, and will not let him go to his
work. Do you realize what a wrong thing that is
to do?" continued Breezie giving Pink-rose a gentle
shake.
"I did not realize how wrong it was, until someone
showed me a better way,'' answered Pink-rose quietly
''Then I let him go.''
Breezie twisted and turned, working himself into
a terrible fury as he roared : ''There, I have been
fooled again. Now I will play the very mischief !"
and he blew away.
As Pink-rose watched Breezie going off in such a
temper, she sent her sweetest perfume to him, and
with a wise look she smiled to herself saying: ''I hope
Love-bird pays you a visit before long, Breezie. I
am sure it would do you a world of good."
No sooner had Breezie disappeared, than up flew
Brown Owl and settled himself on a nearby tree.
Turning his mournful eyes upon Pink-rose, he an-
nounced solemnly: ''Pink-rose, I hear that you have
62 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
broken a garden law, by keeping Blue Dragon-fly
from his work, and after much careful thought I .. ''
''I am sure what you are about to say is very wise,
Garden Lawyer," interrupted Pink-rose sweetly, "but
you are too late. Love-bird has been here ahead of
you. He told me the right thing to do, in a kind and
beautiful way, so I have released Blue Dragon-fly,
that he may go to his work.''
Brown Owl blinked his yellow eyes in a bewildered
way, and after taking time to think over Pink-rose's
reply, he remarked in a dejected voice: ''All my
careful thinking is wasted. Too . . . Whoo to you.''
And he flapped heavily back home wondering why it
was that someone always got ahead of him.
Pink-rose could not help feeling a little sorry for
Brown Owl. ''It does seem too bad that all Lawyer
Owl's thinking should be of no use,'' she added with
a mischievous twinkle in her eyes.
Then she looked up at the Moon and sent a waft
of sweetest perfume to her as she whispered: ''I have
kept you busy, Madam Moon, but I do not feel badly
about it. I know that you always enjoy making
lovers happy, so you also have had your enjoyment
out of trying to help us.''
With a merry twinkle in her eyes the Moon replied:
"You are right, my dear, but remember: keep busy
yourself, and you will keep your beauty. So good-
night, little Pink-rose.'' ·
With a broad smile on her round placid face the
Moon disappeared behind the tallest tree in the old
garden.
FELICE MEETS GREYTAIL
ELLEN D. WILDSCHUT
ERFECT," shouted the chipmunk, "I could
not have done better myself."
Felice, who was walking in the woods,
looked up in surprise as she heard his high-pitched
voice. She was just in time to see him run over to
congratulate the bushy gray squirrel who had made
an enormous leap from the oak branch to the red-
wood.
The big squirrel, whom everyone called Greytail,
bowed in a mocking manner to the impertinent small
brown animal with the yellow stripes, but he thought
to himself, "I'd like to see you do it, young fellow !
Some day you may find yourself in such a fix you'11
need all your friends to help you out." However,
he said nothing aloud, for like everyone else in the
woods, he knew that Cheeky, the chipmunk, bragged
about his smartness, although strangely enough, no
one had ever seen him do anything very clever.
Suddenly from the low bough above her, Greytail
noticed Felice, and for a moment it seemed that he
was ready to make another jump to get as far away
as possible. Then with a startled look he stared, for
he recognized Felice as the little girl he had seen in
63
64 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
the dell with the fairies. She was standing very still,
one hand full of redwood cones s'he had been gather-
ing under the tall tree. Until then it had never oc-
curred to her that the little forest creatures could
speak, or that if they did, she might be able to hear
them. (By now I am sure you have realized that
Felice was a very fortunate little girl who had seen
and learned things which many people never know.)
Very quietly, a tiny field mouse came up to her,
and in the smallest voice you could imagine, squeaked,
''Please, don't think too badly of Cheeky. He's still
very young and doesn't know much yet; but we do
wish he'd mind his own business." Mrs. Mouse sighed
a little, and then went on: ''He pokes his nose into
all our affairs, so we try to keep out of his way. He
tells everyone when I'm building a new nest, and
oh! how he gossips when Greytail calls on the pretty
lady squirrel over there."
Then she looked up at Felice and asked, "Who are
you? You look too big to get into any of our little
homes.'' The little girl smiled and explained that
she lived in a big house outside the woods and was
just visiting in the forest with her friends. "You
can hear them laughing," she added.
"Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Mouse nervously. "I hope
they won't come over here. They are so noisy."
Meanwhile Greytail, who had been listening to
Felice and Mrs. Mouse, decided that he would join
them, so he ran down the redwood trunk and sat
down close by. He curled his beautiful plumed tail up
around his back and looked at Felice with bright eyes.
Her own dark eyes turned to him with a friendly
FELICE MEETS GREYTAIL 65
gaze, as she thought, "My, he's very handsome."
"Mousey told me your name," she remarked, try-
ing to make her voice as small and gentle as possible
so that it would not startle the little people. A few
lizards ran by without waiting to see what was going
on, and the dry leaves at the foot of the tree rustled
as they passed through.
''I already know your name,'' said Greytail to
Felice. "I was in the fairy dell when Bandy took
off his long green cap to you.''
''Why, I didn't see you, where were you1'' she
asked.
"Oh, up in a tree where I could see everything.
I never thought then that I'd ever be talking to you
here,'' the squirrel added.
"Do you like cones?" Felice held out to Greytail
the handful she had gathered.
"I like nuts and acorns better," he replied, "but
cones are good if one is very hungry. Did you know
that the redwoods are the largest of the evergreen
trees and they have the smallest cones? Yes,'' he
went on with a funny little smile, "size is very de-
ceptive. For instance, sometimes the biggest talkers
say the least."
Felice and Mrs. Mouse looked across at each other
as if they both knew that Greytail was thinking of
Cheeky.
While the squirrel, who seemed to be a very wise
animal, had been speaking, other mice had come up
and were running around sniffing here and there,
but not daring to come too close. Felice asked Mrs.
Mouse what they wanted.
66 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
''They can smell the food you have,'' she answered.
"Why, I have nothing to eat here," said the little
girl, very surprised.
· ''Oh, yes, you have, and I will show you where it
is,'' replied Mrs. Mouse and she very bravely climbed
onto Felice's lap and peeped into the pocket of her
cotton pinafore. Then right into the pocket she went,
coming out with some big crumbs of bread. Felice's
astonished stare made the mice and Greytail burst
out laughing-in their own way of course.
"Why, I had quite forgotten I had a sandwich
in my pocket-but all of you knew it!'' exclaimed
the little girl.
''That is not strange to us,'' spoke up Greytail.
"We have a very keen sense of smell which helps us
find our food."
Felice thought to herself, "I never imagined that
such tiny bits of food could be of use to anyone.''
She promised her little friends that she would never
again waste even the smallest piece of food, and
told them that in the winter she would put out food
for the birds in her garden.
''Be sure you hang it where cats can't jump on
the birds,'' reminded Greytail.
' ' All right, '' she agreed, ' 'and before I go I '11
empty all the scraps from the picnic basket for you.''
The mice wrinkled up their pointed noses with de-
light, while the squirrel gently waved his tail in
thanks. Felice told Mrs. Mouse that she would soon
come back to see them.
''All right, Felice,'' the squirrel and mouse both
spoke together, "we'll be ready for you."
0
FELICE MEETS GREYTAIL 67
"But how will you be sure I am coming!" she
asked.
''Oh. that will be easy,'' laughed the animals.
''Cheeky never misses anything, you know.''
It was not very long before Felice came back to
the redwood, bringing with her a big bag of food
scraps--pieces of fat, which the birds loved, and
bread for the furry animals. She sat down and at
once a faint scuffling sound beside her announced
Mrs. Mouse.
"Oh, my!" thought Felice, "she has brought all
her relatives with her·; well, anyhow I have plenty
for them."
A funny little whistle Cam.e from up in the tree,
and Greytail arrived; followed by some of his friends,
while a :flock of birds were already waiting on the
branches;
Felice spread out part .of the food, keeping some
back for late-comers, and the little animals and bird.'i
started eating. Only the faint noise of nibbling could
be heard for a few minutes. Then a thin wild scream
startled them. The animals stopped eating, for they
all realized that Cheeky was in great trouble close by.
The little girl jumped to her feet spilling the rest of
the food, and asked excitedly, "Where is he Y"
''Over there,'' called Greytail, who was already
halfway to the chipmunk.
Felice and the rest were along in a moment, and
her astonished eyes saw Cheeky, suspended in a loop
of heavy string drawn tightly around his body, at
the top of a thin willow branch about a foot above
the ground. There he hung, throwing his hind end
68 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
and tail madly around in a terrific effort to free him-
self. Felice felt very sorry for the little fellow, who
kept on making his thin, high cry, but Gretyail
sharply told him t-0 be quiet, that they would help him.
The little girl leaned forward at once, her hands
already outstretched to loosen the loop, but the squir-
rel nipped at her ankle. She paused in amazement,
but immediately Greytail motioned her to stoop down
so that he could whisper right in her ear.
''I'm sorry I bit you, Felice, but I had to stop you
quickly. Please don't help Cheeky,'' he went on ir;
a low voice. "We all know that you could free hjm
at once, but then you see he would think it was too
easy and wouldn't learn his lesson. We must make
him realize how foolish he was and how serious it
could have been.''
So, Felice, understanding that he was right, stepped
back to let them take over the job of liberating
Cheeky. Greytail stood on his hind legs and began
to chew on the cord around the crying chipmunk.
Several of the mice, with their sharp teeth cut through
the thin tough willow stalk close to the ground, so
that it fell down. Then it was easier for the squirrel
to gnaw through the cord. Suddenly it gave way and
the chipmunk lay gasping, but free!
"Now, Cheeky,'' said Greytail in a very stern
voice, ''what were you doing to get into that trap?
You've been warned many times about that kind of
thing."
Cheeky managed to get out a few words, saying
that he had seen the loop as he was coming to Felice's
feast, and decided he'd make a leap right through it.
..
FELICE MEETS GREYTAIL 69
But he had missed his aim, so that when he touched
the cord it had tightened around him while the
branch had sprung up at the same time.
"0-o-o-h! I've got an awful tummy-ache," he
wailed.
"Well, you're lucky that a tummy-ache is all that's
wrong with you,'' grumbled Greytail, who was really
annoyed at the silly young chipmunk. "We'll take
you home and bring you your food until you are able
to go out for yourself.''
The squirrels helped to carry Cheeky away, while
Felice called goodbye to him, but he felt too wretched
to answer. Mrs. Mouse ran up to the little girl.
"Don't worry about Cheeky,'' she told her. "He'11
be all right in a few days-and perhaps wiser, too.
Be sure to come and see us again.'' She wriggled her
long thin tail, since she couldn't shake hands with her
friend, then slipped off through the pine needles to
follow Greytail.
Felice stood for a few moments till there were no
more sounds of tiny feet moving, then very thought-
fully turned to walk home.
THE ENCHANTED LAKE
A Tale From the Folklore of The East
MARY-AJJBY PROCTOR
llNCE UPON a time, in the long, long ago,
there was a king who kept going to war.
He conquered his neighbors, then he went
to conquer more distant lands, until, finally, he ruled
over so many countries and so many people that he
was called "The Great Emperor."
Everyone flattered him. He was given many won-
derful gifts. He was told how noble, how great, how
very, very wonderful he was, until at last he really
believed it! He often said to himself, "No one on
earth nor in heaven is greater than I!"
Now this was a pretty strong statement for a mere
human being to make, for even the greatest and
wisest earthly person cannot know more than every-
one else, nor rule over everything on earth and in
heaven.
One day this great and mighty Emperor went on
a hunting party with his courtiers. They were all
gorgeously clothed and mounted on handsome horses
that danced and pranced about. The dogs leaped up
and barked loudly. The horns sounded, and off
through field and forest rode the gay party.
70
THE ENCHANTED LAKE 71
The Sun shone very bright, and after a few hours
they were all weary with hunting and extremely
warm with the heat of the day.· Then the great and
mighty Emperor told his men to rest under the trees
while he went to bathe in a beautiful lake which was
near by. The courtiers were frightened because the
Emperor was going to bathe in this lake. It was
an enchanted lake and one took great risks if even
a drop of its magic water touched him.
W"hen told of the dangers of the enchanted lake,
the great and mighty Emperor proudly said, ''I am
mightier than any enchantment,'' and immediately
rode to its beautiful sandy shore. His horse was
fastened to a tree, his beautiful clothes carefully ar-
ranged on the shore. Then at his command his men-
in-waiting left him alone. He plunged into the water.
He was delighted with its soft coolness. He swam
about .and was very comfortable. Never for a moment,
however, did he forget that he was the great and
mighty Emperor. While he was enjoying himself
there came to the shores of the lake a man who looked
very much like the great and mighty Emperor. In
fact, he was almost his double, not only in looks, but
also in voice and manner.
This man quickly dressed himself in the Emperor's
clothes. His majesty's followers were probably sound
asleep in the cool shade. Anyway, none of them saw
this man, dressed in their Emperor's clothes, ride
away on his beautiful horse. Not even one of those
many hunting dogs barked!
Rested, cool, and comfortable, the great and mighty
Emperor swam to the place where his clothing had
72 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
been spread out in gorgeous array. Could he believe
his eyes! Why, there were no clothes there! His
horse was not there! No clothing! No horse! What
an outrage ! Someone should suffer severely !
"What, ho! my men!" Not a sound in answer to
the call of the great and mighty Emperor!
By this time the Sun was fast disappearing behind
the mountains. It grew very cool. The Emperor
walked about the shores of the lake. Soon it was
dark. He could see no one. Evidently the hunters
had gone and left him-left him, the great and mighty
Emperor ! Truly, someone should suffer for this !
Only wait till he got to his palace and sat upon his
throne!
The great and mighty one soon realized that the
important thing now was to find clothing and shelter.
He suddenly remembered that not far from the lake
there lived a knight. ''Did I not make him knight
and give him his splendid castle1 He will be only
too glad to clothe his Emperor. I will go to him."
Before he started to go to the knight the Emperor
wove into a mat some of the reeds that grew along
the shore of the lake. He wrapped this mat about
his body. Then he went to the castle of the knight.
Though only a short journey, it was a painful one.
The sharp stones cut his feet. The briars pierced his
flesh. The branches of the trees caught and tangled
his long hair. It was a disagreeable experience for
a great and mighty Emperor! Many times he vowed
that someone should suffer severely for this when he
once more was in his palace and seated upon his
throne.
THE ENCHANTED LAKE 73
The Emperor arrived at the castle. He beat upon
the gates. He called for the gatekeeper who finally
came and looked through the little window in the big
gate and asked, "Who is thereY"
''Open the gate,'' ordered the Emperor, ''and you
will quickly see who I am.'' And he swelled with
pride.
The gate opened, the minion thrust out his head
and said, ''Who are youY''
Much disgusted the great and mighty Emperor
shouted, "Wretch! I am thy Emperor!"
"Ho ! Ho I" laughed the man.
"Wretch I Wretch I Go to thy master," ordered
the Emperor. "Bid him send me clothing. Tell him
to come and greet his Emperor!''
"Emperor !" jeered the boor. "The Emperor was
here with my master not an hour ago. He came with
his court from the hunt. Oh, yes I I'll call my master.
I'll show him a great and mighty Emperor!'' The
porter slammed the gate in his majesty's face. How-
ever, he soon returned with the knight and pointing
to the naked man cried, ''There is the Emperor. Look
at his Majesty I''
The proud and mighty ruler said in his proudest
and mightiest tones, ''Draw near and kneel to your
Emperor, Sir Knight!" The knight looked very
much surprised while the Emperor added, "I-I, the
Emperor, made thee knight. I gave thee this castle.
I now give thee a greater gift-I grant thee leave to
clothe thy Emperor with thy garments I"
"You dog! You rascal! Get out I" shouted Sir
Knight. "Know you, you fellow, that not an hour
74 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
ago the great and mighty Emperor sat at meat
at my table.'' The knight grew more and more
enraged. ''Beat this fellow! Drive him from the
gates!''
How the gatekeeper laughed as the servants beat
the poor man. "Lay on well!" he shouted. "It is
not every day you can whack an Emperor.''
The great and mighty Emperor limped away,
bruised and bleeding. ''Worthless fellow ! I gave
that knight all he hath. See how he repays me!
Wait, ah, wait until I sit upon my throne again !
Verily, he shall be severely punished!'' Then he
began to feel that circumstances were very disagree-
able for him. "Now, where shall I goY What next
shall I do? Ah! I will go to the Duke! I have known
him all my days. With him have I feasted and
hunted. Why! the Duke was in my hunting party
today ! Surely he will know his Emperor!''
As he stumbled along, the Emperor began to think
-to really think. He asked himself why it was his
people did not know him. His kingliness, his great-
ness should be plain to see even if he were not
garbed in kingly raiment.
Suddenly there was the sound of a voice, very near,
right in his ear! The mighty Ruler was startled.
He looked about. He could see no one. Yet a voice
had plainly said to him, ''True greatness is humble.
It proclaims not itself, yet it is like the Sun. It can
not be covered up. True greatness gives him who has
it great beauty-beauty that no throne, no crown,
no kingly raiment can bestow.''
The voice went on: "Wisdom and worth can not
THE ENCHANTED LAKE 75
be disguised by lack of clothes, nor by dirt and
wounds. On the other hand, any foolish fellow with
a throne, a crown, a palace and admiring, flattering
courtiers can appear to be a prince.''
The great and mighty Emperor plodded on to the
Duke's great hall. But he was not as bold and as
sure of welcome as he had been before when he
knocked at the gates. At the third knock the gate
opened and its porter saw a man clad only in a mat
of rushes, his hair a mass of tangles, his body stained
and bleeding.
''Go to the Duke, I pray thee. Say to him that the
Emperor stands at his gate. Say to him that his Em-
peror has been robbed of clothing and of his horse.
Go quickly I I command thee I''
The amazed porter closed the gate and hastened
to his master. ''Your Grace, there is a madman at
the gates I He is unclad. He is bruised, dirty, wild.
He bade me say to your Grace that your Emperor
is at the gate."
The gates flew open. His grace, the Duke, failed
to recognize the EmperorI
''Do you know me? I am your EmperorI Only
this morning you hunted with me. You will remem-
ber that I left you to bathe in the lake. While I was
in the lake some wretch stole both my clothing and
my horse. And-and 1-1-1 have been beaten by a
base knight !" Could it be possible that the voice of
the great and mighty Emperor trembled Y It cer-
tainly sounded less haughty than usual.
"Put the fellow in chains ! It is not safe to have
such a wretch free,'' commanded the Duke, then
76 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
added : ''Give him bread and water, and straw to
lie on.''
''Strange, strange,'' murmered the Duke as he re-
turned to his guests in the big hall, and to whom he
said, ''A. madman at the gates. He must have been
in the forest this morning while we were resting, for
he told me that he himself was the Emperor; that
he left us to bathe in the lake and that someone
stole both his clothing and his horse. Yet you know
that the Emperor rode back with us.''
They all talked about this strange man. Some mur-
mured, "The lake, the enchanted lake!" Yet it did
not seem possible that anything could have happened
to their Emperor as they had seen him less than an
hour ago.
The great Emperor lay chained in a dark cell. He
was sore and wounded. "vVait, wait, until I am
again upon my throne ! I '11 teach those rascals a
lesson.'' But the mighty Ruler never dreamed that
it was he, the great and mighty, who was learning
the most wonderful lesson of his life.
"A.m I so changed that even the Duke does not
know me?" Then his thoughts wandered to the
palace. ''There is one who will know me, let me
wear what I may! I will go to her!"
After long, painful effort the chains were loosed
and the unhappy man fled from his cell toward his
own palace. When morning came he was at the
palace gates. The great Ruler lifted his hand and
knocked-knocked at his own gates !
The porter looked at the wild, unclad man. "Who
are you? What do you want?''
THE ENCHANTED LAKE 77
''Let me pass ! · I am your Master. I am your
Emperor!''
"You, my Master! You, the Emperor! Poor fool.
Look here.'' The porter threw· open the gates and
pointed to a hall. There sat the Emperor on his
throne. By his side was the Queen-his beloved
Queen! Oh, the agony he suffered I
"Let me go to her ! She will know me !"
The noise made by the porter and the Emperor
reached the great hall where there was a feast with
many guests. The nobles came out to see what the
trouble was. Behind them came the Queen and the
Emperor.
Choked with rage, with fear and anxiety, when he
saw these two he could barely speak; but he hoarsely
cried: ''I am your lord and husband,'' stretching
out his hand to his beloved Queen. ''Surely you
know me!''
The Queen shrank back with fear. "Gentlemen,"
said the man who was with the Queen, "What shall
be done to this wretch7''
''Kill him,'' said one. ''Beat him!'' shouted others.
The great and mighty Ruler was thrust roughly
from the palace; each gave him a blow in passing.
The gates of his own palace closed upon ·him. He
fled. He knew not where he went. By and by he
came to the lake where he had bathed. He was cold,
hungry, sore, and bruised; he wished he were dead.
He knelt on the ground, he beat his breast. He put
his head to the dust and cried, ''I am no great and
mighty Ruler. I ·am no wonderful Emperor. Once I
thought there was no one greater than I on earth
78 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
or in heaven. Now I know I am nothing-a poor
sinful man. There is no one so poor, so mean as I I
God forgive me for my pride.'' Tears ran from his
eyes. He arose and washed his face in the clear
waters of the enchanted lake. He turned around.
There were his clothes I There was his beautiful horse
eating the sweet, green grass I
His Majesty quickly dressed. He mounted his horse.
He rapidly rode to his palace. As he drew near, the
gates opened wide. Servants came out, one held his
horse, another helped him to dismount. The porter
bowed low as he said, ''I marvel, your Majesty, that
I did not see you pass out through the gates.''
The great and mighty Ruler entered. In the mag-
nifi.cent hall he again saw the nobles, the Queen with
the man by her side-the man who had called him-
self the Emperor. The nobles did not look at this
man, neither did the Queen. They saw only their
Emperor enter the hall and went to greet him. The
man also came forward. He was clad in white, shin-
ing robes, not in kingly garments.
The Emperor bowed his head to him in the white
robes and murmured, ''Who art thou Y''
''I am thy Guardian Angel,'' answered he who was
clad in· shining white. ''Thou wert proud and set
thyself on high. Therefore thou wast brought low.
But thy kingdom, which I have guarded is now given
back to thee, for now thou art humble. Only the
humble are fit to rule.''
The Angel disappeared. None other had heard his
voice. The Emperor once again sat upon his throne,
and he ruled humbly, but wisely, ever after.
BILLY'S SOUL
HELEN BOYD
e:l~•VER since he could remember the hump al-
ways had been there. Once he asked his
mother about it, but she just gathered him
into her arms and said, ''There, there, son, mother
loves you just the same. "
Of course Billy was glad that his mother loved
him, but he did wish he could find somebody who
would tell him all about the hump. There were so
many, many questions he wanted to ask about .it.
''Perhaps,'' he would whisper to his little Scotch
terrier, "perhaps the angels dropped me when they
were bringing me here. What do you think about
it, Bobs?'' But the little Scotch terrier would just
wag his tail and lazily blink his eyes as much as to
say, "It's really too big a question for such a little
dog to answer,'' and so Billy found out that he
could get no information in that quarter.
One day when he was sitting in the garden in his
little wheel chair, he noticed a particularly beautiful
rose. .AB he leaned over and caressed it gently with
his thin little fingers, he murmured dreamily, "I
wonder if flowers have souls just like people."
"Why, of course we have," he was astonished to
79
80 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
hear a voice say, and although he looked everywhere
he could not see a single person.
''Here I am,'' the voice chirped up. This time
Billy looked straight at the rose and was surprised
to see a dainty little fairy peeping out from among
its petals.
"Why-why-who are you?" gasped Billy, his
big eyes very round.
''I'm the soul of this rose,'' answered the fairy
with an airy grace.
"And have all the other flowers, souls, too Y" in-
quired Billy looking rather puzzled.
"Why, of course,'' said the fairy promptly. I
thought everybody knew that.''
Suddenly Billy remembered about the hump and
wheeling his chair a little closer to the fairy he said
eagerly, "Oh, do you think you could tell me about
this-" here the little boy swallowed rather hard,
''this hump? Why do I have itY''
There was silence in the garden for a moment,
then the fairy said very slowly and impressively,
''Everything has a purpose, you know.''
''But I really don't want it, you see,'' persisted
Billy. "It seems rather silly to have it when it isn't
a bit of use," he went on in a plaintive little voice,
"and, besides, I can't play and have a good time like
other little boys.''
"I don't know whether I can do anything for
you or not," said the fairy. "However, I will call
a meeting of the fairies tonight and we will talk
it over."
''And will you tell them that I want to be straight
.·.;
.. ,.
..!
, I
i
"
BILLY'S SOUL 81
and strong like other boys ?'' came in tense tones
from Billy.
The fairy nodded her head and said, ''Be here
tomorrow afternoon and I will let you know the
answer." ·Then the rose petals closed up and the
little creature was lost to view.
Just then some visitors sauntered into the garden
and catching sight of Billy, one of them, a very beau-
tiful girl, murmured, "How dreadful!" She didn't
mean Billy to hear, but he did catch the words, and
later, when his mother went to get him, she found
him a quivering little bundle of wounded feelings.
"Why, Billy, son!" she exclaimed. "You mustn't
cry so. See-you are making mother feel bad.''
"But-but, she looked at me so, mother." Then
he sobbed out his story in her arms.
"Listen, son," his mother said quietly. "Your
body is only the little house in which you live. It's
your soul inside of you that really counts."
Then Billy's face cleared because he remembered
about the fairy and all the way to the house he kept
whispering, "Tomorrow, I '11 know-tomorrow I '11
know."
As his mother tucked him in bed that night she
wondered at the happy, peaceful look on his face.
When she bent over to kiss him, she said tenderly,
"What makes my little boy so happy tonightV" And
Billy murmured sleepily, "It's a secret, mother
dear-perhaps-tomorrow,'' and his voice trailed off
into dreamland.
The next day he was in a fever of excitement.
82 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
He could hardly wait for the afternoon to arrive so
anxious was he to see the fairy again. When his
nurse placed him in his wheel chair she noticed his
flushed cheeks and said with great concern, ''I do
hope, Master Billy, you are not catching anything."
"Oh, I'm all right, nurse," returned Billy, his
eyes shining. "But I do wish you would hurry."
Then he gave her careful directions as to where he
wished his chair placed.
Just as soon as the nurse had disappeared into the
house, Billy cried softly, "I'm here, fairy-rose,"
and the next instant the fairy's face came peeping
through the petals.
"What did they say?" began Billy eagerly.
''S-sh,'' whispered the fairy. ''The Queen decided
to hold a meeting right here in the garden and here
she comes now."
Looking up, Billy saw a fairy coming down the
path. She was dressed in shining raiment which glit-
tered when she walked. She stopped in front of
Billy's chair and said, ''Are you the little boy who
wants to be made well and strong Y'' Billy nodded,
too overcome to speak.
The Queen then waved her wand over the garden
and immediately little faces peeped out from all the
flowers.
"Listen, fairies," commanded the Queen. "Here
is a little boy who wants to be made straight and
strong. As the fairies started to talk she held up
her wand and said, ''Wait ! We will let him speak
for himself.''
Billy felt rather shy at being the center of so much
BILLY'S SOUL 83
attention, but he knew they were waiting and so he
began: "I-I want to be like other boys-so that I
can play all of their games. Besides, if I didn't
have any hump the people wouldn't look at me and
say, 'How dreadful!' Please, fairies,'' cried Billy
appealingly, ''please take away the hump !''
The fairies talked among themselves for some
time and although Billy listened intently he could
not make out a word they were saying.
At length there was silence and then the Queen
spoke: "Billy, I'm afraid we shall not be able to
take away the hump, but we will help you to build
such a beautiful soul that people will love you wher-
ever you go-just for yourself, and they will forget
all about the hump.''
Of course Billy was disappointed-bitterly disap-
pointed. He kept his face hidden for some time
because he knew it was stained with tears, and he
was rather ashamed to let the fairies see that he had
been crying.
Presently the Fairy Queen continued: ''And we
will give you such a wonderful imagination that you
will be able to make up games that other boys would
never think of. And whenever you wish you may
enter 'Make-believe land,' and have- the most won-
derful adventures there. You see this land is meant
for little boys like you. The door is locked to boys
who are straight and strong.''
And suddeny Billy felt a wonderful peace steal
over him, and he became very, very happy. When
he lifted his head he discovered that the Queen and
all the fairies had disappeared and that his nurse
84 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
was coming for him.
"Why, Master Billy," she exclaimed in astonish-
ment. "You-you look different somehow I"
"I feel different and I am different, nursie dear,"
replied Billy sweetly as he leaned back in his chair.
''After this I am going to be the happiest boy alive.'i
On his face a strange, sweet expression rested which
comes only to those who have sensed the reality of
holy things.
UNDINES
PATSEY ELLIS
Did you ever seen the undines
Dance among the reeds and willows7
Have you ever heard their laughter
As they ride the foaming billows?
Some day you may :find an undine,
Hiding in a shower of rain-
See one peeping from a bubble,
If you look with might and main I
THE LITTLE PRINCE
FLORENCE BARR
llAR above the treetops and the fluffy clouds,
yes, even beyond the blue sky, long ago dwelt
a King. His kingdom stretched far and wide,
and everyone in it was so happy that it was called
the Kingdom of Happiness. Soft strains of music
and dainty rainbow colors floated in the air in that
faraway land. Then one day it seemed as though a
jarring note was struck. The King listened, and the
murmuring sound of discord came closer. Presently
the King called a little Prince to him and said : '' The
earth children seem not to have happy hearts, and
the love light is growing dim. Someone must go to
these earth children and carry a fresh love light.''
"Oh, Father, let me go," said the little Prince.
This pleased the King. But he knew it would not
be an easy task and so he said : ''Are you ready to
go, my son? It is dark in the earth world, and some-
times it will be hard to light the love light.''
"Yes, Father, I am ready to go whenever you send
me,'' said the Prince.
So the King called some of his messengers in the
Kingdom of Happiness and said : ''My son, the little
Prince, is going on a long journey to a far-away land.
85
86 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Make everything ready for his visit to the earth chil-
dren.'' The King's messengers talked among them-
selves, and soon great preparations were being made
for the going away of the Prince.
In a village in the earth world lived a beautiful
young woman. She lived in a little house surrounded
by a garden. Often she sat in the garden and read.
The birds would fly around her and sometimes a
white dove would perch on her shoulder and coo to
her; ¥ary was the young woman's name ; she had
a winsome manner and a sweet smile. As she went
about the village doing kind deeds, she made many
people happy and everyone loved her.
In th;i.t earth land was a king who ruled in a most
unkind way. He really made his people sad. His
kingdom was very different from the Kingdom of
Happiness above the blue sky. Because so many peo-
ple. were unhappy Mary's heart was sad. She did
not like to see others suffer ; she wanted them to be
happy and unafraid.
There was one story Mary particularly liked and
which she read over and over. In it the King of the
Kingdom of . Happiness had promised to send the
Prince of Peace to save the earth children. Mary
often ta].ked with the King, her Heavenly Father,
and told Him she longed for this little Prince to
come. One day after she had been talking with the
King, she felt very happy. And she began to sing,
and her heart felt so light and gay. She thought
the birds sang sweeter and that even the sunlight
was brighter than usual. It seemed to grow lighter
in the garden, and then right in front of her, sur-
THE LITTLE PRINCE 87
rounded by beautiful rainbow colors, stood an Angel.
The Angel spoke to Mary and told her that her
Heavenly Father was going to keep His promise to
the earth child, and that he would send the Prince
of Peace to her to love and cherish for her very own.
You can imagine how happy this made the lovely
Mary. In the evening when her husband came home,
she told him of the visit of the Angel, and so Joseph
was happy too. Then they began to plan for the
coming of the little Prince.
In 'olden days people paid taxes just as they do
nowadays. One evening Joseph came home and said:
''Mary, dear, it is time for us to go to Bethlehem
to pay our taxes." Then Mary and Joseph started
right away. Mary· rode on a donkey, and Joseph
walked beside her. They were both so happy at the
thought of the coming of the little Prince that they
talked about it as they went along.
After a long, hard journey they reached Bethle-
hem. Joseph made Mary as comfortable as he could,
and then went to see about getting a room in the
inn. He was gone quite a while, and when he came
back to Mary he said: ''My dear, there is not a room
left in the inn. There is nothing but the stable where
the cattle are kept. But it is nice and clean.''
And Mary said: "That is all right, Joseph dear,
I do not mind in the least. We shall be comfortable,
and I am so tired that I shall go right to sleep.'' So
they went into the stable. The cows mooed as if to
welcome them, and their soft, kind eyes seemed to
show pleasure at the coming of Joseph and Mary.
On a bed of soft, sweet-smelling hay Mary was
88 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
comfortable and happy. She thanked her Heavenly
Father for His wonderful promise, and then she
slept.
In the Kingdom of Happiness the Angels were
busy starting the little Prince on his journey to the
earth world. An Angel took him up gently and
carried him, saying: ''Go, pretty child, and carry a
message of love and happiness to the children of
earth. The light of love is in your eyes, and it will
never grow dim. A spark of light glows in your
heart, and it will grow brighter and brighter."
And the King was pleased and said: "My son,
you have a great work to do to make brighter the
love light in a darkened world. Bless you, my child.''
From the Kingdom of Happiness to the earth
world stretched a bridge of love, and across this
bridge the Angel carried the heavenly Prince. The
singing Angels and the Angels of Light attended
him. Angelic music floated out clear and sweet on the
starlit air. Soon all the heavenly host were praising
God and singing: ''Glory to God in the highest, and
on earth peace, good will toward men.''
After reaching the earth the bright light of a
certain beautiful Star guided the Angel to Mary.
As the Angel gave the little Prince to her he said:
''Guard him carefully, for he is the gift of God.''
Then Mary and the Prince were suddenly bathed
in brightness. As she looked into his eyes, she mar-
veled at the love light there. Every baby has light
in its face, but this little one had the light of God
in his eyes. The angelic music and the bright Star
attracted many people, and soon there were visitors
THE LITTLE PRINCE 89
crowding in to see the baby Prince. Shepherds came
from the field nearby. They had seen the Star and
followed it, and it had led them to the place where
the babe lay in a manger.
Now, dear children, this is the story of a little
Prince of Peace, the Light Bearer to the children of
earth, whose birthday we celebrate each Christmas
day.
The Star that stood over the place where the Prince
lay shines today just as brightly as it did then,
lighting each little child on its way across the bridge
of love from the kingdom of earth to the Kingdom
of Happiness. Let us follow the Star and keep our
love light burning bright to light others on the way
to happiness and joy.
OH! MY TUMMY!
MARJORIE BRINKLY
A playlet for children which brings
out the importance of proper eating.
SCENE I
THE OHARA.OTER8
(In the order in which they appear)
Tommy Ache, a boy about ten years old.
Bad Dreams, a "boy dressed in a b'lack robe with red
streamers.
Sadie Pickle, a thin little girl dressed in green.
Soggy Whitebread, a little boy in a gray robe.
Fatty Doughnut, a fat boy.
Katie Kandy,· a smirking little girl.
Mrs. Red Meat, a large girl, with a determined air.
Good Dream, a little girl dressed as a fairy in white
with silver wings.
Browllie Bread, a little boy in brown and gold.
Pattie Butter, a little girl in yellow and gold.
Molly Milk, a little girl dressed in white with a taU
hat.
Sonnie Honey, a little boy dressed in amber.
90
OHi MY TUMMY!
Goldie Orange, a little girl dressed in orange.
Reggie Vegetable, a little boy dressed in green.
91
The Setting, a room with couch and other ordinary
furniture.
Tommy Ache is found lying asleep on the couch, 'but
is rolling and tossing, and finally awakens with
sharp pains and holds his stomach, groaning and
crying.
(Enter Bad Dreams, who shufil.es around, glaring and
looki'ng ugly.)
Tommy Ache. (Between groans.) Who are you7
Bad Dreams. (In a deep voice, slow and rumbling.)
Roll and toss, and twist and turn,
You've eaten things that you should spurn,
And I am here to see that you
Shall suffer for misdeeds you do.
(Menacingly.)
I have a lot of friends with me,
They'll tell you why we all agree
To do our work with equal share,
To make your dreams a long nightmare.
Tommy Ache. (Still gro(Jlfl,ing and crying.)
Go away, I don't want you hanging around here !
Bad Dreams. (UnheediTig, beckons to his friends.)
Come on, friends.
(Enter Sadie Pickle and Soggy Whitebread.)
Sadie Pickle. (In a high-pitched voice.)
I pickle your heart,
And tickle your tongue.
I make you old
92 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
Before you are young.
I'm sweet and I'm sour,
And good and bad.
I never miss tempting
A little lad.
Tommy Ache. (In a pain-stricken voice.) I '11 never
eat you again.
(Turns over and tries to get comfortable.)
Soggy Whitebread. (In a tkick voice.)
Soggy, soggy white bread,
Makes your tummy feel like lead,
Makes you tired and want to sleep,
Makes you ache so you have to weep.
Soggy, soggy white bread.
Tommy Ache. (Crying and soobing.) Oh, let me
alone!
(Continues to roll and toss and kold kis stomack.)
(Enter Fatty Doughnut, slowly and lazily.)
Fatty Doughnut.
Doughnuts, and cakes, and piecrust am I !
I certainly am a lazy guy;
My clothes are greasy and mussy and creasy,
But I should worry, and sigh and cry,
I'm much, too much of a lazy guy!
Tommy Ache. (Desperately.)
I wish all you awful people would go away and
never show up again. I think you are a bad lot. Get
out! (Reminiscently.) I used to know a sweet little
girl named Katie that would help me if she were here.
(Enter Katie Kandy all smiles and smirks.)
OH! MY TUMMY!
Katie Kandy.
When you eat me a little, I'm nice and sweet,
If you take me too much, I'm sure to cheat;
But a lot depends on the way you treat me.
Especially on the time you eat me.
Down-in-the-mouth, and Out-at-the-heels,
That's what I am between your meals ;
But if you want me when I don't hurt,
Then only take me for your dessert.
Tommy Ache.
93
And I thought you were a good friend. Where's
Mrs. Red Meat Y She's substantial.
(Enter Mrs. Red Meat with a determined air.)
Mrs. Red Meat.
I'll tell you what and tell you quick,
You can't chase aches and pains with a stick;
It does no good, while I'm your food,
Cause I'm the one who makes you sick.
(Sing-songy.)
Oh, I'm Mrs. Red Meat,
Leg o'veal and pickled pigs feet ;
Sausage, liver, and head cheese, toci.
Roast o'beef and porky stew.
Fried ham, and burnt up steak,
Peppery leaves and hashed up fake ;
I always promise to build up fast
But, always fail you at the last.
I laugh and lie and like to cheat;
He, he! Ho; ho! I'm Mrs. Red Meat.
(Tommy Ache, mof.ioning them all away, lies back
on the couch and after much rolling falls asleep.)
AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
SCENE II
(Enter Good Dream, dancing around lightly, very
gracefully, and awakens him.)
Good Dream.
I am the good nutrition fairy;
See, my wings are light and airy,
Light and airy are my wings,
And happy is my heart that sings.
If you don't like an awful. dream,
Or aches and pains that make you scream,
Then hark to what I have to say,
And you'll feel well most every day.
(BeckO'nS to good food friends.)
(Enter Brownie Bread and Pattie Butter, who come
quickly in and 'begin straightening his pillow and
smoothing his head.)
Brownie Bread.
My name is little Brownie Bread
And if you will eat me instead
Of all my enemies you've just seen,
I 'II make you plump instead of lean.
Let me tell you a secret, too ;
I'm very needful also, to you
For without me, I shall not lie
You're just as apt as not to die !
Tommy Ache. (Sitting up and smiling broadly.)
Oh, I like you people. Who is this little girl?
OH I MY TUMMYI
Pattie Butter.
Brownie Bread is my fast friend.
And when a summons to him you send,
I always come in a: big flutter,
For I am his sister, Pattie Butter.
Eat lots of me,
For I '11 pave the way
And none of the loiterers
Will care to stay.
95
Tommy Ache. (His pain vanished, straightens out
and looks happy.)
Sit down, I'd like you to stay a while.
(Molly Milk and Sonnie Honey come in singing
"Happy Days Are Here Again.")
Molly Milk.
I have hidden inside of me,
All the chemicals, you see,
That you need to build you strong,
So that nothing will ever go wrong.
Raw milk you need.
So look to your feed,
Young and old to me should come,
If they want the wheels to hum.
Sonnie Honey. (In a high sweet voice.)
I'm the sweetest person around,
And joy and happiness ever abound,
If you call on me to sweeten the taste,
Not dead sugar who only makes waste.
96 AQUARIAN AGE STORIES
I have a cousin, Cottage Cheese,
And don't you even dare to sneeze ;
For together we come, hand in hand,
The best combination in the land.
Tommy Ache. Bring up a chair and make yourselves
comfortable. I'm very glad you came.
(Enter Goldie Orange and Reggie Vegetable hand in
hand.)
Goldie Orange.
I come to you all sunny and bright,
And make your dreams both funny and light,
I'm closely related to Good Dreams Fairy,
And will make your days so happy and merry.
If you stick to me, you'11 never rue,
The day I.was introduced to you.
I '11 be faithful to you ever so long,
And make your life a happy song.
(Goldie Orange turns to Reggie Vegetable and intro-
duces him.)
This is Reggie Vegetable, he is last but not least.
Reggie Vegetable.
My other name is Mineral Salt,
And to Bad Dreams I put a halt;
Eaten three times as much or more,
I '11 change your system from the very core !
Carrots, veggies, squash and greens,
Change the color of the scenes ;
They're all relations of mine you '11 find.
And to you we '11 all be ever kind.
(They all join hands dancing around Tommy Ache,
and all sing ''Happy Days Are Here Again.'')
