{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__jackson___religious_sanity.pdf","mytitle":"Religious Sanity","mylang":"de"}
Religious Sanity
THE PHILOSOPHY OF INDIVIDUAL LIFE
An Abridgment by
A. R. JACKSON
of tbe Literature of
The Great School of Natural Science
Addressed to
The Progressive Intelligence of the Age
With a Foreword by J. W. NORWOOD
EXPOSITION PRESS psM NEW YORK
Copyright, 1951, by A. R. Jackson
All rights reserved
including the right of reproduction
in whole or in part in any form
Published by the Exposition Press Inc.
386 Fourth Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.
Manufactured in the United States of America
Consolidated Book Producers, Inc.
Designed by Morry M. Gropper
FOREWORD
The conclusions of the author of this hook, the manuscript
of which I have read with care, are so in line with findings of
the Natural Science represented hy the magazine To You, that I
feel honored to have been asked hy him for a Foreword to it.
After years of research and deep study, he presents a picture
of the Man of Galilee as the great Teacher of a simple way of life
which people living today may utilize to accomplish the "One
World" we constantly speak of but which we daily tear down by
our individual actions, our group actions and our personal
attitudes out of ignorance of the Man of Galilee's teachings.
Another world war that could destroy our present civiliza-
tions would probably force future historians to assign its cause to
"Religion"—a word of such vague import, today, as to permit
of several hundred vague definitions. Mr. Jackson's definition
is not at all vague, for it is the same as that taught hy the greatest
personage of Christianity, though He wrote no single word of
the canonical scripture himself. Religion in that sense was,
is, the individual Way of Life a man chooses for himself.
There was, and still is extant, all the method and technique
taught by this remarkable Man for living an individual life as
an active builder of, and in the world of, human brotherhood.
But you, as an individual, must do the work and use the tech-
nique yourself to become such a builder. You cannot read it
into yourself or receive it by proxy. You do the thing correctly,
and the result proves itself to you. No other can do this for you.
Your mistakes in interpretation and your correction of the
method and technique must be your own affair, if you would
convert faith and hope and what somebody else has advised
into knowledge and wisdom. Whatever your creed, color or
politics, there is a definite and very personal job open to you,
namely to discover for yourself the happiness of knowing you
are part of a world that needs builders, and that you are qualified
to do your share of the building.
More remarkable than miracles or superstitious belief in the
supernatural is the naturalism of the Jesus who knew about
life in its physical, spiritual and psychic aspects from personal
experience. If the Jesus portrayed by the author of this brochure
is believed by some to have been a God, a cultural and ethical
teacher by others, a prophet by the Mohammedans second only
to Mohammed, a minor Buddha by Buddhists, a communist by
communists, or a pioneer psychologist by scientists, why not
utilize this universal respect and reverance in building a peaceful
world for the "King of Peace"?
All these opinions of the Teacher have so long obscured the
real value of his teachings that one wonders, in reading this
volume of information about him, why the idea has not been
adopted before.
"Churchianity," in groups or in individuals, could afford to
abandon its struggle for position, for preeminance and for power
long enough to allow Christianity to purify the world, it would
seem. Or must mankind do this without help of those addicted
to "Churchianity"?
There is an old Talmudic story about several co-owners of a
boat that was caught in a terrible storm. All of them bailed hard
to keep themselves afloat, except one man, who knew a better
way, he thought. He seized an ax and began chopping a hole in
the bottom to let the water out as fast as it came in. Others
screamed at him and threatened to heave him overboard. He
threatened them with his ax, "Keep away and attend to your
own bailing. This is my part of the boat and I'll do with it as
I please."
Could the industrial world, the political world, or any other
part of the whole world in which we all live not afford to abandon
its particular brand of "Churchianity," and realize that we are
all in the same boat? Assuredly this was the teaching of Jesus.
These simple ideas are those, I think, most excellently illus-
trated by the author's proofs from the original Christian teach-
ings themselves. They were spread, he finds, by the Galilean
prophet in India, Persia, and other lanes along the route back
to Judea—and death.
If there is a word of caution to be given the reader, it is
this: The most ancient or the most modern legend, written or
oral, including books of history, is after all but assumed knowl-
edge, not actual proof. George Washington's cherry tree and
ax were a devoutly believed legend until its author confessed
late in life it was meant only as a moral story for children. So
with the apparently conflicting stories of "sacred writ" con-
cerning Jesus and his teachings. Who after many generations
now can swear to their authenticity or veracity? How can an
orphan swear to father or mother? Or an American who has
never seen Europe, swear to its existence or vice versa?
Yet, there is a knowledge horn of the keener senses and sup-
ported by logic that enables the finder of facts to piece them to-
gether into a truer whole than can less alert and studious
persons. Mr. Jackson has used such knowledge.
J. W. Norwood
Former Managing Editor of To You
Magazine, presently Associate Editor
Louisville, Kentucky
1950
jt
INTRODUCTION
A condensation of the Harmonic Series of books (eight in all)
,
and other literature of Natural Science and the Philosophy of
Individual Life, is contained in this volume with a few words
added by the Abridger.
Brief and inadequate though this abridgment is, the reader
will be able to get a glimpse of benefits that may be derived
from, and incalculably multiplied by, a careful reading of the
complete work.
The profound and searching knowledge of the workings of
the human soul flow from the Great School of the Masters—the
Great Central Source and Reservoir of Knowledge (Religious,
Philosophical, Moral, Physical, Spiritual and Psychical) which
the best intelligences of all ages have intuitively sensed and
definitely accepted as the great beneficent, constructive, uplift-
ing and progressive influence in the Evolution of Mankind from
spiritual infancy and darkness to soul maturity and illumination.
Jesus was definitely identified with the Great School of the
Masters, wherein He received His education, and from which He
obtained His commission to give His Message to the World.
The Great School of the Masters as it exists upon the earth
at this time is but the present and last link of a great unfinished
chain (Jesus was a link in that chain), by means of which the
crystallized results of the ages past are brought down to us of
this day and generation. You who shall receive these results in
good faith, and who of your own free will and accord enlist
your services in the Great Work of Emancipation, will con-
stitute the next regular link in the same great chain. If you
are wise enough and strong enough to avail yourself of the
scientific results therein placed before you, it is possible for you
to achieve the most highly beneficial results.
J. E. Richardson, TK., himself a Great Master, accomplished
the difficult task of reducing this great accumulation of knowl-
edge to a simple and unambiguous expression in the language of
his own people.
12 Religious Sanity
Natural Science is exact knowledge of the facts of Nature
(religious, philosophical, moral, psychical, spiritual and physi-
cal) , classified and systematized—the fruitage of the best intelli-
gences of all ages, from the cradle of Humanity to the immediate
present.
Pure Christianity is that limited portion of Natural Science
in existence up to the time of Jesus, which he found possible
to impart to Mankind under the handicaps of his day.
"Churchianity" consists of varying amounts of Pure Chris-
tianity, diluted and overshadowed, obscured and minimized in
importance, by persistent obtrusion of legend, myth, fable, exag-
gerations, dogmatism, ceremonials and rituals.
Natural Science includes, it will be noted therefore, not
only all Pure Christianity but also the fundamental Truths
as taught by all the Great Masters of the past, plus all the Truths
uncovered subsequently, right up to the present time—the
immediate present.
Natural Science today, is prepared to state, explain and
demonstrate another fundamental Principle: the Universal
Principle of Polarity. Philosophy based upon that Science is
today prepared to teach the value of Individual Life and the
importance of the relation of Man and Woman, Truths which
have never yet been properly or publicly explained by theology,
science, philosophy or law.
You, coming to a full realization of what this knowledge
means, will feel a sense of profound gratitude that the door of
Definite Knowledge is opened to you, and that you are permitted
to share in the knowledge that will "make us free."
RELIGIOUS SANITY
"Fools Deride,
Philosophers Investigate
1 YOUR SOUL
What is the primary purpose of the Soul?
How is this purpose best served?
"Soul" (Ego, Individual Intelligence, Essential Self) is the
highest element of individual being which is back of all the
phenomena by means of which it expresses and manifests itself
on any or all the planes of life, spiritual as well as physical.
POSSESSIONS
Nature evolves a Man.
Man, co-operating with Nature, evolves a "Master."
The Master Man, co-operating with and controlling the
forces, activities and processes of Nature, evolves a ?
As an individual intelligence, or soul, every human being
enters upon the business of life with the following possessions
which constitute his stock in trade:
one physical body
one spiritual body
one consciousness
one will
one full set of appetites, passions, emotions, desires,
impulses, ambitions and aspirations.
With this equipment and invoice of stock he enters upon the
business of life, which, from the standpoint of a Soul, is that of
accumulating experience and enlarging his store of knowledge.
The value of knowledge is that it can be applied to one's
individual Good and Greater Happiness.
16 Religious Sanity
The importance of knowledge may be judged from the fact
that its objective is the building of one's Temple—The Temple
of Character wherein one must abide forever.
The Soul manifests itself upon the physical plane through
its physical body.
The Soul manifests itself upon the spiritual plane through
its spiritual body.
Individual Consciousness is the essential foundation of all our
individual efforts and all our individual progress. Its possibili-
ties have never yet been reached. The entire problem of
Evolutionary Development, in one sense, is but the problem
of how to extend individual Consciousness, and thus enlarge
the field of its operations.
Will is the Soul's Giver. This Attribute enables the Soul to
balance Nature's account by returning to Nature and its Fellow-
men an equivalent for all it receives through the Receiving
(Consciousness) Attribute. As Man is bound by the Law of
Personal Responsibility, he must possess an Attribute which en-
ables him to balance his account.
The Set of Appetites, Passions, Emotions, Desires, Impulses,
Ambitions and Aspirations impels us to action in our indi-
vidual search for satisfactions, and furnishes the Soul the data
of experience from which to determine its course of action
and line of procedure.
Soul Powers embrace the phenomena of Reason, Memory,
Comparison, Calculation, Abstraction and Introspection. A Soul
may cultivate or neglect its own Powers, just as it may cultivate
or neglect its physical body. Under the Law of Evolution each
one of us is bound by the most exalted obligation that could be
fixed upon us: (a) to make use of all our faculties, capacities
and powers; (6) to make a right use of them in such manner as
to conform our lives to the Constructive Principle of Nature;
(c) to do this to the full limit of our own individual abilities;
and (d) to do it all the time. The intelligent and right use of
possessions under Nature's Law means that they must be used
for the Highest Good.
It is Man who accelerates or impedes his own progress under
Nature's Duality 17
Nature's Plan. It is Man alone who hastens or delays individual
fulfillment of Nature's ultimate Purpose.
Nature demonstrates that an individual Man comes to be what
he is by reason of the struggle in which his own intelligence is
forever engaged. Man always becomes that which he really knows.
Every Man must live up to his highest concept of Equity, Justice
and Right; those in error must suffer sooner or later for their
ignorance; those in the Right will eventually reap their reward.
Natural Science holds the interesting concept that each and
every normal Individual Human Being is, in miniature, a com-
plete replica of the entire universe. "The greater of the universe
is the Macrocosm, and Man is the Microcosm." This conveys the
suggestion that Man, as an Individual Intelligence, contains
within himself the essence of the entire Universe; and He is
often spoken of as the "Microcosm," or "Little World," contain-
ing within himself alone a complete and perfect epitome of the
"Macrocosm," or "Greater World," the Universe; and hence,
all there is of value in the Universe of knowledge. By a "proper
study" of himself, he attains to the evolutionary status of
Self-Completion and earns Nature's inevitable reward, therefore,
which is Individual Completion and Happiness.
3 NATURE'S DUALITY
Duality is expressed in every department of Nature. "Con-
struction" and "Destruction": these terms give expression to a
duality of extreme opposition.
Human Intelligence intuitively senses a great fundamental
Law which runs throughout all the manifestations of Nature.
The application of this great Law to the ethics of human life
constitutes the basis of all Religious and Philosophic systems of
the past and likewise of the present.
18 Religious Sanity
The limitations of Human Intelligence, seeking to grasp and
comprehend this Law in its entirety and apply it as a rule and
guide of conduct in the daily lives of men, are responsible for
all the sectarianism of both religion and philosophy, as well as
the variations in governmental systems and policies throughout
all the Nations of Earth.
The Law itself is a unit in essence. It manifests
itself to Human Intelligence in its twofold aspect as one
of the most stupendous and comprehensive dualities of
all Nature—the duality of Construction and Destruction.
Ethically considered, there are but two fundamental Prin-
ciples in Nature. In their relation to Individual Life, the one is
constructive, and the other is destructive. Every fact of Nature,
whether scientific, philosophic, political, religious, or whatever
its character, is a direct manifestation of one or the other of
these two fundamental principles in operation.
4 DESTRUCTIVE PRINCIPLE
That which dispels, disintegrates, dissipates or destroys any
of Nature's constructive Individualities, whether they be physical,
spiritual, mental, moral or psychical, is the Destructive Prin-
ciple of Nature in Individual Life.
We recognize this as the Law of Retribution, or Retributive
Justice, in accordance with the Discords of Evolution. To this
great Law of Justice is referable all that there is of individual
atrophy, weakness, enervation, sickness, suffering, sorrow, hate,
fear, disease, dissolution, disintegration, decay, unhappiness and
death. This, indeed, is the domain of Nature's retributive punish-
ments to Individual Intelligence for disobedience of Nature's
Evolutionary Principle.
5 CONSTRUCTIVE PRINCIPLE
The great fundamental Law or Principle of Nature back of
the process which integrates inorganic matter, organizes vege-
table and animal matter into living, organic bodies, renews and
sustains individual life, and constitutes the essential foundation
of all development and growth—physical, spiritual, moral,
mental and psychical—is Nature's Constructive Principle of
Nature in Individual Life.
We recognize this as the Law of Compensation, or Com-
pensatory Justice, in accordance with the Harmonics of Evo-
lution.
To this Great Law of Justice is referable all that there is
of individual growth, development, progress, strength, health,
energy, life, love and happiness, both here and hereafter. This
is the domain of Nature's compensatory rewards to Individual
Intelligence for obedience to Nature's Evolutionary Principle.
The impelling Principle, basically involved in the process
of evolution, is the Universal Law of Polarity which impels
every Entity to seek vibratory correspondence with another like
Entity of opposite Polarity. Nature's Purpose, concerning each
Individual Intelligence, is the completion of the Individual
and involves individual completion and Happiness. The Primary
Purpose of each Individual Intelligence is self-completion and
involves the struggle for Happiness. This basic Law of Evolution
is known to science as the Constructive Principle of Nature,
and this fundamental Law, or Principle, is satisfied when the
fundamental achievement of both Nature and an Individual is
accomplished.
To an Intelligent Soul is specially assigned the task of
acquiring Knowledge, of acquiring Power, of exercising Love,
and of attaining Happiness.
The ultimate goal of individual achievement under and in
accordance with the operation of Nature's Constructive Prin-
ciple is, so far as Science knows, Individual Immortality and
20 Religious Sanity
Perfect Happiness in "the fulfilling of the Law." This is the
achievement which opens to the Soul the "Gates of Paradise.'*
And this is the Way of Life.
The Constructive Principle builds up the Individuality and
increases the degree of intelligent unfoldment. Because of this
fact, it is recognized as the Principle of Right in individual
life. The Destructive Principle tears down the Individuality
and reverses the process of intelligent unfoldment. Because
of this fact it is recognized as the Principle of Wrong in Indi-
vidual Life.
6 THE PROBLEM
The Great Problem of Individual Life is that of identifying
the two principles in their relation to the objective facts of
Nature, so that we may be able to conform to the one and avoid
the other. We are never confronted with any problem in life until
and unless we have the ability and strength to solve it
—
if we will.
Does a kind and beneficent Father, interested in His chil-
dren's welfare and well-being, take undue advantage of them?
7 KNOWLEDGE
Knowledge: Facts of Nature, identified, verified and acknowl-
edged by Human Intelligence. Or, knowledge is a Soul's aware-
ness and understanding of facts of Nature.
It requires knowledge on the part of the Individual to locate
and determine the line that establishes the boundaries of the
Constructive Process and differentiates it from the Destructive.
Knowledge 21
It requires the most exact and definite knowledge. Such knowl-
edge can be obtained only by personal experience and personal
effort.
No Man is in a position to understand or appreciate how
almost infinitesimally small and seemingly insignificant, by
comparison, is the volume of his own definite personal knowl-
edge, until he undertakes to write out in definite form a crystal-
lized statement of those things he can say truly he knows. Then
it is, for the first time, that he becomes clearly conscious how
meager is his store of actual knowledge, and how conspicuous
is his intellectual poverty. Recognition of this, however, points
the way to a much broader understanding, and a more just
appreciation, of all mankind. It teaches a deeper respect for the
lives and experiences of our fellowmen, admonishes us to a
more generous sympathy with them in all their honest efforts,
and stimulates in us a more healthful desire to increase our
own store of exact and definite knowledge.
The accumulation of knowledge constitutes the initial step
which all must travel who hope to arrive at the goal of Wisdom.
Intelligence, Morality and Knowledge are all essential
elements of spiritual growth and development; it requires the
three, in relative combination in the life of an individual, to
determine his spiritual gravity. The Spiritual Development of
an Individual is measured by the Intelligence with which he
applies his Knowledge to the accomplishment of Moral Purposes.
There can be no such thing as Moral Accountability or Personal
Responsibility without knowledge. Under the Great Law, Men
and Women are Morally Accountable and Personally Responsible
for their acts and conduct, to the full limit of their individual
knowledge, other things being equal.
Evolution of the individual involves constantly increasing
knowledge. Knowledge requires personal effort. At a stated
point in his labor, represented by accumulated knowledge, man
will have the Fruit of his Work. He will not have to depend on
preference or indulgences to get his reward. He will not have to
ask any politician, or priest, or preacher, or commissar, whether
he will obtain what he has earned. He does not have to guess
22 Religious Sanity
at the reward for his personal effort, because he will know that
the Law of Compensation must and will be satisfied.
By the right use of acquired knowledge, man enhances his
own personal enjoyment of life and living. Or, by wrongly
using it, he hinders it.
He who has found the Fulcrum of Life, and remains with it,
is incapable of doing wrong; his desires are but reflections of
the Laws he should obey.
No individual effort to acquire knowledge and experience for
beneficent purposes is ever lost. In the great Book of Nature
is reported every act of true and unselfish service in the Cause
of Humanity. And every effort has its specific and adequate
reward in the preparation of the Individual Soul for advance-
ment to higher planes of life, to greater accomplishment and
happiness.
No Man will ever reach the goal of True Happiness, and the
acquisition of the Power which the Right Use of knowledge
alone can give, without the accumulation of adequate knowledge.
The Purpose is to establish beyond all question the true
relation which mere dogmas and beliefs sustain to actual knowl-
edge, and to suggest the relative value and importance of each
to the Individual.
Knowledge is valueless except to serve a present and practical
purpose. The important knowledge that Man should acquire
from "The Great Central Source" consists of the following:
(a) that he survives death (Knowledge of a life to come is
valuable to an earthly man in so far as it furnishes the motive
and inspiration of a higher and better earthly life) ; (b) that this
earthly life affords opportunities that do not obtain in spiritual
life; (c) that earthly life is made up of a series of activities which
appear to have endless consequences; and (d) that it is the
life here which determines the life "there." It is the act here
which imposes recompense or penalty upon a Soul in the
spiritual life. It is the foundation here which supports the
superstructure "there."
In due time Man finds that the same Law of Individual Un-
foldment and Progress obtains there as here, namely the Law of
Knowledge 23
Individual Effort. He learns that the spiritual life is as truly
a life of action as the physical, but with multiplied intensity.
He observes that evolution proceeds in that life from the exact
point to which he attained in this. He learns that the spiritual
life is but a continuation of the physical, except upon a higher
and finer plane of intensified activity, and that the Laws of
Spiritual Life are but a natural extension of the Laws of the
Physical; that there is nowhere a break in the perfect continuity
of Nature; that nowhere does this Law of Continuity appear
more wonderful than in the evolution and development of Indi-
vidual Life, on both planes of existence.
The only possessions Man takes with him when he leaves
this earth plane are his knowledge and experience and finer
instruments for use in a finer life and under finer conditions.
All physical, material treasures and "possessions" are left behind.
No Man would waste his opportunities in self-commiseration,
if he could but know what the constructive Law of Hope, Faith,
Courage and Cheerfulness can do for him even yet, "in the
physical body." If he but understood how these set in motion
the active forces that "make for good," if he but knew how an
individual, endowed with these attributes, attracts to himself
beneficent influences (both in the body and out), which make
for social content and material prosperity of the individual
who harbors them, he would turn from his self-pity with a joy
in his heart and a benediction upon his lips for the blessings
within his reach.
The Great Law of Compensation has just as many rewards
for the Courageous and the Faithful as it has penalties for the
Weak and the Selfish.
8 SCIENCE, PHILOSOPHY, MORALITY,
TRUE RELIGION, WISDOM
Science is exact knowledge of the facts of Nature, classified
and systematized.
Philosophy is the conclusions which men in their search for
knowledge of Truth have drawn from the facts of science.
True Religion is the application of the facts of Science and
the conclusions of philosophy to Individual Life and Conduct.
Wisdom is the Right application of Knowledge and the Right
Use of Power.
Natural Science has discovered and wrought out a definite
and scientific system of Moral Principles. It has proven its
accuracy and sufficiency in every conceivable way. Transmuted
into actual, vital, constructive energies and forces, these Moral
Principles build up the Temple of Human Character.
Natural Science has formulated a definite system. It is based
upon experiments and demonstrations through personal ex-
perience. It constitutes a scientific formulary. It is constructive
in its essential nature. It is evolutionary in its essential char-
acter. Its Purpose is the development of Constructive Spirituality.
It results in Spiritual Independence and Mastership.
It is not a single or sporadic experiment. It does not come to
one in the midst of great Soul demonstrations, only to depart
when the psychic convulsions are over. It is not a mystical or
indefinite experience subject to interpretations. It is an attain-
ment which comes only as a result of intelligent effort in definite
lines. It is a work of science. When once accomplished, it is a
definite possession of the Soul.
The Process of development begins with a study of Moral
Principles. Morals, as a distinct term, refers to those definite
and specific Principles and Rules of Individual Action, Pro-
cedure and Conduct, by the conscious and intelligent observance
of which Man may conform his life to the Constructive Principle
of his Being and, by maintaining the harmony of that relation,
thereby incidently solve all those more detailed and seemingly
"Churchianitt" 25
complex problems of his relations and obligations to his fellow-
men and Nature.
The Practice of Moral Principles is the Living of a Life in
strict conformance with the terms, conditions and requirements
of those Principles and Rules of Conduct whereby Man satisfies
the requirements of the Constructive Principle of Nature, and
maintains that established harmonic relation in his Soul.
Note : There is a difference between the definition of Morals
by Science and that of the standard works of lexicology. The
scientific definition describes a man who conforms his life to a
"Principle of Nature," while the other refers to one who conforms
his life to certain "Articles of Faith, or Belief," which have been
formulated by his fellowmen, and which may or may not be in
conformity with the "Principle of Nature" referred to.
The Ethical Section of the Great Work constitutes a foun-
dation of Moral Principles for the student to stand upon, in
order that he may bring his life into perfect conformity with
Nature's Constructive Principle. Only when he gets upon this
foundation and establishes himself there is it of any value to
him in his future efforts towards evolutionary development.
"CHURCHIANITY"
Every Sect and every Denomination teaches its own Concept
of God, or Nature. Everyone's religion is the right one—so every-
one thinks.
If the now two hundred fifty or more different, so-called
Christian denominations acted only on known facts as taught
by Jesus, and subsequent Facts brought to light by Natural
Science, they would then all be in agreement, permitting of
One World or the Universal Brotherhood of Men, the funda-
mental doctrine of the Nazarene.
The Power and Intelligence which created all things also
26 Religious Sanity
established definite Laws for the harmonious government of
the Universe and Man. When these Laws are known and under-
stood and taught and applied, everything goes well. There is
urgent and inspiring desire for definite knowledge of life,
both of the here and the hereafter. Many brave, earnest, intelli-
gent and thoughtful men and women are turning away from
the dry husks of dogmatic theology, in search of Real Food for
the Soul in the form of definite and exact knowledge of Indi-
vidual Life and of How to Live it, that they may "Know the
Law." They long for something more satisfying than the empty
theories which have been handed down, and which unthinkingly
have been accepted as representing their own beliefs.
The Church, it would seem, has failed to make the people
think with a view to action leading to greater spiritual unfold-
ment, and this results in the failure of the people to realize their
legitimate possibilities. The Church should render a Service to
meet the needs of men for knowledge of the Truth for their
guidance in the Living of a Life—a philosophy of informed com-
mon sense. The effect of its teachings upon behavior, conduct
and feeling determines whether its teachings are practical
and beneficial.
It seems that in many of the Institutional Religions the effort
has been made to devise a plan or scheme for transferring man's
responsibilities from himself to shoulders other than his own.
It is highly important that Man should be taught that it is not
possible to circumvent the Laws of God, or Nature. If Man is led
to believe that Jesus and the Masters before Him, or any other
Power, can take away the sin of the world, it will discourage his
own effort and prevent him from doing his best.
Among the many who accept the doctrines and dogmas of
their various Churches as the rule and guide of their lives, there
are considerable numbers who believe that, through the potency
of their Church, or the efficacy of their Creed, or the magical
intervention of their priests and potentates, a way will be found
whereby they shall be able to evade or avoid the natural conse-
quences of their wrongdoing. Many of them are honest in their
convictions that the merit of their religion lies mainly in the
"Churchianity" 27
fact that it does thus enable them to evade and avoid their
Personal Responsibility.
To the extent that the Church's tenets and ceremonials open
the way for priests, or preachers, or ministers, to exploit the evil
and vicious tendencies of human nature, or where the central
purpose and intent of the Church would seem to be to develop
or invent ways and means to impress upon its members the
conviction that it has the power to relieve them from the awful
burden of the original obligation and from the spiritual and
psychical consequences of the Great Law of Personal Responsibil-
ity, to that extent the Church contravenes the purposes and
intents of God, or Nature. This is "Churchianity," not Chris-
tianity.
The Individual can no more defy the Law of Personal Re-
sponsibility, and at the same time escape its natural and in-
evitable consequences, than he can violate any other Law of
Nature without having to suffer the penalty of such violation.
Some so-called Christian Churches have taken on many
traits, or peculiarities, entirely different from the real Jesus'
teachings, consequently, among these traits and peculiarities,
the Principles He taught so earnestly are hardly to be found
any longer; and the more one learns of what many organized
religions teach, the less he knows about the all-essential Prin-
ciples taught by the Great Masters. Judging from the results,
it would seem that the True Christian Religion has been but
little understood and only taught in a superficial manner.
The effectiveness of the words of Jesus has been neutralized
by some of the job-holding Churchmen themselves, especially
by the older and higher officers, who are afraid, apparently,
that a change in technique will retire them or diminish the
glory of their antique notions. No religious organization is ever
more in danger than when the talent that should be consecrated
to Moral Teachings has no occupation but political intrigue or
personal advancement. "Talent unhonored is talent at war
with Man."
The pure Christian Message for nearly two thousand years
has been overshadowed, obscured and minimized in importance
28 Religious Sanity
by the persistent obtrusion of legend, myth, fable and exaggera-
tions. Is it to be supposed that irreligious communism would have
a chance against world opinion today, if the Church had been
teaching Known Facts and Truths for the past nearly two
thousand years, instead of theological jugglings in an effort
to reconcile contradictions and irreconcilable paradoxes? Is
the Church now paying the penalty for its neglect of the Great
Responsibility which it assumed when it undertook to shape
the lives of the people of the world?
Religious organizations, embosomed in wealth, silver and
gold, complex ritual, extravagant ceremonials, beads, candle-
burning, confessions, holy sticks, masses, gorgeous vestments,
jeweled chalices, magnificence of pomp and splendor, extraord-
inary and extravagant gatherings for publicity, imposing struc-
tures, riches and luxury, have no virtue from these things;
these do not transform; these add nothing to one's Spiritual
Unfoldment, nor do they raise the level of one's Morality.
Neither to priest, preacher or pupil do they lend an iota of the
kind of Power possessed by Jesus, who had none of these things,
but who could say, "Rise and Walk," and it was so. To transform
means to regenerate, and regeneration comes by trial, by personal
effort, by self-control, by learning and by living a life in con-
formity with the Principles of Morality.
Reading the Bible, abstinence from fish or fowl, offerings to
priests or sacrificing to the gods, self-mortification by heat or
cold, and many such penances performed for the sake of immor-
tality will not cleanse a man. A knowledge of, and a conforming
to, Nature's Laws will. Also it should be noted that Prayer can
be destructive as well as constructive. The book, "Who Answers
Prayer," will be found to be most enlightening and helpful.
"He who fills his lamp with water will not dispel the dark-
ness, and he who tries to light a fire with rotten wood will fail."
"Nor can anyone be free from a wretched life without knowing
and living according to the Laws of Nature." And the "know-
how" makes this comparatively easy and a pleasure and privi-
lege, instead of a penalty.
The Master Jesus conducted an active ministry in fellowship
"Churchianitt" 29
with "publicans and sinners." He did not found an order, nor
adopt a distinctive garb. While He did not exalt Himself, neither
did He abase Himself with shaven head and begging bowl. He
preached Temperance without austerities. He neither condemned
the natural activities of men, nor disparaged natural human re-
lations. The Church He attempted to found was not built by
hands, nor was it symbolized by priestly garb or by priestly
authority. The fundamental doctrine of the Nazarene was the
Universal Brotherhood of Man. The fundamental characteristics
of the Man were Compassion, Pity and Love.
Magic words, or verbosity, do not make one holier, more
oracular, more highly moral, or spiritually powerful. Men am-
bitious for leadership have always in the past destroyed humane
and altruistic Movements, because they distract the attention and
energy from the Cause to the Individual. Work for Humanity
requires genuine Humility, because successful accomplishment
comes only when the Individuals back of it have no personal
ambitions to satisfy. Successful accomplishment is built on a
Humility that has no under-props of petty Pride or Vanity.
The teachings and preachings of many of the modern re-
ligionists appear to represent attempts on the part of some of the
leaders to cover up their lack of knowledge concerning the facts
of spiritual Nature and, in some instances, even a deliberate
attempt to cover what facts they may have under a mass of
superstitions, rituals, ceremonials and beliefs, and thereby keep
their followers under subjugation through fear.
The student of Natural Science, however, comes into pos-
session of demonstrated facts of Nature, not theories. He be-
comes familiar with the faculties, capacities and powers with
which he has been endowed by Nature. He learns to hold before
his consciousness the fact that he is potentially a perfect entity,
physically, spiritually, emotionally and mentally, and that,
through the constructive use of these capacities and powers, he
can approach and demonstrate Reality^Jesus said it was possible
to become perfect. "Be ye therefore perfect, as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect" (Matthew 5).
For the accomplishment of whatever is Great and Lofty and
30 Religious Sanity
Beneficial, the clear perception of Truths is the first requisite
—
Truths adjusted to the object desired. When we once perceive
the Truths that are in us and around us, we can the better deter-
mine where we are heading. But the perception of Truths is
disturbed by many causes—Vanity, Passion, Fear, Indolence
in ourselves, Ignorance of the fitting means with which to accom-
plish the desired ends. It should be the Responsibility of those
who set themselves up to mold the minds of the masses, to prepare
the mind of Man, for no Truth can be seen by the unprepared
mind any more than the sun can dawn upon the midst of night.
What is the Duty, Obligation and Responsibility of the Church?
Everyone has faculties that may attain to surpassing power,
that may rank him among those who leave behind them an
enduring influence, worshipped wherever Beauty and Truth
are comprehended, wherever the Soul is sensible of a Higher
World than that in which matter struggles for crude and in-
complete existence.
But to make available these faculties, we must learn to
concentrate upon Worthy objects. The heart must not be troubled
by Fear or Anger or Vanity; if it is not, the mind may remain
active. Our present teachers seem to cause us to wander about
aimlessly.
"If you want to enter the Kingdom of Heaven, you must
become like a little child," said Jesus, which simply means that
there must be an open mind, and freedom from spiritual pride.
It would seem that modern religious and secular education has
not, and does not, develop spiritual or intellectual Humility.
On the contrary, it would seem to encourage spiritual pride.
Men and Women, consciously or not, come to feel that things
must happen the way they have been trained to expect them to
happen, and yet, the voice of God is forever whispering, "Behold
I make all things new." Useful effort results when the Soul
recognizes and exemplifies its True Relation to its fellows, with-
out bias, egotism or vanity.
Pride of intelligence expresses itself in the form of dogmatism
and a presumptuous contempt for the honest convictions of
others, while intellectual vanity clothes itself in the form and
"Churchianitt" 31
spirit of egotistic speculations and a thrusting of the personality
upon the attention of others. Whenever this is the case, there is
danger of offending the intelligence, dignity and conscience of
others, and of losing their sympathy with and interest in our
message, because the message is overshadowed, obscured and
minimized in importance by the persistent obtrusions of our
personality. To avoid this we must keep the immutable and
uncompromising Law of Truth forever before us.
As a result of these weaknesses of human nature, oftentimes
the most glaring fallacies are stated as unqualified Truths, and
the merest fancies are stated as established facts. The natural
consequence is that the over-credulous student is forever in
danger of being led into an ambush of the gravest errors. The
ultra-skeptical student is, on the other hand, in danger of having
his skepticism increased, and a barrier of hostility and unbelief
is thereby erected between him and the Truth which he most
desires, and of which he is in immediate search.
The clearest open channel for the Jesus Christ teachings is
to be found among the "Poor in Spirit" who are not too intel-
lectually vain to keep their minds amenable to Reason or
simple Logic, and Honest and Earnest search and Desire for
definite knowledge. Said Jesus, "Blessed are the poor in spirit;
for theirs is the Kingdom of Heaven." This in a manner means
that we get at all times just what we deserve, or just what we
are ready for. Historically, is it not a fact that God, or Nature,
has put the mighty from their seats and exalted the humble
and unknown? God always produces a Man to offset the self-
appointed "wise men" of the day—to show them the path they
have lost through egotism, through having given only half the
Truth, the other half having been given in order to please,
let us say, the King, the Press, or the Public, upon whom they
are dependent.
It is in the spirit of Humility, and in the recognition of their
actual place in the world, that all Great Discoverers find their
highest joy. It is the joy of Service that is theirs, the loftiest
aspiration that can fire the heart of Man, making him accept
with thankfulness his part as an implement in the hands of
32 Religious Sanity
"The Great Artificer," and filling him with love and reverence for
the work in the completion of which he has been need as an
instrument.
Every Human Being possesses intelligence, which, however,
varies in quality and degree; this might be described as running
the gamut from a deep sleep to one of full awakening.
Just as the flow of vital energy in the physical body is retarded
by the accumulation of toxins that have not been eliminated,
so the flow of intelligence may be said to be retarded by the
accumulation of fixed, old and obsolete beliefs that the individual
refuses to eliminate from his mind. Hence, an individual may be
educated to the point where he is acclaimed an authority on a
certain subject, and yet have his mental blackboard so filled with
the conclusions of other so-called authorities, conclusions which
he assumes to be true, that he refuses even to consider that any-
thing could possibly be true outside of what he thinks he knows.
He has developed a rigid and fixed mind and his education
becomes a phoney substitute for Intelligence and Wisdom. His
intelligence ceases to be progressive, and becomes static. He is
truly "at rest."
The Progressive Intelligence, however, does not hesitate
to eliminate and dissolve any ideas that appear obsolete, and it
is forever on the alert to replace them with new ones that
appear to be true and up to date. In so doing, however, he is often
branded a renegade or radical by his static brothers, because he
refuses to "stay put."
Who can forget the experience of Colonel "Billy" Mitchell,
who was ridiculed and dishonored because he tried to convince
the so-called "War Authorities" of our government that an air-
plane could sink a battleship, and that the next war would be
fought in the air?
Events are transpiring daily that would have been classed
as crazy and impossible by so-called authorities a few years ago.
Almost overnight the accepted pattern of war was changed. It
took awakened, progressive intelligence to make the change, and
it took a world war to stir up that intelligence and give it a
chance to operate.
"Churchianitt" 33
When Progressive Intelligence rules, Real Religion will
appear, and the present dogmatic doctrines, with their cere-
monials and rituals and extravagances, will be discarded.
Phoney Wisdom may well be supplanted by intelligent
teachers who are qualified to impart instruction as to the Facts
of Life and Nature. Blind Faith will be supplanted by Exact
Knowledge; Morality will take on a new scientific meaning in
place of the phoney, man-made interpretation.
The Ancient Sect was noted for strict adherence to traditional
rituals, and the officials who read and explained the Law to the
people were supposed to be religious men. They held high posi-
tions in the Church, but seemed to fail to understand the nature
or importance of the teachings of Jesus. They retarded Him,
obstructed and impeded His efforts. This shows that it is possible
for so-called leaders in the Church to be so obsessed with secular
considerations that they ignore the real Truth which Jesus came
to teach. The Pharisees and Officials who were supposed to be
the teachers of the Law and responsible for the welfare of the
people, and who posed as authorities and "representatives of
God," finally put Jesus to death, because they knew that the
Truth, as Jesus taught it, would depose them from their high
positions of authority and prestige.
These persecutors of Jesus were supposedly the devout and
pious welfare leaders of the people, and the molders of world
opinion. Are the religious and welfare leaders of today teaching
the Principles that Jesus taught, or are they substituting their
own?
Today's Religionists seem to be concerned with "saving the
Soul" and providing a heaven for the people when they die. But
people are interested in what is happening to them today, and
any religion that does nothing about today's problems is not a
practical religion. "Futurity hast thou given me, but thou takest
from me the moment."
Knowledge is valueless except it be made to serve a present
and practical purpose. Knowledge that does not have a direct
bearing upon the present daily life of an Individual is an in-
cumbrance, and not an acquisition of any value. It does not
34 Religious Sanity
matter how unusual or wonderful that knowledge in itself may
be.
Knowledge of the Past is not enough. When the outmoded or
mistaken policies of the Past are inadequate to a progressive
future, we must be willing to break with the past. The Bible,
if correctly interpreted, will work, and if it does not work, it
is not correctly understood and taught.
True Religion means conforming one's life to a "Principle
of Nature," not to doctrines and theologies devised in the minds
of men who seek to control the lives of others. There is no
record of theology or doctrines to be found in the Bible.
Theological jugglings were the work of Churchmen trying to
reconcile contradictions and irreconcilable paradoxes.
Science is uncovering new facts of Nature by leaps and
bounds. When these facts are brought to the consciousness of the
masses, they will be used to solve new problems, new situations.
It would seem to be the Duty, Obligation and Responsibility of
the Church to ascertain these facts and bring them to the atten-
tion of all mankind. But why is not the effort made?
The single virtue of Truthfulness could make this world a
happy paradise. It does not pay to be behind the times. The
penalty in unnecessary suffering experienced throughout the
world today could be spared if the Truth, the Principles which
Jesus worked so hard to make clear to Mankind, were empha-
sized, as well as the important Truths uncovered subsequent to
His time.
Down through history, "Achilles' Heel" has become an ex-
pression in our language describing a vulnerable point in some-
thing otherwise invulnerable—a weak spot in an otherwise
impregnable position.
The "Achilles' Heel" of the great majority of humanity—of
us —usually is lack of understanding and application of basic
moral principles; perhaps there is too much theory and not
sufficient practice of these Principles, or perhaps there is a
general understanding of their application, but insufficient
detailed knowledge. So at odd times in the midst of living what is
considered a good life, an individual has an experience which
Natural Science 35
reveals the "Achilles' Heel," the inability to apply principle
in a given, specific circumstance. The consequences growing out
of such a situation are apt to be destructive.
This brings to attention the ever constant need of increasing
the knowledge of Principles, the need to widen the scope of
understanding and extend the horizons of application. There is
no end to this task, for Nature's basic Principles are applicable
to every condition and circumstance of living, both on the
physical and the spiritual planes, and on into the psychical,
as well.
There is Law and Order in the Universe; there is evidence
everywhere of this. All the findings of physical science from day
to day, as well as those of spiritual science, attest to this. Re-
gardless of who or what originated the Laws and Principles
governing this Law and Order, they have been created and estab-
lished, and caused to function. We cannot abrogate them or
destroy them; we may ignore them for a time, but eventually
Man must recognize, accept and apply them, and conform to
Law and Order. So it behooves him to respect, pay homage to,
and increase his knowledge of them and the Great Creator,
and to abide by the inexorable Law and Order which prevails
as a result of their unvarying functioning. Yes, and to be grateful
for all.
In view of this, is there any end to what may be written and
disclosed concerning basic Principles? Isn't there always need
for extended information and knowledge concerning them?
10 NATURAL SCIENCE
Natural Science is so named, first, because it includes all
natural phenomena, physical, spiritual and psychical; and next,
because it adopts Nature's plan when it comes to the study,
36 Religious Sanity
analysis and demonstration of all of those natural phenomena.
The Purpose of Natural Science has ever been to uncover and
analyze the Ethical Principles of human life and impress them
in their simplicity and grandeur upon intelligent Consciousness
in order to have them acknowledged facts of Nature, and trans-
mute them into actual, vital, constructive energies and forces
for the upbuilding of the Temple of Human Character.
It seeks to enable an Individual to discover these principles,
not that he may invent clever fictions and ingenious sophistries
whereby to disguise them and avoid them, but that he may make
them "The Rule and Guide of His Conduct," and thereby con-
form his life to the Constructive Principle of Nature upon which
alone he must depend for the achievement of Mastership.
The real spirit of progress never dogmatizes. Logical con-
cepts, agreeing with our observations and experiences, are the
only safe guideposts to correct living and will give us a new
measure of values.
Science reveals that all the good in the Universe is here for
you to use and enjoy today. There is no need to wait until you
die to enter heaven.
Science and Philosophy and Religion are not in conflict.
They are concomitant factors in the same great problem of indi-
vidual life and unfoldment. Truth is the vital element which
units them all.
Throughout the literature of Natural Science is taught the
philosophy of religious tolerance, freedom of individual Con-
science, the Right of the Individual to Life, Liberty and the
Pursuit of Happiness, the Right of Mankind to worship God
according to the dictates of Individual Conscience, and all other
doctrines that safeguard the dignity of the Individual. But these
teachings are qualified by the principle that the Individual shall
not trespass upon the Rights and Liberties of his Fellowmen.
The Great School of the Masters as it exists upon the earth
at this time is but the present and last link of a great "unfinished
chain" (Jesus was a link in this chain) by means of which the
crystallized results of the ages past are brought down to us of
this day and generation. You who shall receive these results in
Natural Science 37
good faith, and who of your own free Will and Accord enlist
your services in the Great Work of Emancipation, will constitute
the next regular link in this same great chain.
Who in his life, as in his genius, might illustrate the possi-
bilities of any Soul on earth today more perfectly than Jesus'?
Elevated by the ideal which He exalted, His was a glorious
existence. He lived amidst all that was least perishable in the
past, and contributed, with the noblest aims and in the purest
spirit, to the mighty heirlooms of the future. His youth was
devoted to toil, so that his manhood might be consecrated to
fame, a fame unsullied by the desire for Gold.
Jesus was definitely identified with The Great School of the
Masters, and Himself became, under their instruction, a Master
in the highest and most exalted concept of the word. The Great
School of Natural Science is the Great School of the Masters
—
the Great Central Source and Reservoir of Knowledge (Religious,
Philosophical, Moral, Physical, Spiritual and Psychical), which
the best intelligences of all ages have intuitively sensed and
definitely accepted as the progressive influence in the Evolution
of Mankind from Spiritual Infancy and Darkness to Soul
Maturity and Illumination.
Backward along the Pathway of human history, at every
milestone which marks the way into the mystic mazes of remotest
antiquity, there have been those whom their fellows, out in
the great world of humanity, have called "Masters."
These Masters are the Great Teachers, who, throughout all
human history, have not only declared their personal knowledge
of another life, but have also made a personal demonstration
of their knowledge in such manner as to leave no doubt at all
in the minds of their disciples, or students, that personal knowl-
edge was a fact.
In those ancient days, as in these modern ones, there were
advanced Souls who devoted their lives and their efforts to a
study of the Great Problems of Life, Death, the Soul, Human
Destiny, Life after Death, and
—
Mastership. Then, as now, there
were the few exceptional Souls whose individual efforts were
rewarded by greater knowledge of these Problems than was
38 Religious Sanity
attained by their fellows who devoted their efforts to the things
of this purely physical earth. These advanced Souls come to be
regarded by the masses as "Masters," and in some cases, even
as "Divinities."
The same is equally true of the Advanced Souls of today, as
well as of all times. There are "Masters" today, as truly as at
any time in the history of humanity. And these Modern Masters
have solved as many of the Greater Problems as did the more
ancient Masters of Egypt, Syria, Persia, India, and other
civilizations. By personal experience they have solved the prob-
lem of the continuity of individual life beyond the Grave, and
have made many other discoveries that are, as yet, unknown to
the masses of humanity.
Among some of the Great Masters are
—
Christna Buddha
Eliola Confucius
Melchizedek Jesus
Pythagoras Bulwer Lytton
1
Socrates Shakespeare
1
Zoroaster Richardson, TK*
These were men living upon the physical plane of life, subject
to all the trials and handicaps of time, place, environment, cir-
cumstance and conditions of the social and moral development
of the people in whose midst they labored and taught.
In varying degrees, therefore, their individual efforts were
J
Bulwer Lytton and Shakespeare, though not accredited Masters, or
designated as such, had drunk deeply of the Knowledge and Wisdom of the
Great Masters. Lytton embodied much of that profound knowledge in his
various writings. Shakespeare drank of the same crystal fountain of Truth.
His profound and searching knowledge of the inmost workings of the human
mind (Soul) could not have come to him except through channels which led
up to the same Great Reservoir, the Great School of the Masters.
2
Richardson, TK, is the Editor of Volume I of the Harmonic Series, The
Philosophy of Individual Life, and Author of the seven books that followed.
TK, for almost a century, was in daily personal contact and association with
the Masters of the Great School, and his writings are based on personal
knowledge and experience.
Natural Science 39
successful in leaving the imprint of Truth upon the civilization
of their time, and on subsequent generations of men, even to
the present time.
The Great School of the Masters still looms in the background,
laboring to transmit its Instruction, in its entirety, and in such
manner and form that there shall be no possibility of failure.
And this Great Reservoir of Knowledge is available today to
any individual intelligence which proves itself worthy and
well qualified.
Natural Science endeavors to point out to all who have con-
fidence in its teachings, the Laws, Principles and Processes of
Nature governing the Constructive Development of Human
Beings. In the Formulary of Natural Science, for the first time
within our knowledge of History, we find "Ethics" reduced to
an "Exact Science"; this is an accomplishment of not one mind,
but the Fruitage of the Best Intelligences of all ages from the
Cradle of Humanity to the present.
Thus the cumulative results of the Ages may be passed on to
others who are ready, willing and able to receive them and rightly
use them.
Natural Science endeavors to point out the things that are
destructive in their effects upon the Individual, and those that
are constructive, so that the individual may have before him a
clear and reliable chart of the two Roads, the two Ways of Life,
and a definite knowledge as to which of them leads to immortality
and individual Happiness, and which to destruction and indi-
vidual Suffering and Wretchedness.
Its intent is to safeguard you against as many mistakes as
possible, and thus to conserve your energies for Constructive
Work, as far as may be possible.
In the Ethical Section of the General Formulary, you have
the crystallized experience of the Masters of Natural Science
throughout all the past Ages, of their scientific labors. If you
are wise enough and strong enough to avail yourself of the
scientific results therein placed before you, it is possible for
you to achieve the most highly beneficent results.
Remember, this "Crystallization" has been tried, tested and
demonstrated times almost without number.
11 FACTS
If the Church would carefully tabulate under separate heads
its "facts" and its "theories" and "speculations" concerning those
"facts," it would simplify the work of its followers, and would
avoid the most prolific source of confusion which warps the
lives of the ignorant.
Confusion in the teachings of the Church is confusion in the
minds of its followers. The intellectual grasp of a Teacher is con-
veyed to the student just as unmistakably as his insincerity,
egotism or selfishness are conveyed, no matter how lofty the
theme or how ingenuous the language. It is just as impossible
to teach the facts of Nature by intuition, or by faith, as it
would be to teach mathematics by intuition or by faith. The
practical and rational mind is encountering many perplexities
in its attempt to follow and assimilate the theories, dogmas and
doctrines of the Church.
It is not in the spirit of hostility or unfriendly criticism that
this is written, but rather as a friendly observation from one who
has often encountered the perplexing difficulty just mentioned.
Plans should be based on facts. Put Science in place of
Sentiment; Philosophy in place of Speculation; Religion, True
Religion, in place of Superstition; Knowledge in place of
Ignorance; and, over all, Law, Justice, and Truth.
Facts of Nature known to Natural Science, if they could be
brought to the Consciousness of all mankind, would surely
inspire Mankind, while yet upon this plane of Earth, to nobler
pursuits, higher purposes, loftier emotions, more exalted aspira-
tions, and cleaner, sweeter and purer lives. Would it not seem
to be the Duty or Responsibility of the Church to make every
effort to ascertain all these facts, and to bring them to the atten-
tion of all Mankind?
By the single virtue of Truthfulness, the entire world, with
its two billion or more people, could be made a happy paradise.
Facts 41
But this beautiful project would create a prejudice among
certain Christians, so-called, who, like the priests of old, speculate
upon the ignorance of the masses to enrich themselves.
Science is uncovering new facts of nature by leaps and
bounds, while it seems the man-made doctrines of salvation are
in a state of stagnation, a combination of blind faith with lack
of understanding. These man-made doctrines have served their
purpose and should be considered obsolete.
The advancement of Natural Science will sooner or later
displace the unsound Creeds of the world, and it would seem
to be the Duty and Responsibility of the Church to bring to the
Consciousness of Mankind all facts of Nature uncovered since
Jesus' time, if it, the Church, is really unselfishly concerned with
the welfare of the masses. The True Religion of Humanity will
be found when all of the old religions come back to their esoteric
origin, meaning and purity—that is, when built around known
facts only. Then they will be in Essence, One. True Religion
and Philosophy offer the only solution of every problem.
The student of the Philosophy of Individual Life, in time,
realizes that the knowledge he is gaining would be priceless
knowledge to men who have not enjoyed his opportunities. He
realizes that the pleasures and powers which he enjoys are those
so deeply desired by, but practically unknown to, the average
man. He realizes that the whole world suffers because of its
ignorance of Laws he is daily demonstrating. Once he realizes
this, the student's duty to humanity becomes paramount. From
this time forward, his mind is occupied with the desire to pass
on to others his already acquired gains.
Every student of the Philosophy of Natural Science discovers
that each individual owes a duty first to himself, and next, to the
world. His first duty is to improve himself; his second is to
benefit humanity. The latter is his duty whether the world
appears friendly or hostile to his purposes.
The things we know are those of which we are in a position
to make the best and most intelligent use, both in our own behalf
and in behalf of those who need our help. This fact alone gives
to them a value and an importance which is paramount to us.
42 Religious Sanity
Actual knowledge is of greater value and importance to the
Individual who possesses it, than is assumed knowledge. It is
vastly multiplied in value and importance when it is compared
with mere speculations, opinions and beliefs, any or all of which
may prove to be erroneous, or entirely without foundation in fact.
It follows with irresistible logic that one of the most important
duties every individual owes to himself and to his fellowmen,
is, at all times and as rapidly as possible, to increase the number
and volume of the things he knows, and, from this accumulation
of data, to select those Facts and Truths of which he can make
the most valuable use. Only by this process does he become better
equipped to discharge his Personal Responsibility to himself
and his fellowmen.
Most people act on assumed knowledge, because assumed
knowledge involves far less Personal Effort on their part than
actual knowledge. It is easier to entertain a prejudice than it
is to acquire the knowledge necessary to rise above it. Most of us
are the witless slaves of prejudice. It is more convenient to
cherish a superstition than it is to acquire the Wisdom necessary
to demonstrate its fallacy. For this reason most of us are bound
by superstition.
Very little, if any, Personal Effort and Thinking is done by
anyone concerned only in perpetuating custom. But how can
there be Soul unfoldment, greater growth and constructive
development unless more and more Truths are uncovered and
exemplified?
Does it not appear that it is our solemn Duty, Obligation
and Responsibility, intelligently, courageously and persistently
to apply ourselves to the honest and earnest search for definite,
personal knowledge? And to do this, if necessary, in defiance
of our own present opinions and beliefs, prejudices and super-
stitions, inclinations and desires, as well as in defiance of those
of our fellowmen who would seek to hold us in bondage?
And to do this secure in the Consciousness that Truth is always
a Friend to him who honestly seeks it, and a benefactor to him
who lives it.
There is a Pharmacy for the Soul, as well as the body, which
Facts 43
can lift the Soul up to infinite heights. But first must be overcome
the most stubborn of all bigotries, the fanaticism of Unbelief.
"Suppose a stranger visited a wandering tribe before the
possibilities of certain herbs were known to them; if he told
them that the herbs they trample under foot every day were
endowed with patent virtues ; that one herb would restore health
to a brother savage on the verge of death; that another would
paralyze into idiocy their wisest sage; that a third would strike
lifeless to the dust their most stalwart champion; that tears
and laughter, vigor and disease, madness and reason, wakeful-
ness and sleep, existence and dissolution, were coiled up in those
trampled-on leaves, would they not have him a sorcerer, or a
liar? Mankind is yet in the darkness of the savages as to the
means of exercising the faculties for unfoldment of the Soul"
(Bulwer)
.
"If the whole earth were carved over and inscribed with the
letters of Divine Knowledge, the characters would be valueless
to him who does not pause to inquire the language and meditate
the Truth. A Man is arrogant, ostentatious, or dogmatic (all
phases of vanity) in proportion to his ignorance. Man's natural
tendency is to egotism. Man, in his infancy of Knowledge, thinks
that all creation was formed for him. For ages he considered
the stars only petty candles, until Astronomy corrected this
delusion of human vanity, and man now reluctantly confesses
that the stars are worlds larger and more glorious than his own
—
that the earth on which he crawls is a scarcely visible speck on
the vast chart of creation. But, in the small as in the vast, God,
is equally profuse of life" (Bulwer).
A careful study of Motives, and a critical self-analysis along
that line, will prove to any honest and earnest student the fact
that what we designate as "Sensitiveness" is, in most respects,
but another name for "wounded vanity."
It is found almost impossible to offer a person under the
influence of such an emotion any suggestion of improvement,
or call attention to any weakness of character or fault in him,
because of his extreme "Sensitiveness" and his readiness to be
wounded, hurt or offended at any suggestion of his imperfections.
44 Religious Sanity
This fact has caused much difficulty among people in their
efforts to help their friends or associates, to overcome the specific
difficulties which stand in the way of their individual evolution
and unfoldment.
It is one of the established principles of psychology that the
ability of any individual to improve himself depends primarily
upon his intelligent understanding and appreciation of the fact
that he is not yet perfect, and upon his realization of the fact
that he must find out exactly wherein he needs to be improved.
One of the most important realizations for him is to know
wherein he fails to measure up to the standard of individual
character necessary to enable him to become a "Demonstrator"
of the Law.
Whatever ( or whoever) prevents an individual from knowing
and intelligently appreciating his own deficiences is a fatal bar-
rier between him and the goal toward which his work of self-
unfoldment and development forever leads him. For this reason
it is vital for him to recognize with absolute frankness and
fidelity every weakness, fault, error, tendency or difficulty which
stands in the way of his success.
Discover what will destroy life and you are a great man;
discover what will develop, unfold and grow in Knowledge and
Power, to great heights, and you are an impostor. The volatile
and vital energy derived from Personal Effort and Right Attitude
of Soul awakens faculties that will, with patient Humility, with
sound Faith and the Courage of the resolute and virtuous mind,
attain high achievement in the careers of men, with no less a pos-
sibility as a goal than the status attained by Jesus Himself.
It is labor itself that is the great purifier of the mind, and by
degrees the secrets will "grow upon thyself as the mind becomes
riper to receive them."
The yearning after the ineffable knowledge was not given in
vain. Many who have cherished the hope have found the Truth.
Every desire in human hearts is but a glimpse of things that
exist, alike distant and divine. In the world there have been
from age to age some brighter and happier Souls who have
attained heights above those in which the beings of earth move
Facts 45
and breathe. Jesus, great though He be, stands not alone. He
has had predecessors, and long lines of successors may be yet
to come.
When Natural Science has pointed the way, it has fulfilled
its mission. It is then a matter of Individual Choice with the
Individual student. It is his prerogative to choose the road he
will travel. Once he knows the right and the wrong of any
subject, it is thereafter within his jurisdiction only to decide
what he shall do. Thereafter it is not in the rightful jurisdiction
of any school, cult, creed, dogma or -ism to tell him what way
he should travel.
One of these Pathways leads to the North, toward the Land
of Spiritual Darkness and Death; the other toward the South,
to the Land of Spiritual Light and Life. One leads to a state and
condition of Individual Bondage; the other to that of Individual
Liberty. The one ends in the complete subjection and enslave-
ment of an Individual Intelligence, with all its faculties, capaci-
ties and powers ; the other, in the ultimate and complete emanci-
pation of a Soul from the gravitative influence of evil and destruc-
tive tendencies. These are not mere figures of speech. They give
expression to a profound scientific and historic Truth as real
as life itself.
Why should anyone deliberately turn to the North, and
without apparent hesitation, walk down the broad Pathway
of Servitude into the Land of Darkness and Desolation, instead
of into the Land of Liberty and Light? Perhaps because the vast
majority of Mankind has but a hazy and imperfect understanding
and indefinite knowledge of the destinations to which these two
diverging ways lead.
It is to an Individual's own best interest, his greatest good
and his largest possibility of Happiness, both now and in the
future of his life, both here and in the Spiritual Life, to enter
at once upon the noble and ennobling task of "Living a Life"
in conformity with Nature's Constructive Principle; and never
thereafter to falter until he shall arrive at the goal of Individual
Mastership, whether that be in this life or the great hereafter.
Anyone, when he comes to a full realization of what this
46 Religious Sanity
means, will feel a sense of profound gratitude that the door of
definite knowledge has been opened to him and us, and that we
are permitted to enter and share with the Great Masters in the
Knowledge that will "make us Free."
Any wholesome impulse to reason the problems out will not
be in vain, for no man can use his intelligence upon the subject
without arriving at an approximate knowledge of the Truth.
Once the matter becomes clear to the Intelligent Thinker, the
problems assume an entirely different aspect and become one
of Nature's beneficent provisions by and through which the Soul
of Man moves forward to its individual, evolutionary destiny.
A single Truth, however seemingly insignificant or unim-
portant, gives the intelligent possessor some slight vision of con-
ditions most nearly related to it. The light of another Truth,
added to that concerning the same subject matter, does not
extinguish, annul or destroy the first Truth, nor in any manner
militate against, nor conflict with it. To the observer, its value
and importance are only multiplied.
He begins to reason. From his reasoning he draws conclusions.
He sees dim outlines of other Truths, or seeming Truths. He
longs to see them yet more clearly. He seeks to know them with
greater certainty. One by one they are added to his increasing
store of Knowledge. Their augmenting light illumines his sur-
roundings. The darkness of superstition and ignorance recedes.
The value of Truth is established.
Too little attention and small emphasis has, and is, being
paid, as a whole, to the great Principles the Master Jesus was
so earnestly endeavoring to present, elucidate, emphasize and
fasten in the memories of the people. His entire educational
mission was to teach them to fix these Principles only in the
Consciousness of his disciples. It would seem that, instead, more
time and energy has been spent inventing vicarious schemes and
devices to avoid the Law than would have been required to obtain
constructive results by Personal Effort. Why? To gain adherents?
To hold Power? Why?
From the same Great Source from where Jesus received His
Spiritual Knowledge, new and added Knowledge has come forth,
Facts 47
which should be of immeasurable value to Mankind if brought
to its Consciousness. For the same reason that the so-called
Christian Churches are ostensibly teaching the masses the
Knowledge that Jesus brought to the world, the Truths un-
covered subsequent to Jesus' Teachings should likewise be taught,
for they are just as genuine and authoritative, and should
prove of great benefit to Humanity.
Why is not greater effort put forth by the Church to obtain
this Knowledge of additional Truths, and to bring them to the
Consciousness of the masses, if the Church is really and truly
looking out for the welfare of the people in an unselfish manner?
A careful analysis of the results obtained seems to indicate
that the Teachings of the so-called Spiritual Teachers are
wanting in the basic ingredients which make for vitality and pro-
gressive survival. The Teachings have failed in effecting the
transformation of man so necessary to the peace and harmony
of the world. The full utilization of important known facts and
forces has been largely neglected. This failure of the Church in
imparting available useful knowledge has left Man unimpressed
with the all important immutable Laws of Nature, the clear
understanding of which is necessary to cure his mental and
moral disorders, and to make him well versed, peaceful and
Happy.
The Teachings of Jesus are justified and upheld, and
elaborated upon and explained, by the Great School of Natural
Science of America.
In just so far as the teachings of the Churches are construc-
tive, uplifting, and inspire in their members a desire to live a life
of true Morality and lofty Spirituality, Natural Science is in
perfect sympathy with their purposes and efforts. But it cannot
ignore the simple fact that the theological dogmatism of the
Churches, even though the latter call themselves Christian, no
longer satisfies the seeker after Truth.
The object of Natural Science is mainly to meet the demands
of an Advanced Intelligence for a more definite and scientific
knowledge of the Laws of Life, and to show the scientific rela-
tion between natural law and ethical creeds.
48 Religious Sanity
Should not the Purpose of all welfare organizations, includ-
ing the Church, be to establish, beyond all question, the true
relation which mere dogmas and beliefs bear to actual knowledge,
and suggest the relative value and importance of each to the
individual?
He who possesses Knowledge or Wisdom or Power is like-
wise charged with the responsibility of rightly using the same.
Each one of us constitutes a Unit of Force and Purpose in
the great body of Humanity of which we are a part, and we owe
it to Society, as well as to ourselves, to be a healthy unit, above
all, and to render to Society the highest measure of healthful
Service of which we are capable.
In most of us, the current of energy from the spiritual world
and conditions has become sluggish and stagnant; the smooth,
free flow of spiritual current has been clogged. Therefore, we are
utilizing only part of our potential energies in living. It would
be helpful to us, and therefore to humanity, if we could and
would re-establish the full flow of energy where there is now
just a mere trickle, by supplementing the physical with the
spiritual.
How can this be done? Simply by removing the obstructions,
by stopping the interference, by withdrawing the detritus that
blocks the spiritual current, by consciously and purposefully
opening the channels through which the normal flow proceeds,
and then intelligently, alertly and positively endeavoring to
perceive and utilize the strength and force of the finer currents.
The Spiritual World is as much a part of Nature as the
physical world so familiar to us all. The Spiritual World is not
an unnatural world. Neither is it a supernatural world. It is
strictly and literally a "natural" world, and all the "facts"
concerning it are "Facts of Nature." Physical Science knows that
Man has a physical body. Natural Science knows that Man has
a physical body and a spiritual body. The Bible also tells you
of the existence of a spiritual body. Natural Science knows that
the physical body and the spiritual body are the instruments
through which the Soul of Man expresses itself on the physical
and the spiritual planes of life.
Truth 49
The Spiritual Development of an Individual is measured by
the Intelligence with which he applies his Knowledge to the
accomplishment of Moral Purposes. Therefore, go on, dear
friend, "Casting your bread upon the waters, for you will surely
find it after many days."
12 TRUTH
A component or essential part in the enjoyment of anything
worthwhile is understanding of that worthwhile thing. To
enjoy the profoundness and beauty of Truth, it is necessary to
understand it. Understanding comes to one as fast as Personal
Effort prepares the mind to receive it. Ponder the importance
of these words to You.
What is Truth? Natural Science defines it as "the established
relation which the facts of Nature sustain to each other and to
an Individual Intelligence, or Soul."
Truth is the vital element which relates Science, Philosophy
and True Religion. A mutual, intelligent, courageous and per-
severing search for Truth will lead to a common understanding,
and its exemplification will unite all peoples, nations and races.
The Standard of Conduct based upon Truth involves Man's
individual knowledge of the Constructive Principle of Nature,
and his conscious dependence upon this Principle for all the
evolutionary possibilities of His Being. Acquired through Science
and the conclusions of Philosophy are the Moral Principles,
the practice of which is the Living of a Life in conformity with
the "Principles of Nature," and this constitutes True Religion.
True Religion, according to Natural Science, is "the application
of the facts of Science and the conclusions of Philosophy to
Individual Life and Conduct."
So we have Knowledge, which is the facts of Nature, identi-
50 Religious Sanity
fied, verified and acknowledged by Human Intelligence; Science
which is Exact Knowledge of the facts of Nature, classified and
systematized; Truth, the established relation which the facts
of Nature sustain to each other and to the Individual Intelli-
gence, or the Soul of Man; Philosophy which is the conclusions
which men in their search for Knowledge of Truth have drawn
from the facts of Science; and Religion which is the application
of the facts of Science and the conclusions of Philosophy to
Individual Life and Conduct; and finally, Wisdom, which is the
Right application of Knowledge and the Right use of Power.
Exemplification of the Truth should begin by untangling
Jesus from legend, myth, fable and exaggerations, by restoring
the True Figure of Jesus by disentangling it from the accumula-
tion of superstitions and wonders with which it has been sur-
rounded. Is it possible to disenchant fable or myth, and make
Mankind adore the Truth?
"And the Truth shall make you free." The Highest Court of
Justice is the Yardstick of Truth, and the Test of Truth is by
its use and beneficence. Beginning with fiction and fable will not
teach Truth, and will not, therefore, bring salutary results.
We cannot base our reasoning upon false concepts and expect
to arrive at a True Conclusion. As long as the Concept is false,
everything springing from that Concept will be Error. Teach-
ings are vitalized by Truth. Actions based on erroneous concepts
result in delayed Soul unfoldment, growth and development.
Why not begin with the Great Truth that Jesus was a Man,
a Human Being, just like You and me? Jesus never claimed to
be anything else. He did say He was a Human Being such as
You and I. If we are to believe anything He said, then let us
begin by believing that.
Jesus was an outstanding spiritual leader by virtue of Soul
Growth through Self Effort, through Knowledge and Powers not
conferred by supernatural birth, but by Personal Effort and
Experience, from which He gained Understanding of the Laws of
God, or Nature, surpassing that of his fellowmen.
People's minds have been shackled with a multitude of false
beliefs; they are prisoners of ignorance, fear, discouragement
and unhappiness. They can be released only by the Truth, not
Truth 51
by fictitious tales and false doctrines. "And the Truth shall
Make You Free."
People were prisoners of ignorance when they believed the
earth was flat—an unfounded concept. Proof that the earth was
round freed them from an unfounded concept. It was the Truth
which freed them. Only Truth can deliver their minds from
wrong concepts. Jesus did not say that He could make them
free. He said, "The Truth will make you free."
Jesus was an evolution under both natural and divine Law,
and his evolution was the result of Personal Effort in acquiring
the necessary Knowledge and exercising Self-Control in rightly
applying his Knowledge and Power in the Living of a Life,
revealing the definite fact that these potencies are latent in every
Human Being; that it is what we do, not what we believe; what
we are, not what we profess ; what we do for ourselves and others
more than what Jesus did for us that is important. All this is
in strict conformity and analogy with the life and teachings of
Jesus. This makes Jesus in Truth a Living Example and not a
Blood Offering.
Jesus is an example of what Personal Effort can do toward
expansion of Individual Consciousness. So far as Science knows,
the possibilities of Individual Consciousness have never yet been
determined, and its limitations have never yet been reached.
The entire problem of Evolutionary Development and Spiritual
Unfoldment, in one sense, is but the problem of how to extend
Individual Consciousness and thus enlarge the field of its opera-
tions. Jesus of Nazareth differed only in degree, not in kind
from other men.
The Soul, as far as Science knows, never reaches a state of
perfection, or a state of Being where there is no more change.
Such a state would mean that You no longer would have to
depend on a Superior or Supreme Being. There would be no
further need of God. The constant evolutionary potentiality of
the Soul, however, would seem to deny the "static" condition
of the Church—the complicated and artificial theologies of
Christian orthodoxy. The Church continues to teach the letter of
the Bible. "For the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life."
The Bible, correctly interpreted, teaches psychology and
52 Religious Sanity
metaphysics. It deals primarily with psychic activities. It is the
spiritual meaning that is important. For the most part the Bihle
characters are fictional, expressing states of mind. Some people
seem to know this Truth intuitively, but when they seek to obtain
further light on this important subject from their so-called
Spiritual Teachers, they do not seem to receive much encourage-
ment, and in most instances are informed that they, the inquirers,
are too speculative.
Why? Probably they are told this because if they do their
own thinking, these so-called spiritual leaders will lose control
over their lives. But, as long as we do our own thinking, our
Consciousness will grow and grow, and our lives will be enriched
proportionately.
Either the Church must change, or the Individual must break
out of the narrow bonds of the Church, exercise his Power of
Will, and through Personal Effort extend Individual Conscious-
ness, and thus enlarge the field of its operations so as to use
and enjoy all the good in the Universe which is placed here
for him.
Endless repetition of the name of Jesus and his deeds and
overemphasis on his personality serves no good purpose ; neither
does it conform to his wishes. Rather, we should put greater
emphasis on the Principles He strove so hard to make clear to
his fellowmen. Jesus needs no one to extol his accomplishments.
No one can add luster to a reputation already shining. The
surest way to carry out His wishes and most surely safeguard
Humanity's interests is to reaffirm the basic Principles which
Jesus taught, and above all else, to have faith in the wisdom of
the people and believe that they will thrive better on the Truth
than on fictitious tales.
Evolution of the individual involves constantly increasing
knowledge. Knowledge—upon advanced planes—expresses itself
in Light. Light is definitely related to the ability to See
—
to Understand.
The primitive man resembles the child emerging from the
unreasoning state of infancy. Indeed, child life as clearly repre-
sents the Evolution of Individual Intelligence as the prenatal
Truth 53
development of the physical body of the child represents the
processes of physical evolution.
With the dawning of its Reason, the child clearly represents
that evolutionary stage at which the prepared animal organism
inspired the Soul Life Element and became the Rational, Living
Entity. During childhood, whether of a man or a race, life is a
succession of experiments, mistakes, penalties and apparent
penalties. A race, like a man, must learn the nature and effect
of Law and the transgression of Law by independent experiments.
In our search for knowledge we are seeking to identify the
facts of Nature as they exist.
In our search for Truth we are seeking to know the estab-
lished relation which these identified facts of Nature sustain to
each other and to Individual Human Intelligence.
This differentiation between Knowledge and Truth is im-
portant and should not be ignored or lost sight of by the student
who seeks to become a demonstrator of the Law.
Knowledge has to do with facts.
Truth has to do with the relation these facts sustain to each
other and to ourselves as Individual Intelligences.
For instance, let us take a map of the United States, glue
it to a thin board, and then saw it into hundreds of pieces, thus
making a jigsaw puzzle out of it. Now each piece is a fact. When
all these pieces (facts) are placed together in their proper
relation, we have again the map of the United States (the Truth)
.
The presence of one light does not extinguish another light.
It only adds to its intensity and effect.
In like manner one Truth does not extinguish or in any man-
ner conflict with another Truth. It only adds to its potency
and value.
The greater the candle power of light, the more definite
and distinct is the sense of physical vision, until the limit of
the power of resistance of the physical organ is reached.
Equally true is it that the greater the number of correlated
Truths at our command, the more definitely and clearly are we
able to distinguish the subject matter under consideration, within
the limits of our rational powers.
54 Religious Sanity
Light dispels darkness.
So also Truth dissipates ignorance (which is intellectual
Darkness).
Light is a fundamental necessity to the proper growth of all
physical organisms.
With added emphasis, Truth is the vital principle of the foun-
dation of all constructive spiritual unfoldment and Soul Growth.
The greater the candle power of light the more perfectly we
discern the true colors of things physical.
The greater the volume of Truth at our command, the more
clearly are we able to discern the delicate shadings of principle
which color all life.
The purpose is to establish beyond all question the true
relation which mere dogmas and beliefs sustain to actual Knowl-
edge, and to suggest the relative value and importance of each
to the individual.
Jesus possessed extraordinary Powers because of Soul Growth
obtained by Personal Effort and Right Guidance in the School
of Natural Science. Personal Effort brings Knowledge. Knowl-
edge rightly used brings Power. Exact and definite Knowledge
comes to all of us in exact ratio to the amount of Intelligence,
Moral Courage and Perseverance we put into the active search
for it. Some call it Miracle. Miracle and Mystery are merely
theological jugglings in an effort to reconcile their contradictions
and irreconcilable paradoxes.
The very concept of Miracle is Lawlessness. Jesus' power
came from obeying the Law. Mystery is but another name for
ignorance. There is no Miracle, no Mystery, to anyone who has
accumulated sufficient Knowledge, as Jesus did, through Personal
Effort. Any Man or Woman can do the same. The Man of
Nazareth was not deceiving his disciples when He assured them
that if they would do the things which He indicated, and
exemplify in their lives the Law of Evolutionary Unfoldment,
the time would come when they would not only be able to do the
things which they marveled at when they saw Him do them, but
they would be able to accomplish even "greater things than
these." He was but outlining to them the inevitable operation
Truth 55
of the Great Law of Compensation. The Laws of Nature are
fixed and immutable. Her processes are unvarying and inevitable.
We may rely upon them today with the same assurance and
the same guarantees as did the Great Friends—the Wise Men
of the East.
Mystery is the absence of Knowledge and Understanding.
As Knowledge is acquired, mystery fades. As Science penetrates
mystery, it discovers Law and Order, Plan and Purpose, Justice
and Wisdom in Nature. Natural Laws and Principles govern
Life and Action. The echo of the Ages has been "Man, Know
Thyself."
We must change so as to be in tune with the present scientific
Age. Why should we compromise with a patched-up version
which still is built on Error of the past Ages? As a rule there is
never growth without discomfort to somebody. That is why the
new discoveries of Science often give us the "willies," or so
needle the static, quiescent members of society as to produce,
frequently, some quite bruising situations. Civilization sits on a
past and present filled with struggles between the old and the
new. Its enduring future largely hinges on the still unresolved
schism between external and internal authority, between the
need, on the one hand, to develop an inner spirit and responsibil-
ity dedicated to goodness, and the habit-fixed practice, on the
other hand, of walking the straight line solely because of a fear
of perpetual hell-fire. Fear, in any of its phases, is destructive.
"Learn to be Poor in Spirit if you would penetrate that
sacred night which environs Truth. Learn of the Philosophers
always to look for natural causes in all extraordinary events.
Magic! What is beyond their own power, the ignorant cannot
comprehend to be lawfully in the power of others. Spiritual
Life! May there not be forms of matter or life as invisible and
impalpable to us as the animalcule in the air we breathe, the
water in the well? Is it not possible that such things may have
passions and powers like our own—as the animalcule may have to
which I have compared them to? The monster that lives and
dies in a drop of water, carnivorous, insatiable, subsisting on the
creatures minuter than himself—is he less deadly in his wrath,
56 Religious Sanity
less ferocious in his nature, than the tiger in the desert?
Around the animalcule that sports in the water there shines a
halo, as around the star that revolves in bright pastime through
space. Is it not just as possible that there may be other things
around us which we cannot see with physical eyes because
Providence has placed a wall between them and us, merely by
different modifications of matter?" (Bulwer.)
Jesus said we could all do what He did, if we worked as He
did. Who is there more worthy of belief?
13 ATONEMENT
Atonement—the so-called Christian Scheme of Salvation as
taught by some Religionists—makes it possible for those who
accept the conditions specified to escape the natural and other-
wise inevitable consequences of their sins, and thus evade or avoid
their Personal Responsibility, and regain their Immortality,
their right to Eternal Life.
From the theological point of view, this scheme was based
on "the Sacrifice of Christ as a substitute for the penalties in-
curred by sinners." This Scheme, however, nullifies the Laws
established by the Great Creator of the Universe for the har-
monious government of the Universe and Man. The promoters
of this Scheme also tell us Man was a sinless and perfect Being.
Just how a sinless and perfect Being could "fall" is something
they do not explain, and this is a question evidently not easily
answered. Furthermore, the inventors of this Scheme, as well
as all beneficent religious and moral philosophies of all times
and all peoples, have recognized Personal Responsibility, and
have acknowledged it as part of God's original working plan.
Science holds, without equivocation or mental reservation, that
Man is charged with the fundamental obligation of Personal
Atonement 57
Responsibility and Moral Accountability, having been given
Consciousness to Know and Will to Do—or Not to Do—that
is, Independent Choice; otherwise Man would be nothing but
an automaton.
In the stupendous scheme of Evolution, it would seem that
Nature, or Universal Intelligence, has been engaged in a process
of evolving an order of Intelligence to which it could shift the
burden of Individual Responsibility for that Intelligence's Acts
and Conduct. In Man it has achieved this end.
Whatever Personal Responsibility may be in essence, it is
something which all men agree upon as one of the profoundly
important facts of Nature. All men agree that, whatever it may
be in essence, it binds Humanity because it is a part of Man's
estate. It binds him because he is a Man, and he is a Man because
it binds him. The two are inseparable. Man would no longer
be Man if the element of Personal Responsibility were taken
out of his Being.
An Individual Intelligence, granted Consciousness and Inde-
pendent (unaided and uninfluenced), Self-Conscious (knowingly
and intentionally), Rational (anticipating the results) Will or
Volition, makes Man a Responsible Living Being.
Yet orthodox theology is based on the incredible theorem
that man was a "sinless" and "perfect" Being, and subsequently,
because he ate the fruit of an actual tree, he "fell," and punish-
ments were meted out, not only to him, but also to his distant
posterity, for a sin of which they are entirely innocent. Moral
Accountability and Personal Responsibility are based on Knowl-
edge, so it does not seem intelligent to chastise or heap penalties
on two Human Beings created "full grown," without experience
or knowledge, because they had no early life during which
they might have accumulated knowledge and experience. Like
many other stories in the Bible, the Adam and Eve story is
purely allegorical, and has a deep and important lesson if
properly interpreted, but should not be taken literally. This
allegory is intended only to convey the message that we suffer
through evil thinking.
There being but one fixed and definite Standard of Life
58 Religious Sanity
for each Individual, and that being the highest ideal of Equity,
Justice and Right (as determined by the Soul Attributes of the
Individual himself at any given time), it follows that each Indi-
vidual is bound by the Great Law of Personal Responsibility to
conform his Life to that Standard. Responsibility is based on
Knowledge.
While Man is a creature of the Great Law, yet he alone must
determine whether he will respect that Law. By the Power of
Individual Choice and the exercise of his Will alone, he may
cooperate with either the constructive or the destructive forces of
Nature. He alone thus determines his own destiny. Nature has
implanted in us that which enables us to recognize and under-
stand wrong and at the same time impels us to strive for better
things.
In making a choice as an Individual Intelligence, having
the facts of Nature in mind, one should be impelled by the
Knowledge of the logical results to follow from either choice.
It is only for each of us to make his own Individual Choice
—
and may the Great Father, the Great Friends of the Friendless,
and the Helpers of Those Who Need, help us to choose wisely,
and refrain from judging those who choose differently.
14 SALVATION BY FAITH
Salvation by Faith and the Vicarious Atonement were not
taught, as now interpreted, by Jesus. They are later perversions
of the original doctrine. In the early Church there was not one
Christ for the whole world, but a Potential Christ in every Man.
Theologians tore the Christos from the hearts of all Humanity,
in order to deify Jesus, that they might have a God-Man pecu-
liarly their own.
"Now Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence
of things not seen" (Heb. 11:1).
Salvation by Faith 59
The definition of the Great School is, "The intuitive con-
viction of that which both Reason and Conscience approve."
Faith is not Knowledge, yet it is an inspiration to Life. Faith
is the steady expectation of a Soul. The energizing power of
Faith should not be overlooked, but Man is mistaken in believing
that Faith alone is all that is necessary. "Faith, if it have not
Works, is Dead" (James 2:17). The more informed and thinking
teachers and philosophers have stressed the importance of
Personal Effort to improve the quality and character of one's
Soul as a means of securing a happier life on this earth and
hereafter. Mankind has, to a great extent, neglected Personal
Effort in striving for a better life here on earth, because salvation
has been promised without the necessity of Self-Unfoldment,
Self-Development or Soul Growth. Salvation has been promised
simply for a confession of penitence, and/or an assertion of
Faith.
There will be no improvement in the Soul of Man and no
spiritual progress of civilization until True Religion inspires a
Man to seek Self-Unfoldment and Self-Development and Soul
Growth through Personal Effort, or until these are impressed
upon him by personal experience. Spiritual Growth and Under-
standing is a matter of Development through Personal Effort.
Spiritual Growth is an inner process, a reaction to obstacles
overcome, resistance of all sorts, everything that means Effort.
Must your butterfly not first burst its cocoon to get the sunlight?
The Soul is no different.
Individual Immortality is an achievement of the Soul, and
not an arbitrary imposition of God or Nature upon all Mankind
without regard to Independent Choice. It is a Reward guaran-
teed by God, or Nature, to each Individual Man and Woman for
the Right application of acquired Knowledge and the Right use
of developed Powers. Individual Immortality means nothing
more and nothing less than a condition or state of being wherein
an Individual possesses the knowledge and the power to come
into full cooperation with Nature's Constructive Principle.
Eternity is endlessness of the past and the future, so we are in
Eternity now as much as we can ever be. Heaven is a State of
Being, so we do not have to die to enter Heaven. As a matter
60 Religious Sanity
of fact, it is just as possible to be in Heaven here as hereafter.
By Personal Effort we can acquire the Knowledge to enable
us to maintain such a State of Being, or Heavenly State, con-
tinuously.
Personal Responsibility constitutes the essential foundation
upon which rests the entire Ethical Superstructure, and makes
the existence of Society possible. Penalties must be worked
out under the Law of Personal Responsibility, which, in other
words, is Man working out his own Salvation. In the Tribunal of
Nature Man is in a Court of Absolute Justice, from whose juris-
diction there are no possible changes of venue, against whose
decrees there are no injunctions or stays of execution, and from
whose judgments there are no appeals.
There is no "Scheme" by which any one of us can hope to
evade or even minimize our Personal Responsibility. Let us
not deceive ourselves longer. Let us not even try to do so.
Let us declare our emancipation from the tyranny of such a
slavery. Let us do it now.
Wherever Society exists, there is a universal Understanding
and assumption that, in our normal state and condition, we do
exercise our given faculties, capacities and powers independently,
and that, by reason thereof, we are Morally Accountable and
Personally Responsible.
Such mutual understanding and assumption enter into, and
are a vital part of, the "Social Compact" upon which all Human
Society is founded and exists. Without them, the institution
we call Society would not exist twenty-four hours. If anything
should occur to destroy our Absolute Confidence in the Moral
Accountability and Personal Responsibility of all normal Hu-
man Beings, the entire "Social Structure" would crumble into
dust within the fraction of a second, for the fact that we can,
in our normal state and condition, be made to account to each
other and to Society for every breach of the Social Compact of
which we are guilty is the vital element of the Social Compact
upon which the entire superstructure of Society rests. Eliminate
this Vital Element, and every "Social Prop" is instantly de-
stroyed.
Salvation by Faith 61
Man-made "Schemes" cannot, and do not, overrule the Laws
of the Great Power, the Universal Intelligence, the Creator of
the Universe. The absolute futility of any "Scheme" to evade
Personal Responsibility is further emphasized in what follows
later on, with regard to the Law of Compensation. This Law
is one of the most important messages Jesus gave to the world
in His Sermon on the Mount.
This Christian Scheme of Salvation tends to make Man con-
tent himself with mere belief, opinions, tradition and dogmas,
rather than put forth sufficient effort to secure the facts. He
shuns investigation and added light, because he is afraid these
will destroy his fool's paradise. This is especially true if new
light threatens to rob him of some of his temporary privileges
or satisfactions. It prevents him from doing his best for himself.
In the realm of religion, Man has put more time and energy
into inventing vicarious schemes and devices to avoid the Law
than would have been required to reach the goal by Self-Effort.
Soul Growth is the result of Charity (the discharge of Per-
sonal Responsibility in service to others) , and Patience (the Soul
quality of bearing uncomplainingly any hardship that may fall
to one's lot), of generous Tolerance (the attitude of Soul which
recognizes, acknowledges, and respects the natural rights, privi-
leges, prerogatives and liberties of all Mankind), of Humility
(the attitude of Soul which represents the individual's due appre-
ciation of his own abilities, advantages, and limitations without
ostentation), and unquenchable Courage (the attitude which
impels the individual to accomplish that which he believes is
right). These bring Joy, Contentment and Satisfactions, and
eventually Love and True Happiness, all of which must be paid
for by hours and days and years of Personal Effort.
True Religion admits of no privileges, or special Gifts, or
Special Dispensations, save those won by one's own Soul through
Personal Effort and Merit through practicing Moral Principles.
Every Soul must work out its own salvation. In the legislature of
God, or Nature, there is no such thing as Class Legislation.
It is more important that men should strive to become
Christos than that they should believe that Jesus was Christ.
62 Religious Sanity
Man, by Knowledge and Self-Control in the Right application
of Knowledge and the Right use of Power, in this way becoming
perfect in Humanity, attains Divinity; in other words he be-
comes Christos. This is the meaning, aim and completion of
Human Evolution, as far as Science knows.
The perfect Man is Christ. This is the birthright and destiny
of every human Soul. This was originally taught, but the Creeds
of so-called Christendom have accorded this supreme con-
summation to Jesus alone, and have made it obscure or impos-
sible for the rest of Humanity. In place of this Grandest Doc-
trine ever revealed to Man, theologians have set up Salvation by
Faith, a man-made Creed, a pale counterfeit, ignoring, as it does,
Merit, discouraging Effort, preventing Man from doing his best.
Teachers in error will come to find that no matter what the
act, the consequences seek them out sooner or later. When the
cycle is completed, measure for measure, the injury done to
others will return to them that sent it along the unerring way.
(False Teachers would do well, for their own sakes, to read
the Chapter on "Hell" in The Great Known, Volume IV of the
Harmonic Series, by J. E. Richardson, TK.)
Sooner or later every Man will come to realize the Re-
sponsibility which God fixes on him as a definite and necessary
part of, and factor in, the scheme of Individual Evolution; and
when he comes to know, deep down within his inmost Soul, that
there is just one way, and one only, to meet the Responsibility;
by the Living of a Life, and meeting his Personal Respons-
ibility, then it is that he seeks to learn the exact nature of
the Life he must Live in order that he may thereby meet the
full requirements of the Law. That is, indeed, the beginning of
Wisdom (the Right application of Knowledge and the Right
use of Power)
.
15 THE LAW OF COMPENSATION
"The rule is to guard and do by the things of others as you
would be done by" (Krishna, Hindu Deity, 1000 to 1500 B.C.)
.
"Do as you would be done by" (Zoroaster, Persian Master,
800 B.C.).
"I would return good for good. I would also return good for
evil. I would meet trust with trust; I would also meet suspicion
with confidence" (Lao-tze, Chinese Philosopher, 570 B.C.).
"One should seek for others the happiness one desires for
one's self" (Buddha, 563 B.C.)
.
"What you do not wish done to yourself do not to others"
(Confucius, Chinese Teacher, 551 B.C.).
"All things whatsoever ye would that men should do unto
you, do ye even so to them" (Jesus).
There is in Nature a universal and immutable Law of Com-
pensation, first discovered by physical science ; it is the Principle
and Process which govern the conservation of energy, whereby
Nature demands and receives—as compensation—a full equiva-
lent for the matter she employs and the energy she expends
in each and every transmutation she effects. Under the Moral
Order of the Universe, You and I are bound by the Law of
Compensation to pay to our fellowmen a just equivalent for
all that we receive from them, whether in the physical, spiritual,
mental, moral or psychical department of human nature, and
Pay in Full, even to the uttermost.
The Law applies to all the planes and conditions of life.
We must pay. We must pay all. There are no exceptions. The
greatest as well as the least among us must pay. No Christian
institution, or any other institution, has been elevated to such
a sublime position, or has had conferred upon it such Divine
Powers as to be able to forgive human offenses to the Divinity,
or to bring down God bodily by pronouncing a special set of
words. Neither can any institution, or institutions, withhold any-
thing from anybody that he has earned.
64 Religious Sanity
All the ingenuity of the people of earth and the power of the
Masters, including the Master Jesus, combined cannot cancel
the smallest debt of the smallest debtor, nor the largest obligation
of the greatest benefactor. All must pay. There is no "Board of
Arbitration" before which to protest any debt. A Law of Nature
is never subject to the caprices of men. It is fixed and immutable.
The Individual who is seeking to take advantage of Nature
and receive something for nothing will strive to find some way
of avoiding or evading the Law of Compensation. There is some-
thing of consolation to the honest searcher for Spiritual Light, in
the fact that he will never succeed. This is true for the reason
that it is a comfort to the honest seeker for Truth to know that
Nature is consistent.
If it were possible for the Vain, the Selfish, and the Mean, in
the spirit of Vanity, Selfishness and Meanness, to achieve Spirit-
ual Independence and Mastership, that fact of itself would con-
stitute a complete justification of Vanity, Selfishness and Mean-
ness in human life and conduct. If it were possible for the subtle
trickster, the clever pretender, the vain boaster, and the morally
degenerate to skulk past the Law of Compensation into the
Kingdom of Spiritual Light, then would Nature not only condone
trickery, pretense, vanity and immorality, but would become a
party to them. If this were possible, then also would there be no
meaning to Honesty, Sincerity, Humility, and Morality. For if
Nature made no distinction, why should man? If Nature provides
obscure bypaths whereby the vicious and the cunning might
slip past the Law of Spiritual Unfoldment and, through a dark
subterranean passage and a secret panel, reach the guest
chamber of the Temple of Spiritual Light from the rear, such
a provision would constitute "Class Legislation" of the most
vicious and degrading character in favor of immorality and
wickedness in human nature. In this event, Nature, or the Great
Universal Intelligence that expresses itself to Man through
Nature, would stand condemned as a party to fraud, injustice,
dishonesty and vice in all its hideous deformity.
In the legislature of Nature there is no such thing as class
legislation.
The Law of Compensation 65
Forgiveness of sins is not decided without reference to
Morality. The Law of Compensation is inexorable in the realm
of Morality. It is one of the great and profound facts of Nature.
It is desired to emphasize the fact, also, that it is as much and as
truly a factor in the Moral Order of the Universe as it is in the
realm of Physical Nature. It is not a thing of Man's invention
or creation. Its penalties are fixed and immutable, and they
apply to all Men.
"And with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again," said Jesus. This is the Law of Life. The Law of Com-
pensation. The Process of Receiving and Giving. The Golden
Rule. The "Great Leveler." The basic and fundamental spirit of
all True Cooperation. It simply means that as we do unto others,
others will do unto us. The good that we do others, we will
receive back in like measure, and the evil we do others, in like
measure we shall receive back again also. For every unkindness,
every deception, for all cheating, for every lie, every duty we
neglect, every responsibility we evade, every time we abuse
authority, we are doing something for which we will inevitably
have to pay by suffering a like injury to ourselves.
"With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you
again."
It should not be difficult to realize that the admonition,
"With what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again,"
simply means that you actually injure yourself when you injure
any other man or woman ; each one of us is a vital part of Uni-
versal Consciousness, in individualized form.
We can at no time evade or avoid the Law of Compensation.
We can at no time place ourselves outside the limits of its juris-
diction. In so far as we conform our lives to the constructive
principle, we not only earn Nature's reward therefore, but we
must receive it. In so far as we patronize the destructive principle,
to just that degree we earn Nature's penalty therefore, and we
must receive it.
There cannot be any real doubt concerning the fact of Man's
Moral Accountability and Personal Responsibility, because of
his Consciousness to Know, and Will to Do, or Not to Do,
66 Religious Sanity
Desire and Choice, Reason, Discrimination, Self-Control, and
Conscience (that Knowledge of normal, adult human intelligence
which enables one to differentiate between Right and Wrong
in their relation to the Individual himself)
.
16 RECEIVING AND GIVING
Back of every fact in Nature there is a Principle to which
that fact is related and to which it must be referred for its
proper interpretation and meaning. There is in Nature a basic
and fundamental Principle, Law and function that underlies
every thought, every act, every movement, every process and
every function, and this Principle may be described as the
activity of Receiving and Giving. All human thought and action
is expressed through this universal principle and process of
Receiving and Giving.
If it were stated as a scientific fact that the whole of life's
activities consists basically and fundamentally of this process,
the statement could withstand all scientific tests. Establishing
and maintaining a balance within this great and all-inclusive
process constitutes the solution to the great universal search for
Health, Harmony and Happiness.
Under the Law of Equity, Justice and Right, we have a moral
justification for taking as much from life as we stand ready and
willing to render an equivalent for. We might further remember
that our actual needs are few. Our wants may be many, and
honesty says we are entitled to whatever we are willing to pay
for.
Cheating generates disease as surely as the sun rises in the
morning and sets in the evening (at least to our physical vision)
.
We violate many laws; the results of such violations we do not
Receiving and Giving 67
immediately feel, but there is no escape from Nature's Court of
Justice.
When we begin to study life's activities from this point of
view, living will lose its complexities, practically all its diffi-
culties, surely all its confusion, a large portion of its mystery;
and when we have learned to balance the scales of life, we will
have emerged from Darkness into the Bright Sunlight.
The fundamental business of Individual Life is Receiving
and Giving. This is the basic function and process of a Soul.
In its primary aspect this represents the sum total of life's
activities. In this simple process is embodied the entire scope,
purpose and spirit of the Law of Compensation. This is the
primary and fundamental basis of Ethics. This is the beginning
and ending of Morality. This is the foundation upon which alone
the Temple of Human Character may be erected safely and
securely. On this foundation only can it endure.
Through Consciousness we Receive from Nature and our
Fellowmen all that we now possess, or ever shall possess, and by
the exercise of Will, we can give back a just equivalent for all
we Receive through Consciousness, and thus preserve the balance
of our account with Nature and our Fellowmen as demanded
by the Law of Compensation.
Those who receive that which is not justly theirs are but
fixing upon themselves a burden of Debt, for they must pay in
full for whatsoever they receive. Let them not deceive themselves
by the thought that they have received something for nothing,
for this is not true; for whether it be here and now, or then, in
the Spiritual World, the time will come—so surely as the day
shall follow night—that they must pay; and the further off the
day of reckoning, the more difficult become the terms of pay-
ment. Let not your selfishness deceive your Consciousness; for
you cannot evade nor avoid the Great Law. You must pay.
But look up, and let not your heart be troubled; for while
it is true that, under the Great Law of Compensation, you must
pay, and pay to the uttermost, nevertheless the same Great Law
guarantees to you that you also shall receive a just reward
for every benefit you confer upon your Fellows. Hence, while
it is inevitable that you must pay, it is just as inevitable that
68 Religious Sanity
those who owe to you must also pay. They can no more evade
or avoid the Law than you can. Hence, you are nowise injured,
for the Receiving must ever balance the Giving. This is hut the
other side of the same Great Law of Compensation. It is the Law
of Individual Life.
Receiving and Giving! How supremely simple and easy it
sounds! At first thought the mind is inclined to rebel at the sug-
gestion. And yet it is safe to predict that you who read these
pages, free from prejudices, and who are ready for "More Light"
on the Pathway of spiritual life and progress, will do as others
before you have done under similar conditions. You will go back
and begin your study of the problem of Individual Life all over
again. When you do, you will proceed anew from the simple
basis here suggested. In due time you will find it possible to
reduce many of the complex and intricate problems of your own
life to the same simple basis. When you have learned to do this,
new doors will open to you through which broader vistas of
life's possibilities will appear, and you will marvel at the results.
You were the first Receiver, and Nature the first Giver.
It is impossible for you, in your individual capacity, ever to
make a voluntary gift of more than you have received. You
cannot give that which you do not yet possess.
The individual who honestly strives to see how much he may
do for others is the individual who, under the Law of Compen-
sation, creates for himself a credit balance upon the Ledger of
Life. He may be absolutely certain that his reward will come
to him, in such manner and at such time and in such place as
will bring to him the greatest possible measure of good.
As Individual Intelligences we have certain Rights, Privi-
leges and Prerogatives which all men should respect, because
they are necessary to our individual existence, and they are
natural concomitants of our Being. Our existence as individual-
ized, intelligent Souls would have no meaning without them.
Among these are the Right of Individual Life, Individual Lib-
erty and the Pursuit of Individual Happiness. These are Rights
which we designate as "inalienable," because we know that they
are those which no man has the right to take from us. No man
Receiving and Giving 69
has the right to interfere with us in the perfect enjoyment of
them so long as we, on our part, do not interfere with him in
the enjoyment of the same Rights in his own hehalf.
Nature went one step further. She at the same time fixed
upon us certain concomitant Obligations, Duties and Responsibil-
ities. These Obligations, Duties and Responsibilities are just
as truly unavoidable as our Rights are inalienable. They bind
us as uncomprisingly as our Rights, Privileges and Prerogatives
bind the rest of Mankind.
Every Man is bound, by the Law of his Being, so to live his
own Life, enjoy his own Liberty, and pursue his own Happiness,
that he shall not in any manner whatsoever endanger the Life,
curtail the Liberty, or destroy the Happiness of any other
Human Being who is doing the same thing.
One who comes to this realization of Responsibility to his
fellows possesses the ability to discharge that Responsibility,
if he so wills.
However, there is a Principle of "Service" which, from the
standpoint of Soul Growth and Spiritual Development, far
transcends any of the "Inalienable Rights" or "Unavoidable
Obligations," as those are generally denned and understood.
Life would be an empty and meaningless heritage if mere living
were the goal of individual attainment or individual purpose.
The Man who is so busy "standing on" his Right, and who is so
completely absorbed in jealously guarding it from the encroach-
ment of possible trespassers that he has no time left for using
it, thereby makes of it an empty treasure.
The rarest jewel in the world would only make of its owner
an ignoble slave if its value so impressed itself upon him as to
impel him to spend all his life in the selfish effort to prevent
the rest of mankind from sharing it with him, or in any manner
whatsoever benefiting through its existence. Life, itself, is of
no value, either to an individual or to the world, except in so
far as it is made a life of Service to the Cause of Humanity.
A life of Service to others draws unto itself all the "Respect"
and all the "Protection" it is possible for society, with few
exceptions, to render to any Human Being.
70 Religious Sanity
The only life that is worth anything is the life of Service
to Humanity.
Furthermore, no Duty is ever fully performed until it is
done in the spirit of Cheerfulness. Every Man will realize some
day the profound and solemn Truth that no Duty ever yet was
performed, and none will he performed, by a Human Being
while the Soul of the actor is filled with anger, bitterness, hatred,
contempt, aversion, resentment, reluctance, or any kind of
protest.
It is right that every individual should know that the
shortest and most direct road to the goal of his own Self-Develop-
ment (as well as Individual Completion and Happiness) runs
through the sunlit valley of unselfishness beside the still waters
of altruistic service.
The conscious knowledge of this great Truth should inspire
men and women with a profound reverence for the altruistic
principle at the foundation of all social ethics. It should change
the focus of their attention from Self and from Selfish personal
interest to a cheerful recognition of the obligations they owe
to their fellows. It should awaken in them the spirit of kindness,
courtesy, consideration and the desire to serve those who are
oppressed by the burdens, the cares and the sorrows of life,
rather than develop within them the spirit of selfishness, greed
and the desire to profit at the expense of their less fortunate
and more heavily burdened fellows.
If one hundred Men and Women who are pessimists today
would but cast off their bondage of doubt of Nature's benefi-
cence, and set themselves the reasonable task of living their lives
with cheerful courage, like men and women of full stature, and
of cooperating for mutual Happiness and material good, and
of asking for the help of the Great Friends when their own
efforts have failed in the achievement of lawful results, then it
will be safe to say that, within five years, each and every one
of them would have attained to a state of individual Content
and individual Comfort in material things. The Great Law of
Compensation has just as many rewards for the courageous
and the faithful as it has penalties for the weak and the selfish.
17 PERSONAL EFFORT
Evolution of the individual involves constantly increasing
Knowledge. The greater the volume of Knowledge and Truth
at our command, the more clearly are we able to discern the
delicate shadings of principle which color all life.
Knowledge comes through Personal Effort. It is not an
"unearned increment." Knowledge is an essential factor at the
very foundation of Moral Accountability and Spiritual Develop-
ment, and it is the degree of Spiritual Development which deter-
mines the Evolutionary Status of the Soul of Men and Women in
this life, as well as in the life to come.
Rectitude of Character, Virtue, Knowledge and Wisdom are
mere germs of possibility within the Soul. They must be grown
as the grain of wheat must be grown, in order that they may
reproduce themselves. It is in the process of their growth that
their equivalent in Personal Effort is expanded. Virtue never
grew and matured into a permanent possession of any Soul,
except as compensation for the striving of that Soul for better
things. Knowledge and Wisdom never thrust themselves gratu-
itously upon any Man. Sometime, somewhere, he has paid their
full price in Personal Effort. They have come to him only as
compensation for the energy he has spent in his struggle upward
into the light of Truth. There is no achievement in the realm
of a Soul without Effort. Labor is the true measure of all Soul
Values.
If Man is to create a better world, he must change himself, and
he changes himself only through self-directed growth. The field
of our Consciousness extends to infinity, as far as Science knows,
and Man makes one discovery after another in proportion as he
raises himself.
Man is saved just as far as he knows the Law and adjusts
himself to it. In Real Religions the importance of definite Knowl-
edge comes to be one of the first considerations in the progress
and salvation of Man. To achieve Knowledge is the first step in
72 Religious Sanity
the emancipation of the Soul. The Law of Individual Effort is the
Law of Progress. To get an extension of knowledge in any direc-
tion means Self-Effort. To secure any of the basic virtues requires
Effort. For Knowledge one must pay, and pay with Self-Effort.
Most troubles of the world would not be, if each Individual
knew he could not receive something for nothing, could not
receive more than he earns. To think one can get something
for nothing constitutes a disease, the evil results of which can
be seen in every walk of Life. The Law of Self-Effort means that
there is no way of achieving a worthy goal in life except by
Self-Effort.
Personal Effort is a Process of Individual Intelligence and
results in the expenditure of energy generated through the Soul
Life-Element. This energy, generated through the Soul Life-
Element, and accelerated by Personal Effort of Individual In-
telligence, is a perfect equivalent for the growth of the Indi-
vidual Intelligence, which is back of Self-Mastery. Hence, if you
are willing to pay the price in Personal Effort, you can have
all the Self-Unfoldment and Individual Growth you want.
In ancient days Man feared the Sun. Today he knows that
the Sun sends energy to the Earth, which plants change into
nourishing food. Knowledge and Understanding has replaced
fear.
A more complete understanding of the Laws of Nature will
replace all Fear, Doubt and Pessimism with Optimism, Courage
and Faith in the beneficence of the Great Creative Intelligence,
and will add tremendously to Man's Power, to his Comfort,
Contentment, Prosperity, Satisfaction and eventual Happiness
—
True Happiness.
In most of us, the current of energy from the Spiritual World
and conditions has become sluggish and stagnant. We can all
re-establish the full flow of energy where there was just a
trickle before.
Our material bodies (physical and spiritual) are actually
broadcasting and receiving stations, purposely planned and
created by Universal Intelligence for our use while on this
Earth. We can increase their fineness of reception by Soul
Personal Effort 73
Growth and Development, and thus be able to tune in on the
more wonderful things to be had in the way of Knowledge.
There is Universal Broadcasting at all times, but if we do not
put our Receiving Instruments (our bodies) in the right wave
length, we cannot obtain the benefit of this broadcasting.
Through Self-Unfoldment, Self-Development and Soul Growth,
we will eventually discover this for ourselves, and employ these
Powers which are now potential within us.
If you ever achieve the Purpose of the Soul, and the Purpose
of Nature, and eventually True Happiness, you will do so only
by traveling the one and only Path that leads to these objectives.
There is absolutely no other way. There is no method or process
whereby you can evade or avoid the demands of the Law of
Compensation. Here is where all the wealth of the physical
universe cannot avail to mitigate the rigors of the Law one iota.
Only True Religion will stimulate Man to make the Effort at
inquiry which is necessary to Understanding. There is no Royal
Road to Happiness, anymore than there is to Knowledge.
There is no such thing as a "Static Condition" of the Indi-
vidual Intelligence. It is always in a state of activity, or motion.
It is always going somewhere. If it is not going forward, along
the Path of Constructive Self-Unfoldment and Individual Growth,
it is going backward, along the downward Path of Devolution
and Destruction.
You are a free moral agent under the Great Law. Nobody in
all the world can compel you to travel either of the two roads
indicated. It is your own voluntary choice alone that must deter-
mine the Path you travel. There are but the two roads. You
must travel one or the other. You cannot travel both at the
same time, any more than you can travel both North and South
at the same time, or around a tree in opposite directions at
the same time. It is simply one of the physical impossibilities.
18 REFINEMENT
True Refinement is something deeper and more vital than
mere outward courtesy, or so-called etiquette. True Refinement
is a thing of the Individual Intelligence. Every effort of the
Individual Intelligence to acquire Knowledge through Personal
Effort and Experience, every effort of the Individual Intelli-
gence for the constructive accumulation of Knowledge, every
effort of study of Moral Principles and the definite practice
of these principles in the individual's daily life and conduct, sets
in motion the refining process that is back of all Independent
Self-Unfoldment and Evolutionary Growth. This refining process
effects each and every department of Nature within the Indi-
vidual, refining the physical body, the spiritual body and the
activities of the Individual Intelligence.
Spiritual Development and True Refinement begin with
Morality. Morality is the scientific basis and natural beginning
point. Morality is the application of Moral Principles to Human
Conduct. It requires the Living of a Life in conformity with
the Constructive Principle of Nature, as this has been demon-
strated by the Great Masters throughout the Ages, and by them
unfolded to their successive students. Jesus was a student, and
He Himself became a Master in the highest and most exalted
concept of the word.
The scientific basis of "Spiritual Evolution," which alone
leads onward and upward to Individual "Mastership" such as
was achieved by the Master Jesus, is Morality.
Immorality, on the other hand, has a coarsening effect.
Self-indulgence, in many forms, is coarsening in its effects upon
the tissues of the physical body, as well as in its psychical effect.
Self-Unfoldment, on the other hand, induces a refining process
all along the line, physical as well as psychical; it must be clear
to anyone able to reason that, to one who is seeking Self-
Unfoldment and Self-Mastery in accordance with the Principles
and Laws of Nature, Self-indulgence is a distinct obstacle and
a real detriment.
Refinement 75
Your acts may be ostensibly trivial ones, or they may be
ludicrous ones. Some acts are more destructive than others.
Some acts are more obnoxious than destructive. But whether
trivial or ludicrous, obnoxious or repellent, inconsequential
or destructive, if they form an unbreakable habit, they become
a badge of Servitude. Such habits stand between the Individual
Intelligence and his Self-Unfoldment and Self-Mastery. The
little trivial habits of today, slowly but surely make the indi-
vidual unfit to cope with and withstand the greater, more
destructive, coarsening habits tomorrow. They inevitably weaken
his Will Power and his Power of Resistance, and make of him
a victim of Self-indulgence.
It may not necessarily be a crime, or it may not necessarily
be a sin. One may be a thoroughly Good Man, in point of honesty,
sincerity, humility, and all the virtues of a moral and upright
life and character; and yet he may, at the same time, be a slave
to the habit of smoking. A Woman may be a thoroughly Good
Woman, from the standpoint of outstanding moral character,
and yet she may, at the same time, be a slave to the habit of
overeating of rich food.
But it is equally true, however, that an Individual cannot be
a thoroughly clean Man or Woman (physically) , or be physically
refined, and at the same time have the tissues of his or her
physical body saturated with nicotine, or alcohol, or rich foods,
or coarsened by any other form of Self-indulgence. And neither
can an Individual attain self-mastery while he is yet subject to
any habit that is stronger than his own independent Power of
Will. Habit is the result of the repetition of an indulgence until
the desire overcomes the willingness to withstand it, and the
individual becomes a victim of his own Self-indulgence.
Physical Refinement affects the refinement of the Individual
particles or cells of which the body is composed; that is, it
makes them smaller in size, and their vibratory activity increases
correspondingly. The same constructive vital process exerts an
analogous refining process upon the Spiritual Body. The degree
of refinement regulates the Pull of Gravity on the Spiritual
Body after Physical Death, and thus governs the status of each
one of us when we leave this plane of Earth.
76 Religious Sanity
The attraction that holds the earth in space is the attraction
that fixes the Soul to Earth.
19 GRAVITY
The Universal Law of Gravity is Nature's gravimeter, by
which Nature determines the evolutionary status of the Souls
of Men and Women in this life, as well as in the life to come.
Under, and by virtue of, this Universal Law of Gravity, each
one of us, at physical death, either rises or sinks—as the case
may be—to the level of spiritual life and development (refine-
ment) he lived upon just prior to death.
Everyone takes up the new Life exactly where he leaves off
the old. He brings into the spiritual life all the hopes, ambi-
tions, desires and purposes which stimulated him to personal
effort upon the earth plane, and he will be equally impressed
with them until he has had time and opportunity to learn that
he has been in error. This takes time, and often it requires patient
educational effort as well as Faith in the eternal verities of
Nature, and in the Great Architect of the Universe.
Thus, under the operation of the Universal Law of Gravity,
this physical life is fraught with momentous significance and
unlimited possibilities. It is, in fact, the training ground from
which we pass to a higher conflict. The Life we live here deter-
mines the level to which we gravitate there.
By obedience to Nature's Law we discharge our Individual
Responsibility, and thereby earn Nature's reward therefore,
which is Individual Immortality. And this is Compensatory
Justice.
By our violation of this same Great Law, we incur the penalty
Nature prescribes therefore, which, according to the terminology
Gravity 77
of Natural Science, is Spiritual Death, the second Death, or
total individual extinction. And this, to us, is Retributive
Justice.
Thus, in its final analysis, the Law of Justice, as it is known
and exemplified in the realm of the Soul's citizenship, is the Law
of Individual Life and Death. Under the operation of this Law,
the right of Individual and Independent choice is an inalienable
and inviolable right of every Individual Man and Woman.
In accordance therewith, Man is, in the most exact and
literal sense, the arbiter of his own destiny. He goes to that
destiny whether it be in the realm of Light and Life and Im-
mortality, or in that of Darkness, Disintegration and Death,
because he, and he alone, has so elected. And this is the scientific
"Doctrine of Election."
Every unselfish act done in behalf of one's fellowman lightens
the Gravity of the Spirit and permits the Soul to rise, in obedience
to the Law of its essential Being, to realms of greater Light and
fuller Life.
Every act by an individual which purposely deprives a fellow-
man of that which by right is his increases and intensifies that
individual's spiritual Gravity, and in obedience to the Law of
his essential Being, he sinks toward the realm of Darkness and
Spiritual Death.
The Process of Individual Refinement through the Living of
a Moral Life may be accomplished while the Individual is yet in
the physical body and upon the earth-plane of Life. When he
has acquired sufficient Knowledge, together with sufficient Re-
finement of his Spiritual Body, he may pass out of the physical
plane of Life directly into any plane of spiritual Life for which
he may thus have fitted himself to ascend, under the Law of
Universal Gravity. And that, indeed, is one of the most inspiring
rewards which every Individual has upon the earth-plane to
make his life a living expression of the Moral Law, and to
acquire Knowledge through experience in conformity with the
Evolutionary Principle of Life.
The Man of Nazareth was not deceiving His disciples when
He assured them, in effect, that, if they would do the things which
78 Religious Sanity
He indicated and exemplify in their lives the Law of Evolu-
tionary Unfoldment, the time would come when they would not
only be able to do the things which they had marveled at when
they saw Him do them, but they would also be able to accomplish
even "greater things than these."
He was but outlining to them the inevitable operation of
the Great Law of Compensation.
The Great Friends of today also know the Law, and they
travel the Pathway of Life with the same unwavering Faith
in the beneficence of Nature and of Nature's God.
20 SOLVING THE PROBLEM
The Church deals largely in generalities. What facts they
may have are neither classified nor systematized, and the
important facts, if any, certainly are not emphasized. The
people, in this day and age, want facts, Knowledge that will
do them some good today, Knowledge stripped of dogmas and
fictitious tales and exaggerations. The Church does not provide
a legible blueprint clearly outlining the important details that
enter into the building of the Temple wherein the Builder him-
self must abide forever.
The Church relates stories of the Prodigal Son, the Good
Samaritan, the Scarlet Woman, Adam and Eve and many others,
all unreal characters invented solely for the purpose of repre-
senting conditions of Consciousness; and this purpose is aptly
accomplished. The language of exact science was not in existence
in those times. Hence it was that there were employed so ex-
tensively symbolism, allegory, parable and a variety of figures
of speech. Unthinkingly people have taken these figures of
speech as factual; thus they not only fail to grasp the message
intended, but, because some of the allegories cannot possibly
Solving the Problem 79
be literally true, many of them also are impelled to discard
the Bible altogether; and this induces skepticism and doubt in
others. Thus valuable lessons in the Bible are lost because of
lack of proper interpretation. Misinterpretations thus minimize
or destroy altogether the effectiveness of otherwise valuable in-
formation and knowledge of the Science of First Principles.
Erroneous impressions thus result in delayed unfoldment, growth
and development of the Individual Soul.
Natural Science, by practical methods, points out the things
that are Destructive in their effects upon the Individual and
those that are Constructive; in this manner one may avoid the
former and cultivate the latter. It places before the Individual,
in plain view, in easily understandable language, a word-chart
of the elements involved in the Two Ways of Life. From this
Chart the earnest student will come to know these facts of
Nature so thoroughly and so intimately in all their relations that
he will be able to co-ordinate them all in their relation to
himself and to each other, and to adjust himself to them in
their aggregate sense. It is this Attitude of Soul which is the
basis of Constructive Spiritual Unfoldment. It is only when he
has reached this Attitude of Soul that he has complied with the
demands of Scientific Morality. It is only when he has attained
to this status that he can be accounted a Moral Man in the sense
which Science demands.
One by one these elements and principles are laid before the
earnest student for his consideration. Each one of these consti-
tutes an essential factor in the problem of Life. This Knowledge
serves a present and practical purpose. Among other many
benefits, it will spare him the affliction which comes through
ignorance, and thus save him passing from failure to spiritual
success through bitter experience.
For illustration, some of the elements involved are listed
here. The Destructive Principle involves Fear (Psychological
Refrigeration) and its phases:
Timidity
80 Religious Sanity
Despair
Solving the Problem 81
Intolerance
Hypnotism
Immorality
etc.
Critical Attitude
Dogmatism
Mediumship
"Atonement"
Subjectivity
Dishonesty
Evil Propensities
etc.
These are all destructive characteristics of human nature,
varying only in the degree of their destructiveness. The manner
in which they are generally considered fails to give them suffi-
cient emphasis. One difficulty is that the average individual does
not realize that he is afflicted with them, or part of them, at all.
Whereas the fact is that the vast majority are afflicted with them
to some degree and many are sorely, distressingly and damagingly
affected by them.
The Constructive Principle is covered in clarifying detail
under these headings:
Morality
Law of
Compensation
Temperance
Duties
Inalienable Rights
Mark of the Master
Judgment
Conscience and
Consistency
Loyalty
Self-Control
Personal
Responsibility
Consciousness
Truth and Light
Transition,
Called Death
Beauty
Faith
Thinking
etc.
Spirituality
Will
Obligations
Cheerfulness
Living of a Life
Wisdom
Play
Ethical Principles
Service
Refinement
Desire and Choice
Technical Section
Possessions
Life
Faith and Works
etc.
Soul
Knowledge
Responsibilities
Attitude of Soul
Vibrations
Altruism
Poise
Health Attitude
Intelligence
Receiving and Giving
Ethical Section
Spirit of the Work
Meat and Morals
Tolerance
Self-Discipline
etc.
82 Religious Sanity
And others. These elements and principles are taken apart, ana-
lyzed and covered so thoroughly and with such clarity in the
Harmonic Series that they will easily he understood, and their
relation to one's self and the Constructive Principle grasped by
the earnest student, and their significance and importance noted
and remembered.
To indicate with what thoroughness these elements are cov-
ered, we quote partially from the subject of Vanity:
VANITY. There are two kinds of Vanity:
Vanity of Person
Vanity of Intelligence
Personal Vanity is admiration of one's own personal appear-
ance. It is undue admiration of one's form, figure, face, dress,
decoration, ornamentation, personal possessions and material
belongings. It stimulates in us the craving for the admiration,
the homage and the applause of others concerning our personal
appearance.
Intellectual Vanity is unjustifiable admiration of one's own
intelligence or intellectual attainments. It impels us to seek the
admiration and the applause of others concerning our intellectual
brilliance, wit, humor, knowledge, judgment and intellectual
superiority.
Vanity, like Fear and Anger, expresses itself in many different
forms and phases:
Self-Consciousness Self-Conceit Self-Gratulation
Self-Esteem Self-Praise Self-Complacency
Self-Glorification Self-Assurance Self-Admiration
Self-Sufficiency Self-Approbation Self-Elation
Self-Applause Self-Love
Egotism Self-Confidence
Vanity expresses itself outwardly by the following:
Arrogance Boastfulness Superciliousness
Imperiousness Ostentation Haughtiness
Disdain Pretentiousness Arbitrariness
Flippancy Impertinence Dogmatism
Audacity Frivolity
Solving the Problem 83
From a psychological standpoint, Vanity, in all its forms
and phases, is destructive.
There is, perhaps, no single trait of human character which
more clearly and surely betrays the charlatan and the fakir than
that form of Vanity which impels man to the struggle for leader-
ship and power. The badge of the charlatan is Intellectual
Vanity. A number of truly worthy and beneficent movements,
within the memory of the present generation, have been wrecked,
and their influence for good among men and women has been
virtually ruined, by the struggle of vain men and women for
leadership and power. These worthy movements were the out-
growth of noble impulses and were founded on Truths and
Ideals which, rightly employed, would have emancipated many
a struggling Soul from the bondage of ignorance and superstition.
There is yet another form of Intellectual Vanity among men
that deserves special attention and consideration. It is that
which betrays itself in Dogmatism and Arbitrariness of both
speech and manner.
Those who are familiar with religious history covering the
period of the development of dogmatic interpretation will have
in mind a practical illustration of the manner in which intel-
lectual vanity leads to controversy, dispute and intellectual
conflict. The intellectual battle of the ages was that which grew
out of the dogmatic interpretations of Scripture. It continued for
many centuries without abating, and, in a somewhat milder form,
the controversy has come down even to the present time.
The "Doctrines" and "Dogmas" of the various Christian de-
nominations owe their existence entirely to man-made interpre-
tations. The doctrine of the "Trinity," for instance, grew out
of the desire of religious men to understand something of the
"Anatomy of God." They have taken the Bible as their textbook
on the subject and, with this as a basis, have wrought out the
interpretation of the "Trinity."
Mohammed, however, with the same data at his command,
reached a very different interpretation of the same subject.
He found that "There Is But One God," and, with the sword as
his "scalpel," he came very nearly proving himself to be an
"Authority" on the "Anatomy" of both God and Man.
84 Religious Sanity
Theological Dogmatism, as truly as other brands of dog-
matism, is the result of Intellectual Vanity, and not of Piety, as
many appear to believe.
Vanity, in whatever form or shape it may express itself,
is the essence of Selfishness and is destructive in its spiritual and
psychical effects. "It is psychological Poison."
Vanity, impelled by Selfishness, leads first to Greed and then
to Dishonesty and Immorality. Vanity, Greed, Dishonesty, Im-
morality: that tells the story in all its simplicity.
The above, on the subject of Vanity, is but a short and in-
complete excerpt from the chapters on Vanity. It is elucidated
in exacting detail in the Harmonic Series, as are all the subjects
referred to.
21 POISE
Self-Control is not Poise, although it is the psychological
foundation upon which Poise may be established.
Poise is not Self-Control, although it is the direct and logical
Result of Self-Control permanently established.
The two terms are, by no means, synonymous, although they
are closely related from a psychological point of view.
Poise is the state or condition of an Individual Intelligence
who has brought all his appetites, passions, emotions, impulses
and desires under the definite dominion and voluntary control
of his own Will and is able to maintain that established Self-
Control as an accomplished development.
The impressive fact is that the Self-Control by and through
which this state or condition of Poise is induced, or established,
must result from the voluntary exercise of the Power of Will
on the part of the Individual Himself. It cannot be induced or
Poise 85
established through the exercise of the Power of Will of any
other Individual. Herein arises one of the vital and fundamental
Principles of Psychology back of all constructive Self-Develop-
ment, Self-Unfoldment and Individual Growth.
Hence it depends absolutely upon the ability of the Indi-
vidual, himself, to establish the necessary Self-Control, and then
maintain it by the Power of His Own Will until it becomes an
accomplished development of Individual Intelligence; this means
a permanent and natural Growth, like the development and
growth of a flower.
And this means that the "established Self-Control" is the
control exercised over the appetites, passions, emotions, impulses
and desires.
A careful dissection of the foregoing analysis will show that
there has been no elimination, destruction, extinction, or even
modification of any of the appetites, passions, emotions, impulses
or desires. They are still there
—
all of them—just as the Great
Creative Intelligence originally planned them within the Indi-
vidual Intelligence. They are just as robust and as powerful
as ever they were. They are just as active and insistent as they
have ever been. They are just as eagerly seeking for self-gratifica-
tion and self-expression.
But we find that they do not dominate the activities of the
Individual now as they did formerly. His appetites, passions,
emotions, impulses and desires do not now impel him to auto-
matic action in search of self-gratification alone. They are now
under the dominion and restraint of his own independent Will
Power. He is now something more than a mere animal. He is
"a Responsible Individual Intelligence." As such, his attributes,
which have been in process of Evolvement, Unfoldment and
Growth since the birth of Humanity, have reached a pitch of
development and power that they now have become dominant
and supreme factors in Individual Human Life.
Poise is a natural development and growth of the Individual
Intelligence. It is not an evanescent thing, which comes and
goes with the varying moods of the individual. Neither is it an
indefinite thing, depending upon external variations and condi-
86 Religious Sanity
tions of environment. On the contrary, it is a definite Attainment
in direct line with a fixed and definite purpose and intent. And
once it is attained, it must be sustained until it becomes a
permanent Growth, an evolution of the Individual Intelligence.
It is then no longer "Yours," but You. It is not a mere possession.
It is you, Yourself, in a state of Poise.
When you come to realize the triumph you have won for the
Cause of Life, Light and Immortality, you know that, in the
achievement of Self-Mastery, you have earned the Supreme
Reward which the Great Creative Intelligence, or Nature, offers
to those who Obey the Law of Individual Life.
The Peace, the Joy, the Gratitude, the Understanding, the
Satisfaction, the Great Content that come to you, flooding your
entire Being with the knowledge that you now stand Approved
by the Great Universal Intelligence, inspire you to make of your
life a sacred consecration to the Cause of Truth and Humanity.
You have proven the sublime Truth that he is twice blest who,
in the Mastery of Self, becomes the willing servant of humanity;
for herein you are Self-Blest, and blest by those you serve.
And it is the consciousness of Poise and of the blessing it
brings to you that gives to your entire personality the outward
expression of calm strength and peace. No single concept more
fully expresses the state of Poise than that of an Intelligence in
Balance.
The maintenance of Poise generates Power—the Power to
visualize clearly, to follow the golden thread of Truth that runs
through all the varied and intricate problems of human life,
the Power to work by a direct route to the definite goal of our
desires.
He who knows from a personal experience the true meaning
and significance of Poise, and who is able to make it sub-
servient to his Individual Power of Will, has earned the "Peace
that Passeth Understanding," and he shall receive his Reward.
Yea, verily, he hath it already.
Morality is the foundation of Constructive Self-Mastery and
Poise. First it is necessary to learn the true meaning, value,
basic nature and significance of Moral Principles. Natural
Poise 87
Science has discovered and wrought out a definite and scientific
system of Moral Principles. It has proven its accuracy and
sufficiency in every conceivable way. Transmuted into actual,
vital, constructive energies and forces, Moral Principles build up
the Temple of Human Character.
22 THE HARMONIC SERIES
The volumes in the Harmonic Series contain an exposition
of the Philosophy of Natural Science as taught by the Great
School of the Masters. Their contents flow from the Great Central
Source and Reservoir of Knowledge (Religious, Philosophical,
Moral, Physical, Spiritual and Psychical) , which the best intelli-
gences of all ages have intuitively sensed and definitely accepted
as the great, beneficent, constructive, uplifting and progressive
influence in the Evolution of Mankind, from Spiritual Infancy
and Darkness, to Soul Maturity and Illumination.
Their Purpose is the transmission of certain scientific knowl-
edge to the individual Man and Woman—Knowledge which may
serve their present effort for an individual development. Their
Purpose is not generally to reaffirm Universal Principles laid
down in the past. Their particular Purpose is to disclose certain
other principles and relationships that have never yet been
scientifically and rationally explained. Natural Science today is
prepared to state, explain and demonstrate this other fundamen-
tal principle, the Universal Principle of Polarity. Philosophy
based upon that science is today prepared to teach the value of
Individual Life, and the importance of the relation of Man
and Woman.
Polarity is Nature's formula for Evolution. It is that Prin-
ciple in Nature which impels every entity to seek vibratory corre-
spondence with another, like entity, which however is of opposite
88 Religious Sanity
polarity. Under this Principle, matter is refined and increased
in vibratory action, life is generated, intelligence individualized,
Love developed, and Happiness obtained. It is Nature's method
of improving her living products. To know what improves an
Individual is to know what improves the Race. To learn the
secret impulse, motive and desire which inspires an Individual
to action is to discover Universal Human activity.
Happiness is the Moral Destiny of a Soul. Happiness rests
upon the individual relation of one Man and one Woman. The
attainment of Happiness is the goal as well as the privilege
of rational Beings. The difficulties which stand in the way of
True marriage, rationally and scientifically contracted, are great,
but they are not insurmountable. The obstacles are many, but
they are not infinite in number. There is a Natural Law of
True marriage, and Knowledge of that Law is obtainable. Its
fulfillment is a human possibility.
Man as generator, and Woman as nourisher of Life, represent
the operation of the lower life elements; but Man as Reason
and Woman as Intuition stand at the apex of Intellectual Evo-
lution. Intelligence sleeps in the stone, dreams in the plant,
wakens in the animal, and acts in Man. The Atom and Man
represent the extremes of Evolution upon the physical plane.
The individual Man and Woman represent the accumulated
gains of all Evolution. The Individual Man and the Individual
Woman, as the independent exponents of Reason and Intuition,
represent the ascent of Intelligence through all of the Life
Elements. (See Harmonics of Evolution)
.
Natural Science includes these Universal Principles and
Ethical Truths which are laid down in Indian and Christian
doctrine, for "no one Truth can possibly militate against an-
other," but Science, as well as all things else, are subject to
evolutionary laws; and this being true, a philosophy based upon
Science must extend its scope to meet later discoveries and
demonstrations.
As Jesus removed the more or less obscuring cloaks off of
the underlying message of the whole Bible, making the light
shine through more clearly, so the Philosophy of Individual Life
The Harmonic Series 89
is a burst of added light, enabling the reader to see with dis-
tinctness Truths which before were hazy, and banishing Darkness,
Doubt, Uncertainty and Fear.
The Great School has gone steadily forward in research,
experiment and demonstration concerning Nature's finer forces,
and has kept abreast of the most advanced scientific thought of
the ages. It undertakes to elucidate and illustrate the correlation
of Universal forces of Nature. It is a philosophy of action and
introspection, a philosophy concerned with the practical and
the contemplation of the ethical. It is Living and Learning and
Doing. It is a Life, not a creed, essentially a philosophy of this
life rather than of a life to come. It fixes upon a noble, earthly
life as the gateway to the splendors of a higher life. It opens
to life a perception of the order and harmony and beauty of the
spiritual side of Nature.
The Philosophy of Natural Science represents the modern
Masters of the Law. It stands for a later interpretation of Nature,
of Life, of Love and of Duty. It is a philosophy of affirmation,
self-development, self-affirmation and self-fulfillment. It is the
dawning of a new day in the intellectual and ethical life of the
world. Activities this side of ultimates have been too much
neglected, so it enlarges upon the immediate present and points
to a home of Happiness. Earth life is a privilege and not a
penalty. The purpose of earth life is not to find a heaven, but
to make one. Religion is not a matter of duty to God, but of
duty of man to himself and to his fellowman. It allays the terrors
of loneliness and death. It banishes the shadow of annihilation.
It opens unmeasured possibilities of Individual Completion,
Individual Love and Permanent Happiness through all planes
of life.
It makes of each Individual Man and Woman a natural heir
to all the beneficences of Nature and of Nature's God.
J. E. Richardson, TK., Author of Volumes II, in, IV, and V,
Editor of Volume I of the Harmonic Series, Himself, a Great
Master, writes:
"No greater fallacy could be suggested than to credit the
author of these volumes personally with the honor of having
90 Religious Sanity
wrought out, from the\ recesses of his own brain and conscious-
ness, the definite results here referred to. He would be most
willing and happy to acknowledge such honor if he were justly
entitled to it. Such, however, is not the case. To him it is sufficient
honor that he has been assigned the difficult task of reducing
the subject to a simple and unambiguous expression in the
language of his own people."
And further:
"Nothing but the internal consciousness of a definite per-
sonal experience will ever be accepted by an intelligent Soul
as proof positive of a Spiritual World or of individual Life
after physical death."
"Next in importance, after this conscious experience, is what
the Great School of the Masters defines as 'Rational Faith';
Natural Science holds that Faith is the 'Intuitive conviction of
that which both Reason and Conscience approve.'
"
"For the great majority of honest seekers after Spiritual
Knowledge who have no opportunity for personal instruction
and consequent demonstration—there still remains the helpful
evidence of an intelligent, orderly and consistent 'Testimony'
of those who have 'taken the Work, traveled in foreign coun-
tries,' and who are eager to impart as much of their treasure
of knowledge as possible."
"When such 'Testimony' is offered by the 'traveler' whose
sanity, intelligence and sincerity are evident, and by one whose
teachings and whose life are consistently for good, it becomes the
substantial basis for a 'Rational Faith' in the Testimony itself."
"Indeed, the Central Hope and Purpose of all general public
work, including this modern publication, are that such imper-
sonal teaching may become an acceptable Testimony as to those
inspiring Truths—the Continuity of Life and the Constructive
Principle of Nature in Individual Life."
23 THE GANTLET OF TRUTH
The greatest aspiration of every Great Master is to impart
his knowledge. How to impart it has been the problem of the
ages. He finds, to his sorrow, that the task of acquirement is
infinitely less than the task of teaching. He finds, to his disap-
pointment and regret, that the Truths he would impart to his
fellowmen must ever and always run a gantlet which is difficult
and perilous to overcome.
The Gantlet which Truth has ever run, and must continue
to run throughout future ages, so far as human nature would
seem to indicate, contains three distinct classes of enemies which
Truth must pass, if it would continue to live.
The three most dangerous enemies of Truth are the Doubter,
the deliberately Vicious, and the Ignorant.
In addition, the average religionist, regardless of creed or
denomination, is so full of the things he assumes to know that
he has no room whatever for anything that others may actually
and truthfully know.
Universally this is the type of individual human that will
most strenuously and persistently oppose the true Spirit of
Human Progress and becomes an obstruction in the Gantlet of
Truth.
There is another type of individual who is quite as much of
an obstructionist as the most Pharisaical. This individual is
found in every movement, in every age; such an individual is
the small man, small in point of intelligence, and the large man,
large in point of intellectual vanity. The most dangerous of all
to the progress of Truth is the man who combines the character-
istics of both types. This is the man whose intelligence is small
and whose vanity of intelligence is large.
It seems to be almost an established rule among Mankind
that the man whose intelligence (down to a certain point) is
most limited is also the man whose intellectual vanity is most
unlimited. The man of small and infantile intelligence is more
92 Religious Sanity
than likely to be the man of largest vanity and most selfish
ambitions.
This is the man who is always in line for leadership among
his fellows. He seeks leadership that he may enjoy the pleasures
which such men enjoy from public applause and public notice.
To see his name in public print means more to him than to be
known as the most honest man living.
This man's egotism and vanity lead him to dislike, and
hence to oppose, the real leaders among his fellows and asso-
ciates. To defeat them and thereby win the place they hold by
actual and deserved merit, he would resort to as dishonest and
despicable methods it is possible to conceive of, if he thought
these would accomplish his vain and egotistical ends.
This is not the man who could ever sink his own personality
into the good of any Cause, however great or altruistic such a
cause might, in principle, be. The greater and more exalted the
Cause, the more overwhelming are his selfish ambitions to be
at its head, and to be known as its "leader." He thereby becomes
an enemy of Truth and another obstruction in the Gantlet which
Truth must ever run.
There is nothing, perhaps, which raises a more impregnable
wall against Truth than the smug assumption of a certain type
of superiority. This type of superiority is in its essential nature
not receptive to any proposal which might evidence greater
knowledge or more modern discoveries of Truth than it, itself,
could offer.
This unfortunate characteristic of human nature prevailed
not alone in the time of Jesus, but has existed from the infancy
of the human race to the present time. It is with us today, per-
haps not quite so prominently, so aggressively and destructively,
as during the Master's Life and Ministry in the days of Herod
the King, but in strength sufficient to make hard the way of
Truth.
No epoch in human history more clearly brings to our knowl-
edge the seemingly natural tendency of the human intelligence
to look upon Truth as an enemy to human progress than does
that which beheld the Life and Teachings of the Master Jesus.
The Gantlet of Truth 93
We might go on and on indefinitely, telling the tragic story
of "the Gantlet of Truth," and we would find that history has
repeated itself throughout every age, in every clime, and in
every nation upon the face of the earth. Every effort the School
of the Masters has ever made has been met and fought by the
same class and type of enemies. Every World Movement the
Masters have established and fostered throughout the history of
human endeavor has had its enemies who have sought to destroy
whatsoever they could not dominate and control.
From the time, in the faraway reaches of antiquity, when
the Great School of the Masters first came into being, down
through the civilizations of Lemuria and Atlantis, through the
great World Movements known as Buddhism, Zoroastrianism,
Confucianism, Magianism, even down through Christianity to
the present time, Truth, in running its endless Gantlet, has
had to meet these same relentless enemies.
It is a profound comfort to know that the Truth which was
proclaimed by the Great School of the Masters is the same Truth
which has come down to us through every constructive move-
ment from the remotest periods of human history. During all
the past ages, the Great School has been preserving, accumulating
and increasing its Knowledge, and handing it down to humanity
in every age, through the many and various constructive move-
ments inaugurated and fostered by it. It is this same knowledge,
with all its increasing accumulations, which comes down to those
of us today who can prove to the Masters that we are duly and
truly prepared, worthy and well qualified to receive it and use
it only for the benefit of humanity, and then pass it on to those
who shall follow us and assume the same responsibilities.
These great fundamental Truths, and the knowledge of the
Masters, are like a snowball started from the topmost peak of a
giant mountain. At the beginning there may have been but a
single great and vital Truth, but like the snowball, every evolu-
tion it has gathered added material, accumulated greater volume,
weight and power, until there is no power in Nature great enough
to withstand its overwhelming, dynamic energy. The time is
coming, and, if we judge by the accumulating evidences, it is
94 Religious Sanity
not so very far distant, when the ever-increasing volume of Truth
will sweep every obstruction of error before it, and will come
down to the humanity of the near future, carrying with it the
benediction of the Great Father, the Great Masters and the
Great Universal Intelligence.
In these days of ours, as in those of the past, the world con-
tains a good many men whose selfishness, vanity, egotism, ambi-
tions, greed, ignorance and lack of understanding make them
the natural enemies of Truth.
But, though they killed the Masters, they did not destroy the
sublime Truth for which the Masters stood and for which they
have stood during all the years from that faraway time to the
immediate present. Truth will again succeed in running the
Gantlet to the end; and it will not be killed or destroyed. Nay,
verily, it will still live, and will still pave the way for human
progress, for the beneficent guidance of Man through this vale
of earthly trials and sorrows, even to the goal of Spiritual
Knowledge and Spiritual Light and Spiritual Life.
NOTE
The Harmonic Work contains 2,570 pages. The
present abridgement inadequately portrays its true
value. Should the reader follow the entire Scientific
Work in his search for Truth, he will come to feel secure
in the Consciousness that Truth is always a Friend to
him who honestly seeks it, and a Benefactor to him who
Lives it.
The following page contains a list of the publica-
tions of the Great School of Natural Science.
THE HARMONIC SERIES
Literature of Natural Science and
the Philosophy of Individual Life
Harmonics of Evolution, by Florence Huntly
The Struggle for Happiness and Individual Completion
Through Polarity or Affinity ($3.00)
The Great Psychological Crime, by J. E. Richardson TK
The Destructive Principle of Nature in Individual Life ($3.00)
The Great Work, by J. E. Richardson TK
The Constructive Principle of Nature in Individual Life ($3.00)
The Great Known, by J. E. Richardson TK
What Science Knows of the Spiritual World ($3.00)
The Great Message, by J. E. Richardson TK
The Lineal Key of the Great School of the Masters ($3.00)
Self-Unfoldment, 2 volumes, by J. E. Richardson TK ($2.00 per
vol.)
Who Answers Prater? by PO, RA, TK ($1.00)
How to Relax, by TK (15tf, 2 for 25^, 5 for 5(ty)
To You (50^ per copy, $3.00 per year)
A Complete Set of the Books listed above and a Year's
Subscription for To You are available for $20.00
Humanity's Greatest Need, by Hugh McCurdy Woodward, Ph.D.
This book is not included in the Harmonic Series, but it is a
traveler's discovery in far lands of the Series' unified philos-
ophy (G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1932)
All orders and other communications should be addressed to
Pioneer Press
Route 2, Box 193
Los Gatos, California
