{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__davidson___iridiagnosis.pdf","mytitle":"Iridiagnosis","mylang":"de"}
IRIDIAGNOSIS
Diagnosis from the Eyes
BY
VICTOR S. DAVIDSONr
N.D., D.O., D.C., D.A.
Authov of "Natul'e Cure."
91 ST. M.A.RTIN•s LANE. LONDON, W.C.2
First Published
Reprinted
Reprinted
Reprinted
July l~
Oct. 1946
Jan. 1949
Jan. 1951
Prlnte<i in Great Britain by THE LEwEs ~ss, Friars Wal1<:, Lewes, Sussex.
INTRODUCTION
During the years 1840 to 1850, Dr. Von Peckzely, of
Budapest, Hungary, made his great discovery of nature's
records in the eyes.
When he was a boy of 10 years, he was playing in the
garde? and caught an ow~. Y"hile he was struggling with
the bird, he broke one of its lllllbs, and, on looking into the
owl's large eyes, he noticed in the iris of the bird-at the
moment when the bone snapped, the appearance of a black
spot. He later verified the area where the black spot formed
to correspond with that of the leg.
Even in those early days, Von P~ckzely was interested
in the study of nature and healing. He prepared a splint
and put it on the limb, and kept the bird for a pet.
During the healing process of the leg, he noticed that the
black spot in the eye became overdrawn with a white film
and surrounded with a white border, denoting the formation
of scar tissues in the broken bone, as he learned later.
This coincidence impressed the boy a great deal and he
remembered these facts after becoming a doctor.
For some r~volutionary activity during student days, Von
Peckzely was imprisoned in 1848. He found time and leisure
during his ,stay in prison to pursue his favourite theory, and
he became more and more convinced of the importance of
his discov~ry about the owl. In time he was released from
prison and eventually, after continuing his studies, became
an internee in the surgical wards of the coll~ge hospital.
Here he had ample opportunity to observe the eyes of
patients before and after accidents and operations, and later
prepared a Chart of the eye.
Many w~ll-knO'Wil scientists have devoted their lives to
The Diagnosis from the Eyes. .
The ordinary regular schools of medicine as a body have
ignored, and will ignore, the subject, BECAUSE IT DIS7
CLOSES THE FALLACY OF THEIR THEORIES AND
PRACTICES, and because it reveals the harmful results
of chronic dn;g poisoning and ne~dless operations. .
In Amenca great leaders have added· to the SCience by
their discoveri~, among the great physicians bell;& Drs.
Lindlahr, Kritzer, Lahn and other well-known practition!"rs.
4 INTRODUCTION
~~dlahr_ said that the eye is not only as the ancients
.~aig, .'.'.the mirror of the soul.'.'.., b:\lflt al~ reveals· changing
~~nd1tion~ of _every part and organ of the body; The iris of
fhe eye contains an imm?nse number of minute nerve fila-
ments, which receive impressions from every nerve trunk in
the body.
EVERY ORGAN AND PART OF THE BODY IS
REPRESENTED IN THE IRIS IN A WELL-DEFINED
AREA, and the\perve filament9'; muscl_e fibres/and ;.,minute
\l>lood v_e~sels>m these areas. PORTRAY B,Y. GERTAI!>t
SIGNS_ .AND COLOUR PIGMENTS THE CHANGING
~PN.PITIONS.:1N THE._CORRESPONDING PART. OR
ORGAN. . · · ·
..,. · 'i3y ·means of various marks, signs and discolorations in
the iris, nature reveals inherited disease taints, such as sycosis,
scrofula, psora, etc. Nature also reveals by such signs,
marks and discolorations, acute and' chronic catarrhal inflam-
matory conditions, local lesions, destruction of tissues, all
kinds of drug poisonings, as well as the results of accidental
injury and of surgical op!'!ril.tions.
By_mea_ns of this art we ar? able, from the eye alon~,
to tell "the patient his inherited and acquired tendencies to-
wiiias health and disease"; his condition in general, and the
~~t~. ~f every organ ii:i' particular. ·'Thus~ reading the record
:iil"the eye, we can predict the different healing crises thi:ough
which the pati?nt will have to pass on his road to health. ·
TP.~. ~ye..reveals to us changes in vital organs from .their
f».cepti_qn·, and thus enables th? patient to overcome BY
~ATURAL LIVING AND NATURAL MEANS OF CURE
the threatening diseas?. · .
The Diagnosis from the Eyes confirms H:ahnemann's
t~3;~hiiig; Jh8:t alJ a_cute diseas~s hav~ a -constitutional ~atjc­
~ouna of hereditary, or acqtpred t~µl~s, and, finally, it re-
vealS the gradual purification of th? system from morbid
matter and the readjustment to normal conditions, under the.
regenerating influences of natural living and treat:qient.
In this book I have inserted a Chart which clearly out-
lin~ in the iris of the eye the corresponding areas of every
vital part and organ in the body.-
v.s.D.
ANATOMY OF THE EYE
The organ of visio!l (organon visus) COJ1~Sts_ of the eye
(~11-I~s).: a)rid _of the ~PPe.?~~~~s ~!- ~_he --~ye (organa oculi
accessona.
I;he ey~. consists of-¢he opt_i~ nerV4'!(tJervus of!_t~cus) a'IJ,d
--the eyeball (bulbus ocidfl. Th...e acc:essory <?rgans of_ the ~ye
iriclude the eye muscles (musciili oculi), the fascia of the orbital
cavity (fascire orbitales), tlie' eye~ds -(palpebrre), the c~n~
junctive and·th~ tear apparatus (apparatus laciimalis). ·· -
·Bones. of the Orbit.
The eye is situated in a depression of the anterior portion
of the skull. This depression is pyramidal and is called the
orbit. The base is forward and outward, and consists of the
roo¥: floor~ ii,n(f tyVo -s14e,~~ _th~ external _and inte~~- -Th~
~Pe;5C is b'.l:~kward _and inwa,i.:d,. _There are four angles to· the
orbit and s~ven bones compose its wal~: . '
They a're named: - - ... .-.
'1. Sphenoid: Wedge.
. 2. Ethmoid: Sive.
3. Frontal: Forehead. '
4. Malar: Cheekbone.
5. Palate: Floor of orbit.
6. Superior Maxillary: Upper jawbone. ·
7. Lachrymal: Thin scale at inner angle of orbit.
.In the orbit ar;; nine openings, large and small, to admit
.the different nerves, arteries and veins. They are as follqws :-
. L\Qrtic FC?rameA' through which pass the optic nerye
and central artery.
_ 2.\Sphenoidal Fissure} through which pass the third and
fourth nerves and the' ophthalmic vein. '
· 3::.2Eh.eno-maxillary Fissur~/ thro_ugh w~ch pass the
·ascenclirig oranches of the spheno-palatin ganglion to supply
the periosteum (fibrous sheath of bone).
5
6 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
4.\~i~tjg~t.Ethmoidal. Foramenjthrough which pass the
olfactory nerve and ethmmdal artery.
5,,-f2.fil..eljo_r1;Etlp;noidal Forazn~n/through which pass the
posterior ethmoidal artery. ·
s~....Supra-orbital.,1<.~otch,:\and Forame:q; transmits the
supra-oroitaJ.artery; vein' arid. nerve. ,
7.•,,!p.fra-oi;J;>.ital/ transmits the infra-orbital nerve and
artery.
8., ¥alar Fqra~_e~,tor <forall?-in~1 • through which pass
branches of the tempora-malar nerve.
9.\£{~ J?g,£U conducts the tears to the nose.
The eye is well protected by a cushion of fat in -which it
is set, and is held in place by six recti muscles, which also
move the eye in different directions. ·
Muscles and Nerve Supply.
The principal functions of the muscles are as follows :....._
Superior Rectus turns the eye up.
Inferior Rectus turns the eye down.
Internal Rectus turns the eye in.
External Rectus turns the eye out.·
Superior Oblique OI\g,u]~ey p:iu..~l!;J'moves the eye down
and out. · -
Inferior Oblique turns the eye out and up.
N_o move~nt of the eye is performed by any one muscle
alone, but by several muscles working together. The first four
muscles {recti1or-.s_!:raight muscle~) have their origin at the
apex of tlie"orbit and are attached to the sides of the eyeball.
These muscles would pull the eye back into the orbit but for
the adjustment of the oblique muscles. ~IlJ.~ .s:up~ti,.qi;t:has its
origin at the apex of the orbit, but passestfu-ough i pulley at
the front of the orbit, then back to the equator of the eye,
and is attached under the superior rectus muscle.
'\!E,~_inf~vablique has its origin at the front of the orbit.
It passes 'back-ward and is attached back of .the equator of
the eye under the inferior rectus. The last twQ pu).l the .eye
forward, while the other four pull the eye backward. - By
this method the eye is held in perfect poise. . .
The third nerve supplies all the muscles except the
superi-Or oblique, which is supplied by the fourth nerve, and
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 7
the external rectus is supplied by the sixth nerve. These are
named the extrinsic muscles, as they are outside of the eyeball.
·The intrinsic muscles are the sphincter and dilator of the
iris, and the ciliary muscles. They are supplied by the third,
sympathetic, and fifth nerves. The iris is the curtain of the
eye, and regulates the amount of light entering in. 11J.e ciliary
muscles control the focus of the crystalline lens or the accom-
modation of the eye for different distances.
The muscles of the eyelids are th6'Jrbicularis f alpebrar,un:s;
· sulJ!'"!r.ia by_ .#he .seventh ner.:i~· ·T_hey c.Zos~ tn~. li.4§: At:
•J.evator· Palpebr~·suppliea by the thud nerve, raises ffi~
ft'!s. . . . , . ... . . . . .
Solids and Fluids.
The eye is ·composed of fluids and solids. The fluids are
~he.,,a,queous humo~·i,crystalline lens,," and·-.vitreous humour.'.
·These are all clear, transparent fluids, and are known as the
~refracting medial ·
. "·" Th~ s01ids.are the sclerotic coat. A hard, dense, fibrous
membrane which, with the cornea, forms the external coat·
·of the· eye. It preserves the shape of the eye, and is well
fitted for the attachment of the external muscles. · ·
"\f);le. Choroi<4'is immediately bE01ne?-th. the sclerotic CQa,t,
and is richly supplied with blood ve~sels and nerves. It
iii.Cludes the ciliary muscle, ligament·and processes,· ·a150 the
iris.
The .Of>tic N81'Ve. (From Spalteholz Atlas of Anatomy.)
The optic nerve is variably curv:ed in the orbital cavity;
in the~ verticat direction if iS curVed So as to be slighfly
bayonet-shaped, in the horizontal direction slightly " S " -
shaped, behind lateralward, in front medianward convex,·
and enters into the posterior surface of the eyeball about
4 mm. medial from, and somewhat below, the posterior end·
of the optic axis. It is enclosed in it&r.three sheaths.-:-the dural,
·~oidal, and pials sheaths, known collectively as the .
viginre n. optici, which are continuations of -the brain
membranes, and at the eyeball go over into the sclera. The
outer thickest dural sheath, consisting of tough connective
tissue, is derived from the duta mater and forms the
periosteurn lining, the foramen opticum. Followin~ upon this
is the delicate araclmoidal sheath, a continuation ·of .the
8 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
arachnoidea, and upon this a continuation of the pia mater,
the pial sheath, which is connected by five strands with the
arachnoidal sheath and sends septa in between the bundles
of nerve fibres. The sheaths are separated from one another
by the spatia intervaginalia, and between the dural and
arachnoid sheaths is a ·continuation of cavum subdurale;
between the arachnoidal and pial sheaths a continuation of the
cavum subarachnoideale; both of these extend forward as
far as the sclera, but do not communicate with one another
t1iere.
The Eyeball (Bulbus Oculi)~
Th_.~ eyeball lies surrounded by fat, fascia and muscle i!J
the orbi,tal cavity, and presents, roughly speaking, the fonn of
a"sphere. f1 is foi::m~d _of the_CQnt~nts or.~ucleus _of fu.~ eyeb_?-11
in the intenor, and of the coats of the eye ensheathmg these
externapy.· -The former from before, backwards; ate:..:...: .
1. the humour aqueous.
2. The lens crystallina.
3. The corpus vitreum or glass body. The coats of the
eyes are concentrically laminated and consist, from
the outside, in, of: -
1. The tunica fibrosa oculi.
2. The tunica vaSGulosa oculi.
3. The retina.
The Bulbus Oculi resembles a section of a sphere, fairly
complete only in its posterior half. The anterior half possesses
a frontal, shallow circular indentation (sulc:us sclerea), from
which the most anterior part projects as a small segment of
a- sphere with smaller radius of curvature. TP.is projection
bel~ngs to the comea, the other part of the surface to the
sclera, so that the sclerea indicate at the same time the external
m~£!ioz.i ~e~~p.- t4e ~om.ea 'and _the_scl~ij. . '...
- ·T'Jie Tunica Fibrosa Oculi is a fough, thick membrane,
completely enclosing the eyeball, and conditioning its fonn.
4~o~t- §.y~~t~s ~f it C?nsi~~s of the ncm,-transpar_ent scl~ra
and the remaining one-sixth of the transparent cornea which
~oµ'll,d!i..th~ .ailten9{J?.c#. ··
"The Sclera, white or ·hard coat of the eye; is a tough con-
nective tissue membrane, usually of a pure white colour. It
is·thickest at the. entrance of the optic nerve, the sheaths of
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 9
which go over directly into it, and, passing forward, it J;>ecomes
gradually thinner as far as the attachments of the str8.lght eye
muscles, the tendon bundles of which interweave with it and
strengthen it in its most anterior part. It is loosely covered
in its anterior part by the conjunctiva bulbii, and is thus far
also visible in the lid slit as the white of the eye. In front the
non-transparent bundles of the sclera go directly over into the
transparent ones of the cornea. This transit~on occu~ outside
and inside somewhat further forward than intermediately, so
that t1_17 sclera in a ~~.¥ forms a g~c:iov:e! known as, .t~~,,!il!l~
corneahs, for the reception of the margin of tl?-i::..c:i:>.m~.ll·. Just
t>ehfod this transition, in a furrow of the sclera:· runs a rucular
blood vessel called the sinus venosus sclerre, which is bounded
internally by the ligai:nentum pectinatum iridis. Tu£..~.<::Jer~
is perforated behind by the n:. ,optj~E.,9; bundles of connective
ti5sue aranged in the form of a network separate the individual
bundles of nerve fibres from one another and form a perforated
plate called the lamina cirbrosa sclerre, for the passage of the
latter. Ill. ~c;lflit!9!h .t~_e_ ~cl~ra ..P~SSe?~~s...,PP..~nip.gs fQX: · th~
i:z~ge or~e a.I!eri~-~·- vejn~ an~ nerv~s c;:i~ari~s.
. Q~. ~~~. outer -~t;g?:s~ jt is ~ted _by .a delicat~. net:-vork
with tlie _surroundmg fascia bul):?J, which, however; does not
mnibifllie 'rriovabilify' ofthe eyeoall. Its innerm_ost layer Ii~
ja,....cfu:~ct.£o~~a<:t 'Yith .1.4.e.._t~nica_ v-asGi.ifosa, is colc1u_red
. PJf>.Wrul
. s~" l;>yf various _,pigmerit c~n~; ·arid fs accordingly called
we amma usca sclerre. ,. ·
The Cornea is a colourless, transparent; non-vascular
connective. tissue membrane, and 'has the shape of a .flat.•
round bowl, curved so as to be convex in front and concave
behind. At the margin (limbos corneal) the sclera above
and below reaches somewhat further forward than medial
and lateral, hence the circumference of the cornea viewed from ·
it! fr<!I_l! lo~ks ~ke an-e11ip5e"~ith.Jts l~ngest diameter pfac~a
ft,a!1.e~t'..r~ely; viewea: from 9~hmd 1t is.circu!?.i:. Tfie aritei:ior
surface of the cornea resembles approximately an ellipsoid
oJ revolution only in the zone of the pole; it is thereby a little
more markedly curved in the vertical direction than in the
tran~versal. Its. ~~~s~s i.s. _gr~ateJ ~a~.. that o!.!.he ne~­
:2B.U~I1g sc:.!7r~, but ~urumshes gradually from the margin on,
and is least at the point of greatest convexity (vertex corneal).
The convex anterior surface (facies anterior) lies free to view .
10 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
in the· lid-slit and is covered by the epithelium corneal, a
direct continuation of the conjunctiva bulbii, which is attached
for the most part loosely on the anterior surface of the sclera,
and is connected with it firmly only in a narrow, often ridge..
like strip (annulus conjunctivre) immediately surrounding the
cornea. The epithelium cornea rests upon the narrow, very
transparent lamina elastica anterior, and this goes over behind
into the laminated substantia propria which forms the main
mass; then follows the lamina elastica posterior, which
resembles the anterior, but is thinner, and :finally the
endothelium camer~ anterioris; this covers the facies pos-
terior of the cornea, forms the anterior boundary of the
.anterior chamber of the eye filled with aqueous humour, and
is sometimes lateralward upon the angulus iridis and the
anterior surface of the iris.
T~ Tunica Vasculosa Oculi, with its niain mass, lies
directly on the inner surface of the sclera; only its most
anterior portion, the iris, projects inward free into the bulbus
from the region of the rima cornealis, approximately trans-
versely to the optic axis. The part lying against the sclera
is divisible into a larger posterior smooth portion (the
choroidea), and a narrow anterior ridged portion (the corpus
ciliare); it is firmly fused with the sclera behind only at the
entrance of the optic nerve and in front at the rima comealis,
but otherwise is separated from it by a slit-like lymph space
(spatium perichoriodeale), lined by endothelial cells and
studded with numerous fine, pigment-holding lamellre, which
is bounded externally by the lamina fusca sclerea, and
internally by the most superficial layer of the choroidea
(lamina suprac.horiodea), and is perforated by some vessels
a:nd nerves. All portions of it. _ar~ yezy d_elicate and co_nt$
an extraordinanty ··Turge.. number of blood vessels, a.Ila
t:;1frouS'i'ieryes _and' gajigl~a.: The corpus ciliare"a:lla' the ms
con aii:i"muScles iri addition.
'(~e G_hori.Qdea is _very thin and includes approximately
tM .,Posterior two-thirds of the eyeball, and is sometimes
lighter, sometimes- darker, according to the ;iIIl()µnt of pig-
ment if C()nta~.- It possesses behind a round opening for
.tQ.~_paSsa.ge of the optic nerve. In it five layers are dis-
t.inguisb;able. Upon the lamina suprachoriodea follows the
pigmented lamina vasculosa with the coarser vessels, namely,
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 11
the roots of the v. v. vorticosre and nerves, then the layer
of medium-sized vessels, then the non-pigmented lamina
choriod capillaris .with the blood capil~aries, and. upon this
the larninre basalis, the two latter bemg recogmsable only
microscopically. ~n cont:i-ct with. the latter is !he stratum
pigmenti of the retina, which remains attached to 1t even after
separation of the retina.
The Iris is a round disc with a round opening, the pupilla,
which does not lie exactly concentrically, but deviates from it
somewhat downwards and nasalward. At its lateral margin
(margo ciliaris) it proceeds from the ciliary body, and by its
medial, free margin (margo pupillaris) its rests on the anterior
surface of the lens. Its medial margin lies in front of the
plane of the lateral margin, so that the whole disc has the
form of a very fiat funnel. On widening of the pupil it
becomes narrower and thicker. Its greatest thickness lies near
the margo pupillaris, and corresponds to the junction between
the annuli iridis; from there on it diminishes toward the thin
margo ciliaris; less so towards the margo pupillaris. The -
anterior surface is visible through the cor~ as far as the
marginal part and is of variable colour according to the
pigment it contains. About 1 mm. from the margo pupillaris
runs a jagged line, which separates a narrow inner zone,
annulus iridis minor, from a broader outer, annulus iridis
major. In the former, small anastomosing ridges run to the
margo pupillaris, which itself is formed by a fine notched,
dark brown edge belonging to the stratum pigmenti iridis. In
the outer zone run several usually incomplete circular con-
traction grooves (plicre iridis), concentric to the margo pupil-
laris; in addition, when there is little pigment in it, the vessels
~re visible as radiating tortuous whitish lines. The posterior
surface of the iris is covered by the stratum pigmenti. iridis,
is uniformly black, and is studded with very fine radiating
folds. The nerve supply to the iris _is motor, sensory, and
sympathetic. .
. The Retina is the in_ner neru9us tunic of the eyeball. It
JS fof'!"ed by the expansion of the optic nerve within the eye,
!Z1fd. is the perc~ptive st~ucture of the eye. There are eleven
distinct layers of the retina. Nam,ing them from within, out,
they are:-
1. Internal ~MM~~
IRIDIAGNOSIS~THE EYES
2. Optic Nerve Fibre layer.
8. Vesicular or layer of Ganglion cells.
4. Internal Molecular or Plexiform; a granular layer.
5. Internal Nuclear layer.
6. External Molecular or Plexifonn; a granular layer.
7. External Nuclear layer.
8. External Limiting Membrane.
9. Layer of Rods and Cones.
10. Pigmentazy layer.
11. Fibres of Muller.
It is here, upon that portion called the Macula Lutea, or
yellow spot, that the photograph of what we look at is made.
'The cones are abundant and distinguish between colours.
The Optic Disc is situated a little to the nasal side of the
-macula and is the blind spot of the eye. The optic nerves
pass backward and inward until they meet. This point of
union is called the optic chiasm or decussation. From the
cliiasm to the brain it is called the optic tract. The .function
·of the optic nerve is to convey the ?cture to th~ bram,:givi'llg
·us·.the sense of sight. . .
. · The Ciliary Body is composed of ligaments, muscles and
processes. The ligament is a narrow ring of circular fibres,
about one-fortieth of an inch thick, and whitish in colOur.
The ciliary muscle is the chief agent in accommodation, that
is, in adjusting the eye. fo1' far and near objects.
The Hyaloid Membrane is a delicate, transparent mem-
brane surrounding the vitreous humour.
· The Crystalline Lens is a double convex lens, haVing its
·greatest convexity on the posterior side. It is perfectly' trans-
,parent and consists of several concentric layers. It is
c,ontained in a capsule and receives its nourishment from
transparent, polygonal, nucleated cells covering the inner
surface of the capsule. It is held in place by the suspensory
ligament, son;ietimes called the " zone of zinn.'.' It has about
ten dioptres of refractive power.
·. ":.". T!Je yapsule of Tenon is a membrane of two layers, one
of which is attached to the eyeball, the other to the cushion
of f~t. They play one on the other as the eye moves in
different directions. In enucleating the eye great care is
taken to leave one membrane on the fat, the other on the
eyeball.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 18
The Conjunctiva is the delicate mucou~ membrane liniHg
the eyelids and covering the external portion of the .eyeball.
It is very firmly attached to the eyelids, and that part is called
the Palpebral Conjunctiva. It is loosely att~che~ to the
eyeball, and that part is call:d the Ocu~ar Con1unctivea; It
is continuous from the margin of the hds to the margm ?f
the cornea, where it ends. This membrane is involved in
-many diseases of the eye.
The Lachrymal Gland is located under the arch of the
eye. It is about the size of an almond and its function is to
flush the eye. It is not used to moisten the eye, as the con-
junctiva furnishes its own lubricant. Tears pass across the
eye to the inner corner till they reach the Puncta Lachrymalia,
whence they are carried through the Canuliculi into the
lachrymal sac, then through the nasal duct into the nose.
The Eyelids are two thin, movable folds placed in front
of the eye, protecting it from injury by their closure. The
upper lid is the largest and more movable, and is furnished
with a separate elevator muscle. When the eyelids are open,
an elliptical space is left between their margins, called the
Fissura Palpebrarum, the angle of which corresponds to the
junction of the upper and lower lids and are called Canthi.
The outer canthus is more acute than the inner, and the lids
here lie in close contact with the globe; but the inner canthus
· is prolonged for a short distance inwards towards the nose,
.and the two lids are separated by a triangular space, c~lled the
Lac:is Lach~alis. On the margin of each lid. is a small
comcal. elevation, the Lachrymal Papilla or Tubercle, the
apex of which is pierced by a small orifice, the Puncttim
,Lachrymali, the commencement of the lachrymal canal. '
' The Meibomian Glands are situated upon the inner surface
of the eyeballs, between the tarsal cartilages and conjunctiva
and may• be distinctly seen through the mucous membran~
on everting the lids, presenting the appearanc~ of paral~el
i:ows of pearls. There are ~bout thirty or forty in the upper
lids, _and somewhat fewer m the lower. The use of their
secretion.S is to prevent adhesion of the lids. Occasionally
one or more of these glands becomes infected constituting the
so-called Meibomian Cyst. · '
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
Tm BoDY P~cTURED IN THE IRIS
Introduction
It is through the Sympathetic and Cerebro-spinal
Nervous systems and their branches and their intimate
connection between the various parts of the body and the
iris. Thus we have the scientific explanation of the system
of diagnosis.
Any irritation of any part of the body is transmitted
through afferent nerves to the autonomic brain centres which
send, in response to stimulation, a rush of blood to the affected
part through efferent nerves; causing swelling and congestion.
This in turn is transmitted through refiex nerve stimulation
to the corresponding area in the iris. Kritzer says that this
causes vascular projecting ridges which run radially from the
ciliary to the pupillary borders; this in turn raises the normal
white fibres of the top ,layer of the iris, making them plainly
visible to the unaided eye. He says further that this
phenomenon does not in any way affect the vision, but it
explains why every acute process shows white in the iris.
A decrease takes place with lessened congestion and
eventually it fades away altogether. Through suppression
or neglect the acute processes naturally become gradually
chronic, causing a passive congestion-a venous stasis. A
similar qtasis (Kritzer states further) occurs in the vascular
layer of the iris, causing a darkening of the corresponding
p~. due to the accumulation of dark venous blood. Tissue
destruction through injury, etc., show black spots through
the severance of the nerve connection with the corresponding
area in the iris.
The different colours corresponding to certain drugs,
such as red for iodine, greeIJ.ish yellow for quinine, etc.,
found in the .iris are created by colour pigments carried into
and deposited in the surface layers of the iris through th6
capillary circulation.
In order to guide the student and others ~o a good grasp
of Iridiagnosis, the following guiding points will be of benefit.
For diagnostic purposes let us call the navel or umbilicus,
as it is called, the centre of the body. This could correspond
to the black pupil in the centre of the chart. .
On looking at the chart it will be seen that the stomach
shows as the first circle. Wherever there are found dark
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 15
16 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
lines or spots· in this region we may be sure there is some
gastric disturbance. .
Now one of the easiest drug poisons io locate in this
are.a is bismuth-mostly taken for digestive disturbances,
and showing in the stomach area as a steel~grey irregular
circle. Of course, lead workers sometimes have this colour
showing in the stomach area, but the circle is perfect instead
of irregular. All medicines which reveal themselves in the iris
are poisons. Is not medicine-taking perfectly ridiculous?
Now you can enlighten your patient or friend by telling him
.what he is suffering from, and the medicine he has been taking
without having to ask him. This is one of the greatest provers
of the facts of Iridiagnosis.
Next we come to the intestinal tract. The areas are
marked on the chart. We do not expect to find this .area
as clear as other parts of the iris because most ailments
commence in the stomach and intestinal area. Then again,.
we know that this is the area where there are often
.ali:CUUlulated waste materials-so we can expect to find a
darkening or discoloration of the intestinal area in diseased
conditions. · · · ·
.How eanthe blood be kept clean if this area (which may
be about 26 feet long) has its tubes or walls all clogged with
·poisonous materials and, maybe, further poisoned with
medicines? Seeing that this area supplies nutrition through
its walls, we can see how easily poisons get into the blood~
stream. In children we may find dark spots in this area, and
it may indicate worms. Under NATURE CURE treatment, of
course, the iris changes its colour to a more normal blue or
brown due to the internal house cleaning. It may be worth
while to mention that oil of garlic is useful for the elimination
of worms, and assisting in cleansing the intestinal tract as a
begi~ning treatment.
Now the pancreas can be observed. ·If diabetes is present
we will find a discoloration in that area. The same with the
appendix area-if a white triangle is pxesent, and ·there is
pain in the right lower abdomen, then it is likely that
appen~citis is the diagnosis. A white line may indi<:~ate only
congestion.
The zig-zag circle of the Sympathetic Nervous System ·
is the· next consideration. This is always present in health
IRIDIAG~OSIS-THE EYES 17
and disease. Any irregularity, and the a~ea it juts outward
to means irritation in that organ. In. this chart I have left
th~ S.N.S. as a plain circle for conveni~n_ce. Remember th1s
wreath, as it is called, is zig-zag in the ms. .
The Genito-urinary organs and the Reproductive organs
covers the kidneys, adrenals, prostate gland, uterus, ur~thra,
and bladder. Minute black spots in the b~adde~ o~ k~dney
area indicate stones. Dense spots in the uterme area m~1cates
fibroid tumour-. If other conditions are present we will find
dark lines in that area. Congestion and irritation will reveal
itself in the following areas by various spots (such as red
spots surrounded by white when iodine has bee?- used), ~nd
white lines showing acute processes or dark Imes showing
chronic irritation, etc.
Trachea, back, .esophagus, scapula, spinal column,
thyroid, tonsils (minute black spots show removal), bronchus
(dark spots showing bronchitis), mouth, tongue, nose,
·mandible, maxilla, cheek, eye, ataxia area-noted in venereal
"cases, etc. Wherever white clouds are showing, as, for
ins~ce, in the liver area, this may indicate enlargement,
.whereas dark clouds may indiCate hardening processes going
on. The same with other organs. The spinal column is
indicated in the chart by a thin line running downward
through the seventh cervical. twelfth dorsal vertebrae, fifth
lumbar, sacrum, and coccyx. A white line may indicate
Spinal disease.
· With regard to the eye area, care should be taken in
diagnosis. I have noticed recently six cases where there were
no lesions in the eye area, yet the patients had some defect
·.in vision. I found the visual area (sight centre in the brain)
.showing a definite lesion, and quinine with its greenish-yellow
C?louring ~ the upper part of the iris. In each case the eye-
SJ.ght has improved under natural treatment and especially
UDder Lin~lahr'~ system of Neurotherapy. ·
· Expen.menting a'!d tabulating with cases of Pituitary,
Para-thyroid, and ·Disturbance of Balance; I was able to
locate and add to the science of Iridiagnosis these areas i•
the Iris. · · . . .,,
· · Lesionsfound in other areas will explain themselves to
?tudents who have good powers of deduction. For instance
if heavy greenish-yellow discolorations are showing indicating ·
B
18 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
quinine poisoning, then there may be symptoms of dizziness,
colour blindness, enlargement of the spleen, as I found in a
recent case, etc. .
Now I will mention another point of interest. A case
I have in mind showed a lesion in the ataxia area. On
mentioning to the patient that I suspected mercury poisoning
(seeing that the mercury ring was also present, causing his
backache and sciatica), he would not accept my diagnosis.
His doctor had treated him previously for sciatica. On
refusing to diet properly he developed, after six years,
locomotor ataxia-too late to do anything. Mercury takes
several years to do its deadly damage, if it remains in the
system. Several mercury fillings in the teeth added to the
trouble. I advise alkaline diet if the patient will not have
these :fillings removed, because it is better than a diet con-
taining acid fruits due to the formation of mercurial salts when
acid fruits come into contact with the fillings. HENCE I no
NOT advise a mouth gargle or wash with lemon juice-or for
purposes of cleaning the teeth-whenever I find a case show-
ing mercury fillings. Poree!~ fillings are safest.
Enough has now been said to help the student, and a!So
anyone else interested in the study of Iridiagnosis. A mastery
cir this subject leads to efficiency in Naturopathy. I hope this
book will help many to the realisation of the dangers of drugs
and medicines; that they will disseminate its teachings and
so help to bring about, in the course of time, a much-needed
revolution in healing methods. It is pitiful to see the Sodium
rings, the Iodine spots, the Bismuth signs, the Aspirin taker's
eyes, the Quinine eyes of passers-by-knowing full well that
they are slowly poisoning themselves. I trust the day may
:not be far distant when Naturopathy will be fully understood,
and Iridiagnosis, too, and so help humanity onward.
DEFINITION
A science revealing pathological and functional disturb-
ances in the human body by means of abnormal markings
and changes of colour of the iris of the eye.
This great discovery by Dr. Ignatz Peczely, of nearly
a century ago, is based upon the fundamental truth that the
iris of the normal man, woman or child is of a uniform
texture, without lines of spots, and of a clear colour, being
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 19
either BLUE OR BROWN. Whereas the almost ~versally.found
spots in the iris denote abnormal changes taking place in any
part or organ of the body, thus exposing any deviation from
the normal bodily structure or function.
In the development of chronic diseases we distinguish
the following four distinct stages of encumbrance (as shown
by Lindlahr): - . .
1. Hereditary and Congemtal stage (accumulative).
2. Acute or subacute inflammatory stage (primary
reactive).
3. Chronic stage (secondary reactive).
4. Destructive or chronic destructive stage accompanied
by loss of tissue (stage of failure).
Chronic disease never develops suddenly in the human
body, as Nature always endeavours to prevent its gradual
development by acute and subacute healing efforts, revealing
white grey lines in iris. This is in accord WITH THE FUNDA-
MENTAL Law of Cure. If, however, these healing efforts of
healing crises are checked, or suppressed by any means what-
ever, then they are followed by chronic after-effects, revealing
dark lines or marks in the iris.
STAGES
First Stage.-Inherited (hereditary and congenital) ten-
dencies are recorded in the iris of the eye in three ways--
by colour, density, and hereditary lesions.
1. The colour of the iris indicates whether the vital
fluids and tissues are pure and normal, or whether they are
.affected by disease taints and foreign substances.
2. The density, that is the woof or grain of structures
composing the iris, gives us information about the :firmness,
vitality and general tone of the tissues of the body.
~- Hereditary and congenital lesions in the form of shady
grey, usually ovoid or spindle-shaped lesions in the irides of
the offspring, indicate weakness or disease Jn col"responding
organs, or parts of the bodies of the parents.
Second Stage (Acute 01' Subacute Stage).
The acute stage of any disusse shows only by a whittJ
line, or cloud, which may .appear long before there are any
manifestations of disef!Se. For example, pulmonary tubercu-
20 . IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
losis may be diagnosed from the iris oft-times long before the
tubercle bacillus can be demonstrated in the sputum, although
in this connection it is claimed that the earliest posSible
diagnosis can be established with the use of the X-ray.
The subacute stage borders between the acute and
chronic stage, and shows in the iris as a greyish or light grey·
discoloration. This sign appears in cases where Nature's
healing and cleansing efforts have been checked or suppressed
by various means, such as exposure to wet and cold, lowered
vitality, or by ice-packs, drugs or surgical treatment. The .
. . pathological changes from the acute to the subacute stages
· · a:re accompanied by atrophy of structures in the corresponding
organs or tissues. ·
· Third Stage (Chronic Stage).
Retention of toxic materials, lowered vitality, and the .
in,roads of pathogenic micro-organisms into the system, .
· . gradually .cause decay and destruction of tissues. . S:iinuJ.•. :
. ·taneous with the changes in the organs or tisSues; similar". ··
. changes take place in the corresponding areas of the iris: In:
1 ·these .fields of the iris the tissues lose their vitality, dry,···,
shrivel, and turn dark. As a result of this, the white signs.of
acute inflammatory lesions become intermingled with dark
shades and streaks. When examined with a strong glass, it
will be noticed that these dark areas are more or' less.
depressed.
·Fourth Stage (Destructive Stage).
In the advanced stages of destruction of·. tissues there
appear in corresponding areas of the iris the dark areas or
·holes, which extend sometimes right down into the black
·'pigment layer of the iris. ·
NA1URAL COLOURS OF THE IRIS
The colour of the iris in the new-born of the white race
is blue, and is caused through the absence of pigmentation..
Pigment only develops after birth. · ··
There is a great deal of conflicting data available on the
iris colours as a result of exhaustive investigation by so
many scientists engaged in the study .of the human race.
.Eowever,. the best authorities daim that there are only twO
n,ormal <?Olours of tbe iris.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 21
1. LIGHT AZURE BLUE.
2. LIGHT HAZEL BROWN.
Other colours are known as mixed colours, and are
either due to racial characteristics or to the deposition within
the system of various crude drugs, which make for the yellow,
green and steel grey shades, and, of course, these are subject
to ch~nge through various hereditary and acquired influences.
As a result of this, irides are oft-times spoken of as being of
these particular colours.
DENSITY
The colour changes that are often spoken of and observed
in the iris are, in themselves, indicative of the conditions of
the health of their owner. The lighter the colour-either blue
or brown-the better the individual's health and recuperative
powers. THE DISCOLORATIONS 1N THE IRIS HAVE A STILL
FURTHER SIGNIFICANCE, HOWEVER, AS THEY DISCLOSE A '!'.RUTH
WHICH IS DESTINED TO BRING ABOUT A RADICAL REVISIQN,
BOTH IN THE THEORY AS WELL AS IN THE PRACTICE,. OF
THE ADMINISTRATION OF DRUGS IN PHYSIOLOGICAL DOSES.
The colour, spots and discolorations in the iris positively
denote the accumulation of arugs in the system, taken in w;hat
are now called physiological doses, either internally or
extemally. Thus iridiagnosis conclusively proves two facts: -
l. That drugs are not always eliminated entirely from
the system.
2. That because of their retention in the system and
because of their constant irritation, drugs often are causative
factors in chronic and malignant diseases.
While the colour of the iris is indicative of hereditary
taints and of the degree of purity of blood and tissues, $0
does density indicate the degree .of vitality, the power of
l'esistance, and recuperative power of the individual.
Homeopathic medicines do not show in the iris and are there-
fore non-poisonous, ·
Norm.al Density.
Lindlahr states that: " In, an iris of normal density llie
strqctures comprising the stmma and surface layer of ni·e iris
are normally ~ev~loped, and arranged in an orderly manner,
so that they lie m smooth, even layers, like the fibres of a
22 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
piece of good linen.'' When the layer of endothelial cells
(coming_ from the e~bryonic endod~~? layer) covering the
stroma is perfectly mtact, th-en the ms is of normal density.'
and presents a surface of crystalline clearness with a beautifui
glossy appearance. Such an iris is the rule among wild
animals which live in the open, but it is very rare in the
human kingdom.
Defective Density.
In an iris of defective density, the nerve and muscle
fibres in the surface layer and stroma are unevenly developed
and arranged. Some are swollen and some shrunken. Sotne
are entirely obliterated. In all cases of defective density,
however, the fibres are disarranged and crooked, and.are not
in any definite order whatever.
An iris of defective density presents an abnormal dis-
coloration as well as an abnormal grain or texture, and it will
be Qbv:ious, therefore, why defective density also indicates
lowered vitality and weakened resistance.
Four Degrees of Density.
Density No. 1 or Good.-In irides of this density the
colour is normal, and there are no abnormal signs .except,
perhaps, a few straight white lines. Such irides are the nil~
in the animal kingdom, but are very rare in the human
kingdom.
Density No. 2 or Common.-The white lines are increased
and more tangled. There are a few hereditary lesions and
some dark lines indicating subacute catarrhal conditions;. also
·some nerve rings.
Density No. 3 or Poor.-In these irides white lines are
more prominent and tangled. They contain several nerve
rings. Signs of subacute and chronic conditions are numerous,
and thez:e are several closed defects.
Density No. 4 or Very Poor.-In these indes signs of
chr~mic and destructive conditions predominate. The nerve
rings are partially ~ark and there are numerous closed lesions.
Prognosis in these cases is not good.
SYMPATHETIC WREATH
Immediately around the intestinal area on the iris chart
we have what is called the Sympathetic Wreath, which
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 23
corresponds to the Sympathetic Nervous System. As every
cell and part of the body depends for life on the sympathetic
nervous system, which acts as a storage of energy, we are not
surprised to find that from this wreath every organ and part
of the body radiates.
The sympathetic wreath is seen near and around the
pupil as a zigzag circle, being white in the blue as well as in
the brown iris, although it may be discoloured in some cases
by drugs and morbid encumbrances. The area of the
sympathetic wreath is the only exception which is seen in the
iris in health as well as in disease. In the chart in this book
I have drawn the wreath as fl. perfect circle for convenience.
The student should remember, however, that it stands fo.r
the zigzag circle.
The distinction between the normal and abnonna.I
conditions of .the sympathetic nervous system is indicated 'Qy
an irregular condition of the sympathetic wreath in disease,
an,d the normal or regular condition of the wreath in health,.
Any deviation from the normal regularity of the circle
denotes a corresponding irre~ularity in the functions o~ the
organ towards which it points. For example, a general
widening and branching condition of the sympathetfo. wreath
corresponds to a flabby, :flaccid, dilated condition of the
intestines. Such a relaxed condition is causative of flaccid
constipation by virtue of the fact that the musculature of the
intestines is too weak to contract, and thus propel the food
residue. .This condition is known as colonic stasis,· and is
caused through the lack of tone and deficient peristii.lsis, or
of museular movements of the intestines. Fram this' it .iS..
plain that in such condition enemas are particularly CONTRA-.'
'indicated, because the habitual injection of warm: water .still,
further dilates the already weakened intestinal walls. The
corr~ treatment for such ·a condition would be to giye .a .
large amount of bulk in the diet by increasing the amount of
thEl green leafy vegetables and fruits, all of which are rich in
cellulose and fibrous material, and also to treat the reflex
.centre mthe spine which contracts the intestines. A mild
application of sinusoidal current applied- to the abdomen is
also very efficacious. - · · .
On the other hand, a small narrowed sympathetic.wreath
signifies a correspondingly spastic or rigid condition· of the
24 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
intestines. This is causative of spastic constipation. This is
also a factor in the cause of hremorihoids, because of there
being a likelihood of straining at the stool, with the resulting
stasis and protrusion of rectal blood vessels. The indicated
spirial treatment in this condition would be to give stimulative
treatment on the eleventh dorsal vertebrre, and thus dilate
.the intestinal musculature. Progressive dilatation of the
rectum will also do much to relieve this condition.
~ . ". '
.DIAGNOSTIC ILLUSTRATIONS
1. When the sympathetic wreath is pointing or jutting
towards the peritoneum and lower abdomen, it indicates an
impaired function of the gastro-intestinal tract, with the·
reimlting stasis and distention of the colon, especially of the
descending colon and sigmoid flexure. This sign is also very
often .seen in cases of splanchnoptosis.
· . 2. When pointing towards the generative organs (right.
iris) it indicates ·a lack of functional activity of these orgal).s,
'such as impotency. .
8. When pointing towards the crecum (right iris) it.
in¢1icates a distention of the crecum, and first part of the
ascend.ing colon. This condition-is oft~n noticed in patients
who have had an appendectomy performed upon them, and··
'in consequence. of which there is a lack of natural lubricant.
for the ascending colon, up which food residue must be forced·.
·against gravity. Contrary to general medical. opinion, we
.know that the appendix is a useful organ, and is used as a
lubricator, because of its secretions.
4. When the sympathetic wreath is distended towards
'the rectum, the patient will complain of TENESMUS (rectal
pain with spasmodic contraction of the sphincter ani).. · A
symptom of this condition is a false desire to defecate oi
·evacuate the bowels.
5. When pointing towards the nose, and if a white line
is visible. in the area of the nose, it denotes an exaggerated
serise of olfaction. If a dark line is found in the nose area
it denotes an impairment or complete loss of .the sense of
smell, due to a degeneration of the Schneiderian membrane,
the mucous membra.ii.e which lines the nasal fossre. .
6. When the wreath is distended in the heart regfun •(left·:
iris) it often denotes an hypertrophied heart or myoc~tis.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 25
In fact, whenever the sympathetic wreath points to the
area of any organ, it indicates an abnormal, or subnormal,
condition of that particular or~\~
NERVE RINGS
Nerve rings are curved thread-like, circular lines, which
appear half-way between the pupillary and ciliary border of
the iris, and are formed by the contraction furrows of the iris.
In the blue or brown eye they are either white, grey,
dark, or black, and are brought about by: - •
1. An over-irritated condition of the motor nervous
system. This may show as a complete circle.
2. Emotional states of the patient.
8. Pain or congestion in any special organ.
4. A subacute condition of the nervous system.
5. A chronic condition of the nervous system. ·
6. Actual destruction of nerve tissue.
. ·. These -etiologic ·factors explain why nerve rings appeax
.·.and disappear in the iris corresponding with the ebb and flow
of the emotions and disease pro~sses. ,.
·· WHITE nerve rings indicate an irritated, over-stimulated
condition of the central nervous system, or of certain p~ Of
·it. .If the nerve rings form a complete circle they indicat~
. a high nervous t~on, such as that which a student, or some·
professional men, are constantly under. .
If the rings are white, and are restricted to a particular
area, they denote local acute inflammatory processes causing
congestion ,and pain. . . · "
· Examples of this may be found when white nerve rings
show in the region of the bronchi, pleura,' and lungs, mdi-
cating acute bronchitis, pleurisy, or even pneumonia, or·when.
·they are found in the brain region, indicating headaches, or,
an inclit).ation to dizziness and faintness. One may :find other
.µiark$ ·or discolorations.in the dizziness. or £a.in.ting ·'1'eas 'in._
the' iris . '
:- When in the· lower part of the iris, and -particularly in
the area of the genito-urinary organs, they indicate in females
dysmenorrhea. In the male, when in the region of the
cez:ebellum, they indicate spasms, convulsions, and -fits of
anger._ -
26 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
These white nerve rings are also occasionally observed
before, or during, a healing crisis, and in this way the
physician is ·able to tell in which organ an increased activity
is going on.
Grey or Dark Nerve Rings.
When the nerve rings appear grey or dark, they mean
that the corresponding portions of the nervous system have
pa~d from the acute, over-irritated state to the subacute
•or chronic state.
Dark nerve rings in children denote hereditary weak-
nesses. Under natural treatment it is particularly interesting
to note the gradual change of the dark nerve rings into grey
and then into white, and in time the entire disappearance of
even the white nerve rings. Convergent white lines originating
from the centre·may indicate nervous collapse. ·
'fJlack Nerve Rings. _
Nerve rings which are absolutely black indicate an
atrophy, or an actual destruction of nerve tissue, such as
·would be found in tabes dorsalis or the various forms of
paralysis.
LYMPHATIC SYSTEM
-The. Lympho:tic System, which is part of the Circulatory
System, comprises the lymph vessels, the lymph capillaries,,
and the lymph glands. They a.re the first tissues to offer
resistance to the invasion of bacteria or any foreign matter.
. The sign of the lymphatics in the iris is often spoken of
as. the. lymphatic rosary, because THE SIGN APPEARS IN THE
FORM OF WHITE FLAKES IN THE OUTER RIM OR CIRCULATORY
SYSTEM OF THE IRIS, RESEMBLING THE BEADS OF A ROSARY:
Wh~rever.. these white beads or flakes appear, they indicate
inflammation and an engorged condition of the lymph nodes
in the corresponding parts of the lymphatic system. In the
later stages they indicate an atrophic condition of the lymph
glands. Occasionally we find the flakes discoloured with the
characteristic pigments of drug signs. '
A DISTINCTION MUST· BE MADE BETWEEN THE LYMPHATIC ·
ROSARY AND THE SIGN OF ARSENIC, because, owing to the fact
that arsenic has an affinity for the spleen and lymph glands,
and shows up in the form of white flakes, it is often mistaken
for t?e lymphatic rosary. However, the lymphatic rOsaiy
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 27
only appears in the outermost rim of the iris, just inside the
scurf rims (skin area), in an orderly manner like the beads of
a rosary, but the flakes of arsenic may appear singly or i:n.
irregular groups anywhere in the outer half of the iris.
When the lymph nodes and lymph vessels of the internal
organs are affected, the lymphatic rosary shows in the iris i:n.
the areas of those organs.
Natural therapeutics for the first time gives a rational
explanation of the true function of the lymphatic system a:nq
the spleen. The spleen and lymph nodes, as we now kno\111
serve to filter the mucoid pathogenic materials out of th,~
blood stream, and to condense them into little compact bodie$
These bodies are called Ieucocytes or phagocytes, and are th.e
white cells which have been mistaken for live genn-killitlg
cells. .
The purpose of this condensation of pathogen is to render
the blood serum more fluid, and thus to facilitate osmosis o:r
.its penetration through the capillary walls info the inte);'.
cellular spaces, a~d thereby improve the nourishment _of the
cells, and the drainage of waste through the lymphatic a:ncl
venous systems (Lindlahr). ' ·
. One of the principal reasons ~hy Metchnikoff assu:rneo.
that the leucocytes were germ-killers was because the:y
increased in numbers with j:he beginning ·of infiammat0 l)r.
processes in any part of the system. He thought they increaseo.
because more germ-killers or phagocytes were needed .to
overcome . the inflammation creating bacteria. However·
natural therapeutics proves that inflammation takes plac~
because of the increase in pathogenic waste material a:na
l~ucocytes which cause obstruction in the capillary circula.
tion..
Kritzer's opinion regarding our comments on the
''rosary " is that it denotes accumulation of arsenic in the
systeI? of those who had typhoid fever and were treated With
arsemc.
.$CVRF :RIM
·The Skin;
·Of the many functions of the skin, pechaps the followi?J.li!'
are of most importance: -
1. Protective.
28 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
2..Cosmetic.
3. Sensory (Touch, Pain, Heat, Cold).
4. Excretory.
5. Absorptive.
6. Thermotatic (regulator of body heat).
The amount of carbonic acid given off by the skin in
ratio to that which passes through the lungs is about 1-150
or 1-200. The amount of sweat excreted per day is from
500-2,000 cubic centimetres, or from 1 to 4 pints. This, of
course, may be either VISIBLE (SENSIBLE) OR INSENSIBLE
(INVISIBLE) sweat. The amount of skin on an average human
boc;ly is about. 20 square feet, and this contains approximately
from 2,500,000 to 3,000,000 sweat glands, each of about tin.
long. These glands are found in the under layer of fats, and
eonstitute a drainage of from 2i to 3 miles.
The outer .rim of the iris, where the iris joins the white of
thE\l'· eyeball, or the sclera, as it is called, corresponds in the
b.Ody to the cutaneous surface or skin. If the skin is normal,
healthy, or active, the rim of the iris shows no abnormal
discoloration. If, however, the skin is weak, enervated,
atonic, or in an anremic and atrophic -condition, there appears
in the skin area of the iris a dark discoloration, which is called
a scurf rim (from the Greek term " scorbutus," meaning
scurvy). This scurf rim is found usually in cases of hereditary
encumbrances, or where there is a history of hot bathing, or
the use of too warm or heavy clothing. It also appears after
the suppression of skin diseases and eczema:tous eruptions on
the heads and bodies of· infants and children. Sometimes
this dark ring is complete all around the iris, but occasionally
it appears in certain portions or segments of it.
When the scurf rim is especially heavy. in the brain
region it denotes a brain encumbrance, and the patient will
have one or more of the following symptoms:.-
1. Inability to concentrate.
2. Dullness.
3. Headache.
4.·Dandruff.
-5. Pediculosis capitus {head lice). These parasites are
Nature's scaveng~rs. A comb and cold water should only
be used. They disappear when the body becomes internally
purified.
IRIDIAGNOSlS-THE EYES 29
An elevation of the scurf rim in the liver and spleen
regions indicates the suppression of eczematous diseases. A
dark spot on the scurf rim in the foot region indicates an
encumbrance in the foot, such as could be brought on through
the suppression of an excessive foot perspiration. In these
cases you will nearly always find an associated kidney lesion.
Adark spot on the scurf rim in the area of the rectal or genital
organs indicates the suppression of catarrhal discharges from
these organs.
Nature sometimes causes a recurrence during a cleansing
crisis period. Often the balance centre shows a discoloration
indicative of head treatment upsetting mental equilibrium and
causing tiredness.
PSORA OR ITCH SPOTS
In civilised countries, especially those where the sup-
pression of scabies and other itchy skin eruptions is exten~
sively practised, about 65 per cent. of all eyes show in the
iris sharply defined dark or muddy brown super$cial spots
ranging in size from that of a pinhead to that of a buckshot.
These spots iridologists designate as itch or psora spots1
because they appear after the suppression of itchy eruptions
and of psoric parasites. The presence of these spots in the
iris is also indicative of a tubercular or· malignant diathesis
(tendency).
It has been observed in many instances that suppression
of psoric eruptions resulted in the formation or enlargement
of the scurf rim, as well as in the appearance of the itch or
psora spots. This is probably due to the weakening of 'the
skin by suppressive agents, such as mercurial, sulphur, or
other poisonous salves and ointments.
The word '' Psora '' was adopted by Hahnemann, the
father of Homeopathy, from a Greek word signifying· itching,
and he applied the name to certain skin diseases which are
characterised by intolerable itching. These morbid encum~
brances have no special affinity for any organ or part of the
body, and psora spots are therefore found anywhere in the
iris, for as ·"with other poisonous substances, psora also
develops in any organ or part of weakened resistance or
lowered vitality.
80 IRIDIAGNOSI~THE EYES
Psoric spots are often found in patients who give a history
of Pediculosis capitus (head lice}. These patients will tell
you of having developed headaches shortly after the little
scavengers have been disposed of by repeated coal-tar
product shampoos or mercurial ointments. Quite a few cases
of.petit mal, and even grand mal (epilepsy) have been traced
directly to just such successful suppression of pediculosis,
which is in reality only a form of vicarious elimination.
These parasites live and multiply only on filth accumulated
in the body through faulty elimination and neglected hygiene.
Retention of such putrid tissue in any organ sets up a chronic
irritation, and may in time lead to the development of
malignancy, especially in cancerous soil.
Psora is generally eliminated through scrofulous skin
eruptions, boils and carbuncles, and is Nature's effort to assist
the body toward a cure.
CLOSED, OPEN AND HEREDITARY LESIONS
Closed Lesion.
Kritzer describes closed lesions as any spot in the iris
indicating a toxic. condition of any organ formed by ~
inflammatory exudate which surrounds the affected part.
thus inlupiting its spreading into adjacent structures. This
condition is accurately reproduced in the iris by a white border
encapsulating, or surrounding, a dark spot or sign, and this
white border is usually ovoid, or spindle-shaped. The same
sign can be observed in cases of healed injune5, and in cases
where diseases in their chronic or destructive stages have been
arrested and cured by Nature Cure methods.
Open Lesion.
In an open lesion the spot or sign is only partially
surrounded by white, or sometimes it is not surrounded at
all. The total absence of the white circle is usually seen in
p;i.tients of low vitality, where the disease or lesion is
progressive.
Closed lesions are therefore less harmful than open
lesions. but, nevertheless, they denote a latent encumbrance
which may become active at any time, particularly so when
the vitality is very low. ·
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 31
'"Hereditary Lesi.on. .
An hereditary or congenital lesion is any spot, sign, or
other abnormal discoloration in the eyes of the new-born.
This lesion may be entirely surrounded by a border of white,
and when so, it is spoken of being a CLOSED HEREDITA~Y
·LESION, or it may be only partially surrou~ded by a white
border, or even not surrounded at all, and is thus spoken of
. as an open hereditary lesion. A closed hereditary lesion
denotes latent morbid encumbrances, and the organs in which
they are found should receive special attention, especially
during healing crises, for during these periods these latent
.encumbrances may develop into open hereditary lesions, and
may be kindled into activity by Nature in her endeavour to
rid the organism of impurities. . . .·
THE USE OF MEDICINES
Medical men have long attempted to segregate the various
chemical processes of the body, and to find accelerators or
:retardants for the individual chemical processes perfotl,Iled.
by the major organs and glandular structures. . Partly·
~entifically, but largely empirically, many medicinal or
chemical agents have been worked out which are thought
to more or less perfectly serve these purposes wlien applie4
to one or other of the many chemical processes involved. .
Up until the days of modem medicine all manner of
queer concoctions were prescribed, on the supposition that
they would, by some miraculous but .certainly unknov\rn
method, perform the hoped-for cure. Modem medicine has. ·
been built upon the supposed specific action of the particular
ingredient in the acceleration or retardation of a particular
.chemical process to influence the faulty chemical actipn, and
thus restore the body to normal. · · · _
. -A large ·and varying amount of useful information has
come from this widely popular method of treating disease,
but yet, even to-day, medical results are still very much a
matter of speculation.· -
Unfortunately, most medical effort has been devoted to
~ attempt to correct a faulty chemical process that was_ in
itself caused by some more distant, and less understood,
cause. The great strides made in modem therapeutics have
82 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
been in the direction of getting behind these heretofore hidden
causes by a fuller realisation of the basic elements of which
life and health are the expression. In the words of the world-
famous late Dr. Henry Lindlahr, of Chicago: "We are now
pulling disease out by its roots.''
Even to-day, however, drugs used to correct the chemistry
of individual processes in the body occupy a large place in
the practice of medicine, although it is now almost universally
agreed that whatever is put into the system with the exception
of wholesome food, regardless of its beneficial effects upon
a given process, taxes the bodily activities out of proportion
to the good it renders, and almost invariably adds a destruc-
tive burden to the work of the eliminative organs.
DRUGS
The most important, and the more common, sources
.from which we acquire foreign substances, which accumulate
in the fluids and tissues of the body, are de-natured foods,
cosmetics, chemicals handled in the arts and industries, patent
medicines, and drugs. The drug signs, which show in the
iris, indicate the amounts or quantities of the drugs which the
system has failed to eliminate, and not always the quantities
of the drugs used.
·Only after sufficient time has elapsed for the drug to
accumulate in some part of the body does the sign appear in
the corresponding part of the iris. The signs of iron, quinine,
and coal-tar products have been noticed two months after
their administration, but the metallic poisons, such as mercury
and lead, usually take a year or more before they can be
demonstrated in the iris.
MERCURY O:k HYDRARGYRUM-QUICKSILVER (HG)
A white, heavy liquid metal. In the blue eye mercury
or quicksilver shows as a whitish, or silvery·, grey <;ircular
llile of a metallic lustre in the circulatory area of the brain
region. In the brown eye it shows slightly more bluish, or
even greenish. When mercury is taken with potassium iodide.
(KI) it may show in the entire circulatory area much like
a sodium ring.
This latter sign should not be confused with the ''Amis
Senilis," which is really an opa:city of the periphery of the
cornea found in the irides of the aged.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 33
Medical Uses.
· ·1. Lues and chronic internal inflammations.
2. Purgative in the form of calomel.
a. Antiseptic dressing for wounds. and ulcers.
4. Locally as an astringent. · .
5. ·Irrigation of any body cavity, such as the vagina,
uterus, bladder, or throat. .
a. Externally for pediculosis, and as mercurial inunction
against ringworm and other parasitic skin diseases. ·
Accidental Absorption.
· Amalgam tooth fillings may cause chronic mercurial
po:isOning by virtue of the fact that the mercu:ty comes in
contact with the salt contained in the food, thus forming
bichloride of mercuiy (HgCI:,). · ·
" Workmen handling mercu'ry fu. mines and in the znanu:.
fa.cture of mirrors, thermometers, mereury arc 'lamps,
manometers, and other scientific instruments. Also from the"
u:;e of blue ointment or blue pills. · · ·
' '
~Jmptoms of Mercurial Poisoning.
..· 1. Mercurial stomatitis. . ·,
2. Profuse and sticky saliva of a distinct metallic tast~. ·
8. Foul breath. · " .
-4:. Ulcerated and sore gums, swollen· tongue. ·· ··
5. Hutchinson's teeth-(peg-shaped incisor teeth notched.
on the cutting edge, found also in cases of congenital
syphilis). . . · ··.
6. Progressively, the patient may have necrosis Qf' the
jaw. · ·
7. Dyspepsia.
8. Diarrh~~. alternating with stubborn· con~ation
9. Stool may contain sulphate of' mercury (Hg504).'
10. Mercurial eczema. · · · .
·1:1.. Ulceration of mucous membranes .and skin.
12. Softening and pains in the bones. .
18. Peripheral neuritis or anresthetic patches, ··
14..Impaired reflexes, followed by various forms of
·.p~ysis, ·such .as locomotor ataxia, paralysis agitans, or
·paresis. Usually after several years. (Lesion in ataxia area.}
c
84 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
15. Amemia caused by the destruction of e1ythrocytes.
16. Itching of the anus and rcctus.
Eliminated under natural treatment by skin eruptions,
such as carbuncles, funmc1es, ulcers, abscesses, open sores,
and hoemorrhoidal discharges, and as nose bleeds. Also by
excessive salivation. Hence one of our sayings: " A person
may become physically and mentally disturbed before
becoming well.·'
IODINE
(A poisonous, non-rnetailic element with a metallic ii1strc,
found mainly in ashes of seaweeds.)
Jodine has for years been widely employed as a first-aid ·
prophylactic and a general antiseptic, despite the fact that
it irritates, burn~. and frequently causes serious injury t(
body ti~U('S. It, however, has the advantageous featnre:,;
that its stain shows just how effectively it is applied, and also
prevents it-; bt•iP£~ washed away, or rather fixes it in the field
to be :-'li.·rili.~cd ,~r made ascptie. It- is also presumed that the
stain providt.'s for more than a :,npcrficial pC'netration into
body tissm·s. No other poisonous drug shows more plainly
in the iris, bnt the signs differ a(·curding to the mode of
absorption.
lntcrnally.--Sbows as bright rvd. n·ddi:,h bro\\ n, or even
orunge colonred spots or blotche.;. Som('limt.:s these spot:,
are surrounded by white borders, indicating that tht: poison
is causing irritation and inflammation, or that it is in proc<'ss
of elimination.
Extemally.-The drug shows as an orange or pinkish
hue, and appears in the form of str"aks or sonwtim(:s as
pinkish or reddish clouds.
· The signs of iodine are a brighter red, and are more
diffuse than itch or psora spots. Usually the history of the
patient will be sufficient to enable the physician to differentiate
the signs. Iodine <loes not appear to have any special affrnity
for any particular part of the body as other drugs have. and
.we find the drug showing up in all pa1ts of the iris, but more
frequently in the areas of the liver, kidneys, gastro-intestinal
tract, lungs, pancreas, and brain.
Allopathic Uses.
I. Antiseptic dressing for wounds.
2. Stimulant and disinfectant for foul ulcers.
3. Injected into cysts, goitres, hydroceles.
4. Counter Irritant in chronic inflammation of joints.
periostcum, pleura, tubercular lymph nodes, and lungs.
. 5. Metabolic Stimulant for disintegrating and eliminating
drugs such as mercury, plumbum, etc., which have combined
·with the albuminous constituents of the body.
6. Stimulating Expectorant in. bronchial catarrh and
pneumonia, especially if consolidation is troublesome.
7. Antispasmodic, in asthma and emphysema.
S. Antigalactagogue.
9. Aneitrisms in 1.he form of potassium iodide. Potassium
lowers blood pressure, while iodine stimulates metabolism and
shrinks or coagulates the tissues.
10. Used in Tertiary Syphilis. It either causes the
elimination of the Spirocheta Pallida or it hastens the life and
disappearance of the small celled growth, which is typical
of tertiary syphilis.
Symptoms of Iodism.
1. Inflamed gums, palates, and fauces. In fact, the
entire throat, from ihe mouth to the pharynx.
2. Coryza, with bursting pain over the frontal sinuses.
3. Cough, and frothy expectoration.
4. Abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhrea.
5. Glandular atrophy, especially tests. ovaries, and
mamm.:t•.
6. An<emia, emaciation, and general debility.
7. Ncuralgi<i, disturbed intellection with ophthalnua,
salivation. vomiting, polyuria, and cutaneous eruptions.
Signs of Elimination of Iodine.
I. Catarrhal discharge_ from the nose and throat.
2. Intense headaches.
:~. Swelling and redness of gums and harJ and soft
palate:>. -
4. Foulness of tongue.
5. Exces:;ive salivation.
36 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
6. Papulre.
7. Acneform, vesicular and pustular skin eruptions.
8. Open sores and hremorrhoidal discharges. Lindlahr
gives details of a case of multiple neuritis and chronic severe
headache, caused by drinking iodine accidentally.
LEAD OR PLUMBUM (PB)
A soft, bluish white metal found chietly in galena and
other ores. This drug shows in the iris in the form of a lead
blue, or bluish grey, perfect circular discoloration in the region
of the stomach and intestines, showing that the drug has an
affinity for these organs. It also affects the nerves in the
upper region of the spinal cord, causing the symptoms of
wrist drop and paralysis agitans. In severe cases the drug is
also found in the regions of the liver, kidneys, lungs, and
brain, often causing lead encephalitis.
Allopathic Uses.
1. Externally as an Astringent and Sedative in bruises,
itches, ulcers, and inflamed surfaces.
2. As Injections against chronic imlammatory discharges
from vagina, urethra, and ears.
3. In Sprains, as lead, water, and opium.
4. As a Hemostat. for internal h<emonhage.
5. As a Powerful Ecbolic.
Accidental Poisoning.
Workmen handling lead in the manufacture and handling
of type, paint, tinfoil, etc. From lead water pipes, steel
works, wagon works, face powders, various cosmetics, glass-
ware, and lead-coated pottery.
Symptoms of Plumbism (Saturnism).
1. Blue line along edge of gums.
2. Malnutrition.
3. Profound amcmia owing to the destruction of
erythrocytes,
4. Lead colic.
5. Neuromuscular pain and rigidity.
6. Lead palsy.
7. Wrist and ankle drop.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 87
8. Paralysis agitans.
9. Retinitis, which is usually secondary to arteriosclerosis
and interstitial nephritis.
10. Vertigo and delirium.
11. Ic1.crus saturious.
Eliminated in Healing Crisis by-
1. Severe gastritis.
2. Hremorrhages from stomach.
3. Hremorrhoidal discharges.
4. Skin eruptions.
5. Sores in the mouth.
6. Bleeding gums and severe nervous symptoms.
QUININE
Quinine is the most important of the alkaloids derived
from cinchona, and occurs as a white, tl.aky, odourless, bitter
powder which is very slightly soluble in water. The uncom-
bined alkaloid is seldom employed, its more soluble salts
being used instead.
Sign.-Shows as a yellowish, cloudy discoloration, some-
times greenish, and sometimes approaching a hue of reddish
brown, according to the chemical combinations which it has
entered into. Small quantities produce a yellowish discolora-
tion of the sympathetic wreath only.
Affinity.-Quinine has a peculiar affinity for the brain,
eyes, ears, stomach, and bowels, and in old malarial cases it
shows also in the regions of the liver and spleen. It is this
drug which gives the blue-eyed individual the characteristic
gn::cn eye, nuking it resemble a cat's eye.
Allopathic Uses.
1. AppetiZl'l' and bitter tonic during convalescence and
in cases of general debility while taking depressing remedies
like mercury, lead, etc.
2. Used as an antipyretic against all febrile diseases,
especially malaria, and all conditions resulting from the same.
3. Against splcnic leukemia.
4. Local anresthetic, together with urea hydrochloride,
for minor surgical operations.
5. Hectal injections against amrebic dysentery.
as IIHDIAGNOSlS-THE EYES
6. Against painful nervous conditions.
7. Menstrual stimulant.
Accidental Poisoning.
Hair tonics, patent remedies, cold cures. such as Bromo-
quinine, etc.
Symptoms.
Digestion is impaired, and the patient has a gastric
catarrh when the clrng is taken in small doses. vVhen taken
in large doses, quinine irritates the mucous membrane and
causes vomiting and <liarrhrea, followed by chronic constipa-
tion. It may also cause renal irritation, which is oft-times
accompanied by hremoglobinuria.
Nutrition is stimulated, and the excretion of waste
products increased, by small doses. Large doses, however,
diminish the amount of urea, uric, and phosphoric acids in
the urine, thus interfering with elimination.
In the Blood quinine interferes with the oxygen carrying
function of the red blood cells, and diminishes their number.
Circulation.-Quinine taken in small doses will increase
the cardiac functions, but when taken in large doses it will
inhibit the cardiac motor ganglia of nerves and depress the
heart, sometimes causing it to intermit, and finally arrest it
in diastole, thus causing death.
Temperature.-In fevers a rapid decline of temperature
takes place, due to the depressive action of the drug on the
heart, and general circulation.
Nervous System.-Small doses of quinine will stimulate
the cerebral functions. Large doses will cause chronic quinine
poisoning or Cinchonism, symptoms of which are giddiness,
tinnitus aurum (ringing noises in the ears), with impairment
of hearing and vision. Sometimes these patients also suffer
from daltonism, which means colour-blindness. A case that
came under the observation of the author showed this
symptom very plainly. The patient, who was an elderly lady,
had taken large quantities of quinine when she was a child,
as she was then Jiving in a malarial district. Upon being
questioned as to her ability to distinguish colours, she tol<l the
author how, only a few days before consulting him, she had
bought what was apparently a brown coat for her daughter,
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 39
and on taking it home, she was quite surprised when her
daughter told her it was a green coat.
Coma.-Quinine taken in toxic doses causes coma, weak
pulse, and sometimes convulsions. It has caused, in some
cases I have observed and had under treatment, insanity,
loss of memory, and morbid depression.
Skin.-Quinine taken in large doses causes cutaneous
vruplions, such as erythema, urticaria, or herpes.
Eliminated.-Quininc is eliminated through the skin,
causing itchy eruptions resembling scarlatina or measles.
Also through the kidneys as an amorphous alkaloid, and
through acute catarrhal purging and h<emorrhoidal discharges.
Frequently the taste of quinine comes back during its
elimination.
BROMIDES
Bromine is a non-metallic, reddish, volatile, liquid element
which unites with hydrogen to form hydrobromic acid,
and this unites with many metals to form bromides. Bromides
are therefore compounds formed by the replacement of the
hydrogen in hydrobromic acid by a metal, or an organic
radical. The bromides official in the United States
Phannacopceia are of ammonium, calcium, hyoscine, lithium,
potassium, quinine, sodium, strontium, and zinc.
Bromides show in the iris as a whitish or yellowish white
crescent in the upper regions, indicating that th~ drug
exhibits a special affinity for the brain and sympathetic
nervous system. Amemia must be differentiated, which
shows up as a bluish crescent.
The most common salts of bromide are Potassium Bromide
(KBr), Ammonium Bromide (NH,Br), and Sodium Bromide
(NaBr). all of which act as dc>prcssants and narcots, particu-
larly to the br,1i11 and nervous system. They are also
powerful depressants on the heart, and also sex organs, often
causing impotency. The salts of bromine, in addition to
serving as pain killers and sleep producers, are specifics for
epilepsy.
Medical Uses.
Externally, ('lcmcntary bromine is used as an escharotic
Internally, bromi<les are used as sedatives in cases of acuti:;
alcoholism, and as hypnotics and antispasmodics in acute
40 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
fevers. Also in cases of mania, hysteria, infantile convulsions,
whooping cough, sexual over-excitement, hypochondriases,
gastro-intestinal disorders of reflex origin and epilepsy.
Symptoms of Hromism.
Bromides cause catarrhal conditions of the upper
respiratory tract, increased salivation, headache, dizziness,
melancholia, impotence, bromacne, neuro-muscular weakness,
premature senility, paralysis, insanity, cardiac depression,
foul breath, and anremia.
Eliminated.
Bromides are eliminated mainly by the kidneys in the
form of increased urination and by skin eruptions. They may
also cause mucoid accumulations in the mouth and acute
catarrhal elimination from various mucous membranes.
The patient may also complain of diarrhcea, nose bleeds,
and abnormal perspiration.
ARSENIC
The element arsenic is a steel-grey metal (symbol As),
which forms a number of poisonous compounds.
In the early stages arsenic shows as greyish-white,
veil-like specks over the region of the ga.stro-intestinal canal
or respiratory tract, according to the portal of entrance.
Later, arsenic shows in the outer half of the iris as greyish-
white flakes, resembling snowflakes. These flakes may appear
singly or they may appear in irregular groups in the
circulatory area.
Allopathic Uses.
1. Externally, arsenic is used as a caustic (with iodine)
against lupus, keratosis, and new growths of the skin.
2. Internally, arsenic is used against chronic skin erup-
. tions (with sulphur).
3. As a specific for lues in the form of Salvarsan (606),
Neosalvarsan (914), and sodium-cacodylate.
·. 4. Hay fever and asthma. Also used as a tonic with
iron for leukemia, pernicious anremia, and secondary anremia
resulting from tuberculosis, gout, malaria, rheumatism, etc.
As a general tonic and alterative in all cases of perverted
metabolism and dis. sclerosis.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 41
Accidental Poisoning.
Paris Green, Naphthaline, and other insect and vermin
exterminators. Cloth dyes. Wool is treated with arsenic
during its manufacture for preservative purposes. Arsenic
can be absorbed from glazed and ordinary wallpapers.
Ta..xidermists and furriers are prone to arsenical poisoning.
The drug may be absorbed from sprays used against
parasites and insects on vegetables and trees, and it may also
be absorbed from various cosmetics or beautifying creams.
''Cancer cures'' and condition powders may also cause
arsenical poisoning.
Symptoms of Arsenical Poisoning (Arseniasis).
1. Progressive muscular atrophy.
2. Neuralgia.
3. Peripheral neuritis.
4. Catarrhal discharges from all mucous surfaces.
5. Numbness and tingling in the extremities.
6. Waxy complexion.
7. Loose brittle hairs and nails.
8. Arsenical eczema.
9. Photophobia.
10. Lachrymation.
11. Cold tingling sensation in back.
l!:limination.
Arsenic is eliminated during healing crisis by excessive
activity of the kidneys, bowels and liver. It may also cause
catarrhal discharges from all mucous surfaces. The patient
may shed the hair, and there may be various skin eruptions,
:.uch as boil:;, carbuncles, running sores, and even dandruff
may be present.
PHOSPHORUS (SYMBOL-P)
Apparently a non-metallic chemical element occurring
extensively in nature, but always in combination and in
many animal tissues.
Phosphorus shows as whitish, greyish, and faded yellow
flakes and clouds in the gastro-intestinal tract, brain, limbs,
di:tphragm and heart. It may appear as a light amber colour
in brown eyes.
42 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
Allopa.thic Uses.
As an alternative in osteo-malacia, rickets, neurosis, and
in ununited fractures.
Phosphorus is used in nervous disorders like neuras-
thenia, neuralgia, mania, melancholia, sexual exhaustion, or
impotency. When used for the latter, the patient eventually
suffers from permanent ill-effects, because of the fact that
any reflex when ·over-stimulated becomes exhausted.
The drug is also used in some cases of chronic lung
trouble, and in skin diseases such as lupus, psoriasis, etc.
Phosphorus is exceedingly poisonous, causing intense inflam-
mation and fatty degeneration.
Accidental Poisoning.
Workmen handling whit.; phosphorus. Vermin exter-
minators. Manufacture of matches. Inhalation of the fumes
by workers in phosphorus may cause necrosis of the jaw
(phossy jaw).
Symptoms of Phosphoric Poisoning or Lucifer Disease.
1. Ulceration of gums and necrosis of jaw, commencing
as Ca1·ies.
2. General weakness due to fattv degenrrntion of all
tissues. · ·
3. Hectic fever, aniemia, and purpura.
4. Gastro-intestina! irritations; tenderness over the liver,
gall bladder, and right ribs.
5. Various forms of paralysis.
6. Death from general nerve exhaustion.
Eliminated.
Phosphorus is chiefly eliminated as follows: -
1. Deep ulcerS--chiefly in the mouth.
2. Itchy eruptions of the skin.
3. Hremorrhagic form of jaundice, resembling scurvy.
4. Diarrhcea and irritation of the intestinal tract.
ALUMINIUM
I. fin9 it ca.uses sickness and curious stomach symptoms,
plus itchmg skm. Shows as blue-grey spots in circulatory
area.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
SODIUM (NA)
Sodium is a silvery white lustrous alkali metal, the salts
of which are extensively employed in medicine as well
as in the arts. The metal itself is official in the British
Phannacopa::ia, but only its salts in the United States
Pharmacopa::ia.
The sodium ring is found in the irides of persons who
use sodium and other inorganic salts in large amounts.
These deposit round ihe walls of the blood vessels AND FORM
IN THE IRIS A BROAD WHITISH RING, THE SO-CALLED SODIUM
RING OF A SLIGHTLY METALLIC LUSTRE IN THE AREA OF THE
CIRCULATORY SYSTEM OR LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. Often it is
greyish white in colour, seen in the brown eye.
This ring may entirely surround the iris, or it may be
found only in parts, depending upon: -
1. The quantities of the inorganic salts not eliminated.
2. The powers of elimination of the person concerned.
3. The part of the circulatory system that is considered
the weak<:,;t.
When a sodium ring is seen in the iris it may indicate
any oI the following :-
1. That the patient has had rheumatism and has been
treated with sodium salicylates. Sodium helps to cause
valvular lesions. The salicylates often produce symptoms
similar to quinine.
2. That the patient may have been suffering from an
acidity of the stomach for which bi-carbonate of soda has
been taken.
3. That the patient m:iy have consumed large quantities
of baking soda in the food taken, such as would be found
in soda crackers, cakes, and bread, or he may have used
common table salt heavily.
4. That he may h<1vc been ,;ubjcct to the habitual use
of salin•• cathartics or mercurial salts.
Salt is a marked dehydrant, and because of this fact it
withdraws the juices from muscle fibres and hardens them.
Bearing this fact in mind, it will be quite obvious to the
rNtckr why the excessive consumption of the sodium salts
are causative factors in artcrio-sclerosis and other diseases of
the circulatory system.
44 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
The over-seasoning of foo<l with common table so.It may
temporarily stimulo.te the perverted taste-bads. The propor-
tions of salt. however, and other condiments have to be
gradually increased because of their deteriorating effect upon
the taste-buds provided by Nature as a protection against
consuming unwholesome food.
The elimination of salts from the body is comparatively
easy, and depends upon :-
I. The absolute elimination of all salts from the diet o.r
for medicinal purposes.
2. The increased consumption of the green. leafy vege-
tables and fresh fruits which are rich in the acid-neutralising
and organic mineral elements.
3. Stimulation of all the eliminative functions by natural
drugless treatment.
SULPHUR (S)
Brimstone is an element which occurs in a native state
in volcanic countries, and is of a bright yellow colour. It
occurs as a crystalline solid or as an amorphous powder, and
combines with oxygen to form sulphur and sulphuric acids,
and with manv of the metals and non-metallic elements to
.fonn sulphides.
When taken in the inorganic form, this drug shows in the
iris in the area of the stomach and intestines AS A YELLOW
. OR DARK BROWN, SULPHUR-LIKE COLOUR. Its first effect is to
stimulate these organs, but this is soon followed by a sluggish,
atrophic condition. Whenever the sulphur sign is seen in the
iris, the sympathetic wreath will also usually be seen in a
distended, irregular condition which also indicates a sluggish
condition of the intestinal tract. At times, when the iris is
discoloured with both quinine and sulphur, it may be difficult
to distinguish one drug from the other; in such cases the dark
brown sulphur shade neutralises the yellowish-green shade of
quinine.
Allopathic or Medicinal Uses.
Sulphur is used as a laxative, in tonics, and in various
skir.\ diseases, and is also a common home remedy in the fonn
of sulphur and molasses. In most of the lumber camps of
Canada, sulphttr ointment is used for treating scabies, which
is very prevalent among the lumbermen. The fumes of
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 45
burning sulphur were formally used extensively in the
disinfection of rooms after being occupied by a patient with
a contagious disease. It is used in sulphur baths and the
curing of some fruits.
It is interesting to note that in homeopathic practice the
trituration of sublimed sulphur with sugar of milk, which is
employed as an anti-psoric remedy, does not show in the iris
because of the fact that the highly potentised sulphur is so
refined that it is no longer inorganic, but is really in the
organic state.
Eliminated.
Under strictly natural treatment, sulphur may be
eliminated in the form of severe diarrhcea, the faces having
the characteristic sulphur-like odour. It may also be
eliminated through the skin, and in the form of dandruff.
STRYCHNINE
Strychnine is an alkaloid from nux Yomica, and occurs
as colourless crystals of a white crystalline powder, which is
odourless, but of an intensely bitter taste.
STRYCHNINE SHOWS AS A WHITE WHEEL-LIKE CIRCLE OF
FILIFORM OR PERFECT PROPORTION AROUND THE PUPIL IN THE
REGION OF THE STOMACH, indicating that the drug has a special
affinity for this organ. On close inspection, lines or spokes
are seen radiating from the pupil.
The drug is used as a cardiac and general tonic; a
nervine and as a stomachic in the form of Nux vomica.
Symj>toms of Acute Strychnine Poisoning.
Th0re may be cardiac weakness with low blood pressure.
The stomach may be in an alonic or atrophic condition, with
a !:'pastic conccn1ration in the pit. The patient may suffer
from hypo-acidity, indigl!stion, and fermentation, with the
n·sulting gas formation. Like all powerful stimulants, the
first tonic effects of the drug on the digestive organs and the
hNirt .m~ follow•:<l grn.<lnally by weakness and progressive
atroph)' ancl paralysis. There may also be a false desire for
food, malassimilation, constipation, anremia, and emaciation.
Strychnine may also do great injury in sex debility by
initating an<l l'Xhausting the already irritated er~tion and
46 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
ejaculation centres, these centres being located in tl: sa,!e lumbar
spine.
Eliminated.
Strychnine is eliminated and accompanied by par.raps in
the back, cold perspiration on 1.he forehead and chest, and
the vomiting of blood and sour bitter mucus.
6G. CoAI.-TAR PRODUCTS.
Acetanilid, creosote, antipyrin, phenacetin, antikamnia,
hair remedies and grease~, etc.
These drugs show in the upper part of 1.hl' iris as a greyish
veil, but not as a perfect crescent, like bromides.
Antikamnia
Aspirin
Saccharin
Antipyrin
Phenacetin
Antifebrin
These coal-tar products show in the iris
as a typical greyish-white veil. Among the
coal-tar products are classed most of the
anodines and analgesics, as well as various
antipyretics.
Produce a pigmentation ranging in colour
from grey to light yellow, and this discoloration
proceeds from the sympathetic wreath out-
wards.
Accidental Absorption. of coal-far products may occur
through the use of home remedies, such a:; lysol. vaseline,
oil of wintergreen, cinnamon oil, benzol, alcohol, naphthol,
salicylic ac.id, etc. They can also be absorbed from the
colouring matter used in the manufacturing of confections
and from most canned foods. all of which are preserved wiih
coal-tar derivatives.
Coal-tar Products must be differentiated from bromides
which show up as a whitish or yellowish-white crescent in the
brain area. Coal-tar products cause headaches and nervous
conditions.
CREOSOTE
This drug, which was formerly used cxtensiwly as a
germ-killer in cases of tuberculosis and other di:;t•ascs, pro-
d11ces a :fine greyish or ashen grey veil over the entire iris,
commencing at the patt corresponding to the stomach and
spreading to the skin area, indicating it as a product:r of
acidosis. When extensively used, it shows up as sparkling
white spots in the stomach and intestinal area.
48 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
Allopathic Uses.
I. It is frequently used as an ecbolic, and also as a
hremostat to stop haemorrhage and to contract and seal
lacerated tissues and blood vessels.
The drug is a vasomotor stimulant, because of its effect
upon the muscular coat of the arteries, and it causes con-
traction of the involuntary muscles. It has a specific
weakening effect upon the muscles of the heart and stomach,
and may cause gangrene of the fingers and toes.
GLYCERINE
A sweet, oily fluid obtained by the saponification of fats
and fixed oils; employed as a solvent and as an application
to roughened and chapped hands. It is also used by injection
or in the form of suppositoi.y for constipation.
Glycerine shows as large white spots or clouds in the
areas of skin, kidneys and lungs.
OPIUM
The inspissated juice from the unripe capsules of a
species of poppy.
Opium shows in the iris as pure white straight lines
radiating in the form of a star from the pupil or the
sympathetic wreath outward, especially to the upper part of
the iris. These lines of opium are not in any way superficial,
always seeming to be deeply seated. They gradually become
darker if not eliminated.
Allopathic Uses.
Opium acts first as a stimulant, and later as a sedative.
It is used as an anodyne hypnotic, analgesic, and diaphoretic.
The poison has a special affinity for the stomach, bowels,
and sympathetic nervous system.
LAUDANUl\ll
This drug shows in the iris in a similar manner to opium.
It is a tincture of opium which contains 44 grains of opium
to the· otmce.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 49
PAREGORIC
Paregoric also shows in the iris similar to opium. The
drug is a mixture of opium, camphor, glycerine, aniseed,
benzoic acid, and alcohol. There are 2 grains of opium to
every ounce of paregoric.
MORPHINE
Morphine, from Latin Morpheus, the God of dreams or
of sleep.
Morphine is the principal alkaloid of opium, and its
action is similar to that of the mothe,r drug. Its sign, how-
ever, differs from that of opium in that it appears in the iris
as fine white lines which are very superJ:icial and radiate
from the pupil outwards, especially to the brain areas, later
becoming dark if not eliminated.
COCAINE
Cocaine is an alkaloid derived from coca, which occur
in large colourless crystals very slightly soluble in water.
The sign of cocaine is very similar to that of morphine.
The only way to differentiate it is by studying ihe objective
and subjective symptoms of the patient. Cocaine is used
to produce local an~esthesia and an::cmia by paralysing the
sensory nerves and contracting the blood vessels. It is also
used as an anodyne and sedative. All of these agents reduce
pain and produce sleep because they are poisonous paralysers.
They do not contribute in the least way to removing the cause
of the pains and insomnia. They mcrdy benumb and
paralyse the brain and spinal centres of perception and
sensation.
SALICYLIC ACID
D~:rivcd from salicin; a glucoside obtained from the bark
of suveral species of willow and poplar. It occurs as a white
crystalline powder of bitter taste, soluble in twenty-one parts
of water.
Salicylic acid in the iris shows as a whitish grey clou<l
or veil spreading unevenly over the outer margin of the iris,
but being more pronounced in the upper part. It resembles
very closely a whitewash, and if abundant, tends to efface
tht: peripheral border of the iris. It is frequently associated
J)
50 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
with the sodium ring. The drug has a special affinity for
the gastro-intestinal tract, which it leaves in an atrophic
condition, resulting in maJassimilation, malnutrition, and
defective elimination. These conditions show in the iris by
a browning and gradual darkening of the areas of the stomach
and intestines.
Allopathic Uses.
1. Antiseptic in surgical dressings, ointments.
2. For excessive perspiration and night sweats.
3. Gastric and intestinal fermentation and decomposition.
4. As an antipyretic.
5. Chronic cystitis when associated with foul urine and
phosphatic deposits.
6. Specific against acute inflammatory rheumatism in
the form of sodium salicylate or salicylate of lithium, but
lately administered hypodermically so as to avoid gastro-
intestinal irritation.
7. Used to preserve food substances.
Symptoms.
In addition to the symptoms produced by other coal-tar
products, salicylic acid also gives rise to: -
1. Dullness of hearing and dimness of vision, ringing
noises in the ears, pressure on top of head.
2. Nausea.
3. Diarrhrea alternating with stubborn constipation.
Eliminated.
Salicylic acid is eliminated during crisis by :-
1. Severe indigestion with cramps in stomach and bowels.
2. Nausea and vomiting.
3. Acne-form and pustular skin eruptions.
4. Acute catarrhal elimination and inflammation of the
mucous membranes, especially of the nose and throat.
FERRUM OR IRON (FE)
Iron shows as a rusty brown discoloration of the entire
gastro-intestinal tract, or rust-brown spots.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 51
1l'Iedical Uses.
1. Externally, the drug is occasionally used on mucous
membranes and broken skin as an astringent against diffuse
hremorrhages, catarrhal discharges, and other inflammatory
exudates.
2. Internally, the non-astringent preparations are used
as hremaiinics, together with such drug;; as influence the
diseased conditions on which the anremia or malnutrition
depend, for instance: -
1. Iron arsenate in chronic skin affections, particu-
larly lupus, psoriasis, eczema, and syphilitic lesions.
2. Iron sulphate in chronic diarrhcea, dysentery,
and passive hremorrhages.
3. Iron bromide or iodide as a tonic-alternative in
amenorrhrea and chlorosis in young women.
4. Iron-glycerophosphate and iron of manganese
during convalescence and in asthenic nervous conditions
and rickets.
5. Iron-valcrianate in hysterical complaints, especi-
ally when complicated with chlorosis.
6. Iron, quinine and strychnine as a general tonic.
7. As an antidote in acute arsenical poisoning,
repeatedly administered in the form of dialysed iron.
Symptoms of Fcrrum Poisoning.
1. Dyspepsia; occasionally discoloration of the teeth.
2. Stubborn constipation.
3. Abdominal pain.
VACCINE VIRUS
Vaccine viru:; shows as a black or muddy brown spot,
which is distinctly snpcrficial, like a speck of dirt. This spot
is always surrounded by white, indicating that the virus,
wherever it is in the body, is causing initation and has an
inflammatory area round it. Vaccine virus has also a
tendency to darken the entire iris, and it may cause white
lines to appt~ar in the areas of th~ liver, spleen, and bladder,
showing that these organs are endeavouring to throw off the
morbid encumbrance.
52 I.RIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
The vaccine virus spot must be differentiated from the
itch or psora spot, wh~ch is not surrounded by white.
RADII PUPILLARIS MINORES OR RADII SOLARIS
These signs are straight brown or black lines, tapering
to a fine point, and radiating in the form of a star from the
sympathetic wreath, or pupillary zone, to the other margin
of the iris. They arc found most frequently in brown eyes.
The exact signifrcance of these sign::; is as yet not well
understood, although some authoritiC's are of the opinion
that they are caused through gastro-intestinal disturbances.
However, they are of doubtful diagnostic importance, and
must not be mistaken for lesions, although they may be
assodated with mrntal and emotional strain in elderly people.
HEMIPLEGIA
The sign of Hemiplegia (a one-sided paralysis) is always
seen in the oppo$ite iris, co11t1 ary to all other records which
show in the corresponding iris of the affocted side. The lesion
is always demonstrable in the corresponding brain centre,
because the controlling centre of the eye reflext-s is not
involved in a hemiplegia.
NICOTINE
Nicotine has a !;imilar l'ffect upon the colour of the iris
as has vaccine virus, in so far as it causes the iris to assume
a. dark, smoky appC'arance. In examining the iride.;; of heavy
smokers there is also usually foun<l a numbt·r of nerve rings,
owing to the irritation of the motor ncrTous system. and some
abnormality of the sympathetic wreath in the he:ut re>gion
corresponding to the functional heart di:>tmbancc of the
tobacco smoker. With heavy smokers K1itzt>r says that thert>
is profuse perspiration.
BISMUTH
A dark steel-grey irregular circle in the digestive tract
of the iris shows that bismuth has been taken. Ulcers show
up in this area as minute black spots. wh1~rras tubercular
arieas show up the same except that they are smaller spots.
The. pancreas area. which is next to the duodenum in the
.chart, may also reveal these spots in disease. When bismuth
has.been taken, these spots may appear as dark blue.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 53
Bismuth is used in different preparations for indigestion
and painful. co~ditions of the ~t?mach ?r bowels. It has a
sedative action m cases of vom1trng or d1arrhcea.
The carbonate and oxychloride are used as an aid to
X-ray diagnosis.
Bismuth preparations are used externally as dusting
powders or as cosmetics, and also used in the treatment of
syphilis. It affects ~he ~erves of th~ upper: region. ?f the
spinal cord, and we fmd it often assoc1akd with neuritis and
kidney complaints. It is eliminated in a similar way to lead.
THE BODY AS A WONDERFUL LABORATORY
It has long been realised that the human body is in
reality an exceedingly complex chemical laboratory. With
the scientific developments in modrm chemistry it has become
evident that the chemical functions performed in this great
laboratory are ma1vellously intricate and varied in nature.
The food Wt' cat, plus the water and oxygen we consume,
are the chemical agmt;; utilised as raw materials by this
laboratory. These agc·nts arc conwrted with the various
gross and specialised tissues as needc·d. Complex chemical
reactions take place constantly day and night. Therefore it
is obvious that what we cat has a vital bearing upon what
we are.
The chemical functions of the body, however, art\
performed not alone in the stomach, intcstim's, and other
organs of the alimentary system, as the endocrines or ductless
glands play also a vet)' important part. The building of a
new cell, or the destruction of an old one, is a wmplex
chemical process calll•d metabolism. This proct•ss of building
up and lm'..1king down proce('US constantly from conceptio11
until death: and if nninterrnptcd would predicate the etcrna
life of tlw cell \\W1' not the process subject to degcncrativt
influence~. until finallv the curtain is drawn in the cataclasm
called death. ·
FAULTY METABOLISM OR ACIDOSIS
Jn imiidduals whost• 1m~tubolism is markedly disturbed,
and as a result of which there is excessive accumulation of
acids in ih~·ir system:-;. thrrc will usually be seen in the irides
a superhdal milky-white or chalk-like deposit which some-
54 IRIDIAGNOSIS--THE EYES
times causes the colour to be mistaken for azure blue. This
discoloration usually covers the entire surface of the iris in
cases of e:11.'treme hyperacidity, while in milder cases there
are whitish spots covering the parts of the iris, which
correspond to the organs where the accumulation of acid is
localised. The ability to thoroughly understand and recog-
nise this acidosis sign is very essential, as the inexperienced
may mistake it for an azure blue eye. Acidosis is a very
common ailment, and the examination for this sign should
be a routine procedure. The brown iris shows, on examina-
tion, an amber colour, and cloudy when acidosis is present.
EXAMINATION TEOiNIQUE
In examining the irides of a patient it is well to observe
some definite sequence in the procedure. First of all, the
patient should be seated in a comfortable chair which is fitted
with some form of head-rest. The chair should be fairly
high, so as to avoid necessitating the doctor stooping down
unnecessarily over the patient; and, of course, the patient
should face a window where there will be a plentiful supply
of daylight. In examining the eye under any very intense
light, it is well to remember that the pupil will normally be
contracted somewhat, and this often causes the condition of
the sympathetic wreath to be wrongly interpreted.
The sequence of signs which should be looked for are
as follows:-
1. Colour.
2. Acidosis.
3. Scurf Rim.
4. Nerve Rings.
5. Psora.
6. Drug Signs.
7. Acute Signs.
8. Subacute Signs.
9. Chronic Signs.
10. Destructive Signs.
11. Closed Defects.
12. Density.
13. Sympathetic Wreath.
14. Circulation.
15. Arcus Senilis.
lRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
In addition, it is, of course, wise to notice carefully any
local sign of a constitutional disease, such as the condition of
the conjunctiva in biliary disturbances, the condition of the
lens in diabetics, etc.
The student or practitioner should make a very careful
study of this subject. Continual practice is necessary to
become expert in this work. Progressive physicians and
students will find this work a great aid in their work on
Natural Healing. It is one of the greatest and most accurate
methods of diagnosis in existence at the present time; at the
same time, it is hardly known.
Case Illustrations.
1. Symptoms of neurasthenia in man aged 40. Served
with the army in the tropics. Recent mental disturbances.
I1is showed greenish-yellow discoloration over entire iris.
Took large doses of quinine for past three years. Committed
suicide.
2. Engineer. Blue eye. Sulphur signs from drinking
from a well containing sulphur water. Boils periodically due
to elimination of sulphur.
3. Blue eye. Man aged 48. Served with navy. Symp-
toms of sclerosis of spinal cord. Iris showed record of
mercury and arsenic having been previously administered.
These caused the disease to develop, in my opinion.
4. Man aged 40. Nephritis, psoriasis, gastro-intestinal
ioxremia, high blood pressure. Iris showed bismuth, quinine,
arsenic, and acidosis. The retained bismuth is helping to
cause blood pressure because of its clogging effect in the
kidneys. Nature is attempting to get rid of the acidosis by
producing psoriasis.
5. Young woman aged 26. Whitish blue iris. Sodium
ring present. Treated for rheumatism for some years with
sodium sal. Heart lesion present. Iris cleared considerably
under Natural treatment. Now fairly healthy.
G. Lady aged 40. Well-defined iodine spot in left ovary.
Left ovary removed surgically.
7. Man aged 39. Tremor left arm with wrist-drop. Iris
shows steel grey, perfect circle around pupil. Probably
absorbed lead through working with red lead, paints, etc.
56 IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES
8. Woman aged 37. Constant stomach irritability despite
previous dieting. Mercury ring of a metallic lustre showing;
Mouth .filled with amalgam fillings, eighteen of them. Alka-
line diet helped her. Metallic taste in mouth from eating
fruit. (Fruit not indicated.)
CONCLUSION.
Truth is a true statement. an agreement with reality,
and in the fine arts, a faithful adherence to Nature. Those
who read this book, no matter whether they are laymen or
professional men and women, will find this book full of
truths, for the facts are continually being demonstrated by
Naturopaths the world over. The Naturopath has a different
way of treatment to all other practitioners, because in the
first place he works along lines corresponding to the law of
cure. If he treats you by spinal manipulation (mechanical
treatment) then he is aiming to increase the power and
activity of the various organs, and stimulate the various
centres in the spine, as, for example, the cpigastric centre
in the upper part of the spine, genital centre in the lumbar
spine, etc. In other words, he aims to remove the cause of
the disease, because he knows that behind symptoms there
is always a cause. Whether the cau:;c is through dietetic
errors, drink, or drug poisons, emotional states or the accu-
mulation of acids, results are more certain because he is
working along natural lines toward a cure.
An attempt has been made in this book to help you on
your cvolutional path, and to show you a saner way towards
health and its maintenance. It may help you to avoid the
pitfalls on your road and save you endless trouble.
IRIDIAGNOSIS-THE EYES 47
The apparently harmless germ-killers, if such there be,
will never prove a cure for tuberculosis, because the tubercle
bacillus is the product of the disease and not the cause of it.
Micro-organisms of any kind may be present in various tissues
of the body, even in health, but they usually require a
suitably modified soil before they can cause disease. In the
case of tuberculosis, the tubercle bacilli grow and thrive on
morbid decaying lung tissue. The only way to prevent the
growth and multiplication of the tubercle bacilli or their
microzyma is to remove from the system the morbid and
scrofulous soil in which they thrive. Elimination, neutralisa-
tion, and the increased influx of the vital force is the only
cure.
Allopathic Uses.
1. Powerful antipyretic, acting within one hour.
2. General nerve sedative, anodyne and hypnotic.
3. For the relief of pain in nervous headache, neuralgia,
ataxia, gout, rheumatism, and painful menstruation.
Symptoms.
1. Undue tendency to fatigue.
2. Despondency, melancholia, loss of memory.
3. Renal irritation.
4. Neurasthenia, nervousness, paralysis, and insanity.
Eliminated.
Coal-tar products, creosote, etc., are usually eliminated
by:-
1. Excessive perspiration.
2. Erythematous eruptions.
3. Excessive urination.
4. Nervous and mental disturbances.
ERGOT
Ergot is a fungus which grows on rye, and it shows as
a series of bright red, or sometimes rust-brown, spots in the
region of the gastro-intestinal tract. Sometimes the drug is
observed as bright red spots in the region of the generative
organs. It is seen at times as a red or rust-brown circle in
the stomach area.
