{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__cn___the_divine_dynamo.pdf","mytitle":"The Divine Dynamo","mylang":"de"}
THE
DIVINE
DYNAMO
BY
~ " C . N. "
1l
•
C. N., according to family genealogical records
(http://www.genealogy.com/forum/surnames/topics/oman/239/) is an unembodied spirit
communicating through Ethel Mabel Perkins Crippen Hill (1875-1962), who was involved in
Pelleyite occult circles in California in the 1920s and after.
THE
D I V I N E
DYNAMO
BY
Author of "WHAT NEXT" and
"CREATIVE ACHIEVEMENT"
copyrighted by
BEACON LIGHT MINISTRY
1951. .
price $1 . 00
6 Coples 'for $5.00 ' .
write for special price ln quantity lots to
William Kullgren
Atascadero, California
TABLE 0 .F C 0 N T E N T S
page
'A Request
<Introduction
Prologue
BY "C. N." 3
BY William KUllgren 4
' BY "C . N. " =
7
Chapter 1 - A City Not BUilt ,With Hands
2 - ~hy , Learn Earth 1 s Lessons
9
14
l7
20
23
27 ·
"
. "
"
. II
"
"
II
"
3 - Life's workshop
4 - A Living Ever- present Christ
5 - The End . Of The .C ye le
6 - The Fulfillment Qf prophecy
7 - Experien ce Man '~ rea cher
8 - "At ~vent lde There Shall Be Light 11
9 - A Nation ' s Need
10 - what :rs God ' s Kingdom?
11 - The only True Foundat i on
12 The Mas te r Tra i ner
13 - Where Are Your credentials?
29
~2
37
41
46
49
51
14 - A Hovel or~ Mansion 55
15 - The Stage Of tife 58
16 - soul Qualities 62
17 - A Mighty rorce unused 66
18 - Thought Forces As Vi bratory Action ·70
conclusion 74
The Torch Of Truth
Beyond ·Mind
Books That Will Help YOU
Books ror The New Age
The Beacon Light Herald
BY William ·KUllgren =
75
rrom "MESSAGES OF ·LIGHT" 7 e
77
.:78
80
'3
A REQUEST!
Read the words of this bOQk with the door of your
mind ajar to admit new thoughts and the windows of
your soul open to re ceive Dlvlne Illumination ~ for
the words are simple, being but keys tounlock hid -
den treasures of knowledge and understanding which
shall come knocking at the door of your mind.
and !f your sou1 1 s windows are flooded with the
Light which comes down from above, you shall rec-
ognize these treasures and admit them to the sanc-
tuary of your inmost being where their beauties
shall ' unfold 1 to you! For the written word ls weak
and ineffectual but the power of Inner Illumination
ls all powerfu:)..
Peace be unto you and glorious be your revelation
of Truth and Beauty ·beyond mortal :imaginings!
4
INTRODUCTION
' The wr iter of this 1ntroduct1on has spent a life -
time .In thls line of thc;mgl)t, btlt :r can truthfully say
no manus cript has ever thrilled me.as much as this one.
That ls a pretty b1g statement · to make conslderlng
my background as an occult student of nearly fifty
years , artd so, dear reader, take my re commendation on
faith. Read this book carefu lly and prayerfully and
It will help you to open the door to your Inner c on-
sciousness.
You recall the Scriptures asking you to "Seek first
the Kingdom o f God and Hls Righte ousness (Rightness)
and a ll other things w111 be added unto you." That
means you miss nothing. The prese nt horrible picture
I n the world ·today .is the end product of an ignorance
of that wonderful 1njunct1on . Man has lost sight of
h 1s spirit ual herita.ge. Our ,beloved Master sald, "Ye
are Gods" and .He knew whereof ~e spoke for He knew that
every 1 1V1ng creature contal~ed a spark of the Fa the r
and Mot her God.
The chrlst i an wo r ld today ls looking forward to
the return of t he Messiah who is to rule this earth
wi t h a rod of i r on , but the ~hristian world presents a
sorry spectac l e fo r by their actions they indicate
they ·do not believe . Tha t remi nds me of the little
girl who went with her parent s to chur c h to pray for
rain. The little girl was the only one that carried
an umbrella, and they made fun · of her. And she chirped
up , "Well, arert•t we going to pray for rain?"
Fo lks, this ls judgment day regardless of your
belie f or mine. God .ls go ing to balance the ' books.,
and you and I . are going to . reap exactly what we sow,
and, .lf your harvest is not of the right klnd., your
looking for the Messiah will be all .in vain. Through-
out the world there .ls a small band . of people - and
t hey may be of any denom1nat1on, or of none at all -
who are aarry.lng the umbrella of faith and they are
busy preparing themselves for the greatest even t .ln
the history of this planet. Are you among that number?
The greatest event of all times ls about to take
place~ , and, oh, so few are preparing thelr garments
fo r that great day. surely .lt .ls worth a little er-
fort. The Kingdom of God ls going to be se t up on
5
earth, and you, yourself., are deciding whether you
will be a part of that picture or not. The tares are
being tied up .into bundles and will soon be destroyed
through acts of na ture or warfare.
These bundles . are c hiefly in the large cities, so
get out. As an astrological student of some 43 years
I see evidence that the large cities will suffer the
most. , especially when ·a ll the major planets rea c h
around 20 degrees of Aries, Cancer., Libra and Capr 1-
c orn.
There are those on earth who will be placed .in
positions of great respons1b111ty dS rulers under the
direc .tlon of the Christ , and I want to urge you, dear
readers, to prepare yourself for a position of trus t.
But this is one time that political .influence or wealth
or fame will avail you nothing . I t will be as John
the Divine said, "To him that over cometh will I give
a Crown of Righteousness." All true dis ci ples of the
Master are lo oking for their crown, and they will be
the ones that wi~l be placed .in c harge of the various
divisions of life~ , but f.i rst things mus t come f.1rst
and you must seek the Kingdom which ls wi t hin,
The Technique Df Light as ou t lined in "Lighted
Passage" will help you. Your main j o.b ls to g·et con-
trol of. your . vehicles; the physical, · the astral or de-
s ire body, and the mental 'body • .The Scriptures say,
"Be still anct know that I am God," Then and only then
will you get 11 The pe ace that . passeth all understanding."
wars and strikes and discords of all kind are but
the ref lection Df the .inner man. You are advertising
to the world Just where you are and what you stand for.
Even an ordinary cl airvoyant ca n tell at one glance at
your aura wher~ you stand ln the path of evolution or
unfoldment. You came into incarnation to do exact ly
what I have advised you to do. Are you going to go
back to the oth!:Jr world., as untold thousands., yea
millions do, filled with bitter remorse be cause once
again you have failed to accomplish your goal, to do
the thing you set out to do before you lett the spirit
world.
Friends, the average christian .is doing l .it tle or
nothing .in the way of preparation, and yet there are
many who make no preparation at all who will qualify
easily. The Master said, "Unless ye become as a l itt le
6
· child ye can nowise enter the Kingdom." That implies
the sp1r1t of me~kness and humlllty. Many of our
teachers are arrogant, conceited, self - oplnlonated and
a slave to the .senses themselves. I know whereof I
speak for I have been d1s1llus1oned many times. I
learned long ago to put my wants at zero - then you
have the world at your feet. A man's riches ls not ln
the abundance of his goods but 1n the smallness of his
wants. Do you recall how sad the rlch young man was
when the Master told him, "Sell al l thou hast and give
to the poor" and he went away sadly. Times have not
changed. Humanity, largely due to our wrong education-
al system, places the emphasis ln the wrong place .
Our educational .1nstltut1ons place the goa l as be-
ing wealth, fame, popularity; that's success to them,
but that ls not the Master ' s standard for He made no
mention of any of these things. He said, "Love ls the
fulfillment of the Law . " You dort ' t have to accept His
statement .!f you dort•t want to, but I would .advise you
t o take .1t on fa 1th and try 1t., and you w111 pr ov e
that Love .ls the fulfillment .of the Law., that in the
last analys i s Love conquers . everything and everybody.
So why not do that now .instead of lat~r on after you
have become dlslllusloned?
We here of the BEACON LIGHT MINISTRY have taken up
thls book a chapter at a time ln our dally service.
and each day we are thrilled by the pungent truths.
:If you live .ln the realm of sensation you may question
some of t his or., .lf you're an 1nte11ectuallst, you may
b ri ng up the heavy guns of logic. But., 1f you have
sought the Kingdom and l earned to listen to that inner
voice.. then you too will be thr.1lled as you read this
wonderful book chapter by chapter. The proof of the
pudding ls .1n the eating.
Apply these lessons to your everyday life and they
wlll surely lead you to Xhe goal. The Kingdom of God
.ls gradua~lY descending to the earth plane as de-
scribed .ln your Bltrle. Are you qualifying yourself
~o be a citiz en of that Kingdom? Ask yourself that
question prayerfully, for the
decide your future de~tlny.
May God abundantly bless
the Holy Grall.
way you answer .1t will
you .In your search for
William Kullgren.
7
THE DIVINE DYNAMO
BY "C· N."
PROLOGUE
over nineteen hundred years ago there appeared un-
to a certa i n Virgin an Angel of the Ldrd, who foretold
the coming of one who would be a Light unto the world!
one to be called Immanuel ••• God with us,
The Angel departed and Mary pondered in her heart
those things the Angel had told her. ·1n due · tlme the
Child was born. Holy Angels proclaimed Hi s b.lrth .in
so~gs of praise and joy.
An holy peace surrounded the lowly place where lay
the newborn Babe., for God had sent to earth a dearly
loved Son to reveal to mank i nd the meaning of all
earthly existence ••• to settle forever the que.stlon of
all ages., 11 For what r:eason ls man sent .into the world
and to. what purpose does he live out his span of life?"
such was the mission of Jesus of Nazareth, who
made His entry into this sphere of action according to
prophecy, was reared as the son of a carpenter and
spent scarcely three full years of His life .in the ac-
tual fulfilling of His sacred mission.
Great changes have taken place astrologically
since the advent of the Christ. Great c·hanges have
taken place in Mart ' s physical organism and environment,
in his mental capacity, .in clvlllzatlon .in general.
The simple folk to whom the Master taught great truths
by means of . parables, or word pictures, would have been
stunned by the phenomenon of photography. Imagine., .lf
you can, the consternat.lon of the populace had the
Master depleted the Parable of the Prodigal Son .in a
talking movie .ln technlcolor!
As man 1 s :.mental capacity has expanded, so also has
his spiritual perception increased to a polrtt where
~any truths incomprehensible to the people to whom
Jesus talked would be readily understood at thls time.
Few people realize . (although lt ls in absolute ac-
cord with the latest discoveries of science ) that the
chemical constituents of the human body have actually
qndergone a great c hange during the past twenty centu-
ries • •• whic h makes the man of today an entirely dlf-
8
ferent organism · f r om the man to whom Jesus talked be -
sid e the Sea of Gal i lee.
:rt has ever been man 1 s greates t pr i v i lege to em-
ploy each bit of kn owledge ga i ned , each new power ac -
quired , f or t he b.e t terment of the planet on whi c h he
lives and i t s .inhabitants.
One by one have sublime a c hievements rewarded
man •s dil i gent study and quest for ever increasing
knowledge and atta i nment~. Man talks to his fellow
man t h ous a nd s o f m11e s d 1s t an t ! Ma n .s pans t he oc ea n
.in a few ·hours on . the wings of his latest triumph
over natural imped i ments t o aerial navigation! A ma n
who left b i s ~ortal ~ody years ago may still entrance
thousands by the ~ ound of ~ls ·voice recorded before
his de parture! Ate these miracles given mankind for
their selfish divers i on?
- ·Shall not man with his wider vision, hl.s greater
capa ci ty for unde r s t and i ng and manipulat i ng the _ever-
existing f orces of the wbrld about him, above and be-
low him .. . . sha l l he not be' given new revealings of
his t~nfold greater respons i b111t1es~
Be cause our Master refrained from mystifying bis
s l mp l e•minded follower s by all~slons t o glorious pos-
sib11 1t1es of future a c hievements altogether ·beyond
their ken. can one ima g i ne Him ignorant of such pos-
slbi l lt l es in the f uture ?
_ Be cause He knew •• ~ beca use He realized the over-
whelm i ng need of a sp ir itual unfoldment to keep pace
wit h the ma te rial advan cement He saw .in store · for man-
kind , He meekly submi t ted t o t he deed which shook the
foundation of the ear t h and rent t he veil in the Tem-
ple before the Holy of Hol i es! -
Of . what avail was H1s ignominious death upon the
c ross , save as He kep t His promise to His disciples
and rose triumphant, showing Hi~Self to them, talking
with them a~d provi ng to every mortal on . earth that
Life .ls not d ependent upon the occupancy of a mortal
body but transcends all earthly llmltatlons and glor-
ies .1n the heritage of immortality!
9
CHAPTER ONE
A CITY NOT BUtLT WtTH HANDS
Throu gho ~t the entire world the foliowers of Jesus
have accepted His teachings as a Divine R~velation of
Gad es purpose and God ' s will- for mankind. in eyery age
t~ere ha~e be en men of rare courage and highly spirt-
ttlal natures who have graspe d the tr~e significance of
His te achings. Such men (a nd women a l so) have climbed
the he.+ghts of inspiration and urit.o them has been giy-
en visions of that Holy City to which Jesus declared
He went to prepare a place for those who should follow
His .teachings. For Jesus taught that His power and
wisdom were given Him by His Heavenly Father for one
purpose ••• that He might manifest His power and His
glory to a darkened world a nd bring Light to th ose who
dwelt in the darkness of their own mistaken .ideas. For
~e found men ·m
aking a mock of God's Love, being filled
with self-righteousness and hypocrisy, seeking their
own honor and glory, putting their own distorted con-
ceptions of Dod '. s character before the people who fol-
low them blindly.
Jesus was sent to teach men to worship the pure,
the true., the beautiful; to lift thelr eyes from their
own selfish des lres and observe the workings of God's
great Creative Purpose. He was sent to tell men that
when they set their own transient pleasures ahead of
their duty to their fellowmen, they are digging for
themselv es a pit into which they shall fall a nd be
buried under the weight of their own material posses-
sions. For they hold these possessions on ly to · ln-
dulge theiJ? own sel1'1sh ·craving for ·worldly power .and
supremacy and the gratifying of their bodily desires.
What do they care for the suffering of those who serve
them? Do they treat them w! th brotherly love and con-
sideration? Na, they lay upon them burdens too ·griev-
ous to be borne!
why Will men so mar and d e face the image in which
they are created? For, dire as ls the ' havoc wrought
in the lives of those they wrong by their selfish cru-
e 1 ty, 1t is as nothing com pared with the terrible
wrong they thus work upon their own souls. But they
are .blind and cannot see their hideous ugliness of soul.
10
Jesus was sent with a Mirror of Truth, that He
might hold .itbefore Men's eyes and show them their own
souls as God beholds them, ·shriveled and starved, with
scarce a breath of life left. What chance have they
' for happiness ·wben they cast aside their pampered bod-
.ies? Unto these He came ·with words of warning.
But to the weary and disheartened, struggling a-
gainst the cruelty and .i njustice of those who should
be ·to them as brothers •• • unto these He spoke words
of comfort, telling the m of the loving kindness of
th e i r Heavenly Father who gives Inward joy and peace
un$peakable to all who love and serve Him.
He told t hem of that City :Invisible to which they
journey where t he i r gr ie vous burdens shall be cast
aside, whe~e pain s hall cease and none shall demand of
them labor they be not strong enough to perform. He
taught the~ . to live fearlessly and joyously, knowing
these things be true and the death of the body but a
blessed release to the spirit it has imprisn ned for a
li ttle time upon the earth, that needed lessons might
be learned.
Down ·through the centuries none have ever fully
des cri bed the bea.uties of that City Celestial, for
there were no wor ds in any language which would give
any true concept ion of its beauty and the joy of those
who dwell there.
Much has b een written and taught conce.rning the
~1sery and wretchedness of those wha, through their
own acts of cruelty and injustice., condemn themselves
to a life darkened by the clouds of strife that arise
from the fumes of hatred forever smoldering within
their hearts and minds.
- Unto such as these the gates of that Holy City be
barred , for were they admitted then would the purity
of . the a i r be polluted, the beauty would fade and into
the mus.le which entrances the ear there would ;be in-
troduced a hideous discord. This must not be for into
this City Celestial no thought of evil, no shadow of
hatred or selfishness must . ever enter. Standing guard
at the gates . are shi ning Angels of Purity, Love and
Beauty. Never have they come .ln ' co nt act with aught
that .ls smirched with evil thinking. Rver they behold
the True, the Good, the Innocent! They have no ~yes
11
for anything that .ls n ot created ln the image of God.
Their eyes are holden that they do n ot behold those
darkened souls who have refused to be .illum i nated by
Love Divine. Therefore , when such souls seek entrance
to this Hea~enly City, they are as shadows which have
no substance and the Angels hee~ them not.
BOsts of Ministering Angels ever abide within the
gates of thls Holy Cit y. Angels of Pity, Compassion,
Love, Charity, Faith and Hope . Never have they dwelt
upon the earth but thelr llves have been spent upon
more harmonious planes of being and they are f11led
with sorrow at the sight of earth ' s trouble cand woe.
As oft as a tiny flame of J,ove ls l ighted .1n some human
soul, .t.llese angels are s_
ent to te .nd and guard t.hls
flame and see lt ls not extinguished but grows ever
brighter and more beautiful until .lt shines forth. as a
beacon ln -the midst of earth ' s strife and turmoil,
guiding many a wear y one to shelter and safety.
w1tnout this Holy City be multitudes of spirits
struggling to attain that strength and purity they
failed to achieve upon earth. Be not deceived and
thin~ th~t all of these spirits are 1n pain and tor-
ment~ Each u~ward step ls attended by great Joy of
mind and s~lrlt •. Countless blessings are bestowed upon
each o~e whq aspires ~o climb to the higher le~els.
But the de~ree of Light they enjoy depends upon the
developme nt cf their spirit senses.
some have purposely deadened every upward rlslng
tendency of their spirits through long years of self-
.ish pander i ng to their physical desires to the exclu-
sion of. their higher instincts for spiritual attain-
ment; Such as these have often enjoyed great riches
upon earth, have been the envy of their fellows because
of their many possess.Ions and the power their money
ha s given them to buy and control vast interests. Yet
they hav e thrown aside this great opportunity to bene-
f 1t their fellowmen, hardening the ir hearts to their
pitiful condition and thinking ever of adding to their
own personal honor and glory on earth.
Ghastly ls such conduct .1n the sight of those who
watch t hem from the World Invisible. Having been giv-
en the means wherewith to bless and uplift mankind,
they have betrayed their trust and utterly defeated
the purpose of their existence on earth. Having been
12
·endowed with minds capable of organizing and direct i ng
human affairs with wisdom and justica, they h ~ ve
squandered this priceless gift by utterly disregard i ng
their clearly defined destiny and using thelr God-given
talents for such babyish nonsense as fine :clothes. ,
costly cars~. useless jewels:, pa.laces where.in to d is-
play the produc t of the i r ingenious ability to acquire
wealth. :Their sons and daughters follow their example.,
not know ing that they are laying up for themselve s a
blackness Of ·remorse no mortal can · comprehend.
Others with no t ~l ent · for · acquir.ing earthly goods
often abuse and teglect their bodi es and minds so that
they are an easy prey to those destructive forces ever
seek i ng t o extinguish the Light Divine in each human
breast and turn t he mi nd to -thoughts of crime against
those more fortu na te than the mselves . Those who during
their lif e on earth voluntar.1ly surrender their wills
to t he Powe rs of Darkness are still under the dominion
of t hese h i deous forces when t h·ey leave their mortal
bod ies. How could i t be ot·herwise ? Would the Powe rs
of Darkness rel1ngu1sh t he ir hold on one of their
sl~ves ·be cause the temple of his body had been de-
stroyed? Na, -they rejoice greatly:, for .ln his disem-
bodied state ·he may be sent where one clothed .in mor-
tal flesh would not be allowed to enter.. For this
reason it .l s a great mistake to take the lives of those
you call fie nds , thinking thus to defend · soc1ety from
their f urther depreda ti ons. Do you know what these
darkened minds plan .in ~evenge for being deprived of
their mor t al bod ies? With devil is h cunning they plot
a nd plan how they may wreck vengeance upon those they
hate , through similar deeds of violence to which they
incite other like-minded intelligences still dwell i ng
.in the flesh.
could you but know and understand the workings of
these disordered minds and the power they exert over
morta ls who permit them to come c lose enough to i n-
fluence their minds and ' act1ons:, you would deal in
qui te a different manner with those who have committed
crimes you now pun is h with the death penalty. Consld~r
this well --filr .lJ.ere 11.es the secret of much of the hor-
rible imaging of unspea.kab1e . crimes which menace the
sa fet y of your wives and daughte rs today.
Yet, when the heart .ls wholly cleansed from self -
ishness and Love Divi ne l s enthroned therein, then re -
demption c omes ev en to the lowest and v i lest of God •s
children. For there are none fa l l e n so low t hey c an -
not rise. There are none so lost In the mire of sin
they cannot be cleansed from their Iniquity and set
upon the path that leads to Life Eternal.
14
CHAPTER TWO
WHY LEARN EARTH ' S LESSONS?
It was said of old, "Man looketh upon the outward
appearance but God looketh upon the he ar t . " The heart
must be pu~e as the gold the refiner has put through
the fire; the spirit_white as the snow falling from
the sky .in glistening purity and every motive crystal
clear as the water gushing forth from the heart of the
mounta i n. For the sparkling purity of man 1 s motive .is
accoun ted of more c onsequence .in the courts above than
any seem i ng wickedness oJ h is' outward acts. .Indeed >
it of te n happ~ns that one accounted righteous in the
eyes of men . (who does h i s good works .as a cloa k to hide
his se lfis hness ) fi nds h is c loak gone and his ttue
c ha racter revealed when he stands before the higher
courts of heaven . While some poor., ig norant person
who has transgressed ·or erred through mistaken l ove and
l oya lty to an earthly friend .is treated with leniency .
Fo r t h is Heavenly KlngdoE belongs ali ke to a ll
God's childre n ~ only ~om~. through wanton and wilful
d isobedience to God's Laws have alienated themselves .
They are like a ma n traveling in some foreign c ountry
and l iving there unt il his habits so c los el y re semble
those of h is associates that _
no one remembers the l a nd
of h is bir t h . But there comes a time when he feels
t he urge to return, even as the Prodigal Son and join
b is own peopl e in his homeland, there to live .in pe ac e
and plenty.
Do you thi nk .i t natters .greatly to your Heavenly
Father whether you are clot hed in .mortal flesh or
whether your spi r it .ls encased only .in its spiritual
body ? God does not look upon the outward tabernacle
but at the spirit of ma n whether he 1s mortal or spir-
it. And when with all his hear t man desires to love
and serve Him and Him alona, then he is given a chance
to redeem himself and slow ly- rise from his fallen es-
t~te in~o ~ full consciousness of his heavenly .in-
he ri tan ce.
15
If he needs certain lessons which may .be learned
only upon the earth, cert ain strength of character
which may be gained only through meeting and conquer-
ing those adversities be has previously allowed to
overcome his will power, therr he is sent back to earth
to learn these lessons. For it .ls true that man must
through his own efforts (with the aid of those sent bti
the Father to his assistance ) make of himself a strong,
helpful, right-thinking being·. And he must~ , through
whatever means may be dee~ed moat expedient, gain that
purity of thought and motive whic h fits him for his
hea~enly heritage.
This ls no idle theory but a scientific fact, jqst
as a fish gasps and perish~s when taken from its natu-
ral place of habitation, the wa.ter ••• so would a man
of gross habits and desires be utterly annihilated were
he to be suddenly transported to these higher levels
of consciousness ~here the ether ls of an extremely
volatile and rarified quality which provided a proper
atmosphere for those who have attained a highly sensi-
tive state of being, with every thought and emotion
tuned to a high, · fine vibration.
Do you wonder why so often the symbol of a pathway
ls employed to signify man•s upward ~r downward ~rog­
ress? Do not the mountains and valleys aptly ty:ptl fY
the heights of ~p1r1tual attainment and the depths of
human depravity?
Climb ! C 1 .1 m b ! C L I MB ~ Heed not the
steepness of the winding path! Disregard the stones
t ha t c u t an d b r u 1s e y our f e e t.• F-a 1nt n ot whe n t h e
noonday sun shines down with torrid heat! Let not the
cold night wind chill your ardor! Climb steadily up-
ward, faltering not, neither l oitering!
And when th~ morning dawns you shall rejo1ce with
exceeding great joy for upon the mount ai n tops you
shall glimpse the glory of that Celestial City which
ls your Eternal Home.
None may know the meaning of happiness until they
have .attained a state of consciousness which fits them
to enter this heavenly abode. For the most joyous mo-
ment in any morta1 1 s life ls as naught compared with
the thrilling uplift of spirit which comes as you en-
ter that City of Joy Unspeakable.
16
Little rivulets of Joy penetrate even to this dark
and dreary earth ! And when you sense a feeling of hap-
piness that bubbles up from within your soul and over-
flows .in laughter and song, then may you know you have
tasted ONE DROP from the boundless Ocean of Joy which
awaits you when you are able to bear the ecstacy of
its full realization.
would that you might see and comprehend God ' s ben~
e ficent purpose for mankind! Never does He cause one
to suffer a moment's pain needlessly.
17
CHAPTER THREE
LI FE'S WORKSHOP
Men are like children not know i ng the way to true
attainment. They regard the earth as a playground and
the tasks given them to perform as foolish toys which
may be tossed aside as their whim dictates.
Whenever one finds a man who earnestly considers
his life and its duties, with due thought for his own
success and also for the best .interests of those whose
lives are linked with h i s .in some way, one finds this
man being led from one open dnor to another until he
has gained hls desire. For when a man orders his l ife
wisely and d irects every energy toward a worthy goal
of which his judgmen t approves, the way will be made
plai n and he shall achieve that whereunto he has Set
his hand.
Give .no anxious thought to the morrow., saying,
"What shall I do 1f I fall .in my efforts~ Who Will
clothe me and how shall I be f ed?" Put all such
thoughts far from you and give all your strength to
the task set before you to do this day, feelln~ within
yourself the determination and the power to accomplish
what you have planned.
All thinis work together for good to those who
w~lk uprightly, loving their Heavenly Fathe~ and liv-
ing .in accnrd with His commands . When you are con-
vinced that this ls true, then every barrier to suc -
cess ls removed and you are already master of your
fate. Do you not know tha t even the mos t gr 1evous er-
rors of those who walk not according to God's Law can-
not prevail against the mighXy fotces whi c h come to
the aid of one who throws himself who le he artedly into
his God-given task on earth?
What seemed defeat to the world when the last scene
was played .in the drama of the iowly ·Nazarenb •s ea~th­
lY pilgrimage proved to be .the greatest victory ever
vouchsafed to mortals! · When the stone was ·rolled away
from the sepulchre where they had lald His m~rtal body
to rest and He appeared to Mary, then His e~rihly mis -
sion was made plain. He had proved mart ' s immortality
to the absolute satisfaction of those who saw Him and
were allowed to touch Him and talk to Him.
18
What do the men of today count success? Piling up
dollar s., accumulating property., hav i ng thousands of
human ·baings laboring for their .interests, ow*ln g
railroads, power plants and vast areas of oil produc -
ing land or mines rich in ore ••• suc h goals men set
for themselves, l i ving i n most astounding luxury. Yet,
even th i s .ls more beneficial th a n hoaPdlng wealth as
. ·.
does the miser.
But what do you suppose a man thinks as he reviews
hls life from the vantage ground of these higher
planes? Do you think he ls proud of hls slavery to
earthly possessions? Wbat ·bas be brought with him from
bis earthly existence which will make for his pleasure
and prof1t ' dur1ng the next thous.and years?
Here ls the pity and the mockery of man 1 s short-
sighted 1ndul~ence of h1s own pride . and vanity to the
detriment of h1s real , lasting treasures of mind and
h ea r t • For h e .1s a s a c h 11d b 1 ow 1ng b ubb 1e s !. Tbe y
seem .br i ght and he eagerly seeks to make . them even
b i gger and brighter. But the wind blows • •.• and they
vanish! What a man does f or his own selfish pleasure
.1s as a bubble. A ple asant d i vers i on f or an idle hour!
But what man does to fu rt her some project of benefit
to all • •• this .1s true and lasting . galn!
So you sea, a man of we alth .may find himself a
pauper when h1s short eartbllfe ls ove r , having utter-
ly wast ed h1s opportunities for acquiring strength ·Of
character and beauty of sp 1r1t. And the s~rvant be
despises may be given much which is beautiful and high
honors may be awaiting h1m, for he has done his part
honestly and wel~ P seeking ever · to ma ke life happier
for · those about h1mand · bear~ng his burdens c heerfully.
Why can you not see that you are building there
the exact conditions which shall surround you when you
enter the world .1nv1s1ble · to you now? · It 1s not a
matter o.f pun1sh.ment! You are .given tools! You are.
given a brain ! _
You are put 1nto a place where there
.are many klnd.s . of work to be done. When the time comes
for you to leave this workshop with the product of your
toll, what have you · to show for your labor?
19
You know perfectly well that houses and lands~ ,
money and all these material possessions are but the
substance given you wherewith to work out your earth
problems. What you bring back from your earthly work-
shop .is only the good you have done to others and the
beauty you have thus wrought into your own character.
This .ls your success and this yuur pride of
achievement!
In whatever sphere you labor, whether lt is ln a
position of great power and honor or the poorest and
humblest of all God ' s children, there you shall find
exactly the tools of circumstance fitted to the task
you have been sent to do.
Set to work with .a will and see how perfect a suc -
cess you can make of your life and its environment.
20
CHAPTER FOUR
A LIVING EVER~PRESENT CHRIST
It may be that your example of faith, patience and
cheerfulness in adversity will prove a blessing to all
who know you. It may be you aDe given a place of
prominence with the power to organize and direct great
projects of vital i m~ort ance to your fellowmeri. one
thing .is true! There .is a plan for every life. None
are heedle ssly thrown lnto the maelstrom of human l .1fe .
In every human breast there .is a divine spark of
Love ! In every human soul the re is a latent pos sibil-
ity for greatness. You are put here ort earth to fan
trlat spark of L6ve .in to a flame that warms e~eryone
who co mes near you ; to develop that soul-power until
it generates sufficie nt force of character to make of
you a trem.endous influence for good in the world.
Whatever tends to feed the flame of Divine Love
within your breast is your s to keep and cherish! What-
ever te nds to smother this holy flame of Love Divine
is dangerous! Cast it a.side.
Whatever tends t-0 develop and a.id in your soul ' s
expansion, do you embraceL Whatever tends to limit and
restrict .the power for good which lies within you, put
it out of your lif e . For only as you yourself are
living out your own inmost . impulses toward construc-
tive effort, only as your latent powers a.re opening
and expanding to the ir fullest extent. •• • only so can
you fulfill your true mission to your fellowmen.
A · light is giv e n to every man which, .if he will
but follow it, shall lead him aright. None need walk
.in darkness. Yet, if. they refuse to follow the light
and choose to walk .in the darkness of their own folly,
then the way back to the true Light is beset with dif-
ficulties of their own making.
There is a Light which ever shines for all! one
lived long ago of whom it was said, He was "the Light
of the World. 11
was that Light extinguished, think you, upon that
dark night when Calvary bore a cross upon which was
nailed the mortal bOdY .of Jesus, the Christ?
21
No! For through that cruciflxlon of the flesh .lt
was .made .manifest to men that the splrlt lives on.
Only the sp irit has life eternal. Only the spirit car -
ries forward i nto Llfe Eve rlasti ng t hose things or
lasting consequences !
On what . uncharted se~ . think you , the soul em-
barks when It cuts loose from .Its fleshly moor i ngs?
·rn the glory of spirit- body did Christ -reiurn to earth,
clothing Himself again .in mortal flesh that He mi ght
thus prove His .identity to His followers. This He did
t hat He might teach them the truth of His sayings con-
cerning His Ki ngdom ; ••• The K1ngd6m of Lbve !
And when He .ascended up lnto heaven i n a cloud of
glory, do you for one moment imagine His mission to the
earth was d~ne? True, He had manifes te d God 9 s Love
and demo.nstrated God 9 s Power ! But with His relea.se
from bondage ~ to earthly conditions and restricti ons
His power increased an hundred- thous a nd fold ! For then
could He not become a Light unto eve ry soul s~nt into
the world up6n heavenly m1ss1on?
H?-Ve you forgotten how He said, " The t h ings t h.at :r
do , ye shall do also and greater th i ngs shall ye da,
because I go unto My Father?" Thus He spoke to His
disciples but the word He spoke has n ever los t its
significance to all who are followers of the Christ.
There are many who by clever ·sophistries seek to
minimize the power give n to Jes~s and limit .its man1-
festa ti ons. Many see k to resolve al l Divine Power in-
to an abstta~t principle : mistaking t he law and its
ever perfect action f.or the Sp irit wh o created t he Law !
Laws Divine or Universal Laws. as they are often
called, . are worthy of all respect, al l a.dmiration , all
obe d i e nce • • • b ut h ow ma y one wors h i p a Law ? I t has
no . life within . itself save only as it is give~ ftirce
and power by it-s Creator !
yoµ speak or force ~ulescent and rorce 1n action.
Ye t ba c k of t ha t f or ce mus t b e t he mi ght y pow e r a nd
Will of the great Creator of All Force. Judging from
your iiny store of knowledge ~ you guage th is a~mighty
creator by the laws . in force upon the wee, little
planet called earth. How may you comprehend the mag-
ni t ude of universes which are billions of planets ll ke
the earth but of far greate r size and i mp ortance?
22
Do you think a speck of 11fe "v1s 1ble under a mi -
croscope in a drop of water can comprehend the worki ngs
of the minds wh ic h plan and construct the sh i ps which
PlY upon the surface of the ocean .ln which .lt lives?
Do not seek to stretch your mind to admit a pic-
ture of God! There ls no canvas ln the human brain
large enough to paint thereon a true conception of God
-
Almlghty!
for this reason He sent Ope to sh6w fortp His
chara~ter to the so~s of men, for He did not wlsh men
to bedgnorant of Him . 4nd me.n do well to worship
Him, for i n Him dwelJs ALL Power , ALL Wisdom , ALL Love!
Even from the beglnrtlng of the world He sent mes-
sengers to show mankind how they might live so as to
carry out the plan of this great Creator. Men · learned
of ·Hi s Power., His Mig ht , His Wisdom. Yet~ , they did
not c omprehend the Love of God and the Peace of God
wh ic h passe t b all unde rstanding! For this cause sent
He Jesus .into the world, t hat men migh t know and com-
prehend God 0 s Love to all creat ed beings •.
Many ~ecelv ed Jesus and His message with open
hear ts and, ftlt hou gb t he y were persecuted, burned at
the stakff , given to bea st s to de vour ••• yet th e ir
sp i rits triumphed ove r the flesh and they left thei r
earthly temples praisi ng God!
The gosp el of Christ spread to ev ery land, f or
there .l s a l l v l ng force within the Word of Truth which
causes .lt to l ive and grow. even amid th.e most adverse
of ~irc ums ta nces a nd condJt lons.
Upon all these hap pening s J~sus kept w~trib f r om
t he Wor•ld Inv!slb le., for He bad .been appointed Llgh t
Bearer to the wo r ld. And as o~ten as one strove to
follow . l n Hls footste ps and carry on His work in t he
wo rl d ~ to sudb a on e was given a Torch of Truth!
Wbether · he was - ordained of the c hur c h to preach t he
gospel or whether be was the lowliest ·beggar on t he
str eet , .lf bis soul cried out to t he Christ for Ligh t,
bts pr ayer was answered .i n such me as ure as h·e was c ap-
able of receivi ng.
To every soul thus ~ lllum l ned Jesus . makes Hims e lf
known ••• for the word He spoke to Hls disciples- was a
word of Truth, ft Lo , I am with you always., even unto
t he end of the world ! "
23
CHAf1'l'E -
R FIVE
THE END OF T"E CYCLE
All the world of Christian belief profess alleg-
iance to the tea c hings of Jesus. Why , then, do _
they
not accept this saying .in .!ts a1mpl1a1ty? Why seek
to disguise and cover up its plain, clear statement
of fact with specious words which Xake away the com-
fort of .its positive ass~ranoe •.
In what manner does it profit mankind to confuse
an intangible. , more or less .indefinable princi ple of
Mind creative with the warm, glowing , personal love of
a living Christ who mov~s among people as He did of
yore, save that His bo~y now pqssesses the power tO
move at will from one po1nt to anothe~ pO i nt thousands
Of miles distant .in the ,fra ctiQn of a second, HOW long
does it take you to rem6ve your mi nd from your sur -
roundings and fix .it upon some s cene .i n ~nother part
of the world? Just ·so · 1ong does it t~ke Jesus •to go
from you to -some soul .in heed .inafar . distant country.
' Men idly and lgnorarttlY suppose that to think · or
the Man of Galilee as an actual person who might ~p ea k
to them could they but tun~ their ears to the sound of
His b~love~ voice., would be to minimize His Po~er and
Gl_
ory1 .But you do not··know, neither does .lt enter. your
mind to . imagine~, the powe.rs ·that -lie dormant during
the : lifa , . to unfold anct ·expand with amaz ing te~u1ts
when the spirit ls free . to prOgre~s according to its
true character.
Men think it a marvel whe~ one can, through a ~are
ac.t of concentration, pe.rform thr:ee or four different
acts perfectly at the same time.. noes .it never occur
to them that with the phy~ical ; barriers ~emovect ' one
might l"l n time be abie ' to perte ctl y operate in many
dlf·ferent ways at the same m·oment? · If this ls beyo'n~t
your comprehension, then you are incapable of under ~
standihg the manner in which One who once c~unseled
twelve disciples and taught · them in simple speerlh the
truths revealed to Him, does in these latter days vis -
.1t His beloved foll·owers everywhere and give ' to them
His personal friendship and affection.
24
Are you foolishly appallid at this saying? Do you
think for one moment that Jesus h~s forsaken those
Pla ce d .in His care by His Heavenly Father? Do you
think He bas so far removed ·Himself from your mid st
that nothing re~alns save o~ly • a vagua, impersonal
memory or .influence left rrom His . life among mortals
or projected from some sublimated state of existence;
too far removed from humanity to be reached .in any
personal way?
What ls called the "Christ Spirit" does in truth
pervade the entire universe. So universal .ls His pres-
ence and power that no good thought enters the mind of
man save by His aid. He ls . as a Light that proceeds
from the very ~resen ce of God and His Holy Angels a nd
penetrates even to the darkened earthplane, that who-
ever will may make use of His purifying rays to il l u-
mine their minds with Truth Divine. ·
such was the Llgbt wherewith . the Master flooded Bis
being, .lnsomuc·h that those who beheld Him ln silent
communion with His H~avenly Father perceived this
tight even with their physical eyes.
But .this Light (although in its essence an emana-
tion from Dlety Himself) ls not .identical with Jesus~
who came to the world for the purpose of enlighten i ng
men ' s minds and purifying their souls by means of this
Light.
Allow your mind for a moment to picture the Mas t er
standing before ~ou with outstretched hands! If you
could so see ·Htm with your physical eyes, then would
you believe He still visits the earth ln person?
Y~t He has been seen by mortal eyes on more than
one occasion. Upon the battlefields of France H~
walked in sorrow for the pitiful waste of human l.tves
••• the terrible., ghastly carnage thro.ugh which men
fought, lowering themselves to the level of beasts to
c·hamplon some cause they felt was worthy of tibelr
sacrifice.
And when they saw Jesus walking there., they, too,
felt .lt to be a sorrowful thing they did. Y~t · they
c on t 1nue d, f or s o ,1t wa s 6rd a 1ne d b y th os e t o wh om
they had pledged their allegiance.
'25
At every recurring Easte rtide since first .He arose
from t he so ~ called ~ "dead" there have bee n t h ose who
have seen t he Mas ter . Yet they would not credit their
own senses bu t called it "a vision."
At this time there ls a mighty cha nge in progress!
In every ci ty and v i llage , in the wilderness and on
lonely prairies , on the desert and in every pla ce where
men make their abode, there comes a change!
All who have made a study of conditions throughout
t he world realize that this change l s taking pl~ ce but
many fall to understand .lts character and its ca use .
some say there .ls more of crime and corruption than ever
be fore in the h istory of t he world. Yet , i n the same
breath , we hear of such strides i n scientific d iscov-
eries as are absolute l y astound i ng. And, aga i n, there
a~e thousands upon thousands devot i ng muc h time to the
s t udy of the highe r l i nes of t hough t. Far more t han
have eve r befor e shown an in t eres t 1n suc h subjects.
can you not read the signs of t he ti mes?
All mankind ls be ~ om i n g ac ute ly co nscious of t he
Higher Force s operating for the up lif ting of t he race.
IT is not so mu c h a mat ter of belief or of o~tward
demons t r ations bu t .an INNER AWARENESS of approaching
c hanges which po rte nd victory to t hose who stand for
all progress and enligbt~nment: .aqd defeat to allwho
stand for the forces at work 1n t _
he world t o tea,r down, ·
to underm i ne, to eventually destroy t he foundation up-
on wh i .ch ever y. good government .is built ••• · J.ust ice~,
Freedom a nd Brotherly Love !
can you n ot see t hat th i s premon it ion of the ap-
proa c hing reversal or existing conditions tends to
dr ive to fra nt i c activity t he fa cti ons opposed to .its
advance? While to t hose who welcome every sign of
coming victory it opens up new· av,enues of thought and
endeavor? And this pr oduces a frictio n of ever grow-
ing sensitivity!
other elements also ente r i n to the -situation, for
a greater sensit ivi ty to the t hough t vibrations from
construc tive Forc es create a-similar sensitivity to the
opp6sing forces, thus subjecting the person of high
ideals to a double strain.
26
It is this tenseness, brought about by the close
proximity of mighty upheavals and readjustments . that
gives r.ise to unpre cedented restlessness and apprehen-
sion . without, apparently, sufficient cause.
What may be termed the crux of the whole matter
lies in the little considered fact that one of those
inevitable Cycles, which are as f lxed and unchangecible
as the firmament abov~. has run 1ts course.
None may stay the slow, sure progress of the Law
which rules the Universe.
As God plans so do events transpire!
27
CH~PTER SIX
THE FULFILLMENT OF PROPHECY
In due course One was sent .into the world to ffn-
lighten mankind according to prophecy. Upon His de-
parture there wa? a definite promise given of His re-
turn. Evade it as men may, God 1 s word was given! At
the "appointed time" according to the Scriptures., Jesus
would return in power and glory!
Often men have sought to set the day and hour of
His appearing. Many false prophets havearisen to con-
found people. Yet, through all, God 1 s plan has never
changed.
When the Cycle is completed and the time ls ripe,
then shall the Scriptures be fulfilled . Many will see
Him with the eye of faith before ·He is visible to all.
unto many He will give glimpses of the beauty and joy
of His coming Kingdom. Also, many will receive gifts
which shall prove their . right to reign with Jesus when
He shall establish · His Kingdom of. Love.
oh, that all might believe .in Him, our Lord and
Master! That they might put aside their anxious fore ~
bodlngs and trust the wisdom of His guiding hand!
None may be brought . by force to serve Him but to
all who willingly ally themselves with His gre~t move -
ment for "Peace on earth, .Good .will to men" ••• unto
all these will He give His personal blessing. To th~m
He .Wlll appoint cer.tain of His .Messenge:rs from His :In-
visible Throne of power and Glory that they may have
more than human wisdom and strength to· carry on His
work.
Give yourself unreservedly tQ the upbuilding of
this Kingdom of Love!
What shall it profit you if you serve the powers
of narkness and nestruction? But, as you .steadfastly
follow · the simple teachings of the Master, how great
shall be your gain! on the one side lies destruction,
disappointment, _despair., utter defeat ••• on the other
side the certainty of participation in the countless
advantages of a reign of peace_, Harmony, Happiness and
prosperity! How can any sane person hesitate in their
choice?
•
28
BUt the choice must b-e clear-cut and final. NO
dilly- dallying about, first serving one side, then the
either.
Why ca n .you not accept the word of prophecy and
prepare fo r .!ts fulfillment? Are you fearful lest
some ~hould ridicule you, speaking slightingly of your
Jud~ment and pity i ng your weakness of intellect? As . a
matter of fact.• they themselves are .in sore need of
compassion, for they fail to use their powers of rea-
soning to acquaint themselves with the true and lo gi-
cal explanation of the many puzzling aspects of the
world as .it stands today.
What the Word of God re counts in the Book of I,leve-
latlon .is comi ng to pass .in this present generation.
All of the prophecie& lead i ng up to that Divine Reve-
lation. are fulf i lled • .If you doubt, study the Scrip-
tures and see .if .it ls not so.
Even now upon the plane closest to the earth the
battle rages ••• the battle of Armageddon. Drawn up.
in warll.ke ar ra y are the Forces for Destruction! All
who hate Tr u t h , Justice and Love are working with
t h e s e f or c e s~ , b e t he y c 1 ot he d i n mor t a 1 f 1e s h or
d we 11 e r s i n Re a 1ms I nv i s.1b 1e •
All who love their fellowmen and desire to deal
justly with them .in a ll wayK, are alLled wi th the
Forces of Light and ever lend their effort to Cons tr uc -
tive Effort. Scatcely were it possible for one to re -
main neutral, for ..lf a man be not staunchly in favor
of enlightenme.nt and progress for all men, then the ·For-
ces of Destruction send wily oties to tempt and devise
ways by which he may be swerved aside into bypaths of
dece i t and selfishness. There he .ls an easy prey for
the greater ones among the Destructive Forces to b~
guile him .into doing deeds of flagrant injustice, de-
frauding those who trust him and betraying the Innocent .
Men fear a law whic h has power to put such men be-
h lnd prison bars. They fear and seek to juggle with
words and spe ~ lous arguments to evade its justice,
Do they not know the rea.l punishment for their trans-
gressions has already been meted out to them? For how
may such a man be pattaker .in such honors as await
those who show .courage and fortitude, standing firmly
for their trye convictions and preserving .the integ-
rity of their c haracters?
•
·29
CHAPTJ.";R SEVEN
EXRHRtENCE MAN ' S TEACHER
What makes a man :),. eave the pa th wpere he wol).ld find
peace and c ontent rnent oT mind? •In every sphere of life
there appears the same -tendency to follow paths which
lead to countless tr. i als · and tr. _
ibulations.
_As man enters the world upon his quest for exper.i -
enca, there is only one method by which he may acquire
the knowledge for which he seeks. If he did not need
the wisdom that comes only through personal experl -
e. nce~; - he would not be here on earth at all! ' In other
worlds where peace prevails there . ls a far greater op-
portunity for happiness.
But how may . one who has neier tasted sorrow know
the true meaning of . joy? How may one who __has never
greatly desired some ~ertaln _ thlng and bent every ef -
fort to obtain it know the pride of possession? or
how may one who has _
never g1vsn up his own pleasure
that . another may taste happlneBs, how may he even im-
age the satisfa.ct.1on t.o be _
f.ound !n loving service for
others?
what man. le.arns . throl!gh bis mistakes., his bitter
remorse, his iritense ~eslre to atone, his determlna -
tlo.n to conquer himself and .all .a<J,verse cir c umstances ,
~repares him for entrance lnto a state ot being which
.is absolutely incomprehensible to o.ne wbo lacks this
experience.
All nature makes use Of this same .law .or develop -
ment. Each smallest flower or .stalwart tree . must fight
.its way upward •to the Llgh.t, making u.se _ of the very
earth which buries the tlny seed from the ai~ and sun-
sh i ne:, to feed and nourish .its asp i ring llfe ..:. prlnc i ple
as it fights -
_
_
its way upward to the beaut_
i ful real lza-
t.1 on or .1 ts 1ns t i_
nc t i.ve know.l edg.e of -. 1 ts own -
.l_
nna te
pow.er t.o thus express itself. 1
were a fl.ower seed - (before lt goes _
. through th ls
experience of se-ruggle and development) to be placeQ.
.ln your home. who would give .lt .a glance? But after
tbe trials an.d triumphs of its brief earth - life are
successful.lY- ac.complished there appear blossoms ·or ex-
q1'1is1te perfectlontodelight the eyes of ail bet.alders!
30
The plant doesn 't know why lt .ls dug about, trans-
planted, pruned and tended ••• but the gardener k~ows!
Do not ask that each desire be gratlf led, each bud
allowed to mature ! The ' Master Gardener knows well your
latent poss1b111t1es and though He may, with seeming
cruelty, nip this little branch that reaches out f or
expression or curb that shoot which tends to grow
crooke dly and even pluck the tender bud that gives
such promise of beauty., lt .l s thus He brings tl!-e plant
at last to the full glory o.f .Its being. Luxuriously
lt then blooms and of surpassing beauty and fragrance
are the blossoms which .It bears.
so does our Heavenly Father send teachers and
guardians to tend and zealously train the lives which
are placed .ln the dark and obscuring soil of earthly
c onditions . In t he sun of LlfS ' s brightest pleasures
or t he shade of L1fe 0 s darkest sorrows, ever the. Mas-
ter · Gardener strives to give each plant that which· will
b ring .lt to fullest perf ec.tion. Could you see the
rare beauty of the souls which often come from condi-
tions of welnigh ·unbearable earthly stress and dlsa~­
polntment , as they emerge from the rough and battered
remnants 6t their earthly bod ie s, then would you pray
for any te~tlng , any hardship which would so glorify
your spirit!
By various parables and allegories ·Jesus sou~ht to
teach this lesson to Hts . foll owers. All .through the
Bible stories there ls woven a thread of golden faith
and hope and promise of a fruition of all man 's earth-
ly endeavor .In a more exalted life to come.
Yet, . this .ls true! Man .ls ever prone to experi-
ment and dlscove~ for himself the truth of such teach-
ings as are set before him. Being told that fire
burns, he must needs blister his own finger to ha ve
actual knowledge and decide for himself that lt is not
desirable , to contact this destructive element.
Yet one thing . ls not possible for mortals to know
save as .It .ls told them by those who have actually gone
through the experience. What .happens when man vanish-
es from their sight, . leaving behind him only the ou t er
husk of himself as they have known him?
31
To His disciples Je'sus :told the story of the rich
man whb .was in torment whi~e the beggar he had loa t hed
was carried to !3- heavenly place of rest. The ·r i ch man
begged for ~elief from his torment of mind. BUt the
beggar was not allowed to offer him the comfort of one
fa l se excuse for his conduct. Only througn a full re -
alization of his own failure and a complete upheaval
of bis own complacent selfishness could he be brought
to a point where .he would wish to bridge the gulf Whic h
always has ·and always will exist between the selfish
soul seeking only h1s own pleasure and the unselfish
one who would descend .l ntu hell .itself to help a suf -
fering brother!
Through a long earthllfe of callous lnd1f ferenc e
to the needs of his fellowmen th ls rich ,man •had dug
the deep abyss which separated him from those who had
attained a true understanding of Life and .its purpose •
.As he reachetl the place where he might view his
life .in retrospect and see clearly his disastrous mis -
takes, there came . a hideous sense of hi.s loss and _
he
cried out for the joy _
whlch might have been h1s! BUt
the Law ls fixed and unchangeable. · "What a ~an s O
weth
that shall he also reap." The beggar might not r each
out his hand and help . him qu i ckly over the c•asm which
yawned between themw
·No, this rich man must go down into ·the valley or-'
Humiliation and there learn of his own folly and there
find strength and courage to climb to _the heights
where be now sees lies his only hope ••• the -only goal
worth strlvln~. for •
.-
32
CHAPTER BI(;HT
" AT EVENt ·I DE THERE SHAl l BE LI Gff T! "
What a beautiful promise to .assuage the fears of
trembling mortals who face eternity m~oh as a child
faces the prospect of being put to sleep .in the dark,
begging for just a tiny light to be left bur~ing to
banish the weird shapes conju~ed up by his imagination.
Why do you doubt the loving thoughtf~lness of your
Master who suffered t hat cruel . death upon the cross
that all ' the world mig ht know th~ truth of man is i m-
mor tal1 t y ?
Why do you doubt that Love and Life and Service
cont.1nue; · yes., .and are ,amplified an hundred-fold when
man shakes off the outgrown garment of flesh and__ rises
to his new estate of glor~ous freedom?
Your Mas ter ca.me into the world to light your Pa t h,
not only through earth 0 s dev i ous. , winding ways but on
.into the l ~nd whic h t o yocr earth-blinded eyes appe a rs
to be shrouded in darkness.
Only for a l ittle time does the Death Angel close
your eyes in sleep. Only for a brief rest from your
eart hly car es and sorrows., until your soul ls re-
freshed and your spirit galns strength and vigor. When
you are ready to awaken, behold, t here are shin i ng
Angels of Light to conduct you to your Heavenly .Home
or Love and Peace and J oy Unspeakable!
When your soul takes flight from earth, there a re
angels to carry t he newb orn spirit to blessedcbambe rs
of repose where all the earth fog . is brushed away.
Mu ch of earthly remembrance ls ma de to appear more
like a dream than a reality and only the good, t he
beautiful , the loving thoughts and deeds of your friends
seem worth recalling. The memory of your own physica l
suffering fades away and you are transformed .into a
be i ng of more beauty of thought and deed, .if such be
your desire.
33
Why will ybu persist .in g~ieving for your loved
one& , as though some ·dreadful .ill had befallen them
when they come to this beautiful time of transition
and their mortal eyes are closed .to all earth 1 s troub -
les and discord&, so their spirit eyes may ·be opened
to behold beauties undreamed of by mortal mind! no
you think they wi ll be so entranced with their heaveri-
1 y s u r r ou nd i n gs a nd f r i e nd s · t ha t t he y wi 11 f or ge.t
those dear to them by every human tie?
would you begrudge them the joy of their newly
awakened spirit senses? weep .not but rather rejoice !
Did not your Master so depart and d i d He not return to
those who mourned and c omfort them? w~~e they not ~1 -
lowed to look upon His glorified body a'nd listen agairi
to His beloved voice?
why did He do this except to p~ove _
to the world
:the. glorious t~uth that Love lives on and , growing
stronger as eavthly fetters are cast asida , brings
each spirit hack to bless and cojllfort thQse who _
a,re
sorrow-stricken at their loss!
True., your Master spoke in sorrow o,r the fa~t t_
hat
no.ne believed at that time .1n this retuFn of the spir ~
.it to those still struggling in the semi - darkness of
earth conditions. sadly, He related in the JafB.ble
"how the begga~was denied the ~rivilege of retur~ ~ ng
to warn others of the terrible torment of remor.s.e
which .burned in the mind of the rich man who had lived
for himself •alone., for "neither would they be persuaded
though one rose from the dead." .In their pitiful 1g-
:r;iorance. at that - time the people held to the belief
tnat only evil sp i rits were ever allowed · to ·return to
earth. And by this belief they opened the doors ·or
thei~ minds to such spirits as came to th&m with evil
intent but, . through their fear an~ superstition barred
the way for the h1gher spirits to come -near them.
Now, Jesu& knowing these thJngs taught His discl -
p le a, saying posi tive ly that He would rise from .the
dead and would return and make Himself via i ble to
their mortal eyes. They could scarcely be1ieve ~ Hls
words.! yet three of the disciples d i d be 11eve because
they had beheld Moses and Elias when they appeared to
.Jesus and talked wi th .Him upon the mount.
34
And this was part of Jesus 1 mi ssion to earth •••
that He might demons trat e for all time this gre~t
t ruth • • • t ha t the s p i r. i t .i s .i mmort a 1!
You ca nnot fail to n ote that Jesus, whose mission
was to the whole world , came first to those ~hose lov -
i ng ·hearts were most sorrowful at His departure. And
did ·He not say to ·His disci ples. , "The things that .I do
shall ye do also and greater things shall ye do, .be -
ca us e .I go unto My Father?" So , surely, we may bel ieve
' that ha vi ng le~rned during your earthlife to love and
serve certain ones entrusted to your care, your spirit
may return and cont i nue this loving service .if you so
desire.
You judge that Jesus had power transcending the
pow er of t h bse to whom ·He spoke and you judge truly!
But you do not perce.ive .it to be the same power ••• on-
ly the Maste r had developed and used His power t o a
f~r gr~ater degree. Every powe r your Master possessed,
you also -posses s only in a lesser degree. It is th e
birt hright of every soul that clothes itself ln mortal
flesh . sa ~ i f Jesus re tur ned to comfort and bless His
disciples and assure them of the glories which awaited
them at the end of thelr eart hly pilgrimage, so maY
Yol.lr loved ones, 1f they be so minded, return to' bl ess
and c omfort you i n y our sore di st res s. And often,
though you are not awar~ of their presence, they sur-
round you with help ful t h oughts and .i nfl uences opening
you r mi nd to see a nd realize God ' s purpose in your
llfe. Gladl y would they speak to you words of tender-
est sympathy and co unsel but the·y lack the physical
means whereby they mlght accompl is h thls. Some find
means to attract the s pirit eyes of their friends as
they are about to awaken from slumber. The one who
sees them calls it a dre am or vision. But often it ls
a true ·visitation and many have found .it a ·very beau-
tiful and comforting experience.
Rough , igrtorant, uncouth spirits often attempt to
force the ir company upon those who least desire to see
them. Th 1s .is the ir nature. A thief does not knock
at your door and wa1t for an .1nv1tat1on to enter but
seeks to come .in without your knowledge. So, it ls
35
well to guard carefully the door between yourself and
the World Invisible. .As .1t .is in the earth l lfe so .1t
.ls in the sp.irlt worlQ.. Nbt all who .seek your friend-
ship are fitting and -helpful asso c iates for you. And
this .ls why the scriptures warn you, saying, "Trust
not every spirit but try the spirits whether thej be
of God~"
As you wou,ld turn from one ,1n earth life ·who sought
to . lead you , 1nto evil thoughts or deeds , so refuse to
have anything to do with any spirit w~o counsels you
against your ·better judgment . None may coerce you!
You are your own .master! .It . ls yours ever .to choose
and no evil force may .dom i nate your will! Should any
seek to Influence and c ontrol you to your detriment., go
.Into a quiet place alone and there send up a prayer to
your Heavenly Father for nrote c t 1on• .J.us t so surely
as you ask 1n fa i th and s 1nqerity , just so sµr·e1y will
the Angels of Prote ction surround Y.OU and you shall be
sa re from all ' h:a-
rm;
Are you a.·· prey to doubt and fear and does hatr.ed
possess your soul? These are the wet;.pons of -D
,estnuc ·-
tlve Furces which they seek to ins ti ll i nto your n l nd.
Refuse to harbor such destructive thoughts ! Let cour -
age:, Faith and Lov e be your defense against ··B.:'1 l ·SUCh
invaders. _ And God ' s Holy I?eace sha .11 oversha;Q.o,w you
so that no harm sh~ll co~e n i gh you ! .:~:
To all who ~elleve ' that the Mas t er still lives and
loves and serves humanity, ther e sha11 ·come at a time
n-0t far distan~. the suri evidence tha t their faith .ls
not .1n vain. Accept His own word of promise given Hls
disciples when ·He sa i d to them, "Lo, .I am with you al -
;ways., even unto .the end of ·the world." Has the world
y~t come to an end? Yet you doubt His living ~resence
among the sons of men!
Pray the pra~er He taught His disciples of old •
"Our . Father who art .in heaven
Hall owed i s thy name!
Thy Kingdom come, Thy will be done
On earth as .1t is .1n heaven!"
36
.As you pray , turn your eyes heavenward and, lf
your spln1t eyes have re ce.lved the.lr quickening, lo,
yuu shall behold the heavenly hosts from far d i stant
Realms of Light approa ching closer and ever c loser to
the earth.
As they advance , the Powers of Darkness r~double
their efforts to keep their hold on human affairs wh i ch
has ;been .ga.lned. through the treachery of those who
serve them here. Yet., · ln spite of all the . terr.if.le
onslaught of their most fiendish leaders~ in spite of
the disasters and suffering brought a bout by their
devilish plotting , eve r nearer and nearer come the re-
sist l ess Forces of Li ght and Love and Li berty!
Can you not hear the measured tread of their fo 6t-
steps as they advance?
Can you not hear t he clarion call of the Heralds
of the King?
Can you not see the shining of their armor?
Can you not feel the thrill of · trlumph as you v i-
sion their victory over every evil force that now
works havoc upon earth?
Rejoice with exceeding great joy for One comes to
heal the broken ·hearts., to put an end to strife., to
b P. lng Peace unto the earth!
Watch and pray for the hour of His coming none
knoweth !
37
CHAPTER NINE
. A NATfON 1
S NEED
When man first .lnhabtted the earth and found h i m-
self surrounded by wild beasts who sought to devour
h1m, there was .but one course possible. The very ex-
·lstence of himself and his family depended upon match-
ing his wits against those of the animals prowling
about .his home, taking their lives before they took
his.
At this time man 1 s mental equipment was not fully
developed. His weapons ~ere c~ude and much of bis
supremacy over · hls enemle~ of the forest lay .i n the
exercise of plain , brute strength.
A11 :he greatly .desired was food to keep his body
from feeling th~ pangs of hunger., a covering of skins
to protect him from the cold and some manne r of rude
shelter from the storms.
He found pleasure .in ·the exercise o{ his animal
senses. The beauties . of Nature stirred :i n h i m feel i ngs
or rapture he strove to. express by weird dances and
the playing of wind , 1nst1~ umen ts he fashioned · from ma-
ter.lals··at hand. Hi s ml.rad responded to t he . prim! tlve
needs of his nature and mode of living by .devising
certain heavy. a·nd clumsy vesse.ls to contal:Q his tood
or. crude and cumbersome :boats to float upon · the ·11ate r.
As his mind dev~lo~ed f ur ther., h i s bodily n~eds
multJ]>lled with. his expa.nding .intellect and he bega n
to desire more beauty .in bis surroundings. Slowly •but
sur~)Y the process of mental development continued . A
,. ·..
certa1·n groping of his spir i t fou.r:id expres.s.!on .in
strange and often grotesque man ifestati ons .
He sought . t .o satisfy his slowly awakening sp1r.1t
senses by . offer~ng what to him represented the most
des.1rable gift his mind could picture . ••• a sla.in
beast. He offered .ft. to some Power mysterious and
awe~insplning which he fancied ewelt ~ id · t ne - sub ~ ot
moon, or .in the rivers or the forests about him~
38
Seeking to appease and find favor .in the sight of
these imaginary deities , many acts of hideous crue l ty
were practiced. Also s t range monsters were car v ed
from wood and stone to represent mart •s own d i stor t ed
conception of the ruling forces of his world.
Slowly but surely, as century upon century passed,
there came about a change .in every aspect of mart is life
and environment. Gradually the purely phys.ic a l s i de
of his nature succumbed to the influence of his awak-
ening .intellect. In like manner his ml,nd became sub -
servient to his evolving soul as expressed through his
spirit senses.
What God .intended man to de~elop through his own
efforts prompted by those inner impulses implanted
deep within his soul at the time of his creation, has
now been brough t to fruit i on. Man J as he stands today,
bas reached a state of efficiency which should enable
him to wisely d i rect the af falrs of the world ln wh i ch
he llves·.
All of the mechanical devices which have taken the
pla ce of tedious and laborious processes of bygone
days should .give man time to devote to his mental and
spir i tual . capacity. for . study and advancement. Be l ng
freed from slavery to purely physical needs (wh i ch
held the primitive man back from the . exercise of hls
mental powers ) behold the infinite posslbllltles for
a c quiring knowledge!
Having within your reach a vast accumulation of
wisdom gleaned from the 11fetlme studies of countless
.i ntellectual giants who delved deep into the mysteR1es ·
of thf3 world abo.ut them and ·left the outcome of their
research to benefit their successors, what excuse ls
there for ignorance concerning matters vltal · to man ' s
progress?
What possib l e excuse may man offer .for the present
turbulent conditions of the world :at large? Can·he ·
plead ignorance ? Can he offer lnexperlence as hls ex-
planation of bis failure to properly plan and control
the world's .industries? Is this why a few enjoy dis-
astrous luxury while countless thousands suffer want
and privation? . something ls surely lacking or such
stupid 1nequal1t1es would be Impossible!
99
What .ls the source of the grievous unbalance ~hlch
turns man :s boasted pride of intellectual advancement
Into a hollow mockery? Of what use are the br~lns
which devise new ways to lighten man Q
s labor ~nd add
to his pleasur~ .if no one gives a thought to d1strlbu-
t1ng such blessings with wisdom and equity?
In days gone by men were drawn . together by adver-
sity. Thei r meager stores of food and clothing were
shared wlth those who lacked. Sturdily they faced
danger and pr ivation that the land they had chosen for
the.Ir home might become a ,goodly place where their
children and their ch1ldrert ~ s children might live to-
gether in peace and safety.
Behold, the change which has been wrought!
Forests chan ged Into cities! A w1lderness changed
to fruitful fields! · Rivers c hained to ma c hlnery that
all may enjoy l ight. Swift cars gliding from place to
place ! Men c ommun1cat1n g with men across a great con-
tinent! And many other wonders!
What strange perversity ~assesses ~ank1nd that the
brains wh ich have conc e ived suc·h splendors of achieve ~
ment · remain dumbly .inactive when the resuits of c,entur-
1es of tlr~less effor t are jeopardized b~ a falBe frild
faulty system of d1str 1but1on ?
Surely, man has passed the pr 1m1t1ve ~ stage of his
development. when he grappled with naked hands to wrest
a liv ing from all who opposed h im! Where ls our vaunt -
ed wisd,om, our cherished vision of a count.ry of free -
dom and happiness? How sha),l we answer to thos.e. who
left us the unf inished product of their courage and
sacrifice?
Make all ,haste to put your brains to work to evolve
some solution of the problem which now confronts your
country. You are better equipped to grapple wlth this
problem th~n the man of pre.h is tori c ages to co nquer
the physical dif~icultles which threatened hls extinc-
tion. Have we forfeited the qualities our pr i mi tive
forebears pos~essed ••• courage, strength of will and
the .fighting .instinct of se lf preservation? Yet must
you fight with the weapons suited to the age .l n which
you live and the problem which demands solving. Apply
your bra i ns to the d i lemma and see .if you cannot e~olve
,40
a solution to the dangerous situationo Awake to the
menace or a justly .incensed populace who demand pro-
tection by the government from a condition which has
come about through no fault of thelr owno Any tempo-
rary alleviation of the suffering caused by this con-
dition will but delay .the final fa cing and settling of
the question by sane and just methodso
Arise .in your might, you who have power and a u -
thority., and deal ~ntelligently with this urgent need
for readjustment of economic measures to protect a nd
provide ·adequate support to those who wil.l otherw i se
perish through your criminal neglect! Your ·God shall
not hold you guiltless .if you do not meet and wisely
control this situation!
All may assist and .it is their duty to do so •••
but to the leaders .in civic affairs belongs the duty
of devising and presenting to the people a defin i te
and practical plan to overcome the present diffucult
and disastrous predicamento
As you plan wisely and speedily put your plans l n-
t o action, so shall your c ountry be saved from a tra g-
.ic end to .!ts .glory and pre - eminence among the na-
t Ions of the earth!
~.
41
CHAPTER TEN
WHAT IS GOD ' S KINGDOM?
Are those who give the!~ best thought to the con-
s1derat1on of questions of moral conduct too much en-
grossed .1n their excellent homil i es · to cast a practiced
eye over the serious aspect of ceftain faf reaching
results of the present mode of living?
True, a great deal of thought ls given to physical
fitness, and many beautiful instances of liberal gen-
erosity stand out as shining examples of right think-
ing along construpt1ve lines. But there .i s a grievous
lack of really unified effort to lift the masses to a
higher level of conduct.
· All the rigorous training of children in the more
serious, vital aspects of their dally lives has very
largely given way to a-· careless 1nd1fference or an
honest endeavor to develop their 1nd1v1dual gifts to
~he exclusion Of their equally Important duty to the
community in which they live.
SUCCESS ••w has come to mean ..1n popular parlance,
not so mu~h a splendid, well-rounded existence bene -
ficial to on~ ' s self and helpful to all who come under
its .Influence, as a spectacular rise toso a 1al or po-
litical prominence standing upon an insecure founda-
tion built on a money basis. Even this monetary foun-
dation .ls apt to be, not a broad, constructive aff~1r
which- would justify Its rather exaggerated .Importance
but a . purely personal and selfish proposition.
Owing to the emphasis laid upon the acquls1t1on of
wealth and the slighting minner In which a man., ls re -
garded who has put some IDEAL of .benefit to hijman1ty
.in place of the preva1~nt money standard, young people
early learn to put aside all .Idea of trying to live
helpful lives 1n order to gain what .ls called · ~··
SUCCESS!
After they have gained this goal they may plan to
perpetuate their name and build a lasting monument to
their achievements by endowing a college, building a
museum, or a hospital. Whatever It .ls, .It must be big
and showy and there mu.st be a great deal of publlclty!
. 42
such .is Youth's dr~am of achievement ! A dream f a r
superior to the utter waste of time and opportunity i n
which many spend the precious hours of their carefree
years.
The egotism of Youth paints a future in glowing
colori , whet~e r he be mise r or spendthrift with h i s
glorious heritage of health, strength and overflowi ng
vitality. No fault may be found with Yout.h ' s tendenc y
to underestimate the difficulties of the road ahea d r
What would be the gain could he see all at once the
obstacles . wh i ch must 1be met and conq~ered one by one!
But ·th ts .ls true ! The Youth of today lives f a r
too selfishly to attain what the .greatest men of all
ages b~ve counted true succesG. A giving of the i r
livea i their brains, their talents to the world a t
large ! All too ·little ls sa i d about such noble am-
bltions as ac t uated our blessed Master1
not sent as an example to the world?
Yet, was He
;· Had ·He put ·-His power to work to earn what is popu-
lar l j known as ~sriccess " t oda y, do you think His Name
would now be spoken wherever the Christian religion l s
known?-
Perhaps , t he youth has a talent for writing, or t he
c areer of a phys1c1an appe a ls to him o~ , perha~s, _
a
bus i ness life .se e ms to him most advantageous. Every-
one approves his choice. Why? -Because thus may he
be ~ t serve human i ty? Oh, n o! They pat him on the
bac k, saying, 11 Splend1d! In a few years you will ha ve
ple nty of money and c an e njoy every luxury the earth
affords i"-
Some men ate strong enough t o withstand -
this migh-
ty cur rent of pub J_ ic opini on and _hew _out for themselves
a ~est i ny all must pause to adm i re ! But they are few,
and many are those who will .make any sactifice of pe r -
sonal .ideals and stifle forever that .Inner Voice whi c h
counsels wisdom , that they may satisfy the demands of
their - family and fr 1.ends for a ,success which may be
measured ,1n terms of material possessions.
You think this .ls a trifling and excusable error
of judgment ! The oretically, you admit the .beauty of a
life devoted to phllan.thropic i:;chemes but, eve-
.r1 as you
adm1t~-: <1<i:.i.; · ;y~o'tL •SimtJl e complacently over ·the wealth you
have accumulated and the luxuries you enjoy!
r
'
..
43
What would be your consternation were the Christ
to stand before you in fleshly form and ask you the
question . "Of what benefit have you been to the world
and why have you so wasted your life?" . Where would be
your smug assurance and self-satisfaction?
Deep down .in every human heart lies the knowledge
of the debt he owes · the world in which he lives. Left
to his own instinctive promptings from within, much of
beauty might be evolved from even the humblest and
least learned of beginnings. ~ut at the very outset
this tendency ls frowned u~on and such ideals as might
be termed ~urely possess ive are held up for admi~atlon
and emulation. True~ . the idea of giving may b.e pre -
sented as a sort of religious act or averflow of gen-
erosity ••• But the .idea of 11 getting11 .ls ground ~nto
the very core of his be.1n_
g. All praise., all . honor
comes to him who 11 gets ! 11 This is the ~reed of many in
the world today. Offer any other reason for existence
and you meet the inevitable response. "But you MUST
have money!" And there appears to be so much truth .in
this assertion that .it usually sllerices all argument.
But what think you the Master meant when He said,
"seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteous -
ness and a11 ·these things shall ~e added untQ thee?"
In what way do you evade these words? Did . He . ~tter
them thoughtlessly, not knowing where.of He sPa~e?
Na, He did not speak heedles_
sly, nor d..id He speak
lying words but words too dee.P t6 be cmnprehended by
those who rush to c onclusions.
As the . Ona who spok~ them looked into the min~s of
His. listeners, ·He saw there much the same .ideas that
exist today. To them ~ven ' more than to the ~orld to-
day, · one ~ s earthly .possession.s were - the sum total of
his wealth. -His thoughts could not be transmuted .into
gold. 'His ideals made no one wealthier. · His beliefs
could Only apply to an unreal world of unsubstantial
conjecture and had no ·bearing on common, everyday af-
fairs. Such was the common attitude of mind at that
time
44
Few had ever beard of the power of mind over cir -
cumstances and · condltlons. No one had ever probed deep
enough .into tbe hidden forces of the universe to dis -
c over that there exists a magnetic attraction whi c h
draws to one · that which they make the object of the i r
concentrated desire.
A motion as of tbe ebb and flow of tbe tide ~om ­
mences when man turns from the outer surface of Llfe i s
boundless oc ean of ~osm1c Forces and attunes hls own
purpose to that of tbe P~wer which coqtrols ' th~se
currents.
All the glitter i ng , su~erflclal banalltle~ of a
purely materlal ·life ars submergeq ln the overwhelming
·tidal wave of understanding which sweeps over the . hu-
man soul when .i t catches .lts first real glimpse of
its own purpose and .lts own power !
~s the Kingd om of God .ls reaveled to ihe astounded
gaze of one whose hor iz on has heretofore .been bounded
'by h1s own selfish .interests and desires, there takes
place a · com~lete rev-0lutlon .ln all ' hls ilews of Llfe~
meaning and hls own responslblllty to himself and h i s
fellows·.
To seek this true vision of Life .ln .lts relation
to your pwn actlvitles .ls your dut y above all other
.cons·lderatlons. :In all fairness t .o your own self, .ap-
PlY yourseif to this vital subject!
You l i ve .ln a world · ~hidh God created. Even the
most thoughtless and llloglcal person will admit that
a great Crea~ive Mind must have planned the worlds
· ~h1ch ~lrcle about us .in space and ~ove .ln their pre-
scribed orbits by. reas_
on of some Law bey0nd human con-
trol~ This .ls Godis kingdom •• ~ the underlying Prin-
e lples wblch govern all ere a ted tb lngs ! Do you tb lnk
yourself separa t e from such creation or superior to
the iaws ·whlch govern lt?
Thea , .lf such laws exist, ..if they are of such pow-
er as to hold a universe ln orderly procession as you
observa, would .lt not be adt~titageous to you to a c-
quaint iourself with tbls "Kingdom of God" and seek to
understand a few of the mighty and re~istless forces
45
which operate with relentless precision upon your small
planet as upon countless others vis i ble to you?
Of what avai l .is your puny strength when pitted
against such power .1n ac tio n~ As well try to stem a
flood with some ,tiny trinket as to attempt to stop the
action of one of God ' s im~utable Laws by some action
of your own!
Yet, when you study and understand these Laws and
so .conduct your life as. to work .in harmony with them,
what magnificent power of a.chievement .is yours! Out
of the clear sky above yau shall come opportunitles
for real, worthwhile endeavor undreamed- of heretofore.
Without · any previous .intimation of such a possibility
doors shall open to you whlch will lead to unexpected
honor and preferment .
Work WiTH the great Constructive Forces of God 1 s
marvelous Kingdom of Life:, . Service and Progre~rn and
such trifling success as may be measured .in gold ~rtd
s.ilver will be but childish nonsense .in the J,~ght of
your glorious and .immortal triumph over all which ob -
structs your way.
You need the blessings -of ~aterial necessities and
comforts? Yes., of course:~ Nor shall :they be denied
you. BUt gladly would ybu forego a~l but the barest
necessities of life to taste the exultation that comes
to one who has throuih compliance with God ~ s wonder-
working laws freed himself from all ,fear of failure
and proved -to his perfect satisfaction the fact " that
it is a glorious adventu~e to "seek first the Kingdom
of God! 11
46
CRAFTER EUEVE~
THE ONLY TRUE FOUNDA180N
All the theories .in the world . are of no avail
without a living purpose back of them to lend th.em a c -
tion. Of wh~t use .ls ihe most exp~nslve and compli ca-
ted car ·wlth every modern luxury and beauty of des i gn
if you lack the power that propels lt? Men would only
be amused ·by · lts 1nab111ty to perfor!l) .its alloted
task and .its pretentious claims · to attention and ad-
miration would o~lY kipdle thel~ mirth afresh.
Then , why l isten to the specious Bophistrles of
would ~ be teachers who speak empty words and phrases
and seek to fix your attention on your own self -a g-
grandizement? Do t~ls and you shall have wealth! Do
t hat and your friends shall mult i ply and great shall
be your wor ldly advantage . :rn these ways do some of
them begui le you i nto seeming c ompliance ~1th the de-
mands of your Creator. Wouid you then make a truce
Wl t h ·POwers Di~ine?
Beware .how you off.er shamming counterfe.lts to one
who sees . your . hea~t even as you see your own face In a
mirr or ! .A shallow subterfuge shall l'lroflt you nothing .
Rather it shal l be t .o you a peril and a menace:, f or
how may · falsehood be come united with Truth< ••.• or h ow.
may one who seeks selfish · gain hope to make use Of Laws
nlanned f-Or ~niversal ennoblement and unselfish a d-
vanceBent? By such an act you .but endanger yourself
and all you hold dear. Refrain from such hypoc.r,isy!
De·lve deep · into the true character and absolut e ly
infallible action of the Power you seek to utilize or
have nothing to do with it! It is quite ~osslble f or
yo~ to achieve a true undetst~nding of the teal sig- t
nificance of any of God 1 s Laws affecting your life on
earth.
"Whether, therefore., you eat or drink or whatsoever
you da, do all to the glory of God! 11 Do you think
yotir Creator takes .pride ln your dally . doings lf you
selfishly ignore your neighbor's need and flaunt your
more gaudy and costly possessions before his envious
eyes? What do you think of one who has no pleasure in
..
47
what they possess until they have d is played .lt to an-
other to arouse t heir jeaious envy? If you doubt this
ls donff, loo k about you ! Even l n the ma tt er of so
sacred possess ion as wife and c hild , there are men who
appra ise them, not for beauty of soul or loyalty of
heart , but trick them out with expensive apparel and
costly adornments so they may outshine their less
wealthy acquaintances and tickle the vanity of the one
who provided them with these foolish fripperies.
Reai beauty of raiment ls a gladsome thing and
makes for harmony of mind and spirit. We .are not
speaking of su ch ·wlse expe~d i ture bu t of that bought
for vain d i splay and to create envy and discontent and
foster feelings of hatred rat her than happiness! It
ls not a d iffic ult ·task to d iscer n lt he true from the
false. , to winnow the worthwhile things from thos·e
whi ch breed all manner of trouble some complications.
Men are governed altogether too much by the thoughts
and opinions of others. ~et your own judgment decide
your course . Wha t does .lt matter to you .lf another
makes a jest at your ex pense , when you know the way
you choose .ls .ln acb ord with Qod 0 s great Laws of cause
and Effe ct, or righteous act ion and just recompense?
Could you but per ceive the fallacy of their false
reasoning and the empty moc kery of their fancied super-
•
.lorlty, · then you would be convulsed with mir.th at the
.gr i m humour of the.Ir .i dle c hattering , unless your
mirth was stilled with pity at their bl i ndness !
There .is but one rule to follow and one road to
travel!
Seek for Truth. Whep you have found .lt, cling to
lt and let none . wrest 1t from your grasp! It shall be
as a bright and shining Light!.
It shall be as a shield to prote ct you from ever y
po is onous dart of mallcl.o_us tongue s! It .
shall be as a
staff upon which you may lean when weary!
It shall be as a shade which shall cool and re -
fresh your very soul!
All ' else .ls as chaff which the wind blows and none
may find it~ But Truth re~alneth ever!
48
Blessed .is the man who seeks Truth and, finding .i t,
swerves not .in his allegiance but follows Truth in all
things !
Great shal l be his reward .in this life~ for all
that men seek to buy or to steal or somehow to obtain
by stealth, c unning or trea c hery to their better
selves, cometh,i n goodly measure to that man who serves
·OO
d ' With his whole heart!
For the Lord Alm i ghty ls the Father of all . Truth
and , "in Hi m .is no var.ia bleness ne.lt her shadow of
turning ! "
49
CHAPTER TWELVE
THE MASTER TRAJNER
You wonder that those who profess to be Christ •s
followers often suffer .in various ways. Calamity comes
upon them and many .i lls befall the~. But you do not
know the true reason for these things, nei ther can you
see what error they h~ve committed .in the past!
To all who truly de sire to live their ltves 1n ac -
cord with GOd is ·. pu.rpose (t hus benefiting by working
with His Laws .i nstead of against t~em) ••• to all such
must come a period of testing, of readjust.ing 1> or aton-
ing. Muc h ground has been lost .in the years they have
been opposing and violating these Laws. one cannot .in
a moment of sincere contrition undo th.e evil wrought
by years of wrong living, ne ither recreate t he fabric
of life destroyed by Q.evastatlng thoug.hts !
A body weakened by self ~ i ndulgen ce must be buil t
up gradually ,by he alt hy food , clean living a nd plen ~y
of exe rcise. so the c haracter ~eakened by long aelf-
s ee king and se 1r1s h shirking of tasks not wholly
pleasing must needs be subj~cted to the training of
meeting and overcoming various difficulties and dis -
couragements. only so may it be brought ·ba ck to a
normal and wholesome condition of resist~nce to da$ 4
tru ct1ve .influences and temptations.
no you not pay of the gold you co unt so precious
t hat your body may {by various hardening proce~ses or
exercise and manipulation, cold baths and tiresome
pummel i ngs) be built up to a point where it Will be
:i mmune to disease and the breaking down or h.ealthy
tissue which causes old age to creep on you unaware?
Imagine then your ingrat itude when with wise in-
tent your Heavenly Father sends you trials to buffet
and strengthen your soul muscles, temptations to re -
store to your character a healthy power of resistence
and disappointments to help you l earn the hearty en-
joyment to be found .in the calm ~ccept~nce of the
inevitable.
50
In . this way does the Master TFalner work to repair
the damage done your own true self by weakly yielding
to the counsels of false fr.lends and playing traitor
to your own i nner convictions ;
W~en your Sp1r.1t sta nds once more exultant and
free upon the pinna cle of co ns clou? at-one - ment with
God and His Mighty ·rnvis l ble Kingdom of Power and Gl o-
ry, then will you learn the reality of His promise.
"All ·these things" . (which to you s1gn1f 1ed. a home.,
food , clothing and friends) have mult ipli ed themselves
and you will find your blessings include joys of whose
very existence you were ignorant ! For such ls the .ip.-
her.1tance of the sons of God!
Th9n shall those who despised you as a weakling
·call upon you for aid .1n their troubles. For many
tr.1bulat1ons shall come upon ~hose who deal unjust.ly
with ~heir fel l owmen . Their lot shall be hard to bear!
Cast not your lot with su ch workers of destruction,
fo r gr9at shall be their desola~lon having come short
of their Divine Inhe ritan ce.
· Gi ve thanks unto God and make a j oyful noise! (3ing
songs of · joy ! For great ls Jehovah and mighty ls His
loving kindness to all who serve Him and observe 'His
c ommandmen ts to do them.
He sayeth, "Be .strong of heart and very courageous.
Many s hall seek to confound you and turn you aside
from MY counsel but keep thy cove nant with thy God and
prese rve within thy heart. His words and sufely, as God
liveth, t hy reward shall come speedily.
NOt as one who do t h lag wearily but as a bright
winged Angel of Joy , so shall thy blessings overtake
thee!
- Be not heavy hearted but rejo10e! Wh.y shouldst
thou be cast down?
Hath not thy . God chosen thee and anno1nted thee
that thou shoulds t show forth His goodness and ~ercy
unto a sad and dismal world? Wher~fore, gird up thy
loins and let thy countenance be very joyful.
Sing songs and let laughter come forth from thy
11pa, for thy God .ls .a God of .Truth and none may stand
a gains t Him!
Hozannah .unto the 'Highest! n
.51
CHAPTER THIRTEEN
WHERE ARE YOUR CREDENTIALS?
All men at some 0
time .in their lives wish to pos-
sess something which will .insure them an .income .ln
their old age. And thls .ls a laudable ambition to se -
cure peace of mlnd. Knowing there will be plenty to
provide comforts when their body grows Old and decrep-
it gives a feeling of security.
But doesn ' t it seem strange that the very man who
prides himself on thls fact and his own far-sighted-
ness, steps abruptly at hls ent~an ce .lnto what should
be a perfectly natural and joyously anticipated new
phase of his existence?
Do you th i nk a God who insists on mart•s free will
and independence of action; who through the action of
His allwise Laws forces man to progress by his own ef -
forts or suffer the c onsequences ••• do you think such
a God will ~everse a1l rHis ' Laws and proceed on pre-
cisely the opposite course the moment man emerges from
his cocoon-like stage of ex·istence and becomes a more
capable being .with more diversified talents? Has 1t
not .been sa'1d, "God is the same yesterday , today and
for ever?"
If your very nature demands actiort that ~ta~nation
may rob you of all .i.ntere.st .in life:, then why ·should
your very inmost being change when you throw off the
outgrown cloak of your mortal f~esh?
when the Master spoke ·o.r a "clty not built wHh
hands, eternal in the · heave.ns" ·He did not me.an to cqn-
vey ' the impreBsion that all ~ctrion cea~ed when .the
earthlife was finished.
The beasts of burden labor~ carrying heavy loads.
Yet what do they acco_
mplish compared with the man who
dev'1sei some intricate mechan~cal contrivance to do ~
·hundred ~lmes the amount of work without weariness? DO
not our earthly teachers instruct us to reason from
cause to effect?
you . know the body of a man .is discarded. Of this
you hav:e daily evidence. You know the mind of a man
.1s sometblng apart from his physical ·brain, els.e there
would be no such thing as an idiot with a brain which
ls useless to him.
52
You know the wily, crafty man who exercises hls
mind to forward hls own nefarious s chemes ls vastly
different from the broad-minded man who plans the b!g
enterprises which benefit humanity. There ls a differ-
ence .ln the quallt~ of sp!rlt which animates tbe two
men!
Man, then, has three sepa~ate .and distinct forces
wlthln hlmSelf whereby to express hls being ••• body,
mind and splrlt !
. You kn.ow that the mind .can be totally destroyed,
so that a man has not the lntelllg~nce of a dumb ani-
mal ••• and Still the body lives on.
You know a mart's body may be terribly mbtllated or
wholly paralyzed, so .lt does not function .In any nor-
mal fashion ••• and still the mind remains active.
You know the quality of man ' s splrlt has nothing
to do with either body or mind. A man with a feeble
.Intellect and a we11 ~ n!gh useless body mlgbt be a v ery
. angel of goodness.; while a man of prodigious strength
and a massive .Intellect might be a very arch-demon f or
cruelty and wickedness.
While .in minor ways they. are dependent one upon
the other, .In the very essence of their quality and
development. they are totally separate and dlstlnct.
Gould jou :lmag!rte yourself a ' God, with power of
dec1s1on .in su c h matters, which would. you choose to
.Inhabit a world of endless glory of attainment? A man
like a beast , with body but only partially developed
m1n.d ? or. , pe r b a ps , a. ma n w1t h kee n 1y a c t 1v e 'm 1nd
whose aplrlt dictated .!ts use for .purely selfish and
often v1nd1ct1ve purposes? Is a man devoid of .1ntel-
11~ence an lnsplr!ng sight, so that you would choose
to spend youe time ln h!s , socle~y? No, he ls a person
of deadly dullness, a bore whose mind has lost the
keen edge of .!ts wlt and the sparkle of !ts or!gl-
nallty~ · By every - line of reasoning the body ls the
least :Important of mart's three . dlvlslons -Of being!
A man who through s tup!~!ty reve~ses the logical
order .of things and .Places the needs and desires of
his .physical senses first ln lmport;ance makes of h i m-
self a ..laugh!ng .stock In the eyes of those who s ee
clearly.
53
And such a man greatly llmlts hls own true plea-
sure. BUt this he cannot realize since hls mind has
been dulled by over-eating, over-drinking (especially
of beverages whicb weaken and destroy the powers of
perception) and over-:indulgence ·
.ln those purely physi-
cal pastimes which leave Fthe body, mlnd and spirit
fagged and lifeless.
Also the man of .i ntellect often devotes himself to
purel~ mental exercises and becomes wrapped up in the
fervent pursuit of knowledge to the exclusion of every
human .instinct and every spiritual interest . It seems
to hlm of supreme importance that the world should b~
appraised of the fact that the moon .is a certain pr e -
cise number of mlles · from · its nearest ne.lghbor. , that
some insect lives .in some pe cul iar manner, that some
anc ient tribe of nomads observed certain odd c us toms
or other like b.its of interesting information. Quite
commendable but certainly not worth the sac.r1f1c.e of
one 1 s spiritual alertness or ~he human qual i ties of
love and compani~nableness.
But note among your associates those who have cul-
tivated the broad, human, kindly q·ualitles of s.Dfritua1
understanding! How the world turns to them for sympa -
thy! How fr.lends flock about them. for companionship!
how the learned smlle with pleasure at the.Ir sure., ln-
tultlve knowledge of the right chord to t6uch to bring
harmony to a discordant situation! pe~haps, they have
been denied the privilege of bookly learning. They
may have taken their lessons from Nature or from bat -
tling with .untoward clrcumstan~es. But, Ah, their
minds are quick to read aright men 1 s hearts arid their
spirits are . sens! tlve to those finer and nobler .aspir-
ations anot.her would faH to recognize!
would '. lt be fatal to their power and inf luence · to
lose bodily health. and strengtb? No, thel,r fr.lenos
would but love them the mo~e and seek to compe nsat~
them for their loss .by added lov e and devotion! A
mightier power be theirs than any pugilist possesses!
And, were you choosing those who should people a
Dream City, where only happiness should ·relgn and nev-
er an unkind word be spoken or an unkind act be done,
well you know whi c h would be your choice! you would
54
pick a company whose minds were bright and merry,
whose laughter rang out c lear and trua, with nimble
wits to quickly grasp a truth or discern an error! You
would elect for cltlzehshlp all who were of a kindl y
mood, all whose pleasure found .its greatest satisfac-
tion .in filling another •s cup of joy full to overflow-
1l ng! All whose spirits were lightsome and· free~ , a ll
who loved musi c and song, all who made radiant t he
place of their abode with much love and tenderness a nd
thuughtfull consideration for anotheris comfort.
All ·such you would choose for this City of your
Heart 0 s nesire!
And:., perhaps_, .1f you c ou:j.d so arrange it., yo u
would take the applicants ~ for citizenship to some d i s-
~ant .Isle where they might prove their qualiflcatlons
for dwelling in this., your c herished Dream City! Know-
ing not .why they were so banished, the y would by thel r
acts disclose their true characters. In this manne r
they wou1d unwitting l y determine whether or not they
· ml~ht enter t he place you had ln mind for them • • •
would prove wh et her the ir presence there wo uld br i ng
aught of sorrow or 1nharmony to others.
A fairy tale suited to children, you say? Are you
sure you have the wisdom and discrlmlnation Qf a child?
All ;who come to mature years can scarce claim to ha ve
r eached the place where they are able to measure t he
true value of earthly attainments ~ Else would t hey
know that th~ t hings you gain during your earthl i fe
a~e of greatest . consequence when they cannot be ca st
aside with your physica l body!
How do you know that the money you have laid aside
for your old age will ever be used by you at all? But
you know without the shadow of a doubt that you will
need the credentials which shall admit you to Li fe
Eternal .in.Its more desirable states of consciousness!
CHAPTER
55
FOURTEEN
A HOVEL OR A MANSION
Life you shall have whether you desire it or not!
would you, then, ' choose to tive .in a hovel or a man-
sion? noes this seem ·to be a foolish question and de -
void of real meaning? Let your mind dwell on the com-
parisons we have just been making.
As in the life of man there ls a material person-
a llty ·and a splrltu~l personality, so .in your sur -
roundings there .ls a visible environment of buildings,
furniture, earth, trees, an i mals, flowers and all your
physical eye encounters. This you will readily admit.
But what you only dimly perceive 1s this! All that
exists ln the outer world of Vlslbillty must first ex-
.1st ln the inner world of Thought and Desire. If there
were no mental conce.pt of a chair or a table, no act-
ual concrete reproduction of this .lnvlslble chair or
table .would come .into being. ·
•
.If ' God had never thought of the poss.iblllty of
creating man, no human be i ng would ever have walked
the earth. Having allowed the thought of a .being such
as man to enter His mind, God then considered all the
details of man 1 s construction as a mortal entity; de-
cided upon his appearance, his development, his envi-
ronment, every aspect of his nature and requirements.
Having created .ln ·e1s own mind a perfect image of
a map as He wlsh~d him to exist, He then proceeded to
create conditions and a visible environment suited to
man Q
s projection from the realm of Invisible Mind to
the realm of Visible Matter! Every quality, power and
attribute of man was first formed .in absolute perfec-
tion in the mind of the Creator. None can deny the
truth of this assertion. It ls self-evident.
And God endowed man with the same creative power
He Himself possessed. Not only might he propagate his
own species through natural means provided by Nature
at his b lrth but he might . (through the exer c lse and
development of his mental powers aiso destowed on him
at birth) create an endless variety of useful and
beautiful objects of great advantage to him .ln his
earthly ex.lstence.
56
· For a time this creative impulse, which was the
strongest and most pe rsiste nt factor .I n h i s evolution-
ary development , was co nfined to t he s i mple r forms of
expressiono Obje cts about h i m suggested the maki ng of
crude i mplements a nd bu i ld i ngs of rough dwellings to
add to his phys ica l comfort.
Later on h is mind awoke ·to the fact that other
forces existed :in Nature wh i ch, though invisib le, might
be utilized to further his physi cal e n joyment. Fire,
steam , ele ctr icity opene d new avenues for the exerc i se
of h i s creative powers.
Ea ch step .in h is advancement came throu~h mental
conc epts . carefully consi dered and afterward laborious~
l y cons tructed in accordapce with the exact object as
perfected and held firmly -imaged in his mind.
Now we come to t he more re c ent discovery of radio
wa v ~s which open up an entirely new fie ld for man •s
cre.at 1ve gen ius. Yet. , i n. every i nstance., first comes
t he pictured model .in the mind and following this t he
physical coun ter pa rt .i n v: is i bl~ form. Thus .is revealed
. Qodis Law of Cause and Ef fec t ! Of this .be co ncinved.
The mi nd , t hen , reigns supreme over all physical
man lfest~tions. Man has progresse d to a stage where
t h is .ls adm1tt~d wit hou t argument. And now there is
ready for him another ste p in h i s slow, stead.y progress.
As t he men t al trium phs over t he physi ca l in the
ma tter or progres s , so the s p ir itual supercedes both
in every avenue of human endeavor. This .is hidden
from a vas t mul titude of earthward-looking mortals a nd
revealed only. to those who desire enlightenment.
By all t he laws of analogy it should 'be · clear to
t he tblnk1ng man t ha t, just as an actual, mental 1mage
erlsts in t he mind before .1t .l s cast .ln earfh1y mold
to exactly correspond wit h the will of .1ts c reator;
so there may also exist a r eal spiritual concept which
precede s or ins pires the mental image .
gy all t he l aws of reason it appears that God, who
made man with these latent powers which have gradually
developed through his ow n efforts, knew of each step
.i n his progress from the beginn i ng.
In other words, God planned that at a certain time
1n man °s evolutionary progress, he should discover
these various for ces and flt them to h1s need.
The forces always existed. The uses to which they
might be · appl1ed always existed.
Matl 0 s effort and 1ts attendant success merely put
1nto physical form things already existent for untold
centuries .1n a w-0rld which he but d1mly ibeg1ns to ap-
pre-Oend ••• Tiie World of Sp1r1tual Act1v1t1es.
CHAPTER FIFTEEN
THE STAGE OF LIFE
Of what does the Splr1t Worl _
d consist, you say?
Thls world or Splrltual i~tlvltles ls a place _where
evants actually occur!
Living as you do .ln what you term a "real world"
wlth solid, substantial objects about you which you
can feel with YOlfr physical hands, you come to q1e con-
c 1uslon t~at thls .ls all of . life that matters. When
the things w~lch compose thls physical llfe are de-
s troyed0 then you mourn , thlnklng ·wlthln your heart
t hat a 11 ·.1s 1 os t !
Poor, blind children of the earth! When wlll you
rea ch that happy tlme when you shall know and realize
that 1ou are as those who slt ln the dark and watch
the f.igures moving UIJOn a screen. · You feel all of
their emotions, their dlfflcultles seem very real to
you. You thrill with joy at thelr success, tears f l ll
your eyes at their failure or sorrow! What a seem i ng
trag~dy that th l s one loses · her lover. What .a gl0r1·ous
triumph that another wlns the plaudits of the populace
by some deed of courage . You are carried away wlth
the exdlt~mSnt of the chaos and your heart sinks at
some thre-atened catastrophe ! For a br.lef tlme you l l ve .
amDng these seene.s losing all realization- of your own
1tlent1ty.
Then .••• the curtain drops, the lights come on· and
you smile at your utter absorption .ln the play you ha ve
been watching! But during the time it was ln act i on
you forgot .lt w~s merely a reproduitlon ln miniature '
of scenes whlch had been previously enacted by liv i ng
people .ln actual places. Does thls slmlle seem absurd
· to you 7
At a time not far distant .lt shall be revealed to
you that your llfe on earth. ls scarce more than such~
scene .projected upon the screen of a material world
and you have rehearsed your part long before you
started on its action on your earthly pilgrimage.
59
At times you have a faint recollection of having
done the selfsame things and said the selfsame words
you say and do . in certain circ umstances on earth. At
other t i me s you are withheld frbm some su ggested ac-
tion by a curious f~ellng that it ls not your appoint-
ed task. Are you .a ·t 1m1d , shrinking d1spos1t1on and
yet at the approach of danger bold as a lion?
noes 1t not oc cur to you tha t the part you play .in
your earthlife ls no more real, .ln one sense of the
word, than a dream and when you wake .it .is gone?
Another thing which .ls hidden f rom you for the
most part ls the fact that all tau say and do .i n se-
cret at all {as you 1mag1rie) but In full view of an
unseen audience who applaud your valour . or .deplore
your cowardice ! Not only ydur acts but your motives
are plainly visible to the S i lent Wat chers whom you
forget exist becabse you d6 not se~ th~m or hear their
voices.
As you read these words do you sm i le at their ab-
surdity? But .when the play ls . finished and all the
make~bal1eve joys and ·traged ies of your earthlife are
over, you will .know .and understand the re.as on for what
bas taken place. For as you bav.e play ed your part
well or .ill, so. are you ad.vanced o.r · retarded •. in the
Real world of Spiritual Attainment !
what has not been · told you ls that the posit ion .in
wh ich .you find .y ourself ls not your true state but a
part assumed by you at. the instigation of your invisi -
ble te&dhers for some certain .purpos e. As you well
know , the lowly.· carpent·er of Nazareth was on,ly mas -
querading as a pers_on of_ ·low .d·egree . :rt was His part
1n the play then being ena~ted. Well had He been
drille~ 1n the tragic role which fell to His lot and,
although :the temptation came mor,e · than once to throw
off His disguise and c om1e l His tormento ns to recog -
niz e and acknowledge ' His kingly estatR, . yet did He
humble Himself and ' eriact His part with true courage.
TO His disciples :He told the truth {\'bout His Heav -
e nly Kingdom but, being less gifted than Ha, they had
lost all . sense of previous . preparation for the parts
they were playing and to them the earthl1fe seemed the
sum and substance of all
60
Cotl:siderin.g the ·varying qua li ties of chara c ter
displayed by those who cqmpr.+se t he world , can an~one
doub t the fa c t tha t ·many up9n the ear t h toda~ ha ve
previously playe d far d if f erent roles·. 1n.its evolut i on ?
For th i s .is t rue ! Th i s earth .is the testing pla ce
of immor ta l s wha , for a brief peri od of t l me are I s o-
lated here for purposes of growth and a demonstrat i on
of their. understanding of · lessons studied ln schools
Invis i ble to mortal eyes.
Plainly they are told what patt they ate to pla y.
Clearly the I ns t ruct io ns a r e gi ven as to every step of
the way. The plan i s laid before them 1p !ts perfe c t
beauty of des i gn and each has some definite task of
a c tual ·. impor tance t o the world wherein their traln l ng
and testing takes plac e .- For . it w~s .a par.t of the
original plan when th i s ear th was cre ated t o brJng it
to per fe e t ion t hr.01.igh t h is very process • .
ao . t he r e .is a t wo- fold purpose .l n your pres~nce
here for .a . shor t spa ce of . time. one .ls .to .prove . you
have truly c omprehende.d t;tie les-sons given you .in . the
World (t o you) Invis i ble ; the ot her to make some .slight
but · perceptible im.p:rovement i n the wor ld as you f i nd
1 t.
You speak gl i bly of d~s tl ny and »mart ' s appointed
task" no t knowing ho~ t rul y you s~eak. But. what would
you th i nk of one who ca me before an audience and
fa i led to go t h ro~gh with h is appointed part bu~
sought to assume t he role of some other actor., steal-
.Ing their c;;os t ume and speaking the i r lines? How might
the story run smoothly .a nd the pl 6t unfold ·With con -
vinc i ng c learness .1n suc h a case?
You mour n when one .l s taken from your mids t in
early youth , deeming lt a grievous error. But the er-
ro r .i s .ln your own • tll iL nk i ng, f or one who ls sent to
play one litt.le s cene. , and does :i t as ha.s been planned,
has ful f il l ed hls de s tiny and may return to his .true
home !
61
None are compelled to play their part aright and
herein lies the explanation of all worldly confusion
and disaster. Yet many do strive to follow the i r ln-
s t lnctlve urge for the task given them to perform ,
surmounting untold difficulties ~ o reach the goal set
them. such as these are welcomed badk by the Sil~nt
wat c hers with joyo~s acclaim when their spirits ate
r .eleased and the play .ls over for them.
Others who have failed .in eviry test and caused
trouble 'and confusion rather - than p~om~ting harm:ony
and true progress on earth ; are re c e i ved back In sor-
rowful sllence ; for they must study f o_
r a ·1ong tT me
befor"e they may aga i n be given an opportunity to dem-
onstrate their earnestness and the depth of their un-
derstanding of the governing of all life in its more
perfect manifestations •
• l -
62
CHAPTER SIXTEEN
SOUL QUALITIES
As you ponder these sayings you will observe the
vast difference which exists in the quality of soul
exhibited by different people under precisely the same
c lrcumstances.
One ma n ha s s t r e ng t h o f c h a r a c t e r., c 1ea r. , c a 1m
judgment, a firm conviction of what ls right and just,
an unswerving determination to achieve, not a personal
success, but a lasting influence which he ma y use for
constructive purposes. He .ls a giant among men for he
has a sure knowledge of his earthly task and an ever
Clearer vision of its accomplishment.
Another man amazes the most care less observer by
his deep devotion to some sacred cause of reformation.
Another seeks to teach and guide both old and young ln
the true Path of Progress. :rn all of these men there
appears a fervent, burning desire to use every moment
1n active service to humanity. Do you seek to fathom
the cause for tbls deep-seated urge for constructive
effort?
Could you see the pain and torment of remorse which
grips a man when he steps off the scene of his earthly
follies and stupid treachery to his own best interests
••• could you but realize his disgust when he actually
watches the far-reaching results of his carelessness
and neglect of the duties he knew full well were given
him to perform ••• then would .lt be clear to you!
And when (after many years of earnest application
to the better understanding of the Universal Laws of
Eternal Evolution) he .is once more cast for a role up-
on the earth where one e he betrayed his trust, he comes
back wit·h such force of character., s uch clarity of
purpose., such .intensity of des.ire to rectify, to atone.,
to regain his lost estate, that no earthly hindrance,
no human interferenc~, no mountain of difficulties may
stay his feet or cause him to deviate .in any way from
his chosen course of high endeavor.
63
Can you not see the Silent Watchers clap their
hands as wall after wall of oppos1tion falls before
his onsla~ght, and Truth and Justi ce are set upon
their rightful thrones where before re i gned the spuri-
ous monar chs of Falsehood and Immorality.
Glad are the hearts of the Silent Wat c hers when
such a man treads .in triumph ' the w1nepre ss of sorrow
and exultant they are when he turns the sadness of
earthly disappointments .into seasons of rejoic i ng ,by
the buoyancy of his hope and faith .in God's never-
fail1ng Mercy and Love overshadowing all!
Lon~ has man been required to work out his earth
Drobiems .in compaTatlve Ignorance · of the true meaning
of the life which seems t o be dull and s~ arce worth
the full exercise of every latent power. Wby struggle
against temptations when by yielding you may se c ure
temporary ease and comtort? And wby fret yourself
ci v er another ' s m1s f or tunes ·when., v e r y l i ke 1Y., they
have brought them upon themselves?
These questions men ask and some have one answer
and s ome another. One says there are punishments . l n
store for the selfish and th ose who wo.rk iniquity on
~arth ••• But I say there .is no puni s hmen t! What you
regard as such .ls but the natural and ine v i t a bl e wor k-
ing out of God ' s beneficent Laws!
ADY wise law .ls put lnto operation for the s afe t y
and profit of all. Even manmade l aws . (whic h of t en de-
feat the very ends they seek to ·a ccomDlish and enc our-
age the vice they plan to stamp out) are made i n a~l
good faith for the protection and prosperity of the
community In which they are put In operation. Neltner
are they drafted . for the sole benetlt of one ma n or
one grouD -Of men ••• else they ar~ not . just l aws and
all men of lntelllgencs deplore . them!
But God ' s Laws are ~erfect laws!
If lt might be your pr.lvilege to view a world where
the Inhabitants . gladly . and ~reely c onformed to the
laws God has provided for rnan 1 s pertect Dr~gress
and enjoyment, not even the most stupid and obstinate
mortal who ever trod the earth would attempt to d·eny
the absolutely astounding irnprovement ·brought about by
such a state of affairs.
64
It has been said that a heaven where naught but
good prevailed would ·be a place of deadly dullne s s.
That only by a mixture of good and evil may one be a s-
sured of a pleasing variety of.interest and occupations.
Again the Silent W
atc hers glance at one another in
ill concealed amusement at man 1 s monumenta l stupidit y!
What do you know of immortal joys who never in your
short earth memory have achieved one perfect success
or enjoyed one perf~ct friendship or lived one abso-
lutely perfect day? Do you seek to dissipate the in-
distinct Vision of Perfection implanted in your mi nd
previous to your present earthly existence by scoffing
and va inly boas ting of your unbelief ?
Hold fast to your priceless, precious heritage of
faith in a possible fulfillment of your sincere desire
for beauty and joy and love which .ls a bsurdly at vari-
ance with the sordid counterfeits you so often encoun-
ter upon this stage cal1ed earth. These hidden long-
ings are not the vain imaginings of a befuddled bra in
weary of earth's snares a~d delusions.
think so!
No, do not
They are the trua , the real, the unalter ab le veri-
ties of the Sp i rit Life you have for the moment left
behind ••• that you might have your knowledge put to
the test of conflict with earthly circumstance a nd
material concepts.
Thus shall your metal be proven. Thus shall your
Master discern the purity of your motives, the clarity
of your vision. Thus shall He discover what manner of
training must still .be undertaken to perfect your soul
and what manner of service best fits your ability.
Having determined thl&, .It ls then Hls duty a nd
pleasure to promote you to a higher plane of concsious
being, where new and undr~amed - of joys shall unfold
themselves to your soul perceptions prepared to re-
c e.lve them!
or, it may be necessary sadly to consign you to
the lower and less datlsfylng strata of the Spirit
world where you may reconsider your errors and a tta in
a ~entai ·and spiritual understanding which shall en-
title you to another test and another opportunity.
65
Only your own purely personal profit and advance -
ment has been co nsidered .in this brief survey of the
Divi ne Plan for man •s development and fi na l evolution
Into a glorious being which ever h1s Creat or doth hold
ln His mind as man ' s ultimate goal. Never has the Im-
age been c hanged or blurred ln the mind of the Creator.
whatever depths of degradation man has reached,
whate ver hideous sins he has committed, ever within
his soul of souls lives t he tiny embryo of a possible
recreation of his oft Intimidated ·spirit a reconstruc-
tion of hls perilously perverted nature .
can you not see how man,by hls oft repeated of-
fences agains t his own body and splr.it, has gradually
destroyed the senses belonging to each until at iast
there is but a faint glimmering of healthy, normal Im-
pulse ~eft?
Knowing the inevitable consequences of this dead-
ening proces&, which none may deny, why then do you
not shun such dangerous practices and seek rather to
aid the hidden forces for good within you to manifest
outwardly?
Eageriy the Silent Watchers strain their eyes for
the fli~t Indication that you have gras~ed the lfupor-
tance of this truth!
All this pertains to your own inner life and its
growth but there .is another responsibil ity resting
upon your shoulders.
Man has taken the tools of circumstance and from
the raw materials provided in his work'shop. the ·e'arth,
he has constructed wondrous ~evices which act and move
and speak with .almost human intelligence. Marvels iri-
comprehensible to the pr1m1t1ve man make living upon
the earth today a vastly more Interesting adventure
than .In the days of the ox-cart, the hand-loom, pesties
for grinding grain and runners for the ·tranimisiion of
important documents.
rn this respect man merits a due meed of prals e.
He has wrought with skill and ~unntng : thsse marvels .of
the present age. Mechanical 'ingenuify has reached a
very high state of development and thought a long- those
lines have be~n amply rewarded . God looks upon these
wonders which are the product of man's brain and brawn
with favor for they are goodly evidence of h·is · evolv-
ing intelligence.
66
CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
A MIGHTY FORCE ~MUSED
When the personal v ie ~ of these subjects is elimi-
nated and one delves deep .tnto the ma tter from ' an a l-
truist ic basis, there then appears a still stron ger
summons to the bette r side of one's nature to rally to
the support of those chosen to go through this ear thly
experience as our companio ns.
Cur ious as it may seem, considering the prevalence
Of selfish motives among those who live in a ny degree
of comfort, a great disaster almost invar iably brings
to the surface unsuspe cted te ndenci es to self - sacrifice.
It would seem that man, suddenly rudely jostled
out of h1s rut of self -c omplacent egotism, harks back
to his pre-knowledge of the real .intention back of his
presence .in this particular place at this particular
time.
When a parent sends a child on some important er-
rand ·and he becomes Interested in a game of marbles,
forgetting all abo~t what he was sent to da, may he
not be suddenly deprived of his marbles to brin g h is
mind ba ck to the object of his trip?
A terrible ·fire which sweeps away 1n an hour the
posses sions a man has spent years to .accumulate does
"irreparable damageV ••• so you say! And such calami-
ty puzzles you and you ask, 11 How may a God of Love al-
low such things to occur?" And some a nswer it ls a
Judgment, others say it is the work of the devil work-
ing through human instrumentality. What a fallacy!
Why judge God .in such a childish manner?
In many ways suc h catastrophes are constantly hap-
pening. All over the world men are being brought face
to face with forces of destruction they are powerless
to combat. All sorts of primeval forces hurl them-
selves upon men and they are helpless as newborn babes
to stay the devastating hand flung out from the great
unknown World of ·Invi ncible Causes and Effects.
The force that makes the .light and heat you call
electricity .is a multiplication of tiny electrons of
energy fused .into one solid stream and directed as
the ~ lngenulty of man dictates.
67
Now one infinitesimal atom of energy would be quite
ineffectual for any purpose whatever~
Transferring this pictured action of Nature 's for-
ces to a human background, let us say a single uni t or
individual c ould not give very much aid were a huge
obstacle, such as a fallen tree or an lmmense · roc k to
obstruct the highway. But a large enough crowd of men
(or units ) could In one united effort accomplish its
removal with ease and speed.
Now taking the same idea into the realm of Thought,
all wil l concede that .one person with a plan for mak-
ing some needed reform wi ll make very little headw a y
until he gets first a few., then more and more to join
him ' til the weight of publ ic opinio n grows so strong
In favor of the proposition that it ca n no longer be
denied.
All ' thls .ls so familiar .it seems foolish to br i ng
it to your attention. But one argues from th e known
to the unknown and a law which .ls obsefved to operate
.in a ll known realms of action might with good r easo n
be expected to operate ln a region only partially ex -
plored, where Universal Laws are In force.
Unity then represents an absolutely .1r--resist1ble
force when the units are sufficient l n numbers to pro-
duce the effect desired.
APPlY this Law to the Invisible Force.s of Nature
and what .ls the answer?
Why does the wind blow? Of what use to quote mart is
answer to that quest i on? With scie nt ific ac c uracy he
guages and measures the velocity of the wind but he
has neither the knowledge or power to awaken one lit -
tle breez~ from out the stillness or calm the tempest
when .it rages. Trace these things back as far as you
can go and you encounter myster i es no man has ever yet
made plain .
when there come dust storms, earthquakes, typhoons
and tidal waves then men awake to the fact that they
have no knowledge of how to control these elements
which threaten their destruction. And they greatly
desire to know _
some of the vital facts concerning the
working of Universal Laws which Jesus taught His dls -
c iples on the shores of Galilee.
·How do you .think He sti lled the tempest and by
what power did He walk upon the waves?
t}8
A confusing controversy often arises concerni ng
the S6r i pture. ~ . If thy faith shall be as a g~ain of
mustard seed, thou shalt say unto this mountain, i Be
ye removed and cast into the sea! ' and .it shall be
done." The majority of people ' regard this as a purely
figurative statemebt.
What mortals fall to realize ls the fact that · there
are forces belonging to the Kingdom of God which man
might use lntelllgerttly but at present bungles and
sets in motion for the most part to his own detriment.
Good which mig ht come from their proper use is turned
in exactly the opposite direction through stupidity
and ignorance.
A man will spend his lifetime over some mechanical
device. .It .is a good deed! ~an will occupy his time
studying some abstruse subject and be applauded. But
let one attem p t to teach men the Science of Right
Thinking and he will be termed a crank!
Thought .is a form of Force! In the land of India
th~fe are men well versed in the use of Thought Force.
Many regard it as some form of witchcraft or magic.
As a matter of fact there are, among the adepts there,
those who have brought down from ancient days a . knowl-
edge of th.e se c rets known at that time in India . The
power of the mi nd over every known force in the univer se.
In wh~tever age you study man and his habits you
wlll discover that prosperlty . invatiably accompanies a
season of constructive effort and just re.gard for the
rights of all.
You t h 1n k th i s a wand e r i n g f r om one p o1n t to
anot·ner with no clear aim or purpose ••• but follow
and you shall see!
As man sets hls mind to work on things o.f a help-
ful nature , he sets ~n motion a certain vibratory cur-
rent. In the case of a single man this is not dis-
cernible in .its effects. Were a hundred men to con-
spire together with goodly intent there would b e a
large stream of energy of a benef ice nt .nature set in
motion. Not~ the fact that it is not necessary to put
these .ideas .into tangibl~ form to statt the thought-
s tream flowing.
A concrete use would increase the power of the
force set in motion by focusing it upon one particular
69
object ••• But the mere fact that one hundred men con-
..
centrated their thought on the idea of some good work
being done for humanity sets a definite force to work
on the problem .
At a given time this Thought Force thus set in
motion will return to those who sent 1t out. If they
have set aside the plan , then only a general feeling
of goodwill engendered by the kindly thought will re-
ward their effort ••• but the vibration sent out com-
pletes the circle and retur ns to its starting place •.
This .is inevitable! All t hough t travels i n cir-
cles • .If .in the i r journeyings they en co unte r other
like thoughts , they form an alliance wi th one another
and their energy rece i ves an added impetus.
when the thought sent ou t l s followed by a long
succession of similar thoughts and ea c h one ls pro -
jected .into space wit h tre mendous power of c oncentra-
tion, then this stream of Thought Eriergy be comes i m-
portant enough to attract t he attention of s1m11ar vi -
bratory currents operating in realms beyond your ken•
. you call this the ·Law of Magnetism of the attrac-
tion . of like to like . Cal,l · lt what you will , .it ls a
law inviolate! When a ny stre.am of Thought For ·ce l s
sent out .from mo~tal brain with suffic i ent impetus, it
ca lls to its aid a corresponding for ce whi c h lies
quiescent .in the un·1verse of Inv isi ble Powe r or , as
you might term it, the Mind of God, since every . for~~
in the un iverse .ls a part of Omnipotent Mindi
what you are asked to remember .ls that this force
which. ma n.•s thought at tracts by magnetic adhes io n adds
strength and power to his or1~1nal effort of mind.
What ls the difference between a good and an evil
thought? There ls no such thing as an evil thought .in
this partlcu1ar sense. A though t is, primarily, a
reaching . out of .tbe mind for th e f ulflllm~nt of a de-
s ire. It.. ts then a seeking for power or , force from
the World Invisible! All thought is a seek~ng for
either knowledge or power .
After the request has received the response sought
from out the .inexhaustible storehou,se of. Inf,1n1 te Sup-
ply, ,then come-a the question of· the d1spos1t1on ma n
w.111 make of the gift . The la w works with pe rfect
pre c 1s 1on !
What you seek, you f1nd1 .It ls so ordained .
70
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
THOUGHT FORCES AS VIBRATORY ACTION
Man then, having acquired force from the Universal
source, proceeds to direct this force toward some cer-
tain object. we will suppose., for instance., he wishes
to have some friend succeed 1n business . Throug h an
act of will power 1t .1s possible for him to surr ound
that perion with vibratory currents c onducive to hls
success that everyone c onnected with the affair will
be unconsc i ously drawn 1n the direction desired . Al-
most miraculous seem the results when no strong coun-
ter vibration .ls being exerted.
could you vi sualize the cross currents of human
desires which often tangle and criss-cross about s ome
certain projec t, you would marvel that ~nythlng can be
accomplished . so c omplicated are the 1nterweav1ngs of
opposing forces. _
what should become clear to you 1s the utter waste
of such 1nharmony. What one minute of unlfled ef f ort
might accomplish with ease, .ls wrang l ed over for days
and finally d1scar4ed as hopeless.
Thfis we see that force .1n action .ls worse than
useless .if .1t ls not concerted action.
A thought. ,. then, .1s the nucleus for all ac t ion,
the cause for all e.ffect!
Each thought , as has been said, has a certain rate
of vibration according to !ts Character. 4n unworthy
thought trave l s at a low rate of vibration, wh1ie a
thought of gr eat beauty and purity goes forth at a
very high rate of vibration.
Now the thought of hatred, malice or revenge goes
out wlth a violent force or will behind 1t. Strangely
enough, subh thoughts are much more apt to .be the re-
suli of great concentration than thoughts of a. kindly
and ·helpful character.
The FORCE back of the evil desire or the wish to
destroy someon~~s happiness or peace of mind or to
bring some calamity to pass., ·is .neither good or bad.
It .1s ONLY force supplied automat!ca11y : to the mind
reaching out for it. Still reaching out for more and
more force from the Invisible Source of Supply, the
71
mind then directs this stream of energy toward the
object of .its hatred.
NQW there .ls no denying the strength of will which
contacts the force. T~ere .ls no denxtng the fact that
the power comes .ln answer to the .lnslqtent demand. In
what way then has God safeguarded mortals from extinc -
tion through such perverted use of the power thus given?
Another wise law .Intervenes (and herein lies much
of the mystery) foy, just as a low Thought-vibration
attracts a like · low quality of power., so a high
Thought-vibration takes unto Itself a power of like
high voltage. Because of this difference In the qual-
1ty of the power contacted, one person with high ideals
and pure motives may put to rout an army of the lower
vibratory forces directed bymlnds set on base designs.
The attack of the lower forces often appears to be
of fe.arsome ferocity but these lower v i bratory forces
are In their very nature subservient to the higher and
more rapid vibratory curren~s of thought.
At the same time, one must take .Into account that
these lower v i bratory forces have certain definite ef-
fects upon the earth upon which you live. All vibra-
tory action ls slowed· down to a low rate to manifest
upon the physical plane.
Every being who leaves the physical state of ex-
istence immediately begins to function at a higher
rate of vibration, which rende.r.s his body lnvlslble to
mortal eyes. But this ls a subject for future con-
sideration.
What concern~ us now ls man •s use and abuse of h 1s
oft replenished stock of Thought Force which he ls
constantly sending out upcin errands of e i ther con-
structive or destructive·· nature.
If, as we ·have stat.ed, all forc'e:s of whatever
character ~re a form of vibration, ·then t~e pheno~ena
o f na t ur e. , s uc h as · t 1da 1 wav e s~ , ea r t bqu a ke s .• r a 1n ,
wind, lightning and all manner of atmospber1c · 41stur-
bances .must be prlmarllY due to vibratory causes.
What ·. these causes ar:e and how .they operate would well
reward the study of an~ peison. At present we are
concerned only with the effe c t of Tbougbt-vlbratlon on
such occurrenees.
What strange mistakes men make through lghorance!
At a time when they make a great effort to establish
72
Peace. , t hey ignore entirely the fact that Peace comes
not ·by laws nor by command of the leaders in national
affairs! Peace comes through the united cry of all
the people for peace! Not at · the cal l of those who
are b it ter and full of hatred shall Peace come but at
the ca ll of those who have at tuned their spirits to
the finer vlbrat1ons of Love, Ha rmony a nd Happiness!
You think that hatred and strife have nothing to
do with shipwrecks and · accide n ts, storms and convul -
s ions of Nature but, when every thought of mankind .is
turned in fear toward a dreaded time of want, when
everyone turns from his neighbor and s eeks only his
own selfish se c urit~, when hatred smou lders in the
hear t of the oppressed ••• then the lowest and most
dest r uc tive of all vibratory currents is drawn to
earth with disastrous consequences.
And 1n this atmosphere of hatred and revenge llv-
1ng entitles., .invisible to mortal eyes., gather to-
gether .in fiendish hordes to work havoc on earth .
It lies wit hin your power to rid the eart h of
these vampire-like breeders of disaster.
It lies within your power to calm earth ' s troubled
seas and quiet earth~ uneasj rumbl i ngs!
Like a poisonous fog which envrlops and chokes you
is the 1nharmony and chaos .induced by the power of
your own wrongly directed thoughts.
As you let fear and hatred rule your thoughts, all
Nature responds to the lowered rate of vibration thus
ind uced by a lashing of . tem pe sts and a roar of i nte r-
nal eruptions.
But lift your thoughts higher to the Forces of
Light and truth and .Justice and all the higher Forces
of the Univers e shall come to your assistance to re-
store to the eatt h that Peace and Happiness so neces-
sary to human progress.
You state in terms of sentiment what is a matter
of scientific fact.
You seek with sword and bloodshe~ to yemedy a con-
d it 1 on brought about .by man 1 s stupidity. Will men
then be wiser w.hen the battle is finished?
When men learn that all the evil they fear comes
be ca use of their ignorance concerning God 1 s Laws, they
will begin to deal wlth Causes ins tead of vainly
73
struggling to re ctify the. Resu lts of t he ir mistaken
ideas.
Lift up your eyes! Lift up your thoughts!
Lift up your doubting he arts and behold what man-
ner of men you mi ght be come !
As Chr ist stilled t:Pe wln.d and b.ld ' the waves be
calm, so may you learn to qulet the troubled heart of
humanity , for the same great Law applies to m ~n and
Nature .
BY the power of puritled , pe rfect ly d i rected
Th ought , l inked with the highest For ces of God 's Eter -
nal Kingdom of Love, all things are possible to the
sons of men.
As Faith reac hes out and touches the very heights
of S~lrltual Understanding , thus ls your spirit at-
tached to that great Dynamo of Universal Power •••
L 0VE DIV I NE !
Why let the world destroy itself for the la c k of a
little earnest study of the s e per fect ly logical f ac ts
pnesented for your c ons iderat i on?
Reason it -0ut for yourselves !
was Jesus Chr is t a weak- mi nded betrayer of humani-
ty, prom i sing impossible paradoxes? Or did He possess
a knowledge wh ic h entitled Hi m to t be c place He h as .
held for ·hlgh t we nty ce nturies i n the hearts o f pe ople
of every race and clime?
Are you b lind from choi ce or do you fear to put to
the test the remedy He found for human i lls ·and human
woe?
Angels and archangels pro c laim the truth of His
assertions!
nemons and ever y destruc ti ve force s eeks t o dis-
pute His Word of Truth!
Of which company are you a member? Of th ose who
by their wretched ae1f~indu1gence lower the whole
strata of h11man co nsc.1ousness to a point where all
contact with the Higher Forces will be automat ica lly
cut off?
or will you join that c ompany banded together to
ins pire and uplift the world, ' leading ·them to new and
m.
arvelous attainments., carrying them past all danger -
ous doct ri nes · of shallow sentimentalists to the safe.,
sure va ntage gr ound of at-one-ment with God's great
Plan. and harmony with His Div i ne Laws?
74
CONCLUSION
You have h e ard how there appeared unto Jacob a
ladder re aching up into the heavens .
what he beheld as inavision was a symbol of man ' s
progress n from glory to glory. " For man goes f r om
the lowest or earth plana , even to the highe s t
(which no mortal may comprehend . ) And ever as he
progr esses from plane to Plana, there come ange ls
to cheer him on his upwa rd climb and inspire h im
with the certain knowledge that there a re ab ove
him heights still worth striving to attain!
'!'. H E E ~ D
75
THE TORCH OF TRUTH
Light Bearers have ·brought this wonderful message
to your door . once we are enlightened on any point we
can never again plead ignorance. The Tofch of Truth
must be kept in motion; like water it becomes stagnant
and dles 1f not used . Others have brought this mes-
sage to you ,- and it.is now your duty and responslb111ty
to carry it to othera, and by so doing to bring add1-
t1onal Li ght 1nto your own life. That which we give
away or pass on ls forever ours , but 1f we hide our
Light under a bushel .1t dies . Reme~ber the story of
the talents. Byron the poet saya, ".The joy you give
ls the joy you keep , happiness ls born a tw!n. 11
You do not need me to tell you that these are the
last days of the Old D1spensat1on or Age , and some of
you will graduate, some of you will have earned the
Crown of Righteousness. Will you be one of that num-
ber? If not, you have no one to blame but yourself .
This ls Jud~ment Day, and Jus~lce w111 be meted out t6
everyone. BUt I fear me many who will cry for Justice
will not deserve .it and will be ·plead i ng for mercy,
but the Law ls exact. We reap exactly what we so0.
Let me plead with you for your .own sake to defi -
nitely al.ly yourself with the forces of Light, to be -
come an active worker and tbat 1 s the only way you ~an
ally yourself with the Forces of Light. Llp - ser~l ce
doesn ' t count. Not those who cry Lord, Lord but those
who do the Will of the Father. The line o.f demarcation
between Light and Dark is be1ng tightly drawn, and by
your actions you will put yourself into the camp of
either the Forces of Light or the Forces of Darkness.
Those who are not active workers for Light auto -
matlcally fall into the other camp. This may , seem
harsh, but it ls just. we have no right to expect
paym~nt rrom the Forces of Light unles~ we are whole -
heartedly wlt·h them. Friends, this .ls up to you to
make th1s most solemn decision. Th~ Forces of Light -
the Christ Forces - are going to wln and rule, and you
are privileged to allY yourself with them. What will
your answer be? The writer will be glad to help you
all he can, but the issue ls clear cut. Choose ye
this day whom ye will ·serve!
76
BEYOND MIND :
Reason, log ical thinking, intellect compose ma n ' s
material mind , .if mind can be called mat eria l. Thes e
things are the result of man ' s past experiences. His
reasoning powers and t he strength of hi s intellect de-
pend upon how much man. has lea~ned thfough his living
experiences, a nd ta ken .into himself as he grows from
childhood into and through adulthood. He can continu-
ally gro~ along th ese lines as long as he is willing
to learn.-
But . this is not all. These qualitie s of mind are
developed through the five senses : what man can l earn
from h is material enviro nment . When one wishes to
l ear n df sp irit ua l t h i ngs., one must not use reason or
intellect to measure them by. God and all pertaining
to Him are fa r beyond finite mind, or man •s reasoning
powers to fathom. Man's intellect ls his yards tick
for measuring materlal logic. The difficulty is whe n
man uses this same . yardsti ck to measure spirl.tual
things. Then , of course:, man c.annot . arrlve at his
Source and ·so discards all as b.eing beyond hlm, .if
n ot a c t ua 11 y u n t r u e • Mi r a c 1e s a r e b e y ond r e a s on ,
else they would not be called miracles.
The truly i ntelle c tual man is so versed in reason
that it is well nigh impossible for him to lay aside
reasonirtg when he approa ches God. So, since God does
not talk to man through his f1ve senses or his think-
ing pro c esses , man c annot talk to God through his
.inte llect"
· Man must find within h imself anot her sense. The
first step on this way is Lov e . And Love means the
heart center. He must find God through his he a rt;
through his love of God, and His many Blessings. The
more love he can give out . from his heart to . God and
mankind:, th~ more .is the ve.il rent between him and
the Holy of Holies , until . finally the Presence ls re-
vealed to hlrn and the miracle of regeneration and
resurrection .is again enacted, and man has gone be-
yond reason and .irttellect .to God , the Source of all
knowing and of all wisdom.
The An~ient of Days hath instructed .in the Name
of the Lord ~ Jehovah God. Amen.
77
BOOKS THAT Wfll HELP YOU
BEACON LIGHT MINISTRY carries around 200 titles of
worthwhile books. , a partial list of which ts printed
e&ch month in our magazi ne.
THE DIVINE DYNAMO is the 8th book that we have
published, w~s printed on our own press.
THY KINGDOM COME is the ~tory of the wonders of
The New Age when C~r l st sh~ll rule on earth.
NATIONAL DESTINY ls an astrological outline Of the
destiny of this Nation until 1953. Part-' II of that book
includes The Modern Book of nanlel, a P$Ych1c revelation .
Later we pUbl l shed THE BIBLE SPEAKS TO AMERICA .
which indeed .it does. The Bible has a very de fi nite
message for our Nation that appll&s to no other. We
are the Nation descr i bed by Isaiah , "Ho , the lan-d of
the out -s pread wings~"
Next we publ is hed PREPARE FOR THE STORM · This ls
written entirely by the editor of this magazine ; con-
tains as much read i ng mater 1al as the aveTage $3 . 00 b oak
and 1t cos ts more to pr int than t he p_r ice we are as king .
In 1948 we printed THE DEAD SPEAK . ' This was. psy-
chically receive~ from the other world an~ contains
the warnings of some 16 past Pre sidents of ~he United
States., with one or two others. Truly a wond~rftll
b oak warn Ing us as a Nat ion _
of our Peril_.
Next we published MESSAGES OF LI GHT, '. Given .In His
Name: These messages all re ce1v-ed fr_
om -tbe Heaven World:,
not the sp1r-1t world, and blends very nicely with THE
DIVINE DYNAMO as .it c ome s from the sa~e high sou·rce. -
Last year we published THE FOOD YOU EAT . How many
of you .know anything about the food you buy in · the
sto~es and eat every day? You will be horr ifie d ·to
f1nd out what some of 1t is composed of, including the
so-called 1 ~taffs of life : milk, bre~d, etc.
NOW the above books cover th~ 4 department~ of
life · to e~able ~ou to live a balanded ilfe on all 4
planes. we would also · Include .in that, not published
by us., and only a limited number on hand, An outline
Study of the Bible. Any of the above books may be ob-
ta1ned for $1 . 00 plus tax, or we will give you 6 for
$5 .00to ·one address. These ar e all New Age publications
designed and written to aid you in your dally pilgr i mage .
send all orders to Will i am Kullgre n , At ascade r o, Calif .
7e
BOOKS FOR THE NEW AGE
Books · can be divided .into 2 classes : those dealing
with the past and those dealing with the future. The
tremendous mortality throughout the world, including
America, w111 be such that mankind will be more .in-
terested in life after death than ever before. There
are hundreds of such books on the market and we have
culled many of them. Out of that number ·we have
•listed 2 of the ·most striking and startling and real-
istic of them all.
First .ls a story Of nhe battle fields of World War
L, and .1t tells of the reaction of the soldiers who
lose their bodies on t he field of battle and their In -
ability to realize that they are a c t ually what they
call dead. Ec clesiasti cal dogma ls a very poor diet at
the t.lme of- a loss of a loved one. Jesus said, "And
ye shall know . th~ Truth .and the Truth shall make you
free. 11
WE KNEW THESE ME·N .ls \jrltten from the other
side - the same as THY DIVINE DYNAMO - ;by one who ls a
Haste ~ on th e Ether1c plana, and lt has proven a great
coll)fort -to ·t he ·bereaved throughout the Nation. I do
not hes·itate to say .1t ls o ne of the best we hav e read
In 45 years of delving.
The nex t is wr.ltten from the earth plane by a
Presbyt e rian Doctor of D1v1nlty who lost his beloved
daughter and son~1n - 1aw while on their honeymoon . For-
tunately., in spite . of the fa c t of being an orthodox
m1n·1ster., he was cla.1rvoyant. He had had commun1cat1on
with those -on the other side of the veil for years,
and so had .his daughter. I had the same experience
when I lost my beloved p~rtner _3 years ago. I · do not
hesitate. to .say that LIGHTED PASS~GE , is one .Of ~he
most upl1ft1nt books on this .subject that ever ·was
written. It ls wrlt~en .in .a deeply religious vein.
Both these books are $2 i 50 each, and they should be . 1n
every library so that you can loan them to thos~ wh-0
are bereaved, ~ecause when we .grieve we distress those
who have ~assed on.
Then we would cettalnly rec-0mmend MESSAGES OF
LIGHT, ·· Given 1·n His Name. ·Many of. these messages are
79
from Jesus the Christ, some from The Lord Jehovah ,God
and other gre"
at souls '. iri the Hea.ven World. We use
_
these messages .in our services night and morning. Price
$1 . 00.
Then there a~e 2 beautiful books by Agnes Sanford
that deal with spiritual healing. The writer was a
. grey lady who worked .in the hospital among wounded
veterans. She taught them how to tune in on God and
His healing L-0ve. TBE -.B~ALIN~ LIGHT .is a perfect
• treasure where sickness and death.. are concerne_
d. price
$2 . 00. OH , WATCl'IMAN .is in story form and it breathes
the atmosphere of healing and spiritual healt~. price
$2 ~: 75 • .
Still another .is LIGHT IS THE WAY, cons J sting of
. messages from the higher realms. pri ce $1.00.
We. also ;recomil)~nd B_IBLE MYSTERIES .REVEALE.D. price
, $2 ~ 75; LOVE -CAN .OPEN PRISON DOORS by Starr· Dailey
Price $2 . 00, and all the wonderful books by nr. Lamsa
who was born in the Hoiy Lan9 and speaks the same
language that Jesus spoke : . His . MODER~ NEW TESTAMENT
is very r?Ve!J.~ ing , - Pr ice $2 ~-.50 ~ NEW TESTAMENT ; COMMEN,.
TARY ~nd GOSPE-
L LIGHT, $2 ,: 75 each: THE BOOK OF PSALMS
and MY NEIGH:SOR JESUS for $L50 each a .nd THE Sij~PHERD
OF ALL, 50¢.
These books are the cream.. of the - crop, the very
best of their kind on the market today. ' That ..ls why
- . . .. .
we have listed them and carry theil) in stoc}{, tor · ·our
mission in life .is ~o be a Light Bearer. _Jesus said,
11 Lovest· thou Me:, Peter?" Peter sa.1.ci, 11 Yea., Lord."
"T~en feed My lambs." ~hat : appltes to you an~ me as
well as .it did to Peter in hi_
s day. ·
. Tho.se who work. with and serve the Chr:j.st when He
comes i:<111 be thos .e who are living a life of .unse.lflsh
service. The choice .is _yours~ You can _ eith~r w_ork
for riches on the materlai plane and leave them at the
_grave or you can work f.or . tr:easure_
s ·.1n the _Heaven
World which are everlasting. A wise man or woman will
work for the latter. Materl~l things are .fo~l-'s :gold;
they are the. shadows. Read WE KNEW THESE MEN and see
h~w bereft that cl~ss of people are when they pass on.
Send all orders to William Kullgren, Atascadero, Calif.
80
THE BEACON LIGHT HERALD '
THB BEAC6N LI~Hr HIRALb ls the Offic~al journal
and mouthpiece of the BEACON LIGHT MINISTRY - a maga-
zine d~voted to the problems of humanity. In .1t you
will find each month a message from the hlgher · spheres
of Light. Each month we give an astrological de l ine-
atlo~. We also analyze the personalities of grea t men
like General MacArthur, who, we belleva, ls the man of
the hour., the Washington ·of today. He ls a great soul
who has come to earth to play · an important role .1n the
most cr.1t1cal~er.iod of this Natlon •s history.
This magazine ls the outcome of our column 1n our
local pape·r., and .began around 1926 or 1 7. In 1933 1t
was pUt 1n magazine form and 1t . ~as run continuously
ever since. otir readers say they cannot get along
without this monthly stimulant and you, tod, wil l join
the parade of grateful readers, 1f you give .1t a trial.
<It ls not pl~bllshed to make money; .1t has never
made money; .1t has never paid expenses. Its sole pur-
pose is to help you along llfe •s Journet, and the
thousands of letters received during the past 25 years
or more testify that .it has succeeded 1n !ts mission.
It, after a year 1
s subscription, you do not th i nk 1t
has helped you, we .will .cheerfully refund your sub-
scr.iptlon money.
We strive to help you on all 4 planes; the physi-
c al, the astral, the ment_al and, the last but not
least., the spiritual. Man ~ ls a four-.fold .bein g. cor-
responding to the 4 elements of natura, earth, water.,
air and fira , and all 4 bodies must be fed simultane-
ously~ Neglect one and you are out of balance. · Feed
them. all equally and you will be a tower of st r ength
.in the circle in which you move.
We:urge you to subscribe to the BEACON LIGHT HERALD
and we guarantee .it will help you in your dally p11-
gr.1mage back to God . Subscription .price $3.00 a year.
Send all. orders to William Kullgren, Atascadero, Calif.
THE BOOK EXCHANGE
OCCULT LITERATURE
1429 LARDNER ST.
PHILADELPHIA. PA. 19149
