{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1951__clymer___mysteries_of_osiris_or_ancient_egyptian_initiation____revised_ed.pdf","mytitle":"Mysteries Of Osiris Or Ancient Egyptian Initiation","mylang":"de"}
THE
MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
or
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN
INITIATION
Setting Forth the Symbolism, Mythology, Legends and Parables
Beginning with the Outer Religious Systems of the Egyptians,
Primarily Based on THE DRAMA OF THE HEAVENS; together
with the Inner or Esoteric Interpretations as Taught in the
Lesser and Greater Mysteries Active Throughout the Ages,
Including the Present
BY REV. DR. R. SWINBURNE CLYMER
Director General Church of Illumination
Supreme Grand Master of the International Confederation
of Initiates
Supreme Grand Master of the Merged Occult Fraternities
Comprising:
The Priesthood of JEth Fraternitan ROBE Crucis
The Rosicrucian Order Temple of the Kosy Cross
The Secret Schools The Order of the Magi
The Hermetic Brotherhood Sons of lsls snd Oslris
Illuminatie Americans
Published By
THE PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING CO.
"Beverly Half
QUAKERTOWN, PENNA.
Univ. Ubrary, UC Santa Cruz
Bf
The
Mysteries of Osiris
Ancient Egyptian Initiation
Original Private Edition,
1908. Prepared for the Tem
ples of Osiris, Isis, Mirtha
and Mizriam (Non-Masonic)
Present edition, completely
revised, 1951. Limited,
stricted to students and Sine
Seekers for the True Li,
Printed, but not publis
NOT TO BE SOLD.
Copyrighted 1951, by
BEVERLY HALL
CORPORATION
Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Pa.
All Rights Reserved, including
Foreign Copyrights and Trans
lations.
"What is TV w called the Christisn religion has exist ru among the ancients,
and wss not ab nt from the beginning of the human race until Christ came
in the flesh, from which time the religion which already existed, began to be
called Christian." —St. Augustine.
INTRODUCTION
"Man's inhumanity to man has made
countless thousands mourn."
Ask the question : "Which of man's actions has been
the greatest destroyer of human life, and, more than
anything else, has brought misery and suffering upon
all mankind?" The answer will almost invariably be:
"War." A moment's thought will disprove this. The
Moloch that has devoured the greatest number of
human lives and has caused unspeakable sorrow and
heartbreaks, has not been war, but the battle of
creeds.
Wars, however destructive to lives and property, have, in
many instances, resulted in bringing freedom to millions of
those who were serfs and slaves. War has often elevated the
status of man; bringing about great reforms beneficial to mil
lions. Evil though it
is,
war has chiefly resulted in the loss of
lives and property.
The deaths caused
by
the "battle of creeds," —the lives lost
in religious wars —at the stake—in the arena and
by
assassina
tions —have not brought freedom, nor have they been productive
of any good whatever. Added to the loss of life through re
ligious wars and persecution, millions upon millions have
suffered the tortures of hell because they were told, and have
been led to believe, that they were damned.
The purpose of this second edition of the present work,
is
to
draw aside the dense veil of ignorance, bigotry and creedal
selfishness, which had its beginning toward the end of Egypt's
greatness, and has continued until now.
It
will be shown how
and where the magnificent symbolism, depicting the DRAMA
OF THE HEAVENS, gradually became changed into utterly
xii INTRODUCTION
false teachings, mummeries and creeds which had to be obeyed
under penalty of death.
In ages past "truth" led the seeking mind by pleasant and
sublime paths, through which the ancient fathers wandered;
helping them to PLUCK FOR THEMSELVES some of the "goodly
fruits" on which they feasted, without fear of damnation. They
were instructed in the activities which were for the good of
the Soul, and helped them to scent the fragrant perfumes that
were wafted to them from amid the ambrosial bowers where
Divine science held her court.
To the seekers after truth were revealed some, though by no
.neans all, the hidden meanings of the hieroglyphs that the
eastern sages (the Wise Men of old, like the Magi) carved
upon their temples, obelisks and tombs, so that all who would,
might see, and of which only the wilfully blind remained
ignorant.
It is our desire to help the seeker after truth, who has his
own freedom in view. It is not difficult to recognize the true
history of the past, as we find it written in the starry skies of
heaven. We also find the truth recorded upon pyramids, tombs,
temples, triumphant arches, statuary, aye, even in the various
symbols that have become a part of our modern churches.
We will explain, in the simplest possible terms, how spiritual
truths, handed down to us in feasts and fasts, in forms and cere
monies, even in creeds, names and symbols, and in the various
fragments of the arts and sciences have been preserved despite,
and notwithstanding, the madness and fury of superstitious and
utterly selfish zealots active throughout the ages.
This we will do WITHOUT ACTUAL DAMAGE TO ANY OF
THE GREAT RELIGIONS OF THE PAST AND PRESENT. ON THE
CONTRARY, WE WILL POINT UP THE MERITS OF ALL RELI
GIONS BY MAKING PLAIN THE TRUTHS HIDDEN IN THEM. Ad
ditionally, we will reveal much of the esoteric or hidden Myster
ies taught in the inner halls or sanctuaries of Philosophic
Initiation.
INTRODUCTION xiii
A limited knowledge of the ancient religions in their outer
form has been handed down to us in myths, legends, parables,
riddles and symbolism. These creations as interpreted by most
modern writers, and especially by those selfishly concerned,
are hardly less than childish stories, destitute of either truth
or plausibility, even though hiding the most profound truths
and laws of God and Nature.
Rightly understood, according to their real, esoteric, spiritual
meaning, the myths, legends and parables bequeathed to us by
ancient civilizations, are seen to combine rare beauty, grandeur
and practicability of application. Ancient symbolism exhibits to
us a system of worship and belief that required ages to complete.
These religious or spiritual teachings are all based on truths
written in the heavens; the starry skies where we still may see
enacted the drama of the ages; the drama, no less, of the pres
ent-day mankind, his weakness, his foibles, and, also his sublime
possibilities.
IT IS THE ETERNAL STORY OF THE CHRIST or CHRISTOS:
THE SOLAR MYTH OF THE NEW TESTAMENT: THAT OF
THE VIRGIN BIRTH: OF THE DYING, YET ARISEN "SAV
IOUR"; ALL OF THEM SYMBOLIZING, OR TYPIFYING THE
HUMAN SOUL, ITS DESCENT INTO MATTER: ITS STRUG
GLES ON EARTH: THE NECESSITY FOR THE CRUCIFIXION
(CROSS-I-FICATION) OF THE BASER (CARNAL) NATURE:
THE SOUL'S FINAL VICTORY OVER THE EVILS (WEAK
NESSES) OF THE FLESH, AND ITS FINAL ASCENT TO
MERGE WITH THE HIERARCHIES MENTIONED IN BlBLI-
CAL LITERATURE.
Ancient mythology, legend and parable, which even the later
Nazarene did not hesitate to use, is a stupendous and glorious
means of history recording. Those admitted into the secret
knowledge by initiation, as were the disciples of the Nazarene,
were able to teach a spiritual philosophy of which no seeker
after TRUTH can afford to remain in ignorance.
xiv INTRODUCTION
In the sacred halls of the Egyptian Temples where Soul Ini
tiations took place, as these Initiations still take place in modern
times, was taught the spirit or the esoteric side of religion and
the MYSTERY OF THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN.
So deep and sublime is this mystery that when the seeker
(Neophyte) succeeds in drawing aside the veil hiding
it,
and
coming face to face with
it,
he will stand as though turned to
stone, and his mind will seemingly refuse to function and will be
utterly incapable of thinking thoughts that can do justice to the
Great Mystery of Being.
The earliest Bible writers,
if
not Egyptian
by
birth, were
Egyptian in spirit and feeling. This
is
readily understood when
we bear in mind that all of the truly great spiritual leaders of
later years, not excluding the Nazarene—like Moses before him
—went to Egypt for study, preparation and final Initiation into
the Mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. This
is
admitted in
Christian literature.
To be able to understand the Old Testament, and much of
the New,
it
is
necessary to become "Egyptianized," or baptized
by
the spirit of the Egyptians' knowledge of the DRAMA of
HEAVEN. Their symbolic religion was for the masses; astro
nomical first —agricultural second. Their creed was
a
confession
of faith, combining both life and salvation, as written—and en
acted—in the skies.
The Baal worship of the nations in and around Judea was the
same system, modified to suit the conditions of that people.
These writings in the skies, which no creed or religious hierarchy
has been able to erase, were transferred into allegory and par
able, then to parchment and rolls; transferred and again trans
ferred —but always with some slight change or addition as
suited the mental calibre and knowledge of the writer.
Looking up into the blue vault of heaven, the uncultured eye
sees naught but
a
confused and promiscuous sprinkling of starry
hosts, seemingly without system or harmony, just stars and more
stars. Viewed
by
the trained eye and recognized as ancient
INTRODUCTION xv
science arranged them, in their various divisions or constella
tions, they are seen to wheel in line, and pursue their daily and
yearly course with the utmost order and regularity, and accord
ing to an exact Law that only a Divine Creator could have set
into motion.
This arrangement of the stars into constellations, all follow
ing a set rule or law; without the slightest deviation, is the
foundation or basis upon which all forms of religions had their
beginnings; as did primitive Masonry and the numerous mystical
and secret societies that have existed and been active throughout
the ages.
The seeker for the living waters of life —truth, must not per
mit himself to be misled by the forms, but must proceed in his
search and finally unveil the hidden mysteries underlying these
forms. He must realize that life is not to be found in any ritual
or creed, but in the actual living of the forms which the ritual
indicates.
The Greater Mysteries of the Egyptian Initiation, like all
Arcane initiations, include the doctrine of the one and only, the
Supreme God, but illustrating that the sun, moon and stars were
minor divinities, i.e., forces.
This doctrine of the ONE God was not, as so many have be
lieved, original with the Jews, but was taught them by the
Egyptianized or Initiated Moses, who tried his best, but unsuc
cessfully, as did the Nazarene later, to teach his people the great
Mystery.
Anciently, man was simple in his ideas and desires. He did
not vainly exhaust his intellect and strength to discover God.
As yet untrammeled by creeds, man did not depend on faith.
HE FOUND GOD in the depths within himself. He learned to
KNOW God in the love which engenders life—saw Him in the
sacred flame which is heat and life; in the light that gave him
sight of all the beauties of life. He saw the reflection of God in
the majesty of the blazing sun.
Even the later writers of Scripture could not improve upon
xvi INTRODUCTION
this, for they also saw God in light. They witnessed God's
providence and nature's profoundest harmony in the DRAMA OF
HEAVEN; in the constellations' numerous paths of the starry
heavens and the movement of the fiery legions in space.
The early man—the mass, not the Initiate priesthood —cast
ing about for the primeval cause of his own existence, dedicated
, all his earliest powers of mind to religion. He tried to find some-
''•
thing not too difficult to understand, but which would bring him
peace of mind, instead of fear.
Even his earliest triumphs in the arts of civilization were as
means to an end. His superb temples of worship, his solemn
preparations for another, and, which he believed to be,
a
greater
life, and his colossal monuments, record his religious beliefs —
remains that are imperishable evidence of his deep and un
divided interest in the problems of religion, while of his social
and commercial pursuits, only fragmentary and unimportant
vestiges are to be found.
Creedism and artificial civilization, in the course of time, with
their long train of wars, crimes and diseases, want and woe —an
overstrained devotion to the idols of ecclesiasticism and its twin,
cold physical science, that does not recognize the Soul—have
gradually alienated the Soul of man from his desire and feeling
for
a
simple, pure, natural, yet spiritual, religion.
The Nazarene recognized the evils that followed in the wake
of
a
belief that the religion of one people was so much greater
than that of other people. He tried in vain to correct this idea
and, in his attempt, taught profound truths in parable, as was
the custom of all the real saviours before him. As
a
result, he
antagonized all creeds and systems and paid the penalty for his
honesty and fearlessness.
His labors consisted mainly in attempting to abolish systems
of religious observances founded altogether upon forms, cere
monies, or ritualism, and introducing
a
religion almost purely
spiritual;
a
worship in which the religious life of man should be
based on purity, benevolence and of love for one's neighbor as
INTRODUCTION xvii
for jMieself, despite any difference in belief. Correctly under
stood, his life and work, like his early training, was almost a
counterpart of that of Moses, and the results not greatly
different.
The inhumanities of religion, or rather, religious systems and
their practices, and the results obtained, have been due to the
utterly mistaken idea that, aside from spiritual concepts, one
religion was more God-ordained than the others. In times past,
even as today, there were those who believed that their religion
was the only God-ordained religion and they would destroy all
other systems, even proclaiming it a Divine command that those
adhering to any other belief should be condemned, damned,
tortured and utterly destroyed. All this in spite of the fact that
religious systems and beliefs followed one in the wake of
another, EACH COPIED FROM A PRECEDING ONE, WITH MINOR
CHANGES IN PRACTICE AND NAMES.
No one religion was either better or more Divine than the
other, except in the degree that it taught purity of life, devotion
to duty, faith in humanity, love for one's fellow man, helpful
ness to one another and commanded man to search for his own
Soul WITHIN HIMSELF.
Religion, regardless of name or sect, must teach man the
spiritual meaning of purity of life, and through his OWN efforts,
he must succeed in bringing forth the Chrisfos (Soul), or the
Christ, hidden, deeply buried, by his carnal nature, within him
self. In so doing "the sons of man have now become the Sons
of God, knowing good and evil." This is the mission of the
present work. Peace on earth can never be brought about until
the Armageddon of religion is at rest.
It is not possible for anyone to reveal the Mystery of the
Greater Mysteries of Arcane or Philosophic Initiation. Man
must accomplish that Work for himself, but we have endeavored
throughout the work to reveal much of the inner spirit of this
Mystery.
If the reader will carefully concentrate his attention on the
xviii INTRODUCTION
use of words, to their capitalization, to phrases and sentences in
quotation marks or brackets, much will be revealed that other
wise would remain unrecognized.
The Goal of man is to achieve perfection by developing
purity and uprightness in his daily life. The work of real
religion should be to help him accomplish this. Man's work is
to find and bring into manifestation the Christos; the God asleep
within; this is Christification; the crucifixion of the carnal
through its sacrifice upon the altar of purification or elevation.
In the language of Sacred literature, this is the search for, and
final finding of the Holy Grail; in Occult, Esoteric, or Alchemi
cal language, it is finding the "pearl of great price"; that same
pearl which the Nazarene commanded not to be cast before
swine. It is the unraveling of the truth, or the spirit hidden in
every human Soul. It is the finding of the kingdom of heaven,
which the Nazarene promised to the few—those who would
follow Him (the Path) and obey; that
is,
ACTUALLY LIVE THE
LIFE.
Creedism, dogmatism, ritualism, however beautiful, will
never accomplish this, whatever the name or the power of the
church. Humanism and the spiritual life alone can bring about
the spiritualization of man. Let the battle of creeds cease, and
the life of the spirit underlying creeds be given an opportunity
to manifest among men and show its Divine power. Such IS
the theme of this work as
it
is
of ALL true religion.
The present work
is
in no sense an original one.
It
is
not,
by
any consideration,
a
literary production. There
is
no continuity
of thought. There are many repetitions of the same symbolism.
Repetition has
a
definite purpose: to make the various interpre
tations and applications more readily understood —more fully
explained—and so enable the student to more easily grasp the
underlying meanings.
Proper credits could not be given because, in practically no
instance, are the quotations verbatim; instead, the quotations
in themselves are interpretations.
INTRODUCTION xix
Among those deserving great credit for their efforts in pre
senting the exoteric side of symbolism may be named: G. C.
Stewart, author of The Hierophant; the Philosopher Dupuis,
Professor Fellows, C. G. Squire, Robert Taylor, Nott and Glid-
don, Higgins' Anacalypsis, O'Brien's Round Towers of Ireland;
Professor Rhodes, Ovid, Homer, Virgil and others. Theirs is the
basis of the work; ours the interpretation and application, plus
the spiritual or Arcane indication for the unravelling of the
Mysteries of Life and the Soul.
The Addendum is based on a lecture prepared and delivered
in the ACADEMY at Beverly Hall, in the Fall of 1917, by Grace
Kincaid Morey, graduate of Oberlin College and, at the time,
one of America's greatest students of symbology. The esoteric
interpretations and application throughout the enure work, are
by the writer.
In conclusion, we wish to strongly impress upon the reader
that this work is not of a literary nature, but is purposely pre
pared for the individual instruction and enlightenment of_A_
select class of readers and students.
The purpose of this work is to establish an understanding
among all true believers in a God of Love and Justice, recogniz
ing that all major religions had a common, identical basis, with
an inner or esoteric "mystery," the word used by the Nazarene.
Gradually, step by step, the form, ceremonies and names of
religious teachings changed from the symbolism of the DRAMA
OF THE HEAVENS, to Gods, then HEROES, and finally MEN.
We proclaim that the spirit is the life of religion as it is of
the Soul, and that this spirit must be ultimately found by all
men in order that, whatever their outer faith may be, they will
LIVE IN PEACE WITHIN THEIR OWN SPIRIT.
Fraternally given,
R. SWINBURNE CLYMER
January 11, 1951
Beverly Hall,
Quakertown, Pennsylvania
THE ANCIENT MYSTERIES
The Lesser (outer) Mysteries Symbolical of the
Greater (inner) Mysteries.
ILL authoritative writers on the subject of the Arcane
Mysteries, frequently called the Greater and Lesser
Mysteries, agree that "there never was an age of the
world, from the most early accounts of time to the present,
when any civilly-policed nation or people offered a religion for
the masses which did not have as its foundation and support,
the doctrine of a future promise of reward, or threat of punish
ment. . . .Ml
"All the religious inculcations of the past have pivoted
upon the promise that after life on earth ends, there is an in
visible Judge who punishes and rewards the actions of men, both
for their good and evil deeds."
This misconception, or misinterpretation of a Law, clearly
explained by the Initiates of all times, the true Gnostics and the
Nazarene, is linked with the further misunderstanding of the
basic principles of true religion and the intent and purpose of
the Ancient Mysteries.
The fundamentals of religion are a trinity: (1) The exis
tence of God, (the Gods) according to GENESIS; (2) The Im
mortality of the human Soul, and ( 3 ) The ultimate of a SPIRIT
of Universal Brotherhood among all mankind.
1Many thinkers, especially those who have attained to Cosmic Consciousness
or Philosophic Initiation, are convinced that this has been the great weakness of
all popular forms of religion. It is not the fear of "tomorrow," or a long-
distant future, that restrains mankind from sinful thoughts, desires and deeds
(sowings), but the knowledge that the "reapings," the punishments or rewards,
the REactions, begin right here and now. The master Nazarene was fully aware
of this ever-active Law when he said: "As ye sow so shall ye reap," and implied
that such reaping began almost at once and not in some future state or distant
time.
2 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The Great Work of the Ancient Mysteries, and hence of
Philosophic Initiation 2, was, and still
is,
for the seeker to prove
to himself the truth of these teachings.
In the analysis of the Egyptian Mysteries,
by
the light of the/
our Arcane knowledge, we find that the corner-stone of knowl
edge—which was actually a wisdom gained through initiation
—had its foundation in the certainty that the first great cause
for existence itself was spirit; that the first and only element
was the Soul, and that this Soul existed eternally and filled
infinity.
By the power of its Will, the Soul divided itself into eman
ations or many separate or individual Souls, and —being from
God, or part
of
God—
by
its own inherent capacity for creation,
the unresting, or eternally restless element of force, was evolved.
Following this came matter which, moving on the ocean of
chaos, created form and evolved or established order.
Hence
it
is
said, with truth—and those seeking to attain the
ultimate should remember this saying in all its applications—
that "Order
is
heaven's first Law," because confusion or chaos
always follows disobedience. He who refuses to obey this Law
will be destroyed.
In the order of creation, the fiery particles of matter ascended.
It
is
written that "heaven"
is
above. To form the luminous
bodies, the heavier bodies descended and ultimately separated
into earths, seas, plants, animals and, finally, into the entities
which became men.
This "earth plane"
is
what we know as "hell," or the tem
poral — the ever-changing and constantly-suffering plane of
existence.
It
is
the below into which Souls fall to gain wisdom
and understanding
by
experiencing both joy and suffering.
"The term Philosophic Initiation will be used throughout this text to imply
the efforts, and the final success, of the individual seeking to personify in Bis
life the symbolic inculcations embraced in ritualistic initiations, such, for in
stance, as are employed in modern times, by The Fraternity of Osiris, Free
Masonry in certain of its phases, The Order of the Holy Grail and similar
organizations.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 3
From the eternal or Cosmic—the Soul—proceeded successive
emanations of spiritual
3
beings, more or less elevated according
to their particular status of ascent or descent in the grand scale
of the spiritual
3
kingdom.
Herodotus claimed that the Egyptians were the first who dis
tinctly taught the Immortality of the human Soul, not as a
Conscious entity, but with the capability of becoming —or at
taining to—such Consciousness.
The foundation of the Egyptian Mysteries, which implies the
Egyptian Initiation, was based on the knowledge of those who
instituted the Mysteries. They taught that the Soul had originally
existed in a pure, sinless state, that it then fell from its original
purity and innocence, and gravitated from the form of a spirit
ual essence into a material body. Realizing its reduced status,
its chief concern, the aim and scope of all earthly creatures
(man), was to pass through successive states of experiences —
sufferings and joys—purifications and exaltations —back to the
original fellowship with—NOT INTO —the Deity.
This was the central doctrine, the pivotal point of Plato, Py
thagoras, Jamblichus, Plutarch and all of the real renowned
sages, philosophers and historians who flourished from the be
ginning of historical times.
It was also the doctrine of all those fortunate enough to have
been accepted by the Mystery, or Initiatory schools, and to have
attained to Philosophic Initiation. This includes the early Chris
tian fathers; thence the Cabalists of the Occult Schools, the
Gnostics (or knowers of truth) , Therapeutics, Essenes and other
Initiates of the mediaeval ages, up to the authentic Rosicrucians
of the present day.
To attain to Philosophic Initiation was the ambition of the
enlightened man. The man of the crowd was satisfied with
The term spiritual is here used for want of a better and mote descriptive
word.
4 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
symbolic (semblance of) Initiation
*
and sought no further.
These believed with the poet:
"Aerial spirits, by great Jove designed,
To be on earth the guardians of mankind;
Invisible to mortal eyes they go,
And mark our actions, good or bad, below.
The immortal spies with watchful care preside,
And thrice ten thousand, round their charges glide.
They can reward with glory or with gold;
A power they by divine permission hold." —Hesiod
The true seekers, those who became the Priests and Initiators,
were not so easily satisfied. They sought spiritual development,
and continued to seek, until they attained to the Soul's Con
sciousness (meaning Cosmic knowledge of the Soul's divinity).
The belief in jp/r/V-existence, of a life beyond the Great
Divide, was sufficient to insure mass acquiescence to the National
Cultus. The popular morality of the masses has never been
sufficiently high to attain to die high ideals aspked to, and up
held by, the Initiates in the Mysteries, because the majority of
mankind never did possess the desire for, or the willingness to
undergo, the self-denial necessary for such attainment.
As a result, the Lesser Mysteries, that which we know as
ceremonial or ritualistic initiation, were instituted for the pur
pose of teaching the truth of the Soul's existence and to give
mankind an assurance and a self-satisfaction otherwise impos
sible. Moreover, these initiations constituted a bond that served
to bind the masses together, even if only loosely.
Try as we will, we cannot get far away from the shadow or
fact of the existence of a pre-Egyptian country, any more than
we can outlaw the belief in the pre-existence of the Soul.
By giving consideration to Egypt as a land of glory, blessed
with the knowledge of the Immortality of the Soul, we are
'Initiation by ritual, by imitation, not by Soul awakening. This is the opposite,
or counter to, Philosophic Initiation.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 5
brought back in a circle, as it were, to the legendary Atlantis;
this for the very sound reason that the Mystery Schools, with
their Philosophic Initiation, had to have a beginning; and if not
in Egypt itself—then WHERE?
Accepting the existence of Atlantis as a fact, and all Philo
sophic Initiates have proven to themselves that such a continent
did exist, it is to be presumed that the inhabitants dwelt on what
was a large island, smaller islands forming a means of com
munication between what is now Europe and Africa on the one
side, and America on the other.
As to when Atlantis was in its highest glory is a subject on
which we can only speculate.
It is almost certain that Texas and the Gulf of Mexico were
a part of that continent, as were the southern and eastern states
up to, and including Labrador, while also taking in the Atlantic
Ocean, then little more than an immense river. Scotland, Ire
land, part of England, and very likely much of Brazil, and the
African Gold Coast were included.
In proof of part of this, it is to be noted, in passing, that a
human skeleton was found buried underneath ancient forests
near New Orleans, Louisiana, supposedly dating back as far as
57,000 years.
Atlantis then reached from the Andes to Hindustan, hence
the Mystery Schools of ancient India. There was an interchange,
or exchange, between countries of commodities such as maize,
native to our American Indians, from the Mississippi Valley;
copper from the Lake Superior region, so much used in Africa;
gold from Peru and Mexico, so plentiful in certain sections of
South American and Western America; spices from India; tin
from Wales, Cornwall and sections of South America; bronze
from Iberia; amber from the Baltic; wheat and barley from
Greece, Italy and Switzerland.
It would not be difficult to now connect all these products of
commerce with the countries of earth from which they originally
came.
6 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The civilization of Atlantis was old—as countries go—when
India was in its youth, and Egypt in its childhood. Atlantis
passed away, sank under the deep waters of the sea, long before
Babylon had degenerated to the most wicked city in the world5
and while Rome and London, both proud in their foolishness,
were not even a dream. These people of a legendary lost con
tinent were our ancestors. Their blood flows in our veins and
their later wickedness still lives in our hearts.
Legend tells us that Atlantis, like much of South America,
had more mountains than valleys; their summits being lost in
the clouds as are the modern Andes. Atlantis was at its best dur
ing the period of existence we know as Cenolithic or Tertiary,
including the Eocene, Miocene and Pliocene ages, hence it
was the birthplace of the various colors of men.
This great continent was watered by four principal rivers,
flowing from a central point towards four points of the compass.
From this fact we derive the legend, of the Garden of Eden.
Atlantis, with its four rivers, saw the beginning of man —the
origin of the human race. It was man's birthplace.
The climate changed from age to age, or cycle to cycle. Be
ginning with a heat so great no living creature could exist, there
was a gradual cooling process until the colored race became pos
sible. This cooling off continued until the yellow race (less
pigmentation of the skin, due to less intensive rays of the sun)
and, finally, the beginning of the white race, with practically no
pigmentation, made its appearance. At this period, the climate
was mild and pleasant —similar to that of the Azores.
The inhabitants were of three distinct races, physically and
morally, but all three were versed in primeval wisdom and the
secrets of nature.
"In the moral degeneracy of peoples, Babylon, Sodom and Gomorrah are the
outstanding classic examples. One could whole-heartedly wish these evils to
have passed into the oblivion of time, but current exposures, well authenticated,
indicate clearly that the evils of sex degeneracy now rife in our own large cities
holds many in subjection and, as happened to the peoples of these ancient cities,
may be the cause of their downfall.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 7
The three races differed widely in color and, as time passed,
their natural antagonism caused them to fight for supremacy.
The light colored race possessed less of the emotional nature
and more of cold reason, which in time gained control over the
more emotional races.
The Atlanteans had a long period of the highest and noblest
civilization. The later Greek, Roman and even Egyptian races,
in their glory, were nothing as compared to the civilization that
began with the third or "white" race.
These peoples attained to a high degree as agriculturists, part
of which was due to the fact that they were vegetarians, animal
foods forming no part of their diet.
They domesticated the horse, possessed sheep and manufac
tured woolen goods. They raised cotton and manufactured ar
ticles from
it;
cultivated maize —from whence came the wheat
to later Egypt; then oats, barley, rye, kelp and flax.
They were expert in the building of aqueducts and canals for
irrigation, the secrets of which were known to the American
Indians of the Southern United States and to certain other
countries.
The Atlanteans developed an alphabet of their own; worked
in copper, bronze, silver, gold and iron. They had
a
perfect
knowledge of magnetic energy; of the magnet, electricity and
a
source of power somewhat like our gunpowder.
The Atlanteans possessed
a
knowledge of Astronomy and the
Zodiac unknown in our present age. They had
a
type of "air
ship" which could navigate in the air or in the water, and could
carry many men or much goods. The force employed was simi
lar to the "vril" visioned
by
Bulwer Lytton in his Coming Race.
In time the Atlanteans spread out in colonies, toward both
east and west. This required centuries to accomplish and before
relations were established between the mother country and the
outlying settlements thousands of miles apart, there sprang up
— due to distance and infrequent intercourse — new dialects
native to the many isolated settlements.
8 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The religion of the people was a gradual development and
differed according to racial progress. The religion of the few,
the Initiates—based on the concept of one universal Omni
potent first cause —reached great heights and continues to be
the basis of present-day Philosophic Initiation.
The sun, giver of life to all existing living things, was re
garded as the mighty symbol—SYMBOL, NOT REALITY—an
instrument of the ONE GOD, or causative Law. The Soul of man
was held to be immortal, though not Consciously so until this
CONSCIOUSNESS WAS ATTAINED BY SELF-EFFORT.
Unfortunately, in time, decadence set in among the people
of Atlantis, a decadence through which all ancient nations thus
far have passed to their end, always as a direct result of vicious
practices and weakness due to their own lack of effort. Towards
the end of their civilization the Atlanteans, like other nations
after them, became terrible sorcerers6 and this brought about
their ultimate fall.
Unfortunately for our times, we are in the whirl of another
just such a decadent cycle. With few exceptions, men today
seek to obtain the things they want with as little honest effort
as possible, with the result that the comparatively few who are
well organized reap the benefit at the expense of the many not
so organized.
There
is,
however, an even more insidious evil today: The
less the mass labors, the greater their compensation, the more
time do they have for luxuries and idle pastime, with the
natural result that they become physically weaker and less men
tally alert. The result: THE GREATER MASS, BEING SUBJECTED
'It
is
a
weakness of human nature to slowly degenerate so that morality and
personal responsibility are lost or destroyed. Men attempt to obtain for them
selves the things they desire, not by honest effort, but by every other means
within their power.
As
a
result, they become, by thought and act, "thieves instead of producers."
The great Master Initiate, the Nazarene, was fully aware of this. Undoubtedly
it
was this he had in mind when he said: "Only the laborer [he who produces]
is
worthy of his hire"—of that which he produces.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 9
BY CIRCUMSTANCES OVER WHICH THEY HAVE NO CONTROL,
MUST LABOR FOR LONGER HOURS; THEIR COMPENSATION
IS LESS, THEIR LUXURIES ARE FEW; THEY HAVE LESS OP
PORTUNITIES TO BE IDLE, HENCE THEY RETAIN THEIR PHYSI
CAL STRENGTH AND ALERTNESS FOR THE PROPER OPPOR
TUNITY, AND IN TIME OVERTHROW THOSE (APPARENTLY)
MORE FAVORED ONES AND THEIR GOVERNMENT. History
teaches us this, all too plainly, but we are blind to its warnings
and, like the ancient peoples, unless we awaken to our peril, will
be made to suffer the consequences.
10 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
THE PYRAMID
An Altar to God. a temple of Initiation, a
resting place for the gods.
"In chat day there shall be an altar to the Lord in the midst
of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the
Lord; and it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the
Lord of Hosts in the Land of Egypt." —Isaiah 19:19, 20.
I N the interior of the Pyramid there was a temple de
signed to teach and illustrate all known science, and es-
Ipecially the Sacred or Secret Science of the Soul. The
Soul of man was known to the Initiates as a direct ray of Light
from Deity. The Sublime Drama, which the temples were built
to exemplify, represented successive stages in the Soul's pro
gress through matter for the purpose of gaining the wisdom
of the gods; its "fall" from pristine purity to an alliance with
gross matter; its transmigration through various experiences
for the purpose of probation and purification, its ultimate
growth into manhood, and —should the animal nature gain the
ascendency, its descent again into degradation or, contrawise,
should the spiritual in its nature prevail, its new rebirth and
final transformation into Cosmic Consciousness.
The greatest of these temples was the famous Temple of
Cheops which, by profound and correct astronomical calcula
tions, the founders designed to be the then physical center of
the earth.
They likewise metaphysically designed it to be the great
center for the school of all the sublime teachings which, in
the form of the Greater Mysteries, too profound for the vulgar
mind, were later to be organized and exemplified in Symbolic
or Ritualistic Initiation, in which, and during which, symbols
displaced inner development and knowledge as the result of
personal experience.
12 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
f- The base of the temple is the perfect square which symbolizes
in its four corners the sacred number 1, the beginning, the four
square man of body, spirit, mind and Soul; the union of the
masculine and feminine principles, i.e., balance or equilibrium
between the two forces.
-r Its corners are the perfect triangle, the A} symbol of fire,
the Soul; emblematic of the Great Light so highly esteemed by
all true Initiates throughout the ages.
1 The triangle also symbolizes the number three and is further
symbolic of the descent of the sun upon its apex at the two
solemn epochs of the year, which signifies life eternal, and ad
versely, death as the result of adverse principles of evil. One of
these Initiates has this to say:
"The magnificent unison that strikes from the lowest depth
to the highest pinnacle of creation, including all the tones of
creation, sounds in vain the harmony of choiring worlds upon
the ears that are dulled to every tone save the clink of money—
the emblem of materialism—but amidst this eclipse of the
true Light, this total darkness on the subject of the spirit of
religious faith, the grand old Pyramid of Cheops stands grimly
mute except to the knowing ones; eloquently speechless, waiting
for the hour when the builders of the new Temple of a divine
humanity, missing the key-stone of the arch, which is neither
oblong nor square, shall search amidst the 'rubbish' of antiq
uity, and finding the 'stone that the builders rejected,' place
it as the keystone in the arch by which the heavens [the above]
overshadows the earth [the below], and constitutes the Uni
versal or Divine Temple of the Master Builder —God.
"Notwithstanding the picture of a supposed degradation
handed down to us by selfish interests, the animating spirit
of ancient Egypt, which filtered through the epics of classic
Greece, and the memories of once stately Rome, still lives in
the depths of the Souls as well as the Subconsciousness of men.
"The spirit continues to animate the inner depths of the
earnest student and the patient scholar to fresh research in the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 13
letter of the past, but not dead, Orient —an Orient unknown to
the mass and the superficial scholars —and there will be fresh
discoveries in the hidden, or secret meaning of the Orient's
immortal Soul.
"The day will come when gross materialism as we know
it,
and which holds men in its iron grip, will weaken, and the
Mysteries of the ancients will become the science of the mod
erns. In the morning light of revelation the Great Pyramid of
Cheops will reveal its innermost secrets; the alphabet which
spells out the significance of the Divine Drama of existence;
not as men know
it,
but as it really is."
The poet glimpsed this truth:
"Gazing, rapt, awed, upon that mighty pile,
The mind
is
filled with wonder, and we ask,
Is
it
a
tomb or teacher? Whence its style?
What men, what age conceived, achieved the task?
Wonder of wonders in the land of Nile,
Its chambers, passages, mysterious coffer,
Its layers, angles, measurements and stone,
All each, to unsealed eyes of men now offer
Solutions (for four thousand years unknown)
Of truths which stand against the doubting scoffer,
The clearer from their test, as fully shown.
How, in its presence, modern pride
is
bowed!
Its hoary wisdom whispering from the dead,
Sublime, mysterious, awful, with the shroud
Of forty centuries wrapped around its head!
We catch its muffled tones, now low, now loud,
And hear with wonder nigh akin to dread." —
Joseph A. Seiss, in
A
Miracle
of
Stone
The Egyptian, or Greater and Lesser, Mysteries were shrewdly
and painstakingly hidden in the symbolism of the pyramids. In
these Mysteries there was both an outer or open worship for
the mass, and an inner form of worship for the Initiates.
It
has
14 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
been stated, all too frequently, by those who knew little of these
Mysteries, that the Priests of the Temples of Initiation deliber
ately brought this segregation about.
This is utterly false. The people themselves would not
understand; were wholly unwilling to make the efforts neces
sary to unveil the Mysteries as MUST EVERY MAN FOR HIMSELF,
BY THE HELP OF THE INITIATED, but instead, themselves built
up the legends and the forms which they could understand and
worship as a creed; not as a knowledge.
What cavil is this?
Thousands of years after the building of the pyramids, after
a new cycle and a new age had set in, this was still true. The
great Initiate, the Nazarene was well aware of it. He did not
try to hide
it,
but frankly told his followers:
"And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why Speakest thou unto
them in parables?
"He answered and said unto them, Because
it
is
given unto you to know
the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them
it
is
not given."
—Matt. 13:10, 11.
Read "disciples" as "Neophytes" and again, "unto you" as
"Neophytes," and "the Mysteries of the kingdom of heaven,"
as "The Greater Mysteries."
The saying of the Nazarene
is
in nowise different from what
the Initiate Priests of ancient Egypt taught their Acolytes. More
over, these ancient Priests could not possibly have used
a
plainer
language to tell their Neophytes, that for the mass there was
a
creed and
a
worship which was symbolic or parable, and that
the true Mysteries would be unveiled to them only
if
they
progressed in their efforts and grew toward spiritual develop
ment.
Men of all nations were admitted as Neophytes to the
Mysteries. Many of these unveiled the Light and became con
scious of the meaning of this Great Light. The Initiate Priests,
on their return to their own country, or when traveling in other
countries, did not always give the same names to their Deity
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 15
or the gods of the people, due to the peculiar temperament and
lack of understanding on the part of the people.
It is unquestionably true that while one nation adopted
the gods of another or other countries, they did not necessarily
follow the same worship, nor use the same names for their gods.
This was again due to the temperament of the people and
many other reasons; but the worship, or method of worship
by the people, had nothing whatever in common with the prac
tices of the Initiate Priests.
In Rome, for instance, the worship of Bacchus was in vogue
long before the mysteries themselves were recognized and, even
so, these mysteries as known to the people were no more than
the "parables" of the Masters. Again, at times and in other in
stances, the worship of strange, that
is,
previously unknown
gods, was introduced merely for the purpose of hiding their
mysteries, as, in the same Rome, the mysteries of Isis and Osiris.
The first of these Mysteries of which we have any actual
knowledge, or account, were those of Isis and Osiris—who be
came the prototypes of the later "gods" of the Christians—
Jesus and Mary. These mysteries of Isis and Osiris were trans
planted into Greece,
by
Cadmus and Inachus; Zoroaster, as
far as
is
known, brought them into Persia; Orpheus into Thrace;
Melapus into Argos; Trophonius into Bceotia; Minos into Crete;
Cinyras into Cyprus, and Erechtheus into Athens.
These mysteries, their practice, and all their gods, though
stemming from the same truth, or the one foundation, differed
in almost every respect in the various countries; the fruit had
to be suited to the soil. BUT THE GREATER MYSTERIES, THAT
IS, THE INCULCATIONS, THE PRACTICES AND THE METHOD
FOR BRINGING THE Inner Light INTO MANIFESTATION have
remained unchanged. This
is
necessarily true, since the Light
which, Biblically speaking, "...
is
on neither land nor sea"
•was the same Light in all countries; in all ages; in the time of
the Nazarene as in the present age of the god gold.
That which
is
missed
by
almost all investigators and writers
16 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
is the very important fact that in Egypt they, the gods, were
dual—masculine and feminine; in Asia, purely masculine, in
Samothrace, ordinarily feminine; in Boeotia, masculine; in Cy
prus, strictly feminine; in Crete, masculine; in Athens, mascu
line and feminine; in Amphissa, masculine and feminine; in
Lemnos, masculine; and finally, in the Christian, masculine
and feminine.
In the Greater Mysteries throughout, the one All-Pervading
Creative principle and the one everlasting Light, is the Im
mortalizing first matter of the Soul.
The nature, as well as the ultimate goal of these Greater
Mysteries, was always and eternally the same: teaching the
CERTAINTY of the possibility of Immortalizing the Soul; a con
tinuous life throughout all states and planes.
Man, the individual, was to make of himself the temple of
the one God, by means of self-training and exaltation, so that
the Christos hidden or buried within man would be brought
into a Conscious reality: "The sons of men becoming the Sons
of God." In the one word—BECOMING—is hidden the mystery
of the Greater Mysteries.
Among the most noted and widely celebrated were the mys
teries of the Orphic, the Bacchic, the Eleusinian, the Samothra-
cian, the Cabric, and the Mithraic, until finally at the time of
the Nazarene, the simple Essenian and Gnostic were the only
mystery schools actively functioning.
The Druids of Britain had, as also the Brahmans of India,
a number of separate religious rites. The most mystic, as well
as the most complicated mysteries of all times, were those of
the Druids.
Of all the mysteries, and we have in mind the outer forms,
not the Greater or inner Mysteries, the Eleusinian, celebrated
at Athens in honor of Ceres, were the most renowned. In the
course of time, these Eleusinian mysteries swallowed, as it were,
practically all of the other mysteries.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 17
This was in part because the people surrounding Athens
gradually substituted these mysteries for, and to the neglect
of, their own rites. In the course of time, all of Greece and Asia
Minor followed suit and at length the Eleusinian mysteries,
in various forms, spread over the whole Roman empire and even
beyond its limits.
Zosismus states that: "These most holy rites were then so
extensive that they practically took in the whole of mankind."
Aristides called Eleusis the common temple of the earth. Un
fortunately, while Zosismus stated a sort of truth, he greatly
erred in his use of the words: Most holy rites, because they were
in no sense holy. They were mere forms for the release of the
emotions and passions of the people. They were an exemplifica
tion of the inner mysteries as practiced by the Initiate Priests —
the parables, and not the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven.
In these outer mysteries, or the parables celebrated, the doc
trine of a future state of rewards and punishments was taught.
This half-truth has never been changed in the forms of public
worship—the religion of the people —and the resulting mis
conception is responsible for much of the moral and spiritual
ills of our present generation.
The future, i.e., the TOMORROW, is nebulous to the mass;
something that can be put off from day to day or that never
comes; therefore not to be feared or even thought of.
The Nazarene tried his best to correct this error, but the an
cient half-truth was too solidly rooted in the human mind. In
simple language —so true and simple as to be passed unnoticed
—he taught the Law that "As ye sow, so shall ye reap."
He did not teach this as something to happen in a future
state or at a future place, BUT AS SOMETHING CONSTANTLY
HAPPENING, THAT EVEN TOMORROW WE MAY BE CALLED
UPON TO PAY FOR THE ERRORS OF TODAY. Once this mighty
all-pervading, all-governing Law is comprehended by the mass
mind, the mass will "bethink itself" in its thoughts, deeds and
18 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
acts, for humanity is now sowing ill for the reaping of tomor
row, when they may be least prepared to pay.
The mass mind was able to conceive of a Personal God who
sat in judgment over them but, fortunately or unfortunately —
depending on how we look at it—this God did not become
active with his punishments or blessings until in a far distant
eternity; hence the sowings of the day, however evil, gave them
little concern, nor did the fear of punishment hold the mass in
subjection.
The Initiates, on the contrary, were taught the Law in the
very beginning of their novitiateship, that God the Judge, is
ALWAYS WITH us, that it is the Conscience within us, ever ac
tive, which keeps the record, sets the LAW INTO REACTION, and
BRINGS UPON US OUR REWARDS OR PUNISHMENTS —HERE
AND NOW.
THE SOUL NEVER FORGETS. Upon the Soul, though not yet
brought to Consciousness, is impressed every thought, desire
and act. The Soul continues to retain these impressions unless
they are removed by thoughts, acts and deeds of what we term
"goodness." These impressions on the mind vanish from sight,
i.e., are mostly forgotten, BUT EVIL DEEDS CONTINUE FOR
EVER AS A DEBT, UNLESS REMOVED NOT BY MERE BELIEF —
BUT BY PERSONAL EFFORT.
Unrecognized by the individual, thoughts and deeds enter
into, or are built into, every phase of man's character. These
thoughts linger like a subtle perfume in the sphere of the
unconscious; pervade the sentiments, and enter into all phases
of mental and Soul structure. They enter the mental structure,
direct the motives, externalize themselves into words which
linger in the ears of others. They are materialized in deeds
which detrimentally or favorably affect the destinies of others;
probably dearly loved ones, and silently interweave themselves
into invisible but indestructible images which interfere with
individual activities when least desired. This is the mighty truth
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 19
of the mysteries which must be thoroughly understood and
never for a moment forgotten.
If this most subtle, most potential realm of being—that
which is the most innermost of the innermost within us—is
thoroughly explored, then all the thoughts, desires and deeds
that ever moved the activities of the race can be found in in
effaceable pictures of human Souls, even though these Souls
are as yet unconscious.
The master Nazarene had this in mind when, as an Initiate,
he said: "Behold all the mysteries of heaven and earth shall be
revealed." Sooner or later these inner impressions will be
thrown upon the world's screen, as the projector throws the
drama on the screen of the local theatre.
The Neophyte in the Mysteries is made to realize, to become
consciously Conscious, that nothing in Nature is ever lost. Noth
ing is ever blotted out. Future generations living, moving and
breathing in (inhaling) images of vanished ages, grow in
them, recombine them into the elements of their own character,
and thus live again, in the ever-active, and ever ascending cycle
of time, the ideality or evil reality that was once launched into
space.
How farsighted then the vision of the Initiate Moses when
he stated the eternal Law:
"I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the
fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation." —
Exodus 20:5.
The Master of Galilee, like many of the Initiates of prior
ages, was able to read the scroll of past ages as well as the scrolls
as yet unrolled. He frequently astonished his close followers by
foreseeing and forecasting their future acts.
This was notably so concerning his betrayal by Judas and
his denial by Peter. Throughout the ages, it has been impossible
to hide from the Exalted Initiates the most secret longings, fears
and guilt of the human heart, because they are engraved upon
the Subconscious where "all who see may read."
20 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The statement, often repeated, that the Mysteries taught the
doctrine of metempsychosis (Transmigration of Souls; also
evil Souls reincarnating as an animal) is probably an uninten
tional error. It is an unfortunate use of the word; used as it
is,
as
a
synonym for the word "reincarnation," which has been
taught, and continues to be taught,
by
all the Secret schools.
Reincarnation was
a
cardinal concept of the Essenian
mysteries and was accepted
by
the Nazarene as so clearly made
manifest when he asked his disciples: "Whom do they say that
I
am?" and the answers to this question show conclusively that
he and the disciples believed in this doctrine.
-V
The Mysteries naturally taught that the Initiated —those
having attained to Soul Consciousness —would be happier—
more at peace—in the future—following entrance beyond the
Great Divide —than other mortals who had not attained to this
state of Consciousness.
The Souls of the profane (awinitiated or Soul-#»conscious),
upon the change called death, "would be stuck fast in mire and
filth"; in
a
word, in the earthly material, and remain in darkness
for perhaps ages
—or until
by
operation of the Law, and
according to the Law, the Soul would again be called, or "drawn
into," reincarnation or physical rebirth.
Initiation started —still starts—its work with man as though
he were
a
child, or as "at the beginning." "Ye must become
as little children," said the great Master.
^ This means that all prejudices and preconceived ideas not
based on experience, must be set aside. Neophytes entering the
Temples were required to lead lives of purity. In the temple,
ritualism was unknown. Neophytes were placed under rigid
training and development with but one end in view—the find
ing of the Christos WITHIN themselves,
by
bringing this in
herent spark
of
Divinity into consciousness.
This was then, as
it
is
now, the aim
of
Initiation. No one
could then, or can now, attain to Initiation until this
is
accom
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 21
plished. After succeeding in this effort, the Initiate was able to
understand what was later so simply stated by the Nazarene:
"Ye are the temples of the Living God."
The Neophyte had in truth transmuted his carnal self into
a spiritual self and God. The Christos, or Christ, was in him—
in the human Temple. The Priests of the Mysteries were wholly
justified in saying that Initiation assured a happy future state
for all men who become (Soul) Conscious beings; becoming
exactly what the Nazarene became as a result of his Initiation
into the Essenian Mysteries.
Plato plainly stated that: "Initiation is the aim and end to
restore the Soul of the Neophye to its original purity." It is
easily understood that the masses, who did not undergo such
purification and development of the Soul, could not expect to
pass from the present state of imperfection into a state of per
fection.
The Priests of the Mysteries conceived then, AS THEY DO
NOW, that virtue, honor, self-respect and personal responsi
bility were of the utmost importance —were absolutely neces
sary—in order to become or attain.
Epictetus taught that: "The Mysteries are essential . . .
to the well-being of humanity. We come into their true
spirit when we recognize that everything contained in the
Mysteries was instituted by the ancients, for the instruction
and amendment of life."
Porphyry gave some of the moral teachings which were en
forced in the instructions of the Mysteries; among them: to
honor one's parents; to forebear cruelty to animals; to be of
clear and unblemished character, and free even from the sus
picion of any crime.
'
It was not necessary, as some have thought, that the Neophyte
confess to the Hierophant crimes committed or inherent weak
nesses. The Priest quickly became aware of them. When Nero,
after the murder of his mother, took a journey into Greece,
22 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
with the intention of being present at the celebration of the
Eleusinian Mysteries, he was refused admission. Emperor M.
Antonius purged himself to the world of the death of Avidius
Cassius, and chose to be initiated into the Eleusinian Mysteries,
as it was a well-known fact that none were admitted into the
Mysteries who labored under the punishment of any immorality.
All the anciently initiated were ordered to observe the great
est purity and highest exaltation of mind. "When you sacrifice
and pray," ordered Epictetus, "go with prepared purity of mind,
and with a disposition so disposed as are required of you when
you approach the ancient rites of the Mysteries."
Proclus tells us that "the Mysteries and the Initiations drew
the Souls of men from the material, sensual, and merely human
{carnal} life, and joined them in communion with the gods."
No less a degree of purity was demanded of the Initiated in
their future conduct. All Neophytes were bound by a most
solemn obligation, to commence a new life of strict purity and
virtue. They were started into this new life by a severe course
of training, which is necessary to purge the mind of its natural
defilements —grossness or carnality. There has been no change
in this throughout the centuries. The Nazarene taught this Law
in a few words.
"Do not put new wine into old bottles." —Matt. 9:17.
This means that when man enters the Path of Initiation,
he enters what
is,
in fact,
a
new life, and hence
a
new Law
is
called into activity. The old self with all its undesirable charac
teristics —the old bottle—must be put aside, and
a
new vessel
for the new spirit (wine) must replace it.
Gregory Naxiensen states that: "No one can be Initiated
into the Mysteries of Mithras until he has undergone all sorts of
tests to prove himself holy and impassible."
The Initiates, under such discipline, were esteemed as the
only happy men —men at peace. Aristophanes, who spoke for
the people, caused them to exult and triumph after this manner:
"On us only [the Initiates] does the sun [spirit] dispense
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 23
his blessings. We alone receive pleasure [full benefits] from
his beams. We, who are Initiated, and perform towards strangers
and citizens all acts of piety and justice, ... are the select."
This self-laudatory statement is more readily understood
when it is remembered that those so Initiated had brought
the Christos into Consciousness and could honestly claim to
be in communication with God. Later, one of these Initiates,
the Nazarene, who had so lived and attained, made a somewhat
similar statement: "Lo, I the Christ, have been with you
always."
"Happy is the man," said Euripides, "who hath been Initiated
into the Greater Mysteries, and leads a life of piety and
religion."
The honest farmer, Trygaeus, in the Pax of Aristophanes, is
made to say: "I must become an Initiate before I die."
The Athenians believed that those who became Initiates
and hence were fully instructed in the Mysteries, would receive
divine honors after their transition. Such honors were not con
ferred upon man because he was an Initiate, but because in the
becoming of an Initiate, he had to purify himself; relieve him
self of past unworthy deeds, and greatest of all, learn to know,
through experience, that he had become in reality the Temple
of Christos, or the Living God. Having found Christ in his pre
sent life, he merely transferred into a similar state of existence
and consciousness after passing the Great Divide.
Everything concerning the Mysteries was under the strictest
secrecy. St. Augustine states that: "There are many truths,
which it is inconvenient for the state to be generally known:
and many things, which though false (in form) it is best for
the people to believe; and that, therefore, the Greeks shut up
their Mysteries in the silence of their sacred mysteries."
Modern smugness has a way of sneering at this secrecy and
a feeling of "holier than thou," believing this to have been
paganism, forgetful of the fact that the accepted founder of
24 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Christianity fully agrees with all that was taught by the an
cients; as for instance:
"To you it is given to know the Mysteries of the Kingdom of heaven,
but to others [the people, the profane, the masses] it is not so given." —
Matt. 13:11.
And again:
"Cast not pearls [truths —the mysteries] before swine . . . [because
being ignorant, hence superstitious] they will turn and rend you." —
Matt. 7:6.
Compare these sayings with those of St. Augustine and you
will find they fully agree in principle if not in words.
Like the inculcations of the Nazarene who taught in parables
for the masses and in secret for his disciples or "the Initiated,"
there were anciently the two classes of the Mysteries; the Lesser
and the Greater; the inner and the outer; the parable and the
Arcane. The inner Mysteries were for the Initiates only, because
they alone could understand and apply them.
These Mysteries could not be taught to the people. If an
attempt had been made to instruct them, they would not have
been able to comprehend the truth. The people believed in and
demanded a personal God, and not a Christos within every man
which had to be brought into consciousness.
It was likewise with the doctrine of rewards and punish
ments. They would not understand that there was an ever-
active Law, which by its own Reaction, brought punishment
upon the evil-doer, hence only the fear of punishment by a
superior being could hold them in check. Long centuries after
the institution of the Mysteries an attempt was made to teach
the people part of these inner Laws, but this resulted in the
profanation of the Mysteries themselves. When men actually
desire the truth, they will seek for it. This also was understood
by the later Initiate as implied by his saying:
"Seek and ye shall find;
Knock and it shall be opened [revealed] unto you." —Matt. 7:7.
Both the Lesser and the Greater Mysteries —as note the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 25
Christian teachings —were originally instituted for the benefit
of the people as a whole. It necessarily follows that the precepts
taught in both were equally for the benefit of society. It was
only when unthinking Initiates left the beaten paths and tried
to instruct the masses in the inner teachings and practices, FOR
WHICH THEY WERE IN NO WISE PREPARED, that the Mysteries
fell into idolatry. The Nazarene understood this clearly, as did
all of the real Gnostic fathers, hence the teaching of truth by
means of parables and symbols.
The Lesser Mysteries were no more than the Greater Mys
teries clothed in simple language so all could apply them in
their daily lives. The Greater Mysteries demanded nothing of
those who entered them, except that which could be obeyed
or lived.
All men can, if they will, live a life of purity. All men have
the ability to be honest. Every man can think, desire and act so
as to bring into life and activity the Divinity—the Christos—
the Gnosis, buried within himself. Unquestionably this is at
times difficult and demands restrictions and self-denial, but it
IS possible and the ultimate reward, the REaction is indeed great.
In the Mysteries the doctrine of Unity, or diversity in Unity,
was a basis to work from. In modern phraseology: "God [one]
in us; and we in God." The unit is a point of centralization.
From the unit, the center, have sprung all things, and from
it all power will continue to flow.
Clemens Alexandrinus states that "The Egyptians did not
attempt ever to reveal their Mysteries indiscriminately to all,
nor expose their truths concerning their gods to the profane,
but only to those who were to succeed to the administration of
the state; and to such of the Priests as were approved."
In the Mysteries, man was accepted as an individual, as apart
from all other men, a unit in the universe, a unit containing
within himself all that existed in the world outside of himself.
That which existed within himself was to be brought into outer
manifestation. When this was accomplished, man became a
26 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
"god." This great and almost incomprehensible truth was ac
cepted centuries later by the great Initiate-teacher, the Nazarene:
"And now the sons of men have become the Sons of God."
If man has become a Son of God, he most assuredly has be
come "a" god. This great truth gave rise to many misconcep
tions, among them that gods such as Jupiter, Mercury, Bacchus,
Mars and others had been men of flesh before they were gods.
Whether this be true or false does not matter; any more than
that the lowly Nazarene became a Christ, or "the" Christ. What
is of great importance is that they were "givers of the Law,"
and that they taught mankind basic, applicable laws for the
welfare and progress of all who would accept them.
Clemens stated: "The doctrines delivered in the Greater
Mysteries are concerned with the universe. Here all instructions
end. THINGS ARE SEEN AND KNOWN as they are. Nature, and
the things of Nature, are given to be comprehended." In other
words, the things of the spirit can be comprehended ONLY by
the spirit, because man, become an Initiate, has found the Chris-
tos to be his Living Soul. He has also come into the knowledge
which is hidden within the Soul.
Strabo stated: "Nature first dictated to man the institution of
the Mysteries, as also the other rites of religion. The secret cele
bration of the Mysteries preserve the majesty due the Divinity,
and at the same time imitate its nature, which hides itself in the
senses."
In this saying we are brought face to face with the teachings
of the Thrice Wise Hermes, the Lawgiver, when he stated it as
a Law:
"As above, so below.
As in the inner, so in the outer."
As it is in heaven, so must it become on earth. Man cannot
comprehend the secrets of Nature unless he first awakens the
spirit of his own self and comes into harmony with this spirit.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 27
To know God, man must learn to know God's handmaiden,
Nature. It is through Nature that all things are born into the
physical form.
Initiation was, and continues to be, the avenue for the de
velopment of all the faculties with which the human creature is
endowed, and as the result of which, man becomes a "god" or
God-like. Is it not written: "And now the sons of men have
become the Sons of God."
The religious inculcations of almost, if not all churches, al
most universally hold it as a cardinal doctrine that the Nazarene
WAS a Son of God, but are equally emphatic in their denial that
there were, or are, other Sons of God. This denial is refuted
frequently by the most authoritative writers of the books of the
Bible, especially of those of the New Testament, and it is es
sential to our thesis that we prove this:
"But as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become
the sons of God." —St. John 1:12.
Two words are to be carefully considered: RECEIVED and
BECOME. To receive means to accept; it further means to make
use of; to apply; to do accordingly. Hence, as many as accepted
the Nazarene's teachings, living according to the spirit of these
teachings, would thereby, or as a result of so living, that
is,
FOL
LOWING THE PATH HE DID, then BECOME the Sons of God,
God, even as he had so BECOME or ATTAINED.
"Beloved now are we the sons of God." —
1
John 3:2.
Now are we the Sons of God. This clearly indicates that
there was
a
prior state when they were NOT Sons OF God, but
that they had BECOME such. Man
is
not born
a
Son of God,
but
by
application,
by
effort,
by
obedience to the Law, one may
BECOME
a
Son of God.
"For as many as are led by the spirit of God they are the Sons of God."
—Romans 8:14.
To be led
is
to follow the path, or in the WAY OF THE LEAD
ING. This implies OBEDIENCE TO THE LAW. But
it
does more.
28 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
It tells clearly that it must be by (in) the spirit of God. The
letter must be obeyed so that the spirit will be awakened; then
will those who do so BECOME the Sons of God.
Plutarch taught that: "The first cause of all things is com
municated to those who approach the temple of Isis with pru
dence and sanctity. Idle curiosity can avail nothing. The
Mysteries can only be had in one way, and that way is by LIVING
THE LIFE AND THEREBY COME INTO CONSCIOUS COMMUNICA
TION WITH GOD and the gods."
Among the mysteries of Egyptian Initiation were the teach
ings concerning the existence of the one Supreme Being, the
one God, implying the error of polytheism as then understood,
and the future state of the Soul—this implies pre-existence. The
Mystery of rebirth, whether of the spirit (in this sense, the
Soul), or of the body, or of both, is as much a mystery to the
mass as it was then, or in the time of the Nazarene. Few can
understand it. None can fully comprehend these mysteries ex
cept those born in the spirit as a result of the awakening of the
Christos.
Diagoras, the Melan, foolishly revealed the Orphic and Eleu-
sinian Mysteries, with the result that, in thus "casting pearls be
fore swine," he was condemned as an atheist by the people
whom he sought to help.
He also persuaded his friends not to become initiated into the
Mysteries and the city of Athens ostracized him and set a price
on his head. Socrates was not an Initiate, but had learned many
of the truths taught in the Mysteries and in turn tried to teach
them to the people, with the result that he drank the poison cup
for relief.
This has been the history of all who sought to help mankind
beyond the things they could comprehend. The knowing ones
no longer blame the Initiates or the Priesthood for not instruct
ing the people in deeper truths than they could bear: "Cast ye
not pearls before swine."
Aristides claimed that the welfare of Greece was made secure
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 29
by the Eleusinian Mysteries alone. The Greeks during their
glory, placed their chief hopes and happiness in them and be
came great because of them. They remained great until they
forgot the truth of the mysteries and fell into degradation be
cause of unhallowed practices. Euripides causes Hercules to
state: "I was blest when I got sight of the Mysteries." It was a
proverbial saying when anyone thought himself in the highest
degree of happiness and was urged from within to say: "I feel
as though I had been Initiated into the Higher Mysteries," i.e.,
transported into Heaven.
Sublime as were the Mysteries, outside of the inner temples of
Initiation, ultimately it was their fate to become corrupted. A
number of factors entered into this, chief among which was the
fact that inferior priests of the Lesser Mysteries, and sometimes
Neophytes, would prove unworthy and recreant and be expelled.
Such expelled Neophytes often left their home country for
another, and there set up, clandestinely, that
is,
without full
knowledge, and without authority or permission of their su
periors, self-styled temples of initiation. They instituted and
celebrated the "Mysteries," to the extent of their knowledge,
which, at best, was superficial and wholly misleading.
All countries were sooner or later accursed
by
this debasement
of the real Mysteries. Not having attained to Initiation, the self-
appointed leaders could not teach the Arcane, nor bring about
the Initiation of those who fell dupes to them. The Mysteries
were thus prostituted more and more as time passed.
This unauthorized activity brought about the horrid impieties
and debasements committed in what were known as the "mys
teries" of Bacchus at Rome, of which the historian Livy has given
us an account. In the beginning of the narrative he tells of the
mischief which was occasioned
by
one of these debased ex-
Neophytes who called themselves priests and were accepted as
such, bringing shame and disgrace upon the true Mysteries.
In Livy's words: "A Greek of mean extraction,
a
little priest
and soothsayer, came first into Etruria, without skill or wisdom
30 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
in the mysterious rites, many of which would, in their pure form,
have improved the people and have been for the culture and
perfection of mind and body."
It was in this manner that terrible and disgraceful deeds were
committed in all countries invaded, NOT BY INITIATES AND
HIEROPHANTS, WHO WERE ALWAYS ZEALOUS FOR THE PUR
ITY OF THE TEACHINGS AND RITES, GUARDING THEM WITH
THEIR LIVES, but by degraded Souls who themselves were un
willing to undergo the ordeals and sacrifices necessary to become
Initiates and Priests, and proved recreant to their most sacred
vows.
The real Hierophants, Priests and Initiates were at no time
to blame. They did their very best to keep the Mysteries in their
pristine purity and taught only the truth. In the degree these
Mysteries were profaned by renegades, and accepted by the
people, the REAL INITIATES DREW AWAY FROM THE PEOPLE
UNTIL AT LAST ONLY THE PROFANATIONS REMAINED.
At the time of the Nazarene there remained but one great
School or Order which continued to instruct and guide Neo
phytes in the Greater Mysteries. This is known to us as the
Essenian Priesthood. The Nazarene, like many before and after
him, was Initiated in this Order.
Is. Casaubon in his Annals of Baronius states:
"When the Fathers7 made an effort to bring love (acceptance
of truth) to minds previously corrupted by superstition, they
first adopted many terms used in their rites (the Mysteries) ; and
after thus treating the several truths of the true doctrines, they
further adopted some of the ceremonies, that they might seem to
be saying, as Paul said to the Gentiles, 'Whom ye ignorantly
worship the same do I declare unto you.' Thus it came that the
'These "fathers" -were neither Neophytes of the Mysteries nor yet Initiates,
but stood in between the two classes. Today we would call them initiates of the
Lesser Mysteries, NOT of the degree of Philosophic Initiates, therefore neither
authorized to teach nor to celebrate any part of the Mysteries.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 31
Fathers called the sacraments they superficially instituted by the
same names as were used to describe the Mysteries, as mueseis,
teletas, teleiosei, epopteias, or epopseias, telesreria, and some
times though rarely, rites.
"The Eucharist they emphatically denominated the mystery of
mysteries;8 and also, by autonomy, the mystery, or in the plural,
the mysteries. You may also everywhere read in the writings of
the Fathers, when treating of holy communion, the words
phrieta, mysteria, or aporeton, mysterion, referring to those that
were to be divulged and those that were not; those that were for
the Initiates only and those that were for the mass."
Right here we come face to face with the secret of the ages.
A dual religious inculcation; one for the select or elect, the other
for the masses, and we are once again confronted with the Naz-
arene's positive statement:
"To you it is given to know the kingdom of heaven; but to others it is
not so given; to them it is taught in parable." —Matt. 13:11.
In the ancient writings the Greek verb myesthai is frequently
employed to signify the "becoming a partaker of the Lord's Sup
per." The term myesin for the act itself, and mystes for the
Priest, from the term hierophant, which means "master." or
"teacher," the disciples of the Nazarene always addressing him
as "master." In the Greek liturgies and also elsewhere, hiera
telete and cryphis kai epiphobos telete, i.e., the HIDDEN AND
AWFUL MYSTERY means the Eucharist, and this was, and ac
tually
is,
THE CONSUMMATION OF THE GREAT WORK, THE AT
TAINMENT OF PHILOSOPHIC INITIATION; OF COSMIC, OR
GOD, CONSCIOUSNESS.
As certain degrees were used in the Ancient rites, so in like
manner Dionysius divided the whole tradition of the sacraments
into three, distinguished
by
their seasons and ceremonies.
The first was catharsis, the preparation, purgation, or
purification.
'Such
it
really was when fully understood and properly conducted.
32 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The second was the myestis or passing the Lesser Mysteries.
The third, teleosis or the consummation, that
is,
the attain
ment, which was frequently referred to as epopsian, or the rev
ered, from which stems our term reverend for one who has been
ordained, i.e., prepared for holy service.
Tully had proclaimed, even before Dionysius affirmed
it
as
a
truth, that the Athenian Mysteries brought to the dying, better
hopes. On their part, the Fathers maintained that the mysteries
of Christ brought certain salvation and eternal life to those who
worthily partook of them.9 They did not hesitate to say that the
end and ultimate fruit of the sacrament was deification,10 when
they were fully aware that this was
a
parody of the truth. In the
Fathers you may read that the end of the holy mystagogies was
deification,11 and that those who faithfully received them should
in the life to come be Gods.12
Athanasius used the verb Theopoiestha (to deify) in the same
sense, and subsequently confirmed
it
by
saying, "that
by
partak
ing of the spirit," that
is,
BECOMING one WITH THE SPIRIT, or
OF THE SPIRIT, "we are united to the God-head," that
is,
be
come God-Conscious.
It
is
perhaps not out of place here to discuss the symbolism of
the sacraments
by
which these ceremonies were celebrated. That
which
is
termed "a symbol
of
faith"
is
divers in its kinds, and
serves as tokens or tests
by
which they who are in the faith, that
is,
have the devotion, or are in the feeling, may recognize each
other.
Here
is
the ancient formula pronounced
by
the fathers, but
The term "worthily partook of them" should read: "Had successfully passed
through the Mysteries."
""The fruits of the sacraments," that
is,
the results
of
the ultimate attainment
is
deification.
"The end of the consummation, that
is,
Philosophic Initiation in its highest
attainment,
is
Cosmic, or God Consciousness.
""Faithfully received them" should read, HAVING REMAINED FAITHFUL UN
TIL FINAL CONSUMMATION. Man, the Neophyte, now the Priest or Initiate, has
"become as one of the Sons of God."
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 33
changed in modern times: "Depart hence, all ye catechumens,
all ye possessed and UNinitiated." This corresponds with the
more ancient "procul este profani," and was certainly more
honest than the present: "depart all ye faithful."
Many of the rites by the ancients were performed during the
night. Guadentius was author of the expression: "Splendidis-
sima nox vigiliarium," i.e., the "brightest night of the vigils."
The silence observed by the ancients during their secret de
votions was approved to such a degree by the first "Christians"
or followers of the Christos, that they exceeded all their mys
teries in that observance.
Seneca observed that the most holy of the sacred rites were
known only to the Initiates.
Jamblichus, in his philosophy of the Pythagoreans, distin
guished between the aporreta which was secret and could not be
taught abroad, and the exphora which was not of a secret na
ture. The early Christians (Gnostic followers) or Initiates, di
vided their whole doctrines into those which might be divulged,
(a) the exphora; that which could be taught openly to the mass,
and (b) the aporreta, or Arcane, which was secret and reserved
for the few, or the Initiated. With this the Nazarene agreed in
his statement:
"It is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven,
but to them it is not given." —Matt. 13:11.
In speaking of the Mysteries, Basilius states that they kept
their dogma secret, but their precepts were made public. The
word "dogma" is here misused. The word should be their Ar
cane, while the Laws governing the actions of men in dealing
one with the other, were openly taught or "preached."
Chrysostom agreed with this system of teaching. In speak
ing of those who were baptized for the dead, he said: "I verily
desire to relate the matter fully, but I dare not be particular
[speak openly], because of the uninitiated [those who would
not comprehend].
"They make it difficult for us in their interpretation, and
34 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
oblige us either to speak without precision, or else to disclose
that of which they should not be informed."
The ancients used the term exorcheisthai ta mysteria, touch
ing those who divulged the mysteries, so Dionysius stated: "See
that you do not disclose, nor slightly reverence13 the mysteries."
Everywhere in Augustinus, one may read of the sacraments of
the faithful.
Thus, Johannem, tract I xvi, states: "All the catechumens
already believed in Christ, but Christ does not trust them. If
we should ask one of them whether he ate the flesh of the Son
of man, he would not understand what we meant."
Again: "The catechumen are ignorant of what the Christians
receive. Let them blush that they are ignorant." This is to say,
the teachings of the Masters or Initiates are "Greek" to the Neo
phyte until such time as he also becomes an Initiate.
A catechumen is a candidate for baptism, or a person who
prepares himself for receiving it. Toward the end of the first
century, when the teachings of the Gnostics were still widely
accepted, the members were divided into two orders, distin
guished by the terms of: believers (the accepted) and cate
chumens (students or Neophytes). The latter, as distinguished
from the former, were those who had not yet been dedicated
to God as indicated by baptism.
They were, therefore, admitted neither to the holy com
munion, nor to the ecclesiastical assemblies or inner circle. As
they were not allowed to assist at the celebration of the eu-
charist, they were dismissed after the services, with the formula:
"lie catechumeni missa est."
The term "Quod norunt fideles," that is: "What the faithful
know," or, as expressed in the Greek: "Isasin oi pemuemof
formed what was known as the watchword of the secret. Thus
St. Chrysostom, in whose writings Casaubon remarked the re
1*The word reverence is here used with deep meaning. Those who do not feel
deeply, or have a deep feeling in the heart or emotions for the Mysteries, can
never succeed in fully attaining to their consummation.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 35
currence of this phrase many times, in speaking of the tongue
(comment in Psalm 153) says: "reflect that this is the member
with which we receive the tremendous sacrifice —the faithful
know what I speak of."
Hardly less frequently does the same phrase appear in St.
Augustine, who seldom ventures to intimate the eucharist in
any other words than by "quod norunt fideles,"
Tertullian tells us that: "A faithful concealment is due to
all the Mysteries from the very nature and Constitution of them.
How much more must it be due to such mysteries as, if they
were once discovered, could not escape immediate punishment
from the hands of man."
This has reference to those who are incapable of understand
ing and hence are suspicious of all and everything they cannot
comprehend. To be ignorant is to be superstitious; to be super
stitious is to be fearful; to be fearful is to be destructive of
that which is feared.
36 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
SYMBOLISM
Man's first inscribed language was by means of symbols.
I HE early Egyptians observed that from one year to an
other the overflowing of the Nile was always preceded
I by an etesian (annual) wind which, blowing in from
the north to the south, about the time of the passage of the sun
under the stars of the Crab, drove the vapors towards the south.
It then gathered them in the middle of the country of Ethiopia,
whence the Nile came; and there caused such heavy rains that
it swelled the waters of the river and brought on the inundation
of lower Egypt.
The Egyptians sought to learn the exact time when it would
be necessary for them to prepare for this inundation; this knowl
edge being vital to their life and well-being.
Close observation taught them that the flowing of the river
beyond its banks happened at about the time when the sun was
under the stars of the Lion, near the stars of Cancer, though
fairly far from the band of the zodiac towards the south.
A few weeks after the rising of these stars they became aware
that in the morning one of the most brilliant, if not the largest
star of the whole heavens, ascended the horizon. This star ap
peared shortly before the rising of the sun, which had rendered
it almost invisible during the entire previous month or more.
The Egyptians accepted the rising of this magnificent star
as an infallible sign of the sun's passing under the star of Leo,
and the time for the beginning of the inundation. This star
then became a public warning for which every one was to keep
a watchful eye, so that it would not be missed, and that on see
ing
it,
the people could retire to the safety of higher ground.
These early Egyptians gave this star two names. Because
it
38 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
warned them of danger, they called it Thaaut or Tbayuat, the
faithful, or dog; and also the Barker, or the Monitor; in Egyp
tian, Anubis; in Phoenician, Hannobech; indicating the analogy
that existed between the two languages.
The connection between this star and the rising of the river
caused the people to call it by the more common name of the
Morning Star, or more simple still, the Nile Star, or the Nile.
In Egyptian and in Hebrew, Sihor; in Greek, Seitois; in Latin,
Sirius. In later times the Egyptians gave it another name, Sothis
or Thotes, which is also Thor, the God, or the Savior.
The inhabitants, retiring into the towns following the warn
ing of the northern winds and the dog-star, remained there
two months or more until the watershed receded or passed on
During this period of inaction, their attention was drawn to
the observation of the southern winds, which were more moder
ate than those of the Spring. These winds facilitated the flow
ing of the river towards the Mediterranean. The conformitor
indicated the blowing with its direction, which was from the
south to the north; also by measuring the depths of the river,
they could regulate their husbandry according to depth of the
mud which was always in proportion to the severity of the
inundation.
All this was peculiarly applicable to the Egyptians who in
habited the delta. By placing their reliance upon the warning
providently given them by this star, and retiring to the higher
ground with the produce of their agriculture, they were able
to enjoy the comforts surrounding them.
This same necessity induced, or forced the Egyptians to be
come astronomers. The same sense of compulsion also caused
them to become painters and then writers. The inspection of
the heavens had taught them finally how to regulate their till
age of soil, so strangely crossed by that disposition which was
peculiar to Egypt.
The custom of giving symbolic names to the objects that
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 39
served them naturally led them to use the figures of these sym
bols to inform the nation of the work to be done in common,
and of the annual events with regard to which it was danger
ous to mis-reckon.
This service was performed by persons appointed for that pur
pose and was maintained at public expense. It was the duty of
those so selected to study the revolutions and aspects of the
heavenly bodies, and to communicate all necessary information
to the people.
The Etesian northern wind continued to blow for about forty
days. When this wind failed, as it sometimes did, or was too
light to cause the swelling of the Nile to overflowing, general
sadness prevailed among the people for this foreboded ill to
their crops. During the period when the waters of the Nile were
high, the inhabitants remained idle on the high grounds in
safety, watching the progress of the inundation.
The days were passed in fasting and other acts of devotion
whereby to gain the favor of the gods. The constant blowing of
the wind during the forty days that followed the rising of the
dog star were called dog days after the name of the star, and
from this we have our own modern "dog days."
The star Smuts is the second decan or Constellation of the
zodiacal sign "Gemeni." This star was called the great "dog,"
anciently named the "wolf," or special hunter and devourer of
the hare, Lepus; which is signified in the first decan of the same
sign. On the Dendara zodiac, Siris is represented as the Eagle
or Hawk. This star is named Siris, from Sir or Seir, meaning
Prince, Guardian, or the Victorious,
In connection with the name of the figure in the Egyptian
zodiac, as few-quently given, we have also Naz-Seir, or Nazir;
Naz-Seir means the Sent PRINCE. Now note the symbolism:
the rod that was promised to come forth from the root, i.e.,
loins, of Jesse was called Netzer in the Hebrew and is there
translated "the branch,"—the Princely scion who should "smite
40 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the earth with the rod of His mouth, and slay the wicked with
the sign of His breath."
This Prince is at once the "Sent Prince, the Messiah," the
Netzer of Isaiah and the Naz-Seir of the equally prophetic
constellation. This is "Him" of whom Matthew said: "He came
and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by the Prophet, He shall be called a Naz-Seir-
ene." —Matt. 2:23. The positive statement: he shall be called,
a NAZARENE.
In the fulfillment of this Prophecy, Sirus, the savior of the
earliest Egyptians, became the Prince of Peace sent by God. The
Nazarene was rejected by the very people whose leader he was
to have been. This rejection was inevitable because, first of all,
he was a Neophyte of the Priesthood of the Mysteries —the
Essenes—and then the leader of the people who were to be
rejected.
Today the Nazarene is still recognized by all Philosophic
Initiates as one of the great Master teachers, while Anubis, the
Dog-star, so important to these same early Egyptians, is today
the Blazing Star of modern Free Masonry; the star that also
leads them to higher ground, or safety, through the precepts of
their symbolism.
The Hawk and The Hoop
The "hawk" and the "hoop" were the names given to, and be
came the symbolic figures of the two winds, about the return of
which the Egyptians were most concerned. The hawk signified
the Etesian northern winds in the beginning of the summer.
This wind drove the vapors towards the south, covering Ethiopia
with thick clouds which condensed into heavy rains, causing the
Nile to swell all along its course.
The hoop, on the contrary, signified the southern wind, which
promoted the draining of the waters, and its return proclaimed
the measuring of the lands and the time for sowing.
Here is an explanation to the analogy, the peculiar resem
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 41
blance between the hawk and the northern; the hoop and the
southern winds.
It was observed that the hawk delights in the north; but that
at the return of mild weather, she casts her feathers, and turns
southward with her wings spread, to seek the place whence
comes the warm air which will assist her in the shedding of her
old feathers; bring in the new and restore her to the beauty of
her youth.
In times of the remotest antiquity—long before, and during
the time of Moses —the Arabians, neighbors and allies of the
Egyptians, had an idea about the hawk that corresponds with
what naturalists now tell us.
If we refer to the conversation which God had with ]ob, it is
shown that the Creator, and not man, by a special providence, or
let us say, by His own Eternal and never changing Law, varied
all the parts of Nature, and to good purpose regulated the in
clinations of animals:
"Does the Hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings towards the
South?"— Job 39:6.
The hawk, by the direction of its flight at the return of the
heat, became to the Egyptians the most natural emblem or
symbol of the annual winds which blew from north to south
about the time of the summer solstice, and hence became a
great signifier or omen to them.
The writers of the book of Job, though not Egyptian, made
use of the hawk's habits thousands of years later as an il
lustration of the law.
The hoop, on the contrary, made her way from the south
to the north.
She lived on small worms—an infinite number of which
hatched in the mud of the Nile —and in this way, in turn,
served the Egyptians. She took her flight from Ethiopia into
higher Egypt, where the Nile divided. She always followed
the course of the Nile, as it returned within its banks, down
to the sea. The hoop, like the hawk, was an exemplar; they
42 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
both obeyed the Law that governed them. Man, unfortunately,
has not yet learned this valuable lesson.
To the Egyptians, the warning given by the dog star was
a matter of grave concern. They anciently dated their year and
the whole series of their feasts from the rising of the Nile.
To them it was their savior, coming as it did, at the ending of
the old, and the beginning of the new. Wise as we think we
are, pagans as we think they were, WE HAVE DONE NO BETTER
THAN TO COPY THEM.
Instead of representing the dog star under the form of a star,
which might not distinguish it from another star, they sym
bolized it under the figure relative to its function and name;
surely a wise procedure for a "heathen" people. When they
desired to express the renewal, or beginning, of the year, they
represented it in the form of a door-keeper.
It could easily be distinguished by the attributes of a key;
a procedure that was copied, without credit, in another new
age or a new year of an age, in the symbolism of Peter and
his "key." At times they gave it two heads back to back, the
one an old man, which marked the expiring year, and the
other a young man, which denoted the new. In time, this be
came the double-headed Eagle of Symbolic Masonry; hence
both Christianity and Masonry owe much to the symbology
of ancient Egypt.
The legend has it that when Freemasonry was originally
established in England, soon after the edict of Canute, in the
beginning of the eleventh century, prohibiting in toto the
Druidical worship—it might be well to bear in mind that this
form of "freemasonry" followed immediately after the Druidi
cal worship was forbidden —the strongest oaths were required
to bind the Neophyte to secrecy in order that the real purpose
of its founders should not become known to any but the initi
ates.
Canute was superstitious as well as vindictive. He left for
Rome almost immediately following the edict. This indicates
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 43
both his superstitiousness and fear. Along the route to Rome he
tried to ease his restless Soul, by visiting all of the most cele
brated churches and giving "proof" of his liberality and de
votion through the generosity of his contributions. On his re
turn he proceeded immediately to Denmark, but dispatched
the Abbot of Tavishtook to England with a letter describing
the object and issue of his journey.
This letter was a "sop"1 to his guilty Soul for the destruction
of the Druidic form of worship and the substitution of another
form, as well as a preparation for his return and future activity.
In the letter he wrote: "It is long since I bound myself by
my vows to make this pilgrimage; but I have been hitherto
prevented by affairs of state and other impediments. Now,
however, I return humble thanks to Almighty God, that He
allowed me to visit the tomb of the blessed apostles, Peter and
Paul, and every holy place within and without the city of Rome,
and to honor and venerate them in person.
"This I have done, because I learned from my teachers that
the apostle St. Peter received from the Lord the great power
of binding and loosing with the keys of the kingdom of heaven
[these same "keys" that were so well known and so effectively
used to change from the old to the new]. On this account I
thought it highly useful to solicit his patronage with God."
His letter concluded with: "Lastly, I entreat all my bishops,
and all the sheriffs, by the fidelity which they owe to me and to
God, that the church dues, according to the ancient laws, may
be paid before my return, namely, the plow-alms, the tithes of
1
Webster's New International Dictionary:
A morsel, as of bread, cake, or the like, dipped in a liquid, and intended
to be eaten.
"He it is to whom I shall give a sop." John xiii, 26.
"Anything given to pacify —so called from the sop given to Cetberns, as
related in mythology.
"All nature is not cured with a sop." L. Estrange.
"A sop to Cerbens," a concession or bribe to conciliate a person otherwise
liable to be troublesome."
44 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
cattle of the present year, the peter-pence, the tithes of fruit in
the middle of August, and the kirk-shot at the feast of St.
Martin, to the parish church. Should this be omitted, at my
return I will punish the offender by exacting the whole fine
appointed by law. Fare ye well."
It will be noted that all tithes, and certainly there were many
for so poor and oppressed a people, had to be paid in the mid
dle of August.
This was the identical time of the year when the Egyptian
"doorkeeper" opened the door for the old year to pass out
and the new year to come in, using the same "keys" that
St. Paul was later supposed to have received. But what a
difference! In Egypt it was a time of rejoicing. In England
on the return of Canute, it was truly a sorrowful time,
because it is certain that in being forced, UNDER HEAVY
PENALTIES, to pay all these tithes, little was left to the
people. Certainly Canute, destroying the Druids and in
stituting the rigid rules of the church, did little to "loosen"
the bonds of the people.
The Egyptians may have been a "heathen" or "pagan" peo
ple, but it is certain that their interpretation and their practices
of the law or symbolism, were commendable and have not
been improved upon.
The Egyptians expressed the various increases of their swell
ing river by a column marked with one, two or three lines in
the form of a cross, and surrounded by a circle, the earliest
known symbol of God, to characterize Providence. Frequently,
instead of a column, they made use of a pole terminated like a
T, or crossed with one or more transverse pieces. We moderns,
with all our boasted wisdom, have not improved on this. We
still gauge the rise of the waters by a marked, lettered or num
bered board, placed where it may be readily seen by all.
The Egyptians painted the devastation made by the overflow
ing water under the figure of a dragon, a crocodile, a hippo
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 45
potamus, or some other water monsters, all destroyers, which
they called Ob, that
is,
a
swelling, or overflowing, and which
they later changed to Python, the, or an, enemy.
This change in name was made after they had learned the
full benefit of the inundation and had properly prepared for
it. Python was symbolic of the deadly effects of the miasmata
rising from the stagnant waters which were naturally left in
pools upon the lowlands after the retiring of the waters of the
inundation.
Ovid symbolizes the serpent Python springing from the
steams or vapors of the mud which the deluge had left upon
the earth. In this he makes an allusion to Typhon, whose name
is
the same
by
the mere transformation of one character. Mod
erns are all too well aware of the deadly diseases that follow
in the wake of the lowering of inundations of high waters;
this
is
especially true of our own Mississippi.
Ovid, as
a
poet, in causing Python to spring forth from the
slime of the deluge, merely points out the noxious steams or
vapors which rose in Egypt after the waters of the Nile had
subsided.
When under this symbol, the Victory of Horus over Typhon,
he says, "Apollo slew him with his arrow, which he had con
cealed," he merely tells us of the triumph of the sunbeams over
the vapors of the Nile and in this indicates his knowledge of the
purifying and healing rays or powers
of
the sun.
Python
is
derived from Pytho, the Greek, to purify. The ser
pent Python being slain
by
Apollo
is
thus readily interpreted
as Python, "the ruins of the waters" being dispersed
by
the
arrows of Apollo; i.e., the sunbeams slaying the destroying ser
pent or evils.
Typhus,
a
species of fever that usually follows in the wake
of inundations, had the same origin. An early writer, Hooper,
defines
it
as the "result of the effluvia arising from either animal
or vegetable substances in
a
decayed or putrid state; and hence,
that in low and marshy countries
it
is
apt to be prevalent, when
46 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
intense or sultry heat quickly succeeds any serious inundation."
Referring again to the word Ob, this is not obsolete by any
means. In researches in Haiti and especially in the backwoods
of the West Indies, it was found that the descendants of Africa,
still retain the name "Ob," or "Obi," for a white serpent which
they worship as a god, and by whose power they believe they
perform miracles.
Another method used by the Egyptians in communicating
to the people information respecting the inundation, was by
publicly exposing three vessels or measures. These were pitch
ers of unequal capacity and well known to the people. Their
size indicated to them either the increase or diminution of the
Nile.
This is why these vessels were so frequently found in Egyp
tian monuments. The name Canob, or canopus, given these
vessels, is due to the use made of them. Canob signifies the
fathom of the dragon, the measure of the overflowing. It is a
word combination derived from cane, a perch; a fathom, a rod,
or cane to measure; and from Ob, the dragon; hence in the
West Indies, Ob or Obi, a serpent.
These canopi were very commonly terminated by one or two
crosses. The top of the vase was often surmounted with the
heads of several birds to signify and characterize the several
winds they knew, and which either assisted or retarded the
increase of the lowering of the waters.
Sometimes they put upon the canopus the head (made of
pottery) of a dog to indicate the state of the river, or the time
of the rising of the dog-star. At other times, they placed thereon
the head (made of pottery or other material) of a maid, to
point out the state of the Nile under the sign of a virgin, and
also at the approach of the draining or retiring of the water.
The simplicity of that language which rendered itself intelli
gible to the eyes, became common by degrees, and in some in
stances animals and other figures were made to speak. This
symbolism was gradually extended to everything. The symbolic
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 47
writing soon served as a rule of morals. It regulated husbandry,
and shortly conveyed to the people the most important facts
of the time and indicated to them their principal duties.
OSIRIS, THE GOD, and THE SOLAR YEAR
The Egyptian year was related to three principal objects:
(1) To the course of the sun so important to them; (2) To
the order of the feasts of each season, showing the people's
thanksgiving for their blessings, and (3) To the work to be
performed in common to all.
The sun, the most important object in nature and for the
well-being of all creatures, also received its peculiar character
or mark in symbolic writing.
•/ The sun was named Osiris; variously interpreted as the
giver of life, the bestower of blessings; the just judge; he
who blesses and also condemns. The word also signified the
inspector; the moderator; the guide of the stars; THE SOUL
OF THE WORLD: THE GOVERNOR OF NATURE, and later, and
correctly so, the representative of the Son of Man.
More generally, it signified the governor of the earth, and
because the Egyptians also gave that name and function to the
sun, it was expressed in their symbolic writing sometimes by
the figure of a man bearing a sceptre; at other times as that
of a coachman carrying a whip, or simply by an eye; the mean
ing of "eye" and "sun" being expressed by the same word in
many of the ancient languages of Asia.1
The Egyptians were frequently contented with setting down
the marks of the dignity of Osiris in the form of a sceptre sur
mounted by an eye; or a sceptre with a serpent twined "round
it,
the symbol of life WHICH THE SUN MAINTAINS, and which
later became the Staff of Mercury, and still later, the symbol
of the physician, or more properly,
a
healer; and again
by
unit
1In the secret archives of the Academy of the International Confederation
there
is
a
manuscript considered beyond all monetary value because
it
gives the
esoteric meaning of all the ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics.
48 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ing a whip and sceptre; then again by the royal cap of Osiris
on a throne, with or without the sceptre. Each symbolization
or representation had a different meaning and referred to some
special attributes.
Almost everywhere there was present, more especially in the
places of their religious assemblies, a circle or the figure of the
sun. Near the sun, over the head of the symbolical figures,
there were at times one or two serpents. This was and still
continues to be, the symbol of life. In many places, certain
foliage symbolized the bounties of nature; sometimes the wings
of the Scarabeus' exoterically symbolized the variations of the
air; esoterically THE IMMORTALITY OF THE SOUL.
The masses of Egypt—never the Priests and Initiates—con
scious of the beneficence of the sun, gradually fell into the
natural habit of confounding the Unknown God —the unseen
giver of blessings —with the sun.
They slowly fell into the mistaken habit of accepting the
symbol of the sun, Osiris, the moderator of the year, for a per
son; hence the universal acceptance of the idea of a personal
God, which has continued to the present day and has never
been discouraged by the church.
Osiris, from a symbolical personage, became in the minds
of the masses, a real personality; one who had formerly lived
among them, and they formulated his history to harmonize
and describe his various attributes, history and works while
in the flesh.
This is precisely what the church has done in the case of
the Nazarene and this statement is not made as a criticism or
in condemnation, but as an honest and fair comparison.
As soon as the masses in Egypt became possessed with the
idea that the statues of Osiris, Isis and Horus were the Gods
of their religious forms; that Osiris had lived as a human
being, and had been interred there, much after the manner
of the Nazarene, they framed stories and legends agreeable
to this belief and these became the objects of their worship.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 49
For want of a tomb believed to contain the body of Osiris,
they were content with a cenotaph. These tombs, though
merely symbolic, became a necessary part of their annual feasts
and ceremonials, exactly as Jerusalem and its holy places are
held sacred places of worship by the Christians. There is not
one iota of difference except that one was the worship of
Osiris in Egypt and the other that of Jesus in Bethlehem.
The Cretans, being of Egyptian extraction, had their own
feasts of Osiris or Jehov, as they called him, and this Jehov
later became the Jehovah, or most sacred name of the Jews.
This feast to their god, and the empty tomb, became the
ancient symbolism of the coffin of Hiram so important among
the emblematical figures of modern Free Masonry.
This symbolism finds a close parallel in Egyptian lore: The
masses of the Egyptians came to believe that Osiris had lived
on earth, but found no place of his burial, hence they symbolized
one.
The Cretans, descendants of the Egyptians, called him Jehov;
worshipped him in like manner. The Jews renamed the Cretan
god "Jehovah," as yet unborn, but to be worshipped and to
be born.
The Christians followed the legend of both the Egyptians
and Cretans. They worshiped a man born of woman. He
became their Christ and was buried. The tomb, when ap
proached, was found empty, but continues to be regarded as a
holy place.
Here is one tree with various branches and different names.
The Eternal in its various phases—if you care to call them
that —is one and the same; i.e., there is but ONE GOD. The
Initiates taught, and still teach, that there is only one God,
but He has various names and many attributes. He is seen,
recognized and worshipped according to the temperament, the
culture, the vices and the purity of the people.
In the collection of Montfaucon there is a painting of a
mummy, representing the death and resurrection of Osiris, and
50 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the beginning, progress and the end of the inundation of the
Nile.
This painting is a half-truth of the original illustration repre
senting the "raising of Osiris" from the dead. The original itself
is symbolic of the raising of the Soul from the dead by the inter
cessions of ONE WHO KNOWS, and in addition, symbolic of
what happened yearly in Egypt before the building of the dams
which contained and restrained the waters of the Nile. It has
still further significance, as will be seen later.
In the symbolic representation, the sign (figure) of the lion
is transformed into a couch, upon which Osiris is laid out in
death. Under the couch are four canopi of various capacities,
indicating the state of the Nile at different stages of activity.
The first is terminated as the head of the dog-star, which gives
warning of the approach of the overflow of the river and by
this warning saves the lives of the people who heed it.
The second as the head of the hawk, symbolizing the Etesian
wind, which tends to swell the waters, making them still more
dangerous to those who fail to heed the warning.
The third is as the head of a heron, the sign of the south
wind, which contributes to propel the waters of the Nile into the
Mediterranean Sea and help remove the danger.
The fourth is near the Virgin, which indicates that as soon
as the sun has passed that sign, the inundation will have sub
sided and the people saved.
This symbolical presentation is considerably changed in the
chart used by the Initiates to illustrate the LIBERATION OF THE
SOUL from its sinful inheritance and the attainment of Soul,
Cosmic Consciousness, i.e., the Consummation, or Initiation.
It also represents the Soul's release after death, or the "raising
from the dead," in that Isis, standing beside the tomb, takes the
left hand of Osiris in her right, which was known as the "lion's
grip," and with her left hand behind his elbow, raises him
from the couch and he comes to life. Members of modern Free
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 51
Masonry are familiar with this legend of raising Hiram from
the grave, a coffin taking the place of the couch of Osiris.
The Egyptians as well as the Persians, in the religion of the
Egyptians as in that of Zoroaster, ages before the time of
the Nazarene, as also during the first and second centuries, be
fore the establishment of the formal church, interpreted the
resurrection of the gods, irrespective of the special religious
beliefs, in two separate and distinct ways. The one was material
and symbolical, the other spiritual and mystical.
The first conformed to the general or popular idea and was
the interpretation of the uneducated and unspiritual masses, but
was finally adopted by the church after the deliberate destruc
tion of the true Gnostic fathers and their libraries. This offense
against the mystical interpretation was due, in part, to the fact
that the unlettered masses could not understand and would ac
cept only the material interpretation.
The second interpretation was based on, and contained the
mystery, or Arcane, of the Initiates.
According to the first view, the resurrection signified the re
turn of life to the material body; the reconstruction and rein-
stitution of the decomposed corpse, which was imagined
destined and believed to take place at the second coming of a
Messiah, or at the Last Judgment at the end of time. Upon this
idea were based the beliefs and the hopes of the masses.
To the Initiate the resurrection has always had, and continues
to have, a far different meaning. It refers in part to the concept
of the three-fold constitution of man. It embraces the purifica
tion and REgeneration of the person, the "ye must be born
again," or the spiritual birth of the teachings of the Nazarene,
simplified by him, yet never understood by the many.
This purification and REgeneration may take place during
the present life on earth and in the flesh, and WILL BEGIN TO
TAKE PLACE THE MOMENT THE ACOLYTE CONCEIVES THE
TRUTH —THE BIRTH BY WATER OF ST. JOHN —AND BEGINS
TO LIVE, THINK AND ACT ACCORDINGLY.
52 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
This resurrection or REbirth, is an inner work of the Soul. To
be successful, the Acolyte must truly aspire to honesty, justice,
truth and their establishment WITHIN the self and among men.
Hypocrisy is here impossible. The Soul will appear as it really
is,
and not as
it
is
imagined to be. The Acolyte cannot long
hide HIMSELF, from himself.
According to the legend, the inner self will be mirrored as
dark and mis-shapen,
if
evil; radiant and beautiful,
if
good. St.
Paul, after passing through the ordeal of fire
—through which,
by
the way, all who are on the Path to Consummation or Initia
tion, MUST pass, fully understood this mystery and expressed
it
in his statement:
"There
is
a
natural body and there
is
a
spiritual body." —
/
Cor. 15:44.
The Nazarene stated this symbolically, as clearly as language
could convey, in his talk with Nicodemus. The more the Soul
aspires toward spiritualization, the farther
it
is
removed from
the attractions and influences of evil, until finally the attraction
looses its hold entirely.
In an old hymn to Osiris, translated
by
M. Chabas, Osiris
is
addressed as the Supreme Being, and correctly so, because at
that period, there was no other known God.
"Lord of Eternity, King of Gods, many are thy names, thy
holy transformations, thy mysterious forms in the temples . . .
he who abides in the human mouth, the creator of the world.
Atoum, who among the gods fills the being with happiness; the
benevolent spirit among spirits.
"From him the celestial abyss draws its waters; from him
comes the wind and the air to breathe and enter the nostrils, for
his satisfaction and the pleasure of his heart.
"He causes the soil to bring forth delicious products. Heaven
and the stars obey him. He opens the great portals; he
is
the
master of invocation in the southern heavens, and of adoration
in the northern heavens. ... He
is
good in will and word, he
is
the praise of the great gods and the love of the little gods."
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 53
In the Sixth Kathaka Upanishad we have almost identical
statements: "The entire universe moves in the spirit of Brahma;
he is the issue of that spirit; he is the great fear, the thunder
bolt. Those who know him become immortal.
"Through fear of him the fire burns; through fear of him
the sun shines; through fear of him the heavens revolve;
through fear of him death flies; —he is supreme."
Is this not pantheism? It is pantheism as the Initiate under
stands
it,
and not as it
is
represented to be
by
unenlightened
(without the Light) theologians who comprehend only the
word and HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE WHATEVER OF THE SPIRIT!
Is
not the letter dead and ONLY the spirit LIVETH?
It
is
the
truth. The life which IS the spirit and gives greater life,
is
the
only truth. But one must understand the letter to be able to
live in the spirit of it.
All the stupendous edifice of dogma, erected throughout the
ages of spiritual darkness
by
those WHO WOULD NOT UNDER
STAND, AND THEN BELIEVED BY THOSE WHO TAUGHT IT, IS
a
monument to superstition and ignorance which, at the first rays
of spiritual illumination, will crumble in the dust. The truth
itself, the knowledge hidden within the human Soul,
is
the
only reality.
Rees' Cyclopedia, in dealing with the Egyptian gods, states:
"Orus or Horus [these are identical] was
a
famous deity of
Egypt, who, as well as Osiris, was symbolic of the sun."
Belledonna
is
a
poison;
it
destroys life; says the profane.
Belledonna
is
a
blessing;
it
saves lives, says the physician. Both
statements are true. Given too much and with intent to destroy,
it
kills. Prescribed with knowledge to those burning with fever,
it
saves.
It
is
the same "good," i.e., agent, applied in
a
different
manner and for
a
different purpose. This wide difference must
be kept in mind when dealing with ancient mythologies, with
religions of all ages, because to them all there
is
an outer form,
and an inner mystery or meaning.
Macrobius, in Saturn, lib.
1,
informs us why the Greeks gave
54 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Horus the name of Apollo: "In the mysteries they discovered
a secret which ought to be inviolable, that when the sun arrives
at the upper hemisphere, it is called Apollo." From this we may
infer that, in the outer mysteries, this emblematical deity was
no other than the star of day, passing through the signs of
summer.
As Apollo among the Greeks was called the Horus of the
Egyptians and his skill was known in both medicine and divina
tions, he was regarded as one and the same person, and called
by the ancients Horus-Apollo. The legend of Horus is ex
plained in this manner: The wind Thamsin made great ravages
in Egypt in the spring, by raising whirlwinds of burning sands,
which often suffocated travelers; darkened the air, and covered
the face of the sun; leaving the earth almost wholly obscured.
This circumstance represented the death of Osiris, and the
reign, at least temporarily, of Typhon. When the sun ap
proached the sign of the lion, he changed the state of the at
mosphere, dispersed these tempests, and restored the northern
winds, which drove before them the malignant vapors, and
preserved in Egypt coolness and salubrity under a burning sun.
This was the triumph of Horus over Typhon. This was no more
than giving seasons the name of gods.
We moderns have changed but little. We say: Soon it will
be Fall, the frost will come and vegetation dies. Easter will soon
be here and then Spring will come and with it the warmth of
the sun and the appearance of flowers. We have simplified our
expression or description, but have also destroyed the poetry.
We have become prosaic; hard, unfeeling and, with
it,
much of
our joy has left us.
The inhabitants of northern climes had, and still have, good
reason for lamenting the absence of the sun during its journey
through the southern hemisphere. This
is
beautifully portrayed
by
Dupuis:
"In the explanation of the labors of Hercules, we have con
sidered him principally as the potent star, the depository of all
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 55
the energies of nature. He creates and measures time by his
march through the heavens. He takes his departure from the
summer solstice or the most elevated point of his route, runs
over the course of the twelve signs in which the celestial bodies
move.
"With them, the different periods or revolutions of the stars,
under the names of Osiris or of Bacchus, we shall see the bene
ficent star, which by his heat, in spring, calls forth all the powers
of generation. He governs the growth of plants and trees;
ripens the fruits, and dispenses to all the seeds and the active
sap which symbolizes the soul of vegetation.
"This is the true character of the Egyptian Osiris and the
Greek Bacchus. It is especially in the springtime that this
humid generator ( sun ) develops itself, and circulates in all the
rising vegetation. The sun, by its heat, impels the movements
of all that grows and gives it fertility.
"We may distinguish two points in the heavens which limit
the duration of the creative action of the sun. These two points
are those where the night and the day are of equal length. All
the grand work of vegetation, in a great part of the northern
climates, appears to be comprised between these two limits. Its
progressive march is found to be in proportion to that of light
and heat.
"When the sun, in his annual route, attains to these points,
an active and prolific force emanates from his rays, to com
municate movement and life to all sublunary bodies, which he
brings to light by a new organization. It is then that the resur
rection of the great God takes place, and, with this, that of all
nature.
"Having arrived at the opposite point, this power abandons
him, and nature becomes sensible of his weakness. It is attis,
whose mutilation Cybele deplored. It is Adonis, wounded in
virile (creative) parts, of which Venus regretted the loss; it is
Osiris, precipitated in the tomb by Typhon, and whose organs of
generation the disconsolate Isis never found."
56 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
All this symbolizes man whose "heat" has left him and no
longer is a creator. Little wonder the ancients mourned the loss
of this power, native to both the sun and to man, as he/they
entered the "Winter" solstice.
The similarity between the ancient Egyptian symbolism and
the subsequent Christian and later Masonic is unmistakable.
The Isis of the Egyptians became the Mary of the Christian.
Christ was the Christos of the Gnostics. Jesus of the Christians
and the apostles was an historical personage. Jesus the Nazarene
became the Christos made manifest; the Christ manifesting God,
or Godli-ness on earth; a Divinity, both God and man; one
among the "sons of Men" who had attained to the Son of God.
The death of Jesus the man, in the transmutation of the ma
terial, ended in the spiritualization of the Christos WITHIN,
hence the becoming of the Christ, and only those who live the
Christ-life can attain to salvation, because "faith without works,
is dead."
The Christ of the present was the "good Shepherd," as was
Horus of the Egyptians. The Christ was the "Lamb of God;" so
was Horus. Christ was, and still
is,
the "Bread of Life"; so was
Horus. Christ was the "Fan-Bearer"; so was Horus. Christ was
the "Door of Life," and Horus was the path
by
which the dead
traveled out of the sepulchre; the fog whose "name was written
as the road." Osiris was the symbolic representation of the sun,
or the sun the symbol of Osiris, and Christ was the "bearer" and
"Giver of Light" unto men. Both were "Light-Bearers" and
brought Light, hence Life, unto men.
What picture
is
more effectual to render men sorrowful than
that of the earth when, due to the seasonal absence of the sun,
she finds herself deprived of her attire, of her verdure, of her
foliage; when, deprived of sunshine and warmth from the "God
of Light," she
is
able to offer to us only the wrecks of what were
beautiful plants and flowers? What
is
more uninspiring to
human view than the naked trunks of barren trees, arid lands
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 57
without culture, or covered with snow which, though beautiful,
spells death to all beneath it—at least for the time being?
What has now become of that mild and pleasant temperature
which the earth enjoyed in the Spring and during the fruitful
months of the Summer? Where is that serene harmony of the
elements, which seemed synchronized with that of the heavens?
Where that richness and beauty of the fields laden with grain
and fruit, or glorified by the matchless beauty of perfume-laden
flowers?
Of all this beauty none is left, and the Soul of man is desolate
because the God of Light and Life has departed; and, by his re
treat, has plunged the earth into mourning which nothing but
the return of the sun with its cheerful warmth can dispel.
The sun, in the eyes of the ancients, and in reality to the
moderns, whatever their religious inclination, was/is the creator
of all these benefits which, under the chilling hand of Winter,
are temporarily lost to man. The sun is the Soul, or let us say,
the spirit, i.e., life, of vegetation without which man cannot
exist—and all vegetation, as we know, dies as the sun departs.
What will be the term of his flight and of his descent into
other and unseen regions? Will he return and, if so, when? Will
he again plunge nature into the eternal shade of chaos, from
whence his presence had drawn it? We know, but the ancients
did not.
Such were the perplexities and uncertainties of the ancient
people who, seeing the sun retiring from their land, feared that
he might one day abandon them altogether. From this un
certainty, nay fear, arose the fetes of Hope, celebrated at the
winter solstice, when they saw this "star" check his movements,
and reverse his route, to return towards them.
If this hope of his approach was so keenly felt, what joy must
have been theirs when the sun, already positioned near the
middle of the heavens, had chased before him the darkness that
had encroached upon the light and had usurped, as they be
lieved, a part of their empire.
58 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Gradually, the balance between the day and night is re-estab
lished and, with
it,
the order and blessings of nature.
A
new
period of restoration to all that was beautiful and beneficent,
as before, begins and the earth
is
once more rendered fruitful
by
the heat of the sun, who had apparently renewed its vigor;
embellished herself under the rays of her lord, the Over-Soul
or Great Sun.2
ISIS, or the Civil Year
The figure of man,3 who apparently rules everything on
earth, was accepted as the most proper symbol to represent the
sun, greatest of all forces, because
it
enlivened all nature —as
it
does to this day; and when the Egyptians wanted
a
symbol
characteristic of the producing power of the earth, they naturally
selected woman. The changes of nature, the succession of the
seasons, and the variations of production on the earth, which
were the subject of general thanksgiving, were readily and most
reasonably expressed
by
the different dresses worn
by
women.
Osiris was prototypic of the active, generating and beneficent
force
of
nature and the elements, Isis, on the contrary and in
complement, represented the passive, receiving and productive
force, the power to receive, conceive and bring forth.
Osiris was specially adored in the sun, whose rays vivify and
impart new warmth —which
is
life itself to the earth —and
who, in his annual return in the spring, appears to create anew.
Isis symbolized the earth or sublunary nature, in general;
or in
a
more limited sense, the soil of Egypt inundated
by
the
Nile, the principle of all fecundity, the Goddess of generation
and production. United one with the other, Osiris and Isis
typify the universal being, the Soul
of
Nature, and
a
great
deal more. Without this production man would not be
a
being,
and
if
he were, he could not exist for want of the substances of
life.
^Interpretation of Abrege de I'Origine de tous les Cults.
"And "God created man in His own image; in His Image created He him."
Gen. 2:27.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 59
The Egyptians solemnized, much as we do our Easter, at
the new moon phamenoth (March) —the entrance of Osiris
into the moon to fecundate it so that it might in turn fecun
date the earth or Isis. This fecundation, or making fertile the
earth so that it would produce, was as important to the Egyp
tians as was the rising of Osiris or the sun to herald the ap
proach of Spring or the renewal of life.
This renewal was, in turn, heralded by the "springing forth"
or "coming forth," of flowers and foliage of trees and shrub
bery, the greenness of the fields. Our present-day "Easter pa
rade," with the finery of our women, is the remnant of this
ancient custom.
When the sacrifice was made during the day, Isis was
dressed in white; but if at night, she was dressed in black.
Women of all the world dress in all the colors of the rain
bow and are heartbroken if the weather does not permit them
to revel in their yearly finery in "the Easter Parade."
In the Fall, at the time when we celebrate our Harvest
home week, the Egyptians were wont to place a sickle in the
hand of Isis—the producer —to denote the arrival of the har
vest. When the purpose of a feast with its ceremonials was
to remind the people of the security afforded by their dwell
ings, Isis was crowned with small towers.
To imitate the winter neomenia, the head of Isis was cov
ered with little fillets and with skins sewed together; some
times with feathers arranged one over the other, or with
small shells neatly set together. There were times when, on
the head of Isis, was placed a craw-fish or crab; sometimes
the horns of a wild goat, according as they intended to sig
nify the entering of the sun into the sign of Cancer, or the
feast that was to be solemnized at the time of the sun en
tering the sign of Capricorn.
In Egypt, where the inhabitants could only judge with cer
tainty the products of the year by the state of the Nile, they
proclaimed a plentiful crop by surrounding Isis with a mul
60 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
titude of breasts, indicating sustenance for all; on the contrary,
when the presage of fertility was unfavorable, they exposed
an Isis with a single breast; thereby to warn the people to
make amends for the smallness of the harvest by the culture
of vegetables, and by the saving of food.
All of these changes had a vital meaning for the people, and
Isis, or rather, the dress of Isis, was changed according to the
meaning or warning to be conveyed to the people.
In one phase of their worship, the Egyptians gave worship to
God in the form of woman—the divine Soul, under the name
of Isis, as indicated by an extract from Pleytes' translation of
the Turin Papyrus, the Imperishable.
"Self-born, maker of heaven, earth, waters, life, fire, gods,
mankind, animals, cattle, reptiles, fishes, kings, all gods, the
seasons; whose way I know not, for I know not the path of the
gods. Behold Isis in female form! She embraces myriad gods;
she judges myriad spirits. She is not unknown either in heaven
or on earth, even as the sun. She makes the divine on earth, and
names herself in her heart, according to her own will, the ven
erable goddess." How like many of the liturgies to the mother
Mary?
^
Isis means the Light of the Soul. Light is life. Spiritual Light
is Immortalization. St. John gives us a clear definition of this
Light:
"In him was life; and the life was the Light of men." —St. John 1 :4.
* Isis is also the equivalent of Iesus, I-Esus, i.e., spirit-Soul. The
spirit being "I" and the Soul "Esus," lesus, the spirit-Soul, which
forms the eternal "cross" resulting in the manifestation known
as the body; it being the expression of the Christos or inner ac
tivity of this spirit-Soul.
* Iesus stands as the symbol of dormant spiritual powers, but
existing in man when the Christos is awakened, becomes the
Christ. This is not an embodied person, but a principle MADE
MANIFEST in man. He "comes to save," that
is,
to be "brought
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 61
into manifestation," hence man can become one of the gods.
Next to Osiris, or the symbol of the sun and God, the
Egyptians have no figure that appeared more frequently in their
assemblies than Isis, portraying as she did, the earth (the pro
ducer), the moon (the emotions) and the holy mother (the
awakened, Soul).
It is admittedly and regrettably true, that the real meaning
of Isis was unknown to the mass, as surely as this is true at the
present day of Mary, mother of the Nazarene. The fault in both
instances lies with the masses, because to them the symbol be
came the person.
In Egypt it was the general custom to make sacrifices and
public prayers upon high places; more especially in groves to
shelter the people from the heat of the sun. When Isis, who
proclaimed the feasts and whose figures constituted one of the
most impressive features of the ceremonies, became the object
of the feast, she was looked upon as the dispenser, rather than
the symbol of the gods whose marks she bore. Here several rep
resentations, which foreboded abundance and joy, were agree
able to the ever-credulous populace.
The false sense which they, the people themselves, attributed
to these figures, became the means for obtaining a plentiful
harvest; hence the images themselves, instead of the spirit they
represented, came to be worshipped with solemnity and the
crowds flocked to the religious ceremonies and feasts of the
lovely queen.
They now firmly believed that Isis loaded them with blessings
and in time came to know her as the "Queen of the Groves,"
from the places of the meetings, rather than the "Queen of
heaven," as formerly.
She likewise became the queen of the herds; Ashtoreth; the
great fish, or queen of the fishes4, Adirdagal, and the queen of
Amalthea Appherudoth.
'The Nazarene's many references to fishes should be remembered as an in
62 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The Greeks softened the sound of these names and gave
them the inflection and turn of their own language. The queen
of the herds became Astarte; that of the fishes became Atergatis,
while the mother of corn, or the harvests in toto, became the
Aphrodite of the Syrians and the Greeks. The name Appheru-
doth, the mother of the harvests, changed into that of Aphrodite
and this word, to the Greeks, signified the "froth of the sea,"
the "place of the mother," or "where the fishes came from." On
this basis they built the legend of the goddess engendered of the
froth of the sea, suddenly springing out of the bosom of the
watery main; a latter memory of the legend that man was born
out of the sea in the form of a fish.
They represented their Amalthea Aphrodite, the queen of the
harvest, holding with her left hand a long goat's horn; the
legendary "horn of plenty," out of which they made ears of corn,
vegetables, and fruits to "come forth." The queen of the harvest
had a sickle (emblem of the harvester) or some other attribute
in her right hand. In this manner they united the mark of the
opening of the harvest, together with the horn of the wild goat
(great virility) , which anciently signified the end of the harvest,
and the onset of winter.
The masses, with all due respect to them, have throughout
all times, even in the present so-called enlightened age, been
fond of mummeries, equivocations and legends. The change of
figure or the temperament of a people has frequently made
many gods out of one.
The same symbol was diversified by the use of a variety of
names, even the differences of pronunciation of these names,
due to the difference in languages.
This frequently produced a multiplicity of real, or imaginary,
personages as is all too plainly manifested in our modern re
ligious creeds and ceremonies, although the people accepting
dication that for the masses the old legends survived throughout all forms of
religion.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 63
them and worshipping accordingly, will stoutly maintain that
theirs is a simple religious worship and easily understood.
What they actually mean is that their faith is simple. They
have no desire to investigate the beginning or inner meaning of
names, or terms, being satisfied to "accept on faith" and "trust
in God" for the rest.
Isis, when identified as the "queen of heaven," or as the moon
goddess, was then called Echet, Hecate, or Achate; that
is,
the
only, the excellent; inter ignes luna minoras. Among some of
the people of Syria, the identical figure, with only
a
slight
change of the name, was called Achot, the sister. They had
previously made her the wife of Jehov
(
later the Jehovah of the
Hebrews), or of the Sun, and/of Jupiter.
This same Egyptian Isis, now Achor, afterwards was made
the daughter of Jupiter, and later the mother of all Gods. All
of this
is
the result of the diversity of the attributes given to one
and the same symbol. All are true in spirit, but misunderstood.
The name Diana was sometimes of
a
terrestrial deity, at other
times the moon, and again the queen of hell. Properly under
stood, she was all of these:
a
goddess, emotional and loving,
and again the betrayer; hence
a
destroyer or "caster into hell."
In her first institution she was related to earth, and produced.
The false interpretation was given to the crescent and the full
of the moon which in symbol, she bore over her head to pro
claim the feasts. This caused her to be mistaken for the moon.
During the time when she remains invisible, that
is,
between
the last phases of the old moon and the return of the new moon,
she was said to have gone to the abode of Ades, the invisible,
to down below—hell —or the empire of the dead or hell. From
this legend,
it
was said that the Nazarene, during his invisibil
ity, "had descended into hell," and thence arose from the "dead"
or from below.
The ancient proclamation of the new moon, made in
a
loud
voice, proclaimed the beginning of the neomenia. This grad
ually degenerated into loud shrieks, uttered as mere supersti
64 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tion and custom at the entrance of cross streets. They saluted
the goddess of the dead at her coming out of the horror mansion.
All through ancient antiquity, following the confounding of
the symbol of the new moon, and of the feasts relating to the
several seasons of the year, with the stars regulating society by
its phases, the masses ascribed to the moon a universal power
over all the production of the earth, and generally over all the
operations of men.
In time these operations were separated and gods representing
them were invented. The ancients likewise believed that the
moon was fully acquainted with future things0, and that she
never appeared without foretelling by certain marks, what was
to befall husbandry, families and kingdoms, hence our modern
maxim: "Coming events cast their shadows before them."
Moderns, despite all their boasted advancement, have not in
the least been able to free themselves of these ancient beliefs,
as witness the present-day prayers and Novenas to the Virgin.
Despite the symbolism and superstition, behind and within all
these ancient inherited beliefs founded upon symbolism as
ancient as the world itself, there is a mystery, and Arcana, the
foundation of which rests upon the mother in humanity, the
Divine feminine side of God, the Creator, but not the matrix,
of all mankind.
Modern Masonry is no more free from these ancient symbols
than are religious forms. The pillar Jachin is Isis, the mother
side of God, while Boas is representative of the masculine or
creative. In primitive Masonry, these two pillars were actually
the respective figures of a man and a woman.
ARGUS
The gods of the masses were jealous gods: "I, the Lord thy
"In this is hidden a deep, eternal truth. Arcanely, the moon is symbolic of
the human Soul. In the Soul of man is hidden, engraved or impressed, all that
the person in whom that Soul dwells had ever deeply thought, felt or ex
perienced, and this foreshadows or manifests itself in that person's life and be
havior; in his success and failure.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 65
God, am a jealous God," —Exodus 20:5, and "Thou shalt have
no other gods before me," —(Exodus 20:3) is a modern version
of ancient symbolical teaching. Juno, for instance, provoked
at the conduct of her husband, as women will be even today,
took from him fair Isis, and turning her into a heifer, committed
her to the vigilance of Argus, who has an hundred eyes, some
of which were awake, while the rest slept. Wise Mercury, by
his songs, lulled all the eyes of the guardian to sleep, and carried
her off. Here Isis is given an entirely different meaning, a new
attribute, as is illustrated by our modern saying: "woman is
never the same from day to day," or "woman changes as does
the wind."
Weaving was a famous art at Athens, in the Island of Amor-
gos; likewise in Colchis, as well as in Egypt. Isis, the symbol
of the feasts, when she proclaimed the neomenia and other
solemnities of the winter and spring, was attended by a Horus
to
fit
the character and manner of work that was to last for
's'ix months.
This figure of Horus was covered all over with eyes to mark
out the peculiar kind of work which was done at night. Horus
imitated the necessity of watching to speed up the making of
cloth and for this reason he was called argus, that
is,
"weavers'
work."
Isis, after having left the horns of the wild goat, symbolizing
winter, assumed, during the whole of spring, the form of
a
heifer. This symbolized the passing of the sun, under the sign
of the bull, which constitutes in the temperate zone, the true
beauty of this delightful season.
The vernal Isis, as
a
handsome heifer, thus remained several
months together under the eyes of Argus, or
by
the side of the
open-eyed Horus, until the latter was removed and the heifer
carried away
by
Mercury; that
is,
until the nightly works, the
spinning and making of cloth, were over, indicated
by
the ris
ing of the dog-star or Anubis.
The people, as usual, having lost the meaning of these
66 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
natural and regular occurrences, simply remembered the legend
of the symbolism, that of Isis being changed into a heifer, of
her guardian Argus, and the notable exploits of Mercury, who,
on this account, was surnamed Argiphontes, the murderer of
Argus.
The Egyptians also gave the name of Argus to the peacock
by the side of Juno or Isis. In the mythologies, Juno, after the
death of Argus, took the eyes he had about him, and used them
to embellish the tail of a bird that was consecrated to her. This
peacock, placed near Isis, is an attribute to denote the beginning
of the nightly works, by an agreeable imitation either of the
starry heaven, or of the multitude of eyes constantly kept open.
CIRCE
This same Isis, carried into Italy with her many attributes,
gave birth to legends of an entirely different nature. There she
became the sorceress Circe, who, with her magic wand, turned
men into lions, serpents, birds, swine and other things. Con
sidering what men throughout the ages have permitted them
selves to become for the "favors" of women of one kind or
another, this legend is not without foundation.
In Italy, the Latin mythologists, being of an entirely different
temperament from those of Egypt, took her as an emblem, or
symbol of voluptousness of a nature which brought men down
to the nature and condition of various beasts. Circe is no other
than the Egyptian Isis, who, sometimes with a measure of the
Nile, sometimes with a weaver's beam, a distaff, or a lance,
always appeared with some distinction in her proclamations.
She was always accompanied by the figure of Horus and
others, but changing from month to month, or day to day,
according to the signs of the zodiac. She was the principal of
the enigma to which all other enigmatic emblems were sub
ordinate.
She was to be met everywhere, and had always by her side
and under her wand, sometimes a man with a dog's head; some
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 67
times a lion with a serpent or a tortoise; sometimes a whole
child; at another time a child's head upon the body of a serpent,
and, successively, the animals of the zodiac, and/or such others
as denoted the return of the different rural works.
Isis was in reality called Circe because of the circ, or solar
circle she commonly wore over her head and because she em-
blemized the entire solar system. That circle, which in LATER
CENTURIES BECAME THE Halo OF HOLY MEN AND SAINTS,
was the symbolization of the Infinite Light of, or in which, the
Supreme Being always appeared to men.
Isis proclaimed the Supreme Being at the several feasts,
much after the manner in which the Mary of the Church is
now proclaimed to the faithful. And why was this sun, disc
or light, called circ? For the very simple reason that God could
not be painted, and the disc or circle, symbolic of eternity, was
the symbol, par excellence, of God. The place in Italy to which
Isis, with a circle over her head, was first brought and honored,
is still called Monte Circetto.
To proclaim certain feasts or sacrifices that were celebrated
in the evening at the rising of the new moon, or in the morning
at the rising of some special star, or of the planet Venus, water
was put over the head of Isis instead of the disc of the sun; a
star, a known planet, a crescent, or the full of the moon. The
several foliages she bore in her hand, or over her head near the
figure of the moon, or of some other planet, made the people
believe that the properties or influences of these planets were
beneficial.
They believed that a knowledge of their virtues enabled
Circe to make both heaven and earth submit to her power;
much as the faithful of the present pray to Mary to intercede
for them. This practice later had an entirely different symboliza
tion. It became the privileges of the common witches, and the
people were persuaded to believe that the sorceresses at pleasure
disposed of heat, cold, hail and all other things undesirable.
This figure of Circe, which ignorance of an enigma or
68 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
popular ensign had converted into a witch, was said to be capable
of turning men into various animals. Such witches were also
supposed to have the power of displacing the stars. This relates
to other attributes of Isis, such as the sun, the moon, various
stars, certain plants, and not infrequently to animals of a mon
strous kind. The further legend, by its conformity with this
interpretation, completed the demonstration of its exactness.
Circe, or Isis, in this respect, was really the proclamation of
the year. She put on, or was caused to put on, such clothes and
dresses as were harmonious to the seasons.
To announce the beginning of Spring which overspreads and
glorifies, as it were, the earth with flowers and verdure, as does
the lover his enamored, she wore carpets of different colors.
To denote the beginning of Summer, which produces the things
that nourish the body, she bore in her hand a basket and a loaf.
To proclaim the Autumn, she bore a cup. At the beginning of
Winter she bore a chafing-dish, or a stove with its foot.
These four figures gave birth to the fable, mentioned by
Homer in his Odyssey, that Circe had four maids, as in truth
she did, one of which spread the carpets of several colors to
receive the guests; the second prepared the table and placed
large baskets upon
it;
the third presented the cups, and the
fourth kept up the hearth.
The Ceres familiar to Sicily and Eleusis was none other than
the Egyptian Isis brought into these places
by
the Phoenician
merchants who became rich
by
transporting the corn of Lower
Egypt into places where the scarcity of provisions drew them,
as well as to the different coasts of the Mediterranean, where
they had offices and establishments. These merchants, traveling
from country to country and understanding the temperaments
of the people, naturally interpreted the teachings and legends
to suit each people.
The ceremonials of the rural feasts were interpreted in like
manner
by
these merchants and travellers. In these countries,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 69
the mother of the harvest was made to lament her daughter
instead of bewailing her husband, as in the Egyptian ritual.
During the feasts of Ceres, men carried to excess the forms
and gestures of situations and circumstances, and forgot the
scrupulous recitals of the set forms of the prayers; the length of
the vigils; the outward purity; abstinence; the forebearance of
all pleasures, and all forms of distractions.
The whole of their religious forms was gradually reduced to
outward show or debased practices. Gradually, as time passed,
those who observed these ceremonials no longer knew any but
the artificial devotions, or the mere skeleton of the ancient holy
and devotional practices. The true, the unprejudiced student, he
who is seeking the truth, will readily be able to recognize the
beauty and the force, the grand intention of these first forms
which expressed inner truths, simplified so that the mass could
understand them in their implication and relation to their own
life and habits.
Of these feasts when practiced according to the early ritual,
an authority tells us: "A lengthy description of all the forms
of purification and other ceremonies, that made up the first nine
days of devotion consecrated to Ceres, would be tiresome and is
no part of my plan, which chiefly aims at obtaining the origin of
these ceremonials."
It is the same with the long processions made from Athens to
Eleusis, and with the several marches peculiar to each of the
nine days, all of which had esoteric or spiritual meaning as ap
plied to life itself. The Greeks had laboriously built every par
ticular of the minute ceremonials upon the adventures that
composed the wonderful migration of Ceres into their country.
The saga of this migration is not so very much different from
that of Moses and his followers out of the land of the same
Egypt and, in a manner of speaking, one is a continuation of the
other, with a slightly different interpretation, due to the tem
peraments of the peoples involved. History continually repeats
70 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
itself, both as to folly and to virtue, and that which was yester
year, shall be soon again.
The ceremonies carried on during the feasts of Ceres at
Eleusis, were also practiced during the feasts of Isis. Let us,
therefore, pass on to the explanation of the autopsia, or the
manifestation of truth, which was, in a manner, the last act of
the representation, and was the whole object of these festive
mysteries.
After a period of darkness, lightnings, thunder-claps, and an
imitation of other activities most shocking in nature, and which
tested the mettle of men —all much after the manner of various
initiations in our own modern day—the serenity which at last
suceeded, discovered four personages magnificently dressed, and
whose habits were most mysterious.
The most brilliant of all, known as the Hierophant, or the
expounder of truth, sacred things or the mysteries, was dressed
to represent the Being, i.e., the Great Architect of the Universe
who governs all things.
The second was the flambeau, i.e., the L*g^-bearer, and had
relation to the sun, the light that lights the Universe.
The third, called the adorer, who kept near the altar—as
priests ever do—represented the moon.
The fourth was called the Messenger of the Gods, in short,
Mercury, who corresponds to the Egyptian Anubis, with his
dog's head and measure of the Nile, or staff, well known in
modern initiations, accompanied by two serpents —symbols of
wisdom. He represented the wholesome or constructive advice
which the dog-star wisely gave to the Egyptians, who started
their journey to the higher lands at the beginning of the rise of
the waters.
No ceremonials could possibly be better contrived than these
magnificent portrayals whereby the Egyptians incessantly re
called to the minds of the masses the faith of the first men con
cerning the judgment of God, and the hopes that bring solace
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 71
to the minds of the just at the approach of what we know as
death, which brings us before the Judgment all men must meet.
MENES, OR MOSES AND THE ESTABLISHMENT
OF A NEW LAW
The rural work could not be resumed in Egypt until after the
Nile once more retreated from the inhabitable plains. The public
sign for the beginning of husbandry was named Mensues, later
changed to Moses, meaning: "Saved from the water";1 because
the moons of Horus Apollo, or husbandry, were known by the
same name.
At the end of Autumn, the inhabitants being freed from the
work in the fields, turned their night work to manufacturing
thread and cloth, from which most of their riches were obtained.
The signs which identified this period were known by the name
Linus, which signified watching, or sitting up in the night, hence
"night work." The star that lights the night has retained this
name, as has the manufacturing during these watchings.
The public was informed of the several Government regula
tions by the various postures of the son of Osiris, causing him to
be commonly called Menes, that
is,
the ruler
of
the people; THE
LAW GIVER.
The Egyptians, due to this title, established
it
as their belief
that Menes had at one time been their legislator; the author of
their Government; the orderer of the year; the actual founder
of
their laws; and they placed him at the head of the list of all the
kings of the various provinces.
The name of Moses, Menes, or Mensues, was thus wisely and
most properly given to the public as
a
sign for the rebeginning
of husbandry. This word signified the "drying up."
It
was made
a
part of the calendar and was the summary and substance of
a
1
Students of religious history should carefully compare the authenticated
historical fact of the Nile's inundations and the saving of the people on higher
ground during these periods, with the Biblical legend of Moses leading his
people out of Egypt during the parting
of
the waters.
72 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
statute of the Government. This was in the minds of all the
people after the river receded back to within its banks. It was
originally a man's name; but if Menes, Mensues and Moses are
one and the same—as they certainly are—WHAT BECOMES OF
THE FIRST KING OF EGYPT?
Menes was also called the son of the star of the day, because
in very truth, HUSBANDRY NOW AS THEN, CAN DO NOTHING
WITHOUT THE SUN. Again, it was called Museus because in
Egypt, husbandry could not resume its operations until after
the returning of the waters. It was surnamed Menes—"Harken
thou, O Menes Mensues, son of the star of the day"—that is:
The Ruler of the people, for in truth and fact, it did govern the
lives of the people.
We can well digress here by basing rational judgment
upon actual effect or occurrences, rather than assumed
causes. It would be wise to accept the conclusions of the
Pagan FIRE PHILOSOPHERS of the middle ages, that the
Soul of man, puny as he is in fact, is like its source —THE
CENTRAL SUN OF BEING, of which GOD IS THE INEF
FABLE LIGHT, in its nature and essence; pure, unalloyed, a
spiritual certainty UNTIL DEFILED BY MAN AND HIS
CARNALITY.
This Soul is the generally invisible and infinitely sub
limated spirit of fire, that
is,
the Eternal Light.
It
is
NOT
the gross visible element that can be seen, felt and ap
proached
by
the senses, but the wonderful innermost Light,
which reveals and proves all things, to the one who pos
sesses
it,
i.e., has developed it. The Soul itself
is
invisible,
unknown and uncomprehended
by
the profane (the un-
Initiated), hence even the reference to
it
cannot well be
understood, must less visualized.
It
is
this Ineffable, innermost and Divine quality of the
Soul which survives all changes; which
is
neither subject
to decay nor disintegration.
It
is
a
spark derived from the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 73
Deity; the Alpha and Omega of the human being; the link
which unites the creature to the Creator.
IT WAS THE OBJECT OF THE SEARCH BY THE NEO
PHYTE IN THE MYSTERIES and symbolized by the so fre
quent reference to light which, by the profane, was
understood as the light to be seen by mortal eyes.
Encompassing this Divine Essence of the Soul, and
clothing it as a spiritual body; a subtle and refined ele
ment which, in its effect, force and action, in the human
creature, is the Light of Immortality, and this Menes,
Museuser, Mensues or Egyptian Moses, was the first of the
Initiators to make reference to it in other than the Halls of
Initiation.
Man's physical frame, with its nervous and arterial
system and its centers of force, is the most complicated
mass of mechanism ever created. This physical system is
moved and regulated by a dual vital force within; a power
that can never be comprehended by mere human intelli- •
gence. He who seeks to understand it properly must seek
to be Illuminated by the same Celestial sun of suns (Light)
which is a part of the original source.
This is as true today as it was during the heyday of
Ancient Egyptian Initiation, despite all the efforts of the
Initiated to help the mass understand it by means of sym
bolism. Centuries later, the Nazarene, Great Initiate that
he was, found it impossible to convey this wisdom either
by the symbolism currently employed, or by the parables
he used so effectively.
The present-day true Rosicrucians were the successors
to the Essenian Order. Much was written about them dur
ing the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, but actually very
little was known to the outside (profane) world.
They maintained that the final analysis of the Supreme
Being would fail to discover any other existence of this
Ineffable Light, symbolized by material or sunlight, than
74 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
that of a central spiritual sun; an infinite, eternal, and in
comprehensible sun, whose outer attributes were heat and
ordinary light; whose manifestations were the universe;
revealed by light, energized into forms, suns, systems,
worlds, men and things, by means of the spiritual heat
whose gross external exhibition is common, ordinary fire.
If these abstractions are meaningful to the thinker, it
will be of little wonder that the ancient people, those of
Menes, Mensues or Museus and Moses, and even those of
earlier times, considered that they saw God, that
is,
saw
Him with their innermost possibility of thought, in fire, but
not our vulgar, gross fire; neither
is
it
the purest material or
electric fire, which still contains something of the base,
bright side of the world; but an occult, mysterious, super
natural fire—not magnetic —yet real, all-embracing.
It
is
the inner LIGHT, the Christ os of God, containing
within itself all things.
It
is
the Soul of things, the Wisdom
of the Ages, into whose inexpressibly intense, all-consum
ing, all-creating, divine, fiery essence, all the worlds in
succession will merge; returning into the arms of Immor
tal Light on the farther side, where
it
will be received, and
then once again thrown out
by
the Divine energy inherent
within itself.
The basic principle, the floor or foundation, of all re
ligions founded in truth and on fact, transcends into this
spiritual fire realm, on which, or in which, so to speak,
the phases of time itself are laid. Material fire
is
bright
ness, while the matter upon which
it
preys, or which re
flects
it,
is
darkness —the shadow of the true spiritual
Light, which invests itself in fire or light as
a
mask, and in
which, or through which,
it
alone can manifest itself.
In
a
sense, the material light
is
the opposite of, rather
than the expression of God. The Egyptians, fully convers
ant with the Fire mystery, could not represent God as
light; that
is,
a
material light. Hence they expressed their
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 75
ideas of Deity by means of darkness. Their adoration was
frequently paid in darkness, for in darkness they could
bring forth the image of the Eternal.
Though fire is an element which feeds on everything
that gives it life, it is itself merely an element existing in
a second non-terrestrial, none-physical, ethereal fire; in
which the first, or terrestrial coarse fire, flickers, waves,
brandishes, consumes and destroys, as witness the bon-fire
on a dark night.
It was the mission of Initiation to take the gross man,
with his gross fire, and transmute both into the Divine
Light, and cause man to become fully conscious of the
celestial or spiritual fire. This was not possible by words,
nor yet by example, but was brought about as a result of
an inner awakening and growth into the new condition.
The intent and purpose of Initiation has never changed.
It was this same celestial fire of the ancients, and those who
had BECOME Rosicrucians, that burst asunder the bonds of
error and darkness which held the Soul bound within a
material prison-house.
The Rosicrucian Initiate became the pontifex (bridge
maker ) conducting Souls across the dark waters of ignor
ance, from the realms of the known to the unknown, from
the realm of gross matter to the brightest road of celestial
spirit; from earthly darkness to the Ineffable Light; from
the visible fires of purgation to the invisible Soul Light of
eternity.
These teachings of the latter Initiates have a deeper
significance than any other theories ever advanced con
cerning the wonderful phenomena of life and being; of
the existence of Deity. Allowing for the varied modes of
expression which prevailed in different countries and
among people different in sentiment, these opinions yet
present a very fair though necessarily condensed abstract,
of the philosophies of the Christian Cabalists, Gnostics,
76 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Pythagoreans, Platonists, and of many of the most en-
LiGHTened of the Greeks, Romans and even of the early
Christians.
The Celestial fire referred to by the Rosicrucian Initiates
as the Ineffable Light, was the same all-pervading element,
if such it may be called, which, in its action through space,
has been termed the Great Light, and in its investiture of
the Soul, as a spiritual Light.
This innermost of the Rosicrucian's Celestial fire, like
that of the human Immortal essence, in reality is incom
prehensible, yet in conscious possession of the Initiate, to
day as in the time of Menes, Museus or Moses of mighty
Egypt.
What, in fact, is the Neophyte to search for? Through
out all eternity he has been in search of but one thing: His
OWN SOUL. This Soul, composed in essence, of all that
is,
is
a
true cosmos of the universe. Upon
it
are engraved all
the things of character, motives, functions, vices, virtues,
hopes, thoughts, desires and memories which
it
has
gathered up in its progress of growth through the lives of
the material body; hence
it
is
as much
a
perfect microcosm
of the individual's mind within, as of the visible and in
visible universe without.
Every deed, word or thought which has helped to make
up the sum total
of
a
human life
is
photographed upon
the subconscious
of
man — the as-yet unconscious Soul,
with as much fidelity as
is
the mind
of
the Creator written
in the starry hieroglyphics upon the glittering skies. The
inner self, call
it
the subconscious or what you will, keeps
as faithful
a
record, as true a doomsday book, and pro
nounces as certain
a
sentence upon human life and conduct
as ever the Egyptian Osiris did in his sternest mood and in
Godlike justice. This
is
the judge
of
the judgment day
who will judge us all.
It
is
a
god within us.
MAN'S SPIRITUAL RELATION TO GOD
Man's real religion is to establish a relationship between
himself and God.
VERY form of religion teachesi man to establish, for
himself, his own IDEAS OF His relation to the Infinite
Existence, which we call God, and of which he feels
himself a part, and from the teaching of which he should ob
tain a proper knowledge for his conduct and guidance in all
of life's actions.
Any religious form or system which fails to establish such a
relationship between man and the infinite, OR THE LAW WHICH
REPRESENTS THE INFINITE, is not religion, but a corruption of
it,
and came into existence for purely selfish purposes.
If
a
religious concept does not harmonize the life conduct of
man with the infinite, then also
it
is
not
a
religion and leads
man astray to his own and his fellow man's detriment.
The essence or spirit of genuine religion was always, and still
is,
understood
by
men who are not bereft of the highest human
capacity for devotional feelings, as the ESTABLISHMENT BY
MAN OF HIS RELATION TO THE INFINITE BEING, OR BEINGS,
WHOSE POWER HE FEELS ABOVE HIMSELF, for his personal
benefit and advancement toward
a
greater and higher life.
However different the concept of this relationship between
man and God has been for different people at different periods
of time, or in the various sections of the world,
it
has always
determined for man his behaviour in the world, and has largely
been the guidance, or inducement, of his actions.
A
Jew understood his relation to the Infinite differently, per
haps, from all other people. His concept of God and life devel
78 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
oped gradually, due to two causes; His relationship to the rest
of mankind as that of a slave without much freedom of
thought or action, and the very gradual, but positive teachings
by the leaders of his people, that he was one of the only chosen
people of God.
This thought, that although a slave, he was one of the chosen,
gradually took possession of him as a fact—even though it
assumed that God showed favoritism, and therefore was unjust
to all other peoples. In time, this belief gave him the strength
to free himself from his slavery; but, it also alienated him from
all other people made him forever a stranger among them.
This conflict of ideas has never been altogether eliminated
from his consciousness. The eternal conflict between his race
and all other races, has, up to the present, led him to power in
high places, only to bring about his ultimate downfall in the
end.
A Greek's concept was simple and without mental conflict:
He understood his relation as that of being dependent upon the
representatives of infinity —the gods —and he must therefore do
that which was pleasing to God and the gods.
The Brahman's concept was equally simple, but his religious
activities were complex: He understood his relation to the in
finite Brahma (God) by considering himself a manifestation
of this highest being, and that it was his duty to strive to re
unite himself with this highest being by means of a renuncia
tion of life.
The Buddhist idea also was simple: He understood his rela
tion to the infinite as that of one who, passing from one form
into another, inevitably suffers, and that as these sufferings pro
ceed from, or are the result of passions and desires, he must
strive to destroy these passions and desires, and in doing so, pass
into Nirvana.
The Hindu went a step further and in a different direction.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 79
He believed that his Soul had passed through the animal, and
that according to the life he led, he would pass into higher or
lower animals; hence in time all his thought and attention was
given to the animal and his Soul received scant attention, with
the result that degradation in general followed his ideas and
actions.
Despite his irrational —to us—ideas, he had a high concept
of God Himself: "Heaven is His head; the sun and moon are
His eyes; the earth His feet; space His ears; air His breath. He
is the Soul of the universe; the sun of all luminaries. All crea
tion derives light from Him alone. The wise call him the
supreme light-giving spirit."
He failed to follow through with this concept and never,
except in rare instances, made the necessary effort to find this
supreme Light WITHIN himself.
In the Egyptian and Persian theogony, the direct acknowl
edgement of one supreme being corresponds to the sun and its
attributes — symbolizing a spiritual counterpart — and is as
marked as in the Aryan records.
The elaborate world of Grecian and Roman mythology par
takes of the same golden thread of this concept, and while
ramifying it into a complete system of polytheism, constantly
refers back to the Egyptian idea of creation as—according to
Genesis —springing from one supreme or individual center of
heat or creative energy on the one side, and Light or creative
wisdom on the other; hence the final command: LET THERE BE
LIGHT —and the world became alive.
In the Orphic songs, the one first Great Cause celebrated as
Zeus is more completely associated with this Egyptian idea of
a sun-god; or more correctly a LiGHT-God; a spiritual (form)
"without parts or passion, sex or nature," than in the theories of
later philosophers who were not as fully informed and who mis
took appearances for facts.
Orpheus, the sage, to whom the introduction of the Egyptian
80 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
theogony into Greece was largely due, chanted thus to his
Supreme Being:
"Zeus is male. Zeus is female. Zeus is the spirit of all
things. Zeus is the rushing of uncreated fire. Zeus is the
king; he is the [light of the] sun and the moon. Zeus is
the mighty power, the demon [good wrongly used], the
one mighty frame in which this universe revolves. He is
fire and water, earth and ether, day and night. All things
unite in [are a part of] the body of Zeus."
This concept does not differ greatly from that of the Christian,
which inculcates that God is both the material AND spiritual
Father of all men, and that man's highest welfare is attained
when he begins to RECOGNIZE THE POSSIBILITY OF BECOMING
INTO SONSHIP with God, not by means of a creed or belief, but
by acts, and proceeds with the formation of the brotherhood of
man; a brotherhood not based on man's individual beliefs, but
as the result of acts.
Does a true, i.e., an "all right," religion exist? Religions are
infinitely different and no one has the right to designate any
particular religion as the only one and true, merely because it
most nearly corresponds to his own tastes.
Religions are infinitely different in their forms, but if basically
correct, they are similar in their fundamental principles. It is
these fundamental principles of the various religions which rep
resent that true religion which alone today is natural to all men,
and the acceptance and application of which can alone save
men from their calamities.
Humanity has existed for eons of time. From generation to
generation, sometimes slowly and sometimes rapidly, humanity
has elaborated and perfected its practical acquisitions. In the
same manner, mankind was helpless to prevent the broadening
and clarifying of those spiritual principles which formed the
basis of all life, and the rule that governed conduct.
That blind men do not see is no proof that all men are sight
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 81
less, or that light does not exist. On the same basis, it is a fact
that while a million believers have not found the inner spiritual
Light, others succeed in bringing the Soul to consciousness, and
come into the Ineffable Light of the God which all religious
forms represent.
For many of us, this true religion is the one based on the
teachings of the Christos, which would be Christianity with its
principles of right and justice; and its means for attaining in
dividual spiritual consciousness in fact, not in mere theory or
belief.
We who so believe, assert, BECAUSE WE HAVE PROVEN IT,
that there is a God, the source of all; that within the individual
man there is buried a particle of the divine element which he
can either diminish or increase by his mode of life, that
is,
by
his
THINKING, DESIRING and ACTING.
To increase this element man must transmute, i.e., change
his passions and increase his love within himself. The practical
means to accomplish this
is
by
acting toward others as one wishes
others to act toward him, or he with himself.
All of these principles were common in the mysteries,
if
not
in the outer form, of early Egypt; of Brahmanism, Confucianism,
Taoism, and constitute that which
is
recognized as God in every
form of religion that has stood the test of time.
In some forms of religion there
is
more of
it;
in others, less
of
it,
but the essence
is
there, however deeply buried; otherwise,
that form of religion would cease to exist. The basic laws of
behaviour, similar to all religious forms, were, and still are:
Act toward others as you would that they should act to
ward you. Seek not to revenge yourself against those who
do evil unto you, but seek justice. Let your acts be good
against the evils of others; be temperate in all things; be
chaste; do not take life except compelled to do so in self-
defence. Suffer not anger to confuse you; seek peace within
yourself and manifest
it
to all.
82 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
All these things are the essence of reason, the exoterics of
religion, but all of them have a profound effect upon the
esoterics of religious practices; the inner life that leads to
the ultimate unveiling of the mysteries of religion; the
God Consciousness to be attained,; the becoming of men as
gods.
Any form of government, beginning with the first formation
of a society among men to the present time, which did not in
corporate religion, or spiritual concepts into its statutes, has
ever been short lived. Likewise every organization that ignored
the religious element existing within man, and which we term
his religion, has at best maintained a poor existence and has
always been destined to speedy annihilation.
Religion, in one form or another, has left its foot-prints upon
the deserts of time and the far-reaching steppes of the old world,
as well as on the wide-spread prairies and savannahs of the new.
It has in truth been forced to nestle for brief periods of time,
while hiding from the ravages of those who attempted to destroy
it and succeeded only in destroying themselves.
It has crept deep into dens and caves of the earth. It has left
there those touches of beauty, those sublime hieroglyphs, which
will yet unfold to man more fully its ancient teachings in their
pristine purity; its defects as well as its beauties; its victories as
well as its defeats; all to prove that however great a thing may
be, it still possesses its weaknesses and, contrariwise, that in the
weak there is hidden great strength.
Religion has been the teacher and guide of all that is true in
art in every age, and its proofs yet may be seen and admired
amid the crumbling remains of ancient temples, mausoleums
and cities in ruins.
That the religious element in man is inherent (hidden in his
inmost spirit) and not acquired, is made manifest by the fact
that the motive power, the sentiment, is equally strong under
every form of worship but the most degraded. Religion, in
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 83
some form, pervades all nations under heaven and more human
creatures have been ready and willing to die for their religious
faith than for all other reasons combined.
The most exalted nations and the most degraded, the most
intellectual as also the most ignorant individuals, feel, even if
they fail to manifest, this all-pervading impulse; the intensity
and mode of expression alone being modified and controlled
by organization, education and surrounding conditions. Seldom
does education alone bring about the most humane results.
The religious feeling that so deeply pervades humanity has
in every age been seeking to incarnate itself in new forms of
beauty; in new avenues of expression, and has ever been seek
ing to expand itself into a higher and more expressive life.
The manifestation of the present life and its activities has
ever aroused the conservative element in man; while, in re
verse, it has brought about in other men, unwilling to live
an enlightened life and goaded by an active conscience, those
scenes of religious diabolism which so frequently enshrouded
the world in deepest sorrow, due to the certainty that self-
guilt or inner accusation becomes the most powerful of all
forces for evil in AN ATTEMPT TO JUSTIFY ITSELF.
Every sect worthy of its name has had its martyrs; every
church its bright and shining lights; every form of worship its
prophets and apostles. Religion has presented to the world a
bright array of those who, by the manner of their lives and the
purity of their teachings, have proved themselves and their
inculcations worthy of their origin.
Unfortunately, very few of these sects and systems also
carried with them the spiritual counterparts, the "mysteries"
which, according to even the Nazarene, can (may) be given to
only the few most advanced Souls following the path.
And thus it follows that a self-seeking or degraded sect of
professed believers in the Nazarene and his sane and modest
doctrines might turn a sacred last supper into a drunken bac
84 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
chanal, as did the Corinthians and others, while a Mohammedan
or Pagan love feast (Sacramental supper) could be noteworthy
for its incorruptible purity, and its Godlike portrayal of love
and benevolence.
The existence of God, of a supreme or Divine Law, the doc
trine of rewards and punishments, present and future, and the
various religious dogmas that have obtained credence through
out time and the world, are as firmly believed in now as during
any former period, though the belief, or acceptance of them, is
manifested in a manner and in accordance with the spirit of the
age in which we live and the temperament of the peoples.
In past ages the attempt was made to eradicate what was
known as heresy —but which was no more than non-conform-
ance to the exact beliefs of others —by means of the flames,
torture and wild, hungry beasts.
Today this type of persecution has not wholly ceased, but is
being resurrected in another, though equally cruel form. This
present-day form of persecution achieves its aims by means of
the ruination of character, business, peace in the family, and a
hundred other most subtle ways known to those who have
knowledge only of the doctrine, but know nothing of the spirit
of their faith.
There is apparent a gradual yielding of the older and more
"regular" forms of dogma. This may be the forerunner of a
more liberal spirit among the religious bodies throughout the
world. There is also great danger that this "liberalism" become
"irreligious" and working toward the destruction of all reli
gious forms, turning man back to animalism and carnality.
Thinking men, men who would see the world a better place
and men more brotherly, hope that the more self-exalted and
narrow-minded sects in both Christian and so-called "pagan"
lands will come to an understanding of the fact that "men of all
nations who learn to love God, and fear Him only when they
ignore His Laws, will work toward righteousness, hence will be
acceptable to Him, irrespective of creed or dogma."
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 85
Our present age is a paradox. On the one hand are the few
great minds who really think. On the other, an ever-increasing
mass of those who, under promises of betterment for themselves,
permit the few and least able, to think for them, until shortly
they are no longer able to think for themselves. This always
leads to serfdom; a slavery more dangerous to mind and Soul
than to the body, and is exactly the end sought by selfish, Soul
less leaders who are not only anti-Christ BUT anti-God as well.
Self is all.
The few who do not accept promises of gain or power are be
ginning to think for themselves and to question: WHENCE?
They inquire into the reason and wherefore of those doctrines
and forms which perhaps have nothing but antiquity to com
mend them. They are beginning to recognize that no doctrine
of itself, irrespective of its past or present association, is capable
of bringing man the peace or happiness which can only be
achieved through the Christic spirit.
It is the application of reason and love for humanity, the find
ing of the essence or spirit of these things that attracts what the
heart desires. Mere possessions cannot bring happiness and con
tentment. A well-filled stomach is no more than a sedative for
the actual suffering of a guilty or uneasy conscience.
Ancient systems of theology—not the Mystery spirit of them
—are undergoing a process of resurrection; antiquarians are
delving among the ancient ruins, examining claims of the
ancient sacred books and beginning to sense the spirit of those
mighty teachings that once led the world without religious
terror or inquisition. The knowing, understanding Christians are
becoming more tolerant towards what was once known to them
as Paganism, but which held within its bosom a mystery and a
spirit known to few religionists of any system.
Mankind is beginning to have an inkling of the grand and
sublime teachings of the past, and may yet be willing to improve
its present views and beliefs, discarding the objectionable fea
tures inherent in both the modern and the ancient. Such objec
86 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tionable features exist in religious systems as they do in all
things man-made or man-created, or man-formulated.
The appearance of any new manifestation of religious
thought, practice or interpretation is heralded into existence
amid authorized and accepted intolerance, creedal hate and
editorial slugging.
The pulpit, the press and the bar all too frequently vie with
each other in manifesting bigotry and intolerance; not realizing
that man can only be carried to the higher eminence of spiritual
life as a result of successive waves of an ever-swelling ocean of
thought breaking in from, and upon, the shores of time. Never
theless, the warfare against man's newest, holiest convictions, is
not as bitter as once it was and gives way more quickly than
formerly.
Although the changes in the theological world are no longer
accompanied by the clashing of warrior's blades and the boom
ing of artillery as they once were, they are actually more
thorough and far-reaching because, today, the press, the radio
and television carry the news so much more quickly than ever
before.
Such revolutions of religious thought no longer array nation
against nation, and brother against brother in deadly conflict, or
in hatreds more deadly than war, even though the questions in
dispute are as directly enunciated as at any time in history. The
new interpretations are often as revolutionary in their character
and tendency, and are more marked, because more reasonable
and more enduring in their results.
Conflicts are certain to continue until a common ground of
belief is found. This is due to the indisputable fact that ritual
ism, formalism and organized creeds are the natural enemies of
the individualization necessary to spiritual development or Initia
tion. Inner spirituality and even Christianity —becoming Christ-
like—has, in fact, nothing to do with formal churchism, or
priestcraft in general.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 87
Christ-izn signifies the Christ or Christ-like —or more cor
rectly —Christos-like; resembling Christ in fact and spirit. The
word "Christ" or "Christos," in this sense, is not the proper
name of any certain man or person.
True Christianity is therefore not a personal or diffused be
lief, but a STATE OF BEING. The word "Christ" is an adjective
expressing the quality and characteristics of the inspired and
Illuminated teacher or guide. It is derived from the Greek. In
Greek, the word "Christ" is not a proper name, but an adjective
denoting merit or a state of being, in the same sense that the
Gnostics used the word Christos, the divine principle within
man, which must be brought into manifestation, whereby man
becomes the, or a, Christ.
That which truly constitutes the CAmMan, a spiritual life
based on sense and reason,
is,
in short, Individualization, and
individualization
is
INITIATION;
a
personal solution of the
Mysteries which the Nazarene tried to teach, but found
it
im
possible, hence made use of parables to teach the mass at least
some part of eternal truth.
The universal text of the formal Christian has itself never
been permitted to stand upon its own merits but, instead, has
been studied and interpreted in accordance with the desires and
ideas of sectarian leaders who, with rare exceptions, had not
the slightest esoteric knowledge. These interpretations were
issued with the solemn pronouncement that they were God-
inspired and that
it
was damnation to contradict them.
Practically all,
if
not all, of the mistakes made throughout the
centuries
by
orthodoxy, whatever its name, in respect of Biblical
interpretations, was the result of quoting statements which in
their intent were spiritual or mystical, but were interpreted to
imply principles, processes and states of the Soul, as connected
to historical persons, events, and things belonging to the body
or material world. This has been the curse of all formal religions
and
is
still the destroyer of spiritual individualism.
88 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Even the Christian Cabala is little else than an interpretation
of the esoteric meanings of Scripture, itself couched in mystical
—parabolic—language and in need of a "key" for its
explanation.
John the Baptist and the Nazarene were both taught in the
School of the Therapeutas, and the Order of the Essenes. This
explains why they used allegories when teaching the Scriptures,
or spiritual (esoteric) Laws and truths. Philo, and others of
the learned Initiates before him, taught spiritual truths in the
same manner. This method of teaching was used to guard the
sacred interpretations from profanation and loss through being
divulged to the ignorant and vulgar. The Nazarene made this
plain in no uncertain terms when he boldly commanded:
"Neither cast your pearls before swine." —Matt. 7:6.
According to Pausanias, the wisdom of the Greeks had from
the earliest times been wrapped up in allegories and enigmas,
i.e., the parables of the Nazarene. This fact is borne out by the
result of intensive study and investigation of their interpre
tations.
Sallust gives us a detailed account of the reason for this
practice; while Sanchonianthon and Proclus state that the
Phoenicians and Egyptians before them veiled the great secrets
(Mysteries) of existence under figures and symbols.
This practice was also followed by the most ancient school of
philosophers variously called Gnostics, Hermetics, Neo-Platon-
ists, Alchemists, Rosicrucians and others of a later day, whose
object was the perfection of the spiritualization of man —the in
dividual —by means of his REgenerafion. Their language, like
that of all crafts, was technical, hence symbolic and unintel
ligible, i.e., gibberish, to those who did not possess the "key."
To the Christian world the Bible must necessarily play an
important part in the present and future history of both the
material and religious world.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 89
The time is not far distant when there will be a clash of arms
to determine whether this Christ-i&n text is to continue to be the
guide of at least the Aryan mankind, or be replaced by that of
another religion.
The so-called infidel may throw aside religious teachings, but
he will return again and again to ask for a re-examination, and
despite his protests, there is within him a voice —a feeling—that
will not be stilled, do what he will. The blind devotee to the
Bible's literal sense, who has taken it to heart in its gross, outer
meaning, as he has been taught, will yet awaken to hidden
beauties of which he has never dreamed, and once awakened to
their influence, rise to a deeper appreciation of that which
is,
but
to which he has been blind.
The objections of agnostics to revelation, miracles, the spirit
within man, Immortality, the reality of
a
spiritual beyond the
material and other tenets of spiritual texts, are due to ignorance
of the reality of existence, not as
it
seems to be, but as
it
really
is. This erroneous judgment and condemnation is not based on
wisdom, but on the actions of their fellow men. They base their
conclusions on outer acts, not on reality, because they have been
as blind to reality—the mysteries —as were the masses at the
time of the Nazarene when he tried so hard to teach them the
truth, and finally was compelled to fall back on allegory.
There
is
an almost universal awakening to the belief that
what men have been taught
is
not the truth, but the outer shell
of truth, and hence there
is
a
demand for an entirely different
interpretation of the Biblical teachings. Such an interpretation
is
not in itself difficult, but even those demanding
it
find
it
diffi
cult to accept the truth, due to the fact that responsibility for
their every thought, desire and act
is
THROWN BACK DIRECTLY
UPON THEMSELVES.
There
is
no one else to pay their indebtedness or atone for
their evil deeds. Such an interpretation brings upon them with
90 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
terrific force the truth affirmed by the lowly, but gloriously
grand, Nazarene:
"Whatsoever a man soweth, that also shall he reap." —Gal. 6:7.
There is no qualification to this truth.
The vast majority of authors of past centuries, aye, ages, have
collected the diverse and widespread fragments of the teachings
of ancient forms of worship, but failed to realize that the dogmas
and forms of such worship, both ancient and modern, were but
the relics and dismembered parts of worship that have had
their ramifications throughout the world.
They failed to even sense that hidden within these many
forms, there was an eternal, ever-living spirit, which gave life to
those who sought deeply enough to find it.
These researchers are not altogether to blame. They had no
opportunity to study the esoteric or Arcane. They had no one
to guide or to interpret them, hence they accepted the letter,
knowing nothing of the spirit. They accepted the husk of the
wheat, instead of the wheat that is hidden within the husk and
that gives life to those who eat of it.
The general method of treating this all-important question
has been, and still continues to be —because men actually fear
to face the truth—as though an anatomist had found the bones
of an arm, and accepted it as the skeleton of a strange animal,
or a skull as the bony structure of an animal of some unknown
or forgotten species.
Modern geology has discoursed ancient religions as the
naturalist would discuss fossil remains, but much more severely.
Back of this discussion there has usually been the spirit of con
demnation, instead of a research for the finding of truth.
All religions now accepted have grown out of, and hence are
but fragments of, a long past, most complete and magnificent
symbol worship of which the Priests held the key. At present
that key to true religion is lost to all but the Illuminated ones;
those who search for, and find the spirit hidden within. This
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 91
statement does not imply that the symbols were actually wor
shipped, because all adoration was for the spirit which the
symbols represented. This is the difference between that long
ago worship and that of the present day.
The Alexandrian library, destroyed by the Saracens, is sup
posed to have contained more reading matter than all the litera
ture now in the world; the greater bulk consisting of manuscripts
not of a symbolic nature. It is certain that the old Phoenecian
alphabet, the parent of the Greek, Latin and English, is very
ancient. The symbolic writings, however, carry us much farther
back, for they have been perpetuated amid the conflagrations of
cities and the ruins of empires.
The meaning of these ancient writings is alive within itself,
and less destructible than are parchment rolls and bound vol
umes. The mad bigots of every age never sought the truth, but
hated it with a deadly hatred. They attempted to eradicate all
evidence of the earlier forms of worship, as they did in the case
of the late Gnostic fathers, when they destroyed all the sacred
Gnostic books that their own false teachings might be accepted
instead.
The symbolic language, however, was engraved upon monu
ments and tombs and buried with the dead. Some of the Gnostic
fathers carried the mysteries away in their memories, so that the
truth, though it suffered, did not die, while the destroyers are
dead and forgotten. The truth, the so-called mysteries, the
spirit, lives as it has in all ages and will continue to live as long
as there are men with Souls who seek.
The modern church, of whatever persuasion, has condemned
and made every effort to destroy all vestige of our modern con
nections with the ancient symbolic worship, and the spirit or
mysteries of the inner circle.
During the whole of the Christian era this knowledge has
been religiously excluded from the seats of learning or, if in
troduced, has been misunderstood and misinterpreted. In many
instances this "truth" was purposely perverted from its original
92 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
meaning, despite the fact that the priests, in their secret sanc
tums, have delved deeply into the meaning of the symbolic
writing and the spirit of the mysteries, but only for the purpose
of enlightenment for themselves.
In our modern institutions of learning all that concerns the
spirit hidden in ancient mythology antecedent to the Greek and
Roman, is excluded, or introduced in some of its less acceptable
forms. The reason for this is not far to seek. Whenever any of
the so-called Pagan doctrines or ceremonies of the Greeks or
Romans corresponded to either Jewish or Christian, the force of
the coincidence was explained by the supposition that the
"pagan" or "heathen" borrowed them; despite the fact that such
symbols or teachings existed centuries earlier. Where is there a
Christian who will admit that the Christ of the Christian is the
very spirit of the Christ os of the Gnostic Christian Fathers?
When we are actually able to show that Jewish and Pagan
are identical, the older system must be given the palm of
originality. For this reason our researches necessarily lead us to
investigate the older systems of religious teachings and practices
for the purpose of comparison. In religion, as in all else, there
recur rebirths; like history, "it repeats itself;" and we MUST SEEK
TO FIND THE spirit IN ALL FORMS, that we may be guided
thereby.
It is but fair that we should give a sound reason for our run
ning counter to the settled convictions of the age. We shall here
give that reason, by laying down a proposition which is irre
futable. It furnishes a firm basis for the argument, that truth is
at all times more desirable than an abstract affirmation. Truth
is absolutely necessary for our thesis and, above all, ESSENTIAL
FOR THE PROPER DEVELOPMENT AND ADVANCEMENT OF THE
HUMAN RACE AS A WHOLE.
The facts that will prove the identity of all religions are
rapidly accumulating. The enemies of revealed religion are
becoming acquainted with the facts and, unfortunately, are
using them with powerful effect in subverting the present order
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 93
of society without substituting something better. In short, the
truth is perverted for the destruction of all forms of religion.
The infidels, as well as the enemies of religion in all its
forms, have become acquainted with the fact that the various
systems of religion active in the world at present have borrowed
most, if not all, of their ideas from the ancients and have per
petuated these forms and ceremonies by means of changes or
substitution of words, names and symbols. In view of this un-
contradictable fact, the infidel and enemy of religion argues
that modern religion was organized on a false basis and should
be destroyed.
These infidels are grossly material. They have not the
slightest idea that the spirit which activated religion, as it does
man's Soul, is as alive and vital today as it was in the beginning
of man's first inkling of the existence of God. We accept most
of the facts in the case, but deny and refute the conclusions,
because we KNOW them to be incorrect and false.
We freely admit that ancient forms of worship, AS WE HAVE
BEEN TAUGHT THEM, were false; but we also KNOW that what
has been taught was utterly false and in many instances, in
culcated with deliberate intent to mislead.
In our present age, more and more men are beginning to
think for themselves. They seek access to the sacred books and
manuscripts of the ancients that they may investigate them,
learn the facts, and arrive at their own conclusions. We are
learning to decipher the oldest hieroglyphics and beginning to
get an understanding of the beauties of their philosophy. These
sacred books, these hieroglyphics, unfold to us the mysteries
underlying their worship and furnish us with a "key" to unlock
the doors that were long hidden.
Behind these doors we find the mysteries hidden in our own
Bible. We seek not because we love the Christos who became
the Christ less, but because we love the beauties of the ancient
cultus more, and because we feel it well for mankind to pull
down the walls that separate the two and thus bring greater
94 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
enlightenment to mankind as a whole; furnishing man with a
sounder basis for his religious beliefs and spiritual practices;
proving that one without the other is as dead as the Nazarene's
saying is true:
"Faith without works is dead." —James 2:20.
We emphatically deny the accepted idea that ignorance is
the mother of devotion; but believe instead, that the greater
a man's knowledge of God, the wider will he open his heart to
the influx of His spirit.
The Bible has long been the battle-ground of the Christian
world, and what horrors have been committed in its name!
Over its mangled remains each claimant alternately has
triumphed, or mourned its defeat; but as a result of the battles,
the victims could be counted by the thousands; aye, even
millions. As we proceed in our search, or research, we clearly
perceive that neither clan, sect nor party has actually understood
the spirit underlying its teachings, because that SPIRIT is ONE
OF LOVE, DEVOTION AND CONSTRUCTION.
The Bible admittedly forms the basis for our social and re
ligious institutions. It contains vast funds of constructive infor
mation and, correctly understood, advocates the best of morals.
It reveals laws not improved upon through the centuries, and
must not be treated with contempt by the ignorant. On the
contrary, in its history of peoples, it contains much that is
revolting to common decency and good morals, to say nothing
of honesty and truth. It is our duty to inquire how far, and to
what extent, it is to be accepted in its literal sense, and above all,
TO SEEK AND FIND, AND THEN APPLY, THE SPIRIT THAT
UNDERLIES ITS INCULCATIONS.
As human creatures, of lesser or higher degrees of develop
ment and enlightenment, created in the form of the Divinity
Himself, are we to believe that all ancient worship of Him was
wrong, and that the believers of those times are damned because
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 95
they did not know any other teaching except to be imbued with
a desire to do Him homage? If this is correct, then we must, as
reasonable beings, believe that God is not God, but an awful
idea of destruction, for if that form of worship was wrong,
why did, God. jail to send them one who would enlighten them?
Man must be instructed in the truth in doses he is capable
of ingesting and digesting. It has been necessary to give him
only as much as he could or would receive. Even in modern
times it has been necessary to recognize that the vast majority
could be taught only in parables and dark (hidden) sayings,
as so well explained by the Nazarene to his disciples, some of
whom were themselves hardly able to comprehend the myster
ies he revealed to them in their secret meetings.
96 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
THE LEGEND OF SOULS
The Soul's descent into matter that it might gain
experience and learn both good and evil.
HE human Soul is an emanation from the Deity. In its
original essence, it is all purity. In the Paradise of
purity and love, in the Father's garden of immortal
purity and wisdom, Souls sprang up like blossoms. It is the
tendency of the Divine nature, whose chief attributes are love
and wisdom, heat, which is life, and Light that is eternal, to
duplicate itself, and mirror forth its own perfection in scintilla
tions of Light from Itself.
These Divine Sparks from the heavenly Fire become Souls.
Since the effect must share in the nature of the cause, the fire
which warms into life also illuminates into light. The Soul
emanations from the Divine are therefore all love and life,
while the illumination of light, which streams ever from the
great central sun of Being, activates all Souls which correspond,
or harmonize with the beams of the Ineffable Light.
Born through love, which corresponds to Divine heat and
light, and stimulated by the Light which is Divine wisdom and
truth, the first and most powerful Soul emanations repeated
the action of their supreme Originator. They in turn gave off
emanations from their own being, some higher, some lower;
the highest tending upwards toward spiritual essence; the lower
forming particled matter.
These denser emanations, following out the creative law,
aggregated into suns, satellites and worlds, each repeating the
story of creation; suns gave birth to systems, and to every state
of spiritual and material existence.
In like manner, ideas descend or organize into forms, while
98 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
forms in turn ascend into ideas. Thus growth, development and
progress of creation is endless. The spirit is compelled to origi
nate and create worlds of matter for the one purpose of its
progressive unfoldment and advancement; to cease effort is to
be destroyed.
Will the mighty march of creation never cease? Will the
cable anchored in the heart of the great Mystery we know as
Deity, stretch forth forever?
"Forever!" shout the blazing suns, leaping on in the fiery
orbits of their shining life, and trailing in their glittering path
way thousands of satellites and meteoric sparks, whirling, flash
ing in their jewelled crowns, all embryonic germs of new,
younger worlds yet to be.
Is there to be no end? In thundering tones from out of
everywhere we receive the answer: ONLY TO THOSE WHO
CEASE TO MAKE EFFORT AND INSTEAD OF ADVANCING,
THOUGH EVER SO SLOWLY, BEGIN THEIR RETROGRESSION,
until they pass into nothingness.
The universal, all-pervading Law is attraction. Man, by
keeping on trying, ATTRACTS. He who continues to try, at
tains. This is the Law underlying the Mysteries. It is the secret
of Initiation.
Earths that have attained a capacity to support organic life
necessarily attract it. Earths demand it. Heaven supplies it.
From whence? As the earth groans for the leadership of su
perior beings —honest men, strong men, Soulful men, the rul
ing powers, the Hierarchies in their Edens hear the calls and
answer them.
Never before has the call been more urgent than at the
present moment, nor mankind less worthy of such help, for the
one all-potent reason that man has ceased to help himself, and
is no longer sufficient unto himself. He has lost his man
hood, hence godhood is not for him until he awakens and re
trieves his past.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 99
Man lived on earth through myriads of different forms before
he reached his present state of development —self-consciousness.
Only now is he man, while at every other stage of his great
journey he was no more than an embryonic being; a fleeting,
temporary shape of matter, a creature in which a part of the
deeply imprisoned Soul should shine forth.
This being was a rudimental shape with changing functions,
ever living, dying, sustaining a fleeting spiritual existence, as
rudimental as the material shape from whence it emerged. It
was like a butterfly springing up from the chrysolitic shell, but
ever as it onward rushes, in new births, new deaths, new incar
nations, anon to die, and then live again, but still stretch for
ward, still strive onward, still rush on the giddy, dreadful, toil
some, rugged path, until it awakens once again, once more to
live and to be a material shape, a thing of dust, a creature of
flesh and blood.
Then it suddenly emerges a man with what may become an
Immortal Consciousness. Today, this man, who has progressed
so far in his attainment, is in grave danger of losing all again,
because he has become careless of his inheritance and, all
too often, has bartered his freedom for what is truly a "mess of
pottage."
It is from the dim memory of the past, that the Soul retains,
at least in part, the memory of its original brightness and its
fall. It has dim recollections of its countless migrations through
the various stages of being that foreshadowed its present ap
pearance on this earth in its present form. These recollections
are responsible for the erroneous doctrine of the metempsychosis
(transmigration of the Soul through means of animals) that
has arisen and is holding millions of Souls in the deepest, lowest
bondage. All too many of these millions live far more degrad
ing and less constructive lives than the animals through which
they believe themselves to have migrated.
Despite man's evil proclivities and acts, it is a sin against
Divine truth to believe or teach that the one who has reached
100 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the dignity and upright stature of man in possession of a Soul
that may be brought into Consciousness, should, or could, re
trograde into the shape of creeping things or crouching animals.
This is not borne out by the revealed Law which tells us
that those who become so evil or degraded shall lose their
Souls. The "Soul that sinneth it shall die," interpreted properly,
means that "HE WHO is IN POSSESSION OF A SOUL AND THUS
DEBASING HIMSELF, shall lose that Soul, and he, not the Soul,
shall be no more."
After the Soul's birth into humanity, it may, AS A RESULT
-
OF ITS OWN DELIBERATELY MADE EFFORTS, acquire COnSCtOUS-
ness; gain knowledge of its own individuality. Once having
accomplished this, the Soul can forever end its career of material
transformation and with the death of the mortal self, gravitate
on to a new and higher series of existence in purely spiritual
realms of being. On this new plane, the Soul can become
active by co-operating with world helpers, i.e., Hierarchies, or
it may elect to return to earth as a teacher of the Law, thereby
helping others to attain to self or Soul Consciousness.
The story of creation itself was woven into legends, of which
Genesis is but one. The same story has been interwoven into
legends of gods and goddesses. The relationship between man
and woman is often interspersed with astronomical signs and
even descriptions of animals and, as a result, such legends
became deified as types of creative energy —Creative energy
being the beginning of all things created.
The legend of the Garden of Eden, the temptation and the
fall of man, has all too frequently been accepted by materialists
as of a purely astronomical origin.
The August constellation of the Virgin represents a woman
holding a flower, sprig or fruif in her hand, beckoning to
Bootes, i.e., Joseph, the constellation a little to the north of
the Virgin, but in close proximity to her.
This configuration of the heavenly signs is interpreted into
the legend of Adam and Eve as well as the Virgin Mary and
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 101
Joseph. The radiance, bloom and beauty of the seasons in which
these constellations appear signify the earthly Eden. The wo
man, symoblized by Eve, is tempted by the serpent who, sym
bolically, appears in the sky as the great dragon. She in turn
gives the fruit to man; he eats and his "fall" follows.
The heavenly (sky) drama continues. The Cherubim and
Seraphim of the skies—the constellated stars, drive them forth
from the Eden of the summer into the gloom of cold, and
famine of winter. To restore the fallen man to a future paradise,
a Saviour must be found, and this is effected by the birth of the
Sun-God at midwinter and his restoring influence during the
succeeding spring and summer.
To properly interpret this actual astronomical occurrence we
must have access to the spiritual concepts of the teachings of the
Thrice Wise, or Heavenly wise Hermes: "As in the above, so
in the below; as in the inner, so in the outer." To accept this
legend of the operations of nature without considering the
spiritual significance concealed beneath
it,
is
equivalent to the
assumption that the ancients actually worshipped the material
sun, moon and stars as personal gods.
The truth
is,
the knowing ancients never enunciated sacred
ideas except
by
means of allegorical forms. They never mapped
out the scheme of an allegory without also veiling
a
profound
spiritual meaning. This plan was followed
by
the Nazarene
who taught, to all but the very few, truths veiled in allegory.
The Christian drama of Joseph and the Virgin Mary, of the
Saviour and the Sun-God,
is
another representation of the same
astronomical occurrence.
With the descent of the Soul into physical or material life,
the human creature became dual; male and female "made he
them," i.e,, they did become, with sex as the dividing line be
tween. Following this division, there ensued the mysterious
transformation of the Soul's faculties which converted spiritual
love into material passion; intuitional knowing into human
reason; boundless perception into dim memory and vague pre
102 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
science; eternal things into things temporal, and a creature
without parts or passions, into one all organs; swayed by every
emotion ranging from the depths of vice to the lofty heights
of the deepest virtue—ALL DUE TO THE CONFLICT BETWEEN
LOW CARNALITY AND LOFTY SPIRITUALITY: the conflict be
tween the purity of the Soul and the degradation of the flesh.
Now the once free Soul is once more to become an "angel" —
that
is,
an Immortal being. To accomplish this
it
must first be
be
a
truly human, then
it
becomes
a
spirit, struggling on
through grades of unfoldment and regeneration. When all this
has been accomplished, the Soul originally expelled from its
primary Eden of innocence and ignorance, as
a
result of keen
desire which compels conformity to Law, will regain another
Eden, and possessing the strength, wisdom and love which
alone can constitute
it
as: "and now the sons of men have be
come the Sons of God." This process of unfoldment was one
of the Greater Mysteries of Ancient Initiation.
It
is
a
mystery
understood
by
few, yet one of the most sublime achievements
possible to man.
It
was this spiritual perception of the human Soul's destiny,
by
rebirths, which implied and necessitated generation. The
ancients esteemed the generative functions as divine, and the
deification of these emblems as an act of religious duty. Thus
it
was natural that solar and sex worship, as symbolic
of
Divine
activity, was born out of man's highest conception of the Divine
plan.
It
rose into
a
perfect science
by
means of which the
antique man perceived the correspondence between earth and
the heavens; the above and the below, the Creator and His
creature.
It
must be remembered that all this occurred ages before
the invention of letters and when creation was the highest
glory of
a
man-wanting world. The phallus, organ, or means
of creation, became the highest, most significant hieroglyphic
or symbol of creation in its outer symbolization, and salvation
or REgeneration, in its inner meaning.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 103
Later the saltier or St. Andrew's cross, preceding of the
Christian cross with the same spiritual meaning, forming an
angle of twenty-three degrees, that
is,
the angle of the elliptic
or angle formed
by
the sun in crossing the line, became an
emblem of salvation.
It
was the sign that ushered in the fruitful season as
a
result
"*"
of which man survived. The lingam was also an emblem of
fecundity and the two became blended into one. As time passed,
this having
a
"pagan" beginning,
it
was changed into the ser
pent, itself
a
sign of salvation.
The Roman cross also symbolized the principle of fecundity,
as did the course of the sun. In their inner meaning, these
various emblems symbolized the REgeneration of man; for in
truth, man
is
saved
by
the Cross whether he
is
aware of
it
or not.
According to the ancient mystical and astronomical sciences,
men are saved
by
three forces, i.e., the warmth produced
by
the sun as the sun
is
cross-ified or crucified at the passover; the
generative power of the appropriate organs in vegetable life
which continues to produce sustenance; and lastly,
by
the
REgenerative power of the phallus, the Sun or the Christos, i.e.,
the Christ of the Christian; all of which have the same spiritual
meaning when properly understood.
The spiritual truths of antiquity have never died, for their
exhibition has at all times illuminated the ages with light;
a
light so little understood and
by
so few, that its holy radiance
has been mistaken for the baleful glare of "supernaturalism."
These truths cannot die; because in them
is
the assurance of
a
resurrection that transcends death.
Following the simplicities of the early man, men began to
congregate. The necessities of
a
state, i.e., the congregation of
numbers in
a
given area, required the appointment of persons
considered capable for the duty to be performed, which was to
regulate (make known, explain) the times, seasons, obser
vances and laws to be obeyed. The first efforts of those so
104 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
selected were naturally directed toward the most pressing de
mands of the people.
After the completion, so far as possible, of the social organ
ism, religion or the spiritual welfare of the people demanded
attention. During the long centuries preceding the time when
men began to build cities, the wandering herdsmen had most
anxiously observed the movements of the heavenly bodies
during their nightly vigils and, as a tradition, preserved a
knowledge of the names and movements of the principal
luminaries.
It required the combined intelligence and means of the
peoples to organize a complete system of stellar symbolism.
The starry hosts soon began to be considered the abodes of the
gods, and it became the business of those appointed as priests
of their religious services and ceremonies to locate them in their
appropriate domiciles. These men who were so set apart by the
people became their teachers and leaders, and their religious
form naturally took on an astronomical nature, as in truth,
most religious forms and observances still are.
These selected men gradually withdrew altogether from the
labors and pleasures of the rest of the people, and in solitude
devoted themselves to religious contemplation and observances.
The human Soul, never really satisfied in its material prison of
finite limitations, is always aspiring after the good and true;
always hoping for a messenger out of other spheres, and there
fore expectant of receiving such help. Consequently, it was
natural that the people, conscious of the saintly lives of their
hermit teachers and leaders, should set them apart as objects of
veneration to be respected and obeyed.
As time passed and truth and legends spread of them, men
began to travel far to inquire of them how evil might be
eliminated; diseases cured, wrongs corrected; for it was believed
with good reason that in thus devoting themselves to a life
above the tumult of the passions, occupied solely with spiritual
observances, they would be able to approach very near to God,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 105
and receive direct revelations from Him which could be con
veyed to, and be a guide for, those of lesser wisdom and
spiritual insight.
It was in such manner that the priestly orders had their be
ginning and that these priests, because of their chaste life,
meditations, and inner spiritual development came into inter
course or communion with the beings or Hierarchies of the
heavens, and were enabled to act as mediators between the
people and God. They were considered as having attained to
Godhood, or, as the Christian text would have it:
"As many as receive him, to them gave he power to become the Sons of
God."—St. John 1:12.
The priests soon became the sole conservators of the Mys
teries and, as a result, they naturally were given authority over
the people and, like the Nazarene, taught them as much as they
could receive. It was not that the priests deemed the knowledge
they had received or attained as too high for the masses.
They did not convey to them all of the wisdom that was theirs
because they knew the people would not be able to understand
or accept the mysteries. It was true then, as it was much later
in the time of the Nazarene, that the people could be taught
only in parables.
The great truths were for the few and became known as the
Lesser and Greater Mysteries. It could well have been said to
these few:
"To you is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of God [or
Heaven], to others it is not so given." —Matt. 13:11.
To simplify the dual natures of man which are in constant
conflict within him, as they have been since the beginning of
time, it was taught that the human Soul attracted two spirits
to itself from the moment of birth —invisible beings or angels
—the one, his original spiritual nature, powerful for good; the
other his carnal or evil nature, equally powerful for evil. These
spirits were called by the ancients, and continued to be so-
called in the early Gnostic teachings, the good and evil Genii.
106 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The natural inclination to vice or virtue in the individual to
whom they ministered were stimulated or exalted, as the Soul
gave heed to the inspiration of the good counselor or evil
tempter.
In addition to the realms of beings enumerated, it was taught
that other orders existed in the spaces, not wholly good; not
actually evil; neither entirely spiritual, nor actually material
in their nature; creatures of the elements, corresponding in their
state, power and function, to the different elements in the uni
verse. These were said to fill up all the realms of space with
uncounted legions of embryonic and rudimental forms. This
theme was not wholly ignored by the writers of Biblical texts.
There were references to Angels, Archangels, Orders, Prin
cipalities, etc., as resident in the "heavens," though considered
on the side of evil rather than good. This was due to the fact
that these writers were not of the Initiated or selected, and
when writing on a matter about which they knew little or
nothing, they rather confused the subject.
Beings of the order mentioned were, by reason of their semi-
spiritual state, generally invisible to man. All too often, because
of the gross tincture of matter in their composition, writers of
Biblical texts were unable to discern any orders of being but
themselves, except through rare and unusual rifts in the atmos
pheric surroundings. This reference to such beings is under
standable only to the Initiates of the Occult Mysteries.
These beings were made to correspond to the ether, air,
atmosphere, water, earth, minerals, plants and the different
elements of which the earth and the universe is composed.
Some of these beings, like the nature of man, who creates them,
are malicious and antagonistic to man himself, while others are
good and often very helpful.
They exert a definite power to influence man, especially in the
direction of the elements to which they correspond, and are
endowed with graduated degrees of intelligence. Man attracts
that which is of his inmost self, be this good or evil, and for
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 107
every evil in the Soul of man, there is a corresponding element
to further strengthen and give it greater life.
Being invisible to man, except as a result of rare or prepared
conditions (conditions and preparations known only to the
Initiates), they were termed "spirits." Being embryonic, rudi
mentary and attracted only by certain conditions, they were
termed elementals, until the Bible writers classified them
differently and gave them class names.
There were said to be many kinds of spiritual essences be
sides human Souls, such as the spirits of earth, the sea, running
water, the air and fire. Their abiding places could not be named
without enumerating the secret corners of the earth. These
"spirits" are often under the dominion of man, as all Initiates
know. They often influence men, as is stated in the Biblical texts
on Angels, Archangels, Orders, Principalities, etc. The Gods,
Angels, Archangels, Principalities, Hierarchies, call them what
we will, have not been ignored by any major religion, nor by
any of the great writers, ancient or modern.
Loa-Kium, a contemporary of the great Chinese sage Con
fucius, founded a school, which, for the spirituality of its
doctrines, far transcended that of many of the earlier and later
schools. His basic statement placed all power in the trinity:
"Tao (God) produced one; one produced two (by division);
two produced three; and three produced all things."
Jamblichus, quoting from the doctrine of Hermes, said:
"From this one came all gods that be, all spirits, both good and
bad, and many that be neither very wicked nor yet very good."
The early teachers of religious worship organized their system
on the perfect planetary order, but this was provisional and was
to give way to one more perfect; an organization of the
heavens to harmonize with the constellations, just as nations
organize under a provisional government, until they formulate
and adopt a constitution. This was a planetary system of seven,
that being the number of the planets known to the ancients.
From this, came the symbolical or perfect number of seven,
108 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
and later the system of Pythagoras was based on this belief.
This system proved to be a forerunner, a prophecy, a witness
a John the Baptist, the voice that was to usher in the more per
fect system of the twelve that was later to be perpetuated in
every religious system under heaven, even to our present day.
It is well not to forget that the Egyptians, even in the most
ancient of days, were fully acquainted with the signs of the
zodiac. The monuments known to be of the earliest antiquity
were covered with figures, among which were the crab and the
goat; the balance and the scorpion; the ram and the bull; the
kid, virgin, and the rest of zodiacal symbology.
The twelve symbolical signs, which still signify the twelve
portions or divisions, both of year and the heavens, were of the
greatest help in indicating the proper time for sowing, mowing,
harvesting and all other activities of that period of time.
It was very convenient, as well as essential, for those selected,
to expose in public a small figure, or a single hieroglyphic, to
indicate to all concerned the exact time for certain work to
begin, or certain feasts to be celebrated. The use of these figures
or symbols was so convenient that, by degrees, they were ex
tended to cover practically all, if not all activities. Was this
pagan practice? What would we be doing if some one had not
invented the calendar or something similar?
This method of giving directions, or showing one thing to
intimate another, was the beginning of teaching by allegories.
They preserved, for long periods, the method of teaching
everything by means of symbols, calculated, by some mysterious
influence, to excite curiosity, which was afterwards rewarded
by the satisfaction of having discovered the truths the symbols
concealed. Pythagoras, having travelled the Eastern nations and
accepted the practice, brought the custom into Italy.
It is comparatively simple to illustrate the common origin
of systems of action and forms of worship, as also the origin of
practices and names of God, or the gods.
There came to Lower Egypt one Ham and his descendants.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 109
Ham is also known as Hammon; furthermore he was commonly
called Jehov, and this was the beginning of the Hebrews,
Jehovah, or unspeakable name of God. He was further known
as Jehov-Ammon. After leaving Lower Egypt he is supposed
to have built the city of Thebes, known as Ammon-no — or
Ammon's abode —Ammo-no, or City of God; probably the
first reference to God as God.
The word Jehov, in its primitive meaning, signified the
Father of life —the Supreme Being. The Greeks translated this
name God into that of Zeus, or Dios; Zeus, God; Dios, life, and
later the Romans translated it into Deus. While there is a
difference in langauge, there is no difference in the meaning.
The Christian can accept all of them. The Romans sometimes
added the name Father; or an interpretation of
it,
calling God,
Diospiter or Juvpiter. The Ammon later became confounded
with God, also with Osiris, or the star moderator of seasons,
and then became Jov-Ammon, or Jupiter- Ammon.
This Ham and his descendants came to or inhabited Lower
Egypt. Neither history nor legend tells us which
is
correct.
It
is
known that they were in total ignorance of everything Egyp
tian. They began
by
cultivating the land according to the
order of the year, after the manner followed in other countries.
No sooner were they ready to cut the harvest, when, at the driest
season of the year, and without the least sign of rain, the river
swelled, and to their great amazement, overflowed its banks,
and took with
it
the provisions of which they felt themselves
certain. The waters continued to rise; covered all the plains;
carried away their cattle, and even some of the inhabitants
themselves.
This experience caused Ham and his people to leave the
Lower Egypt and retire to the higher ground. Here he founded
the city of Thebes. Many of those who had come with Ham
to Lower Egypt, finding
it
inconvenient to move from Lower
Egypt, noted that after the retiring of the waters, Lower Egypt
throughout the remaining part of the year, became like
a
110 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
beautiful garden; a delightful place to dwell, and proceeded to
prepare themselves for the return of the waters.
They proceeded, as had the Egyptians, to observe from one
year to another, that the overflowing was always preceded by an
Etesian wind, which, blowing from north to south, about the
time of the passage of the sun under the stars of the crab,
drove the vapors toward the south, and gathered them in the
middle of the country of Ethiopia, which then caused plentiful
rains; these swelled the waters of the river, and brought on the
inundation of lower Egypt.
They now set about to learn the exact time when it should
become necessary for them to prepare for the inundation. They
found that the overflowing of the banks of the river happened
some days before or after the sun was under the stars of the
lion; near the stars of Cancer, though rather far from the band
of the zodiac towards the south.
A few weeks after their rising, they noticed in the morning
one of the most brilliant, if not the largest star of the whole
heavens, ascending the horizon. This star appeared a little
before the rising of the sun, which had rendered it almost in
visible for a month or two before. They then accepted the rising
of this magnificent star as the infallible sign of the sun's passing
under the star of Leo, and hence the beginning of the inunda
tion. This star—their salvation—became to them the public
mark, or warning sign, for which every one was ordered to keep
a watchful eye.
MYTHS MAY BE HIDDEN SPIRITUAL TRUTHS
Mythologies— Heavenly Order— Spiritual Truths
IN Greek mythology, Saturn had his domicile or seat of
power in the planet Saturn, the most distant from the
sun then known, whose year required thirty earthly
years. As time was measured by Saturn, he was called the father
of time. About him, a legend was written in the book of fate,
that one of his own offspring should, in time, dethrone him
and occupy his place in the heavenly hierarchy.
From this legend came the myth that Saturn devoured all
his own male children except Jupiter—after the legend of God
slaying all of the oldest Egyptian male children except Moses —
whom his mother hid until manhood, when he made war upon
and dethroned his father.
The interpretation of this prophecy and myth is simple:
Saturn was,
is,
time; time destroys all his own works, save the
sun, one of the works of time under the name of Jupiter, i.e.,
the great God, which becomes the permanent object of worship
IN PLACE OF THE PLANETARY SYSTEM —hence Saturn ceases
to be the king of Gods.
Before this system of symbolic sun worship was perfected,
and although divine honors were paid to what
it
represented,
and to the lesser luminaries, yet old time was considered the
father
of
all creation; all things having been begotten
by
him
out
of
the prolific womb of chaos.
The god Brahm of the Hindoos was none other than time;
bram-a was the first time, the letter "a" denoting one or
first, i.e., the first father. The parable of Dives and Lazarus
actually represents the old or dying year, and the new, or begin
ning year. As the old year expired
it
was symbolically carried
112 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
into the bosom of time —represented by our own modern OLD
FATHER TIME with his symbolic scythe, and between time past
and time present, there was an impassible gulf; a period of
great darkness; a mighty sorrow or suffering, because of the
uncertainty of the ability of the new time to bring forth the in
fant sun (son) out of the infinite darkness; for unless the old
sun which had gone down into darkness (hell) would be
replaced by a new one, chaos would follow.
The legend of the Hindoo Avatars or incarnated God-men,
Krishna and Buddha-Sakti, closely parallels this yearly occur
rence, as does that of the Christian drama. The birth of these
Avatars through the motherhood of a pure virgin; their lives
in infancy threatened by a vengeful king; their flight and con
cealment in Egypt; their return to work miracles, save, heal, and
redeem the world; suffer persecution; a violent death, a descent
into hell (or darkness), and a reappearance as reborn Saviours
—as new-born Sons of God —are all symbolized by, or pat
terned after, the Sun God's history, his appearance and reap
pearance. The most recent of these Saviours was, of course, the
Nazarene, the modernized version of which is recorded in the
Gospels:
"And when they were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth
to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his
mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word:
for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.
"And whe nhe arose, he took the young child and his mother by night,
and departed into Egypt.
"And was there until the death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which
was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called
my son." —St. Matthew 2:13-15.
Unquestionably, the two most important actors in the drama
of what might be called the Christian age and the Laws that
should—even though they do not—govern men and their ac
tions, were the Nazarene and Moses before Him. Moses, though
generally believed to have been a Jew; gave the Law or Com
mandments which have never been improved upon. Moses was
the son—unadmitted —of a Princess of the house of Pharaoh,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 113
whose father was supposed to have been a Jew, hence, the
drama of "hiding" and "finding." Be that as it may, Moses was,
partly by birth, and certainly by education and training, wholly
an Egyptian:
"And Moses was learned in all the Wisdom of the Egyptians, and WAS
MIGHTY IN WORDS AND DEEDS." —Acts 7:22.
This is not a recording of either Egyptian or Jewish history,
but rather, of the Christian; and when one thinks of the millions
upon millions of Bibles sold, one cannot but wonder if even
one out of each million who bought these Bibles ever gave a
serious reading to this seventh Chapter of Acts. If they have
not, they should do so; it would prove enlightening.
Here you have the undisputable fact that all Avatars, Saviours
and Redeemers were compelled, to go to Egypt for the safety
of their lives—to keep alive, or living. This is proof that all
religions were born out of the Egyptian religion, or followed
that pattern —history and Ior religious drama repeating itself.
Egypt taught the sun-god's history in legend, myths and
j parable, so all could understand. The real Mysteries were
taught only to the few capable of understanding the spirit of
religion, and all who became Saviours or Redeemers had, per
force, to go to Egypt, i.e., the MYSTERIES, for their Initiation, or
Soul's Illumination.
The legends of Osiris, Isis, Horus and Typhon, the good and
the bad, are symbolizations of the astronomical pattern which
never changes. The myths of the gods Zulis and Memnon, the
worship at Heliopolis; the gorgeous order of the celebration of
the mysteries and the mythical personages scattered throughout
the whole of Egyptian theogony, are the outer forms or worship
of the powers of nature. Without these powers, and lacking the
Zodiacal activity, man would quickly cease to exist, and with
him the spirit, which, in religion, is God.
Beneath the splendor of Egyptian ceremonials and poly
theism, was hidden, is hidden, the Mystery known only to
114 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the "sons of the Lord of heaven," of the Gods. This truth
was guarded by the Initiates as a mystery, not as a doctrine.
The sublime system of Zoroaster recites the history of the
sun-god in the story of Mithra. Here again it is the outer form
which alone the mass would accept. The spirit of the symbolical
legend was truthfully based on astronomical occurrences.
The Chaldeans, Ethiopians, Phoenicians and the greater num
ber of the settled Arabian tribes, followed the same basic ideas
in their forms of worship.
The Scythian nations generally worshipped through the sym
bolism of fire and preserved the traditions of a crucified sun-god.
These traditions, except for names used, DIFFER VERY LITTLE
FROM THE CHRISTIAN CONCEPTS, EXCEPT THAT THERE WAS
NO PERSONIFICATION AS IN THE CHRISTIAN SYSTEM. They
celebrated the sun's birthday on the 25th of December and,
among certain Tartar tribes, there followed a festal ceremony
harmonious with the tradition.
The religions of China and Japan, before the entrance of
Buddhism, which brought about a modification, were originally
based on the mythical history of the sun-god. The feasts, cere
monial rites and seasonal observances were like that of the
Sabean system.
In the islands of Ceylon, Java, the Philippines and Mouccas,
various systems of a combined solar and astral worship prevailed
for ages. These have long since deteriorated into nothing more
than forms, and the various aspects of the one God worship
have long since been lost to them.
The entire system of beautiful imagery of both Grecian and
Roman mythology was no more than a paraphrase of the sym
bolical Egyptian solar worship; enlarged, embellished and
changed to harmonize with the poetic conception of the Greeks
and Romans, and for the period during which they were in
vogue.
The almost incomprehensible idea of a great spiritual sun,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 115
the Unknown and unknowable, of die ancients, finds its perfect
counterpart in the Greek Zeus and the Christian God; ONE
who dwells alone, and from whom proceed, as subordinate
emanations, all the impersonalized powers of nature, planetary
and astral spirits, who so prominently figured in the famous
Pantheon; each having its proper place and its important duties
to perform.
Apollo, Mercury, Hermes, Bacchus, Prometheus and ^Escula-
pius were sun-gods, mediators, saviours and, delude ourselves as
we will, these are as much alive as ever, although known under
different names. Hermes, in one of his personalities, known as
Moses, gave us the law we are supposed to follow but generally
ignore. /Esculapius is today our physician for whom we forget
everything when in a bit of pain; when faith in ourselves is
gone, and so on along the line. We have substituted, names, but
we have not changed our religion.
Proserpina and Pluto played their special parts in the astral
or starry drama. All of them derive their names and special
duties in the divine drama from the same source, Arabians, Par-
sees, Greeks and the later Christians, deny it as we will, drank
from the identical celestial (God-created) fountain, and that
fountain WAS EGYPT to which Joseph took the lowly born Naz-
arene for instruction and training.
All of these were instructed in the same system; the same
Mysteries. Their rites, ceremonies and names, however, varied
according to the temperament of the people to whom they min
istered, modified by the Will of the Priests of the Inner sanc
tuaries and Initiates of the Mysteries. ALL OF THE NAMES
WERE NEITHER MORE NOR LESS THAN SYMBOLS AND FORMS
SIGNIFYING SOME ASPECT OF ONE GOD.
Nearly every nation of antiquity visualized God as a Demi-
urgus; neither male nor female, yet incorporating both within
himself as the central source of life, light, health and creative
power; one, yet incomprehensible, EXCEPT IN LIGHT: un
created and indestructible. The first of the Divine representa
116 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tives was Osiris of Egypt; the Brahma of the early Hindu Trin
ity; the Ormazd of the Persians; the Logos of Philo, the Adam
Kadman of the Cabbalists.
The idea embodied in this theogony was that in the Deity
resided the masculine principle of power and the feminine of
wisdom, called En Soph or Sophia by the Gnostic Cabbalists.
From the incomprehensible union of these two (Principles)
proceeded a third, the Logos, or Word.
Through this Logos the Will of God was made manifest by
outer expression. This expression or material manifestation was
through the evolution of forms, worlds, suns, systems, repro
ductive germs, and a vast multitude of progressive beings.
In this stupendous system of creation, the superior or higher
creations were the gods; Genesis itself recognizes not only God,
but the gods also—directing the birth, formation and destinies
of worlds then in existence or yet to be created; then came
Archangels, charged with missions of almighty power and wis
dom. These were followed by legions of Angels. Later re
ligions, finding nothing greater or higher to replace these angels
and archangels, kept them in toto as part of their system.
Despite all contradiction and reference to "pagan" and
"heathen" beliefs, every nation now on earth, every religious
form now in active existence, continues to perpetuate, in some
form or another, portions of the ancient religious beliefs and
forms.
The feasts and fasts of the ancients, in different forms and
under a variety of names, the rites and ceremonies of the
Mohammedan religion which had least to recommend
it,
the
glorified pageantry of the Woman, the more simple and puri
tanic observances, doctrines and creeds of protestant sects,
(because much of the former devotion in the hearts of men had
died out) —all these recognize, perhaps unknowingly, and
perpetuate the various aspects and forms of the ancient sun or
symbol worship.
If
one seeks to understand the reason why tall spires are
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 117
peculiar to religious edifices, why gilded balls ornament the
church steeples, why sculptural and architectural beauty seems
to require the Gothic form for sacred edifices, why Sunday is a
holy day, why bread and wine are the chosen symbols of the
sacraments, why twelve and seven are perfect numbers —in a
word, if one seeks to solve the mysteries hidden in all sacred
literature, he must study the systems of religious symbolism
even before the time of Menes or Moses.
The wisdom of the ancient people was beyond comprehension
as indicated by the fact that astronomers have been unable to
make any changes. The reason for this is readily understand
able. Astronomy was developed slowly, painstakingly —based
on experience —step by step. The heavens were mapped out
according to the movements of the heavenly bodies and then
applied to the welfare of man.
Many who deride these ancient religious forms and ceremon
ies are ignorant of the fact that the various groups of stars
were located, or mapped out, by drawing around them the out
lines of some animal, reptile, fowl, fish or some instrument, by
which astronomers were able to understand and describe their
position and movement. Who would hesitate to speak of the
"Dipper," the "Bear," the "Morning" or "Evening" star, or the
multitude of other stars? All of these stars were named and
mapped out correctly by those who today are looked upon as
"heathens" and "pagans."
The ancients located forty-eight of these imaginary forms,
called constellations. They based their religious forms and
ceremonies for the people upon the arrangements; or, more
properly speaking, the arrangements were the result of their
religious ideas. It is of no importance which had the precedence,
or whether the two, the astronomical arrangements and re
ligious beliefs, developed side by side. Ancient astronomy
readily carries us back to the age when symbolic or picture writ
ing, as it is known, had its beginning.
This furnishes the sincere seeker with the key to the mysteries
118 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
of ancient religion and government, imparting to him a knowl
edge of the changes in religious beliefs and forms up to the
present time.
The two principles which govern man are "good," which is
constructive or saving, and "evil," which is destructive and de
grading. There are two opposite principles in nature. Summer,
which gives man heat, life and food; Winter, which destroys.
The power or force which gives man warmth, i.e., life, light and
the means of bringing forth food, is the sun. Without this sun
he would quickly cease to exist.
The sun is man's greatest friend and
is,
to the knowing ones,
the symbol of
a
greater Light hiding behind itself, unseen and
unknown to all but those who have obeyed the Law and at
tained to inner Illumination. Upon this concept ALL religions
were based.
The sun, in its apparent motion, pursues
a
course that brings
it
to the crossing of the equator twice during the year, forming
an angle of twenty-three and one-half degrees. These crossings
are called the vernal and autumnal equinoxes; one ushering in
the reign of summer, light and life; the other the dominion of
winter with its darkness, cold and death; cold being synonymous
with death.
One, mystically speaking, ushers in
a
period of righteousness;
the other the beginning of iniquity. The two equinoxes form
the base of an arch, comprising the two months in which the
equinoxes occur, and the five warm months. These seven months
constituted the ancient "kingdom of heaven," or "months of the
gods" —all that was desirable. The two months supporting the
arch are the two "pillars" of Masonry.
At this time the sun and all the powers of light gathered
their trophies from the abounding earth; while the five wintry
months were the abode of cold, desolation and death; the sphere
of darkness, evil, the evil-one, later named the "devil." Here
Typhon, the leader of evil, the hosts of hell, i.e., death or the
decaying, held undisputed sway and followed his work of des
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 119
truction, even to the seizing of the sun (the god of the heavens) ,
in, or at the autumnal equinox, and dragging him down to the
bottomless pit of the southern hemisphere.
The path of the sun, by astronomers called the ecliptic, was
enclosed by two imaginary parallel lines, sixteen degrees dis
tant from each other; the sun's path being in the center. This
space, called the zodiac, was again divided into twelve arcs of
thirty degrees each, making a complete circle around the ap
parent heavens of twelve oblong squares of 16 plus 30 degrees.
In each of these squares was delineated the figure of a symbolic
beast, or some appropriate emblem.
These figures are styled the constellations; the sun entering
each square at the beginning of each month. Here we have the
symbolization of the sun as the savior of mankind, and his
twelve disciples, one of whom was the betrayer; the evil or
destroying one; Judas, who, in trying to destroy the savior, suc
ceeded only in destroying himself; the son, or the savior, resur
recting himself after three days in "hell" with the evil one.
Python, the evil one, the destroyer, our "devil," or Typhon
who became the symbol that signifies the havoc that may be
caused by water, was looked upon as an ill-omen, or ill-minded
spirit, the principle in man, that is constantly thwarting good
intent.
The Egyptians made him the evil genius of all disorder. They
charged him with all the physical evils they could not avoid.
They also blamed him for all the moral evil which they did not
care to admit, evil which was the result of faults of their own;
hence was born the doctrine of the two opposing principles;
equally powerful; incessantly striving against each other, and
alternately vanquished or victorious.
This doctrine was handed down by the Egyptians to the
Persians under the names of Oromazes and Arimazes and is
more rigid than that of our modern creeds. According to this
doctrine, God employs the ministry of those who are believed
120 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
to live in uprightness, hence have the power to relieve the in
dividual from at least a part of his evils.
The aversion of the Egyptians for this Python, the incarnate
spirit of evil and their enemy, and according to their beliefs,
incessantly intent upon bringing them evil, as our modern
"devil" appears to do to us, gradually became so strong that
they no longer dared to pronounce his name. This ancient
aversion we moderns have faithfully copied as will soon be
seen.
Nothing was anciently more celebrated than the victory of
the sun; nothing more abhorred than Python. The Egyptians,
fearing to defile themselves by the mere pronouncing of the
detestable name, retained the letters of it and converted them
into that of "Typhon." In like manner many of our moderns
are fearful of pronouncing the word "devil," hence substitute
"Old Nick," for it. Names change; 'principles never.
The two most solemn and important periods of the astrono
mical year were one of fear and the other of joy. During the
first period the sun descended from the north at the end of
summer to cross the plane of the autumnal equinox. The second
period occurred when the sun ascended from the south in the
spring to cross the vernal equinox. The first motion heralded
death to the great light-bringer; famine and desolation on
earth; the second brought forth the rejuvenating powers of his
triumph and glory in the promise of spring and the fulfillment
of summer.
Besides the general titles assigned to the twelve Zodiacal
constellations, each separate star visible in the heavens had its
name, and was believed to exert an influence peculiar to itself
for good or evil upon mankind.
All the stars through or near which the sun passed during
the summer, were believed to be beneficial and in harmony
with the celestial traveller of the skies; favorable to the in
habitants of the earth to whom they offered help in dispensing
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 121
seed-time and harvest, fruits, flowers, and all manner of
blessings.
On the other hand, the stars of winter were assumed to exert
a malignant influence not only on the mighty sun-god, whom
they opposed, but likewise upon man and his planet in general;
causing storms, tempests, pestilence and famine. By these malig
nant astral influences the life-giving sun was deprived of much
of his heat-dispensing powers, and the hours of his illumination
upon earth were shortened.
The majesty of the day was so obscured by the hosts of the
malignant spirits believed to inhabit the wintry stars, that he
vainly strove against them. On the belief of opposing spiritual
forces inhabiting the summer and winter constellations, was
founded the apocalyptic legend of the "war in heaven."
In this celestial scheme every star became a symbol of some
good or evil genius. This is symbolically true because all things
that exist are of one nature or another. All things influence
man in one way or another. Every constellation was believed
to be a realm peopled by innumerable legions of beneficent or
malignant angels.
The entire field of the sidereal heavens was made the battle
ground of infinite squadrons of opposing angelic influences.
This ancient concept is becoming more and more accepted as a
fact by investigators; who, however, do not recognize these
forces operating as persons or angels.
The ancient priests, so-called because of their custom of
studying the face of the heavens from high watch-towers,
Episcopacy, became after ages of practice, familiar with every
phase of the sublime epic which the sun gave the world. They
required centuries to correct their calendars and amend their
Zodiacal charts until these, in time, became perfect. They in
vented allegorical fables —as the Nazarene did parables —de
scribing the scenes, incidents and angelic personages taking part
in the celestial drama in language so THE MASSES WOULD
122 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
UNDERSTAND. They varied names, images and symbols to
suit the progress in coming centuries.
As an example of the leading ideas which prevailed through
out this stupendous and sublime system and history of the sun-
god, when this light-bringing luminary entered the sign of
Aries, or the Lamb, in March, he was assumed to have crossed
the vernal equinox to redeem the world from the sufferings and
privations of winter. Then the earth and its inhabitants rejoiced
greatly. The young Savior had now entered upon his divine
mission; bringing the earth out of darkness into light; miracu
lously healing the sick, feeding the starving multitudes, and
filling the world with blessings.
This sun-god drama —the outer form of the spirit of creed-
less religion —has not changed one iota except ever so slightly
in form and name. The sun, having recovered his strength
after his stay in the nether regions, enters the sign of Aries, or
the Lamb, and we celebrate the feast of Paschal Lamb rejoicing,
as witness the ceremonies and gay parades of Easter.
Winter is about at an end; the sun with renewed vigor puts
life into the earth and becomes the savior of men by giving
them food. He brings color to the cheeks of the ill; flowers for
the lover; men rejoice and enjoy life's pleasures under starry
skies once more. The legends of Christianity have not changed
in any particular from what they were since men could think,
reason and sense the feeling of devotion to something greater
than things merely seen and felt.
The triumphant career culminated in its fullest glory be
tween the months of July and August, which in the figurative
language of astronomical religion, was sometimes called the
betrothal of the Virgin; sometimes the marriage feast of the
Lion of July to the Virgin of August.
This was the season for harvesting the grape; the time when
the sun converted (turned into), by its radiant heat (Life and
creative power), the waters which had desolated the earth dur
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 123
ing winter, into the luscious wine of the vintage. In this you
have the legend of the wedding feast lacking wine, which the
Nazarene attended and noticing the dilemma of those present,
took water and changed it into wine so all might have plenty.
It was a miracle, one that the sun and nature —all God's crea
tion—performs constantly.
From thence the constellation of the Scales, or of the Bal
ances—middle of the year—as much to come as went before,
seems for a time to maintain the celestial machine in a just and
even path. Nature's miraculous power for life-giving was hailed
with feasts and rejoicings, which lasted until the fatal period,
when the Great Dragon of the skies, the mighty Scorpio (Judas,
the betrayer of good, or good things), of October, appeared in
the ascendent.
The savior of men, by having brought them the things neces
sary to life and happiness, must now cross the autumnal equinox
and from thence on into the South—Hades, Acheron, Sheol,
bottomless pit, or hell, depending upon the legend accepted by
various peoples.
In this celestial or sky-drama, is symbolized the life and
career of the Nazarene from the time of his birth by the
Virgin; his journey into Egypt; his triumphant journey
among men; his betrayal by Judas, one of his own disci
ples; his crucifixion; his descent into hell; his resurrection;
his ascent into heaven in the glory of LIGHT, and his giv
ing life, or salvation, unto all Men.
To announce the dire calamity at hand, the Dragon of Oc
tober is preceded by a bright and glorious star, called in Spring,
the Vesper, or Evening Star; but in autumn, Lucifer, or "son of
the morning."
In the spring, the season of lovers, this splendid luminary is
the herald of summer —the season of the product of love —and
is the brightest and most beautiful of the heavenly host, as well
124 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
it should be, symbolizing as it does, all that is beautiful in the
life of youth.
At this time this star appears high in the heavens, and oc
cupies what is significantly and aptly called, the "seat of the
bride."
Appearing in the boding season of autumn, low on the edge
of the horizon, and shedding its light only in the early dawn,
its name changes with the station; it is now the "fallen" angel,
the betrayed Virgin; a mighty rebel, who, seduced by pride and
vaulting ambition—like Margaret in Faust and countless mil
lions like her —has been dethroned —fallen —and cast down
into an ignoble death, the depths of hell.
Transformed into Lucifer, meaning "the fallen" or the one
"cast out of heaven," this star becomes the herald of the dark
est ill that can beset the path of the celestial savior; neverthe
less, as the "Son of the morning," he is as necessary to life and
the preparation, or introduction to production, as the savior
himself; for without betrayal, there could be no redemption.
The constellation of the great Dragon is the most powerful
of the entire Zodiac. From its peculiar form, consisting of the
immense group of shining stars that extend in the convolutions
of its resplendent train, it has been well named the "Starry
Serpent of the skies."
Its attendant luminaries are assumed to be that third of the
hosts of the heavens seduced by the rebel angel from their
allegiance, and its position as the inaugural constellation of the
much dreaded wintry season impresses upon it the ominous
name of Satan, or the "adversary." Thus, from the position of
a group of stars, and their apparition in the season deemed fatal
to the prosperity of earth and its inhabitants, has arisen that
undying legend, so world-wide, of the existence of an incarnate
spirit of evil.
This is the Satan of the Persians; the Typhon of the Egyp
tians; the Pluto of the Greeks, and the most popular of all ob
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 125
jects of fear, the Devil of the Christians. All of this is directly
related to humanity.
This is the great reason why humanity has so far failed to
learn that the "fall" of man was not caused by any material
snake, serpent, devil, or even woman, or anything else of the
kind, but BY THE SOUL'S desire TO GAIN THE KNOWLEDGE OF
THE IMMORTALS; in Biblical phraseology, to learn both good
and evil, and BECOME AS ONE OF THE GODS.
In the meantime, humanity, whether heathen, pagan or
Christian, follows the letter of the old legend of Satan, and must
continue to do so, until their eyes open, and they are capable of
worshipping God in the spirit, without elaborate symbolism or
pageantry, as taught by the Mysteries of all ages and all re
ligions, and by the Nazarene to his chosen few. Even of these
few, some failed to comprehend and wanted a KING OF STATE,
rather than a GOD IN SPIRIT.
Continuing with the astronomical legend, we find the great
Dragon of October waging its annual war against the sun-god.
As a result of the influence or power of its leader, Lucifer, the
celestial sun-god had already been put to death in his crossi-
fication (crucifixion, i.e., upon the cross) of the autumnal
equinox; from thence he is cast down and given into the power
of the two evil months, November and December, i.e., cast
down, or hung up, between the two thieves; who, though of a
vastly different nature, are crucified with him. However, the one
thief, or evil person, December, repenting (changing) at the
last moment, turns to him, or helps him out of Hades, and is
saved with him.
In the legendary language of the astronomical writers, the
cluster of stars which appear in the midwinter sky bear a re
semblance to a manger or stable, while the spiritual sight of the
ancient "Episcopacy" saw the reappearance of the Virgin or
summer, with her companion, Bootes, or the constellation called
Joseppe or Joseph, and the Virgin bore every resemblance of a
great pregnancy, as typifying the reproduction of summer. .
126 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
For three days at midwinter the feeble radiance of the sun ap
pears to remain stationary, yet so greatly obscured, that the
legend declares he descended to the nethermost parts of the
universe (descended into hell), and is lost sight of for that
period of time.
In the Greek theology, the three days of solar obscuration is
accounted for by the descent of Orpheus into the realms of
Pluto where, by the magic of his sweet music, he is supposed to
rescue lost Souls from the very jaws of Hades, and does so, be
cause all who follow him out of the cold of death will live with
him in the warmth of sunshine as he ascends.
In the astronomical legend, the vanished God is represented
as going on a mission of mercy, to illuminate with His radiance
the darkened Souls (the darkness in Souls) who have been held
captive in the realms of perdition.
At length, on the 25th of December, he reappears, and
amidst the figurative paraphernalia of constellated stars then in
the ascendent, he is declared to have been "born in a manger"
through the maternity of the Zodiacal Virgin.
We celebrate this birth, which is in reality a REbirth, or a
REappearance, by revelry, imbibing too much or, sidestepping
that, feasting unto death. We satiate ourselves with food and
drink instead of seeking the REBIBTH OF THE GREAT LIGHT
WITHIN OURSELVES, and thus in truth, rise out of, or come out
of, the hell which is the result of our own Lucifer dwelling
within (represented by the King who seeks the death of all
spiritual birth) knowing that the spiritual kingdom must in
time take over the material kingdom whether in man or in
nations.
The Virgin represents purity. The Soul cannot manifest ex
cept after purification, or becoming Virgin; i.e., Light free from
darkness, or the Light coming out of the darkness of hell, which
is the carnal self.
The women who wept for Tammuz, the Syrian sun-god, the
mourners who lamented with Isis for the Egyptian Osiris, the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 127
Greeks who wandered with Ceres in search of the lost Proser
pina, the devotees who wailed for the slain Krishna, the Marys
who wept at the sepulchre for the Nazarene, the "women" of
all the nations of antiquity throughout the world, each of
whom, under many names and many forms, adored the sun-
god, and believed in his annual birth, life, miracles, death
and resurrection, all united, by one common compelling force,
to celebrate the new, or resurrected savior on the 25th of De
cember; but if this Savior is not born in the heart, it is no
more than form and we fully agree with the poet:
"Though Christ in Bethlehem
A thousand times be born,
If He is not born in thee,
The Soul is all forlorn."
—John Scheffler
All of the ancient religious systems were built upon Astrono
mical symbology which is simplicity itself. The sun represented
or symbolized the one true God in spirit, not in form. The
moon, Mary or Isis, it does not matter which, was his spouse,
corresponding to the earth which REPRODUCES according to
His will that men may be born and live. The planets were the
Lord's Messengers or Heralds, announcing time and seasons.
The constellations north and south of the zodiac were the pro
vinces of His empire; because the Lord, the sun, shone on all
alike.
The milky way was the golden street or highway on which
the gods, angels and Archangels travelled to and from the
throne of Deity; the Center of life and power. The war in
heaven, which is repeated yearly, represents the conflict between
heat and cold, summer and winter, life and death, and above
all: THE ETERNAL CONFLICT BETWEEN MAN'S DUAL NA
TURE until one or the other rises superior, fulfilling the scrip
tural text:
"The Soul that sinneth it shall die," or "as many as receive him, to them
gave he power to become the sons of God." —John 1:12.
128 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
In ancient times this was a man-wanting world, and sacred
literature in many instances indicates that almost any means
was justified if it resulted in bringing human beings into the
world. The command, with little or no restrictions or qualifica
tions, was: "MULTIPLY and replenish the earth."
For this reason, if for no other, the people of early ages
worshipped the genius of fruitfulness, not only among human
creatures, but also in all things that were capable of reproduc
ing, and condemned, aye, cursed sterility or non-production.
Proof of this is the Nazarene's curse of the non-producing fig
tree. Fertility was symbolized by the egg; the serpent; the
organs of generation —then wholly a mystery —and in Egypt
especially, by the bull.
Later nations substituted the goat. And we are not at all free
from this as so clearly indicated by the fact that being accepted
into initiatory orders is referred to as "riding the goat."
This symbolism was held so sacred that its desecration was
punishable by death. The female organ of reproduction was
emblemized by a unit, a circle, a boat-shaped shell, a lozenge, or
any object, animate or inanimate, that resembled these figures,
or implied receptivity, fruitfulness or maternity.
The union of the female with the male triad, was designated
by the sacred mystic number 4, often symbolized by a serpent
with its tail in its mouth; two fishes bent to form a circle, and
many other figures.
Serpent symbolization is as old as sex and solar representa
tions. By an understanding of these three diverse systems of
symbolization you have the key to the mystery of all signs,
symbols, allegories, legends and even the mysteries themselves
of all ancient faiths, even including the Christian.
The ideas indicated by these symbols, and the allegories,
legends and hidden truths attached to them, underlie all those
stupendous rites, solemn mysteries and gigantic monuments of
art and culture that were an intrinsic part of the once unspeak
ably glorious ruins of the Orient.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 129
The legends and symbols of the interblended systems grad
ually became a part of later systems with names, applications
and interpretations changed, hence were preserved by the
Gnostics, Manicheans, Neo-Platonists and then, later, by the
Christians. Despite all denials, these symbols can readily be
recognized among the most civilized peoples and sects of today,
but generally without the real appreciation of the lofty ideas
that once vitalized them.
The bells and holy candles, the lambs, bulls, eagles, lions, the
twelve apostolic personages, the serpents, all to be found in
places of worship, cast their prismic glory from costly painted
windows on the chequered marble floors below. They are, one
and all, no more, nor less, than so many astronomical signs of
the various forms of ancient worship; renamed and reinter
preted, it is true, nevertheless identically the same. The very
shapes of the steeples that so gloriously crown the "houses of
God" are the eternal mementos of the reverence once accorded
to the Sacred flame, or veiled effigies of the Divine mysteries,
the secret of which is lost to all but the very few.
Isis was the mother principle in nature, as uncontradictably
was Mary, the mother of Jesus, and as is every mother. Isis was
generally represented as a hawk-headed deity, stemming from
the sacredness attached to the idea that the hawk was the bird
that was able to ascend to resplendent heights and gaze with
unblinking eyes into the blazing orb, hence, was an emblem or
representative of the sun, the giver of life.
The serpent was especially venerated in Egypt, as in other
Oriental lands, as an emblem alike of the Deific principle of
good, namely: Immortality, rejuvenation, wisdom and spirit
uality on the one side, and of death, terror, degeneration and
evil of every form, on the other. Sacred literature did not hesi
tate to include this dual principle, symbolizing both the degrad
ing and the uplifting nature of the serpent.
The most exoteric and esoteric teachings accredited to Moses
were symbolized by the serpent; on the one hand crawling on
130 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
its belly in the dust, and on the other, poised upon the uplifted
"staff."
The characteristic symbol of the Egyptians designated to
signify God was not a simple flame or blaze as became the usage
in the East, but rather a circle, an aura, or a sun. They added to
the circle, or solar globe, several marks or attributes, which
served well to characterize so many different forms of perfec
tion. As an instance, in order to indicate that the Supreme
Being was the author and preserver of life, they annexed to the
circle two points of flame; at other times, two serpents. These
serpents, like the sun, symbolized healing, or the healer in their
one aspect.
Among the Eastern nations, such as the Egyptians, Phoen-
cians, Arabians and many others, the word Heve or Heva
equally signified life; a serpent, or Eva. Even the designation
Him who
is,
i.e., God, or the early great name of God, Jov or
Jehovah drew its etymology from this source. Heve, that
is,
Eve, the common name of the mother of mankind, or more
correctly, the one who gave birth to the first sexed of the human
family, has the same beginning. Thus
it
will be recognized that
the Virgin Mary, the Serpent, Eva, and even God, stems from
the same root.
Nearly all writers dealing with the ancient Mysteries have
hinted, even
if
they were too timid to frankly say so, that Phallic
worship prevailed amongst the ancients and that its emblems
are abundantly interspersed in other records. The truth
is,
ALL
creeds and the records of all creeds, are interwoven with such
worship.
There
is
scarcely
a
monument or inscription of antiquity
which does not, in some form or other, perpetuate the idea of
such worship, or, more correctly, the symbolization of such
worship. What else was the "staff"
of
Moses before the Egyp
tians; the "staff"
of
Moses in the wilderness, the "staff"
of
the
Biblical shepherds; in fact, all religious "staffs"?
Nearly every Scriptural name, especially of the Old Testa
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 131
ment, has a direct bearing upon the creative idea or principle,
but in its basic form, not necessarily sexual. Almost every title,
including the syllables El, Om, On, Di, and Mi signify the same
ideas. The designations describing the sun and generative gods
(principles) are mutually interchangeable.
The most important symbols of the interblended systems are
found in the various forms of crosses in use today. The Phallus
or Lingam, and the Yoni, the male and female emblems of
generation are found in the triangle and the tau; the origin of
the cross itself. Likewise, the serpent, which is either in the form
of a staff, the SYMBOL OF LIFE, or in that of a circle, the symbol
of ETERNITY, and which in these forms, was, and still
is,
so
highly esteemed and which actually signifies the beginning and
the end
of
life; the Alpha and Omega.
It
has frequently been attempted to show that the cross,
whatever its form, owes its sacred character to the instrument
of punishment upon which the Nazarene
is
said to have suffered
death. Such
a
contention will not bear up even under superficial
investigation. The Cross was accepted as
a
sacred symbol long
before the Jews had
a
history or were known as
a
people.
In the attempt to remove from the Cross the obscenity of
the idea which the evil minds of men have attached to its
original meaning, and as modern civilization so devotedly
cherishes this symbol,
it
has been urged that
it
was reverenced
originally
by
the Egyptians because
it
was used as
a
Nilometer
or measure of the Nile. The Nile was held sacred
by
the Egyp
tians as the source of plenty, hence the cross, as
a
Nilometer,
was also held sacred as an emblem for the redemption from
famine, or
a
sign of possible destruction.
This does not account for the prevalence of the Cross nor
the reverence attached to
it
in lands where no Nilometer was
required. The fact remains that the cross has always been the
symbol of something to "lean upon," as an emblem of genera
tion, and REgeneration; of salvation, and especially of power;
whether of mere men, kings or God.
132 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The Cross, as we best know
it,
though copied from the
ancients, was designed to represent
a
trinity.
It
thus gave rise
to the sacredness attached to the number three, with all its
multiples, and in all varieties of form in which the cross
is
found, beginning with the plain "T," the Tau of the Scandinav
ians, or the hammer of Thor, to the eight-sided cross of the
Templars.
In all its variations
it
signified, and continues to signify, on
the one hand, the fertility, fecundity and creative structure and
principle of the masculine, or generation in the outer; and in
its inner Mystery, that of the elevation of man, his Regeneration
and ultimate uplifting to the state
of
Godhood.
The plainness of speech and the characteristic nature of the
symbols under discussion seem to be revolting to the modern
sense of propriety and modesty. This
is
due to the undeniable
fact that modesty itself has been lost and that self-guilt accuses;
while justification
is
found in condemnation. The ancient
people were not so pseudo-modest and sought to strengthen,
and did strengthen, the Souls of men against unhallowed in
dulgences
by
familiarizing the mind with the symbols and in
structing men in the sacredness and sublimity of them.
Jamblichus, and who should be better informed than he, wrote:
"Exhibitions of this kind in the outer (lesser) mysteries were
designed to free men from licentious passions,
by
gratifying the
sign, and at the same time vanquishing ignoble desires, through
the awful sanctity with which these rites were accomplished."
It
is
natural that the profane cannot comprehend these mys
teries. Only he who passes through the ancient means of Initia
tion learns how to become the master of his passions, instead of
being mastered
by
them.
The religious forms and doctrines of Christendom came
more directly from the Egyptians, via the Nazarene, who be
came thoroughly indoctrinated during his long stay in Egypt,
where he was taught both the religious form and the Mysteries.
On his return from Egypt he became associated with the Es
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 133
senes, and through their teachings many of his concepts became
modified while, at the same time, he was undoubtedly adversely
influenced by the life, if not the teachings, of the Jews.
The Jews had for some time been divided into four classes:
The Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Essenes and the common
people. The Pharisees, following the Persian captivity, had
adopted the Persian fire worship in form, knowing little or
nothing of its spirit. The name Pharisee, Parsee and Persia are
derived from the Pur of the Greeks, meaning fire; the root
meaning of the word purity, or purification. The Nazarene as
sociated himself with the Essenes, to which Joseph adhered.
These practiced a stern morality, and taught their Neophytes in
the Allegorical or Parabolical style of the Egyptians. The name
itself was symbolic. l-Es-us, compounded of the letter "I," the
Father; Es, the fire, spirit or essence; and the Latin termination
Us, Egyptic. The Essenes also had an Egyptian name, com
pounded of Es, the fire, spirit or essence; On, as the being, and
Es, repeated; containing therein the three, or trinity of names
denoting Divine attainment.
The difference in the doctrine of the two sects with which
we are most concerned, the Pharisees and Essenes, was slight.
It was the difference between two sects who adhered to the
same symbolization of a principle. The Pharisees worshipped
God under the symbol of the perpetual fire that was kept burn
ing in the temple, but they had lost the mystery or secret of that
fire. The other worshipped the one God through the symbol of
the fire, or sun, THE GIVER OF LIFE. To them these were sym
bols of the indwelling spirit; all of the Essenes being Initiates.
The Essenes had their ramifications throughout the en
lightened parts of the world. They taught and practiced
the highest morality and the most disinterested benevolence.
There was a remarkable coincidence between the teachings of
the Nazarene in Judea, and Confucius in China. The reason for
agreement between these two great teachers and saviors is to be
found in the method adopted by them.
134 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The early symbolic language, or writing with pictures, was a
tedious but most natural way of communicating ideas. We
moderns still continue to use
it,
especially in all that concerns
the Occult or Arcane, and
it
is
wholly used in chemistry. By
this means the ancients kept their records and perpetuated their
knowledge, their history and their religious ideas and practices.
To them the sun was the symbol, not the reality, of Deity; the
moon was seen as his spouse, because the moon was feminine,
hence the reproducer; the starry hosts represented the lesser
gods, powers or forces, COULD ANYTHING HAVE BEEN MORE
SIMPLE OR DIRECT IN ITS APPLICATION?
The method of writing the word sun, or God, consisted in
drawing
a
circle (representing eternity), or half circle, with
rays darting downwards,
a
symbolization still used
by
moderns;
the earth was represented
by
rays darting upwards; the moon
by
a
crescent; never improved upon.
God was also represented
by
a
flame and in Biblical language,
God always appeared to man as FIRE, FLAME, LIGHTNING or
CLOUDS. Sometimes God was represented
by
a
flame, or an
erect pillar, from which we have the letter "I," a
Staff, or the
Rod, or the "erect one."
The serpent was one of the most remarkable symbols. With
its tail in the mouth,
it
represented eternity —never ending—
always existing; also the planetary orbits, the line of perfection
or beauty,
it
being basically
a
feminine symbol. Twined around
the dial of time,
it
symbolized time enfolded in eternity. Glid
ing rapidly along without the limbs necessary to other animals,
it
symbolized the Je//-propelling power of the Deity; while its
tenacity of life was* the emblem of health, vitality and virility.
Even today, millions believe that the serpent, however badly
wounded, cannot die until the sun has set and darkness sets in.
^Esculapius, the father of medicine, i.e., the healer, appears
in the heavens as the serpent bearer. He
is
the symbol of the
physician under that form. The numberless scales of the serpent
represent the starry hosts of heaven. Shrewdness made him the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 135
symbol for wisdom; while its speech, that
is,
its hiss, was
thought to be the same as that of God, because God does not
use the language of men.
^sculapius also, at times, was represented either standing, or
sitting on
a
throne, holding in one hand
a
staff, and grasping
with the other the head of the serpent. (This
is
the uplifted ser
pent on the staff
ofMoses.) On some of the ancient monuments
we see him with one hand holding his beard, while holding in
the other
a
knotted staff encircled
by
a
serpent. The meaning
is
the same; with
a
different application.
In this connection
it
is
well to remember that the Dog-star,
original saviour of the Egyptians, had three distinct names:
Anubis, the barker, the giver
of
notice or advice; Tahaut, the
dog, or watcher, and Aesculapius, the Man-dog,
Moses, Egyptian in birth, education and training, used the
serpent as
a
symbol of vitality. When on its belly,
it
was the
symbol of degradation and betrayal. Uplifted,
it
symbolized
the renewal of life—freedom from vile diseases —REgeneration
and salvation. The Nazarene, also educated and trained in Egyp
tian lore, recognized
it
as the emblem of wisdom. As man
is
of
a
dual nature —
a
combination of good and evil—so also
is
the
serpent.
The history of the sun-God—the worship of the powers of
nature, the trials, discipline, probationary states, purification of
the human Soul and its ultimate restoration to the state or de
gree of Deity —these were the doctrines taught through sublime
representations in the ancient Mysteries of Isis and Osiris. This
is
emphasized in St. John 1:12: "As many as received him, to
them gave he power to become the sons of God."
The complete and highest initiation was limited to the priests
and kings, and the priests, as befitted their worthiness and re
spective grades of rank, were instructed in all that was connected
with, or closely related to, the subject.
The Triceps Hecate at one and the same time represented the
earth, the moon, and the wife of Pluto. This
is
easily explained.
136
•
THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
As soon as the first phase of the new moon was perceived in the
evening, those appointed for the purpose, went forth and pro
claimed it at all the crossways and public places, and the feast
of the neomenia was celebrated either that evening or the fol
lowing day, according to the usual procedure of the locality.
When the sacrifice was to be made at night, they placed an owl
near the figure that proclaimed it. Isis was then called Lilith;
that
is,
the owl (the wise one) .
This was the origin of the legend of the nocturnal Lilith of
whom so many tales have been told. When the time came that
the deified Isis was looked upon as
a
woman, or
a
queen dwel
ling in the moon and there governing the heaven in conjunction
with Osiris and Adonis, the proclamation of the new moon,
which was extremely plain before, assumed
a
mysterious and
stately aspect. Hecate had been invisible for many days; her
return was expected with the beginning of the ceremony; the
goddess having left the empire of the dead, to return to the
heavens.
Hecate never failed to visit successively the two districts and
it
could not be doubted that she ruled both in heaven and the
invisible abodes. The ancient people were fully aware of the
relation she bore to earth and its productions, hence she always
bore several marks either upon her hands or her head.
She now became the three-fold Diana (triplicate Hecate)
which was at one and the same time the earth, the queen, the
Governess, the common mother, and the queen of heaven and
earth. In modern, and very slightly changed phraseology, all
will be recognized: Holy Mother; Holy Mary; Holy Mother of
God; Mother most amiable; Gate of Heaven, and Queen of all
Saints.
The Egyptians adopted the onion as
a
symbol of the universe,
or the system of orbits; of which they had so clear
a
conception
that
it
has been but little changed throughout the centuries.
If
we take away the outer covering, we still have an onion. Re
move each successive layer and an onion still remains; hence
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 137
they named it On-I-On; the Almighty, the Being. To the fool
ish charge that they actually worshiped the onion, the answer
is: it was no more to them than a symbol of the reality of the
universe and Deity.
There were three most important symbols representing the
onion: I. A. O., representing God in his three-fold character as
wisdom, strength and beauty or perfection. The letter I, or
rather, an erect — upstanding pillar — creative; denoting the
wisdom and strength that stands alone and is self-existing. The
letter A, is a pyramid or mountain of strength. The O is the
serpent with its tail in its mouth, the emblem of beauty, wisdom,
vitality and eternity.
Io, or Iao, is the root of all the names of God, of all the
nations of ancient times. These three letters formed the grand
Omnific word, unpronounceable, and communicated but once,
to the Initiated of the Mysteries. After the invention of the
Alphabet, the names of God were spelled by letters; the grand
Omnific word was then spelled with three syllables: Ad-On-Es,
the God of Light of the Initiates; Jah-Bel-On, and various other
names having sacred meanings.
Our alphabet is the first that was based upon the ancient
symbolical system. All the letters were made up of /from these
two forms; the straight line and the circle; or differently stated,
the perpendicular, the pyramidal and the circle. The A is the
pyramid; the B is the perpendicular and two circles; the C is the
circle. If there are any departures from this rule it may be
traced to modern innovation.
Ioa is the root of Jo-pater or Juniper, as also of Jehovah, the
creating God, so universally misconstrued as the peculiar sacred
name of the Hebrew God. Sometimes Ioa was spelled Iac. Iac is
the root of Iacus or Bacchus. The word On, the sacred Egyptian
name for the one God, includes the circle, the pyramid and the
obelisk, or I, as does the word Baal, the Chaldean name of their
God. In the sun we have the symbolical circle; in the bonfire
(flame), the pyramid; in the radiations from both the straight
138 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
line, symbolized by the pillar, obelisk, spire and letter I and the
aura or scintillation of the circle over the heads of Saints and
Holy persons.
During the practice of what is known as sun worship, the
cross became the symbol of salvation; a symbol later adopted
by the Christian hierarchy. This symbol was chosen because the
sun in crossing the equator during the vernal equinox, brought
salvation (freedom, or being made free) from what would
otherwise have been perpetual winter, and consequent starva
tion from lack of food.
One of the earliest cross symbols consisted of a cross with a
lamb at the foot; with five "bleeding" wounds, that the five
kings, or wintry months, had caused. This was the saltier cross
on which St. Andrews was crucified, represented by the angle of
twenty-three and one-half degrees, formed by the ecliptic and
equator.
This symbolic cross of the people had an inner meaning to
the KNOWING ones, the Initiates; within this outer symbol was
hidden the mystery of man's REgeneration which had to take
place before he could be born Immortally into another season—
a new life. Man's life on earth was reckoned as "one season,"
and during this period it was necessary for him to be prepared,
or Become; symbolized by the Cross and the lamb, or birth into
a NEW LIFE. As the reproductive ability has its place in gen
eration, also represented by the Cross or the Staff —the upright
one—so this Cross likewise, again in its upright —uplifted —
form was necessary to REgeneration.
Vegetation must be "born again" or made possible, year
after year, again and again, or eternal death for all creatures
would reign triumphant throughout the universe. To symbolize
this regeneration and new birth, the most appropriate emblems
were adopted. Some of these, and particularly those most forc
ible in their relation to the subject, were of the kind which
seem repulsive to the modern idea of modesty. This is because
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 139
moderns have lost their sense of purity, hence the keys to the
mystery, and though they repeat with frequency "to the pure
in heart all things are pure," they do not sense the meaning of
the words, nor that the expression is self-condemnatory.
In times long past, when creation was a mystery and hence a
holy thing, men did not behold or talk about the creative act,
or creative functions, with the unhallowed thoughts so common
to modern people. They were keenly aware that herein was
embraced not only the power of creation, but also the sublimity
of REcreation or REgeneration.
The writings of many of the sacred books is proof of this
assertion. The Christian Bible is no exception, containing, as it
does, many allusions that must be suppressed while reading it in
an audience of both sexes. The principal symbol, as already
mentioned, with which ancient religion and science marked the
entrance of the sun into the kingdom of summer was the Phallus
of both Egypt and India. This has greatly shocked the superficial
sensibilities of the missionaries.
They are forgetful or ignorant, that these same emblems are
perpetuated, though perhaps in a modified form; that the old
text is filled with unspeakable expressions and historical facts
and that our modern Christian believers are amongst the
world's most ardent Phallic worshippers and that, religiously
speaking, even ancient Babylon could hardly compare with the
record of many phases of modern immorality.
These emblems of early times were the most fitting and
proper symbols of fruitfulness; forceful in their indications it
is true, but—to the pure in mind—no more degrading than the
acts of creation when properly and holily performed. This is
emphasized, all the more forcibly, when it is realized that they
are retained in the form of the Roman cross, the Maypole,
Masonic symbols and the serpent. The serpent taught exactly
the same doctrine as does the cross, but under a veil.
This symbol as so generally worshipped at the present time
by all but the few is that of generation or of ^generation —of
140 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
unholy passion —and is therefore the spirit of the old serpent of
death; the one crawling in the dust on its belly.
When understood in the sense the ancient taught, the ser
pent uplifted on the Cross or Staff, as did Moses the Egyptian
Initiate, before his followers in their trek through the wilder
ness following their degradation as a result of all manner of
evil practices, it becomes the symbol of health, vitality, REgen-
eration and Immortalization.
Another symbol, one often associated with the serpent, was
the egg, and the bull breaking the egg, which became a wide
spread symbol of creation. Just as creation was believed to have
come forth from the egg; so the bull was the symbol of virility.
Without the virility of the bull, the egg could not be impreg
nated, and chaos would have continued.
The bull, long hair and a beard were emblems of strength
and fruitfulness and corresponded to the strength of the sun's
rays in giving life. The sun in winter was represented by a
bald-headed man, of which Elisha became an example. In the
wintry constellation are found the symbols or signs of evil im
port. The wintry part of the heavens was often represented as
a cave; an emblem of the lower region; hence King David was
in a cave during his adversity.
In this cave we also find the goat, because the new-born year
must have a nurse and be given strength. Here again, we have
the "baptizer" flooding the earth with the "waters" and the
"fishes" of February, all signs of evil import, and all part of the
lower, "cold" or deadly regions of the ancient "bottomless Pit."
According to an ancient Sabean tradition, one of the evil
angels, symbolized by the goat of December, repented of the
wrong done to the sinless God who was crucified with him. He
was one of the two "thieves" who stole or helped destroy the
life-giving power of the heat of the summer and was crucified
with, or at the same time, as the savior or life-giver. He sym
bolized the first hoary side of winter, and who, though partici
pating in the "death" of the beloved Sun, then "turned" or re
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 141
pented, and became the friend of the dying God; sheltering him
in his manger, and protecting the fruitful Virgin in her hour of
parturition.
It was said of him that on "this day shalt thou be with me in
heaven, sitting at my right side," that
is,
be with him in the
newly born year which would soon be warm (heavenly) and
bring forth good fruit to save the lives of men.
This phase of the legend, which, except in its interpretation,
is
not
a
legend, but
a
yearly occurrence in the heavens, reconciles
the antagonistic, or death-dealing characteristics of the wintry
sign, during which the sun is lost, or "below," with the favorable
aspects of the same constellation in the last part of the month
of power, when he
is
represented as ushering the new-born God
into being, under the title of the redeemer, or "the renewer of
life."
To reconcile the legend of the Sun-God with the writers of
Christian literature and their interpretation of the DRAMA OF
HEAVEN, they represent one of the thieves crucified with the
Savior of mankind, but becoming penitent at the last hour of
death, in allusion to the approaching new birth of Jesus, and
Jesus
is,
as already indicated, made to say: "Today shalt thou be
with me in Paradise."
This was an easy and ingenious manner of disposing of
a
great difficulty the ancient astronomers had in representing the
constellation of December as at once antagonistic and favorable
to the dying God.
It
was, however,
a
truthful explanation of
the fact that the Capricorn of winter first shares the sun-god's
evil fate, and then becomes favorable to him in the hour of his
new, or re-birth, in "Paradise," or Resurrection from "hell" or
the abode of the evil dead.
The sun of righteousness, or redeemer,
is
now re-born in the
stable of the goat, through the maternity of the immaculate
Virgin, and thus the light of the world, the Lamb of Spring (the
Pascal lamb), the Lion of the tribe of Judah,
/.
e., not of the
Jews as
a
people, but of the heavenly host, the good master of
142 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the twelve Zodiacal Apostles, is ever (yearly) sacrificed, that he
may take away the "sins" of the world, and be restored to new
life, that all may have hope of immortality through his
resurrection.
This is a yearly occurrence. It is the drama of heaven. It is
fact, not fancy, and it is the symbolization of the mystery which
all men must solve for themselves in order to attain to Im
mortalization. The life of the Nazarene was an example for all
men to follow if they seek to attain, and was patterned after
the heavenly drama, and his history was written to accord or
harmonize with it.
RELIGION IS A PORTRAYAL OF THE
LIFE OF MAN
The history of religion is patterned after eternal
occurrences in the heavens, the present needs of
men, and their capability to comprehend.
LL religions worthy of the name have had a common
origin and have risen only as high as their highest
adherents, differing only in external features and prac
tices. Religions can easily be traced back, through their develop
ment, their forms, ceremonies and symbols, together with their
interpretations, to the remotest antiquity and common ancestry.
By following these streams to a common source, we are able
to grasp the "key" that will unlock the labyrinth in which the
various sects have performed their often complicated ceremonies.
The Hierophants of every age have revealed as much as the
mass could comprehend and apply; while the mystery of these
beliefs, forms and ceremonies remained hidden within the sacred
walls of their temples, safe from the eyes of the vulgar, because
they (like the "swine" depicted by the Nazarene) would have
desecrated them.
The more one delves into the written history of the ancients,
as concerned with religious concepts and practices, through all
the ramifications of allegorical forms and symbolic representa
tion, the more certain are we to come to the conclusion that all
religions are tributary branches stemming from one central
source.
This one central source was the book of Nature, God's mani
fested work, written in the language of the flowers and blooms,
the "fruits" which are the food of man; with suns and stars in
the resplendent vault of heaven. Tha, the great interpreter who
first instructed men in the letters of his divine alphabet, was the
144 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
one God, Creator and Father of men by means of man's intui
tion, inspiration, and, if you will, direct communication with
angels, the messengers of God, much as the child communes
with itself and beholds things hidden to the mature and be
clouded eyes of its elders.
When the child-like ("unless ye become as little children")
early civilization lost the power of intuition, and broke the links
of direct communication, as a result of the corruptions growing
out of a developing "civilization," the need was found for a new
approach, a different means of gaining spiritual knowledge.
Legend took the place of intuition, inspiration and communion
with the higher beings.
The early, simple, unsophisticated man conversed with the
tutelary spirits as man speaks with his friends. They looked,
they saw, and communed with God. They listened, and God's
angels spoke to them and instructed, guided and protected them.
They reflected, as one dreams of the past, and his former spirit
ual origin and present destiny cast their images on the mirror
of their minds as truthfully as the waters reflect the lustre of
the stars.
This truth is embodied in the maxim: "Coming events cast
their shadows before them." Wise and advanced as we think
ourselves, the past ever confronts us, and lo, it is the present in
another form and a different dress.
If we seek to know the course of any stream in all its mean-
derings, we must follow it to its source and be most careful not
to miss the little, hidden streams feeding into it from all sides.
If we would study intelligently the history of any race or nation,
we must seek to learn their origin and their early habits. Our
nation, as an instance, furnishes a striking example. All suc
cessful historians of the republic have been compelled to resort
to the archives of the countries from which the peoples came,
for the keys to unlock the reason for the laws, customs and
usages of our modern society. There will we find the corroding
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 145
influences that may destroy the nation as readily as mighty
Rome of old was destroyed.
The knowing ecclesiastical writers who have sought the
truth—the fact, not the theory they would like to believe —ad
mit that to be able to comprehend the Christian dispensation, it
is necessary to lay aside all prejudices and preconceived ideas,
and familiarize ourselves with the legends, the symbolism, and
the lives of the ancients. To understand the new we must first
become versed in the old. Whence come the customs, the be
liefs and the practices, which are always the basis for the new?
Is not today copied after the yesterdays? This is true of religious
forms and practices as it is of all things.
In maintaining that all religions have a common origin, it
is necessary to state what we mean by the term "religion." It is
any system of belief or observance, or both combined, that
is,
or
pretends to be, the worship of God,
i.
e., adoration of God and
an inner willingness to obey His Laws, having in mind the
Nazarene's statement: "Faith without works [obedience]
is
dead." We must conceive and admit these systems to be either
true or false, in the proportion that they contain elevating or
degrading elements of true worship.
Man's religion has, in fact and in the last analysis, been an
outgrowth of his inner, his real self; never all pure, and perhaps
seldom altogether debased. The founders of new systems were,
with few exceptions, men inspired who were urged forward
by
an intense inner desire to benefit the race; to save men from
themselves. These founders usually appeared on the scene of
action when the older systems had become effete, degraded, and
no longer applicable to the age or the people.
The basic reason why all religions of note have
a
common
parent, was, as already mentioned, because the ancients, in their
naturalism and simplicity, adopted natural, ever-existent, ever-
active objects and forces for their symbolism. They recognized
that the real representatives of the one, unknown God could
146 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
be worshiped only by substitutes, and these substitutes WERE
HIS CREATION.
We must repeat our affirmation that as the ancients adopted
true and ever-existing objects and forces as symbols of their
God and His angelic hosts, it is vitally important that to a cer
tain degree we perpetuate these external forms of worship, cling
to, and practice the ancient symbolic system. In very truth, we
are utterly unable to free ourselves from the ancient forms of
worship unless we destroy every shred of dogma, symbolism and
form of worship now existing.
From the sun of God, came Light: "Let there be light and
there was light." From the sun came heat and life, hence
fertility and the power for reproduction. When the sun "hid
his face," storms and tempests held sway and desolation marked
their pathway. Is IT NOT so NOW? The stars were the abode
of the lesser gods, /. e., forces, and were believed to be the sun's,
or God's angels, or the abode of His messengers.
By the study of these stars and long observation of them, the
ancients learned that tempests raged more generally when cer
tain stars were in the ascendant; consequently, these became the
stars or signs of evil import. From such a beginning, based upon
the fears and hopes of man, came the vast system of religion to
be repudiated, but not eliminated, although all the forces of
prejudice and bigotry have been turned against it throughout
the ages.
The priests of the people, as a result of long vigils, studies,
meditation and developed intuition, knew that BEYOND all this
outer system of belief or practice, was an inner mystery. The
masses, then, as in the time of the Nazarene, and NO LESS NOW,
were incapable of accepting simple truths. They must needs
have symbolism and form; a personal giant whom they called
God; who, like them, was tossed to and fro by all the passions
that mark the most stormy of the human race. This God must
not be too advanced when compared to even the worst of man
kind, or he is unacceptable and unbelievable.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 147
It was most natural that astronomy became the science which,
for many ages, absorbed the thoughts and talents of the greatest
of men. The stars were consulted, and are still secretly consulted
by many in the church and state. The movements of the
heavenly bodies were so clearly, and unchangeably, denned that
modern people accepted the discoveries and calculations of these
early peoples without question. The Zodiac of the ancients is
still the guide in astronomical studies; is used in our almanacs;
figures largely in Masonic symbolism and gave birth to the
ornaments of our greatest and oldest temples and churches.
These "writings in the skies," these constellations the ancients
knew so well, antedate by many ages the oldest works of man.
When the ruins of mausoleums and uncovered buried cities fail
to lead us farther, when we have exhausted the story that sculp
tured monuments and symbolical hieroglyphics tell, then the
ancient projections of the spheres, and the astronomical systems
of the early people will lead us farther back into ages beyond
the annals of time.
The character of the Egyptian writing designated to signify
God was not usually a simple flame or blaze, as was the custom
of fire worshippers in general, but included a circle or sun, the
emblem—even to moderns —of eternity. They added to the
circle or solar globe, various marks, indicating attributes, which
served to characterize so many perfections.
To digress, we are not immune from this ancient system of
symbolic writing, as note the letters (degrees awarded) —some
times many —after the names of individuals who have attained
to certain or many phases of knowledge, so signified by the
letters.
To indicate that the Supreme Being was the author and pre
server of life, they sometimes annexed two points of flame, but
more commonly, one or two serpents. Among the Egyptians,
as in other countries, this animal was always the symbol of life
and health, the fiery flying serpent; scorpions and dragons being
the only exceptions. Much later, Moses made use of this iden
148 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tical symbolism and it is written that when he lifted up the
serpent UPON A STAFF, the afflicted, who believed, were restored
to health.
Common ornaments in the ancient temples, as also in mod
ern Gothic churches, were the windows of stained glass, con
sisting of a cross entwined by a serpent, again indicating that
modern symbolism is not far removed from the ancient.
Symbolism, whether written in the sky or upon monuments,
required interpreters as do the creeds of today. This necessitated
early in the history of the Egyptian people, the appointment of
a class of men to preside over these symbols and interpret them.
If we follow this clue it will quickly lead us deeply into the
religious ceremonials of the past.
Once a system of yearly, one might say, almost constant, ob
servation of the sky had been adopted, and a class of men set
apart to attend to the ceremonies, the interest of these men
would naturally lead them to add to these forms and ceremonies
and make them more intricate rather than simplify them.
Having resorted to the skies, the home of the gods, how
naturally, almost imperceptibly, would these observances as
sume a religious phase and resolve into a regular system of
worship, and thus become a sacerdotal order, gradually accepted
as the authorized mediators between God and man in order to
make known to man his duty, and the form of worship most
agreeable to Deity.
From this small beginning, from this company of men ap
pointed to watch over the Nile and the portents of the sky,
arose a class in society that, from generation to generation,
system to system, has controlled the religions and later religious
destiny of the world.
From these sprang the numerous diverse priesthoods that
have obtained a lodgment among mankind; from them also
came later the organization known as the Masonic fraternity
whose precepts are almost wholly based on symbolism and the
legendary life of men.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 149
These two systems, religion and Masonry, have a common
parentage. Although one is of the old school and the other of
the new, they should be in harmony one with the other. Ac
tually, they are antagonistic to one another. This is understand
able because formal religious systems have ever been jealous
of any form or organization that might usurp their authority
and power and replace it.
Once upon a time, when religion was spiritual rather than a
mere matter of form, and all men were able to commune with
their God, they were as one—a unit. As men became more
material and turned away from God, they began to permit
others to do their thinking for them in all that concerned God
and religious practices and the spirit of religion was lost. A
division gradually took place. One was the formal church much
as we know it today; the other, generally unknown to the
masses, were secret organizations formed for the benefit of the
few who were unsatisfied with the letter taught by the church
and who sought for the secret or Mystery.
Early in the history of man there was organized an inner,
patrician department of society; an aristocracy of learning, con
sisting of groups of select men who held their mysteries and
secret, inner or Arcane teachings hidden entirely from the
vulgar gaze, in order to perpetuate this knowledge only among
themselves.
The profane, usually termed the "vulgar herd," ignorant be
cause of their own lack of initiative and heart's desire, stood in
awe of the Arcane students and looked upon them with venera
tion. This system has continued throughout the ages and will
continue until all men have MADE THEMSELVES WORTHY AND
EQUAL.
Almost concurrently with the mystery schools there arose
another form of what we today would call "fraternal organiza
tions." These organizations took the "shell" or form of the
mysteries; based on the legends of gods and men, and on astron
omical or astral activity in the sky.
150 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
In these symbolic initiations or ceremonials, the participants
represented the movements of the sun, moon, and planets, each
actor personating one of the legendary figures or heavenly
bodies, as the case might be, and imitating by action and speech
the peculiarity of the luminary or figure that belonged to the
part. In the process of time, plays were written and acted in
public—much as later strolling players taught history and the
happenings of their people —a method followed to this day in
drama and opera —for the education and amusement of the
masses, and also for the purpose of teaching truths in the form
of what might be termed playful allegories. From these ancient
forms or methods of teaching resulted the peculiar, flowing style
of language called Oriental, in which the speakers indulge
freely in parables, allegories, mystical and mythical allusions
and strange posturing; all of which gave an air of both mystery
and deep meaning to these exhibitions.
These symbolic representations of what was a mystery to the
masses, were used by the leaders as examples of the ceremonies,
or form of ceremonies. Today they are the rituals for the sym
bolic initiations of various secret societies.
The inner priesthood, the Initiates of the Mysteries, had no
connection with these formal representations. In their Great
Work they were not concerned except to help prepare the forms
to fit the facts, and left it to the uninitiated members of the
priesthood to organize and direct them. These naturally had no
knowledge of the inner and sublime mysteries and in time be
lieved the representations to be the real.
All real Initiates throughout the ages exalted the practice of
temperance and insisted upon it as a necessity. Of all classes of
religious thinkers of this age, the Christian should be the most
faithful in the observance of temperance; it having been taught
by both inculcation and precept by their founder and Exemplar,
and actually prescribed as essential spiritual discipline and spirit
ual development throughout the New Testament. Yet but one
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 151
sect, of all Christianity, observes temperance as a part of re
ligious duty and necessity.
Another mode of preparation for spiritual exaltation is
prayer. Not the routine form of lip service WHICH NEVER
REACHES THE HEART, EMOTIONS OR THE SOUL, BUT SINCERE
INNER ASPIRATION OF THE SOUL TOWARDS THE GREAT
SOURCE OF ALL LIFE, LIGHT AND ATTAINMENT.
Such prayer must be supplemented by solitary—in the
"closet with closed door"—communion with one's inner con
sciousness. As nearly as possible, there should be a complete
oblivion from all outward interference, mental or physical;
actual Soul musings or meditations on the ALL THAT is; a deep
absorption of the reflective powers upon the spirit WITHIN
which will in time constitute the triumph of the Soul over the
material and temporal.
Ablution, "cleanliness is next to Godliness," is also another
means of preparing the physical self for the influx of the spirit
which is Light. Fasting was part of the regime of preparation.
During the periods of fasting the food was light, consisting
chiefly of vegetables and fruits—the offerings of the earth. No
meats whatever were permitted, while all stimulants or salacious
substances calculated to excite the senses or satisfy mere ap
petite, were avoided. One who KNEW, stated this succinctly and
poetically:
"And since he kept his mind on one sole aim,
Nor ever touched, fierce wine, nor tasted, flesh.
Nor owned a sensual wish —to him the wall
That sunders ghosts and shadow-casting men
Became a crystal, and he saw thro'it.
And heard their voices talk behind the wall,
And learned their elemental secrets, powers
And forces." —Tennyson, in "Vivian."
This has been the method of preparation for the aspirant and
was rigidly enforced. It continued until the Neophyte had sue
152 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ceeded in establishing his Immortality; until he had found,
AWAKENED and BROUGHT INTO CONSCIOUSNESS the ChristOS
within, and was able to hold communion with those whose
"voices are heard beyond the veil."
With the keys to unlock the ancient mystery teachings, the
Bible and other ancient religious texts, and their histories and
poetic effusions, can be read with increased interest, delight and
understanding. Dark passages will be made clear. Tales, fables,
allegories and parables which we have been taught to accept as
childish tales, will reveal to us a depth of meaning beyond our
present comprehension.
In our research into the subject of all symbolism and the
mysteries, both inner and outer, Lesser and Greater, we must
for a moment forget that to all but the Initiates, the sun was
the grand central phenomenon around which all the lesser
objects revolve, the cause of both wonder and worship, and to
which they paid their devotions.
The sun was the hero upon which all their tales and cele
brations were based. Their dramas represented him in his
various phases; celebrated his battles, defeats and victories. He
was the father God, while around and about him, reigning with
Him was his spouse, the Queen of heaven, sometimes benevo
lent; sometimes artful or even malignant, as also stars and
planets, all of whom dutifully performed their appointed offices.
Ovid, the poet, caught the spirit of all this in a stanza of his
poem:
"The god sits high, exalted on a throne
Of blazing gems, with purple garments on;
The hours, in order rang'd on either hand,
And days, and months, and years, and ages stand;
Here Spring appears, with flow'ry chaplets bound;
Here Summer, in her wheaten garlands crown'd;
Here Autumn the rich trodden grapes besmear;
And hoary Winter shivers in the rear."
RELIGION IS NOT IN FORM, BUT IN FEELING
The Truly Devotional Worship God in Spirit and
Feeling. To Them Religion is a Life, Not a Creed.
JHROUGHOUT the ages, the truly devotional (religion is
not such without the feeling of devotion) acknowl
edged and worshipped an all-pervading governing
law and intelligence whom they knew as "God." The mass, the
far greater number, were never satisfied with sensing and feel
ing; THEY MUST HAVE FORM; hence formal worship, or wor
ship of form. As the worship of form increased, the spirit or
feeling of real devotion died out.
This the early men of God, the Initiates, quickly recognized.
For this reason they established the Priesthood and Arcane
Fraternities to preserve and teach the select few in the Mysteries
of the One God, and the means and method of finding WITHIN
themselves the Christos, so that they, the sons of men, might
"become as Sons of God."
With few exceptions, modern writers accuse the ancients of
worshipping gods who were sensual; as, for instance, the wor
ship of Bacchus. The history of these deities tell of their amours
with the daughters of men, as well as with the goddesses of the
people of the sky or inhabitants of the earth. THEY FORGET, OR
NEVER KNEW, THAT THERE WAS AN OUTER SYMBOLIC WOR
SHIP FOR THE INNER MYSTERIES. THESE OUTER FORMS AND
CEREMONIES WERE THE GROSS REPRESENTATION OF INNER
TRUTHS. THERE WAS AN ARCANE INITIATION WHICH WAS
SYMBOLIZED BY CEREMONIAL INITIATION. ALL OUTER FORMS
BECAME GROSS, SENSUAL AND EVEN DEBASED, AS THE MINDS
AND DESIRES OF MEN BECAME CARNAL. Likewise, they also
forget that it is written in the Bible: "And the sons of God saw
that the daughters of men were fair and took them as wives."
154 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The infidel, on the other hand, taunts the Christian, AND
MORE ESPECIALLY THE JEW, with licentiousness of almost
every form among their people. He cites among the minor
incidents, the incest between Lot and his daughters; all of it
condoned by the Lord and in the belief that they, the Jews,
were/ are God's chosen people despite all of the degrading acts
recorded in the old Testament. The Jews, in answer to such ac
cusations and to sustain the inspiration of the Old Testament,
claimed that it was proper to record the sins of God's "chosen,"
as well as their virtues.
They were wholly forgetful that the same argument could
as fairly and justly be used by their opponents, because in pro
fane, and so-called heathen and pagan literature, they too
recorded both the vices and the virtues of their gods and heroes,
but with this great difference: THE ACTS OF THESE ANCIENT
GODS AND HEROES WERE NOT OF PEOPLE, BUT OF THE SKIES,
WHILE THE RECORD OF THE JEWS, AS RELATED IN THE
BIBLE, ARE OF A PEOPLE SUPPOSED TO BE GOD'S CHOSEN,
WHO, THEREFORE, SHOULD HAVE BEEN EXEMPLARS.
Even a superficial understanding of the ancient Lesser Mys
teries readily explains the real nature of these supposed amours.
The various acts of the gods, as already explained and partially
interpreted, and of their patriarchs and even prophets (fore
casters or heralds) were descriptions of the yearly travels of the
god (sun) and his conjunction (relationship, close and distant)
with the hosts of heaven —that
is,
the moon, the planets and
the constellations or fixed stars. These conjunctions, relations
or intercourse, when relieved of their mysterious covering, and
correctly understood, were the various fruits to the teeming
earth, all for the sustenance of men.
The Jews, in rejecting the polytheism of the Egyptians, sub
stituted the names
of
legendary heroes, the names of men they
considered great, these taking the place of the gods and demi
gods of the sky, and of the so-called idolaters. To these, in their
ignorance and lack of understanidng, they ascribed the same
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 155
weaknesses, evils and vices as ascribed to the Egyptian gods,
thereby also convicting their people of wrong doing and excus
ing them, or even exalting them, by the actual belief or pretense
that God either endorsed or sanctified such debauches.
Thus, for Noah's admitted drunkenness, Lot's incest, Abra
ham's illicit intercourse, David's polygamy and concubinage, is
substituted, in mystery, the supposed licentiousness of the
ancient gods in the heavens. The evil is infinitely (the word
"infinitely" is here properly used) greater, because these were
MEN WHO LIVED, AND WERE ACCEPTED AS THE GREAT AND
HOLY OF A SELF-PROCLAIMED GOD'S "CHOSEN" PEOPLE;
HENCE WERE AN EXAMPLE FOR THE REST OF THE PEOPLE.
The trinity of evils that, in early times, yearly threatened man
and all his works, were the cold of winter, the heat of the
summer, and recurring floods. These, in the Scriptural text,
were personified, or symbolized, as /in Cain. In this later sym-
bolization a simple change was made from the ancient; men
were substituted for the astral "gods." Cain's first evil or destruc
tive act, was as winter (allegorically speaking), thereby or
therewith, destroying summer, but personified as Ab-el; that is:
Ab, father, and
el,
the sun who
is
also the producer. In the
flood he drowned the world, all but the "seed" or remnant of
a
people; while with fire, or intense heat,
it
is
prophesied, he
will burn up the earth, at
a
future unknown period.
Noah actually
is,
or represents, Bacchus (the sun) drunken
with the vintage that his own heat had produced. Isaac and
Ishmael, Jacob and Esau, were personifications of the sun in
the two seasons of summer and winter, or in the signs
of good and evil import. David and Solomon were guilty
of the acts ascribed to the sun with the starry hosts in his yearly
passage through the constellations. From the early symbolism
of the Lesser mysteries of the ancients, after their real meaning
was lost to the Jews,
if
they ever actually were familiar with
them, they originated, or based their teachings upon the system
156 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
of polygamy that, for ages after, blasted the peoples of the
eastern nations with its pestiferous breath.
The Initiates of the Mysteries were fully acquainted with all
of these facts, but their voices were not heard by the mass, who
did not care for the truth, but were anxious for an excuse to
exercise their evil propensities.
The sun was the grand central theme of early worship, of
ancient symbolic literature, of the arts and science of long past
ages. They looked to the sun as to a great and trusty friend; and
to all of those constellations through which he passes in his
summer tour, as his followers, friends and angels. The wintry
signs, which appeared to be dragging the sun down to the
bottomless pit in the southern hemisphere, were signs of evil
import—the deeds of evil beings —and these were enemies to
men; the satellites of Satan, who had his domicile in Scorpio;
his station at the gate of winter. They looked upon the sun as
their savior, which he truly was then as he is now, at least
to the physical being of man.
When the earth was flooded by excessive rains, or inundated
by the swelling river, his beams dried up the abundant moisture
—as does the kind friend the tears of the sorrowing. When
malignant vapors which so often succeeded the retiring waters,
created a pestilence, he took pity on the unfortunates and dis
sipated the deadly vapors.
When cruel winter had reigned with such rigor that the
fruits of the earth were almost exhausted and the last of the
flock and herds had all but disappeared, the sun, coming forth
in majesty on return from his travels in the far southern clime,
put winter to flight, and ushered in gentle spring with its sunny
days; its flowers to be followed by fruit.
Then came summer, laden with abundant crops, followed by
the golden skies of autumn; the gathering of the harvest; the
gathering of the vintage; and, in rejoicing, the people trod the
wine press (no license required then) and were happy and con
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 157
tented. This was the feast of Bacchus. An author, unknown to us,
condenses all of this into a few words:
"And the glad nations
Pour out their libations
And sing praise to the sun
When their labors are done." —Anon.
Through all of the ancient nations, this drama of the sky was
interpreted in symbolic form; purely symbolic in the Lesser
mysteries for the masses, while the Arcane, by means of the
Greater Mysteries, was reserved for the few.
In Greece this outer representation took place in what was
called the Nypheum and is described by Homer in these words:
"High at the head of branching olive grows
And crowns the pointed cliffs with shady boughs,
Beneath a gloomy grott's cool recess.
Delight the Nereids of the neighboring seas;
Where bowls and urns were formed of living stone,
And massy beams in native marble shown;
On which the labors of the Nymphs were roll'd,
Their web divine of purple mixed with gold.
Within the cave the clust'ring bees attend
Their waxen works, or from the roof depend.
Perpetual waters o'er the pavement glide;
Two marble doors unfold on either side;
Sacred the south, by which the gods descend;
But mortals enter at the northern end."
The place of these exoteric initiations was usually a gloomy
cave, or a connected range of caverns, fitted with paraphernalia
so that all the terrors of initiation might be vividly displayed.
These initiations commenced with incantations and the con
secration of an egg to commemorate equally the creation of all
things which were traditionally believed to have sprung from
an egg. The egg contains within itself the seed of all things; as
158 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
well as the means for the redemption of all that might be evil,
or become evil.
The Neophyte was first purified with water and then crowned
with a myrtle. He was then invested with hallowed habiliments
and placed in a dark cave for meditation. After a time his con
ductor delivered him to the mystagogue who started the cere
monials with the formula: "Depart hence all ye profane."
This procedure, by the way, has not changed very much
throughout the ages and is familiar to all who have passed
through various forms of initiation. His guide exhorted him to
call forth all his courage and fortitude, as the process through
which he was about to pass was of the most appalling nature.
For three days and nights he was kept in darkness and a state
of apprehension. Following this, the aspirant, now thoroughly
excited and uncertain, was made to perform the asphanism, or
ceremonies commemorative of the allegorical death of Bacchus.
He was covered with the pastos or bed; that
is,
confined in
a
close cell, or coffin-like place, that he might reflect seriously, in
solitude and darkness, on that which he was experiencing, and
be reduced to
a
proper state of mind for the reception of what
was to follow; all of
it
symbolic of death, deliverance and re
generation
by
means of
a
new birth.
The incantation, only part of which can here be given, and
which had
a
double meaning, one for the ceremonially initiated
and the other for those who passed through Philosophic Initia
tion, was as follows:
"O Father Jacchos (Bacchus); thou art Lord of body,
God manifest in the flesh;
Twice-born, baptized with fire, quickened
by
spirit, in
structed in the secrets hidden beneath the earth."
Modernism had its beginning or birth in the emigration of
the Jews and gradually developed. All of the so-called pagan
symbols were used, with
a
new interpretation, and often they
were given
a
new name, while the moral and mystical ideas
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 159
were based on them. It has been admitted that in the mystical
and mythical literature of the past, in the zodiacal signs and the
hieroglyphs, were found the prophecy of a Savior, a Redeemer,
a Christos—the STAR OF THE MAGI who was to all intent and
purpose pagan or heathen.
They deny that the ancients possessed the knowledge of the
spirit of these teachings. These writers find a foulness in the
olden religious teachings, but boldly claim that they have
purged them of their offensiveness and that they have now be
come beacon lights for the Christian.
To the ancients, Bacchus —the spirit of the vine (or fruit)
was the life-giver. In the Christian theogony, it is the Holy
Ghost; "Ghost," being mystically interpreted, is "spirit," which
is the life of the Soul.
A present-day writer has this to say: "When man awakens
from his material sleep, he begins to comprehend that there is
something greater than the seen and seeks to contact God." It
is always the same God, the one God, regardless of whether we
recognize Him as "Father," "Almighty God," or part of God,
"the Holy Spirit," or by any other name.
It is the spirit, the breath which is the life—Bacchus, who
proclaims by action: "I am that which was, is and ever will be.
In me is hidden the mystery of the ages. I hold within myself
all the wisdom that ever existed. This wisdom hidden within
me, the Christos within you, will be yours and become a part of
you, as soon as you learn to inbreathe the spirit which is the life.
I have been with you throughout the ages, but you knew me
not; nor will you be able to KNOW me unless you break the
carnal bonds and find the spirit which is I."
In South America, Christisis, THE CHRISTOS AWAKENED
AND RESURRECTED, that
is,
BROUGHT INTO CONSCIOUSNESS,
becomes Cbristification.
This
is
an exact and proper description of the goal of man's
perfection. Man has become Christ-like; i.e., the Biblical: "As
many as received him, to them gave he power to become the
160 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Sons of God." —John 1:12. This is just another way of saying
the same thing.
The Nazarene is made to say: "I am the vine, [life] ye are
the branches." —John 15:5. Bacchus is the god of vine; the
spirit IN the vine; the life-giver. In ancient religious teachings,
as in Biblical writings, the "spirit" is used interchangeably with
Soul; or as becoming, or turning into — as water turns into
wine, as note: "and breathed into his nostrils the breath of
life; and man became a living Soul."—Genesis 2:7.
When the sun is on its southern tour it recedes farther and
farther from the northern climes, hence the ancient people
mourned his absence, and were fearful lest he should forget, or
be unable, to return. They celebrated his descending phase
with appropriate ceremonies. They wept over the dangers that
beset his pathway in his conflict with Typhon, who possibly
might conquer and drag him downward into the bottomless pit
and leave the world in darkness.
The "war" in heaven between the forces was so nearly
balanced, and the power of the contending gods so nearly equal,
that the inhabitants of earth watched the conflict with an all-
absorbing interest.
When the sun, victorious over his antagonist, began to ascend
toward the north, and escaped the pit toward which, for months,
he had been descending, they celebrated his return with the
greatest enthusiasm and delight; with joyous feasting and danc
ing, processions, bonfires and orations, and all the paraphernalia
of gorgeous eastern worship. Perhaps this was a "heathen" or
"pagan" celebration. If so, what of our Mayday celebrations, or
Harvest Home ceremonials?
As the sun, in his upward career toward the summer solstice,
arrived at different points in the heavens, his journeyings were
celebrated with an eclat suited to the importance of each par
ticular point at which he was held, or posited, for a brief period.
The most important stations in the sun's line of march were
the vernal and autumnal equinoxes, representing the two cross
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 161
ifications, with the sun giving his blood or new life to the
world in the exact manner as we are told the Nazarene died
upon the cross, that his blood might save the world.
The vernal represented the first, or the covenant of works, in
which, true to the promise, "if men plough ami sow, they shall
reap;" the autumnal represented the covenant of grace, when
they celebrated the fruitfulness of the season with much
rejoicing.
The feast of Bacchus, at the autumnal equinox, was cele
brated at the same time and in much the same manner as was
the feast of the tabernacles by the Jews at a much later day.
This is actually a copy or duplication of the most ancient cele
brations, as also the feasts and fasts even now celebrated in
many churches, and of which the spiritual meaning and intent
has been lost. These meanings were originally astronomical,
agricultural and devotional, i.e., spiritual.
This ancient plan, system, or mode of life, gave a halo of
romance to the cultivation of the soil, which helped greatly to
endear this pursuit of life to the masses, and deeply impressed
upon their minds the great importance of fully developing the
resources of mother earth. It would be a mighty benefit to man
kind if modern people could become conscious of this part of
nature and realize that their own interests would best be served
by retracing their steps, in this respect, to ancient times and to
these rational methods of labor, which actually included in
themselves both relaxation and recreation.
The advent of spring meant the ushering in of the season
when winter is at last over, when the song of the birds is heard
once more, when the crooning of the turtle dove is again heard
in the land, when the sun has overcome the cold of the winter,
and is once again under the influence of his gentle rays, when
vegetation everywhere begins to cover the earth with a luxuri
ant growth, as by a magic carpet, and with every promise of a
bounteous harvest. In answer to man's willing labor, the earth
again pours forth her golden treasures into the lap of the in
162 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
dustrious, a truly appropriate time for man to rest for a brief
season and celebrate, with thankful heart devotion, the in
gathering of the foods that will save him from want and
starvation.
The ancients recognized two essentials: The sun which sup
plied the heat without which life could not exist; food necessary
for the maintenance of life in the body also depended
on the sun. These things are so commonplace to moderns that
they give them no consideration whatever; yet the time will
come, and is not far distant, when FOOD WILL BECOME THE
MOST IMPORTANT THING IN LIFE; WILL BE THE SCARCEST
THING ON EARTH AND MOST DIFFICULT TO OBTAIN. When
this time arrives, the mind of men will again return to agricul
ture, the most ancient of all occupations and it will be respected
for what it is. An author whose name we do not know, foresaw
this and wrote.
". . . By degrees will men (again) come to feel one common
interest, one great need, and the art of agriculture, whence most
of our wealth is derived, though we are unconscious of this fact,
will rise in dignity and importance. This noblest of all pursuits
will be rescued from the sacrilegious touch of serfdom, and be
exalted in human estimation to that divine pursuit, the favorite
of God, and no longer be prostituted to merely mercenary pur
poses, but recognized as the highest essential to existence.
"Man, with that enthusiasm which can only be awakened in
his devotional breast, will commence earnestly in a truly re
ligious spirit, to apply the increasing facilities that science will
afford, to cultivate this terrestrial Eden. He will drain its moras
ses and reclaim its waste places; make the wilderness and soli
tary places beautiful and bountiful; the deserts bud and bloom
as the rose.
"Then, and not till then, will this earth be a truly fit abode
for the Souls of the just; then will the lion and the lamb lie
down together; the sun and its product, food, be the reason for
celebration, and God for devotion."
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 163
In the maps of the heavens familiar to all in the high schools
of the land, there is an outline of the "kingdom of heaven" of
the ancients. There is delineated the war in heaven which the
poet Milton tells us occurred long before man was created. The
constellations constitute the gods and demi-gods of all the
ancient nations; the sacred bull of Egypt; the Fish-god of India;
the twelve Baals of Chaldea, Phoenicia and the "pagan" clans.
In these constellations we see the various deities of those
known as the "fire worshippers," including our own "devil,"
Hercules and his associates in Greek mythology; the Lion of the
tribe of Judah; the Cherubim of Moses, Isaiah, Ezekiel and
Daniel; the seraphs or Seraphim seen by the prophets, and the
four beasts that John saw around and in the midst of the great
white throne.
There, also, are the "twelve tribes of Israel," the twelve
foundations of the New Jerusalem, which had nothing what
ever to do with the Jews; the twelve gates of the city, and all
the "twelves" that have for ages been in the classification of the
"perfect number."
There also are the seven golden candlesticks; the seven stars;
the seven seals; the seven vials of wrath, and all of the beasts
and fallen spirits, that caused such havoc in heaven and on
earth as recorded in the Apocalypse.
There likewise we may see the whole menagerie of wild
beasts and fowls, dragons and creeping things that the various
religionists used as a part of their system to frighten mankind,
who, admittedly could be affected in no other way, but also at
the same time, furnished bigots with sufficient material to hold
their followers in bondage, both material and spiritual, from
the earliest days down to the present time.
In Ezekiel's wheel, so much a mystery to so many millions
for so long a time, is the "key" to its own solution. Therein is
found the six ascending signs of the Zodiac representing:
"Heaven," the Good, the ascent of the human Soul; the universe
or Macrocosm. In the six descending signs are the opposite, or
164 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
principles of evil; the fall of man; the descent of the Soul into
matter. The seventh sign, is actually neutral, making seven
good signs, or the perfect number, leaving the five evil signs, a
total of twelve, the perfect number.
If it is our desire to gain a full understanding of the frame
work of this world-wide system of astral symbolism, we must
study the literature of the Phoenicians, Chaldeans, East Indian
and Egyptian peoples. The polytheism of ancient times sup
posed twelve great gods resided in the twelve signs of the
Zodiac. Those recognized by us in our almanacs — Aries,
Taurus, Gemini and so on—were called the twelve Baals by
the Baal worshippers. We have changed the name; the rest
remains as it ever was. These names of the twelve Baals were:
Baal Tsaddi God Almighty
Baal Aitum The Mighty Lord
Baal Geh Lord of Health
BaalIal (Belial) Lord of the Opposite
Baal Zebub (Belzebub) Lord of the Scorpion
Baal Berith Lord of the Covenant
Baal Peor Lord of the Opening
Baal Perazim Lord of the Divisions
Baal Zephon Lord of the North
Baal Samen Lord of Heaven
Baal Adoni-Bezek Lord of Glory
Baal Molock Zedec Lord of Righteousness
(Melchisedec)
There is nothing very horrible or terrible in these names once
we understand their real meaning.
The Egyptians called the constellation On, that being the
name of the sun in their language; thus Dag-On, An-On,
Gibe-On. The Hebrews changed the name of the constella
tions to Beths, meaning Houses. There were two domiciles
(houses) of the sun or On. Bethlehem, of which so much was
made, was the "house of bread," or the harvest month. Beth
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 165
any, the house of destitution; Beth-Dag-Ow, the house of the
fishes, and so on. Dag-On is the fish-god of both Egypt and
India, from whence derived the legend of the mermaid; Dag-On
being represented under the form of a human being and a fish
in combination.
The twelve constellations in the band of the Zodiac, and
thirty-six north and south, are more ancient than any written
record. Their origin itself has been lost in the years of time.
It is certain, however, that they constitute a most important
part of all formal, creedal and symbolic religion. All activities
had for their aim and end the celebration of the movements of
the starry hosts; their various conflicts, and the final victory of
the sun, and the powers of light, over the powers of darkness
and death. In later years these astral gods were changed into
beings; some saints, some sinners, who existed throughout the
ages and played their part in the divine drama.
Most of the legends of the early Indian tribes of our own
America are descriptive of the formation and movements of the
constellations and the relations they bear to the earth. Accord
ing to the Algic researches, the great northern bear was the
progenitor of all the bears that the Great Spirit gave to his
children, the red men.
The Zodiac of the Indians of Southern Mexico and Central
America is similar to that of the Egyptian, differing only in
some of the constellations, and this is accounted for by the dif
ference in the latitude in which they live. Instead of the com
mon ox or bull, they draw the Zebu or Mexican ox. The puma,
or South American jaguar, occupies the place of Leo. The
virgin of August, the mother of all living, holds in her hands an
ear of maize or Indian corn, instead of wheat; both a sign of
life, fertility, reproduction. The scorpion gives place to the
lizard; the archer sits across the shoulders of a llama, his legs
clasping around the neck, thus seemingly forming one animal.
The place of the goat of December is occupied by a stable,
wherein a llama is feeding; while the water-bearer, or baptizer,
166 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
is pouring water from a leaf of the water plant, instead of the
urn to be seen in the common planisphere.
In the midst of the circle formed by the twelve signs, is a
cross, the ends of the horizontal beam resting on or near the
two equinoxes. Over the top of the cross the crescent or new
moon forms an arch, resting its two points on the crosspiece,
while the puma reposes over the top of the whole in the sign
of July.
Thus, it will readily be seen that while the respective fol
lowers of the cross and crescent have for centuries been engaged
in deadly conflict, the ancient people of yellow skin have been
far more wise and have blended the cross and the crescent into
one, part of which they really are.
Schoolcraft, in his Algic research accounts, in speaking of
these Indians, states that: "These Indians handed down an ac
count of a remarkable personage of miraculous birth, who
waged warfare with monsters; performed the most heroic deeds;
underwent a catastrophe like Jonah's, and survived a general
deluge."
Interwoven with these leading traits are innumerable ac
counts of personal achievements, sagacity, endurance and
miracles, which place him in almost every scene of interest that
could be imagined, from the competitor on the Indian play
ground, to a giant-killer, or a mysterious being, of stern, all-
knowing, super-human power. Whatever a man could do, he
could do. He wielded the art of a demon, and had the ubiquity
of a God.
In describing the actions of this great personage, the Indians,
like the ancient seers and teachers, described the actions of the
sun upon the earth and its peoples, and upon the conflicts of
the elements, thus giving their own version of the labors of
Hercules.
They also, wholly unknowingly, described the legendary,
and in some instances, the actual, lives of the different Saviours
of the world; the birth, teachings, travels, overcoming of de
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 167
sires for the things which men hold most dear; the teaching and
healing by them of the people, and finally, death at the hands
of those in authority. The death was followed by the resurrec
tion and in their lives, adopted by the people as a formal re
ligious system.
The book of the ancients, astronomy, is the oldest on record.
The pyramids of Egypt were built long after these hieroglyphs
became the texts of nations. In exploring the ruins of Palmyra,
Ninevah, and Thebes, in disentombing the silent inhabitants of
the pyramids and other burial places in Egypt and Assyria, and
translating the records found, we are led back to times as early
as when the legendary twelve Atlantean Initiates first came to
Egypt; when Egypt, as mistress of that part of the world; had
conquered many nations and enriched her coffers with their
tribute.
Those who search the records of Egypt with an open mind
and clear sight, to read correctly the meaning of the Great
Pyramid; the object of its erection, the principles upon which it
was built, and the use for which it was designated, will come
into the understanding that man and this planet were fashioned
in correct proportions to represent alike numbers, colors, sounds,
forms and uses.
This great Pyramid, built to illustrate the most perfect princi
ples of astronomy, mathematics, geometry and the spiritual side
of man which we know under the general term of religion,
should be forever free from the erroneous idea that this massive
structure was erected merely as a huge, royal sepulchre. It did
become the tomb of its founders and of others, because, in order
to understand and celebrate all the mysteries of life and being
THE SPECIAL OBJECT FOR WHICH THE GREAT PYRAMID
WAS BUILT—death, as well as life, must find proper place in the
pageant.
The stupendous story of the Soul's progress through eternity,
all embraced by man's brief journey, could not be completed,
168 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
unless the angel of death was assigned a niche in the splendid
shrine —the history of man and Soul in stone.
The ancient Egyptians, as did other nations following them,
taught that there existed throughout all being, an universal law
of correspondence by which all are bound. This was later
taught by Hermes as:
"In the above as in the below;
In the inner as in the outer."
The learned of all Eastern nations attributed the origin of
life, light and motion to the action of the spiritual sun, symbo
lized by the physical orb of day.
Character, destiny, physical form and external appearances
were determined principally by the degree of harmonization
with the astral and solar influences.
Laws that are stern and immutable, principles strict and un
varying, underlie the scheme in which millions of worlds, be
sides our own, are active participators. The whole drama is
continually active in the most unbreakable system of harmony
and power. To arrive at any just idea of cause and effect—the
beginning and continuation of things—it was held that correct
and well-defined mathematical quantities and geometrical pro
portions are the underlying principles of this stupendous chain
of being; all moving, living and acting singly and severally in
unbroken power and perfection, and that man, harmonizing
himself with this world harmony, reached the highest perfec
tion. By making every effort to accomplish this, he attained
Philosophic Initiation or Godhood.
In the ultimate, every sound in the universe must conform
to the harmonic rule; every shade of color must combine to
produce the totality of pure white light. Every creature must
be a definite part; everything that exists is an organ belonging
to the vast whole. By means of the law of correspondence, the
"keystone" must be found with which to combine, or hold to
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 169
gether, all the separate parts of the grand temple of humanity,
as by one mighty arch.
This keystone, or "fair white stone," is neither oval nor
square, yet its perfection is a delight to all eyes; its beauty ex
cites the wonder of all beholders. In its mystic proportions is
to be found the square, the triangle, the circle and the line. In
its combination are expressed the truths of astronomy; the
science of the astral world; the science which connects the sum
of worlds with units.
It teaches us how the mass influences and disposes of the
integral parts. It teaches us mathematics, or the science which
assigns to each world its number; to each component part its
unit and the relationship it sustains to the order, and to the
whole. Man is one of these units. The PERFECT Soul includes
the all. Worlds and science are useless except for man; despite
the fact that man RELEGATES HIMSELF TO THE LOWEST ORDER,
unless he makes the necessary effort to attain the highest AND so
BECOMES THE ARCH OF HUMANITY.
The "stone that the builders rejected becomes the head of
the corner," and for ages the great Pyramid has been this re
jected stone. By correspondence, the Soul in man, rejected or
neglected, buried deep in debris, becomes the LIGHT OF THE
TEMPLE, when awakened and brought into consciousness. It
too, is the "stone that the builders—the self—rejected."
Modern astronomers have not hesitated to avail themselves
of the ancient symbolic writing in the skies to facilitate their
researches among the hosts of heaven. Forty-eight of the con
stellations now in use are ancient; others have been added at
different periods of time.
170 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
MYSTERIES OF ISIS AND OSIRIS
Osiris as a God, Life-Giver and Creator, Isis as Mother,
The Bringer-Forth and Producer.
HE Egyptians have left us a most remarkable record
and complete symbolism in the legend of Isis (the
moon—receiver —reproducer) in search of the body
of Osiris (the sun—life-giver —Creator or generator) , who had
been slain by Typhon, the god (our devil) of the infernal
(lower) regions (winter personified). Osiris, on his return
from a journey in distant lands or regions, was invited to a re
past by Typhon; his brother and rival.
Typhon put Osiris to death and threw the body into the Nile.
As soon as Isis was informed of the death of the betrayed Osiris,
whom all the ancients had recognized as a god equal to the sun,
and that the genius of darkness had shut him up in a coffin, she
began a search for his body, though uncertain of the route she
should take; uneasy, agitated, her breast lacerated by grief.
Dressed in mourning garb, she interrogated every one she
met. She was informed by some young children that the coffin
which contained the body of her husband had been carried by
the waters out to the sea, thence to Biblos, where it was held
and was reposing upon a plant, which had immediately put
forth a superb stalk. The coffin was so enveloped as to appear
being a part of the plant.
The king of the country, astonished at the beauty of the bush,
had it cut and made into a column for his palace, without per
ceiving the coffin which had become incorporated with the
trunk. Isis, guided by divine instinct, arrived at Biblos.
Bathed in tears at her great loss, she seated herself near a
fountain, where she remained overwhelmed with grief; speak
172 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ing to no one until the arrival of the queen's women. These she
saluted politely, and commenced dressing her hair in such a
manner as to spread in
it,
as well as all over her whole body,
the odor of an exquisite perfume. The queen, learning from her
women what had happened, and perceiving the exquisite odor
of ambrosia, desired to know the stranger; invited her to the
palace; attached her to the household, and appointed her as
nurse to her son. The goddess now made herself known and
demanded that the precious column should be given to her.
Her request complied with, she separated the body of her
husband
by
disengaging the coffin from the branches which
covered
it,
which she found to be of light texture, and perfum
ing them with essences, sent to the king and queen this cover
ing of strange boughs and which were deposited at Biblos, in
the temple of Isis. Isis then embarked and returned to Egypt,
there depositing the body in
a
secluded place.
Typhon having gone to the chase that night, found the body,
recognized
it
as that of Osiris, cut
it
into fourteen pieces, which
he scattered about in various places. Isis on discovering this,
collected these dispersed fragments —with the exception of one
part—and interred each part in the place where
it
was found.
This
is
taken from the authenticated legends concerning Isis,
Osiris and their enemy, Typhon. Symbolically,
it
is
a
means
adopted to illustrate the description of the movements of the
heavenly bodies as these affected the earth and its people, BUT
IT ALSO CONTAINED WITHIN ITSELF THE GREAT MYSTERY.
The fourteen pieces of the dismembered body of Osiris re
present the state and condition, and the gradual diminution of
the lunary light during the fourteen days following the full
moon. The moon (Isis) at the end of the fourteen days, enters
Taurus and becomes united to the sun (Osiris)
,
from which she
collects fire (life for reproduction) with her disc (itself
a
sym
bol of the "door" or entrance to the "temple of procreation,")
during the fourteen days which follow.
She
is
then found every month in conjunction (the em
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 173
brace) with Osiris, in the superior parts (fertile season) of the
signs. The equinotial year finishes at the moment when the
sun and moon are found united with Orion, or the star Urus,
a constellation placed near Taurus, which unites itself to the
Neomenia of spring, symbolizing the season of reproduction.
The moon (Isis) renews herself in Taurus (the virility of
the bull ) and a few days after is seen in the form of a crescent,
symbolic of the female organ of reproduction, in the sign fol
lowing, that
is,
Gemini, the home of Mercury.
Then Orion, united to the sun (Osiris) in the attitude of
a
formidable warrior, precipitates Scorpio, his rival, into the
shades of night; for he sets every time Orion appears above the
horizon. The days now become lengthened, and the forces of
evil are gradually destroyed.
It
is
thus that Typhon
is
con
quered at the end of Winter, as the sun arrives in Taurus (re
gains his strength and virility for reproduction), and Orion
mounts into the heavens with him.
The legend has many ramifications. The history of the
heavens, especially as
it
concerns the sun or Osiris, has been
written under the form of the history
of
men, instead of the
constellations. The people concerned readily received and ac
cepted this interpretation, and looked upon the hero of the
heavenly drama as
a
man. The tombs of the god, or gods,
were shown; feasts were celebrated, the object of which was to
renew each year the sorrow which had been occasioned
by
this,
or their, loss.
Such was
a
legend of the tomb of Osiris, covered under the
mass of stones known as the pyramids, which the Egyptians
raised to the great light and lifegiver. One of these has its four
sides facing the cardinal points of the world. Each front
is
one
hundred and ten fathoms wide at the base, and the four form
as many equilateral triangles. The perpendicular heights are
seventy-seven fathoms, according to the measurements given
by
Chazekkes of the French Academy of Science.
It
follows from these dimensions, and the latitude under
174 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
which this pyramid is erected, that fourteen days (symbolic of
the fourteen parts) before the Spring equinox, the precise period
at which the Persians celebrated their revival of nature ( repro
ductive power of nature coming to renewed life), the sun
would cease to cast a shade at midday, and would not again
cast it until fourteen days after the autumnal equinox. At that
period the day, or sun, would be found in the parallel or circle
of southern declension.
This answers to 5 degrees, 15 minutes, and happens twice a
year—once before the Spring, and once after the Fall equinox.
The sun then appears upon the summit or apex of this pyramid
exactly at midday. It appears to rest upon it for some moments,
while the worshippers, on their knees at its base, direct their
vision along the inclined plane of the northern front and con
template the great Osiris.
The Egyptians, always bold and poetic in their conceptions,
executed a project of erecting a pedestal to the sun and moon,
or Osiris and Isis; at midnight for the moon, at midday for the
sun, symbolic of their arrival in that part of heaven near which
passes the line which separates the northern from the southern
hemisphere; the empire of good from that of evil; the reign of
life and light from that of darkness and death.
They waited for the shade to disappear from all the fronts of
the pyramid at midday, during the whole time that the sun
sojourned in the luminous hemisphere. The northern front
would again be covered with shade when night began to attain
her supremacy in the hemisphere —that
is,
at the moment when
Osiris descended into darkness, or "hell."
The tomb of Osiris was covered with shade nearly six months,
after which light surrounded
it
entirely at midday, as soon as
he, returning from hades or the "shades," regained this empire
on passing into the luminous hemisphere. He now returned to
Isis, the reproducer, and to the god of Spring, Orus; who had at
length conquered the genius of darkness and winter.
In the center of the pyramid, in
a
vault, was said to be the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 175
tomb of a great king; the king was Osiris, husband of Isis,
whom the people now believed to have reigned formerly over
Egypt; but the priests and Initiates knew this to have been
Osiris, sun of the world which governs the world, enriches it
with benefits, and who is the outer symbol of the One God in
the universe, the Light of the Soul in the awakened man.
What modern temples dedicated to the worship of God can
compare in magnificence and glory with the great pyramids of
Egypt? What people of what nation or nations were so whole
heartedly devoted to God as were they? No people or peoples
left such magnificent and enduring monuments marking their
devotion and piety. They wrote their creed on heaven's blue
vault; or perhaps it would be better to say that they read from
the heavens their creed of worship.
Were these people pagans and under the wrath of God?
Who is a pagan? The one who glorifies God and tries to obey
His Laws or the one who professes but does not obey? If these
mighty ancient people were under the wrath of God, if God
was angry with their manner of worship, why did He permit,
aye, direct Moses to study and be trained by them and perpetuate
their teachings, for is it not Biblically written:
"And Moses was learned in ALL THE WISDOM of the Egyptian; and he
was mighty IN HIS WORDS AND DEEDS." —Acts 7:22.
Also, why was Joseph ordered by God to take the child
Nazarene into Egypt for safety, education and training?
Furthermore, why, if these people were pagans or heathens,
did God permit, throughout the ages, INCLUDING THE PRES
ENT, every major religious sect to continue these ancient forms
and doctrines in one form or another?
It may be proper to further digress here and give considera
tion to causes that combined to introduce and perpetuate the
various forms and ceremonies of ancient religious systems.
We reject the general idea that God has promulgated his
laws viva voce, to any one man or people. On the contrary, we
know that properly trained men of all nations, possessed of a
176 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
devotional nature, received impressions, or gained a knowledge
of the Divine Will, as a result of having consciously developed
their spiritual nature. It is our duty to show, to the degree
permitted, the process by which men have arrived, and do ar
rive, at this state of spiritual consciousness, based on KNOWL
EDGE, and not mere belief. This will be done as we proceed.
Worship, other than secret devotional—i.e., in one's "closet
with doors closed," is naturally form-ai. Such forms were af
fected by men who had attained in physics, and were the first
results of a social state.
As soon as men began to unite as a society, it became neces
sary for them to increase their means for subsistence, to con
centrate greater energies on agriculture, which, to be carried on
with success, required the observation and knowledge that the
heavens offered. It was essential to become familiar with the
periodical return of the same operation of nature, based on, or
wholly in harmony with, the same phenomena in the heavens.
It was necessary to know the exact duration and succession of
the seasons and the months of the year. An error here, and the
entire food supply for the coming winter might be jeopardized.
It was indispensable to learn the course of the sun who, in
his zodiacal revolution, proved himself the first and supreme
force of the entire creation of cause and effect, and, for that
matter, without whom spiritual forces could not manifest.
Next in importance was the moon, who, by her phases and
periods, regulated, and continues to regulate, despite kings and
priests, what we recognize as TIME: following her, the stars
and planets, which, by their appearance and disappearances on
the horizon and nocturnal hemisphere, marked the minutest
divisions; finally, it was necessary to form an entire system of
astronomy upon which to base a "calendar."
It was observed that the productions of the earth had a
regular and constant relation to the heavenly bodies. The rise,
development and decline of each planet kept pace with the
appearance, elevation and declination of the same star, or group
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 177
of stars. The dormancy or activity of vegetation appeared to
depend upon the celestial or astral influences.
Those engaged in these observations became convinced that
the action and powers in these bodies were superior to those
on earth. The stars dispensing plenty or a scarcity, became
known as powers, genii, gods and the authors of good and evil,
depending upon their influence on men and vegetation.
Following in the wake of this knowledge, the state of society
developed to a degree permitting, or making necessary, an
orderly hierarchy of ranks, duties and conditions. Men reason
ing by comparison, made use of these same ideas for a theolog
ical system and religious practice. During this process they de
veloped a graduation of divinities; devising a pattern in which
the sun, as major god, or highest divinity, was the chief, both
as a religious head and state or political king.
The moon became his wife and queen, because we must not
forget that though the sun was a creator of life, the moon was
the receiver of that life and the producer.
The planets were their servants, bearers of their commands
or messengers; while the multitude of stars were, or represented,
a nation; an army of heroes, genii whose office it was to govern
the world under orders of their chiefs.
All individual entities had names, functions to perform, at
tributes accredited to them because of their relationships to
others and their influence on the whole, and were even divided
into sexes according to their various aspects and labors in the
worldly and heavenly hierarchy.
Nothing as simple, and yet so gloriously grand and true to
functions, order and obedience to law has since been attempted;
nor has the conception been improved upon throughout the
centuries, despite the birth and development of many other
religious systems. It is to be borne in mind that this was the
OUTER FORM, the FORM-AL RELIGIOUS SYSTEM FOR THE
MASS; those who, as the Nazarene so truly stated, could not
understand the MYSTERIES OF THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN, OR
178 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
GOD. Behind this outer form, were the Priests, Initiates of the
Mysteries.
Here, again, like the Nazarene, they taught those who were
WILLING, READY AND PREPARED FOR THE HIGHER KNOWL
EDGE. These were not taught in parables, or symbols, but ac
cording to, and in the spirit with which the Nazarene taught
his selected disciples. Let us not be blind or quibble, THERE
WAS NOT ONE IOTA OF DIFFERENCE, EXCEPT AS TO NAMES,
BETWEEN THIS ANCIENT SYSTEM OF TEACHING THE MASS BY
PARABLE, AND THE SELECT BY INNER TRUTH, AS WAS FOL
LOWED BY THE NAZARENE.
Moses was "learned in the wisdom of the Egyptians," with
but a slight difference. By the same symbolism, after leaving
Egypt, he perpetuated these ancient forms and ideas of worship.
The main difference, which, correctly understood, was no differ
ence at all, was the substitution of the doctrine of the one God, in
place of a plurality, as believed in by the people. This plurality
of gods was replaced by a multitude of forms and ceremonies
under different names.
If it be objected that Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were called
out of "paganism" by God, this can be answered by the truthful
fact that there is no evidence whatever discoverable in the Bible
that will sustain this assertion. The Lord told Abraham to
"leave" his kindred and the land of his birth and go into a land
to be shown to him and to be given to his "seed" after him, but
not that he was to give up his form of religion.
Nowhere is anything said to in the least justify the assump
tion that God considered Abraham's early religion false or un
acceptable; moreover, as Abraham journeyed on his mission, the
Lord frequently appeared to him, and he built altars and wor
shipped according to the most approved "pagan" form.
To sustain this contention, we return to Moses and his mis
sion:
"And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the Lord, and I
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 179
appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by my name God
Almighty; but by my name Jehovah was I not known to them."
—Exodus 6:2-3.
If we substitute the word Baal Tsaddi for God Almighty in
this quotation, we will have the authentic literal statement. Ac
cording to God's own words, these exemplary patriarchs knew
God only by a Chaldean, hence "pagan" appellation.
It is the common conception that Abraham was a "pagan" or
a profane, uninitiated or unIlluminated, until God called him,
after which time, or from which time, the spirit or Light of God
was with him. If this be admitted, and we do not refute it—
because there is a point where the profane receives the Light and
becomes the Enlightened —can it be true that Isaac and Jacob
did not know God as Jehovah? Did Abraham die without re
vealing the true knowledge?
The bigot and religious objector will tell us that the name
does not imply a difference. If this be true, then our contention
is sustained; i.e., the worshipper with devotion and sincerity in
his heart is acceptable to God, whether he worships in the
name of Osiris, Baal, Adonis, On or Chemosh, all of which
names appear in the Bible as names of the true God, as does the
name of El (the sun), under the forms of Eloi and Elohim, or
Aloim; the former being the possessive case, and the latter the
plural. Thus it follows, that FORM MERELY HIDES A SPIRIT,
that all men are acceptable to God, and MAY BECOME THE
SONS OF GOD, if they have desired, sought and found the Chris-
tos within themselves. One is the outer form, the other is the
INNER reality.
The statements of Josephus: "The initiated, or priesthood,
had one belief for themselves, and another for the people," con
firms this, but more specifically does the Nazarene proclaim the
same truth in a simple statement to his disciples: "To you is
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to
them it is not so given."
The initiates always, among themselves, taught the one God,
180 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
but were compelled by the mass to permit the people to believe
in many gods. Moses, himself an Initiate, in teaching the Unity
of God, confirmed this fact.
The Hebrews, though they outwardly followed Moses, con
tinued with their varied feasts and fasts and the worship fol
lowed by their ancestors. They continually fell back into poly
theism, and stubbornly persisted in building temples and altars
to the various gods to whom their ancestors had paid divine
honors.
There is no doubt that, after the establishment of formal
worship among the Egyptians, it would have been dangerous
for the inner Priesthood to have attempted to change the ideas
of the people by an effort to divert them from the belief and
faith that Osiris and Isis were not only two real persons, but
were also the gods of their country and the protectors of Egypt
and its people. The labors of Osiris and Isis were continually
mentioned. The people believed in the actuality of the per
petual recitals of as many historical facts as there were figures
and ceremonials.
If modern councils and the bishops of major religious
systems have failed to abolish among our people the beliefs
in certain legends and practices unworthy of those professing
adherence to these religions, how is it possible to think that the
Egyptian priests would have been able to abolish the ideas,
customs and practices based on monuments, natural and astral
occurrences with which they were so familiar and which
formed so large a part of their daily life?
The people, immersed in these ideas and forms so majestic
and all-embracing, would undoubtedly have torn them to pieces
had they dared to deny that Osiris and Isis were realities; that
in truth they were not their gods, and did not preside over them
in heaven and on earth; in temporal and spiritual affairs.
Among the pre-Hebrew nations, persons chosen for honors
bore a scepter or staff (always a symbol of power, virility,
authority) of honor, and at times a plate of gold on the fore
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 181
head, called a casosh, signifying a sacred or honored person. The
Jews continued this practice.
When the tribes murmured at seeing the priesthood settled
in the family of Aaron, the chiefs of the tribes received orders
to bring their scepters into the tabernacle. The Chief Priests of
the Israelites also wore the plate of gold on the forehead, on
which was engraved two words; Kodesh Ishovah, i.e., Holy to
the Lord, or a sanctified person. The so-called "sacred" fire of
the Jews was nothing more than the perpetuation of the sacred
and perpetual fire of the ancient fire worshippers, symbolizing
the Light which is God. It is very questionable whether they
understood as much of the mystery of this symbolization as did
the ancients.
If a Jew touched a dead body he was considered defiled; an
idea borrowed or copied from the so-called "pagan" people.
Jamblicus, whose knowledge and authority cannot be ques
tioned, wrote: "It is not lawful to touch human bodies after the
Soul has departed, since every vestige, image, or representation
of divine life is extinguished in the body of death. But it is no
longer unholy to touch dead bodies, because they did not par
ticipate of a more divine life. To other gods, therefore, who are
pure from matter, our not touching dead bodies is adapted; but
to those gods who preside over animals, and are proximately
connected with them, invocation through animals is properly
made." In this respect the beliefs and practices of today, among
many people, offers examples and proofs that the "pagan" ideas
are as alive today as in centuries past.
182 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
SYMBOLS WHICH AT ONE AND THE SAME
TIME REPRESENT GENERATION AND
REGENERATION
The most universal and sacred symbols.
HAT which can fall to the lowest, may, by proper ef
fort, be raised to the highest; that which is highest
may, under certain conditions, fall to the lowest. This
is exemplified in the Law of the Thrice Wise Hermes.
The yod and circle are the outward symbols of generation.
The generative organs, without which man would not be on
earth; without which there would be no bodies for Souls; may
be so degradingly abused as to lead the guilty to the lowest hell;
the hells of Ninevah, Sodom and Gomorrah. On the contrary,
used as divinely intended, they may serve the purposes of RE-
generation —the Soul's upliftment —so that the "sons of men
may become like unto the Sons of God, knowing good and evil."
It is in this highest aspect that ancient religions made use of
them. Moses' greatest effort in saving his people from diseases
destroying them as a result of abuse, was the uplifting of the
serpent, another symbol for the "rod," the "staff," the yod and
the Cross.
The original Druids, often referred to as the ancient Druids,
carried this symbolization perhaps farther than any other major
religious system or practice. The temples of the British Druids
were circular. Many of them had but a single stone in the
center, symbolic of the yod within a circle; it in turn, symboliz
ing a mating from which all creation follows.
Their solemn processions were all arranged in the same form;
even their weapons of war, the circular shield with a central
boss, the spear with a hollow globe at the end, all partaking of
this universal principle.
184 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Without a circle it was thought impossible to obtain the
favor of the gods. The circle stretched out is the "staff," the
creator. The circle, emblem of the "mouth from which the
waters flow," the issue of a new life, is also the symbol of
eternity.
The rite of divination which formed so great a part of many
ancient religions, could not be successful unless the diviner,
usually a virgin (one free from the sin of nature) was within
the concentrated periphery of a magical circle. The plant
vervain like the mistletoe, considered as having magical prop
erties and possessing the virtue of preventing evil, was gathered
ritually with an iron instrument, at the rising of the dog-star,
accompanied with the proper ceremony of describing a circle,
the circumference of which was equally distant from the plant
before it was taken up.
The form of the temple at Classerniss, sacred to the sun and
the elements, illustrates the principle involved. This Celtic
temple was constructed on geometrical and astronomical princi
ples, in the form of a cross and a circle — the cross here taking
the place of the dot or yod. The circle consisted of twelve signs
of the zodiac (or the twelve apostles of the Christian system).
The east, west and south were marked by three stones placed
within the circle, in direct lines, pointing to each of the quarters;
and towards the north in a double row of twice nineteen stones,
forming the perpendicular parallel lines, with a single elevated
stone at the entrance.
In the center of the circle stood, highly exalted above all the
rest, the gigantic representative of the Deity. This symbol, old
as reasoning, thinking man, was also used by the ancient inhabi
tants of Scandinavia, and had reference to the hall of Odin or
high God; which, like the Zidiacm, contained twelve seats or
"places" in the form of a circle, for the principle gods, besides
an elevated throne in the center of the hall, for the representa
tive of the Father.
Generation, or reproduction, was the great, the magnificent,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 185
the divine mystery to the ancients. Jehovah was, in fact, the
creating God, and in Genesis, this creating God —Jehovah —is
made to say to the other or associate gods: "let us make man in
our own image." —Gen. 1:26. As the creating God, He is the
FATHER of His creation. Man was considered His greatest
creation until he became debased; hence the means of creation
was the male generative principle, which was aptly and cor
rectly symbolized by a point within a circle; an emblem AS
PURE AND AS HOLY, or AS DEBASED, as is the mind of man.
This emblem was placed by the Scandinavian priesthood and
her poets on the central summit of the rainbow, which was
fabled to be the bridge (the river Styx of the Egyptians) lead
ing from earth to heaven (it is also known as the "devil's
bridge" to those who degrade their generative power) ; the em
blem therefore here represents Valhalla, or the supernal palace
of the chief celestial diety. In Edda it is stated that this bridge
is "all on fire, for the giants of the mountains would climb up
to heaven by
it,
if
it
were easy for any one to walk over it."
The "palace" thus elevated was none other than the celestial
system illuminated
by
a
central sun, whose representative on
earth was Thor,
a
god depicted
by
Verstegen with
a
crowned
head, placed in the center of twelve bright stars (the same
twelve of the Nazarene, who traveled with him through the
"round" of his earth life) expressive of the sun's annual course
through the zodiacal signs.
In later times and in many countries, priests constructed caves
wherein were celebrated what became known as the Lesser
mysteries. These consisted in an imitation of the motions of
the stars, the planets and the heavens.
A
perfect example of
such
a
display and which millions saw, was that at St. Ann de
Beaupre in Canada. In ancient times the actors in such dramas
sometimes took the name of the constellations, and assumed the
figures of animals.
In the cave of Mithra was
a
ladder of seven steps, represen
ting the seven spheres of the planets
by
means of which Souls
186 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ascended and descended. Biblical writers did not hestitate to
make use of reference to this ladder. The change made was
minor; Jacob's ladder reached from earth into heaven, while
that of Mithra had seven steps. Masonry in its symbolism, like
wise makes use of this ancient Mithraic ladder.
There is in the Royal Library a superb volume of pictures
of Indian gods, in which the ladder is represented with the
Souls of men descending it. This is symbolic of the Soul's "fall"
or leaving heaven to embody on earth so that it might gain ex
perience and learn both good and evil, and right here we are
again brought face to face with the so universally used symbol,
the yod or dot.
The early Initiates prior to the building of the pyramids, con
sidered the triangle the most perfect symbol of the conscious
Soul and within this placed the yod or dot. The yod is the crea
tive principle. Without it there could not have been, and could
not be, bodies for the reception of Souls, hence the yod, or
bodies, to receive the Souls, was as important in the scheme of
creation as was the ladder upon which the Souls descended into
these bodies, and upon which "ladder"—the means of climbing
up—the Soul must again ascend.
The initial, that
is,
the first or beginning letter, "yod" denotes
the creative thought, or idea of God. The Christian
(
Gnostic
)
Cabbalist called
it
"the ray of Light which darts
a
brilliancy too
transcendent to be contemplated
by
mortal eye."
It
is
a
point at which thought pauses, imagination grows giddy
and feeling takes their place.
A
later writer, M. Basnage, stated this differently: "Man
may lawfully direct his thoughts from one end of heaven to the
other; but he cannot approach that inaccessible light, that primi
tive existence contained in the letter yod."
The writer states only
a
half truth. Man, that
is,
the ordinary,
carnal, profane man,
it
is
true,
is
incapable of approaching this
inaccessible or Ineffable Light. The man who has attained to
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 187
Philosophic Initiation has, during the process of his growth, de
velopment or initiation, found a way to bring this inner LIGHT
into manifestation and as a result, is brought face to face with it.
The chief varieties of the sacred name symbolized by the
letter "yod," i.e., the creator, or creative God Jehovah, among
various nations, were Jah or Yac; Bel or Baal, and On or Om.
The first of these has many fluctuations: Jupiter, Jove, Evohe;
all were corruptions of Jah or Jehovah, lao or Jao was said by
the oracle of Apollo to be the first and greatest of deities. The
compounds of the second name, Bel are many. The third varia
tion was On. Under this name the Deity was first worshipped
by the Egyptians and symbolized eternity, the fountain of Light
and life. The sun was adored as his representative or messenger
under the name of Osiris.
Cannes, or English John, was first a god of the Chaldeans,
and the Drag-ow of the Phillistines, both derivations of the same-
name. The On of the Egyptians became the Jehovah of the
Hebrews and Genesis, and was introduced to the Greeks by
Plato, who acknowledged his eternity and incomprehensibility
—to the profance —in these words: "Tell me of the god On,
who
is,
and never knew beginning," later phrased but not ac
tually changed: "Who was,
is,
and ever shall be."
This same name was used
by
the early Christian Fathers as
applicable to the true God, and St. John in the Apocalypse, says:
"On, kai O'en kai o'erchomenos," —Chap.
1;
verse
4.
This was
later rendered: "Him, which
is,
and which was, and which
is
to
come," the word On
is
here translated "Him."
The same On, with but
a
slight change, was one of the
names of the supreme deity of India; and devotional (in
a
spirit
ual sense) meditation to
it
was considered capable of bringing
about the highest degree of perfection.
In the ordinances of Manu, we are taught how this sacred
name came into existence. Brahma milked out, as
it
were, from
the three Vedas, the "A," the letter "U," and the letter "M,"
188 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
which form by their coalition, the triliteral monosyllable, to
gether with the three mysterious words: Bhur, bhuvah, swer;
that
is,
earth, sky, heaven.
These three letters, which were pronounced On or Aum, re
fer to the deity in his triple capacity of creator, preserver and
destroyer —Siva in trinity. Notwithstanding the fact that the
ancients —still followed today —taught the oneness of Deity,
they nevertheless taught
a
trinity,
a
three-fold or three-plane
action of God.
The ancients were told that
it
was necessary to combat, or
overcome, the subtle, but ever-present enemies —devils or evil
beings —and guard wandering thoughts against the intrusion
of carnal desires. They believed that
by
overcoming undesirable
thoughts they could obtain internal inspiration, which their
tradition taught them was once the privilege of all humanity.
This would enable God to fill the interior man, and preserve the
breath from pollution
by
admixture with the outer air.
The awinitiated devotee was required to suspend his respira
tion for the moment and inwardly repeat
a
certain number of
times the sacred syllable AUM, an ineffable word which really
could not be pronounced, but which was said to contain the
name and attributes of Deity. By this method of mental intro
version they were to become completely absorbed in the
divinity.
Toward the middle ages there arose
a
new and peaceful sect
known as Hesychasts. They advocated completely abstracting
the senses from all external objects and concentrating their
spiritual powers on certain regions of the body. These people
took up their abode in the region of Mount Athos, where, under
the direction of an Abbot, and in obedience to the laws based
upon the most rigid discipline of monasticism, they devoted
themselves to acts of charity, the care of the sick, and the com
plete abstraction of all the senses from mundane things. Here
is
their negative and harmful method for effecting this mental
absorption, described
by
one of their members:
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 189
"Sitting alone in a corner, observe what I tell you. Lock your
door, and raise your mind from every worldly thing. Sink your
beard upon your breast and fix your eyes upon the center of your
body. Contract the air passages, that breathing may be impeded.
Strive mentally to find the position of the heart, where all the
mind's powers reside. At first you will discover only darkness
and unyielding density, but if you will persevere night and day,
you will miraculously enjoy unspeakable happiness, for the
Soul then perceives that which it never saw before; the radiance
in which God resides; a great light dwelling between the heart
and Soul."
This sect did not long survive. The impeding of the breath
robbed the system of oxygen; the red corpuscles of the blood
could not be oxidized; the posture quickly helped to weaken the
lungs, and the light they saw was not that of life, but of death.
The philosophic thinkers of all nations had formed an idea of
the triplicity of the supreme unity; but the Initiated alone under
stood the mystery. Plato speaks of the three forms of divinity.
He called them Agathos, Logos and Psyche; that is,
Agathos the
sovereign good, which
is
the principle of Deity; or rather, the
intelligence which drew the plan of the world. The Logos, or
word; the energy which executed
it,
and Psyche, another name
for Isis, the feminine God-principle of Soul, which gave
a
finish
and beauty to all creation.
This
is
in harmony with the ceremonial, or Masonic Trinity:
Wisdom, Strength and Beauty. This trinity of Plato was the
prototype of the Biblical trinity: God, the Father or sovereign
good; Christ os or Christ, the Logos, or Word, as translated in
the first chapter of John and so used in Masonry; the word
by
which God, the creating Father, made all things, and Psyche, the
holy breath or spirit (and "man breathed in the spirit and be
came
a
living soul."—Gen. 2:7,) i.e., Psyche, the Soul, mis
translated "Ghost."
This Psyche or Soul, in its highest aspect, may be translated as
Fire or Light; the, or an, Ineffable Light;
a
light in which, or
190 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
through which, God always appeared to man; but this Psyche or
Soul is not such a Light until after it has been brought into
Consciousness.
Ancient legends, always based on truth or facts, tell of one
Thule, a king of Egypt, who gave the name of Thule to the
isle now called Iceland; his empire reaching thither, and who,
being puffed up with pride, went before the oracle Serapis, and
spoke thus: "Thou art the God of fire, who governeth the
course of the heavens, tell me the truth: was there ever, or will
there ever again be, one so mighty as myself?"
The oracle answered him thus: "First God, then the word
and spirit, all united in one, whose power can never end. Go
hence immediately, O Mortal! whose life is always uncertain."
And mighty Thule, going hence, had his throat cut.
The Greek inscription on the great obelisk in Rome was to
this effect: "The mighty God begotten of God, and the all-
resplendant Apollo, the spirit."
Greece gave new names to old ideas and equally to old
deities. Greece received, or borrowed, her theological and sym
bolical ideas from Egypt, as did Moses for the Jews. The idea
of a trinity of gods, or of a trinity in one god, was originally
based on things and actions that could be recognized by all and
not in need of faith: on the threefold action of the sun, during
the warm season of the year.
The sun thus considered was the three-eyed Jupiter; "eye" and
"sun" being expressed by the same word in most of the ancient
languages. This also is the origin and the meaning of the
symbolism of the trinitary systems of Pythagoras and Pluto,
and too often disfigured or divested of its inner meaning.
In the ancient Britain and other esoteric mysteries, the three
pillars: Wisdom, Strength and Beauty, as in the modern
Masonic mysteries, represent the symbolical triad of Deity.
In Britain the adytum, or lodge, was supposed to convey a
REgenerating purity to the aspirant or candidate; who, having
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 191
endured the ceremony of initiation in all its accustomed formali
ties, experienced a, or the, NEW BIRTH.
This representation, exoteric in its nature, was based on the
esoteric initiation of the Greater Mysteries in which the aspir
ant, or Neophyte, was compelled to continue his efforts until
he had truly been reborn or Regenerated. While he was re
ceiving instructions in abstract philosophy, the Lesser mysteries,
he had to live an exalted mode of life, pass through a long
period of training and development and bring the inner hidden
light, the Psyche, into manifestation. All these things in com
bination brought about his REgeneration; into a consciousness
of the Soul's reality. He became, in Biblical phraseology "one
of the sons of men who had become as one of the Sons of God."
There were corresponding pillars in the early Hindoo mythol
ogy, also known as Wisdom, Strength and Beauty, placed in
the east, south and west. Jointly, they referred to the Creator,
who was said to have planned the great work by His infinite
wisdom; executed it by His strength, and to have adorned it
with all its beauty and unselfishness for the welfare of man.
These symbolic figures were not passed by in their Lesser
mysteries. There we find them represented by the three presid
ing Brahmins or Hierophants in the solemn ceremonies of their
esoteric initiation.
The chief Brahmin sat in the East ("As the sun rises in the
East"), highly exalted on a brilliant throne, clad in a flowing
robe of azure; thickly covered with sparkling golden stars; bear
ing in his hand a magical wand; thus symbolizing Brahma, the
creator of the world, who, sitting on his throne, was surrounded
by stars of every brilliancy —glorifying Him and His creative
and sustaining power.
His associates, clad in robes of almost equal magnificence, oc
cupied corresponding positions of distinction. The representa
tive of Vishu, the setting sun, was placed on an elevaded throne
in the west; while he who impersonated Siva, the meridian sun,
sat upon a splendid throne in the south.
192 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The Persians, who termed their emblematical Mithraic cave
or lodge, the Empyrian, believed it to be supported by three
great intelligences; Ormazd, Mithra and Mithras. These were
the gods of eternity, fecundity and authority. All were, in fact,
copied from the Egyptian Deity, symbolizing the attributes of
Wisdom, Power and Goodness; which became the sovereign
good, intellect and energy of the Platonists, but considered the
respective properties of the Divine triad.
The oracle in Damascus asserted that "throughout the world
a triad (trinity) shines (holds ) forth, which resolves itself into
a monad."
The uniform symbol of this threefold deity was an equilateral
triangle, the precise form occupied by our pillars of wisdom,
strength and beauty and the symbol of the perfected Soul. In
the mysteries of India, the personalities of Brahma, Vishu and
Siva were considered as a triune God, called tri-murti or tri
form; Brahma was the creator; Vishu, the preserver, and Siva,
the judge or destroyer.
The modern doctrine or concept of all Trinitarians was a
basic doctrine, in fact a principle, in both the ancient Lesser and
Greater mysteries and, as understood and taught by the ancients,
far more philosophical, reasonable and certainly more Arcane
than the modern doctrine of "three distinct persons in one; one
of them born unnumbered ages after the others; or the even
more untenable idea that God had a Son as old as Himself, and
born of woman eons later.
The earlier parts of the Bible, like all ancient writings, are
shrouded in legends and enveloped in the mystery that the
ancient writers used to envelope their teachings.
The history of creation, as recorded in the first and second
chapter of Genesis, is really a contradictory record of the tradi
tions current in the time of Moses, who was educated in the
history, dogmas and Mysteries of Egypt as well as in the lore
of the Jews.
Moses assumed a written form composed of a combination
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 193
of symbolism, legends, traditions. Above all, his writings were
largely based on WHAT THE LEADERS OF THE HEBREWS
WANTED THEIR PEOPLE TO BELIEVE.
In Genesis there are two different accounts of creation,
though agreeing, in the main, except as to the creators. This
undoubtedly resulted from a mixture of the teachings of the
Initiates v/ho had but one God, and of the people who had
many gods. This included both the Egyptians and the Jews,
who as yet had no formal theology, but depended on legends
and traditions, all many times repeated and changed more or
less with each repetition.
The first account ends with the third verse of the second
chapter of Genesis. This was written before God appeared in
the form of the fire in the "bush." God made Himself known
to Moses by his name Jehovah (Exodus 6:3). This name is
first used there. Wherever God is previously named in the first
account of creation he is called Elohim, the creating god. Both
are polytheistic and recognize the gods as active helpers in
creation, especially man: ". . . Let us create man in our image."
—Gen, 2:26.
The root of the word God so well known to Christians and
believed by them to be His only true name, is "El," as noted in
the New Testament, which is a direct departure from all
methods pursued in the Old Testament. In proceeding from the
Old to the New Testament, we note a change from God and
the Gods to historical characters, with a reapplication of names.
We find the same Eloi, (God), actually a Hebrew name for
the sun, ending with im, to give the plural significance. The
passage in question should have been translated to read, and in
the original DID read: "In the beginning the gods created the
heaven and the earth." —Gen. 1:1.
What did the word Elohim really mean? What did those
who first made use of the word understand by it? IT WAS A
GENERAL, ALL-COMPREHENSIVE NAME FOR THE GODS.
194 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The first chapter of Genesis affirms, without qualification,
that the gods created the heavens and the earth.
The second chapter is a later Hebrew version and states that
Jehovah (the creating God) and the gods created the heavens
and the earth. Jehovah was a proper name for the Hebrew
God, but the word itself was of Egyptian origin. We must never
forget that there were other than Hebrew versions of the Bible.
In these versions the creator or creators, were different. In an
old Samaritan version it is taught that "In the beginning the
goat (the goat was always considered as possessing the greatest
virility and most powerful creative ability of any known crea
ture) renovated the heavens and the earth." To the uninitiated
this would appear as a typographical error, but those who under
stand ancient theology know there is no mistake in the
rendition.
The Samaritans always contended that nothing could come
out of nothing, and the matter once existing would change, but
could never be destroyed, and, comprehending nothing of crea
tion— (who does)
—were satisfied with believing and stating
that the earth and the heavens were renovated or changed.
Prior to the time of Moses, the Bull of April was the accepted
leader of the heavenly host who ushered in spring, because the
vernal equinox was in that constellation. Spring brought about
a renewal of life or new creation. The bull was considered by
them as the most virile of all animals; hence most representative
of generation, creation and /or recreation or renovation. The
period of creation, as also the beginning of the year, was simul
taneous with the vernal equinox.
Whether we accept the Hebrew version that the world then
—at the writing of Genesis —was only 6,000 years old, or that
of the Samaritan in the constellation of the goat, which would
make it 21,000 years old, we are unable to reconcile either
with the now known fact that mother earth dates back into the
millions of years.
We must conclude that the ancient conception was far more
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 195
correct when they concluded that in time unknown, darkness
brooded over chaos before God said: "Let there be light," and
contented themselves with describing briefly, or giving their
version of the wintry state of nature, of darkness and death,
anterior to the time when the Elohim, or gods, of the vernal
sign proclaimed "let there be light."
After order was brought out of chaos, thereby bringing har
mony out of confusion in preparation for the earth to produce
food so that man (and animals) might live, Elohim then said:
"let us make man in our image," because, and naturally, to them
their own image was the highest form of intelligence they could
conceive. They believed that this creation, IN THEIR OWN
IMAGE, would be obedient to their own laws, live in harmony
with them, avoid confusion and a return to chaos.
The ancients believed that there was a trinity of powers,
forces or intelligences in each constellation or sign, making
thirty-six of these powers or gods in the zodiac, to whom the
sun gave his power successively during the month that he
sojourned in the sign.
In the account of creation, the writers—there were many who
contributed to the "history of the world's beginning" —referred
to the Elohim of the vernal signer and a convocation of the
twenty-one having power over the seven warm months. In
Judges, 11:24, Jephtha is made to say to the king of Ammon:
"Wilt thou not possess that which Chemosh, thy Aleim, giveth
thee to possess? So whomsoever Yaveh, Iehovah, or Jehovah,
our Aleim, shall drive out from before us, them will we
possess."
In the modern mistranslation this reads, though with an
identical meaning: "Wilt thou not possess that which Chemosh,
thy god, giveth thee to possess? So whomsoever the Lord our
God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess?"
In Joshua 10:42, it is written: "And all these kings and their
land did Joshua take at one time, because the Lord God
(Jehovah, Aleim) of Israel, fought for Israel."
196 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
And again in Judges 1:19, it is written: "And the Lord
(Jehovah) was with Judah; and he drove out the inhabitants
of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the
valley, because they had chariots of iron."
This last statement is the most positive evidence that the
early Hebrews were fully aware of the fact that Jehovah was
only the god of their people, possessing none of the power of
the Great God Himself and was unable to overcome a people
possessed of stronger weapons than the Hebrews had.
With this key we are able to understand that it was not the
world of all men that was created by God, or the gods, some
6,000, more or less, years ago, but of the Hebrews as a
beginning of a nation, and that the god of the Hebrews —of
their people or nation—was NOT the GREAT GOD, but Jehovah,
the god of their people; who, in the instances just cited, was
a most biased god, fighting for, and giving to, the Hebrews, the
possessions of other peoples; moreover, it also shows that the
Hebrews were really an actually pagan people, believing there
were gods for the different people; their special god being
Jehovah, who, in many instances, when favorable to them, was
a destroying god.
THE BEGINNING OF MAN ON EARTH AS
A CONSCIOUS BEING
The Fall of man, like the creation of the
world, a three-fold mystery
JT that period in the long distant past when the Elohim
of each month (or period) had performed their ap
propriate work, the darkness of the void and the cold
of winter was dispelled by the warmth following. Then the
earth became clothed with vegetation; the ocean and rivers
teemed with life; birds of the air voiced their songs in the trees
and meadows; and animal life began to abound. Yet, with all
this, there was a greater something missing.
That something was the replica of themselves, the gods; who
should be truly, not gods, but lords and masters of creation.
With this end in view, the Elohim summoned their council of
the gods which resulted in the fiat; "Let us make man [a carnal
creature] in our own image [who shall be on earth as we are
in the heavens] ; [and] in the image of the Elohim, created He
[they] them."— Gen. 1:26, 27.
The creative power or ability—the creation of an entirely
new being—could be accomplished only by the gods. This,
like the creation of the world and all its creatures, can be de
scribed only as a miracle; though miracles are only natural
processes WHICH WE DO NOT UNDERSTAND.
This first man was named Adam; NOT so NAMED BY GOD
OR THE GODS, but by men who first wrote of the creation. The
name Ad-am, is a compound of the Greek Ad-on-es—having
the spiritual meaning: light; and of Am-mon, the Father Lord
—that is: "son of the creator."
The word Eve
is,
as frequently stated, synonymous with Isis;
198 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
mother-god; "she who conceives and produces;" of Ceres, the
Greek goddess, and her month was August.
The entire story of Eve's temptation, the Fall of Adam, which
included Eve, and the flaming cherubim who guarded the way
to the Tree of Life, is found written symbolically in the book
of heaven, the stars, and is in itself a symbolization of the Soul's
desire, fall (descent) from heaven, and into the temptations of
the flesh.
Astrally, if we take a celestial globe, bring the crest of Cancer
to the upper meridian, we will find the horizon at the two
equinoxes in Aries and Libra respectively; showing, by includ
ing Aries and Libra, an arc of 210 degrees, or seven-twelfth's of
a circle, with Aries and Libra, as two pillars (these in time be
came the two pillars of Masonry, as they are the two pillars,
uprights, or parents of the human race), on which rests the
Royal Arch of the "kingdom of heaven," and constitutes the
dominion of summer; the season of production, the "giver of
(the substance) life."
At the coming together of the two seasons, when the watery
or baptismal months are on the decrease, the months of salva
tion (months of blessings) on the increase, and approaching
summer promises a reward for industry; we have the coven
ant of works, when the reward is reckoned on debt.
The promise was, and CONTINUES TO BE IN OBEDIENCE TO
DIVINE LAW, that if we plow and sow, in due time we shall reap,
if we faint not by the way. This heavenly promise, STILL WRIT
TEN IN THE SKY, was not missed by the Nazarene who made it
one of his greatest precepts and most potent promises. Follow
ing this, at the autumnal equinox, there is joy at the harvest
home and the vintage feast. It is the covenant of grace and
favor.
Commencing with Aries and counting to the sixth month, is
the figure of a female —the producer —which astronomers call
Virgo, a virgin in the sixth month, BECAUSE SHE CONCEIVED
TO PRODUCE WITHOUT THE ASSISTANCE OF MAN.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 199
In the Adamic projection of the spheres she is known as
Cavah; in the Chaldaic, Eve; in the Egyptic, Isis; in the Greek,
Ceres; in the Latin, Maris; that is: Mary. All of these names
signify the MOTHER OF LIFE.
A little to the north of the virgin in conjugal proximity, is
the constellation Bootes, the "Joseph" or Joseppe of the Greek
zodiac. Were this conjunction, or conjugal connection to fail,
there would be no summer; no heat; no food; and death, in
stead of salvation, would be man's and the world's portion.
In Phoenician, it is Ad-ham, whence the word Adam; hence
here in the Paradise of heaven we find Adam and Eve in actual
existence; the word "paradise" being a compound of the two
words meaning "among the stars."
Immediately south and lying along the zodiac, is the con
stellation of the serpent, extending from Cancer to Libra, the
length of the four constellations. In the garden of Eden, we find
the man Adam, the woman Eve, and the great Serpent. The
woman holds in her left hand a spike of corn (the bread of
life), in which is the brilliant star Spica Virginia; her right
hand is extended toward Adam, Bootes or Joseph, and in it
she holds a sprig (a sign of new life).
In the old planispheres, the figure itself was varied. Only in
the Hebrew account does she offer the fruit "apple" to Adam.
In this account the serpent is said to seduce Eve. Seduce is de
rived, or is synonymous with, "seducer," meaning, to lead on;
to go before; "one who opens the way." Hence not a betrayer,
but one who offers the self so that others may live or be saved;
to live, or being saved, meaning the same thing.
As the constellation of Bootes, Virgo and Hydra descend to
the western horizon, the constellation Perseus, said to be clad in
armour with a helmet on his head, wearing a breast-plate, and
wings on his feet, rises on the eastern horizon. In his right hand
he holds a flaming sword, in form like a Persian's cimeter,
colored red, to designate the red stars within its outlines; while
in his left he holds the writhing serpent. Perseus represents the
200 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
cherubim with a flaming sword, which turns every way to the
tree of life.
Although we have been taught to believe that the serpent
deceived our first parents, the facts as outlined in heaven do not
sustain this view and what is written contradicts itself. It is
written that the Lord warned them that they should die the very
day they tasted the forbidden fruit; nevertheless, having dis
obeyed, they were not made to pay the penalty, but lived to prove
the serpent's promise that they should become as the gods,
knowing good and evil. In Genesis 3:22 the Lord is made to
have said: "Behold the man is become as one of us, to know
good and evil." Here again we have the plural of God.
The error is due to gross misinterpretation; in an attempt to
harmonize the teachings of the ancient Initiates, that which is
written in the heavens (the zodiac), and the Hebrew concep
tions. Moses, having been educated and fully trained in the
Egyptian school, understood the entire mystery and made use
of the double meaning of the serpent.
When woman tempts man to indulge in the creative effort for
pleasure alone, it is degrading to the spiritual self, the Soul.
This is the SERPENT UPON THE GROUND CREEPING ON ITS
BELLY IN THE DUST AND ENDS IN SPIRITUAL DEATH. When
the serpent is RAISED UP and the forces used for creative and
spiritual purposes, it brings about greater life and IMMORTALI
ZATION. The first phase is for either generation or DEgenera-
tion; the second for REgeneration and /or Spiritualization.
A thorough knowledge of what the Egyptians really taught
regarding the Greek concepts and ancient Hebrew will quickly
reveal the mistranslations and misinterpretations of the original
non-Hebrew teachings. This was in part due to the Jews' captiv
ity in Egypt and their many migrations, during all of which
they absorbed and built into their religious system a conglomera
tion of the many teachings and habits which they contacted.
During the years of the reign of the king Josiah, what is
known as the Hebrew Bible, did not exist. A number of years
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 201
thereafter- a "book of law" was found. Where? By whom?
What was the actual nature of the book? No one knew; nor
does any one know now.
Approximately during that time, the Jews had filled Jeru
salem —NOT with temples to Jehovah or Elohim, but to Baal.
The temple of Jehovah was neglected as was His worship by
them after they left Egypt. The book of the law was lost, and
only the good king Josiah "did what was right in the sight of
the Lord."
The Old Testament
is,
in the main,
a
compilation of the his
tory of the Hebrew people and an attempt not only to justify
the many evils of
a
continually migrating people, but reconcil
ing the contradictory religious teachings of the many people
among whom they were domiciled for
a
longer or shorter period
of time.
In all too many instances they lived
a
defensive life, hence
their god became
a
destructive god; destroying their enemies
and all they possessed and giving
it
to the Hebrews.
A
people living in subjection naturally think of any means
to gain their freedom. This constant planning breeds ill-feelings,
hatreds and thoughts of how to destroy. Even
if
such
a
people
had the most perfect religion devisable
by
the combined efforts
of God and man, THE DEVOTIONAL AND SPIRITUAL FEELING
COULD NOT SURVIVE LONG, OR WOULD BE WEAK AT BEST,
with the thought of self-defense continually uppermost. As
time passed, the Hebrew God became
a
god of vengence;
a
god of hate;
a
god of bloody sacrifices;
a
god that would destroy
all but the Hebrew people. To justify themselves, as
is
the in
stinctive habit of all people, their leaders promulgated the idea
that they were God's chosen, or favorite people and were justi
fied, even commanded, to destroy all but their own people. In
time they actually believed this to be true, wrote
it
into their
religion and religious laws, and as far as possible, justified their
every act with these concepts.
How far this was justified under the circumstances, perhaps
202 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
none but God can know; but this we do know; TO THE RACE
AS A WHOLE, it has done infinitely more harm than good.
This might appear to imply that men generally are good,
kind, learned, pious, devotional and spiritually inclined and such
assumption would be immediately refuted by political activities
steeped in hades; by gangsterism inconceivable to the normal
human mind, and the inhumanities of two world wars. We are
merely trying to see clearly and evaluate things as they are, and
not as they should be, or as we would like them to be.
To digress, it was Tolstoi who wrote in substance: "The
evils from which men of our time [this is applicable to all
times] are suffering, result from the fact that the majority live
without that which alone affords guidance to human activity —
without religion —not that religion which consists in belief of a
dogma; in the fulfillment of rites and ceremonies affording
pleasant diversion, consolation as a delusive dependence, BUT
THAT RELIGION WHICH ESTABLISHES MAN TO ALL THINGS;
TO GOD, and therefore gives a higher direction to every human
activity."
If man lacks religion, the human being is on a plane with
the animals, and falls infinitely lower. This evil, this lack of a
spiritual incentive; this lack of a devotional feeling within him
self, is leading men to inevitable destruction.
This fact has manifested itself with special force in those who
govern or direct. Many of these have lost all rational —which is
related to spiritual —guidance in life. They directed all efforts
toward gaining position and power; to discoveries and improve
ments principally in the sphere of technical knowledge to in
vent new destructive agents.
There is also the tendency toward inefficient or less honest
labor, for which, at the same time, greater compensation is de
manded. Lastly, there is real effort to secure greater profits for
the favored few at the expense of the greater majority. Men
have lost their sense of direction and unless they stop short and
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 203
"bethink themselves," they may readily succeed in destroying
both themselves and all but the lowest types of the human
family.
There is a widespread and wholly erroneous impression
among men that religion may be a natural, a permanent element
in human nature. Others tell us, especially those classed as in
tellectuals, that it is a phase of feeling, of life, peculiar to the
early comparatively uncultivated, and perhaps uncivilized
stages of man's career; if so, this awcivilized stage has helped
man advance. They claim that religion is something which
man, as he progresses in civilization, will leave behind, that he
will progressively outgrow
it,
and at last lose
it
entirely (of this
kind of "progressive outgrowing" we have an excellent example
in Russia and those who follow her "progressive outgrowing of
religion"). We should be able to look at this condition
dispassionately.
If
religion
is
only superstition (and not feeling giving birth
to man's better and,
finer nature)
,
why then,
it
ought to be out
grown.
If,
on the other hand, religion (or devotion and rever
ence which we know as real religion)
is
divine, that
is,
spirit
ual in origin,
if
it
is
essential to the highest and noblest in human
life; criticism and questioning will verify this fact.
Whenever we find any universal or permanent characteristic
quality in human nature, or any other nature for that matter,
we may feel perfectly certain that there
is
something in the uni
verse that
is
real, that corresponds to
it,
that called
it
out, that
gave birth to it.
We find then that man (who has developed up to
a
certain
stage or degree toward real manhood and away from the purely
animal and base beastly instinct) universally
is
a
religious
being; believing that he
is
confronted with an invisible universe
which
is
spiritual in its nature. Any theory we may choose to
hold of the universe
is
a
theory which has made the best of us
what we are; and there must be —unless the universe itself
is
a
lie—
a
reality corresponding to that which
is
universal, perman
204 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ent and real in ourselves, because this universe has called these
things into being; has made them what they are.
The religion in man, contemplated from the spiritual stand
point, becomes the highest and most ennobling factor in man's
education. It is the greatest incentive toward real civilization;
not the mere veneer of
it;
which may be thrown off as one does
a
cloak. Effete creeds and rampant political selfishness are the
real obstacles to human progress, and, unfortunately, go hand
in hand. Devotion and reverence in the heart of man, can make
him both
a
MAN and a god; greed, ambition and politics, make
of him
a
veritable devil.
The religious spirit everywhere
is
identical, eternal and
di
vine, permeating the human heart whenever
it
throbs, feels and
is
conscious. Deep at the foundation of all that
is
religious or
spiritual —they are one and the same thing—flows the stream
of the one eternal cause; the one underlying revelation to those
who really seek.
Let the Parsee wear his taavids, the Christian his cross, the
Moslem his crescent, but in doing so, forever bear in mind
that these are emblems of one eternal essence or spirit. The
basis of godliness
is
not in the creed or the symbols, but in
obedience to the command: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as
thyself," and not permit thyself to condemn or persecute him
because he does not see eye to eye with you, or recognize God
by
the same name. This one Law, above all others, was em
phasized
by
all saviours and great teachers, whether this was
Manu, Zoroaster, Abraham, Moses, Socrates, the Nazarene or
Paul.
Epictetus had the right idea when he said: "When
I
speak
to thee about God, do not think that
I
speak to thee about
some object made of gold or silver. The God of whom
I
speak to thee, thou must jeel in thy Soul. Thou bearest
him in thyself, and
by
thy impure thoughts and loathe-
some acts, thou defilest His image in thy Soul.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 205
"In the presence of a golden idol, which thou regardest
as God, thou refrainest from doing aught that is unseem-
ingly, but in the presence of that God who in thee thyself
sees and hears all, thou must blush when thou addictest
thyself to thy disgusting thoughts and actions.
"If only we remember that God in us is the witness of
all we THINK and DO, we would cease to sin, and God
would incessantly abide in us."
The author of Priests to God unquestionably had this in
mind when he penned his poem:
Priests to God! In distant ages
Did we tend the altar fire,
Where the pyramids of sages
Rose to say —"Lo! we aspire" —?
Were our hearts in consecration
On those altars purified,
That in future incarnation
Ne'er the Faith should be denied?
Priests of God! The vaulted arches
Of the heaven's lofty dome
Form the temple-close, where marches
Man to his eternal home.
Let us bear our tapers, lighted
At the altars of the East;
Keep the Faith that once we plighted
Clad in spotless robe of priest.
Brothers, let us humbly labor
As God's earthly temple throws
Light divine on friend and neighbor,
Till each looks aloft and knows;—
Knows the sanctity of living,
Knows the Holy Place within,
Knows the incense born of giving
Life itself, to save from sin.
206 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Priests and Brothers, death may sever
Ties that bind us to this sod,
But the Temple stands forever,
And we serve, as Priests of God.
—Ariel
The Bible, or Scriptural text, of which we speak so much
and know so VERY LITTLE, must be separated into three sec
tions to be understood. The old Testament itself should be
divided into two sections; the one which deals mostly with the
history of the Jews, and into which is written history, NOT AS
IT WAS, but as the writers would have liked it to be; symbolism,
allegory, legends, riddles and astronomical activity in the
heavens.
The other parts, such as, for instance, the Songs of Solomon,
Psalms, Esdra and other books, symbolical and mystical; deal
ing with human emotions and spiritual outlook. The symbolical
and astronomical, properly understood, will rob many of the
stories of these old books of their horrors, blood-thirstiness and
degradations. A spiritual interpretation of the other books will
reveal the highest ideals of the Soul.
The concept of the New Testament is as different from the
Old as is day from night. In this book we deal with the history
of men and what they taught. In time, the Bible will be sepa
rated into three parts: The historical as a book for the Jews;
the symbolical and mystical for those who seek the spirit of the
mysteries of the Soul, and the New Testament for the Christian.
Many of the writings of the Old Testament are filled with
statements and supposed records of events which require the
utmost credulity if they are to be believed as written, or as
orthodoxy interprets them; but astronomically interpreted, they
make sense.
Among these are Jonah's sea voyage; the sudden halting of
the sun and moon in their normal course in obedience to
Joshua's command; Elijah's flight to heaven in a chariot of fire
(this has the deepest mystical meaning) ; Baalim's ass suddenly
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 207
endowed with human speech; eating the flesh and drinking the
blood of the Son of Man; bees building their cells and making
honey in the putrifying carcass of a dead lion, and many others,
all of which had a very real basis in fact, but not in the factural
sense as written.
Man should come into the realization that all that is mani
fest to our senses is the outward "body" of God, and that all
not so manifested is the spirit of God.
As a result of this realization, man can be filled with love,
devotion and reverence for the mightiness of creation. This
will bring about a glimpse of the truth and the real mystery
of that creation. As certainly as mankind is the body of God:
"and the gods created man in their own image;" so truly must
the animal kingdom be the animal body of God, and the plant
kingdom the plant body of God; for, WERE NOT ALL THINGS
CREATED BY GOD, OR THE GODS? If not, then by whom were
these things created?
When we eat of the "bread"—this bread actually meaning
all food that really nourishes the body —and do this with
spiritual INTENT, we can come to realize that we, in partaking
of the earth's product, are actually breaking and absorbing into
our body the substance of God. We should eat with love and
reverence, for the creating Spirit, who thus brings us the life
forces needed for the support of body, mind and spirit, the
trinity which in turn, also gives life to the Soul.
We should eat with joy and thankfulness, NOT ONLY AT
THE TIME OF PARTAKING OF THE SACRAMENTS, but at all
other times, being conscious of, and feeling, that this food which
keeps us alive, is truly the "body of the Lord of Life," and is
given to us freely. In doing this, every meal, even though it be
but a crust of bread, will be a sacrament and in it we receive
the Holy Eucharist.
The war in heaven has been a most enticing subject for both
theologians and atheists throughout the ages. Both have been
prating about this "horrid" rebellion in heaven, without the
208 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
slightest consciousness that this "war" has been continuing con
stantly above their heads, and but for this "war," the mechanism
of the world would cease and chaos follow.
In the astronomical (astral) projection of the spheres, the
ancient (and present) "kingdom of heaven," and in ancient
picture writing, we can see the conflict raging in all its fury,
victory and defeat alternating (as does the pendulum of the
clock swing from right to left and back again) under the con
tending banners.
We observe the myrmidons of the pit, headed by their power
ful leader, Baalzebub, emerging from their imprisonment dur
ing the reign of summer; meeting the Sun of Righteousness at
the commencement of Winter in Scorpio, dragging him down
for a brief period into the lower region. He emerges
triumphantly at the vernal equinox, at which time he puts his
enemies to flight; consigning them again to the bottomless pit,
and reigns with undisputed sway until the autumnal equinox
renews the conflict.
The ancients, like the later Romanists, canonized, that is
deified, all their great leaders, whether warriors or civilians. If a
powerful genius arose, either to gladden or curse the world, the
unsophisticated masses were ready to cry out: "The gods have
come down to us in the shape of men."
Often during their lifetime, as in the instance of a Hitler,
Mussolini or Stalin, mass murderers who brought but loss,
sorrow and grief to millions, were worshipped as gods, and if
they outlived their enemies, were deified, not in the same man
ner as formerly, but in the memory, and even in the hearts of
their admirers.
It cannot be too often repeated that until almost recent times,
the sun was symbolized as God in all symbolic writings. The
operations and effects of the sun upon the atmosphere and the
earth were the labors and conflicts, victories and defeat of God.
Fortunately, for the body and Soul of mankind, He was
always victorious in the end.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 209
Whenever the life of any hero, seer, prophet or great teacher
was placed in writing, such a life was made to conform in all
important details with the course and action of the sun, unless,
as must be the case, the hero of the tale was made to corre
spond with one of the planets, as did Abraham with Saturn; Isis
with the moon, or some one of the stars, or cluster of stars
within the outline of one of the constellations.
An illustration —shocking to the orthodox—is Mary, the
mother of the Nazarene, who was canonized by the head of the
church. Her conception, her nativity, the annunciation, the
assumption and all of her life's activities corresponded to the
course of the constellation Virgo in Virgo's various relations to
the Sun.
The identical explanation offers us the true interpretation
of the miracles in the lives of Baalim, Jonah, Sampson, Elijah
and others. Many of the activities and teachings of the Naza
rene during his short and checkered life, corresponded with the
labors of the sun. We must always remember that in the outer
form is resident an inner life, of which all but the few "bio
graphers," and even most of the priests throughout the ages,
were wholly unconscious.
The triune character ascribed to God follows this manner of
historical writing. God (the sun) in his ascension toward the
summer solstice, and from thence, like Elijah, to heaven, lets
his mantle fall upon the descending sun; or Alemimm, the rising
Gods, give their orders to Jonah (I-on-es) to go away down
south and preach repentance to the Ninevites.
This hyperbolical method of writing was lost on the matter-
of-fact, or prosaic people in all times just as it is to the mass
of our present generation, since they find it much easier to
accept and subscribe to a creed. The masses today, as always in
the past, reject that which is not easily comprehended.
They prefer the few to think for them, and to dictate to
them, telling them what to do. They are either wholly ignorant,
or indifferent to the fact that the ancient mode of teaching was
210 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
by symbolism or parable, a method that was followed by the
Nazarene as it was by other teachers before him.
Aesop's Fables, Ovid's Metamorphoses, the Arabian Night
Entertainments, the various histories of the Greeks, the ancient
gods, and various amours —and there were many —the Gods
of heathenism: all were identical in character, as were the
amours of the patriarchs, of David and Solomon.
All these can be explained by the universal method of de
scribing the conjunction of the sun, moon and starry hosts, under
the figure of individual gods, kings, patriarchs, leading men of
the realms and even plebeians.
The loves of kings, patriarchs and intellectuals is little differ
ent from that of lesser men, except that perhaps there is more
feeling in the hearts of the lesser than in the greater.
The obvious feature of this method of teaching by parable, is
in stating self-evident falsehoods that would not be believed if
given thought, but which nevertheless, superficially hide a great
truth, or a profound concept. No one but children would be
lieve that the beasts of the field held councils as described by
Aesop; or that the trees of the forest asked the vine to come
and be their king, as mentioned in Scripture; yet in all of these
is contained a truth, or the spirit of truth. It is for man to re
move the husk and reveal the truth to himself.
Man began to talk in monosyllables as he began to write
with hieroglyphics instead of letters. The ability to discern the
meanings behind these ancient symbols will assist in revealing
the hidden meaning of Biblical allegorical and parable writing.
This method must be applied to all ancient writing, unless one
is fortunate enough to be a Philosophic Initiate or an Initiate of
the Greater Mysteries.
As so frequently stated, the most ancient name for God, or
the sun, even before he was known as Osiris in Egypt, was On;
in the Chaldiac it was Bel or Baal; in Phoenician, the same, in
Hebrew El. ALL WERE ONE AND THE SAME GOD IN A DIF
FERENT TONGUE.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 211
If they addressed God as a father, they would use the word
Am or Ab. Ad denoted Lord; es, the great (Ineffable) fire, the
enlightener; and though ages have passed, there is no greater
or deeper term for our God, the one God, nor symbol to repre
sent Him, than the Ineffable Fire.
The emblem of Deity, symbolically written, was I, or a
pillar; a column; Biblically and Masonically, "the upright
One;" to denote that He stood erect alone; without any external
support. When referring to the historical and allegorical por
tion of the Bible we observe the frequent use made of some
monosyllables, such as Ad-am, Ab-el, El-i-jah (jah, most high).
In almost all instances, these monosyllables form the base, or
root of the word, with prefixes as required.
In the "war in heaven," the good angels have names ending
in El, of Hebrew derivation; while the fallen ones have
names ending in On, the Hebrew term for sun. In the Jewish
Concept—WHOLLY CONTRARY TO THE CHRISTIAN —Egypt
was symbolic of the lower regions, while Canaan corresponded
to heaven.
The good angels were Micha-el, Gabri-el, Isra-el, and others.
The fallen angels were given the Egyptian names such as Drag
on, Abadd-on, and Ap-olly-on. According to John's "Revela
tion," Abaddon is Hebrew, and Apollyon (Apollo) Greek. The
Jews did not invent a new "devil" for themselves, but were
satisfied, with the sacred bull of Egypt as their devil; picturing
this bull (Taurus) with horns and cloven hoofs.
The Gentiles and Christians have also been satisfied to ac
cept this Hebrew substitute. Aries (the lamb) became their
representative of God; just another form of the same names
and symbols —the same idol worship—and again, Gentile and
Christian have accepted this substitute. Sometimes the Jews
changed their Egyptian "devil" for a Chaldean one, and then
called him Baal-sebub (our Belzebub or devil), or Baal-ial
(Belial) ; but contradicting themselves by accepting and honor
212 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ing Baal Molochi-sudec, or Moloch-zedec (Melchisedec), as
the first and everlasting High Priest.
The names of many of the recognized prophets were after
this manner symbolically designated; either beginning or end
ing in el, as El-i, El-i-sha, El-i-jah, Dan-i-el, Ezek-i-el, all corre
sponding to, or
a
compound of, other names of God.
The name of Joshua commences with Io, the root of Jehovah,
Jupiter, Jovem;
Jbeing both
a
Latin and modern letter and
substitute for
I.
Eve
is
the feminine for Jov, sometimes called
Heve in the Greek pantheon.
God has always been known
by
many names, and many
names represented or were symbolic of God. Jupiter, Adonis
and Apollo were Greek gods. Perhaps the highest and greatest
name for God in any language
is
that of Adoni in its variations,
because Adoni
is
the GOD OF LIGHT; and GOD ALWAYS AP
PEARED TO MAN IN SOME FORM OF LIGHT.
Baal in many variations, was the Chaldean god; Chemosh
the Ammonian. In the Bible, when correctly read, Adonis, Baal,
Chemosh, On and Eloim, are on
a
par, or equal with, that of
Jehovah.
According to the Old Testament, The Eloh-im, the plural
of El or Eloi (Eloi, the "Father" of the crucifixion), were the
creators, as stated in the first chapter of Genesis.
The first and only proper name given to the Elohim, was
the name forbidden to be pronounced, Jehovah. God
is
made
to say that he told Moses He appeared to the patriarchs as Baal-
Tsaddi and that they never knew him
by
his name Jehovah;
yet He was their God. Baal-Tsaddi in translation or interpreta
tion,
is
God Almighty.
It
has been said that
a
Jew will no more pronounce the name
of Jehovah in the hearing of
a
Gentile, than
a
Mason will give
the grand Omnific substitute of the WORD of Masonry in the
hearing of
a
profane.
THE CHERUBIM AS THE HIERARCHIES
OF HEAVEN
The mystery of the Cherubim. The Ark of the Covenant
a substitute for the Egyptian Oracleship.
HE cherubim furnish one of the greatest mysteries in
the Bible, despite the fact that nothing else so com
pletely connects later forms of worship, especially the
Jewish, with the Egyptian, as does this mysterious creature with
his four faces (natures).
Moses made an ark in imitation of the sacred chest the
Egyptians carried about with them in their solemn processions,
especially when they celebrated the great feast in commemora
tion of the ancient state of mankind.
In the chest made by Moses there was deposited the fruits
and grains upon which their ancestors fed. On each end of
the chest was placed a cherub, each facing the other with their
wings lifted up on high, covering the mercy seat. Isaiah called
them the seraphims. Ezekiel gave them four wings each. John
changed this to six.
Wings represent the flight of time —opportunities lost—
procrastination. John's six wings to each of four were symbolic
of the twenty-four hours, as were the four and twenty elders,
denoting the past, while Mahomet's black eyed Houris (hours)
were emblematical of the future or young hours.
The singular number of cherubim is cherub; the singular of
seraphim is seraph. The first is the name of an ox or calf; the
latter the name of a serpent.
Although it may seem as imbecile to fill the heavens with
oxen and serpents and make them common workers or serv
ants of the Almighty, we must remember the saying of the
214 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Psalms which no one questions: "He rode upon a cherub and
did fly."
If we have an astronomical key to this saying, its fitness
or suitableness becomes plain and applicable. These serpents
and oxen were especially adapted to be the angels and messen
gers of the Almighty. They were always swift and ready to obey
His will. Ezekiel in his first description of the cherubim, gives
them the ever-recurring four faces; the face of an ox, a lion,
an eagle and a man.
His second description is the same, except the faces of the
cherub take the place of an ox, proving the two to be synony
mous. Revelations follows the identical pattern, except that the
four beasts are distinct or separate one from the other. In other
descriptions the four faces belong to one animal, though de
scribed in the plural.
The Key to the mystery is simple. The kingdom of heaven
has always been considered or believed, as being circular (eter
nal—eternity), when among the stars. The wheels within
wheels of Ezekiel were the orbits of the sun, moon and planets,
which never for a moment stood still or ceased to function.
When the "kingdom of heaven" was (symbolically) among
men, as in the Jewish encampment, it was a square, and the four
beasts each occupied the angles, or were the figures flaunted
upon the banners of the royal tribes. They symbolized the
corners of the earth, holding the four winds of heaven as in
Revelations.
In each instance, the four beasts were the constellations that
had their location at the commencement of the four seasons.
The ox held the winds of spring; the lion the winds of summer,
etc. The heavens were divided into quarters; two belonging
at the solstices and two at the equinoxes.
The ox gave his name to the four royal beasted cherubim,
because he was the principal and ushered in the reign of sum
mer; in the manner, and for the same reason, that Palestine
was called Judea after Judah —for convenience.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 215
One of the most important periods of the year to the ancients
was the autumnal equinox. This also was the great festival
season of the Jews, who, after the day of atonement —actually
at-one-ment, or OF EQUAL TIME—held their feasts of the taber
nacle, which was in reality a feast of wine, the crowning event
of the year, with the exception of the vernal equinox or pass-
over; meaning "the passing over from one period or season to
another."
The day of atonement occurred on the precise day of the
equinox, when DAYS AND NIGHTS balanced; when they were
both of equal length; when God or Nature equalized, balanced,
or brought about an equilibrium of all things, and rewarded the
industrious —the laborer—with plenty, while the drone and
laggard were sent away empty-handed. The laws and usages
were strict as was the order of heaven.
The feast of the tabernacles was identical with the feast
of Bacchus of the Gentiles. At these feasts both Jews and Gen
tiles imitated old Noah in imbibing too freely the juice of the
grape —wine.
At this point in the heavens we find that Scorpio, the Egyp
tian serpent, and the cherubim were seen by the prophets.
Scorpio held the same relation to the harvest and vintage home
that the ox did to the reign of spring; but the ox here rep
resented the covenant of works; Scorpio the covenant of Grace.
Why did the head of the eagle occupy the place belonging
to the serpent? This is explained by the procession of the
equinoxes. The eqinoxes were in the ox and scorpion when
these cherubim were described by the prophets. The vernal
equinox was now in the sign of the lamb and in the constella
tion of the fishes.
The sun crosses the equator at about one hundred rods distant
from the place at which it crossed the preceding year; conse
quently, the equinox approaches, or is coming down into the
wintry constellations.
At this rate of travel, it passed through one sign of thirty
216 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
degrees in approximately 2,1 40 years. By this procedure the
constellations of Aries, Pices, etc., descend into the land of
darkness, or the bottomless pit.
It was in this manner that the old serpent, or dragon, fell
from heaven and became, for the time being, the leader of the
hosts of hell. The lamb is now the leader of the hosts of heaven,
while he and the serpent are most bitter antagonists.
When Jacob gave his blessing to the twelve patriarchs, he
assigned the serpent to Dan: —"Dan is a serpent, an adder, in
the path." About this time the serpent fell below the equinox
and became a sign of evil import. Dan ejected him from his
escutcheon because Scorpio was the sign accursed, and he re
placed the figure upon his banner by Aquila, the eagle; a con
stellation nearly north, having in his neck the large star Altair,
—a star on the horizon at the same time with the star Astares,
in the heart of Scorpio.
When Scorpio occupied the position in the heavens that the
balance now holds at the equinox, the serpent held the most
prominent position as a symbol of life among the animal crea
tion.
The people of some nations believed the covenant of grace,
or the autumnal, to be superior to the covenant of works—con
demned by the Nazarene in his simple statement: "Faith with
out works is dead."
They called the whole by the name "serpents," or more
correctly "seraphim." Isaiah saw his cherubim in Judea, the
"land of serpents and generations of vipers," again an expres
sion of the Nazarene, while Ezekiel saw his during his captivity
in Chaldea, where the ox wa.> more highly prized.
By this process of change —CHANGE BEING THE ETERNAL
LAW OF PROGRESS —Sco' pio will in time reach the position now
held by the lamb; be transformed into an angel of light, and
become the leader of tha heavenly hosts. Symbolically, this has
always been true. THE SERPENT, LIFTED UP, BECOMES THE /A
SAVIOR. This IS THE MYSTERY OF INITIATION. Virgo, Leo and
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 217
the whole heavenly constellation, one by one, will fall as did
Satan (Saturn), like lightning from heaven.
Modern astronomers have determined to help the old serpent
in the bottomless pit, by making the signs of the constellations
of Aries and Libra follow the equinoxes in their procession. By
this transformation or substitution, the lamb will ever be the
leader of the heavenly hosts in the vernal equinox—crossifka-
tion at passover. The Astronomical hierophant will always be
able to say to the profane: "Behold the lamb of God, that taketh
away the inequalities of the wintry world."
The vernal equinox is now said to be in Aries when, in fact,
it is in Pisces—in the sign of Aries, but the constellation of
Pisces. At some period in the future, possibly quite remote, the
vernal equinox will again be in Scorpio. He will regain his lost
kingdom, even though astronomers will mark the sign of Aries
in Scorpio and the masses will believe that the vernal equinox
is in the Lamb.
Possibly by then a new school of thought, with the desire to
teach the truth, will arise to lead the people. Because of the
confusion brought about by ignorance, many of the ceremonies
of the churches as a whole, are in confusion. Lent is in point;
the observers of this fast having lost the knowledge of both its
origin and purport; when to begin it and when to end it.
John the Revelator, saw the four beasts around the throne,
and a lamb in the midst of the throne, symbolizing the vernal
equinox in Aries, because the lamb was the constellation into
which the sun came when he triumphantly entered his kingdom,
having overcome the powers of darkness and the cold of winter,
and ascended the throne of his glory.
When Jacob blessed his twelve sons, he gave to each the
peculiarity or nature of one of the constellations. Judah had the
lion; Reuben, Aquarius, the water bearer; Dan, the Serpent;
Issachar, the crab.
The phrase: "Issachar is a strong ass," is explained by the
fact that there are two stars in Cancer called "the two asses."
218 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
"Joseph is a fruitful bough, whose branches have gone over the
wall," represents him in November, in Saggitarius, when the
vine had grown to its fullness.
"His bow abode in strength," is explained by a reference to
the constellation in which he is drawing his bow.
The story of the coat of many colors is a parable, in which
was described the variegated beauty of the forest in November,
4,000 years ago, as it is even today. This beautiful coat excited
the envy of the eleven other months (the other "brothers").
He was sent into Egypt by falling below the intersection of the
equator and ecleptic, and by his "passing" into another month,
or his "fall," he lost, symbolically, his "coat" to the other
"brothers."
These twelve sons, or twelve tribes, represented the twelve
signs of the zodiac. They had a "sister" whose name was Dinah,
symbolically, the moon, or Isis. This same name, spelled diff
erently, is Diana of the Greeks, who, also, was the moon. Her
representation as she draws her bow, is to be seen when the
moon is at her full, for Diana was a mighty huntress, and so
continues to this day.
The cherubim was a prominent symbol among many of the
ancient nations. One was dug up from the ruins of Ninevah,
having three of the four faces described by both John and
Ezekiel. When cold winter had expended his fury upon the
desolated earth, and grudgingly yielded his dominion to gentle
spring, the ox or calf—which then occupied the position now
held by the lamb—became lord of the ascent and the leader of
the heavenly hosts.
When balmy spring, the season of flowers, gave place to
summer, with its heat, its fruits and production in every manner,
the dominion passed to raging Leo, or the lion. . He in turn
became the leader, and marshalled his starry phalanx upon the
heavenly plains.
Thus in turn, as each succeeding season followed his predeces
sor, the dominion passed on to the eagle, then to the water
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 219
bearer, who was represented in the cherubim by the face of a
man. These beasts, as stated, were the four banners of the royal
tribes of Israel combined into one, or formed into the cherubim.
The cherubim became THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
"SILENT FLOWING YEARS" AND THE FOUR BANNERS OF THE
ROYAL TRIBES OF ISRAEL WERE COPIED FROM THEM; follow
ing the manner and after the practice of all the ancient people.
Ezekiel's cherubim had a calf's foot to denote the point in the
meridian where the sun crossed over at the vernal equinox.
Although the various nations held the cherubim in high esteem,
they usually selected one of the four beasts as the object of
special worship. In Egypt the ox received special consideration.
This was followed by India, Britain, China, Japan, Persia, Greece
and Peru. The ox was the predominating figure in the cherubim.
It was the most universal symbol of idolatry and frequently
worshipped in a compound form.
While the ox was worshipped in idolatry, and was given a
place in the astral or zodiac, it also SYMBOLIZED THE DUAL
FORCES OF GENERATION AND REGENERATION, AND AS SUCH
had as deep a meaning as the serpent. The serpent, in one form,
may signify degradation instead of generation and, like the ox
—or more properly, the bull —REgeneration when uplifted.
The ox, or bull, was the emblem of Noah, or the great father.
The ark itself was called Ken-Taurus, "the stimulator [or crea
tive ability] of the bull." He was worshipped with splendid
rites when the sun was in Taurus. The bull was the well-known
symbol of Bacchus.
In the Orphic hymns the bull was styled "the deity with two
horns, having the head of a bull." The lion was adored by
Egyptians and Mexicans as a most powerful divinity. The same
animal was a symbol of the sun in Tartary and Persia. In the
national banner of Persia a lion was emblazoned with the sun
rising from his back.
The bull had the same meaning to some people as had the
phallus to others. It was the symbol of the mighty generative
220 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
power which peopled the world and gave it all its creatures. In
its spiritual aspect it represented the forces of regeneration. The
sun was symbolic of God, but even God had need of another
force, power or medium, to people the world, hence the most
virile animal known to man was selected as its representative.
The ruling powers of Persia preserved for many centuries, as
the peculiar arms of their country, the sign of the figure Sol in
the constellation of Leo. This device, which exhibits a lion
couchant and the sun rising at its back, was not only sculptured
upon their palaces and embroidered upon their banners, but
was converted into an order and, in the form of gold and silver
medals, given to those who had distinguished themselves against
the enemies of their country.
The lion was not unknown to the early Egyptians. As the
greatest increase of the Nile occurred when the sun was passing
through Leo, the Egyptians made the lion the emblem of inun
dation. All effusions of water were thus symbolized. From this
ancient of ancient symbolizations has come our modern custom
of passing water, especially from fountains, through the mouth
of a sculptured lion. If we faced the truth, we would recognize
that, in a sense, we are the most idolatrous people that ever
lived, because, in one form or another, we retain all of the
symbols of the past ages.
The eagle was always sacred to the sun in many countries,
just as it is our national emblem. This was particularly true in
Egypt, Greece and Persia. In the Bible, the king of Babylon is
called an eagle. The eagle was reputed to have fed Jupiter with
nectar in the Cretan cave, and was the emblem of his dominion.
The British Druids made it the symbol of their supreme God.
It was embroidered on the consecrated banner of the Mexican
princes. It was the common ensign of the Roman legion. Isaiah
prophesied that the Eagle should be the emblem of the new
world and that as long as we kept it aloft our, land would be
free:
"The land overshadowed with wings."
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 221
Man, or an idol in human shape, was worshipped all over the
world. Man, being "made in the image of God," was considered
as the highest conceivable pattern of divinity. Since God was
invisible and could not be seeable, He was, and is still wor
shipped under this form, as symbolized by the Nazarene.
The cherubim of various countries differed greatly in both
form and general appearance; the most common having the
form of an ox. The brazen laver of Solomon's Temple rested
upon twelve oxen, representing and replacing, the twelve
constellations.
Moses was such a firm believer in the lamb symbolization,
that the cherubim upon the mercy seat had the face of a lamb.
These were placed, as he had been directed, on the lid of the
ark, facing each other over the mercy seat.
After the death of Joshua, the Jews relapsed into spiritual
darkness and as a result, lost their knowledge of heavenly
symbology, hence the lamb was not perpetuated.
Following the Babylonian captivity, Ezekiel and Daniel, hav
ing become conversant with the mysteries, revived the system,
but the Chaldeans retained the ox, which continued to figure as
lord of the ascendant in the cherubim.
Much later, at the time of the writing of the New Testament,
the symbology of the lamb was revived, but due to established
custom, John placed it in the midst of the other beasts. The ox
as a symbol, had become too sacred to the people to be dis
placed by the lamb, and not because it should not have been
given its proper place.
The cherubim exhumed at Ninevah had but three faces, it
being deficient in the face of the man, and representing a period
when there would be no winter—the time to come when the
lamb and the serpent would be friends—the lion and the lamb
lie down together —the prophecy of the millennium. Whatever
their form, the cherubim in their outer aspect, symbolized time
and the different eras of evolution.
222 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
This mysterious symbol is capable of every manner of ap
plication and adaptation. It formed the basis of an endless
number of riddles and parables, and was the favorite symbol of
the writer of Revelations in compiling the Apocalypse.
The Israelites, like many other peoples, suited much of their
symbolism to popular beliefs and not to the knowledge revealed
by the mysteries. The encampment of the Israelites was in the
form of a hollow square.
The four royal tribes of Israelites were symbolized by the
four beasts emblazoned on their banners, one at each corner.
This was symbolical of the belief held by the masses that the
earth was an oblong square, stationary, and the grand center
of the universe.
Genesis, 49th chapter, gives a record of the blessings be
stowed by Jacob upon his twelve sons, and also the names of
the royal tribes, as well as the constellation in the zodiac each
represented.
Here is clear and uncontradictable evidence that the "drama
of the heavens," plus popular belief, and not SPIRITUAL INSIGHT
and actual knowledge, was the pattern followed.
In the study of Numbers, 2nd chapter, we find that in the
encampment of the learned Moses an inexcusable blunder was
made in placing Reuben in the South, or next to Judah.
The question is: was Moses actually guilty of such an error,
or did the later writers make the mistake? According to astron
omy or astral science, the lion being in the summer solstice,
the south would have been his proper position; but as he con
stituted the highest state of the nation, they placed him in the
van, as they were travelling in an easterly direction. Reuben
belongs opposite, as the water-bearer; his monogram or pre
siding genius was in January, opposite Judah or July. The con
clusion must be that Moses did not arrange the tribes as
described.
The cherubim divided the heavens into four equal parts. The
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 223
points of division are marked by four principal stars, one in each
of the four beasts; Aldebaran, in the head of the bull of April,
marked the point of the vernal equinox when the planisphere
was projected, or when the bull or ox became the lion of the
ascendant. The star Regulus, in the heart of the lion, marked
the summer solstice.
Antares, in the heart of the scorpion, marked the autumnal
equinox in the old Chaldean and Egyptian zodiacs. Dan and
others, rejected Scorpio because it had become the sign accursed.
In its place they adopted Aquila, the eagle, having the star Altaic
for its emblem.
The star Fomalhaut, in the eye of the great southern fish,
formerly reckoned in the constellation Aquarius, and united
with it by the river Aquarius, marks the point of the winter
solstice. It was the custom in ancient times to follow the astral
order, and place the figures of the cherubic animals on the title
page of their books to indicate the subject matter and this has
not been altogether discarded.
As an example: if the cherubim prefaced Genesis, chapter
2, beginning with the 4th verse, at which the book should be
gin: "These are the generations of the heavens, and of the
earth, when they were created, in the day that the Lord God
made the earth and the heavens," etc., they would in this
manner indicate that allegorical astronomy was to be found on
its pages.
The ancient Egyptians were very familiar with four sacred
animals. We have the word of Clemens Alexandrinus that
these were carried at the head of the processions, like those by
the Israelites, and that they represented the four seasons, of
which the eagle was one.
There can be no other conclusion than that the Israelites
carried with them out of Egypt the astral religion of the outer
forms of worship in Egypt, as well as their symbology, with but
a slight variation; not that God gave them a religion to be
peculiar to themselves and their special relationship to Him.
224 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
In the Persian Zend-Avesta we are taught of the ancient
Persian cherubim, with the four principal stars which watched
over the four corners of the world and which were the four
stars that determined the four seasons or solstices.
The description of Daniel's vision is a clear indication that
he was impressed by the four beasts and the Persian projection
of the spheres.
In earlier editions of the four Gospels, the lion was the
vignette of Matthew; the bull faced the title page of Luke; the
face of a man, or Aquarius, was the vignette of Mark, and the
Eagle was the frontispiece of John.
Those who had the responsibility of publishing these early
editions were far more honest than those who later made the
changes by trying to sever all connections between the wisdom
of Egypt—in which Moses was well versed—and the formal
church system of creeds.
In John's vision of the white throne and the same four beasts
as given in Revelations 4, the cherubic beasts, including the
calf, were "in the midst of the throne and round about the
throne."
In the fifth chapter he saw still another beast in the midst
of the four beasts, no less than a lamb as it had been slain;
having seven horns and seven eyes. These beasts in Revelation
had eyes before and behind, representing the stars, while the
seven horns and seven eyes of the lamb represented the seven
planets.
We begin with the Egyptian beasts in Genesis and end with
them in Revelations despite all the efforts of those ignorant of
the mysteries and the spirit hidden in symbolism to eliminate
even the possibility that true religion had anything to do with
them. Try as men will, the truth is eternal and is written in
imperishable records that cannot be effaced or changed.
An example worthy of note is found in the large stained
window of old Trinity Church on Broadway, New York City,
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 225
where may be plainly and unmistakably seen the four Evangel
ists, symbolical of the four beasts of both the Egyptian and the
Hebrew four royal tribes; each with his cherubic beast:
Matthew, with his lion; Luke, with his bull; Mark, with his
man, and finally John, with his Eagle. Few are aware that this
is the eagle dreamed of by Isaiah and the symbolic insignia of
the new world, new age and new dispensation.
Whether or not we prate about paganism and heathenism,
and praise ourselves for modern enlightenment and spiritual
insight, it is uncontradictable that from the earliest ages,
throughout all nations, amongst all people, the four beasts —
despite every effort to consign them to oblivion in the lower
regions —have been, and continue to be, THE SACRED EMBLEMS
OF RELIGION.
They occupied the foreground of every ancient system of
religious ceremonials and were the Elohim who, even accord
ing to Genesis, created, or if you wish, renovated the earth.
They were the cherubim upon the mercy seat and persist in
remaining there, despite every effort of priest or profane. They
were the beasts always prominent in the visions of the prophets
of both the Old and the New Testaments.
Why? Because they are the spirit of primitive, innocent man;
of the masses who are wholly ignorant of what they represent,
and of the wisest of the Initiates of all times. The writers of
Genesis could not ignore them, or free themselves from them,
and John of Revelation had equal need of them. They were in
the beginning, and will be to the end.
226 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
TO KNOW ALL THINGS IS TO FORGIVE, I.E.,
UNDERSTAND, ALL THINGS
Symbolism and the spirit which is the life of symbolism,
must work hand-in-hand to destroy despotism and bigotry.
| wo nations of the East claimed David and Solomon as
their ancient kings, and endowed them with identical
qualities. The Arabs of the desert, in their national
legends, recount the military prowess of the one and the great
wisdom of the other. The history of each, for the most part, is
symbolical; an outer form for the mass; the Mysteries for the
selected few, the Initiates.
David's wars, concubinage, and wicked amours with Bath-
Sheba, the fairest virgin of all Israel, were neither more nor less
than the mystical personification of the conjunctions of the sun,
moon and the starry hosts of heaven.
These rather unsavory stories were actually symbolical of the
deeper mysteries of life as taught Neophytes in the Greater Mys
teries during their initiation; were never revealed, by as much
as a hint, to the masses, except by Moses; then only to be
ignored by them in their return to idolatry.
David, in his royal state, was the sun of the nation over
which he reigned. The conjunctions of the sun with the lesser
orbs were related as though they were the actions of men and
women, AND THERE is NO DOUBT THAT MANY MEN AND
WOMEN EXEMPLIFIED THESE AMOURS DURING THEIR YOUTH
FUL YEARS.
The legendary conflicts of David and the astral drama,
were amplified to correspond to the conflicts of the sun with
the frosts of winter. His victories were made to compare in
brilliancy with the triumph of the sun in the summer solstice.
The kings he subdued represented, or were, the wintry con
228 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
stellations, with their numerous starry hosts, who were defeated
when he, David, or the sun, ascended the throne of Es-ra-el and
reigned in power during the season of plenty.
David's intrigues with Bath-Sheba represented nothing more
than the entrance of the sun into the constellation of Virgo, the
prolific mother of so many children, all of royal lineage.
This is of TREMENDOUS importance when we bear in mind
what would have happened to all living creatures if David, or
the sun, had failed to enter into the constellation of Virgo and
both production and reproduction had ceased. In the life of
man this is the season of youth, of love, and of all that seems
worth while to youth. Is it any wonder that, so considered, this
was the high spot of all heavenly drama?
Bath is daughter: Sheba is seven; Bath-Sheba was the daugh
ter or virgin, or virgin-daughter of the seven summer constella
tions. Her husband Uriah (Ur-i-ah), the "high or exalted," is
the constellation Youseppe (Joseph), always on the right side
of the virgin. Bath-Sheba was the daughter of El-i-am; the sun,
the self-existing, the father.
She also was the mother of Sol-om-on; the sun in three
languages, containing the trinity of the Deity in his own name,
also the grand Omnific word, hence was of divine lineage; Child
of the sun -by the harvest queen; the virgin of August, who
yearly gives birth to a royal child, yet remains a virgin.
The allegory must continue: David, in his old age, became
feeble and weak of heart. To remedy this it was necessary that
the fairest virgin in all Es-ra-el be brought to him that he might
regain a renewal of life. The summer solstice was now in Leo,
but August, where Virgo has her domicile, is much hotter than
June.
The heat of the Virgin of August was added to the rays of
the sun, to perpetuate his heat as he was traveling downward
toward winter (getting old and feeble). David was covered
with much clothing by his servants before the virgin's heat was
added, denoting that even the "clothing" of a bounteous harvest
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 229
could not perpetuate his heat. The story of Tamar, the daughter
of David, ravished by her own brother, is also a version of the
same allegory.
Another personification of the travels and conflicts of the
sun is in the history of Samson. Samson, in the original, means
light. His great strength lay in his hair, just as the strength of
the sun is in his rays. If the sun is shorn of his locks ( rays ) it
is feeble and almost powerless. Samson's great strength mani
fested itself in Leo at the summer solstice, at which time he slew
the lion by absorbing him in his rays. He was then on his way
down to Timnath. On his return, after a period going down
to Timnath again, he found honey in the carcass of a lion and
fed upon it.
The explanation of this is to be found in the fact that in the
ancient maps of the heavens Leo was represented with bees pass
ing in and out of his mouth. Some 4,000 years ago, Leo was
the honey month, or season when flowers were in greatest pro
fusion and honey was easy to gather by the bees.
After his great exploit, Samson went to Gaza (the Goat of
December), and at midnight, the awakening, or Christmas
morning, took away the gates and carried them upon his
shoulders to the top of the hill that was before Hebr-on. He is
shorn of his locks (his strength) just as he leaves the lap of
Delilah (Virgo).
In the Biblical version, Samson was shorn of his seven locks.
These seven "locks" were the seven warm months wherein the
strength of the sun lay. Having lost these seven months, winter,
(the sign of evil import represented by Philistia) put out his
eyes and he was carried blind down to Gaza into the depth of
winter and was there imprisoned.
It now came to pass that as the lords of the Philistines met
in the temple of Drag-on, Samson took hold of the pillars of
the temple and by bringing down the temple upon them, slew
more at his death than he had during his life.
These "pillars of the temple were the same as the posts of
230 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the gate that he carried away before; but there is a change or
difference. In the former instance when he carried away the
gates, the author represents the sun as sleeping, or below. At
the exact moment when the sun following the winter solstice,
arises from his slumbers to inaugurate the new year, and at
midnight, or exactly twenty minutes after, tearing down the
gates of winter—or frost—he takes them on his shoulders up
the hill Hebr-on, or the vernal equinox. The dying year is in
Dagon, the fish god, or the constellation of the fishes. He is the
destroying power of winter. In his death he breaks the power
of the old year and gives place to the new year's sun, who is
born three days after his death or descent into hades.
It is necessary that the sun of the old year die, that he may
rise again and so fulfill the Law of righteousness —right-ness or
"rising up"—the resurrection. Here we see the astral drama in
full representation of the history of the Nazarene; his birth;
his life; his conflicts; his labors; his death, and his resurrection
or renewal of life.
In the mystic parable, the symbolic, legendary writings of
the ancients, full use was made of fictitious names, but always
with the proper symbolization. Modern writers of fiction and
romance follow this same pattern, but not with the same truth
ful application.
With our limited knowledge of some of the ancient lan
guages, we are frequently puzzled at the recurrence of the names
used to designate the sun. A better acquaintance with these lan
guages would add greatly to our knowledge of both the outer
and inner, or hidden, meaning of such frequently occuring words
as Om, On, Ab, Am, Ac, lo, El, Es, l-ah, and Jah, and their
many applications.
A simple test is the story of Samson. Manoah was the father
of Samson. If we transpose the first two syllables we have
Am-en-ah, that is: father, being, most high. Remove the "s"
from Samson, and we have Am-on; great god; strong god. The
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 231
letter "D" removed from Delilah leaves it El-il-ah, the name of
the sun repeated, ending in ah, the same as in Je-hov-ah.
All nations having a literature reveal traditions of intense
heat caused by the sun wandering from his course and threaten
ing the world with a general conflagration that is to take place.
This tradition furnished material for scores of allegories which
have descended to us in various forms.
The Nazarene used a similiar device to describe the ultimate
destruction of the Jewish nation, under the figure of a general
conflagration of heaven and earth. The legend of the burning
of the Philistines' harvest is a fragment of this same story. The
account of Baalim is this allegory under another form and sur
rounded by other scenery.
Baalim, as already stated, was the name given to the twelve
constellations, or the united power of the Baals combined in
the sun. The time chosen by the transcriber of the legend was
when the sun was in June, in conjunction with the two stars
called the asses, by astronomers —note Jacob's blessing on
Issachar —the same ass on which the Nazarene rode in triumph
into Jerusalem.
Baalim is represented as riding on one of them until he comes
to a "boundary" — the tropic of Cancer — represented by a
"wall." At this point the ass sees the "angel of the Lord," who,
with drawn sword, forbids his further progress. In this legend
the ass is represented as speaking allegorically as when the
"vine" says: "Should I leave my wine that cheereth the heart
of God and man?"—Judges 9:13.
The Greek writers have given us the most complete of all
the recorded periods of intense heat. They speak of the pos
sibility and dangers of a universal burning up like that which
once occurred in consequence of the sun's aberration from its
proper course. In the allegory of Phaethon, there is a prophecy
of what is yet to be. They record that the intense heat of that
period dried up the blood of the Ethiopians and turned their
skins black.
232 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Phaethon, by craft, obtained permission from his father,
Helios, to drive the chariot of the sun for one day. The pranc
ing steeds soon learned that a mere child held the reins. They
left their proper course, dashed towards the north and soon
threatened the world with destruction. Here is the dialogue
between Zeus and the sun, in which the Allegory is condensed
into a few words:
Zeus: "Wretch, what have you done, to leave your chariot
to be guided by a young fool, who has burnt up one-half of the
world and froze up the other half1 ; in so much that had not I
struck him down to the ground with a thunderbolt there had
been an end of mankind2."
Sun: "I confess, Zeus, I was mistaken that I could not
manage my son, nor endure the tears of the mistress; but I did
not think so much mischief would come of it."
Zeus: "Did you not know the fury of your horses, and that
if they turned ever so little out of the way, a universal ruin
would follow?"
Sun: "I knew very well, and therefore I placed Phaethon
into the chariot myself, I gave him all necessary instructions,
but the horses not finding their conductor with them took head.
He became dazzled with the splendor of the light, and fright
ened with the abyss he saw beneath him. He was sufficiently
punished, and I also, in his punishment."
Zeus: "In the mean time, give Phaethon's sister orders to
(') This could very aptly apply to the prophecy that the world is to be
destroyed by fire. Our present knowledge (1951) is devoted to experimentation
in the manufacture and use of the atom bomb, which could destroy the world
by an unbalancing of the atmospheric balance. This would result in a general
conflagration, destroying all life. Certainly, those experimenting with the atom
bomb are not in fact any wiser than Phaethon was in driving the chariot. Unless
the wiser, more honorable and more noble of mankind obtain control of this
great destructive force, it is easily within the imagination of even fools, that
general destruction may follow. Certainly the Godless are not safe custodians of
so great a power for destruction.
(*) Though written by "pagans," this displays keen knowledge of the
exactness of the Law of order, and that even the heavens cannot deviate from
Law and Order, unless destruction is to follow.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 233
bury him on the banks of the Eridanus, where he fell, and as a
recompense I will change them into poplar trees, from which
amber shall distill, as a symbol of their tears."
All those concerned with the atom bomb might do well to
study and restudy this dialogue, because it can be applied
directly to the "fool"—the ignorant who might misuse it—or
permit its use to get out of the control of those who are still
governed by their belief in God and His wisdom.
The reference to the Ethiopians and the turning of their skins
black, is a fragment of the history of the world and man's be
ginning, at which time the sun's rays were so hot, or contained
colored rays which gave pigment to the skin, the colored people
once having been known as "God's first children," or, "the
children of the sun."
A further reference to the prophecy of the time coming when
the world may be consumed needs no great imagination. Were
it not for rain in great portions of the world, and irrigation in
other parts, which is made possible by the rains which fill the
rivers, all life would end quickly.
We know only too well that portions of our country which
previously had a fresh water supply are today practically with
out it. This having taken place in limited portions of the
world, is it not possible —yea, even probable—that, with the in
crease of population and its constantly greater use —AND ABUSE
—of our natural resources, the time is not remote when the sun
will have its way and life become extinct or "burned up"?
Ancient prophecies have a way of being fulfilled and are
based on man's "foolishness." We ruthlessly destroy our forests
without replanting them. These forests are the source of many
springs which flow into rivers and are a source of water supply.
As these forests are denuded, the springs dry up; so do the
rivers; so do the sources of supply. Man, not God, is the author
of his own destruction.
The ancient "pagans" and "heathens," despite the defamation
accorded them by orthodoxy and intellectuals, are nevertheless
234 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
daily proving, by current events, that they understood the Law;
were mindful of the fact that Order governed and were well
aware of the drama of the heavens. Themselves capable of
looking far into the future, they left it for THOSE WITH EYES TO
SEE, to foretell coming events so that man might either prevent
them or prepare for them. But modern man is too wise in "his
own foolishness," to accept or heed the warning signals and so
follows in the "wake of all flesh."
The parable of Abraham about to offer Isaac, is a myth re
lating to the vernal equinox. Isaac —the sun—was brought by
time —law and order —up to the same mount to which Samson
carried the gates of Gaza; the vernal equinox; but Isaac escaped
and went on his way rejoicing; while the ram, or lamb of
March was caught in "the thicket,"—the conjugation of the
equator; the ecliptic, and the sun, and, allegorically, was offered
upon the altar.
It was as the personification of time that his offspring were,
or became, greater in number than the sands on the shores and
stars in the heavens. It was by the mere addition of ah that he
became the father of elevation, the word tah or ah denoting the
Most High. His name interpreted is Is-a-ac or Es-a-as; Is the fire;
a, one or first, while ac is the root of Bacchus, which is the first
fire or heat—or life—of Bacchus.
Jacob interpreted, is: 7, the self-existent; ac, Bacchus, and ob,
the serpent —virile or creative power. Es-au was the first issue
of this fire, or first born; but Jacob, under the name of the
Father Serpent, cheated him out of his birthright, and had his
name changed to Is-ra-el, the father, sun, etc. His twelve sons,
as already indicated in other interpretations, were the twelve
months or constellations. His daughter Dinah was the moon;
also the Diana of the Greeks, although spelled differently to
vary the riddle or symbolism.
THE DUAL NATURE OF THE SERPENT
The symbolism of the serpent as a creator (generating
power), a betrayer and debaser—and finally— the
Uplifter, or Regenerator.
|
HE serpent as a symbol and a key to the Greater Mys
teries is deserving of the greatest consideration. Ser
pent worship for a long period of time was the most
widely spread system of all symbol worship and is far from
extinct today. The serpent figured extensively and, in the
legends of heaven, was conceded to be the leader of evils and the
host of heaven.
This idea, though based on fact, stated only a half truth. He
was accused of bringing death and all the ills from which the
flesh of man suffers. Despite this self-evident truth, he was also
the symbol of health (-tfisculapius); of wisdom; of beauty; of
regeneration and salvation (Moses in the wilderness).
While the race as a whole was (still is) writhing under the
effects of his "bite" through much-abused and misunderstood
Eve, and especially while the Israelites were dying out in the
wilderness as a result of the "serpent's venom," he was crucified
in a brazen form as a saviour from his own poison.
Contradictory to law and order, we have been taught, and
have accepted it as a truth, that the Jews must, at the command
of their Jehovah, violate his own command: NOT TO BOW
DOWN TO GRAVEN IMAGES. This, in itself, should be sufficient
proof to thinking man that the serpent is here used as the
symbol of a dual force, power, energy, or, as in the case of the
Jews at that particular time, practices and their results.
The mystery of the serpent became the mystery of the phallus
in later days. The serpent when LIFTED UP, or RAISED UP, was
and
is,
the symbol of health, vitality, REgeneration and Immor
236 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tality. It is the symbol of all that is good, true and desirable;
wisdom personified, and the key to all the mysteries as illustrated
by Moses in the wilderness. When cast doum, it is abused and
misused, symbolic of all that is evil and degrading—of bitter
ness, strife and final destruction.
The serpent, in consequence of its form, preceded all other
forms of symbolization and symbolical worship and was fol
lowed by phallic worship in India. This creature has been
the dread and. wonder of man in all ages; whether considered as
the representative or symbol of God, or the devil. As the symbol
of God and all that is good and elevating, it has inspired re
ligious awe and veneration.
As the manifestation of evil, it has been a sign of evil and
consigned to hell. On the one hand, its bite caused evil, sickness
and ultimately death; on the other, it is possessed with virtues
and powers that save man after all else has failed.
It is at once the genius to those who practice the healing art;
symbolizing their skill; and the cause of the most baneful of the
degrading ills that curse the race of man. IT is a seraph in
heaven, unceasing in its praise; but as a very devil in hell, it
is the uncompromising enemy of God and man. As the chief
of police in heaven, it is ever ready to do the bidding of Jehovah;
but again, as a falsifying spirit in the mouth of Ahab's prophets,
or in tempting David to number Israel.
As the arch fiend in Pandemonium, it is represented as incor
rigible in its disobedience to the laws of heaven. In Revelation,
12:9, he is named the Great Dragon; that old serpent; the devil;
the satan that deceived the world —these four: the dragon,
serpent, devil and satan, being one and the same, while the
names are used interchangeably.
The ancient astronomers gave the name "Dragon" to the
great serpent of the pole; the same that is possessed of seven
heads and ten horns.
Serpents were worshipped not only in Persia, but throughout
the East; had temples built to their honor under the express
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 237
title of "the greatest of gods, and the superintendent of the
whole world." Factually, this worship of the serpent in its
vilest form, was one of the most potent causes of destruction of
Babylon, Sodom, Gomorrah.
If proofs do not belie themselves, serpent-worship is being
actively practiced in these, our modern days, in the very seats
of the Government, and the people no more raise their voices
against it than they did in the days of old before the destruction
of the entire cities and their inhabitants followed in its wake.
The serpent's magnificent and silent motion represents the
elliptical orbits of the planets. Its countless scales symbolize
the myriad millions of stars, revolving orbit within orbit, yet
never clashing; advancing—as our entire solar system has been
ascertained to do by men like Halley, Le Monnier, Cassini,
Herschel and others —the whole moving in harmony through
infinite space toward the constellation Hercules—guided by one
law, one harmonious, progressive movement.
The serpent's motion, quickly, silently, though without limbs,
presents the most perfect movement imaginable. It is truly
representative of unity in motion in accordance with the Laws
of God. Its independence of all outside support or assistance,
its strength of life being in itself, represents law and order; self-
responsibility and deference to nothing other than the law which
governs it.
By placing its tail in its mouth it is the perfect symbol of
endlessness, eternity and of man's unlimited possibilities. Its
ability to shed its skin is an emblem of youth, continual recuper
ation or renewal of itself, hence Immortality. Paul must have
had in mind this principle when he wrote: "Not that we would
be unclothed, but clothed upon."
By its hissing noise, the serpent represents the voice of God;
which, though not articulate, is terrifying to the wrong-doer.
Isaiah described this in these words:
". . . the Lord shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the river
of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria."—Isaiah 7:18.
238 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
Above all, its sanitive or healing power rendered the serpent
the universal emblem of health and salvation. It is always
associated with healers and saviours: Hercules, Apollo, &sc\i-
lapius, Bacchus, Mercury, Adonis and the more modern ones.
The serpent with its tail in its mouth is an universal symbol
and, as frequently stated, represented eternity. It also represents
the universe, the sun, life, motion and death; heat and cold;
disease and healing; degradation and REgeneration; progress
and retrogression.
One of the great arts in ancient hieroglyphic writing consisted
in the change of one thing or being into another; or a system of
metonymy; by means of which, one word is the outgrowth of,
or exchanged, for another; while metamorphosis is the exchange
for, or into, another. The allegories and metamorphosis of the
serpent are of this category.
By metonymy, the name "serpent" is exchanged for the sun,
and the sun in turn, was metamorphosed, as the ancient writer's
knowledge or imagination dictated.
The serpent was thus metamorphosed into the seraph in
heaven on the one hand, and the arch fiend in hell on the
other —According to one Apostle, this is not a marvel, for
". . . Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light." —IlCor. 11:14.
In Isaiah the serpent is called Lucifer, son of the morning —
the light bearer —rendered in the margin of some Bibles, (cor
rectly) the Day Star. This same title is applied to the Nazarene
in the New Testament, and this also is correct, for to be a
teacher of truth, is to be a "light bearer."
In Revelation, the Nazarene applies this same designation to
himself:
"... I [the Nazarene'} am the bright [light] and morning star." —
Rev. 22:16.
And again:
"To him that overcometh will I give the morning star." Rev. 2:26, 28.
That is to say, Lucifer, both meaning Light, or the BEARERS
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 239
OF LIGHT. This system of Metonymy is further illustrated in
the instance of the two Sauls. The name Saul
is,
in some Hebrew
versions, translated into the word "hell." Saul, then, in such
instances, was
a
personification of hell, that
is,
the devil, or the
serpent. When the Jews determined to have
a
king as their
ruler, even though
it
was against God's Will God repaid their
evil intent,
by
sending the "devil" to reign over them until their
deliverance.
Symbolically, this was the transition, starting in the wintry
state when Sheol, hell or the devil ruled. He was later forced
to make way for David, the sun, in his summer journey. The
conflict between (winter) Saul, and (the sun) David typified
the genius of cold seeking to destroy the warmth of spring.
The meeting of the two in the cave was symbolical of the
birth (or rebirth) of the year—the upward journey of the sun
after three days in hades—on Christmas morn, in that veritable
astronomical cave where all gods are born, or rise from their
three days' stay or imprisonment.
The other Saul was this same Sheol or hell. Breathing out
an onslaught against the church, he proved himself
a
worthy
representative of the lower region or destructive forces. Journey
ing to Damascus he was stricken blind, and thus continued with
out eating during the mythical three days that the sun seemed
lifeless (buried and in darkness) at the winter solstice. Saul
(Sheol) was the sun descended into hell, stricken blind in this
winter solstice.
With renewed (regenerated) strength coming from the
lower regions toward summer, he preaches the faith, the bap
tism of the Holy Ghost, i.e., fire, heat or life that he attempted
to destroy while on his "journey" or while in the wintry state.
His name (in the legend of Biblical lore)
is
now metamor
phosed into Paul, an actual abbreviation of Apollo, who under
this name, was God in heaven, and under the names A-polly-on
and Ab-addon was the devil, the old serpent of hell —
a
trans
formation of the unregenerate Saul into the regenerated Paul.
240 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The first inkling given us in the Bible that the serpent was
endowed with speech is in the colloquy with Eve. In this dia
logue he affirms that if she and Adam tasted the forbidden
fruit they would become
"as gods, knowing good and evil."—Gen. 3:5.
The word "Eve" itself means serpent and the serpent is
symbolical of desire. Had man not, as a result of his first de
sire, "fallen" into a material form, he would never have learned
to know good and evil, would not be able to become "as one of
us [the gods], knowing good and evil." —Gen. 3:5.
Woman, co-existent with man, "fell" into the material form
approximately at the same time. Even after the "fall" into the
flesh or material, they would not have been able to gain knowl
edge of, and wisdom from life; but by once again listening to
the serpent —obeying their desires, and engaging in the creative
act—eating the forbidden fruit.
This was the beginning of their knowledge, which followed
in ratio to the degree they obeyed the law of creation without
destroying, and the law of recreation by the uplifting of the
serpent, or their desires toward REgeneration.
The serpent, among its many representations, is an adversary
of God and man. "Adversary" is from the Latin adversarius,
meaning "opposite" or "the reverse to." A line drawn through
the Lord of the Ascendant, the constellation in which the sun
happens to be at the time, would pass through the Diabolus or
Lord of the opposite sign. The term adversary in English, Le
Diable of the French, Diabolus of the Greek, came from the
idea that the genius of cold and darkness is antagonistic to the
sun and warmth.
He is ever standing over him as an opposer; hence all lovers
of warmth necessarily look upon the opposing forces in nature
as evil; personifying the devil; that which destroys as cold de
stroys the beautiful blooms of the summer and fall.
The ox offers the favorite form. In his image theology first
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 241
painted its devil, with his horns and cloven hoofs. However,
the ox, under the name of cherub and cherubim, is symbolized
as the body-guard of Jehovah in heaven; while the snake or
serpent, under its proper name of seraph and seraphim, unceas
ingly chants Jehovah's praise.
Most of the important grains, such as rye, barley, oats and
corn, without which man in the early days could not have
survived during the wintry months, especially in northern climes,
derive their generic name from the serpent tribe. They were
first called cereals after Ceres (Virgo) , the Greek harvest queen.
The word Ceres is a compound of cer, the first syllable of
cerastes, the snake; and es, the great fire—the life giver—the
warmth creator —the sun. The snake is peculiarly and generally
found in warm regions. In winter he becomes torpid.
The devil, whatever his form, has, like the serpent, been
given a countless variety of names. Many of these names repre
sent, interchangeably, the most exalted forces and sentiments,
qualities and feelings, as also their direct opposites. All devils
are called Lucifer, bearer of light; the Son of the Morning; the
seraph and seraphim; the cherub and cherubim of heaven; the
roaring lion of the zodiac, stalking about seeking to devour the
righteous.
There is a metamorphosis of the lion of the tribe of Judah,
who, in his yearly travels, devours or swallows (symbolically)
the stars of the constellations through which he passes. He was
the accuser, though never called a false accuser; the state's at
torney of the Universe, whose business it was to hunt and tempt,
then prosecute the villains or wicked ones of earth, and report
the results to the Almighty, as happened when he presented
himself before the throne.
As the adversary of light, he is necessarily the prince of dark
ness. As the earth in rotation presents its whole surface suc
cessively to the sun, the illuminated half was the kingdom of
heaven; while the side in darkness, being adverse to the sun, was
242 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
symbolically represented as the kingdom of the powers of
darkness.
This is literally called Hades, that which is invisible; Hell, or
the Bottomless pit; which, literally is bottomless, there being no
bottom or conceivable limit to the extent of infinite space
towards which the earth presents its adverse or dark (evil)
surface.
It is the symbolical language used to describe the sun eclipsed
by the earth, described in the allegorical complaint of Jonah
when swallowed by the Cetus, or fish of winter; "I went down
to the bottom of the mountains; the earth with her bars, was
about me forever."—Jonah 2:6.
The devil was also known as Abaddon in the Hebrew and
Apollyon in Greek. The first is a compound of Abba, meaning
"father," and Don the Lord; or Ab, father, Ad, the Lord, and
On, (the) being; the three names of God, the Sun. The latter,
the Greek name, is the same as the Latin Apollo, the universal
name for the sun.
On the medals of Nero, this god is represented crowned with
laurels, having his quiver upon his shoulder, and the star of
Phoebus by his side, with the Greek words Apollo Soter; that
is,
Apollo the Saviour, or the Victor who "rises above others."
The serpent was given credit for being conscious of all the
sublime ideas which its physical characteristics typified, and
by
a
bold metaphor the serpent
is
wisdom itself personified.
It
was the Agatha-Demon, or good serpent, encircling the mun
dane egg of the most ancient theological ideas of Persia.
It
was also the serpent Ananta on whose mysterious folds the
Creator of the world had slept upon the bos. m of the ocean
before full creation had been accomplished.
Higgins, one of the great authorities and exoteric interpreters
of religions and religious i:!eas, in his Anacalypsis, reproduces
an illustration of one of the ancient curiforms in the temples of
India, showing the Spirit of God mo /ing upon the face of the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 243
waters. On the boundless span of waters is a coil of nine ser
pents, in an elliptical form. Their heads rise from one end of
the coil and hang over toward the center, forming a canopy over
the head of the sleeping God.
This spirit of God moving upon the face of the waters, is
represented by a jet black individual, extended at full length
upon this serpent bed, sleeping, with a crown upon his head to
denote his high, princely rank. The serpents here symbolized
were the seraphim in which God rode upon the waters before
earth and water had been separated by His fiat.
It was from the phenomenon of the serpent shedding its skin
that Job, who was an Ophite priest, and whose name itself
signifies "a serpent," visioned a hope for his Immortality in the
sublime, but little understood apostrophe: "I know that my Re
deemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the
earth. And though, after my skin worms destroy this body, yet
in my flesh I shall see God."— Job 19:25, 26.
The name Eve, which Adam gave to his wife, "because she
was the mother [the cause] of all living," signified a serpent.
Milton, in his poem, appears to agree with this.
"Out of my sight, thou serpent! that name best
Befits thee, with him leagued thyself as false
And hateful: nothing wants but that thy shape,
Like his, and color serpentine might show
Thy inward fraud to warn all creatures from thee
Henceforth, lest that too heavenly form pretended
To hellish falsehood snare them. But for thee
I had persisted happy, had not thy pride and
Wandering vanity, when least was fit,
Rejected my forewarning, and disdained
Not to be trusted, longing to be seen;
Though by the Devil himself, him overweening
To overreach. O, why did God,
Creator wise, that peopled highest heaven,
With spirits masculine, create at last
244 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
This novelty on earth, this fair defect
Of nature?"—Milton.
This does not in any sense, cast aspersion upon woman, the
serpent or the devil. But for the desire of man and woman, the
Souls of the twain would never have left heaven. There would
have been no "fall" or descent.
Except for this desire to KNOW, neither man nor woman
would have been "tempted" to taste of the sensations of the
flesh. This desire was mortal, or of the mortal and the mortal
belongs to the realm of the serpent or the devil. These two
create the incentive, whether for good or ill, to TRY: to experi
ence; to achieve; to become, and to regain a lost —left behind—
kingdom.
The very earliest of known Christians—believers and ac
ceptors of the Christos WITHIN—were known by the name of
Ophiani, or Ophites.
They were believed to pay divine honors to the serpent as the
creative instinct; God Himself having commanded: "Multiply
and replenish the earth." —Gen. 1:28.
If we accept this as a Divine command, then most certainly
the instinct, desire or urge that would cause one to obey, would
likewise be Divine. Referring again to Egypt, there was a ser
pent whose name was Thermuthis and was looked upon as
sacred. This name, Josephus tells us, was also that of Pharaoh's
daughter, who became the mother of the illegitimately-born
Moses.
The devil has always been made an object of fear in propor
tion to man's ignorance and superstition. The original appeasers
were those who tried to appease and bribe him; or, perhaps
more correctly, sought to appease him by bribes. The results
have always been, AND FOREVER WILL CONTINUE TO BE,
NEGATIVE; THE VERY OPPOSITE TO WHAT is SOUGHT. Primi
tive man never learned this lesson. Modern man has not be
come any the wiser if we are to judge by results achieved.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 245
We have frequently recognized that God or good, is fruitful-
ness, warmth, life and light personified. The sun is His sublime
emblem; which, by metonymy, became the serpent; who, with
its tail in its mouth, represented the disc of the sun, and, in
symbolism, eternity; the Immortality of the human Soul after
it has learned to "know [both] good and evil."
In those nations just learning to think, to reason, to observe,
and to apply or REact to this mental awakening, and at the time
when agriculture was in its infancy, the people had neither the
art nor the means to reserve large stores for the famine follow
ing an unproductive season. The question of food was always
an all-important one. They naturally adopted a deference, re
spect for, or worship of, the powers of fertility, and instinctively
deprecated or feared, the wrath of antagonistic or destructive
forces.
In the symbolic writing which they invented —and, certainly,
they were deserving of the highest credit for their accomplish
ments in this direction—those animals known to them as being
most representative of the warmth of summer became signs of
good report, while those which represented cold and destructive
tendencies were recognized as of evil portent.
Necessarily, there were errors due to the lack of sufficient ex
perience. Cancer in summer and Capricorn in winter were de
sirable results. The goat as a monster in the skies, and later, on
the maps, represents the wintry state, which implies a general
commingling of earth and water.
The fruitful virgins, twins, lambs, oxen, etc., were fitting
emblems of summer; while hunters, fishers, waterpots, etc., were
representative of winter. The serpent became the symbol of
both winter and summer; perhaps because reproduction in the
human, and at least in part of the animal kingdom, proceeded
apace both winter and summer; consequently it is found both in
heaven and in the bottomless pit.
As the Dragon of the pole, the serpent is the genius of
winter. As the Hydra, he is high in the kingdom of heaven. As
246 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
a part of the constellation of the serpent-bearer, he is the giver
of life. As Scorpio, he is the worm that never dies.
In the form of the serpent under the name of Python, he is
the devil first personified in Egypt; overflowing the land;
sweeping away landmarks, cattle, homes and all human posses
sions. When the people became aware that the flood was really
a friend or blessing in disguise, he became the personification of
good. When fever was produced by the vapors arising from the
mud and slime deposited by the Nile, and in lake Sirbon, amid
the stagnant remains of the flood, filled with decaying vegeta
tion, bitumen and sulphur, it was then that the serpent was con
signed to the death that never ends.
In this Stygian lake in Egypt we find the origin of the burn
ing lake; the hell of brimstone. In the adverse forces of winter
originated the idea of a devil, which later became a personal
fiend. In serpent form, he was an inhabitant of heaven and the
"fall" from his high estate was a matter of purely astronomical
significance.
To make plain how this old serpent, which became the devil,
fell from its high first estate, to become leader of the hosts of
hell, king of scorpions, locusts, frogs and all other evils that
plagued the ancient people, including the Egyptians, it is neces
sary to digress.
During the winter the sun is in the southern hemisphere,
south of the equatorial line. On the sun's return to the northern
hemisphere, it crosses the line about the second of March,
sojourns in the northern heavens during six months plus, then
recrosses the line again in the latter part of September.
That part of the heavens above the points of crossing, em
bracing the constellations in which the sun appears to us dur
ing the warm months, beginning with March and ending in
September, was called by the ancient religionists the kingdom of
heaven, or good.
The five cold months, those below the equinoctial, were
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 247
called, as we have already many times mentioned, hades, Sheol,
the pit, the hole of fire and brimstone, etc.
When the sun again reaches its crossing point it does not
approach the equator at precisely the same place where it crossed
the preceding year, but passes the line about one hundred rods
distant from its previous crossing. It reaches the equator earlier
each year; consequently, the vernal equinox passes through a
sign of the zodiac about every 2,140 years. For this reason we
are informed that a New Age sets in about every 2,000 years
Legend and tradition have it that, with each new full cycle,
a new Dispensation sets in. This requires, that there be born a
new Law Giver or Saviour, to teach and interpret the Law as it
applies to the people of that dispensation. The last of these
Great Lawgivers was the Nazarene. Although born in Nazareth,
he was by necessity compelled to go to Egypt for the training
and preparation for his mission.
The Nazarene was called the Christian Messiah, NOT because
of the general conception of him and his mission, but because
he was finally instructed by the Essenes, who were basically
Gnostics.
They taught the concept of the Christos, of Christ within all
men, this Christos to be awakened in order to gain salvation
or enter the kingdom of heaven. This concept or doctrine of
the Christ, kingdom of God and kingdom of heaven within, is
repeated time and again in all the gospels.
Some 6,000 years ago, the vernal equinox was in May, while
the autumnal equinox was in November. Astronomically, we
can by this perceive the original of the Biblical "Jacob's ladder"
reaching to heaven, because we will recognize the zodiac as a
ladder reaching to heaven, on which angels of God ascended and
descended.
Since May, 6,000 years ago, the cherub or ox of April, with
his bright cluster of stars, has clambered up into heaven, and
for two thousand years the calf of April was the leader of the
heavenly hosts.
248 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The lamb, who had been the adversary down on earth —
which symbolically was the lower region—followed the calf,
ascending to heaven, and in its turn became the leader of the
heavenly hosts. It was at this time, when the lamb ascended,
that the Nazarene was born; hence the Nazarene is frequently
referred to in Christian theology as the "lamb of God."
Whether the ascension of the astronomical "lamb" into his
position in heaven brought about the birth of the living human
"lamb of God," or vice versa, is a question to be solved by each
individual.
The astrological lamb of the heavens, or Jacob's ladder, is
the outer or exoteric symbolism of the great inner Mystery of
the Mystery schools beginning in Egypt and active throughout
the centuries. In conjunction with the astronomical ladder there
is also an invisible or spiritual ladder. One writer clearly
visioned this as: "Souls of men who have enjoyed (made indi
vidual effort) ages of progress, and attained to the mystic under
standing of celestial knowledge, climbing heavenward."
Sometimes of their own desire and free Will, these Souls re
turn to inaugurate reforms and, by the heavenly influence which
is a part of them, succeed in bringing about mighty changes;
great upheavals.
Such were the "Saviours" of the past; such will they be in the
future; and, since the Law operates, the "mills of the gods grind
slowly, but they grind exceedingly fine," nothing can withstand
this operation of the Law.
Every rung of that ladder is a prototype of the astral ladder,
whose foot is on earth, and its apex in heaven. Angels who
once have been men —and equally true, gods who once were
men —Souls who have lived and labored on earth and risen
from the mortality of the flesh, victor-browed, to a triumphant
inheritance beyond; all who achieved by their own efforts,
through deep desire and tireless endeavors —all such ministers of
love and blessings constantly ascend and descend this mystic
ladder.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 249
These form an interminable chain of love and harmony be
tween the highest and lowest, or the lowest and the highest.
They connect each and every one who is in possession of an
innate desire for Soul Consciousness.
By links of sympathy they hold up the tired hands that are
drooping from the burdens of life's weariness, but which be
cause of faith and confidence in something finer, catch at the
outstretched arms that are held out to them. Gaining strength
and courage, these weary ones become inspired to try again, and
yet again; until finally, they, too, reach the top of the ladder.
Such is a part and only a part—of the inner mystery of the
outer or astronomical concept.
The vernal equinox is now in the constellation of Pisces, or
the fishes of February. While the angels of God have been as
cending to heaven on the ladder of the zodiac at the vernal
equinox, what has been transpiring on the outer shell? What is
taking place at the "gate of heaven"?
Jacob saw the angels of God ascending and descending. Dur
ing the time when the gods of spring clamber into the celestial
(celestia and heaven are synonymous), the gods of autumn are
"falling."
They have left their first estate (there is nothing static in
nature), and now, at the very point of time when the lamb of
March comes up to the eastern gate of the New Jerusalem,
Scorpio, that old Dragon, which as we know, is the "devil," has
slipped out of the western horizon and has come down to earth
in great wrath (in common parlance, we know only too well
that at the moment "there is the devil to pay").
Scorpio has left his first estate, because by the procession,
judgment was laid to the "line and righteousness to the plum-
mit," and he was unable to face the ordeal.
Had the old system of astronomy been perpetuated, then by
the regular operation of natural law, in the procession of the
equinoxes, Satan (or Apollyon, or Baalzebub, as Scorpio is
250 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
also known), in the natural course of events, would have re
gained his lost glory in about twelve thousand years from the
period of his "fall." This was to be brought about by "repent
ance," i,e., change in his course at the winter solstice. During a
probationary period of some six thousand years following there
after, Scorpio—bringing forth fruit meet for repentance —would
have clambered up, entered in at the Biblical "straight gate,"
and taken his place where the Lamb is now seated in glory.
Alas for Scorpio, however, he had no sooner lost his first
estate, and became warmly engaged in the conflict with the
Lamb, when modern astronomers interfered and ordained that
the sign should follow the equinox and so, by a decree of
pseudo-science, forbade the salvation of the astronomical
Scorpio.
What has this to do with humanity? More than is generally
believed or ever imagined. By a /^-interpretation of the
heavenly drama, or rather, by following the incorrect calcula
tions of modern astronomers, the church has grievously erred
by ordaining that Baalzebub should continue —be kept actively
engaged —in his unequal but evil contest, throughout unending
ages.
What shall be the consequence to church and man, as the
New Age and new Dispensation firmly sets in and the Son of
Man comes among men with his plan to overthrow all that is
not founded on truth?
The evil that now exists will ultimately give way to the doc
trine of the Christos—WITHIN—for all men; opening their
eyes to the false so they may glimpse the truth. Mankind will be
offered freedom instead of slavery and the dominion of God
(the good) will reign at last, replacing the gory hand of passion
for self-glory and power.
THE NECESSITY FOR A PERSONAL DEVIL
To have a fallen Eve there must needs be a personal
devil to bring about such a calamity.
|
HERE was a profound reason why formal religion
should believe in, and teach, the existence of a per
sonal devil—a fiend of evil—a betrayer of the inno
cent; a misleader, instead of a leader.
Almost from the beginning of the government of men, by
men, there was gross mismanagement in the affairs affecting the
mass. There was grave need for a powerful antagonist of God
to foil Him in His good intentions, one who could be blamed for
all the evils and mismanagement by men.
Our present gross ignorance on the subject of proper govern
ment, the almost unbelievable mismanagement in the govern
ments of all nations, and the evils and degradations that follow
in its wake, most certainly help to perpetuate the Idea of a
personal devil—a fallen race—the result of a mis-step made by
poor Eve.
This legendary devil or personification of evil is made ap
parent to the child long before he can reason. It is all the more
destructive because IT is TAUGHT THAT THE EVIL is FROM
WITHOUT RATHER THAN FROM WITHIN.
The ignorant nurse or foolish parent impresses upon the
pliable mind of the innocent child, as yet incapable of evil
thinking, the age-old story of the great bear who devours wicked
children. Other similar horrid forms are used to frighten the
child into submission to their will, instead of obtaining obedi
ence by sense and reason, sow the seed that bear evil fruit in
later life.
The GREAT BEAR of our childhood is later transformed into
the creature with horns and cloven foot who belongs to, and
252 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
holds sway over, the bottomless pit, and is ever ready, and at
hand, to drag us downward to misery, if we infringe upon the
law as understood by our interpreters.
Men must forget the erroneous teachings believed to have
been first used by the enslaved Jews in Egypt for their own
protection. They taught that God is a vengeful being, much
after the nature of men. We must now begin to realize that if
God is God, He must be the personification of our highest con
cept of love, and that we, His creations, if willing to obey His
laws, will be safe, even amidst the crash of worlds.
The devil, or personification of evil, will die of a natural
death and man will become free, NOT THROUGH THE EFFORTS
OF OTHER MEN; OF DECREES OR ACTS OF LEGISLATION, BUT
BY MAN'S OWN EFFORTS IN HARMONIZING HIMSELF WITH
THE LAW WHICH IS THE PERSONIFICATION OF GOD, OUR
CREATOR.
We must again return to the war in heaven by which Milton
was so deeply impressed and of which he has given us such a
gripping description. On the one side were arrayed the good
angels, each having el in his name; i.e., the Hebrew symbol of
the sun.
On the other were the cohorts of hell itself, the leaders of
whom were known by on, the Egyptian name of the sun.
Micha-el fought with his angels, and the Dragon fought with
his. John took this story of the heavenly drama and wove it
into the story of the actions of human beings, instead of stars
and planets.
The names of the good angels were in reality the names of
the summer signs of the zodiac, as identified by their Hebrew
names of Micha-el, Abdi-el, Azra-el, etc. The bad angels bore
the Egyptian names of the winter, or signs of evil import, as
Abadd-on, Apolly-on and others. Properly understood, this was
a Hebrew interpretation of the astral drama between the gods
of the Hebrews and the gods of the Egyptians.
Belial, the Lord of the opposite, is said to have his domicile
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 253
in the sign which, for the time being, is opposite to the sign in
which the sun happens to be. He is always in opposition.
Baalzebub had his domicile in Scorpio. The battle was not be
tween the Hebrew and Egyptian gods, but between Winter and
Summer.
The great Drag-on of the pole—the region where eternal
Winter holds his carnival—was the proper leader of the forces
of cold and darkness. He had for his aids the Baals and the Ons
of Chaldea and Egypt. It was not until the lamb appeared, that
is,
after months of fierce conflict, during which the battle raged,
and victory was questionable, that the sun ascended
by
slow de
grees from winter, and passed the equinox where
it
was crossi-
fied (crucified) and entered the constellation of the lamb.
That victory
is
finally won, because the winter with its
destructive forces then bursts into gladness, and there was heard
the singing of the birds and the voice of the lover in preparation
for creation and procreation.
Belial, Baalzebub, Apollyon and all the attendant Genii of
winter are cast into outer darkness, and held in subjection until
the sun, according to the governing law, again enters Scorpio,
and the devil (winter and darkness —the devil
is
always synony
mous with darkness) recommences the age-old yearly battle.
John, in his Apocalypse, could not rid himself of this
heavenly, ever-recurring drama. He wove the outer or exoteric,
into the inner, or esoteric; governed
by
a
Law so forcibly em
phasized
by
the Thrice Wise Hermes: "In the outer, so in the
inner; in the inner, so in the outer. In the above, so in the
below; in the below, so in the above."
Simply stated, man recognizes God according to his highest
concept of Him; the devil, according to his lowest passion. He
pictures others as HE is HIMSELF. In his description and inter
pretation, John made use of what later became the Pythagorean
system of numbers, the most mystical of which are three and
seven.
The frequent repetition of the numbers seven and twelve
254 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
running through, and held sacred in, practically all theologies
and mystical systems, together with the numbers four and
twenty-four, furnishes positive proof that the visible machinery
of these systems of worship is drawn from the planisphere of
the heavens.
The planetary system was designed according to the number
seven, this being the number of the celestial bodies known as
the primary planets, in which the uncreated light distributes it
self and in the center of which the sun holds sway.
The Ether (JEth), which circulates through the whole uni
verse, was represented in the Pyreums of the sacred and perpet
ual fire kept alight by the Magi. Each planet which contains a
portion of it had its pyreus, that
is,
special temple, where incense
was burned as symbolic of the image within itself.
In the games of the circus, instituted in honor of the god of
Light—our Adonis —was manifested the religious genius of the
Romans, but only for
a
time until debasement took place.
The sun had its horses which, in the hippodrome, initiated
the course of that orb of light in the heavens. The circus took
place from east to west in the manner of the travels of the sun,
and continued until the seventh round was completed, repre
senting the seven planets.
The festivals celebrated
by
the ancient Sabeans in honor of
the planets were held under the sign of their exaltation. The
Persians, in earlier times, celebrated the entrance of the sun into
each sign to the sound of music. The planets and seven summer
months are interchangeably reproduced throughout the worship
of antiquity.
The chandelier with the seven branches, in the temple of
Jerusalem, and the seven enclosures of the temple, the seven
gates of the cave of Mithra, the seven stories of the tower of
Babylon, the seven gates to the city of Thebes, each bearing the
name of
a
planet, the seven chords of the lyre, the seven arch
angels of the Chaldeans—later copied
by
the Jews
—the seven
days of the week, universal among all people, the seven Sab
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 255
baths of seven years, the seven days of unleavened bread, the
seven sacraments, the seven golden candlesticks, the seven
spirits before the throne, said to be the seven horns and seven
eyes of the lamb of the Apocalypse—all these represent, or are
symbolic of, the planetary system that receives its impulsion
from Aries, or the lamb which, in turn, symbolizes peace, the
peace that opens the march of the seven spheres.
The whole starry heavens assumed a body in the image of
the gods; towns built were believed under their inspection; the
gods were invoked on entering the battlefield, and individuals
"prayed" for anything they desired or needed. HAVE MODERNS
CHANGED IN THIS RESPECT? Do THEY NOT ASK GOD FOR
EVEN THE MOST FOOLISH THINGS—THINGS THEY COULD
READILY EARN FOR THEMSELVES? Human nature has not
changed one iota. The only change is in the name of the God
supplicated.
The ancient Egyptians led the sacred cow seven times around
the temple in the winter solstice. The cow produced food for
man and child, both in winter and summer, and this act was a
supplication for the producing months to return. The Bonzes
carried seven idols into seven different temples. The Brahmans
possessed seven prophetic rings, on each of which was engraved
the name of a planet. The Arabians invested each star with
seven rays, and seven priests bearing seven trumpets made of
rams' horns, encompassed the city of Jericho seven times for
seven days, and on the seventh day the massive walls tumbled
to the ground.
The number seven sometimes represents the seven planets
of the ancients; sometimes the seven constellations of the king
dom of heaven, or those comprehended in the arch of summer
resting upon the two equinoxes.
This arch and the two equinoxes are copied in the arch and
two pillars used in Masonry —the opposites, as in season and
sexes; in passions and symbolism. The seven churches and the
256 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
seven candlesticks represent the seven warm, producing, creative
months.
The seven spirits before the throne of On, mistranslated later
into Him, and the seven angels of the seven churches are again
the seven planets, as are the seven horns and the seven eyes of
the "lamb that stood as it had been slain."—Revelations 5:6.
It requires a thorough knowledge of the qualities inherent in
each planet to be able to clearly understand the symbology or
application in each instance in which the number seven is ap
plied, whether it represents the seven constellations or the
planets. The seven seals, the seven trumpets and the seven
vials were the various methods for labelling the baneful or
beneficent effects of each of the planets upon the world and
its people.
The number twelve was of the utmost importance among all
the mystical or symbolic numbers. Twelve has been recognized
as a perfect number, because of the twelve signs of the zodiac,
and what their inner meaning represents, comprehending within
themselves the entire circle of the heavens.
All of the twelve of theology are merely various forms of
representing the twelve houses of the sun. There are twelve
patriarchs; twelve tribes; twelve apostles; twelve foundations
to the New Jerusalem; twelve gates; twelve trees whose leaves
are for the healing of the nations; twelve Baals; twelve Ons;
twelve oxen, under the brazen laver in the temple; twelve
rivers in hell; twelve mansions in the moon; twelve shields
of Mars; twelve stones in Aaron's breastplate; twelve pillars
in the temple of Heliopolis; twelve altars of Janus; twelve
labors of Hercules; twelve great gods; twelve great angels in
heaven; twelve rays of the sun; twelve months of the year;
and the twelve signs of the zodiac.
Look where we will, beginning where we will, there always
were the twelve. The modern church has been unable to change
this and, at best, succeeded only in changing the names and
their application. In this, as in practically all phases of funda
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 257
mental religion, one may aptly apply the truism: "There is
nothing new under the sun," only eternal change.
The seven churches were, correspondingly, the seven con
gregations of the stars in the seven warm months in Asia, the
land of fire, or the heat of summer. As the church is adjudged
spiritual, a synonym for good, so must we consider the warm
months as good —to the benefit of mankind —hence good, or
Godly.
The seven anciently known churches, congregations of stars
or warm months, had their individual names as follows.
(1) Ephesus. This is the Gaelish name of the god Mars,
whence comes our English name for March. The Nazarene WAS
MADE TO SAY BY INTERPRETERS, "that he will come and re
move its candlesticks from out of their place." By the proces
sion of the equinoxes this constellation, nearly 400 years prior
to the Christian era, or more correctly, the Gnostic Christos
dispensation, was the first of the churches; but HAS been re
moved out of its place, and the vernal equinox, which was
then in the first degree of Aries, is at present found to have
left the second of the fishes.
(2) Thyutra. This means: I tread on frankincense —frankin
cense being offered to the sun when in the constellation of the
bull of April—this is our April.
(3) Philadelphia. This means brotherly love —the unequiv
ocal characteristic of the two loving brothers, the twins of May;
hence our May.
(4) Pergamos. This means heights, elevation, marriage by
fire. The sun's highest point of elevation is in this constella
tion, and dwells where Satan's head is. The hydra's head being
on the celestial globe, immediately under this church. Baalim's
ass is in this constellation, therefore the Nazarene-was made to
say: "Thou hast in thee those that hold the doctrine of Baalim,"
but nothing was done to remedy it. This is June.
(5) Sar-dis. This word is formed by the Ammonian primi
258 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
tive Sar, the rock, stone or pillar, and dis, God, afterwards
changed into Coptic, or ancient Phoenician word El-eon, the
sun; the being, and then naturalized into the Greek, Latin,
French and English word lion; this is the lion of July; who,
having been the lamb of the tribe of Gad or God of March,
appears here as the lion of the tribe of Judah, or July.
(6) Smyrna. This word signifies a bundle of myrrh, the
healing herb offering made to the sun in the virgin of August;
having reference to the fragrant flowers she holds in her hand,
and to the milk pail in the hand of the Isisomnia of Egypt;
the Indian Isa, and the Greeks Ceres; exemplifying the amorous
compliment in the songs of the loves of Christ and his church,
all patterned after the Songs of Solomon, such as "A bundle of
myrrh [fragrant and sweet-smelling] is my beloved to me." —
Songs of Solomon 1:13.
(7) Laodicea. This word comes from the Asiatic churches.
It represents the seventh and last month of the summer and
the word signifies the "just or righteous" people; living, as
they do, in the scales of justice {Libra,} the balances of Sep
tember, at which time the weather is neither cold nor hot,
but medium.
These seven Churches—or holy Congregations, i.e., the con
stellations that are in Asia—the land of fire—are included
within the two constellations which come together at the two
equinoctial points when the sun, twice a year, in his oblique
march in the ecliptic, comes to the line of the equator, as it
does in spring about the twenty-fifth of March and again in
autumn, about the twentieth of September, on what
is,
and
should be called, Michaelmas Day.
These two covenants are, respectively, the covenant of works,
and the covenant of grace; because spring
is
the season when
labor cultivates the earth so that there may be food to eat,
"only the laborer
is
worthy of his hire," or sustenance; and
autumn, the season for gathering in and enjoying the fruits
of labor.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 259
The Apostle stated it differently: "The one is from Mount
Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, and answereth to Jerusalem,
which now
is,
and
is
in bondage with her children." The
language
is
in parable, as used so frequently
by
the Nazarene
and His followers.
This
is
the vernal equinox when that point was in Taurus
the bull.
It
was time for putting the ox to the plough, and
during the reign of both the bull and the succeeding constella
tion of Gemini (her children) when mankind
is
under the
covenant of works, (NOT THE DEVIL'S INVENTION—SUB
SIDIES). According to the Divine Law, there can be no cessation
of the labors of husbandry, lest man himself cease to exist.
The covenant of grace (good things, or favors earned)
introduced
by
the fruitful mother of August,
is
Eleutheria, i.e,
LIBER —meaning "free," or to "be free;" of Bacchus.
It
is
the
covenant of enjoyment—enjoying that which one has earned —
when the fully ripened grapes are to be put into agony (the
wine press) in the garden to sweat out their precious blood,
into the cup of the fierceness of the fury of the wrath of Al
mighty God; because of the foolishness of man's intemperance.
In symbolism, that part of Revelations beginning with chap
ter six to the eleventh, inclusive,
is
an attempt
by
the writer
to illustrate the effects of the malign influences exerted upon
the earth and its people
by
the signs of evil import, the gods
of winter.
For the thoughtful,
it
is
easy to conceive how the early people
and the prophets who watched the starry hosts as they were
marshalled upon the heavenly plains and observed their various
arrangements —particularly while under the inspirational in
fluences of these "angels," spirits or messengers —would be
wrought up to the height of fiery poetry called inspiration,
a
state of emotional fervor that could find expression only in the
most exalted language, befitting the conception of sublime
imagery.
260 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
When the sun, moon, planets, and wintry constellations were
seen in peculiar conjunctions and relations to each other, it was
commonly believed, according to the accepted science of that
day and age, that calamities were about to be visited upon the
people. This was particularly true of the Jewish interpreters
who had no Initiate Priests to reveal to them the inner meaning
of what they saw in the outer symbolism.
The figures of the prophet were drawn from the planisphere,
mostly from the zodiac. Having no symbolism of their own,
they accepted that which had come down to them from Egypt
and other countries, hence the language employed: "star fell
from heaven; and to him [the star] was given the key to the
bottomless pit."
This star was Lucifer, Abaddon, Apollyon, Scorpio. This star
or constellation Scorpio "fell" from heaven when it had de
scended below the autumnal equinox; the five constellations
below the equinoxes being in the bottomless pit.
He opened the pit and amid the smoke there arose locusts
that had the power of scorpions and were permitted to torment
men as scorpions torment when they strike a man, and this was
to endure for five months.
In the Old Testament, this torment by locusts occurred only
once —in Egypt—where it was interpreted as both a punish
ment and a warning —a warning that those in slavery should
be given their freedom. The descent of Lucifer was a yearly
occurrence; a symbolization in the heavens, and had nothing
whatever to do with man's wickedness, or man's slavery.
To digress, the state of the earth, atmosphere and emanations
given off during the different seasons of the year, with their
changing influences, contribute to form the essence of the em
bryonic being before it sees the light of day. The inherent tend
encies of mind, body and Soulual qualities impressed by parental
laws, impart to the life germs their own peculiar idiosyncrasies
UNLESS GOVERNED AND MODIFIED BY THE WISDOM OF THE
PARENTS. The physical sustenance, mental temperament, the
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 261
employments, thoughts, desires, virtues and vices of every
mother, combine to impress, with fateful images, the unborn
offspring.
In addition to this, the order of the planetary scheme, and
the conjunction which every star sustains, first to the sun, then
to the earth, and finally to each other at the moment of mortal
birth, help to determine the nature of every Soul incarnate, and
to shape the destiny of the human creature — unless, we repeat,
this is modified by the wisdom of the parents.
Admitting the Soul's origin in Deity, and the astral spirit's
origin in the solar system, how vastly momentous to the newly-
born being's character and organism —if not influenced by the
wise direction of the parents —must be the solar and planetary
influences which prevail in the hour of the germ's inception!
Through every stage of embryonic life these influences continue
until the very moment when, drawn forth from out of the dark
ness of its embryonic prison, the new being is launched into
space as a living creature, with the inherent possibility of saving
or destroying a humanity.
Ages ago, the astronomers discovered that the vast crystal
vaults of the heavens, the illimitable fields of space, dotted with
millions of fiery sparks —so calm, so majestic, so immobile in
their solemn silence and mysterious beauty —all are moving ob
jects governed by system and order. They move in constant, but
ever-changing orbits. The certainty of these stupendous changes
was absolutely determined by the discovery of that remarkable
movement called "the procession of the equinoxes."
This is a motion which, in a given period of time, varying
between two and three thousand years, swept the blazing sun
of the solar system, with all its planetary hosts, from one sign
of the zodiac into another. Later on, in fact, up to almost the
immediate present, astronomical observations have determined
that all the stars of the sidereal heavens, gorgeous fields of
space, filled with coordinated suns and systems, speed on with
a momentum so stupendous that the minds of men shrink back,
262 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
awestruck, in attempting to trace those footprints of fire through
space.
Here millions of miles are measured by hours and minutes.
While the external aspect of these spangled heavens changes but
little to the eye of the observer during many centuries of time,
the real permanence of the scheme is apparent. The "only con
stant thing in the eternal is unrest."
This unrest can be traced in every glittering point of the side
real heaven and can be interpreted as "the only eternal is a con
stant change."
It is ever the same in the fixity of a matchless order, ever
changing in the spiral circles of ascending progress. This being
true, and science has not been able to disprove
it,
how inevitable
must be the endless changes of the Macrocosm as
it
affects the
nature of the Microcosm; hence man, the world in miniature,
partakes of the infinite complexity existing throughout the starry
skies.
There cannot be two planetary conjunctions in the field of
space which, in all respects, exactly duplicate each other. This
is
why those creatures, launched constantly into human activity,
under the influence of constantly varying astral changes, must
differ so widely from each other in all the essentials of physical,
mental, intellectual and spiritual (Soul) nature.
As the planets appear to return to stated points, and re-enact
their mystic — because not understood — conjunctions, in the
shining pathway of the zodiac, so there are recurrences of cer
tain types of character. As this
is
true of man, the Microcosm,
so
is
it
equally true of the Macrocosm, hence "history repeats
it
self," because of reversion to types and recurrences of the action
of the governing law; always, of course, with modifications.
These considerations or digressions may appear irrelevant to
the subject under discussion. Actually, they are of prime impor
tance, but they must be analyzed to be appreciated. Only then
is
the unaccustomed thinker able to comprehend why the motion
of
a
single point of fire, or light gleaming through the immen
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 263
sity of space, can affect man, OR FORETELL, as did the star seen
by the Magi, the onset of a new dispensation or the birth of the
Nazarene—the new interpreter of the Law —delineating the
character and destiny of an individual removed from its orbit
by incalculable distance.
All nature, animate and inanimate, moves, acts and responds
to /with a universal chord of sympathy connecting the whole.
The flights of birds wheeling in the air, the motion of the danc
ing butterfly, a quivering sunbeam, the crawling worm, the
humming of the bees; all have a deep meaning to the true
scholar and investigator. They even help to reveal the mystery
of the hieroglyphics, because the inventors of this form of writ
ing were nearer, and more closely attuned to all nature, than
men of modern times.
The more we study the past, the more we realize that instead
of being mere "pagans" and "heathens," the Chaldean and early
priests, the priests of the Druids of more modern times, per
ceived the destinies of nations in the smoking ashes of their
burnt offerings of herbs and incense.
The early Roman Augurs interpreted the issues of life and
death from the flight of the birds. The Persian Magi read the
coming events inscribed in the skies. Even our elderly women,
living away from civilisation, with their inability to read, knew
the use of the hundreds of herbs in forests and fields.
If we are fair in our appraisal of the evidence submitted, we
cannot help but realize that these people were natural philoso
phers; understood by feeling and sensing, the occult or hidden
side of nature. For the most part, they had a deeper knowledge
—not learning—than many modern scientists and intellectuals.
For thousands, tens of thousand of years, aye, aeons of time —
it was the duty of the best and wisest men of each generation
to devote their time and energy to the study of nature in her
profoundest depths. They watched her inner and outer mani
festations through all the mazes of her supernatural relations
with the visible and invisible spheres of the universe.
264 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The ancient philosophers believed in the existence of invisible
forces and devoted the feelings and desires of the heart to the
object of their search. Their minds and physiques, prepared and
fitted for this work by a life of temperance, chastity and purity—
they were capable of sensing, feeling that which was real and
that which was false.
Before concluding our interpretations it is well to consider
several of the mysteries or legends of the Apocalypse and the
Old Testament. One of these is "the woman clothed with the
sun, with the moon under her feet," which has a reality both in
the Heavenly drama and in the process of Initiation —bringing
the individual Soul into the consciousness of its Godhood.
By observing a map of the heavens, we will see in the virgin
of August all the traits and peculiarities ascribed to this "woman
clothed with the sun." The two wings, which we see in our
modern planispheres, were mentioned in the astronomical works
of antiquity, MUCH EARLIER than the writing of the Apocalypse.
It was she who gave birth to the new sun or God, as Mary did
to the new Saviour of later days, the Nazarene.
The ancient birth of the sun occurred just after midnight, not
on one Christmas morning, but on each successive Christmas
morning. She (the Virgin) was IN FACT, clothed with the sun,
moon was under her feet.
As she rises at the time of the "passover," she is accompanied
by Hydra, while the Dragon of the pole, the symbol of Winter,
casts out of his mouth the waters of the equinoctial storm as a
flood after the woman, but the earth helped the woman for,
as she rises, the river Eridanus sets in the west, swallowing up
the earth, as it were, or as John says: "the earth opened her
mouth and swallowed up the flood."
This the earth actually does, astronomically, every spring by
the setting of Eridanus and by absorbing the winter's rains or
moisture for the growth of vegetation in Spring.
In an inner sense, the esoteric prototype, the "woman clothed
with the Sun," is the Soul after it has attained spiritual or Cos
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 265
mic consciousness and, like the astral woman, has for its symbol
the globe WITH TWO WINGS.
Other mysteries are the sun and moon held bound in their
course; Elijah's flight to heaven, which interpreted, has as great
a spiritual significance as the "woman clothed with the sun,"
and Jonah's adventurous sea voyage. Gliddon, a recognized
authority, tells us that the phrase stand still is not a correct
translation of the original, but that the whole should read:
"Abide thou sun in Gibeon, and thou, O moon, in the valley of
Ajalon be most resplendent."
As so frequently mentioned, the twelve constellations were in
Egyptian called On; consequently, Gibe-ow and Ajal-o» were
the names of two of the constellations and both the sun and
the moon were in the constellations.
The name Elijah was composed of three monosyllables, each
of which separately was the name of a Deity. El was the name
of the sun in Hebrew. We recall that El was also the name of
the God that the Nazarene called upon while passing through
the supreme agony. The sun at that moment was covered by
dense clouds and darkness and, in the enveloping darkness, he
had need for light.
"I" was another name for Deity when represented as THE
GREAT / am. Jah or Yah, lah or Ah, means "the Most High."
He represented the sun passing up the summer solstice. The
sun was El at Christmas, Eli at the equinox, and Elijah at the
summer solstice; he thus became El-I-sha. Elijah is said to have
been carried to heaven in a chariot of fire. This is in accordance
with the ancient legends of the sun; the sun having its chariot,
the fiery steeds and charioteer.
Symbolically and esoterically, it is the human Soul, which,
having become completely spiritualized and successful in trans
muting the gross matter of the flesh, is now transported to the
beyond, call it heaven or what we will, without the necessity of
passing through the ordeal of physical death.
It will be readily understood that the two astral happenings;
266 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the "Woman [with wings] clothed with the sun" and "Elijah's
flight to heaven in a chariot of fire" (in light ) , fit together and
are part and parcel of the sublime work of Philosophic Initia
tion; the solution of the Greater Mysteries.
Hercules, the sun, ended his eventful life by ascending to
heaven amid the flames of his funeral pyre. In Guide's great
painting of the chariot of the sun, he represents Phoebus, the
charioteer, as a young man with flowing hair. Hair, as noted
in the story of Samson, is symbolic of the sun's rays, an emblem
of strength. After Elijah ascended, his mantle fell upon El-i-sha,
pictured as a bald-headed man; symbolic of the sun having
passed the summer solstice, entering the period when it
loses its heat and strength. Elijah was the summer sun; Elisha
the autumn sun.
Referring again to Jonah, we find that his name, like that of
Elijah, consisted of three of the names of the sun: /, the one;
On, the being, and En, the
fir
e,
spirit or life. His name in Greek,
like the English John, was spelled I-aon-es.
In ancient symbology there were distinct suns—the sun at
different times, but named as though they were distinctly differ
ent entities. Jonah
is
represented as fleeing from the summer
sun and
is
found among the storms of winter, until he is finally
swallowed up
by
the sea monster.
Here he called upon God from the belly, or from hell, and
as will be noted, the winter solstice finds him down in the depths
among the fishes; the lowest department of the bottomless pit,
where he
is
compelled to lie still during the three days that end
on Christmas morning, exactly in the bowels of the water goat;
in close proximity to the constellation of the great whale.
The ancients celebrated the birth of the sun —their life-
giver or means of salvation —or new year, on our Christmas.
Early in the morning the Hierophant or priest exhibited
a
babe
in its cradle to the multitude to denote that their saviour, the
new year's sun, was born (reborn) . Twelve days after Christmas
they had their Epiphany, i.e., EPI-PHANES, from Phanes, the
Persian name for the sun, because on that day the sun became
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 267
manifest to the naked eye, indicating that the newly arisen sun
had commenced its journey toward the northern hemisphere.
It is easy to demonstrate how closely related are the ancient
story of the divine drama in heaven and the Christian mythology
as practiced today. The believers in the vicarious atonement fix
their saviour's birth on Christmas, the day on which all ancient
gods —whatever the nation—were born. His death occurs at
the precise time when the Egyptian calf, which became the
Jewish lamb, was crucified on, or in, the cross of the vernal
equinox.
The celebration of the fast of Lent, like the ancient fast of
Ramadan of the Mohammedans, was thrown out of its proper
place by some unknown cause. The fast itself celebrated the
passage of the sun from the constellation Aquarius, symbolic of
flesh, through the sign of the fishes, which THOUGH ACTUALLY
IDOLATRIC, is the proper food for the "faithful" of the church,
until it enters the constellation of the lamb; a period of forty
days.
In modern times, the fast, instead of commencing at the cor
rect time, has become a movable affair; made dependent upon
the phases of the moon of the equinox and is as certainly the
worship of Isis as it was in the beginning of Isis worship.
The assumption of the Virgin takes place on the fifteenth of
August; the precise period at which the sun has reached the
center of the virgin of August, and absorbed her in /by the
glory of the sun.
The nativity takes place in September, at the precise period
when the sun, having entered Libra, passes below the great toe
of the same virgin. Now her earthly career commences; she,
being born of the sun, is preceding from him; emerging from
his rays; therefore, is sun born—divine, and it is both right and
proper that she should be decreed immaculate; that
is,
pure,
spotless and not one of the common or "fallen" race. The error
is
in making of the heavenly virgin
a
human creature.
268 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
ADDENDA
The Order or Religion of the Heavens
Curly le said: "It is through symbols that man consciously or
unconsciously lives, moves and has his being. Those ages moreover,
ate accounted the noblest which can best recognize symbolic worth and
prize it at its highest."
I HERE is no possibility of understanding symbology,
myth, allegory, legend, the ancient dramas and writ
ings from whence came the Bible, or sacred literature
and Masonry's dramatization, without beginning with the very
dawn of creation and the forty-eight constellations whose
boundaries were established, and their corresponding figures
drawn around them by the divine teachers of men.
Origen declared that in the time of Enoch the constellations
were already named and divided. The Book of ]ob, the most
occult and most ancient of the Bible, speaks of the "sweet in
fluence" of the Pleiades, the bands of Orion, Arcturus and his
sons, Behemoth, Leviathan, and the fleeting Serpent of Mazza-
roth with its seasons, stations and stopping places.
This is the solar zodiac and, certainly, Job did not consider
this a pagan thought, or as belonging to heathen religion. As
tronomy was an advanced, if not a perfect science in Job's day.
Modern astronomical scientists have not added anything to the
science. Rather, they have brought about confusion and frustra
tion through attempts to measure it by modern methods or pres
ent-day standards.
Although God said: "Let there be light in the firmament of
the heavens to divide the day from the night, and let them be
for signs and for seasons and for days and years," nevertheless,
we, perhaps thinking ourselves wiser than the Creator of these
signs, have rejected them as evidence of ignorance and supersti
tion. We have too long regarded ancient symbolism and the
270 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
religion founded on the DRAMA OF HEAVEN as paganism.
Esoteric science and an exposition of the Greater Mysteries warn
us to recognize the significance of these signs, for from them we
may learn that the phenomena alluded to by Matthew foretell
the changes of the ages taking place approximately every two
thousand, one hundred and forty-five years, when the /our sun
passes into a new constellation.
As this orb is now on the upward path of the spiral, we must
realize that, in the new era, false teachings, represented by the
"old Serpent whose tail takes up a third of the sky," will pass
away. Then, in place of creed and dogma, there will be substi
tuted a spiritual concept or practice such as was known to ancient
Initiates and as exemplified in the life and teachings of the
Nazarene.
Instinctively, the thinking ones turn to the language of signs
and symbols, as the constellations change before their wonder
ing eyes; expecting the un-sealing of the stars and of the mys
ticism of the Bible as foretold by Isaiah: "And the vision of all
is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which
men deliver to one that is learned, saying, 'Read this, I pray
thee; and he saith I cannot: for it is sealed.'
"—Isaiah 29:11.
God has been worshipped only by lip services, and not IN the
heart. The wisdom of the wise men has almost perished and
restoration will be possible only in this new era and new Dis
pensation. In this prophecy we realize the passing of the
present system of education, together with the constellation of
the Dragon, and the revival of the Mysteries or spiritual
religion.
As the Dragon symbolized dogma and creeds, and the dis
agreement and confusion so universal today, it has also, through
out the ages, warned the observing ones to ever guard the Mys
teries from the profane.
Elimination of the false constellations, which modern astron
omers have attempted to add to the original forty-eight, shows
us that these supposedly grotesque figures tell a story. This
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 271
story, as dramatic prophecy, existed throughout long ages, while
man enacted the story individually, racially, and as a pilgrim
seeking for something he knew not what.
This story or divine drama, the ancients wisely divided into
twelve great "books" with forty-eight "chapters." These "books"
are the twelve zodiacal signs which, with the decans of three
minor constellations to a sign, made up the "chapters."
The time for "reading" or enactment, of the heavenly drama
was determined, NOT BY THE DECREE OF ANY PERSON, but by
a PREDESTINED GOVERNMENT BASED ON ABSOLUTE LAW—
the movements of the sun through the procession of the
equinoxes around the mystic and yet little understood Pleiades
and Alcyone, the Center of the universe.
Whether we be pagans, heathens or Christians, we cannot
deny that man's earthly fate was determined by the movements
of these heavenly bodies. Had any of the planets failed by a
second, chaos would have been the result; and, unless there is
no law, God himself could not have stayed the destruction.
With each recurring change from one constellation to
another, there appears the warning sign of the cross in the sun
and moon and, with
it,
a
leader, guide or teacher to reconstruct,
purify and remind man of his mission on earth; of the fleeting
years of man's incarnations and the earth's closing ages. In
each age, these Avatars have met with persecution and cruci
fixion, in one form or another, and death, under the rule of the
Dragon —the symbol of false teachers, selfishness, power, pos
session, madness and the evil accumulations of the ages.
THE STORY
The age-old story of the Drama of the heavens
is
told
symbolically in legend and allegory, in the sacred books of
times and nations, and in
a
slightly changed version, in the
Christian Bible.
The story revolves around three main characters: 1) The
Divine Maid, or church eternal in the heavens.
2
)
The Serpent,
272 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
betrayer of good, purveyor of false teachings which deceive all
nations, because men are blinded by selfishness. (The Serpent
threatens the Maid about to bring forth the child, or Truth that
would save.) The Christos, who became man, appearing from
age to age, and who becomes the Son of God. Then, as both Son
of God and rescuing Knight ( Percivale ) of the Divine Maid, he
frees her from the wiles of the Serpent, drinking always of the
Holy Grail, the cup of sacrifice, ere he gives up his earthly vest
ment upon the cross, at the hands of the evil leaders and be
trayers of the people.
The eternal enmity between the Woman, her divine Son,
(the white Knight) and the Serpent — whose head they to
gether will eventually crush beneath their heels—is the main
characteristic of the fight of the race, AND OF EACH INDIVIDUAL,
for Immortality, by conquest of ALL THAT is EVIL, BOTH
within AND without themselves. In this is depicted the great
Master of which the heavens are constantly telling us.
Here we find the origin of the symbolism which is interwoven
throughout the Old Testament as the history of men and in
dividuals, and in the New Testament as the living acts of men
and of prophecies and promises made. It is the source of all so-
called pagan myths, but, fortunately, was not, is not, a myth, as
at least every astronomer knows, because the "play" is con
stantly before their eyes.
In the unsealing of the mysterious movements of the stars all
religions meet, though in different tempo: Ancient Egyptian,
Chaldean, Assyrian, Arabic, Hindoo, Druidic, Zoroastrian, Peru
vian, Aztec, Greek, Roman and Toltec; all speak the one uni
versal language of the Soul's striving for ever-lasting life.
We read in the stars the origin of Isis and Osiris, Perseus and
Andromeda, Typhon the Serpent, the Virgin, Joseph and the
Christos; the story of Hiram Abiff and his three traitors; Saint
George and the Dragon; the rites of Mithra and the mass of
the Roman church, as well as the first presentation of the drama
of all ages, races and civilizations.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 273
All this applies to the life of the individual man, as it must
if he, as an individual, is to be "saved." The story is a portrayal
for each human being as potentially Christic; who, as a Soul
Spark, came from God as a Divine Spark that, through struggles
with the Serpent (earthly-carnal temptations) through ages of
incarnations, must be built, or brought into consciousness.
To tread the Serpent under the heel, to recognize the Divine
Maid, and become her knight errant, or Sir Percivale, to bring
forth the sleeping Christ os in the Soul, beset by temptations and
traitors, is the part that must eventually be played by every actor
in the grand drama.
Each actor enters the strife when he "falls" or makes the
descent from "on high" into matter. With each incarnation he
"falls" again; struggles for a short time, symbolically returns to
"His Father's house" to rest—again to hear the call; drink of
the waters of Lethe, or forgetfulness —and re-enters the earth
plane once more for another lesson in the warfare against the
Serpent and its evils. At last, if finally defeated by the Serpent,
his Soul returns to the God who gave
it,
and his personality dies
the eternal death; for
is
it
not written: "The Soul [personality]
that sinneth,
it
shall die." But
if
the Soul
is
victorious, attains
Immortality, Consciousness of its Godhood, then: "Even
greater works than these shall ye do" in the Divine Drama of
the Ages and men.
THE ANCIENT CONSTELLATIONS
In the most ancient maps, the zodiac was presented as
a
ser
pent banding the earth
by
holding its tail in its mouth. The
band was sixteen degrees wide and, owing to the earth's move
ment around the sun, appeared partly above the equator for six
months and below
it
for the other half of the year. The ancient
Wise Men had basic scientific reasons for assigning the constel
lations and for drawing the figures around each.
In this manner certain principles were represented and defi
nite laws formulated, with which, or
by
which, the record could
be read. The twelve great "volumes" in which the grand sym
274 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
bolic drama was written were comprised, as previously stated,
of the twelve major constellations, modified by three others
each, making up the total of forty-eight.
These volumes set forth the whole story of man's evolution
from spirit to angel-hood, by races, nations and individuals, as
the sun marked time in an ever-ascending spiral until it reached
the apex. Here it remained a thousand years, and then returned
with a corresponding "day" at the lower turn of the spiral.
VIRGO
Virgo symbolizes the great mother principle in the bringing
forth, hence stands at the opening of the twelve "volumes." This
is the Divine Maid with angel wings carrying the sheaf of wheat
in one hand, and the "Promised Seed," in which is set the Star
Spica that announced to the seers the advent of a "Saviour," or
the coming forth —or once again —the Christos. In her other
hand she carries the branch so often referred to, under the sym
bol, as Christ. This sonamed branch is one of Virgo's decans or
ten days of the month. Some philosophers speak of the smaller
constellations as "the Desired One."
It is to be understood as representing the Christos, or Christ
principle; Cosmic Force; the Ineffable Fire of all universes, or
the "Lamb that was slain," and not infrequently as the Saviour
who manifests in the flesh from age to age. To the individual
actor upon the stage, it is his goal, the Divine Spark, the Christos
within himself developed into Consciousness; the gaining of
Immortality; the Holy Grail manifested.
Centaurus' victim, a smaller serpent constellation slain under
the dart of the man-horse, stands as the second decan in Virgo,
while Joseph (Bootes) is the third. In Joseph we have Wisdom
as the guardian or shepherd of the Holy Family, and presented
in starry allegory as the origin of all the forms of the Virgin
and Son of all times and races.
Applied to the human race, it implies that a Christ-like
fatherhood and holy motherhood may bring forth a perfect
child. To the individual, the symbolization stands for the mind
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 275
as creative power; the spirit as receptive power. The two to
gether bring about the Immortalization of the Soul, or Divine
Spark allotted to each normal human being. Understanding
this, we should not be surprised to learn that ancient Egypt had
its Isis, Osiris and Horus, while the Druids, Mexicans, Persians
and other peoples had one form or another of this ancient starry
group, ages before the Christian era enshrined it as their Mary
and her Christ child.
In Virgo is found the origin of the sun and moon legends of
all time. In the constellation we see unfolding the idea of the
so-called "fall," for it passes below the horizon in the Fall, fol
lowed by Bootes or Joseph, all passing from sight as the earth
swept into the age of heroes; from the age of virgin born races,
to the age of men; finally to the age of brute men at the lowest
point of the spiral. The birth of Esau and Jacob marked an
important turn of the upward cycle, and with Jacob, came Israel
(not the Jewish, as so many erroneously believe) or Virgin
church.
In Genesis the church is personified as the twelve tribes of
Israel, which, as a race, shall evolve and lead the nations upward
'
toward a new Golden Age when Virgo, the Divine Maid, Israel,
the Church, Bride and Mother of the Christos, shall crown the
great cycle by appearing again with Spica, Star of the East, to
herald the coming of the New Age of Christos—Individualized,
God-Conscious man.
Virgo and her companion decans especially represent woman;
trodden under foot for countless centuries, but as the mother
of wisely-begotten men, rises and demands a perfect and
Knightly manhood which she helps to bring forth.
With Virgo, woman and her descendants will crush under
foot the old Serpent, while man, in the background as Joseph,
guards and aids. When Virgo finally stands upright, the race
of heroes then embodied will merge into a race of virgin
(purely) born gods. In twelve-tribed Israel, the tribe of Benja
276 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
min, born of the beloved Rachel, was alloted to Virgo and
September.
LIBRA
Libra follows Virgo, both in the great cycle and in the year
cycle. It indicates balancing of the conditions which influence
the human race after Virgo's decline; equal day and night in the
autumn, and equipoise in a human being, born at this time of
year. To this sign is given the decan of the Southern Cross, a
constellation not seen in North America except in the Southern
states. It consists of four stars in the form of a cross. This was
the constellation said to have hung above Jerusalem at the time
of the crucifixion. It is the sign of conquest over the flesh and
evil forces.
The second decan in Libra is the Northern Cross, a symbol of
victory over the physical. It is the reward of the cross of the
South, or love. The crown which the Knight is attempting to
win is threatened by the Serpent, but the third decan of Libra,
the Centaur, riding upon the great horse, uses his dart to kill
the Serpent first met in Virgo. The tribe of Reuben was allotted
to Libra and October, while tradition asserts that the people of
Reuben were a red-haired people.
SCORPIO
Drawn as a noxious insect with its tail uplifted to sting,
Scorpio is supported by a Serpent and two knights of the Grail;
Ophiuchus and Hercules, the strong man. The first Knight was
stung in the heel by the Serpent, but he bravely crushes it with
the other foot, while Hercules, the second Knight, also wounded
in the heel, holds the other foot in readiness above the serpent's
head, bending his own to receive the Northern Crown; a club
in one hand and a branch of conquest or peace in the other.
No more deadly symbols are set in any one constellation than
in the group of Scorpio, covering, as they do, the most important
teachings concerning the struggle of the individual man at the
north door of the temple; the physical. It is symbolical that if
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 277
man permits the sex principle to dominate him, the inner, or
spiritual Light dies out. Torpor and death finally result, and he
slips down the ladder of incarnations. The Divine Maid is left
undefended and defeat faces her.
The ancient church assigned Scorpio to November. Through
the principle represented, all Souls must enter the earth stage
to run their course, and of this month she set the climax as
October twenty-ninth, Hallowe-en, the one night the "devil" is
supposed to be unrestrained.
The form-al church has been in the toils of Scorpio beginning
with the period when it departed from the esoteric teachings of
ancient Israel. Its members and the nations who call themselves
by its various names, violated the most holy principles of the
Holy Grail. In the great cycle the "fall" follows the decline of
Virgo and Libra.
November brings in the meteoric "fall" of stars, while the
sun declines in the old sun myths, toward his cave of December
twenty-second. The sun will then return with the spring, and
the ancient church, whose reminder we still celebrate on All
Souls' Eve, clearly points out to us, from the starry allegory, the
victory of Ophiuchus and Hercules over the Serpent principle.
The priesthoods of Simeon and Levi were originally assigned
to Scorpio and November, and of them Jacob said: "Instruments
of cruelty are in their habitations. I will divide them in Jacob
and scatter them in Israel."
SAGITTARIUS
Sagittarius is the steed ridden by the white Knight Perseus
when he rescues Andromeda, the Divine Maid, from the chains
which bind her under the threatening Dragon. His decans are
Draco, the great Dragon of the Apocalypse and Ara, the Altar,
together with Lyra, the Eagle, with the harp of thirteen strings.
Andromeda is the daughter of the king and queen of Ethio
pia, the celestial country; symbolizing the "church in chains."
Draco represents dogmas and creeds which have enchained her,
278 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
rather than sex debasement, as figured by the Serpent constella
tion of Scorpio and Virgo; Draco winds himself down from the
polar star.
According to St. John, Draco's tail takes up a third part of the
heavens. In his head is set the mysterious evil star, Algol. Draco
acts as guardian, however, of the Mysteries, hiding them from
those unable to understand, while they may be revealed, through
his dogmatic veil, to those whose clear sight enables them to
penetrate the veil. The head of Draco is drawn as appearing
between the Bears major and minor; sometimes called the
sheepfold.
The eagle symbolizes freedom; the thirteen-stringed harp the
completion of the great age; the ultimate of the eagle and
thirteen "stars," as also the joy following the reaching of Shiloh.
When the Dragon is defeated, Israel comes to her own and
the Altar is overturned, pouring fire from heaven upon the
favored country, America, and her mixed people, to which coun
try these constellations are assigned.
The esoteric schools allot Levi to Sagittarius, although the
Bible erroneously groups Levi with Simeon. In this ruling of
December, the sun sinks into its manger, which is the origin of
the Christmas legends and symbolism.
Every nation and every people have had their Christ, except
the church of the Jews. St. John's eve is celebrated by Masonry,
as it was in the ancient Christmas festival. This was an impor
tant event to the northern nations, for they were in darkness
several days at this time. At the death of Osiris or the sun god,
the priests assured the people that Isis would again bring him
forth, which she did, and this, for the Egyptians, was the north
ern myth or Perseus and Andromeda.
CAPRICORNUS THE GOAT
The constellation of Capricornus, also assigned to America
by the esoteric Initiates, shows a goat sinking down as if dying,
while the decans are Sagitta with the arrow; Aquilla, the eagle
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 279
said to be the symbol of Mexico, later to be united to America,
and Delphinus, the Dolphin springing from the sea.
Death has now come to the eagle through the arrow of
Sagitta; death being the expression for the whole group of con
stellations, except that of Delphinus. The ancient year closed
when the sun went into his cave, hence this symbol indicates a
"bringing over" from the preceding group of the Christmas
constellations. The Dolphin suggests the new year.
Sagittarius and Capricornus stand for the ancient Atlantis;
destroyed; but forecasting its rising again in America and Mex
ico while, oddly enough, the tribe of Joseph is allotted to the
constellation of Capricornus.
According to Biblical lore, Joseph's inheritance was given by
Jacob to his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, who stand re
spectively for America and the Shiloh, or the rest that shall
close the great cycle after the consummation.
America, as Manasseh, becomes the refuge for the Divine
Maid, the Woman of Revelations when she flees from the pres
ence of the Dragon with the child, Truth, to the wilderness.
Verily, "Joseph is a fruitful bough whose branches run over the
wall; from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel."
This is the white stone with the All-Seeing eye; it is the
Shepherd of divine Israel; THE ANCIENT CHURCH esoterically
active in Egypt where Joseph took the Nazarene to prepare him
for his mission, which was to be among all the peoples of earth;
refused by the Jews because they would not accept the Christos.
AQUARIUS
The treacherous south door of the temple of man is the stage
upon which is played his life's drama. The ancients symbolized
this activity by water, because it is never at rest. Water is the
symbol of the mind which we put off at death, as we would a
garment, reclothing ourselves with a new mind at each re
incarnation.
We find the mind a most difficult asset to master and, through
280 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
it,
the Serpent succeeds easily in leading us astray.
A
change of
mind,
a
baptism
by
water in the Aquarian Age
is
recommended
to us
by
the Initiates of old;
a
change that will restore the reign
of Virgo, the Divine Maid. This constellation
is
the waterman
pouring out water freely upon the earth.
Further reminders of the great drama are given in the decans
of Aquarius, as in the Southern Fish drinking in more mind at
the stream of wisdom. The fish was the first sign of the early
church, but was superseded
by
the cross, though women, too,
played
a
leading part in the legends and parables of the
Nazarene.
The famous white steed, Pegasus, as the second decan, speeds
with the good news of the drinking of wisdom that shall result
in the return of the Divine Maid, the restoration of esoteric
science and the Arcane Mysteries by which alone man
is
en
abled to attain to the ultimate.
The third decan
is
the White Swan, flying, with the Cross on
its breast. Interpreted
by
Arcane science, this teaches us that in
the Aquarian age man will accept the truth, establish his God
like inheritance; free himself from the domination of evil;
eliminate the ungodly and selfish from high places and,
by
his
own mastery, establish peace on earth —
a
peace which, accord
ing to Isaiah, especially applies to America and the acceptance
of Christos symbolized
by
the Eagle who
is
always ON HIGH.
Through the cross, symbolizing sacrifice of all that
is
un
desirable, unworthy and temporal, man will liberate himself
and his own Soul at the same time that he frees the Divine Maid
of her shackles, as shadowed forth
by
the White Swan, and the
winged steed Pegasus speeding with the news to the rest of the
world —not
by
the sword, but
by
the assurance that he
is
fully
prepared to battle with, and overcome, all evil.
The month of February and the tribe of Dan are allotted to
Aquarius, and the ancient legend gave the coat of arms of the
Danaus of Greece as
a
white horse treading
a
serpent under foot.
The Knights of St. George especially followed this symbolism
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 281
as a personal application, and of the tribe of Dan, Jacob said:
"Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that
biteth the horse's heel, so that his rider shall fall backwards."
PISCES THE FISHES
Pisces shows two fishes swimming north and south, binding
head and feet of the zodiacan man, as well as representing the
equal day and night of the spring equinox. They were upheld
by the Band as a first decan, which is doubled and held fast to
Cetus the Whale or sea monster, of Aries.
The second decan is Cepheus the branch; the third Andro
meda in Chains. The Band signifies the conjoining principles
of nature; the union of head and feet; of Wisdom and the
physical.
Cepheus, the branch, is the foundation of all myths concern
ing the Christos of the Gnostic Christians, and the Christ of the
form-al Christians or church, or Adonis —in reality the God of
Light or the Light PERSONIFIED through which/whom God is
always said to have appeared to man.
Cepheus is also a figure for God, as king of the celestial
country known as Ethiopia in the ancient Initiation in which
were enacted the great dramas of the rescue of Andromeda from
the Sea Monster by Perseus, the Knight of the Grail. Cepheus
stands with his foot upon the pole of the heavens with the
branch of peace in one hand.
The Divine Maid must suffer the advances of Cetus until
freed by the good Knight Perseus, when she will be betrothed
to him in the presence of her father, Copheus, and her mother,
Cassiopeia.
Cepheus, the virgin-born son, is to conquer the flesh, to win
the victory over the sensual, free the Andromeda within His
OWN SOUL from the snares which entangle it. Then will be given
to the hero the celestial vision, kingship of the heaven within;
while Perseus also frees the Andromeda within, and becomes
282 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
the bridegroom, receiving the highest honors that may be con
ferred by the Chair of Cassiopeia.
IT WILL BE RECOGNIZED THAT THOUGH THIS IS THE
CONSTANT DRAMA OF THE HEAVENS, IT IS ALSO THE
DRAMA OF THE HUMAN SOUL, COMPOSED OF GOOD AND
MUCH EVIL, PART MASCULINE AND PART FEMININE, EN
DEAVORING TO FREE ITSELF FROM THE CARNAL PAS
SIONS WHICH HOLD IT IMPRISONED. ON THE BASIS OF
THIS DOUBLE DRAMA, THAT OF THE HEAVENS AND OF
THE HUMAN SOUL, ALL RELIGIOUS FORMS WERE PAT
TERNED AFTER TO BEGIN WITH, THEN CHANGED IN
FORM AS MAN PHYSICALLY AND MENTALLY (in COn-
CCpt) DEVELOPED.
Naphtali was the Israelite tribe assigned to Pisces, and of him
Jacob said: "Naphtali is a mind let loose; he gives goodly
words." The month of March (the legendary hare of March)
belongs to Pisces.
ARIES THE RAM
Andromeda's mother, wife of Cepheus, is the figure drawn
from the first decan of the Ram. Cassiopeia represents intuition,
and woman (the feminine) as its highest expression, but her
chair has for many ages been overturned and empty; showing
that recognition of the intuitive principle has been almost un
known to the races of the past. The ancient Britons called their
supreme chair of national justice Cassiopeia's Chair, and ad
ministered the law by intuitional judgment.
Cetus, the sea monster, closely bound by the Lamb, is the
second decan in the constellation group. He furnishes the
original of the many allusions to the "Lamb that was slain from
the foundation of the world"; ages before even the Egyptians
had a formal religion and esoteric Initiation. This "slaying"
first took place in the drama of the heavens and religions copied
the heavenly plan as a religious practice.
Other peoples did likewise; changing names and practices to
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 283
suit circumstances and conditions. Finally this ancient Lamb
became the "Lamb" of the modern church, symbolizing the
Nazarene and his mission of peace and good-will and the be
ginning of the Christian dispensation.
This Lamb of the heavenly Drama is closely bound to Cetus.
It upholds the fishes of Pisces, symbolizing inability to dis
tinguish between wisdom and sensuality; thus far, contrary to
the outcome of the drama of heaven, which is obedient to the
Law, sensuality has held the winning hand among men.
Perseus, the armed and mighty Knight with the winged feet
figures as the third decan, holding aloft the cut-off head of the
Monster, with its writhing, snaky hair, in the one hand, while
he brandishes a sword in the other. He has rescued Andromeda,
the Divine one, from her chains, restored the Soul within him
self —as all men finally must by their own efforts, and NOT
through the efforts of the church —by the "sword" applied to
the lower or carnal self. This accomplished, man presents him
self as ready for the betrothal before the king and queen of
heaven.
This heavenly drama was humanized in ages past and enacted
before the people in the ancient temples of Persia, Greece and
the British Isles. The esoteric significance was unveiled only to
the Initiates—the few—and not to the masses who, as in the
Nazarene's time, could be taught only in parable.
Aries was given to Gad as a coat of arms by Jacob, and of
him he said: "A troup shall overcome him, but he shall pre
vail at the last." April is the month of Aries.
TAURUS THE BULL
This constellation is important, for it contains the mystic
Pleiades1 Dante alludes to it as the white rose. Under the
sweet influence of the Pleiades, the red rose of love turns to the
white rose of purity. For ages unknown, the seventh star in this
(1) Consult THE INITIATES AND THE PEOPLE, Philosophical Publishing Com
pany, Quakertown, Penna.
284 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
band of little sisters was invisible, but it can now be plainly seen
with the naked eye. Here the first decan Orion, a glorious prince,
has crossed the second, the river of Eridanus, tortuous and
baffling, and in his efforts to aid the Divine Maid, he has, at
last, in belted triumph, with sword in hand, set his foot upon
the Serpent.
Auriga, the Wagoner, the third decan, is a constellation of
which little has been written. It symbolizes the Good Shepherd
carrying a mother goat and kids upon his left arm with bands
in his right hand. On the windows of many church edifices may
be studied this figure of Christ as the Good Shepherd. Taurus
and the mystic Pleiades hung over Egypt when the Great
Pyramid was built, and whose mate today stands ruined and
almost forgotten in Yucatan.
When the white stone was carried forward by the tribe of
Joseph, the Britons, under Jacob's decree that Joseph should be
the keeper of the Grail, the sign of Taurus followed him as the
ruling sign of the British Isles, and to this day, and for this
reason, Briton is called John Bull. The Arcanum of the Myster
ies sealed in the symbolism of this constellation are only re
vealed to those who, like Orion, cross over the "tortuous river
and put the Serpent under their heel."
The tribe given to Taurus is Asher, out of whom has come
many an Anglo-Saxon colony. Jacob said: "Out of Asher, his
beard shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties." The people
of Briton have been grossly betrayed by those who follow the
Serpent instead of the Grail of the Lamb, and are in great
danger of losing their entire heritage. The month of May is
assigned to Taurus.
GEMINI THE TWINS
East of Taurus, on the other side of the Milky Way, sit Castor
and Pollux, where the year, rising in the full tide of spring,
pauses at June 22nd, for midsummer eve. This night was an
important part of the ancient church ceremonies and in primi
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 285
five Masonry was celebrated as the feast of St. John —the op
posite of that of the St. John celebrated at Christmas. The point
within a circle with the vertical line on each side, marking the
shortest and the longest, continues to indicate the ancient scien
tific system.
Another Serpent is set in Gemini that we may never forget
his royal presence within ourselves. Orion is bravely treading
him underfoot, while Canis Major, the great dog or Prince Com
ing, and Canis Minor, the second dog following Sir Sirius, com
plete the decans of Gemini.
The tribe of Issachar is given to Gemini and June, loveliest of
all months, and his father said: "Isachar is a strong ass
crouching down between two burdens. And he saw the rest was
good, and the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his should
ers to bear, and became a servant unto tribute."
CANCER THE CRAB
The decans of the Crab constellation are more in evidence in
literature and symbology than Cancer. The two Bears, known
familiarly as Great and Little Dippers, are the first and second
decans, and occupy a position in the northern heavens which
precludes their setting. They swing from age to age around the
pole star, which is part of the lesser group. They have been
called the Sheepfolds in connection with Arcturus the Shepherd.
The Druids, well versed in astronomical science, called the
Great Bear "Charle's Wain," because it was ever in apparition
like the Christic teachings, though veiled and smothered under
by false teachings, creeds and dogmas. The esoteric or Arcanum
was known only to a few of their greatest Initiates; just as the
Messianic inculcations were known only to the Nazarene's
followers.
"Sheepfold," as a word applied to the Dippers, implies the
"shelter of the people who blindly enact the great drama
through the ages," while the Dragon's head thrusts itself be
tween as guardian of the Mysteries.
286 THE MYSTERIES OF OSIRIS
The Dippers are peculiarly allotted to the Christos of the
Nazarene and His church throughout all church symbology. The
third decan in Cancer is Argo, the Ark. Here is the original of
Noah's Ark which bore over from the elder Golden Age the
Arcane teachings, while Noah is the Biblical name of Mel-
chizedek,2 the true High Priest of Genesis, who brought his
"children," the true teachings of the Law, into the new or next
dispensation following him.
The Argonauts, in Search of the Golden Fleece, were an early
band of Knights seeking the Holy Grail, and ancient Arcane
knowledge of the Helio-Arkite teachings which had been
handed down by those of the older age. Applied to the indi
vidual, the Ark signifies the boat which brought him safely into
the earth life, through the perilous waters of birth. Zebulon
was given this month of July and the Crab constellation, and
Jacob designed his abode to be by the sea, saying: "Zebulon
shall dwell at the heaven of the sea; and he shall be for an
haven of ships."
LEO THE LION
Leo, the heart of the constellation, is the twelfth and last of
the heavenly configurations. Leo is symbolic of the strong, lion-
hearted race of heroes who followed the age of the gods when
THE TRANSITION WAS MADE IN RELIGIOUS FORMS AND PRAC
TICES FROM THAT OF THE GODS OF THE HEAVENLY DRAMA,
TO THAT OF THE HEROES AMONG MEN.
Another Serpent, Hydra, is the first decan, which both Leo
and the Crab tread under foot, and to which Job alluded as the
"fleeting serpent."
The Cup, or Grail, origin of the Holy Grail, which all who
seek for the Christos MUST FIND in order to be "saved" (RE-
generated) is the second decan in Leo. It is here pictured as
(') See The Divine Law; Mastership, Philosophical Publishing Company,
Quakertown, Penna.
ANCIENT EGYPTIAN INITIATION 287
overturned in wrath and poured upon the head of the flying
Hydra. Last in the final act of the great Drama comes Corvus
the Crow, as third decan in Leo, to devour the remains of the
final temptation, Hydra, now trodden under foot.
The bird of doom completes the story of the age-long struggle
of man with the deceiver, the serpent (his carnal self) WITHIN
himself. The Divine Maid has been rescued by the Knights of
the Grail, Perseus the Christ os resurrected or brought to life,
is betrothed to her in the presence of the king of the celestial
country; Cepheus stands with his foot upon the pole star, while
the queen, Cassiopeia occupies her righted throne. Draco has
passed from sight into limitless space.
The Aquarian Age has brought in the age of Leo and, with
it,
the inner breath that
a
godlike race may be born. Shiloh at last
returns with the magnificent entrance of Virgo standing up
right, holding in her hand the promised "Seed" of the Redeemer.
Lion hearts have been born all down through the ages —few
it
is
true, but they have kept the line intact while standing ready
to shed the last drop of blood for
a
principle.
The circle will complete itself whether men will or not.
America, the land where all nations shall mingle,
is
the land of
the Eagle, but Egypt, the land
of
beginnings, also signifies The
Eagle, while our neighbor, Mexico,
is
symbolized
by
the same
Eagle overpowering the Serpent. After these lands, will come
THE "land"
of
peace, which will have, as its symbol, the Eagle
with branches in her claws instead
of
arrows. The drama of
heaven has never failed, nor deviated from the original script
of the Law, nor will
it
deviate one jot or tittle now. America
will yet, in truth and fact, become the Land
of
the free for those
who win the fight against all evil inclinations within themselves,
as well as the desire to dominate others, and as
a
result of this
conquest, be free from every evil outside
of
themselves.
INDEX
Aaron, 181
Aaron's breastplate, twelve stones, 256
Ab, 155, 210, 230, 242
Abaddon, 211, 239, 242, 252, 260
Abbot, 188
Abdi-el, 252
Ab-el, 155, 211
Abifi, Hiram, 272
Abraham, 179, 204, 209, 234
Abraham, illicit intercourse, 155
Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, 178
Ac, 230, 234
Accuser, 241
Achate, 63
Acheron, 123
Achor, 63
Achot,63
Ad, 211
Adam, 198, 199, 243
Ad-am, 211
Adam and Eve, 100, 197
Addenda, 269
Ades, 63
Ad-ham, 199
Adirdagal, 61
Ad-On-Es, 137
Adonis, 136,212,238,254,281
Adversary, 240
Adytum, 190
AEsculapius, 115, 134, 135, 235, 238
Aesop's Fables, 210
Adonis, 55, 179
Adorer, 70
AEsculapius, 115
Africa, 5, 46
African Gold Coast, 5
Agatha-Demon, 242
Agathos, 189
Age, new, 250, 275
Agriculture, 176
Ah, 230, 234, 265
Ahab's prophets, 236
Ajal-on, 265
Aldebaran, 223
Alchemists, 88
Alcyone, 271
Aleim, 195
Alemimm, 209
Alexandrinus, Clemens, 25, 223
Alexandrian Library, 91
Algic researches, 165, 166
Algol, 278
All Souls' Eve, 277
Allegorical, 133,150,269
Allegories, 150, 152, 206, 232
Allegories, teaching by, 108
Allegorical Fables, 121
Aloim, 179
Alpha and Omega, 73, 131
Alphabet, 137
Alphabet, Divine, 143
Altair, 216, 223
Altars, 178, 277, 278
Am, 211, 230
Amalthea Appherudoth, 61
Amalthea, 62
Ambrosia, 172
Am-en-ah, 230
America, 278, 279, 280, 287
American Indians, 5, 7
Am-mon, 197
Ammon, king of, 195
Ammo-no, City of God, 109
Am-on, 230
Anacalypsis, 242
Ancient Constellations, 273
Andes, 5, 6
Andromeda, 272, 277, 278, 281, 282,
283
Angel, fallen, 124
Angelhood, 274
Angels, spirits or messengers, 259
Angels, seven, 256
Angels, twelve great, 256
Angelic Hosts, 146
Angels, Archangels, Orders, Principali
ties, 106, 107, 127, 140
Anglo-Saxon, 284
An-On, 164
Antares, 223
Anti-Christ, 85
Antiquarians, 85
Antonius, Emperor M., 22
Anubis, 38, 40, 65, 70, 135
Aphrodite, 62
Apocalypse, 163, 187, 222, 253, 255,
264, 277,
Apollo. 45, 54, 115, 187, 211, 212,
238, 239, 242
A-polly-on, 239, 242, 249, 252, 253,
260
Apostolic personages, 12, 129, 256
Appherudoth, 62
April, 247. 257, 283
Aquarian Age, 280, 287
Aquarius, 217, 223, 224, 267, 279,
280
Aquila, the Eagle, 216, 223, 278
INDEX
Ara, 277
Arabian Night Entertainment, 210
Arabian Tribes, 114
Arabic, 272
Arabians, 115, 130, 255
Arabs, 227
Arcane, 90, 134, 149, 192, 286
Arcane Initiations, xv
Arcane students, 149
Arcanum, 284, 285
Arch of Humanity, 169
Archangels, 116
Archer, 165
Arcturus, 269, 285
Arena, xi
Argo, 286
Argonauts, 286
Argus, 64, 66
Argus, with 100 eyes, 65
Aries, 122, 164, 198, 211, 216, 217,
255, 257, 281, 283
Aries the Ram, 282
Aristides, 17
Arimazes, 119
Ark, 213, 221, 286
Aryan mankind, 89
Aryan Records, 79
Asher, 284
Ashtoreth, the great fish, 61
Asia 47, 258
Asia Minor, 17
Asphanism, 158
Aspiration, inner, 151
Assassination, xi
Assayria, 167
Assyrian, 272
Astares, 216
Astarte, 62
Astral Influences, 177
Astral or Starry Drama, 115
Astronomers, modern, 169, 217, 270
Astronomical, 161, 206, 208, 214,
217, 246, 248, 249
Astronomical Lamb, 248
Astronomical Nature, 104
Astronomical Legend, 126
Astronomical signs, 100, 129
Astronomical Symbology, 127
Astronomical writers, 125
Astronomical Year, 120
Astronomy, 7, 117, 147, 176, 223.
269
Astronomy, perfect principle, 167
Astronomy, the book of the ancients,
167
Astronomy, truths of, 169
"As Ye Sow, So Shall Ye Reap,
"
Atergatis, 62
Athens, 17
Aristophanes, 22
Atlantian Initiates, twelve legendary,
167
Atlantis, 5, 6, 7, 8, 279
Atonement, day of, 215
At-one-ment, 215
Atoum, 52
August, 228, 258, 259, 264, 267
Augustinus, 34
Aum, 188
Autopsia, 70
Avatars, 112, 271
Azra-el, 252
Azores, 6
Aztec, 272
Baal, xiv, 137, 163, 179, 187, 201.
210,212
Baal, Tsaddi (God Almighty)
Baal Worshipers, 164
Baal-ial, 211
Baalim 209, 231
Baalim's Ass, 206, 257
Baals, 231, 253
Baals, twelve, including interpretations,
164
Baal-Tsaddi, 212
Baals, twelve, 256
Baalzebub, 208, 211, 249, 250, 253
Babtizer, 165
Babylon, 6, 139, 220, 221, 237, 254
Bacchic, Mysteries, 16
Bacchus, 15, 26, 29, 55, 115, 137, 153,
155, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 215,
219,234,238,259
Balances, 123
Baltic, 5
Baptized for the Dead, 33
Barker, 38
Basnage, M., 186
Bath-Sheba, 227, 228
Bbuvah
Bear, 117,251,285
Bears, major and minor, 278
Bears, two, 285
Beard or Long Hair, 140
Beasts and fowls, wild, 163
Become as one of the Gods, 125
Becoming, 16
Beginning of man on earth as a con
scious being, 197
Behemoth, 269
INDEX
Being, Supreme, 73
Bel, 187, 210
Belial, 252
Beth-Dag-On, 165
Beths, 164
Belledonna, 53
Bells, 129
Benjamin, tribe of, 275
Bhur, 188
Bible, 94, 178, 192, 206, 211, 213,
220, 240, 269, 271, 278
Bible Quotations
—
Gen. 1 :26 —Let us make man, 185
Gen. 1:28 —Multiply and replenish,
244
Gen. 2 :4—Generations of the heavens,
Gen. 2:7—Man breathed in spirit, 189
Gen. 3:5 —Knowing good and evil,
240
Exodus 6:2, 3—God spake unto Moses,
179
Exodus 20:5 —A jealous God, 65
Exodus 20:5 —A jealous God, 19
Judges 9:13—Wine that cheereth, 231
Job 1925, 26—My redeemer liveth,
243
job 39:6—Hawk fly by wisdom, 41
Psalm 153 —Know what I speak, 35
Isaiah 7:18—the Lord shall hiss, 237
Isaiah 19:19, 20—Altar in land of
Egypt, 11
Isaiah 29:11 —Read this, I pray thee,
270
Jonah 2:6—Bottom of mountains, 242
St. Matt. 2:13-15—Flee into Egypt,
112
Matt. 2:23 —Shall be a Nazarene, 40
Matt. 1:6—Cast not pearls before
swine, 24
Matt. 7:7 —Seek and ye shall find, 2t
Matt. 9:17 —New wine in old bottles,
22
St. John 1:12 —Become sons of God,
27
Acts 7:22 —Moses learned in Wisdom,
113
Acts 7:22 —Moses learned in Wisdom,
175
Romans 8:14— Sons of God, 27
/ Cor. 15:44 —Natural body-Spiritual
body, 52
// Cor. 11:14— Satan transformed, 238
Gal. 6:7—Sowing and reaping, 90
James 2:20—Faith without works, 94
Apoc. 1 :4— Him which is, was, 187
Rev. 2:26-28—Him that overcometh,
238
Revelations 5:6—Lamb is slain, 256
Rev. 22:16—1 am the morning star,
238
Bible, the battle ground of the Chris
tian world, 94
Bible Writers, xiv, 106, 186
Biblical lore, 279
Biblical Trinity, 189
Biblos, 171
Birth, new, 191
Birth by Water of St. John, 51
Bethlehem, Christ in, 127
Blazing Star of Free Masonry, 40
Bleeding wounds, five, 138
Boas, 64
Bonzes carried seven idols, 255
Book, Doomsday
Book of Law, 201
Book of Nature, 143
Books, twelve great, 271
Bootes, 100, 125, 199, 274, 275
Bottomless Pit, 119, 123, 140, 156,
160, 208, 216, 217, 242, 252, 260,
266
Brahma, 192
Brahmanism, 81
Brahmans, 16, 255
Brahman's Concept, 78
Malt. 13:10, 11 —Why speak in par
ables, 14
Matt. 13:11 —Know Kingdom of
heaven, 31
Matt. 13:11 —Kingdom of Heaven, 33
Matt. 13:11 —Kingdom of heaven, 24
Matt. 13:11 —Kingdom of God, 105
St. John 1 :4—Light of men, 60
St. John 1:12 —As many as receive
him, 105
St. John 1:12 —As many as receive
him, 135
Brahmins or Hierophants, 191
Bread and Wine, 117
Bread, house of, 164
"Bread of Life," 56
Breathing, 189, 239, 287
Bride, seat of the, 124
Britain, 190, 219
British Isles, 283, 284
Britons. 284
Brotherhood, 1
Buddhism, 114
The Buddhist Idea, 78
INDEX
Bull, 108, 128, 129, 140, 163, 192,
219,223,225,257,259
Cabala, Christian, 88
Cabalists, Christian, 75, 186
Cabric, Mysteries, 16
Cadmus, 15
Cain, 155
Calendar, 176
Calf, 213, 218, 248, 267
Cancer, 37, 59, 110, 198, 199, 217,
231,245,285,286
Cancer the Crab, 285
Candlesticks, seven golden, 255
Canis, Major and Minor, 285
Canob, 46
Canopus, 46
Cepheus, 281, 282
Capricornus, 278, 279
Capricornus the Goat, 278
Carnal self, 126, 153
Capricorn, 59, 141, 245
Casaubon, 30
Cassini, 237
Cassiopeia, 282, 287
Cassiopeus, 281
Caster Into Hell, 63
"Casting Pearls Before Swine," 28
Castor, 284
Cavah, 199
Celestial Drama, 121, 123
Celon, 114
Centaur, 276
Centaurus, 274
Central America, 165
Central Sun of Being, 97
Cepheus, 281, 287
Ceremonials, 150
Ceres, 16, 70, 127, 198, 199, 241,
258
Cetus, 242, 281,282, 283
Chaldea, 163, 216, 253,
Chaldean, 179, 211, 212, 223, 263,
272
Chaldeans, 114, 187,221
Chaldeans, seven archangels of, 254
Chaldiac, 199
Chandelier, with seven branches, 254
Chanute, 42, 44
Charles' Wain, 285
Chazekkes, 173
Chemosh, 179, 195, 212
Cheops, Great Pyramid, 1 3
Cheops, Temple of, 11, 12
Cherub or Cherubic, 213, 214, 224,
241, 247
Cherubim or Seraphim, 101, 163, 200,
213, 214, 215, 216, 218, 219, 221,
222,223,224,225,241
Cherubim as the Hierarchies of
Heaven, 213
Child Like, 144
China, 114,219
Christ or Christos, 56, 60, 74, 81, 87,
92, 93, 103, 152, 153, 159, 179,
189, 244, 247, 250, 257, 272, 273,
274, 275, 278, 279, 280, 281, 284,
286, 287
Christian Dispensation, 145, 283
Christian Drama of Joseph and Mary,
101
Christian era, 257, 275
Christian Fathers, 187
Christian, his cross, 204
Christian theology, 248
Christiandom, 132
Christianity, 151
Esoteric, 87, 90, 265, 277, 278, 282,
285
Christie, 273, 285
Christians, 115, 193, 211, 244, 271,
281
Christ-like, 274
Christmas, 229, 239, 264, 265, 266,
267, 278, 279, 285
Church, 275, 277, 286
Church in chains, 277
Churches, Asiatic, 258
Churches, seven, 255, 256, 257, 258
Circe, 66, 67, 68, 69
Circle, 183
Civil Year, 58
"Closet with dosed door," 151
Colors of Men, 6
Conflict between carnal and spiritual,
102
Confucianism, 81, 107, 133
Consciousness, Cosmic, 1 1
Congregations of the stars, seven, 257
Constellations of fixed stars, 154
Constellations, false, 270
Constellations, seven, 256
Constellations, twelve, 231, 265, 274
Constellations, wintry, 260
Copheus, 281
Coptic, 258
Corinthians, 84
Corners of the earth, secret, 107
Cornwall
Corvus, 287
Cosmic Consciousness, 50
Cosmic force, 274
INDEX
Deus, 109
Development and progress of Creation,
98
Development, spiritual, 105
Devil, 118, 119, 171, 211, 236, 239,
240, 241, 242, 244, 249, 250, 251.
252, 253, 277
Devil of the Christians, 125
Di, 131
Diabolus, 240
Diagoras, 28
Diana, (triplicate Hectare), 136, 218.
234
Cow, sacred, 255
Coat of many colors, 218
Coming Events Cast their shadows
before them, 64
Crab, 37, 108, 110,285,286
Creative Power, 115, 275
Creative Thought, 186
Creator, 191
Creedism, xvi, xviii
Creeds, 116
Creeds, Battle of, zi
Crescent, 134, 173
Cretan, 49
Cretan Cave, 220
Cretans, 49
Cross, 44, 131, 132, 138, 139, 140,
183, 280
Cross, Christian, 103
Cross, Eternal, 60
Cross, Northern, 276
Cross, Roman, 103, 139
Cross, St. Andrew's, 103
Cross, southern, 276
Crow, 287
Crown, northern, 276
Crucified, 235, 267
Crucifixion, xiii, 123, 125, 271, 276
Cybele, 55
Cynyras, 15
Cythe, Symbolic, 112
Damascus, oracle in, 192
Dan, 216, 217, 223, 280, 281
Danaus of Greece, 280
Daniel, 212, 221, 224
Dante, 283
Dark Waters of Ignorance, 75
Darkness, 112, 195, 197, 216, 2H
Darkness, Powers of, 242
Darkness, prince of, 241
Darkness, sphere of, 118
Daughters of Men, 153
David, 155, 210, 227, 228, 236, 239
David's polygamy, 155
David's Wars, 227
Death, angel of, 168
December, 229, 277, 278
December 25th, 114, 126, 127
Deific, 129
Deity, 137, 187, 188, 189,210
Deity, 228, 261, 265
Deity with two horns, 219
Delilah, (Virgo), 229, 231
Delphinus, 279
Demiurgus, 115
"Depart hence all ye profane," 158
Dinah, 218,234
Dipper, 117
Dionysius, 31, 32, 34
Dios, 109
Diospiter, 109
Dippers, great and Little, 285, 286
Dispensation, new, 247, 250. 270
Dives, 111
Divine Attainment, 133
Divine Command, 244
Divine Maid, 271, 272, 273, 274, 275,
277, 279, 280, 281, 284, 287
Divine Nature, 97
Divine Soul, 60
Divine Spark, 97, 273, 274, 275
Divine Triad, 192
Divine Truth, 99
Divine Will, 176
Divinities, graduation of, 177
Divinity, highest, 177
Dog Star, 39, 40, 42, 50, 65, 70, 135
Dolphin, 279
Don, 242
Doom, bird of, 287
Door, Lock your, 189
"Door of Life," 56
Draco, 277, 278, 287
Dragon, 101, 123, 124, 125, 147, 163,
187, 211, 216, 229, 230, 236, 245,
249, 250, 253, 264, 270, 271, 272,
277. 278, 279, 285
Drama, astral, 227
Drama, Divine, 13, 271
Drama, heavenly, 271, 283
Drama of the apes, xiii, 272, 273
Druidical Worship, 42, 43, 272
Druids, 183. 263, 275, 285
Druids of Britain, 16, 44, 183, 220
Dual nature of the Serpent, 235
Dupuis, 54
INDEX
Eagle or Eagles, 129, 214, 215, 216,
220, 224, 225, 277, 278, 279, 280,
287
Eagle, Double-Headed, 42
Earth, 188
Earth Plane, 2, 135
Earths, 98
Easter Parade, 59
Easter Parade, 122
East Indians, 164
Echet, 63
Edda, 185
Eden, garden of, 199
Eden, terrestrial
Egg, Symbolism, 128, 140, 157
Egypt, 4, 6, 12, 14, 37, 38, 41, 42, 45,
48, 49, 50, 54, 59, 68, 109, 113,
115, 127, 129, 163, 165, 167, 172,
175, 180, 190, 200, 201, 210, 211,
218, 219, 220, 223, 224, 244, 246,
250, 253, 260, 275, 279, 284, 287
Egypt's Greatness, xi
Egyptian, 213, 220, 223, 224, 225,
246, 252, 253, 255, 265, 267, 272,
282
Egyptian Ceremonies, 113
Egyptian Initiation, 73
Egyptian Deity, 192
Egyptian Lore, 49
Egyptian Mysteries, 2, 3, 192
Egyptian name for Divine attainment,
133
Egyptian Priests, 180
Egyptian Races, 7
Egyptian Ritual, 69
Egyptian School, 200
Egyptian Sun God, 79
Egyptian Temples, xiv
Egyptian Theogony, 113
Egyptian Year, 47
Egyptianized, xiv
Egyptians, 3, 25, 40, 44, 46, 49, 124,
130, 164, 168, 171, 174, 178, 180,
185, 193, 219, 173, 278
El, 129, 155, 179, 192, 210, 211, 212,
230, 252, 265
Eicon, 258
Eleusinian, Mysteries, 16, 17, 22, 28,
29
Eleusis, 68, 69, 70
Eleutheria, 259
Eli, 212, 265
El-i-am, 228
Elijah, 209,211, 212, 265, 266
Elijah's flight to heaven, 206
El-il-ah, 231
Elohim, 179, 193, 195, 197, 201, 212
Elisha.140, 212,265, 266
Eloi, 179, 193
Empyrian, 192
En, 266
En Soph, Sophia, 116
Enemies of religion, 92
England, 5, 42
English, 240, 258
Enoch, 269
Eocene age, 6
Ephesus, 257
Ephraim, 279
Epictetus, 21, 204
Epiphany or Epi-phanes, 266
Episcopacy, 121, 125
Equator, 234, 273
Equinox, 265
Equinox, autumnal or fall, 119, 120,
123, 125, 160, 174, 223, 260
Equinox, spring, 174, 281
Equinox, 2,140 years of travel, 216,
247
Equinox, vernal, 120, 122, 160, 208,
215, 217, 223, 230, 234, 247, 249,
267
Equinoxes, procession of, 261
Equinoxes, two, 118, 166, 255
Equinotial Year, 173
Erechtheus, 15
Eridanus river, 264, 233, 284
Es, 133, 230
Es-a-as, 234
Esau, 155, 275
Es-ra-el, 228
Essenes, 88, 132, 133,247
Essenian, Mysteries, 16
Essenian Order, 73
Essenian Priesthood, 30
Esus, 60
Eternal, Image of, 75
Ethiopia, 37, 41,110, 277, 281
Ethiopians, 114, 231, 233
Ether, AEth, 254
Ether, air, atmosphere, water, minerals,
plants, elements, 106
Etesian northern wind, 39, 50, 110
Eucharist, 31, 207
Euripides, 23, 29
Evangelists, four, 225
Eve, 130, 199, 212, 235, 240, 243,
251
Eve's temptation, 198
Evil, incarnate spirit of, 124
Evil attempts to justify itself, 83
Evohe, 187
INDEX
Eye, all seeing, 279
Eyes, seven, 255, 256
Ezek-i-el, 212, 213, 214, 216, 218,
219, 221
Ezekiel's wheel, 163
Faith, 145
Fall of Man, 125, 244
"Fan-Bearer," 56
Fasting, 151
Father, 159
Father of all creation, 111
Father of Life, 109
bather Time, 112
Faust, Margaret in, 124
Fear, 120
February, 249, 280
Feminine, 16,
Fertile Season, 173
Fiat, 197
Fiery Essence all creating, divine, 74
Fire, 134, 155, 189, 234, 239, 257,
258, 266, 278
Fire, chariot of, 265
Fire, footprints of, 262
Fire, Ineffable, 211, 274
Fire Mystery, 74
Fire, Occult, mysterious, supernatural,
74
Fire, Perpetual, 133
Fire Philosophers, 72
Fire Realm, spiritual, 74
Fire, Rosicrusian's Celestial, 76
Fire, sacred, 181
Fire, Spiritual or Celestial, 75
Fire, Symbol of Soul, 12
Fire Symbolism, 114
Fire Worshipers, 147
Fish or Fishes, 128, 140, 215, 223,
230, 280
Five bleeding wounds, 138
Flambeau, 70
Flame, 129, 147
Food, the most important thing in life,
162
Flaming Sword, 199, 200
Food, will become scarcest thing on
earth, 162
Fomalhaut, 223
Forbidden Fruit, 240
Four Beasts of Revelations, 217
Four Sacred Mystic Numbers, 128
Fourteen Days, 174
Fourteen Parts, 174
Frankincense, 257
Fraternal Organizations, 149
Free Masonry, 40, 42, 49, 50
French, 258
French Academy of Science, 173
Frogs, 246
Froth of the Sea, 62
Gabri-el, 211
Galilee, 19
Garden of Eden, 6, 100, 102
Gates, twelve, 256
Gaza, 229, 234
Gemini, 164, 173, 259, 285
Generation, symbol of, 183
Genii, 177
Genii, evil, 105, 177, 253
Generation, 219
Genesis, 187
Gentiles, 211, 212, 215
Geometry, 167
Geometrical proportions, 168
Ghost, Holy, 159
Giant, killer, 166
Gibe-On, 164, 265
Gilded balls on Church steeples, 117
"Giver of Light"
Glidden, 265
Gnostic, 16, 56, 75, 88, 105, 116, 129,
186, 247, 257, 281
Gnostic Fathers, 91, 92
Goal of Man, xviii
Goat, 108, 128, 140, 141, 278, 284
Goat, of December, 165
God, 175, 178, 179, 180, 181, 189,
190, 193, 194, 195, 196, 197, 200,
201, 202, 204, 205, 206, 207, 208,
209, 210, 211, 212, 215, 217, 220,
221, 223, 230, 233, 236, 237, 239,
240, 242, 243, 244, 245, 247, 248,
249, 250, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255,
257, 258, 259, 264, 266, 269, 270,
271,272,273,275,281
God Almighty, 159, 212
God Brahm of Hindus, 111
God Consciousness, 81, 275
God, Existence of, 1
God-fish of India, 163
God, Hebrew, 137
God Himself, 79
God in Spirit, 125
God, houses of, 129
God, Ineffable Light, 72
God, Jealous, 65
God, Jehovah, 187
God, new born, 141
God of Fire, 190
God of Light, 56, 57. 137
INDEX
God, Personal, 48
God, priest of, 205
God, Sons of xvii, 16, 26, 153, 179,
191,272
God, Trust in, 63
God's Angels, 146
God's astral, 155
God's Breath, 79
God's chosen, 154, 201
God's chosen people, self proclaimed,
155
God's Ears, 79
God's Eyes, 79
God's Head, 79
Godhood, 132, 168, 264, 273
Godliness, 151
Gods and demi-gods, 154, 163
Gods and Heroes, ancient, 154
Gods, Egyptian, 155
Gods, lesser, 146
Gods, Many out of one, 62
Gods, Messenger of the, 70
Gods, twelve great, 164, 256
Gold, 204
Golden Age, 275, 286
Golden Fleece, 286
Golden Street, 127
Gomorrah, 183, 237
"Good Shepherd," 56
Gospels, four, 224
Gothic Churches, 148
Governor of Nature, 47
Governess, 136
Grace, Covenant of, 258
Grail, Holy, xviii, 272, 274, 277, 284,
286
Grail, knights of the, 276, 287
Grains, 241
Great Divide, 4, 20, 23
Great Soul, 58
Great Work, 150
Greater Mysteries, xv, 102
Grecian Mythology, 114
Greece, 5, 12, 17, 20, 21, 190, 219,
220, 283
Greek, 7, 29, 30, 34, 38, 114, 126,
127, 190, 199, 211, 212, 231, 242,
258, 266, 272
Greek Bacchus, 55
Greek Concept, 78, 200
Greek Goddess, 198
Greek harvest queen, 241
Greek Mythology, 1 1
Greeks, 62, 109, 124,210,218
Guadentius, 33
Guide's great painting, 266
Hades, 123, 125, 126, 230, 242
Haiti, 46
Halley, 237
Hallowe-en, 277
Halo of Holy Men, 67
Halo of romance, 161
Ham, 108, 109
Hammon, 109
Hannobeck, 38
Harp of thirteen strings, 277, 278
Harvest Home Week, 59
Hawk, 40, 50
Heads, seven, 236
Heart and Soul, 189
Heathen, 116, 117, 154, 159, 233,
263,269,271
Heaven, 188,235, 241,283
Heaven, cast out of, 124
Heaven, Drama of, 142, 234, 270,
271,287
Heaven, gate of, 249
Heaven, hosts of, 154
Heaven, starry hosts, 227
Heavenly Order, 1 1 1
Heaven, gate of, 136
Heaven, kingdom of, 163
Heaven, war in, 207, 211
Heavenly bodies, 150
Heavenly bodies, movement, 172
Heavenly configurations, 286
Heavens, Drama of the, xi, xiv, xvi,
xix, 141, 222, 282
Heavens, history of the, 173
Heavens, maps of, 163
Hebrew, 38, 39, 180, 187, 193, 194,
199, 200, 201, 210, 211, 225, 239,
242, 252, 253, 265
Hebr-on, 229, 230
Hecate, 136
Hectare, 63
Helio-Arkite teachings, 286
Heliopolis, 113
Helios, 232
Hell, 2, 123, 126, 141, 174, 236, 239,
242, 246
Hell, Tortures of, xi
Hercules, 29, 54, 237, 238, 266, 276,
277
Hercules, labors of, 166
Hercules, twelve labors, 256
Heresy, 84
Hermes, 26, 101, 107, 115. 168, 183,
253
Hermerics, 88
Herodotus, 3
Heron, head of, 50
INDEX
Hesychasts, 188
HeveorHeva, 130,212
Hierarchies, 98, 100, 105, 111
Hierarchy, Christian, 138
Hieroglyphs, xii, 108, 210, 263
Hierophant, 70, 143, 266
Higgins, 242
"Him which
is,
and which was, and
which
is
to come," 187
Hindoos, 111,272
Hindoo mythology, 191
Hindu Trinity, 116
Hindustan,
5
Hiram, 49, 51
Hitler, 208
"Holier than Thou," 23
Holy Candles, 129
Holy Family, 274
Holy Ghost, 239
Holy Grail, xviii, 272, 274, 277, 284,
286
Holy Mother, 61
Holy Radiance, 103
Homer's "Nypheun" (poem), 157
Homer's "Odyssey," 68
Hoofs, Cloven, 241
Hoop, 40
Hooper
Horns, 236, 241
Horns, seven, 255, 256
Horse, white, 280
Horus, 45, 48, 53, 54, 56, 65, 113,
275
Hydra, 245, 257, 264, 286, 287
"I," 60, 133, 134, 137, 211, 234, 265,
266
"I Am, the great," 265
lac, 137
lacus, 137
lah, 230, 265
I.
A. O. three-fold character of God,
137, 187
I-aon-es, 266
Iberia,
5
Iceland, 190
Idol, golden, 205
Idolaters, 154
Idolatry, 219
lehovah, 195
I-Esus, 60, 133
Ignorance, Veil of, xi
Illuminated, 87, 90
Images, graven, 235
Immaculate, 267
Images, 18, 122
Immortal Consciousness, 99
Immortality, 89, 237, 272, 274
Immortality of the Soul, 48
Immortalization, 140, 200
Inachus, 15
India,
5,
163, 165, 219, 242, 258
Indian Gods, 186
Indians, 166
Indians, American tribes, 165
Individualization, 87, 275
Infidels, 93, 154
Initiate, Greater Mysteries,
2
10
Initiate, philosophic, 210
Initiation or Initiations, 20, 87, 113,
150, 153, 281
Initiates, 18, 115, 138, 150, 152, 153,
156, 175, 178, 180, 192, 200, 225,
227, 270, 278, 283, 285
Initiation, Egyptian,
3,
28
Initiation, Esoteric, 191
Initiation, mystery of, 216
Initiation, Philosophic, xvii,
2,
3,
8,
31, 168, 266
Initiation, Ritualistic,
4,
1
1
Initiation, secret of, 98
Intuition, 144
Inundation of Lower Egypt, 110
loor lao, 137,212,230
loa, 137
I-on-es, 209
Ireland, xix,
Isa, 258
Isaac, 155, 179,234
Ishmael, 155
Isis, 15, 28, 48, 56, 58, 59, 61, 63, 64,
66, 67, 68, 113, 126, 127, 129, 135,
136, 175, 180, 189, 197, 199, 209,
267, 272, 275, 278
Isis as Mother, 171
Isis, temple of, 172
Isra-el, 211, 227, 234, 236, 275, 277,
278, 279
Israel, royal tribes, 219
Israelites, 222, 223, 235, 282
Issachar, 217, 231, 285
Italy,
5,
108
Jacchos, 158
Jachin, 64
Jachin, pillar, 64
Jacob, 155, 179, 231, 234, 249, 275,
277, 279, 281, 282, 283, 284, 286
Jacob blesses twelve patriarchs, 216
Jacob blesses twelve sons, 217, 222
Jacob's Ladder, 186, 247, 248
INDEX
Jah, 187, 230, 265
Jah-Bel-On, 137
Jamblichus, 3, 107, 132, 181
January, 222
Janus, twelve altars, 256
Jao, 187
Japan, 114,219
Java, 114
Je-hov-ah, 231, 236
Jericho, 255
Jerusalem, 231, 276
Jerusalem, New, 249
Jerusalem, New, twelve foundations,
256
Jerusalem, temple of, 254
Jehov, 49, 109
Jehov-Ammon, 109
Jehovah, 63, 109, 130, 137, 179, 185,
187, 193, 195, 196, 201, 212, 235,
241
Jephtha, 195
Jerusalem, new, twelve foundations,
163
Jesse, 39
Jesus, 129, 141
Jew or Jewish, 77, 92, 131, 133, 141,
154, 155, 158, 161, 181, 192, 201,
206, 211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 221,
231, 235, 239, 252, 254, 260, 267,
275, 278
Job, 41, 243, 269
Johannem, 34
John the Baptist, 88, 108
Jonah, 209. 242, 265
Jonah's catastrophe, 166
Jonah's sea voyage, 206
Jo-pater, 137
Joseppe or Joseph, 125, 133, 175, 179,
199, 218, 244, 272, 274, 275, 279,
284
Juniper, 137
Jupiter, 26, 63, 111, 187, 212, 220
Jupiter- AmmoD, 109
Jupiter, three-eyed, 190
Juvpiter, 109
Justice, Godlike, 76
Kadman, Adam, 116
Kathaka Upanishad, 53
Ken-Taurus, 2 19
King, 126
King David, 140
King of Egypt, First, 72
King of State, 125
King of Gods, 52
Kingdom of Heaven, 198, 208, 214,
241, 245, 246, 247
Kingdom, spiritual, 126
Knight, 276, 283
Knight errant, 273
Knight of the Grail, 281, 286
Knight, white, 272, 277
Knowledge, 176
Kodesh Ishovah, 181
Krishna, 127
Ladder, Mystic or astral, 248
Ladder of seven steps, 185
Lake Superior, 5
"Lamb of God," 56
Lamb or Lambs, 122, 129. 162, 215,
216, 217, 222, 224, 234, 245, 248,
255, 274, 282, 283, 284
Lamb of March, 249
Lamb, Paschal, 122, 141
Land of the Free, 287
Land Overshadowed with wings, 220
Laodicea, 258
Latin, 38, 258
Law, 283, 286, 287
Law, Book of, 201
Law, Divine, 259
Law, Government based on absolute,
271
Law of Attraction, 98
Law, revealed, 100
Lazarus, 111
Le Diable, 240
Legend or Legends, 97, 145, 149, 173,
269
Joshua, 195,206,212,221
Josiah, king, 200, 201
Jov, 212
Jov-Ammon, 109
Jove, 187
Jovem, 212
Joy, 121
Judah, 141, 163, 196, 214, 217, 222,
241,258
Judas, 19, 119, 123
Judea, 214, 216
Judge, invisible, 1
Judges, 196
July, 166, 222, 258, 286
July and August, 122
June, 231, 257, 284, 285
Legendary figures or heroes, 150, 154
Le Monnier, 237
Lent, 217, 267
Leo, 37, 110, 216, 218, 220. 228, 229,
286, 287
Leo the Lion, 286
INDEX
Lepus, 39
Levi, 278
Levi, priesthood, 277
Leviathan, 269
Liber, 259
Liberalism, 84
Libra, 198, 199, 217, 258, 267, 276,
277
Library, Royal, 186
Life, spirit of, 266
Life, Symbol of, 131
Light, 126, 146, 151, 179, 181, 189,
190, 195, 197, 239, 269, 281
1
Light Bearers," 56, 70, 238
Light, Creative Wisdom, 79
Light, Divine, 75, 97
Light, Eternal, 72
Light, God of, 212, 254
Light, Greater, 118
Light, Ineffable, 81, 97, 186, 189
Light, Inner, 81, 187
Light God, 79
Light, Great, 12, 14, 76
Light, hidden, 191
Light, I inmori.il, 74
Light of Immortality, 73
Light, Ineffable, 73, 75, 76
Light, Inner, 74
Light, Innermost, 72
Light, Soul, 75
Light, spiritual, 76, 277
Lightning, 134
Lilith, 136
Lingam, 131
Linus, 71
Lion, 37, 122, 141, 162, 163, 214,
217, 218, 220, 221, 223, 224, 225,
229, 241, 258, 287
Lion's Grip, 50
Lion transformed into couch, 50
Lionhearted, 286
Livi, 29
Llama, 165
Loa-Kium, 107
Locusts, 246, 260
Logos and Psyche, 189
Logos of Philo, 1 16
London, 6
Lord, 178, 207
Lord of Eternity, 52
Lord's messengers and heralds, 127
Lot and his daughters, 154
Lot's Incest, 155
Lyre, seven cords of, 254
Lucifer, 123, 124, 125, 126, 238, 241,
260
Lyra, 277
Lytton, Bulwer, 7
Macrobius, 53
Macrocosm, 262
Magi, 254, 263
Magi, star of the, 159, 263
Magical Wand, 191
Man, 214
Man, awakened, 175
Man, fall of, 164, 197
Man-God, 204
Man, primitive, 244
Man, profane, 186
Man, spiritual side, 167
Man's Dual Nature, 127
Man's Inhumanity to Man, xi
Man's Real Religion, 77
Man's Relation to Infinite Being, 77
Man's Spiritual Relation to God, 77
Manasseh, 279
Manger, Born in a, 126
Manicheans, 129
Manoah, 230
Mansions in the moon, twelve, 256
Manu, 187, 204
March, 122, 234, 257, 258, 282
Maris, 199
Mars, 26, 257
Mars, twelve shields, 256
Mary of the Christians, 56, 61, 67,
127, 129, 130, 136, 199, 209, 264,
275
Masculin, 16
Mason, 212
Masonic Fraternity, 148
Masonic Symbols, 139, 147
Masonic Trinity, 189
Masonry, xiv, xv, 42, 149, 186, 269,
278, 285
Masonry, Modern, 64
Masonry, Primitive, 64
Masonry, two pillars, 198, 255
Master, great, 272
Mathematics, 167
Matthew, 40
May, 247, 257, 284
Maypole, 139
Mazzaroth, 269
Meanings, Hidden, xii
Medals, gold and silver, 220
Meditations, 151
Mediterranean Sea, 38, 50, 68
Melapus, 15
Melchisedec, 212, 286
Memnon, 113
INDEX
Moses, xiv, 41, 69, 71. 72, 74, 76,
111, 115, 117, 129, 130, 135, 147,
163, 175, 178, 180, 183, 190, 152,
194, 200, 204, 212, 213, 221, 222,
224, 227, 235, 236
Moslem Crescent, 204
Mother of Life, 199
Mouccas, 114
Mount Athos, 188
Mummeries, 62
Museurs, 73
Museus, 74
Mussolini, 208
Mysteries, 105, 113, 115, 132, 137,
143, 150, 156, 178, 227, 278, 285,
Mysteries, Ancient, 1, 2, 130, 135
Mysteries, Arcane, 1, 157, 280, 284
Mysteries, Athenian, 32
Mysteries, Egyptian, 3
Mysteries, Great, 172
Mysteries, Greater, xv, xvii, 11, 15,
16, 24, 25, 26, 105, 157, 191, 192,
213, 227, 235, 266, 270
Mysteries, of Heaven, 19
Mysteries, Hidden, xii, 93
Mysteries, Higher, 29
Mysteries, Inner, 24, 132, 145, 146,
153, 249
Mysteries, inner, outer, Lesser, Greater,
152
Menes, 71, 72, 73, 74, 76, 117
Mensues, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74,76
Mercury, 26, 66, 115,173,238
Mercury, Wise, 65
Mess of Pottage, 99
Messiah, 40, 247
Messiah, Second Coming, 51
Metamorphosis or Metamorphosed,
238, 239
Metempsychosis, 20, 99
Metonymy, 238, 239
Mexican Ox, 165
Mexico or Mexicans, 5, 165, 219, 220,
275, 278, 279, 287
Mi, 131
Micha-el, 211,252
Michaelmas Day, 258
Microcosm, 262
Milky way, 127, 284
Millennium, 221
Miocene age, 6
Minos, 15
Mississippi River, 45
Mississippi Valley, 5
Mithra, 114, 185, 192, 254, 272
Mithra had seven steps, 186
Mithraic Cave, 192
Mithraic Ladder, 186
Mithraic, Mysteries, 16
Mohomet's black eyed Houris, 213
Mohammedan, 84, 116
Molochi-sudec, 212
Moloch-zedec, 212
Milton's poem on Serpent, 243
Monitor, 38
Monte Cirello, 67
Montfaucon, 49
Months of the Year, 176
Months, five warm, 118
Months, seven, ancient kingdom of
heaven, 118
Months, two evil, 125
Masonry, 118
Months, two, supporting pillars of
Months, seven warm, 195, 229, 257
Months, twelve, 256
Moon, 61, 63, 70, 127, 134, 135, 150,
154, 173, 176, 177, 206, 209, 210,
214, 227, 234, 260, 264, 265, 271
Moon, full, 172
Moon Goddess, 63
Moon, new, 136
Morey, Grace Kincaid, xix
Morning Star, 38, 117
Mysteries of Isis and Osiris, 171
Mysteries, Lesser, 4, 24, 25, 154, 155,
157, 185, 191, 192
Mysteries, Occult, 106
Mysteries of the One God, 153
Mysteries, Outer, 17, 24
Mystery, keys to the, 138, 214
Mystery, keys to unlock, 152
Mystery, of Being, xiv
Mystery Schools, 248
Myrrh, 258
Mystic proportions, 169
Mythical Allusions, 150
Mythologies, 111, 158
Mythology, ancient, xiii
Mythology, Christian, 267
Myths May be Hidden Spiritual
Truths, 111
Naphtali, 282
Nations, eastern, 168
Naxiensen, Gregory, 22
INDEX
Nazarene, xiii, xiv, 17, 22, 24, 26, 27,
48, 83, 87, 88, 89, 90, 98, 101,
105, 115, 121, 123, 125, 127, 131,
132, 133, 142, 143, 145, 160, 161,
175, 177, 178, 179, 185, 198, 204,
209, 216, 221, 230, 231, 238, 247,
248, 257, 259, 263, 264, 265, 270,
279, 280, 283, 285, 286
Naz-Seir, 39
Necessity for a Personal Devil, 251
Neomenia, 63, 136, 173
Neo-Platonists, 88, 129
Nero, 21, 242
Netzer, 39
New Birth, 158
Nicodemus, 52
Night Work, 71
Nile River, 37, 41, 45, 46, 50, 58, 59,
131, 148,171,220,246
Nile Srar, 38
Nilometer, 131
Ninevah, 183, 218, 221
Ninevites, 209
Nirvana, 78
Noah, 219,286
Noah represents Bacchus, 155
Noah's Drunkenness, 155, 215
North America, 276
November, 218, 277
November and December, 125
Numbers, colors, sounds, correct pro
portions, 167
Numbers, system of, 253
Oannes or English John, 187
Ob, 45, 46, 234
Obelisk, 137
Obi, 46
Occult, 134
October, 123, 276, 277
Old Nick, 120
Om, 131, 187,230
Omnific word, 137, 212, 228
On, 131, 137, 164, 179, 187, 188,
210, 211, 212, 230, 242, 252, 256,
265, 266
Onion, as a symbol, 136
On-I-On, 137
Ons, 253
Ons, Twelve, 256
Ophiani, 244
Ophites, 244
Ophiuchus, 276, 277
Ophyte priest, 243
"Order is Heaven's First Law," 2
Order or Religion of the Heavens, 269
Origen, 269
Orion, 269, 284
Ormazd of the Persians, 116
Oromazes, 119
Orpheus, 15, 79, 126
Old Testament, 130
Orient or Oriental, 13, 128, 129, 150
Orion, 173, 285
Ormazd, 192
Orphic, Mysteries, 16, 28
Orphic Songs or hymns, 79, 219
Orus, 53, 174
Osiris, 15, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 55,
56, 58, 59, 61, 71, 76, 109, 113,
116, 126, 135, 136, 173, 174, 175,
179, 180, 187, 210, 272, 275, 278,
Osirus and Isis, 174
Osiris as a God, 171
Osiris, cut into fourteen pieces, 172
Overflowing of the Banks, 1 10
Over-Soul, 58
Ovid, the poet, 45, 152, 210
Owl, 136
Ox or Oxen, 213, 214, 215, 218, 219,
240, 245, 247
Oxen, twelve, 221, 223, 256, 259
Pagan or Pagans, 92, 116, 117, 163,
175, 178, 179, 233, 263, 269, 271,
272
Pagan Literature, 154
Pagan Love Feast, 84
Paganism, 85, 159, 178
Pagasus, 280
Palestine, 214
Palmyra, 167
Pantheism, 53
Pantheon, 115
Parable, mystic, 230
Parables, 150, 152, 222
Parabolic, 133
Paradise, 141, 199
Paradise of Purity and Love, 97
Passover, 215
Parsees, 115,204
Perseus, 272, 278, 281, 287
Persia, 2 19, 242
Persians, 124, 174, 254, 275
Peru, 5
Path to Consumation or Initiation, 52
Patriarchs, 154, 256
Paul, 43
Pausanias, 88
"Pearl of Great Price," xviii
Percivale, 272, 273
Perfume, exquisite, 172
INDEX
Pergamos, 257
Perseus, knight, 277, 283
Persia, 219, 220, 236, 283
Persia's Cimeter, 199
Persian, 224
Persians, 192, 263, 266
Peru, 219
Peruvian, 272
Pestilence, 156
Peter, 19, 43
Peter and bis Key, 42
Phaethon, 231, 232
Phallic Worship, 130
Phallus, 102, 103, 131, 139, 219, 235
Pharisees, 133
Philadelphia, 257
Philippines, 114
Philistia, 229
Philistines, 187, 231
Philo, 88
Phoebus, 266
Phoenecian, 91, 199, 210, 258
Phoenicians, 114, 130, 163, 164
Pisces, 217, 249, 281, 282, 283
Pices the Fishes, 281
Planetary, 107, 111, 134, 150, 261
Planets, 154, 177, 214, 252, 260
Planets, seven, 224, 254, 256
Planispheres, two wings, 264
Plato, 3, 21, 187, 189
Platonists, 76
Pleiades, 269, 271, 283, 284
Pliocene age, 6
Plough and Sow, 161
Plutarch, 3
Pluto, 115, 124, 126, 135, 190
Poison Cup, 28
Pollux, 284
Polygamy, 156
Polytheism, 113, 154, 164
Power, Creative, 275
Power, Receptive, 275
Prayer, 151
Pre-Existance, 28
Priest, high, 286
Priests, 178, 255
Priests, ancient, 121
Priests, Chief, 181
Priests, Initiate, 260
Priests, Temple of Initiation, 14
Priesthood and Arcane Fraternities,
153
Priesthood, inner, 150
Prince Coming, 285
Proclus, 22, 88
Prometheus, 115
Prophecy, 111,233
Prophets, 154, 209, 215
Proserpina, 115, 127
Pseudo-science, 250
Psyche, 191
Psyche or Soul, 190
Puma, 165, 166
Punishment, threat of, 1
Pur, meaning fire, 133
Purity, 126
Pyramid, Great, 167, 284
Pyramids, xii, 11, 137, 173, 174, 175
Pyramids of Egypt, 167
Pyramids, silent inhabitants, 167
Pyreums, 254
Pythagoras, 3, 108, 190
Pythagorean, 253
Pythagoreans, 76
Pytho, 45
Python, 45, 119,120,246
Queen of all the Saints, 136
Queen of the Groves, 61
Queen of the Harvest, 63
Queen of Heaven, 61, 63, 152
Queen of Hell, 63
Rachel, 275
Ram, 108, 234, 282
Ramadan of the Mohammedans, 267
REbirth of the Great Light, 126
Rebirths, 92
Recreation, 139
Redeemers, 113, 159, 243, 287
Regeneration or Regenerated, 138,
139, 140, 235, 238, 239
Reincarnation, 20
Rees' Cyclopedia, 53
Regeneration, 132, 219, 220
Religion is a Portrayal of the Life of
Man, 143
Religion is a Life, 153
Religion is not in form, but in feeling,
153
Religion, sacred symbols of, 225
Religions, xii
Religions, ancient, xiii
Religious Practice, 177
Regeneration, 51, 200
Resurrection, 123, 141, 159
Resurrection of the Gods, 51
Resurrection or Rebirth, 51, 55
Retrogression, 98
Revelations, 222, 236
Revelations, Symbolism, 259
Reward, Future Promise of, 1
INDEX
Rewards and Punishments, 24
Rings, seven prophetic, 255
Ritualism, 86
Rivers in hell, twelve, 256
Rod, 134, 183
Roman, 7, 17, 263
Roman Church, 272
Roman Mythology, 114
Romanists, 208
Roman, 254, 272
Rome, 6, 12, 14, 42
Rose, red, 283
Rose, white, 283
Rosicrucians, 73, 75, 76, 88
Royal Arch, 198
Royal Tribes, 214
Ruben, 217, 222, 276
Ruler of the People, 72
Ruling Powers, 98
Russia, 203
Sabean System, 114
Sabeans, 254
Sacraments, 207
Sacraments, seven, 255
Sacred Books, 139
Sacred Flame, xv
Sacred Literature, xviii
Sacred Mystic Number 4, 128
Sadducees, 133
Savior, 247
St. Andrews, saltier cross, 138
St. Ann de Beaupre in Canada, 185
St. Augustine, 23
St. Chrysostom, 34
St. George, 272, 281
St. Martin, 44
St. Paul, 52
Saints, 138
Sacraments, Symbolism, 32
Sacraments, Three Parts, 31, 32
Sagitta, 278, 279
Sagittarius, 218, 277, 278, 279
Samothracian, Mysteries, 16
Samson, 209, 229, 230, 266
Sanchonianthon, 88
Sanctuaries, Inner, 115
Sar, 258
Saracens, 91
Sar-dis, 257
Satan, 124, 125, 156, 217, 236, 257
Saturn, 111,209, 217
Saul, 238
Saved from the Water, 71
Savior or Saviors, 113, 119, 123, 124,
127, 135, 141, 159, 166, 216, 248,
264, 274
Scales, 123
Schoolcraft, 166
Schools, Mystery, 5
Science, esoteric, 270
Science, Secret or Sacred, 1 1
Scorpio, 123, 156, 173, 208; 215, 216,
217, 223, 246, 249, 250, 252, 260,
276, 277, 278
Scorpion or Scorpions, 108, 147, 165,
215,223,246,260
Scotland, 5
Scriptural name, 130
Secret of the Ages, 31
Secret Societies, 150
Seals, seven, 256
Seed, promised, 274
Seekers after Truth, xii
Seer, 209
"Self Born," 60
Self-guilt, 132
Selfish, Soulless leaders, 85
"Sent Prince, the Messiah," 40
September, 258, 267, 275
Seraph, 236, 238, 241
Seraphims, 213, 216, 241, 243
Serfdom, 162
Serpent or serpents, 101, 125, 128,
129, 130, 134, 139, 140, 147, 199,
200, 213, 214, 215, 216, 217, 221,
234, 235, 236, 237, 238, 239, 240,
241, 242, 243, 244, 245, 246, 269,
270, 271, 272, 273, 275, 276, 277,
278, 280, 281, 284, 285, 286, 287
Serpent, uplifted on staff of Moses,
135, 183
Serpent upon a staff, 148
Serpent of death, 140
Serpent, Sign of Salvation, 103
Serpent, starry, of the skies, 124
Servants, 177
Seven, 107, 254, 255
Seven golden candlesticks, 163
Seven, perfect number, 117
Seven spheres, 185
Seven stars and seven seals, 163
Sex principles, 277
Sheepfold, 278, 285
Sheol, 123, 239, 247
Shepherd, 284, 285
Shiloh, 278. 279, 287
Sicily, 68
Sign of the Lion, 54
Silver, 204
INDEX
Simeon, 278
Simeon, priesthood, 277
Sirbon, 246
Sirius, Sir, 285
Sirus, 40
Siva, 188, 191, 192
Six descending signs, 163
Sky, 188
Smyrna, 258
Societies, Seciet, xv
Sodam, 183, 237
Socrates, 204
Sol, 220
Solar Myth, xiii
Solar System, 261
The Solar Year, 47
Solomon, 155, 206, 210, 221, 227,
228, 258
Solstice, summer, 222, 227, 228
Solstice, winter, 239
Son, Divine, 272
Son of God, 56, 102
Son of the morning, 123, 124
Son of man, 207
Son of morning, 241
Sons of God, 160, 183
Son of man, 250
Sons of Men, 56, 183
Sons of the Lord of Heaven, 114
Sonship with God, 80
Soul, 200, 204, 261, 264, 273, 280,
281
Soul, Conscious, 186, 249
Soul, descent into matter, 164
Soul, Drama of, 282
Soul, God principle of, 189
Soul, Immortality of human, 245
Soul Immortalization, 275
Soul that sinneth it shall die, 100
Soul, living, 160
Soul Never Forgets, 18
Soul of Nature, 58
Soul of the World, 47
Soul's Fall, 186
South America, 5, 6,
South Wind, 50
Southern States, 276
Soul Consciousness, 4, 100
Soul, Departed, 181
Soul, Divine Essence, 73
Soul, human, 104
Soul Illumination, 113
Soul, Immortality of, 1
Soul Initiations, xiv
Soul, Liberation, 50
Soul, Light of the, 175
Soul Spark, 273
Soul, Unconscious, 76
Soul, within, 283
Soul's descent into matter, 97, 101
Soul's Desire to Gain Knowledge, 125
Soul's Progress, 167
Soul's release after death, 50
Soul's Upliftment, 183
Souls, 183
Souls, earth stage, 277
Spheres, seven, 255
Spica, 274, 275
Spica Vitginia, 199
Spirit, Ever Living, 90
Spirit, Great, of the Indians, 165
Spirit, Holy, 159
Spirit in all forms, 92
Spirit of Creedless Religion, 122
Spirit of the vine, 159
Spirit or Essence, 133
Spirits, seven, 255, 256
Spiritual Light, 60
Spiritualization, 200
Spring, 264
Spring, god of, 174
Square, Perfect, 12
Staff, 134, 180
Staff of Mercury, 47
Staff of Moses, 130, 140
Stalin, 208
Star, Day, 54, 238
Star, evening, 117, 123
Star of the East, 275
Star, polar, 277, 285
Stars and Planets, 176
Stars of Winter, 12
Stone Buiders Rejected, 12, 169
Stone, white, 279, 284
Strabo, 26
Stygian Lake in Egypt, 246
Summer, 118, 156, 208, 245, 253, 266
Sun, 176, 177, 206, 209, 210, 214,
227, 228, 231, 232, 234, 239, 242,
245, 252, 260, 261, 264, 265, 266,
267, 270, 271, 273, 279
Sun, children of, 233
Sun, cross-ified, 103
Sun God, 101, 113, 114, 121, 122,
125, 126,135, 141,278
Sun-God, birth, life, miracles, death,
resurrection, 127
Sun, life-giver, 171
Sun, man's greatest friend, 118
Sun, meridian, 191
Sun, movement, 150
Sun of Suns, Celestial, 73
INDEX
Sun, producer, 155
Sun, spiritual, 74, 168
Sun, twelve rays, 256
Sun Worship, 111, 116
Sun, victory of, 120
Sun and Moon, 173
Sunday, 117
Supernaturalism, 103
Superstition, 203, 269
Supreme Being, 109, 147
Swan, white, 280
Swer, 188
Switzerland, 5
Symbolic Literature, ancient, 156
Symbolical signs, twelve, 108
Symbolism, xiii, xix, 37, 125, 143,
145, 148, 152, 155, 193, 206, 210,
227, 235, 236, 269
Symbolism, Steller, 104
Symbology, Zodiacal, 108
Symbols, xii, 8, 37, 122, 270
Symbols which at one and the same
time represent generation and RE-
generation, 183
Tabernacle, 215
Tahaut, 135
Tamar, daughter of David, 229
Taoism, 81, 107
Tartar Tribes, 114
Tartary, 219
Tau, 131, 132
Taurus, 164, 172, 173, 219, 259, 284
Taurus the Bull, 283
Tamplar's eight-sided cross, 132
Temple, Divine, 12
Temple, door to the, 276
Temple of Heliopolis, twelve pillars
in 256
Temple, of the Living God, 23
Temple of procreation, door, entrance
to 172
Temples, Egyptian, xiv
Temples, self-styled, 29
Tammuz, 126
Tertullian, 35
Testament, New, 150, 193, 206, 221,
225, 238, 272
Testament, old, xiv, 154, 193. 201,
206, 225, 261, 263, 272
Tha, 143
Thaaut or Thayuat, 38
Thamsin (wind), 54
Thebes, 109, 254
Theological System, 177
Theology, ancient system, 85
Therapeutae, School of, 88
Thermuthis, 244
Thieves, two, 140
Thites, 44
Thor, 38, 132, 185
Three Days at midwinter, 126
Three Days in Hell, 119
Throne, 217
Throne, great white, 163, 224
Thule, king of Egypt, 190
Thyutra, 257
Timnath, 229
To Know all things is to forgive, i.e.,
understand, all things, 227
Tolstoi, 202
Toltec, 272
Transmigration, 11, 20
Tree of Life, 198, 200
Trees, twelve, 256
Triangle, 12
Triangle, Equilateral, symbol of three
fold deity, 192
Tribes, twelve
Triceps Hectate, 135
Trinitarians, 192
Trinity Church on Broadway, 224
Trinity of evils, 155
Trophonius, 15
Trumpets, seven, 255, 256
Truth, xii, 92, 153
Truths, profound, xiii
Try, 98
Trygaeus, 23
Twelve, 117, 120, 129, 163, 164, 256
Two evil months, 125
Two points of Flame, 147
Two serpents, 130
Two thieves, 125
Typhon, 45, 54, 113, 118, 119, 120,
124, 160, 171, 173, 272
Twelve sons or twelve tribes, 218
United States, southern, 7
Universe, 241
Uriah, 228
Urus, 173
Us, 133
Vails, seven, 256
Valhalla, 185
Vapors, malignant, 156
Vedas, 187
Vegetarians, 7
Veil, 139, 152,278
Venus, 55, 67
Verstegen, 185
INDEX
Vipers, 216
Virgin, 50, 100, 122, 123, 124, 125,
126, 141, 258, 264, 267, 272, 274,
275, 281
Virgin Birth, ziii
Virgin Mary, 100
Virgins, fruitful, 245
Virgo, 198, 209, 216, 228, 241, 274,
275, 276, 277, 278, 287
Vishu, 191, 192
"Vtil" 7
"Vivian," by Tennyson, 151
Volumes, twelve great, 273
Vulgar herd, 149
Wagoner, 284
Wales, 5
War, xi
War in heaven, 121, 160, 163
Wars, Religious, zi
Watch Towers, 121
Waters, 140,279
Water Bearer, 165
Waters of Life, Living, rv
Wedding Feast, lacking wine, 123
Western America, 5
West Indies, 46
Whale, 266, 281
Wheat, 274
White race, 7
White stone, fair, 169
Wine, 156, 215
Wings, 213, 265
Winter, 118, 171, 173, 197, 208, 217,
221, 227, 229, 230, 245, 252, 253,
264
Winter neomenia, 59
Winter Solstice, 56
Wisdom, 189, 190, 191, 192, 274
Wisdom, emblem of, 135
Wisdom of the Ages, 74
Wise men, ancient, 273
Woman, clothed with the sun, 266
Word, 116
Wisdom of the Gods, 1 1
Works, Covenant of, 258
World, 194
World, cardinal points of, 173
Worship, formal, 153
Worship God in Spirit and Feeling,
153
Writings in the sky, 147
Yac, 187
Yah, 265
Yaveh, 195
"Ye are the Temples of the Living
God," 21
"Ye must be born again," 51
Yod, 183, 186, 187
Yoni, 131
Youcatan, 284
Youseppe, (Joseph), 228
Zebu, Mexican ox, 165
Zeus, 79,80, 109, 115, 232
Zodiac, 7, 108, 110, 113, 119, 124,
127, 147, 163, 195, 199, 200, 218,
222, 223, 241, 252, 260, 269, 273
Zebulon, 286
Zodiac of the Indians, 165
Zodiac, thirty-six north and south,
165
Zodiac, twelve constellations, 165
Zodiac, twelve signs, 164, 256, 271
Zodiacal Constellations, twelve, 120
Zodiacal Symbology, 108
Zodiacan man, 281
Zoroaster, 1-5, 51, 114, 204
Zosismus, 17
Zodiacal Apostles, 142
Zodiacal Charts, 121
Zodiacal Virgin, 126
Zoroastrian, 272
Zulis, 113
