{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__witte___memories_of_dr_clymer.pdf","mytitle":"Memories Of Dr Clymer","mylang":"de"}
Memories of
Dr. R. Swinburne Clymer
Page 1
Memories of Dr. Clymer
by Mrs. AW. Witt
would like to dwell on World War I. The Witts lived in a beautiful 3
story home in an excellent neighborhood. The War was on and Dr.
.- Clymer plunged in and printed booklets dealing with the problems
mankind was heir to. At this time, Woodrow Wilson was President of
the United States. He appointed Herben Hoover as Director of Food and what
was necessary for the American people. Hoover was pro-British and sent to
England all the nourishing food, such as butter, meat, the whole grains and we
Americans were left with the devitalized food. Consequently we were not eating
nourishing food. Influenza came about, because, as Dr. Clymer put it, we lacked
nourishing food.
Death, death-several died in many families. Dr. Clymer got busy and printed
booklets condemning the United States Government for helping England at the
expense of our own people. He shipped booklets here to Dr. Witt of Kansas City.
A.W. got up at 4:30 am and took a large bundle ofbooklets under each arm and
walked one square block after another and sent Dr. Clymer the money to buy the
paper and print the booklets.
At that time, A.W. was a wealthy man and Dr. Clymer was hard pressed for
money to keep going. Gertrude Cosgrove (who in later years became his wife)
was "his girl Friday" as the saying goes. She kept house. Took care of his patients
and was his secretary and received no salary. The students loved her and many
useful gifts were sent to her. She wired A.W. as follows, "Urgent! Wire Quaker-
town $500.00 Western Union at once," A.W. did so at once. In later years when I
told Reverend Emerson about this, he said, ''Today that would be like $5000.00."
I plunged into War Work,lecruring at PTA meetings. We opened a downtown
kitchen, and I taught dietetics and nutrition fmm Dr. Clymer's first diet book. The
slogan from Government officials was "Hooverize"usubstirutes for meat, butter,
coffee, sugar, etc. The poor housewife could not comprehend it. I trained about 5
women to help me go into the homes recommended by the different welfare agen-
cies to teach these housewives. An interesting point here....
Dr. Mont Clair Carpenter was a dentist and was a good member of our Church
and Fraternity. His wife's maiden name was Jean Harlow-.yes. the mother of the
movie star by that name. Her real name was Harleau Carpenter. Well....Mrs. Car-
penter wanted money, finery, gliner, and was not in harmony with her husband"
and insisted he drop out of our Work. Dr. Clymer made a special effort on one of
his nips here to go down to Dr. Carpenter's office, and tell him not to drop out
Page 2
night when Dr. A returned from the Post Office, posing such a lie--as Judas did--
he hung himself. However, the damage was done, in as much, as Dr. Clymer had
10 hire expensive lawyers to work with his lawyers of the Great Work. After a
year was over, he won his case and no damage--in the long run--was done. At
this Convocation there was a lady Medical Doctor from New York City. She had
overheard me say to a close friend that when we left Beverly Hall we would go to
Richmond filll, Long Island to visit Mrs. Nagles, my sister. Well, a day after we
arrived in Long Island, this lady doctor came to my sister's home asking for Dr.
Witt. Well, we were surprised to see her. A.W. escorted her 10 aprivate room
where he could ascertain why she had called on him. She came right to the point.
She could do more for him than Dr. Clymer. if he would become her student. She
knew he was a wealthy man, and she was after his money. He escorted her to the
front door and said, "If you were a man, I would have given you a swift kick and
down the front steps." A.W. calJed Dr. Clymer and told him aboUl this traitor.
Here is a wonderful lesson ahoUl Dr. Clymer's character and his method of teach-
ing a student to think for himself. In this way the student will have to judge for
himself what action he sbould pursue toward those students who become ttaitors
and would lie aboul Dr. Clymer and his Great Work.
Dr. Clymer had UnIe money. so he could not afford to have his lessons
mimeographed. Since I was considered a good typist, he gave me a big job. I had
to type and ofcourse used carbon paper, so Icould make 3 pages at a time. So I
was put to work typing private lessons to the students for Dr. Clymer. The stu-
dents were willing to do all in their power to help Dr. Clymer. And he worked
day and night in hal, miserable rooms, never complaining. No air conditioning in
those early days.
Dr. Clymer's typewriter was worn out and he needed a new one. And again, no
money to purchase same. We were to a Convocation and A.W. took it upon him-
self to literally pass his hat for donations. The very next day Dr. Clymer went to
Allenrown and bought a new typewriter. We, the students, owed rhar to him.
Remember, he could have remained in Allentown where he had had a lucrative
medical practice. But had he stayed, and taken lithe easy way out" as he in later
years put it, he would not have become the Fraternity's greatest Grand Master.
Dr. A.W. in his early studentship had his cross to bear. He was born to Russian
Jewish parents, came to the United States at the age of 6. Regardless ofpoverty
and hard work in order to study and make his living, he wasmany times marked
for being born a Jew. Even by students in our Fraternity. Yet, he rose to a high de-
gree. being one of the three men in Dr. Clymer's inner sanctum.
Strange though how some ofour very good students came into the Great Work.
A.W. had an office down town close to the Board ofTrade Bldg. He dealt in
buying and selling carload lots of flour and cattle feed. His SecretllI)' was Miss
Vera Barr, whom he enrolled in the Work. She, in turn, enrolled her two brothers,
Clyde and Vern, and her sister, Faye, and a 50 year old man, Mr. K, who having
Page 4
failed in business started allover again. He had one of the old fashioned rolltop
desks, but no office in which to place it, so good natured A.W. gave him office
space in his office. One Sunday morning, A.W. was prompted to go to his office
for some papers and K. forgot 10 close his desk. A.W. saw a copy of a letter K.
had sent to one of A.W.'s best customers in Kansas. One paragraph stated, and I
quote, "When Iget rid arthis little Jew, I'll take over the business." A.W. was
shocked. He called Vera Barr to come to tbe office to see the letter and to discuss
the situation. On Monday morning when K. anived at the office, he saw Witt and
Miss Barr waiting for him. In shon he had K's desk moved into the hall. Years
later, K's name came up again; he lived next door to Mable Rader and Mable's
husband and their family. Rader belonged 10 the same Lodge as Wilt and recom-
mended Win as a doctor. As s<jon as K. found out about Mr. Rader going to Win,
he st""ed slandering A.W. Mable Rader, being a real strong character and already
installed into the Fraternity, would not listen to the slander againsl A.W. Her faith
in him as to what he taught and as aphysician remained stronger than ever. We
may meet with many traitors as we go through life. Ifour faith in our teacher at
any time, during our lifetime is strong, nothing will make us drop our studentship.
Mable Rader and the Win family have had close bonds throughoulthe years.
A.W., after graduating fmm Columbia Medical College, did not go into practice.
He, as well as I, worked for a man in the flour business and he had an office in
Kansas City. The man in charge of thaI office was called to Denver, CO to be
with his wife who was confined in a TB hospital in Denver. So the New York
City job was offered 10 A.W. which necessitated his moving to Kansas City.
Years went by and he decided to go back to Medical School for two years so he
could get a license to practice in Missouri. He became a very knowledgeable doc-
tor, devoted teacher in the Great Work and kept busy until he passed away at 63
after a brief but incurable illness. That is when Dr. Clymer told me to take over
and years later I was ordained.
This next story is about a very important lady, a spinster, a brilliant woman and a
devoted student-Miss MF. ofProvidence, R.I. It was not until she passed away
and left all, I do mean all, her possessions to Gertrude Cosgrove Clymer, that Dr.
Clymer and his wife finally got to build a home of their own. She was a spirited
lady. She was private governess in the home of Governor of Rhode Island for the
governor's three children. She, for many years came to the Hall three times a
year. Spring Convocations, Easter and Fall Convocations. She was a tiny, plump
but highly intelligent lady. If one could visualize Queen Victoria of England,
then one would have an exact picture of Miss F. Hair brushed back with a knot in
the back. Always wore a black bonnet with black silk ties under her chin and a
long black broadcloth cape. It would take her all day to gel to Beverly Hall She
had to take the train fmm Providence to New York. Then train fmm New York to
Philadelphia and lasl train fmm Philadelphia to Quakenown, and by cab to Bever-
ly Hall, arriving at 9 pm, hungry and tired. Long before Gertrude married Dr.
Clymer and after her marriage. she still waited for Miss F's arrival. Took her to
her room and then had her come down to the dining room to get her hot soup,
PageS
salad and beverage. She always gave Dr. Clymer a check of $100.00, besides her
convocation donation. However, when she passed away. Gertrude was her sole
heir, and she left quite an eSlate--jewels, stocks and bonds, etc.
This is a story about the first Convocation at the newly built flISt building at the
newly established Headquarters, which became known as Beverly Hall. You first
have the vision as Dr. Clymer had and you go from there. He had built the first
house. which was his horne. Then a small chapel. He held his first Convocation
there with 5 members. One was Charles Brown of Buffalo and Emil Peterson of
Chanute. Kansas. These were the only two Iknow personally. The session was
held for one day. In later years, I was surprised to read that little old financially
poor Emil Peterson was onc of the men at the very first session, at which Dr.
Clymer naroed Beverly Hall. Years later, I asked Mr. Peterson just how did they
manage. The men met in Quakertown and walked over to the Hotel and each one
had bought a sandwich for their noon meal and walked the four miles from
Quakenown to the Chapel. A well was there for drinking water and across the
road. an old school house. The men used its outdoor toilet facilities. By 5 that
night, they walked back to Quakenown to get their train to return home. Several
years later. at a Convocation, Emil Peterson attended and A.W. and I were there
too.
I know each minister has to make a living for his farnily. It has always been thus.
I will now tell you about the Humanitarian Society we started in Kansas City,
MO. Dr. A.W. Witt was a very dedicated and advanced student in the Great
Work. He was determined that we should have our own building for Church ser-
vices, lectures, study groups, etc. He was seeking a building that would solve the
problem of meeting here, there and everywhere. A three story house in a nice
neighborhood. At one end oe the block was a beautiful Lutheran Church. At the
other end and across the street, a large and popular Catholic Church. We were
able to buy the building as far as the owners were concerned, but where would we
get the $3000 for a down payment ? We had a few wealthy business men in our
group, and he asked three of them to donate a thousand dollars each so we could
buy the building. This they did, and each member was asked to pay dues in order
to pay utilities, etc.
A.W. and I worked hard to keep the building going. Yes, we had study groups.
Twice a month we gave church dinners. The ladies helped me with the cooking,
serving and washing the dishes. Several who carne to the Study Group in the after-
noon and evening sessions bought our books (Clymer) and several becaroe mem-
bers of the Great Work. After we had our own building, Dr. Clymer stayed
upstairs with us, and in A.W.'s downstairs home office he held interviews. Our
home was the only one in which Dr. Clymer stayed and enjoyed my effon to
cook and serve the food he enjoyed. We also gave book reviews which helped
bring in our teachings. We gave teas and always had a book review and brought
in our philosophy that way. One year we had Dr. Clymer answer questions based
on his books. Then I served angel food cake and tea, Dr. Clymer's favorite cake,
Page 6
and he joined in and participated in the social hour. I agree with you that study
groups are essential. Our leaders could start in a small way and the groups would
gradually grow in numbers and some became members of the Great Work.
This story concerns aMr. D. May his Soul rest in peace. His one terrible habit
when he became morbid, depressed, etc. was to go off some place in hiding and
get food drunk. When sober, he worked hard, made big money and was a great
help 10 Dr. Clymer in those early years at the Hall. He had a small room on the
premises. Once when A.W. and I were at the Hall, Dr. Clymer missed Mr. D.
After a few days he asked A.W. to drive with him to Philadelphia because he
knew where he would be indulging in sweet foods and the passing out. Sure
enough, Dr. Clymer found him stretched out in bed, incoherent, etc. Both he and
A.W. took off all of hi' clothe' and put him under the shower until they sobered
him up and drove him back to Beverly Hall. They found in his room cake,
cookies, candy, pies and what not! He was a loner, but devoted to Dr. Clymer and
the Great Work when sober. That was his own cross he had to bear!
A.W. and I always felt that we were not to ask what the Great Work could do for
us, but what could and would we do to further the Great Work. Elr. Clymer the
Great Grand Master,led the way, as did the second Grand Master and now our
present Grand Master is showing us the way to success on every plane of our
being. In the early days, there was little money to pay for help. One year Dr.
Clymer needed a large piece of ground tilled and made ready to plant gladioli
bulbs. He was trying to raise extra money. Four men, A.W., Reverend Brown of
Buffalo and Jack Book of Kansas City and I do not remember the fourth one's
name, got up at4 am, put on their old working clothes and worked for 3 hours
and got the ground ready to plant the bulbs. No one asked to do it. The motto
was, "As you serve your Master, so you too will be successfully served."
The ladies helped Gertrude with serving meals and washing the dishes. Gertrude
Cosgrove came from Scranton, PA. A few days before the endof one session, she
received a message to go to Scranton, as her father was very ill. Naturally someM
one had to be at Beverly Hall to cook and do whatever chores were necessary.
Gertrude returned from Scranton and was very sick herself. She had to go to bed.
A new group would be coming in the nest two days, and Dr. Clymer was upset
and worried. I told A.W. to return home as I was needed to take over the duties of
cook, housekeeper, etc. Iknew Ihad to get all bed linens changed and the house
put in order. Naturally we missed her, but before the session-ended, she was well
and could take over. The old group who attended a Convocation expected to give
service, as we were not at a hotel. And whenever Dr. Clymer planned a trip to
Europe, which was necessary, he would write to the students and ask for a dona-
tion. All responded.
Now a note about the Pennsylvania Dutch and why tfiey were so named. They be-
came real Americans. The Hessians were the low land Gennans and spoke a gut-
tural German. The Berliners and upper groups spoke High German. These
Page?
1
_ _
,
Hessians were mercenary soldiers, paid by England to come to America [0 help
General Howe. After the Revolutionary War they stayed on and settled along
what was called the Bethlehem Pike. All the way from Allemown and almost to
Philadelphia. Dr. Clymer spoke Pennsylvania Dutch to his parents and other memM
bers of his family. His father could hardly speak English, except when it carne to
cuss words.
Now comes the story of how the Knighthood was re-established a~ Beverly Hall.
Dr. Clymer combined two upstairs bedrooms in the Administration Building into
one large room and had the special table made to seat around it the Knights and
ladies. Of course, it was a high honor to be so chosen. The Hrst man knighted was
a medical man, Dr. LaRue of Marion, Ohio. He told us that every morning he
emered the hospital early and went to the piano in the reception room and played
for one hour. It was what his mind and soul needed. Dr.LaRue chose Mrs. Alice
Reece, wife of an M.D. in Kansas City as his Lady. A year later A.W. was
knighted and of course I was chosen as his Lady. what was the criteria ofchoos-
ing a member to tlie Knighthood? Service to the Great Work. For a few years
A.W. practically supported the Work. And I helped wherever I was needed. Dr.
Clymer was always hard pressed financially and students who had money were al-
ways happy to help. At the second session there was a new Sludem--a 38 year old
lady recently left a widow, bur wealthy. She asked Dr. Clymer how she might be
able to help him. He said if he had $3000 he could buy the flour mill so he could
have whole wheat flour and whole grain corn meal for Beverly Hall. She
answered, "The mill is yours." She gave him the check. Way back in those days
that was abig donation. But such was the nature of the early students. Time and
money was freely given and as they freely gave, so they received great returns in-
dividually and collectively in their individual lives. After a few years, why, I
don't know, Dr. Clymer no longer held Knighthood sessioris. It was always a
beautiful sight. Men and women in their evening clothes and all in harmony with
the Great Grand Sir Knight.
A story about the Fossbenner family--a typical old fashioned, honest, upright Pa
Elurch family, as I knew them 50 years ago. Mr. Fossbenner, the man o£ the
house, did not bother to learn English and had no particular trade. But he was an
excellent worker on the farm for Dr. Clymer. They lived about 3/4 of a mile up
the road from Beverly Hall. Mrs. Fossbenner was a kind, lovely old fashioned
women who did speak English. They had two daughters--Mary, the eldest and
Ellen, the younger. The house they lived in was built beforethe Revolutionary
War. The window sills were at least 18 inches wide and made of solid stone.
There were about 5 small shacks. Each had its specific reason for being. One, a
wash house, 2, a house for making vinegar, apple cider, etc. There was little
money to buy things for the home. Mrs. Fassbenner worked for Gertrude-not
that Gertrude needed her--bur Mrs. Fossbenner needed the dollar Gertrude gave
her. Every year that I carne to the Hall, I walked up the hill to see this dear lady.
One day there were 2 large pots on the stove and the boiling contents had an
aromatic scent. I asked what she was boiling and this was her answer, "Mandus"
Page 8
1
_ _
(her husband as she called him), "gets so many colds in the winter time, so I
know what weeds God gave us that would cure acold. So I pick them, wash and
cook them on a slow burning fire for hours, then Istrain it, put it in large glass
jars and label it cough medicine. We had no money for doctors, but God showed
us the way." Then she said she was cooking weeds that would take the pain away
when Mandus had his "rheurnatiz" in the winter. So they lived-believed in
God-and made use of all right food that just grew in the field.
Next time when Icame, I asked her how her daughters were. She said the
youngest one, Ella, has a fine big baby boy. And he was good and so-ong. All be-
cause she followed her mother's advice. When Ella was pregnant, her mOlher had
her pick the weeds whose juice would be full of natural lime and Ella was to
drink a few glasses every day. Then her baby would not ha e ''ricketts.'' So the
new born baby had strong bones. However, when Mary was pregnant, her mother
gave her the same advice. But Mary was lazy. had no faith in weeds. So Mrs.
Fossbenner said to me when Mary was ready to give birth "the baby just slipped
out of her. No lime in its bones to make strong bones." Thedoctor put him on
lime water which she bought at the drugstore.
Our leaders in the Great Work today have the going much easier than our elders
had when they started out teaching the Philosophy. Today we do have husbands
and wives enrolled'and working together. Dr. Clymer had it very hard and suf-
fered terribly because of ajealous wife and one who was "one ofthose born again
Christians." Fa" example, one 4th of July at a Convocatio~ at the Hall, Dr.
Clymer had to go to Allentown to see one of his very sick patients. A few of the
students thought it would be wonderful if we had some cold iced watermelon. So
two of them went to town and brought home a watennelon and paper plates. In
the midst of our feast, Mrs. Clymer came across to where we were having our in-
nocent party and spoke scandalously about Doctor and GertnJde. Just then Dr.
Ciymer rerumed home and ordered her off the premises. We were all a faithful
and loyal group and did not pennit her vulgar insinuations to bother us. Dr.
€lymer went through many of those episodes with her. But thank God, we were
made of sterner stuff, and felt sorry for Dr. Clymer and ignored her accusations.
At this time, Cynthia (Dr. Clymer's only surviving daughter1 was making money
in her dress sRop in Quakertown. She brought a small aparrrnent building with 3
apartments on one floor and moved her mother into one of them. That solved an
unpleasant problem for Doctor Clymer.
i
Leaders in the field across the country may sometimes run into men who
presumably are good students and those who live in big cities may have an oppor-
tunity of starting a class or branch of the Church of Illumination. St. Joseph, MO
is about 60 miles from Kansas City. A Mr. V.B. met a few people in the town and
started a class there. He did fine. We had no idea he was trying to build up his
own following when he also started aclass in Kansas City. He went after the
ladies, not the men, and he drew quite a number of them as smdents in the Great
Work. When A.W. and I attended a June Convocation at Beverly Hall, Mr. V.B.
)
Page 9
I
took over the duties as leader and oied to undermine A.W.~e drew women to
him through his sexual vibrations, and his own wife was miserable because he
ceased being a husband to her. Upon AW.'s return from Bevelry Hall, he called a
meeting of the Kansas City group to give a repon of the Convocation at Beverly
Hall. Much to our surprise one ofV.B.'s lady followers asked for the floor and
[Old A.W. that he was no longer needed or wanted as our minister and V.B. would
take over at once. A.W.'s firsrremark was, "By whose authority have you
decided that you no longer needed my services as your minister? The only
leader, teacher and guide is Dr. Clymer, and Ijust returned from a Convocation at
Beverly Hall, and no mention was made of my stepping down and V.B. taking
over. You are all out of order. youeither follow Dr. Clymer's appointment for
leaders in the different centersTor get out ofour Church at once." After all, A.W.
was aDoctor and an ordained minister and financially he helped Dr. Clymer ever
since he became a student
Finally, V.B. went one step too far. He had ayoung woman in Kansas City and
she had a 5 year old child. She was V's student--her husband was wealthy as were
his parents. V. had her draw all their money from the young woman's and
husband's saving account and skipped town with it. It created quite a scandal.
After about 10 days, a detecdvd found them in a poor neighborhood. V. had spent
all of her money and put her and the child on a bus to Kansas City. She came
home exhausted and suffered wnervous breakdown. It certainly put our Church in
a bad light. However, AW. got that straightened out and Dr. Ciymer simply toid
V.B. he was no longer a student of the Great Work. So he joined Unity, as did
other former members ofour group in Kansas City. V.B. was 90 when he passed
away several years ago.
We cannot force our way disho estly to the top. We have to earn the right to get
there. A.W. had several men students who tried to take over faithful students
away from our Kansas City Church. An after thought-·as I wrote this episode, I
was thinking of the study group,s you asked your ministers to start in their respec-
tive town or city. In the common vernacular, "I hope not anyone gets too big for
his britches". You are the "big chieP' and all are under your jurisdiction.
Dr. Clymer was always hard pressed for money. There was so much that had to
be done to build up a great centbr in every way. True, our beloved Reverend
Emerson conceived the idea of a paramedic clinic and travelled allover the
country to meet with the students and explain plans to them, and also to raise
money. Look what it is today! IDr. Clymer depended on his medical practice to
help him financially and every cent went into the Great Work. With Gertrude
Cosgrove's help, he decided to have sick patients-studems-come to the Hall
for his medical help, and he charged accordingly. One woman ofKansas City,
A.R., had surgery for uterine cancer, several years before she became a student
Her husband was an M.D. and y.,as only too happy to send his wife to Bevel!)'
Hall where she would receive help mentally, physically and spiritually. He
charged fifty dollars a week for room, board and medical heJpnwhich today of
Page 10
course that would be "peanuts." Then he was asked to belp a 17 year old girl-
sister ofonc of our students-who had a sexual relationship with one of her high
school boy friends and caught adisease from him. So the sister sent this young
lady to Beverly Hall for treatment. One after another patients came for his help
and together with what students sent. he was able to make it financially. Needless
to say, it was hard work. And faithful Gertrude stood by him. Dr. Clymer was
busy those days getting out booklets on health and other problems. The patients
came into the print shop and helped in many ways. No Grand Master has it easy.
Each one has to find ways to help the students and at the same time raise money
for the Great Work.
Being continually hard pressed for money and having linle collateral, Dr.
Clymer's loans at the bank were limited. By 1916 A.W. was making big money in
the flour and feed business. He would send Dr. Clymer large donations. Dr.
Clymer was anxious to establish credit at his bank in Quakertown. So he could
borrow money on his personal notes with A.W. signing his name as guarantor for
the payment of same. The Bank President wanted to meet this A.W. Witt. So Dr.
Clymer asked A.W. After this meeting, the bank had no besitation in the loan
transactions. I remember after Dr. Clymer passed away, on one of my trips to
Beverly Hall, Emerson said he found many "paid in full nores" signed by A.W.
As time went on, Dr. Clymer drew more and more studentS who made large
salaries and also those in business for themselves. So donations came in from all
over the country to help Dr. Clymer financially. It called for a heap of faith and
love and loyalty on the pan ofthe members who gave financial help. No doub~
dear doctor, you know. It takes a lot of money to keep up the good work at Bever-
ly Hall.
During the 2nd World War, the American people were rationed with meat and all
the foods. At Beverly Hall one year Dr. Clymer had Gertrude prepare whale meal
that was delicious. She made a Pa. Dutch meat pie, using whale meat. At a few
miles from Beverly Hall was a corner grocery store that carried tins of whale
meat. A.W. bought a case ofit'and had it shipped to Kansas City for our home.
There was one very fine seafood restaurant in Kansas City that sold whale meat
sleaks. It was not very popular and soon was taken off the market. Dr. Clymer
said it was very nutritious on all counts.
Dr. Clymer's devotion to his old mother was wonderful. The house Cynthia sold
to Reverend Emerson before Dr. Clymer rebuilt it--his mother lived in it until she
passed away. Dr. Clymer never missed a morning but what he walked up to see
"mother", but she was Grandma to those of us who knew her so well. She had 10
children-9 boys and a girl. The girl died at a young age. Grandma's midwives
brought the babies into this world among these Pa. Dutch families. No matter
how busy Grandma Clymer was, she dropped everything she was doing when
called by her daughter-in-law that the baby was, as she put it, "on its way." When
Gemude and lance told her that her in-laws seemed to callan her only when
Page 11
they needed her, her answer was, "I still thank God that I am useful and can help
my children."
There were several coat and pants factories in Quakenown and surrounding small
towns. They. fanned out their work among these counoy women. The founder of
a factory would tie bundles for the women on his route. These women could not
read and write, but they understood the chalk markings onthe fabrics which they
stitched on their machine. This extra money was a great help to them. As Doctor
Clymer put it, "I would not take that job away from my mother. She was happy
that she could still earn some money." When canning time came, she would go [0
the Hall and help Gertrude put up vegetables for the winter months. I liked home
made cheese cake--that was typical of the Gennan in me. When she knew I was
coming, she would bake the cheesecake for me. The only ray I could pay her
was to send her new old fashioned long gingham aprons and skirts and waists, all
washable. This was a saving to her and ajoy for me to give. I'm afraid that era of
service has long been forgonen.
On one ofDr. Clymer's trips to Kansas City. the late afternoon when he carne in
to ow: home. we had over an hour to be alone, and I shall never forget that intro-
spective chat and visit. He came by train and always enjoyed these trips of intro-
spection. So, as we waited for A.W. to return home from his office. Dr. Clymer
and I talked about love, marriage, etc. He said he knew that some day Gertrude
would be his wife, and he knew in her heart she loved him and felt as he did. He
said while on the train he dozed off--{)utwardly-but in memory he was way off
on many incarnations with Gertrude beside him as his wife. As in this life. he
knew that the time would come. it just had to. when they would be married,
develop. and do great things for the Fraternity. And so it came about-a few
years later-and he and his wife were divorced and later he and Gertrude were
joined together on all planes of their endeavors.
He asked how A.W. felt on that subjec~ and A.W. answered, "I love my wife
very much, and we have gone through many hard times together and come what
may. Iknow that in every age to come, we will always fInd each other and be-
come man and wife." Naturally, I felt the same way. Wasn't it Randolph who
wrote that wonderful book, "Love, Woman and Maniage." I feel so many couples
in the Work and those not members, do not work hard enough to make the mar-
riage a successful one on all planes of their. being. Dr. Clymer stated. "I talk in in-
terviews to so many of our students and several of them are married couples.
Seldom do Icome in contact with a truly happy couple, so that Icould have given
them the inner meaning of the sex rite, to help them in every way toward health,
happiness and soul growth."l, personally, have felt, "What a pity." My greatest
consolation in life since A.W. passed away was. has been, and I hope until my
Soul is called to the Great Beyond, is apicture of our great devotion to each
other. And because ofit we managed to cope with all of our reverses that fell
upon us. God bless our Noble Fraternity!
Page 12
Dr. Clymer never forgot a person who helped him when he needed financial help.
In his early days in Allentown, he had, or I should say, "built up a lucrative medi-
cal practice", especially with ~he elite of the town. The top one was the beautiful
wife of the leading banker in town. She had her own large car and chauffeur. Hers
was the first "limo" in the town. Well, as time went on, the lady fell in love with
her chauffeur. Was it love or lust? Her husband got wind of it He divorced her,
gave her a large financial settlement and told them both to get out of town. He
never heard from her again.
Many years later, A.W. got acall at his office and she said she was once a patient
and friend of Dr. Clymer. Now she was broke and needed food to eat and a place
to sleep. A.W. shuddered at the address she gave him. In a regular "pim" lousy
section ofKansas City. She had a small room in arooming house, was broke and
about to be thrown out on the street. So he gave her some money for food and
rent and money for bus fare to get out of town to be with a member of her family.
He wrote all this to Br. Clymer, who, in tum, thanked him profusely for what he
did for this lady. Dr. Clymer could not ask such a favor from any other friend or
student. And I dare say, few would have responded as did A.W. We live here in a
strong Bible belt ofmany narrow minded people, of which we have several in our
Fraternity. We know that every act of mercy and good deeds, whether for oursel-
ves or a friend, never goes unrewarded. The Divine Law sees to that when Jesus
said, "Many are called and few are chosen." How right he was. I did not know at
that time when A.MI. helped this lady that there was another ofour students who
would judge wrongly and not forgive a past judgment or mistake.
Dr. Clymer always encouraged a student to make greater strides in his work or
profession. Since he was a living example ofeffort producing great works, a sin-
cere student could not help working very hard at his job, and at the same time not
to neglect his spiritual efforts if he wished to succeed in all of his undertakings.
There were times at Round Tables when some students would complain and tell
Dr. Clymer he expected too much of them. And he would reply, "I ask no more of
each of you than I tell myself I must even do more than I ask you to do. And I can
truthfully say that such a positive attitude stays with a sincere student as long as
he lives, regardless of age. I pray the day will never come when I would be help-
less." He made the statement known that when a student does not put forth great
effort in his daily affairs, how can that student advance minus effort in his
spiritual growth? Irealized that the Master Teacher never asks a student to do that
which he. himself. did not or was not doing.
It was during the national depression years that a student, who had been in the
Great Work as long as A.W.. was building a new home. He had borrowed $4000
at the bank: with A.W. co·signing the note for him. Then he could not make pay-
ments on the loan because he used that borrowed money to buy lumber for his
new home. So we were stuck. Lost our beautiful home and had to borrow money
from afriend so we could move into an apartment and start from scratch. Our son
had just graduated from college and could not find ajob. Finally a friend got him
Page 13
t
a job in a clothing factory where he earned $19 a week wrapping bundles. It
seemed laughable to have a college degree to wrap bundles in a clothing factory.
Finally, through hard work and faith, conditions improved and our son got ajob,
a night job. in the Police Department of a high clerical nature. In this way he went
to Medical School, so he could practice medicine. We were grateful for Dr.
Clymer'S encouragement and we knew that through faith and hard work, we
would win Qut. The student who caused us all of the financial trouble--used our
money to pay for the lumber of the new house he was building in the country. We
were shocked when we learned that the house caught on fIre and burned to the
ground. Naturally, we felt sorry for him and his wife, as boih had to get out and
look for jobs. Was the fIre retribution through the action ofDivine Law? We
never signed anote again for anyone except Dr. Clymer.
My fIrst trip to Beverly Hall was with A.W., and my small 5 year old son, Harold.
Dr. Clymer met us at the Railroad Station. He drove to the station in his two
seated buggy with the "fringe on top." As we approached the Hall, I saw about 6
old ladies sitting on the porch. I asked A.W. if Dr. Clymerran a sanitarium. These
were beginner students from Reverend Brown's group in Buffalo. I felt as though
I wanted to go back to town and stay at a hotel. During the Round Table ques-
tions and answers period, these Buffalo people were antagonistic and criticized
Dr. Clymer. They wanted a spiritual demonstration--a seance. They told Dr.
Clymer he was too materialistic and lacked real spiritual ability and knowledge.
Dr. Clymer saw that he could do nothing with these "so called spiritual people."
He suggested that they leave at once and take the night train back to Buffalo. This
they did. And it certainly cleansed the atmosphere at the Hall and helped make
my fIrst trip a happy and successful one.
On that very first visit to the Hall, Dr. Clymer told me to help A.W. build up a
church in Kansas City, calling it "The Churcb of mumination." A.W. had already
started a church after his fIrst visit to Beverly HaIl. I loved ]}r. Clymer and ap-
preciated all the advice he gave us in order to make a long and happy life. I guess
I was too practical a person to merely dwell on the "so called spiritual plane." I
began incorporating the teaching into my daily living. To be practical and yet
spiritual in my daily affairs in life. Put everything in its proper place so growth
could be and would be on all planes ofmy being. I soon found out that our
philosophy was a liveable way of life and must be applied to all of our activities
in life. This Dr. Clymer taught us. Be practical in your affairs with others. Yet
spiritual in your moments reserved for your spiritual exercises.
When I took over as minister of, our church in Kansas City rhad to prepare my
weekly sermons. I could not take anything for granted. I had to study and learn
the reason in hack of each item. I was anxious to know the difference between the
Ancient Hebrews and the Jews. I began by studying the life of Abraham. The
Bible states that Abraham, Sarah, Isaac and Jacob, were not Jews, but Chaldeans.
Had corne from Mesopotamia. They were the real Hebrews and very religious
and high grade of people. The Bible states that God asked Abraham to go to the
Page 14
town of Hebra and there fonn a new real religion calling it the Hebrews. Then
God told Abrahamto go to the town of Judea and there start a religion by name
called the Jewish religion. Their language was more guttural than the Hebrews.
One might say if one is a Hebrew and the other a Jew. The Jewish people were al-
ways sticklers for living the Law as they were taught. They were the frrst people
to circumcise their boy babies. The reason given, they were over sexed and the
foreskin of the male organ caused a lot of friction and a great amount of passion.
Also it created a holding place for disease, as we all it, a social disease. When I
discussed this once with Dr. Clymer, he said, <lIn this day and age, the women I
interview complain about the lack ofpassion in their spouse." So you know he al-
ways had a great sense of humor and said, liThe men today could stand such fric-
tion because on the whole, they haven't the great passion to satisfy their spouse."
I'll digress at this point to say that when I talked with Dr. G:lymer about Abraham,
Sarah, Isaac and Jacob, he told me that at that particular time the Chaldeans were
the greatest evolved mystics in what we would say knowledge of the Soul and all
that it spiritually represents. Mesopotamia was then the greatest seat of spiritual
learning.
I believe this story will be ofinterest to you from a medical standpoint, as well as
Dr. Clymer's spiritual intuitional medical knowledge. We had a student, E.K. She
was a great violinist and violin teacher. Our son, Harold, studied with her from
the time he was 7 years old until he was 17 years old and ready to go away to col-
lege. Her background was an intellectual one. Her aunt. Miss E.W., who never
married, was assistant superintendent ofpublic schools. (In those days any
woman connected'with our school system was forbidden to marry). E.K. became
interested in the Great Work, and AW. enrolled her as a student. After she was
married a few years, she gave birth to a son. He seemed peculiar and she would
say he was a genius-a good cover up. After all, she was about 35 when he was
born. So the next Convocation Dr. Clymer held in Kansas City at our
Humanitarian Bldg. he held all ofhis interviews in A.W.'s private office. When
he saw Mrs. K's boy he told her he needed glandular therapy; otherwise he would
continue to be sub-nonna!. This angered her and she dropped out of the Work. As
years went by, I occasionally saw her and her son on the streetcar, but she never
spoke to me. She did nothing to help his glandular condition. By the time he was
16, I hearti she had passed away. I met one of her friends from a literary group
where she taught and the friend said they all believed the boy killed his mother.
All this could have been avoided had she listened to Dr. Clymer and followed his
medical advice. Some students feel they do not need physical help; that their
spiritual connection and growth will pull them through. What egotism! We al-
ways need advice and help, regardless of our age. NG use Lillcing. Regardless of
Dr. Clymer's spiritual knowledge, medically speaking, he was praotical and
treated patients on all planes as a doctor should.
This is again Dr. <;lymer's great spiritual knowledge in diagnosing a case in
which he then would tell a parent to have his child go through a complete physi-
Page 15
I
cal examination. This couple were Christian Scientists. The father was a Mason
and he belonged to the same lodge as A.W. We knew them for many years before
she finally give binh to this boy. The boy, whenever he had to go to the bathroom
he would completely undress himself. His eating habits were atrocious. But A.W.
and I never interfered. However, when the child was 6 years old, he took sick.
This was about 7 am. We lived a few miles from them and it was 7 pm when they
called to say John was very sick. They lived a few doors from one of the best
pediatricians and he was there when we arrived. He was juSt washing his hands
and said, "l give up and you see what you can do with these Christian Science
nuts:' They had ahealer in one room with a Christian Science teacher, and the
boy had severe cOJ'lvulsions. I sent AW. home because OUf son was 14 and he had
to get some sleep. I told the Christian Science healers to go out of the room. I
called a pediatrician whom I knew. And he was shocked at the boy's condition.
The convulsions were so bad the doctor gave him 6 drops of Chloral to quiet him
down. He said this child should be in a hospital at once. Because I was afraid the
parents would refuse, I helped the doctor wrap up the boy and at 2 am we were at
the hospital. They f\tst gave him an enema and popcorn ant! peanuts hit the ceil-
ing. Then a stomach pump and large hunks of meat, hunks of sour cream and
what not. Well, I said I would stay with the child all night. By morning he was
much better and when A.W. came to the hospital, I told him all that took place.
Wben the Christian Science teacher and healer arrived, A.W. told them the story
and the Christian Science healer said, "Oh! That was error." By that time A.W.
had had it and said, "No, it was plain "sh---" This boy lived to.about 40 years old,
long after his parents died. While he was wealthy, what good did it do him? As
Dr. Clymer said, ''He could have been helped." I have seen many of our own stu-
dents get angry at Dr. Clymer b,cause he would tell them what was physically
wrong with them, and they thought "mind over matter" was all that was necessary.
Dr. Clymer was always trying to dramatize and perhaps make more realistic the
symbolic meaning of our Great Work. Now, where they built Gertrude's Park, at
one time, Dr. Clymer cleared away a large portion of:it. at one end, he built a
small wooden building to hold the materials he needed to put on the sacred work
of Initiation. This was in early surruner and A.W. was one of the main officers of
the performance. There was an organ out in the open and at that time a Miss
Daisy Grove ofBuffalo rendered the organ music. Dr. Clymer stated the High
Priests and Knights ofolden days always administered their symbolic work in the
open. He gave in two hours time the entire epic of the binh and life of man until
death called the body to its last resting place and the Light in man returned to God
who gave it For the end of the panorama there was a scene with a real coffin, and
believe it or not, Clara Witt was 25 years old and wore one of A.W.'s suits so she
could lie in the coffin. A few of the students thought Dr. Clymer went too far in
his realistic approach to the subject of life and death in man, then the resurrection.
We formed a circle at the end, holding the hand of, the one standing next to us on
each side of us. AndDr. Clymer prayed that the golden bont! shall never be
broken, but the soul as it had overcometh the bonds of the flesh shall rise higher
and higher toward,the Godhead and Immortality. A.W. and I were ecstatic, but
Page 16
f
some thought it too morbid. They could not grasp the real meaning of life and the
overcoming of the evils within man before he can reach immonality. Naturally,
Dr. Clymer was disappointed at the lack of true spiritual understanding from
some of the others. You can be sure, he never repeated this realistic epic of life,
death and resurrection again. But as far as A.W. and I were concerned. it was
realistic, and there was much to learn from the rituals which were memorized by
the true believers who were in the true ritualistic Great Work. No doubt some of
us are born with this Divine Understanding and never cease going over it when
our spirits are low. Then we rise again and feel we can go forward and be a great
help to our Master and beloved teacher.
About 60 years ago, Dr. Clymer told A.W. to form a lodge for men only, calling
it Osirian Brotherhood. Dr. Clo/mer would furnish the rituals and the different cos-
tumes for the officers of the Temple. We were quite fortunate that in a former
wealthy area of our city, there were mansions rented out to organizations. On the
main floor which formerly was a large living room, very spacious dining room
and large and roomy center hall.
We rented all but the kitchen on the fIrst floor for our Sunday morning church ser-
vices, and one night a month the 3rd floor was rented to A.W. for the Osirian
Lodge. Many new students of the Great Work became members of the newly
fonned Lodge. A.W. was a prominent member of one of the Masonic Lodges. So
he was instrumental in drawing members from that source. It operated successful-
ly for several years and then neighborhoods change and most of the Lodge mem-
bers disbanded. However, before we found another place to hold our Sunday
morning church sernces, we kept meeting on the ftrst floor ofthis beautiful build-
ing. It was quite adequate for our group. As to the Lodge membership, A.W.
hired a man to recruit members. Half of the fees would go to the Lodge, half to
the membership recruited. As time passed, A.W. asked this man where were the
dues collected for the Lodge? The man said, "I used all that money for my own
expenses" and A.W. fired him at once as he had to payout of his own pocket
what this man collected and used for himself.
In time the Lodge did not increase in membership, so it folded up. However, the
Church was another story. When Dr. Clymer next came to Kansas City to hold a
Convocation, he was informed that all the members and guests were anxious to
hear from him. He was no public speaker. He was a natural when it came to ques-
tions and answer sessions. So A.W. told Dr. Clymer the regular members, even
those not students, were prepared to ask questions. In order not to trip Dr.
Clymer, A.W. asked for questions to be sent to him to edit and Clara Witt would
ask the questions. It went off like a charm and naturally Dr. Clymer felt at ease.
First of all, every seat was taken and extra chairs were set up in the Hall and
dining area of the building. Naturally, Dr. Clymer was pleased. Then in time that
building was sold and it was then we bought a 3 story building and the entire first
floor was used for Church----<:hurch dinners and a fanner sun parlor used for Dr.
A.W.'s private at home office. And this went on for years, until A.W. took
Page 17
1
_ _
t
seriously ill and soon passed away. OUf next move was to rent a room on the par-
lor in one of our downtown hotels. We stayed there for years. Then when I was
approaching my 84th birthday, we gave up the hotel quarters, as our group grew
smaller. Many older> members passed away and many moved away. However, for
many years we held a yearly Convocation there for Dr. Clymer, and after he
passed away. Emerson held 3 sessions there and then we had to give up the place
because Kansas City was going through a complete overhauling in our downtown
area. Then we met in Mable Rader's home for 2 year.s. By the time I was 85, I
could no longer see to write my sennans. Then Emerson came to Kansas City to
ordain Jack Rader. I was asked to officiate. And Jack is doing a fine job. We can
only pray for his success because he is dedicated to the Work. And to the Church.
It is not easy to stan a new Church, prepare sermons and not neglect one's own
development. I've been there so I talk from experience. In my case, I was used to
dealing with the public through my on the air work and my public lectures. We
all have to remember that our growth depends upon how well can we serve our
Master and the Great Work.
This time I will relate a personal story, of vision, hard work, and faith in my
Teacher, Dr. Clymer. About 50 years ago, radio was in its infancy. Our leading
newspaper opened a radio station on a small scale on 'Part of our floor in its build-
ing. There were two other small stations; however, no opportunity to get even a
small job there. However, I was zealous and I found out there was a small 100
watt station on thelair 3 times a day for 3 hours each session. The man who
owned the station owed the government $4000 in taxes on his license. However, I
got 15 minutes every evening, 5 days a week, and ofcourse, I expected no salary.
I had to get my foot, so to speak, in the door. And my beloved teacher, Dr.
Clymer encouraged me. After two years, a man, Tom Evans, who with a partner,
owned about 50 drug stores, heard about this radio man whq, was about to lose his
license. So Tom Evans paid the government the $4000. He asked me to stay on
with him and he immediately changed the call letters to KCMO and moved the
station downtown. He always told everyone he bought Anne Hayes with the sta-
tion as I was his first talent. And my radio name was Anne Hayes. I received no
salary and my only expense was my carfare, both ways. GraDually spots were
sold on the program and little by little, I earned more money and worked very
hard.
As years went by, I became the Director of Women's ActiviBes for the station
and every Saturday morning from 11 to 12 noon, I have a round table program
with various groups. I was not paid in money for this extra service, but the Divine
L.aw paid me by enhancing my knowledge and being in contact with great per-
sonalities allover the United States. I will relate a very imponant story. I was one
oflO women appointed by Mrs. Dorothy Lewis [0 act on the Women's Commit-
tee at the newly built building of the U.W. in N.Y. to disseminate all information
concerning World delegates, etc. We were chosen from different sections of the
U.S. Every year aft~rI would go to New York and visit the tJ.N. and record inter-
views on records which were sent to my station in Kansas City. No expense to me.
Page 18
I
On one afmy sessions at the U.N., I met the daughter of the late Count Leo
Tolstoy. He was a great prolific writer, awise man, profound knowledge and a
spiritual outlook on life in his later years. When Tolstoy was about 38, he had a
former lady friend who he found out was sentenced to Siberia. The most degrad-
ing and evil prison in the world. Once there, one never returned to the outside
world of human beings. He decided to go to Siberia and sec this young woman.
Being of the nobility, they could not deny him cotty in Siberia. He asked to see
the young lady. He could only see her through the grill work on the fence. He was
shocked beyond words. He saw acreature he could not recognize. The punish-
ment she had to undergo was unbelievable.
When he returned to Russia and his hometown, and in the quietude of his own
home, he wrote th t wonderful book, "The Resurrection." He decided to live the
life of a peasant, wore the gannents like the peasants, and wrote his many books.
He did not interfere with his wife and her love for high society. Each lived his
own life and they remained a happy couple.
He had the habit of taking a half hour walle every late afternoon. On one of these
walks he noticed a man huddled up in a doorway. Tolstoy stopped and the man
begged for a few pennies. Tolstoy said, "I am sorry. Brother. but I have not a
penny to give you." Upon Tolstoy's return walk home, he again stopped at this
same doorway. and he was surprised to see a man tall and erect with a great posi-
tive attitude toward life. Again Tolstoy stopped and the man said, "I Thank you
Sir, for what you did for me today." Tolstoy answered, "I didn't even have a
penny to give you:' The man replied, "You gave me more than worldly goods.
You called me "Brother."
Page 19
My last episode for today is the life of my late Russian friend, Madam H.L. She
was born in Baker, Russia. Her father was a wealthy banker. She was an intellec-
tual and belonged to a small group of brilliant men and women. They were to a
degree radicals. but not cut throats. They were out to ovenhrow the Tzaristic
Regime, but not to kill the Tzar. They put Kerinsky in as Prime Minster and was
going to elevate him to a higher position, when as L. said, "Kerensky lost his guts
and flew 10 Paris." Then a flight to the United States. So she and other members
of her group dishanded and flew to different places for refuge.
When in Paris. L. soon found out she had used up all of her money and wondered
what next would she do? A few friends suggested she go into fashion as a desig-
ner and that somehow she would make it. So she fitted out a 7th floor loft with
machines, sewing tables, etc. Soon word gal around that a new first class coterie
(French Designer) opened up a place of her own. So one day one of the top
workers from onc of the big fashion houses called on L. She wanted to know how
L.let's say, "put in a sleeve". So L., hit her forehead and said to herself, "Now
think, you fool, think." She asked this designer how they did it at the big fashion
salon where she worked. She proceeded to show L. Then L said to her, "That's ex-
actly how L. does it." And the word went around Paris that a new wonderful
designer has now opened up her shop to the public. She became famous over
night.
Years later she came to America and first opened up a place in New York, then in
Kansas City. Here she worked for the Nelly Don Dress Factory and held a posi-
tion there as chief French designer until her retirement While in Kansas City,
Mrs. Read who owned the Nelly Don Factory was in her young womanhood, a
graduate of Lindenwood College for women. It was only a shon distance from St.
Louis. L. for 3 months every year worked at the college teaching designing paid
for hy Nelly Donellx Reed.
While at the college, she found out that Kerensky's name was on the Bulletin
Board that he was to present a public lecture under auspices of the college.
Kerensky also saw L. and asked her to meet him at the campus lunch wagon for a
cup of coffee after the lecture. Reluctantly she accepted his invitation. Then she
let him have it and asked him why he lost his guts.
Years after that episode L. settled in Kansas City and worked for Donnely G. Co.
until her retirement. She was amember, as was T, of the Kansas Oity Fashion
Group. One Saturday we had our luncheon meeting in one of the private dining
rooms of a popular restaurant On Saturday morning before I left for our meeting,
I had time to read our Kansas City Times. Westbrook Pegler had his column on
the editorial page. I never failed reading it. This Saturday morning the lead line of
his column was "Kerensky had no guts'" That statement L. had, herself, made
time and again. On Friday the day before I had lunch with L. in her apartment.
And she went over some of the facts regarding the planned overthrow of the Tzar
and his cahinet hy Kerensky and his group. When suddenly Kerensky skipped out
Page 20
and flew to Paris and again she stated to me, "Kerensky lost his guts and we lost
out on our mission to ovcnhrow the Tzar and let the bandits and cutthroats take
control. Naturally her life was in danger, so she tOO, flew to Paris. She lived in
Kansas City for several years and we were great friends. She was a well educated
woman. She wenl through 3 revolutions, existed, foughl for the human rights of
others, and she said after each battle for life, "And yet, I survived!" How true!
Marriage! Dr. Clymer could not express often enough the meaning of true mar-
riage and what one must do to achieve it. He worked hard with his faithful mar-
ried couples to help them see that marriage is a one way street. Both participants
must work at it to achieve a greater love, peace and understanding. He made the
statement many times that if, acouple really and truly love each other, they will
work hard to make their marriage a success, mentally, physically and spiritually.
He did not mince any words in laying down the Divine Law charging a man and a
woman what he and she must do to make their marriage a success. Not to wait
and see who will act first to change his behavior toward his mate. When a couple
work for harmony and peace, all other avenues tOward success come their way.
"Tis not acase of wishful thinking, not at all, it takes vision:' We are reminded of
the facI thaI the Nazarene taught, "I am the way, the truth and the life." And Dr.
Clymer reiterated time and again that in marriage each one must find for himself
and herselfl'The Way" and never cease trying to perfect their marriage in this
manner.
You have to have the desire, a strong desire to be on the Path, as you have been
taught. This will lead you inlo a new life and all thaI it promises. You have to get
rid of the old devil within you. As Dr. Clymer stated, "If the desire is intense
enough, it will arouse a Spiritual Fire that will fortify you against the old devil.
Your former weaknesses and habits and those, who having no knowledge of a dif-
ferent life, will do all they can to distract you, discourage you, and win you away
from your newly chosen path. You must constantly keep in mind the promises of
this new life and the vision that the Gold that is at the end of lhe rainbow can be
yours. How often have we heard men, as well as women, say, "I can't make him
(or her) change." Why should we wait for the other mate to change before we try
ourselves to better our marital status in life?
We arc taught to arouse the sleeping Christos within us. If we do so, work at it,
we will discover that it is with us day and night and helping us constantly to suc-
ceed in our respective Job or career. Nothing wonh while is achieved without
faith and hard work. There is no such thing as "wishful thinking." From the
"cradle to the grave" it is work, work, work. Then success in one's particular en-
deavor will be realized. It has been said thaI truth is often most difficult 10 find. If
we develop a deep yearning for the truth and pray to be shown the way 10 obtain
it, then it will create a desire to attain and arouse us to action. Remember that the
desire to achieve must be intense enough that it will arouse a spiritual Frre that
will fortify you against the "old desire," your former weaknesses and habits.
Page 21
Those, who, have no knowledge of a different life, will do all they can to distract
you, discourage you and win you away from your newly chosen path. It was ever
thus. We have been told that we should keep in mind constamly the promises of
this new life vision. The Gold that is at the end of the Rainbow, the arising of the
sleeping self. Is it worth the effort? Indeed it is.
Then there is difficulty among married couples where children are involved. The
question brought up before Dr. Clymer was uis it right for a parent or parents to
insist that our children follow our religion, do as we say they must do, eat the
food that we feel is best for them, and see to it that they have the right com-
panions?" Dr. Clymer was quick to say,''Did you follow the same path as your
parents? Do you not wish your children to develop will power and so desire and
live that they. themselves. become wise enough to fellow the right way toward
health, happiness and success?" Dr. Clymer reminded his students that to create
that true marriage, we must awaken me creative spirit. to remember it will never
awaken of its own accord. To begin with, it takes great faith on the part of the par-
ticipants to create a perfect marriage that will enable them to weather all storms.
be what may. As you work and pray, hope and dream, to realize the fulfillment of
your accomplishments, and stimulate your desire to try harder each day, whether
you are a business man or woman or a professional one, if you are married and
follow all of the rules that Dr. Clymer mentioned, you will realize a happy mar-
riage and great success in your individual career. In the common vernacular, "hop
to it" and be happy in the achievements accrued thereby. .
And now off to some personal anecdotes. Dr. Clymer staned from "scratch." His
wearing apparel was his least consideration. But if he was to enlarge the scope of
the Great Work, he would be mingling with some business men and women and
A.W. took it upon himself to see that our dear Dr. had a new wardrobe when he
decided to visit the different centers of the Great Work. When A.W. flrst met Dr.
Clymer at the railroad station in Quakenown, he was surprised to see Dr. Clymer
in an old fashioned frock coat "with the tails in back." Dr. Clymer admired a
checked wool suit A.W. was wearing. They both were the same size. So when we
packed our bags for our return trip home, A.W.left the checked suit hanging in
the closet He knew when Gertrude cleaned the room, she would discover the suit
Naturally Dr. Clymer was elated.
In Kansas City we still have a large men's clothes factory. It was custom gar-
ments made to order. So each year when Dr. Clymer came to Kansas City, A.\V.
saw to it that he had the proper topcoats and suits. And when it came to food! I
catered to his taste. They always stayed at our home. lli. Clymer liked fresh frog
legs and the way I prepared them. So we went to our large city market to stock up
on Doctor's special food. He also enjoyed the way we prepared fresh large scal-
lops. Then one lunchtime we drove Doctor to a beautiful Chinese Restaurant be-
cause Doctor enjoyed Chinese food. Our home was home to Doctor and Gertrude.
Page 22
,
If students complain about accommodations at Beverly HaU today, they were not
around in those early days. The old iron beds had terrible springs and the mames-
ses in each came in 3 parts. A bolster for top and bottom and in the center a larger
mattress. If you turned lhe wrong way you would find your "bonom" coming out
between the mattress. But no one, absolutely no one, complained. With little
money, that was the best Doctor Clymer could do. There were two in a room and
of course, like it or not, they slept in the same bed. Each one had a small pitcher
on the dresser to fill with well water. After Iam, uotilS pm, one could not take a
tub bath, and one could not use the toilet because we were not pennitted to. Doc-
tor had the old fashioned Delco Engine down near his power house and by 5 pm
he would pump the water into the pipes for Beverly Hall. If, in the meantime, one
just had to use the bathroom, well, the privies were still standing by the old
school house across the road from Beverly Hall! Did anyone complain? Of
course not! We came for spiritual training and were not expecting accommoda-
tions of the Ritz! Yes, we old timers grew with the Hall mentally, physically and
spiritually! So that's all there was 10 that!
I do nOI recall my writing about Mrs. G. M. of Buffalo, New York. She was a
member of their church whose leader was Reverend Charles Brown. Brown was
one of the small group who held their flI'St meeting in the newly built small
chapel. That was prior 10 the building of Beverly Hall. Mrs. M.'s husband was
principal ofone of the largest public schools in Buffalo. He never interfered with
his wife's philosophy, which was her religion. She was close to Dr. Clymer, also
to A.W. Win. She wrote the book "Mystic Americamsm." She was fearless in her
approach to people when it came to talk about Clymer, Randolph and the Great
Philosophy in general. She was very deaf and would not wear a hearing aid.
When she wanted Dr. Clymer's attention, she would "corner him" and have him
sit with her on the retaining wall down below the Beverly Hall building. Dr.
Clymer, with all of his great spiritual knowledge, was the most human and under-
standing man that Iever knew, understood and loved. He was Father to me in a
physical and human self and my great Leader-the Greatest-in a spiritual sense.
To be close to Dr. Clymer was a privilege one had to earn. And spiritually he con-
sidered me his daughter, which I loved
An example: Before there was a Blue Room at the Hall, Dr. Clymer held his inter-
views in the comer of his room. He was interviewing a man as I was coming
down the steps and Gertrude heard him say, "Go back upstairs, your petticoat is
showing." Later Gertrude told him, in my presence, that he had no right to embar-
rass me in the presence of the man whom he was interviewing. Dr. Clymer
replied, "She's my daughter, and I can correct her as my child ifit need be." I fell
honored to know I was that close to him until he was on his death bed. To really
have known Dr. Clymer was to know the Soul-the Inner Man.
Not only did he help Mrs. M. with her deafness, but he was wonderful to all of
his brothers. He gave several of them jobs--work around the grounds, and they
did a great job. Oswald, whom they called "as" never married. He buill a small
Page 23
house for himself up the road from Bevelry Hall. His great problem was "liquor"
and when in his "cups", as the saying goes, he would hibernate in his room, drink.
and more drink, sometimes for a week. Only Dr. Clymer knew how to take care
of him. He allowed no one in his presence to criticize uOs." When sober, there
was no better worker on the premises.
Stanley was the youngest and in World War II he was draf'ed. Toward the end of
the war when our boys were returning home. every time Dr. Clymer went to
Philadelphia he hoped he would run into "Wes" as he called him. One day Doctor
had to go to Philadelphia on business and A.W. drove him there. Doctor enjoyed
eating in the Tea Room of the Reading Tenninal. As he and A.W. were allowed
to en,er, A.W. spied Wes, the brother. Doctor rushed over to him and kissed and
hugged him and he had lunch with them. Stanley (Wes) worked for Doctor until
he passed away. His brother, ~ohn. was a handsome man, and he had charge of
the flour mill, and in time bought it from Doctor Clymer.
You, my dear doctor, Great Grand Mastcr and Friend, are called upon day and
night for light and guidance from your Neophy,es. Today, conditions have
changed at Beverly Hall. Since I have gone through so many physical problems
in this time of my life, I cannot help but reflect upon the past that the Master went
through, as well as his devoted students. As I dwell upon the Great Work these
past 70 years, I reallze how fortunate we Neophytes are '0have the great spiritual
Dr. G.E. Poesnecker as our Grand Master. Your spiritual innovations at Head-
quaners are very helpful. The healing session at 8:45 each morning at Beverly
Hall should produce excellent results. Ifone tries to free himselffrom physical
pain, he or she does not only help his body, but strengthens the power [0 advance
his Soul. You are doing exactly as did our first great Soulualleader, Dr. R.S.
Clymer. Dr. Clymer's early lessons '0his students were to free the mind of evil
thoughts so that the body will not be the recipient of all the ills mankind is heir to.
Dr. Clymer had much to overcome himself. He worked hard mentally, physically
and spiritually '0obtain his goal, and he did succeed.
At our first trip to Beverly Hall we ate our breakfast at the dining room 'able. He
served tea and toast. It was beautiful and inspiring to have the Grand Master offer
the blessing and dine with us. There was one rebellious student in that group who
criticized Dr. Clymer's table manne". So-that was it! No longer did he pennit
familiarity with his students.
He was very close to Dr. Allen O'dell, Mrs. Betsy Jare' and the Wins. He had to
call upon us for money to pay bills. To purchase the necessary equipment for his
printing press, etc. On a hot summer night, at midnight, I would look out my
bedroom window and see Dr. Clymer working away at the printing press. He
never tolerated excuses and if a student followed his advice, he was able to over-
come his shortcomings.
Page 24
I
He used to come over to the Beverly Hall kitchen at 6:30 am to clean the large
coal burning stove, remove the ashes and build a fire and also heat the water so
that the students would have hot water for their sponge baths. We were forbidden
to take hot tub baths in the early morning hours. Did we obey the rules? You bet
we did, or we were never invited to Beverly Hall again. After Dr. Clymer stopped
having breakfast with the sruoents, he prepared his pot of tea in the kitchen and
made his toast on the heavy jron plate of the stove. Was it good? I never tasted
anything better. We, A.W. and I, were invited to join him and Gertrude for our
"kitchen" snack. Dr.. Clymer did his own printing. He would rest his arm on the
''printing'' table and with his right hand manage to feed the papers into the press.
This is what semi-crippled his right hand and he never used it for writing or sign-
ing papers if he could avoid it.
Time passes on until the time came when Dr. Clymer was free and could marry
the young woman who was his mate for past ages. That young woman was
Gertrude Cosgrove. So they <frove to Kansas City fa. Dr. A.W. to perform the
ceremony. They came in during a severe rain storm. He called A.W. when he was
about one hour's drive to Kansas City. A.W. told him where, at what stop, we
would meet them. Was Dr. Clypler ever relieved to let someone else drive him to
our home! The next day A.W,. drove Dr. Clymer to City Hall to get his license
and they were married in our living room. Dr. Harold Witt was best man for Dr.
Clymer and I was matron ofhonor for Gertrude. I had a wonderful wedding din-
ner for them. Doctor said what a relief not to have to ask for two separate rooms
at each hotel. A.W. performed the ceremony in our living room. Before A.W.
began, Harold, a big tease and having known Dr. Clymer since he was 4 years
old, asked Dr. Clymer if he, Harold, could enlighten him on marriage, and sex of
course. Doctor said, "You would make the ceremony less serious with your
jokes." Two days later Bride and Groom left for the West Coast.
Back again to problems in the old days at Beverly Hall. Before we had refrigera-
tion, we had the old fashioned'ice boxes. However, out in tlte country, there were
no ice wagons coming by one's home. So Dr. Clymer had to solve that problem.
He had his men build a small hut down about a half a mile from the Hall. Then
when the water in the creek froze, Dr. Clymer had his men cut the ice in blocks
and drive them to the ice storage hut where they were given a sawdust treatment
and stored until the following spring. When electric refrigerators came on the
market, a student, Mr. Maaly, of up state New York made gOod money and he
had no one but himself to support. So he bought alarge electric refrigerator for
Beverly Hall. Mr. Maaly was a cello player and held that seat in the Philharmonic
Orchestra in his home city. Dr. Clymer loved good music and when 3 good
musicians were at Be.verly HaU.in the evenings, after one hour of Round Table
discussions, Dr. Clymer had an hour ofexcellent music. Maaly on the cello, our
son who had studied since he was five played the violin, and a Mr. Fessler played
the piano. Mr. Fessler was the head of the Conservatory of music in the city
where he lived.
Page 25
I
In many ways, he was fastidious about the socks he wore and also about fine
china. glassware and table linens in the dining room. First, about his socks. He
liked three quaner length (mercerized) with cotton heels and toes. So he could not
find them in Quakenown. However, I could purchase them in'Kansas City at one
of our large Department Stores and for 20 years I kep' him well supplied by send-
ing him 8 pair on his birthday and same for his personal Christmas gift. One year
our Depanment Store ran out of their supply and it would take a few weeks for a
new shipment to arrive. Iknew that the big hosiery mills were in the Quakertown
area. I did not want to disappoint Dr. Clymer, so I asked the buyer in the men's
depanment ofthe store where the factory was located. He said about 15 miles
from Quakenown. I told the buyer to have the factory mail Dr. Clymer one dozen
pair and bill the store in Kansas City, because the store could charge it on my
next bill. Was Dr. Clymer ever surprised when he received the package from the
hosiery department of that factory! On one of Reverend Emerson's trips to Kan-
sas City, he said he inherited all of those wonderful socks with which I kep' Dr.
Clymer well supplied.
The students often thought that the Grand Master gave no thought about such per-
sonal attire. When we first attended a Convocation at the Hall, even though the
food was simple, the table linen, china and silverware were the best. One student
bought the Haviland China. Another bought a chest of the finest silverplate put
out at that time (7-2 years ago) by the Rogers Silver €ompany and other students
furnished the table linen to fit the dining table when 12 persons could be seated.
Also fine glassware. A.W. and I used to send him for birthdays and Christmas,
lovely glassware which was always placed in a special china cabinet.
A statement Dr. Clymer made at tbat time, I quote, "[he very best thoughts must
go into the building of your Soul. Everything in which you come in contact daily,
must be the best. Every thought you think, in order to find your center, likewise,
must be the best. Not from the material standpoint, but from the Spiritual one. Al-
ways seek best, the finest and the purest when seeking your Center and keep that
in mind in your daily living." We should surround ourselves with the very best be-
cause aGrand Master has to put fonh his great efforts, his great love to all those
who are in harmony with him and the Great Work.
Toward the end of his life, he went totally blind, and he asked me to come and
take care of him and be of help '0the students. I considered that a great honor,
but had to turn him down as a great sorrow struck in our heme. My son, Dr. H.W.
Witt, Jr. was Medical Director of Osteopathic Hospital. He had served in that
capacity 17 years and quite suddenly as he stood against the wall waiting for his
car to diive home, he slumped to the floor, suffering a massive stroke on his left
side,lost use of his left hand, leg, etc. Lillian, his wife, had to earn the living. I
had just retired from my job as Director of Radio and TV at KCMO and had to
stay home and take care ofHarold. During Harold's iliness, our beloved Dr.
Clymer passed away and we did no' tell Dr. Harold about it, as he loved him
since he was 5 years old. However, the time came when he found out and he cried
Page 26
I
f
like a baby. But Emerson and he were great pals and twice uring Dr. Witt's
paralyzed condition, Reverend Emerson flew out here arriving at 9 pm and had
the car pick him up at 10:30 to fly home by 11:30 pm. The Win, and the Clymer,
were closely knit together and I hope some day at least, one of the younger Witt
sons will become interested in the Great Work.
(This was the lest word revelved from Mrs. Witt.
She made her transitions shortly after thl .final letter.)
Page 27
