{"name":"Proofs Of A Conspiracy","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1798__robison___proofs_of_a_conspiracy.pdf","mytitle":"Proofs Of A Conspiracy","mylang":"de"}
PI(OOFS
OF A
CONSPIRP-1.CY
AGAINST ALL THE
RELIGIONS AND GOVERNME!i'I'S
OF
E U R 0 P E,
CARRIED ON
IN THE SECRET l\1EETINGS
OF
Fl?.EE MASOflS, lLLUJvllJl-'1TI,
AND
READING SOCIEI1ES.
COLLECTED FROl\1 GOOD AL'THOIUTIES,
By J 0 H N R 0 B I S 0 N, .t\. :rv1.
I•ROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, AND SECRETARY TO TH£
ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
J.Vam tua res agitur paries cum proximus nrdet.
The THIRD EDITION.
To which is added a PosT5CRIPT.
PHILADELPHIA:
PRINTED FOR T. DOBSON, N°. 41, SOUTH SECO~D
STREET, AND W. COBBET, 1"
0
• 25, NORTH
SECOND STREET.
1798.
J
f`
PROOGFS
OF 1
OONSLIRACY
AGAINST ALL THIS
RELIGIOANS AND GOVERN]4ENT»5'
0 F
'
E U R O P E,
CARRIED ON
IN THE SECRET MEETINGS
OF
FREE _M/ZSONS, ]LLUfLf[N1fT[,
AND
RE/i'D]NG SOCIEZYES.
COLLECTED FROM GOOD AUTI-IORITLLS,
By]OI-IN ROBISON, ILM.
PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, AND SECRETARY T0 THE
ROYAL SOCIETY OF EDINBURGH.
ATE/IZ rua res
agilzzr paris; zz///z
_;§1'oxz`1/zzz: arf/ef.
The THIRD EDITIGN.
To which is added a Posrscawr.
PHILADELPHIA;
PRINTED FOR T. uoBsON, N°. 41, SOUTH sscoxn
sTREET, AND w. conmzfr, NO. 25, NORTH
SECOND STREET.
1798.
J
TO Tl-IE RIGHrf 1-IONOURABLE
W I L L I t\ !vi "\lv Y N D I-I J.~ fv1,
SECRETARY AT \VAR, &c. &c. &c.
SIR,
It was with great Jatisfaction that I learned fronz a
Friend tbat )'OU coincided witb me in tbe opinion, that the
information cuntained in this 1~erfornzance :would nzake a
z!feful in'iprejjion on the nzinds ofnzy Countr;'nzen.
I ha7)e prejumed to it!fcribe it with yuur Na1ne, that I
nzay publici)' exprejs the pleojure whic-h 1 felt, u;ben !found
that neitber lt jeparation for thirty years, nor the prejjure of
the 11w.ft iJnportant bujinejs, had 1fclCedyour ki11d rerneJiz- ·
brance of a College AcquaintaJue, or abated that obliging
and polite ottentiun with which yuu favoured me in thrje
early days oflife.
1he frienrljbip of the accornplijhed and the wurtl1)' is the
highefl honour j and to hinz who is cut cjf, by 1vant of health,
front alnzcfl e·very otber enjoynzent, it is an ineflinzable btej-
jing. Accept, therefore, I pra_y, of nry grateful acknow-
ledgnzents, and of uzy earnefl vJijhes for your }fea/tb, Prqf-
perit)', and ii;cretifing Ilonour.
!FithJentiments of the greatejl Efleenz and Rejpeft,
I anz, SIR,
EDINBURf;H,
Se}tember 5, 1797.
1~our nzcfl obe_dient,
and n2cjl bur;zble Ser"uant,
JOl-IN llOBISO~.
TO THE RIGHT HONOURABLE
VVILLIAM VVYNDHAM,
SECRETARY AT WAR, sec. &¢. sec.
S IR,
1? was with great _/'otiefooftion that I leezrneo' from ez
Friend that you eoincieted with nee in the opinion, that the
information eontoineez' in this Pe1j"ornzuncefwou!d make ez
upful in2_;r>r¢#on on the nzinels Q" ony Countrynzen.
I hu1'e_preHzn2eez' to
ifyrioe it with your Nome, that I
may louolieb' expreff the plefjure which Ifelt, when Ifound
that neither L1_/h'_PQ7"(lfIOI'l_/zIJ7` thirty years, nor the pre/jure gf
the me/2 infporinnt ozjnyf, had qfezeeez'your /eine! rernefn-
hreznee gf ez
Co//ego /fcguezinteznce, or nhezteo' that oo/iging
and po/ite attention with which you favoured ine in tho#
eezrb' days fy" /Ms.
Yhe /9'ie21uf,%z]> of the 4/eeonfpZ%e¢z' and the wortlgf if the
highe/Z honour ; and to hinz 'who is eu/ % ly 'went q" hen/th,
from oline# every other enjoyment, it if an tn¢z'nzoo/e oly-
fng. Accept, therefore, I prov, qf nry gmteju/ acknow-
leelgnzents, and of my earn# 'ifjii/2765 for your Heel/th, Pry-
perizy, uno' inereejing Honour.
[17/z`thj=ntinzents rf the greezte# Eheenz e1nez'Ref>eéZ',
I nm, SIR,
Tour WZQ# obedient,
one! nr# hunzole Servant,
JOHN ROBISGN.
EDINBURGH,
Se_/ueméer 5, 1797.
fZyOD fi quis verd ~oilaJJJ ratione gubernet,
Diviti£ grrnzdes honzinijunt, 'i)ivere psrce
JEquo ani:no: neque eni;n eft unquanz penuria par·vi..
.Lit cla;~os.fe hotaiiles 'i)olueru;;t atque potentesJ
Ut fundanzei1to jlabilifortuna nzaneret,
Et placida:n pe§ent opulenti degere vitanz :
Nequicque7iz,-quonianz adju;nn7u;njuccedere honorenz
Certantes, tter infeflu;n feeere 'L~ia!,
Et ta;nen ?fl!JJ777W qut1jifulnzen deji(it iflos
In·vidia i;zterdu;;z collte;npti;:z in Tartara tetra.
Ergo, Regibus occijis, jubve1~fa jacebat
Prijlina ;;zrjeflasfilio'rton, etj ceptrajuperba ,·
Et cc?pitisJian;ni pr{eclaru1n injig;1e, cruentunz,
Sub pedibus volgi ;nagnu;;z lugebat honorunz:
.l\fa;;z cupide conculcatur ninzis ante rnetutzan.
Res itaque adjunznzanz jt:eceJJz, tztrbqfque redibat,
11nperittnzjibi cunz acjunnnatu;;z quifque petebat.
LucRETius, V. 1116.
QUOD j gui; ww? fuilam mtiofze gzz/5a;'11@i,
DiUz'ii.c þÿg;"¢?;m' ¬5
bomiizijzfli, 'vii/ere pare?
/Eguo fzfzimo :
negzze ezzim Q# zmgzmzfz peizzzréfz ]mr~vi.
fit [l!Z7'0.§°_/Q3 boffzifzex 'U0Iz¢E1fz1zzz' argue potentes,
U! fuzzdzwzwzfo `£[lbfZfjF07"Z'l!7!(Z ma/zeref,
E! plzzcirlfzffz pgféwf opzflwii degere 'z/iizzm :
Neguicgzzafiz,-qua;/iam aflfufmmmzjizccedere 19072076772
Cerz'¢zm'es, afar þÿi1¢y'iz4sfzfec ¬1fe
Cid,
Ei þÿf(?772 ¬iZ
Ejmmzo gm#f}!!177267Z rlcjicif 250:
Iiwidifz éfzferdzzm conieiizptiffz ilz §lb;"z'@rrz mm.
Ergo, R@gi£>zm GCCMS, jf./Ezfefjffzjfzceiuzi
_P7".%yffZ[Z 77ZfjéflZ(!5_/f,li07'Z{777, e°fj'cpz'1'¢zp51>eafbrz ;
Ez" Clfpffii/Zlliliilf pnfcifzmm inkgfze, rrzzmiuifz,
S246 pefiiézzs wlgi 7}ZEg?ZI{iiZ /ugebfzf b01z0rzmz.~
Nam rapid? cozzczzlcfzizzr mmf; afffa ffzefzffzmz.
Re; imgue zzz!/111272212112þÿff ¬ ¬ ¬7/Z,
zzzrbq/gaze redibai,
j?f2ii1e;~'izzf12jf6i cum
6Z6`_/'Z{1i27J26ZfI!7}Z gzzygue pelebat.
`
LUCRE'I`IUS, V 1116
I N T R 0 D U C rf I 0 l~.
BEING at a friend's houfe in the cour1try during
Jome part of the futntner I 795, I there fa\v a voh!me
of a Gennan periodical \Vork, called l~eligio71S Bcgel-en-
heiten, i. e. Religious Occurrences: in \vh1ch there
was an account of the various fchifn1s in the Fraternity
of Free Mafons, \Vith freg~1e-nt ~dluflons to the origin
and hiftory of that celebr;.lted affoci;nion. This ac-
count interefted me a good deal, btcaufe, in my
early life, I had taken ferne p::rt jn the occupJt1ons
(fhall I call them) of Free IVlaf(;nry; and, having
chieBy frequented the Lodges on the Contint nt, I had
learned n1any doCtrines, and feen 1nany ce-ren1onials
h. h h 1 · 1 " ' ~ ' f F "' ..r
v.; 1c ave no p ace 1n r:-.c urnpie iy;[en1 o ~ ree l\t'! 2-
·fonry \vhich obtains in th1:>. coun:ry. I had 2.lfo re-
Inarked, that the Vi/hole \Vils nn1ch IT1(:re the objeCt of
refleCtion and thought :h~: n I cculrj reme:11 bt r it to
have been an1ong my ;.~cquc.int:1nces at ho1ne. l~herr_,
I had feen a lVlafon Loc1ge confldereJ n1erely as a pre-
text for paffing an hour or two in a fnrt of dectnt cor;-
viviality, not altogether void of fornt rationai occupa-
tion. I had fometin1es heard of difi-erenc~s of doc-
trines or of ceremonies, but in terrns \vhich n12r!(ed
them as mere frivolities. But, on che Co~tinent, I
found them matters of ferious ccr:ce rn and deb:tre.
Such
INTRODUC'§`§®l`~Z.
BEING at a f`ricnd's houfe in the country during
iome part ofthe fummer 1795, I there faw at volume
of zz German periodical Work, called Zieligiofzs Btgaéen-
heifezz, i. e.
Religious Occurrences: in which there
was an account ofthe vax'ious1`chiIins in the Fraternity
of Free Mafons, with Hequent alluiions to the origin
and huloty of thatcclebtamxl a£ociauon. Tdin ac-
count interefled me a
good deal, hecaufe, in my
eady HH; I hmitaken Rune partin the occupsdons
(IhaH I cah theni) of Elec §£n¥¢nry; and, having
chiefly frequented the Lodges on the Continent, I had
learned rnany tiofhines, and iken tnany cerenioniah
xvhichliave no
placein §¥CIlHQlkTiy£IHU of FWee_BIa-
Ionty udnch obtanm in dns cnuntqa I had aHotc-
marked, that the whole was much more the ohjecft of
redcohon and thought than I couhl uwneniheritto
have beenznnong þÿHQ73CqU£hH&UCCS&flHMD ¬.'Thete,
Ihad feen a I*/Iafon Lodge conlidetetl merely as a p:~t;~
textfottnnnng anl1out<n°uvo nzaihrtofdecentcnn-
viviahty, notzdtogethct void offonieifuionaloccnpa-
don. I had Rnnethncs lward oftH§%rcnces<ufdoc-
ttines or of cerenionies, bin in tetnis vhich niatketl
theniastncre hivohdes. l3ug on the (jonuncng I
found thenltnauers offcnous concern and dehan;
Such
6 INTRODUCTION.
Such too is the contagion of example, that I could not
hinder tnyfelf from thinking one opinion better found~
ed, or one Ritual n1ore appofice and fignificant than
another; and I even felt fon1ething like an anxiety for
its being adopted, and a zeal for n1aking it a general
practice. I had been initiated in a very fplendid Lodge
at Liege, of which the Prince Bifhop, his Trefonciers,
and the chief Nobleffe of the State were n1en1bers. I
vifited the French Lodges at Valenciennes, at Bruffels,
at Aix-la-Chapelle, at Berlin, and Koningfberg ; and
I picked up fotne printed difcourfes delivered by the
Brother-orators of the Lodges: At St. Peteriburgh I
conneCted myfelf with the Engliih Lodge, and occa-
fion-ally vifired the Gennan and Ruilia~ Lodges held
there. I found myfelf received with particular refpecr
. as a Scotch Mafon, and as an Eleve of theLodge de Ia
Parfait Intelligence at Liege. I was importuned by
perions of the firft rank to purfue n1y mafonic career
through many degrees unkno\vn in this country. But
all the fplendor and elegance that I faw could not con-
ceal a frivolity in ~very part. It appeared a bafelefs
fabric, and I could not think of engaging in an occu-
pation \vhich \Vould confurne much time, coft n1e a
good deal of money, and n1ighr perhavs excite in me
fome ofthat fanaticifm, or at lear-, enthufiafn1, that I
faw in others, and perceived to be void of any rational
fupport. I therefore remained in Jhe Englifh Lodge,
contented with the rank of Scotch 1\tla(ter, vvhich was
in a manner forced on 1ne in a private I ..odge of French
T\1afon~, but is not given in the Englif11 Lodge. lVly
mafonic rank adn1itted me to a very elegant entertain-
rnent in the fetnale Loge de la Fidelite, Vv'here every ce-
remonial was compofed in the higheft degree of ele-
gance, and every thing conducted with the moft deli-
E"ate refpeCt for our fair fiil:ers, and the old fang of bro-
t!1erlv love was chanted in the n1oft refined frrain of
..
fentiment.
6 INTRODUCTION.
'
Such too is the contagion ofexample, that I could not
hinder myfelf from thinking one
opinion better found-
ed, or one Ritual more
appohte and Hgnificant than
another, and I even
feltioniething like an
anxiety for
its being adopted, and a zeal for making it a
general
praftice. Ihad been initiated in a
very fplendid Lodge
at
Liege, of which the Prince Bifhop, his Trefonciers,
and the chiefNoble{Te ofthe State were members. I
viiited the French Lodges at Valenciennes, at Brufifels,
at
Aix-la-Chapelle, at Berlin, and Koningfberg 5 and
Ipicked up fome printed difcourfes delivered by the
Brother-orators of the Lodges: At St. Peterlburgh I
connected myfelf with the Englilh Lodge, and occa-
lionally vihted the German and Ruflian Lodges held
there. I found myielfreceived with particular refpecft
as a Scotch Mafon, and as an Eleve ofthelmdge de /cz
Parfait Dzfeiligeizfe at Liege. I was importuned by
perions of the rirfl; rank to purfue my mafonic career
through many degrees unknown in this country. But
all the fplendor and elegance thatl faw could not con-
ceal a
frivolity in every part. It appeared a bafelefs
fabric, and Icould not think of engaging in an occu-
pation which would confume much time, colt me a
good deal of money, and might perhaps excite in me
fome ofthatfanaticifm, or at leaf*, enthuliafm, thatl
faw in others, and perceived to be void ofany rational
fupport. Itherefore remained in the Englifh Lodge,
contented with the rank of Scotch Ma{'ter, which was
in a manner forced on me in a
private Lodge of French
hflalons, but is not given in the Englifh Lodge. My
,mafonic rank admitted me to a
very elegant entertain-
ment in the female Lage de la Fidelité, where every ce-
remonial was
compofed in the higheli degree of ele-
gance, and every thing conducted with the moft deli-
cate refpect for ourfair filters, and the old fong of bro-
therly love was chanted in the moft refined ftrain of
fentiment.
INTRODUCTION. 7
fentiment. I no not fuppofe that the Parifian Free Ma-
fonry of forty- five degrees could give me more enter-
tainment. I had profited fo much by it, that I had
the honour of being appointed the Brother-orator. In
this office I gave fuch fatis()Ction, that a worthy Bro-
ther fent me at midnight a box, \vhich he comtJlitted
to my care, as a perfon far advanced in mafonic fcience,
zealouOy attached to the order, and therefore a fit de..
pofitory of important writings. I learned next day
that this gentleman had found it convenient to leave the
empire in a hurry, but t.1king \vith hitn the funds ofan
eftablifhfl1ent of \vhich her Itnperial Majefty had made
him the manager. I was defirr-d to keep thefe writings till
he ihould fee me again. I obeyed. About ten years
afterward I faw the gentleman on the ftreet in Edin-
burgh, converfing \Vith a foreigner. As I paifed by
him, I faluted hin1 foftly in the Ruffian language; but
\vithout flopping, or looking hin1 direCtly in the face.
He coloured, but made no return. I t:ndeavoured, in
vain, to meet \vith him, \vifhing to ma1(e a proper re-
turn for much civility and kindnefs \Vhich I had receiv-
ed from him in his own country.
I no\v confidtrtd the box as acceffible to myfelf, and
opened it. I found it to conrain all the degrees of the
Parfait Moyon Eccjfois, \Vith the Rituals, Catechifms,
a~d Infi:ruB:ions, and alfo four ot!1er degrees of Free
Mafonry, as cultivated in the Parifian Lodges. I have
kept rhen1 with all care, and mean to give them to fame
refpeetabl~ Lodge. But as I an1 bound by no engage-
ment of any kind, I hold 1nyfelf at liberty to make
fuch ufe of rhen1 as n1ay be ferviceable to the public,
vv·ithout enabling any uninitiated perfon to enter the
l.odges of rhefe degrees.
This acquifition might have roufed my former relilh
for mafonry, had it bten merely dormant; but, after fo
long feparation from the Lodge dele ~F'ide/ite, the mafo-
n•c
1N"rRoDuc'rioN. 7
fentiment. I do not
fuppofe that the Parilian FrecI/Ia~
fonry of forty-five degrees could give me more enter-
tainment. Ihad profited fo much by it, that I had
the honour of being appointed the Brother-orator. In
this oflice I gave fuch latisfaétion, that a
worthy Bro-
ther fent me at midnight a box, which he committed
to my care, as a
perfon far advanced in mafonic fcience,
zealoufly attached to the order, and therefore a fit de-
pohtory of important writings. I learned next
day
that this gentleman had found it convenient to leave the
empire in a
hurry, but taking with him the funds ofan
eftablifhnientof which herlmperial l/Iaiefty had made
him the manager. Iwasdelired to
keep thefe writings till
he fhould fee me
again. Iobeyetl. About ten years
afterward Ilaw the gentleman on the Itreet in Edin-
burgh, converfing with a
foreigner. ASI palfed by
him, I faluted him foftly in the Ruflian language, but
without Ptopping, or
looking him directly in the face.
He coloured, but made no return. I endeavoured, in
vain, to meet with him, wiihing to make a
proper re-
turn for much civility and kindnefs which I had receiv-
ed from him in his own country.
Inow conlidered the box as acceflible to myfelf; and
opened it. I found it to contain all the degrees ofthe
Pmfair M0§071 Ec%/ir, with the Rituals, Catechifms,
and Inftruftions, and alfo four other degrees of Free
Mafonry, as cultivated in the Parihan Lodges. I have
kept them with all care, and mean to
give them to fome
refpeélable Lodge. But as I am bound by no
engage-
ment of any kind, I hold myfelf at liberty to make
fuch ufe of them as
may be ferviceable to the public,
without enabling any uninitiated perfon to enter the
Lodges of thefc degrees.
This acquilition might have roufed my former relilh
for mafonry, had it been merely dormant; but, after fo
long feparation from the Lodge de In Fi¢z'e/ifé, the mafo-
nic
8 INTRODUCTION.
nic 1i1irit had evaporated. Some curiofity however re-
Hlained, and fon1e 'vil11 to trace this plaitic tnyftery to
the pit fi-0111 'vhich the clay had been dug, 'vhich has
bren iTl ou1ded in to fo ri1 any different fh apes, " fo111e to
cc honour, and fon1e to dif!1onour." Bur n1y oppon:u-
nirics \verc no\V gone. I have given av,ray (when in
l(uf11a) n1y volu1nes of difccurCes, and fon1e far-fetched
znd gratuitous hirtories, and nothing remained but the
pitirui work ofJ\.nderfon, and the }lfayon:terie /ldonhi-
1·amiqz:c de·l.·cil/t', wbich are in every one's hands.
h1y curio!lty v;as ftrongly roufed by the accounts
given in the lce!Jtiuns BcgcbeJ!h~iteil. There I fa\v quo-
ta[ions without nurnber; fyftems and fchifrns of \vhich
I h8.d never heard ; but \Vhat particularly firuck me
\v~-: a ze:.ll and a f1naticifrn aboet what I thought trifles,
,vhich afionil11ed n1e. IVIt:n of rank and fortune, and
engaged in fcricus and honourable public en1ployments>
not only frtquer![ing the l ..odges of the cities \Vhere
they reflded, but jourr.cying from one end of Gcrn1any
or r~--r:r nee to r:hc other, tO· vi fit nevi Lodges, or to learn
nt\V ftcrers or new doccrincs. I fa\v conventions held
at \\Tirl ,1r, ~t \,~!:/ i~b:1d, at I\..ohlo, at Brun1\vick, and at
·v·iii!cn1 ibad, connLing of forne hundreds of perfons of ..
refpe[table frali('!lS. I i~t\V adventurers cotning to a
city, prqf( fTi ng LHne nc w fecret, and in a fev1 days
forn1ing new I..jodgcs, and inilructing in a troublcfo1ne
and expenGve 111:-
:nner 'hundreds CJf brethren.
Gerrn8n I\-18_ 1~')nry 2ppc..arcd a very ferious concern,
and to be irn pii c-:.tcd with other fubjeEts with \vhich I
had never fu~ ~;(· (:1:cd it to have any conneCtion. I favv
it 111 uc[1 connettt d 'vit h 111 anv occurrt nces and fchiil.11s
in the C11ri1
tian church ; t' favv that the Jefuits had
fevtral tin1e\; interfered in it; and that n1oft of the ex-
Ct' p[ion~~b1e innovations and diifentions had arifen about
the tin1e rh.1t the order of Loyola \vas ftlpprr>l1ed; fo
that it fhoul.J fc-ern, that thefe intriguing brethren had
attempted
f.~
8 1N'raooUc'r1oN.
nie fpirit had evaporated. Some curiolity however re-
mained, and ionie wifh to trace this plaiitic niyftery to
the pit hom which the clay had been dug, which has
heen moulded into lb niany different fhapes,
"
fonie to
"
honour, and lbrne to difhonour." But my opportu-
nities were now
gone. l have given away (when in
Rullia) my volumes Oi'(llfCCl]I'ilf5, and forne far-fetched
and gratuitous hillories, and nothing remained but the
pitiful worl: of`;nderl`on, andthe þÿM£§07Zii ¬7"f ¬
A407252-
i"c?i);'ft;!i-'C tie-tuséifa, which are in every one's hands.
My euriolity was
llrongly roufed bythe accounts
given in the ife[f§j'iorz5 Be§t'Zit°;.f/3siie;z. There I faw quo..
tations without number, fydems and fehilins of which
Ihad never heard 5 but what particularly ftruck me
wa< a zeal and a fanatieifm about whatl thought triHes,
which aftonifhed me. D/len ofranlf; and fortune, and
þÿ6f!1gll.g ¬(`lllliAC!`lCllS
and honourable public employments,
not only lrequenring the Lodges of the cities where
they relided, but _iourneyingfrom one end of Germany
or lfro nee to the other, tofviiit new
Lodges, or to learn
new llferets or new doeltrines. Ifaw conventions held
gf 'f»'i§ifr';_ii', at lffiibziti, at liohlo, at Brunlivieli, and at
`il»!ilE<;»in£?>atl, eonhhing of iome hundreds of perfons of
ref'oe<ft;ti>le ini3{l('2E3. I law adventurers coming to a.
city, þÿP1`f>ihlllil§2;l`_;I`ll ¬
new leeret, and in a few days
Rirrning new
Lodges, and inllruéting in ri troubleioine
and expenhve manner hundreds of brethren.
German ?»falonry appeared a
very ierious concern,
and to be iinriiiettetl with other ilubjefts with whirh I
had never l"tzz`r:ee`t<:d it to have any conneetion. I law
it much eonneeled with many occurrences and fehilins
in the Chriliian church, I faw that the Jefuits had
feveral times interfered in it; and that inoflt of the ex-
eeptionable innovations and cliflentions had arifen about
the time that the order ol' Layafn was
iiippreffecl, fo
that it ihoultl feeni, that theie intriguing brethren had
attempted
ti'
f
INTRODUCTION. 9
attemp~ed to m:1intain their influence by the help of
Free l\1aionry. I fa\v it rnuch difturbed by the n1yftical
whin1s of J. Behmen and Swedenborg-by the f.1natical
and knavifh dotl:rines ofthe n1odern Rofycrucians~by
Magicians-Magnetifers-Exorcifts, &c. And I ob-
ferved that thefe difFerent fects reprr)bated each other,
as not only maintaining erroneous opinions, but even in-
culcating opinions \vhich \Vere contrary to the efl:ablifh..
ed religions of Germany, and contrary to the princi-
ples of the civil eftablift1n1ents. At -the fanH~ time
they charged each other with n1ifl:ak es and corruptions,
both in doctrine and in praCtice ; and particularly \Vith
falfification of the firfl principles of .Free 1\!Iafonry,
and with ignorance of its origin and its hiH:ory ; and
they fupported thefe charges by author1tie5 from many
different books \vhich \Vere unknown to n1e.
My curiofity was no\V greatly excited. I got fiAom
a much refpeB:ed fritnd many of the precedi:1g vo-
lumes of the Relig;ions Begebenheiten, in hopes of much
information from the patient induftry of German eru-
dition. rrhis ope-ned a nevi and very interefting
fcene; I was frequently fent back to England, fron1
\Vhence all agreed that Free rvlafonry had been in1-
porred into Gennany. I \Vas frequently led into
France and into Italy. There, and more remarkably
in France, I found that the Lodges had become the
haunts of nl("1nV proi ectors and fanatics, both in fci-
J ·'
ence, in religion, an(~ in po1irics, \Yho had ava]led
themfelves of the fecrecy and the freedom of fpeech
maintained in thefe n1eerin!!S, to broach their parti-
cular \vhin1s or fufpicious d~Ctrines, vd1ich, if publifh-
ed to the 'vorJd in the llfual n1anner, v~ould have
expofed the authors to r!dicu]e or to cenfure. Thefe
Pr~)1eB:ors had contrived to tzP" their oecu1iar no-
J '.J ~
flrun;s to the tnumn1ery of I':1.Jfonry, and were even
allov.;ed to t'>vifr th~ t:ta:cnic ern blt n1s and ceren1onies
B to
`~a`
INITRODUCTION. 9
attempted to maintain their influence by the help of
Free Maioiiry. Ifaw it much difiurhed by the rnyftical
whims ofj. Behmen and Swedenhorg--by the &natieal
and knavifh doftrines ofthe modern Rofycrucians--by
Magicians-Magnetifers--Exorciflts, dec. And! oh-
ferved that thefe dinerent iecls reprohated each other,
as
noronlymaintainingerroneous opinions, but even in-
culcaring opinions which were
connrary to the eflahlifli-
ed religions of Germany, and contrary to the princi-
ples ofthe civil eiiahliihments. At -the fame time
they charged each other with miftakes and corruptions,
both in doélrine and in praclzice ; and particularly with
falhfication of the Hrll principles of Free Mafonry,
and with ignorance ofits origin and its hiflory ; and
they fupported theie charges by authorities from
niany
different hooks which were unknown to me.
My curiohty was now
greatly excited. I got from
a much refpefled friend many of the preceding vo-
lumes of the Religions Bege/5a;zhez`!ef1, in hopes of much
information from the patient induhry of German eru-
dition. This opened a new and very interellcing
fcene; [was frequently lent hack to
England, from
whence all agreed that Free li/lalbnry had been im-
ported into Germany. I was
Hequently led into
France and into Italy. There, and more
remarl<alJly
in France, I found that the Lodges had become the
haunts or" many proiec"rors and fanatics, both in fei-
enee, in religion, and in politics, who
"
had availed
themfelves ofthe iecrecy and the freedom of fpeech
maintained in thefe meetings, to broaeh their parti-
cular whirns or
fufpicious þÿdo ¬rrines,
which, i?`puhliH1-
ed to the world in the ufual manner, would have
expofed the authors to ridicule or to cenhire. There
prqieclors had contrived to tag their peculiar no-
flrunis to the murnmery of I'/itifonry, and were even
allowed to t'.vil'c the znaiicnic emblems and ceremonies
ii to
10 INTRODUCTION.
to their purpofe; fo that in their hands Free rviafonrv
betan1e a thing totally unlike, and altno(r in dirtft
oppofltion to the f)rftetn (if it may get fuch a name)
in1ported fron1 England; and fon1e Lodges had be-
come fcho~ls of irreligion 3nd licentioufi1eis.
No nation in n1odern tin1es has fo particularly
turned its attention to the cultivation of every thing
that is refined or ornan1ental as France, and it has
long been the refort of all who hunt af[er entertain-
tntnt in its n1oll rr.:fined.fonn; the French have c_ome
to conflder thttnfelves as the inftruEtors of the \Vorld
in every thing that ornan1ents life, and feeling them-
felves recti ved as ruch, they have fanned their man-
ners accordingly-full of the rnofr condefcending CdtTI·
plaifance to all r;.vbo adawczulcdge their· fuperiority. De-
lighted, in a high degree, wit!1 this office, they have
becon1e ze:dous n1iflionaries of refine1nent in every de-
partment of hurnan purfuit, and have reduced their
apoH:olic en1ployn1ent to a fyiten1, \Vhich they profe-
cute \Vith ardour and delight. 1'his is not groundlefs
declan1ation, but faber hiftorical truth. It was the
profeiled ain1 (and it \Vas a magnificent and wife ain1)
of the great Colbert, to n1ake the court of IJouis X IV.
the fountain ofhun1an refinetnent, clnd Paris the Athens·
ofEurope. \lYe need only look, in the prefent day,
at the plunder of Italy by the ~~rench anny, to be
convinced rhat their low--born generals and fiatefmen
have in this rei!)ect the fan1e notions with the Colberts
and the Richlicus.
I knovv no fubject in 'vhich this ain1 at univerfal in-
fluence on the opinions of men, by hoiding then1felves
forth as the n1odtls of c:xccllence and elegance, is more
clearly fec-n rhan in the care that they have been pleafed
to take of F rec Iviafonry. It feen1s indeed peculiarly
i~1iced to r.he talents and tafre of that vain aod ardent
people. BafrJefs and frivolous, it adn1its of every
forrn
IO INTRODUCTION.
to their purpofe, fo that in their hands Free l/Iafonry
became a thing totally unlike, and almolt in direct
oppohtion to the lyitem (if it may get fuch a
name)
imported from England; and fome Lodges had be-
come fchools of irreligion and licentiouiheis.
No nation in modern times has fo particularly
turned its attention to the cultivation of every thing
that is refined or ornamental as France, and it has
long been the relort of all who hunt after entertain-
ment in its rnolt refinedform ; the French have come
to conhder themfelves as the inilruetors of the world
in every thing that ornaments life, and feeling them~
ielves received as Iiich, they have formed their man-
ners
accordingiy--fiill ofthe moft condefcencling com-
plaifance to all who þÿtZL`kil0'i ¬7! ¬lZ2' ¬
their' fuperiority. De-
lighted, in a
high degree, with this ofhce, they have
become zealous millionaries ot' retinement in every cle-
partment of human purfuit, and have reduced their
apoltolic employment to a
l`yl'tem, which they prole-
eute with arcloor and delight. This is not groundleis
declamation, but fober hiftorical truth. It was the
profelled aim (and it was a
magnihcent and wife aim)
ofthe great Colbert, to make the court of Louis XIV.
the fountain ofhuman refinement, and Paris the Athens
ofliurope. We need only look, in the prefent clay,
at the plunder of Italy by the French army, to be
convinced that their low--born generals and ftatefmen
have in this refpeét the fame notions with the Colberts
and the Richlieus.
I know no
fubieft in which this aim at univerfal in-
fluence on the opinions ofmen, by holding themfelves
forth as the models ofexccllence and elegance, is more
clearly feen than in the care that they have been pleafed
to take of Free i/Iafonry. It feems indeed peculiarly
fuited to the talents and tafte of that vain and ardent
people. Bahelefs and frivolous, it admits of every
form
INTRODUCTION. · I I
form that Gallic refinen1enr can invent, to recon1n1end
it to the young, the gay, the luxurious; that cl~tfs of
fociety which alone defcrves thei~ can\ becaufe, in
one way or another, it learls a11 ocher clail{~s of fociety.
It has accordingly happened, that the homely F'rec
Mafonry i1nported frorn l~ngland has been totally
changed in every country of Europe either by the inl-
poilng afcendency of French brethren, who are to be
found every where, ready to inftruct the 'vorld; or by
the ip1portation of the dotlrines, ;tnd cere111onies, and
ornan1enrs of the Parifian Lodges. Even England,
the birth-place of Mafonry, has experienced the French
innovations; and all the repeated injunctions, adn1o-
nitions, and reproofs of the old Lodges, cannot pre-
vent thofe in different parts of the .kingdon1 from ad-
lnitting the French novelties, full of tinfel and glitter,
and high -founding titles.
vVere this all, the harn1 \Vould not be great. But
long before good opportunities had occurred for fpread-
ing the refine1nents on the fin1ple Free l\!Iafonry of
England, the Lodges in France had becotne places of
very ferious difcuffion, \vhere opinions in tnorals, in
religion, and in politics, had been protnulgated and
rnaintained with a freedom and a keennefs, of which
we in th-is favoured land have no adequate notion, be-
caufe \Ve are unacquainted with the refl:raints which,
in other countries, are laid on ordinary converf.uion.
In confequence of this, the French innovations in
Free l\!Iafonry \Vere qu!ckly follov;ed in all parts of
Europe, by the adn1iffion of iin1ilar difcuffions, al-
though in direCt oppoficion to a Handing rule, and a
declaration n1ade to every ne,vly received Brother,
" that nothing touching the religion or governn1ent
" f11all ever be fpoken of in the Lodge." But the
Lod.ges in other countries follo\ved the example of
France, and have frequently becon1e the rendezvo ~s
of
INTRODUCTION. ~
IT
form that Gallic refinement can invent, to recommend
it to the young, the gay, the luxurious; that clafs of
fociety which alone deferves their; care, becaufe, in
one way or another, it leads all other clallifs of fociety.
lt has accordingly happened, that the homely Free
l/lafonry imported from England has been totally
changed in every country of Europe either by the im-
poling afcendency of French brethren, who are to be
found every where, ready to inltruét the world; or
by
the importation ofthe doctrines, and ceremonies, and
ornaments of the Parihan Lodges. Even England,
the birth-place of Mafonry, has experienced the French
innovations, and all the repeated injun<f`tions, admo-
nitions, and reproofs of the old Lodges, cannot
pre~
vent thofe in different parts of the kingdom from ad-
mitting the French novelties, full of tinfel and glitter,
and high-iounding titles.
WVere this all, the harm would not be great. Ent
long before good opportunities had occurred for fpread-
ing the refinements on the limple Free h/lafonry of
England, the Lodges in France had become places of
very ferious difculiion, where opinions in morals, in
religion, and in politics, had been promulgated and
maintained with a freedom and a keennefs, of which
we in this favoured land have no
adequate notion, be-
caufe we are
unacquainted with the rcllraints which,
in other countries, are laid on ordinary converfition.
In confequence of this, the French innovations in
Free Mafonry were
quickly followed in all parts of
Europe, by the admillion of limilar difcuflions, al-
though in direct oppolition to a
[landing rule, and a
declaration made to every newly received Brother,
"
that nothing touching the religion or
government
"fhall ever be fpoken of in the Lodge." But the
Lodges in other countries followed the example of
France, and have frequently become the rendezvors
of
12 INTRODU CTIO~.
of innovators in religion and politics, and ot~er dif-
turbers of the_ public peace. In fhort, I have found
that the covert of a Mafon Lodg~, had been employed
/' in every country for venting and propagating fenti-
menrs in religion and politics, that could not have cir-
culated in public \Vithout expofing the author to great
danger. I found, that this in1punity had gradually
encouraged n1en of licentious principle5 to becorne
more bold, and to teach doctr~nes fubverfive of all
our notions ''of n1or:;.:.lity-of all our confidence in the
moral government of the univer{(~-of all our hopes
of improvement in a future Hate of exifcence-and of
all fatisfaEtion and contentn1enr: with our prefent life,
fo long as we live in a flare of civil fubordination. I
have been able to trace thefe attetnpts, made, through
a courfe of fifty years, under the fpecious pretext of
enlightening the \vodd by the torch of philofcphy, and
of difpe!ling the clouds of civii and rtligious fuperfti-
tion which keep the nations of E.urope in darknefs and
fla very. I have obferved thefe doftrines gradually
diffufing and n1ixing with all the different fy11etns of
Free Mafonrv; till, at laft, AN AssociATION HAS
BEEN FOR11E~ for the exprefs purpofe of ROOTING OUT
ALL THE RELIGIOUS ESTABLISHMENTS, AND OVER-
TURNING ALL THE EXISTiNG GOVERNMENTS OF
EuROPE. I have feen this fl..fTrJciarion exerting itfeli
zealouf1y and fyfternatically, rill it has becorne aln1oft
irrefifi:ible: And I have feen that tht n1oft ad:ive ]ead-
ers in the French Revolution v;ere n1en1bers of this
Affaciation, and conduCted their :Gr11 rnoven1cnts ac-
cording to its princip1es, and by means of its inftruc-
tions and aff1ftance, formally requejled and obtained:
And, laH:ly, I have feen that this Affociation frill ex-
ifts, ftill \Vorks in fecret, and that not only feveral
appearances among ourfel ves fhow that its en1iffi1ries
are ende~vouring to propagate their deteflable doc-
tnnes
I2 INTRODUCTION.
of innovators in religion and politics, and other dif-
turbers of the public peace. In fhort, Ihave found
that the covert of a l/lafon Lodge had been employed
in every country for venting and propagating lenti-
ments in religion and politics, that could not have cir-
culated in public without expohng the author to
great
danger. I found, that this impunity had gradually
encouraged men of licentious principles to becorne
more bold, and to teach doctrines fuhverlive of all
our notions'ofmorality-of all our confidence in the
moral government of the univerif-of all our
hopes
ot" improvement in a future flare of exiiltence--and of
all lhtisfaiftion and contentment with our
prefent life,
fo long as we live in a ftate of civil fubordination. I
have been able to trace thefe attempts, made, through
a courfe of fifty years, under the fpecious pretext of
enlightening the world by the torch of philofophy, and
of difpelling the clouds of civil and religious fuperfti-
tion which keep the nations of Europe in darltnefs and
flavery. I have obferved thefe doctrines gradually
dihcuhng and mixing with all the different fyllems of
Free l/lafonry; till, at lalt, AN AssocrA'rroN HAS
BEEN FORMED for the exprefs purpofe of ROUTING OUT
ALL THE Ristiorous Es'rABLrsHMeNTs, AND over:-
TURNING ALL THE Exrsfrino GOVERNMENTS or
EUROPE. I have feen this Afibciation exerting itfelf
zealoufly and fyfternatically, till it has become alrnolt
irreliftiblez And I have feen that the moft active lead-
ers in the French Revolution were members of this
Ailbciation, and conduc`ted their hrii movements ac-
cording to its principles, and by means of its inftruc-
tions and ahiftance, forma/01 regmjen' and abmined:
And, laltly, I have feen that this Afibciation itill ex-
ifits, fiill works in fecret, and that not
only feveral
appearances among ourfclves lhow that its emiflliries
are
endeavouring to
propagate their deteiiable
doc-
trines
INTRODUCTION. IJ
trines among us, but that the Affociation has Lodges
in Britain correfipondino· wich the mother Lodo-e at
b . {.;>
Munich ever fince I 784.
If all this vvere a n1atter of tnere curiofity, and fuf-
ceptib!e of no good uft, it wouJd have. been better to
have kept it to n1yfelf, than to diiturb my neighbours
'vith the knowledge of a ftate of things which they
cannot amend. But if it fhall appear that the minds
of my C01JDtrymen are n1ifltd in the very fame manner
as \Vere thofe of our continental neighbours-if I can
iho\v that the reaionings which make a very ftrong im-
preffion on fame perfons in this country are the farne
\vhich actually produced the dangerous affociation in
Gerrnany; and that they had this unhappy influence
fi(lely becaufe they \Vere thought to -be fincere, and
the expreffions of the fentitnents of the fp~akers-if !
can fbo\v that this \vas aU a cheat, and that the. Lead-
ers of this Affociation difoelieved e·very word that the.y·
uttered, and every doCtrine that they taught; and that
their real intention was to aholif..~ ell religion, overturn:
every government_, and n1ake the world a general
plunder and a wreck-if I can {how, that the princi-.
ples \vhich the Founder ~nd Leaders of this Affociatiori
held forth as the perfec1ion of hu1nan virtue, and the
n1oft powerful and efficaci~us t~1r forn1ing the minds of
tnen, and n1aking them good and happy, had no in-
fluence on the Founder and l~eaders .themfel ves, and
that· they were, alinoft w·i thout exception, the n1oft .in-
fignificant, worthlefs, and proHigate of men; I cannot
but think, that fuch inforn1ation will make n1y coun-·
trytnen hefitate a little, and receive with caution, and
even diftruft> addrell.es and inftrtJB:ions :which flatter
our felf-conceit, and v;hich, by buoying us up with
the gay profpet1: of \vhat icen1s attainable by a change,
may make us difcontented \Vith our prefent condition,
and fcrget that there never was a governznent on earth
Vv'here
INTRODUCTION.
I3
trines among us, but that the Aflbciation has Lodges
in l`Sritain correfponding with the mother Lodge at
Munich ever hnce 1784.
If all this were a matter of mere
curiolity, and full
ceptihle ofno good ufe, it would have been hetter to
have kept it to myfelt, than to diiturb my neighbours
with the knowledge of a (tate of things which they
cannot amend. But if it ihall appear that the minds
of my countrymen are milled in the very fame manner
as were thofe of our continental neighbours-if I can
fhow that the reafonings which make a
very ftrong im-
prefiion on fome perfons in this country are the fame
which aétually produced the dangerous affociation in
Germany, and that they had this unhappy influence
llglely hecaufe they were
thought to be fincere, and
the expreions of the fentiments of the fpeakers-if I
can lhow that this was all a cheat, and that the,Lead-
ers of this Aifociation difhelieved every word that they
uttered, and every doctrine that they taught; and that
their real intention was to aholiiz cl! religion, overturni
every government, and make the world a
general
plunder and a wreck--if I can fhow, that the prinei-i
ples which the Founder and Leaders of this Afibciation
held forth as the þÿperte ¬tion
of human virtue, and the
moft powerful and efhcacious for forming the minds of
men, and making them good and happy, had no in-
fluence on the Founder and Leaders -themfelves, and
that they were, almoit without exception, the moft _in-
lignificant, worthlefs, and prohigate of men; I cannot
but think, that fuch information will make my coun-~
trymen hehtate a little, and receive with caution, and
even diitrult, addreiifes and inftruetions which Hatter
our felt-conceit, and which, by huoying us up with
the gay profpeét ofwhat feerns attainable hy a
change,
may make us difcontenteql with our
prefent condition,
and forget that there never was a
government on earth
where
INTRODUCTION.
\vhere the people of a great and luxurious nation en-
joyed .fo much fi·eedotn and fecurity in the poffeffion
of every thing that is dear and valu:1bl~.
When we fee that thefe boafted principles had not
that effeCt on the Leaders which they afiert to be their
native, certain, and inevitable confequence~, \V--e rnall
diflruft the fine defcriptions of the happinefs that
fhould refult frorn fuch a change. And when we fee
that the 1nethods \vhich were practifed by this Affoci-
ation for the exprefs purpofc of breaking all the bands
of fociety, were en1ployed folely in order that the
Leaders tnight rule the \vorld ·with unconrroulable
power, \vhile all the reft, even of the aifociated, fhould
be degraded in-their own eftitnation, corrupted in their
principles, and employed as mere tools of the an1 bition
of their unk,Jto7VJZ juperiors; furely a free-born Briton
will not hefitate to re:jeEt at once, and without any far-
ther exan1ination, a plan io big with n1ifchief, io dif-
graceful to its underling adherents_, and fo uncertain in
its iffue.
·· Thefe hopes have induced n1e to lay before the
public a fhort abftraft of the information which I think'·
I have received. It will be ihort, but I hope fufficient
for efl:ablifhing the fact, that t!Jis deteflable AJ!ociatzon
t1xijls, and its etnijfaries are bujy anwng ourjel·7..'es.
I was not contented with the quotations ·which I
found in the Rejigions Begebenheittn, -but procured
fron1 abroad fcnne of the chief \Vritings frorn which
they are t:1ken. This both gave me confidence in the
quotations from books which I could not procure, and
furnifhed n1e with n1ore materials. Much, however,
ren1ains untold, richly deferving the attention of all
thofe who feel themfelves difpofed to liilen to the tales
of a poffible happine(l) that may be enjoyed in a fociety
,vhere all the magiftrates are wife and juft, ;.:nd all the
people ar~ honeft and kind.
I hope
'14 INTRODUCTION.
where the people of a
great and luxurious nation en-
joyed _fo much tieedom and fecurity in the polfemon
of every thing that is dear and valuable. '
When we fee that thefe boalted principles had not
that effect on the Leaders which they aflert to be their
native, certain, and inevitable confequences, we fhall
diflrult the line defcriptions of the happinefs that
ihould refult from fuch a
change. And when we fee
that the methods which were
praftifed by this Aifoci-
ation for the exprefs purpofe of breaking all the bands
of ibciety, were
employed folely in order that the
Leaders might rule the world with uncontroulable
power, while all the tell, even ofthe alhociated, fliould
be degraded intheir own eiltimation, corrupted in their
principles, and employed as mere tools ofthe ambition
of their Zl7Zk]107U7Z /uperiors; furely a free~born Briton
will not heiitate to
reject at once, and without any far-
ther examination, a
plan lo big with mifchieh io dif-
graceful to its underling adherents, and fo uncertain in
its iifue.
i'
Thefe hopes have induced me to lay before the
public a lhort abftract ofthe information which I think
I have received. It will be lhort, but I hope fuliicient
for eftablifhing the faet, that I/vis delcjiable Ajbcifzfzbn
dxzyis, and its emfzzries are
hw among ouylws.
I was not contented with the quotations which I
found in the Religions Begebenheiten, but procured
from abroad lome of the chief writings from which
they are taken. This both gave me confidence in the
quotations from books which I could IIOK procure, and
furnilhed me with more materials. Much, however,
remains untold, richly deferving the attention of all
thofe who/Q61 thernfelves difpofed to lillen to the tales
ofa pofiible happinels that may be enjoyed in a lociety
where all the magiftrates are wife andjult, and all the
people are honeft and kind.
I hope
INTRODUCTION.
I hope that I atn honeft and candid. I have been
at all pains ro give the true fenfe of the authors. My
knowledge of the German language is but fcanty, buc
I have had the affifl:ance of friends \Vhenever I \Vas in
doubt. In con1preffing into one paragraph \vhat I
have collected from n1any, I have, as much as I \Vas
able, fl:uck to the 'vords of the author, and have been
anxious to give his precife meaning. I doubt not but
that I have fometimes failed, and will receive correc-
tion with deference. I entreat the reader not to expect
a piece of good literary compofition. I an1 very fen-
fible that it is far frorn it-it is written during bad
health, when I an1 not at tafe-and I v;ifh to conceal
my natTle-but rny tnotive is, without the fn1allcft
n1ixture of another, to do fon1e good in the only \vay
I an1 able, and I think that \Vhat I fay will carne \Vith
better grace, and be received \\'ith 1nore confidence,
than any anonymous publication. Of thefe I atn now
n1oft heartily fick. I thro\v n1yfelf on n1y country with
a fi·ee heart, and I bow with deference to its decifion.
The affociation of \Vhich I have been fpeaking is the
Order of lLLUl\1INATI, founded, in 1775, by Dr.
Adan1 \"/eifhaupt, profeifor of Canon Jaw in the uni-
verGty of Ingolftadt, and aboliihed in I 786 by the
Elector ofBavaria, but revived immediately after, un-
der another nan1e, and in a difl~rent form, all over
Germany. It \Vas again deteCteci, and feemingly bro-
ken up ; but it had by this tin1e taken fo detp root
that it ftill fubfifi:s \Vithout being- deteCted, and has
fpread into all the countries of Europe. It took its
fidt rife an1ong the Free :t\1ai~Jns) but is totally dif-
ferent fron1 Free Mafonry. It \vas not, however, the
mere protection gained by the fecrecy of the Lodges
that gave occafion to it, but it j,rofe naturally from
the corruptions that had g:·adualiy crept into that fra-
ternity, the violence of the parry fpirit \vhich pervaded
It)
INTRODUCTION.
I5
Ihope thatl am honeft and candid. Ihave been
at all pains to give the true fenle of the authors. My
knowledge ofthe German language is but fcanty, but
_I have had the aihflance of hiends whenever I was in
doubt. In eomprefling into one
paragraph what I
have collected hom many, I have, as much as I was
able, flucl; to the words of the author, and have been
anxious to give his precife meaning. I doubt not but
that I have fometimes failed, and will receive correc-
tion with deference. I entreat the reader not to
expefl:
a
piece ofgood literary compohtion. I am
very fen-
lible that it is far nom it-it is written during bad
health, when I am not at cafe--and I wilh to conceal
my name--but my motive is, without the fmalleft
mixture ofanother, to do fome good in the only way
I am able, and I think that what I fay will come with
better grace, and be received with more conhdence,
than any anonymous publication. Cf thefe I ani now
mofl heartily hck. Ithrow myfelf on
my country with
a hee heart, and I bow with deference to its deeilion.
The allbciation of which Ihave been fpealting is the
Order of ILLUMINATI, founded, in 1775, by Dr.
Adam Vlfeilhaupt, profeflor of Canon law in the uni-
verhty of Ingoli'tadt, and abolihied in 1786 by the
Elector ofBavaria, but revived immediately after, un-
der another name, and in a dillierent form, all over
Germany. It was
again detected, and feemingly br0_
ken up; but it had by this time taken fo deep root
that it Ptill fublifts without being deteeled, and has
fpread into all the countries of Europe. It took its
firll rife among the Free IN/Ialiuns, but is totally dif-
ferent hom Free Mafonry. It was not, however, the
mere
protection gained by the fecrecy of the Lodges
that gave occalion to it, but it arofe naturally from
the corruptions that had gradualiy crept into that fra-
ternity, the violence ofthe party lpirit which pervaded
IC;
INTRODUCTION.
it, and from the total uncertainty and darknefs that
hangs over the whole of that tnyfterious Aifociation.
It is neceffary, therefore, to give fome account of the
innovations that have been introduced into Free Ma-
1onry from the time that it made its appearance on the
contin~nt of Europe as a rnyfrica:t focicty, poift"ffing
fecrets different fron1 thofe of the ~nechanic2l en1ploy-
tnent whofe nan1e ir a!fumed, and thus affon:ing en-
tertainment and occupation to perfons of all ranks and
profeffion~. It is by no me~ns intended to give a hif-
tory of Free M1fonry. 'T'his wou1d le2.d to a very Jong
difcuffion. T·he patient induftry of Gern1an eruJition
has been very feriouf1y etnploytd on this fubjt~Ct, 2.nd
many perfonnances have been publiil:ed, of '.vhich
iome account is given in the different voh1111es of the
Religions Begebenbeiren, particuh1rly in thofe for I 779,
178 5, and I 786. It is evident, fron1 the nature of che
thing, that they c2nnot be very inftructi ve to the pub-
lie ; becaufe the obligation of fecrecy refpecting the
important matters which are the very fubjetts of de-
bate, preven!s the author frotn giving that full infor-
mation that is required from an hiftorian ; and the \Vri-
tcrs have not, in general, been perfons qualified for
the tan~. Scanty erudicion, credulity, and enrhufiaiin,
appear in almoft 311 thtir v:rirings; and they have
neithe-r attempted to ren1ove the heap of rubbiil1 'virh
\vhich Anderfon has difgraced his Cunflitutions cf Free
J1!fcifonry, (the bafis of n1aConic hiftory,) nor to avail
therrlfelves ofinforn1,1tions which hiftory re~lly aa:ords
to a f:Jber enquirer. Their l~oyal art n1uft never for-
footh appear in a frate of infancy or childhood, like all
other human acquiren1ents ; and therefore, when they
cannot give proofs of its exiftence in a fl.ate of n1Jnhood,
poffeifed of all its myiterious treafurt~s, thty fuppofe
wht!t they do not fee, and 1;1y thZlt they are co!1cealed by
{" r '' c . . . · ,.., r-. • 1 I
the oath or It~recy. '--'1 iuch xnt[ruct 1on c~:n tna ce
no
>`
16 mritonucriou.
it, and from the total uncertainty and darlanefs that
hangs over the whole ofthat myflerious Alfociation.
It is necellary, therefore, to
give fome account of the
innovations that have been introduced into Free Ma-
lonry from the time that it made its appearance on the
continent of Europe as a
þÿmy cal
fociety, polllriling
fecrets cliH`erent from thofe of the mechanical employ-
ment whofe name it afiixmed, and thus aliforttling en-
tertainment and occupation to
perfons of all ranks and
profeilions. It is by no means intended to
give a hif-
tory of Free l/Iafonry. This would lead to a
very long
difeuflion. The patient infiultry of German eruailition
has been very leriouily employed on this fub_ie£`t, and
many performances have been publiihecl, of which
ibme account is given in the clilli-:rent volumes ofthe
Religions Begebenheiten, particularly in thofe for 1779,
1785, and 1786. It is evident, from the nature ofthe
thing, that they cannot he very þÿini"tru ¬tive
to the pub-
lic; hecaufe the obligation of fecrecy refpecting the
important matters which are the very fuhjefls of cle-
bate, prevents the author from giving that full infor-
mation that is required from an hiltorian 5 and the Wri-
ters have not, in general, been perfons qualified for
the tafk. Scanty erntlition, eredtelity, and enthufiaiin,
appear in almoft all their writings; and they have
neither attempted to remove the heap of' rubbilli with
which Anderfon has difgraced his Cofyiffufio/25 of Free
]llr:f@nr_y, (the baiis of maiionic þÿhi"(y,)
nor to avail
thernfelves ofinformations which hillfory really affords
to a
lbberenquirer. Their Royal art mull: never for~
footh appear in a{ltate ofinfaney or childhood, like all
other human acquirements ; and therefore, when they
cannot give proofs of its exillence in a flare oilnaiilioocl,
poileffed of all its myllerious trealures, they fuppole
what they do not lee, and lay that they are concealed by
the oath of fecrecy. Ol' fueh iiiftrtiftion l can make
-
no
INTRODUCTION.
no ufe, even if I were difpofed to \vrite a hiftory of the
Fraternity. I lhall content myfelfwith an account of
fuch particulars as are admitted by all the mafonic
parties, and which illuurate or confirm my general pro-
pofition, making fuch ufe of the accounts of the higher·
degrees in my poffeffion as I can without admitting the
profane into their Lodges. Being under no tie of fe...
crecy with regard to thefe, I am with-held by difcretion
alone from putting the public in poifeffion of all their
p1yfteries.
c PROOFS
INTRODUCTION.
I7
no ufe, even ifl were difpofed to write a
hiftory of the
Fraternity. I fhall content mylelfwith an account of
fuch particulars as are admitted by all the malbnic
parties, and which illuflrate or confirm my general pro-
polition, making lixch ufe of the accounts ofthe higher'
degrees in my poll?-:Hion asI can without admitting the
profane into their Lodges. Being under no tie of fe~
crecy with regard to thefe, I am with-held by difcretion
alone from putting the public in polfefiion of all their
myfceries.
P
C PROOFS
PROOFS
0 f
A C 0 N S P I R A C Y, &c.
C ~H .l\. P. I.
Sch!fms in Free Majonr)'.
THERE is undoubtedly a dignity in the att of build-
ing, or in architeEture, which no other art poffeffes, and
this, ·whether \Ve confider it in its rudeft ftate, occu-
pied in raifing a hut, or as praB:ifed in a cultivated
nation, in the erection of a magnificent and ornament- _
· ed temple. As the arts in general improve in any
nation, this muft always maintain its pre-eminence;
for it employs them all, and no man can be eminent:
as' an architeCt \vho does not poffefs a confiderable
kno\vledge of almoft every fcience and art already cul-
tivated in his nation. His great \Vorks are undertak-
ings of the moft ferious concern, connect him with
the public, or with the rulers of the ftate, and attach
to him the practitioners of other arts, ·who are occu-
pied in executing his orders: His works are the ob-
jeCts of public attention, and are not the tranfient fpec-
tacles of the day> but hand down to pofterity his in-
vention.,
PROOFS
.OF
_/1 CONSPIRACY; &¢.
»~
C H A P. I.
.
Sc/agfms in Free _Fl/[rWnr_y.
THERE is undoubtedly a
dignity in the art of build-
ing, or in architetfture, which no other att
pofl"e{l`es, and
this, whether we coniider it in its fudeit (tate, occu-
pied in railing a hut, or as praétifed in a cultivated
nation, in the ereétion ofa magnificent and ornament-
ed temple. As the arts in general improve in any
nation, this mu{'t always maintain its pre-eminence;
for it employs them all, and no man can be eminent
as' an architeét who does not
poiTefs a coniiderable
knowledge of almoft every fcience and art already cul-
tivated in his nation. His great works are undertak-
ings of the moft ferious concern, conneél: him with
the public, or with the rulers of the ftate, and attach
to him the practitioners of other arts, who are occu-
pied in executing his orders: His works are the ob~
jeéts of public attention, and are not the tranlient fpec~
taclcs of the day, but hand down to pofterity his in~
_
vention,
10 THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. t.
vention, his knowledge, and .his tai\e. No wonder
then that he thinks highly of his profeffion, and that
the public ihould acquiefc.e in his pretenfions, even
when in fome d,e.gree extravagant.
It is not at all futprifing, therefore, that the incor-
porated architeCts in all cul~ivated nations ihould arro-
gate to themfelves a pre-eminence over the fin1ilar af-
fociations of other tradefmen.~- W-e find traces of this
in the ·-re1notcft antiquity. ·The_ 'Dionyfiacs ~of Afia
Minor were uncloubtedly an affo_ciation of architeCts
and engineers, \Vho had the exclufive privilege of build..
ing temples, il:adia, and theatres, und~r the myfterious
tutelage of Bacchus, and diftinguiihed fron1 the unin-
-itiated or profane inhabitants by the fcience which they
poffeffed, and by many private figns and tokens, by
which they recognifed each 'other. This affociation
came into Ionia from Syria, into which country it had
come from Perfia, along with that ftyle of architeCture
that we call Grecian. -We are alfo certain that there
was a fimilar trading affociation, during the dark ages,
in Chriftian Europe, which monopolized the building
of great churches and caftles, Working unde-r the patro-
nage and proteCtion of the Sovereigns and Princes of
Europe, and poifeffing many privileges. Circum-
frances, which it 'vould be tedious to enumerate and
difcufs, continued this affociation later in Britain than
on the Continent.
But it is quite uncertain 'vhen"and why perfons who
_were not builders by profeffion fitH: fought admiffion
into this Fraternity.. The firft diftinEt and unequivocal
inftance that we have of this is the admiffion of Mr.
Af4n1ole, the famous antiquary, in 1648, into a Lodge
at \\Tarrington, along with his father...in law C-olonel
_Mainwaring. It is ndt improbable thac the covert of
fecrecy in thofe affemblies had made them courted by
,.the Royalifts, as o~cafions of meeti'ng. Nay, the Ri-
tual
Q0 THE SCHISM3 IN CHAP. I.
vention, his knowledge, and ,his ta{'te. No wonder
then that he thinks highly of his profefiion, and that
the public Ihould acquiefce in his pretenlions, even
when in fome degree extravagant.
It is not at all furpriling, therefore, that the incor-
porated architcéts in all cultivated nations ihould arro-
gate to themfelves a
pre-eminence over the limilar af-
fociations of other tradefmen._5~ We find traces of this
in the remotcft antiquity. The Dionyfiacs "of Alia.
Minor were
undoubtedly an afI`o_ciation of architeéls
and engineers, who had the exelufive privilege of build-
ing temples, itadia, and theatres, under the myfterious
tutelage of Bacchus, and diftinguiihed from the unin-
itiated or
profane inhabitants by the fcience which they
pofTeH`ed, and by many private ligns and tokens, by
which they recognifed each other. This affociation
came into Ionia from Syria, into which country it had
come from Perlia, along with that ityle of architecture
that we call Grecian. 'We are alfo certain that there
was a iimilar trading aifociation, during the dark ages,
in Chriitian Europe, which monopolized the building
of great churches and caftles, working under the patro-
nage and protection of the Sovereigns -and Princes of
Europe, and poffefling many privileges. Circum-
ftances, which it would be tedious to enumerate and
difcufs, continued this affociatiun later in Britain than
on the Continent. t
But it is quite uncertain whenand why perfons who
_were not builders by profefiion rirlt fought adrniliion
into this Fraternity. The firft diftinel; and unequivocal
inltance that we have of this is the admiliion of Mr.
Afhmole, the famous antiquary, in 1648, into a
Lodge
at
V'arrington, along with his father-in law Colonel
_l/lainwaring. It is not improbable that the covert of
fecrecy in thofe affernblies had made them courted by
_the Royalihts, as occaiions of meeting. Nay, the Ri-
tual
FR-IE MASONRY. 21
-
tual of the Mafter's degree feems to have been formed,
or perhaps tw·ifted from its original inftitution, fo as to
give an opportunity of founding the political princi-
1 .of the ~andidace, and of the w~ole Brethren pre..,
. -For tt beats fo eafy an adaptton to the death of
Kin.g, to ~the overturning of the venerable confti-
tution :of the Englifh government of three orders by a
n1ean democracy, and its re-eftablifh.ment by the ef-.
forts of the-'Ioyalifts, that this would ftart into every
perfon.'s ·mind during the ceremonial, and could hard-
ly fail to Thow, by the countenances and behavic;>ur of
the Brethren, ho\V they were affeB:ed. I recommend
this·hint to lhe confideration of the Brethren. I have
tne:t with ·many particular faB:s, which convince me
that lhis- ufe had been made of the meetings of Ma-
fons, and that at this time the Jefuits interfered coni!-
derably, infinYating themfelves into the Lodges, and
con.tributing to encreafe that religio-qs myfticifm that is
to be obferved in all the ceremonies of the order.
This fociery is well kno\vn to have put on every ihape,
and .to have made ufe of every mean that could pro-'
mote the po,ver and influence of the order. And we
know that at this titne they \Vere by no means with-
out hopes of re-eftabliihing the dqminion of the
Church ·of .Rome in England. .Their fervices were
not fcrupled at by the diftreffed royalifts, even fuch
as were .Proteftants, while they were highly prized by
the Sovereign. -vVt alto know that Charles II. was
made a· Mafon, .anc.l frequented the Lodges. It is not
'\lr:~likely, that befides the arnufement of a vacant hour,
'vhich \Vas ahvays agreeable to him, he had pleafure in
the meeting with his loyal friends, and in the occupa-
tions of the Lodge, \vhich recalled to his mind their
attachment and fervices. His brother and fucceffor
J:.:mes I I. w.as of a tnore ferious and manly caft of
mind> and had little pleafure. in the frivolous cercm_o-
Dle~
CI-IAP. J. ERIE MASONRY. 21
tual of the Ma{'ter's degree feems to have been formed,
or
perhaps twilled from its original inftitution, fo as to
give an
opportunity of founding the political princi+
ple 'of the candidate, and of the whole Brethren pref
fe t. 'For it bears fo eafy an
adaption to the death of
e
~K'ing, tokthe overturning of the venerable confli-
tutioniof the Englilh government of three orders by a
mean democracy, and its re~e{l:ablilhment by the ef*-
forts of thefloyalifts, that this would flart into every
perfon"s 'mind during the ceremonial, and could hard-
ly 'fail to Thow, by the countenances and behaviour of
the Brethren, how they were a&`eé`ted. "I recommend
thishint tothe conhderation of the Brethren. I have
melt with 'many particular faéts, which convince me
thatfthisufe had been made of the meetings of Ma-
fons, and that at this time the _]`efuits interfered conii-
derably, infinuating themfelves into the Lodges, and
contributing to encreafe that religious myflieifm that is
to be obferved in all the ceremonies of the order.
This fociety is well known to have put on every lhape,
and to have made ufe of every mean that could pro-
mote the power and influence of the order. And we
know that at this time they were
by no means with-
out hopes of re-eltablifhing the dominion of the
Church 'of.Rome in England. ,Their fervices were
not ferupled at by the dillrelfed royalifls, even fuch
as were Proteftants, while they were
highly prized by
the Sovereign. 'We allb know that Charles II. was
made a'l/lafon, and frequented the Lodges. It is not
'un'likely, that belides the amufement ofa vacant hour,
which was
always agreeable to him, he had pleafure in
the meeting with his loyal friends, and in the occupa-
tions of the Lodge, which recalled to his mind their
attachment and fervices. His brother and fuccelfor
james Il. was of a more ferious and manly caft of
mind, and had little pleafure in the frivolous ceremo-
mes
w
22 , TH.E SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
monies of M~1!onry. ~ .He did not frequent the Lodges.
Bur, by this titne, they \Vere}the refort ofmany perfons
who were not of the profeffion, or members of the
trading·corporation. Thjs circumftance, in all proba-
'biliry, produced the denominations of FREE and Ac.
cEPTED. 1\ perfcn ·\Vho ·has the privilege o(workincr
at any incorporated trade, is. faid to be a freenzan of
that trade... Others \Vere accepted as Brethren, and ad- ,.
n1itted ,to a kind of honorary freedom, as· is the cafe in
n1any other trades and incorporat.ions, without havina
(as far as \Ve can learn for certain) a legal·title to ear~
ali velihood· by the e~ercife of it. r
The Lodges being in this n1anner frequented by per-
fans of various.pi·o.feffions, and in various ranks of civil
fi)ciety' it cannot be fuppofed that the etnployment in
thofe meetings related entirely to the oftenfible pro-
feffion of l\'Iafonrv. vVe have no authentic infonna-
tion by which .th~ public can form any opinion about it.:
Jc \VJ.S not till fame years after this period that the
I..0dges made open profeffion of the cultivation of ge-
neral benevolence, and that the grand aim of the Fra-
teinitY w~s to enforce the exercife of all the facial vir-
rues. .I It is not unlikely that this v;as an after-thought.
I"'he political. purpofes of the aifociation being once
ohra1ned, the converfation and occupations of the
n1e:nbers n1ufl: take fotne particular turn, in order to
be generally acc~ptable. '"fhe eirablifhn1ent ofa ,• fund
fr;r· the rt lief of unfortunate Brethren did not take place
till the very end of laft century ; and \Ve n1ay prefume
thJt it was brought about by the \varm recommenda-
rions of fome benevolent n1embers, \vho \\·auld na..
rurally enforce it by addrefE·s to their affembled Bre-
thre u. 'I' his is the probable origin of thofe philan-
thropic difcourfes\,vhich were delivere~l in the Lodges
by one of the Brethren as an official talk. Brotherly
lo\'e was th~ general topic, and this, with great pro-
priety~
aa i 'rmzscrilsms in cHAp.1.
monies of Mafonry.
~
.He did not frequent the Lodges,
But, by this time, they werefthe refort ofmany perfons
who were not of the profefiion, or membe-rs of the
tradingeorporation. This circumftance, in all proba-
bility, produced the denominations of FREE and Ac-
cevrto. A perforrwho has the privilege of working
at
any incorporated trade, isfaid to be a freenzzzzi of
that trade. M. Others were zzccepled as Brethren, and ad-
mittedito a lcindof honorary freedom, asis the cafe in
many other trades and incorporations, Without having
(as Fai-as we can learn for certain) alegaltitle to earn
a livelihood" by the exercife ofit.
'
The Lodges being in this manner
frequented by per-
fons of varions`pi'o_feHions, and in various ranks of civil
Riciety, it cannot be fuppofed that the employment in
thofe meetings related entirely to the oPtenHble pro-
feflion ofl/iafonry. V7e have no authentic informa-
tion by which the public can Form any opinion about it;
lt was not till fome years after this period that the
Lodges made open profeilion of the cultivation of ge-
neral benevolence, and that the grand aim ofthe Fra-
ternity was to enforce the exercife of all the focial vir-
tues. lt is not unlikely that this was an
a&er-thought.
The political. purpofes of the aifociation being once
obtained, the convex-l`ation and occupations of the
members muft take fome particular turn, in order to
be generally acceptable. The eilablifhment ofa ffund
thrthe reliefofunfortunate Brethren did not take place
till the very end of lailt century ; and we
may prefume
that it was
brought about by the warm recommenda-
tions of fomc benevolent members, who would na-
turally enforce it by addre'Hi~s to their alfembled Bre-
thren. This is the probable origin of thofe philan-
thropic difeourfeswhich weredelivered in the Lodges
by one ofthe Brethren
as an oflicial talk. Brotherly
love was the general topic, and this, with great pro-
priety.
CHAP. 1.
p~iety; 'when we confider't11e objeEt ain1ed at in thofe -
addre.tres. Nor \Vas_ this object altogetlie"f· a novelty.
For while the manner~ of focitty 'vere yet but rude,
Brother Mafons, who 'vere frequently ')ed by their
employ!Tient far from home and fronf their.' friends,
ftood in need of fuch h.elps, 'and might be gr~.atly be-''
nefited ·by fuch an inftinni9n, \vhich -ga~e thern in-c
traduction and citizenfhip \Vhrrever they went, and a
right to ihare in the charitable contributions of Bre-
thren who were ftrangers to them. Other incorporat-
ed trades had. fimilar provifions for their poor. But
their poor Were tOWnfmen and neighbours, V(ell known
to them. There was more perfuafion neceffarv in this
Fraternity, where the objetl:...s of our immediate bene-
ficence \Vere not of our acquaintance. Bur \Vhen the
Lodges confifted of many who were not Ma;(ons, and
who had no particular claim to good offices fron1 a
ftranger, and their number n1ight be great, it is evi-
dent that ftronger perfuafions \Vere now nece-ffary, and
that every topic of philanthropy muft now be en1plo)-
ed. When the funds becan1e confiderable, the effects
naturally took the public eye, and recomn1ended the
Society to notice and refpeCt. And novv the Brethren
were induced to dv1ell on the fame topic, to join in
the con1mendations beftowed on the 5ociety, and ro
fay that univerfal beneficence v;as the great ain1 of the
Order. And this is all th~t could be faid in public,
\Vithout infri1:1ging the obligation to fecrecy. ,The in-
quifitive are always prying and teazing, and this is the
only point on which a Brother is at liberty to fpeak.
H~ ~ill therefore do it with affeCtionate zeal, till per-
haps he has heated his own fancy a little, and over-
looks 'the inconfiftency of this univerf8.l beneficence
and philanthropy with the exclufive ,and inonopolizing
fpirit of· an Aifociation, which not only confines irs
benevolence to _its own Members, (like a11y other cha-
ritable
CHAP. I. FREE MA"SONRY.
V
. » »
'
priety, 'when we coniiderthe object aimed at in thofe
addreffes. Nor was this object altogether a
novelty.
For while the manners of fociety were yet but rude,
Brother Mafons, who were frequently "led by their
employment far from home and hom" theiffiiends,
ftood in need of fuch helps, 'and might be greatly be-
nefited 'by fuch an iniftitution, which gave them in-
troduction and citizenfhip wherever they went, and a
right to [hare in the charitable contributions of Bre-
thren who were Ptrangers to them. Other incorporat-
ed trades had, Hmilar proyihons for their poor. But
their poor were townfmen and neighbours, well known
to them. There was more
perfuahon neceflary in this
Fraternity, _where the objects of our immediate bene-
ficence were not of our
acquaintance. But when the
Lodges coniifted of many who were not l/lafons, and
who had no
particular claim to
good odices from a
itranger, and their number might be great, it is evi-
dent that Ptronger perfualions were now
neceffary, and
that every topic ofphilanthropy muft now be employ-
ed. When the funds became conliderable, the elfefts
naturally took the public eye, and recommended the
Society to notice and refpeét. And now the Brethren
were induced to dwell on the fame topic, to
join in
the comtnendations beftowed on the Society, and to
fay that univerfal beneficence was the great aim of the
Order. And this is all that could be faid in public,
without infringing the obligation to
fecrecy. ,The in-
quiiitive are
always prying and teazing, and this is the
only point on which a Brother is at
liberty to
fpeak.
He will therefore do it with alleétionate zeal, till per-
haps' he has heated his own
fancy a little, and over-
looks the inconfiftency of this univerfal benelicence
and philanthropy with the excluhve _and inonopolizing
fpirit of`an Allociation, which not only conhncs its
benevolence to ,its own Members, (like any other cha-
ritable
rfHE SCHISMS IN CHAl~. I.
ritable affociation,) but hoards up in its bofom inefti-
n~able fecrets> whofe natur'll tendency, they fay> ,~~ tQ
form the h~art to ~his generous and kind condu.c1:, a.ncl
infpire us \Vith love to all ma.nkind. Th~ profafl:t:t :
\vorld cannot fee the beqeficenc;e of concealing from·
public view a principle or a rpqtive which fo power-
fully induces a Mafon to be gooq and kind. The
Brother fays that publicity would rob it of its for~~'
and we muft take him at his word; and our curiofity
is· fa much the more exci~ed 'to learn what are th~ fe.~
crets which have fo fingular a quality.
Thus did the Fraternity conduCt thentfelve,s~ and thus
were they confiqered by the public, wh~n ic was c;arded
over from England to the continent ; and here ~~ i~ ~Q
be particularly remarked that all our Brethren qbro.ad
profefs to have received the Myfter-y of Fre~ Mafonry·
fro1n Britain. '"'fhis i~ furely a pu~zle ~n the hiftory ;.~
and \Ve muft leave it to others to reconcile this with th~
repeated affertions in Anderfon'~ book of ConftitQti"!"
ons, "T'hat the Fraternity exifted all over theW9rld,"
and the numberlefs examples \Vhich he adduces of its
exertions in other countries; nay, with his repe(;lted.
aifertions, " that it frequently was n~ar perifhing in.
'' Britain, and that our Princes were obliged to fend
" to France and other countries, for leading xnen~ to
" reftore it to its former energy among us." We
fhall fifld by and by that it is not a pain~ of mere hifto..
rical curiofity, but that rnl)ch hinges on it.
In the mean time, let us juft remen1ber, that the
plain tale of Brotherly love had been poliihed up to
protefl:ations of univerfal· benevolence, and had taken
place of loyalty and attachment to the upfortunate Fa-
nlily of Stuart, which \vas no\v totally forgotten in the_
Englifh Lodges. The Revolution had taken- place,
and King James, with many of his m9ft zealo4s adhe-
rents, had taken refuge in France. · · -
But
Q4 THE SCHISM5 IN CHAR. I.
ritable all`ociation,) but hoards up in its bofom inefti-
rnable fecrets, whofe natural tendency, they fay, .is to
form the heart to this generous and kind condu_é`t, and
infpirc us with love to all mankind. The profane
world cannot fee the beneficenee of concealing from
public view a
principle or a motive which fo power-
fully induces a Mafon to be good and kin_d. The
Brother fays that publicity would rob it ofits force,
and we mult take him at his word; and our curiolity
is fo much the more excited 'to learn what are the fe;
crets which have fo Iingular a
quality.
Thus did the Fraternity conduct themfelves, and thus
were
they conlidered by the public, when it was carried
over hom England to the continent ; and here it is to
be particularly remarked that all our Brethren abroad
profeik to have received the Myftery of Free Mafonry
from Britain. This is furely a puzzle in the hilloryi
and we muft leave it to others to reconcile this with the
repeated affertions in Anderi`on's book ofConf'tituti,
ons,
"
That the Fraternity exiited all over the World,"
and the numberiefs examples which he adduces ofits
exertions in other countries; nay, with his repeated,
ai`l°ertions, "that it frequently was near perifhing in_
"
Britain, and that our Princes were obliged to fend
"
to France and other countries, for leading men, to
"
reilore it to its former energy among us." We
ihall find by and by that it is not a
point of mere hilto-
rical curiohty, but that much hinges on it.
In the mean time, let us
_juft remember, that the
plain tale of Brotherly love had been polilhed up to
protel'tations' of univerfal benevolence, and had taken
place ofloyalty and attachment to the unfortunate Fa-
mily of Stuart, which was now
totally forgotten in the
Englifh Lodges. The Revolution had taken place,
and King james, with many of his moil zealous adhe-
rents, had taken refuge in France.
i
'
"
But
CHAP. I. FREE MASONR1-~.
But they took Free Mafonry with then1 to the con-
tinent, 'vhere it was in11ntdiately received by the
French, and v;as cultiv~ted 'vith great zeal in a man-
ner fuited to the tafte and habits of that highly poliibed
people~ 1~he Lodges in France naturally becan1e the
renciez vous of the adherents to the exiled King, and
the 111eans of carrvinQ" on a correfipondence with their
J 0
friends in England. At this tin1e alfo the Jefuirs took
a n1ore attive hand i!1 Free Mafonry than ever. 'fhey
infinuated themfelves into the Englifn Lodges, 'vhere
they were careffed by the Catholics, who panted after
the re-efrablirnment of their faith, and tolerated by
the Proteil:ant royalifts, \vho thought no conce:ffion to~J
great a compenfation for their fervices. At this time
changes were made in feme of the Ivlafonic fymbo1s,
particularly in the tracing of the Lodge> which bear
evident marks of Jefuitical interference.
It \Vas in the Lodge held at St. Germ2.in's that the
degree of Chevalier A1ayon Ecqffcis was added to the
.three SYMBOLICAL degrees ofEngliih Mafonry. 1'he
conftitution, as imported, appeared too coarfe for the
refined tafte of our neighbcurs, and they n1uft n1ake
Mafonry 1nore like the occup3.tion of a gentleman.
1"'herefore, the Englifh degrees of1\pprentice, Fello\v-
craft, and l\1after, \vere called J):;nbolicel, and the \Vhole
contrivance \vas confidered tith~r as typical of fon1e-
l. 1 . r . ~ h
ti.11ng more e egant, or as a prtpaLltl0!1 ror H. 1 e
degrees after·wards fuperadded to this leave us in doubc
which of thefe vit\VS the French entertained of our
lVIafonry. But at all ever;ts, this r8nk of Scotch I(n1gh~
'vas called thejirfl degree of the }.,fC:f0/7 _Parfait. T'hcre
~s; a device belonging to this Lodge v1hich deftrves no-
tice. 1\ lion) Vlounded hy ~n arrow, and eteapc-d
fron1 the flake to '.vh ich ht~ had been bound, \Vith the
brcken rope fti1l about his n~ck, is rep;-rfented lying
n.t the mouth of a C3ve, :1nli occupied '.vich n1arhen1a-
l)
CI-IAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
Q5
But they took Free l/Iafonry with them to the con-
tinent, where it was
immediately received by the
French, and was cultivated with great zeal in a man-
ner fuited to the talte and habits of that highly polilhed
people; The Lodges in France naturally became the
rendezvous of the adherents to the exiled King, and
the means of carrying on a
correfpondence with their
friends in England. At this time alfo the jefuits tools;
at more aftive hand in Free l/lafonry than ever.
They
iniinuated themfelves into the Englifh Lodges, where
they were careiied by the Catholics, who panted after
the re~e{tablif'nrnent of their faith, and tolerated by
the Protelltant royalifts, who thought no concelion too
great a compenfation. for their iervices. At this time
changes were made in fome of the l'/lafonic fymbols,
particularly in the tracing of the Lodge, which bear
evident marks of _fefuitical interference.
lt was in the Lodge held at St. Germain's that the
degree of Chevalier Jikfgen Ecqjiiis was added to the
three SYMBOLICAL degrees oflilnglifh Mrifonry. The
conftitution, as
imported, appeared too coarfe for the
refined tafte of our
neighbours, and they mutt make
I*/lafoiiry more like the occupation of a
gentleman.
Therefore, the Englifh degrees ofihpprentice, `Fellow_
craft, and Matter, were
calleclj/faséaiicel, and the whole
contrivance was Conhdered either as
typical of fonie-
thing more
elegant, or as a
preparation for it. The
degrees afterwards fuperadded to this leave us in doubt
which of thefe Views the French entertained oi' our
D/Ialonry. But at all CVCIELS, this rank of' Scotch Knight
was called the _liifffi degree of the E/ingot? Pafjbif. There
is a device belonging to this Lodge which deferves no~
tice. A lion wounded bv an arrow, and eicaoed
J , l
from the Italie to which he had been bound, with the
broken rope 'ftill about his necl-1, is reprelented lying
the mouth of a cave, and occupied witli niathemzi~
D tictai
z6 'f.f:!E SCHISMS n•: CHAP. I
ti<:al inftrun';lents 'vhich are lying near hin1. A broken
crown lies at the foot of the ftake. There'can be lit-
tle doubt but that this en1ble1n alludes to the dethrone-
nlent, the c~tptivity, the efcape, and the afylun1 of
Jatnes II. and his hopes of re-eHablifhtnent by the help
of the loyal Brethren. This en1bl~m is ·worn as the
gorget of the Scotch Knight. It is not very certain,
ho\vever, \vhen this degree vvas added, vvhether im·-
mediately after king James's Abdication, or about the
, time of fne atten1pt to ftt his fun on the Britii11 Throne.
J3ut it is certain, that in I 7 ;_ 6, this and ftill higher de-
grees of Mafonry were n1uch in vogue in the Court of
France. The refining genius of the French, and their
love of ibovv, made tl:e hun1ble deno1ninations of the
Engliih Brethren difgufl:ing; and their paffion for mi-
litary rank, the only char3Ctcr that: connccred then1
with the court of an abfolute n1onarch, n1ade them
adapt Free Mafonry to the fatne fcale of public eftima-
tion, and invent ranks of lv!r:r;.;ns Cbe·valiers, ornarnent-
ed \Vith titles, and ribands, and ftars. Thefe \vere
highly relifned by that vain people; and the price of
reception, \Vhi~h was very high, bec~me a rich fund,
that vvas ge-neral1y applied to relieve the wants of the
banifi1ed Britiih and lrif11 adherents of the unfortunate
Family \vho h4d taken refuge an1ong then1. Three
ne\v degrees, of JYc'V·ice, Ele·"'v·e, and Cbe·valier, were
foon added_, and the PaJfait l'v1r:tjon bad now feven re-
ceptions to g0 through, for each of \vhich a handf<)me
contribution was n1ade. Afrer\vards, vvhen the firft
beneficent purpofe of this contribution ct:afed to exift,
the finery r·hat no\v glittered in all the Lodges n1ade a
ftill JT!Ore craving den1and for reception-n1oney, and
i 1genuitv \VJ.s ftt to work to invent new baits {c)r the
p;,fail }vir-f~it. More degrees of chivalry were added,
interfperfed 'Nith degrets of Fbilcfipbe, Pellerin) Clair-
'rH(Jant> &c. &c. till forn~ I'arif{an Lodges had forty-
Eve
26 THE scrrrsms rr: CHAP. r
tical infiruments which are
lying near him. g
A broken
crown lies at the foot of the ftake. There can be lit-
tle doubt but that this emblem alludes to the dethrone-
ment, the captivity, the efcape, and the afylum of
James ll. and his hopes ofre-eilablifhment by the help
of the loyal Brethren. This emblem is worn as the
gorget of the Scotch Knight. It is not very certain,
however, when this degree was added, whether im--
mediately after king ]ames's Abdication, or about the
time of the attempt to fet his fon on the Britifh Throne.
But it is certain, that in 1716, this and &ill higher de-
grees of Mafonry were much in vogue in the Court of
France. The refining genius ofthe French, and their
love of lhow, made the humble denominations of the
Englifh Brethren difguiiing; and their paflion for mi-
litary rank, the only chara&er that connected them
with the court of an abfolute monarch, made them
adapt Free l/Iafonry to the fame fcale ofpublic eliima-
tion, and invent ranks of .Mrccm Cbeva/iers, ornament-
ed with titles, and ribands, and liars. Thefe were
highly relifhed by that vain people; and the price of
reception, which was
very high, became a rich hind,
that was
generally applied to relieve the wants of the
baniiiied Britifh and lrifh adherents of the unf`ortunate
Family whohad taken refuge among them. Three
new
degrees, of Nofvice, E/eve, and C/bemlier, were
foon added, and the Parfait .Zi/][§`9F2 had now feven re-
ceptions to
go through, for each of' which a handhime
contribution was made. Afterwards, when the firft
beneficent purpofe of this contribution cesfetl to exilt,
the finery that now
giittered in all the Lodges made a
itil] more
craving demand har receptionnnoney, and
irgenuity was fet to Work to invent new baits lor the
Parfait Mifgm. More degrees of chivalry were added,
interfperfed with degrees of PM/ekplve, þÿP ¬Ue.»'i12,
C!n¥r~
tfcymi, Sze. &c. till fome Parihan Lodges had forty-
live
CHAf". I. FREE MASONRY. 27
five ranks of l\1afonry, having fifteen orders of chi-
valry. For a Knighthood, with a Riband and a Star,
was a benne bcuche, givtn at every third ftep. For a
long while thefe degrees of chivalry proceeded on fotne
faint analogies with feveral orders of chivalry which
had been eret'red jn Europe.. All of thefe h~d fome
reference to fume myftical doCtrines of the Chrifrian
church, and \Vere, in faEt, contrivances of the Church
of Rome for fecuring and extending her influence on
the layn1en of rank and fortune, whom :!he retained .in
her fervice by rhefe play-things. The Knights Tetn-
plais of Jeruialem, and the Knights of the Deferr,
\Vhofe office it was to proteEt pilgrims, and to defend
the holy city, afforded very apt models for M;;~fonic
mimicry, becaufe the 1,ernple of Solon1on, and the
Holy Sepulchre, always f11ared the fame fate. Many
contefted doctrines of the theologians had alfo their
Chevaliers to defend them.
In all rh1s progreffive mummery \Ve fee much of the
hand of the Jef'uirs, and it would feem that it ~as en-
couraged by the church. But a rhing happened which
n1ight eafily have ·· been forefeen. The Lodges had
become f2miliar ~Nith this kind of invention; the pro-
fe!ftd object of n1any real Orders of Knighthood \Vas
often very v.;himfical, or very refined and t'1r-fetched,
and it req.uired all the fineffe of the clergy to give to
it fon1e flight conneCtion with religion or morality.
The MJ.fons, proteEted by their fecrecy, ventured to
go farther. The decLlmations in the lodges _
by the
Brother orator, muft naturally refembJe the con1pofi-
tions of the ancient fophifrs, and con!ift of wire.-drawn
differtations on the focial duties, \vhere every thing is
a1nplified and ft~ained to hyperbole, in their far-fetched
and fanciful explanations ofrhe fymbols ofMafonry.1-·hu;;
accufl:orned to allegory, to GB:ion, to fine1Te, and to a fort
of innocent hyp~crify by which tbty cc.joltd rherufelves
"' ~ .
1nt•
eine. t. FREE Mnsotmv.
27
five ranlts of l/Ialbnry, having fifteen orders of chi-
valry. For a
Knighthood, with a Riband and a
Star,
was a bmw bczztlae, given at every third ftep. For a
long while theie degrees of chivalry proceeded on fome
faint analogies with feveral orders of chivalry which
had been erected in Europe. All of thefe had fome
reference to fome myiiical do&rines of the Chriitiun
church, and were, in faet, contrivances ofthe Church
of Rome for fecuring and extending her influence on
the laytnen of rank and fortune, whom [be retainedin
her fervice by thefe play-things. The Knights Tem-
plars of _le~ruialem, and the Knights of the Deiert,
whofe ofhte it was to
proteét pilgrims, and to defend
the holy city, arlorded very apt models for l/lafonic
mimiery, becaufe the Temple of Solomon, and the
Holy Sepulchre, always fhared the fame fate. Many
contefted doé'trines of the theologians had alfo their
Chevaliers to defend them.
In all this progrefiive murntnery we fee much ofthe
hand ofthe Ieliiits, and it would feem that it was en-
couraged by the church. But a
thing happened which
might eafily have been forefeen. The Lodges had
become familiar with this kind of invention; the pro-
fefled object of many real Orders of Knighthood was
often very whimfical, or
very rehned and far-fetched,
and it required all the iineH`e of the clergy to
give to
it fome flight connecdtion with religion or
morality.
The Maforis, protected by their fecrecy, ventured to
go farther. The declttmations in the lodges _by the
Brother orator, mult naturally refemble the cornpoh-
tions of the ancient hiphihs, and conlift of wire-drawn
dillertations on the focial duties, where every thing is
amplified and llrained to
hyperbole, in their far-fetched
and fancifulexplanationsofthe fymbolsol`l/lafonry.Th11s
accuflomcd to
allegory, to hfftion, to finelle, and to a fort
of innocent hypocriiy by which they cajoled themielves
'
'
into
THE SCHIS~IS I:I CHAP. I.
into a notion that this chilcl's-p1ay had at bottom a
ferious ~nd important n1eaning, the zealous champions
of Free :Cv'Ia(onry found no inclination to check this
inventive fpirit or circu£Tdcribe its flights. Under the
proteEtion of Mafonic fecrecy, they planned fchen1es
of a diffcreGt kind, and infread of more Orders of
Chivalry directed againft the enetnies of their faith,
they forn1ed c.fi()ciations in oppofirion to the ridiculous
and opprefEve ceren1onies and fuperftitions of the
church. 1"here can be no doubt, that in thofe hidden
afien1blies, a free comtnunication of fentiment \Vas
highly re1ifhed and much indulged. It \Vas foon fuf-
pec1ed that fuch ufe \vas made of the covert of a Mafon
Lodge; and the church dreaded the confequences,
and endeavoured to fupprefs the l ..odges. But in vain.
And \vhen it \Vas found, that even 2.uricular confe!Iion,
and the f{)iritual threatenings of the church, could not
n1ake the Brethren break their oath of fccrecy; a full
confi.dence in their fr-:-curity n1ade thtfe free-thinking
Brethren bring forward, \Vith all the eagernefs of a
n1iilionary, fuch ientin1ents as they \Vere afraid to ha-
zard in ordinary 1ociety. 1"'his \Vas long fufpeCted;
buc the rigours of the church only ferved to knit the
Brethren n1ore firn1ly together, and provoked them to
a more eager exercile of their bold criticifn1s. The
Lodges beeatne fchools of fceptici ftn 2.nd infidelity,
and the fpirit of converfion or profelytiftn grc\v every
de!v frronQ·er. Cardinal Dubois had before ·rhis tin1e
laboured ~vith a11 his n1ight to co:-rupt the n1inds of
the courtiers, by patronifing, dircEtly and indireCtly,
a1l fctptics vvho vJ"ere orher\vife 1nen of talents. He
gave the vounv courtiers to underftand, that if he
'-' J :::>
fhoul.i obtain the reins of governn1enc, they ihould be
entirely freed fron1 the bigotry of Louis XIV·. and the
orpreHicn of the church, and f11ould have the free in-
dulgence cf their inclinations. His own plans \Vere
difc.p-
28 THE scrztsais tri eHAP. 1.
into a notion that this chil<l's-play had at bottom a
ferious and important meaning, the zealous champions
of Free Mafonry found no inclination to check this
inventive fpirit or circumlinibe its flights. Under the
protetiion of Mafonic iecrecy, they planned fchemes
of a di§"erent ltind, and inftead of more Grders of'
Chivalry direélted againil the enemies of their faith,
they formed afiociations in oppolition to the ridiculous
and opprefiive ceremonies and fuperftitions of the
church. There can be no doubt, that in thofe hidden
allemblies, a free communication of fentiment was
highly relillied and much indulged. It was foon ful"-
pecled that fuch ule was made of the Covert ofa Mafon
Lodge; and the church dreaded the coniequences,
and endeavoured to
iiipprefs the Lodges. But in vain.
And when it was found, that even auricular confeflion,
and the lpiritual threatenings of the church, could not
make the Brethren break their oath of fecrecy; a full
conlidence in their Qeurity made thefe free-thinleing
Brethren bring forward, with all the eagernefs of a
miihonary, fuch ientiments as
they were afraid to ha-
zard in ordinary iociety. This was
long fufpecfted;
but the rigours of the church only ferved to knit the
Brethren more
firmly together, and provoked them to
a more eager exercile of their bold criticifms. The
Lodges became fchools of feepticifm and inhdelity,
and the fpirit or converhon or
profelytifm grew every
day Ftronger. Cardinal Dubois had before 'this time
laboured with all his might to
corrupt the minds of
the courtiers, by patronihng, direetly and indirectly,
all feeptics who were otherwife men of talents. He
gave the young courtiers to underftand, that if he
mould obtain the reins of government, they fhould be
entirely freed from the bigotry of Louis XIV. and the
oppreliion of the church, and lhould have the hee in-
dulgence of their inclinations. His own plans were
dihzp-
C\HAp. I. FREE 1\! AS 0 N R Y. ~ 9
d~fappointed by his death; but the Regent Orleans
\V\as equally indulgent, and in a few years there
was hardly a man in France \Vho pretended know-
lepge and reflection, who did not laugh at all reli-
gipn. J~midft the almoft infinite number of publi-
cations. from the French prelfes, there is hardly a do-
zen to be found \vhere the author attempts to vindicate
religion fion1 the charges of univerfal fuperftition and
falfchood. And it muft be ackno\vledged that little
el fe \Vas to be feen in the eftablifhed religion of the
kingdom. rrhe people found nothing in Chriftianity
blut a never-ceafing round of infignificant and trouble-
fqtne ceremonies, which confumed their time, and
furni.fhed a fund for fupporting a fet of lordly and op-
P reffive dignitaries, who declared in the plaineft nlan-
n•!r their O\Vn di!belief of their religion, by their total
difregard of con1n1on decency, by their continual refi-
d~~ncc at court, and by abfolute negleCt, and even the
ntoft haughty and oppreffive treatn1ent of the only part
of their order that took anv concern about rhe religious
~ ~
fentiments of the nation, namely the Cures or pariih-
priefts. The monks appeared only as lazy drones; buc
the parifh-priefts inftruCl:ed the people, vifi.ted the fick_,
reconciled the offe11der and the offended, and were the
great mediators bet\veen the landlords and their vaf-
fals, an office which er.1deared them more to the peo-
ple than all the other circumftances of their profeffion.
And it is remarkable, that in all the licentious writings
and b!trer fatirical tales of the ohilofophic freethinl'Z-
.L ~
ers, fuch as \loltaire, who never fails to have a taunting
hit at the clergy,the Cureisgenerally an atniableperfon-
age, a ·charitable man, a friend to the poor anciunfor-
tunate, a peace-maker, and a tnan of piety and worth.
Yet chefe rnen were kept in a irate of the rnofr !1avifh
and cruel fubjeftion by the higher orders of the cler-
gy, and a11 hopes of advancement cut off. I~are1y,
hardly
i
Cl`HAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
29
difappointed by his death; but the Regent Orleans
wias equally indulgent, and in a few years there
was hardly a man in France who pretended know-
ledge and reflection, who did not
laugh at all reli-
gion. Amidlt the almoft infinite number of publi-
cations _hom the French preffes, there is hardly a do-
zen to be found where the author attempts to vindicate
religion hom the charges of univerfal fuperftition and
falfehood. And it muft be acknowledged that little
elfe was to be feen in the eitablifhed religion of the
kingdom. The people found nothing in Chriitianity
but a never-cealing round ofinligniticant and trouble-
fcpme ceremonies, which confumed their time, and
furnifhed a fund for fupporting a fet of lordly and op-
preiiive dignitaries, who declared in the plainei°t man-
ner their own diibelief of their religion, by their total
difregard of common decency, by their continual reli-
dence at court, and by abfolute negleét, and even the
nzolt haughty and oppreilive treatment of the only part
of their order that tool; any concern about the religious
fentiments of the nation, namely the Cures or
parifh-
priefts. The monks appeared only as lazy drones; but
the parifh-priefts initruelied the people, vihted the Gck,
reconciled the oflender and the ofiended, and were the
great mediators between the landlords and their vaf-
fals, an oflice which endeared them more to the peo-
ple than all the other circumllances of their profellion.
And it is remarkable, that in all the licentious writings
and bitter fatirical tales of the philoliophic freethink-
ers, fnch as Voltaire, who never fails to have ataunting
hit at the <;lergy,the Curéis generally an amiable perfon-
age, acharitable man, a friend to the poor andunfor-
tunate, a peace-maker, and a man of piety and worth.
Yet thele men were
kept in a llate of the molt flavifh
and cruel l°ubjec`tion by the higher orders of' the cler-
gy, and all hopes of advancement cut off. Rarely,
t
hardly
30 THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
hardly ever, does it happen, that a Cure becomes a
Bifhop. The .P.l.bbes itep into every line of prcfe~·­
tnent. \Vhen fuch procedure is obferved by a whcle
nation, \vhat opinion can be forn1ed but: that the whole
is a vile cheat·? This ho',\ttver was the cafe in Fr~ncc,
and therefore· infidelity was almoft univerfal. 1~ or
was this overftrained freedom or iicentioufnefs confit1-
ed to religious opinions. It \Vas perhaps tnore natu-
rally directed to the reftrain ts arifing frorn civil fub-
ordination. The fatniliar name of Brother could nDt
but tickle the fancy of thofe of inferior rank, \vhen
they found themfelves fide by fide with perfons whoc1
they cannot approach out of doors but \Vith cautious
refpect; and while thefe n1en of rank have their pride
lulled a litde, and perhaps rheir hearts a little fofrened
by the hackneyed cant of fentitnental declan1ation on
the topic of Brotherly love and Utopian felicity, the
others begin to fancy the happy days arrived, and the
light of philanthropy beaming fro1n the eaft and illu-
n1inating the Lodge. 'I'he Garret l)atnphleteer enjoys
his fancied authoricy as Senior 'vV ~rden, and conduEts
\vith affeCtionate folemnity the JOunz nobJen1an, \vho
panrs for the honour of l\1afi:erfhip, and he praiCes the
rrufry Brother \vho has guarded him in his perilous
journies round the room. \Vhat topic of dec1an1ation
can be more ~greeable than the equality of the \vorthy
Brethren ? and ho\v naturallv \Vill the Brother 0 rator
in fupport of this favourite topic, Dide into all the
common-place pictures of human fociety, freed from
all the anxir.ties attending ..civil difti_
nftion, c;.nd p;1 ffing
their days in happy fimplicity and equality. From
this ftate of the fancy, it is hardly a frep to defcant on
the propriety, the expediency, and at la(r, the jufi:ice
of fuch an arrangernent of civil fociety ; and in doing
this, one cannot avoid taking notice of the grea~ ob-.
ftrucrions to hurnan felicity which \Ve fee in every
qu:1rter,
SO THE SCHISMS IN CI-IAP. I.
hardly ever, does it happen, that a Curé becomes a,
Bifhop. The Abhes liep into every line ofprefer-
ment. 'When fuch procedure is obferved by a whcle
nation, what opinion can be fhrnied but that the whole
is a vile cheat ? This howevei' was the cafe in France,
and therefore inhdelity was almoft univerfal. Nor
was this overllrained freedom or licentioufnefs confin-
ed to religious opinions. It was
perhaps more natu-
rally direitecl to the reftraints arihng from civil liab-
orclination. The familiar name of Brother could not
but tickle the fancy of thofe of inferior rank, when
they found themfelves Hde by fide with perhins whom
they cannot
approach out of doors but with cautious
refpetft; and while thefe men of rank have their pride
lulled a little, and perhaps their hearts a little lhftened
bythe hackneyed cant of ientimental declaniation on
the topic of Brotherly love and Utopian felieity, the
others begin to fancy the happy days arrived, and the
light of philanthropy beaming from the eaft and illu-
minating the Lodge. The Garret Pamphleteer enjoys
his fancied authority as Senior VJ arden, and condufts
with affectionate folemnity the young nobleman, who
pants for the honour of l'Ial`ter{hip, and he praifes the
trufty Brother who has guarded him in his perilous
journies round the room. Wfhat topic of declaniation
can be more
agreeable than the equality of the worthy
Brethren? and how naturally will the Brother Orator
in fupport of this favourite topic, flide into all the
common-place pictures of human fociety, freed from
all the anxieties attending civil diftipnetion, and palling
their days in happy hmplicity and equality. From
this ftate ofthe fancy, it is hardly a
ilep to defcant on
the propriety, the expediency, and at lalt, the jultice
of fuch an
arrangement of civil fociety, and in doing
this, one cannot avoid taking notice of the great ob-
fltruftions to liuman felicity which we fee in every
quarter,
Cf.'AP. 1. FREE :MASONRY.
quarter., proceeding from the abufes of thofe difiinc-
tions of rank and fortune \vhich have arifen in the
\vorld : and as the mifchiefs and horrors of fuperfti-
tion are topics of continual declamation to thofe who
wifh to throw off the rtfiraints of religion ; fo the op-
pre!l1on of the rulers of this \vorld, and the fufferings ·
of ta1ents and worth in inferior ftations, will be no leis
greedily liftened to by all v1hofe notions of morality
are not very pure, and who \Votdd be glad to have the
enjoyments of the wealthy \virhout the trouble of la-
bouring for then1. Free Mafonry may be affirmed to
have a naturai tendency to fofter fuch levelling \Vifhes _;
and we cannot doubt but that great liberties are taken
\Vith rhofe fubjecrs in the Lodges, efpecially in coun-
tries vvbere the difrinctions of rank and fortune are
ftrongiy exprefied and noticed.
But iris not a matter of mere probability that the
Mafon L~dges \Vere the. ferninaries of thefe libertine
i nftruftions. \~le have diftinCl: proof of it, even in
fame of the French degrees. In the degree called the
Che:v·alier u·e Sclcil, the vJhole infirucrion is ~imed againft
the eH:abliiheci religion of the kingdom. The protefied
objeCt is the emancipation from error and the difcovery
cf truth. The infcription in the eaft is Sagcjfe, that in
the north is Liberte, th3t in the fouth is }ernzete, and in
the weft it i!. Cauticn j ttrn1s which are very fignificant.
rfhe Tres Ptflerable is 1\d~m; the Senior Warden is
Truth, and all the Brethren are Chiidren of 1~ruth.
The procef~ of reception is very \Vell contrived: the
\vhole ritual is decent and circumfpecr, and nothing
occurs \Vhich can alarn1 the moJl: timid. Brother
Truth i5 2fked, \Vhat is the hour ? He infonns Fa-
ther Adam, that among n1en it is the hour of dark-
nefs, but that it is rnid-day in the Lodge. The can-
c1!Jate is aii;:ed, ---v~lhv he ta:; knocked ::lt the door, and
\Vhat is become of l;is eight con1pani()l1) (he is on.e of
the
Cf:'AP. I. FREE MASONRY.
31
quarter., proceeding from the abufes of' thofe diltinc-
tions of rank and fortune which have arifen in the
world: and as the mifchiefs and horrors of' fuperlti-
tion are
topics of continual declamation to thofe who
with to throw off the rellraints of religion ; lb the op-
preflion of the rulers of this world, and the fufiferings
oftttlents and worth in inferior ftations, will be no lels
greedily liltened to by all whofe notions of morality
are not very pure, and who would be glad to have the
enjoyments of the wealthy without the trouble of la-
bouring for them. Free I/Iafonry may be afiirmed to
have a natural tendency to folter fuch levelling wifhes;
and we cannot doubt but that great liberties are taken
with thofe fubjeéts in the Lodges, efpecially in coun-
tries where the ditlrinflions ot' rank and fortune are
itrongly exprelled and noticed. f
But it is nota matter of mere
probability that the
Mafon Lodges were the feminaries of thefe libertine
inftruetions. Vfe have dilltinfl; proof of it, even in
fome of the French degrees. In the degree called the
Chevalier de Selcii, the whole þÿinliru ¬tion
is aimed againlt
the eitablilhed religion of the kingdom. The profelied
object is the emancipation from error and the difcovery
oftruth. The inlcription in the exit is Sflgtléié, that in
the north is Ljéerfé, that in the fouth is Fermefé, and in
the weft it ii. Cauiicn; terms which are
very lignilicant.
The Wes I/enerfzéle is Adam; the Senior V/arden is
Truth, and all the Brethren are Children ol' Truth.
The proceis of reception is very well contrived: the
whole ritual is decent and circumi`pe6l', and nothing
occurs which can alarm the molt timid. Brother
Truth is allied, V/hat is the hour F He informs Fa-
ther Adam, that among men it is the hour of dark-
nefs, but that it is mid-day in the Lodge. The can-
didate is nlltetl, Vfhv he has knocked at the door, and
what is become ol his eight companions Qhe is one of
the
32 THE SCHISMS 1?-: CHAP. ·r.
the Elus)? I-Ie fays, that· the Yvorld is in darknefs,
and his con1panions and he have lofr each other; th~at
HeJPerus, the ftar of Europe, is obfcured by clouds
1
of
incenfe, offered up ·by fuperirition to deij_)ots> J.ho
have rn~de then1felves gods, and have retired into/the
inmofl: receffes of their palaces, that they tnay not be
recogniftd to be n1en, while their priefls are deceiving
the people, and caufing then1 to vvodhip the fe divi-
nities. This and rnany fimilar fentin1enrs are ev~dent
allufions to the pernicious doclrine of the book called
Origine du Dejpot!fi;ze Orie)ztal, where the relig~ofi /of all
countri~s is confidered as a n1ere engine of ;ttate; ,
\Vhere it is dec1ared that reafon is the only light i which
nature has given to tnan : that our anxiety D.bou·r futu-
rity has 1nade us in1agine endleis torments :in a~ future
world; and that princes, taking advantage, of our
weaknefs, have taken the 1nanagen1ent of odr hopes
and fears, and direCted them fo as to fuit their O\vn
purpofes; and en1ancipation fi·otn the fear of/ death is
declared to be the greatefr of all deliverance~. ~ef­
tions are put to the candidate, tending to difchver \Vhe-
ther and how far he may be trufted, and v.rha.c facrifices
he is \villing to n1ake in fearch after truth. :
This ihape given to the plafiic myfteries ~>f Mafonry
\Vas n1uch relifhed, and in a very fhort rin1e this ne\V
path \Vas con1pletely explored, and a ne\v feries of de-
urees \Vas added to the lift, viz. the Nc·vice, and the
0 !
Elz2 de Ia Verite, and the Sublhne Pbilcjopbe. In the
progrefs through thefe degrees, the BrethreR n1uft for-
get that they have fonnerly been Che·valicrs ck /'Orient,
Cbevaliers de l'A(gle, \Vhen the fy1nbo~s \Vere all ex-
plained a5 typical of the life and in1111ort1
ality brought
to light by the gofj)el. Indeed they are ~anght to clafs
this among the other clouds which have .been c1iii)elled
by the fun of rcalon. Even in the Cl)er-cr!lcrie del'Aigle
there is a tvvofold explanation gi vcn of the fyn1bols, by
'vhich
i
32 _
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP.`]'.
the Elusj? He fays, that fthe world is in darltnels,
and his companions and he have loPt each other; thlat
þÿH%7D ¬7H5,
the liar of Europe, is oblcured by cloudsfof
incenfe, o%red up ~by hiperllition to
deiivots, vtllio
have made themfelves gods, and have retired intoithe
inmofl: recelles of their palaces, that they may not he
recognifed to be men, While their prielts are
deceiving
the people, and cauling them to worlhip thelie divi-
nities. This and many limilar iicntiments are evident
allniions to the pernicious clocftrine ofthe bool; called
Origiize du Dgfvvifree Oriefzfrzl, where the religion 'of all
countries is conlidered as a mere
engine of /iftate;
where it is declared that realbn is the only light fwhich
nature has given to man: that our
anxiety about futu-
rity has made us
imagine endlels torments in all future
world; and that princes, talting advantage. of our
weaknefs, have taken the management ol' otir hopes
and fears, and directed them fo as to fuit their own
purpofes; and emancipation from the fear ot; death is
declared to be the greatelt of all deliverances. Qief-
tions are put to the candidate, tending to
difciover whe-
ther and how far he may be trullted, and what liacriiices
he is willing to make in learch after truth. ,
This lhape given to the plallic rnyflceries of Mafonry
was much relihied, and in a
very fhort time this new
path was
completely explored, and a new
feries ofde-
grees was added to the lift, viz. the Nmgice, and the
.ZZ/:Z de [zz Verifé, and the Slidlffilf Pbiig/sjibe. In the
progrefs through thefe degrees, the Brethren mult for-
get that they have formerly been Cbr'~tvzlifi'.v tie !'Orz'w:f,
Cbefvaliers :fe Z'/figle, when the fymbols were all ex-
plained as
typical of the life and immortality brought
to
iight by the golinel. Indeed they are
[taught to elafs
this among the other clouds which have ,been diliielled
by the fun ofreafbn. Even in the CifE9£"Z{li'ZL°?"/ii' de Z'/figle
there is a twofold explanation given of the lyinbols, by
-
which
CHAP. r. FREE r~-IASONRY. ?3··
....
\vhich a lively i1nagination may conceive· the whole
hiftory and peculiar doftrines of the N~\V 'refrarnent,
as being typical of the final triun1ph of reafon and phi-
lofcJphy ovtr error. And perhaps this degree is the
very f1rft ilep in the plan of ILLurviiN ATIOr·J.
\Ve are nut to fuppofe that this \vas carried to ex-
tretnity at oiJce. But it is certain, that before 1743,
it had becon1e univerfal, and th3.~ the Lodges of I-i'rc<;
Mafons had becon1e the places for 111aking profclytes
to every ftrange and obnoxious d0Ctrine. 1"beurg]>
Cq(rnc-gc;~v, Cabak!~ and n1einy whirnfical and rnyftical
doCtrines which ·h~ve: been grafted on the diHinguifh-
ing ttntt~ and the pure tnorality of the Je\vs and Chrif-
tians, were fubjtfts cf frequent difcufiion in the Lodges.
'I'he celebrated ~hevalier I~amfay had agreat i11are in
all this bu.fintfs. Afrec1ionately attached [O the family
of Sruart, 2.nd to his native country, he had co-ope-
rated hearcily with thofe \vho endeavoured to employ
rv1afonry in the fervice of the Pretender, and, availing
hin1fclf of the prt'-en1inence given (at firrr perhaps as
a courtly cotnp1in1cnt) to Scotch lVIafonry, he 1aboured.
to fhew that it exiftc-d, and indeed aroic, during the
Crufadts, and th(lt there really v~'as either an orcier of
chivalry \\··hoft bufintfs it V/as to rebuild the Chrifrian
h ,· 'ft '1 1 ~ 1 ,..
C .UrCiH."S Cltl roytci oy tnt udracens, Or tnat a rrater-
. r __.., 1 r·tr r h 1 , . h n
111 t y or :::,cc tc: n "'/LH ons vvere L. us etTJ p oyea 1n t..e e81r,
tinder the p1otefcion of rhe Knights of St. John of Je- .
~, 11 .r 1 r r n · · ' l ,
ruL11tnL ·- e 1ouna 10111e iaCcs \Vll1Cn \Vtre t 1ougnt
fufl1cient grounds for fuch an opinion, fuch as the
buildin~r <l the colltfl't of thefe }:~nights in London,
0 u ~~
11 1 • 'I' 1 1 • ' n ·' ~. b ·
ca wu the J. emp e, v;n1cn v;as atttully cone y the
puhlic Fnt~erniry of IVIafons \vho had been in the holy
Vi ars. Ic is chiei1y to hi 111 that \V ;:_ arc indcbted for
that r:1ze of f<~lafonic chivalry which difcinguifhes the
l~ren~I{I-._,ree Ivla~c)nry. l<.at~·;[,1y vias as e711incnt for
l"~is l'l;r-tv a~ f-.p v,_,,. for l"'ic~ eP ...
L1)tJJ..,frn 'o-•1t l1;'" or,inion;.:
.J - l - i ..._ .. J"" ~ ,.., -...._} .. .. v ' .... 1.. '... ~i"... ) \..~ & • • .) ~"' -~
f~ Were
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
which a
lively imagination may conceivethe whole
hiftory and peculiar doctrines of the New Teftament,
as
being typical of the final triumph of reafon and phi-
lohlphy over error. And perhaps this degree is the
very firfl; ilep in the plan of'lLLUM1NAT1oN.
Vi/e are not to
fuppofe that this was carried to e:<~
tremity at once. But it is certain, that before 1743,
it had become univ<:rl"al, and that the Lodges of Free
Melons had become the places for inziking profelyres
to every firange and obnoxious doctrine. Y}5furg_'y,
Cghieqgcfgf, Celia/la, and many whimhcal anti rnyftical
doctrines which have heen grafted on the diifinguifh-
ing tenets and the pure morality ofthe Jews and Chrif-
tians, were
l`uhiefS's of frequent difcuflion in the Lodges.
The celebrated Chevalier Rarnfay had al great fhare in
all this buhnefs. þÿAfl`e ¬tionately
attached tothe family
of Stuart, and to his native country, he had co-ope-
ratecl heartily with thofe who endeavoured to
employ
Maihnry in the iervice of the Pretender, and, availing
hinifelf ofthe pre-eminence given (at iirfc perhaps as
a.
courtly compliment) to Scotch l.'lai`onry, he lahoureci
to fhew that it exiiied, and indeecl arole, during the
Cruhzcles, and that there really was either an order of
chivalry whofe 'ouhneis it was to rebuild the Chriitian
churches cleftroyeci hy the Saracens, or that a hater-
nity of Scotch Iv'i;~ilbns were thus employee] in the eali,
under the protetftion of the Knights oi`St. john of _le-
1'ui`;aleiii. lie round Rune fa&s which were
thought
fuhicient grounds for inch an
opinion, Rich as the
building of the college of thefe Knigiits in London,
called the Temple, which was
a&uaily done hy the
puhlic li`r;1ternity of ll/.iaiions who had been in the holy
wars. it is chieiiy to him that we are in';iehtecl hir
that rage of Ii'/Eflii)fElC chivalry which éif7;ingui&es the
l7renCh Free l"=/iafhiiry. Ramliay was as eminent for
his piety as he was for his entht:§;il`ni, hut his opinions
lil sr ere
34 THE SCHISl\15 IN CHAP.·!._
·were ftngular. 1--Iis eminent learning, his elegant ta-
lents, his an1iable charaCter, and particularly his efti-
mation at court, gave great influence to every thing
he. faid on a fubjetl: which \Vas merely a n1atter of
f:lf11ion and amufement. Whoever has attended much
to hun1an affairs, kno\vs the eagernefs \Vith which men
propagate all fingular opinions, and the delig!1t \Vhich
attends their favourable reception. None are n1ore
zealous than the apoftles of infidelity and atheifrn. It
is in hun1an nature to catch \vith greedinefs any op-
portunity of doing vvhat lies under general reftrainr.
1\.nd if our apprehcnfions are not completr.ly quieted,.
in a cafe \Vhere our wi!hes lead us ftrongly to fome fa-
:vourite but hazardous object, \Ve are confcious of a
kind of fe}f bullying. This naturally gets into our
difcourfe, and in our earrernefs to 0
o-et the encourage-
a ~
ment ofjoint adventurers, v1e enforce our tenets vvii.h
an energy, and even a violence, that is very inconfif-
tent \Vith the fubjecr in hand. lf I an1 an Atheitt, and
my neighbour a Theift, there is furely nothing that
fuould make me violent in my endeavours to rid hin1
of his error. Ytt ho\V violent \Vere the people of this
party in F1 ance.
rfhe(e· facL; and obfervations fully account for the
zeal \Vith which all this patch-\vork addition to the
fin1ple Free 1\/Iafonry of England was profecuted in
. I~ ranee. It furprifes us Britons, \Vho are accuH:on1ed
to coni1der the \Vhole as a n1atter of arn ufen1ent for
young men, who are glad ~f any pretext for indulging
in conviviality. \~le generally confider a man ad-
vanced in lift~ \vich ]efs refpecr, if he i11ows any ferious
att~1.chn1ent to fcch thinrrs. But in France, the civil
and rclic;.:ous rtilraints i'l; converfation made thefe fc-
cret afi~tr1b1its very precious; and they 'vere much
frequenced by n1en of letters, vvho there found an op-
• r· Jr.. • .{" [' I ' d'fr ' I fi'
Porturn tv or exprcnlnQ" In 1a1etv t 1e1r tu~tJsracLion
• 0 ,
\Ytth
,.__.--
,.»»"`
34, THE SCHISMS IN CI-IAP.'i-t
were lingular. His eminent learning, his elegant ta-
lents, his amiable character, and particularly his efti»
mation at court, gave great influence to
every thing
he, faid on a
l`ubje& which was
merely a matter of
fitihion and aniuiement. VVhoever has attended much
to human aliairs, knows the eagernefs with which men
propagate all iingular opinions, and the delight which
attends their favourable reception. None are more
zealous than the apoftles ofinfidelity and atheilin. It
is in human nature to catch with greedinefs any op-
portunity of doing what lies under general ref'traint.
A-nd if our
apprehenlions are not
completely quieted,
in a cafe Where our Wifhes lead us
ftrongly to fome fa-
vourite but hazardous object, we are confcious of a
kind of felt bullying. This naturally gets into our
difcourfe, and in our
eagernefs to
get the encourage-
ment ofjoint adventurers, we enforce our tenets with
an energy, and even a violence, that is very inconlif-
tent with the fubjeft in hand. .lfl ani an Atheift, and
my neighbour a Theift, there is furely nothing that
ihould make me violent in my endeavours to rid him
of his error. Yet how violent were the people of this
party in France.
Thele Facts and obfervations fully account for the
zeal with which all this patch-worl; addition to the
limple Free Malonry of England was
profecuted in
France. It l`ui'prifes us Britons, who are accultomed
to coniitler the whole as it matter of amulernent for
young men, _who are
glad of any pretext for indulging
in conviviality. 'We generally conlider a man ad-
vanced in life with lefs refpeft, it' he fhows any ferious
attachment to fuch things. But in France, the civil
and religions relltraints in converfation made thefe fe-
cret afieiriblies very precious; and they were much.
Hequented by men of letters, who there Hmnd an op-
portunity of crtpreliing in fafety their airrttisraaaoii
with
CAAP. 1. 35
'vith chafe reftraints, and with that inferi0rity of rank.
and condition to \vhich they v;ere fubjected, and which
appeared to themielves fo inadtq'Jatc to their ovvn ta-
lents and merits. The ..!1::occts au z~ar!cJJzent, the un-
beneflced Abbes, the young rnen of no fortune, and
the juid!Jant philofopbers, forrnecl a nun1erous band,
freg uenttd the Lodges, and there difcuffed every topic
of religion and politics. Specimens of this occupation
appeared fi·om titne to tin1e in Collections of Difcourfes
deli \'ered by the }}'"ere Orateur. I once had in my pof-
feffion two volumes of thefe di(courfes, v;hich I no\v
regret that I left in a Lodge on the continent, \vhen
1ny reliih for I~'ree Iviafonry had forfaken me. One
of thef~ is a difcourfe by Brother Robinet, delivered -
in the ·Loge des Chevaliers Bienf?&fcznts de !a Sainte Cite at
Lyons, at a vifitation by the Grand Maller the Due de
Chartres, afterwards.Orleans and Egt!lite. In this diG.:
courfe \Ve have the genn and fubfl:ance of his ncted
\Vork, La Nature, ou l'Hon'iine 7Jwral et p~·[zque. * In
another difcourie, delivered by Brother Condorcer in
the Loge des Philalethes at Strafbourg, \Ve have the
outlines of his pofthun1ous 'vork, Le Progres de 1'Ejprit
bu;nain; and in another, delivered by fVlirabeau in the
Loge des Chevaliers Bie;:,faija;zts at Paris, \vc have a great
deal of the levelling principles, and cofn10politifm,i·
\Vhich he thundered from che tribunes of the National
Affembly. But the n1oft ren1arkable perforn1ances of
this kind are, the ~1rchh.:es Jvl.yjlico-Hennetiques, and the
Des Erreurs, et de Ia Verite. The firft i'~ conf1dered as
an account, hiftorical and dogmatical, of r'he proce-
dure and fyftem of the Loge des Chc:z}t?iiers Bienfa!Jants
at
*'' And I may add the ~}·(lone de Ia }lature of Diderot, who cor-
retted the crude whims of Robinet bv the more refined mechaniiin
of Hartley. ~
t Citizen!11ip of the \Vor!d, from the G reck words C~!inru, world.
and Polis, a citv.
.
eAAP.1. mei: m_¢.sor<m'.
35
with thofe rellraints, and with that inf`eriority of rank
and condition to which they were
fubjeeteti, and which
appeared to themielves lb inadequate to their own ta-
lents and merits. The Alcorn/fs (ill Par/afzemr, the un-
benenced Abhés, the young men of no fortune, and
the foie/gfan! philofophers, formed a numerous band,
frequented the Lodges, and there difcuifed every topic
ofreligion and politics. Specimens ofthis occupation
appeared from time to time in Colleftions of Difcourfes
delivered by the Frere Orafezsr. I once had in my pol"-
feflion two volumes of thefe difeourfes, which I now
regret that I left in a
Lodge on the continent, when
my relifh for Free Malonry had forialten me. One
of thefe is a difcourfe by Brother Robinet, delivered
in the 'Loge de; C"/new/fer; B:`e1¢2§Qznz's de In tS`fzifzie Cifé at
Lyons, at a vilitation by the Grand Mailer the Dm de
Chartres, aftervards_Orlmr/5 and Egalifé. In this dill
courfe we have the germ and fuhiltanee of his noted
work, La Nfzfure, ou l'H0;rmze mera/ ef
3>,Q~Wgua.* In
another difcourle, delivered by Erother Condoreet in
the Loge cies P/oilaletbes at
Stralhourg-, we have the
outlines of his pofthumous work, Le Progres 4/e !'Ej@r!!
lmfrzrzin; and in another, delivered þÿb§7f"j'i1lDC£lLl
in the
Lage L/as Chevalier; Biezgyfeyzfzir at Paris, we have a
great
deal ofthe levelling prineiples, and eoi'mopolitii`m,j'
which he thunelered from the trihunes of the National
AH"embly. But the molt remarkable performances of
this kind are, the Archive: .7'»4jy@ico-Herfrzefigzfes, the
Des Erreurs, ef de la Verifé. The rirlt is eonlidered as
an account, hiftorieal and dogmatieal, of the proce-
dure and fylltem of the Loge r/at C/lfezvzliers Biefgfayrzfzfs
at
*-
And I may add the Sy/i'eme de la Natzfre of Diderot, who cor-
re&ed the crude whims of Robinet by the more refined meehanifm
of Hartley.
1~ Citizenlhip of' the Vorld, from the Greek words CQ/Pam, worltl,
and Po/ii, a
city.
TH:l! SCHIS:·JS IN CHAP. I.
at Lyons. This \VaS the more ze~1ous and fyfl:etnatical
of all the cofmopolitical Lodges in F'rance. It vvorked
long under the patronage of i[s Grand IvL:dler the Due
des Chartres, after\vards Orlecu.r, and at laft Pb. Ega-
lite. It fcnt out many affiliared Lodges, vvhich \Vere
erected in various parts of the I~rt:nch Jorninions. 1'he
daughter Lodges at Paris, Strafbourg, Lille, 'rhou-
]oufe, took the additional title of _Phlialethes. There
arofe fon1e fchifn1s, as n1ay be expecled, ·in an Affo-
ciation \Vhere every man is encouraged to broach and
to propagate any the n1oft fingular opinion. Thefe
fchifn1s \Vere continued with fame hear, but \Vere in a
great meafure repaired in Lodges \vhich took the nan1e
of Anzis reunis de la J/erite. One of this denon1ination
at Paris became very e111inent. The n1other Lodge
at Lyons extended its correfpondence into Gennany,
and other foreign countries, and r~ nt conftitutions or
fyCtems, by whYch the Lodges conducred their opera-
tions.
I have not been able to trace the fteps by which this
Lodge acquired fuch an afcendancy ; but I fee, that in
1769 and 1770, all the refined or philofophical Lodges
in Alf~ce and Lorraine united, and in a convention 2.t
Lyons, fonnally put themfelves under the patronage
of this Lodge, cultivated a continual correfpondence,
and confidered rhen1felves as profefi1ng one Iviafonic
Faith, fufficiently difl:inguifhable froni that of other
Lodges. \Vhat this vvas \Ve do not very difi:inEtly
kno\v. We can only infer it fro1n fome hifl:orical cir-
cumfiances. One of its favourite daughter~, the Lodge
CJ:&i]odor van der guten Ratb, at rv1unich, becatnc fo re-
markab1e f<1r difcourfes dang~rous to church ~nd ftate,
that the EJe~or ofB:1varia, after repea:ed admonitions
during a courfe of five or fix years, ~v:1s obliged to fup-
prefs it in 1786. Another of its fufFr:-:gan Lodges at
~{.egenfburgh bccJrne exceeding1y obnoxious to the
Hate,
36 THE scmsriis m CHAP. 1.
at Lyons. This was the mofl zealous and fyftematieal
of all the cofmopolitical Lodges in France. It worked
long under the patronage ofits Grand lkflafter the Daze
ries Cbfzrfrer, afterwards Qfflefzfzr, and at la{'t Pb. Ega-
Zilé. It fent out many affiliated Lodges, which were
ereétedin various parts ofthe French doniinions. The
daughter Lodges at Paris, Stralhourg, Lille, Thou-
loufe, tool; the additional title of Pkzlaleibas. There
arofe fome fehifnis, as
may be expeeted, in an Alib-
ciation Where every man is encouraged to broaeh and
to propagate any the mofl fingularopinion. Thefe
fehifms were continued with fome heat, but were in a
great meafure repaired in Lodges which took the name
of Amis reamis ale [zz Verélé. One of this denomination
at Paris became very eminent. The mother Lodge
at Lyons extended its correfpondenee into Germany,
and other foreign countries, and lent conititutions or
fyftems, by which the Lodges eonduéited their opera-
tions.
I have not been able to trace the Preps by which this
Lodge acquired fueh an
afcendancy, but I fee, that in
1769 and 1770, all the refined or
philofophieal Lodges
in Alfaee and Lorraine united, and in a convention at
Lyons, formally put themfelves under the patronage
of this Lodge, cultivated a continual eorrefpondenee,
and eonhdered themfelves as
profeliing one Mafonic
Faith, fuflieiently diftinguifhable from that of other
Lodges. Vlfhat this was we do not very diitincftly
know. We can
only inier it from leme hiii:o:~ieal cir-
eumflances. Une ofits iivourite daughters, the Lodge
Theodor 'um der garter; Rafe, at ll*/§LHllCll, became fo re-
markable fer diieourfes dangerous to church and flats,
that the Eleftor ofBavaria, after repeated adrnonitions
during a eourfe oftive or hx years, was
obliged to
limp,-
prefs it in 1786. Another of its l"u1'f}'rsgan Lodges at
liegenfourgh became exceedingly obnoxious to the
flare,
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY. 37
ftatc, and occafioned feveral con1motions and infurrec-
tions. Another, at Paris, gradually refined into the
Jacobin club-And in the year I 79 I~ the Lodges in
Alface and Lorraine, with thofe of Spire and \V onns,
invited Cuftine into Germany, and delivered Mentz
into his hands.
\Vhen we refteEt on thefe hiftorical faces, we get
fon1e key to the better underftanding of the two perfor-
mances which Imentiuned as defcriptive of the opinions
and occupations of this SeCt of fi'ree-1\tiafons. The
Archives Myflico-Hernzetiques exhibit a very i1rJnge mix.,..
ture of Myiticifm, 1'heofophy, Cah.lliitic 'vhim, real
Science, Fanaticifn1, and Freethinking, both in reli-
gion and politics. They muft not be confidered as an
account of any fettled fyftem, but rather as annals of
the proceedings of the Lodge, and abftracrs of the
ftrange doCtrines \V hich made their fucef11 ve appearance
in it. But ifan intelligent and cautious reader exan1i~1e
them attentively, he will fee, that the book is the
\vork of one hand, and that all the \vonders and oddi-
ties are caricatured, io as to engrofs the general atten-
tion, \vhile they alfo are tv1ifted a little> fo that in one
\vay or another they accord \Vith a general fpirit of li-
centioufnefs in morals, religion, and politics. Although
every thing is expreffed decently, and \vith fotne cau-
tion and moderation, atheifm, n1aterialifin, and difcon-
tent \Vith civil fubordination, pervade the whole. It
is a \vork of great art. By keeping the ridicule and
the danger of fupedtition and ignorance continually in
vie·N, the mind is captivated by the relief \Vhich free
enquiry and com1nunicarion of fentin1ent feems to fe-
cure, and we are put off our ~uard again[( the rifk of
?cluf1on, to which \Ve are expofed when our judgment
ts warped by our paffions.
'fhe other book, " Des Erreurs et de la. \Teri te,"
came fi·om the Ctme fc hooi, anq is a fort of holy fcrip-
ture,
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
ftate, and occahoned feveral conimotions and ini°urrec~
tions. Another, at Paris, gradually refined into the
_lacobin cluh--And in the year 1791, the Lodges in
Alfaee and Lorraine, with thofe of Spire and Worms,
invited Cuuine into Germany, and delivered Mentz
into his hands.
`When we relierft on thefe hiitorieal facts, we
get
fonie key to the better underftanding ofthe two perfor-
mances which lmentiuned as
defcriptive of the opinions
and occupations of this Sect of l3`ree-l/iafons. The
Aifcbiefer _/l@#ic0-Hermeligues exhibit a very firange mix-
ture of l/lylticifm, Theofophy, Cabaliliic whim, real
Science, Fanatieilin, and Freethinlting, both in reli~
gion and politics. They mult not be conliclered as an
account ofany fettled fyltem, but rather as annals of
the proceedings of the Lodge, and abftracls of the
Pcrange doctrines which made their fucefiive appearance
in it. But ifan intelligent and cautious reader examine
them attentively, he will fee, that the book is the
work of one hand, and that all the wonders and oddi-
ties are caricatured, fo as to engrofs the general atten-
tion, while they alfo are twifted a little, fo that in one
way or another they accord with a
general fpirit of li-
centioufnefs in morals, religion, and politics. Although
every thing is exprelfed decently, and with fome cau~
tion and moderation, atheifm, rnaterialilin, and dilcon~
tent with civil fubordination, pervade the whole. It
is a work of great art. By keeping the ridicule and
the danger oi°l`uperl°tition and ignorance continually in
view, the mind is captivated by the reliefwhich free
enquiry and communication of ientiment feerns to fe-
cure, and we are
put oil' our guard againlt the ri{l< ol'
dclulion, to which we are
expofed when ourjudgment
is warped by our
pallions.
The other book, "
Des Erreurs et de la Verité,"
Came noni the lame fehool, and is a fort oi' holy fcrip-
ture,
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
ture, or at leaft a Talmud among the Free Mafons of
France. It is intended only for the initiated, and is
indeed a n1yftery to any other reader. Bur as the ob-
jeEt of it was to fpread the favourite opinions of fotne
enthufiaftic Brethren, every thing is faid that does not
directly betray the fecrets of the Order. It contains a
fyftein of 1~heofophy that has often appeared in the
\vritings of philofophers, both in ancienc and modern .
times. cc Jl..Jl the intelligence and n1orai fentiment
H that appears in the univerfe, either direCtly, as in
" the minds of men, or indirectly, as an inference
cc from the marks ofdefig:n that w·e fee around us, fome
cc of ·which fhO\V US thi't iTien have acted, and 111any
" more that fame orher intelligence has aEted, are con"-
" fidered as parts or portions of a general mafs of in-
" telligence which exifts in the univerfe, in the fame
" manner as matter exifrs in it. 1"'his intelligence has
'' an infcrutable connetl:ion with the n1aterial part of
cc the univerfe, perhaps refen1bling the connection,
cc equally unfearchable, that fubfifts between the n1ind
-~' and body of man .; and it n1ay be confidered as the
cc Soul of tbe World. It is this fubftance, the natural
'' objeCt of wonder and refpeCt, that n1en have called
'' God, 2nd have made the o~jeet of religious wor-
(c ihip. In doing fo they have fallen into grofs mif-
cc takes, and have created for then1felves nun1berlefs
" unfounded hopes and fears, whieh have been the
cc fource of fuperftition and fanaticifn1, the moft def-
" truCtive plagues that have ever affiifted the human
c\ race. The Soul of Man is feparatecl fron1 the ge-
cc neral lnais of intelligence by fon1e of the operation3
" of nature, which \Ve f11all never underfrand, j uft as
cc water is raifed from the ground by evaporation, or
cc taken up by the root ofa plant. And as the \Vater,
'' after an unfearchable train of changes, ir1 which it
c' iometimes makes pJrt of a flower, fometiraes part
" of
38 THE scmsms IN cnar. 1.
ture, or at leal`t a Talmud among the Free Mafons of
France. It is intended only for the initiated, and is
indeed a
myftery to any other reader. But as the ob-
jeet of it was to
fpread the favourite opinions offome
enthufiaftic Brethren, every thing is faid that does not
þÿdire ¬t1y
betray the fecrets of the Order. It contains a
þÿi37& ¬I;l']
of Theofophy that has often appeared inthe
writings of philolbphers, both in ancient and modern
times. "
All the intelligence and moral fentiment
"
that appears in the univerfe, either directly, as in
'F the minds of men, or indiredtly, as an inference
"
from the marks ofdehgn that we fee around us, fome
"
ofwhich Ihow us that men have aeted, and many
"
more that fome other intelligence has acted, are con-
"
Iidered as
parts or portions ofa general mafs of in-
"
telligence which exifts in the univerle, in the lame
"
manner as matter exiils in it. This intelligence has
"
an infcrutable connection with the material part of
¢' the univerfe, perhaps refembling the connection,
<'
equally unfearchable, that fublilts between the mind
U and body' of man ; and it may be coniidered as the
"
Soul qfzibe World. It is this fubftance, the natural
"
object of wonder and relpetft, that men have called
"
God, and have made the objeet of religious wor-
<'
fhip. In doing fo they have fallen into grofs mil"-
"
takes, and have created for theml`elves numberlefs
"
unfounded hopes and fears, which have been the
"
fource of fuperftition and hanaticifm, the moft def-
"
tructive plagues that have ever afflicted the human
"
race. The Soul of Man is feparatetl from the ge-
"
neral mais ofintelligence by fome ofthe operations
"
ofnature, which We fhall never underiland, juft as
"
water is railed from the ground by evaporation, or
"
taken up by the root ofa plant. Anti as the water,
"
after an unlearchable train of changes, in which it
"
iometimes makes part ofa Flower, fometiines part
"
of'
CHAP. I. FREE 1f AS 0 NIt Y. 39
" of an animal, &c. is at Iaft reunited, in its original
'' forn1, to the great mafs of \Vaters, ready to run over
" the f.1n1e circle again ; fo the Soul of Man, afrer
'' performing irs office, ar.d exhibiting all that train
'' of intellectual phenomena that we call human life,
" is at laft fvvallowed up in the great ocean of intelli-
(c gence." The author then may fing
" Felix qui potuit rerum cognofcere cauf:1s_,
" Ataue metus omnes et inexorabile fatum
" Subjccit pedibus_, firepitumque Acherontis avari.:'
For he has now got to his afylun1. This deity of his
n1ay be the o~jeCt of \Vander, like every thing great
and incornprehenfible, but not of V•/orfbip, as the n1o-
ral Governor of the uniYerfe. 1'he hopes are at end,
\Vhich reft on our notions of the imn1ortality and in-·
dividuality of the hun1an foul, and on the encourage-
ment \vhich relirrion holds forth to belie vr, that irn-
proven1ent of th~ mind in the courfe of this life, by
the exerci[e of wifdon1 an0 of virtuous difpofirions, is
but the beginning of an endlefs progrefs in all that can
give delight to the rational and vvell-difpofed mind.
No relation no\v fubiifts between man and Deity that
can vvarm the heart. But_, as this is contrary to fon1e
natural propenGty in the human mind, vvhich in all
ages and nations has panted after fon1e conneCtion vvith
Deity, the author ftrives to avail hirnfelf of fame cold
principles of fyn1metry in the \Vorks of nature, fome
il1-fupported notions of propriety, and other fuch con-
fide rations, to make this a12i1na nzundi an object of love
and refpect. This is done in greater detail in anothe'r
v;ork, Tablecut, des rapports e;ztre l'llcitznze, Dieu, et
l'Uni·veYs, ·which is undoub[edly by the fame hand.
But the intelligent reader will readily fee, that fuch
incongruous thi11gs cannot be reconciled, and that we
c~n expect nothing here but fophiftry. The author
proceeds,
CHAP. I» FREE MASONRY.
"
of an animal, &c. is at laft reunited, in its original
"
form, to the great mafs of waters, ready to run over
"
the fame circle again, fo the Soul of Man, after
"
performing its ofiiee, and exhibiting all that train
"
of intellectual phenomena that we call human life,
"
is at lalt fwallowecl up in the great ocean of intelli-
"
gence." The author then may ling
"
Felix qui potuit rerum
cognofeere cauias,
"
Atque metus omnes et inexorabile fatum
"
Subjceit peclibus, flrepitumque Aeherontrs avari."
For he has now got to his afyluni. This deity of his
may be the object of wonder, like every thing great
and incomprehenlible, but not of worihip, as the mo-
ral Governor of the univerfe. The hopes are at end,
which relt on our notions of the immortality and in-'
diviofuality of the human foul, and on the encourage-
ment which religion holds forth to believe, that im-
provement of the mind in the courfe of this life, by
the exercife ofwifdom and of virtuous difpohtions, is
but the beginning of an endlefs progrefs in all that can
give delight to the rational and well-difpofed mind.
No relation now fublills between man and Deity that
can warm the heart. But, as this is contrary to fome
natural propenlity in the human mind, which in all
ages and nations has pantecl after fonie þÿconne ¬l:ion
with
Deity, the author Ilrives to avail himfelf of fome cold
principles of fynimetry in the works of nature, fome
ill-fupportecl notions of propriety, and other liieh con-
litlerations, to make this fzfzimrz 772Z!?Z627f an
objeot of love
and reiioeft. This is done in greater detail in another
work, Zllzbleazi, der rapport; entre Z'Hoffzme, Dieu, ef
þÿl'U7Zf'U ¬7`J, 'which is undoubtedly by the fame hand.
But the intelligent reader will readily fee, that fuch
incongruous things cannot be reconciled, and that we
can
effzpeft nothing here but fophihry. The author
proceeds,
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
proceeds, in the next place) to confider tnan as relat-
ed to man, and to trace out the path to happinefs in
this life. Here we have the fan1e overfrrained mora-
lity as in the other \Vork, the fan1e univerfal benevo-
lence, the fame lamentations over the miferable ft~te
of mankind, refiJ!ting from the oppreffion of the pow-
erful, the great ones of the earth> vvho have corrtbined
againft the happinefs of mankind, and have fucceeded,
by cleba.Gng their minds, fo that they have becorr1e
\villing Daves. This could not have bten biought
'!bout without the affiftance of fuperftition. But the
princes of this world enliiled into their fervice the
priefts, who exerted themfelves in darkening the un-
derfrandings of rnen, and filled their n1inds with reli-
gious terrors. 'T'he altar became the chitf pillar of
the throne, and n1en \\'ere held in complete fubjeEtion.
I~othing can recover rhen1 fron1 this abjeCt ftate but
knowledge. vVhile this dirpels their fears, it will alfo
iho'v thtin their rights, and the \vay to attain thetn.
~.J
It deferves particularly to be ren1arked, that this
fyftem of opinions (if fuch an inconfifrtnt n1afs of af-
fc:rtions can be called a fyften1) bears a great refern-
blance to a perforn1ance of rfo1and's, publifhed in
I 720, called P{!,;;theijliccn, ~(ezt Celebratio 8odaliiii Socra-
tzcz. It is an account of the principles of a Fraternity
\vhich he calls Socratica, and the Brothers Pantheiilce.
'I'hey are fuppofed to hold a l_,cdge, and the author
f!i ves a ritual of the procedure in this Lodge; the ce-
~ L
retnonies of opening and i11utting of the L.odge, the
adrrt!Hion of fvltrnbers into its different degrees, &c.
H
..eafon is the Sun that il1un1inatts the \V hole, and Li-
~trty and Equality are the objects of their occupa-
tions.
:\Ve fua1l fee after\\·ards that this bonk v;JS fondly
puihed into Gt·rrnany, tranflated, con1n1ented upon,
and {o mifrrprefen ted, as to call off th~ attention fron1
the
40 _
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I-
proceeds, in the next
place, to coniider man as relat-
ed to man, and to trace out the path to
happinefs in
this life. Here we have the fame overftrained mora-
lity as in the other work, the fame univerfal Benevo-
lence, the fame larnentations over the miferable Ftate
of mankind, reiilting from the opprellion of the pow-
erful, the great ones of the earth, who have combined
againft the happinefs of mankind, and have fucceeded,
by debahng their minds, fo that they have become
willing Eaves. This could not have been brought
about without the afiiitance of fuperitition. But the
princes of this world enliilecl into their fervice the
prieits, who exerted themfelves in darkening the un-
deritandings ofmen, and filled their minds with reli-
gious terrors. The altar became the chief pillar of
the throne, and men were held in complete fuhjeftion.
Nothing can recover them from this abjefl; ftate but
knowledge. While this dilpels their fears, it will alfo
ihow them their rights, and the way to attain them.
It deferves particularly to be remarked, that this
fylltem ofopinions (if fuch an inconhftent mais of af-
fertions can he called a
iyftem) hears a
great refem-
hlance to a
performance of Toland's, publilhed in
I
720, called Pzzffiénfwimz, whiz Celeiwzfio Soda/iiii Scfcnz-
rici. It is an account ot' the principles ofa Fraternity
which he calls Socratica, and the Brothers Pantheilltae.
They are
fuppofed to hold a
Lodge, and the author
gives a ritual of the procedure in this Lodge; the ce~
remonies of opening and fhutting of the Lodge, the
admiiiion of lvlembers into its different degrees, Sec.
Realbn is the Sun that illuminates the whole, and Li-
laerty and Equality are the objects of their occupa-
tions.
[Wie fhall fee afterwards that this bool; was
fondly'
pufhed into Germany, tranilated, commented upon,
and fo miii'ep1'elented, as to call od" the attention
frolqni
t ie
CHAP. L FREE 1\fASON R Y.
the real fpirit of the book, vvhich is intentionally wrap..
ped up in cabala and enigrna. fv1irabeau vvas at much
pains to procure it notice; and ir mufr therefore be
confidered as a treafure of the cofmo-political opini~
ons of the _Aifociation of Cbe·valiers BienfaifaJJts, Phila-
let.hes, and /ln1is l?..eunis, who were called the improved
Lodges, working under the D. de Chartres-of thete
there vvere 266 i!1 1784. This vvill be found a very
important ren1ark. Let it alfo be recolle-Cted after-
\Vards, that this Lodge of Lyons fent a deputy to a
grand Con ven(ion in Gennany in 1772, viz. Ivlr. 'lvil-
lermooz, and that· the buGnefs \Vas thought of fuch
importance, that he retnained there two years.
'fhe book Dts Erreurs et de la Jferite) n1uft therefore
be confidered as a c1afl1cal book of thefe opinions. \Ve
know that it originated in the Loge des Cbe·v. Bienfai-
Jants at Lyons. v'le kno\V that this Lodge Hood as it
\vere at the head of Iirench Free Mafonry, and that
the fictitious Order of Mafonic Knights Templars was
forn1ed in this Lodge, and was confidered as the mo-
del of all the reft of this mimic chiva1ry. They pro-
ceeded fo· far in this 111UI11mery, as even to have the
clerical tonfure. The Duk~ of Orleans, his fon, the
Elector of Bavaria, and fame other German Princes,
did not fcruple at this n1ummery in their O\Vn perfons.
In all the Lodges of reception, the Brother Orator
never failed to t xclainL on rhe topics of fuped1:ition,
blind to the exhibition he \Vas then makinrr, or indif-
ferent as to the vi!e hypocrify of it. \Ve have, in the
lifts of Orators and Office-bearers, n1any n~1n1es of
perfons, \Vho have had aG oppnrtunity at 1Jft of pro_;
claiming their fentirnents in public. The Abbe Sieyes
w\as of the Lodge of Philalethes at Paris, and alC) ;tt
Lyons. Lequi~o, :.1uthor of the moft prollig;:!te boek
that ever difgraced a prcfs, the Prejuge.r r-;;air;c!!s paT L1
l<.t?i(on, was \\lJrdcn in the I.odrre C'o;?;>.-?!:ie Sucia/e.
v ~1 ~
F Defprcn1enil,
CE-IAP. I; FREE MASONRY.
the real fpirit of the boolt, which is intentionally wrap-»
ped up in cabala and enigma. þÿI6iI'Z1b ¬3.l1
was at much
pains to
procure it notice; and it IHUF( therefore be
coniidered as a treafure of the cofmo-political opinia
ons of the Afbciation of' Cbaetmfliers þÿBi ¬7% ¬yd}if§,
Phila-
/efber, and /Iwi.: Reuzezlv, who were called the imprafzierl
Lodges, working under the D. de Chartres-of there
there were 266 in 1784. This will be found a
very
important remark. Let it alfo be recollc&ed after#
wards, that this Lodge of' Lyons fent a
deputy to a
grand Convention in Germany in 1772, viz. li*/if. 'Nil-
lermooz, and th;1t'the buhnefs was
thought of ftich
importance, that he remained there two years.
The book Des ,L`?"1"'6'l!?`.i el de In Veriié, niuft therefore
be confidered as a clailical bool; oftheie opinions. We
know that it originated in the Legs des Che-U. Bieiyfab
_/'mm at
Lyons. 'We know that this Lodge ftood as it
were at the head of French Free l/Iafonry, and that
the fictitious Order oi`l/Iafonic Knights Templars was
formed in this Lodge, and was conhdered as the mo~
del of all the reft of this mimic chivalry. They pro-
ceeded fo=f`ar in this mummery, as even to have the
clerical tonfure. The Duke of Orleans, his fon, the
Eleétor of Bavaria, and fome other German Princes,
did not fcruple at this mummery in their own
perfons.
In all the Lodges of reception, the Brother Orator
never failed to exclaimson the topics of fuperlltition,
blind to the exhibition he was then making, or indif-
ferent as to the vile hypocrihf of it. VVC have, in the
lifts of Orators and Gmce-bearers, many names of
perfons, who have had an
opportunity at Lift ofpro~
claiming their fentinzents in public. The Abbe Sieyes
was of the Lodge of Philalethes at Paris, and alib at
Lyons. Lequinio, author ofthe molit prodigate book
that ever
dilgraced a
prefs, the Prijugef tmifzczfr par [1
Rn!/bn, ifardcn in the .Lodge C1:'wje.f:é?e ,5'aci¢z/e.
E Defpremenil,
THE SCHISMS IN ~HAP. I.
Defpremenil, Bailly, Faucher, l\1aury, Mounier, were
of the fame fyftem, though in different l.Aodges. They
\Vere called Martinifts, fron1 a St. Martin, who form-
ed a fchifm in the fyfi:em of the Che·valiers Bienfa!fants,
of \vhich we have not any very precife account. Mer-
cier gives fome aceount of it iFl his Tableau de Peris,
and in his Anne 2440. 1..he breach alarmed the Bre-
thren, and ocGafioned great heats. But it was heal-
ed, and the Fraternity took the name of J\1ifa du Re-·
11is, which is an anagram ofd~'s Amis Reunis. 1---he Bi-
ihop ofAutun, the man fo bepraifed as the benevolent
Citizen of the \"Y~orld, the friend ·of tnankind and of
good order, vvas Senior \Varden of another Lodge at
Paris, efiabliihed in I 786, (I think chieHy by Orleans
and hin1felf,) \vhich after\vards became the Jacobin
Club. In ihort, \Ve may afiert with confidence, that
the Mafon Lodges in France \Vere the hot-beds, where
the feeds v:ere fawn, and tenderly reared, of all the
perniciou~ doctrines \vhich foon after choaked every
n1oral or religious cultivation, and have tnade the So-
ciety \Vorfe than a vvafre, have n1ade it a noifome
n1ar.ih of hun1an corruption, filled with every rank
-and poifonous \veed.
rrhefe Lodges \Vere frequented by perfons of all
ranks, and of every profeffion. The i~lle and the fri-
volous found arn ufen1ent, and glittering thif.lgs to tickle
their fatiated fancies. There they became the dupes
of the declatnations of the ~rafty and licentious Abbes,
and v.:riters of every denomination. Mutual encou-
ragernent in the indulgence of hazardous thoughts and
opinions vvhich flatter our wiC.11es or propenfities is a
lure which few minds can refiit. I believe that mofi.
n1en have fe'lt this in fon1e period of their lives. I
can find no other vvay of accounting for the com-pany
that I have. fon1etimes feen in a Mafon Lodge. The
Lodge de La 1)aJfczite Intelligen{e at Liege> con rainedJ in
December
/
42 THESCHISMS IN GHAP.I.
Delinremenil, Bailly, Fauchet, Maury, Mounier, were
ofthe fame fyftem, though in different Lodges. They
were called Martinilts, from a St. Martin, who form-
ed a fchifm in the lyftem of the Chevalier; Biezgfrzyrzntf,
ofwhich we have not any very precife account. Mer-
cier gives fome account of it in his Tab/erm de Paris,
and in his /23111.55 2440. The breach alarmed the Bre~
thren, and occahoned great heats. But it was heal-
ed, and the Fraternity took the name of Jléfyéz du Re-~
1125, which is an
anagram offfas _/§'¢1ei.v Ren/425. The Bi-
ihog ofAutun, the mari fo bepraifed as the benevolent
Citizen of the 'Vorid, the friend -of mankind and of
good order, was Senior Vifarden of another Lodge at
Paris, eflablifhed in 1786, (I think chieliy by Grleans
and himfelf,) which afterwards became the _lacobin
Club. In lhort, we
may aliertwith confidence, that
the Nlafon Lodges in France were the hot-beds, where
the feeds were lbwn, and tenderly reared, ofall the
pernicious docftrines which foon after choalied every
moral or
religious cultivation, and have made the So-
ciety worlie than a Wafte, have made it a noifome
marfh of human corruption, filled with every rank
and poifonous weed.
Thele Lodges were
frequented by perfons of all
ranks, and of every profeflion. The idle and the fri-
volous found arnufement, and glittering things to tickle
their fatiated fancies. There they became the dupes
ofthe declamations of the crafty and licentious Abbés,
and writers of every denomination. Mutual encou-
ragernent in the indulgence of hazardous thoughts and
opinions which flatter our wiCies or
propenhties is a
lure which ferv minds can rehlt. I believe that mofl
men have felt this in ionic period of their lives. I
can find no other way of accounting for the company
that I liavefometimes leen in a Mafon Lodge. The
Lodge cfs ls Przrffzife Elie!/igcfzre at Liege, contained, in
December
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY. 43
D~~cember I 770, the Prince Bi!hop, and the greateft
part of his Chapter, and all the Office-bearers \Vere
dignitaries of the church; yet a difcourfe given by the
Bracher Orator \Vas as poignant a fatire on fuperftition
and credulity, as if it had been v;ritren by Voltaire.
It \Vas under the aufpices of this Lodge that the collec-
tion of difcourfes, vvhich I mentioned above, vtas pub-
liihed, and there is no fault found \Vith Brother Robi-
net, nor Brother Condorcet. Indeed the 1"'refonciers
of Liege were proverbial, even in Brabant, for their
Epicurifn1 in the n1oft extenfive fenfe of the word.
'fhus was corruption fpread over the kingdoJn un-
der the rnafk of moral inftruB:ion. :For thefe difcourfes
\Vere full of the moft refined and ftrained moralitv, and
florid paintings of Utopian felicity, in a ftate "'"vhere
all are Brothers and citizens of the world. But alas !
thefe wire· drawn principies feem to have had little in-
fluence on the hearts, even of thofe \vho could beft
diiplay their beauties. Read the tragedies of Voltaire,
and fotne of his grave performances in profe-What
man is there who feen1·s better to know his Mafrer's
\Vill? No tnan expreffe!=J \Vith n1ore propriety, with
more exaB:nefs, the feelings of a good n1ind. No
man feems 1norc fenfible of the imn1ucable obligation
of jufrice and of trutH. Yet this man, in his tranfac-
tions with his bookfellers, with the very men to whom
he was itnmediately indebted for his affluence and his
fame, was repeatedly, nay inceffantly, guilty of the
n1eaneft, the vileft tricks. \'!hen he fold a work for
an enorn1ous price tb one bool<Jeller, (even to Cratner,
\vhom he really refpected,) he took. care that a furrep-
titious edition ihould appear in Holland, ahnoft at the
fame moment. Proof-fheet~ have been traced from
Ferney to An1frerdam. vVhen a friend of Cran1er's
expoflulated with Voltaire on the injuftice of this con-
duet, he faid, grinning, Ob le bon Crr?Jner-cb bien-il
n'a
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
December I77O, the Prince Bilhop, and the greateflt
part of his Chapter, and all the 0?fice~bearers were
dignitaries of the church; yet a difcourfe given by the
Brother Orator was as
poignant a latire on
fuperftition
and credulity, as ii' it had been written by Voltaire.
It was under the aufpices of this Lodge that the collec-
tion ofdifcouries, which I mentioned above, was
pub-
lifhed, and there is no fault found with Brother Robi-
net, nor Brother Condorcet. Indeed the Trefoncier-s
of Liege were
proverbial, even in Brabant, for their
Epicurilin in the moft extenlive fenle of the word.
Thus was
corruption fpread over the kingdom un-
der the rnafk of moral inflruction. For thefe difcourfes
were full ofthe moft refined and Ftrained morality, and
Horid paintings of Utopian felicity, in a Ptate where
all are Brothers and citizens of the world. But alas l
thefe wire-drawn principles feem to have had little in-
Huence on the hearts, even of thofe who could beflt
dilplay their beauties. Read the tragedies of Voltaire,
and fome of his grave performances in profe-What
man is there who feenfs better to know his Ma{'ter's
will? No man
expreiTes with more
propriety, with
more exaétnefs, the feelings of a
good mind. No
man feems more fenlible of the immutable obligation
ofjuftice and of truth. Yet this man, in his tranfac-
tions with his bookfellers, with the very men to whom
he was immediately indebted for his aH°luence and his
fame, was
repeatedly, nay inceifantly, guilty of the
meaneft, the vilelt tricks. '»/Vhen he fold a work for
an enormous
price to one bookieller, (even to Cramer,
whom he really þÿrei'pe ¬ted,)
he tool: care that a
furrep-
titious edition fhould appear in Holland, almoll at the
fame moment. Prooflilieets have been traced from
Ferney to Amflerdam. V7hen a Friend of Cramer's
expoflulated with Voltaire on the iniullice of this con-
duct, he Elid, grinning, G/J Ze Z/an Crrzfzzer-rlw Lien--if
t aff;
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
n'a que d' etre du parti-he n1ay rake a f11are-he will
not give rne a livre the lefs for the firft piece I offer-
him. \Vhere i11al1 we fee tnore tendernefs, more ho-
nour, more love of every thing that is good and fair,
than in Diderot's Pere de F'anzille ?-Yet this man· did
not fcruple to fell to the En1prefs of Ruffia an immenfe
library, \Vhich he did not poifefs, for an enormous
price, having got her pron1ife that it fhould remain in
his poffefUon in Paris during his life. vVhen her am-
baffador \vanted to fee it, after a year or tv.;o's pay-
ments, and the vifitation could be no longer ftaved off,_
Diderot was obliged to fet off in a hurry, and run
through all the hookfellers i11ops in Germany, to help
him to fill his etnpty fhel ve~. I-Ie had the good for-
tune to f:1ve appearances-.~but the trick took a.ir, be-
caufe he had been niggardly in his attention to the am-
baffador's fccretary. This, however, did not hinder
him from honouring his Imperi~l pupil with a vifit.
He expeB:ed adoration, as the light of the world, and
was indeed received by the Ruffian courtiers with all
the childifh fondnefs that they feel for every Parifian
mode. But they did not ur.derftand him, and as he
did not like to lofe money at play, they did not long
court his company. He found his pupil too clear
lighted. Ces philojophes, faid ihe, fint beaux, vus de,
loin; ~11ais de plus pres, le dian;ant parait cr)'}lal. He
had contriv~d a poor il:ory, by vvhich he hoped to get
his daughter married in parade, and portioned hy htr
Majefty-_but it was feen through, and he \vas difap-
pointed.
When \Ve fee the inefficacy of t~1is refined humanity
on thefe ~wo apoflles of Fhilofophical virtu~, \Ve fee
ground for doubting of the propriety and expediency
of trufling entirely to it for the peace and happintfs of
a fiate, and we ihould be on our guard \Vhen we lifl:en
!<?. t~e Borid fpeeches of th~ ~rothe r Orator, and his
congra-
44, THE scnrsiyrs IN CHAP. 1.
1z'¢z que ai' sire :Ju parti--he may take a fhare--he will
not
give me a livre the lefs for the Hrft piece I oder
him. "~7here (hall we fee more tendernefs, more ho~
nour, more love of every thing that is good and fair,
than in Diderot's Pere de _Familie ?--Yet this man did
not fcruple to fell to the Emprefs of Ruflia an immenfe
library, which he did not
poilels, for an enormous
price, having got her promife that it ihould remain in
his poileilion in Paris during his life. 'When her am-
baifador wanted to fee it, after a
year or two's pay~
ments, and the vihtation could be no
longer Ftaved off,
Diderot was
obliged to fet OFF in a
hurry, and run
through all the hookfellers fhops in Germany, to help
him to fill his empty fhelves. He had the good for-
tune to have appearancesf-hut the trick tool; air, be-
caufe he had been niggardly in his attention to the am-
baITador's fecretary. This, however, did not hinder
him from honouring his Imperial pupil with a viht.
He expected adoration, as the light of the world, and
was indeed received by the Rullian courtiers with all
the childifh fondnefs that they feel for every Pariiian
mode. But they did not underitand him, and as he
did not like to loie money at
play, they did not long
court his company. He found his pupil too clear
lighted. Cer jrbilwpber, faid fhe, /Em* beazzx, WZ; de
loin ; mais dc plus prér, Ze a'z`m72mzt pzzmif crjijhzl. He
had contrived a
poor Ftory, by which he hoped to get
his daughter married in parade, and portioned hy her
l/Iajeily-:but it was feen through, and he was
difap-
pointed.
When we fee the ineflicacy of this refined humanity
On thefe two apoflles of philofophical virtue, we fee
ground hir doubting of the propriety and expediency
of' trufling entirely to it for the peace and happinefs of
a Ptate, and we ihould be on our
guard when we liflen
to the florid fpeeches of the Erother Grator, and his
congra-
CHAt'. I, FREE MASONRY. 45
congratulations on the emancipation fro1n fuperftition
and oppreffion, which will in a fhon: tin1e be effectu-
ated by the Chevaliers Bienfaifants, the Philalethes, or
any other feet of cofmo-political Brethren.
I do not mean by all this to maintain, that the l\1a-
fon Lodges were the fole corrupters of the pub~ic mind
in France.--.-No.-In all nations that have made much
progrefs in cultivation) there is a great tendency to
cqrruption, and it requires all the vigilance and exer-
tions of magiftrates, and of moral inftructors, to pre-
vent the fpreading of licentious principles and maxims
of conduct. They arife naturally of themfelves, as
weeds in a rich foil; 2nd, like weeds, they are perni-
cious, only becaufe they are, \Vhere they fhould not
be, in a cultivated field. Virtue is the cultivation of
the human foul) and not the mere poifeffion of good
difpofition.s; all men have thefe in fon1e degree, and
occafionally exhibit the1n. But virtue fuppofes exer-
tion; and, as the huiliandman n1ufl be incited to his
laborious tafk by fame cogent motive, fo n1uft man be
prompted to that exertion vthich is neceifary on the
part of every individual for the very exiftence of a
great fociety: For man is indolent, ~nd he is luxuri-
ous; he vviihes for enjoyment, and this with little trou-
ble. The lefs fortunate envy the enjoyments of others,
and repine at their O\Vl1 inability to obtain the like.
They fee the idle in affiuence. Fe\v, even of good
men, have the candour, nay, I may call it the \vifdorn_,
to think on the aCtivity and th~ labour vvhich had pro-
cured thofe con1forts to the rich or to their anceftors;
and to believe that they are idle only becaufe they are
wealthy, but would be aCtive if they were needy.-
Such fpontaneous reBexions cannot be expeCted in per-
fans \vho are engaged in unceafing labour, to procure
a very moderate fhare (in their eitimation at leaft) of
~he comforts of life. Yet fuch feflexions \Vould, in
the
CHAP. I» FREE MASONRY.
congratulations on the emancipation from fuperilition
and opprefiion, which will in a fhort time be eH`eé`tu~
ated by the Cbefvaliers Bienfayavzts, the P/Jilaletbes, or
any other feet of cofmo-political Brethren.
I do not mean by all this to maintain, that the Ma-
fon Lodges were the fole corrupters of the public mind
in France.-»-No.--In all nations that have made much
progrefs in cultivation, there is a
great tendency to
corruption, and it requires all the vigilance and exer-
tions of rnagiftrates, and of moral inliruftors, to
pre-
vent the fpreading oflicentious principles and maxims
of conduft. They arife naturally of thetnfelves, as
weeds in a rich foil; and, like weeds, they are
perni-
cious, only becaufe they are, where they fhould not
be, in a cultivated field. Virtue is the cultivation of
the human foul, and not the mere
polTeHion of good
difpofitionsg all men have thefe in fome degree, and
occahonally exhibit them. But virtue fuppofes exer-
tion, and, as the hufbandman mull: be incited to his
laborious tafk by fome cogent motive, fo mull man be
prompted to that exertion which is neceffary on the
part of every individual for the very exiftence of a
great fociety: For man is indolent, and he is luxuri-
ous; he wifhes for enjoyment, and this with little trou-
ble. The lefs fortunate envy the enjoyments ofothers,
and repine at their own
inability to obtain the like.
They fee the idle in ahluence. Few, even of good
men, have the candour, nay, I may call it the wifdom,
to think on the aflivity and the labour which had pro-
cured thofe comforts to the rich or to their ancellors,
and to believe that they are idle only becaufe they are
wealthy, but would be aétive if they were
needy.--
Such fpontaneous reliexions cannot be expeélediin per-
fons who are
engaged in unceafing labour, to
procure
a
very moderate fhare (in their eilimation at leaft) of
the comforts of life. Yet fuch reflexions would, in
the
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
the main, be juft, and furely they vvou1d greatly tend
to quiet the n1inds of the unfucceisful.
Thi·s excellent purpofe n1ay be greatly for\varded
by a national eftablif11ment for n1oral inftrud:ion and
admonition; and if the public inltrut[ors lhould add
all the motives to virtuous rnoderation which are fug-
gefted by the confiderations of genuine religion, every
advice vvould have a tenfold influence. Religious and
n1oral infrruftions are therefore, in their own nature,
unequivocal fupports to that moderate exertion of the
authority arifing fro1n civil fubord1nation, which the
tnofl: refined philanthropift or cof1no-polite acknow-
ledges to be nece.fiary for the very exifh:nct of a great
and cultivated focie~v. I have never feen a fcheme of
Utopian happinefs tl~at did not contain fon1e fyftem of
education, and I cannot conceive any fyften1 of edu-
cation of \Vhich 111oral inftrucrion is not ac principal
part. Such eftablifhtne nts 4rt diCtates of nature, and
obtrude themfelves on the tnind of every perfon who
begins to form plans of civil union. And in all exiit-
ing focieties they h;lvc indeed been forn1ed, and are
confidered as the greateil: corrector and foother ofthofe
difcontents that are unavoidable in the rninds of the
unfuccefsful and the unfortunate. The 1nagifcrate,
therefore, whofe profeilional habits iead hiin frequently
to exert hitnfelf for the maintenance of public peace,
cannot but fee the advantages of fuch ftatt~d ren1e1n-
brancers of our duty. He \vill therefore fupport and
cheriih this pub1ic efiab1ifh ment, \V hich fo evidently
afiifrs hin1 in his beneficent and in1portant labours.
But all the evils of fociety do not fpring frotn the
difcont~nts and the vices of the poor. rfhe rich con1e
in for a large and a confpicuous fl1are. They fre-
quently abufe thtir advantages. Pride and haughty
behaviour on rhc1r oart rankle in the breairs, and af-
..
feB: the ten1rers of their inferiors, already fretted by
the
46 'rue scrrisms IN cHA1>.I.
the main, be juft, and furely they would greatly tend
to quiet the minds ofthe unfuccelsful.
This excellent purpofe may be greatly forwarded
by a national ellablilhrnent for moral þÿinftru ¬tion
and
admonition; and if the public inllructors fhould add
all the motives to virtuous moderation which are
fug-
gelted by the conliderations of genuine religion, every
advice would have a tenfold influence. Religious and
moral inflzrufftions are therefore, in their own nature,
unequivocal fupports to that moderate exertion of the
authority ariling from civil liibordination, which the
rnoll refined philanthropift or
cofmo-polite acknow-
ledges to be nece-llary for the very exiftence ofa great
and cultivated fociery. I have never feen a fcheme of
Utopian happinefs that did not contain fome fyftem of
education, and I cannot conceive any fyftem of edu-
cation of which moral inftruction is not
aprincipal
part. Such ellablilhments are dietates of nature, and
obtrude themlelves on the mind of every peribn who
begins to form plans of civil union. And in all exilt-
ing focieties they have indeed been formed, and are
coniidered as the greateit correotor and loother ofthofe
difcontents that are unavoidable in the minds of the
unfuccefsful and the unfortunate. The magilltrate,
therefore, whole prolellional habits lead him frequently
to exert himfelftor the maintenance of public peace,
cannot but fee the advantages of fuch (lated remem-
brancers ofour duty. He will therefore fupport and
cherilh this public edabiilhment, which lb evidently
ailifls him in his benehcent and important labours.
But all the evils of fociety do not
fpring from the
difcontents and the vices of the poor. The rich come
in for a
large and a
confpicuous fhare. They fre-
quently abule their advantages. Pride and haughty
behaviour on their part ranltle in the brealls, and af-
feél; the tempers of their inferiors, already fretted by
the
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY. 47
the hardfhips of their own condition. The rich alfo
are luxurious; and are often needy. Grafping at every
mean of gratification, they are inattentive to the rights
of inferiors vvhon1 they defpife, and, defpifing, opprefs.
Perhaps their own fuperiority has' been acquired by in-
jufrice. Perhaps n1oft (ovcreignties have been acquired
by oppreffion. Princes and Rul.crs are but men; as
fuch, they abufe tnany of their greateft bleffings. Ob-
ferving that religious hopes n1ake the good refig:1ed
under the hardihips of the prefent fcene, and that its
terrors frequently refirain the bad; they avail them-
felves of thefe obfervations, and fupport religion as an
engine of ftate, and a 1nean of their own fecurity. But
they are not contented with its real advantages; and
they are much n1ore afraid of th-e refentment and the
crin1es of the offended profligate, than of the murmurs
of the fuffering worthy. Therefore they encourJge
fuperftition, and call to their aid the vices of the prieit-
hood. The priefrs are men of like pafiions as other
n1en, and- it is no ground of peculiar blan1e that they
alfo frequently yield to the te1nptations of their fitua-
tion. 1"'hey are encouraged to the indulgence of the
love of influence natural [O all men, and they heap ter-
ror upon terror, to fiJbdue the n1inds of znen, and dark-
en their underftandings. Thus the n1o1t honourable of
all etnploy1nents, the mor;d ,.inH:ruCt:ion of the fcate, is
degraded to a vile trade, and is pr~Ctifed vvith all the
deceit and rapacity of any other trade; and religion,
from being the honour and the f:=tfeguard of nation, be-
comes its greateft difgrace and curie.
'vVhen a nation has fallen into this latnentable ftate,
it is extremely difEcult to reforn1. ll.lthough nothing
·would fo in1n1ediately and fo completely retnove all
ground of cotDpb.int, as the re-eftablifhing privcate
virtu~, this is of all others the 1ta11likely to be adopt-
l n~ 1 l, l 1 . ~ t • r 1 • r h .
f.CJ. 1 ne rtapy won,:y, \VJ10 if·e tne ffil1C.11e" \V ere It
actually
CI-IAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
the hardfnips of their own condition. The rich alfo
are luxurious ; and are often needy. Grafping at
every
mean ofgratihcation, they are inattentive to the rights
ofinferiors whom they defpife, and, defpihng, oppre{3_
Perhaps their own
fuperiority has' been acquired by in-
jullice. Perhaps mo{'t ibvereignties have been acquired
by opprellion. ?rinces and Rulers are but men 5 as
fuch, they abulie many of their greatelt bleilings. Ob-
ferving that religious hopes make the good religned
under the hardfhips of the prefent feene, and that its
terrors frequently reftrain the bad; they avail them-
fclves ofthele obiervations, and fupport religion as an
engine of ftate, and a mean oftheir own
fecurity. But
they are not contented with its real advantages 5 and
they are much more ahaid of the refentrnent and the
crimes ofthe o{i"ended prolligate, than of' the murmurs
of the funfering worthy. Therefore they encourage
iilperftition, and call to their aid the vices ofthe prielt-
hood. The priefts are men of like paflions as other
men, andit is no
ground ofpeculiar blame that they
alfo hequently yield to the temptations of their litua-
tion. They are
encouraged to the indulgence of the
love ofinfluence natural to all men, and they heap ter-
ror
upon terror, to liibdue the minds of men, and dark-
en their tindeiftandings. Thus the mod honourable of
all employments, the þÿmoralfinll;ru ¬tion
ofthe Ftate, is
degraded to a vile trade, and is praétiled with all the
deceit and rapaeity of any other trade; and religion,
from being the honour and the litfeguard of nation, be-
comes its greateft difgrace and eurle.
'»/Vhen a nation has fallen into this lamentable ltate,
it is extremely dillicult to reform. Although nothing
would fo immediately and lo completely remove all
ground of complaint, as the re-eftablifhing private
virtue, this is ofall others the leaft likely to be adopt-
ed, 'i`he really worthy, who lee the mifchiffwhere it
aétually
T H :E SCH IS ~1 S I N CHAP. I.
actually is, but \vho view this life as the fchool of inl-
provement, and know that rnan is to be made perfect
through fuffering, are the laft perfons to complain.
The worthlefs are the n1oft difcontented, the n1oft
noify in their complaints, and the leaft fcrupulous about
the means of redrefs. }~ot to improve the nation, but
to advance themfelves, they turn the attention to the
abufes of power and influence. And they begin their
attack where they think the pLtce moft defencelefs, and
where perhaps they expeCt affiftance from a difcon-
tented garrifon. Th'ey attack fuperftition, and are
not at all folicitous that true religion !hall not fuffer
along with it. It is not perhaps, with any direct in...
tcntion to ruin the ftate, but merely to obtain indul-
gence for thetnfelves and the co-operation of the
\Vealthy. They expeCt to be liftened to by many who
wifh for the fame ifldulgence ; and thus it is that reli-
gious free-thinking is generally the firft fl:ep of anarchy
and revolution. For in a corrupted ftate, perfons of
all ranks have the fame licentious willies, and if fu-
perftitious fear be really an ingredient of the human
mind, it requires fotne flruggle to fhake it off. No-
thing is fo effeEtual as mutual encouragement, and
therefore all join againft prieil:-craft; even the rulers
forget their intereft, vlhich ihould lead them to fupport
ir. In fuch a ftate, the pure n1orality of true religion
vanifhes fron1 the fight. There is commonly no re-
mains of it in the religion of the nati8n, and therefore
all goes together.
Perhaos there never \vas a nation \Vhere all thefe co--
.A.
operating caufes had acquired greater fi:rength than in
F'rance. Oppreffions of all kinds were at a height. 1-he
luxuries of life 'vere enjoyed exclufively by the uppf:r
claffes, and this in the h1ghefc degree of rennenltnt;
fo that the defires ofthe rei[ were whetttd to the utn1oll.
l{eligion appeared in its \vorft fora1J and fee:-ned cal-
culateJ
48
`
THE scmsms IN enap. 1,
actually is, but who view this life as the fchool ofim~
provement, and know that man is to be made perfect
through fufifering, are the lall: perfons to
complain.
The worthlefs are the moft clifcontented, the moft
noify in their complaints, and the lealt fcrupulous about
the means of redrefs. Not to
improve the nation, but
to advance thernfelves, they turn the attention to the
abufes of power and inlluence. And they begin their
attack where they think the place mol"t defencelefs, and
where perhaps they expeét amftance from a difcon-
tented garrilbn. They attack fuperltition, and are
not at all folicitous that true religion (hall not fuller
along with it. It is not perhaps, with any direet ina
tention to ruin the Pcate, but merely to obtain indul-
gence for themfelves and the co-operation of the
wealthy. They expect to be liltened to
by many who
wifh for the fame indulgence ; and thus it is that reli-
gious free-thinking is generally the Hrliz ltep of anarchy
and revolution. For in a
corrupted llate, perfons of
all ranks have the famelicentious wifhes, and if fu-
perllitious fear be really an
ingredient of the human
mind, it requires fotne/Zrzzggle to fhake it OH. No-
thing is fo þÿefi`e ¬tual
as mutual encouragement, and
therefore all join againft prieft-craft; even the rulers
forget their interelt, which fhould lead them to
fupport
it. In fuch a flate, the pure morality of true religion
vanimes from the light. There is commonly no re-
mains ofit in the religion ofthe nation, and therefore
all goes together.
Perhaps there never wasa nation where all thehe co~
operating caufes had acquired greater itrength than in
France. Opprefhons of all kinds were at aheight. The
luzeuries oflife were
enjoyed eztclufively by the upper
clafles, and this in the liigheft degree of refinement;
fo that the dehres ofthe relh were whetteal to the utmoll.
Religion appeared in its worft form, and
feernedlcah
Ct: ated
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY. 49
culatcd folely for procuring eitabliihn1ents for the
youna-er fons of the infolent and ufelefs nobleHe. r-fhe
morals of the higher orders of the clergy and of the
laity were equally corrupted. Thoufands of littrary
men \Vere excluded by tbtir ftation fron~ ?.11 hopes of
advancetnent to the rnorc refneEtJ.blc offices in the:
I.
church. Thefe vented their difcontents as f:1r as there
was fafety, and \Vere encouraged by rnc.ny of the upper
claffes, who joined rhen1 in their fatires on th~ priefthood.
The clergy oppofed then1, it is true, but ftebly, be-
caufe they could not fuuuort their Of)Dofirion bv ex-
J. l 1 "
1 f h . . h 1 • 1
an1p1es o t e1r own v1rt uous L cnav1our, out vvere al-
·ways obliged to have recourfe to the power of the
church, the very object of h8tred and difguft. The
'vhole nation bfcan:e ir1{1Je1; and \vhen in a few inftan-
ces a \vorthy Cure uttcn"d the frn,dl ftill voice of true
1. . . l i . 1 fl 1 l ·~ f
re tgton, 1[ was not 1e;ln_, an1101I tne gtne ra noLe o
fatire and reproach. The rnifconduEt of adn1iniftra-
tion, and the abufe of the public treaf"t.1r\."s, vvere every
day grovving more in1pudt
4
nt and gb.ring, and expofed
the Q:ovcrntTJent to conri;;ua1 criticifn1. But it was fiill
too })0\Vtrful to fufft:r this to proceed to extremities;
\vhile therefore inf-ldelity and loofe fcnti1nenrs of mo-
raiity paued unpunii11e~:f, it \Vas H:ill yery hazardous to
publifh any thing againft the fta~e. It was in this ref-·
peCt, chieHy, that the 1v1afon Lodges contributed to
the diffen1ination ofdangerous opinio!ls, and they Vi/ere
etTlployed fer this purpof:-:: all OVt'r the kingdom. This
is not an affert1on h:-:.z:rdcc.l tnerely on account of its
probability. Abundant proof will ~1ppear by and by,
that the moft turbulent char:t~1trs in the IY'ltion fre-
quented the Lodges. \Ve cannot doubt, but th~t Ui1-
der'this ccvert they indulged their f~Clious difpoiitions;
r-ay) we fhall flnd the grearefr p~:rt of the Lodge>s of
r' J • · 1 r ( t~· '- 1
!iri.lnce, convc tee, tn tne cou 1t" oL Cl VTry c\v Wtt1Zs,
into correfponc in0: no1itic:d fo c etics.
J. L .i.
c..;. Euc
CI-IAP,1`_ FREE MASONRY.
Lt()
culatccl folely for procuring eitabliihments for the
younger ions of the infolent and ufelefs nobleile. The
morals of the higher orders of the clergy and of the
laity were
equally corrupted. Thoufands of literary
men were exclucled by their flation from all hopes of
advancement to the more
refpeclahlc o$ces in thc
church. Thcfe vented their dilcontents as fnr as there
was fltfety, and were
encouraged by many of the upper
clalles, whojoinccl them in their llztires on the prieflhoocl.
The clergy oppolcd them, it is true, hut leebly, he-
caufe they could not
fupport their oppohtion hy ex~
amples of their own virtuous behaviour, but were al-
ways obliged to have recourfe to the power of the
church, the very ol>je&-of hatred and clifgull. The
Whole nation became izafincl; and when in a few inftan-
ces a
worthy Cure uttered the frnstll Qill voice of true
religion, it was not liemzl t>.mitl& the general nolfe of
fatire and reproach. 'l"l1e1nifeontltzctof` a
tion, and the ahufe ofthe public trcafures, wereevgry
day growing more imputlent and glaring, and expofeei
the government to contintzul criticifm. But it was flill
too
powerful to liuiler this to proceed to
extremities;
while therefore infidelity and loofe lentimcnts olmo-
rnlity paffcd unpuniihed, it was ftill Very hazardous to
puhlilli any thing againft the flare. It was in this ref-
pe5;, chiefly, that the l&:afon Lodges contributed to
the dilfemination o{`opinions,andtheywere opinions, and they were
employed for this purpole all over the kingtlorn. This
is not an aillertion lmzsrclctl merely on account ofits
probability. Ahtinclant proof will appear by and hy,
N
T
that the moflt turbulent ch:u~;t;"ters in me nrttion fre-
quented the Lodges. 'We cannot
doubt, hut that un-
clenthis covert they indulged their EILLIIOIIS clihwiltions ;
r-ay, we fnall hncl the ggrentell part of the Loflcges of
France, converted, in the courle ol n Vern' few weeks,
into
correlponpoliticallOCl(ffl('f1_; political lOCl(ffl('f1_;
\
li lint
so THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
But it is no\v tirne ·to turn our eyes to the progrefs of
F'ree Ivlaionry in Gern1any and the north of Europe;
there it took a more ferious turn. Free Mafonry was
importel: into Gennany fo1ne\vhat later than into
France. rfhe firft German Lodge that \Ve have any
acco~!nt of is that at Cologne, ereCted in 1716, but
very foon fuppreffed. Before the year 17 2 5 there
\Vere n1any, both in Prottfl.ant and Catholic Germa-
ny. Thofe of vVetz1ar, Frnnkfort on the Mayne,
Brunfwick, and Hamburg, are the oldeft} and their
priority is doubtful. All of then1 received their infti-
tution from England, and had patents from a mother
Lodge in London. i\.11 feen1 to have got the tnyftery.-
through the n.une channe], the baniihed friends of the
Stuart fan1ily. J\tlany of thefe were Catholics, and
entered into the ferv ice of Auftria and the Catholic
pnnces.
The true hofpitality, that i~ no where more confpi-
cuous than in the charaCter of the Germans, made
this infritution a rnoft agfeeable and ufeful paffport to-
thefe gentlemen; and as n1any of thern were in mili-
tary ftations, and in gar.rifon, they found it a very eafy
matter to fet up Lodges in all parts of Gern1any.
Thefe afforded a very agreeable paftin1e to the officers,
v~ho had little to occupy thetn, and \Vere already ac-
cuilon1ed to a fi.1borclination \Vhich did not affeCt their
vanity on account of fatnily difi:inctions. As the En-
fign and the General were equally gentlen1en, the al- ,
legory or play of univerfJl Brotherhood V/Js neither
novel nor difgufiing. Free Niafonry \Vas then of the
GtnplcH: forn1, confiH:ing ofthe three degrees ofAppren·
rice, Fellow·-craft, and lY1aftcr. It is retnarkable, that
the Gen11ans had been long accuftotned to the \Vord, the
fig-n; and the griue of the l\!lafons} and fon~e other
0 ~ "
handicrJ.ft: tL1de~~. In rnany parts of Gern1any there
\Vas a diftinclion of operative Ivlafons into V\Tort-
~1aurers
50 THE SCHlSMS IN CHAP. I.
But it is now time to turn our
eyes to the progrefs of
Free l/Ialonry in Germany and the north OFELIYOPC;
there it took a more ferious turn. Free Mafonry was
imported into Germany fomewhat later than into
France. The lirft German Lodge that we have any
account of is that at Cologne, erected in 1716, but
very foon hipprelled. Before the year £725 there
were many, both in Proteliant and Catholic Germa-
ny. Thoie of /Vetzlar, Frankfort on the l/Iayne,
Brunfwick, and Hamburg, are the oldeit, and their
priority is doubtful. All ofthem received their infri-
tution from England, and had patents from a mother
Lodge in London. All feem to have got the myltery
through the lame channel, the banilhed friends of the
Stuart family. Many of thefe were Catholics, and
entered into the lervice of`Aul'tria and the Catholic
princes.
The true hofpitality, that is no where more
confpi-
euous than in the character of the Germans, made
this inftitution a mofl: agreeable and ufeful palfport to-
thefe gentlemen; and as
many of them were in mili-
tary ltations, and in gar,ril`on, they found it a
very ealy
matter to fet up Lodges in all parts of Germany.
Thefe afforded a
very agreeable pallime to the oliicers,
who had little to
occupy them, and were
already ac-
cuftomed to a liihordination which did not atieét their
vanity on account of family diftinetions. As the En-
hgn and the General were
equally gentlemen, the al-
legory or
play of univerlhl Brotherhood was neither
novel nor
tlilgufling. Free Malbnry was then of' the
limpleli form, conlilting ofthe three degrees ofAppren-
tice, Fellow-craft, and Mafter. lt is remarkable, that
the Germans had been long acculiomed to the word, the
lign; and the gripe of the l/lalons, and fome other
handicraft trades. In many parts of Germany there
was a diltinction of operative ll/izzfons into 'Wort-
Maurers
CHAP. I. FREE M ASO~,; R Y.
Maurers and Schrifc-t~/Iaurers. The vVort-rv1aurers
had no other proof to give of their having been regu-
larly brought up to the trade of builders, but the \Vord
and figns ; the Schrifr-l\1aurers had ·,vriuen indentures
to !hew. There are extant and in force, borough-
la~vs, enjoining the fvlail:ers of NJafons to give en1....
ployn1ent to journeytnen who had the proper words
and fign. I~ part1~ular it appears, that fame cities·
had n1ore extenfive privileges in this refpeCl: than
others. The \VOrd given at vVetzlar, the feat of the
great council of revifion for the en1pire, entitled the
poffefior to \Vork over the \Vhole en1pire. We may
infer from the proceifes and decifions in fome of thofe
municipal courts, that a n1after gave a \Vord and token
for each year's progrefs of his apprentice. He gave
the \Vord of the incorporated Imperial city or borough
on which he depended, and alfo a word peculiar to
hin1felf, by \vhich ~11 his own pupils could recognife
each other. This mode of recognifance was probably
the o·niy document of education in old times, while
\vriting \Vas confined to a very fmall part of the cotn~
tnuniry. When \Ve refleft on the nature of the Ger-
man etnpire, a confederation of fn1all independent
ftates, we fee thac this profeffion cannot keep pace
with the other mechanic arts, unlefs its praCtitioners
are invefied with greater privileges than others. Their
great \vorks exceed the- ftrengd1 of the in11nediate
neighbourhood, and the \vorkrnen muft be brought
together frotn a diftance. Their alfociation muft there...
fore be n1ore cared for by the public.*
\.Vhen Englifn Free Iviafonry \vas carried into Ger-
many, it was hofj1itably received. It requirt:d litrle
· effort
* Note. The \Vort or Grufs-iv1aurer were abolifhed by nn I m .
perial ed.iCl: in 1731, and no.1c were intitlcd to the privil~gcs ofth~
cprporatwn but iuch as could !hew wri:tcn inJenturl?·'·
CI-IAP. I. FREE Ii/IAf%ONl`iY. C 51
Maurers and Schrift-l`~/Iaurers. The V/ort~Maurers
had no other proof to
give of their having been regu-
larly brought up to the trade of builders, but the word
and figns; the Schril't~l'Taurers had written indentures
to fhew. There are extant and in force, borough-
laws, enjoining the lvlaftcrs of l/Iaions to give @111-
ployment to
_iourneynien who had the proper Words
and Hgn. In particular it appears, that fome cities'
had more extenhve privileges in this refpecl: than
others. The word given at þÿX/V ¬[Zl3Y,
the feat of the
great council of revilion for the empire, entitled the
pofleflbr to work over the whole empire. We may
infer from the proceifes and decihons in fome of thofe
municipal courts, that a mafter gave a word and token
for each year's progrefs of his apprentice. He gave
the word of the incorporated Imperial city or borough
on which he depended, and alfo a word peculiar to
himielf, by which all his own
pupils could recognife
each other. This mode of recognifance was
probably
the only document of education in old times, While
writing was confined to a
very fmall part of the corn,
munity. When we reflect on the nature of the Ger-
man
empire, a confederation of fmall independent
Ptates, we fee that this profeiiion cannot keep pace
with the other mechanic arts, unlefs its practitioners
are invefted with greater privileges than others. Their
great works exceed they Ptrength of the immediate
neighbourhood, and the workmen muft be brought
together from a dihanee. Their aifociation rnuft there»
fore be more cared for by the public.
VVhen Englifn Free Mai"onry was carried into Ger-
many, it was
hohiitably received. It required little
'
effort
*
Note. The 'Wort or Grufs-i/Iaurer were abolifhed by an lm»
penal edict in
1731, and none were intitlcd to the privileges ofthe
cgorporation but lucn as could {i:<:v.' written indenturct.
THE SCHIS:\1S I~ CHAP. I.
efrort to give it re1i)eEtability, anJ to n1ake it the oc-
cupation of a gentle1nan, and i'ts fecrets and tnyfteries
'\Vere not fucb novelties as in France. It fpread ra-
picHy, and the fin1 p1e topic of Brotherly lovt v1as fuf-
ficient for recon1mending it to the honeft and hofpita-
ble Gern1J.ns. But it foon took a very di!Terent turn.
1~he Gern1an ch8.ractcr is the very oppofite of frivo-
lity. lc tends to ferioufneJs, and requires ferious oc-
cupation., The Gern1ans are en1inenc for their turn
for invefligation; and perhaps they indulge this to
excefs. \Ve call then1 plodding and dull, becaufe we
have little relifh for enquiry for its ov;n fake. But
this is furely the occupation of a rational nature, and
deferves any natne but ilupidity. .i\.t the f:1n1e rime it
1nufl: be acknowledge-1, that the fpirit of enquiry re-
quires regulation as much as any propenfity of the hu...
man n1ind. But it appears that the Gennans are not
nice in their choice of their objeCts; it appears that
fingularity, and wonder, and difficulty of refearch, are
to them irrefiflible recon1n1endations and inci(tnlents.
They havc ahvays exhibited a ftrong predileCtion for
every thing that is wonderCuj, or f(-~1tn1n, or terrible;
and in fpite of the grear prcgrefs \vhich n1en have
n1ade in the courfe of thefe rwo laft centuries, in
the kno\'vlcdge of nature, a progrefs too in which v;e
fhould be very unju£1: if we did not ackno\vledge that
the Gern1ans have been generally in the foren1oil ranks,
the grofs abfurdities of U1e1gic, exorcifrr1, wirchcrafr,
fortune- relli ng, t;·:lr.fn1tlt arion of 111e tals, and uni veri:11
rned icine, have ell ways h~d their ze ~lous partiz0.ns, \V ho
have lii1ened with greedy ears [O the nonienfe and j:lr-
gon of fan8tics and cheats; and though they every
day fa\V exarnp1es of rn,~ny vd1o had been ruined or
rendered ridiculous by their credulity, every ne\v pre-
t e11 der t 0 fe CretS f(nlnd lHHn bt rS ready t0 1if1en t0 hiil1,
t.~no to run over the 1:n:'!e courfe.
Free
52 U
'rue scnrsms in CHAP. r.
elrort to give it rel`pe£tahility, and to make it the oc-
`
I
cupation of zi
gentleman, and its feerets and mylleries
were not liieh novelties as in l7ranf:e. It fpread ra-
pitlly, and the limple topic of Eézotiierly love was fuf-
Hcient for recommending it to the honeft and hofpita-
ble Germans. But it Yoon tools a
very Cliilerent turn.
The German chnrafter is the very oppohte of frivo-
lity. lt tends to feriouhiels, and requires ferious oc-
cupationl The Germans are eminent for their turn
for invefligation, and perhaps they indulge this to
excels. 'Ne call them plodding :incl dull, hecaule We
have little relihi for enquiry for its own fake. But
this is lurely the occupation of 9. rational nature, and
deferves any name but llupiciity. At the Rsme time it
mullt be acknowledged, that the fpirit of enquiry re-
quires regulation ars much as any propenhty of the hu-
man mind. But it appears that the Germans are not
nice in their choice of their ohjeels; it appears that
Iingularity, and wonder, and clillieulty ofrefearch, are
to them irrelilliible recommendations and incitements.
They have always exhibited a
lltrong predileelion for
every thing that is woncleiiul, or liwletnn, or terrible 5
and in fpite of the great progrels which men have
matle in the courle of there two left centuries, in
the knoxvletlge of nature, it
pr<>§;relis too in which we
fhould he very uniullt if we iiicl not
aelcnowletlge that
the Germans have been generally in the foremoll' ranks,
the grolis ahlurtlities of magic, exoreifm, witchcraft,
fortune-telling, t:'=;nfmut;ation ofmetals, and univerlitl
rnetlieine, have always had their zealous pztrtizans, who
have liltenetl with greedy ears to the nonlenfe and _inr-
gon of fanatics and cheats; and though they every
day iitvv examples of many who had heen ruined or
rendered ridiculous hy their credulity, every new
pre-
tenrler to fecrers fountl nuinhers reacly to lillen to him,
and to run over the llime courfe.
Free
CHAP. Ie FREE MASONRY. 53
Free rv1afonry, profeffing myfteries, inftantly roufed
all thefe people, and the Lodges appeared to the ad-.
venturers who vvanted to profit by the enthufiafm or
the avarice of their dupes, the f-itreft places in the
\vorld for the fcene of their operatior.1s. The Rofy-
crucians were the firft vvho availed themfelves of the
opportunity. This was not the Society which ha~ ap..
peared fonnerly under that narne, and vvas no\V extinct,
but a fet of Alchymifts, pretenders to the tranfmuta-
tion of metals and the univerfal medicine, who, the
better to inveigle their votaries, had mixed \Vith their
O\Vn tricks a good deal of the abfurd fuperftirions of
that feet, in order to give a greater air of myflery to
the 'lv hole, to protract the tin1e of inftruB:ion, and to
afford more room for evafions, by making fo many
difficult conditions neceffary for perfecting the grand
work, that the unfortunate gull, \Vho had thrown avv2.y
his tin1e and his rnoney, n1ight believe that the failure
\Vas owing to his o~vn incapacity or unfitnefs for being
the poffefior of the grand fecret. Thefe cheats found
it convenient to 1nake I.\1afonry one of their conditions,
and by a fmq.ll degree of art, perfuaded their pupils
that they were the only true IVIafons. T hefe l{ofy-
crucian Lodges were foon efiablilhed, and becatne nu-
n1erous, becaufe their myfteries \'vere addreffed, both
to the curiofity, the fcnfuality, and the avarice of
tnen. They became a very fon11idable band, adopt-
ing the conftitution of the Jefuits, dividing the Frat~r­
nity into circ]es, each t1nder the n1anagement of irs
O\Vn fuperior, knov;n to the prefident, but unknovvn to
the individuals of the Lodges. Thefe fuperiors \vere
connected \Vith each other in a \Yay knovvn only to
then1fclves, and the \vhole v;as under one General.
At leaft this is the account v1hich they wifb to be be-
lieved. If it be juft, nothing but the abfurdity of the
oftenflble motives of their occupations could have pre-
vented
CHAP. Ia FREE MASONRY. 53
Free l`»/Iafonry, profelhng myfteries, infliantly roufed
all thefe people, and the Lodges appeared to the ad-
venturers who wanted to
profit by the enthuliafm or
the avarice of their dupes, the littefl; places in the
world for the fcene of their operations. The Rofy-
crucians were the firft who availed thernfelves of the
opportunity. This was not the Society which had ap-
peared formerly under that name, and was now extinét,
but a fet of Alchymifls, pretenders to the tranfrnuta-
tion of metals and the univerfal medicine, who, the
better to inveigle their votaries, had mixed with their
own tricks a
good deal of the abliird fuperilitions of
that feel, in order to
give a
greater air of rnyllery to
the whole, to
protraét the time of inftruétion, and to
afford more room for evanons, by making fo many
diflicult conditions neceifary for perfefting the grand
work, that the unfortunate gnll, who had thrown away
his time and his money, might believe that the failure
was owing to his own
incapacity or unfitnefs for being
the polleflor of the grand lecret. Theie cheats found
it convenient to make Malonry one of their conditions,
and by a fmall degree of art, perfuaded their pupils
that they were the only true lf'~/Iafons. Thefe Rofy-
crucian Lodges were foon eflablilhed, and became nu-
merous, becaufe their rnylleries were addrefled, both
to the curiohty, the fenfuality, and the avarice of
men. They became a
very formidable band, adopt-
ing the conftitution of the _]7el`nits, dividing the Frater-
nity into circles, each under the management of its
own
fuperior, known to the prelident, but unknown to
the individuals of the Lodges. Thefe fuperiors were
connected with each other in a
way known only to
themfelves, and the whole was under one General.
At lealt this is the account which they wifh to be be-
lieved. If it be juli, nothing but the abfurdity of the
oilenlible motives of their occupations could have pre-
vented
54 THE-SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
vented this con1binati"0n from carrying on fchen1es big
with hazard to the peace of the world. But the lto-
.fycrucian I.Aodges have always been confidered by other
Free l\1afons as bad Societies, and as zrofs fchifn1atics.
This did not hinder, however, their alchytnical and
medical fecrets fron1 being frequently introduced into
the Lodges of fimple Free l\1afonry; and in like rnan-
ner, exorcifn1, or ghoft-raifing, nlat;ic, and or.her
grofs fuperftitions, \ivere often held out in their tneet-
ings as attainable n1yfteries, \vhich would be in1n1eofe
acquifitions to the Fraternity, without any neceffity of
admitting along with rhen1 the religious deliriun1s of
the ,.-Rofycrucians.
In 17.43, Baron Hunde, a g;entletnan of honourable
characler and independent forcune, was in Paris, \vhere
he faid he had got acquainted \Vith the Earl of Kilnlar-
nock and fon;e other gentlemen who \Vere about the
Pretender, and learned from them that they had fome
wonderful fecrets in their I ..odges. He vvas adn1itted!)
through the n1ed1 urn of that noblernan, and of a Lord
Clifford, and his rvfa!onic patent was figned George
(faid to be the fignature of Kiln1arnock). Hundc
had attached hi1nfelf to the fortunes of the Pretender,
in hopes (as he fays himfelf) of riilng in the \vorld
under his proteCtion. The mighty fecret "vas this.
" When the Order of Knights Templars \Vas abolif11-
" eel by Philip the Fair, and cruelly perfecuted, fon1e
tc worthy perfons efcaped, and took refuge in the
'' I-lighlands of Scotland, \vhere they concealed then1-
'' felves in caves. T hefe perfons poifeffed the true
" fecrets of Mafonry, which had always been in that
" Order, having been acquired by rh~ I(nights, du-
~' ring their fe rvices in the Eafr, fron1 the pilgrin1s
u whom they occafionally protected or delivered. 'T'he
'' Che·valiers de Ia Roje-Crcix continued to have the
~' fan1e dqties as foq11crly> though robbed of their
" en1olu-
54 THE-SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
vented this combination hom carrying on lehemes big
with hazard to the peace of the world. But the Ro~
fycrucian Lodges have always been conhdered by other
Free Mafons as bad Societies, and as
grofs iizhifmatics.
This did not hinder, however, their alehymical and
medical fecrets from being frequently introduced into
the Lodges of limple Free Malbnry, and in like man-
ner, exoreifm, or
gholtwaiiing, magic, and other
grofs fuperititions, were often held out in their meet-
ings as attainable rnyiteries, which would be immenfe
acquilitions to the Fraternity, without any neceliity of'
admitting along with them the religious deliriums of
the fRol'ycrucians.
In 1743, Baron Hunde, a
gentleman ofhonourable
charaéter and independent fortune, was in Paris, where
he faid he had got acquainted with the Earl of Kilmar~
nock and fome other gentlemen who were about the
Pretender, and learned Hom them that they had fome
wonderful fecrets in their Lodges. He was admitted,
through the medium of that nobleman, and of a Lord
Cliford, and his lf*/Iafonic patent was
iigned George
(laid to be the hgnature of Kilmarnock). Hunde
had attached himi"elt` to the fortunes of' the Pretender,
in hopes (as he fays himfelf) of rihng in the World
under his proteétion. The mighty fecret was this.
"
When the Order of Knights Templars was abolifh-
"
ed by Philip the Fair, and cruelly perfecuted, fome
worthy perfons efcaped, and took refuge in the
Highlands of Scotland, where they concealed them-
"
felves in caves. Thele perlions poifeiifed the true
fecrets of l/lalbnry, which had always been in that
Order, having been acquired by the Knights, du-
"
ring their fervices in the Bait, from the pilgrims
"
Whom they ocealionally proteéted or delivered. The
Cbewziierr de /nz RW-Croix continued to have the
fame duties as
formerly, though robbed of their
"
emolu-
(I
(C
CC
(C
(4
gc
la
GHAP. Is FREE MASONRY. 55
cc emoluments. In fine, every true Ivlafon is a Knight
" Templar." It is very true that a clever fancy can
accomrnodate the ritual of reception of the Chevalier de
l'Epee, &c. to fomething like the inftitution of the
Knights Ten1plars, and perhaps this explanation of
young Zerobabel's pilgrimage, and of the rebuilding
of the 1'emple by Ezra, is the lllOft ugnificant expla-
nation that has been given of the n1eagre fymbols of
ljree Ivraf<)nry. ·
\l-/hen B~ron Runde returned to Germany, h~ ex-
hibited to fome friends his extenfive po\vers for pro-
pagating this fyften1 of 1\1afonry, and made a. fe\V
!(nights. But he \vas not very aCtive. Probably the
failure of the Pretender's attempt to recover the throne
of his anceftors had put an end to Bunde's hopes of
Lr1aking a figore. In the 111ean time Free l\1afonry
\V~s cultivated with zeal in Germany, and many ad-
vcnturrrs found their advantage in fupporting particu-
lar fchiCn1s.
But in I 7s6, or I 757' a cotnplete revolution took
place. The F rcnch officers \V ho \Vtre prifoners at
large in Berlin, undertook, with the affurance peculiar
to their nation, to ini1:ruEt rhe fimple Germans in every
thing that embellifhes fociety. They faid, that the
hon1efpun Free Mafonry, \vhich had been imported
fron1 E~ngland, was fit only for the unpoliflned 1ninds
of the Britifh; but that in France: it had grown into
an elegant fyftem, fit for the profeHion of Gentlernen.
Nay, they faid, that the Englifb \vert ig;norant of true
rviafonry, and poue.ffed nothing but the introduftion
to it; and even this \vas not underftood by them.
v"l;fhen the ribbands and il:ars, \Vith which the French
had ornamented the Order, \Ycre i11own to the Ger-
!11 ans, thf'y could not rc fi\1 the e!.lchan t~11ent. A :f\..1r.
RofJ., a French con1rniiTary, brought fron1 Paris a
comr~lcte \Vaggon load of rJfaionic Qrnarntnts, which
y,rere
GI-IAP. I, FREE MASONRY.
"
emolurnents. In fine, every true I/Iafon is a
Knight
"
Templar." It is very true that a clever fancy can
accommodate the ritual ofreception of the Chevalier de
!'E_pée, &c. to fomething like the inttitution of the
Knights Templars, and perhaps this explanation of
young Zerobabel's pilgrimage, and of the rebuilding
of the Temple by Ezra, is the moit hgnificant expla-
nation that has been given of the meagre iymbols of
Free iKiialbnry.°
"Then Baron Hunde returned to
Germany, he ex-
hibited to forne friends his extenfive powers for pro-
pagating this fyfiem of Mafonry, and made a,f°ew
Knights. But he was not very active. Probably the
failure of the Pretentier's attempt to recover the throne
of his anceitors had put an entl to Hunde's hopes of
making a
figure. In the mean time Free Mafonry
was cultivated with zeal in Germany, and many ad-
venturers found their advantage in fupporting particu-
lar fchiiins.
But in 1756, or 1757, a
complete revolution took
place. The French oflicers who were
prifoners at
large in Berlin, undertook, with the aiiurance peculiar
to their nation, to iniiruct the Hmple Germans in every
thing that embellifhes fociety. They mid, that the
homefpun Free l`/iafonry, which had been imported
from England, was fit only for the unpolifned minds
of the Britifh; but that in France it had grown into
an
elegant fyitem, iit for the profehion of Gentlemen.
Nay, they faid, that the Hngliih were
ignorant of true
Mafonry, and poIi"eH`ed nothing but the introdufftion
to it; and even this was not underftood by them.
`vVhen the ribbands and ftars, with which the French
had ornamented the Order, were lhown to the Ger-
mans, they could not rehft the enchantment. A Mr.
Rofa, French commiiiiary, brought Hom Paris a
complete waggon load ot' bfialbnic þÿQl'H?ilEif:Il ¬S,which
were
T H E S C H I SIvl S I ~ CHAP. I.
were all diftributed before it had reached Berlin, and
.he \vas oblitzed to order another, to furnifh the Lodaes
of that city~ It becan1e for a vvhi1e a rnoft pr~fitable
bufinefs to many French officers and con1n1ifE1ries dif-
perfed over Germany, having little elfe to do. Every
body gap~d for iflftruEtion, and thefe kind teachers
were ahv:lys ready to beftow it. In half a year Free
Mafonry underwent a complete revolution all over
Germany, and Chevaliers multiplied \Vithout nutnber.
'I'he Rofaic fyftern \Vas a gofi)el to the rl''lafons, and
the poor Britifh fyften1 was defpifed. But the ne\v
Lodges of Berlin, as they had been the teachers of the
whole empire, \\'anted ~1lfo to be the governors, ancl
infifred on cotnp1ete fubjeEtion fro111 all the others.
This fi:artled the Free IY1afons at a dift:1nce, and avva-
kened them from their golden drean1s. I'~ow began a
ftruggle for dominion and f,Jr independency. This ·
111ade the old I ..odge~ think a little about the \vhole
affair. The refult of this. was a counter revolution.
'fhough no man could i)retend that he underftood the
true n1eaning of Free lVIafonry, its origin, irs hiftory,
or irs real ain1, all f:1\V that the interpretations of their
hieroglyphics, and the ritu;ds of the ne\v degrees in1-
ported from France, \vcre quite gratuitous. It ap-
peared, therefore, th~t the i~~Jelc thing for them \vas
an appeal to the birth-place of l\1:.1fonry. They fent
tv London for inftruEtions. rrhere they learned, that
nothing \Vas acknovvledged fc)r genuine unfophiftic~ted
Mafonry but the three cL."r.rrees; and that the n1other
C::l
Lodge of I.ondon alone could, by her inilruflions,
prevent the more dangerOUS fchifins and innOV?tions.
rv1any Lodges, therefore, ~pplied for patents and in-
ftruftions. Patents \Vf~re eaf1ly tnade out, Jnd rnoft
willingly fent to the zealous Brethren; and thefe were
t h2 nk(u11y receiv cd and p.:ici for. Buc inCtruCtion w2 s
not fo eafv a n1att~r. At th~~ tirne v.-e had nothing
· but
56 'rim sc:-rrsnrs in eHAp_ L
were all dilltributed before it had reached Berlin, and
he was
obliged to order another, to furnilh the Lodges
of that city. lt became for a while a moll profitable
buiinefs to
many French omcers and commiflaries dil-
perlied over Germany, having little elle to do. Every
body gaped for inftrtiélion, and thcfe kind teachers
were always ready to bellow it. In half a
year Free
Malonry underwent a
complete revolution all over
Germany, and Chevaliers multiplied without number.
The Rofaic fyltem was tt
gohuel to the Mafons, and
the poor Britifh fyftem was defpifed. But the new
Lodges of Berlin, as they had been the teachers ofthe
whole empire, wanted alfo to be the governors, and
inH{led on
complete fubjection from all the others.
This Ftartled the Free Maions at a diliance, and awa-
kened them from their golden dreams. Now began a
Ptruggle for dominion and for indcpendency. This
made the old Lodges think a little about the whole
affair. The refult of this was a counter revolution.
Though no man could pretend that he underftood the
true
meaning of Free Nlahuiiry, its origin, its hiftory,
or its real aim, all fav/ that the interpretations of their
hieroglyphics, and the rituals of the new
degrees im-
ported from France, were
quite gratuitous. It ap-
peared, therefore, that the fafelt thing for them was
an
appeal to the birth-place of l/lalonry. They lent
to London for infirudtions. 'iihcre they learned, that
nothing was
aclinowledged hir genuine unfophillcicated
Mafonry but the three degrees, and that the mother
Lodge of London alone could, by her þÿinVtru ¬tions,
prevent the rnofl dangerous fchifms and innovations.
li/lany Lodges, therefore, applied for patents and in-
Rrucftions. Patents were ealily made ont, and mollt
willingly fent to the zealous Brethren, and thefe were
tlianldnlly received and paid for. Ent initrudion was
not fo eafy a m21{'E:ll'. At that time 'ne had nothing
l
but
CHAP. I. FREE 1\L~
.. S0 N R Y. 57
but the book of confi:itutions, drawn up about 17 20,
by Anderfon and Defaguilliers, two perions of little
education, and of low manners, who had ain1ed at little
more than making apretext, not altogether contemptible,
for a convivial meeting. This, however, was receiv-
.ed with refpeCt. Vle are apt to fn1ile at grave n1en's
being fatisfied with fuch coarfe and fcanty fare. But
it \Vas of ufe, merely becaufe it gave- an oftenfible rea-
fan for re.fifting the defpotifm of the l~odges of Berlin.
Several refpeftable Lodges, particularly that ofFrank-
fort on the Mayne, that of Brunfwick, that of VVetz-
lar, and the R.oyal York of Berlin, refolutely adhered
to the Englifh fyftem, and denied themfelves all the
enjoyment ofthe French degrees, rather than acknow-
ledge the fupremacy of the l{ofaic Lodges of Berlin.
· About the year 1764 a ne'vv revolution took place.
An adventurer, who called hin1felf Johnfon, and paffed
hi1nfelf for an Englifhtnan, but \vho was really a Ger-
n1an or Bohemian named Lrucht, faid that he was an1-
baifador from the Chapter of Knights TernplClrs at Old
Aberdeen in Scotland, fent to teach the Germans what
was true Mafonry. He pretended to tranf1nute n1etals,
and fome of the Brethren declared that they had feen
him do it repeatedly. This reached Baron Hunde,
and brought back all his former enthuflaf1n. There is
fotnething very dark in this part of the hifrory; for in
a little Johnfon told his parrifans that the only point he
had to inform them of was, that Baron I-Iunde \Var;; the
Grand Mafter of the 7th province of l.\1afonry, which
included the whole of Gern1any, and the royal do-
minions of Pruffia. He ihc)\ved then1 a n1ap of the Ma-
fonic En1pire arranged into provinces, each of \Vhich
had diftinguifhing emblems. Thefe are all taken fron1
an old forgotten and inflgnificant book, 1)'potii S)'JJJbokt.
Di-vina et Hunzana, publifhed in I 6o 1. There is not
the leafl: trace in this book either of l\1afonry of 'fen1-.
I-I pLus,
CI-IAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
but the book of conftitutions, drawn up about 1720,
by Anderfon and Defaguilliers, two perlbns of little
education, and oflow manners, who had aimed at little
morethan makingapretexgnot altogethereontemptible,
for a convivial meeting. This, however, was receiv_
ed with refpecl. VVC are
apt to fmile at grave men's
being fatislied with fuch coarfe and fcanty fare. But
it was ofufe, merely becaufe it gave an olteniible rea-
fon for reli{'ting the defpotifm of the Lodges of Berlin.
Several refpeélable Lodges, particularly that of°Frank-
fort on the Mayne, that of Brtinfvviclt, that of V7etz-
lar, and the Royal York of Berlin, refolutely adhered
to the Englilh fyllem, and denied themlelves all the
enjoyment ofthe French degrees, rather than acknow~
ledge the fupremacy ofthe Rofaic Lodges of Berlin.
~
About the year 1764 a new revolution took place.
An adventurer, who called himl`e1f]ohnl"on, and palfed
himfelf for an
Englifhman, but who was really a Ger-
man or Bohemian named Leucht, laid that he was am-
baiifador from the Chapter of`Knights Templars at Old
Aberdeen in Scotland, fent to teach the Germans what
was true l/Iafonry. He pretended to tranfmute metals,
and fome of the Brethren declared that they had leen
him do it repeatedly. This reached Baron Hunde,
and brought back all his former enthuhafm. There is
fomething very dark in this part of the hillory; for in
a little ]ohnl"on told his partifans that the only point he
had to inform them of was, that Baron Hunde was the
Grand l/[after of' the 7th province of l/lafonry, which
included the whole of Germany, and the royal do-
rninions of Prullia. He lhowed them a
map of the Ma-
fonic Empire arranged into provinces, each of' which
had diftinguifhing emblems. Thefe are all taken from
an old forgotten and inhgnificant book, Yiypofii Syméoltz
Diilillfl etHuma1m, publifhed in 1601. There is not
the 1ca{'t trace in this book either of Mafonry of Tem-
H plars,
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. f.
p1ars, and the en1blen1s are taken out vvithout the
frTtalleit ground of feleEtion. Son1e inconfiftency with
the fonner rnagnirycent promifes of Johnfon ftartled
t.he rn at fl rft, but ·they acquie[ced and fubITI itted to
Baron 1--!unde ~s Gr~nd Marer of GenT1any. Soon af-
ter Johnfon turned out to be a cheat, efcapcd, \Vas ta-
ken, and put in prifon, where he died. r'"et this feetns
not to have ruined the credit of Baron I--:Iunde. He
ereCted L,odges, g«ve a fe\V fin1ple inftructions, all in
the fyftem of Englif11 Mafonry, and pror11ifed, that
\vhen they had approved themfelves as good Mafons,
he would then impart the mighty fecret. After nvo
or three years of noviciate, a convention v~ras held at
Altenberg; and he told then1 that his whole fecret \Vas,
t.bat e-very true jvfajon 7.vas a ](night Tenzplar. 'fhey
\vere aftonifhed, and difappointed ; for they expected
in general that he \Votlld teach then1 tl1e philofopher's
fl:one) or ghoft-raifing, or 1nagic. .A.fter 111uch dif-
content, falling out, and difpute, n1any Lodges united
in this (vftem, n1ade fon1tw hat moder2.te and palatable,
under the nan1e of the STRICT DrsciPLIN ARIANs,
Strideten Objer-7..H!JZZ. It \Vas acceptable to many, be-
caufe they infif1ed that they were really l(nights, pro-
perly confecrated, though without ten1 pcralities; and
they feriouOy fer then1felves about forming a fund which
fnould fecure the Order in a landed property and re-
venue, \\·hich \Vould give them a refpeftable civil ex-
iflencc. liunde declared that his \vhole eftate lhould
devolve on tht Order. But the vexations \vhich he af-
tenT;z,rlls n1et "vith, and his falling in love \vith a lady
\vho prevailed on him to becorTle H..on1an Catholic,
n1ade hiln ~her his interHion. 'T'he Order \Vent on,
however, and acquired confiderable credit by the feri-
ous regularity of their proceedings ; and, although in
the tncan ritTle a nt\>V apo!llc of IVIyfceries, a Dr. Zin-
'"'endo··A-.. ,..._ · ,( r-l~,- ,...,! .;q o:,.:;?,..-,/7; c;o· :!~r- ·' ~' 1 Cad a new
L J < L 1.. ') (, ll e (} 1. 1.. d .., U .} 1 !- > ..J'J '- , r., •.,,} -~) L l .1 () 1.. .-.. C
f~·f1:ern,
53 THE scnisms IN CHAP. f.
plars, and the emblems are talcen out without the
i`mallei°t groundof°i7ele&ion. Some inconliitency with
the former magnificent promifes of _Iohnfon ftartled
them at tirlt, but they acquiefced and fuhmitted to
Baron Hunde as Grand Mafter of Germany. Soon af-
ter johnhin turned out to be a cheat, efcaped, was ta-
ken, and put in prifon, Where he died. Yet this feems
not to have ruined the credit of Baron Hunde. I-Ie
erefted Lodges, gave a few hmple inltrtietions, all in
the fyltern of Englifh Mafonry, and promifed, that
when they had approved themlelves as
good Mafons,
he would then impart the mighty iiecret. After two
or three years of noviciate, a convention was held at
Altenberg; and he told them that his whole fecret was,
fha! every ima
Ji/Lfybn was zz
Knight Terra?/fzf". They
were aftoniihed, and difappointed 5 for they expefted
in general that he would teach them the
philoi`opher's
ftone, or
ghoft-railing, or magic. After much dif-
content, falling out, and difpute, many Lodges united
in this fvltem, made fomewhat moderate and palatable,
under the name of the STRICT DISCIl'I.INARIAN`S,
Sfréckfefz OMr»wz;zz. It was
acceptable to many, be-
caufe they inhlled that they were really Knights, pro-
perly confecruted, though without temporalities; and
they ferinufly fet themlelves about forming afund which
fnould fecure the Order in a landed property and re-
venue, vrhich would give them 21
re1°pe<E`table civil ex-
iftenee. Hnntle declared that his whole eftate fhould
devolve on the Order. But the vexations which he af-
terwards niet with, and his felling in love with a
lady
who prevailed on him to heeome Roman Catholic,
made hian alter his intention. The Grder Went on,
however, and acquired conliderable credit by the feri-
ous
regularity of their proceedings ; and, although in
the mean time new
apollle of Mylieries, a Dr. Zin-
zendorhf, one of the Sf/lt? introduced 21 new
iyllem,
eHAF. I. FREE MASOSRY.
59
fyfren1, \vhich he faid \Vas fron1 Sweden, dillinr;uiL'l.ed
-by fon1e of the myftical docrrines of the Sweds-nborgh
fec1, and though the fy(1en1 obtained the ltuy~1l patron-
age, and a N arional Lodge W(!S ettablii11ed at Berlin
by patent, -fi:ill the 1empciurde;z, or Ordc;z des Strh?e;z
Oijerven.z, continued to be very ref1·:eclable. The
German gentry \Vere better pleafed \Vith a Grand l\1ar
ter of their own chooGng, than with any in1pofed on
then1 by authoricy.
During this rrate of things, one Stark, a Protefiant
divine, well known in Gern1any by his writings, made
another trial of public faith. One Gugr!')mos, (a pri...
vate gentleman, but \Vho \vould pafs for fan to a l(ing
of Cyprus), and one Schropftr, keeper of a cofree-
houfe at N uren1berg, dre\V crowds of Free Mafons
around them, to learn gho11-raifing, exorcifm, and al-
ehyn1y. l~u111 bers ca111 e fro rn a great dif}an ce to
Weifbad to fee and learn thtfe n1yfleries, and Free 1via-
fonry was on the point of ano.ther rtvolution. Dr.
Stark \Vas an adept in all thefe things) and had co:ltended
\vith Caglioi1ro iil Courland for the palm of fupcriority.
He f~nv that this deception could not long it:tnd its
ground. He therefore can1e forward, at a convc~ntion
at Braun fchw~ig in 177 2, and faid to the Strite Di f-
ciplinarians or Templars, That he Vlas of their Order,
but of tht fpiritu:1l departn1ent, and was deputed by
the Chapter of I(-n1-d-t in Scotland, where he
was Chancellor of the Congreg~nion, and had the nan1e
of Archiden1ides, Eques ab /lqz!ila ful~·a: That this
Chapter had the fuperintendance of the Order: 1---h:lt
they alone could confecrate the I.Cn~ght:-;, or tht lirl-
known fuperiors; and that he \vas deputed to inftn~Cl:
them in the rtal principles of the Order, and irnpart ils
ineftimable fecrets, v1hich could noc be known to B;:l-
ron Hunde, as he would readily :1cknovvledrrt ',vhcn he
fhou1d converfe "vV itbhi111 • John[on, he Ct1
~f) h 1cl h~: t' n
a :::h.:.L: ,~ ~
QI-IAP. I. FREE þÿMASOI' ¬P_Y.
(9
fy{'tem, which he hid was from Sweden, diflinguiihed
by fome of the myiltical doétrines of the Swedenborgh
þÿl`e ¬t,
and though the fyltemobtained the Royal patron-
age, and a National Lodge was eltabiihied at Berlin
by patent, Ptill the 1'e;Jzp¢'!um2'e;z, or Ordezz des S!ri&'c;z
OM'rfz;m1z, continued to be very rei`pe6f'table. The
German gentry were better pleafed with a Grand l'~dal`-
ter oftheir own
choohng, than with any impofed on
them by authority.
During this irate ofthings, one Stark, a Proteftant
divine, well known in Germany by his writings, made
another trial of public faith. One Gugornos, pri-~
vate gentleman, but who would pafs for ion to a
King
of Cyprus), and one
Schropfer, keeper of a coffee-
houfe at Nuremberg, drew crowds ot`Free Niafons
around them, to learn ghoflt-raihng, exorcifm, and al-
chymy. Numbers came from a
great diflance to
Weifluatl to fee and learn thefe mylieries, and Free Ma-
fonry was on the point of another revolution. Dr.
Stark was an
adeptin all thelie things,and had contended
with Caglioiiroin Courland forthe palm of' fuperiority.
He faw that this deception could not
long litand its
ground. He therefore came forward, at a convention
at Brat1nfcli~veig in 1772, and laid to the Striet Dif-
ciplinarians or
Templars, That he was oftheir Order,
but of the lpiritual department, and was
deputed hy
the Chapter of K--tn--d--t in Scotland, where he
was Chancellor ofthe Congregation, and had the name
of Archidemides, Egzzer aé /1'gzz:`/'a fztfws That this
Chapter had the fuperintendance of the Order: That
they alone could conlecrate the Knights, or the nn-
known iiiperiors; and that he was
deputed to inl'trt:6t
them in the real principles of the Order, and itnpart its
ineftimable fecrets, which could not be known to En.-
ron Hunde, as he would readily acknowledge he
fhould converfe with him. johnion, he l;i:d,h1<l been
fi
f-l-R -
r
tt Cl
»,,L._,
6o THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
a cheat, and probably a n1urderer. He had got fome
knowledge fron1 papers which he n1uft have ftolen from
a tniffionary, who had difappeared, and was probably
kil1ed. Gugo1nos and Schropfer muft have had fame
fin1ilar inforn1ation ; and Schropfer had even deceived
hin1 for a tin1e. He was ready to execute his com-
miffion, upon their coming under the neceifary obliga-
tions of fecrecy and of fubtniffion. Hunde (whofe name
in the Order \Vas the Eques ab Enje) acquiefced at once,
and propofed a convention, with full po\vers to decide
and accept. But a Schubart, a gentlen1an of character,
who was treafurer to the Templar Mafons, and had an
employment \Vhich gave hin1 confiderable influence in
the Order, ftrongly diifuaded them from fucR a mea-
fure. The n1oft unqualified fubrniffion to unknown 1
fuperiors, and to conditions equally unknown, \Vas re-
quired previous to the fmalleit cotnmunication, or any
kno,vledge of the po\vers which Archidemides had to
treat with then1. 1\1any meetings were held, and
many attempts were made to learn fomething of this
ipirirual court, and of ·what they might expeCt fron1
them. Dr. Stark, Baron W eggenfak, Baron von Ra-
ven, and fome others of his coadjutors in the Lodges
at Koningfberg in Pruffia, and at \iVifmar, \vere re-
ceived into the Order. But in vain-nothing was ob-
tained from thefe ghoftly Knights but fame infignificant
ceren1onials of receptions and confecrations. Of this
kind of novelties they were already heartily fick; and
though they all panted after the expected wonders,
they were fo much frightened by the unconditional fub'""
mifiion, that they could come to no agreement, and
the fecrets of the Scotch Congregation of K-m-d-t
ftill remain \V ith Dr. Stark. They did, however, a
fenfible rhing; they fent a deputation to Old Aberdeen,
to enquire after tht caves where their venerable myf-
teries were kno\vn, and their treafures were hid. They
had
60 THE scHxsMs IN CHAP. 1.
a cheat, and probably a murderer. He had got fome
knowledge from papers which he mult have ftolen from
a
mifiionary, who had difappeared, and was
probably
killed. Gugomos and Schropfer muff have had fome
limilar information 5 and Schropfer had even deceived
him for a time. He was
ready to execute his com-
mifiion, upon their coming under the neceffary obliga-
tions of fecrecy and offubmillion. Hunde (whofc name
in the Order was the Egzzes zzb EW) acquiefced at once,
and propofed aconvention, with full powers to decide
and accept. But a Schubart, a
gentleman of charaéter,
who was treafurer to the Templar Mafons, and had an
employment which gave him conliderable inliuence in
the Order, itrongly diifuaded them from fuch a mea-
iiire. The melt unqualified fubmillion to unknown
fuperiors, and to conditions equally unknown, was re-
quired previous to the fmallelt communication, or
any
knowledge of the powers which Archidemides had to
treat with them. Many meetings were held, and
many attempts were made to learn fomething of this
ipiritual court, and of what they might expect from
them. Dr. Stark, Baron Weggenl`ak, Baron von Ra-
ven, and fome others ofhis coadjutors in the Lodges
at
Koningiberg in Prufiia, and at Vilifmar, were re-
ceiyed into the Order. But in vain-nothing was ob-
tained from thefe ghoflly Knights but fome inhgnificant
ceremonials ofreceptions and confecrations. Of this
kind of novelties they were
already heartily lick, and
though they all panted after the expeeted wonders,
they were fo much frightened by the unconditional fub-
miliion, that they could come to no
agreement, and
the fecrets ofthe Scotch Congregation of K--m--d--t
Ftill remain with Dr. Stark. They did, however, a
fenhble thing; they fenta deputation to Old Aberdeen,
to enquire after the caves where their venerable myf-
terics were lanown, and their treafures were hid. They
.
had
CHAP. I. FREE .1\L~.. S0 N R Y. 61
had, as they thought, merited fon1e more confidence;
for they had ren1itted annual contributions to rhefe
unknown fuperiors, to the amount of fon1e thoufands
of rix dollars. But alas ! th-eir atnbaffadors found the
Free Mafons of Old Aberdeen ignorant of all this,
and as eager to learn fron1 the an1bafid.dors 'vvhat was
the true origin .. and n1eaning of Free Mafonry, of
which they knew Bathing but the firnple tale of Old
Hiram. This broke St2rk's credit; but he frill in--
fifi:ed on the reality of his commiffion, and faid that
the Brethren at Aberdeen were indeed ignorant, but
that he had neve·r faid otherwife; their expectations
frotn that quarter had refted on the fcraps ~purloined
by Johnfon. He ren1inded the£Yl of a thing we11 knovvn
to themfelves ; that one of thern had been fent for by
a dying noblen1an to receive papers on this fubjett, and
that his vifit having been delayed a fe\V hours by an
unavoidable accident, he found all burnt but a frag-
n1ent of a capitulary, and a thing in cyphtr, part
of which he (Dr. Stark) had explained to them.
They had employed another gentleman, a I-I. \Vach-
ter, to n1ake fimilar enquiries in Italy, '-Vhere Schrop-
fer and others (even l-Iunde) had told then1 great it-
crets \Vere to be obtained fron1 the Pretender's fecre-
tary Approfi, and others. v\Tachter told thenl, thdt
all this was a fiEtion, but that he had ften at Florence
fome Brethren from the 1-foly Land, who really pof-
feffed wonderful fecrets, which he was willing to im-
part, on proper conditions. Thefe, ho\vtver) they
could not accede to; but they were crutlly cortured by
feeing \Vachter, \vho had left Germany in fober cir-
cun1ftances, no\v a man of great \vealth and exp·f'nce.
He \Vould not·ackno\vledge that he had got the fecret
of gold-n1aking fron1 the ltfiatic Brethren ; but faid
that no man had anv rig-ht to afk hin1 hov~r he had cotne
by his fortune. Ic ·was~enough that he behaved hono-
rably,
CHAP. 1. FREE Masouitv. 61
had, as they thought, merited forne more conhdenee;
for they had remitted annual contributions to thefe
unknown fuperiors, to the amount of fome thoufands
of rix dollars. But alas l their ambafiadors found the
Free Mafons of Qld Aberdeen ignorant of all this,
and as
eager to learn from the ambaliadors what was
the true origin 1-and meaning of Free l/lalbnry, of
which they l-;nevv nothing but the limple tale of Old
Hiram. This broke Starl~;'s credit; but he Hill in--
iifted on the reality of his commiliion, and laid that
the Brethren at Aberdeen were indeed ignorant, but
that he had never faid otherwife; their expeéiations
from that quarter had refted on the feraps purloined
by johnlbn. He reminded them ofa thing well known
to themfelves; that one of them had been fent for by
a
dying nobleman to receive papers on this fubjeét, and
that his viht having been delayed a few hours by an
unavoidable accident, he found all burnt but a
frag-
ment of a
capitulary, and a
thing in eypher, part
of which he (Dr. Stark) had explained to them.
They had employed another gentleman, a H. Vlfacli-
ter, to make lirnilar enquiries in Italy, where Sehrop-
fer and others (even Hunde) had told them great le-
crets were to be obtained 5-om the Pretender's feere-
tary Approh, and others. /Vaehter told them, that
all this was a liétion, but that he had iten at Florence
fome Brethren from the Holy Land, who really poll
fe{Ted wonderful feerets, which he was
willing to im-
part, on
proper conditions. Thefe, however, they
Could not accede to, but they were
cruelly tortured by
feeing Vaehter, who had left Germany in fober cir-
cuniftances, now a man
ofgreat wealth and expenee.
He would not'ael<nowledge that he had got the feeret
of gold-making from the Afiatie Brethren; but faid
that no man had any right to aik him how he had come
by his fortune. It was enough that he behaved hono-
rably,
b
...
2 THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. l.
rably, and owed no man any thing. He broke off all
conneB:ions \Vith them, and left them in great diftrefs
about their Order, and panting after his fecrets. R!fun~
teneatis an~icil
Stark, in revenge for the oppofition he had met
with from Schubart, left no ftone unturned t0 hurt
him \-Vith his Brethren, and fucceeded, fo that he left
them in diff!uft. Hunde died about this time. A
u
book appeared, called, 'The Stu1nbling Block and Rock
of Offence, which betrayed (by their own confeffion)
the \VhQle fecrets of the Order of Ten1plars, and foon
n1ade an end of it, as far as it \Vent beyond the fitnple
Englifh JVIafonry.
'I'hus \Vas the faith of Free Niafons quite unhinged
in Gern1any. But the rage for n1yfteries and ·wonder
v1as not in the leaft abated ; and the habits of thefe
fecret Aifen1blies were becon1ing every day more crav-
ing. DiiTenfion and fchifrn \Vas multiplying in every
quarter; and the I nfcitution, inftead of being an in-
citetnenr to mutual complaifance and Brotherly love,
had becon1e a fource of contention, and of bitter en-
Inity. Not fatisfied \Vith defending the propriety of
its O\vn !nfritutions, each Syitem uf Free Mafonry
\vas bufy in enticing a\vay the partifans of other Syf-
ten1s, fhut their l ..odges againft each other, and pro-
ceeded even to vilify and perfecute the adherents of
every Syftetn but their 0\VO.
Thefe anitnofities ttrofe chiefly fron1 rhe quarrels
about precedency, and the arrogance (as ir was thought)
of the,patent Lodge of Berlin, in pretending to have
any authority in the other parts of the etnpire. But
thefr pretenfions \vere not the refult of n1ere vanity.
..I'he French in1porters of the ne'v degrees, always true
to the glory of their nation, hoped by this means to
iecure the dependence even of this frivolous fociety;
perhaps they 1night forefee politic~! ufes and benefits
· \vhich
6; THE scnisms IN CHAP. I.
rahly, and owed no man any thing. He broke oFr` all
conneetions with them, and left them in great diftrefs
about their Order, and panting after his fecrets. Rgfum
ieizeafir rzmiti?
Stark, in revenge for the oppoiition he had met
with from Schubart, left no Prone unturned to hurt
him with his Brethren, and fucceeded, fo that he left
them in difguft. Hunde died about this time. A
book appeared, called, The Sfufizé/ifzg Bloc/ir and Rock
ty" Ojénce, which betrayed (by their own
confellion)
the whole fecrets of the Order of Templars, and foon
made an end of it, as far as it went
beyond the Hmple
Englifh Mafonry.
Thus was the faith of Free l`~/lafons quite unhinged
in Germany. But the rage for myiteries and wonder
was not in the lea{'t abated; and the habits of thefe
fecret Affenibiies were
becoming every day more crav-
ing. Diifenhon and fchifm was
multiplying in every
quarter; and the Inftitution, inflead of being an in-
citement to mutual complaiiince and Brotherly love,
had become a fonrce ofcontention, and of bitter en-
mity. Not fatisned with defending the propriety of
its own Inllzitutions, each Syllem of Free Mafonry
was
bufy in enticing away the partifans of other Syf-
tems, lhut their Lodges againlt each other, and pro-
ceeded even to vilify and perfccute the adherents of
every Syflem but their own.
Theie animoiities arofe chiefly from the quarrels
about precedency, and the arrogance (as it was
thought)
of the,patent Lodge of Berlin, in pretending to have
any authority in the other p&l`[S of the empire. But
their pretenhons were not the refult of mere
vanity.
The French importers of the new
degrees, always true
to the glory of their nation, hoped by this means to
iecure the dependence even of this frivolous fociety,
perhaps they might forelee political ufes and benefits
`
which
'.CHAP. I. FREE :MASONRY.
vvhich might arife from it. One thing is worth notice :
The French Lodges had all emanated from the great
Confederation under the Duke de Chartres ; and,
even if \Vt had no other proof, \Ve might prefume that
they would cultivate the fatne principles that charaEte-
rifed that SeCt. But \Ve are ce1 tain that infidelity and
laxity ofmoral principles \Yere prevalent in the Rofaic
Lodges, and that the obfervation of this corruption
had offended many of the fober old-fafhioned Lodges,
and was one great caufe of any check that was given
to the brilliant Mafonry of France. It is the obferva-
tion of this circumftance, in \vhich they all refembled,
and which foon ceafed to be a diftinction, becaufe it
pervaded the other Lodges, that has induced me to
expatiate more on this hifcory of Free Mafonry in Ger-
many, than may appear to my readers to be adequ1te
to the importance of F'ree Mafonry in the general fub-
jeB:-matter of thefe pages. But I hope that it \viii
·appear in the courfe of my narration that I have nor
given it a greater value than it deferves.
About this very· tin1e there \Vas a great revolution,
of the public mind in Germany, and fcepticifm, infi-
delity, and irreligion, nor only were prevalent in the
minds and manners of the \Vealthy aud luxurioas, and
of the profligate of lo\ver ranks, but began to appear
in rhe produCtions of the prefs. Some circumftances;)
· peculiar to Gerr11any, occafioned thefe declenfions
from the forn1er acquiefceHce in the faith of their for~­
fathers to become more unifon11 and remarkable than
they \vould othr.rwife have been. The confeffions ·of
Germany arc. the H.on1an Catholic, the Lutheran,
( \vhich they call Proteftanr,) and the Calvinift, ( whic11
they call Reformed). 1~hefe are profeifed in 1nany fi11a1l
contiguous principalities, and there is hardly one of
then1 in 'vhich all the three have not free exercile. T'he
defire of making profe1ytes is natural to all feri :n1s pre-
ft llrJf5
¢
CHAP. 1. ram: Masonnv.
63
which might arifc from it. One thing is Worth notice:
The French Lodges had all emanated from the great
Confederation under the Dulce de Chartres ; and,
even if we had no other proof; we
might preiiime that
they would cultivate the fame principles that characte-
rifed that Sect. But we are certain that infidelity and
laxity ofmoral principles were
prevalent in the Rofaic
Lodges, and that the obfervation of this corruption
had oPfended many ofthe fober old-fafhioned Lodges,
and was one
great caufe of any check that was
given
to the brilliant Mafonry of France. It is the obferva~
tion of this circumltance, in which they all refembled,
and which foon ceafed to be a difiinction, becaufe it
pervaded the other Lodges, that has induced me to
expatiate more on this hiftory ofFree Mafonry in Ger-
many, than may appear to my readers to be adequate
to the importance of Free Mafonry in the general iizb~
ieét-matter of thele pages. But I hope that it will
appear in the courfe of my narration that I have not
given it a
greater value than it deferves.
About this very~»time there was a
great revolution,
of the public mind in Germany, and fcepticifm, inFi~'
delity, and irreligion, not
only were prevalent in the
minds and manners of the wealthy and luxurions, and
of the profiigate of lower ranks, but began to
appear
in the productions of the prefs. Some circumilances,
peculiar to Germany, occalioned thefe declcnhons
from the former acquiefceace in the faith of their i'ore~
fathers to become more uniform and remarlaahlc than
they would otherxvife have been. The confeilions of
Germany are. the Roman Catholic, the Lutheran,
(which they call Proteftann) and the Calvinifi, (which
they calllleformed), Thefe are
profeffed in many iinall
contiguous principalities, and there is hardly one of
them in which all the three have not free errercile. The
defire of making profelytes is natural to all lferious pre-
ftiibrs
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
feffors of a rational faith, and was frequently exercifed.
The Ron1an Catholics are fuppofed by us to be parti-
cularly zealous; and the Protefrants (Lutheran5 and Cal-
vinifls) were careful to oppofe then1 by every kind of
argument, among which thoie of ridicule and reproach
\vere not fpared. 1~he Catholics accufed them of infi-
delity refpecting the fundarnental doCtrines of Chrifri-
aniry which they profefled to believe, and even ·with
refpeEl: to the doCtrines of natural religion. This ac-
cufation was long very Dightly fupporred; but, of late,
by better proofs. rrhe rpirit of free enquiry was the
great boafl: of the Prottftants, and the only fupport
·againfl: the Catholics, fecuring thf m both in their reli-
gious and civil rights. It was therefore encouraged by
their gcverntntnts. It is not to be wondered at that it
fhouJd be indulged to excefs, or in1properly, even by
ferious men, liable to error, in their difputes with
t!'le Catholics. In the progrefs of this conteft, even
their own Confefiions did noc efcape criticifm, and it
'vas afferted tlvu the Reforn1ation which thofe Con-
fefiions exprefs \Vas not complete. Further Refor-
mations \Vere propofed. The Scriptures, the foun-
dation of our faith, were examined by clergymen of
very difFerent capacities, difpofitions, and views, till
by explaining, correCting, allegorifing, and other\vife
rwifting the Bible, n1en's tninds had hardly any thing
left to reft on as a doCtrine of revealed religion. This
encouraged others to go farther, and to fay that reve-
lation was a f()ltcifnl, as plainly appeared by the ir-
reconcileable difference5 arnong thofe Enlighteners (fo
they were called) of the public, and that man had no-~
thing to truft to but the diCtates of natural reafon.
Another fet of vvriters, proceeding fron1 this as a point
already fettled, profcribed all religion whatever, and
openly taught the doCtrines 0 f ITIJ.teria}\fn1 anJ atheifm.
J.Vlofc of thei~ innovations were the \vork of Protefr,lnt
divines
64 THE scnrsivrs IN CHAP. I.
feffors ofa rational faith, and was
frequently exercifed.
The Roman Catholics are
fuppofed by us to be parti-
cularly zealous, and the Proteltants (Lutherans and Cal-
Viniits) were careful to
oppofe them by every kind of
argument, among which thole of ridicule and reproach
were not
fpared. The Catholics accufed them ofinfi-
delity refpecting the fundamental doctrines of Chriiti-
anity which they profelled to believe, and even with
refpect to the doctrines of natural religion. This ac-
culation was
long very flightly fupported, but, oflate,
by better proofs. The lpirit of free enquiry was the
great boalt of the Proteltants, and the only fupport
iagainlt the Catholics, fecuringthem both in their reli-
gious and civil rights. It was therefore encouraged by
their governments. It is not to be wondered at that it
fhould be indulged to exeefs, or improperly, even by
ferious men, liable to error, in their difputes with
the Catholics. In the progrefs of this conteft, even
their own Confellions did not
efcape criticifm, and it
was allerted that the Reformation which thofe Con-
fellions exprefs was not
complete. Further Refor-
mations were
propofed. The Scriptures, the foun-
dation ofour faith, were examined by clergymen of
very different capacities, difpolitions, and views, till
by explaining, correcting, allegorihng, and otherwife
twifting the Bible, men's minds had hardly any thing
left to relt on as a doctrine of revealed religion. This
encouraged others to
go farther, and to fay that reve-
lation was a lolecifm, as
plainly appeared by the ir-
reconcileable differences among thofe Enlighteners (fo
they were called) ofthe public, and that man had no-
thing to truft to but the dictates of natural reafon_
Another fet of writers, proceeding from this as a
point
already fettled, profcribed all religion whatever, and
openly taught the doctrines of materialifm and atheifm.
l/loft ofthele innovations were the work of Proteftant
divines
G:HAP. I. FREE MASONRY • .
divines, from the caufes that I have mentioned. Tel-
ler, Se111ler, Eberhardt, Leffing, Bahrdt, Riem, and
Shultz, had the chief hand in all thefe innovations.
But no n1an contributed more than Nicholai, an emi-
nent and learned bookfeller in Berlin. He has been
for many years the publifher of a periodical \Vork,
called the General Gennan Library, ( Algenzein deuifche
Bibliothek,) confifring of original difiertations, and re-
views of the writings of others. The great merit of
this work, on account of n1any learned diifertations
which appear in it, has procured it much influence on
that clafs of readers whofe leifure or capacity did not
allow them a more profound kind of reading. This
is the bulk of readers in every country. Nicholai
gives a decided preference to the 'vritings of the En-
lighteners, and in his revie\vs treats the1n ¥Vith parti-
cular notice, makes the public fully acquainted with
. their \Yorks, and makes the mofl favourable conl-
ments; \Vherels the performances of their oppo-
nents, or more properly fpeaking, the defenders
of the National Creeds, are neglected, omitted,
or barely mentioned,· or they arc criticifed \vith
every feverity of ridicule and reproach. He fell upon
a very fure method of rendering the orthodox \Vriters
difagreeable tb·· the public, by reprefenting them as
the abetters of fuperfiition, and as fecret Jefuits. He "
afferted, that the abolition of the Order of Lo)'ola is
only apparent. The Brethren frill retained their con-
neCtion, and mofr part of their property;, under the
fecret patronage of Catholic Princes. They are, there-
fore, in every corner, in every habit and cllaracter,
\vork ing with unwearied zeal for the reftoration of
their empire. He raifed a general alann, and made a
journey through Gern1any, hunting for Jefuits, and
for this purpofe, became F'ree rviafon and H.ofycrucian,
being introduced by his. friends Gedicke and Biefter,
.r clergymen,
cHAr~. r. FREE MASONRY.
'
65
divines, from the caufes thatlhave mentioned. Tel-
ler, Semler, Eberhardt, Leiling, Bahrdt, Riem, and
Shultz, had the chief hand in all thefe innovations.
But no man contributed more than Nicholai, an emi-
nent and learned bookfeller in Berlin. He has been
for many years the publilher of a
periodical work,
called the General German Library, (_/filgemeifz þÿ&7¬lt'l`%`b¬
Biéliothekj conlilling of original dillertations, and re-
views of the writings of others. The great merit of
this work, on account of many learned diifertations
which appear in it, has procured it much influence on
that clafs of readers whofe leifure or
capacity did not
allow them a more
profound kind of reading. This
is the bull; of readers in every country. Nicholai
gives fl decided preference to the Writings of the En-
lighteners, and in his reviews treats them with parti-
cular notice, makes the public fully acquainted with
their works, and makes the molt favourable com-
ments; whereas the performances of their oppo-
nents, or more
properly fpeaking, the defenders
of the National Creeds, are
neglected, omitted,
or barely mentioned, or they are criticifed with
every feverity of ridicule and reproach. He fell upon
a very fure method of rendering the orthodox writers
difagreeable to" the public, by reprefenting them as
the abetters of liiperllition, and as fecret Jeliiits. He
alferted, that the abolition of the Order of Loyclra is
only apparent. The Brethren Ftill retained their con-
nection, and molt part of their property, under the
fecret patronage of Catholic Princes. They are, there-
fore, in every corner, in every habit and clfaraéter,
working with unwearied zeal for the reftoration of
their empire. He raifed a
general alarm, and mad(-3 3
journey through Germany, hunting for Jeiuits, and
for this purpofe, became Free lfvlafon and Rofycrucian,
being introduced by his. hiends Gediclte and Biefler,
I
clergyrnen,
66 THE SCH IS :-.13 IN CHAP. I.
clergymen, publif11ers 9f the Bc"rlin Jdonaifchrift, and
lnoit zealous prornoters of the ne\V doCtrines. 'rhis
favour he has repaid at his return, by betraying tl-.c
myfteries of the Lodges, and by n1uch biuer fatire.
His journey \Vas publifhed in feveral volumes, and is
full of frightful Jefuitifn1s. ,.fhis rnan, as I have faid,
found the greateft fuccefs in his n1ethod of flandering
the defendtr5 of Bible-Chriftianicy, by reprefenting
then1 as concealed Jefuits. But, not contented \Vith
open difcufiion, he long ago publiihed a fort of ro-
lnance, called Sebaldus lVothanker, in which thef~ di-
vines are introduced under feigned natnes, and n1ade
as ridiculous and deteftab1e as poffible. All this was
a good trading job; for fceptical and free--thinking
\vritings have every vvhere a good rr1arket; and Ni-
cholai was not only reviewer, but publii11er, having
preffes in difFerent cities of the Etnpire. The im-
Inenfe lirerary n1anufaCture of Gern1any, far exceeding
that of any nation of Europe, is carried 0n in a very
particular ,.vay. The books go in fbeets to the great
fairs of Leipfic and Frankfort, t;.vice a-year. The
bookfellers 1neet there, and fee at cne glance the frate
of literature; and having fpeculated and tnade their
bargains, the books are inftant!y difperfed through
every part of the E1npire, and appear at once in all
quarters. Although every Principality has an officer
for licenfing, it is iinpoffible to prevent the currency
of a perforn1ance, although it tnay be prohibited j for
it is to be had by the carrier at th!"'ee or four miles dif-
tance in another. frate. By this n1ode of traffic, a plot
tnay be forn1ed, and aCtually has been fanned, for
giving any particular turn to the literature of the coun-
try. There is an excelient \Vork printed at Bern by
the author Heinztnann, a bookfeller, called, Appeal
to nry Ccuntl):, concen:z7zg a Conzbinaticn cf Jf/~·iters, and
Eookjcl!ers, to rule tbe Literature o.f Gernzany, and forJJt
the
65 THE scursfiis IN CHAP. 1.
clergymen, publifhers of the Berii/z Mona/zfk'/aryff, and
moi`t zealous promoters oi' the new doctrines. This
favour he has repaid at his return, by betraying thc
myfteries of the Lodges, and hy much bitter fatire.
His journey was
publiiihed in feveral volurnes, and is
full of frightful jefuitifms. This man, as T have faid,
found the greateft fuceefs in his method of flandering
the defenders of Bihle~Chri[tianity, by reprefenting
them as concealed Jefuits. But, not contented with
open difcullion, he long ago puhlifhed a fort of ro-
mance, called Seéfzldzfs Nofhmzker, in which theie di~
vines are introduced under feigned naines, and made
as ridiculous and deteftahle as
poflihle. All this was
a
good trading job, for fceptical and h'ee~-thinking
writings have every where a
good market, and Ni-
cholai was not
only reviewer, but publifher, having
preffes in difrerenr cities of the Empire. The im-
menfe literary manufacture ofGermany, far exceeding
that of any nation of Europe, is carried on in a
very
particular way. The books go in fheets to the great
fairs of Leipiic and Frankfort, twice a-year. The
bookfellers meet there, and lee at one
glance the Ptate
of literature, and having fpeculated and made their
bargains, the books are initantiy dil"peri`ed through
every part of the Empire, and appear at once in all
quarters. Although every Principality has an officer
for lieeniing, it is impoilible to
prevent the currency
ofa performance, although it may he prohibited, for
it is to he had by the carrier at three or four miles dill
tance in another itate. By this mode oftraftic, a
plot
may he formed, and aétually has been formed, for
giving any particular turn to the literature of the coun-
try. There is an excellent work printed at Bern by
the author Heinzmann, a booliheiler, called, ,é;1'>}/Déyl
to fig/ Ccmzfzjs, ccfffcefizzizg Cl Ceflzéélzarim W?'iz'erJ, and
B00»%l!erJ, .fo rifle i/he Lizwzzlzfre Q" Gcffmafgy, mm/ form
Ike
CHAP. I. f'REE MASOXRY.
the Public l'vfind into a Ccntcmpt for the Re!igicn and Civil
Ejlablijh:nents oftbe Empire. It contains a hiftorical ac-
count of the publications in every branch of literature
for about thirty years. T'he author fho\vs, in the moft
convincing manner, that the prodigiotis chang~ fron1
the former fatisfat1ion of the Gern1~ns on thofe fub-
jeEts to their pre{ent difcontent and attacks f1on1 every
q~1~2rter, is ntither a fair picture of the prevailing fen-
tinlc:nts) nor has been the fin1ple operation of things,
but the refult of a cotnbination of trading Infidels.
I have here fon1e\vhat anticipated, (for I hope to
point: out the fourccs of this con1bination,) becaufe it
helps to explain or illuftrate the progrefs of infidelity
and irreligion that I was fpeaking of. It was n1uch
accelerated by another circumftance. One Bajedow, a
m~n of talents and learning, fet up, in the Principality
of Anhalt-De!fau, a PH ILANTHROPINE, or academy
of general education, on a plan extremely different
fi·om thofe of the U niverfities and Acaden1ies. By
this appel]ation, the founder hoped to n1ake parents
expect that much attention v;ould be paid to the n1o-
rals of the pupils; and indeed the programs or adver-
tifen1ents by vvhich Bafedo\v announced his inftitution
to the public, defcribed it as the profeired feminary
of practical Ethics. Lan~uac-es, fciences, and the or-
o ..:-;
n:1mental exercifcs) \Vere here conGdered as n1ere ac-
cefiorics, and tl;e great aitn \Vas to fonn the young
n1ind to the love of n1ankind and of virtue, by a plan
of n1oral education '-Vhich ''lclS very fpecious and unex-
ceptionable. But there \vas a circun1ftance which
greatly obftru&ed the \vide profpects of the founder.
I-lo\v \Vert the religicus opinions of the youth to be
cared for ? Catholic.::, Lutherans, and Cal vi nifts, \Vere
aln1ofl equally nurt:r·rous in the acjoining Principali~
t i.es ; and the exc1ufinn of any t \V o- of the fe cotnn1 u-
n1ons \Vnuld prodigiouny 1in1it the propofed ufefulnefs
cf
enar. 1.
`
raise Masoicizr.
67
Ike Pub/if Zlfizrl into a
C@1zi't*:;zp/ffm" Me Religion and Civil
Effie./5ZM5:i1e11i.r qf fb; Efiijfire. It contains a hiltorical ac-
count of the publications in every branch of literature
for about thirty years. The author fliows, in the fnoft
convincing manner, that the prodigious change Hom
the former fatisfaetion of the Germans on thofe fub-
_iects to their prelent dilcontent and attacks from every
quarter, is neither a fair picture of the prevailing fen-
timents, nor has been the iimple operation of things,
but the reliilt ofa combination of trading infidels.
l have here fomewhat anticipated, (for I hope to
point out the fourccs ofthis combination,) becaufe it
helps to
explain or illufitrate the progrefs of infidelity
and irreligion that I was
lpeaking of It was much
accelerated by another circumfiance. One Bayriofw, a
man of talents and learning, fet up, in the Principality
of Anhalt-Deilfau, a Pnrtanrraaoarna, or
academy
of general education, on a
plan extremely different
tiom thofe of the Univeriities and Academies. By
this appellation, the founder hoped to make parents
expect that much attention would be paid to the mo-
rals of the pupils, and indeed the programs or adver-
tifements by which Bafedow announced his infiitution
to the public, defcribed it as the prohefied feminary
ofpraclical Ethics. Languages, fciences, and the or~
namental exercifes, were here coniidered as mere ac-
cefibries, and the great aim was to form the young
mind to the love of mankind and of virtue, by a
plan
of moral education which was
very fpecious and unex-
ceptionable. But there was a circumftance which
greatly obltrtiiterl the wide profpefts of the founder.
How were the religious opinions of the youth to be
cared for? Catholics, Lutherans, and Calvinifts, were
almofi equally numerous in the adjoining Principali-
ties; and the exclunon of any two oi' thefe commu~
nions would prodigioully limit the propofed
tiliiulnefs
c
THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
of the inftitution. Bafedow vvas a man of talents, a
good fcholar, and a perfuafive writer. I-Ie fra1ned a
fet of rules, by which the education ihould be con-
ducted, and which, ht thought, {hould tnake every
parent eafy ; and the plan is very judicious and tnanly.
But none can1e but Lutherans. His zeal and intereft
in the thing tnade him endeavour to intereft others;
and he found this no hard tnatter. The people of
condition, and all fenfible n1en, faw that it would be
a very great advantage to the place, could they induce
men to fend their children frotn all the neighbouring
ftates. What we ·wifh, we readily believe to be the
truth; and Bafedow's plan and reafonings appeared
complete, and h8d the fupport of all claffes of ·men.
The n1oderate Calvinifts, after fame time, were not
averfe from them, and the literary manufaCture of
Germany \Vas foon very bufy in making patnphlets,
defending, improving, attacking, and reprobating the
plans. Innun1erable \vere the projects for tnoderating
the differences betvvten the three Chrifrian comnlu-
nions of Germany, and n1aking it poffi ble for the
members 0f them all, not only to live an1icably among
each other, and ro \Vorfhip God in the fan1e church,
but even to communicate together. This attempt na-
turally gave rife to much fpeculation and re-finement;
and the propofals for amendment of the formulas and
the infiruB:ions from the pulpit were profecuted with
fo much keennefs, that the ground-work, Chriftianity,
was refined and refined, till it vanifhed altogether,
leaving Deifm, or N aturall or, as it was called, Ph~­
lofophical Religion, in irs place. I a1n not much tnif-
taken as to hiftorical fact, whtn I fay, that the afto-
nifhing change in religious doCtrine \Vhich has taken
place in Proteftant Germany \Vithin theft. ]aft thirty
years \Vas chiefly occafioned by this fchen1e of Bafe-
dow's. 1~he predifpcfing caufes exifted, indeed, and
were
63 THE scH1sMs IN ci~1Ar>.1.
of the inflitution. Bafedow was a man of talents, a
good fcholar, and a
periiahve writer. He framed a
fet of rules, by which the education fhould be con-
dufted, and Which, he thought, fhould make every
parent eafy; and the plan is very judicious and manly.
But none came but Lutherans. His zeal and intereit
in the thing made him endeavour to interefl: Others;
and he found this no hard matter. The eo le of
condition, and all fennble men, law that it Pwoiild be
a very great advantage to the place, could they induce
men to fend their children from all the neighbouring
itates. Wliat we wifh, We
readily believe to be the
truth; and Bal`edow's plan and reafonings appeared
complete, and had the fupport of all claifes of men.
The moderate Calvinifls, after fome time, were not
averfe from them, and the literary manufadture of
Germany was foon very bufy in making pamphlets,
defending, improving, attacking, and reprobating the
plans. Innumerable were the projects For moderating
the dilierences between the three Chriltian commu-
nions of Germany, and making it polhble for the
members of them all, not only to live amicably among
each other, and to
worfhip God in the fame church,
but even to communicate together. This attempt na-
turally gave rife to much fpeculation and rehnement,
and the propofals for amendment of the formulas and
the inllructions from the pulpit were
profecuted with
fo much keennefs, that the ground-Work, Chriitianity,
was refined and refined, till it vanifhed altogether,
leaving Deifm, or Natural, or, as it was called, Phi-
lofophieal Religion, in its place. I am not much mil"-
taken as to hiftorical fact, when I fay, that the alto-
nifhing change in religious doctrine which has taken
place in Proteilant Germany within thefelaft thirty
years was
chiefly occaiioned by this lcheme of Bale-
dow's. The predifpchng caufes exifled, indeed, and
were
<ZHAI-. I. F.R.EE MASONRY.
\Vere general and powerful, and the diforder had al-
ready broken out. But this fpecious and enticing ob-
jeCt firft gave a title ro Proteftant clergymen to put to
their hand without rifk of being cenfured.
Bafedow correCted, and correB:ed again, but not
one Catholic came to the Philanchropine. He feerns
to have thought that the beft plan would be, to banith
all pofitive religion whatever, and that he would then
be fure of Catholic fcholars. Cardinal Dubois was fo
far right with refpeB: to the firft Catholic pupil of rhe
church. He had recommended .a n1an of his o'vn
ftamp to Louis XIV. to fill fome important office.
The monarch was aftoni.fhed, and told the Cardinal,
that " that would never do, for the man was a Janfe-
" nift; Eh! que 1261t, Sire," .faid the Cardinal, " il
" n'efl qu' Athee /' all was fafe, and the man got the
priory. But though all was in vain, Bafedow's Phi-
lanthropine at Delfau got a high charaEter. He pub-
lifhed many volun1es on education that have n1uch
ment.
It were \veil had this been all. But moft unfortu-
nately, though moft naturally, writers of loofe moral
principles and of wicked hearts were encouraged by
the impunity ·vVhich the fceptical \Vriters experienced,
and ventured to publifh things of the vileft tendency,
inflaming the paffions and j uftifying licentious manners.
Thefe n1axi1ns are congenial \Vith irreligion and Athe-
ifm, and the books found a quick tnarker. It v;as
chiefly in the Pruffian States that this \Vent on. The
late King \Vas, to fay the beft of him, a naturalift, and,
holding this life for his all, gave full liberty to his fub-
jeCts to \vrite what they pleafed, provided they did not
touch on ftate matters. He declared, however, to a
minifter of his court, long before his death, that cc he
" was extremely forry that his indifference had pro-
" dt!cerl. fuch effects; that he was fenfible it had greatly
" contri-
@HAr», 1, FREE MASONRY.
69
were general and powerful, and the diforder had al-
ready broken out. But this fpecious and enticing ob-
ject {ir{'t gave a title to Proteftant clergymen to put to
their hand without rifk of being cenfured.
Bafeclow correrfted, and corrected again, but not
one Catholic came to the Philanthropine. He feems
to have thought that the bell plan would be, to banifh
all politive religion whatever, and that he would then
be fure of Catholic fcholars. Cardinal Dubois was fo
far right with refpeét to the Hrft Catholic pupil of the
church, He had recommendedva man of his own
(lamp to Louis XIV. to fill fome important oHice.
The monarch was altonilhecl, and told the Cardinal,
that "
that viiould never do, for the man was a
Ianfe-
"
nifl; E/Q! que nm, Sire," ,faid the Cardinal, "
il
"
aft# qu' /it/aéc;" all was fate, and the man
got the
priory. But though all was in vain, Baledovs/'s Phi-
lanthropine at Dellau got a
high character. He pub-
lilhecl many volumes on education that have much
merit.
lt were well had this been all. But moft unfortu-
nately, though moft naturally, writers of loofe moral
principles and of Wicked hearts were
encouraged by
the impunity which the fceptical writers experienced,
and ventured to publilh things of the vileflt tendency,
inllaming the pallions and Ljultifying licentious manners.
Thefe maxims are
congenial with irreligion and Athe-
ifm, and the books found a
quick market. It was
chiefly in the Prullian States that this went on. The
late King Was, to fay the bell of him, a naturalill, and,
holding this life for his all, gave full liberty to his lub-
_ieffts to write what they pleafed, provided they did not
touch on ftate matters. He declared, however, to a
minifler of his court, long before his death, that "
he
"
was
extremely lorry that his indiH`erence had pro-
"
duced fuch e§e<fl;s3 that he was fenlible it had greatly
"
contri-
THE SCHIS.r...1S IN CHAP. 1.
" contributed to hurt the peace and mutual good treat-
" ment of his fubjects ;" and he faid, " that he would
" willingly give up the glory of his beft-fought battle,
" to have the fatisfaction of leaving his people in the
" fa1ne ftate of peace and fatisfacbon with their reli-
" gious eftabliihn1ents, that he found thern in at his
" acceffion to the throne.'' His fucce.flor Frederick
William found that things had gone 1nuch too far, and
determined to fupport the church-eftablifument in the
tnoft peremptory manner; but at the fan1e tin1e to al-
low perfeB: freedom of thinking and converfing to the
profeffors of every Chriftian faith, pro"\7
idcd it vvc.s en-
joyed \vithout difturbing the general peace, or any
encroachtnent on the rights of thofe already fupported
by law. He pub1iihed an edict to this effeCt, \vhich
is really a model vvorthy of imitation in every country.
This 'vas the epoch of a ilraoge revolution. It vvas
attacked from all hands, and criticifrns, fatires, flan-
ders, threatenings, poured in fron1 every quarter. rfhc
independency of the neighbouring fcates, and the mo-
narch's not being a great favourite among feveral of
his neighbours, pern1itted the publication of thofe
pieces in the adjoining principalities, and it \Vas im-
poffible to prevent their circulation even in the Pruf-
fian States. His ediCt was called an unj ufti flable ty-
ranny over the confciences of n1en; the dqgn1as [up-
ported by it \Vere termed abfurd fuperftitions; the
I(ing's private character, and his opinions in religious
rnatters, ·were treated with little reverence, nay, Vtlere
ridiculed and fcandalouily abufed. This field of dif-
cuffion being thus thrown open, the ..~vriters did not
~onfine themfelves to religious matters. After flatly
denying that the prince of any country had the fn1alleft
right to prefcribe, or even direB: the faith of his fub-
jeEts, they extended their difcuffions to the rights of
princes in general; and novv they fairly opened their·
trer!<;hes,
70 THE SCHISMS IN CI-IAP. 1`.
"
contributed to hurt the peace and mutual good treat~
"
ment of his þÿfubje ¬ts;"
and he faid,
"
that he would
"
willingly give up the glory of his belt-fought battle,
to have the fatisfactiori ofleaving his people in the
"
fame iiate of peace and fatisfacftion with their reli~
gious eiiabliihments, that he found them in at his
"
acceilion to the throne." His fuccehbr Frederick
William found that things had gone much too far, and
determined to
fupport the church-eilzablihiment in the
moil peremptory manner; but at the fame time to al-
low perfeélt freedom of thinking and converhng to the
profeifors of every Chriflian faith, provided it was en~
_ioyed without didzurbing the general peace, or
any
encroachment on the rights ofthoie already hrpported
bylaw. He publiilned an edicft to this effeft, which
is really a model worthy of imitation in every country.
This was the epoch of a
itrange revolution. It was
attacked from all hands, and criticiiins, fatires, ilan~
ders, threatenings, poured in from every quarter. The
independency ofthe neighbouring llates, and the mo-
narch's not
being a
great favourite among feveral of
his neighbours, permitted the publication of thofe
pieces in the adjoining principalities, and it was im-
pollible to
prevent their circulation even in the Pruil
iian States. His ediét Was called an
unjuitihable ty-
ranny over the confciences of men; the dogmas fup-
ported by it were termed abfurd fuperititions; the
King's private chararftcr, and his opinions in religious
matters, were treated with little reverence, nay, were
ridiculed and fcandaloully abufed. This field of dif-
cuilion being thus thrown open, the Writers did not
confine themfelves to religious matters. After flatly
denying that the prince of any country had the hnalleft
right to prefcribe, or even direét the faith of his lub-
(C
K(
jects, they extended their difcuflions to the rights of
princes in general; and now
they fairly opened their
trenches,
CHAP. I. FREE lVI AS 0 N R Y. ji
trenches, and made an attack in fonn on the conftitu-
tions of the German confederacy, and, after the ufual
aoproaches, they fet up the ftandard of univerfal citi-
z~nfhip on the very ridge of the glacis, and fummoned
the fort to furrender. The moft dating of thefe attacks
\v.as a colleCtion of anonymous letters on the conftitu-
tution of the Pruffian States. It \Vas printed (or faid
to be fo) at Utrecht; but by con1paring the faults of
fotne types 'vvirh fon1e books printed in Berlin, it \Vas
fuppofcd by all to be the produCtion of one of Nicho-
lai's preffes. It vvas thought to be the compofition of
Mirabeau. It is c_ertain that he wrote a French tranf-
lation, with a preface and notes, more impudent than
the \vork itfelf. The monarch is declared to be a ty-
rant ; the people 2re addreffed ac.; a parcel of tame
\Vretches crouching under oppreffion. The people of
Sileiia are reprefented as frill in a w0rfe condition, and
are repeatedly called to roufe then1felves, and to rife
up and affert their rights. The King is told, that
there is a combination of philofophers (conjuration)
'vho are leagued together in defence of truth and rea-
fan, and \vhich no po\ver can v1ithftand; that they are
to be found in every country, and are conneCted by
mutual and folemn engagement, and will put in prac-
tice every mean of attack. Enlighte~ing, inftrucrion,
was the general cry among the \vriters. The triumph
of reafon over error, the overthrow of fuperfrition and
flavifh fear, freedon1 fro1n religious and political pre-
judices, and the efl:ablifhment of liberty and equality,
the natural and unalienable rights of man, \vere the
topics of general declatnation; and it \Vas openly rnain-
tain.·~d, that fecret focieties, vvhere the communication
of fentiment fhould be free from every reftraint, \Vas
the 1ncf[ effeB:u~l me~ns for inftructing and enlighten-
• . v
InQ" the \Vorld•
.....
And
CHAP, 1, FREE MASONRY.
71
trenches, and made an attack in form on the conftitu-
tions of the German Confederacy, and, after the ufual
approaches, they fet up the ftandard of univerfal citi-
zenfhip on the very ridge of the glacis, and fummoned
the fort to furrender. The molt daring of thefe attacks
was a colleétion of anonymous letters on the conftitu-
tution of the Prullian States. It was
printed (or faid
to he fo) at Utrecht, but by comparing the faults of
fome types with fome books printed in Berlin, it was
fuppofed by all to be the production of one of Nicho-
lai's preffes. It was
thought to be the compoiition of
l/Iirabeau. lt is certain that he Wrote a French tram"-
lation, with a
preface and notes, more
impudent than
the work itfeli The monarch is declared to be a
ty-
rant; the people are addrelfed as a
parcel of' tame
wretches crouching under oppreiiion. The people of
Silelia are
reprefented as Ftill in a Worfe condition, and
are repeatedly called to roufe themfelves, and to rife
up and ali"ert their rights. The King is told, that
there is a combination of philofophers (cofcjumlion)
who are
leagued together in defence of truth and rea-
fon, and which no
power can withftand; that they are
to be found in every country, and are connecfted by
mutual and folemn engagement, and will put in prac-
tice every mean of attack. Enlightening, inltruétion,
was the general cry among the writers. The triumph
ofreafon over error, the overthrow of fuperltition and
flavifh fear, freedom from religious and political pre-
judices, and the eftablifhment of liberty and equality,
the natural and unalienable rights of man, were the
topics of general declamation, and it was
openly main-
tained, that iecret focieties, where the communication
of fentiment fhould be free from every reitraint, was
the melt e{'r`e6tual means for inilrucling and enlighten-
ing the worlcl.
i
'
And
72 THE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
And thus it appears, that Germany has experienced
the fame gradual progrefs, from Religion to Atheifm,
from decency to diffolutenefs, and ..fron1 loyalty to re-
bellion, which has had its courfe in France. And I
rnuft novv add, that this progrefs has been effected in
the fame manner, and by the f~n1e means ; and that
one of the chiefmeans of feduCtion has been the Lodges
ofthe Free Iv1afons. The French, along with their
numerous chevaleries, and ·ftars, and ribands, had
brought in the cuftom of haranguing in the- Lodges,
and as human nature has a confiderable uniformity
every where, the fame topics became favourite fub-
jects of declamation that had tickled the ear in France;
there were the fame corruptions offentin1ents and man-
ners among the luxurious or profligate, and the farne
incitements to the utterance of thefe fentimenrs,
wherever it could be done \vith fafety; and I may fay,
that the zealots in a11 thefe tracts of freethinking were
more ferious, more grave, and fanatical. Thefe are
not affertion~ a priori. I can produce proofs. There
was a Baron Knigge refiding at that time in the neigh-
bourhood of Frankfort, of whon1 I f11all afterwards
have occafion frequently to fpeak. This n1an was an
enthufiaft in lVIafonry frotn his vouth, and had run
throuah every poffiblc. degree of ir: He was diffatisfitd
with fhem all, and particularly with the fi1
ivolity of the
French chivalry; but he flill believed that rviafonry
contained invaluable fecrets. He imagined that he fa\V
a glin1fe ofthen1 in the cofn1o-political and fceptical dif.
courfes in their Lodges; he fat down to meditate on
thefe, and foon collected his thoughts, and found that
thofe French orators were right without k_no'vving it ;
and that Mafonry was pure natural religion and univer-
fal citizeni11ip, and that this was alfo true Chriftianity.
In this faith he itnmediatrly began his career of Bro-
therly love, and publifhed three volumes of fermons ;
the
72 THE SCHISMS IN GHAP. I.
And thus it appears, that Germany has experienced
the fame gradual progrefs, from Religion to Atheifrn,
from decency to cliilbluteuefs, ancltfrom loyalty to re-
bellion, which has had its courfe in France. And I
Inuit now add, that this progrefs has been effected in
the fame manner, and by the fame means, and that
one ofthe chiefmeans of feducltion has been the Lodges
ofthe Free l/lafons. The French, along with their
numerous chevaleries, and 'f'tars, and ribands, had
brought in the cuftom of haranguing in the' Lodges,
and as human nature has a conhderable uniformity
every where, the fame topics became favourite fub-
jeéts of declamation that had tickled the ear in France;
there were the fame corruptions offentiments and man-
ners
among the luxurious or
prolligate, and the fame
incitements to the utterance of thefe fentiments,
wherever it could be done with fafety, and I may fay,
that the zealots in all thefe tracts of freethinking were
more ferious, more
grave, and fanatical. Thefe are
not aifertions rzpriori. I can
produce proofs. There
was a Baron Knigge reliding at that time in the neigh-
bourhood of Frankfort, of whom I fhall afterwards
have occalion frequently to fpeak. This man was an
enthuhaft in l/Iafonry from his youth, and had run
through every pofhble degree of it. He was diilatisfied
with them all, and particularly with the hivolity ofthe
French chivalry; but he ilgill believed that I*/[afonry
contained invaluable fecrets. He imagined that he faw
aglimfe ofthem in the cofmo-political and fceptical dif-
courfes in their Lodges; he lat clown to meditate on
thefe, and foon collected his thoughts, and found that
thofe French orators were right without knowing it ;
and that l/lafoury was
pure natural religion and univer-
fal citizenfhip, and that this was alfo true
Chriftianity.
In this Qiith he immediately began his career of Bro-
therly love, and publifhed three volumes of fermons ;
the
~HAP. Io fREE MASONRY. 73
the firft and third publif'ned at Frankfort, and the fe ..
ccnd at Heidelberg, tut without his nan1e. He pub--
li.i11ed alfo a popular fyften1 qf religion. In all thefe
publications, of \Vhich there are extraCts in the R_eligions
Begebenheiten, Chriftianity is confldered as a n1ere alle-
gory, or a Mafonic type of natural religion; the moral
puties are fpun int9 the comn1on- place declan1ations of
univerfal benevolence; and the attention is continuallv
direEt.ed to th~ abfurdities and horrors· of fuperftitio~,
the fuffcrings of the poor, the tyranny and oppreffion
of the great~ the tricks of the priefts, and the indolent
fin1 plicity and patience of the laity and of the ;con11non
people. The happinefs of the patriarchal life, and
fweets of uni verfal equality and freedo1n, are the bur-
den of every paragraph ; :1nd the general tt il]r of the
~vhole is to n1ake n1en difcontented with their condi...
tion of civil fubordinacion, and the ref~raints of reveal-
ed religion. ,
All the proceedings of Knigge in t.he Mafonic fcbifn1s
fhoyv that he vvas a zealous apoftle of co1[no- po1itifm,
and that he was continua1ly dealing wi[h people in the
Lodges who were affiJciated vvith him in propagating
thofe notiof?s among the Brethren; fo that v.;e are cer-
tain that filch converfations were comn1on in the Ger-
n1an.Lodges.
vVhen the reader confiders all thefe circumftances,
he will abate of that furprife which naturally affects a
Briton, \Vhen he reads accounts of conventions for dif-
cuffing and fixing the dogrnatic tenets of Free rvia-
fonry. rrhe perfeCt freedorn, civil and religious,
which we enjoy in this.happy country, being familiar
to every man, we indulge it \Vith calrnnefc; and rnode-
ration, and ferret aflernblirs harciiy difTer frnn1 the
cotnmon meetings of friends and neigh b8urs. 'l-le do
notJt)rget the expediency of civi1 fubordination, and
of thofe difi:inB:ions \vhich arife fron1 fccure poileflion
K of
QHAP, L, FREE MASONRY.
the firil and third publifhed at Frankfort, and the fe-
cond at Heidelberg, but without his name. He pub-
lifhed allo a
popular fyllem of religion. ln all thefe
publications, of which there are extracts in the Religions
Begcéezz/aszfefz, Chrillianity is coniidered as a mere alle-
gory, or a Nlafonic type ofnatural religion; the moral
duties are
fpun into the common»p]_ace declamations of
univerfal benevolence; and the attention is continually
directed to the abfurdities and horrorsof fuperltition,
the ftiidferings of the poor, the tyranny and opprellion
of the great, the tricks ofthe priefts, and the indolent
limplicity and patience of the laity and of theponimon
people. The happinefs of the patriarchal life, and
fvveets of univerfal equality and freedom, are the bur-
den of every paragraph ; and the general tcnfir of the
Whole is to make men difcontented with their condi~
tion of civil fubordination, and the reftraints of reveal~
ed religion. f
All the proceedings of Kniggein t_he l/iafonic fchifms
fhow that he was a zealous apollle of'col`mo- politifm,
and that he was continually dealing with people in the
Lodges who were aflbciated with him in propagating
thofe notions among the Brethren, fo that we are cer»
tain that fuch converfations were common in the Ger-
man_Lodges.
Vlfhen the reader conhders all thefe circumilances,
he will abate of that liirprife which naturally allects a
Briton, when he reads accounts of conventions for dif-
cufhng and fixing the dogmatic tenets of`Free Ma~
fonry. The perfect freedom, civil and religious,
which we
enjoy in thishappy country, being familiar
to every man, we
indulge it with caimnefs and mode-
ration, and ferret allemblies hardly didier lroni the
common
meetings of' 'hiends and neighbours. Vile do
notjorget the cxpediency of civil lizbordination and
_ J 7
of thofe dillinélions W!§ECl1 arile Hom leeure polleilion
li of
1*-
THE SCHISM:; IN CHAP. 1.
•
of our nghts, and the gradual accutnulation of the
co.n1forts of life in the fan1ili~s of the fober and in-
duftrious. Thefe have, by pruJence and a refpeB:a-
ble reconomy, preferved the acquifitions of their an-
ceitors. Every man feels in his O\Vn breaft the firong
call of Olture to procure for himfelf and his chil-
dren, by every honeft and commendable exertion,
the means of public confideration and re Cpett. No
n1an is fo totally without fpirit, as not to think the
bener of his condition \V hen he is cotne of credit-
able parents, and has creditable conntctiocs; and
\\'ithout thinking that he is in any refpect generous, he
prefumes that others have the fame fentiments, and
therefore allows the n1oderate expreffion of them,
\Vithout thinking it infolence or haughtinefs. /1.1l
thefe things are tan1iliar, are not thought of, and we
enjoy then1 as vve enjoy ordinary health, without per-
ceiving it. But in the f.1n1e manner as a young n1an
vvho has been long confined by ficknefs, exults in re-
turning health, and is apt to riot in the enjoyment of
what he fo diftincrly feels; fo thofe who are under
continu~l check in open fociety, feel this emancipa-
tion in thofe hidden affetnblies, and indulge \vith ea-
gernefs in the expreffion of fentitnents which in public
they muft fn1other \Vithin their own breaft. Such
1neetings~ therefore, have a zeft that is very alluring,
and they are frequented with avidity. There is no
country in Europe \vherc this kird of enjoyn1ent is fo
poignant <:s in Germany. Very infignificanr principa-
lities have the fan1e rank in the General Federation
\V1th verv \Xtenfive dominions. The internal confti-
n~tion o(each Fetty flare being 1nodelled in nearly the
1~tn1e n1:;.nncr, the official honours of their little courts
ht·coine lt~ciicrous and even farcical. The Geheim
l-lofrath, the I i 0rr11arefchal, ar.d all the Kammerhers
~r a Prince', V"t'hofe dotninions do not equal the eftatei
of
"ritz sctiisrris IN ¢HAi>.1'.
of our
rights, and the gradual accumulation of the
comforts of life in the families of the fober and in-
dultrious. Theft: have, by prudence and a
refpecta-
ble ceconomy, preferved the acquihtions of their an--
celtors. Every man Feels in his own brealit the ftrong
call of nature to
procure for himfelf and his chil-
dren, by every honeft and commendable exertion,
the means of public conlideration and refpeét. No
man is i`o totally without fpirit, as not to think the
'better of his condition when he is come of credit-
able parents, and has creditable connections; and
without thinking that he is in any refpeft generous, he
prefumes that others have the fame fentiments, and
therefore allows the moderate exprefiion of them,
without thinking it infolence or
haughtinefs. All
thefe things are familiar, are not thought of, and we
enjoy them as we
enjoy ordinary health, Without per-
ceiving it. But in the Qame manner as a
young man
who has been long confined by licknefs, exults in re-
turning health, and is apt to riot in the enjoyment of
what he fo diltincftly feels; fo thofe who are under
continual check in open fociety, feel this emancipa-
tion in thofe hidden affemblies, and indulge with ea-
gernels in the expreliion of fentiments which in public
they mutt frnother within their own breaft. Such
meetings, therefore, have a Zell; that is very alluring,
and they are
frequented with avidity. There is no
country in Europe where this kind of enjoyment is fo
poignant as in Germany. Very inhgnificant principa-
lities have the fame rank in the General Federation
with very efatfnlive dominions. The internal confli~
tution ofeach petty ilate being modelled in nearly the
ilime manner, the oflicial honours of their little courts
become lntiicfrnus and even farcical. The Geheim
iilofrath, the Eiofmarefclial, and all the Kammerhers
eta Prince, whofe dotninions do not equal the
eiltatei
'
o
~HAP. 1. FREE MASONRY. 75
of many Engliih Squires, caufe the \Vhole to appear
like the play of children, and 1nuft give frequent oc-
cafion for difcontent and ridicule. Mafon Lodges even
keep this alive. The fraternal equality profeffed in
them is very _flattering to d:ofe who have not fucceed-
ed in the fcram ble for civil diftincrions. Such perfons
become the n1oft zealous M afons, and generally ob-
tain the active offices in the· Lodges, and have an op-
portunity of treating with authority perfons whom in
public fociety they n1uft look up to with fotne re!peCt..
Thtfe confiderations account, in fome n1eafure, for
the itnportance which Free Mafonry has 'acquired in
Gennany. For a long vvhile the hopes of learning
fome wonderful fecret n-lade a Gerrnan Baron think no-
thing of long and expenfive journies in queft of fome
ne\V degree. Of late, the cofn1o-political doctrines
encouraged and propagated in the LodgesJ and fome
hopes of producing a Revolution in fociery, by which
n1en oftalents fhould obtain the management of public
affairs, feem to be the caufe 9f all the zeal with \Vhich
the order is ftill cheriihed and promoted. In a perio-
dical ,work, publifhed at N euwied, called Algemein
Zeitung der Freyrnaurerey, \Ve have the lift of the Lodgts
in 1782, with the nan1es of the Office-bearers. Four-
fifths of rhefe are clergymen, profeifors, perfons hav-
ing offices in the com1non law-courts) n1en of letters
by trade, fuch as reviewers and journalifts, and other
pamphleteers; a clafs of men, ·who generally think
that they have not attained that rank in fociety to
which thtir talents entitle the~) and imagine that they
could difcharge the important offices of the flare \Vith
reputation to themfelv~s and advantage to the public.
The miferable uncertainry and inftability of the rv1a-
fonic fairh, which I dtfcribed above, was not altoge-
ther the efteEt of 1nere chance, hut had been greatly
accelerated by the machinations of Baron Knigge, and
forne
EI-IAP. I. FREE 'MASO'NRY.
of many Engliih Squires, caufe the whole to
appear
like the play of children, and muft give frequent oc-
cafion for difcontent and ridicule. Mafon Lodges even
keep this alive. The fraternal equality profelfed in
them is veryflattering to thofe who have not fucceed-
ed in the fcramhle for civil di{lin&ions. Such perfons
become the moft zealous Mafons, and generally ob-
tain the active offices in the' Lodges, and have an
op-
portunity of treating with authority perfons whom in
public fociety they mult look up to with fome refpeft,
Thefe connderations account, in fome meafure, for
the importance which Free Mafonry has acquired in
Germany. For a
long while the hopes of learning
fome wonderful fecret made a German Baron think no-
thing oflong and expenhve journies in quell of forne
new
degree. Of late, the cofmo-political doftrines
encouraged and propagated in the Lodges, and fome
hopes of producing .a Revolution in fociety, by which
men oftalents Ihould obtain the managementof public
affairs, feem to be the caufe of all the zeal with which
the order is flill cherifhed and promoted. In a
perio-
dical fwork, publilhed at Neuwied, called _/Ylgemein
Zeifwzg derFr@»mrzz¢rerey, we have the lift of the Lodges
in 1782, with the names of the Oflice-bearers. Four-
lifths of thefe are clergymen, profellbrs, perfons hav-
ing oflices in the common law-courts, men of letters
by trade, fuch as reviewers and journalifts, and other
pamphleteers; a clafs of men, who generally think;
that they have not attained that rank in fociety to
which their talents entitle them, and imagine that they
could difcharge the important oflices of the flare with
reputation to themfelves and advantage to the public.
The miferable uncertainty and inliability ofthe Ma-
fonic faith, which I defcribed above, was not
altoge-
ther the elleft of mere chance, but had been greatly
accelerated by the machinations of Baron Knigge, and
fome
'"I'HE SCHISMS IN CHAP. I.
fon1e other' cofn1o-political Brethren ·whom he had
called to his afliflance. l(nigge had now forn1ed a
fche1ne for uniting the yvvhole Fraternity, for the pur-
pofe of promoting his ·lJtopian plan of univerfal bene-
volence in a ftate of liberty and equality. He hoped
to do this more readlly by co1npleting their embarraif-
ment, and fhowing each fyften1 hovv infirn1 its foundation
\vas, and how little chance it had of obtaining a general
adherence. The Striften Objervanz had now completely
loft its credit, by which it had hoped to get the better
of all the reil:. l(nigge therefore propoftd a plan to the
Lodges of Frankfort and W etzlar, by 'vvhich all the fyf-
tems n1ighr, in folne rneafui·e, be united, or at leafr be
brought to a ftate of mutuai forbearance and inter-
courfe. He propofed that the Englifh fyften1 ihould
be taken for the ground- work, and to receive all and
only thofe "vho h;ld taken the three 1}rmbolical degrees,
as they \Vere nO\V generally called. After thus guard-
ing this general point of faith, he propofed to allow
the validity of every degree or rank which fhould be
received in any, Lodge, or be made the charac(er of
any particular fyfte1n. Thefe Lodges having fecured
the adherence of fevera! others, brought about a ge~
neral convention at Vvillemibad in I--Iainault, where
every different fyften1 fhould communicate its peculiar
tenets. It v.ras then hoped, that after an examination
of them all) a conftitution n1ight be forr11ed, \V hich
ihould cotnprehend every thing that was n1oft \Vorthy
of [election, and therefore be far better than the ac-
con1n1odaring fyitem already defcribed. By this he
hoped to get his favourite fchen1e introduced into the
\vhole Order, and Free Iviafc)ns made zealous Citizens
of the \\7
orld. I helieve he was fin cere in thefe in-
tentions, and did not wifh to di!lurb the public peace.
The convention \vas accordingly held, and lafted a
long
75 THE scnisi/is IN CHAP. I.
'fome other cofmo-political Brethren whom he had
called to his aiiillance. Knigge had now formed a
fcheme for uniting the whole Fraternity, for the pur-
pofe of promoting his"Utopian plan ofuniverfal bene-
volence in a [tate ofliberty and equality. He hoped
to do this more
readily hy completing their embarralf-
ment, and lhowing each fyiliem how inhrniits foundation
was, and how little chance it had of obtaining a
general
adherence. The tS`!:fi¢'E'en O./%rfz:anz had now
completely
loft its credit, by which it had hoped to
get the better
of all the reft. Knigge therefore propofed a
plan to the
Lodges ofFranl<fort and Wetzlar, by which all the fyf-
tems
might, in fome meafure, be united, or at lea{'t be
brought to a ftate of mutual forbearance and inter-
courle. He propofed that the Englifh fylteni fhould
be taken for the ground-work, and to receive all and
only thofe who had taken the three lymbolical degrees,
as
they were now
generally called. After thus guard-
ing this general point of faith, he propofed to allow
the validity of every degree or ranlc which fhould be
received in any`Lodge, or be made the character of
any particular fyltem. Thefe Lodges having fecured
the adherence of feveral others, brought about a
ge=-
neral convention at Y/Villemlbad in Hainault, where
every different fyflem Hnould communicate its peculiar
tenets. It was then hoped, that after an examination
of them all, a conftitution might be formed, which
Ihould comprehend every thing that was nioft worthy
of felection, and therefore be far better than the ac-
commodating fvilem already defcribed. By this he
hoped to
get his favourite fchenie introduced into the
whole Order, and Free l/Iaibns made zealous Citizens
of the 'World I believe he was hncere in thele in-
tentions, and did not wifh to diilurh the public peace.
The convention was accordingly held, and lafted a
.»
long
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
77
long while, the deputies confulting about the frivoli-
ties of Mafonry, ·with all the ferioufnefs of fiate am-
baffadors. But there 'Vas great fhynefs in their cotn-
munications , and Knigge \Vas making but fmall pro-
grefs in his plan, when he met with another Maf()n,
the I\1arguis of Conflanza, \Vho in an inftant convert-
ed him, and changed all his n1eafures, by ihowing hin1
that he (Knigge) vv'as only doing by halves what was
already accon1pliihed by another Society, \vhich had
carried it to its full extent. They imn1ediately fet
about undoing \Vhat he had been occupied \Vith, and
heightened as much a5 they could the diiTentions al-
ready fufficiently great, and, in the mean time, got
the Lodges of Frankfort and W etzlar, and feveral
·others, to unite, and pick out the befi. of the things
they had obtained by the communications from the
other fyften1s, and they forn1ed a plan of what they
called, the Eclec?ic cr ...\_)!!critic Jvitzjonry of the United
Lodges of Gennany. 1 hey compofed a conftitution.,
ritual, and catechi1in, \vhich has merit, and is indeed
the con1plereft body of Free rv1afonry that we have.
·Such \Vas the ftate of this celebrated and myr~erious
Fraternity in Germany in I 776. The fpirit of inno-
VZltion had feized all the Brethren. No rnan could
give a tolerable account of the origin, hifrory, or ob-
jeEt of the Order, and it appeared to all as a loH: or
forgotten my!l:ery. The fy n1 bols feerned to be equal-
ly fufceptible ofevery inrerpn~tation, and none of thefe
feen1ed entitled to any decided preference.
CI-Ii\P.
CHAP. I. FREE MASONRY.
long while, the deputies confulting about the frivoli-
ties of l`/lafonry, with all the 1`erioui`nel`s of [tate am-
baffadors. But there was
great fhynefs in their com-
munications , and Knigge was
making but fmall pro-
grefs in his plan, when he met with another Maliin,
the hlarquis of Conflanza, who in an inftant convert-
ed him, and changed all his meafures, by fhowing him
that he (Knigge) was only doing by halves what was
already accomplifhed by another Society, which had
carried it to its full extent.
They immediately fer;
about undoing what he had been occupied with, and
heightened as much as
they could the dilfentions al-
ready fufliciently great, and, in the mean time, got
the Lodges of Frankfort and Wetzlar, and leveral
others, to unite, and pick out the befl of the things
they had obtained by the communications from the
other iylltems, and they formed a
plan of what they
called, the Er!eé?ic cr byfzcrific fvfkwnry gf 1/be Uifiied
Loc/ge; of Germany. 'l hey compofed a conftitution,
ritual, and catechiiin, which has merit, and is indeed
the completeit body of Free Mafonry that we have.
'Such was the flute of this celebrated and myllterious
Fraternity in Germany in 1776. The fpirit of inno-
vation had feized all the Brethren. No man could
give a tolerable account of the origin, hiftory, or ob-
ject of the Crder, and it appeared to all as a loft or
forgotten myftery. The fymbols feemed to be equal-
ly fufceptible ofevery interpr<~-tation, and none of theft:
feerned entitled to any decided preference.
C H A P.
,.
I . [ 7t) ]
C H .A. P. II.
I HAVE now arrived at vvhat I !bould call the great
epoch of Cofmo-politiCn1, rhe fc!1en1e com1nunicated
to Baron Knigge by the Marcheje di Conflanza. 'rhis
obliges n1e to n1ention ~ rcn1arkable Lodge of the
EcleCtic l'v1afonry, erecl~d at :rv1unich in Bavaria in
I 775, t1nder the \Vodhipful MaH:er, Profelfor Baader.
1t vvas called 1/Je Lodge 1'heodcxe if Good CouJ!fel. It
had its conftitutional p::ttent fi·on1 the Royal ··~(ork at
Berlin, but had formed a particular fyftem of its own,
by infi:ruEtions fron1 the Loge des Che..valitrs Bienfaifants
at Lyons, vvith \vhich it kept tlp a correfpondence.
,.rhis refped: to the Lodge at Lyons had arifen ti·orn
the preponderance acq.uired in general by the Fre.nch
party in the convention at \Villemibad. The depu-
·ries of the Rofaic Lodges, as \Vell as the ren1ains of
the Ten1plars, and Strillen Oijervauz, all looking up
to this as the n1otht>r Lodge of \Vhat they called the
Grand Orient de la F'rance, confifl:ing in (in 1782) of
266 improved Lodges united under the D. de Cbcrt;~es.
Accordingly the I.-.odge at l~yons fent Mr. ·vv·iler-
tnooz as deputy to this convention at \Villemibad.
Refining gradually on the fin1ple Britifu rviafonry, the
I..oclge had fonned a jyften1 of praCI~ic3.l tnoraliry,
which it 8ifc:rted to be the ai1n of genuine l\!Iafonry,
f:1ying,
[78 l
CHA P. it.
The LlZazm;`1zrz!z`.
'
I HAVE now arrived at what I fhould call the great
epoch of Cofmo-politilin, the fcheme communicated
to Baron Knigge by the Ma1'rbg@ :li Cwg#a1z:zrz. This
obliges me to mention .1 remarkable Lodge of the
Eclectic Mafonry, erected at l"»/Iunich in Bavaria in
1775, under the Worlhipful Mailer, Profeffor Baader.
It was called The Lodge Theodore qt" Goof! Ccmjel. It
had its conditutional patent from the Royal York at
Berlin, but had formed a
particular fyltem of its own,
by inltruétions from the Lagc ds; Cbwalisrr Biezyfrzéfrzws
at Lyons, with which it kept up a
coi°1°el`pondencc.
This refpecft to the Lodge at Lyons had arifcn from
the preponderance acquired in general by the French
party in the convention at 'Villemlbad. The depu-
ties of the Rolaic Lodges, as well as the remains of
the Tcmplars, and þÿStri¢ ¬"e1z
Oé/`??"L'EiZZ, all looking up
to this as the mother Lodge oi' what they called the
Gm2m'Orie1zt de Za Fmzzre, conhlling in (in 1782) of
266 improved Lodges united under the D. dt' Chartres.
Accordingly the Lodge at Lyons fent Mr. V/'iler-
mooz as
deputy to this convention at Villemfbad.
Refining gradually on the Emple Britifh Mafonry, thc
Lodge had formed a
iyltem of praélcical morality,
which it ailerted to he the aim ofgenuine l/lalbnry,
faying,
~HAP. It. THE ILLUMINATI. 79
faying, that a true mafon, and a m2n of upright heart
~nd aB:ive virtue, are fynonimous charaCters, and that
the great aim of Free Mafonry is to promote the hap-
pinefs of n1ankind by every mean in our power. ln
purfuance of thefe principles, the I..Aodge Theodore
profeffedly occupied itfelf with reconomical, ftatifti-
cal, and political matters; and not only publiThed
from titne to time difcourfes on fuch fubjeEts by the
Brother Orator, but the Members confidered them-
felves as in duty bound to propagace and inculcate the
fame doCtrines out of doors.
Of the zealous men1bers of the Lodge Theodore
the n1ofi: confpicuous \vas Dr. Adam \Vei.fhaupt, Pro-
fe{for of Canon Lav1 in the U niverfity of Ingolfi:adt.
rf his perfon had been educated arBong the Jefuits ;
but the abolition of their order made him change his-
o
views, and from being their pupil, he became their
moft bitter ene1ny. He had acquired a high reputa-
tion in his profeffion, and was attended not only by
thofe intended for the praCtice in the 1avv-courts, but
alfo by young gentletnen at large in their courfe of ge-
neral education; and he brought numbers from
the neighbouring fiates to this univerfity, and gave a
ton [O the ftudies of ·the place. He embraced with
great keennefs this opportunity ·of fpreading the favo-
rite doCtrines of the Lodge, and his auditory became
the feminary of Cofmo-politifm. The engaging pic-
tllres of the poffible felicity of a fociety \Vhere every
office is held by a man of talents and virtue, and \vhere
every talent is iet in a place fitted for its exertion, for-
cibly catches the generous and unfufpeEt:ing tninds of
youth, Jnd in a l<.on1an Catholic ftate, far advanced
~n the habits of grofs fuperfl:ition (a charaCter given to
Bavaria by its neighbours) and abounding in n1onks
and idle dignitaries, the opportunities muft be frequent
for obfer~;ing the inconfiderate dominion of the clergy,
and
-t
QHAP, rl. THE ILLUMINATI.
79
faying, that a true mafon, and a man of upright heart
and aftive virtue, are fynonimous charaiters, and that
the great aim of Free Mafonry is to promote the hap-
pinefs of mankind by every mean in our power. In
purfuanee of thefe principles, the Lodge Theodore
profeffedly occupied itfelf with oeconomieal, itatifti-
eal, and political matters, and not only publilhed
from time to time difcourfes on fuch liibjetfts by the
Brother Orator, but the Members conlidered them-
lelves as in duty bound to propagate and inculcate the
fame doctrines out of doors.
Of' the zealous members of' the Lodge Theodore
the moft confpicuous was Dr. Adam Veifhaupt, Pro-
feilfor of Canon Lawin the Univeriity of Ingollliadt.
This perhm had been educated among the _Iefuits ;
but the abolition of their order made him change his
views, and from being their pupil, he became their
moft bitter enemy. He had acquired a
high reputa-
tion in his profellion, and was attended not only by
thofe intended for the pratftice in the law_courts, but
alfo by young gentlemen at
large in their courfe of ge-
neral education; and he brought numbers from
the neighbouring ltates to this univerhty, and gave a
me to the ftudies of 'the place. He embraced with
great keennefs this opportunity"of` fpreading the favo-
rite doéltrines of the Lodge, and his auditory became
the feminary of Cofmo-politifm. The engaging pic-
tures of the pomble felicity ofa fociety where every
ofhce is held by a man of talents and virtue, and where
every talent is let in a
place Fitted for its exertion, for-
cibly catches the generous and unfufpecfting minds of
youth, and in a Roman Catholic ltate, far advanced
in the habits ofgrofs fuperltition (a cliaracler given to
Bavaria by its neighbours) and abounding in monks
and idle dignitaries, the opportunities muPt be frequent
for oblerving the inconhderate dominion of the clergy,
and
So THE JLLU!viiNATI., CffAP.. II.,
and the abjeCt and i~dolent fubmiffion of the laity.
.f-'-ccordingly "
Profeifor Weifhaupt f~ys, in his ..A.po-
logy, for Illum~natifm, that Deift,TI, Infidelity, and
Athe~fm are more prevalent in Bavaria than in any
country he was acquainted with. Difcourfes, there-
fore, in \vhich the abfurdiry and horrors of fuperfri-
tion 3:nd fpiritual tyranny \Vere frrongly painted, could
not fail of making a deep impreffion. .A..nd during
this ftate of the minds of the auditory the tranfition to
general infidelity and irreligion is fo eafy, and fo 1nvit-
ing to fanguine youth, pron1pted perhaps by a latent
'villi that the reftraints vvhich religion impofes on the
expeCtant~ of a future ftate n1ightJJe found, on enquiry,
to be nothing but groundlefs terrors, that I imagine it
requires the moft anxious care of the public teacher
to keep the n1inds of his :.tudienc~ inlpreffed with the
reality and in1portance of the great truths of religiof!,
while he frees them from the fl1ackles of blind and ab-
furd fuperftition. I fear that rhis celebrated inftruB:or
had none of this anxiety, but \Vas fatisfied with his
great fuccefs in the laft p~rt of this t~fk, the emancipa-
tion of his young hearers from the terrors of fuperftition ..
I fuppofe alfo that this \Vas the n1ore agreeable to hin1,
as it procured hin1 the triun1ph over the Jefuits, with
\vhon1 he had long ftruggled for the direction of the
univerfity.
This \vas in I 777. \~Ttiihaupt had long been
fchen1ing the eftablifh1nent of an i\.ffc;ciation or Order,
l oh • o J1 ,l T 11 II" fi(l
\V 11c , 111 t1n1e, H10UK govern tl1e v:onu. n nts nt
fervour and high expeCtations, he hinted to feveral
Ex-Jefuits the probability cf their recovering, under
a new nan1e, the inHu~nce \vhich tLey forn1erly pof-
feffed, and of being again of grc t fervice to fociety,
by direCting the education of youth of diftinB:i on, r.ow
emancipC:tttd fron1 all civil and rt1ig1ous prejudices.
l-Ie prevailed on fon1e to join hin.1) but thty all r~tn1C-
ttd
So THE -ILLUMINATI. 1
craara. 11.
and the abject and indolent liihmiliion of the laity.
Accordingly Profeifor Weifhaupt lays, in his Apo-
logy for Illuminatifm, that Deilin, Infidelity, and
Atheifm are more
prevalent in Bavaria than in any
country he was
acquainted with. Difcourfes, there-
fore, in which the abfurdity and horrors of fuperlli-
tion and fpiritual tyranny were
ftrongly painted, could
not fail of making a
deep imprefiion. And during
this flate of the minds of the auditory the traniition to
general infidelity and irreligion is fo eafy, and fo invit~
ing to
fanguine youth, prompted perhaps by a latent
wifh that the reltraints which religion impofes on the
expeélants ofa future llate mightbe found, on
enquiry,
to be nothing but groundlefs terrors, that l imagine it
requires the rnoft anxious care of the public teacher
to keep the minds of his audience iniprefled with the
reality and importance of the great truths ofreligion,
while he frees them from the lhacltles of blind and ab~
furd fuperllition. I fear that this celebrated inftruélor
had none of this anxiety, but was fatisfied with his
greatliiccefs in the lair part ofthis taflz, the emancipa-
tion ofhis young hearers horn the terrors of lixperftition.
I fuppofe alfo that this was the more
agreeable to him,
as it procured him the triumph over the jefuits, with
whom he had lonv Ilruffoled for the direclion of the
_
D ::>:
L
univerlity.
This was in 1777. Vifeifhaupt had long been
fcheming the eftablifhment oiian Aiibciation or Order,
which, in time, fhoulcl govern the world. ln his Hril;
fervour and high expe&ations, he hinted to l`everal
Ex-Jefuits the probability of their recovering, under
a new name, the influence which they formerly poll
feifed, and of being again of great iervice to fociety,
by directing the education oii`youth oftiiitiziétioii, now
emancipated from all civil and religious prejudices.
He prevailed on fome tojoin him, but they all retrac-
ted
CHAI". II. THE ILLUMINATI,. 81
ted but two. After this difappointn1ent VVeiihaupt
became the implacable enen1y o( the Jefuits; and his
fanguine temper rnade him frequently lay hin1fclf open
to their piercing eye, and drt\V on hi 111 ,their keeneft
refentment, and 8.t laft m~HJe him the \'iEtim of their
ennllty.
The Lodge 1""'heodore was the place vvhere the
above-mentioned doEtrines were n1oft zealouf1y propa-
gated. But \Veifhaupt's en1iffarir.s had already pro-
cured the adhertnce ·of n1any other I.~odges; and the
EcleCtic l\1afonry h2d been brourrht into VO!!Ue chi~fl)'
,, 0
by their exertions at the \Villen1 f:YlJ con vcnt i~) n. The
L.odge Theodore v\"1S !"'11_,erhaps lels fl"lL!rded in irs rna-
c...... .. 0 1
ceedings, for it becarne rernarkable i~)r the very bold
fentin1ents in politics and rtligion v;hich \Vere fre-
quentJy uttered in their h~~rangues; and its n1embers
\Vere noted f~')r their zt:al in n1:1king profelytt5. lVIany
bitter pa fquinades, f:.uire s, and other offe n!i ve pan1-
phltts were in fe\rtt circulacion, and tven larger works
of very dangerous tendency, and feveral of them \Vere
traced to that Lodge. The Elec1or often exprefl.i::d
his dii~pprobation of fuch proceedings, and fent them
kind tT1ciT:1ges, ci~ f1 ring the m to be carefu1 no t to dif-
' l ,.h ....l • 11
turn tne peace or L:: country, anu p~rncu1ar y to re-
colleCt the folernn ceclaratio!'l. n1ade to every entrant
into the Fraternity of Free fv1afons, cc That no fu~Jjecc
" of religion or politics fhal] ever be touched on in
'·' the l~c;dge ;" ~l clec;ar:uion vd:ich alone could have
procured his perrniffion of any fccret af1er11bly \Vhat-
ever, ~nd on the flnctrity ~n~1 hqnour of which he had
1 · '
1
, • F o.· 1... • n . ,.11
reCiZ.On(~ci wnen 1~ Q"lV~ .1:s Ll:lCLiOn to t1.e1r e.L~Oll1!1-
o
H1t'!1 t. But . repez~tc d accounts or the Lune kind in-
creafed the alanns, 2.nJ the l:~lr-Ctor ordered a judici1!
enquiry into the proceedings of the Lodge 1'htcdore.
Ic was then dif(.,:Jv:: red that ;:hi; J nd fe vtral afF)ci i.lttd
I O'~rr,_,s ·ver-.... r~l!~ r.~>r !~>,- ., r)r nr,..,: ,·)~· ~·r·l · 'n _i:'.h•
.ool T
1
:ot· .'ln-
~ "'-•t"")'- t ' , . L I •· ' • ' " ' • • } . ' t ~ t ~" • ::.1. " .•, - • •
L o:l1e r
cHAz=. ri. THE ILLUMINATI. 81
ted but two. After this difappointment Vfeilhaupt
became the implacable enemy of the Iefuits; and his
fanguine temper made him frequently lay hinifelfopen
to their piercing eye, and drew on him their lceenelt
refentment, and at laflt made him the victim of their
enmity.
'
The Lodge Theodore was the place where the
above-mentioned doctrines were moft zealoufly propa»
gated. But Neil`haupt's CHim{I`iCTS had already pro-
cured the adherence "of many other Lodges; and the
Ecledtic Mafonry had been brought into vogue chieliy
by their exertions at the Vilillenillnad convention. The
Lodge Theodore was
perhaps leii; g_§u;trded in its pro-
ceedings, for it became rernrnlcnhie hir the very bold
fentiments in politito and religion which were
fre-
quentiy uttered in their hz1ran§;ues5 and its members
were noted for their zeai in making profelyteo. Iviany
bitter palduinades, ittircs, and other offenlive pam-
phlets were in ferret circulation, and even
larger works
of very dangerous tendency, and feveral of them were
traced to that Lodge. The Elector often expr-eflaed
his clillapprohation of lizch proceedings, and fent them
kind nuelhges, dehring them to he czirehil not to dif_
turh the peace of the country, and particularly to re~
colleet the folemn declaration made to
every entrant
into the Fraternity of ifree i"»/I;1fons,
"
That no
](lliUjCa'_
"
of religion or
politics ilzall ever he touched on in
'F the Lodgef' ;i deciarntion which alone could have
procured his permiffion of' any fecret ufiemhly what*
ever, and on the lincerity and honour ol' which he had
reckoned when he gave his lnnftion to their e@;:ahlilh~
ment.
Butrepeated arcounts ol" the iirme kind in~
creafed the alarms, and the Eimior ordered a
judicial
enquiry into the proceedings of the Lodge Theodore.
It was then difcove red thar this and feversil alincintcd
Lodges were the þÿE&} ¬'iif!"/
or
;>rer»;trati~t>n Fchool for :rn-
L other
THE lLLUlVIINATI. CHAP. I!.
other Order of rv1afons, who called thcmfelves the
ILL u~u N ATED, and that the cxprefs aim of this Order
\Vas to aboliih Chriftianity, and overturn all civil go--
vernment. Bur the refult of the enquiry was very im-
p·erfect and unfatisfaB:ory. l~o illuminati \vere to be
found. They were unkno\vn in the Lodge. Son1e
of the men1bers occafionally heard of certain candi-
dates for illu1nination called MINERVALS, ';vho \Vere
fomerirnes feen an1ong them. But whether rhefe had
been admitted, or 'vho received the1n, \Vas kno\vn
only to then1felves. Son1e of thefe were exan1ined in
private by the EleCl:o'r hin1felf. They faid that they
"\vere bound by honour to fecrecy: But they affured
the Elector, on their honour, that the ain1 of the Or-
tier \vas in the higheft degree praife-worrhy, and ufe-
ful both to church and fiate. But this could not allay
the ~nxiety of the profane public; and it \Vas repeat-
edly ftated to the EleCtor, that men1bers of the Lodge
'"fheodore had unguardedly fpoken of this Order as
one that in tin1e muft rule the world. He therefore
iifued an order forbidding, during his pleafure, all fe-
cret aiTen1blies, and fhutting up the Mafon Lodges.
It was not n1e~nt to be rigoroufly enforced, but \vas
intended as a trial of the deference of thefe Affociations
for civil authority. Thet Lodge -Theodore difi:in-
guifhed itfelf by pointed oppofition, continuing its
1neetings; and the members, out of doors, openly re,-
probated the prohibition as an abfurd and unj uftifiable
tyranny.
In the beginning of J:783, four profeffors of the
Marianen Acaderny, founded by the \vido\v of the late
FJeftor, viz. Utfchneider, Coffandey, Renner, and
Grunberger, \Vith t\VO other~, \Vere fummoned before
the Court of Enquiry, and qutftioned, on their ~dle­
giance, refpeCting the Order of the Illuminati. They
a,cknowledged that they belonged to ir, and \vhen
n1ore
S2 THE 1LLuM1NA"r1. CHAP. rt.
other Grder of I`/Iafons, who called themfelves the
ILLUMINATED, and that the exprefs aim of this Order
was to aboliih Chriitianity, and overturn all civil go-~
vernment. But the refult ofthe enquiry was
very im-r
perfedt and unfatisfaftory. No illuminati were to be
found. They were unknown in the Lodge. Some
of the members occalionally heard of certain candi-
dates for illumination called MINEP.VALS, who were
fometimes feen among them. But whether thefe had
been admitted, or who received them, was known
only to themfelves. Some of thefe were examined in
private by the iileetdr himfelf They faid that they
were bound by honour to
fecrecy: But they affured
the Eletftor, on their honour, that the aim of the Or-
der was in the higheft degree praife-worthy, and ufe-
ful both to church and ftate. But this could not
allay
the anxiety ofthe profane public, and it was repeat-
edly Ftated to the Eleelzor, that members of the Lodge
Theodore had unguardedly fpoken of this Order as
one that in time mufr rule the World. He therefore
iifued an order forbidding, during his pleafure, all le-
eret affemblies, and fhutting up the Mafon Lodges.
It was not meant to be rigorouiiy enforced, but was
intended as a trial of the deference of thefe Aliociations
for civil authority. The Lodge »Theodore diftin-
guifhed itlelf by pointed oppoiition, continuing its
meetings; and the members, out ofdoors, openly re,-
probated the prohibition as an abfurd and unjuftiliable
tyranny.
In the beginning of 1783, four profeifors ofthe
l)/Iarianen Academy, founded by the widow ofthe late
Eleetor, viz. Utlchneider, Coffandey, Renner, and
Grunberger, with two others, were furnmoned before
the Court of Enquiry, and queliioned, on their alle-
giance, refpeéting the Order ofthe Illuminati. They
aclanowledged that they belonged to it, and when
more
CHAP. If. THE ILLUMINATI.
n1ore clofely ex~1mined, they related feveral circum ..
ftances of its coniti[ution and principles. Their de-
clarations \Vere in1mediateJy publiihed, and \vere very
unfavourable. 'fhe Order was faid to abj nre ChriH:i...
anity, and to refufe adrniffion into the higher degret£
to all \Vho adhered to any of che three confeffions.
Senfual pleafures were reftored to the rank they held
in the Epicurean philofophy. Self-n1urder \Vas jufti-
fied on Stoical principles. In the Lodges death was
declared an eternal fleep; patriotifm and loyalty were
called narro\v-minded prejudices, and incompatible
with univerfal benevolence; continual declamations
'vere 1nade on liberty and equality as the unalienable
rights of 1nan. The baneful infi._Ience of accun1ulated
property \Vas declJred an infurmountable obftticle to
the happinefs of any nation whofe chief la\vs wen~
framed for iLs proteCtion and increafe. Nothing \Vas
fo frequently difcourfeq of as the propriety of en1ploy-
ing, for a good purpofe, the tneans which the wick~d
etnployed for evil purpofes; snd it \Vas taught, that
the preponderancy of good in the ultimate refult con-
fecrated every mean employed; and that \vifaotn and
virtue confi{led in properly determining this balance.
This appe~red big with danger, becaufe it feen1ec1
evident that nothing \vould be fcrup!ed at> if it could
be made appear that the Order would derive advantaae
from it, becaufc the great object"of the Order \Vas h~ld
as fuperior to every confider~;tion. They concluded
by faying that the n1ethod of education made them all
fpies on each other and on all around them. But all
this was denied by the Illuminati. Some of thefe te ..
nets \Vtre faid to be abfolutely falfe; and the reft \Vere
faid to be miftakes. The apoftate profeffors had ac-
kno\vledged their ignorance of tnany things. Two of
them \vere only IVIinervals, another \Vas an Illun1inatus
of the loweft clafs, and t~e fourth \Vas but one fieD
flr~1e~r
caan. II. Tris iLLUM1NA'r1. 33
more cloiely examined, they related feveral circum-
ltances of its conltitution and principles. Their de-
clarations were
immediately publifhed, and were
very
unfavourable. The Order was faid to
abjnrc Chrifti-
anity, and to retufe admillion into the higher degrees
to all who adhered to any ot" the three confefhons.
Senliial pleafures were rellored to the rank they held
in the Epicurean philofophy. Self-murder was
julti-
fied on Stoical principles. In the Lodges death was
declared an eternal fleep; patriotifm and loyalty were
called narrow-minded prejudices, and
incompatible
with univerfal benevolence; continual declamations
were made on
liberty and equality as the unalienable
rights of man. The baneful influence of accumulated
property was declared an infnrmountable obllacle to
the happinefs of any nation whofe chief laws were
framed for its proteftion and increafe. Nothing was
fo frequently difcourfed of as the propriety of employ-
ing, for a
good purpofe, the means which the wicked
employed for evil purpofes; and it was
taught, that
the prepontlerancy of good in the ultimate refult con-
iecrated every mean
employed; and that wilrlom and
virtue conhltedin properly determining this balance;
This appeared big with danger, becaule it feemed
evident that nothing would be fcruplecl at, if it could
be made appear that the Order would derive advantage
from it, becaufe the great obiectof the Order was held
as
fuperior to every confideration. They concluded
by faying that the method of education made them all
fpies on each other and on all around them. But all
this was denied by the Illuminati. Some of tbefe te-
nets were faid to be abfolutely falfe; and the re{'t were
faid to be miflaltes. The apoflate profellbrs had ac-
knowledged their ignorance of many things. Two of
them were
only ll/linervals, another was an llluminatus
ofthe loweft clafs, and the fourth was but one lien
fl1I`f]Cif
THE ILLU;.,IINATr. CHAP. II.
farther advanced. P3mphlets appeared _on both fides,
v;itb very litt1e effett. ~fhe EleCtor called before him
one of the fuperiors, a ycn1ng noblen1an, who denied
thofe injurious charzes, and 12.id that they were ready
to lay before his 1-lighnefs their vvholt archives and all
confiitutional papers.
Notvvithftancling all this, the government had re-
ceived fuch an in1preffion of the dangerous tendtncy
of the Order, that the EleCtor iifued another ediB:,
forbidding all hidden ~dfe1nblies; and a third, exprefsly
abolifhing the Order of I1lun1inati. It \~'as followed
by a fearch after their papers. The Lodge Theodore
\Vas irnn1ediately fearched, but none \vere to be found.
They faid now that they burnt them all, as of no ufe,
fince that Order was at an end.
It was no\v difcovered, that \iVeii11aupt \vas the head
and founder of the Order. I-!e \Vas deprived of his
Profeifor's chair, and banifhed from the Bavarian
States; but '-Vith a penunn of 8oo florins, 'Yvhich he
refufed. I-le vvcnt to ]{egenfburgh, on the confines
of S\vitzerland. Two Italians, rhe Marquis Conftanza
and Marquis Sa"·lio11, \Vere a1fo banifbecl, \Vith equal
penfioAs, (about L. 40,) which they accepted. 01:e
Z·wack, a counfellor, holding fotne la\v-office, \Vas
alfo baniihed. Others \ve:-e in1prifoned for (orne tin1e.
W eiiliaupt went aftep.vards in;to the fervice of the D.
of Saxe Gotha, a perfi)n of a ron1antic turn of n1ind,
and \V hom vve fha11 again n1 ee t v;ith. Z 'vack V/ ent
CJ
into the fervice of the Pr. de Sahns, who foon after
had fo great a hand in the diftur!l1ances in Fiolland.
By deftroying the papers, all opportunity was 1oft
for authenticating the innocence and uftfulnefs of tbe
Ordtr. .l\.fter much altercation and paper \var, Vv...eif-
haupt, now fafe in Regeniburg, publifhed an account
of the Order, namely, the account Vlhich was given
t® every Novice in a difcourfe read at his reception.
To
84. THE 1LLUM1:tn't"r". enar. 11.
farther advanced. l'§'amphlets appeared ,on both lides,
with very little ehfeft. The Elector called before him
one of the fuperiors, a
young noblcnian, who denied
thofe injurious Charges, and laid that they were
ready
to lay before his Highnehs their whole archives and all
conftitutional papers.
s
Notwithftanding all this, the government had re-
ceived liuch an
irnpreilion of the dangerous tendency
of the Order, that the þÿlile"(
ifuecl another edifft,
forbidding all hidden arlemblies, and a third, exprefsly
aboliihing the Order of Illuminati. It was followed
by :1 fearch after their papers. The Loclge Theodore
was immediately llearched, but none were to be found.
They faid now that they burnt them all, as of no ufe,
iince that Order was at an end.
It was now difcovered, that `Nei§iaupt was the head
and founder of the Order. He was
deprived of his
Profe{Tor's chair, and baniiihed from the Bavarian
States; but with a
penlion or' 800 ilorins, which he
refufed. He Wcnt to
Regenfburgh, on the conhnes
of Switzerland. Two Italians, the Marquis Conflanza
and l/Iarquis Savioli, were alto baniflzed, with equal
penlions, (about L. 4o,) which they accepted. One
Zvi/ack, a counfellor, holding fome þÿll`iV-OfEC ¬,
was
alfo banilhed. Others were
inipriibned for fome time.
Weifluaupt went afterwards into the fcrvice of the D.
of Saxe Gotha, a
peribn of romantic turn of mind,
and whom we ihall again meet with. Zwaclt went
into the fervice of the Pr. de Salms, who foon after
had fo great a hand in the clillturfbances in Holland.
By deflroying the þÿ})2.'p ¬I'S, all opportunity was loft
for authenticating the innocence and ufefulnefs of the
Order. After much altercation and paper war, `/Veii"-
haupt, now fafein Regenlhnrg, publifhed an account
of the Order, namely, the account which was
given
to every Notfice in a difcourfe read at his reception.
To
CHAP. II. THE !J..LUiv1n~ATI.
To this \Vere added the fcatutes and the rules of pro-
ceeding, as far as the degree of 1!/la;~ina!t!J lvJinur, in-
cluded. This account he affirn1ed to be conformable
to the real praftice of the Order. But this publication
did by no means fatisfy the public mind. It differed
exceedingly frotn the accounts given by the four pro-
feffors. It made no mention of the higher degrees,
\Vhich had been moft blamed by them. Befides, it
was alleged, that it \Vas all a fiCtion, \vritten in order
to lull the fufpicions \vhich had b~en r~ifed (and this
was found to be the cafe, except in refpeCt of the very
loweft degree)~ The real conftitution \vas brought to
Jight by degrees, and fhall be laid before the reader,
in the order in which it was gradually difcovered, that
\ve may th~ better judge of things not fuHy known by
the conduct of the leaders during the detecrion. The
firft account given by \'~'i cifhaup[ is correCt, as far as I
ihall rnake ufe of ir, ~nd fhovvs clearly the methods
that were taken to recomn1end the Order to ftran-
gers.
The Order of ILL UlVPN ATI appears as an accelfory
to Free rviafonry. Ic is in the Lodges of Free 1\tiafons
that the lVIinervals art found1 and there they are pre-
pared for Illun1ination. They 111uft have previouOy ob-
tained the three Engliih degrees. The founder fays more.
l-Ie fays that his doCtrines are the only true Free Mafonry.
He \vas the chiefpron1oter ofthe Eclefiit: SyfienJ. This he
urged as the beft method for getting information of all
-che explanations which have been given of the IV1afonic
Myfteries. He was alia a Strill Objervanz, and an
adept Rofycrucian. The refult of all his knowledge is
worthy of particular re!L1ark, and iball therefore be
given at large.
" I declare,'' fays he, " and I challenge all man-
'' kind to contradict tny declJra~ion, that no man can
" ai ve
0 .
CI-IAP. II. THE ILLUMZNATI.
To this were added the flatutes and the rules of pro-
ceeding, as hir as the degree of]!!zfmi/mm; ]14'i11.or, in~
eluded. This account he allirmed to be conformable
to the real practice ofthe Order. But this publication
did by no means
fatisfy the public mind. It difrered
exceedingly from the accounts
given by the four pro-
feffors. It made no mention of the higher degrees,
which had been moll: blamed by them. Belides, it
was
alleged, that it was all a fiction, written in order
to lull the fufpicions which had been railed (and this
was found to be the cafe, except in refpeél ofthe very
lowefl degree) The real confiitution was
brought to
light by degrees, and fliall be laid before the reader,
in the order in which it was gradually difcovered, that
we
may the better judge ofthings not
fully known by
the Conduflt of the leaders during the detection. The
firfl account given by 'Wcifliiitipt is correét, as &r as I
fhall make ufe of it, and fliovvs clearly the methods
that were taken to recommend the Order to Ftran-
gers.
The Order of ILLUMINATI appears as an
accclfory
to Free Nlafonry. It is in the Lodges of Free l/Iafons
that the l/Iinervals are found, and there they are
pre-
pared for Illumination. They mud have previoufly ob-
tained the three Englilli degrees. The founderfays more.
He lays thathisdoéirines are the only true Free Mafonry.
He was the chiefpromoterofthe Ec!eéI'fcSy/36712. This he
urged as the belt method for getting information of all
the explanations which have been given of the l/laionic
l/lyfteries. I-Ie was all`o a Siric? O@»r°wz11z, and an
adept Rofycrucian. The refult of all his knowledge is
worthy of particular remark, and Fnall therefore be
given at
large.
"
Ideclare," lays he,
"
and I challenge all man-
"
kind to contradiit my declaration, that no man can
i
Cf
86 THE 1LLUMfNAT1. CHAP. 11.
" ;
?:ivc an}r account of the Order of Free r/Lli~nry, of
(( ics origin, of its hiftory, of it5. objeCt, nor any ex-
ec planatio!1 of its n1yfl:eries and fymbols, \vhich does
'' not leave the mind in total uncertainty on all thefe
" points. E.very 1nan is entitled, therefore, to give
" any exp1~nation of the fyn1bols, and any fyl~ern of
'' the doctrines, that he can render palatable. Hence
" have iprung up that variety of fyfi:etns '"' hich for
" t\venty years have divided the Order. The fim ..
'' ple tale of the Englif11, and the fifty degrees of
c' the French, and rhe 1\~nights of Baron I-Iunde, ~re
cc equally authentic, and have equally had the fupport
'' of inteliigent ancl zealous Brethren. 1"'hefe fyH:ems
" are in fact but one. 1-hey have all fprung fron1 the
" Blue Lodge of 1"'hree degrees ; take thefe for their
" ftandard, and found on thefe all the i1nproven1er.1ts
" by which each fytten1 is afterwards fuited to the par-
,, ticular o~jeEt which it keeps in vievf. There is no
'' n1an, nor fyf1:en1, in the \vorld, \vhich can i11ow by
H undoubted fuccefllon that it f11ould ftand :1t the head
'' of the Order. Our ignorance in this particular frets
cc n1e. l)o but co.1fider our i11ort hiftory of I 20 years.
" -vVho 'vill f11o\v n1e the I\1other Lodge ? ~fhofe
cc of London \Ve h~1ve diicovered to be feif-ereCted in
c' 1 7 16. !-..fk for their archives. They te11 you they
" were burnt. 1~hcy have nothing but the \vretched
(! fophiilications of the E,nglifh1nan Anderfon, and
" the Frenchn1an Defaguilliers. \rvhere is the Lodge
" of York, \vhich pretends to the priority, \Vith their
" King Bouden, and the archives that he brought fron1
" the Eafr ? Thefe too are all burnt. V\That is the
" Chapter of Old Aberdeen, and its f-Joly Clericate ?
" bid \Ve not find it unkno\vn, and the :Niafon Lodges
'' there the n1oft ignorant of all the ignorant, gaping
" for inftruEtion fron1 our deputies ? Did \Ve not find
'' rhe fiune thing at I.Jondon ? ·and have not their
. .._ '' tnifiionarie.s
86 THEILLUMINATI. 'Cl-IAP. 11.
give any account ofthe Order of Free M.il`onry, of
its
origin, of its hiltory, of its objeft, nor
any ex-
planation of its mylleries and fymbols, which does
not leave the mind in total uncertainty on all there
points. livery man is entitled, therefore, to
give
any explanation of the fymhols, and any lylleni of
the doftrines, that he can render palatable. Hence
have lprung up that variety of fyllems which for
twenty years have divided the Order. The fim~
ple tale of the Englilh, and the fifty degrees of
the French, and the Knights of Baron I-lunde, are
equally authentic, and have equally had the fupport
ofinteliigent and zealous Brethren. Theie fyltems
are in faet but one. They have all fprung from the
Blue Lodge of Three degrees , take thefe for their
ftandard, and found on thele all the improvements
by which each fvileni is at`tervards fuited to the par-
ticular obieft which it keeps in view. There is no
man, nor
fyllem, in the world, which can fhow by
undouhted fuccellion that it fhould iiand at the head
ofthe Order. Our ignorance in this particular frets
me. Do but conhder our fhort hiltory oflzo years.
--'Vho will fhow me the Mother Lodge? Tholie
of London we have diiicovered to be feif-eree`ted in
1716. _/'tilt for their archives. They tell you they
were burnt. They have nothing but the wretched
fophiiltications of the Iingliflurrian Anderfon, and
the Frenchman Defaguilliers. Vfhere is the Lodge
of York, which pretends to the priority, with their
King Bouden, andthe archives that he brought from
the Ealt? There too are all burnt. Vifhat is the
Chapter oFOld Aberdeen, and its Holy Clerieate?
Did we not End it unknown, and the Nlafon Lodges
there the nioft ignorant of all the ignorant, gaping
for inltrnftion from our
deputies ? Did we not find
the liune thing at London ? 'and have not their
)
"
miflionaries
'Q
CHAP. II. THE I L L U !-.11 !\ATI.
" miffionaries been an1ong us, prying into our myfte-
cc ries, and eager to learn fron1 us what is true Free
(( Mafonry ? It is in vain, theref(ne, to appeal to
" judges; they are no where to be found; all claim
" for thenrielves the fceptre of rhe Order; all indeed
H are On an equal footing. rhey Obt"ained lOllOWerS,
" not fro1n their authenticity> but frorn their condu-
" civenef~ to the end \vhich they propofed, and fron1
" .th~ i1nportance of that end. It is by this fcale that
,, f, 1 d d . l i , .
" we mutt rnea~ure L1e rna an \VJCKec expianattons
c-c of the Rofycrucians, the Exorcifls, and Cab~lifts.
cc Thefe are rejeCted by all good tVIafons, becaufe in-
cc con1parible \vith facial happinefs. Only fuch fyf'cen1s
" as pron1ote this are retained. But alas, they are &111
·'" fadly deficient, becaufe they leave us under the do-
'' tninion of political and religious prejudices; and
cc they are as inefficient as the.,..Qeepy dofe of an ordi-
'' nary iern1on.
'" But I have contrived an explanation which has
" every advantage ; is inviting to ChriH:ians of every
" cotntnunion ; gradually frees then1 fron1 all religious
H prejudices; cultivates the facial virtues; and ani-
'' n1ates them by a great, a feafi ble, andjpeea~y profpecr
" of uni verfal happinefs, in a H-ate of hbtity and nlo-
" ral equality, freed frorn the obftacles which fubordi-
'' nation, rank, and riches, continually throw in our
·" 'vay. l\1y explanation is accurate, and con1plete,
C< mv n1eans are tffecrua1.. 3nd irrefiftible. Our i(cret
- ..
'' i\ifociation works in a \v,:ty that nothing can with...
cc Hand, nnd 'JJU!Il jhrdl_fo::;z le_(rt!e end htljf}·
" This is ~he great oL~jeEt helei out by this /1.ffocia-
cc rion, and the 1neans of attaining it 1~ lllurnination,
'' enlightening the underflanding by the fun of reafon,
" \ V hiCh \V l11 dlfp~} the C10 U dS 0 f fu pt rlt jti0 nand 0 f pre-
" judjce. , 1..he proficients in this Order are rherefore
" juflly n:tn1ed the Il1un}in~ted. .l\nd cf al1 lllun1ina-
v~ tion
----
eHAP.11. THE rLLUMINA'rt. S7
millionaries been among us, prying into our rnylte-
ries, and eager to learn from us what is true Free
Mafonry? It is in vain, therefore, to
appeal to
judges; they are no where to be found; all claim
for themlelves the fceptre of the Order; all indeed
are on an
equal footing. They obtained followers,
not hom their authenticity, but from their condu-
tivencfs to the end which they propofed, and from
_the importance of that end. lt is by this fcale that
we muii meafure the mad and wicked explanations
of the Rolycrucians, the Exorcids, and Cabalifis.
Thelc are
rejefted by all good l`=/laloiis, becaufe in-
compatible with lbcial happinels. Only liicli l`yl`tetris
as
promote this are retained. But alas, they are all
fadly deficient, becaufe they leave us under the do-
minion of political and religious prejudices; and
they are as inefficient as
thegfleepy dole of an ordi-
nary iermon.
"
But I have contrived an
explanation which has
every advantage ; is inviting to Chrillians ofevery
communion , gradually frees them from all religious
prejudices; cultivates the locial virtues; and ani-
mate-s them by a
great, afealible, aiicljjsemfy profpeét
of univerfal happinefs, in a liate oflihcity and mo-
ral equality, freed from the ohftacles which fubordi-
nation, rank, and riches, continually throw in our
way. My explanation is acctemte, and complete,
my means are el:feé`tuaQl,anti irrehhihle. Cntr lt-cret
Ailociation works in a
way that nothino' can with~
liand, and 72'/2L'ii'
fha!! þÿZ' ¬_f"t'Eamz' /f>rfj{_;ii
"
This is the great oljierit held out
hy this ftllocia-
tion, and the means
oliattaining it is lllumination,
enlightening the underliitnding hy the lim ol°real`on,
which will difpel the clouds ol'l`t1perliiti<>i'iand ofpre-
itzdice. _The prohcients in this Order are therefore
jnlily named the lllisnginatetl. And ofall illumina-
"
tion
lt
..__ V
88 M'HE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
" tion which human reafon can give, none is cotnpara-
,, ble to the difcovery of \vhat we are, our l12.[Ure, our
" obligations, vvhat happinefs we are capable of, and
" \Vhar are the means of attaining it. In con1parifon
" \Vith this, the moft brilliant fciences are but an1ufe-
,, n1ents for the id1e and luxurious. To fit n1an by
'' Illumination for aCtive virtue, to engage hitn to it
'' by the ftrongefr n1otives, to render the attainment
" of it e:afy and certain, by finding en1ployment for
'' every talent, and by placing every talent in its pro-
" per fphere of aCtion, f<.1 that all, without feeliAg any
cc extraordinary effort, and in conjunction ·with and
" completion of ordinary bufinefs, fhall urge forward,
'' with united po\vers, the general tafk. This indeed
" '\vill be an en1ployn1ent, fuited to noble natures;
" grand in its yiews, and dtlightful in its exercif~.
" And what is this gc~neral objecl:? THE HAPPINESS
(( OF THE HUMAN RACE. Is it not c1iftrcfling to a
" generous tnincl, after cornternplaring what htnnan
'' narure is capable ol-~ to fee ho'v 1i ttle v:e enjoy ?
c(' \tVhen vVC look at tb:s goodly \vorld, and fee that
" every n~an IJUJ)' be happy, but that the happinefs of
" one depends on the conduct of another; \Vhen \Ve
cc fee the \Vicked fo poY(lerful and the good fo weak ;
" and that it is in vain to ftrive fing1y and alone, againft
'' rhe general current of vice and oppreffion: the wi01
" natura1ly ari fes in the n~ inc1, th ~1 r it were poffi b1e to
" fon11 a durable con1bination of the moil \Vortbv
.J
" pcrfons, \vho ibould work together in ren1oving the
" obflacles to hun1an happincfs, beccrnc terrible to
" the wicked> and give their aid to all the good with-
" out diftinc1:ion, and ihould, by the n1oft povverful
c' means, firil:: fetter, and by fettering, lefic:n vice ;
" n1eans which at the fan1e tin1e fhoultJ prornote virtue,
cc by rendering the inclii1ation to rectitude hitherto fo
feeble,
38 1LLUz»11NAT1. CHAP. H.
tion which human reafon can
give, none is compara-
ble to the difeovery ofwhat we are, our nature, our
obligations, what happinefs we are
capable OQ and
what are the means of attaining it. In eornparifon
with this, the moft brilliant feienees are but znnufe-
ments for the idle and luxurious. To ht man by
illumination for aétive virtue, to
engage him to it
by the Ptrongeit motives, to render the attainment
of it eafy and certain, by finding employment for
every talent, and by placing every talent in its pro-
per ibhere of aetion, lo that all, without feeling any
extraordiniiry eftort, and in eonjunetion with and
completion of ordinary buiinels, fhall urge forward,
with united powers, the general talk. This indeed
will be an
employment, fuited to noble natures,
grand in its ,views, and delightful in its exereile.
"
And whatis this genernlobjeet? THE HAPPINESS
or THE I-IU2»-URN RACE. Is it not
tliltrefiing; to a
generous mind, after eotntemplaring; what human
nature is Capable ol, to lee how little we
enjoy?
'When we look at this goodly world, and fee that
every man
may be happy, but that the happineis of'
one
depends on the cicmduift of another, when we
fee the wicked fo powerliul and the good lb weal; ,
and that itis in vain to ftrive Engly and alone, againll.
the general Current ofviee and opprel°Hon: the Wifh
naturally uriies in the néinci, that it were
poiiible to
forni a durable eornbination of the molt worthy
perfons, who Fnould work together in removing the
obiiiaeles to human happineis, become terrible to
the wicked, and give their aid to all the good with-
out diiiinétion, and fhould, by the mo{"r powerful
means, iirlt fetter, and by Fettering, leiiien vice,
means which atthe fame time iliould promote virtue,
by rendering the inclination to reetitude hitherto fo
feeble,
tHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
" feeble, fl10re pO\Verful ana engaging. \T•/OU}d flOt
'' fuch an affociation be a bleffing to tl1e \vorld ?
" But where are the proper perfons, the good, the
'' generous, and the accon1plifhed, to be found ; and
'' ho\v, and by what ftrong motives, are they to be
'' induced to engage in a rafk fo vaft, fo inceffant, fo
'' difficult, and fo laborioul) ? 1~his Affociation muft
'' be gradual. There are fome fuch perfons to be
" found in every fociety. Such noble tninds \vill be
" engaged by the heart-warming objeCt. The fi.ril: tafk
-" of the Affociation n1uft therefore be to form the
'' young me~bers. As thefe multiply and advance,
" they become the apofiles of be-neficence, and the
'' \Vork is now on foot, and advances with a fpeed en-
" creafing every day. The 11ighteft obfervation fhows
" that nothing \vill fo tnuch contribute to increafe the
'' zeal of the members as fee ret unio~. We fee ·with
'' \vhat keennefs and zt al the frivolous bufinefs of
" Free Mafonry is conducted, by perfons knit toge-
'' ther by the fccrecy of their union. It is needlefs to
'' enquire into the caufes of this zeal Vv'hich fecrecy
" produces. It is an uni verfal facr, confinned by the
" hiftory of every age. Let this circumftance of our
c_; conftitution therefore be directed to this noble pur-
" pofe, and then all the objeCtions ,urged againfl: it by
" jeal~us tyranny and affrighted fuperftition will vani{h..
'' 1-.he order \vill thus work filentlv, and fecurelv;
" and though the generous benefacto-rs of the hun1.an
'' race are thus ·deprived of the applaufe of the \Vorld,
" they have the noble pleafure of feeing their \York
" profper in their hands."
Such is the aim, and fuch are the hopes of the Or-
der of the Illuminated. Let us now fee how thcfe were
to be accompliibed. \Ve cannot judge \vith perf~B:
certainty of this, becaufe the account given of tl-4c con-
ftitution of the Order by its founder includes o'nly the
J\1 }O\Vett
ei-IAP. ir. THE
ILLUMINATI. 89
"
feeble, more powerful and engaging. 'Would not
"
fuch an alfociation be a
bleliing to
the world ?
"
But where are the proper perfons, the good, the
"
generous, and the accomplifhed, to be found 5 and
"
how, and by what ltrong motives, are
they to be
"
induced to
engage in a talk fo vaft, fo inceflant, lb
"
dillicult, and fo laborious? This Affoeiation muft
"
be gradual. There are fome fuch perfons to be
"
found in every fociety. Such noble minds will be
"
engaged by the heart~warming object. The Hrft talk
"'
of the Alfociation mult therefore be to form the
"
young members. As thefe multiply and advance,
"
they become the apollles of beneiicence, and the
"
work is now on foot, and advances with a
Qneed en-
"
crealing every day. The ilighteft oblervation fhows
"
that nothing will fo much contribute to increafe the
"
zeal of the members as fecret union. We fee with
"
what keennefs and zeal the frivolous bulinefs of
"
Free l/lafonry is conducted, by perfons ltnit toge~
"
ther by the fecrecy of their union. It is needlefs to
"
enquire into the eaufes of this zeal which fecreey
"
produces. It is an univerfal fact, confirined by the
"
hiftory of every age. Let this eircumitance of our
"
conftitution therefore be direelted to this noble pur-
"
pofe, and then all the objeéliionslurged againll it 'oy
"
jealous tyranny andailrighted fuperitition will vanilla.
"
The order Will thus work lilently, and fecurely5
"
and though the generous benefaétors of the human
"
race are thus 'deprived of' the applaufe ofthe world,
"
they have the noble pleafure of feeing their work.
CC
profper in their hands.
"
Such is the aim, and fuch are the hopes oi tne Or-
£` T
der ofthe Illuminated. Let us now fee howthefe were
to be accomplilhed. Vile cannot judge with perfefi;
I'
certainty ofthis, becaufe the account given or
the con~
ilitution ofthe Order by its founder includes only the
Ni loweft
'tHE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. It.
loweft degree, and even this is liable to great fufpicion.
'I'he accounts given by the four Profeifors, even of
this part of the Order, n1ak.e a very different in1preffion
on the n1ind, although they differ only in a fe\v parti-
culars.
The on1y oH:enfible members of the Order were the
l\1inervals. 1~hey \Vere to be found only in the Lodges
of Free IVfafons. A candidate for adn1iffion muft make
his wii11 known to fon1e 1v1inerval ; he reports it to a
Superior, v:ho, by a channel to be explained prefently,
intirnates it to the Council. I'~o notice is farther taken
of it for fon1e time. 1~he candidate is carefully ob-
ferved in filence, and if though[ unfit for the Order,
no notice is taken of his folicitation. But ifothervvife,
the candidate receives privately an invitation to a con-
ference. I-iere he n1eets with a perfon unknown to
hirn, and, previous to all further .conference, he is re-
quired to perufc and to fign the following oath :
" I, l'J. N. hereby bind n1yfelf, by mine honour
" and good name, forfvvtaring all mental refervation,
" never to reveal, by hint, \Vord, \Vriting, or in an'y
" n1anner whatever, even to n1y moft trufted friend,
" any thing that fhall now be f1id or done to me re-
,, fpefti:;g n1y wifhed-for reception, and this whether
" n1y reception fhall follow or not, I being previoufly
cc auured that it £hall contain nothing contrary to reli-
" gion1 the H~are, nor good n1~nners. I promife, that
" I il1all 1nake no intelligible extract from any papers
" v,rhich ihall be fhetvvn rr1e nov·; or during tny novi-
" ciate. .l\.11 this I fwear, as I am, and as I hope to
"continue-, a IVfan oft-1onour."
'I'he urbanity of this protcftation mufi: agreeab1y
irnprefs the mind of a perfon \vho' recolleccs the dr~ad ..
ful imprecations which he n1ade at his reception inro
the different ranks of Free ~1afonry. rfhe candidate
is then introduced to an !//:
{;;::;::;tus Dirigens, 'vho1n
perhaps
90 THE ILLUMINATI. CI-IAP. II.
lowelt degree, and even this is liable to
great fufpicion.
The accounts given by the four Profellors, even ot'
this part of the Order, malte a very different irnprefiion
on the mind, although they dilifer only in a few parti-
Culars.
The only oileniiblc members of the Grder were the
Fvlinervais. They were to be found only in the Lodges
of 1'?reel`\dal"ons. A candidate for adrniliion muftmalie
his widi known to fome Minerval; he reports it to a
Superior, who, by a channel to be explained prefently,
intirnates it to the Council. No notice is farther taken
ofit for fome time. The candidate is carefully ob-
ferved in Hlence, and if thought unht for the Order,
no notice is taken of his folicitation. But ifotherwife,
the candidate receives privately an invitation to a con-
ference. Here he meets with a
perfon unknown to
him, and, previous to all f`urther.conference, he is re-
quired to perufe and to
lign the following oath : .
"
I, N. N. hereby bind myfelii by mine honour
"
and good name, forfwearing all mental refcrvation,
"
never to reveal, by hint, word, writing, or in any
"
manner whatever, even to my mo{°t trulted friend,
"
any thing that lhall now be laid or done to me re-
"
fpeéling my wifhed-hir reception, and this whether
"
my reception lhall follow or not, I being previoully
"
a$ured that it fhall contain nothing Contrary to reli-
"
gion, the fltate, nor
good manners.
Ipromife, that
"
I fhall make no
intelligible extracft from any papers
"
which fhall be fhewn me now or
during my novi-
"
ciate. All this I fwear, as I am, and as
Ihope to
"
continue, a Nlan of Honour."
The urbanity of this prnteflation mufl agreeably
imprefs the mind of' a
perfon who recolle6`ts the dread-
ful imprecations which he made at his reception into
the dihferent ranks of Free Malbnry. The candidate
is then introduced to an i'f'f,<;;'f;?f::;~!ff.t Dirigezzr, whom
perhaps
CHAP. II. THE ILL UMIN AT I.
perhaps he kno\vs, and is told that this pe don is to be
his future inftruetor. 1""'here is now prcfented to the
candidate, \Vhat they call a table, in \vbich he \vrites
his name, place of birth, age, rank, place of refidencc,
profeffion, and favourite ftudies. I--Ie is then n1ade
to read feveral articles of this table. It contains, Ijl,
a very concife account of the Order, its connection
\Vith Free rv1afonry, and its gn~at objeft, the pron)O-
ting the happinefs of n1ankind by tneans of infl:ruEtion
and confirmation in virtuous principles. 2d, Several
quefl:ions relative to the Order. Among theCe are,
" What advantages he hopes to derive frun1 being a
" member? What he moft particularly \viihrs to
" learn? What delicate queftions relative to the life,
" the profpefts, the duties of n1an, as an individual,
" and as a citizen, he \vifhes to have particularly dif-
" cuffed to him ? ! n \Vhat refpeCts he thinks he c:1n
" be of ufe to the Order? vVho are his ancetl:ors, re-
cc lations, friends, corre{pondents, or enemies? Whon1
" he thinks proper peribns to be received into the
" Order, or \vhon1 he thinks unfic for it, and the rea-
'' fans for both opinions?" To each of rhefe quefl:ions
he muft give.fon1e anfwer in writing.
The Novice an\:; his rv1entor are kno\Vn only to each
other; perhaps nothing n1ore follov;s upon this; if
otherwife, the I.VIerJ tor appoints anothe r conference,
and begins his inftructions, by giving hi1n in detail
certain portibns of the conltitution, and of the funda-
lnental rules of the Order# Of thefe the !'Jovice n1utl
give a weekly account in writing. He n1ui1: alfo read,
in the Mentor's houfe, a book containing n1ore of the
inflructions of the Order; but he muO~ make no ex-
traB:s. Yet from this, reading he muft derive all his
kno'wVl~dge; aQd he muft give an account in writing
of his progrefs. All writings received fron1 his Supe·
riors muft be returned \Vith a Hated puncruallry.-
I.hefe
CI-IAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
91
perhaps he knows, and is told that this perion is to be
his future inftruolor. There is now
preiiented to the
candidate, what they call a table, in which he writes
his name, place of birth, age, rank, place ofrendence,
profeflion, and favourite Ptudies. He is then made
to read feveral articles of this table. It contains, yr,
avery concife account of the Order, its connection
with Free l"/lafonry, and its great object, the promo-
ting the happinels of mankind by means of inftruction
and confirmation in virtuous principles. arf, Several
quellions relative to the Order. Among thelc are,
"
What advantages he hopes to derive from being a
(C
member? What he molt particularly wiihes to
"
learn? Wliat delicate quellions relative to the life,
the prol`pe<f`ts, the duties of man, as an individual,
and as a citizen, he wilhes to have particularly dif-
cu{l"ed to him? In what refpecfts he thinks he can
"
be of ufe to the Order? Vwlho are his anceftors, re-
lations, friends, correlfpondents, or enemies? 'Whom
"
he thinks proper perlbns to be received into the
"
Order, or whom he thinks unfit for it, and the rea-
"
fons for both opinions F" To each ofthefe queilions
he mult givefome anfwer in Writing.
The Novice anal his Mentor are known only to each
other; perhaps nothing more follows upon this, it
otherwife, the l/lentor appoints another conference,
and begins his inllruclions, by giving him in detail
certain portions of the conltitution, and of the Funda-
(C
If
K(
(K
inental rules of the Order. Ofthefe the Novice mullt'
give a
Weekly account in writing. He mull alfo read,
in the li/lentor's houfe, a book containing more of the
inllructions of the Order; but he mull: make no ex-
tracts. Yet from thisfr reading he rnulr derive all his
knowledge; and he muft give an account in writing
of his progrefs. All writings received from his Supe-
riors mutt be returned with a ltated þÿpun ¬tnalir~,f.--
Thelie
THE ILLUMINATI.
Thefe '\vritings confift chiefly efimportant and delicate
queflions, fuited, either to the particular inclination,
or to the peculiar tafle \Vhich the candida~e had difco..:
vered in his fubfcriptions of the articles of the table,
and in his forn1er refcripts, or to= the· directio!l which
the Mentor 'viihes to give to his thoughts.· ·· · ·
Enlightening the underftanding, and the rooting out
of prejudices, are pointed out to him as the principal
tafks of his noviciate. The kno\vledge of himfelf is
confidered as· preparatory to all other J<-nowledge.·· To
difclofe to hitn, bv means of the -calm and unbiaifed
obfervation of his ·inftruftor, \Vhat is his own charaCter,
his moft vulnerable fide, either in refpeCt of temper,
paffions, or prepoffeffions, is therefore the moft elfen-
tial fervice that can be done him. For this purpofe
there is required of hi1n fonie account of his own con-
duEt on occafions \vhere he doubted of its propriety;
fon1e account of his friendi11ips, of his differences of
opinion, and of his conduEt on fuch occafions. Frotn
fuch relations the Sunerior learns his manner of think:..
.l
ing and judging, and thofe propenfities which require
his chief attention.
Having n1ade the candidate acquainted 'vith hin1felf,
he is apprifed that the Order is not a fpeculative, but
an active affociation, engaged in doing good to others.
'rhe kno\\7
1edge of human charaCter is therefore of all
others the n1ofi: important. T·his is acquired only by
obfervarion, affifted by the inil:ruEtions of his teacher.
CharaCters in hiftory are propofed to hitn for obferva-
tion, and his opinion is required. Afc~r this he is di-
refcecl to look around him, and to notice the conduCt
of other rr.en; and part of his ·"veekly refcripts muft
confift of accolJnts of all interefting occurrences in his
neighbourhood, \V hether of a public or private nature.
C0ffilndey, one of the four Broftffors, gives a parti-
cub.r accoun! of the in!lrt;C'tions relating to this kind
of
92 'rue ittuminnrr. crane.
xr.
Theft: writings conhli: chiefly ofimportant and delicate
queltions, iinted, either to the particular inclination,
or to the peculiar tallte which the candidate had difcor
vered in his fubfcriptions of the articles of the table,
and in his former refcripts, or tof the direftion which
the Mentor wilhes to give to his thoughts."
"
`
'
'
Enlightening the underllanding, and the rooting out
of prejudices, are
pointed out to him as the principal
talks of his noviciate. The knowledge of himfelf
conlidercd aspreparatory to all other ltnowledgen To
difclofe to him, by means of the 'calm and unbialfed
obfervation of his inf'trué`tor, what is his own character,
his moll: vulnerable iide, either in refpect of temper,
pailions, or
prepollellions, is therefore the mofl: ellen-
tial fervice that can be done him. For this purpofe
there is required of him fonie account of his own con-
duct on occalions where he doubted of its propriety;
fome account of his hiendfhips, of his diliferences of
opinion, and ofhis condu& on fuch occalions. From
fuch relations the Superior learns his manner of thinkl-
ing and judging, and thofe. propeniities which require
his chief attention.
Having made the candidate acquainted with himfelf,
he is apprifed that the Order is not a Qoeculative, but
an active aifociation, engaged in doing good to others.
The knowledge of human character is therefore of all
others the rnoll important. This is acquired only by
obfervation, afiiiled by the inhrudftions of his teacher.
Charafters in hillor-y are
propofecl to him for oblerva-
tion, and his opinion is required. After this he is di-
reéled to look around him, and to notice the conduct
of other men; and part of his weekly refcripts mufl:
conlilt of accounts ofall interefling occurrences in his
neighbourhood, whether ofa public or
private nature.
Colliindey, one of the four Profellers, gives a
parti-
cular account of the inltruélions relating to this kind
~H4P. II .. THE ILLUiv!I1;JAT1.
93
of fcience. " The Novice muft be attentive to tri-
" fles: For in frivolous @Ccurrences a man is indolent,
" and·makes no effort to aCt a part, fo that his reai
" charatl:er is then aCting alone. N athing \vill have
'' fuch influence with the Superiors in pro1noting the
cc advancement of a candidate as very copious narra-
,, tions of this kind, becaufc the candidate, if pnJn1o-
,, ted, is to be e1nployed in an aCtive ftation, and it
'' is from this kind of information only that the Supe-
cc riors can judge of his fitnefs. Thefc charaEterif(ic
'' anecdotes are not for the inftrucrion of the Superi-
" ors, \vho are men of long experience, and fan1iliar
" with fuch occupation. But they inform the Order
cc concerning the talents and proficiency of the young
'' me1nber. Scientific inftrutl:ion, being connected
'' by fyftem, is foon communicated, and may in ge-
'' neral be very completely obtained from the books
'' which are recommended to the Novice, and acaui-
cc red in the public feminaries of inftruCtion. But
" knowledge of character is n1ore rnultifarious and
" more delicate. For this there is no college, and it
" mBft therefore require longer time f:')r its attainment.
cc Betides, this affiduous and long continued ftudy of
" men, enables the poffeffor of fuch kno\vledge to act
'' \Vith men, and by his knO\Vledge of their character,
" to influence their conduct. For fuch reafons thi~
cc ftudy is continued, and thefe refcripts are required,
cc during the whole progrefs through the Order, and
c' attention to them is recommended as the only mean
cc of advancement. Remarks on Phyfiognorny in
·" thefe narrations are accounted of confiderab1e va-
" lue." So far Mr. (offandey.
· During all this trial, which ·may laft one, two, or
three years, the Novice knows no perfon of the Order
but his O\Vfl inftruB:or, with \vhom he has frequent
meetings, along vvith other Minervals. ln thefe con-
verfationi
eHAP.11, THE ILLUMINATI.
93
offcience.
"
The Novice muft be attentive to tri-
f' fles: For in frivolous occurrences a rnan is indoient,
"
andtnakes no effort to acl: a
part, fo that his real
"
character is then acting alone. Nothing will have
"
fuch influence with the Superiors in promoting the
advancement of a candidate as very copious narra~
"
tions of this kind, becaufe the candidate, if promo-
1
ff ted, is to be employed in an active Fration, and it
"
is from this kind ofinformation only that the Supe-
Qc
f' riors can
_judge of his fitnefs. Theic cliararfteriitic
"
anecdotes are not for the initruetion of the Superi-
"
ors, who are men of long experience, and familiar
3'
with fuch occupation. But they inform the Order
°'
concerning the talents and prohcieney of the young
þÿ ¬'member. Scientihc inftruétion, being connected
9'
by fyftem, is Toon communicated, and may in ge-
"
neral be very completely obtained from the books
"
which are recommended to the Novice, and acqui-
f' red in the public feminaries of inftrurftion. But
"
knowledge of character is more multifarious and
"
more delicate. For this there is no
college, and it
f' rnuit therefore require longer time for its attainment.
"
Befides, this aliiduous and long continued Ftudy or
"
men, enables the pofi"eiTor offuch knowledge to acl:
*'
with men, and by his knowledge oftheir charaé`ter,
"
to influence their conduct. For fuch reafons this
"
Ftudy is continued, and thefe refcripts are
required,
*'
during the whole progrefs through the Grder, and
"
attention to them is recommended as the only mean
"
of advancement. Remarks on
Phyiiognorny in
"
thefe narrations are accounted of conhderable va-
"
lue." So far Mr. Qolfandey.
During all this trial, whichmay lait one, two, or
three years, the Novice knows no
perfon ofthe Order
but his own inftructor, with whom he has frequent
meetings, along with other Minervais. In thefe con-
-
verfations
I*
9+ THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
verfations he learns the itnportance of the Order, and
the opportunities he w·ill aftervvards have of acquiring
much hidden icience. The employn1ent of his un-
known Superiors naturally caufes him to entertain very
high notions of their abilities and 'North. l-Ie is coun-
felled to airn at a refemblance to thern by getting rid
by degrees of all thofe prejudices or prtpd!feffions
\vhich checked his o\vn forrner progrefs; and he is af-
filled in this endeavour by an invitation to a correfpon-
dence with then1. He n1ay addrefs his Provincial
Superior, by directing his letter Soli, or the General
by Prinzo, or the Superiors in general by f!!:tibus lhet.
In thefe letters he n1ay n1ention \Vhatever he thinks
conducive to the advancen1ent of the Otder; he n1ay
Inforrn the Superiors how his inrtruEtor behaves to
him; if affiduous or rerr.ifs, indulgent or fevere. The
Superiors are enjoined by the ftrongeft tT\otives to con-
vey thefe letters wherever addreifed. None but the
General and Council kno\V the refult: of all this; and
all are enjoined to keep then1felves and their proceed-
ings unknown to all the world.
If three ye2.rs of this 1'-.Joviciate have elapfed \Vith-
out further notice, the l\'Iinerval 1T1uft look for no fur-
ther advancen1ent; he is found unfit, and ren1ains a
Free Mafon of the highefr clals. 'fhis is c..1.lled a Sta
bene.
But Jhould his Superiors judge tnore favourably of
hin1, he is dra\vn out of the Ftneral n1afs of Free
l\1(\fons,- and becon1es Ii!u;ni-~;atus,_11.1iiwr. \'lhen call-
ed to a conference for this purpofe, he is told in the
moft ferious tnanner, that " it is va~n t:)r hin1 to hope
" to acg u1re wiCdon1 by n1ere fyPLern~tic inftrutl:ion ;
cc for fuch inflruE.tion the Superiors h.1.ve no leifure.
" 1"heir duty is not to forn; fpt"culators, but aCtive
" tnen, \Vhdn1 they muft innnediate[v etnploy in the
" fervice of tht Order. I le n-z u:1 therefort grow wife
'' and
94. THE ILLUl'~lIN.~'l`l. (HAP. II.
verfations he learns the importance of the Order, and
the opportunities he will afterwards have of acquiring
much hidden lcience. The employment of his un-
known Superiors naturally caufes him to entertain very
high notions oftheir abilities and worth. I-le is coun-
felled to aim at a refemblance to them by getting rid
by degrees of all thofe prejudices or
prepogemons
which checked his own former progrefs; and he is af-
lilted in this endeavour by an invitation to a
correfpon-
dence with them. He may addrels his Provincial
Superior, by diretfting his letter Soir, or the General
by Primo, or the Superiors in general by ,Qarbzrs /itef.
In thefe letters he may mention whatever he thinks
conducive to the advancement of the Order; he may
Inform the Superiors how his inflruftor behaves to
him; ifalliduous or remifs, indulgent or fevere. The
Superiors are
enjoined by the flrongeft motives to con-
vey thele letters wherever addrelled. None but the
General and Council know the reliilt of all this, and
all are
enjoined to keep themfelves and their proceed-
ings unknown to all the world. ~
Ifthree years of this Noviciate have elapfed with-
out further notice, the Minerval mullt look for no Fur-
ther advancement, he is found unfit, and remains a
Free l/lafon of the higheft clals. This is called a Sm
156115.
But fhould his Stiperio1's_iuflge more favourably of
him, he is drawn out of the general mah; of Free
Mafons, and becomes I/.'zz;/zifmtzzr _fl/Kiiwr. VVl'ien call-
ed to a eosibreriee for this purpole, he is told in the
molt ferious manner, that "
it is vain hir him to
hope
"
to
acquire wiI`clorn by mere
lyllematic inllruftion;
"
for fuch inflruction the Superiors have no leifure.
"
Theirduty is not to form ipeculators, but active
"
men, whom they mult if/zf.¢zefZimf¢"Qv employ in the
CC
ferviee of the Order. llc mufl therel`ore grow wife
"
and
SHAP. II .. THE ILLUMINATI.
95
" and able entirely by the unfolding and exertion of
'' his O\Vn talents. His Superiors have already difco-
" vered what rhefe are, and know \Vhat fervice he may
cc be capable of rendering the Order, provided he
" now heartily acquiefce·s in being thus honourably
" employed. They will affift him in bringing his ta-
cc lents into aCtion, and will place hin1 in the fitua-
<e tions tnoft favourable for their exertion, fo that" he
" n1ay be aJ!ured of fuccefs. Hitherto he has been a
cc mere fcholar, but his firfl: ftep farther carries hin1
" into action; he mufr therefore now confider himfelf
" as an inftrun1ent in the hands of his Superiors, to
" be ufed for the nobleft purpofes." The ain1 of the
order is no\v more fu11v told him. It is, in one fen-
tence, " to n1ake of ~the human race, without any
" diftinB:ion of nation, condition, or profeffion, one
" good and happy family.'' To this ain1, demonfrra-
bly attainable, every f1naller confideration muft give
way. This may fometin1es require facrifices which no
man ftanding alone has fortitude to make; but which
becotne light, and a fource of the purefl: enjoyment,
\Vhen fupported and encourciged by the countenance
and co-operation of the united vvife and and good,
fuch as are the Superiors of the Order. If the candi-
date, \Varmed by the alluring pifture of the pofiible
happinefs of a virtuous Society, fays that he is fenu-
ble of the propriety of this procedure, and frill willies
to be 9f the Order, he is required to fign the following
obligation.
" I, N. N. protefr before you, the v1orrhy Ple~1-
" potentiary of the venerable Order into \vhich I \Vifh
" to be ac!tnitted, that l acknowledge rny natural
" weaknefs and inabili.
ty, and that I, with all my pof-
" feH1ons, ran k, honour~, and titles \V hich I ho1d in
" political fociety, an1, at bottonJ, on1y a man; ~
" Ci!n enjoy theie things only through n1y fello\v-n1en,
" and
QHAP. 11. THE ILLUMINATI.
`95
"
and able entirely by the unfolding and exertion of
"
his own talents. His Superiors have already difco-
"
vered what thefe are, and know what fervice he may
"
be capable of rendering the Order, provided he
"
now heartily acquiefces in being thus honourably
"
employed. They will allift him in bringing his ta-
"
lents into action, and will place him in the Iitua-
"
tions moft favourable for their exertion, fo that' he
"
may be q@1re¢z't>f fuccefs. Hitherto he has been a
"
mere fcholar, but his firft iltep farther carries him
"
into action; he muft therefore now coniider himfelf
"
as an inflrunzent in the hands of his Superiors, to
"
be ufed for the nobleft purpofes." The aim of the
order is now more fully told him. It is, in one fen-
tence,
"
to make ofthe human race, without any
"
diitinétion of nation, condition, or
profeffion, one
"
good and happy family." To this aim, demonftra-
bly attainable, every hnaller coniideration mutt give
way. This may fometimes require facrifices which no
man
flanding alone has fortitude to make; but which
become light, and a fource of the pureft enjoyment,
when fupported and encouraged by the countenance
and co~operation ofthe united with and and good,
fuch as are the Superiors of the Order. lfthe candi-
date, warmed by the alluring picture ofthe pofiible
happinefs ofa virtuous Society, fays that he is fenfi-
ble of the propriety of this procedure, and Ftill wifhes
to be of the Order, he is required to
§gl`l the following
obligation.
"
I, N. N. proteilf before you, the worthy Pleni-
"
potentiary of the venerable Order into which I wifh
"
to be admitted, that I acl-mov/iedge my natural
"
weaienefs and inability, and that I, with all my pof-
feiiions, rank, honours, and titles which I hold in
political fociety, am, at bottom, only a man; I
"
can
enjoy thele things only through my lellow-men,
`
"
and
(C
CC
~rHE I!.LUMINATio CHAP. II~
'' and through them alfo I may Iofe them. The ap-
cc probation and confideration of my fellow-men are
'' indifpenfably neceiiary, and I muH: try to maintain
(c them by all n1y talents. Thefe I will never ufe to
cc the prejudice of univerfal good, but \Vill oppofe,
" 'vith all 1ny might, the enemies of the human race,
'' and of political fociety. I will en1brace every op-
" portuniEy of faving n1ankind, by improving n1y un-
" derftanding and tny affections, and by imparting all
cc in1portant knowledge, as the good and ftatutes of
'' this Order require of me. I bind myfelf to perpe-
" tual filence and unfhaken loyalty and fubmiffion to
cc the Order, in the perfons of my Superiors; here
cc making a faithful and complete furrender of my pri-
" vate judgn1cnt, n1y o~vVn \vil1, and every narrow-
" tninded em ployrnent of my power and influence. I
" pledge rnyfelf to account the good of the Order as
'' n1y ovvn, and an1 ready to ferve it with my fortune,
" ·1ny honour, and my blood. Should I, through
cc orniffior., neglt:Ct, paffion, or \vicknednefs, behave
cc contrary to this good of the Order, I )u~jeEt my-
" felf [0 \Vhat reproof or puniihment my Superiors
" iha11 enjoin. The friends and enen1ies of the Order
" fhall be n1y friends and enemies ; and \Vith refpeEt
" to both I \Vill conduct myfelf as direCted by the Or-
" der, and arn ready, in every b:nvful way, to devote
cc tnyfe1f to its incn~afe and promotion, and therein to
" employ all my ability. All this I promife, and pro-
" teft, \Vithout f~ cret refervation, according tO the
" intention of the Society which require fron1 me this
'' engJgement.. rfhis I do as I am, and as I hope to
" continue, a MJ.n of Honour."
A drawn f\vord is then pointed at his breaft, and he
is afked, vVill you be obedient to the commands of
your Supt riors ·? l-Ie is threatened \vith unavoidable
ven!!ear.ce_, fron1 vthich no potentate can defend him,
~ if
96 'rut ILLUMINATI. cnar. 11;
"
and through them alfo I may lofe them. The ap-
"
probation and confideration oi' my fellow-men are
"
indifpenfably neceifary, and Imuit try to maintain
"
them by all my talents. Thefe I will never ufe to
'5 the prejudice of univerfal good, but will oppofe,
"
with all my might, the enemies of the human race,
"
and of political fociety. I will embrace every op-
"
portunity of faving mankind, by improving my un-
"
derftanding and my affeétions, and by imparting all
"
important knowledge, as the good and Ptatutes of
"
this Order require of me. I bind myfelf to
perpe-
"
tual iilence and unfhaken loyalty and fubmifiion to
"
the Order, in the perfons of my Superiors, here
"
making a faithful and complete furrender of my pri~
"
vate judgment, my own will, and every narrow-
"
minded employment of my power and inliuence. I
"
pledge myfelf to account the good of the Order as
"
my own, and am
ready to ferve it with my fortune,
"imy honour, and my blood. Should I, through
"
omifiion, negleét, pafhon, or wicknednefs, behave
"
contrary to this good of the Order, I§ii1bjec5t my-
"
half to what reproof or puniihment my Superiors
"
ihall enjoin. The friends and enemies of the Order
"
fhall be my friends and enemies; and with refpeét
"
to bothl will condufli myfelf as direfted by the Or-
"
der, and am ready, in every lawful way, to devote
"
myfelfto its increafe and promotion, and therein to
"
employ all my ability. All this I promife, and pro-
"
teft, without ficret refervation, according to the
'F intention ofthe Society which require from me this
"
engagement, This I do as I am, and as I hope to
"
continue, a Man of Honour."
A drawn fword is then pointed at his breaft, and he
is aiked, 'Nill you be obedient to the commands of
your Superiors? He is threatened with unavoidable
vengeance, from which no
potentate can defend him,
if
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 97
if he fuould ever betray the Order. He is then afked,
1. What aim docs he 'vif11 the Order to have? 2. \Vhat
means he 'votlld choofe to advance this airn? 3· Whom
he \vifhes to keep out of the Order ? 4· \Vh:u fubjects
he wiihes not to be difcuffed in it ?
Our candidate is now ILL UMIN ATUS MrNoR. It is
needlefs to narrate the n1umn1ery of reception, and it
is enough to fay, that it nearfy refembles that of the
Majonic Chevalier du Soleil, known to every one much
converfant in Mafonry. W eifhaupt's preparatory dif-
courfe of reception is a piece of good compofl cion,
\vhether confidered as argumentative, (from topics in-
deed, that are very gratuitous and fanciful,) or as a
fpecin1en of that declan1ation which was fo n1uch prac-
tifed by Libanius and the other Sophifts1 and it gives
a diftincr and captivating account of the profeifed ain1
of the Order.
,..fhe Illuminatus Minor learns a good deal more of the
Order, but by very fparing morfels, under the fame
inflrucror. 1~he tafk has now becom~ more delicate
and difficult. The chief p:1rt of it is the rooting out
of prejudices in politics and religion ; and Vleif11~upt
has fhown n1uch addrefs in the n1ethod \Vhich he has
employed. Not the 1noft hurtful, but the moH- eafily
refuted \Vere the fidl: fubjecrs of difcuffion, fo that the
pupil gets into the habits of viCtory; and his reverence
for the fyftems of either kind is diminifhed \vhen they
are found to have harboured fuch untenable opinions.
The proceedings in the EcleCtic Lodges of l\1afonry,
and the harangues of the Brother Orators, teem~d
\Vith the ~oldeft fentiments both in politics and reli-
gion. Enlightening, and the tritunph of reafon, had
been the ton of the country for fon1e tin1e paft, and
every inftitution, civil and religious, had been the fub-
jecr of the n1oft free criticifm. Above all1 the Cofn1o-
politifm, imported from France, where it hld been .
N the
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
if he fhould ever betray the Order. He is then afked,
1. What aim does he wilh the Order to have ? 2. 'What
means he would choofe to advance this aim ? 3. 'Nhom
he wifhcs to keep out of the Order ? 4. 'Nhat fubjects
he wilhes not to be difculied in it?
Our candidate is now ILLUMINATUS MINOR. It is
needlefs to narrate the murnmery of reception, and it
is enough to
lay, that it nearly reiembles that of the
Mcwlzic Chevalier du Soleil, known to every one much
converfant in Mafonry. Weill1aupt's preparatory dif-
courfe of reception is a
piece of good compohcion,
whether conlidered as
argumentative, (from topics in-
deed, that are very gratuitous and fanciful,) or as a
fpecimen of that declamation which was fo much prac-
tifed by Libanius and the other Sophifts, and it gives
a diltinft and captivating account of the profelfed aim
of the Order.
The Illzzmimztzu Minor learns a
good deal more of the
Order, but by very fparing morfels, under the fame
inflruétor. The talk has now become more delicate
and difiicult. The chief part of it is the rooting out
of prejudices in politics and religion; and 'Neilliaupt
has fhown much addrefs in the method which he has
employed. Not the mofi hurtful, but the moli eahly
refuted were the firli fubjeits ofdifcullion, Ri that the
pupil gets into the habits of victory 5 and his reverence
for the fyiliems of either kind is diminilhed when they
are Found to have harboured fuch untenable opinions.
The proceedings in the Ecleétic Lodges of Makmry,
and the harangues of the Brother Orators, teerned
with the boldeit fentiments both in politics and reli-
gion. Enlightening, and the triumph of reafon, had
been the ton of the country for fome time pall, and
every inftitution, civil and religious, had been the fub-
jeét of the rnolt free criticifm. Above all, the Cofmo-
politifm, imported from France, where it had been
N the
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
the favourite topic of the enthufiaftical occonomifts,
\Vas now become a general then1e of difcuffion in all fo-
cieties that had any pre~enfions to cultivation. It was
a fubjeB: of eaiy and agreeable declamation; and the
Literati found in it a fubjeCt adn1irably fitted fi)r !hew-
ing their talents, and ingratiating thetnfelves with the
young men of fortune, \vhofe minds, unfufpicious as
yet and generous, were fired with the fair profpeB:s fee
before then1 of uni verfal and attainable happinefs. And
the pupils of the Illuminati were frill 1nore \Varmed by
the thought that they vvere to be the happy inftruments
ofaccomplifhing all this. And though the doctrines
of univerfal liberty and equality, as in1prefcriptible
rights of 1nan, tnight fometitnes ftartle thofe v1ho pof-
feffed the advantage of fortune, there \Vere thoufands
of younger fons, and of 1nen of talents without for-
tune, to whon1 thefe \Vere agreeable founds. And
\Ve tnufl particularly obferve,..__ that thofe who were
no\V the pupils \vere a fet of picked fu~jeCts, whofe
chara[ters and peculiar biafes were well known by
their conduCt during thtir noviciate as Minervals.
They were therefore fuch 2s, in all probability, would
not bogg1e at very free fencirnents. We might rather
expeCt a p1rtia1i ty to doctrines 'vhich removed fame
reftrainrs which forn1erly checked them in the indul-
gencs of youthful paflions. Their infcruEtors, who
have thus relieved their tninds fro1n feveral anxious
thouglHs, n1trrt appear tnen of fuperior minds. This
\Vas a notion 1noi1: carefully inculcated; and they
could fee nothing to contradiCt it; for, except their
own l\1entor, they knt\V noTJe; they heard of Supe-
riors of difFerent ranks, but n<~ver favv then1; and the
fc1n1e 1node of inftrucrion that \Vas pracrifed during
their nov1ciatc \vas Hill rct:tined. :f.\.,1ore particulars of
the Order were f1owly unfolded to thern, and they were
taught th.u their Superiors \Vtre tT1tn of diftinguifhed
talents,
98 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. xr.
the favourite topic of the enthuhaiiical oeeonomifts,
was now become a
general theme of difculiion in all fo-
cieties that had any pretenhons to cultivation. It was
a
fubjeét of eaiy and agreeable declamation, and the
Literati found in it a
fubjeet admirably fitted rbr fhew~
ing their talents, and ingratiating themlelves with the
young men of fortune, whofe minds, unfufpicious as
yet and generous, were fired with the fair profpecfls fet
before them ofuniverfal and attainable happinefs. And
the pupils of the Illuminati were ftill more warmed by
the thought that they were to be the happy inltrurnents
ofaceomplifhing all this. And though the dodftrines
of univerfal liberty and equality, as
imprefcriptiblc
rights of man, might fometimes ftartle thofe who poi'-
felled the advantage of fortune, there were thoufands
of younger fons, and of men of talents without for-
tune, to whom thefe were
agreeable founds. And
we ITIUPE particularly obferve, that thofe who were
now the pupils were a fet of picked fubieets, Whofe
eharacfters and peculiar biafes were well known by
their conduft during their novieiate as Minervals.
They were therefore fueh as, in all probability, would
not boggle at
very free fentiments. 'We might rather
expeélta partiality to doctrines which removed fome
reitraints which formerly checked them in the indul-
gence of youthful paliions. Their inftruéltors, who
have thus relieved their minds from leveral anxious
thoughts, muft appear men of fuperior minds. This
was a notion melt carefully inculeated; and they
could fee nothing to contradiél: it; for, except their
own Mentor, they knew none, they heard of Supe-
riors of diherent ranks, but never faw them, and the
fame mode of infiruetion that was
practifed during
their novieiate was itil] retained. ll/lore particulars of
the Grder were
(lowly unfolded to them, and they were
taught that their Superiors were men of dillinguifhed
talents,
CHAP. I I., THE ILLUMlNATl.
99
talents, and '\:vere Superiors for this rrafon alone. 'fhcy
were taught, that the g:eat opportunities \·;h1ch tl-:e
Superiors had fc11· obiervalion, and their habits ofco~1-
tinually occupying their rhoughts wich the great cb-
jeCts of this Order, had enlarged their vie\TJ~-, even
far beyond the narro\v lin1its of nations and kint~dotr;s,
\Vhich they hoptd \Vould one day co~dcfce into one
great Society, where confideration would attach to ta-
lents and \VOrth a!one, and that pre-crninence in the!~
would be invariably attended \Virh all the enjoyments
of influence and pov1er. .t\nd they \Vere told that
they \Vould gradually become acquainted with theie
great and venerable CharaEters, as they advanced in
the Order. In earneft of this, they \\'ere n1ade ac-
quainted \Vith one or two Superia'rs, and \Vith fe-
veral Illuminati of their own rank. .A.lfo, to whet
their zeal, they are 110\V made infcrucrors of one or
two fVlinerva1s, and report their progrefs to their Su-
periors. They are given to underHand that nothing
can fo much recon1rnend them as the fuccefs with
which they perforn1 this tafk. I~ is declared to be
the btft evidence of their ufefi1lnefs in the great de-
figns of the Order.
The baleful efFeCts of general fuprrHiticn, and evrn
of any peculiar rc ligious prepofreflion, ~He no\v ftrong-
ly inculcated, and rhe difcernnltnt of the pupils in
thefe matters is learned by queHions which are given
them from time to tin1e to difcuf-;. 1'htie are tnana-·
ged \Vith delicacy and circutnfpcetion, that the rin1id
may not be alarmed. In likt r11anncr, the poli[ical
doCtrines of the Order are inculc:ued with the utrr;ofl:
caution. After the n1ind of the pupil h4s been \Van11-
ed by the piEtures of univerfal happinei~, ancl convin-
ced that it is a pofljble thing to unite ?.11 the inh,lbi-
tants of the earth in one great frJc ie- ty ; and 2 fee r i:
has been rnade our, in fome n1eafurt to rne C:ri~,:~.ttion
qf
eHAp_ 11,
'
THE ILLUMINAN.
99
talents, and Were
Superiors for this reafon alone. They
were
taught, that the §_5."C8C opportunities which the
Superiors had for ohiervation, and their hahits ol`co§1~
tinualiy occupying their thoughts with the great oh-
jects of this Order, had enlarged their views, even
tar beyond the narrow limits ofnations and kingdoms,
which they hoped would one
day coaleice into one
jeat Society, where conhderation would attach to ta-
lents and worth alone, and that pre-eminence in thele
would he invariably attended with all the enjoyments
of induence and power. And they were told that
they would gradually become acquainted with thele
great and venerable Characters, as
they advanced in
the Order. In earnelt of' this, they were made ae-
quainted with one or two Snperiors, and with fe-
veral Illuminati of their own rank. Aho, to whet
their Zeal, they are now made inltrucfltors of one or
two Minervals, and report their progrefs to their Su-
periors. They are
given to underiland that nothing
can fo much recommend them as the fuccefs with
which they perform this talk. lt is declared to he
the bell evidence of their ufefiilnels in the great de-
hgns of the Order. -
The baleful efriecfts ofgeneral fuperflition, and even
of any peculiar religious prepoilifflion, are now
ftronga
ly inculcated, and the difcernntent of the pupils in
thele matters is learned by queltions which are
given
them from time to time to difcufs. Theie are mana-'
ged with delicacy and þÿcircumi°pe ¬tion,
that the timid
may not be alarmed. In like manner, the political
doctrines of the Order are inculcnted with the utznoll:
caution. After the mind of the pupil has been warni-
ed by the pictures of univerfal happinels, and convin-
ced that it is a
poliible thing to unite all the irihahi_
tants of the earth in one
great ihciety; and nrter if
has been made out, in hsme niertiiire to the liztisiaétion
nr'
100 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. I I.
of the pupil, that a great addition of happinefs would
be gained by the abolition of. national diftinEtions and
anin1ofities; it n1ay frequently be no hard tafl< to make
hin1 think that patriotifm is a na.rrow·-minded monopo-
ld1ng fentin1ent, and even incompatible \Vith the more
enl~rged views of the Order; natnely, the uniting the
\V hole human race into one great and happy fociety.
Princes are a chief feature of national diftinftion..
I)rinces, therefore, 1nay now be fafely reprefented as
unneceffary. If fo, loyalty to Princes lofes much of
its f:'lcred charaCter; and the fo frequent enforcing of
it in our con1n1on political difcuffions may now be ea-
I1ly n1ade to appear a felfiih tnaxim of rulers, by which
they may n1ore eafi1y enOave the people; and thus, it .
1nay at laft appear, that religion, the love of our par-
ticular country, and loyalty to our Prince, fhould be
refifted, if, by rhefe partial or narrow vie\vs, we pre-
vent the accornplifl1rnent of that Cofn1o-political hap-
pincfs v;hich is continually held forth as the great ob-
jeCt of the Order. It is in this point of vie\v that the
terms of devotion to the Order, which are inferted in
the oath of adrniH1on, are now explained. The au-
thority of the ruling powers is therefore reprefented a:;
of inferior n1oia1 \veight to that of the Order. cc T hefe
cc po\vers are defpots, when they do not conduCt them-
" felves by its principles; and it is therefore our duty
" to furrtH:nd thern with its n1embers, fo that the
" profane n1ay have no accefs to thenl. Thus \Ve are
'' able n1oft powerfully to pron1ote its intere-fts. If
'{ any perfon is n1ore dd~)ofed to li!lcn to I-'rinces
" than to the Order, r.e is not fit for it, and muft rife
t;c no n1g11cr. VVe mufi do our utmoft to procure the
cc arl vancen1ent of Illun1inati into all itnportant civil
" offices. n
.l\.ccordingly the Order laboured in this with great
z.eal ?rid fuccefs~ A correfpondence \Vas difcovered,
1n
IOO THE ILLUMINATI. Cl-IAP. II.
of the pupil, that a
great addition of happinefs would
be gained by the abolition of- national diftinctions and
aniniolities, it may frequently be no hard tafk to make
him think that patriotifm is a narrow-minded monopo-
lrhng fentiment, and even
incompatible with the more
enlarged views of the Order, namely, the uniting the
whole human race into one
great and happy fociety.
Princes are a chief feature of national þÿdiI'tin ¬tion.
Princes, therefore, may now be fafely reprefented as
unnecelfary. If fo, loyalty to Princes lofes much of
its facred character; and the fo frequent enforcing of
it in our common
political difcuflions may now be ea-
iily made to
appear a fellifh maxim ofrulers, by which
they may more ealily enflave the people, and thus, it
may at lall appear, that religion, the love of our
par-
ticular country, and loyalty to our Prince, lhould be
rehlted, if, by thefe partial or narrow views, we
pre-
vent the aecomplilhment ofthat Cohno-political hap-
pinefs which is continually held forth as the great ob-
ject ofthe Order. It is in this point of View that the
terms of devotion to the Order, which are inferted in
the oath of admillion, are now
explained. The au-
thority of the ruling powers is therefore reprefented as
of inferior moral weightto that of the Order. "
Thefe
"
powers are
defpots, when they do not conduct them-
lelves by its principlCS 5 and it is therefore our
duty
to furround them with its members, fo that the
profane may have no accefs to them. Thus we are
able moft powerfully to
promote its interefts. If
any periirn is more
difpofed to liflen to Princes
"
than to the Order, he is not fit for it, and muft rife
" no
higher. Vi/'e muft do our utmoit to
procure the
advancement of Illuminati into all important civil
"
Ofl:1Ct?5."
Accordingly the Order laboured in this with great
zeal and ftrccefs. A corremoncience was difcovered,
in
(C
(C
((
¢
C(
((
€HAl". II. THE ILhUMINATI. IOI
in which it is plain, that by their influence, one of the
greateft e~_clefiaftical dignities \Vas filled up in oppofi-
tion to the-right and authority of the Archbilliop of
Spire, who is there reprefented as a tyrannical and bi-
goted prieft. They contrived to place thejr 1\1Ien1ber~
as tutors to the youth of difti.nEtion. One of thern,
Baron Leuchtfenring, took the charp;e of a young
prince '\Vithout any falary. 'fhey infinuated rhen1felves
into all public offices, and particularly into courts of
jufl:ice. In like tnanner, the chairs in the lJniverfity
of Ingolftadt were (with only two exceptions) occupied
by Illuminati. "l{ulers who are mernbers muft be
" promoted through the ranks of rhe Order on]y in
" proportion as they acknowledge the goodnefs of its
cc great object, and n1anner of procedure. Its objeCt
cc n1ay be faid to be the checking the tyranny of
" princes, nobles, and pricfts, and eftabliJhir~g an
cc univerfal equality of condition and of religion.''
The pupil is no\v informed, " that fuch a religion is
" contained in the_ Order, is the perfeCtion of Chrif-
" tianity, and '\Vill' be imparted to hin1 in due tirne."
Thefe and other principles and n1axin1s of the Or-
der are partly comrnunicared by the verb:1l inH:ruc1ion
of the Mentor, partly by \Vrirings, \vhich n1t!lt be
punCtually returned, and partly read by the pupil at
the Mentor's houfe, (but: without taking exuacts,)
in fuch portions as he fhall direct. rfhe refcripts by
the pupil muft contain difcufl]ons on thefe fubjecrs,
and anecdotes and defcriptions of living· charaCters;
and thefe muft be zcaloufly continued·, as the chief
mean of advancen1ent. All this while the pupil knows
only his l\llentor, the rviinervals, and a few others of
his own rank. All n1ention of degrees, or other bu-
finefs of the Order, muft be carefully avoided, even
in the meetings with other n1embers: " For the Or-
H der willies to be fecret, and to \York in filence; for
" thus
þÿ ¬HAI'.
Ir. THE 1Lr.UMrNA'rr. [QI
in which it is plain, that by their influence, one of the
greateft eccleliaftical dignities was Filled up in oppoii-
tion to the 'right and authority of the Archbiihop of
Spire, who is there reprefented as a
tyrannical and bi-
goted prieft. They contrived to place their Members
as tutors to the youth of diftinction. One of them,
Baron Leuchtfenring, tool; the charge of a
young
prince without any falary. They inhnuated thenifelves
into all public oflices, and particularly into courts of
jullice. In like manner, the chairs in the Univerlity
of Ingolltaclt were (with only two
exceptions) occupied
by Illuminati. "Rulers who are members muft be
"
promoted through the ranks of the Order only in
"
proportion as
they acltnowledge the goodnefs ofits
"
great objecft, and manner of procedure. Its object
"
may be faid to be the checking the tyranny of
princes, nobles, and prieils, and eiltabliihiizg an
"
univerfal equality of' condition and of religion."
The pupil is now informed,
"
that fuch a
religion is
"
contained in the Order, is the perfection ol' Chrif-
"
tianity, and willibe imparted to him in due time."
Thefe and other principles and maxims of the Or-
der are
partly communicated by the verbal initruelion
of the Mentor, partly by writings, which muit be
puniftually returned, and partly read bythe pupil at
the Mentor's houfe, (but without taking extra6ls,)
in fuch portions as he Hiall direct. The relicripts by
the pupil muft contain difcuflions on theie liibjecls,
and anecdotes and defcriptions of livingcharacters;
and thefe muft be zcalouily continued, as the chief'
mean of advancement. All this while the pupil knows
only his l/lentor, the Minervals, and a few others of
his own rank. All mention of degrees, or other bu-
Iinefs of the Order, mult be carefully avoided, even
in the meetings with other members: "
For the Or-
"
der Wiilies to be fecret, and to work in lilence; for
"
thus
K(
(.
102 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. I I,
'' thus ,it is better fecured fron1 the oppreffion of the
cc ruling po\vers, and becaufe this fecrecy gives a
" greater zeft to the vvhole.."
1--his fhort account of the Noviciate, and of the
lowefl: clafs of illutninati, is all we can geE from the
authority of fAr. \AIeifhaupt. The higher degrees
were not publii11ed by him. I\1any circumflances ap-
pear fufpicious, are certainly fufceptible of differr~nt
turns, and tnay eafily be pufhed to very dangerous
extrenles. rfhe accounts given by the four profeffors
confirn1 thefe fufpicions. They declare upon oath,
that they make all thefe accui"d tions in conftquence of
\vhat they heard in the meetings, and of what they
knew of the I-!igher Orders.
But fince the ti1ne of the fupprtfi1on by the Elector,
difcoveries have been made which throw great light
on the fubjeet. A colleB:ion of original papers and
correfpondence was found by fi~arching the houfe of
one Zwack (a Men1ber) in I]36. rfhe following
year a n1uch larger colleB:ion \Vas found at the houfe
of Baron Baifus; and fince that tin1e Baron Knigge,
the 1noft active I'Aernber next to \\Teifl1aupt, publiihed
an account of fome of the higher degrees, \V hich had
been forn1ed by hirnfelf. A long vvhile after this \vere
publifbed, lVeuefle Arbeitung des Spart:2cus und ]Jbilo in
der Illu;ninaten Orden, and IIcbere Grcden des llluJJz. Or-
dens. 1"'hefe nvo works give an account of the whole
fecret conftitution of the Ord~r, its various degrees,
the tnanner of conferring them, the inftruftions to the
intrants, and an explanation of the connection of the
Order with Free f'·/1afonry, and a critical hifrory. Vle
fhall give fotne extraCts frorn fuch of thefe as have
been publifhed.
\iVeifhaupt \Vas the foun~er in I 776. In I 77 8 the
nun1ber of Men1bers was confiderably increafed, and
the Order was fully eftablifhed. The .rvien1bers took
.antique
IO2 THE ILLUMINATL CHAP. II.
"
thus ,it is better fecured from the opprellion of the
"
ruling powers, and becaufe this fecrecy gives a
"
greater Zeit to the whole."
This fhort account of the Nwiciafe, and of the
lowelt clafs of illuminati, is all we can
get from the
authority of lk/lr. Vifeifhaupt. The higher degrees
were not pubiifhed by him. liany circuml'tances ap~
pear fulinicious, are certainly fufceptible of diflerent
turns, and may eahly be pulhed to very dangerous
extremes. The accounts given by the four profeflors
conhrm thefe fufpicioils. They declare upon oath,
that they make all thefe accufations in conlkquence of
what they heard in the meetings, and of what they
knew of the Higher Orders.
But hnce the time of the fupprelllon by the Elector,
dilcoveries have been made which throw great light
on the fubjeet. A collection of original papers and
correfpondence was found by learching the houle of
one Zwacl; (a hiernber) in 1736. The following
year a much larger collection was found at the houfe
ofBaron Balliis; and iince that time Baron Knigge,
the moft a&ive Member next to Vifeifhaupt, publilhed
an account of fome of the higher degrees, which had
been formed by himlelh A long while ahrer this were
publilhed, 1Veue¢'e /§'r5_eiz'zmg a/.fs dif7!Z}"f:?(ll5 zum' Philo in
der I/Zumifmzm Ordwz, and I1"c,6c>re Gmriefa der I/lmfz. Or-
dem. Thefe two works give an account of the whole
fecret conftitution of the Crder, its various degrees,
the manner of conferring them, the inltrufftions to the
intrants, and an
explanation of the conneftion of the
Order with Free Mafonry, and a critical hiltory. X/VB
ihall give fome extraots from fuch of thefe as have
been publifhed.
Vlfeifhaupt was the founder in 1776. In 1778 the
number of l/[embers was conliderably increaled, and
the Order was
fully eltablifhed. The l/Eembers took
-antique
~HAP. II. THE II.-LU!vDNATI. IOJ
antique names. Thus \Veifhaupt took the name of
sp~lrracus, the n1an v.;ho headed the infurreCtion of
flJvcs, 'vhich in Potnpey's tin1e kept Ron1e in terror
and uproar t'Jr three years. Zvvack \Vas called Cato.
Knigge 'fvas Philo. Baifus v;as 1-Iannibal. Hertel
was l\1arius. Marquis Coni1anza \vas Diomedes.-
Nicolai, an eminent and learned bookfeller in Berlin,
and author of feveral vvorks of reputation, took the
name of Lucian, the great feoffer at all religion. An-
other was Mahornet, &c. lt is remarkable, that ex-
cept Cato and Socrates, vve have not a name of any
ancient \Vho was eminent as a teacher and praftifer of
virtue. On the contrary, they feem to have affect~d
the ch:4raB:ers of the free-thinkers and turbulent fpirits
of antiquity. In the· fan1e manner they gave ancient
natnts to the cities and countries of Europe. Munich
V/as Athens, Vienna \Vas Rome, &c.
Spartt?cus to Cato, Feb. 6, 1778.
" Men but eft de fa'ire r-ualoir Ia ra[fon. As a fubor-
-" dinate objeCt I fhall endeavour to gain fecuriry to
" ourfelves, a backing in cafe of misfortunes, and af-
" fiH:ance from v.;ithout. I fhall therefore prefs the
" cultivation of fcienc~, efpecially fuch fciences as
'' may have an influence on our reception in the world,
'' and may ferve to remove obfracles out of the \vay.
cc We have to ftruggle vv-ith pedantry, with intole-
,, ranee, with divines and fratefmen, and above all,
" princes a'nd prictt:s are in our way. Men are unfit
" as they are, and 111ufr he formed; each claf3 rnuft
" be the fchool of trial for the next. This \vill be te-
" dious, becanfe it is hazardous. In the laft c1af1es I
" propofe academics under the direCtion of the Order.
" 'fhis \Vill 1ecure us the adher-ence of the Literati.
" Science
enfip. 11. THE 11.1.UM1N_f\Tr. 103
antique names. Thus 'Weidiaupt took the name of
Spartacus, the man who headed the infurreétion of
ilaves, which in Pompey's time kept Rome in terror
and uproar for three years. Zwaclc was called Cato.
Knigge was Fhilo. Bailiis was Hannibal. Hertel
was Marius. Marquis Conitanza was Diomedes.-
Nicolai, an eminent and learned bookfeller in Berlin,
and author of feveral Works of reputation, took the
name of Lucian, the great fcoffer at all religion. An-
other was l\/Iahornet, &c. It is remarkable, that ex-
cept Cato and Socrates, we have not a name of any
ancient who was eminent as a teacher and pracftifer of
virtue. On the contrary, they feem to have ati"`ec`ted
the characters of the free-thinkers and turbulent fpirits
of antiquity. In the fame manner
they gave ancient
names to the cities and countries ofEurope. Munich
was Athens, Vienna was Rome, Elec.
SP{Z7'l'fZ6`Z{.$` ro Caro, Feé. 6, 1778.
"
Mofz but t# :Zefaire wzlair [zz rrzyfz. As a fubor-
"
dinate ohjectl fhall endeavour to
gain fecurity to
"
ourfelves, a
hacking in cafe of misfortunes, and ai"-
"
Hitance from without. I ihall therefore prefs the
"
cultivation of fcience, efpecially fuch fciences as
"
may have an induence on our
reception in the world,
"
and may ferve to remove obftacles out of the way.
"
We have to
ftruggle with pedantry, with intole-
"
rance, with divines and itatefmen, and above all,
"
princes and prieits are in our
way. Men are unfit
"
as they are, and mutt he formed, each Cl&li§1`[`|llHf
"
he the fchool oftrial for the next. This will be te-»
"
dious, becaufe it is hazardous. In the la{'t clalles I
"
propofe academics under the direction ofthe Order.
if
This will iecure us the adherence of the Literati.
"
Science
T HE 1L L U fvtl NAT I. CHAP. II.
'' S{:ience J11all here be the lure. Only thofe v>~ho are
" aHl.1redly proper fubjeCl:s fhall be picked out from
" an1ong the inferior claffes for the higher myfteries,
" which contain t_he fidl: principles and 1neans of pro-
" 111oting a happy 1ife. No re1
igionifl: mufl:, on any
" account, be achnitted into theft : For here \Ve work
" at the difcovc:ry and extirpation of fuperftition and
'' prejudices. 1'he inftruB:ions fl1aH be fo conclucted
'' that each fhall difclofe \Vhat he thinks he conceals
" within his o\vn breaft, \Vhat are his ruling propenfi-
,, ties :.1nd paflions, and how far he has advanced in
'' the con1n1and of hitnfelf. 1-.his \vill anfwer all the
'' purpofes of auricular conftffion. And, in particu-
'' lar, every perfon fhall be n1 ade a fpy on another
'' and on all around hirn. Nothing can efcape our
" fight; by the fe rneans \Ve i11all readily difcover \vho
" are contented, a11d receive \Vith relifn the peculiar
'' Hare-doctrines and religious opinions that are laid
" before them; and, at lair, the trull-worthy alone
" \vill be ad1nitted to a participation of the whole
" n1axin15 ~'ind political conflitution of the Order. In
'..' a council cotnpofed of fuch n1en1bers vve fhalllabour
" at the contrivance of 111cans to drive by degrees the
" enen1ies of reafon and of htunanity out of the world,
" and to eilab1ifh a peculiar n1oraliry and religion fit-
" ted for the great Society of fvl:1nkind.
" But this is a ticklifh pr~jeEt, and requires the ut-·
" n1ofl: circunlfpcEtion. rfhe fq uean1ifh will ftart at
" the fight of religious or political novelties; and
" they rnuft be prepared for thern. \\le tnuft be par-
'' ticub.rly careful about the books \Vhich we recom-
" n1end; I ihall confine thrn1 at firft to moralifts and
" reafoning hifrorians. This '"'·ill prepare for a patient
" rtception, in the higher claffcs, of \Vorks of ;t bolder
" flight, fuch as Robinet,s SyjleJHe de la J\Tature-Pcli-
" tique .l'{aturtl/c-l)i:if,:(cp/Jie de lr! .lVaturc-S;:/fenze So-
,, cia!-
(C
(K
C(
C(
C(
CC
(C
C(
"
purpoics of auricular confemon. And, in particu-
tc
(C
(C
(C
(I
(C
(C
N
II(
þÿ¢ ¬
104 THE lLLUM1NA'I`1. CHAP. II
ight; by thefe means we fhall readily difcover who
'
are contented, and receive with relifh the peculiar
(G
at the contrivance of means to drive by degrees the
"
enemies of reafon and ofhumanity out of' the world
"
and to eltablilh a
peculiar morality and religion lit-
"
ted for the great Society of I"f;r§1I`ll{ll'lCl.
"
But this is a ticklifn proiect, and requires the ut-
molt circumfpeclion. The hiueamihi will [tart at
"
the iight of religious or
political novelties; and
"
they muft be prepared hir them. Ve mullt be par-
ticularly careful about the boolcs which we recom-
1
&
"
mend5 I fhall confine them at Brit to moralif'ts and
"
reafoning hiftorians. This will prepare for a
patient
"
reception, in the higher clailhs, ol`w0rl<s ofa bolder
"
flight, fnch as l{obinet's iS}Weff.fe tic lr: .Nafzr;'c-Pcli-
"
Iiqzfe Nfz!z¢,=~f/i'r--l'Zfi!.§@f>,{»ia :ia !fz Nafzrr¢f-~S;j/ie//ze S0-
"
cial-
"
Science lhall here be the lure. Only thofe who are
aiiiiredly proper l`ubjeé`ts ihall be picked out from
among the inferior claH`es for the higher mylteries,
'
which contain the firit principles and means of pro-
moting a
happy life. No religionill muff, on any
account, be admitted into thefe : For here we Work
at the difcovery and extirpation of fuperllition and
prejudices. The inlhuctions fhail be fo contlucftcd
that each lhall difclofe what he thinks he conceals
"
within his own brealt, what are his ruling propenli-
G(
ties and paflions, and how far he has advanced in
the command of himlelh This will anfwer all the
lar, every perfon fhall be made a
fpy on another
and on all around him. Nothing can
efcape our
llate-doftrines and religious opinions that are laid
before them; and, at lall, the trud-worthy alone
will be admitted to a
participation ofthe whole
maxima and political conllitution ofthe Order. In
a council coinpofed of fuch members we fhall labour
CHAP. II. T H E I L L U !~tf IN AT I. 105
" cial-The writings of Mirabaud, &c. Hervetius
" is fit only for the il:rongeft ftotnachs. If any one
cc has a copy already, neither praile nor find fault with
" hin1. Say nothing on fuch fubjefts to intrants, for
" we don't kno\v how they- \vill be rtceived-folks are
" not yet prepared. l\larius, an excellent n1an, 1nuft
" be dealt ~vi th. I--Iis ftotnac h, whieh can not ye~ di-
" geft fuch ftrong food, n1utt acquire a better tone.
" 1"'he allegory on which I an1 to found the tnyftcries
" of the 1--Iigher Orders is tbe Jlire-worjbip of the lvlagi.
(' \\Te n1uft have fame vvorfhip, and none is{() appofite.
cc J..,ET T H E R E B E L rG I-l T, A ~ D ,. T HERE 5 H A L L BE
" LIcHT. 1'his is n1y n1otto, and is n1y funclan1enral
" principle. The degrees will be Feuer Orden) Pcnjen
'' Orden*; all very praEticable. In the courfe through
cc thefe there will be no STA BENE (this is the an:F.ver
'' given to one \vho fo!icits prcf(·rn1ent, and is refufed).
" For I engage that none ihall enter this clafs who has
" not laid afide his prejudices. No tnan is fit for our
'' Order \vho is not a Brutus or a Catiline, and is noc
" ready to go every length.-Tell me how you like
" this ?''
Spartacus to Cato, J.11arcb I 77 8.
" To colleCt unpubli!11ed works, and information
" fron1 the archives of States, will be a moft ufeful fer-
" ''ice. '-l/e fhall be able to !11 O\V in a ve rv ridiculous
" 1igbt the clJi1ns of our defpots. £vi:1rius ·(keeper cf
" the archives of the :EltCtorate) has ferreted out a no.-
'' ble docutnent, which we have got. He n1Ztkes it,
" forfooth, a cafe of confcience-ho\v filly that-fince
;t. This is evidently the 1~l;;Jr:re du ft.litiirus mention:'d by B~rruei,
in his Hiflory of Jacobinifm, and h~d been carrie.J. into France by
Bede and Bufche.
0 " only
CHAP.II. THE ILLUMINATI.
IO5
"
cial-The writings of Mirabaud, ézc. Helvetius
"
is fit only for the iirongeiii iiomachs. Ifany one
"
has a
copy already, neither preiife nor iind fault with
"
him. Say nothing on fuch fubviefts to intrants, for
"
we don't lcnow how they' will be received--follas are
not yet prepared. Drftaircitis, an excellent man, rnuit
be dealt With. His iimmzich, which cannot
yet di-
"
gelt fuch firong food, niuii acquire a better tone.
"
The allegory on which I am to found the myfteries
CC
((
C(
of' the Higher Grders is 5/56 fire-w0¢y§5§p gf L56 flingi.
"
"le rnuft have fome worfhip, and none is lb appohte.
"
LET THERE BE LIGHT, AND A_"I`HERE SHALL BE
"
LIGHT. This is my motto, and is my fundamental
"
principle. The degrees will be Fetzer Gnfefz, PKZWFZ
"
Ordaiz* ; all very praetienble. In the courfe through
(C
thefe there will be no sTA BENE
(this is the anfwer
"
given to one who folicits preierment, and is refilled).
if
For I engage that none fhall enter this ciafs who has
"
not laid alide his prejudices. No man is ht for our
"
Order who is not a Brutus or a Catiline, and is not
"
ready to
go every length.-Tell me how you like
"
this ?"
SlD[l7"l'{ZCZ{.f fo Caro, M'zzf'c,b x778.
"
To colleft unpubiifhed works, and information
"
from the archives ofStates, will be a mo£'t uiefnl lei--
"
vice. 'We lhall be able to lliow in a
very ritliculotis
"
light the claims of ourdefpots. l"."_i1l"lLlS (keeper of
"
the archives of the Elecflzorate) has ierreted out a no-
"
ble document, which we have got. He maltes it,
I(
forfooth, a cafe of conl`cience--how lilly that-Hnce
This is evidently the J!@y?ffre du Yllinhrzu mentioned by Brirruel,
in his Hillory of jacobinihn, and had been carried into France by
Bede and Bulche.
O "
only
-
106 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. Il.
'' only that isfin \yhich is ultinlate£v productive of mif-
" chief. ln this cafe, \vhere the advantage far exceeds
" the hurt} it is n1eritorious virtue. It vvill do JTiore
;:( good in our hands than by ren1aining for 1000 years
" on the dufiy fhelf."
There was found in the hand- writing of Z vvack a
projeB: for a Sifl:erhood, in fubferviency to the defigns
of the lllun1inati. In it are the following paifages ~
" It will be of great fervice, and procure us both
" 1nuch information and nzc:zey, and \vill fuit charn1-
" ingly the tafte of n1any of our trueft members, \vho
" are lovers of the fex. It :fhould confift of two claifes,
" the virtuous and the freer hearted (i.e. thofe \Vho
" fly out of the con1n1on track of prudifn manners) ;
'' they n1uft not kno\v of each other, and n1 uil be un-
" der the direEtion of men, but without knowing it.
" Proper books n1uft be put into their hands, and fuch
" (but fecretly) as are flattering to their paffions.n
There are, in the fan1e hand-writing, Defcription of
a H:rong box, which, ifforced open, fha1l blo·w up and
deftroy its contents-Several receipts for procuring
abortion-A con1pofition vvhich blinds or kills \vhen
:fpurted in the face-A lheet, containing a receipt for
iytnpathetic ink-Tea fcJr procuring abortion-l-!erb£
quae babent qualitatenz deleterearrz-A 1nethod for filling
~l bed-chan1ber \Vith peftilential vapours-Hovt' to take
c.ff imprefi1ons of feals, fo as to ufe then1 afterwards as
fea1s-A collection of fame hundreds of iuch in1pre1-
fions, with a lift: of their owners, princes, nobles,
clergyn1en, merchants, &c.-A receipt ad excitandunz
furcre;n uterinunz,-A manufcri pt intitled, '' Better than
I-Iorus." It was afterwards printed and diftributed at
Leipzig fair, and is an attack and bitter fatire on all re-
1iQ ion. This is in the hand- writing of Ajax. As a1U) a
differtation on fuicide.-N. B. His fiiter-in-la\V threw her-
felf from the top of a to\ver. There was alfo a fet of
por~ra1ts)
3'
106 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. ri.
"
only that isjn which is þÿ2'lZfi77Z(2f ¬;V
productive ofmif-
"
chief In this cafe, where the advantage far exceeds
"
the hurt, it is meritorious virtue. It will do more
"
good in our hands than by remaining for Iooo
years
"
on the duflzy fhelf"
There was found in the hand-writing of Zwack a
project for a Sifterhood, in fubferviency to the dehgns
ofthe Illuminati. .In it are the following palfages :
"
lt will be of great fervice, and procure us both
"
much information and money, and will fuit charm-
"
ingly the tafte of many ofour trueit members, who
'F are lovers of the fex. It fhould conhft of two clailes,
"
the virtuous and the h'eer hearted (i. e. thofe who
"
Hy out of the common track of prudilh manners) ;
"
they mult not know of each other, and mult be un-
"
der the direction of men, but without knowing it.
"
Proper books muft be put into their hands, and fuch
"
(but fecretly) as are
flattering to their pallions."
There are, in the fame hand-writing, Defcription of
zi
itrong box, which, ifforced open, lhall blow up and
deftroy its contents-Several receipts for procuring
abortion-A compolition which blinds or kills when
fpurted in the Race-A fheet, containing a
receipt for
lympatheticink-Tea Rn' procuring abortion--Heré.<e
gmc babefz! gm/imfem de/eierenm-A method for Filling
a bed-chamber with peftilential vapours--How to take
off impreilions of feals, fo as to uie them afterwards as
ieals-A collection of fome hundreds ofiuch imprei-
hons, with a lift of their owners, princes, nobles,
clergymen, merchants, &c.-A receipt af! excimmizmz
þÿI/7"E7" ¬}iZZif6'7'f}ZZ£77Z,--.AITl21I'1UliCI`lPIIintitled, "
Better than
Z/ fy H .I
Horus. It was afterwards printed and diftributed at
Leipzig fair, and is an attack and bitter fatire on all re-
ligion. This is in the hand-writing of' As allb a
dillhertation on fuicide.-N. B. His lii'ter-in-law threw her-
felffrom the top ofa tower. There was alfo a fat of
portraits,
CHAP. II. THE ILL UI\1IN ATI.
portraits, or characters of eighty-five ladies in Munich;
with recoinnlendations of fotne of them for n1embers
of a Lodge of Sifter Illun1inarce ; a1fo injunctions to all
the Superiors to learn to vvri te vJith both hands ; and
that they il1ould uie n1ore than one cypher.
In1n1ediately after the publication of thefe writings,
n1any defences appeared. It \vas faid that the dread-
ful n1edical apparatus \Vere with propriety in the hands
of Counfellor Zwack, who was a judge of a critninal
court, and whofe duty it \Vas therefore to know fuch
things. The fan1e excufe was offered for the collec-
tion of feals.; but how catne theie things to be put up.
with papers of the Illuminati, and to be in the hand-
v;riting of one of that Order? W eifnaupt fays, '' Thefe
'' things were not carried into effeCt-only fpoken of,
<c and are juftifiable when taken in proper connec7"
" tion." This however he ha~ not pointed out; but
he appeals to the account of the Order, which he had
publiihed at Regenfnurg, and in \vhich neither thefe
things ~re .to be found, nor any poffibility of a con-
neCtion by which they n1ay be juftified. " r\11 men,'~
fays he, '' are fubjecr to errors, and the beit man is he
" who beft conceals then1. I have never been guilty
" of any fuch vices or fo11ie:s : for proof, I appeal to
" the \Vhole tenor of rny 1if(4
, which my reputation,
" and my frruggles with hofrile cab~ls, had brought
" co1npletely into public vie\V long before the infbtu-
" tion of this Order, without abating any thing ofthat
" flattering regard vvhich VJ'2•S paid to n1e by the firft
'' perfons of my country and its neighbourhood; a re-
" gard v;ell evinced by .their confidence in me as the
'' befl: inflruftor of their children." In fame of his
priva[e letters, we learn the n1eans which he en1ployed
to acquire this influence an1ong the youth, and they
are fuch as could not fail. But \Ve tnuft not anticipate.
" It is well kno\vn .,that I have made the chair which I
" occupied
cnap. 11. THE 1LLuM1NA"fI. IO7
portraits, or characters ofeighty-five ladies in Munich;
with recommendations of fome of them for members
ofa Lodge of`Sil'ter illuminates; alfo injunctions to all
the Superiors to learn to write with both hands 5 and
that they fhould ull: more than one
cypher.
Immediately after the publication of there writings,
many defences appeared. It was laid that the dread-
ful medical apparatus were with propriety in the hands
of Counfellor Zvi/ack, who was
ajudge ofa criminal
court, and whole duty it was therefore to know fuch
things. The fame excufe was ofiferecl for the collec-
tion of feals; but how came thele things to be put up
with papers of the Illuminati, and to be in the hand-
writingof one of that Order? Weifnaiipt fays,
"
Thefe
"
things were not carried into effect-only fpoken oh
"
and are
juftiiiable when taken in proper connecf
"
tion." This however he has not pointed out; but
he appeals to the account of the Order, which he had
publifhed at Regenihurg, and in which neither thefe
things are to be found, nor
any pofhbility of :1 con-
nec`tion by which they may be juliilied.
"
All men,"
iiys he,
"
are
fubjeét to errors, and the bell man is he
"
who belt conceals them. I have never been guilty
"
of any fuch vices or lollies : for proof, lappeal to
"
the whole tenor of my life, which my reputation,
"
and my ftruggles with hoflile cabals, had brought
"
completely into public View long before the inftitu-
"
tion ofthis Order, without abating any thing ofthat
"
flattering regard which was
paid to me
by the Firft
"
perfons of my country and its neighbourhood; a re-
"
gard well evinced by.their confidence in me as the
"
bell inllruftor of their children." ln fome of his
private letters, we learn the means which he employed
to acquire this influence among the youth, and they
are fuch as could not fail. But we mult not
anticipate.
"
It is well lqnownsthatl have made the chair which I
"
occupied
I03 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
" occupied in the uni verfity of Ingolftadr, the refort
" ofthe f1rfr clafs of the Gern1:1n youth; \vhereas for-
" n1erly it had only bro~1ght rDund it the low-born
" praCtitioners in the courts of la\v._ I have gone
" th rouR:h the whole circle of hun1a:1 enq ui r1
.r. I have
0 ~
" exorci(ed fpirits-raifed ghoH:s-di(covered (rea-
" fures-interrogated the CabJ.lJ-hatte Loto gifpielt-I
" have never traniinuted tnetals."-(A very pretty
and refpectable circle indeed, and ·what ,.vulgar fpirits
\Vould fcarcely have included within the pale of their
curiofity. )-c' 1"'he T·enor of my life has been the op-
,, pofi.tt of every thing that is vile; and no man ran
'' lay any fuch thing to my cha1ge. I have reafon to
" rejoice that thefe writings have appeared ; they are a
'' vindication of the Order and of rny conduct. I can
'' and n1ult dec]are to God, and I do it no\V in the
'' n1oft folemn manner, L:1at in n1y \vhole life I never
'' i:1\V or heard of the fo 1nuch condernned fecrtt \Vri-
~' tings; and in p~uticu1ar, refpecring rhefe abotnina-
,, b]e n1eans, fuch as poifoning, abortion, &c. \\"as it
'' ever knovvn to me in any c~de, that anv ofmv friends
./ .
'' or acquc.int:lnces ever even thought of thetn, advif.-
,, ed then;, or n'lade any ure ofthe:nl. I \Vas indeed
"' a1ways a fcht tn~ r 2. ~ d pro1 ectnr, but never couid en-
'' gsge rnuch in detaiL IVl y general plan is good,
l I • I , .. I • • 1 I 1 '
'{ t~1ougn 1n t 1e •_;etal1 tnere 1nay De iau ts. 11ad n1y-
u: fe1
f to for111 • l n another f1 t u:1tion, s.nd in an aEtive
'' ilation in 1ite, I !11ou1c1 have hee n kec nl y ace upieci,
'' alld the foundino· an Order would never have con1e
~..,
c: into n1v head. But I \Vould have executed n1uch
c:: greater ·things, had D(>t governinent alw·ays oppofed
.:c n1y exertions, aud placed others in the fituations
H w hi c:1 fuited rrry talc nrs. It was the full con vitl:ion
(c of this and of \vhat could l:e c~one, ifevery 1nan v;ere
'' plactd in the nH1ce for whi::h he was Etted by nature
f' 'lt"~d a prop·""" pr-i,lr'l ...
l·,:r• \' 7 h:,...:1 t:,.n _r.L•c-cre11ecl ~() 111""
•_..-, J"'" "--~ ,_,__ lt -.....,.L ,..,...~J, \I£Jl~,r. .t .. , l'- Jl.
00
ll L \......,..-
H rhc
to8 THE zttuiriuwtrt. eHAP.11.
"
occupied in the univerlity of Ingolftadt, the refort
"
ofthe firlt clali; of the German youth; whereas for-
"
merly it had only brought round it the low-born
"
pr;16titioners'in the courts of law., I have gone
"
through the whole circle of huniztn enquiry. Ihave
"
exorciled fpirits--railed ghofts--dilcovered trea-
"
fures--interrogated the Caotzla-/katie Lozogtfpielf-I
"
have never tranfmuted metals."--(A very pretty
and reliwrétable circle indeed, and whatyulgar lpirits
would fearcely have included Within the pale of their
curiohty.)--" The Tenor oi' my life has been the op-
"
polite ofevery thing that is vile; and no man can
"
lay any fuch thing to my charge. I have reaibn to
"
reioiee that thefe writings have appeared ; they are a
"
vindication ofthe Grder and ofmy conduet. lean
"
and tnult declare to God, and Ido it now in the
"
moft folemn manner, that in my whole life Inever
"
Env or heard ofthe fo much condemned fecret wri-
"
rings; and in pczrticular, refpeetingthefe abomina-
"
ble means, fuch as
poifoning, abortion, Ste. was it
"
ever known to me in any cztle, thatany ofniy friends
"
or
aequainutnces ever even
thought ofthem, acl'/ill
"
ed them, nr made any ule of`them. I was indeed
'f
always a iiehemer and prnieftnr, hut never could en--
,
_
,
._
,_
_
"
gage muen in oetail, L1/ly general plan is
good,
"
though in the detail there may be iaults. Iliad nay-
"
lelfto form. In another htuation, and in an afftive
"
ltation in lite, I lliould have been keenly occupied,
"
and the founding an Order would never have come
ff
into my head. Edt I would have executed rnueh
"
greater things, had not
government always oppofed
"
my exertione, and placed others in the Htuations
'f
whith 'fuited my talents. It was the full conviftiou
"
of tina and of-what could he done, ifevery man were
"
placed in the o&ce nn which he was Etted hy nature
"
and a
proper educzttieri, which iirit fuggeftecl to nie,
"
the
CHAP. II. T H E I L L U l\1 ! N AT 1.
" the plan of Illutnination.'' Surely Mr. \Aleiihaupt
had a very ffrious charge, the education of youth; and
his encourugement in that charge was the moft flatter-
ina that an Illun1inatus couid wiih for; becaufe he had
br~ught round hi1n the youth whofe influence if) fo-
cierv vvas the areatefc, and who v1ould n1oft of all con-
. D
tribute to the diffufinz good principles, and exciting to
good conduCt through the \Vhole ftate. " I did not,"
fays he, " bring deiftn into Bavaria more than into
c' Rome. I found it here, in great vigour, more a-
" bounding than in any of ~he neighbouring Protefiant
'' ftates. I atn proud to be known to the world as
" the founder of the Ordtr of Illuminati; and I repeat
" n1y wifh to hcive for n1y epitaph,
" flic jitus efl Pb"cthon, cu1Ti!s auriga paterni,
,, c~uem ji neil teriuit, lllffgnis ta1Jzen excidit aujis.')
The fl"cond difcovery of fecret correfpondcnce at
SanderfdorA-~ the feat of Baron Batz, (f-Ianniba1,) con-
tains flill more interefting faCts.
Spa,~tccus to Cato.
" \\..h:1 t !11a11 I do ? I an1 de prived of a11 he]p. So-
" crate~:, \vho \vo:Jld inflft on being a n1an of confe-
cc quence arnong us) and is rea!ly a n1an of talents,
'~ and of a rigbt r:.:.:c:v r;- tbiaking, is eternally befo-tted.
" .Lt\up·uftus is in the worll eilirnation imar-inable. Al-
a 0
" cibiades fits the day long with t!-:e vintner,s pretty
" wife, and there he IJghs ancl pineg. A few days
" ago, at Corinrh, 'fibcrius atternptcd to ravifh the:
" vvife of D'- rnocidcs) ~nd her huihand can1e in upon
;c then1. Good heavens! \vhat _/1reopagifA' I have got.
'' vV htn the v
\'Orth")' rna!l IVl::ucus Aurelius con1es to
' ( 1\ t hcns, ( fviunich, ) \'v' hat wiU hc t hink ? \\1hat a
(( t
111tt tng
Ci-IAP. II. THE ILLUMINAT1.
109
"
the plan of Illumination." Surely Mr. Vifeifliaupt
had a very lerious charge, the education of youth; and
his encouragement in that charge was the molt Hatter-
ing that an iiluminatus could wilh for; becauie he had
brought round him the youth whofe inliuencein fo-
ciety was the greateft, and who would moft of all Con~
tribute to the dillduling good principles, and exciting to
good conduct through the Whole flzate. "
Idid not,"
lays he,
"
bring deifm into Bavaria more than into
"
Rome. I found it here, in great vigour, more a-
bounding than in any ofthe neighbouring Protefiant
"
ftates. I am
proud to be known to the world as
"
the founder of the Grder of Illuminati; and I repeat
C(
(C
my wilh to have for my epitaph,
"
h7c,@!us M Pl§7¢{fZJ677, cfzrf"zZ.v azzrigazprzrerni,
"
þÿ.@'Zz'¬?iZH neu féliliff, fzmgnis ramen exridzif azy?:."
The fecond difcovery of fecret correfpondence 9.
Sanderfdorii`, the lent of Baron Batz, (I-Iannibal,} con-
tains ltiil more
interefting facfts.
*C
Spar/nczfs to Cara.
"
Vfhat fhall I do? I am
deprived of all help. So-
"
crates, who would inlilt on
being a man of confe~
"
quence among us, and is really a man of talents,
"
and ofa rigbr tony gf iZ25fzkz`,'1g, is eternally befotted.
"
Augufius is in the worll eilimation imaginable. Al-
"
cibiades Hts the clay iong with the vintner's pretty
"
wife, and there he hghs and pines. A few days
"
ago, at Corinth, 'I`iberius attempted to ravilli the
"
wire Dtniociclcs, and her hulband came in upon
"
them. Good lieavens f what þÿ/i/}" ¬0P!7£'fl'.'5'I have got.
'°
When the yrortlry man Marcus Aurelius comes to
C(
,
Athens, fi*/Itiziittli,j what will he think? V7hata
"
meeting
1 IO THE ILLUM~INATI. CHAP. II.
'' meeting of diiiolute, in1n1oral wretches, \Vhoren1af-
,, ters, liars, bankrupts, braggarts, and vain f,.Jols !
" \'Vhen he fees all this, \Vhat \vill he think ? I-Ie will
'' be ai11an1ed to enter into an Afiociation," (ob[erve
Reader, that Spartacus \Vrirrs tb is in Auguft I 783, in
the very time th2.t he \Votlld have n1urdercd CL1to's fif-
ter, as we i11all fee,) "where the chiefs raife the
" higherc expectations, and exhibit fuch \vretched ex-
" an1ples; and all t!1is fron1 felf-\vill, fron1 fenfuality.
" .A.n1 I not in the right-that this n1an-that any
" fuch \VOrthy n1an-whofe nan1e alone would give us
" the feleEtion of a11 Gerrn3ny, \vill declare that the
" Yvhole province of Grecia_, (Bavaria,) innocent and
" guilty, n1uft be excluded. I tell you, we tnay ftu-
" dy, and \V rite, and toi1 ti11 death . \Ve 111 ay C: cri-
cc f-lee to the Order, our health, our fortune, and our
" reputation, (alas, the lofs !) and thefe Lords) fol-
'' lo \V ing their own pleafures, 'vill vvhore_, chear, fteaJ}
" and drive on 1ike fr. an1 e1efs rafca1s ; and yet muft
" be .A;·eopagita;, and interfere in every thi~1g. In-
" dted, n1y dearefl: friend, \Ve have only enilaved
" ourfc1ves."
1n another part of this fine correfpondence, Dio-
n1edes has had the good fortune to intercep~ a Q_ L.
( c~iibus Licet,) in vvhich it is faid, and fupported by
proofs, that Cato had received 2 50 florins as a bribe
for his fentence in his capacity of a judge in a criminal
court (the end had furely fanCtified the me3ns.) In
another, a rv1inerval C0111p1ains of his l\1entor for hav-
ing by lies occafioned the difn1if1lon of a phyfician
fron1 a family, by 'vhich the IVIentor obtained, in the
1~1n1e capacity, the cuftom of the houfe and free accefs,
·which favour he repaid by debauching the wife; :1nd
he prays to be inforn1ed \vhether he n1ay not get ano-
ther lVlentor, fiying that although that tnan h::H.i always
rriven hin1 the rnoft e.xcellent inilrucrions, and he
'-'
doubted
IIO THE ILLUMINATI. Cf-IAP. II.
"
meetingofdillblute, immoral wretches, whoremaf-
"
ters, liars, bankrupts, braggarts, and vain fools!
"
'Nhen he fees all this, what will he think ? He will
"
be aihamed to enter into an Adociation," (obferve
Reader, that Spartacus writes this in Auguit 1783, in
the very time that he would have murdered Cato's Ef-
ter, as We fhall fee,)
"
where the chiefs raile the
"
highelft expeeltations, and exhibit fuch wretched ex-
"
amples; and all this from felf-will, Hom lenfuality.
"
Am I not in the right--that this man--that any
"
fuch worthy man--whofe name alone would give us
"
the feleclion of all Germany, will declare that the
"
whole province of Grecia, (Bavaria,) innocent and
"
guilty, mutt be excluded. I tell you, we
may flu-
"
dy, and write, and toil till death. Wie may lacti-
"
hee to the Order, our health, our fortune, and our
"
reputation, (alas, the lofsl) and thefe Lords, fol-
"
lowing their own
pleafures, will whore, cheat, flteal,
"
and drive on like fharnelefs rafeals; and yet rnufl:
'f
be fE'eojm_gifa:=, and interfere in every thing. In-
"
deed, my deareft friend, we have only enllaved
"
ourfelves."
ln another part of this fine correfpondence, Dio-
niedes has had the _good fortune to
intercept a
(LL.
(,Q§zi19as Liam) in which it is faid, and fupported by
proofs, that Cato had received 250 florins as a bribe
for his fentence in his capacity ofajudge in a criminal
court (the end had furely fanftined the means.) ln
another, a Minerval complains of his Mentor for hav-
ing by lies occahoned the difmillion of a
phylician
from a
family, by which the l/lentor obtained, in the
iiime capacity, the cuftom of the houfe and free accefs,
which favour he repaid by debauching the wife; and
he prays to be informed whether he may not get ano-
ther Mentor, laying that although that man had always
given him the moit excellent inftrudtions, and he
`
doubted
CHAP. 11. THE lLLUMINATI. I I I
doubted not would continue the1n, yet he feIt a difgufl:
at the hypocrify, \vhich would certainly disninifh the
impreffion of the moft falutary truths. (Is it not dif-
treffina to think, that this prornifing youth will by and
by la~gh at his forn1er fin1plicity, and f()llov;r the
fieps and not the inftruB:ions of his phyfician.) In
another place, Sp~rracus writes to fviarius, (in confi-
dence,) that another worthy Broth·~r, an Areopcgita,
had ilolen a gold and a iilver vvarch, and a ring,
fron1 Brutus, ( Sa(violi,) and begs rvlarius, in another
letter, to try, '.-vhile it was yet poilible, to get the
things reftored, becaufe the culprit \vas a moft excellent
nuz,n, ( Vortrejfiicb,) and of vaft ufe to the Orcer, hav-
ing the direCtion of an eminent feminary of young goi-
tleJJun; and becaufe Savioli \Vas much in good cornpa-
ny, and did not tnuch care for the Order, except in
fo far as it gave hin1 an opportunity of knowing and
leading fome of then1, and of Heering his \vay at
court.
I cannot help inferring here, though not the n1ofl:
proper place, a part of a provincial report fron1 ICnigge,
the man of the \vhole Aeropagitce 'Nho i11ows any thing
like urbanity or gentlenefs of mind.
'' Ofmy whole colony, (\J""leftphalia,) the moft bril-
" liant is Claudiopolis ( J\1eznvied). 'There they \vork,
" and direct, and do wonders."
If there ever ·was a fj)ot upon earth where 111en c1ay
be happy in a frate of cultivated fociety, it \vas the Jit-
tle principality of N euwied. I fa\V it in· I 770. The
tOWfl \Vas neat, and the palace handfon1e and in good
taH:e. But the country \vas beyond conception deEght-
ful; not a cottage that \vas out of repair, not a hedge
out of order; it had been the hobby (pardon 111e the
v;ord) of the Prince, \Vho n1ade it his dailJ' en1p!oyment
to go through his principality regularly7 and zfiiit eve-.
ry houfho!der> of whatever cnndition, \Vith his advice,
and
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. III
doubted not would continue them, yet he felt a difnuif
at the hypocrify, which would certainly ciiminifhothe
irnprefhon of the moll falutary truths. (IS it not dill
treiling to think, that this promihng youth will by and
by laugh at his former Iimplicity, and Rillow the
fieps and not the inflruftions of his phyhcian.) In
another place, Spartacus writes to Marius, (in confi-
dence,) that another worthy Brother, an
A/f?"f30lZM'gfZr'Z,
had iloien a
gold and a lilver watch, and a
ring,
from Brutus, (SafuiaIi,) and begs l`~/wtrius, in another
letter, to try, while it was
yet pofhbie, to
get the
things reltored, becaufe the culprit was a moft excsliefei
man, (V0rlr¢jgflicb,) and of' valt ufe to the Order, hav-
ing the direction of an eminent ferninary ofyoung gest-
t/emeff; and becaufe Savioli was much in good compa-
ny, and did not much care for the Grder, except in
fo far as it gave him an
opportunity of knowing and
leading fome of them, and of lteering his way at
court.
I cannot
help inferting here, though not the mofl;
proper place, a
part ofa provincial report from Knigge,
the man of the whole /feffoprzgifae who lhows any thing
like urbanity or
gentlenefs ofmind.
"
Ofmy whole colony, (VVe{'tplialia,) the moil bril-
"
liant is Claudiopolis (].7ezrwier!). There they work,
"
and direct, and do Wonders."
Ifthere ever was a Qnot upon earth where men
may
be happy in a Ftate ofcultivated lbciety, it was the lit-
tle principality of Neuwicd. I faw it in~ I77O. The
town was neat, and the palace handlbrne and in good
tafte. But the country was
beyond conception delight-
ful; not a
cottage that was out ofrepair, not a
hedge
out oforder, it had been the hobby (pardon me the
word) ofthe Prince, who made it his a/'1zi{yempioyment
to go through his principality regularly, and afiilt eve--
ry houfholder, ofwhatever condition, with his advice,
and
112 T HE I L L U l\li N A T I • CHAP. II.
and vtith his purfe ; and, \vhen a freeholder could not
of himfelf put things into a thriving condition, the
Prince fent his workmen and did it for hin1. He en-
do,ved fchools for the con1n1on people, and two acade-
mies for the gentry and the people of bufinefs. f-Ie
gave little portions to the daughters, and prizes to the
well-behaving fans of the labouring people. I-Iis own
houl'hold was a pattern of elegance and econon1y; his
fons v~ere fent to Paris to learn elegance, z:nd to En-
gland to learn fcience and agriculture. In !:'1ort, the
\vhole \Vas like a romance (and \vas indeed romantic).
I heard it fpoken of \Vith a fr11ile at the table of the
Bifhop of Treves, at Ehrenbredlein, and \Vas induced
to fee it next day as a curiofity: ..t\.nd yet even here,
the fanaticifn1 of Knigge vvould diftribute his poifon,
and tell the blinded people, that they were in a fiate
of fin and mifery, that their Prince \Vas a defpot, and
that they \vould never be happy till he \Vas n1ade to
fly, and till they \vere all n1adc equa1.
They got their wii11 ~ che fwarn1 of French locuns
fat down on Neuwied's beautiful fields in 1793, and
entrenched then1felves; and in three 1nonths, Prince
and farn1ers houfes, and cottages, and fchools, and
academies-all had vanii11ed; and all the fubjeCts \vere
made equal. But \vhen they con1plained ;:o the French
General (Rene le Grand) of being plundered by his
foldiers, he an.f\vercd, with a contetnptuous and cut-
/ ting l~ugh, "All is ours-we have left you your eyes
'' to cry."-(Reporttu tbe Co;r:.:ention, 13tb June 1795.)
Dijdte juflitianz ;;zcniti, et nc;z temnere dh.:cs !
112 THE ILLUMINAT1. CHAP. II.
and with his purfe 5 and, when a freeholder could not
of himfelf put things into a
thriving condition, the
Prince fent his workmen and did it for him. I-Ie en-
dowed fchools for the common
people, and two acade-
mies for the gentry and the people of bulineis. He
gave little portions to the daughters, and prizes to the
well-behaving fons of the labouring people. I-lis own
houfhold was a
pattern ofeleganee and economy; his
fons were fent to Paris to learn elegance, and to En-
gland to learn fcienee and agriculture. In fhort, the
whole was like a romance
(and was indeed romantic).
Iheard it fpoken of with a linile at the tahie of the
Bifhop of Treves, at Ehrenbretitein, and was induced
to fee it next day as a
curiohty: And yet even here,
the fanaticihn of Knigge would diflribute his poifon,
and tell the blinded people, that they were in a ftate
ofhn and mifery, that their Prince was a
defpot, and
that they would never be happy till he was made to
ily, and till they were all Fllaltic equal.
They got their with; the (warm of French locufls
fat down on Neuwied's beautiful fields in 1793, and
entrenched themfelves; and in three months, Prince
and farmers houfes, and cottages, and fehools, and
academies--all had vaniihed; and all the l`ub_iee"ts were
made equal. But when they complained to the French
General (René le Grand) of being plundered by his
ibldiers, he anfwered, with a
contemptuous and eut-
ting laugh,
"
All is ours-we have left you your eyes
"
to cry."---(Reyborl lo the Ccfzwfzrioff, igtb faire 1795.)
Dykifeju/iirinr/2 mcirili, ef frcfz fefizizwe £?,f`Z705 !
CHAP. II. THE ILLUI\.1INATI. I 13
To proceed:
Spartccus to Cato.
'' By this plan \Ve !hall direCt a11 man1~ind. In this
" manner, and by the fimpleft means, \ve fhall fet all
" in n1otion and in flames. The occupations n1uft be
'' fo allotted and contrived, that Vle may, in fecret,
" influence all political tranfactions.'' N. B. This al-
ludes to a part that is T..vith-held fron1 the public, be-
caufe it contained the allotrnent of the n~oft rebelliollS
and profligate occupations to feveral perfons \vhofe
con11non na111es c0uld not be traced. '' I have con fi....
" dered," f:l.ys Spartacus, '' every thing, and fo pre-
" pared ir, that if the 0 rder 111otdd this day go to ruin,
'' I ihall in a year re-eftabliih it n1ore brilliant than
" ever." Accordingly it got up C~gain jn about this
fpace of tin1e, under the natne of the GERMAN UN ION,
appearing in the fonn of READING SocIETIES. One
of thefe \Vas fet up in Z \Vack's houfe; and this raifing
a fufpicion, a vifitation was n1ade 8t L,andib ut, and the
f-irft ftt of the private papers \vere four:d. The fcheme
\vas, ho\vever, zealouf1y profecutt.,d in other parts of
Gern1any, as \ve i11 all fee by and by. '' Nor,'' con-
ti~ues Sp~rracus, ·cc will it figni~/ though all fhould be
c< betrayed and printed. I am fo certain of fuccefs, in
'' fpite of all obftacles, (for the fprings are in every
' ' heart, ) that I a111 incliffere nt, thoDgh it ihou1d in-
" valve rny life and my ll berty. 'l/ hat! have thouianch
'' thrown away their lives ab8ut ho1ncios and hcnzoio.~!)lcs
'~ and 1ha1l not this caufe wann even the heart of a
cc co\vard? But I have the art to draw advantage even
" frorll n1isfortune; and 'vhen you \Vould think me
" funk to the botton1, I !hcJl r~fe \vi:h new vigour.
(C vVho \Vould h2ve thought, that a profcifor at Ingo%-·
P " Hc.dt
K
CI-IAP. II. THE XLLUMINATI.
II3
To proceed:
Sjnrzrizzczzs Z0 Cato.
"
By this plan we fhall direét all mankind. ln this
"
manner, and by the iimpleft means, we Ihall fet all
"
in motion and in flames. The occupations Dlllflf be
"
fo allotted and contrived, that we
may, in fecret,
"
influence all political tranfaélions." N. B. This al-
ludes to a
part that is with-held from the public, be-
eaufe it contained the allotment of the melt rebellious
and protligate occupations to feveral perfons whofe
common names could not be traced. "
I have conH~
"
dered," -lays Spartacus,
"
every thing, and fo pre-
"
pared it, that if the Order fhould this day go to ruin,
"
Ifhall in a
year re-eliablifh it more brilliant than
"
ever." Accordingly it got up again in about this
fpace of time, under the name of the GE;aMAz~: UNIOPI,
appearing in the form of READIIQG Sociiirits. One
ofthefe was fet up in ZV3Cli'S houfe, and this raihng
a
liilpicion, a vilitation was made at Landlliut, and the
lirll fet of the private papers were found. The fcheme
was, however, zealoully profeented in other parts of
Germany, as we fliall fee by and by.
"
Nor," con»
tinues Spartacus,
°"
vill it lignihy though all fhould be
"
betrayed and printed. l am lo certain offuceefs, in
"
fpite of all obliaeles, (for the fprings are in every
"
heart,) that Iam indid"erent, though it fhould in-
"
volve mylife and my liberty. 'Whatl have thouiands
thrown away their lives about bcmciw and /90112050.19/Fc=5
"
and fhail not this eaufe warm even the heart of a
coward? But I have the art to draw advantage even
from misfortune, and when you would think me
"
funk to the bottom, I lhall rife with new vigour.
'Who would have thought, that a
profefiur at
lngol-»
P "
ltadt
((
(C
(5
C(
rHE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
" ftadt \\'Z:s to becotne the reacher of the profeiTors of
'' Gottingen, and of the greateft n1en in Germany ?n
SpartacuJ to Cato.
cc Send n1e back my degree of Illuminatus Miner,·
" it is the \Vonder of all men here (I rnay perhaps find,
'' time to give a tranOation of the difcourfe of recep-
'' tion, which contains all that can be faid of this Af-
cc fociation to the public) ; as alfo the two laft iheets
" of my degree, which is in the keeping of Marius,
" and Celfus, under 1oo lock.s, \vhich conrains my
cc hiftory of the lives of the Patriarchs." N. B. No-
thing very particular has been difcovered of thefe lives
of the Patriarchs. He fays, that rhere \vere above
fixty fheets of it. To jud.ge by the care taken of it,
it muft be a favourite \Vork, very hazardous, and very
~atching.
In another letter to Cato, '\Ve have fo1ne hints of the
higher degrees, and concerning a peculiar morality,
and a popular religion, which the Order \vas one day
to give the \V.Orld. I-Je flys, " rfhere nluft (ala ]e-
" juite) not a fingle purpofe ever come in Ilght that is
" atnbiguous, and that n1ay betray our aims againft
'' religion and the ftatc. One nluft fpeak fi;n1etin1es
" one vvay and fon1etin1es another, but fo as never to
" contradiCt ourfelves, and fo that, \Vith refpect to
'' our true \vay of thinking, \Ve may be in1penerrable.
" \Vhen our ftrongeft things chance to give offence,
" they n1uft be explained as 2tten1pts to draw anfwers
'' 'vhich difcover to us the fentin1ents ~f the perfon
" \ve converfe \Vith/' N. B. T'his did not ahvavs fuc-
"
ceed with him.
Spartacus fays, fpeaking of the priefts degree, cc One
'' woulc almoft irnagine, that this degree, as I have tna-
cc naged
IFA, THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
"
Ptadt was to become the teacher of the profellors of
"
Gottingen, and of the greateft men in Germany ?"
Sparmcu: to Caro.
"
Send me back my degree of I/Zuizzifzaius Mincr,'
"
it is the wonder of all men here (I may perhaps find
"
time to
give a tranflation of the difcourfe or" recep-
"
tion, which contains all that can be faid of this Af-
"
fociation to the public); as alfo the two laft fheets
"
of my degree, which is in the keeping of Marius,
'f
and Celfus, under too locks, which contains my
"
hiflory of the lives ofthe Patriarchs." N. B. No-
thing very particular has been difcovered of theie lives
of the Patriarchs. He lays, that there were above
Hxty fheets of it. To judge by the care taken of it,
it muft be a favourite worlf., very hazardous, and very
catching.
In another letter to Cato, we have fome hints of the
higher degrees, and concerning a
peculiar morality,
and a
popular religion, which the Order was one
day
to give the World. He fiys,
"
There mult (zz Za fe-
"jfzifej not a
iingle purpofe ever come in light that is
"
ambiguous, and that may betray our aims againfi
"
religion and the flatc. Une muit fpeal; Rvmetimes
"
one way and fometimes another, but fo as ne ver to
"
contradicft ourfelves, and fo that, with refpe& to
"
our true way ofthinleing, we
may be impenetrable.
"
Vhen our
Ptrongeit things chance to
give ogence,
"
they mult be explained as
attempts to draw anfwers
"
which difcover to us the ientiments of the perfon
"
we converle with." N. B. This did not always fuc-
ceed with him. .
Spartacus lays, l`peal;ingofthe priells degree,
"
One
"
would almoll; imagine, that this degree, as I have ma-
"
"
naged
CHAP. If. THE I L L U 1\1I N AT I. 115
'' naged ir,· is genuine Chriftianiry, and that its end
" \Vas to free the Jews fron1 Oavery. I fay, that Free
" :Niafonry is concealed Chriflianity. My ex~lanation
" of the hieroglyphics, at leaft, proceeds on this fup-
cc pofirion; and as I explain things, no n1an need be
" afha1ned of being a Chrift:ian. Indeed I after\vards
" thro\V away this name, and fubftitute Rerjun. But
" I aifure you this is no f1nall affair; a new religion,
" and a new frate- government, which fo happily ex-
'' plain one and all of thefe fymbols, and combine
" them in one degree. You n1ay think that this is
" my chief work; but I have three other degrees,
" all different, for my clafs of higher n1yfteries, in
" comparifon with which this is but child's play; but
'' thefe I keep for myfelf as General, to be beil:owed
" by me only on the BeneJneritijjin1i," (furely fuch as
Cato, his deareft friend, and the poffeficlr of fuch pret-
ty fecrets, as abortives, poifons, peil:ilential vapours)
&c.). " The promoted may be Areopagites or nor,
" \Vere you here I f11ould give you this degree with~
'~ out hefitation. But it is too imoortant to be intruf-
.~.
" ted to paper, or to be beftowed other\vife· than fron1
" tny own hand. It is the key to hiftory, to religion,
" and to every ftate-government in the world."*
" Sp1rtacus proceeds, " There ihall be but three
" copies for all Gern1any. You can'c imagine what
" refpeft and curiofity my prieft-degree has raifed;
" and, \vhich is \Vonderful, a famous Proreftant di-
'' vine, \Vho is now of the Order, is perfuaded that
" the
* I obferve, in ~ther parts of his correfpondence where he fpeaks
of this, feveral fingular phrafes, which are to be found in two
books ; An~i711ete de·voi!ee. par fes Ujages, and Ori~ine .du Dejpotifou
Orieutal. I hefe contam Indeed much of the maxims Inculcated in
the reception difcourfe of the degree lllumanitus 1l1inor. Indeed I
have found, that \Veifhaupt is much lefs an in ventor than he is ge-
nerally thought.
CI-IAP. II. TI-IE ILLUMINATI.
II5
"
naged ir, is genuine Chriftianity, and that its end
"
was to free the jews from flavery. I fay, that Free
"
lIafon1'y is concealed Chriilianity. My explanation
"
of the hieroglyphics, at lealt, proceeds on this fup-
"
pohtion, and as I explain things, no man need he
"
afhamed of being a Chriflian. Indeed I afterwards
"
throw away this name, and fublititute Rajan. But
"
Ialfure you this is no linall afifairg a new
religion,
"
and a new [tate-government, which fo happily ex-
"
plain one and all of thefe fymhols, and combine
"
them in one
degree. You may think that this is
"
my chief work; but I have three other degrees,
"
all dif'I`erent, for my clafs of higher myfleries, in
"
comparifon with which this is but child's play; but
"
thefe I keep for myfelf as General, to be bedowcd
"
by me only on the Be;1e111eri!M2mi," (furely fuch as
Cato, his deare{'t friend, and the poH"eHhr offuch pret-
ty fccrets, as abortives, poifons, peililential vapours,
&c.).
"
The promoted may be Areopagites or not.
"
VVere you here I Ihoultl give you this degree with~
"
out hehtation, But it is too
important to be intruf-
"
ted to
paper, or to be beftowed otherwilethan from
"
my own hand. It is the key to hiltory, to
religion,
"
and to
every llate-government in the world."*
"
Spartacus proceeds,
"
There fhall be hut three
"
copies for all Germany. You can't imagine what
"
refpeét and curiofity my prieft-degree has raifed,
"
and, which is wonderful, Z1 famous Protellant di-
"
vine, who is now of the Order, is perfuaded that
"
the
*
I obferve, in other parts of his correfpondence where he (peaks
of this, feveral fingular phrafes, which are to be found in two
books; A/1;,'7,¢eté þÿri/e~z;oi¢75 ¬
par _/Er U/Eager, and Origins flu
Dwmrynf
Orienml. Thcfe Contain indeed much of the maxims inculcated in
the reception difcourfe of the degree 1//umanitu: Zlfinor. Indeed I
have found, that Weiihaupt is much lefs an inventor than he is ge-
nerally thought.
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
" the religion contained in it is the true fenfe of Chrif-
'' t iaI1 ity. Q 11 AN , I\-1: A N ! T 0 \V H A 1' M A Y 'S T T H 0 U
'' r;oT BE PERsuADED. \i\Tho would imagine th~t I
" \vas to be the founder of a new religion?''
In this fchen1e of Mafonic Chrifiianity, Sparcacus
and Philo laboured ferioufiy together. Spartacus fent
him the materials, and Philo worked then1 up. It
will therefore illuftrate this capital point of the confti-
tution of the Order, if we take Philo's account of it.
Philo to Cato.
_#)!!!
" We mufc confider the ruling propenfities of every
" age of the world. At prefent the cheats and tricks
cc of the priefts have roufed all men againfl them, and
'' againft Chrift.ianity. But, at the fame time, fuper-
" fti rion and fanaticifi11 rule with unlimited don:inion,
cc and rhe underftanding of n1an really ieerns ro be
'< going backwards_. Our tafk, therefore, is doubled.
cc \Ve muft give fuch an account of things, that fan a-
<' tics fhould not be alarmed, and that fhall, nonvith-
~'. fianding, excite a fpirit of free enquiry. We mufi:
cc not thro\v av/ay the good with the bad; the child
'' with the dirty \Vater; but we n1uft n1ake the fecret
(C doCtrines of Chriil:isnity be received as the fecrets
(' of genuine Free l\1afoNry. But farther, \Ve have to
'' deal \vith the defpotifm of Princes. This increafes
~c every day. But then, the J})iri t of fi·eedom breathes
~c and fighs in every corner; and, by the afi]ftance of
cc hidden fchools of vvifdon1, Liberty Jnd Equality,
" the natural and imprefcriptible rights of n1an, \Varnl
'' and glow in every breaft. \Ve tnuft therefore unite
sc rhefe extrerne~. \Ve proceed in this 111anner.
" Jefus C hrift eftablif11ed no nc\v H.eligion; he
~; v;ould on!y fet Religion a~d H.eafon in their ancient
" rights.
II5 THE ILLUMINATI. errata rt.
"
the religion contained in it is the true fenle of Clarif-
"
tianity. O MAN, MAN! 'ro VVHAT MAY'ST 'rnou
"
NOT BE PERSUADED. VVho would imagine thatl
"
was to he the founder ofa new
religion P"
In this fchcme oi' l/laionic Chriftianity, Spartacus
and Philo lahoured ferioufly together. Spartacus fent
him the materials, and Philo worked them up. It
will therefore illuftrate this capital point of the confli-
tution ofthe Order, if We take Philo's account of it.
P/oflo to Carla.
"
We milf( eonlider the ruling propenlities of every
"
age of the world. At prefent the cheats and tricks
"
of the prieits have roufed all men
againlt them, and
"
againilt Chriftianity. But, at the fame time, i"uper~
" ftition and lanaticilin rule with unlimited dominion,
"
and the underftanding of man
really ieems to be
"
going backwards. Our tafk, therefore, is doubled.
"
`We muft give fuch an account of things, that fana-
"
tics fhould not be alarmed, and that ihall, notwith-
<'~
Ptancling, excite a
fpirit ol" free enquiry. VVC muil
"
not throw away the good with the had, the child
¢' with the dirty water; but we muft make the fecret
"
doctrines of Chriftianity be received as the fecrets
¢' of genuine Free l/lalonry. But farther, we have to
"
deal with the defpotifm ofPrinces. This inereales
*'
every day. But then, the livirit ofheedom hreathes
" and lighs in every corner; and, by the aflillance of
"
hidden fchools of wiiilom, Liberty and Equality,
"
the natural and imprefcriptihle rights of man, Warm
"
and glow in every hrealt. Vfe mufi therefore unite
"
thefe extremes. VR/'e proceed in this manner.
"
jelus Chriit eftablifhed no new
Religion; he
N would only let Religion and Reafon in their ancient
"
rights.
CHA.P. II. THE lLLU.l\JI~ATl. I 1]__
" rights. For this purpofe he \vou1ci unite n1en in a
" comn1on bond. He \vould fit them for this by
" fpreadino- a ]. uft morality, b·y enlightening the un-
~J • • <..) .._,
'' derfianding, and by ailiHing the n1ind to ihc.ke off
" all prejudices. He would teach all men, in the firft
" place, to govern then1felves. Rulers \vould then
" be needlefs, and equality and liberty \Vould take
" pbce \Vithout any revolution, by the natUL11 and
" o-entle operation of reafon and expediency. This
" great 'reacher allo\vs hin1ielf to explain every part
'' of the Bible in confon11ity to thef~ purpofe.-s; and
" he forbids all wrangling among his fchc1ars, becaufe
" every n1~n may there find a reafonable application
" to hi~; peculiar doCtrines. Let this be true cr fd!e, it
" does not iignify. rfhis was a fin1ple Religion, and
" it \vas fo far infpired; but the n1inds of his hearers
" ·were not fitted for receiving thefe doCtrines. l told
" you, fays he, but you could no t bcar it. Iviany
'' therefore \Vere called, but fe\v 'vere chofen. T 0
'' this eleCt were entrufl:ed the n1ofi irnportant fecrets;
" and even an1ong then1 there \Vcre degrees of infor-
" me2tion. There V/as a feventy, and a nvelve. J-\.11
" this \vas in the natural order of things, and acccrd-
" ing to the habits of the Jews, at;d ir'l'deed of ali an-:
" tiquiry. The Je\viH1 ]'heofophy was a n1yil:ery;
" like the Ele ufi nian, or the F ych ~£orr an, unfit for
cc the vulgar. And thus the doftrin;s of Chriftianity
" \Vtre cornn1itted to the /Jdepti, in a Df(ciplina Arcani.
" By thefe they v;erc n1ainrained like the Veftal Fire.-
" 1'hey were kept up only in hidden focieties, who
" handed then1 dovvn to pofterity; and they are nov.r
" pofleHed by the gen uine Free Cviaf(; ns. "
N. B. This explains the origin of n12.ny anonyn1ous
pan1phlets \Vhich appeared Ztbout this tirr.e in Germa-
ny,- fhov1ing th.lt Free 1\1afonry \Vas Chriftianity.-
Thcv h:1ve doubtlefs b~en thr wcrks of So2rtacus and
• 1
his
CHAP. II. THE iLLUMINA'l`I.
II7_
'f
rights. For this purpofe he would unite men in a
"
common bond. He would fit them for this by
"
lpreading a
_init morality, by enlightening the un_
"
derlltancling, and by aflilling the mind to lhalie oil'
"
all prejudices. He would teach all men, in the rirlt
"
place, to
govern themfelves. Rulers would then
"
be neecllels, and equality and liberty would take
"
place without any revolution, by the natural and
"
gentle operation of reafon and expedieney. This
"
great Teacher allows himielf to
explain every par;
"
of the Bible in conformity to thele purpoles; and
"
he forbids all wrangling among his fehelars, beezinié
"
every man
may there rind a reafonable application
"
to his peculiar doélrines. Let this be EYUC or hzlle, it
"
does not lignify. This was a
hmple Religion, and
"
it was lb hir infpirecl; but the minds ol' his hearers
"
were not htted for receiving thefe do&rines. ltold
"
you, fays he, but you could not bear it. l"v'lClDY
"
therefore were called, but few were chofen. To
this elect were entrulletl then.iol'tin'1port;znt feerets;
"
and even among them there were
degrees of infor-
(C
LD
"
mation. There was a
leventy, and at twelv@_ All
"
this was in the natural order of things, and aceord_
"
ing to the habits of the jews, and inqleeil of all an-
"
tiquizy. 1`The _lewilh Theolbphy was a
rnyltei-Y;
like tne Lleulinian, or the kytnzigorean, unht for
"
the vulgar. And thus the doctrines of Chriltianity
cc
'
(C
were corn mitted to the /3/fepfj, in a
D5/Qzjilifzfz /ilfmfii.
"
By thele they were maintained like the 'fellal li`ire.--
"
They were kept up only in hidden foeieties, who
"
handed them down to
polterity; and they are now
(C
polleiled by the genuine lfree E'=.'l:1lbns."
N. B. This explains the origin ofmnny anonymous
pamphlets which appeared about this time in Gemma-
ny,- lhowing that Free B/Lilbnry was
Chril`tianity.-
They have donbtlels been the worlts ofSpnrtneus and
his
1I8 THE I L J.A U M: INAT I. CHAP. II.
hil) parti Cans an1ong the E.cleB:ic Mafons. :t~icholaj,
the great apoflle of inf-idelity, had given very favour-
able revie\vs of thefe performances, and having always
!hc\Vn himfelf an advocate of fuch writers as depreci-
ated Chriitianity, it was natural for him to take this
opportunity of bringing it frill lo·wer in the opinion of
the people. Spartacus therefore conceived a high opi-
nion of the in1portance of gaining Nichol2.i to the Or-
der. He had before this gained Leuchtfenring, a hot-
heclded fanatic, who had fpied Jefuits in every corner,
and fet Nicholai on his journey through Gern!any, to
hunt then1 out. This man finding them equally hated
by the Illun1inati, was eafily gained, and \Vas moft
zealous in their caufe. He engaged l'Iicholai, and
Spartacus exults exceedingly in the'acquifition, faying,
" that he was an unwearied champion, et quidet;z conten-
" tijjinzus." Of this man P hila fays, '' that he had
" fpread this Chriftianity into every corner of Ger-
'' many. I have put n1eaning," fays Philo, " to all
" rhefe dark fymbols, and have prepared beth de-
" grees, introducing beautiful ceremonies, which I
" have felcEted from among thofe of the ancient con1-
" n1unions, combined with thofe of the Rofaic Ma-
" fonry; and no\v," fays he, " it will appear that we
'' are the only true Chriftians. We ihall no\v be in a
" condition to fay a few words to Priefi:s and Princes.
'' I have fo contrived things, that I \Vould adtnit even
" Popes and Kings, after the trials ·which I have pre-
" fixed, and they would be glad to be of the Order."
But ho'(.v is all this to be reconciled with the plan of
Illun1ination, ~v hich is to bani1h Chriftianicy a1toge-
ther? Philo hin11eif in n1any places fays, " that it is
" only a cloak, to prevent fqueami1b people from
" ftarti~g back." This is done pretty much in the
fame v\'ay that was prattifcd in the French fvlafonry.
1n one of their Rituals the Mafi:er's degree is made
typical
118 THE ILLUMINATI. ease. u.
his partihins among the Ecleeiic Mafons. Nicholai,
the great apofile of infidelity, had given very favour-
able reviews of thefe performances, and having always
Ihewn himfelf an advocate of fuch writers as
depreci-
ated Chriitianity, it was natural for him to take this
opportunity of bringing it fitill lower in the opinion of
the people. Spartacus therefore conceived a
high opi-
nion of the importance of gaining Nicholai to the Or-
der. He had before this gained Leuchtfenring, a hot-
headed fanatic, who had lpied _lefuits in every corner,
and fet Nicholai on
hisjourney through Germany, to
hunt them out. This man
Finding them equally hated
by the Illuminati, was ealily gained, and was moii.
zealous in their caufe. I-Ie engaged Nichoiai, and
Spartacus exults exceedingly in theacquihtion, faying,
"
that he was an unwearied champion, at guideffz conten-
"
lwmur." Of this man Philo fays,
"
that he had
"
ipread this Chriftianity into every corner of Ger-
"
many. Ihave put meaning," fays Philo, "
to all
"
thefe dark iymbols, and have prepared both de-
"
grees, introducing beautiful ceremonies, which I
have fclceted from among thofe ofthe ancient com-
"
munious, combined with thofe of the Rofaic Ma-
fonry, and now," Pays he,
"
it will appear that we
"
are the only true Chriftians. We Ihall now be in a
"
condition to
fay a few words to Priefts and Princes.
"
I have fo contrived things, that I would admit even
Popes and Kings, after the trials which I have pre-
"
fixed; and they would be glad to be ofthe Order."
But how is all this to be reconciled with the plan of
Illumination, gvhich is to banifh Chrifiianity altoge-
ther? Philo himieif in many places fays,
"
that it is
"
only a cloak, to
prevent fqueamifh people from
"
[iarting back." This is done pretty much in the
fame way that was pracftifed in the French Mafonry.
In one of their Rituals the MaPter's degree is made
at
typical
(C
(C
(C
eHAP. II. THE ILL UMl NAT 1..
typical of the death of Jefus Chrift, the preacher of
Brotherly love. Bur, in the next ftep, the Cbe·valier
du Solei/, it is Reafon tliat has been deirroyed and en-
tombed, and the Mafrer in th!s degree, the SubliJne
Philojcpbe, occafions the difcovcry of the p1ace where
the body is hid; Reafon rifes again> and fuperftition
and tyranny difappear, and all beco1nes clear; 1nan be-
comes frte and happy.
Let us hear Spartacus again.
Spartacus, in anothe1 place.
" \Ve muft, Ijl, gradually explain away a11 our pre-
" paratory pious frauds. And when perfons ofdifcern-
" n1ent find fault, we muft defire rhen1 to confider the
'' end of all our labour. 'fhis fanetifles our n1eans,
" which at any rate are harmlef~;;, and have been uCe-
" fuJ, even in this cafe, becauie they procured us a
cc patient hearing, when other\'vife n1en \VOt!ld have
" turned a'vay from us like pettt>d children. ~rhis
" will convince them of our fenriments in all the in-
" tervening points; and our ambiguous exprtffions
" will then be interpreted into an endeavour to dra.\V
'' anfwers of any kind, 'vh1ch rnay ihow us the n1incls
" of our pupils. 2d, \Ve muft unfold, from hiftory
'' and other writings, the origin and fabrication of all
" religious lies \vhatever; and then, 3d, \Ve give :l
'' critical hiftory of the Order. But I cannot but
" laugh, when I think of th~ ready reception \Vhich
" a11 this .has met \V ith fron1 the grave and learned di-'
" vi!1es of Gern1any and of England ; and I wonder
" hov; their \iVi11ian1 fai1ed \\'hen he aaen1pted to eitJ-
cc blifh a D t i{'tica1'iVorfhip in London, ( what can this
" mean?) for, I 2-m certain, that it tnuft h:::ve bt>cn
" n1ofl_accept~ble to that l(~arned and free people. But
<C thty
C!-IAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
IIQ
typical of the death of jefus Chrifl, the preacher of
Brotherly love. But, in the nextilep, the C7yetvz!ier
ez'/cr So./eil, it is Reafon that has been dellroyed and en-
tombed, and the Maller in this degree, the Sufi/ima
Phi/wp/55, oecafions the dil`covery of the place where
the body is hid, Reafon rifes again, and fupesltition
and tyranny difappear, and all becomes clear, man be-
comes free and happy.
Let us hear Spartacus again.
S fzrmcus in 6/7i0Zi/1/757 Zrzce.
)
"
'Ne muli, I/i, gradually explain away all our
pre-
"
paratory pious frauds. And when perfons of`dil`cern-
"
ment Find fault, we muft deiire them to conhcler the
"
end of all our labour. This fanetihes our means,
"
which at any rate are harmlefs, and have been ule-
(C
ful, even in this cafe, becauie they procured us a
patient hearing, when othersvife men would have
turned away from us like petted children. This
will convince them of our ienrinients in all the in-
tervening points; and our
ambiguous exprelhons
(E
(C
CC
C(
"
will then be interpreted into an endeavour to draw
anfwers ofany kind, which may ihow us the niinds
of our
pupils. ad, Vfe muft unfold, from hiflory
CC
(E
"
and other writings, the origin and fabrication of all
"
religious lies whatever; and then, yi, Ve give a
"
critical hiftory of the Order. But I cannot but
"
laugh, when I think of the ready reception which
"
all this has met with from the grave and learned di-
"
vines of Germany and of Fngiand; and I wonder
"
how their `William failed when he attempted to ella-
"
blifh a Deiiiieal 'Norfhip in London, (what can this
"
mean
P) for, I am certain, that it mult have been
"
mo{'t_accepta.ble to that learned and free people. But
' "
they
120 T H :!: I L L U I".1 Ir! AT f. CHAi'. IL
" they had nor the enlightening of our days." I may
here retnark, that W eifhaupt is prefutning too much
on the ignorance of his friend, for there was a great
deal of this enlightening in E,ngland at the tin1e he
fpeaks oC ~nd if 1 am not n1ifiaken, even this cele-
br~.ted Profe!Tor of Irreligion has borro\ved tnofr cf his
fchtn1e frotn this kingdorn. This to be fure is nothing
in our praife. But the PANTHEISTICON of Toland
refe1n bles \Veifbaupt's Illutnination in every thing but
its rebellion and its villainy. Toland's Socratic Lodge
is an elrg2nc pattern for \Veifbaupt, and his Triurnph
of l{eafon, his Philofophic 1:-Iappinefs, h~s God, or
./1ni;;za Jv!uJt'di, are all fo like the hari11 fyften1 of Spar-
tacus, that I an1 convinced that he has copied then1,
ftan1piilg then1 \Virh the roughneis of his o·wn charac-
ter. But to go on; Spartacus fays of the Englii11 :
c;; '"fheir poet Pope nTade his Eff£1y on Man a fyften1
" of pure natura1ifn1, vvithout kno\ving it, 2s Brother
" Chryfinpus did with n1v Prieil's Dearee, and \vas
• J. .I 0
" equaily aftonifhed when this \Vas pointed out to hin1.
'' Chryfippus is religiot1s, but not fuprrftitious. Bro..
" ther Lucian (~-Ticolai, of \Vhon1 I have already faid
" fo n1uch) fays, that the grave Zolikofer no\v al!o\vs
" th.1t it \vould be a very proper thing to eftab1ifh a
" l)eif1ical Vvorf11 ip at Bt r1in. I an1 not afi·aid but
'' th!ngs will go on very \veiL But Philo, who was
(~ (' .-l • I f~ . 1 T). I'' -... . I d
entnuteu \VHt1 r:Ln11ng t:~e 1 ne1.t s Degree, ·1as e-
cc Hroycd it \'.'ithout any neceffity ; it v;otdd, forfooth,
cc ftartlc: thofe who have a hankering for }~eligion. But
" I ahYays told you that Philo is fanatical and prudifh.
'~ ! p-ave him fine n1aterials, 2nd he h~s Huffed it full
;._)
" of cere1nonies and child's play, and as I\1inos fays,
" c'cfl:J;cue;· la rel,:vioJJ. But all this n1ay be correCted
J ~' -
" in the revifion by the /ireopagitce. ')
}'..;. 13. I have ~1read y n1entioncd B:1ron }~n igge's
COI:verfion tO I1lun1in;.::tifnl by tht r',/L dt c 0 1fcanz:1,
\\' ho{:,:
IQO IRE I1,LUMIII."L'I`I. CHAF. II.
"
they had not the enlightening of our
days." I may
here remark, that Weiiliatlpt is prefuming too much
on the ignorance of his friend, for there was a
,great
deal of this enlightening in England at the time he
fpeaks of, and if I am not miitalcen, even this cele-
brated Profeiior of Irreligion has borrowed mofij Qfliis
fcheme from this kingdom. This to be fore is nothing
in our praiie. But the PAN'rHE1s'r1coN of Tolztnd
refembles ''eifhaupt's Illumination in every thing but
its rebellion and its villainy. Toland's Socratic Lodge
isan elegant pattern for Vieifliatipt, and his Triumph
of Reafon, his Philofophic I-iappineiis, his God, or
/iffziffz/z _fluff/£72/gf, are all io like the harfh fyilem of Spar-
tacus, that I am convinced that he has copied them,
damping them with the roughneis of his own charac-
ter. But to go on; Spartacus fays of the Englidiz
"
Their poet Pope made his Hiiity on Man a
fyftem
"
of pure naturaliiin, without knowing it, as Iirother
"
Chiryhppus did with my I"rieI°t's Degree, and was
"
equally aftonifhed when this was
pointed out to him.
"
Chrylippus is religious, hut not
hiperftitioos. Bro~
"
ther Lucian (Nicolai, of whom I have already faid
"
fo much) fays, that the grave Zoliltofer now allows
"
that it would he a
very proper thing to eiialoliih a
"
Deiilical VforHiip at Berlin. I am not ahaid hut
"
things will go on very well. But Philo, who was
"
enttoitcd with framing the Prie{°t's Degree, 'has de-
"
llroycd it without any neceflity ; it would, forfooth,
"
ftartlc thofe who have a
hankcring for Religion. Ent
"
I always told you that I'hilo is Etnatical and prudifh.
"
I gave him hne materials, and he has ftuffeti it full
<<
0f`¢@,»@m<>ni@s and child's play, and Iadiinos fays,
'f
¢~'¢3/fEj¢1¢e;~° Za religfof/_ Bot all this may be corrc<"fted
"
in the revihon by the /ifreopagi/fs."
]§_ ]5_ 1 have already mentioned Baron Ixmgge's
1
'
'f` ni J
converiion to Iiitmiinatnm hy the iv'£.t=e Coiitanza,
whoh:
CHAP. II. THE ILLUl\1INATI. 121
\vhofe name in the Order was Diomedes. Knigge
(henceforth Philo) was, next to Spartacus, the 1noft
ferviceable man in the Order, and procured the great-
eft number of members. It \vas chiefly by his exer-
tions atnong the l\1afons in the Proteftant countries,
that the Eclectic SJ'flenz was introduced, and afterwards
brought under the direEtion of the Ilhnninati. This
conqueft was owing entirely to his very extenfive con-
nections among the Mafons. He travelleJ lik( a phi-
lofopher from city to city, fron1 Lodge to Lodge, and
even from houfe to houfe, before his lllun1ination, try-
ing to unite the l\1afons, and he no\v \Vent over the
fa1ne ground to extend the Ecleftic S_
_>jfe;n, and to get
the Lodges put under the direCtion of the Illun1inati,
by their choice of the J\1after and Wardens. By t!lis
the Order had an opportunity of noticing the conduCt
of individuals; and when they had found cut their ,
manner of thinking, and that they \vere fit for their
purpofe, they never quitted them till they had gained
them over to their party. \Ve have feen, that he was
by no means void of religious irnpreflions, and V/e of-
ten find him offended \Vith the atheifrn of Spartacus.
Knigge was at th~ fame time a man of the ·world, and
had kept good company. \Veifhaupt had pafl:ed his
life in the habits of a college: therefore he kne\V
l(nigge's value, a~d comtnunicated to hirn all his pro-
jeEts, to be drelfed up by him for the taftc of iociety.
Philo \Vas of a much more affectionate difpofition,
"\Vith fo_mething of a devotional turn, and vtas fhocked
at the hard indifference of Spartacus. After labour-·
ing four years with great zeal, he v1as provoked \Vith
the difingenuous tricks of Spartacus, and he broke off
all conneEtion v;ith the Society in I 784, and fon1e rin1e
after publi!hed a declaration of all that he had done in
it. 'fhis is a moft excellent account of the plan and
principles of the Order, (at leaft as he conceived it,
Q_ for
CI-IAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. I'2.I
whofe name in the Order was Diomedes. Knigge
(henceforth Philo) was, next to
Spartacus, the moll:
ferviceable man in the Order, and procured the great-
efiz number of members. It was
chiefly by his exer-
tions among the Mafons in the Proteitant countries,
that the Ecleéiic Sjfem was introduced, and afterwards
brought under the direftion of the Illuminati. This
conqueft was
owing entirely to his very extenhve con-
neétions among the Mafons. He travelled like a
phi-
lofopher from city to city, from Lodge to Lodge, and
even from houfe to houfe, before his Illumination, try-
ing to unite the Pdafons, and he now went over the
fame ground to extend the Ec!eé?ic éfifem, and to get
the Lodges put under the direction of the Illuminati,
by their choice ofthe l`~/Iafter and Wai-dens. By this
the Order had an
opportunity of noticing the conduct
of individuals; and when they had found cut their
manner of thinking, and that they were Ht for their
purpofe, they never
quitted them till they had gained
them over to their party. VVe have leen, that he was
by no means void of religious impreflions, and we of-
ten find him offended with the atheifm of Spartacus.
Knigge was at
the fame time a man of the world, and
had kept good company. VVeil"haupt had pailed his
life in the habits of a
college: therefore he knew
Knigge's value, and communicated to him all his pro-
jeéts, to be drelfed up by him for the tafte of iociety.
Philo was of a much more affectionate difpolition,
with fomething ofa devotional turn, and was fhoclted
at the hard indifference of Spartacus. After labour--
ing four years with great zeal, he was provoked with
the tlihngenuous tricks of Spartacus, and he broke oft
all connection with the Society in 1784, and fome time
after publilhed a declaration of all that he had done in
it. This is a moft excellent account of the plan and
principles of the Order, (at leaft as he conceived ir,
Q for
1
/
122 T.H £ I L L U 1\11 NAT I. CHAP. Il.
for Spa.rtJcus !1:td much deeper views,) and fhows that
the airn of i;: \vas to ab()lii11 Chriftianity, and all the
Hare-govertll11ttHs in Europe, and to eftabli[h a great
repubJic. Bur it is full of ro1nanric notions and enrhu-
fiafcic derlanLteion, on the hackneyed topics of uni-
vedal citizen111ip, and Jiberty and equality. Spartacus
p.ave hin1 line, a nd allowed hirn to 'vork on, k no\Vi ng
that he could difcard hin1 when he choie. I fl1all after
this give fon1e exrracrs frorn Philo's letters, fi·o1n \vhich
the reader will fee the vile behaviour of Spartacus, and
the nJ ture of his ultimate vie\V s. In the tnean time
we n1ay proceed \\rith the account of the principles of
the fy Ile n1.
cc
,,
CC
cc
"
"
cc
"
((
"
"
"
cc
"
"
((
"
S1Jartacus to Cato.
.L
" N othing \vould be n1ore profitable to us than a
rip-ht hi11ury of 111:1nkind. DtfJ)Otifn1 has robbed
D •
then1 of their liberty. I-Iov; can the weak obtain
prottction? Only by union; but this is rare. No-
thing can bring this about but hidden focieties..
1-iidde n fchools of \vifdom are the n1eans which will
one dav free men from their bonds. '"[hefe have in
aH ag;s been the archives of nature, and of the
righ~~ of men; and by thctn fhall hun1an nature be
raifed fn)n1 her fallen flare. Prince-s and nations
fb a11 vaniih fron1 the earth. 1--.he human race \Vill
then becon-le one fan1ily, and the \V<.."rld will be rhe
dvu"11ing of rational n1en .
'\, 1" ' . l ...l h" rr" t ..,. I d f
" h 'l OfCLit y a on e can uo t IS. 1 ne r ea o every
fan1ily will be w
·hat Abraham '"as, the patriarch, the
prief:, and the unlettered lord of his fan1ily, and
l{eafon \ViU be the codc of 1avv-s to all 1n ankiF1d.
'fhis/' fays Spartacus, "is our GREAT SECRET.
'I'rue, tbcre niay be ft..H
ne diflurbance; but by and
" by
122 THE ILLUMINATI. CI-IAP. II.
har Spartacus had much deeper views,) and Ihows that
the aim ot' it was to abolifh Chriiiianity, and all the
Itate-governments in Europe, and to eiiablifh a great
republic. But it is full of romantic notions ancl enthu~
Haftic deelamation, on the hacltneyed topics of uni-
verfal citizenihip, and liberty and equality. Spartacus
gave him line, and allowed him to work on, knowing
that he could difcard him when he chole. I fhall after
this give lbme exrra&s from Philo's letters, hom which
the reader will li;e the vile behaviour of Spartacus, and
the nature of his ultimate views. In the mean time
we may proceed with the account of the principles of
the fyfiern.
Sparmczzs to Cato.
"
Nothing vvouhl be more
prolitable to us than a
"
right hiHory of mankind. Dehwotiiiu has robbed
"
them of their liberty. How can the weak obtain
"
prnteéiion? Only by union; but this is rare. No-
"
thing can
bring this about but hitlden lbcieties.
"
Hidcien lehools of wifciom are the means which will
"
one
day free men from their bonds. Thele have in
"
all ages been the archives of nature, and of the
rights of men ; and by them fhall human nature be
raiiifrti from her fallen Iiate. Princes and nations
"
fhall vanihi from the earth. The human race will
(f
(C
(C
then become one
family, and the world will be the
"
clwelling oi' rational men.
"
I>ii<'>r;-rfitv alone can do this. The Head of every
"
family wili he what Abraham was, the patriarch, the
"
prielf, and the unlettered lord of his family, and
(C
Reafen will be the code of laws to all mankind.
"
This," Rays Spartacus,
"
is our GREAT SECRET.
rvi 1"
1 rue, there nary he Dame culturbance, but by and
cc
bv
CC
CHA?. II. THE IJ..LUMI~ATI. I2J
" by the unequal will btcon1e equ,d ; and 2rter r ~ 1e
" ftorn1 all t;viH be ca1n1. C..-tn the unhappy conf..:-
'' qut nces reini.1 in "'.V h(:: n the gr0 und:~ 0 f d :11en!1 ~) !1 ..n e
" n-:n1oved? R oufe yourfelves there iore, () n1tn! ar-
" fert your rights; and then will lte<1fon rule with un-
'' perCeiV t (l fv.' a y ; C1 n d A L L S f I A L L B E H :'\ P P Y . -~:
" Mora1i ty vvlll perforn1 all rh is ; and rnuLdity is
" the fruit of lill11nin:Hion; dutits and rights arc re-ci-
" procal. Vlhtrc Octavius has no right, Caco O\Ves
'' him no duty. Iliun1inat ion fhc ws us tn.I r righrs, and
" iv1orality fc·llo\V
S ; that IV
Iorali ry which teaches us
" to be of age, to b~ out ofv;a'rdovl::z
j>, ru be full grorzf
)ll,
" and to 'lorllk rzvithout tbe leading jlri;;gs ofjwic
fls a;;d
" princes."
" Jefus of ~,Jazareth, the Grand Pv1dfrer of our Or-
,, der, appeared at a time \Vhen the world \'Vas in the
'' utn1crfc diforder, and an1on g a people who fr:)r ages
'' had groaned under the yoke of bc nJ age. !-i ~ taught
,, rhen1 the lefions of l~eafi)n. rro be n:1
ore e ii~, ct : ve,
'' he took in rhe aid of l{.eligion-of opinions which
'' were currrnr-and, in a very clctz)Cr J
na;1;zer, he C<
:m-
,, bined his fecret doctrines with the popular religion ,
' ' and ';.'it h the t: 11fton1 ~ which lay co his hand. 1n
'' thefe he wrapped up his le!l()n~.-h e raufh t Lv para-
'' bles. !~t"V<:r did any prophet lead n1en fo eafi ~y and
'' fo fecun·ly aJong rhe road of iiberty. He conce-aled
'' the precious n1ea.ning and conft q utnces of his :..!c•c-
. (" l' I"" l · f~ 1 1
h ~~ t• I .....
'' t I 1nes ; but ru ty o1i c o c-o t nen1 t0 a c o,en t w. ·1e
'' fpeaks of a kingdon1 of the upright and faith ful; his
" Father's ki!lgdon1, whofe children \Ve alft) are. Let
" us only take Liberty and Equality as the great ai n1
" of
~ Happy France ! Cradle of lllumin~tion, where the mo:-ning
c. of Re?.fun has lL'..vned, difpelling tl~ e clouds of r
V
Icnarc!Jy at~d
Chri!tianity, where the babe has fuc keJ the blood of r:1e une:;lig ht-
ened, and Murder! Fire! Help~ has been the lullaby to fing it to
fleep.
---
QHAP. 11. THE ILLUMINATI.
123
"
by the unequal will become equal; :mtl after tie
"
Iliorm all will be calrii. Cm the unhappy <;on[`¢_
"
quences remain '.'/hen the §;r<:tmtl:= ol( tlilieiilifm .ire
"
removed? Roufe yourfelves therefore, Q men l al'-
"
fert your rights; and then will lieahm rule with im-
"
perceived fway; and ALL SHALL BE I-I;'PPY.%&
"
Morality will perform all this; ami morality is
"
the fruit þÿo ¬`lilumiii:ztion
; duties and rights are reci-
"
procal. Vi/'here Oélzavius has no
right, Cato owes
"
him no
duty. llitimimition fhews us our
rights, and
"
F*/lorality lbilows; that lvlornlity which teaches us
"
to be ry" nge, to be out gf 'wm'¢z'c1y?ff7;z>, to be jQ'4!!g;'0'zwz,
"
and to tcm/,G 'wiL',50z¢z' Ike kfldgiig rz`1/'gs Qfllvriijff amz'
"
lDrz`nces."
"
_lefis of Nazareth, the Grand Mlafter ofour Or-
"
der, appeared at a time when the worlal was in the
ff
utmoft Cliliirder, ami among a
people who for ages
"
had groaned under the yoke of°b<:neluge. H: taught
o_
2 ,_i_
,
" them the lefibhs of Reahm. To oe more emeeizve,
" he tool; in the aid of Religion-of opinions which
¢'
were current--an<l, in zz
'very c/aww" mrzfzfzeff, he com-
¢' biued his feeret clotftrines with the popular religion,
"
and with the eiillorris which lny to bi; liaiifl. In
"
thefe he wrapped up his þÿl ¬lll)I`l5,-li?
taught liv i_>ar:J.-
"
bles. Never tlitl any prophet lead men lo ealily :md
"
fo 1"e<:t1rf~ly along the road of' liberty. He concealed
"
the precious mezming and eoiifzquences oflzis ouc-
"
tiines; but fuliyoifcltiiecl them to il Cholen few. He
"
fpeaks of a
kingtiom ofthe upright an-_l i';iith§`ul5 his
"
Fathefs liingilom, whole children we Ell?) are. Let
"
us
only take Liberty and Equality as the great aim
"
of
*
Happy France! Cradle of Illumination, where the morning
of Reafon hat dawned, difpelling the clouds of I*/§en;1;'<;hy and
Chrillianity, where time babe has fuched the blood of the ufiexliglit-
ened, and Murder! Fire! Help! has been the lullaby to
hog it to
fleep.
-
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
cc of his doCtrines, and Morality as the way to attain it,
" and every thing in the NewTeftament will be com-
" prehenfible ; and Jefus vvill appear as the Redeemer
" of flaves. IVIan is fallen fron1 the condition of Jj_
" berty and Equality, the STATE OF PURE NATURE.
" He is under fubordination and civii bondage, arifing
'' from the vices of man. This is the FALL, and
" ORIGINAL SIN. 1-..he KINGDOM OF GRACE is that
'' reftoration \Vhich may be brought about by Illumi-
'< nation and a juft Morality. T·his is the NE\V BIRTH.
" When n1an lives under governn1ent, he is fallen, his
" worth is gone, and his nature tarnifhed. By fubdu-
" ing our paffions, or limiting their cravings, \Ve may
'' recover a great deal of our original worth, and liye
" in a ftate of grace. This is the redemption of men
" -this is accomplifhed by Morality; and when this
cc is fpreJd over the world, \Ve have THE KINGD0~1:
" OF THE JUST.
'' But, alas! the ta{k of [elf-formation was too hard
'' for the fubjeB:s of the Roman en1pire, corrupted by
cc every fpectes of profligacy. A chofen few received
cc the doctrines in fecret, and they have been handed
c~ down to us (but frequently aln1oft buried under rub-
,, bifh of !nan's invention) by the Free Mafons. Thefe
" three conditions of human fociety are expreifcd by
'' the rough, rhe fplit, and the polifhed ftone. The
" rough Hone, and the one that is fplit, exprefs eur
" condition under civil governmt:nt ; rough by every
" fretting) ineoualitv of condition ; and fiplit, fince \Ve
..._ J .I
" are no longer ont: fatnily; and are farther divided
(c by differences of government, rank property, and
" religion ; but \vhen reunited in one family, we are
" repre fe nrcd by the polifhed ftone. G. is Grace ;
" the FLuning Star is the Torch of Reafon. Thofe
cc \vho poffefs this kno\vledge are indeed ILLUMINATI.
~ ' Fiira1n is our fictitious Grand rvlafter, flain for the
" R E DE !'.1 f -
(K
E(
IQ4 THE ILLUMINATI. CI-IAP. II
of his doctrines, and Morality as the way to attain it,
"
and every thing in the New Tellament will be com
"
prehenlible ; and _Iefus will appear as the Redeemer
"
of Ilaves. Man is fallen from the condition of Li
"
berty and Equality, the STATE OF PURE NATURE
"
He is under fubordination and civil bondage, ariling
"
from the vices of man. This is the FALL, and
"
ORIGINAI, sm. The KINGDOM or GRACE is that
F' reftoration which may be brought about by lllumi
"
nation and ajufl Morality. This is the NE.V BIRTH
"
Wlien man lives under government, he is fallen, his
"
worth is gone, and his nature tarniihed. By fubdu
"
ing our pafions, or
limiting their cravings, we
may
"
recovera
great deal of our
original worth, and live
"
in a Rate of grace. This is the redemption of men
"
-this is accomplifhed by Morality ; and when this
ff
is fpread over the world, we have THE KINGDOM
"
CF THE JUST.
"
But, alas! the tail; of felf-formation was too hard
"'
for the þÿfub_ie ¬ts
of the Roman empire, corrupted by
"
every fpecies of prolligacy. A chofen few received
(I
"
three conditions of human fociety are
expreffcd by
"
the rough, the fplit, and the polilhed flone. Th
"
rough ilone, and the one that is fplit, exprefs our
"
condition under civil government 5 rough by every
"
fretting inequality of condition ; and fplit, Hnce we
"
are no longer one family; and are farther divided
"
by difiierences of government, rank property, and
"
religion 3 but when reunited in one
family, we are
"
reprefented by the polifhed Ptone. G. is Grace ,
"
the Flaming Star is the Torch of Reafon. Thofe
"
who poiiefs this knowledge are indeed IL LUMINATI
(
"
REDEM§
the doftrines in fccret, and they have been handed
f' down to us
(but frequently almoft buried under rub
bifh ofman's invention) by the Free Mafons. Thefe
Hiram is our þÿli bious
Grand l`~/Iafter, flain for the
~HAP. II. THE ILLUivl'INATI. 125
'' REDEMPTION OF SLAVES; the l\Jine lVJafters are
" the Founders of the Order. Free rv1afonrv is a
" Royal Art, inafmuch as it teaches us to. walk"\Vi th-
ee out tr~unmels, and to govern ourfelves."
Reader, are you not curious to learn fomething of
this all-powerful morality, fo operative on the he~rt of
the truly illun1inared-of this dijcip!ina arcani, entrufred
only to the chofen few, and handed down to Profeffor
Weifhaupt, to Spartac.us, and his aifociates, who have
cleared it of the rubbifh heaped on it by the dinl-fight-
ed Mafons, and now beaming in its native luftre on
the minds of the Areopagitce? The teachers of ordinary
Chriftianity have been labouring for aln1cft 2000 years,
,Nith the Ne\V Teflan1ent in the·ir hands ; n1any of
them with great addrefs, and many, I believe, with
honeft zeal. Bur alas ! they cannot producr fuch won-
derful and certain effet1s, (for obftrve, that vVeifhaupt
repeatedly aifures us that his means are certain_,) pro-
bably for \Vant of this difciplina arcani, of whole efficacy
fo much is faid. Moft fortunately, Spartacus has
given us a brilliant fpecimen of the ethics which illu-
minated himfelf on a trying occafion, v;here an ordi-
nary Chriftian would have been n1uch perplexed, or
would have taken a road widely difFerent from that of
this illuftrious apofrle oflight. And feeing that ft:veral
of the Areopagitae co-operated in the tranfacrion, and
that it was carefully concealed from the profane and
dim-fighted \Vorld; we can have no doubt but ~hat it
was conduCted according to the dikiplina arcani of Il-
lumination. I £.~all give it in his own words.
Spartacus to lvfarius, S:'ft~;;:ber Ij8J.
" I am no\v in the n1ofc e111barraffinQ' fitc~:tion ; 1t
_., robs me of all reft, and n1akes r:1e t;'::fit for every
" l •
~~-:•ng.
cHAP.11. THE 1Lx,UM1NATI.
19,5
"
R_EDEMPT1oN or SLAVES; the Nine lvlaflers are
"
the Founders of the Order. Free l/lafonry is a
"
Royal Art, inafmuch as it teaches us towalli with-
"
out trarnrnels, and to govern ourlelves."
Reader, are
you not curious to learn ibmething of
this all-powerful morality, fo operative on the heart of
the truly illuminated-ofthis JWZ?/if/id arcfzfzé, entrufted
only to the chofen few, and handed down to Profellor
/Veifhaupt, to
Spartacus, andhis affoeiates, who have
cleared it of the rubbidi heaped on it by the dim-{ight~
ed Mafons, and now beaming in its native luftre on
the minds of the ./¥f°c0_pagif¢e ? The teachers of ordinary
Chriftianity have been labouring for almoft aooo years,
with the New Tellarnent in their hands ; many of
them with great addrefs, and many, I believe, with
honefl: zeal. But alas l they cannot
produce fuch Won-
derful and certain effects, (for obferve, that Vwfeillmaupt
repeatedly aiiures us that his means are certain,) pro-
bably for want of this dy2z}f!i1z:z armfzi, of whole eflicacy
fo much is laid. l/loft fortunately, Spartacus has
given us a brilliant fpecimen of the ethics which illu-
minated himfelf on a
trying occahon, where an ordi-
nary Chriftian would have been much perplexed, or
would have taken a road widely diifferent from that of
this illuitrious apoltle oflight. And feeing that hcveral
of the Areopagifae co-operated in the tranfaélion, and
that it Was
carefully concealed from the profane and
dim-lighted world, we can have no doubt but that it
was conducted according to the df/Ezjlifz/1 arcani ofll-
lumination. I fhall give itin his own words.
Spa/rfrzczzs to llfzzrius, þÿS:;£`5';'77Eé¬7' 1783.
"
I am now in the molit exnlmrralling Iituation ; it
"
robs me of all ICH, and makes me waht tor every
"
Cikiilg.
I .:.6 T H .!.: I L L C I-.1 ~ N ..\ T I. CHAP. I I.
" tiHng. I atn in danger of lofing at once my honour
'' and n1y reputation, by which I have long had fuch
" influence. 'lvhat think you ?-r11y fiiter-in-!aw is
" with child. I have fent her to Euriphon, and an1
" endeavouring to procure a rnarriage-licence fron1
'' l{.onle. rl0\V lTIUCh depends on this uncertainty-
" and there is not a IT10l11ent to lofe. Should I fail,
" \vhat is to be done ? Vv~hat a return do 1 n1ake by
H this to a perfon to 'vhom 1 a1n fo much obliged!"
(We fl1all fee the probable n1ea~1ing of this exclarna-
tion by and by). " \'ve have tried evei y n1ethod in
" our power to deftroy the child ; and I hope fhe is
" detern1ined on every thing-even d-." (Can this
tnean death ?) "But aL.1s ! Euriphon is, I fear, too ti-
" mid," ( al1s ! poor woman, thou art now under
the dijcijlina arcani,) " and I fee no other expedient<t
" Could I be but affured of the filence of Celfus, (a
" phyfici2n at Ingolftadt,) he can relieve me, and he
(( pronz{(ed nze as n1uch three years ago. Do fpeak to
cc hi n1, if you think he vvill be ft~1unch. I would not lc t
c' C~: to" (his deareCt frie!1 d, and his chief or onIy con-
fident in the fchen1e of I1lun1inJtion) "kno·.v it yet,
" brcaufe the affair in other rc fptc1:s requires his \vhole
" friendibip." (Cato had all the pretty receipts.)
" Could you but help rne out of this diftref.<;, you
a v;ould give me life, honour, and peace, t!itd jlrength
H to work again in tbe great caiife. If you can not, be
" affured I will venture on the ruuft defperate il:rok.e,"
(poor Gf1er !) "for it is fixed.-1 will not lofc my ho-
cc nocr. I cannot cor;ct i ve what devil has n1ade n1e go
'' aftr(ty-J}le rzt)bo ba•ce elZL'ays been jc careful cufitch oc-
" ct'jirJts. As yet all is quiet, and none kno\v ofit but
" you and l:~uriphon. ·~vvere .ir but tin1e to undertake
cc any thing-bur alas ! it is the fourth n1onth. Thofe
H cb.rnned pritfis too-for the aCtion is fo crin1inal1y
" accounted by thern, and fcandalifes the blood. This
" mak.es
12.6 'rnt ii.1.u:»1;N,."rt. CHAP. II.
"
thing. I am in danger oflofing at once
my honour
"
and my reputation, by which I have long had fuch
"
influence. Vw/Iliat think you F--my Hllcr-in-law is
"
with child. Ihave lent her to
Iiuriphon, and am
"
endeavouring to
procure a
marriage-licence from
"
Rome. How much depends on this uncertainty-
"
and there is not a moment to lofe. Should I fltil,
"
what is to be clone? Wfhat a return tloI make by
"
this to a
perfon to whom I am fo rnueh obliged l"
(We lhall fee the probable meaning of this exclama-
tion by and hy).
"
Vwfe have tried every method in
"
our power to de-(troy the child 5 and I hope Ihe is
"
determined on
every thing-even cl--." (Can this
mean death ?)
"
But alas l Euriphon is, Ifear, too ti-
"
mid," (alasl poor woman, thou art now under
the ziyzlyflizrrz zzrmfzi,)
"
and I fee no other expedient.
"
Could I be but aS`ured of the Iilence of Celfus, (a
"
phylician atIngol{ta1dt,) he :azz relieve me, and he
"
prcnzjkrl me zz; much three years ago. Do lpeak to
"
him, ifyou think he will he Ilnunch. I would not let
"
Cato" (his dearell friend, and his chiefor only con-
fident in the fcheme of Illuminxion) "know it yet,
"
becaule the ailair in otherrt fpecls requires his whole
"
friend`iI:ip." (Cato had all the pretty receipts.)
"
Could you but help rne out of this diltre&, you
"
would Give me life, honour, and peace, m2n'j'f1>/rgiln
"
to wazekbagaiiz in If/he _grmf mfgk. It you cannot, he
"
ziihirecl I will venture on the moil; defperate llroke,"
(poor liller l)
"
for it is fixed.--I will DOI lofe my ho-
"
nour. I cannot conctive what devilhas made me
go
"
aI'tr<ty--me 'Lobo have a/-ways beaizuk ccrcjfifl 671/Iifb cc-
"
cqici/zs. As yet all is quiet, and none know ofit but
"
you and I?lll|`l}'Ul1OIl. 'Were it hut time to undertake
"
any thing-but alas l it is the fourth month. Thoie
"
damned priells too»-for the aetion is fo criminally
"
accounted by them, and feandalxles the blood. This
"
makes
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
'' makes the utmoft efforts and the tnoft defperate
'' n1eafures abfolutely necefrary."
It will thro\v fame light on this tranfacrion if \Ve read
a letter from Spartacus to Cato about this time.
" One thing more, my deareft fri~nd-Vvould it be
'' agreeable to you to have rne for a brother-in-law?
'' If this fhould be agreeable, and if it can be brought
" about without prejudice to n1y honour, as I hope it
'' may, I am not vvithout hopes that the connection
" may take place. But in the Elean time keep it a
'" fecret, and only give me perrnifi]on to enter into
" correfpondence on the fubjeet vvith the good lady,
" to \Vhom I beg you will offer my refpecrful cornpli-
" ments, and I will exph1in myfelf mor~ fully to you
" by word of rnouth, and tel! you n1y whole fituation.
" But I repeat it-the thing murr be gone about with
" addrefs and caution. I would not for all the world
" deceive a perfon who certainly has not deferved fo
" of me."
\Vhat interpretation can be put on this? Cato feen1s
to be brother to the poor woman-he \Vas unwittingly
to furniih the drugs) and he v;a:.; to be deale \Vith about
confenting to a rnarriage, which could not be altoge-
ther agrteable to him, fince it required a difpenCuion,
1he being already the fifcer- in-lJw ofvVeii11aupr, ~icher
the filter of his forn1er v.rife, or the \vido\v of a decealed
brother. Or perhaps Spart2.CU? reaily wiihes to 1narry
Cato's fifler, a different perfon from the poor v;on1a~
in the ftra\v; and he conceals this adventure from his
trufty friend Cato, till he fees what becomes of it.
Th~ child may perhaps be got rid of, and then Spn.r-
tacus is a free n1an. ri'here is a letter to Cato, tl1~nk­
ing him for his friendfrj1p in the afFair of the child~
bur it give5 no light. I me{
,t ·with another account,
that the filler of Z V~t'ack threw he rfeJ f fron1 the rop of
a to\ver, anc~ beat out her br::.ins. But it is not faid
that
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
127
"
makes the utmoft eiforts and the moit defperaze
"
meafures abfolutely necefiary."
It will throw fome light on this tranfaftion ifwe read
a letter from Spartacus to Cato about this time.
"
One thing more, my deareft friend-/Vould it be
"
agreeable to you to have me for a brother-in-law?
"
Ifthis fnould be agreeable, and ifit can be brought
"
about without prejudice to
my honour, as I hope it
"
may, Iam not Without hopes that the eonneftion
'<
may take place. But in the mean time keep it a
"
fecret, and only give me
permiilion to enterinto
"
Correfpondence on the fubjeét with the good lady,
"
to whom I beg you will offer my refpeftful compli-
"
ments, and I will explain myfelf more
fully to
you
"
by word of mouth, and tel! you my whole fituation.
"
But I repeat it-the thing muft be gone about with
"
addrefs and caution. I would not for all the world
"
deceive a
perfon who certainly has not deferved fo
"
of me."
Vi/'hat interpretation can be put on this P Cato feems
to be brother to the poor Woman--he was
unwittingly
to furnifh the drugs, and he was to be dealt with about
confentiug to a
marriage, which could not be altoge~
ther agreeable to him, fiance it required a
diipenlfition,
ihe being already the liiter-in-law of"WeiQ1aupt, either
the litter of his former wife, or the widow of a decealed
brother. Or perhaps Spartacus really wilhes to
marry
Cato's Glier, a different perfon from the poor woman
in the ftraw; and he cfvneeals this adventure from his
trulty friend Cato, till he hscs what becomes of it.
The child may perhaps be got rid oh and then Spar-
tacus is a free man. There is a letter to Cato, thank-
ing him for his hiendihip in the affair of the child-~
but it gives no
light. I with another aeeount,
that the hfter ofZwacl~< threw hcrielf from the top of
a tower, aud¢beat out her brains. But it is not faid
that
THE ILLUJ\-liNATI. CHAP. II.
that it ;,vas an only fifter; if it 'vas, the probability is,
that Spartacus had paid his addreifes to her, and fuc-
ceedcd, and that the fubfequent afFair of his marri'age
with his fiHer-in-la\V, or fon1ething worfe, broke her
heart. 'I'his feen1s the bei1 account of the matter.
For I-iertel (I\1arius) writt:s to Z\vack in November
1782 : " Spar[acus is this day gone hon1e, but has left
" his fifter-in-la\v pregnant behind (this is from Baffus
" 1-Ioff). J\.bout the ne\v year he hopes to be made
,., n1erry by a --, who vvili be before all kings and
" princes-a young Spartacus. The Pope alfo 'viii
" refptEt hin1, and legiti1nate hin1 before the time."
l'~ow, vulgar Chriitian, cotnpare this with the for-
mer declaration of vVeiihaupt, Vlhere he appea]s
to the tenor of his fonner life, v1hich had been
fo feverely fcrutinifed, ">vithour diminiihing his high
reputation and great influence, and his ignorance and
abhorrence of all thofe things found in Cato's repofito-
ries. You fee this \vas a furprife-he had formerly
proceeded cautioufly-" He is the be·ft rnan," fays
Spartacu5, "who beft conceals his fault~."-1-Ie vvas
difappointed by Celfus, ~obo bad pronz~(ed hi;n his (lff!l-
tancc on juc!J occqficns three years ago, during all 'vhich
time he had been bufy in " for111 ing hin1ielf." H o\V
far he has advanced, the reader 1nay judge.
One is curious to kno\v 'vhat becatne of the poor
woman: fbe was after\vards taken to the houfe of Ba-
ron Baifus; but here the foolirn \voman, for want of
that courage which Illun1ination and the bright prof-
pefc of eternal fleep fhould have produced, took fright
at the d!fciplini arcani, left the houfe, and in the hidden
fociety of a midwife and nurfe brought forth a young
Spartarus, \vho no\v 1ives to thank his t1ther for his
endeavours to n1urder him. A " danzned prieft," the
good Bifhop of Freyfingen, knowing the cogent rea-
fans, procured the difpenfcttion, and Spartacus was
obliged_,
128 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. 11.
that it was an
only Qflter; if it was, the probability is,
that Spartacus had paid his addrelfes to her, and lilc-
ceedcd, and that the fubfequent affair of his marriage
with his hher-in-law, or
fomething worle, broke her
heart. This feems the bell account ofthe matter.
For I-lertel (Marius) writes to Zwack in November
1732:
"
Spartacus is this day gone home, but has left
'f
his lifter-in-law pregnant behind (this is from Baffus
"
Hoff). About the new
year he hopes to be made
"'
merry by a ----, who will be before all kings and
"
princes---a young Spartacus. The Pope alfo will
"
refpect him, and legitimate him before the time."
Now, vulgar Chriilian, compare this with the for-
mer declaration of Wfeifhaupt, where he appeals
to the tenor of his former life, which had been
lb feverely fcrutinifed, without dirniniming his high
reputation and great influence, and his ignorance and
abhorrence of all thofe things found in Cato's repolito-
ries. You fee this was a
furprife--he had formerly
proceeded cautioufly--" He is the be-ft man," fays
Spartacus,
"
who belt conceals his faults."--He was
difappointed by Celfus, who had prafzzjkd' kim his
fdilrfa' cfz
fuck orc/5,5015 three years ago, during all which
time he had been buh/ in "
forming hinilelf" How
far he has advanced, the reader may judge.
One is curious to know what became of the poor
woman: lhe was afterwards taken to the houfe of Ba-
ron Balfus, but here the foolilh woman, for want of
that courage which Illumination and the bright prof-
pec`t ofeternal fleep fhould have produced, took fright
at the dyfzp/izzi arcfmi, left the houfe, and in the hidden
fociety of a midwife and nurfe brought forth a
young
Spartacus, who now lives to thank his father for his
endeavours to murder him. A "
rz'af11z11ed]>ré¢]i," the
good Bifhop of Freyhngen, knowing the cogent rea-
fons, procured the difpenfation, and Spartacus was
`
obliged,
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
oblio-ed like another dim- fighted mortal, to marry
b '
her. The fcandal .was hufhed, and would not have
been difcovered had it not been for thefe private wri..
ttngs.
But Spartacus fays '' that when you think
" him funk to the bottom, he will fpring up ,vith
" double vigour." In a fubfequent \Vork, call-
ed Short Amendment ofnzy Plan, ·he fays, " If men were
" not habituated to wicked manners, his letters would
" be their own juftification." He does not fay that
he is without fault; " but they are faults of the under-
" ftanding-not of the heart. He had, firft of all, to
'' form himfelf; and this is a work of tin1e." In the
affair of his fifter-in-la\v he admits the facrs, and the
atten1pts to deftroy the child; " but this is far fron1
'' proving any depravity of heart. In his condition,
" his honour at ftake, what elfe was left him to do?
'' His greatefl: enemies, the Jefuits, have taught that
cc in fuch a cafe it is lawful to make away \vich the
" child," and he quotes authorities from their books.*
" In the introductory fault he has the example of the
'' beft of men. The fecond was its natural confe-
cc quence, it \Vas altogether involuntary, and, in the
" eye of a philofophical judge" (I prefume of the Gal-
lic School) " who does not fq uare himfelf by the harfn
" letters of a blood-thirfly larrvgiver, he has but a very
" trifling account to fettle. He had become a public
" teacher, and \Vas greatly followed; this exatnple
" nzight bave ruined nzany young nzen. The eyes of the
" Order alfo were fixed on him. The edifice refted
" on his credit; had he fallen: he could no longer have
R " been
* This is flatly contradiC'tee in a pamphlet by F. Stnttler, a Ca-
tholic clergyman of mofi: refpeB:able charaB:er, who here expofes.
in the moil incontrovertible manner, the impious plots of \Veifhaupt,
his tot<tl difregard to truth, his counterfeit antiques, and all his
lies againfl the Jefuits.
GHAP. 11. THE ILLUMINATI. 129
obliged, like another dinvfighted mortal, to marry
her. The fcandalwas huihed, and would not
have
been difcovered had it not been for thefe private wri-
tings. _
But Spartacus fays
"
that
_when you think
"
him funk to the bottom, he will fpring up with
"
double vigour." In a fubfequent work, call~
ed Sivan' /imendflzent ryfnqy Plnn, -he fays,
"
If men were
"
not habituated to wicked manners, his letters would
"
be their own juftihcation." He does not
fay that
he is without fault;
"
but they are faults ofthe under-
"
ftanding--not ofthe heart. He had, firft of all, to
"
form himfelf; and this is a work of time." In the
affair of his lifter'-in-law he admits the faéts, and the
attempts to deftroy the child, "
but this is far from
"
proving any depravity of heart. In his condition,
"
his honour at Ptake, what elfe was left him to do?
"
His greateft enemies, the jefuits, have taught that
"
in fuch a cafe it is lawful to make away with the
"
child," and he quotes authorities from their booksf*
"
ln the introduflory fault he has the example of the
"
beft of men. The fecond was its natural confe-
"
quence, it was altogether involuntary, and, in the
"
eve ofa philofophicaljudge" (I prefume ofthe Gal-
lic Eichool)
"
who does not
fquare hirnfelf by the harfh
"
letters ofa 610041-flair/fy lnwgifver, he has but a
very
"
trifling account to fettle. He had become a
public
"
teacher, and was
greatly followed; this example
"
nzignf /anne ruined nznny young nzen. The eyes of the
"
Order alfo were fixed on
him. The edifice refted
on his credit; had he fallen, be conldno longer have
R "
éeen
((
4*
This is Hatly contradifted in a
pamphlet by F. Stuttler, a Ca-
tholic clergyman of moft refpeftable char-after, who here expofes,
in the moflincontrovertible manner, the impious plots of Weifhaupt,
his total difregard to truth, his counterfeit antiques, and all his
lies againft the jefuits.
130 T·Hf ILL U MIN A1'1. CHAP. 11.
" been in e condition to treat the mattc·rs of virtue jo as to
" 1nake a lajling i;npreflicn. It was chit fly his anxiety
" to fupport the credit of the Order which det~rmined
" hin1 to take this fiep. It n1a)<.es fur hin1, but by no
" means agairJl him ; and the perfons V\7 ho are moft
'' in fault are the Oavifu inquifirors, who have pub-
" lifhed the tranfaCtion, in order to tnake his charac-
cc ter more remarkable, and to hurt the Order through
" his perfon; and they have not fcrupled, for rhis hel-
'' lifh purpofe, to ftir up a child againft his father!!!''
I ma~e no reflections on this very rrmarkable, and
highly ufeful ftory, but content myfelf with faying,
that this jufrification by W ei.fhaupt (\Yhicb 1 have been
careful to give in his own ·words) is (he greateft infiance
of effrontery and infult on the fentirnenrs of mankind
that I have ever met with. We are all fuppofcd as
completely corrupted as if we had lived under the full
blaze of Illumination.
In other places of this curious correfpondence we
learn that Minos, and others of the .Areopagitte, ·wanted
to introduce Atheifm at once, and not go hedging in
the manner they did ; affirming it \Vas eaGer to f11ew r
at once that _1\theifm \Vas friendly to fociery, than to
explain all their Mafonic Chrifrianity, vvhich they were
afterwards to fl1ew to be a bundle of lirs. Indeed this
purpofe, of not on1y abo1if11 ing Chr ifl:ianity, but a11
pofitive religion \VDateVer, WaS v\reifhaupt's faVOUftte
fchen1e from the beginning. Before he canvail(_,d for
his Order, in I 774, he publifhed a fiCtitious antique,
which he called Sidonii Apcltinarus Jt'ragntenta, to pre-
pare (as he exprefdy fays in another place) tnens minds
for the doctrines of Reafon, which contains all the de-
teftable doCtrines of Robint>t's book De la Nature. The
publication of the fecond part was !topped. \\7eifhaupt
fays in his .i\.POLOGY FOR TH.E 1LLU!.-1INATI, tba( be-
fore 1 7So he had retraCted his opinions about Matei-i-
alifin.
130 'PHE ILLUl»1INA'1'I. CI-IAP. Il.
"
been in zz condition to irea! the mailers q' virtue _/b as to
"
makea lajing impngfcn. It was chiefly his anxiety
"
to
lupport the credit ofthe Order which determined
"
him to take this Ptep. It rnakesfor him, but by no
means again/i him; and the perlons who are moflt
"
in fault are the llaviih inquiiitors, who have pub-
"
liihed the tranfaétion, in order to make his charac-
"
ter more remarkable, and to hurt the Order through
"
his perfon; and they have not
fcrupled, for this hel~
"
liih purpofe, to ftir up a child againft his father l ! !"'
I make no refleéliions on this very remarkable, and
highly ufeful ftory, but content myfelf with faying,
that this juftification by Weifldatipt (which I have been
careful to
give in his own
words) is the greatell; inllance
of effrontery and infult on the lentitnenrs of mankind
that I have ever met with. We are all fuppofed as
completely corrupted as ifwe had lived under the full
blaze oflllumination.
In other places of this curious correfpondence we
learn that l/Iinos, and others of the Jreopagilff, wanted
to introduce Atheifm at once, and not
go hedging in
the manner they did; ahirming it was ealier to fhew
at once that Atheifm was
Friendly to fociety, than to
explain all their Mafonic Chrifliianity, which they were
afterwards to fhew to be a bundle ot" lies. Indeed this
purpofe, of not only abolilhing Chriftianity, but all
pohtive religion whatever, was
`vVei{haupt's Favourite
fcheme from the beginning. Before he canvailed for
his Order, in 1774, he publifhed a fictitious antique,
which he called Sifiofzii Apcllimzrzfs Fmgmefzm, to
pre-
pare (as he exprefsly fays in another place) mens minds
for the dodtrines of Reafon, which contains all the de-
teitable docftrines of Robinet's book De la Nature. The
publication ofthe fecond part was
llopped. V7eifhaupt
lays in his Arotoov rox TI-I1:IILLUMINA'1`I, that be-
fore 1730 he had rctradited his opinions about Materi-
`
alifm.
(C
CHAP. I I. TH.E 1LLVM1NATI. I J I
alifn1, and a~out the inexpediency of Princes. But
this is falte: Philo fays exprefsly, that every thing re-
mained on its original footing in the whole prattice
and dogmas of the Order vvhen he quitted it in July
I 784. P....ll this \vas concealed, and even the aborn!.:.
nablc Mafonrv, in the account of the Order which
\'VTeifnaupt pu.bliihed at I<.egen!burg; and it required
the conftant efforts of Philo to prevent bare or flat
.A.theifm from being uniforn1ly taught in their degrees.
He had told the council that Zeno would not be under
a roof with a tnan who denied the immortality of the
foul. He complains of Minos's cramming irreligion
do\vn their throats in every n1eeting, and fays, that he
frightened many from entering the Order. " Truth,''
fays Philo, '' is a clever, but a n1odeft girl, who muft
" be led by the hand like a gentiewoman, but not
" kicked about like a vvhore." Spartacus complains
tnuch of the fqueamifhnefs of Philo; yet Philo is not
a great deal behind him in irreligion. When defcrib-
ing to Cato the Chriftianity of the Priefr-degree, as
he had manufaCtured it, he fays, " lt is all one wht-
" ther it be true or falfe, we rnuft have it, that \Ye
" n1ay tickle thoie who have a hankering for religion."
All the odds feems to be, that he was of a gentler dif-
pofition, and had more deference even for the abfurd
prejudices of others. In one of his angry letter5 to
Cato he fays: "1'he vanity and felf-conceit of Spar-
cc tacus would have got the better of all prudence, had
'' I not checked hitn, and prevailed on the Areopagit£
" but to defer the dtvelopetnent of the bold principles
" till vve had firmly fecured the man. I even ~iihed
" to entice rhe candidate the mort by giving hin1 back
a all his former bonds of fecrecy, and leaving him at
" liberty to walk out without fear; and I an1 certain
" th.~t they \vere, by this time, fo engaged that we
" fhould not have loft one man. Bt~t Spartacus had
~' con1pofed an exhibiriqn of his la{t principles, for a
'' difcourfe
CI-IAP. Ii, THE ILLUMINATI.
131
alifin, and about the inexpediency of Princes. But
this is falie: Phiio lays exprelsly, that every thing re-
mained on its original footing in the whole practice
and dogmas of the Order when he quitted it in july
1734. All this was concealed, and even the abomi=
nable l/Iafonry, in the account of the Order which
Vifeifhanpt publifhed at
Regenfburg; and it required
the conftant eflforts of Philo to prevent bare or Hat
Atheifm from being uniformly taught in their degrees.
He had told the council that Zeno would not be under
a roofwith a man who denied the immortality of the
foul. He complains of l/Iinos's cramming irreligion
down their throats in every meeting, and fays, that he
frightened many from entering the Order. "
Truth,"
fays Philo,
"
is a clever, but a modeflt girl, who muii;
"
be led by the hand like a
gentlewoman, but not
"
kicked about like a whore." Spartacus complains
much of the fqueamifhnefs of Philo; yet Philo is not
a
great deal behind him in irreligion. When defcrib-
ing to Cato the Chrifitianity of the Prieft-degree, as
he had manufaéiuretl it, he fays,
"
It is all one whe-
"
ther it be true or falfe, We mult have it, that we
"
may tickle thoie who have a hankering for religion."
All the odds feems to be, that he was ofa gentler dif-
polition, and had more deference even for the abfurd
prejudices of others. In one of his angry letters to
Cato he fays:
"
The vanity and felf- conceit of Spar-
"
tacus would have got the better of all prudence, had
"
I not checked him, and prevailed on the _/ireopagifae
"
but to defer the developement of the bold principles
"
till we had hrmly fecured the man. Ieven wilhed
"
to entice the candidate the more
by giving him back
"
all his former bonds of fecrecy, and leaving him at
"
liberty to walk out without fear; and I am certain
"
that they were, by this time, fo engaged that we
"
fhould not have lofi: one man. Bn; Spartacus had
"
compofed an exhibition of his laii principles, for a
"
diiicourfg
13~ THE ILLUlvfiNATI. CHAP. II.
difcourfe of reception, in·which he pain ted his three
" favourite n1yfterious degrees, \vhich were to be con..
'' ferred by him alone, in colours \Vhich had fafcina-
'' ted his O\Vn fancy. But they were the colours of
'' hell, and would have feared the moft intrepid ; and
~, becaufe I reprefented the danger of this, and by
" force obtained the omiffion of this piCture, he be-
" came my itnplacable enemy. ..J abhor treachery
" and profligacy, and leave hin1 to blow himfelf and
" his Order into the air."
Accordingly this happened. It was this which ter-
rified one of the four profeffors, and made him impart
his doubts to the reft. Yet Spartacus feems to have
profited by the apprehenfions of Philo; for in the ]aft
reception, he, for ,the firft time, exaCts a bond from
the intrant, engaging himfelf for ever to the Order,
and [wearing that he will never ciraw back. 1"hus ad-
tnitted, he becomes a fure card. The courfe of his
life is in the hands of the Order, and his thoughts on
a thoufand dangerous points; his reports concerning
his neighbours and friends ; in thort, his honour and
his neck. The Deiit, thus led on, has not far to go
before he becomes a Naturalift 'or Atheift; and th~n
the eternal fleep ofdeath cro\vns all his humble hopes.
Before giving an account of the higher degrees, 1
iball juft extract from one letter more on a fingular
fubjeEI:. ..
Minos to Sebaflian, I 782.
" The propofal of Hercules to efiabliih a Iv1inerval
tc fchool for girls is excellent, but requires tnuch cir-
" curnfpeCtion. Philo and I have long converfed on
" this fubjecr. We cannot improve the \Vorld ~vith­
" out improving women, \vho have fuch a mighty in-
tc fluence on the tnen. But how fhall we get hold of
" them?
132 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
difcourfe of reception, in~which he painted his three
"
favourite myllerious degrees, which were to be con-
ferred by him alone, in colours which had fafcina-
ted his own
fancy. But they were the colours of
hell, and would have feared the mofi intrepid, and
¢(
(C
f(
"
becaufe I reprefented the danger of this, and by
"
force obtained the omiliion of this pidture, he be-
"
came my implacable enemy. -~I abhor treachery
cc
'
and prolligacy, and leave him to blow himfelf and
"
his Order into the air."
Accordingly this happened. It was this which ter-
rified one of the four profeffors, and made him impart
his doubts to the reft. Yet Spartacus feems to have
profited by the appreheniions of Philo; for in the lall:
reception, he, forthe firfl time, exaéls a bond from
the intrant, engaging himfelf for ever to the Order,
and fwearing that he will never draw back. Thus ad-
mitted, he becomes a fure card. The courfe of his
life is in the hands of the Order, and his thoughts on
athoufand dangerous points; his reports concerning
his neighbours and friends; in fhort, his honour and
his neck. The Deiil, thus led on, has not far to
go
betore he becomes a Naturalift 'or Atheifl; and then
the eternal fleep ofdeath crowns all his humble hopes.
Before giving an account of the higher degrees, I
{hall_iu['L extract from one letter more on a
Hngular
fub_je6`t.
'
Minas to Saba/firm, 1732.
"
The propofal of Hercules to ellablifh a l/linerval
"
fchool for girls is excellent, but requires much cir-
"
cumfpeélion. Philo and Ihave long converfed on
"
this fubjeclt. VVe cannot improve the world with-
"
out improving women, who have fuch a
mighty in-
"
fluence on the men. But how fhall we
get hold of
i
r
"
them ?
CHAP. II. T H E I L L U Ivf I N _'\ T i . IJJ
" them ? Ho\v 'vi11 their relations, particul2rly their
" mothers, immerfed in prejudices, confent that others
cc fhall influence their education ? Vle n1ufr begin with
" urown girls. Hercules propofes the wife of Pto1e-
cc ~y lVIagus. I have no objec1ion ; and I have four
cc ftep-daughters, fine girls. The oldeft in particular
" is excellent. She is t\venty-four, has read n1uch, is
" above all prejudices, and in religion ihe thinks asldo.
(C They have much acquaintance among the young la-
" dies their relations. (N. B. \Ve don't know the rank
" of Minos, b9t as he does not ufe the word Damen:~
" but Frauenzi:nmer, it is probable that it is not high.)
cc It may immediately be a very pretty Society, under
" the management of Ptolen1y)s wife, but-really un-
" der his management. You muft contrive pretty de-
" grees, and dreffes, and ornaments, and elegant and
" decent rituals. ~.Jo rnan muft be admitted. This
" will make them become more keen, and they "vilJ
" go tnuch f(irther than if v.;e \vere prefent, or than if
" they thought that we knew of their proceedings.
" Leave them to the fcope of their ov;n fancies, and
" they vJill foon invent n1yfieries w·hich will put us to
" the blufn, and create an enthufiafnl \vhich \Ve can
" never equal. They vvill be our great apoft]es. Re-
cc fleet on the refpect, nay the avve and terror infpired
" by the female myftics of antiquity. (Think of the
" Daniads-think of the Theban Bacchantes.) Ptole-
• J
" my's 'Nife mutt dirtB: then1, and i11e \viii be infi:rufr-
'' ed by Pton1lemy, and my flep· daughters \vi1l con-
" fult with me. vVe muft ahv~ys be at hand to pre-
cc vent the introduction of any in1proper queftion. Vv'e
" muft prepare themes for their difcuffion-thus we
cc fhall confefs thetn, and infpire then1 with our frnri-
'' ments. No n1an however tnuft com~ near thetn.
" This v;ill fire their roving fancies, and we may ex-
" peCt rare myfterirs. But I atn doubtful ·whether
" this
CI~IAP.Ii. THE ILLUMINATI.
them? How will their relations, particularly their
mothers, immetfed in prejudices, confent that others
fhall influence their education ? Vie muft begin with
grown girls. Hercules propofes the wife of Ptole-
my Magus. I have no
objection 5 and I have four
flep-daughters, fine girls. The oldeft in particular
is excellent. She is twenty-four, has read much, is
above all prejudices, and in religion fhe thinks asldo.
They have much acquaintance among the young la-
dies their relations. (N. B. 'Ne clon't know the rank
of Minos, but as he does not ufe the word Daman,
but Fmzzenzimmer, it is probable that it is not
high.)
lt may immediately be a very pretty Society, under
the management of þÿPEOl ¬I'D}/'S
wife, but really un-
der 1973 management. You mufl contrive pretty de-
grees, and dreffes, and ornaments, and elegant and
decent rituals. No man muft be admitted. This
will make them become more keen, and they will
go much farther than if we were
prefent, or than if
they thought that we knew of their proceedings.
Leave them to the fcope of their own fancies, and
they will foon invent myfleries which will put ug tg
the blufn, and create an enthuliafm which we can
never
equal. They will be our
great apoftles. Re_
fleet on the þÿrefpe ¬t,
nay the awe and terror
infpired
by the female myflics of antiquity. (Think of the
Daniads-thinlt ofthe Theban Bzzfcbsa;z!t'.v.;% Ptole
my's wife mutt diretft them, and fhe will be inftruét-
ed by Ptomlemy, and my llep-daughters will con-
fult with me. Wfe mutt always be at hand to
pre-
vent the introduftion of any improper queftion. '/Ve
mult prepare themes for their difcuflion--thus we
fhall confefs them, and infpire them with our fenti-
ments. No man however muiit come near them.
This will tire their roving fancies, and we
may ex-
pect rare
myileries. But I am doubtful whether
"
this
134 T H E I L L U i\! l N A T I. CHA.P. II.
" this Aflociari~n 'vill be c!urable. 'l'lomen are fickle
<' and inHJatient. t~othinQ will oleafe them but hur-
.1 ...~ J.
'' ,ying frorn degree to degree, ti1rough a heap of in-
,, fign it1cant ceren1onies, \vh ich will foon lofe their
'' nuvelty and inthwnce. 1"'o reft feriouf1y in one
'' rank, and to be ibl! and filent when they have found
" out that rhe \vhole is a cheat, (hear the" words of an
" experienced Mafon,) is a taik of \vhich they are in-,
" capable. They have not our motives to perfevere
" for years, allo\ving themfelves to be led about, and
'' even then to hold their tongues when they find that
'' they have been deceived. Nay ther~ is a rifk that
<' they may take it into their heads to give things an
H oppofite turn, and then, by voluptuous allurements,
" heightened by affeCted n1oJefty and decency, which
'' give them an irrcfiftible en1pire over the befi: men,
" they n;"Jay turn our Order upfide down, and in their
" turn will lead the new one."
Such is the inforn1ation 'Nhich may be got from the
private correfJ?ondence. It is needlefs ro make n1ore
t"Xtratts ofevery kind of vice and trick. I have taken
fuch as iht\V a little of the plan of the Order, as far
as the degree of Illunziilatus ivlincr, and the vile pur-
pofts 'vhich are concealed under all their fpecious de-
clan1ation. j\. very tninute account is given of the
plan, the ritual, cere1nonies, &c. and even the inftruc-
tions and' difcourfcs, in a book calied the Achte l!ltt-
71Zinat, publifhed at Eddfa (Frankfurt) in I 787. ·Philo
r~ys, " that this is quire accurate, but that he dots
" not kno\V the author." I proceed to give an ac-
count of their highrr degrees, as they are to be feen
in the book calltd lveuefle Arbeitung des Spartacus und
l~bi!o. And the authenticity of the accounts is arrei1:-
ed by Grolln1an, a private genrlcn1an of independent
fortune, who read rhetn, figned and fealed by Sparta-
cus and the /}recpagitte.
The
13.4. THE ILLUMlNATI. CHAP. II.
"
this Afiociation will be durable. Vfornen are fickle
"
and impatient. Nothing will pleafe them but hur-
"
.ying from degree to
degree, through a
heap of in-
"
hgniiicant ceremonies, which will foon lofe their
"
novelty and influence. To reft ferioully in one
"
rank, and to be ltill and lileut when they have found
"
out that the whole is a cheat, (hear the words ofan
"
experienced l/§al°on,) is a talk of which they are in-
"
capable. They have not our motives to
perfevere
"
for years, allowing themlelves to be led about, and
"
even then to hold their tongues when they find that
"
they have been deceived. Nay there is a riik that
"
they may take it into their heads to give things an
"
oppohte turn, and then, by voluptuous allurements,
"
heightened by aH°e6ted modclty and decency, which
"
give them an irreliliible empire over the belt men,
"
they may turn our Order uplide down, and in their
"
turn will lead the new one."
Such is the information which may be got from the
private correl"pondence. It is needlefs to make more
extrafts ofevery kind ofvice and trick. I have taken
fuch as lhew a little ol' the plan of the Grder, as far
as the degree of I//zffzfifmfm M'i2zcr, and the vile pur-
pofes which are concealed under all their fpecious de-
clamation. A very minute account is given of the
plan, the ritual, ceremonies, fic. and even the inftruc-
tions and' difeourfes, in a book called the _/16516 [lizz-
mizmf, publimed at
Eriqfa (Frankfurt) in 1787. 'Philo
lays, "that this is quite accurate, but that he does
"
not know the author." I proceed to
give an ac-
count of their higher degrees, as
they are to be fecn
in the bool; called Neueje /Yrbeitung dw Sparlacus and
Philo. And the authenticity of' the accounts is attelt-
ed by Grollman, a private gentleman of independent
fortune, who read them, ligned and fealed by Sparta-
cus and the A'f'eopagiz'fa.
`
Thc
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 135
The feries of ranks and prog-n:fs of the pupil \Vere
arranged as follows :
{
- - - - - - - - Preparation,
, - - - - - - - - N ovic~,
NuRSERY, ~~r· _
1
- - - - - - lYllUefVd J
- - - - - .. - - !Humin. I\1inor.
I belie - - - - - - - - Fellow Craft,
f Syrn- ~- - - - - - - - ...1\pprenrice,
MAs0 NRy' i - - - - ~ - .. - rv1afte r'
MYSTERIES,~
l,., 7 \ Illu;n. l v!f'je--r, Scotch Novice
vCOtto ) -z.z ,, . s 1 K . l
<..1 tilil. ctzr:geas, cotcn.... n1gnr.
Leifer
Greater
~ Preiby;:er, Priefr,
"2_ Prince, H..egL:nl",
' IY1agus,
(l?.ex.
1"he reader muft be a1moft fick of fo much villanv,
and \Vould be difgufted \Vith the rninut:e detail, in whi~h
the canr of the Order is ringing continually in his ear~.
I fhall therefore only Give fuc h a i11ort t xrr~B: as may
fix our notions of che obj ea of t ht () rdt r, and the mo-
ntliry of the n1eans employed for anc1ining it. Vvc
need not go back to the lower de-gre e~ , and ib:dl btgiil
with the ILL UM IN ATUS D I R 1 c.c:··;s, or Sco--:rca
KNIGHT.
AfteT a ihort introd u&ion, teac hir·~ u:; hov1 the- holy
ferret Chapter.ofScotch }~nights is ~:dl::. rn bled, \Ve haVt",
I. Fuller accounts and inftruCti cn~ reLu in~-, to the Y>'i! nlr.
;:~~
II. Infcruclions for r1·:e lower c ;~t !}c:, r)f ivl,t!~~) nry. l!L
InftruCtions relatieg- to Mar)n L l
:)d!]eSin f_'rC'i1tLi!. rv.
\...1 '-J L)
Account oft~. reception into this dt ~~:ct'e, with the bond
which each fubfc ri brs before he c.1n be '-"-d rni[[eel. \l.
Concerning rhe So~etnn Ch~1}' ttT for recrp~ion. VI.
0 J1( n1no
, - of the C h~! ct t' r. v· I L Hi~ u.1l nf l ~ c ccot:on ,
.) t 1'
a l li , ! ,. t"'\_ltt1 \JiTjf C' l l .. ~:j '"<' ' · (' r)- _. : ~~- I " " l""i:T
I ~ l! h. \... J "• t • \ }. L J t.~ t '- ll l .:..~~ u l t..l"l..- '-·, 1J t)!. L f. 1A.
/.rrn-r;;
L-•,6 ' •
J:L'
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 135
The feries of ranks and progrefs of che pupil were
arranged as follows:
- - - - - ~ - -
Preparation,
- - - ------
Novice,
NURSERY, »\,~ ,
-
» - - - - - -
lvlinervdl,
-
~ - - - -
Illumin. l\/linor.
féiym- ----- - -
Apprentice,
I bali: -~------
Fellow Craft,
MAsoNRY,3, - --->- ~- -
Maller,
,, , (_/Yizmf. ji!/jar, Scorch Novice
ocolc/0
'
». .
C. , - -
.
2]!Zum. £ZZl".'g6'iL\`, ocorcnknigrir.
Prefbyzer, l7'rie{l,
Leifer ef, -_ , o
MYSTERIES
þÿil'i1`lC ¬',Regent,
'
lWfJu.f
Greater g 'Q '
2 Rex.
The reader muff be nlmofl §cl< of R> much villany
and would be clifguflecl with the rnimire detail, in which
the cans ofthe Order is ringing COl`ll§lIlLiJllY in his ears.
I (hall therefore only give iiirh a fliorr exzraél as
may
Hx our notions of the objefl of the Qrcler, and the mo-
rality of the means
employed for attaining ir. Vile
need not vo back to the lower degrees, anal fhall lf)('fTli)
)
D J ED
with the ILLUMINATUS DIRIGEJSS, or Scores:
KN IGHT.
After a Ihorr iritrociuéliori, teaching us how the holy
ferret ChapteiiofSco£ch Knights is aiicmbled, we have,
I. Fuller accounts and þÿlI1l.ll'U ¬flf>i'l$
rrlazingg ro the wilole.
ll. lnflruélions for the lower céniiee f\l'f\'§.1E3Ji1l'y. lil.
Infirué`tions relatirmg to þÿM"jL)I]
Lfzclges; in general. IV.
Account ofa receprion info [his rleggree, wirh the bond
which each l"ubi°cribes before he cm he ailrnirreal. V.
Concerning :he Solemn Cl1;1;\ze1'lor reception. VI.
Gperiinp; of the Ch.1§\ter. VII. Kilim] of ileccptlon,
and Llie Cath. Vlll. Shuiriirigf of Lim Cfrgipger. IX.
, .
,vffl/rf*
wb I/F,
THE ILLUMINATI. CH4P. I I.
Agape, or Love-Feaft. X. Ceretnonies of the confe-
cration of the Chapter. Appendix A, Explanation of
the Symbols of Free fv'Iafonry. B, Catechifm for the
Scotch Knight. C, Secret Cypher.
In N° I. it is faid that the '' chief ftudy of the
'' Scotch Knight is to work on all men in fuch a way
" as is mofr inilnuating. II. He muft endeavour to
" acquire the poffeffion of confiderable property. III.
" In a1l I\1afon Lodges w,e muft try fecretly to get the
" upper hand. The :rYiafons do not kno·w what Free-
" r\1afonry is, their high objeB:s, nor ,
their higheft
" Superiors, and ibould be direCte-d by thofe who will
" lead rhen1 along the right road. ln preparir.g a ca_n-
d. l r ' d r C , ....r . h h d
'' tic. ate ror tne egree orr o coten x~.n1g t oo , we
c' tnufr bring hirn into diletnn1as by enfnaring queftions.
cc -vVe n1uft endeavour to get the difpofal ofthe ma-
ce nty of the I...odges of the Free l\1afons, or at leaH:
'' take care that it be applied to purpofes favourable
'' to our Order-but this rnuft be done in a way that
'' i11a1l not be ren1arked. Above all, '-Ve muff: pufu
" forw:1rd with all our fl.:ill, the plan of EcleCtic Ma-
ce fonry, and for this purpofe follovv up the circular
'' letter already fent to all the Lodges v1ith every
c' thing that can increafe their prefent embarraifment."
In ~he bond of l'J0
IV. the candidate binds himft:lf to
" co nflder and treat the Ill u111in~Hi as the Superiors of
" Free [v'Iafonry, and endeavour in all th!: Mafon
cc Lodges which he frequents, to have the Mafonry of
<' the lllurninated, and panicular1y the Scotch !~ovi­
" tiatt, introduced into the Lodge." (This is not
very diffc:rent fron1 the l\11 afonry of the Chevalier de
l'Lfigle of the H..ofaic MaConry, rnaking the rv1airer's
degree a fort of comn1ernorarion of the paffion, but
\virhout giving that cbara[ter to Chriitianity \Vhich is
peculiar ro Iilun1inatifn1.) Jcfus Chriit is reprefented
as the enen1y uf fuperflitious obfervances, and the :.lf-
fertor
1 6 'rne ILLUMINATI. CI-i.1§P.II.
Ampé, or Love-Feaft. X. Ceremonies ofthe confe-
cration of the Chapter. Appendix A, Explanation of
the Symbols of Free l`/lafonry. B, Catechifm for the
Scotch Knight. C, Secret Cypher.
`
In N° I. it is faid that the "
chief ftudy of the
Scotch Knight is to work on all men in fuch a
Way
as is mofl: iniinuating. ll. He mult endeavour to
acquire the polfeilion of coniiderable property. IH.
Inall M'afon Lodges we tnufl: try fecretly to
get the
upper hand. The Mafons do not know what Free-
Piflaforiry is, their high ohjeéts, nor
their higheft
Superiors, and fhould be direffted by thofe who will
lead' them along the right road. ln preparing a can-
didate for the degree of Scotch Knighthood, we
xnuft bring hint into dilemmas by enfnaring queflions.
-'Ne mullt endeavour to get the difpofal ofthe rno-
ney ofthe Lodges of the Free P/lafons, or at leall;
take care that it be applied to
'purpofes favourable
to our Qrder--but this mult be done in away that
iliall DOC be remarked. Above all, we mutt pufh
forward with all our lltill, the plan of Ecleftic Ma~
fonry, and for this purpole follow up the circular
letter already fent to all the Lodges with every
thing that can increafe their prelent embarra{l`rnent."
the bond of N" IV. the candidate binds himfelf to
conlider and treat the Illuminati as the Superiors of
Free Ivlafonry, and endeavour in all the Mafon
Lodges which he frequents, to have the Mafonry of
the llluminated, and particularly the Scotch Novi-
tiate, introduced into the Lodge." (This is not
'ery diderent from the l/lafonry ofthe Cliewlier de
Z./ffgle ofthe Rofaic l_`/lalonry, making the l"/lail;er's
degree a fort of commemoration of the paflion, but
vrthout giving that charafter to Chrillinnitv which is
_
'
'I `»
.
T I-
. .
'
I _
_
peculiar to
Litiniinatihnj _,anus Chrilt is
reptefented
as the enemy of lliperllitious obfervanees, and the af-
ferttkr
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. IJ7
fertor of.the Etnpire of Reafon and of Brotherly love,
and his death and metnory as d~ar to mankind. This .
evid~ntly paves the \Vay for vVeilhaupt's Chriftianity.·
The Scotch Knight alfo engages " to confider the
" Superiors of the Order as the unknown Superiors of
cc Free :lv1afonry, and to contribute all he can to their
" gradual union." In the Oath, N° VII. the candi-
date fays, " I 'Nill never tnore be a flatterer of the great_,
cc I will nevtr be a lowly fe1:vant of princes; but 1 'vill
cc ftrive \virh fpirit, and with addrefs, for virtue, wif.~
" dotn, and liberty. I will powerfully oppofe fuper-
cc ftition, flander, and defpotifn1 ; fo that, like a true
" fon of the Order, I Lnay ferve the world.. 1 v1i1l
" never facrifice the general good, and the happinefs
" of the '.vorld, to rny privJte inrereft. I \vill boldly
" defend tny brother aga inft f1ander, v;ill follo\V ouc
" the traces of the pure and true l{eligion point~d out
" to me in n1y inftruCtions, and in the doB:rines of.
" :rvrafonry ; and· will faithfully report co my Su-
" periors the progrefs I n1ake therein."
vVhen he gets the ftroke which dubs him a Knight,
the Prefes fays to him, ·" Now prove thyfelf, by thy
" ability, equal to Kings, and never fro1n this tin1e
'' forward bo\v thy knee to one \vho is, like thyfelf but
" a rnan."
N° IX. is an account of the I~ove-Feaft.
Ijl, There is a Table Lodge, opened as ufual, but
in virtue ofthe ancient :lv1after-word. Then it is faid,
" Let moderation, fortitude, morality, and genuine
" love of the Brethren, \vith the overflo\ving of inno-
" cent and carelefs tnirth reign here." (This is almoft
verbatim fron1 Toland.)
2d, In the tniddle of a bye ·-table is a chalice, a pot
of \Vine, an empty plate, and a plate of unleavened
bread-1\ll is covered with a green cloth.
S 34, When
\.
..
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
137
fertor ofthe Empire of Reafon and of Brotherly love,
and his death and memory as dear to mankind. This
evidently paves the way for `vVeifhaupt's Chriftianity.
The Scotch Knight alfo engages
"
to conlider the
"
Superiors of the Order as the unknown Superiors of
"
Free Mafonry, and to contribute all he can to their
"
gradual union." In the Cath, N" VII. the candi-
date lays,
"
I will never more ben llatterer ofthe great,
"
I will never be a
lowly fervant ofprinces; but I will
"
ftrive with fpirit, and with addrels, for virtue, will
"
dom, and liberty. I will powerfully oppofe fuper-
"
ftition, llancler, and defpotihin 5 fo that, like a true
"
ibn of the Order, Imay ferve the world._ l will
"
never facrilice the general good, and the happinefs
"
of the world, to
my private intereft. I will boldly
"
defend my brother againft llander, will follow out
"
the traces ofthe pure and true
Religion pointed out
"
to me in my inftrucftions, and in the dodftrines of
"
Malbnry , and- will faithfully report to
my Su-
"
periors the progrefs I make therein."
/Vhen he gets the Ptroke which dubs him a
Knight,
the Prefes lays to him,
"'
Now prove thyfelg by thy
"
ability, equal to
Kings, and never from this time
"
forward bow thy knee to one who is, like thyfelf but
"
a man."
N0 IX. is an account of the Love-Feaft.
1/Z, There is aTable Lodge, opened as ufual, but
in virtue ofthe ancient l`x/Ial"ter-word. Then it is faid,
'f
Let moderation, fortitude, morality, and genuine
"
love ofthe Brethren, with the overflowing of`inno~
"
cent and carelefs mirth reign here." (This is alrnofl:
verbatim from Toland.)
ad, In the middle ofa bye-table is a chalice, a
pot
of wine, an
empty plate, and a plate of unleavened
bread--All is covered with a
green cloth.
S , gd, When
THE ILLUMI~ATI. CPIAP. II•
· 3d, \Vhen the Table Lodge is ended, and the Pre~
feet fees no obftacle, he ftrikes on this bye-table the
ftroke of Scotch Mailer, and his fignal is repeated by
the Senior Warden. . All are ftill and filent. The
Prefecc lifts off the cloth.
4th, The PrefeCt: afks, whether the Knights are in
the difpofition to partake of the Love- Feaft in earneft,
peace, and contentment. If none hefitates or offers to
retire, he takes the plate with the bread and fays,
" J. of N. our Grand-l\1afi:er, in the night in vvhich
" he was betrayed by his friends, perfecuted for his
" love for truth, imprifoned, and conden1ned to die,
" affembled his trufty Brethren, to ce-lebrate his laft
cc Love-Feaft-which is lignified to us in many \vays.
'' He took bread (taking it) and broke it (hreaking
" it) and bleffed it, and gave it to his difciples, &c.
" -This iball be the n1ark of our Holy Union, &c.
'' Let each of you examine his heart, whether love
'' reigns in it, and \Vhether he, in full imitation of our
" Grand-1\!lafter, is ready to lay down his life for his
<.' Brethren.
·" Thanks be to our Grand-Mafrer, who has ap-
cc pointed _this feaft as a n1en1orial of his kindnefs, for
'' the uniting of the hearts of thofe who love him.-
" Go in peace, and ble!fed be this new A!fociation
cc which we have formed.-Bleffed be ye who remain
~' loyal and ftrive for the good caufe."
st.b, The Prefect in1mediately clofes the Chapter
-with the ufual ceremonies of the Loge de T'ab!e.
6th, It is to be obferved, that no prieft of the Order
muft be prefent at this Love-Feaft, and that even the
Brother Servitor quits the Lodge.
I muft obferve here, that Philo, the manufaCturer
of this ritual, has done it very injudicioufly; it has no
refemblance whatever to the Love-Feaft of the primi-
tive ChriftiansJ and is m~ely a copy of a fin1ilar thiP:g
U)
138 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. In
1
gd, `When the Table Lodge is ended, and the Pre-»
feet fees no obftacle, he Ptrikes on this bye-table the
Itroke of Scotch Mailer, and his Hgnal is repeated by
the Senior VVarden. -All are itill and Glent. The
Prefeét lifts oH`the cloth.
41%, The Prefeét aiks, whether the Knights are in
the diipoiition to partake ofthe Love-Feait in earneit,
peace, and contentment. If none heiitates or offers to
retire, he takes the plate with the bread and fays,
"
of N. our Grand-Maller, in the night in which
he was
betrayed by his friends, perfecuted for his
love for truth, impriibncd, and condemned to die,
"
aiiembled his trufly Brethren, to celebrate his lalt
Love-Fea{'t--which is fignified to us in many ways.
"
He took bread (taking it) and broke it (breaking
"
it) and bleffed it, and gave it to his difciples, &c.
"
-This fhall be the mark of our
Holy Union, &c.
Let each ofyou examine his heart, whether love
"
reigns in it, and whether he, in full imitation of our
"
Grand-Mailer, is ready to lay down his life for his
"
Brethren.
Thanks be to our Grand-Maller, who has ap-
"
pointed _this feail: as a memorial of his kindnefs, for
"
the uniting of the hearts of thofe who love him.-
G0 in peace, and bleflecl be this new AH`ociation
which we have formed.-BleH`ed be ye who remain
"
loyal and Ptrive for the good caufe."
5th, The Prefect immediately clofes the Chapter
-with the ufual ceremonies of the Loge de Thi;/e.
6zb, It is to be obferved, that no
prieilt ofthe Crder
muft be prefent at this Love-Feaft, and that even the
Brother Servitor quits the Lodge.
I muft obferve here, that Philo, the manufaéturer
of this ritual, has done it very injudicioully , it has no
refemblance whatever to the Love-Feaft ofthe primi-
tive Chriftians, and is merely a
copy ofa Hmilar thing
in
K(
I(
(C
CC
'CK
C(
(C
CHAP. II. T.HE II..L'UMlNATI. _
139
in one of the fteps of French J\1Jfonry... Philo's read-
ina in church-hiftory was probably very fcanty, or he
tr~fted that the candidates \Vould not be very nice in
their exarnination of it, ~nd he in1agined that it would
do well enough, and '" tickle fuch as had a religious
" hankering.,, Spartacus dit1iked it exceedingly-it
did not accord \Vith his ferious conceptions, and he
j uftly calls it ]ouer Ia f{eligion.
The difcourfe of reception is to be found alfo in the
fee ret correfpondence ( J\Tachfrag II.. .Abtheilu11g, p. 44· ).
But it is needlefs to infert it here. I have given the
fubftance of this and of all the Cofmo-political decla-
mations already in the panegeric introduction to the
account of the procefs of education. And in Sparta-
cus's letter, and in Philo's, I have given an abilraft of
the introduEtion to the explanation given in this degree
of the fymbols of Free ~v1afonry. \Vith refpetl: to the
explanation irfelf, it is as fiovenly and \Vretched as can
be imagined, and 1be\vs rhat Spartacus trufted to much
n1ore operative principles in th~ hun1an heart for the.
.reception of his nonfenfe than the diCtates of unbiaifed
reafon. None but promifing - fu~jed:s were admitted
thus far-fuch as would not boggle; and their princi-
ples were already fufficit ntly apparent to alfure hi1n
that they would be contented with any thing that made
gan1e of religion, and \vould be di verred by the feri-
oufnefs which a chance devotee rnight exhibit durine
thefe filly caricature~ of Chriftianiry and Free M~fonry.
But there is confidcrable addrefs in the way that Spar-
tacus prepare~ his pupils for h~ving all this mummery
!hewn in its true colours, and overturned,
'' Exan1ine, read, thin!< on thtfe fymbols. Therro
" are many things \vhich one cannot find out without
" a guide, nor even learn \Vithout inftruftion. r·hey
'' require ftudy and zeal. Should you in _any future
<
" period think that you have conceived a clearer no.... ·.
· '' tion
þÿ ¬2I~IAP.
II. THE ILUUMINATI. 139
in one ofthe fteps of French Nlafonry, Philo's read-
ing in church-hif'cory was
probably very fcanty, or he
trullced that the candidates would not be very nice in
their examination ofit, and he imagined that it would
do Well enough, and "'
tickle fuch as had a
religious
"
hanl~;ering." Spartacus diiliked it exceedingly--it
did not accord with his ierious conceptions, and he
juflly calls it yoz/er Za Religion.
The difcourle of reception is to be fbund alfo in the
fecret correfpondence (17zzr/mfrzzg II. /fbi/aeilzwg, p. 44.).
But it is needlefs to inlert it here. I have given the
fubftance of this and of all the Cofmo-political decla-
mations already in the panegeric introduction to the
account of the procefs of education. And in Sparta-
cus's letter, and in Philo's, I have given an abllraet of
the introduction to the explanation given in this degree
of the fymhols of Free Mafonry. Vith rel`peé`t to the
explanation itfelf, it is as
flovenly and wretched as can
be imagined, and lhews that Spartacus trufted to much
more
operative principles in the human heart for the
,reception of his nonfenfe than the diitates ofunbiaifed
reafon. None but promihng luhieéls were admitted
thus fan-fuch as would not
boggle; and their princi~
ples were already fullicicntly apparent to aH`ure him
that they would be contented with any thing that made
game of religion, and would be diverted by the feri-
oufnelis which a chance devotee might exhibit during
thefe lilly caricatures ofChrilIianity and Free Mafonry.
But there is conliderable addrels in the way that Spar-
tacus prepares his pupils for having all this mummery
fhewn in its true colours, and overturned.
"
Examine, read, think on thefe fymbols. There
"
are
many things which one cannot find out without
"
a
guide, nor even learn without infitruftion. They
"
require ftudy and zeal. Should you ingany future
"
period think that you have conceived a clearer no-
"
tion
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
u tion of them, that you have found a paved road,
" declare your difcoveries to your Superiors; it is
'~ thus that you in1prove your n1ind; they expect this
'' of you; they know the rrue path-but w_
ill not point
" it out-enough if they affift you in every approach
(( to it, and warn you vvhen you recede frorn it. They
'' ha1-·e even put things in your \vay to try your po\vers
" of leading yourfelf through the difficult track of dif-
cc covery. In this procefs the \Veak head finds only
" child's play-the initiated finds objetts of thought
" which language cannot exprcfs, and the thinking
cc mind finds food for his faculties." By fuch fore-
.v1arnings as thefe vVeii11aupt leaves room for any de-
viation, for any fentin1tnt or opinion of the individual
that he may afi:er\vards choofe to encourage, and " to
(C 'vhifper in their ear (as he expre;fres it) many things
'' which he did not find it prudent to infert in ~print~
" ed compend."
But all the principles and airn of ,spartacus and of
:J1is Order are n1oft diil:inB:ly feen iri the third or Myf-
tery Claf!). I proceed there fore to give fome accot.1nt
of it. By the Table it appears to have two degrees,
·the Leffer and the Grearer £\1yH:eries, each of vvhich
have t\\'O departments, one relating chiefly to Religion
and the other to Politics.
The Pr.ieft's degree contains, I. an I ntroduftion!
f.· l~urther Accouncs of rhe l{eception into this degree,
3· Wh~t is called Inilruc1ion in the Third Char11ber,
vvhich the candidate n1uft read over. 4· The Ritual
of Reception. 5. T:1ft rut1:ion fer the Firfl: Degree of
the Prieft's Clafs, c:1lled Inflructio in Sdentificis. 6.
i\.ccount of tht> Conlt:cration of a Dean, the Superior
of this l,o\ver Order of }'rietts.
The Regent degree conrains, 1. Diretlion_
s to the
Provincial concerning the difpenfation _of this degree.
_
,2. l{itual of l{eception. 3· SyH:en1 oT Dirtction tc1r
lhe
14.0 THE ILLUMINATI. CI-IAP. II.
"
tion of them, that you have found a
paved road,
"
declare your difcoveries to your Superiors; it is
'¢ thus that you improve your mind; they expect this
"
of you; i/1191 knovv the true path-but will not point
"
it out»--enough if they afiilt you in every approach
"
to it, and warn you when you recede from it. They
"
have even
put things in your way to
try your powers
"
ofleading yourfelfthrough the diiiicult track ofdill
"
covery, In this procefs the weak head finds only
"
child's play--the initiated Ends objects of thought
"
which language cannot exprefs, and the thinking
"
mind finds food for his faculties." By fuch fore-
warnings as thefe Vlifeifhaupt leaves room for any de-
viation, for any Ientiment or
opinion of' the individual
that he may afiterwards choofe to
encourage, and "
to
"
whifper in their ear
(as he exprciies it) many things
"
which he did IIOE find it prudent to infert in a printf
"
ed cornpend."
`
Ent all the principles and aim of' 'Spartacus and of
his Order are molt diilincftly feen in the third or
l/Iyll
tery Clafs. I proceed therefore to
give lbme account
of' it. By the Table it appears to have two
degrees,
the Leffer and the Greater l/lylteries, each of which
have two
departments, one
relating chiefly to
Religion
and the other to Foiitics.
The Prieft's degree contains, 1. an Introduétion,
3. Further Accounts of the Reception into this degree,
3. What is called lnlirudftion in the Third Chamber,
which the candidate inuli read over. 4. The Ritual
of Reception. 5. lnllruclion for the Firii Degree of'
the Prief't's Clals, called by/?1f'z1é2'i0 in 5'cie1zz'@ff¢i5. 6.
Account of the Conlecration of a Dean, the Superior
ofthis Lower Order ot`l°rieits.
The Regent degree contains, 1. Directions to the
Provincial concerning the dilpenfation not this degree.
;'.. Ritual of Reception. 3. Syltein ol' Direction rhr
'
the
·T I-IE I L L U lVI IN AT I.
the whole Order. 4· Inftruccion for the whole Regent
degree. 5. InfrruB:ion for the Ilrefecrs or Local Su-
periors. 6. Infl:ruB:ion for the Provincials.
The moil: retnarkable thing in the Prieft's degree
is the I~1frruCtion in the 1"""'hird Chan1ber. It is to be
found in the private correfpondence ( Nachtrage Origi-
nal Schriften I 787, zd. Abtbeilung, page 44.1). 1-.here
it has the title Difcozaje to the Jtlun?inati Dirigentes, or
Scotch Knights. In the critical hiftory, which is an-
nexed to the .1Veuejfe Arbeitung, there is an account
given of the reafon for this denomination; and notice
is taken of foLn~ differences bet\\reen the inftructions
here contained and that difcourfe.
This inftruB:ion begins \Vith fore con1plaints of the
low condition of the hun1anrace; and the caufes are
deduced fron1 religion and Hate-government. " Men
'' originally led a patriarchal lite, in which every fa-
'' ther of a fan1ilv ~vVas the fole lord of his houfe and
" his property, \v.hile he hitnfelf poHeifed genera] free-
'' dom and equa1ity. But they fuifered the1nfe1ves to
" be oppreffed-ga\?e thcn1iclves up to civil foeieties,
". anc! fon·ned fraces. I•:v·-:-n by this they fell; and this
" is the fall of lTIJn, by which they \vere thruft into
'' unfpea'kable n1iiery. To get out of this Hate, to
'' be freed and born again) there is no other mean
" than the u4e of pure l{eafon, by v;hich a general
" tnoraliry may be eftabliihed, which \vi11 put n1an in
" a condition to gcvern hin1felf, reg2.in his original
" \VOrth, and difpenfe with all political fupports, and
~' and particularly \Vith rulers. 1-.his can be done in
'' no 'other way but by itcret affociations, which will
'' by degrees, and in i-ilence, pofft"fs thetnfelves of the
'' governrnent of the S.t~1tt:s, and n1ake ufe of thofe
" n1eans for [his pnrpof~.\vhich [he \vicked ufe for at-
cc attaining their bz1te ends. Princes and Priefts are
" in partir~11L1r) and ./.:~?t exocben the wicked, \vhofe
.. " hands
•
as
gHya_p_ 11, .THE ILLUMINATI.
141
the whole Order. 4. Inltrtlctioxi for the Whole Regent
degree. 5. Inltruétion for the Prefeéts or Local Su-
periors. 6. Inflrtiétion for the Provincials.
The molt remarkable thing in the Priei't's degree
is the Inftruétion in the Third Chamber. It is to be
found in the private correfpondence (hfacbirage Origi-
nal Scbrwen 1787, zd. /iférbeilzmg, page 44.,). There
it has the title Dycozzyé' to the ]lZ1m2irmZiDirigem*e5, or
Scotch Knights. In the critical hiftory, which is an-
nexed no the ]7eu.ejie _/Wbeirzffzg, there is an account
given of the reafon for this denomination; and notice
is taken of fome differences between the inftruétions
here contained and that diieourfe. _
This inltruetion begins with fore complaints of the
low condition of the humantrace; and the caufes are
deduced from religion and ltate-government.
"
Men
"
originally led a
patriarchal life, in which every fa-
"
ther of a family was the fole lord of his houfe and
"
his property, while he himfelf poileifed general Hee-
"
dom and equality. Ent they ititliered themfelves to
"
be opprelfed--gave thcrnlelves up to civil foeieties,
"i
and formed itates. liven by this they fell; and this
"
is the fall of' man, by which they were thrult into
"
unl`pea'l<able milery. To get out of this Ftate, to
F' be freed and born again, there is no other mean
"
than the nie ot' pure Reafon, by which a
general
"
morality may be eltahlifhed, which Wm put man in
"
a condition to
govern himfelh regain his original
'°
worth, and difpenle with all political fupports, and
þÿ ¬' and particularly with rulers. This can be done in
"
no 'other way but by lecret alfociations, which will
"
by degrees, and in l-ilence, poffels themfelves of the
"
government of the States, and make ufe of thofe
"
means for this purpolewivhich the wicked ufe for at-
"
attaining their bale ends. Princes and Priefts are
"
in partifgxtiar, anal leg//" exarbeiz the wicked, whofe
"
hands
THE ILLU'MINATI. CHAP. II.
cc hands we muft tie up by means of thefe a!fociations,
" if \Ve cannot root them out altogether.
" Kings are parents. The paternal power ceafes
" ~'ith the incapacity of the child; and the father in...
" jures his child, if he pretends to retain his· right be-
H yond this period. 'Vhen a nation cotnes of age,
" their ftate of wardf11ip is at an end.n
Here follows a long declamation againft patriotifnl,
as a narrow-minded principle when cornpared with
true Cofmo-polirifm. Nobles are reprefented as " a
" race of me.n that ferve not the nation but the Prince,
cc vJhom a hint fro1n the Sovereign frirs up againft the
" nation, who are retained fervants and miniftcrs of
" dtfputifrn, and the mean for oppreffing national Ji,...
" berty. ICings are accufed of a tacit convention,
" under the flattering appellation of the balance of
'' pov1er, to keep nations in fubjeEtion.
" The means to regain Reafon her rights-to raife
cc liberty from irs a{hes-to reftore to man his original
"' rights-to produce the previous revolution in. th~
" mind of man-to obtain an eternal victory over op-
" preffors-and to work the redemption of tnankind,
" are frcret fchools of v~ifdon1. \tVhen the worthy
" have frrengthened their affociation by numbers, they
" are fccure, and ~hen they begin to become power-
cc ful, and terrible to the wicked, of whon1 n1any will,
" for fafery, amend the1nfelves-n1any \vill come over
" to our party, and we !hall bind the hands of the refr,
'' 2nd finally conquer rhen1~ Vvhoever fpreads gene-
" ral Illutnination, augments tnutual fecurity; Illu-
~' n1ination and fecurity tnake princes unneceffary;
" Ill urnirati~)n perforn1s this by creating an effecrive
~' r,1oralityJ and Morality tnakes a nation of full age
" fit to gov·ern itfelf; and· fince it is not impoffible to
<c produce a juft Morality.: i~ is poffible to regain free.,.
~' don1 for the world."
cc We
142 THE ILLU`MINA'I'I. (JHAP. II.
CC
CC
(C
(C
G(
tc
hands we mull tie up by means ofthefe allociations,
if we cannot root them out altogether.
"
Kings are
parents. The paternal power ceales
with the incapacity of the child; and the father in~
jures his child, ifhe pretends to retain his right be-
yond this period. VVhen a nation comes of age,
their ftate of wardlhip is at an end."
Here follows a
long declamation againlt patriotifrn,
as a narrow-minded principle when compared with
true Cofmo-polirifm. Nobles are
reprefented as
"
a
(C
(C
CC
CC
(C
CC
CC
CC
AC'
CC
CC
(C
(C
(C
C(
CC
CC
CC
(C
CC
CC
C(
CC
(C
ec
race of men that ferve not the nation but the Prince,
whom a hint from the Sovereign ftirs up againft the
nation, who are retained fervants and minifters of
defnotilhi, and the mean for opprefling national li,-
berty. Kings are acculed of a tacit convention,
under the flattering appellation of the balance of
power, to keep nations in fubjeélion.
"
The means to
regain Reafon her rights--to raife
liberty from its ailzes--to reftore to man his original
rights--to produce the previous revolution in the
mind ofman--to obtain an eternal viitory over
op_
preflors--and to Work the redemption of mankind,
are fecret fchools of wifdom. /Vhen the worthy
have iirengthened their aflbciation by numbers, they
are feeure, and éthen they begin to become power-
ful, and terrible to the wicked, of whom many will,
for fafety, amend themfelves-many will come over
to our
party, and we fhall bind the hands ofthe refs,
and finally conquer them, Whoever fpreads gene-
ral Illumination, augments mutual fecurity, Illu-
mination and fecurity make princes unnecelfary;
Illumination performs this by creating an effective
Morality, and Morality makes a nation of full age
Fit to
govern itfelf, and lince it is not impoflible to
produce ajuil Morality, it is pollible to regain free,
dom for the world."
"
" We
THE ILLUIV!INATt.
'' vVe mufr therefore ftrengthen our ban'd, and efta:-
" blifh a legion, which !hall reftore the rights of tnan,
" orio-inalliberty and independence.
'' Jefus Chrift"-but I am fick of all this. The fol-
lowing queftions are put to the candidate :
1. "1\.re our civil conditions in the world the defti-
" naticns that feem to be the end of our nature, or the
" purpofes for which man was placed on this earth,
" or are they not ? Do ftates, civil obligations. popu-
cc lar religion, fulfil the intentions of tnen 'vho eftablifh-
" ed them ? Do fecret affoci~tions pron1ote inftruc-
" tion and true human happinef~, or are they the
" children of neceffity, of the mulrifarious \Van ts, of ·
" unnatural conditions, or the inventions of vain and
cc . "1,
cunning, m1:n r
2. " \Vhat civil affociation, what fcience do you
" think to the purpofe_, and what are not ?"
3· " Has there ever been any other in the world, is
" there no other ~ore fimple condition, and what do
" you think of it ?H
4· " Does it ·appear poffib!e, after having gone
" through all the nonentities of our civil conftitutions,
" to recover for once our firfr fimpliciry, and get
H back to this honourable uniformity?"
5. '' How can one begin this n~ble 2ttemp.t; by
'' n1eans of open fupport, by forcible revolution, or
H by what other way?"
6. "Does Chriftianity give us any hint to this pur-
'' pofc ? Does it not recognife fuch a bleffed condition'
" as once the lot of man, and as- ftill recoverable ?"
7. " But is this holy religion the religion that is
" no\v proft!ftd by any feet on earth, or is it a bet-
,, ?» >
ter .
8. " Can we learn this religion-can the \Vorld, as
" it is, bear the light ? l)o you think that it \vould be
" of fervice, before nnn1erous obftaclts are rernoved,
" if
QHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 143
"
VV: muft therefore Ptrengthen our band, and eftaf
"
blifh a legion, which fhall reftore the rights ofrnan,
"
original liberty and independence.
"
Jehis Chrift"--but I am lick of all this. The fol-
lowing queftions are put to the candidate :
1.
"
Are our civil conditions in the world the defli-
"
nations that feem to be the end of our nature, or the
"
purp`ol"es for which man was
placed on this earth,
"
or are
they not? Do Ftates, civil obligations. popu-
"
lar religion, fulfil the intentions ofmen who eftablifh-
"
ed them ? Do fecret aifociations promote infliruc-
"
tion and true human happinelfs, or are
they the
"
children of neceliity, of the multifarious wants, of
"
unnatural conditions, or the inventions of vain and
"
eunning»men?"
Q..
"
'Vhat civil affociation, what fcience do you
"
think to the purpofe, and what are not ?"'
3.
"
I-las there ever been any other in the world, is
"
there no other more fimple condition, and what do
"
you think of it ?"
4.
"
Does it appear pollible, after having gone
"
through all the nonentities of our civil conftitutions,
to recover for once our firflt hmplicity, and get
back to this honourable uniformity P" _
5.
"
How can one begin this noble attempt; by
means of open fupport, by forcible revolution, or
"
by what other Way ?"
6. "
Does Chriftianity give us
any hint to this pur-
(I
C(
K!
Gt fp
'
'f .
pole . Loes lt not
recogm e fuch a bleiifed condition
as once the lot ofman, and as flill recoverable ?"
7.
"
But is this holy religion time religion that is
now
profelfed by any feet on earth, or is it a bet-
gg Pr:
1
ter _
C(
(C
8.
"
Can we learn this religion--can the world, as
"
it is, bear the light? Do you think that it would be
of fervice, before numerous obliacles are removed,
~
rc
"
if
(C
144 THE I L L U ivf! N AT I • CHAP. IIJ
cc if we taught tnen this purified religion, fublin1e phi-
" lofophy, and the art of goveri1ing- the1nfelves ? Or
" would not this hurt, by roufing the' interefted 'paffi...,
" ons of men habituated to prejudices, who would op-
" pofe this as wicked ?"
9· '' May it not be n1ore advifable to do away the1e
cc corruptions by little and little, in filence, and for
cc this purpofe to propagate thefe falutary and heart-·
" confoling doctrines in fecret ?"
10. cc Do \Ve not perceive traces of fuch a fecret
c' doCtrine in the ancient fchools of ph.ilofophy, in the
'' doCtrines and inil:ructions of the Bible, 'vhich Chrift,
" the Redeemer and Deliverer of the hun1an race,
" gave to his trufty difciples ?-Do you not obferve
" an education, proceeding by fteps of this kind, hand-
" ed do,vn to us fron1 his tin1e till the prefent ?"
In the ceretnonial of I~eception, crowns and fceptres
are reprefented as tokens of hun1an degradation. "The
,, plan of operation, by which our higher degrees act-,
" muft ·work powerfully on the vvorld, and n1ufl: give
cc another turn to all our prefen: con11:itutions."
Many other gueftions are put to th~ pupil during hi·s
preparation, and his anfvve rs are give·n in writing.
Some of thefe refcripts are to be found in the 1ecret
correfpondence. rfhus, "How far is the pofition true,
" that all thofe mea11s 111ay be uferl for a good purpofe
cc which the wicked have etnp1oycd for a bad?" And
along with this quefhon there is an injunction to take
counfel fron1 the opinions and conduCt ofthe learned and
worthy out ofthe fociety. Iu one of the anfvvers, the ex-
ample ofa great philofopher and Cofn1opolire is adduced,
who betrayed a private correi1Jondencc entrufted to
hi1n, for the ferv ice of f1~edor11 : the cafe \Vas DoCtor
Franklin's. In another, the po"vei~ of the Order \vas
extended to the putting the individual to death; and
the rrafon given \Vas, that " this power \Va.s allo\ved
'' to
144 Tai: rL1.UMiNAT1i CHAP. in
"
if we
taught men this purihed religion, fublitne phi-
"
lofophy, and the art of governing theinfelves? Or
"
would not this hurt, by rouhng thé iutereftedlpafli-
"
ons of men habituated to
prejudices, who would op-
"
pofe this as wicked ?"
9.
"
May it not be more advifable to do away thele
"
corruptions by little and little, in lilence, and for
"
this purpofe to propagate thele falutary and heart-'
"
confoling doctrines in fecret ?" N
IO.
"
Do we not
perceive traces of fuch a fecret
"
doctrine in the ancient fchools of philofophy, in the
"
doétrines and inltructions of the Bible, which Chri{'t,
"
the Redeemer and Deliverer of the human race,
"
gave to his trufty diieiples ?-Do you not obferve
"
an education, proceeding by (teps ofthis kind, hand-
"
ed down to us from his time till the prelirnt F"
In the ceremonial of Reception, crowns and fceptres
are
reprefented as tokens of human degradation. "The
"
plan of operation, by which our
higher degrees act.,
"
muft work powerfully on the world, and niufi give
"
another EUYD to all our
prefen: coni"titutions."
Many other queilzions are
put to the pupil during his
preparation, and his anlivers are
given in writing.
Some of thefe refcripts are to be found in the iecret
correfpondence. Thus, "How far is the pofition true,
"
that all thofe means
may be uied for a
good purpofe
"
which the wicked have employed for a had F" And
along with this quellion there is an
injunction to take
counfel hom the opinions and condueft ofthe learned and
worthy out ofthe fociety. lu one of the anfwers, the ex-
ample ofa great philofoplier and Cofmopolite is adduced,
who betrayed a
private correlpondence entrufted to
him, for the fervice of fi'cedom: the cafe was
Docftor
Franl<lin's. ln another, the power of the Order was
extended to the putting the individual to death; and
the reafon given was, that "
this power was allowed
C(
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
cc to all Sovereignties, for the good of the s~ate_, and
" therefore belonged to the Order, which W,ls; to go-·
" vern the \vorld."--" I~. B. \'vre nnd1: acquire the
" direttion of education-of chPrch- OL!na£Ien1tnt-of
w
cc the proftffi)rial chair, and of the :'ulpit. vVe ITluft
cc bring our opinions into faihion b)' evrry art-fpread
H then1 among the peoph~ by the help of young 'Nri-
cc ters. \Ve 111uft preach th~ warn1eft concern for hu-
'' tnanity, and 11u:ke people indifferent to all ot/;er relations.
c' vVe 111uft take care that our writers be \Veil pulfed,
" and that the Revie,vers do not depreciate them ;
" therefore we n1ufr endeavour by every n1ean to gain
'< over the Revie,vers and Journalifts ; and \Ve n1 u{t
" alfo try to gain the bookJellers, \vho in tin1e will fee
cc that it is their intereft to fide \Vith us.')
I conclude this account of the degree of Pre!byter
with remarking, that there \vere two copies of it e!n-
ployed occafionally. In one of then1 all the n1olt of-
fenfi ve things in refpeCt of church ano ftate \Yere left
our. The fame thing \Vas done in the degree of Che-
valier du Soleil of the French lVIafonry. · I have feen_
three different forn1s.
In the Regent degree, the proceedings and infrruc-
tions are conducted in the fame manner. Here, it is
faid, "We tnufl: as much as poffible felect for this de-
" gree perfons who are free, independent ofall princes;
'' particularly fuch as have frequently declared them-
'' ielves difcontented with the ufual infl:itutions, and
cc their willies to fee a better governrnent ef1ablithed."
Catching queftions are put to the candidate for this
degree; fuch as,
I. " Would the fociety be objrCtionable 'vhich
" fhould (till the greater revolution of nature ihould
cc be ripe) put 1n9narchs and rulers out of the condi-
" tion to do harni.; \vhich i11otlld in filence prevent
" .the abufe of po,ver, by furrounding the grt.:c.lt vvirh
1-. · '' its
I
CHAP. xt. *THE ILLUMINATI. 14,5
"
to all Sovereignties, for the good of the State, and
"
therefore belonged to the Order, which
wasgto go--
"
Vern the world."--" N. B. Vv'e mul? acquire the
"
direftion of E(`lLlCZ1[lOl'l--Of'Cl1Ul`Cl]~I']`l;£I13gCIl1C'i`f[--(ifi
"
the profefforial chair, and of the pulpit. Vie mnft
"
bring our
opinions into Falhion by every art--fpread
"
them among the people by the help otyoung wri-
"
ters. 'We Hltllif preach the warme{`t concern for hu-
"
manity, and make people imz'Qy"£'ren! £0 af! olber re/nfiom.
"
/Ve ITiUllf take care that our Writers be Well puded,
"
and that the Reviewers do not depreciate them;
"
therefore we muil: endeavour by every mean to
gain
"
over the Reviewers and Journalifts; and we mutt
"
alib try to gain the boolilellers, who in time will fee
"
that it is their intereft to Bde with us."
I conclude this account ofthe degree of Pre-ibyter
with remarking, that there were two
copies of it ein_
ployed oecafionally. In one of them all the moit of-
fenlive things in refpeét of church and ftate were left
Out. The fame thing was done in the degree of' Cipe-
valier [ill S0/ei! of the French Maionry; Ihave feen
three dillerent forms.
In the Regent degree, the proceedings and infltrue-
tions are conduéted in the lame manner. Here, it is
faid,
"
We mutt as much as
pofiible' i`eleé`t for this de-
"
gree perfons who are free, independent ofall princes;
"
particularly fuch as have frequently declared them-
"
ielves difcontented With the Ul`Ll&l inftitutions, and
"
their wifhes to lee a better government eilahlilhed."
Catching queftions are put to the candidate for this
degree; fuch as,
1.
"
Wotild the fociety he ohjetftionahlei which
"
Ihould (till the greater revolution of nature fhould
"
be ripe) put monarchs and rulers out of the condi~
"
tion to do harm; which ihould in lilence prevent
"
the abufe of power, by furrounding the great with
T "
its
/
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II o
'' its 111en1bers, and thus not only prevent their doing
" tnifchiet: but even make then1 do good ?"
2. " Is not the objeCtion unjufr, 'I'hat fuch a Soci-
" ciety n1ay abufe its power ? Do not our rulers fre-
'' quently abufe their power, though we are filent ?
" This po,ver is not fo iecure as in the hands of ou~
" Men1bers, whotn \Ve train up with fo much care,
" and place about princes after mature deliberation
cc and choice. If any govern1nent can be harn1lef~
cc \vhich is ereEted by man, furely it n1ufr be ours?
" which is founded on n1orality, forefight, talents, li-
ce berry, and virtue,'' &c. ·
The candidate is prefented for reception in the cha-
raCter of a Oave; and it is demanded of hin1 what has
brought hin1 into this n1oft miferable of all conditions·.
He anfwejs-Society-the State-Submiffivenefs-
Falfe Religion. A ikeleton is pointed out to hin~, at
the feet of which 3re laid a Crov1n and a S·word. ·He
is aiked, whether th~t is the·fkeleton of a ICing, a No-
bleman, or a Beggar? As he cannot decide, the Pre-
fident of the mee1:ing fays to him, " the character of
" being a rv1an is the only one that is of importance."
In a long declamation on the hackneyed topics, \Ve
have here and there fon1e thoughts which have ~ot yet
co1ne before us. · · · ·
'' VVe n1uft allow the underlings to _imagine, (but
cc \Vithout telling them the truth,) th;;c v1e direct all
" the Free Mafon Lodges, and even all other Orders,
'' and that the greateft 1nonarchs are under our guid-
" ance, which indeed is here and there the cafe.
" There is no way of influencing men fo poV~t'erful­
,, ly as by means of the won1en. Thefe fbould there-
" fore be our chief ftudy; \Ve fhould infinuate our-
'' felves into their good opinion, give them hints of
" en1ancipation fron1 the tyranny of public opinion,
' ' and of Handing up for themfelves; it will be an ·im-
~ · '' n1enfe
146 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II .,
"
its members, and thus not
only prevent their doing
"
mifchief, but even make them do good P"
2.
"
ls not the þÿobje ¬tion
unjull, That fuch a Soci-
ciety may abufe its power ? Do not our rulers fre-
"
quently abufe their power, though we are hlent?
"
This power is I1Ot fo lecure as in the hands of our
"
l/iernbers, whom we train up with fo much care,
"
and place about princes after mature deliberation
"
and choice. If any government can be harmlefs
which is erec`ted by man, furely it muft be ours,
"
which is founded on
morality, forelight, talents, li-
"
berty, and virtue," &c.
` ` ` `
The candidate is prefented for reception in the cha-
racter of a liave ; and it is demanded of him what has
brought him into this rnoft miferable of all conditions.
He anfwers--Society-the State-SubmiHivenefs--
Falfe Religion. A fkeleton is pointed out to him, at
the feet ofwhich are laid a Crown and a Sword. 'He
is aiked, whether that is the fkeleton of a
King, a No-
bleman, or a
Beggar? As he cannot decide, the Pre-
hdent of the meeting fays to him,
"
the character of
"
being a Man is the only one that is ofimportance."
In a
long declarnarion on the haclcneyed topics, we
have here and there fome thoughts which have not yet
come before us.
'
'
`
_
` "
"
V7e muilt allow the underlings to imagine, (but
"
without telling them the truth,) that we direct all
the Free i/iaibn Lodges, and even all other Grders
and that the greateft monarchs are under our
guid-
ance, which indeed is here and there the cafe.
"
There is no
way of influencing men fo powerful-
ly as by means of the women. Thefe fhould there-
fore be our chief ftudy; we fhould inhnuate our-
fclves into their good opinion, give them hints of
emancipation from the tyranny ofpublic opinion,
and of ftanding up for themfelves; it will be antim-
-
-
`
"
menfe
((
if
C(
J
irc
cc
<c
cc
I(
cc
éc
CHAP. II. THE I I" L U M I N AT I. 147
'' menfe relief to their enila.ved n1inds to be freed fi·orn
" any one bond of reftraint, and it 'vill fire the1n the
" n1ore, and caufe them to 'vork for us with zea1,
" \Vithout kno\ving that they do fo ; for they will only
cc be indulging their O\Vn defire of perfonal adn1ira-
" tion.
H We mufl: win the con1mon people in every cor-
ee ner. This will be obtained chiefly by means of the
" fchools, and py open, h~arry behaviour, fho\v, con-
'' defcenfion, popularity, and toleration of their pre-
" judices, ·which we fhall at leifure root out and difpel.
" If a writer publifhes any thing that attracts notice,,
cc and is in itfelf juft, but does not accord \Vith our
" plan, \Ve n1uft endeavour to win hin1 over, or decry
'' him.
'~ A chief objeCt of our care 1nufl: be to keep, do\Vf.l
" that fiaviib veneration f0r princes vvhich fo much
'' difgraces all nations. Even in the.foi-difant free En..
" gland, the filly Monarch fays; \Ve are gracioui1y
" pleafed, and the rnore fin1ple people fay, An1en. Theft!
" men, commonly very weak heads, are only th.£ far-
'' ther corrupted by this fervile flattery. But let us ar;
" once give an example of our fp1irit by our behaviour
" with Princes; \Ve 1nuft avoid a.H familiarity-never
" entrufi: ourfelves to them-behave v:ith precifion,
" but with civility) as to other rnen-fpeak of them
cc on an equal footing-this will in ti1ne teach then1
" that they are by nature men, if they have fenfe and
" fpirit, and that only by convention they are Lords.
cc We mull: affiduoufly colleCt anecdotes, and the ho-
" nourable and tnean aCt ions, both of the Ieaft and
" the greateft; and 'vhen their nan1es occur in any re-
cc cords which are read in our meetings, let rhen1
'' ever be accon1panied by thefe n1arks of their real
" worth.
C(
(C
(K
C(
(C
(C
(C
(f
(C
Cl'
(C
CC
(C
C(
Cf
CHAP, 11. THE ILLUMINATI. 147
"
mcnfe reliefto their enflaved minds to be freed from
"
any one bond of reltraint, and it will Ere them the
"
more, and caufe them to work for us with zeal,
"
without knowing that they do fo; for they will only
"
be indulging their own delire of perfonal admira~
"
tion.
"
The
"
We mult win the common
people in every cor-
ner. This will be obtained chiefly by means ofthe
"
fchools, and by open, hearty behaviour, fhow, con-
"
defcenfion, popularity, and toleration oftheir pre-
"
judices,which we fhall at leifure root out and difpel
"
Ifa Writer publilhes any thing that attracts notice,
and is in itl`elf_jult, but does not accord with our
plan, we Ihlllll endeavour to Win him over, or
decry
"
him.
"
A chiefobjeft of our care mult be to keep. down
'
that flavilh veneration for princes which fo much
"
difgraces all nations. Even in thehi-dymzt Free En
gland, the lilly Monarch fays, VVe are
gracioudy
pleafed, andthe more
limple people fay,Amen. Thefe
"
men, commonly very weak heads, are
only the far-
ther corrupted by this lervile flattery. But let us at
once
give an
example ofour fpirit by our behaviour
with Princes; we ITIUPI avoid all familiarity---never
entrult ourfelves to them-behave with preciion,
but with civility, as to other men-fpeak of them
on an
equal footing--this will in time teach them
that they are by nature men, if they have fenfe and
"
fpirit, and that only by convention they are Lords
"
We muft aliiduoufly collect anecdotes, and the ho»
nourable and mean aélions, both of the leafl: and
"
the greateft, and when their names occur in any re
cords which are read in our
meetings, let them
ever be accompanied by thefe marks of their real
"
worth.
n
T H E 1L L U 1\1 I N ATI. CHAP. II,
(( The great firength of our Order lies in its conceal·
" n1ent 1 let it neve~ ?-ppear in any place in irs own
" nan1r, buc ahv~ys ~S£yere~i by ~nothet_- name, and
" another occunation: JVc;;e zs fitter tban tbe thret lower
" degre~-·s cf Fr;e ivlqfci11)'; tl:Je pubiic is accujlonzed to it;
'' e).petls lit:!e.frcln it, apq therefore take~ little notice ofit.
" l'Jext to thi~ the fo6n ·of a learned or literary fociety
'' is beit fuitcd to our:.-purpofe, and had Free Mafonry
c' not txiired, this'cover \vould have been en1ployed;
,, and it tnay be nluch tnore than a cover, it 1nay be a
" po1.oe;jul eh'g£ne in our bands. J3.y eflabli.fhing reading
"jocic:tics, andjuljcription libraries, and tekiug thife under
" our dire/lion, endjuppl)'ing the;J
t tbrough our labours, wt.
"' 1nay tu:rn tbe public rnilid which way we will.
" In lil~e n1anntr "We muft try to obt;1in an influence
" in the n1ilitary acaden~ties, (this may be of mighty
cc confequence,) the printing-houfes, bookfellers fnops,
'' chapters, and in ihort in aH offices which have any
cc effeCt, eithtr in fonning, or jn tnanaging, or even
" in dirt.eting the n1ind of 111an: painting and engrav-
" ing are highly \vorth our care*."
" Could our PrefeCt" (obferve it is to the Illunzinati
J{egcntes he is fpeaking, '-Vhofe officers are Prefeili)
" fill the judicatories of a fl:ate vvith our worthy n1em-
" bers, he does all that 1nan can do for the Order. lt
'' is better than to gain the Prince hitnfelf. Princes
" J11ould never get beyond the Scotch knighthood.
" 1
1
hey either never profecute any thing, or they nvift
" evt~ry thing to their own advantage.
" A Literary Society is the 1noft proper forn1 for
" the introdl:ftion of our Order into any ftate where
" we are yet ~range rs. " ( .l'Aark this !)
" Th~
* (They were flrongJy fufpected of having. publifhed feme fcan·
J11ous caricaturts, und iomc ver:' irnmoral prints.) 'rhcy fcrup·
led at no mean, bowcvrr bd'e, for corrupting the nation. Mira-
bt:w had do1·e the f::rN:! tnir.~r at Bedin. Dv p8lil1cal raricatl.!r~s
. v • I
,qnd f.lthy pra:t::, tbc y c.:or::.:r;·t crcn f:1ch as c;:nnot read,
148 'THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
'
s
"
The great ilrength ofour Order lies in its conceal-
"
ment; let it never appear in anyplace in its own
"
name, but always'cQ_vered by another name, and
"
another ot'ctipationf"'Nc1:e if _flier fbmz I/Ze I/area lower
"
z!cg2".ftu' Q" Free _[L/Zig/Ziziy ; I/56 public is rzccigélozizea' to it ;
"
evijwfis ]2!z:'e_h'cm if, grief I/3e1'¢j'bf'e fake; Zizflle noiice Q" il.
"
Next to this the tor,tn"ofa learned or
literary fociety
"
is belt fuitcd to
ourifpurpofe, and had Free Mafonry
"
not exiited, this'eover would have been employed;
"
and it may be much more than a cover, it may he rr
"
patoefffzi engzfffe in om' bail/35. li? efirzé/J/Jing reading
"
jbciefics, am! /r;'z]>fi0>z libraries, and ltlkfilg I/my under
"
our n!iref2'i01:/, a1ze'jip_p¢§=i/eg them through our Zabours, 'we
"
may fzzrfz the pz.'Z>/ic mimi which way we 'wil/.
"
In like manner we mu{'t try to obtain an inlluencc
"
in the military academies, (this may be of mighty
"
conl`equence,) the printing-houfes,bookfellers fhops,
"
chapters, and in ihort in all ofhces which have any
"'
eifecft, either in forming, or in managing, or even
"
in directing the mind of man:
painting and engrav-
"
ing are
highly worth our carel"."
"
Could our Pretecf`t" (obferve it is to the Illzmzinaii
Regcwes he is fpealsing, whofe þÿOl0I:1C ¬1`S
are Pr¢y%é?i)
"
till theitidicatories of 2. ftate with our
worthy mem-
"
bers, he does all that man can do for the Order. It
"
is better than to
gain the Prince himfelh Princes
'f
fhould never
get beyond the Scotch knighthood.
"
They either never
profecute any thing, or
they twill
"
every thing to their own
advantage.
"
A Literary Society is the moft proper form for
"
the introdtziiion of our Order into any Ptate where
"
we are yet Ftrangers." (Marla this E)
cc
it
(They were
llrongly fufpeéted of having. puhlifhed fome (can-
elnious caricatures, and fome very immoral prints.) They fcrup-
led at no mean, iioxvevcr bile, for corrupting the nation. Mira-
benu had dove the limes thing- at Berlin. By political caricatures
and hlthy prints, llE(`,``O2'1`1§i'{ even Rich as c;;nnot read,
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 149
cc The po·wer of the Order muft furely be turned to
cc the advantage of its Men1bers. All muft be affifi:ed.
" 1""'hey muft be preferred to alJ perfons otherwife of
H equal merit. I\1oney, fervices, honour, goods, and
" blood, n1ufr be expended for the fully proved Bre-
" thren, and the unfortunate n1uit be relieved by the
•'' funds of the Society." ·
As evidence that this \vas not only their inftruB:ions,
but alfo their afllduous practice, take the following re-
port from the overfeerofGre,ece (Bavaria).
In Cato's hand-writing.
'' The number (about 6oo) of Members relates to
'' Bavaria alone.
cc In Munich there is a well-conftituted meeting of
'' Illuntinati Majores, a meeting of excellent Illunzinati
" ]ldinores, a refpeB:able Grand Lodge, and two 1VIi-
" nerval Affernblies. There is a Minerva! Affembly
" at Freyffing, at Landilierg, at Burghaufen, at Scraf-
" burg, at lngoHl:adt, and at Iaft at Regenfburg :J:.
" At Munich we have bought a h9ufe, and by cle-
" ver meafures have brought things fo far, that the
" citizens take no notice of it, and even fpeak of us
cc with efteen1. vVe can openly go to the houfe every
" day, and carry on the bufineis of the Lodge. This
" is a great deal for this city. In the houfe is a good
" mufeum of natural hiftory, and apparatus for ex-
" periments: alfo a library \vhich daily inareafes. The
H garden is \Vell oc~11pied by botanic fpeci1nens, and
" the whole has the appearance of a fociety ofzealous
" nelttJralifts.
cc \
1
ve get all the literary journals" \Ve rake care,
" by well-tin1ed pieces, to n1ake the citizens and the
Princes
* In this (•nall turlmlent city there were eleven fccret fu~ieties of
Mafons, l~o(vcrucians, Clair--voyants, &c.
C(
(C
;HAp_ 11, THE ILLUMINATI. 149
"
The power ofthe Order muit liirely be turned to
"
the advantage ofits Members. All muff be afiifted.
"
They rnuit be preferred to all peribns otherwife of
"
equal merit. Money, fervices, honour, goods, and
"
blood, rnuli be expended for the fully proved Bre-
(C
thren, and the unfortunate muit be relieved by the
"' funds of the Society."
As evidence that this was not only their initrtiétions,
but alfo their afiiduous practice, take the following re-
port from the overfeer ofGre,ece (Bavaria).
In C:zio'.s band-wrilizzg.
"
The number (about 6oo) of Members relates to
"
Bavaria alone. _
"
In Munich there is a well-conitituted meeting of
I//zzminfzti Mfnjores, a
meeting of excellent I!/zmzifmti
Zvfizzores, a
refpeétable Grand Lodge, and two Mi-
nervalAfl"emblies. There is a Minerval Affembly
at Freyfiing, at Landiberg, at
Burghaufen, at Straf-
burg, at
Ingolitadt, and at laft at RegenIburg*.
"
At Munich we have bought at hlouie, and by cle-
ver meafures have brought things fo far, that the
citizens take no notice of it, and even
fpeak of us
with efteem. V'7e can
openly go to the houfe every
day, and carry on the buhnels ofthe Lodge. This
is a
great deal for this city. In the houfe is a Good
_
C
mufeum of natural hiftory, and apparatus for ex-
CC
CC
(C
(C
CG
(C
(C
(C
(C
"
erimentsz alfo a librar 'which dail '
inereafes. The
P , _ _ _ _
"
garden is well occupied by botanic fpecimens, and
"
the whole has the appearance ofa foeiety ofzealous
"
naturalilts. ~
"
'We get all the literaryjournals. Vie take care,
"
by Well-timed pieces, to nialte the citizens and the
Princes
*
In this Gnall furénlenr city there were eleven fccret fbcieties of
a ons, ltohvcrucians, Llazr-voyants, &c.
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. I I •
.
" Princes a little more noticed for certain little flips.
cc \Ve oppofe the monks with all our might, and with
" great fuccefs.
'' The Lodge is conftituted entirely according to our
" fyftem, and has broken off entirely from Berlin, and
" we have nearly finifhed our tranfaB:ions with the
'' ·Lodges of Pola~d, and fhall have them under our~
cc direction.
cc By the aB:ivity of our Brethren, the Jefuits have
(( been kept out of all the profefforial chairs at Ingol-
'' ftadt, and our friends prevail."
" The widow Duchefs has fet up her acade1ny en-
'' tirely according to our plan, and \Ve have all the
" Profeifors in the Order. Five of them are excellent,
a and the pupils will be prepared for us.
'' "\Ve have got Pylades put at the head of the Fife,
" ~rnd he h2s the church-money at his difpofal. By
cc properly ufing this 1noney, \Ve have been enabled
tc to put our brother--'s houfehold in good ordel;
cc vvhich he had deil:royed by going to the Jews. We
" have fupported n1~re Brethren under fimilar misfor-
!c tunes.
" Our Ghoftly Brethren have been very fortunate
a this laft year, for we have pr9cured for them feveral
" good benefices, parifhes, tutorihips, &c.
cc Through our tneans Arminius and Cortes have
cc gotten Profeiforfhips> and n1any of our younger
cc Brethren have obtained Burfaries by our help.
" We have been very fuccefsful 2gainft the Jefuits,
cc and brought things to fuch a bearing, that their re-
" venu~s, fuch as the Miffion, the Golden Alms, the
" Exercifes, and the Converfion Box, are now under
cc the management ofour friends. So are alfo their con-
" cerns in theuniverfity and the German fchool founda-
" tions. The application of all will be determined
" prefently, and \Ve have fix n1en1bcrs and four frien~s
" 1n
I O THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
Princes a little more noticed for certain little flips.
VVe oppofe the monks with all our might, and with
great fuccefs.
"
The Lodge is conftituted entirely according to our
fyilem, and has broken offentirely from Berlin, and
we have nearly finifhed our tranfaélions with the
Lodges of Poland, and ihall have them under our
direélion.
'
"
By the adftivity of our Brethren, the _Iefuits have
been kept out of all the profedorial chairs at Ingol-
ftadt, and our friends prevail."
"
The widow Duehefs has fet up her academy en-
tirely according to our plan, and We have all the
Profeffors in the Grder. Five ofthem are excellent,
and the pupils will be prepared for us.
"
7Ve have got Pylades put at the head of the Fife,
and he has the church-money at his difpofal. By
properly uhng this money, we have been enabled
to put our brother ---'s houfehold in good order;
which he had deftroyed by going to the ]ews. We
have fupported more Brethren under Gmilar misfor-
tunes.
4
"
Our Ghoftly Brethren have been very fortunate
this laft year, for we have procured for them feveral
good beneflces, parilhes, tutorlliips, &c.
"
Through our means Arminius and Cortes have
gotten Profeilorihips, and many of our
younger
Brethren have obtained Burfaries by our
help.
"
VVC have been very fuccelsful againft the Jefuits,
and brought things to fuch a
bearing, that their re-
venues, fuch as the Million, the Golden Alrns, the
Exercifes, and the Converfion Box, are now under
the rnanagementofour hicnds. So are alfo their con-
cernsin the univerfity and the German fchool founda-
tions. The application of all will be determined
prefently, and we have fix members and four friends
"
in
5
,
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
'' in the Court. This has coft our fenate fon1e nights
" \Vant of .ileep.
cc Two of our beft youths have got journies from the
" Court, and they 'vill go to Vienna" \vhere they \vill
'' do us great fervice.
" All the Gern1an Schools, and the Benevolent So-
" ciety, are at lafr under our direcrion.
" vVe have got feveral zealous 1nen1bers in the courts
'' ofjuftice, a~d.\ve arc able to afford them pay, and
'' other good additions.
'' Lately, we have got poffeffion of the Bartholomew
" Infi:itution for young clergyn1en, having fecured all
" its fupporters. Through this \Ve [hall be 'able to
" fupply Bavaria with fit priefts.
" By a letter from Philo we learn, that one of the
'' higheft dignities in the church was obtained for a
cc zealous Illutninatus, 'in oppofition even to the au-
" thority and right of the Biiliop of Spire, who is re-
~' prefented as a bigoted and tyrannical priefr."
Such were the leifer myfteries of the Illun1inati. But
there ren1ain the higher myfl:eries. The iyftern of thefe
has not been printed, and the degrees \Vere conferred
only by Spartacus himfelf, fron1 papers ·which he never
entruft~d to any perfon. They \vere only read to the
candidate, but no copy \Vas taken. The publiiher of
the Neuejle ..!lrbeitung fays that he has read them ( fo fays
Grollman). ~Ie fays, " that in the firft degree of
cc MAGus or PHILOSOPHus, the docrrines are the
" fame with thofe of Spinuza, \Vhere all is material,
cc God and the world are the fame thing, and all re-
,, ligion \Vhatever is \Vithout foundation, and, rhe con-
" trivance of ambitious 1nen." The fecond degree-I
or REx, teaches, " that every peaf.1nt, citizen, anc(
" houfeholder is a fovereign, as in the Patriarchal ---
" ftate, and that nations muft be brought back to that
" ftate, by 'vhatever n1eans are conducible-peace-
ably,
cunt->. 11. THE ILLITMINATI. I5t
"
in the Court. This has colt our fenate fome nights
"
want of fleep.
"_ Two of our befl youths have gotjournies from the
"
Court, and they will go to Vienna, where they will
"
do us
great fervice.
"
All the German Schools, and the Benevolent So-
"
ciety, are at laft under our direction.
"
X/VC have got feveral zealous members in the Courts
"
ofjultice, andwe are able to afford them pay, and
"
other good additions.
"
Lately, we have got pofleliion of the Bartholomew
"
Inltitution for young clergymen, having fecured all
"
its fupporters. Through this we fhall be 'able to
"
fupply Bavaria with fit prieils.
"
By a letter from Philo we learn, that one of the
"
highefl: dignities in the church was obtained for a
"
zealous Illuminatus, in oppohtion even to the au»
"
thority and right of the Bilhop of Spire, who is re-
"
prefented as a
bigoted and tyrannical prielt."
Such were the lelfer myfteries ofthe Illuminati. But
there remain the higher myfteries. The lyltem ofthefe
has not been printed, and the degrees were conferred
only by Spartacus himfell, Hom papers which he never
entrullzed to any perlbn. They were only read to the
candidate, but no
copy was taken. The publifher of
the Neue/fe _/ifffbeifzmg fays that he has read them (fo fays
Grollman). He fays,
"
that in the firft degree of
"
l/IAGUS or PH1Losoi>HUs, the doctrines are the
fame with thofe of Spinoza, where all is material,
"
God and the world are the fame thing, and all re-
"
ligion whatever is without foundation, and, the con-
(C
"
trivance of ambitious men." The fecond degree f'
3
or REX, teaches, "
that every peafant, citizen, and
"
houfeholder is a
fovereign, as in the Patriarchal
"
flate, and that nations mutt be brought back to that
f' Ftate, by whatever means are
conducible--peace-
ably,
_/-+_
"f H £ I L L U !\f I N AT 1. CHAP. II.
" ably, if it can be done·; but, if not, then by force
" -for all fubordination n1uft vanifh fron1 the face of
" the earth."
The author fays further, that the German Union
'vas, to his certain knowletige, the work of the lllu-
mtnatt.
The private correfpondence that has been pubiiihed
is by no means the. whole of what \Vas difcovered at
Land!hut and Bailus I-Ioff, arad government got a great
deal of ufeful information, which \Vas concealed, both
out of regard to the families of the perfons concerned,
and alfo that the rtft n1iq:ht not kno\V the utn1oil: ex-
.tent of the difcovery, a~d be leis on their guard. A
third collection \Vas found under the foundation of the
houfe in which the Lodge Theodor vom guten Rath had
been held. But none of this has appeared. Enou-gh
furely has been difcovered to give the public a very
j~ft idea of the defigns of the Society and its connec~
tlODS'~
Lodges \vere difcovered, and are n1entioned in the
private papers already publiihed, in the following
places.
rviunich
lngolfl:adt
Frankfort
Echftadt
Hanover
Brunf,vick
Calbe
Magdeburgh
Caffel
Ofnabruck
Weimar
Upper Saxony (feveral)
.J\.uftria ( 14)
Weftphalia (feve ral)
Heidelberg
1\IIanheim
Strafburgh (5)
Spire
\Vorn1s
Duffeldorff
Cologne
Bonn (4)
Livonia (n1any)
Courland (1nany)
Frankendahl
Alface (many)
Vienna
152, THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP.II.
"
ably, if it can be done; but, ifnot, then by force
"
--for all fubordination muit vanilh Hom the face of
"
the earth."
The author fays further, that the German Union
was, to his certain knowledge, the work ofthe Illu-
minati.
The private correfpondence that has been publizfhed
is by no means the whole of what was difcovered at
Landfhut and Baffus Holi and government got a
great
deal of ufeful information, which was concealed, both
out of regard to the families ofthe perfons concerned,
and alfo that the relt might not know the utmo{'t ex-
tent of the difcovery, and be lels on their guard. A
third collection was found under the foundation of the
houfe in which the Lodge T/vendor wmgzz/fe1zRrzfb had
been held. But none of this has appeared. Enotigh
furely has been difcovered to give the public a
very
_init idea of the deligns of the Society and its conneca
IlODS`;
Lodges were difcovered, and are mentioned in the
private papers already publilhed, in the following
places.
Munich Weftplialia (feveral)
Ingollladt Heidelberg
Frankfort Nlanbeim
Echfladt Strafburgh (5)
Hanover Spire
Brunfwick '
VVorms
Calbe Duffeldorlic
Magdeburgh Cologne
Caffel Bonn (4)
Ofnabruck Livonia (many)
Weimar Courland (many)
Upper Saxony (feveral) Franl-;endahl
Aulltria (14) Allace (many)
, Vienna
I
'
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATl.
Vienna (4)
Helfe (tnany)
E tlchenwerter
lVIornpeliard
Srurgard (3)
Carlfruhe
Anfpach
N etnvied ( 2)
Mentz (2)
J->oland (many)
Tqrin
England (8)
Scotle!nd ( 2)
Warfa,v (2)
An1erica (feveral.)
--
Deuxponts
Coufel
T'reves ( 2)
_t\.ix-Ia- Chape11e ( 2 )
Bartfchied
Hahrenbero·
b
S\vitzerland (n1any)
Rome
Naples·
Ancona
.Florence
France
Holl~nd ( rnany)
Drefden (4)
N. B. 'I'his was before 1786.
153
e I have picked up the nat11es of the follO\Ving mem--
'
bers.
Spartacus,
Philo,
An';!elius,
Bayard_,
Dion1edes, 1
Cato,
u
'
\""Fveiihaupt, Profeifor.
Knigge, Freyherr, i. e.
Gentlen1an.
Bode, F. H.
Bufche, F. H.
Conftanza, Marq.
Zwack, La\vyer.
Torrin2:', Count.
Khreit~aier, Prince.
Utfchneider, Profeffor.
Coffi1ndey, Profeffor.
H..enner, Profeffor.
Grunberger, Profe!for.
Balderbufch, F. H.
Lippert, Counfellor.
Kund1, ditto.
Bart, ditto.
l.Jeiberhauer,
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI. 153
Vienna (4) Deuxponts
Helle (many) Coufel
lluclienwerter Treves (2)
l/Iompeliard Aix-la-Chapelle (Q)
Stutgard (3) Bartfchied
Cailiiuhe Hahrenberg
'
Anfpach Switzerland (many)
Neuwied (2) Rome
'
Pvlentz (2) Naples'
Poland (many) Ancona
Turin
'
Florence
England (8) France
Scotland (2)
Wa|'fawv (2)
Holland (many)
Drefden (4)
America (feveral.) N. B. This was before 1785.
I have picked up the names of the following mem'-
bers. _
Spartacus,
Philo,
Amelius,
Bayard,
Diomedes,
'
Cato,
l
Veilluaupt, Prol°eH`or.
Knigge, Freyherr, i. e.
Gentleman.
Bode, F. H".
Bufelie, F. H.
Conftanza, l"/Iarq.
Zwaclz, Lawyer.
Torring, Count.
Khreitmaier, Prince.
Utfchneider, Profelfor.
Cofliandey, Profellbr.
Renner, Profeilor.
Grunberger, Profeffor.
Balderbufeli, F. H.
Lippert, Counfellor.
Kundl, ditto.
Bart, ditto.
Leiberhauer,
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. 1~.:
l">ythagora~,
Hannibal,
Brutus,
·Lucian,
Zoroafrer, Confucius,
Hermes Trifmegiftus,
Sulla,
Pythagoras, (zd,)
Marius,
Saladin,
Leiberhauer, Prieft.
Kundler, Profeffor.
Lo\vling, ProfefTor.
\Tachency, Counfellor.
Moraufky, Count.
Hoffftetter, Surveyor of
Roads.
Strobl, Bookfeller.
'Veftenrieder, Profeff0r.
Eabo, P rofeifor.
Baader, Profeffor.
Burzes, Prieft.
Pfruntz, Prieft.
Baff':Js, Baron.
$avioli, Count.
Nicholai, Bookfeller.
Bahrdt, Clergyman.
Baierhamer.
Sacher, School InfpeB:or.
Dillis, Abbe. ·
Meggenhofr~ Payn1after.
Danzer, Canon.
Braun, ditto.
Fifcher, Magiftrate.
Frauenberger, Baron.
Kaltner, Lieutenant.
Drexl; Librarian.
Hertel, Canon.
Dachfel.
Dilling, Counfellor.
Seefeld, Counr.
Gunfl1eim, ditto.
lVlorgellan, ditto.
Ecker, ditto.
Ow, Major.
Werner, Counfellor.
Cornelius,
..
..
154 THE 1LLUMrNATx. CHAP. 11.1
Pythagoras,
Hannibai,
Brutus,
Lucian,
Zoroafter, Confucius,
Hermes Trifmegiftiis,
Sulla, ,
Pythagoras, (2d,)
Marius,
Saladin,
Leiberhauer, Prie{'t.
Kundler, Proféifor.
Lowling, Profeffor.
Vachency, Counfellor.
I/Ioraufky, Count.
I-IoH`{tetter, Surveyor of
Roads.
Strobl, Bookfeller.
Veftenrieder, Profeifor.
Eabo, Profeifor.
Baader, Profeiior.
i
Burzes, Prieft.
Pfruntz, Prieft.
Baffus, Baron.
Savioli, Count.
Nicholai, Bookfeller.
Bahrdt, Clergyman.
Baierhamer.
Soeher, School Infpeftor.
Dillis, Abbé.
'
Meggenhofi Payniaiter.
Danzer, Canon.
Braun, ditto.
Fifoher, Magiftrate.
Frauenberger, Baron.
Kaltner, Lieutenant.
Drexl, Librarian.
Heftel, Canon.
Dachfel.
`
Dilling, Counfellor.
Seefeld, Count.
Guniheim, ditto.
Morgellan, ditto.
Ecker, ditto.
OW, I/Iajor.
Werner, Counfellor.
Cornelius,
,
'
CHAP. I!. T H E J I.. L U 1\1 I N i\ T I.
Cornelius Scipio,
Tycho Brahe,
Thales,
Attila,
Ben~er, Counfellor.
\t\To~rz, Apothecary.
.l\1auvillon, Colonet
l\1irabeau, Count.
Orleans, Duke.
Hochinaer.
Gafpar, lVIerchant.
Kapfinger.
Sauer.
Lofi.
Steger.
Ludovicus B2.varus,
Shaftefoury,
Coriolanus,
Timon,
Tropponero_
, Zufch\Vartz.
Michel.
Tamerlane, Lange.
Livius, Badorffer.
Cicero, Pfeft. ·
Ajax, Maffenhaufen, Count.
I have not been able to find who perfonated Minoss
Euriphon, Celfius, Mahomet, Hercules, S0crates,
Philippo Strozzi, Euclides, and fome others who have
been uncommonly active in carrying forward the greac
Gaufe,
The chief publications for giving us regular accounts
of the whole, (befides the original \Vritings,) are,
I. Grojfe Abjicht des Illu1ninalen Ordens.
2~ - - JVachtrages (3.) an denjelbcn.
3. Weijhaupt's. in;proved ~Yyflem.
4· Syftenz des Illtan. Ordens aus de1n Original-Jchriften
gr:zogen.
I may now be permitted to make a few refleB:ions
on the accounts already given of this Otder, which has
fo diftinEtly concentrated the cafual and fcattered ef-
forts of its pro1npters, the Cbevaliers Bienfaifants> the
]'Jhilalethes, and Amis Reunis of France, and carried on
the fyne!n of enlightening and reforn1ing the world.
The
I'
CHAP, II. THE ILLUMINATI.
Cornelius Scipio, Berger, Counfellor.
fVortz, Apothecary.
Nlauvillon, Colonel
Miraheau, Count.
Orleans, Duke.
Hochinaer.
Tycho Brahe, Gafpar, Merchant.
Thales, Kaptinger.
Attila, Sauer.
Luclovicus Bavarus, Loii.
Shaftefbury, Steger.
Coriolanus, Tropponero, Zufchwartz..
Timon, l/Iichel.
Tamerlane, Lange.
Livius, Badorffer.
Cicero, Pfeft.
'
Ajax, Maffenhaufen, Count.
I have not been able to find who perfonatcd Minos,
Euriphon, Cellius, Mahomet, Hercules, Socrates,
Philippo Strozzi, Euclides, and fome others who have
been uncommonly active in carrying forward the great
aaufe,
The chiefpublications for giving us regular accounts
of the whole, (belides the original Writings,) are,
I.
Gr%' Alfa/at des I!/umimzfen Orciem.
Q., ---
Narhrrazges (3.) an
dewlben. _
3. /7VeM'azzz¢p!'s.i1¢:pr01/ec! by/fem.
4. Sy/iam de; Illzfm. Ordem am dem Originally/orgfielz
gezogezz.
Imay now be permitted to make a few þÿreHe ¬tions
on the accounts already given of this Order, which has
fo diitinftly concentrated the cafual and fcattered ef-
forts of its prompters, the C/Gewlierr Bieivfzzyzznts, the
Pbilalelbes, and Amis Rami; of France, and carried on
the fyiltem of enlightening and reforming the world.
The
T B I. I L L U I1-I ! N A T I. CHAP. fi.
The great aim profeifed by the Order is to ;;zake 111en
/"'... bappy ). and the n1eans profeffed to be employed, as
· the only and furel y effecn ve, is nzaking thenz gooi; and
this is to be brought about by enlightening the mind, and
freeing it fronz the dm;~inicn ofJuperflition and prejudices.
This purpofc is efreEted hy its prcducing ajufl and jfeady
1izorali~}'. This done, and becoming univerfal, there
can be little doubt but that the peace of fociety 'Nill be
the confcquence,-that governn1ent, fubordination,
and all the difagreeable coercions of civil gove rntnen ts
\vill be unnectffary)-and that fociety may go on
peaceably in a ftate of ptrfetl: liberty and equality.
But furely it requires no angel frorn heaven to tell
us that if every n1~ln is virtuous, there vvill be no vice;
and that there v;ill be peace on earth, and good-vvill
ben\·een man and inan, whatever be the difrerences of
rank ..and to-rtune; fo that Liberty and Equality feem
net to be the neceffary confequences of this jufi: fv1')ra-
lity, nor neceffary requifites for this national happinefs.
We may que!lioo, therefore, -vvhtther the Illun1ination
which nJakes this a neceffary condition is a clear and
a pure light. It may be a falfe giare fhowing the cb-
jeft only on one fide, tinged with parrial colours thrown
on it by neighbouring objects. Vve fte fo n1uch wif-
dom in the gener~l plans of nature, that we are apr to
think that there is the fame !n what relates to the hu-
n1an n1ind, and that the God of nature accon1plil11es
his plans in this as \Vc !l as in other inft1nces. \A.Te are
even difpofed to think that hun~an nature would fufter
by it. The racional nature of n1an is not contented
\Vith n1eat and drink, and ru.in1ent, and f11titcr, but is
alfo pleafed \\ ~~h exer~ing tnany powtrs and faculties,
~nd \Vith gratifying n1any tall:ts, ·which could hardly
have exifitnce in a fociety \Vhere all are equaL vVe
fay that there can be n0 ~loubt but that tf1e plcafure
~rifing from the contt rnplation of the vvorks of an-
'
tne
t
..
156 THE. ILLUMINATI. enAr>.11.
The great aim profellecl by the Order is to mrzke men
Zmjvpy; and the means
prolielied to be employed, as
the only and furely elfeetive, is 772H,ZCiJZ£' z'bef1zg00¢i,° and
this is to be brouvht about by efzligbienif/g I/ae mind, and
C)
freeiirg ii J9'0f1z lbs lZ,0?7C'Zl7ZC72' qfjzjjerfifion and þÿ_Z77`¢?]ll627I¬6'.§`.
This purpofe is e?fe6ted by its prcducirzg fzju/2 zzncifeady
mom/i{i'. This Clone, and becoming univerfal, there
can be little cioubt but that the peace offociety will be
the eonfequence,--that government, fubortlination,
and all the difagreeable Coercions of civil governments
will be unneeeffary,-_anti that foeiety may go on
peaeeably in a flate of perfeft liberty and equality.
But fnrely it requires no
angel from heaven to tell
us that if every man is virtuous, there will be no vice;
and that there will be peace on earth, and good-will
between man and man, whatever be the differences of
rank and fortune; fo that Liberty and Equality feem
not to be the nece§`ary eoniequenees of this juli Mora-
lity, nor neceiTary requilites for this national happinefs.
We may quellion, therefore, Whether the Illumination
which makes this a
neeeifary condition is a clear and
a
pure light. It may be a falle glare fliowing the ob~
jeét only on one lide, tinged with partial colours thrown
on it by neighbouring objefts. Vvle fee fo much Wil"-
dom in the general plans ofnature, that we are
apt to
think that there is the Raine in what relates to the hu-
man mind, and that the God of nature aecompliilies
his plans in this as well as in other inftanees. 'We are
even
dilipofecl to think that human nature would l°uf"`r`er
by it. The rational nature of man is not contented
with meat and drink, and raiment, and lhelter, but is
alfo plealed with exerting many powers and faculties,
and with gratifying many taltes, which could hardly
have exihence in a
hpeiety where all are
equal. li/Ve
fay that there can be no doubt but that the pleafure
ariling from the contemplation of the works oi' art-
'
the
I
CHAP. II. 'fH E ILL U I\-11 NAT I. 1 57
the pleafure of intelleCtual cultivation, the pleafure of
n1er~ ornan1ent, are rational, diftinguifh man fro1n a
brute, and are fo general, that there is hardly a tnind '
fo ~rude as not to feel them. Of all thefe, and of all
the difficult fcicnces, all moft rational, and in them-
felves moft innocent, and n1oft delightful to a cul~i­
vated n1ind, we fhould be deprived in a fociety where
all are equal. No individual could give employment
to the talents neceifary for creating and improving thefe
ornan1ental cornforts of life.. We are abfolutely cer-
t?.in chat, even in the n1ofr favourable fituations on the
face of the earth, the xncft untainted virtue in every
breaH: could not raife n1an to that degree of cultivation
that is poifeHed by citizens very low in any ofthe fiates
of Europe ; and in the fituation of n1oft countries we
are acquainted v1ith, the irate of n1an would be much
lower: for, at our very fttting out, ~Tle n1uft grant
that the liberty and equality here fpoken of mufl: be
con1plt t e ; for there n1uft not be fuch a thing as a far-
n1er 2.nd his Ct)ttager. This would be as unjuft, as
much the caufe of difcontent, as the gentleman and
the farn1er.
T'his fche;:ne therefore feems contrary to the defigns
of our Creator, who has every \Vhtre plJced us in thofe
fituations of inequality that are here fo much reproba-
ted, and has given u~ firong propenfities by \vhich ·we
reliih thofe enjoym\nts. \l'/ e alia find that they may
be enjoyed in peace and innocence. 1\nd laftly, we in1a-
gine that the villain, who, in the fcation of a profeffor,
\Vould plunder a prince, \Vould alfo plunder the farmer if
he were his cottagero The lllun1inarion therefore that
appears to have t!~t befr chance ofmaking mankind hap-
PY is that \Vhich '.vill teach us the Morality which \vill re-
fpetl: the cornfortsof c~1hivated Society, and teach us to
proteCt the po!ftilors in the innocent enjoyrntnt ofthern;
that \vill enable us co nercei ve and adn1ire the tafte and
J
eleganco
cHAP.1r. 'ras ILLUMINAT1' 157
the oleafure of intelleélzual cultivation, the pleafure of
mere ornament, are rational, diftinguifh man from a
brute, and are fo general, that there is hardly a mind
fo rude as not to feel them. Of all thefe, and of all
the diH'icult fciences, all moll rational, and in them-
felves moft innocent, and moll delightful to a culti-
vated mincl, we fhould be deprived in a
fociety where
all are
equal. No individual could give employment
to the talents neceffary for creating and improving thefe
ornamental comforts of life. 'Ne are
ahfolutely cer-
tain that, even in the mo{t favourable iituations on the
face of the earth, the melt untainted virtue in every
breall could not raife man to that degree of cultivation
that is pollelled by citizens very low in any ofthe Ftates
of Europe 5 and in the Htuation ofmoft countries we
are
acquainted with, the llate of man would be much
lower: for, at our
very letting out, we muff grant
that the liberty and equality here fpolcen of rnuft be
complete, for there mult not be fnch a
thing as a far-
mer and his cottager. This would he as
unjuft, as
much the cattle of difeontent, as the gentleman and
the Farmer. -
i
This fcheme therefore feems contrary to the deligns
of our Creator, who has every where placed us in thofc
lituations ot" inequality that are here fo much reproha-
ted, and has given us
itrong propeniities by which we
reliH1 thofe enjoyments. 'We alto ind that they may
be enjoyed in peace and innocence. And laltly, we ima~
gine that the villain, who, in the dation ofa profeffor,
would plunder a
prince, would alfo plunder the farmer if
he were his cottager.. The Illumination therefore that
appears to have the belt chance ofmalzing mankind hap-
py is that which will teach us the Morality which will re-
ipeft the cotnfortsof cultivated Society, and teach us to
proteél the poileilorsin the innocentenjoyment ofthem;
that will enable us to perceive and admire the tafte and
elegance
THE ILLU!\tiN ATI. CHAP. II.
elegance of ArchiteCture· and Gardening, withouttoany
wifh to fweep the palaces, the gardens, and their owner,
from off the earth, tnerely becaufc he is their owner.
We are therefore fufpicious of this Illumination,
and apt to afcribe this violent antipathy to Princes and
fubordination ·to the very caufe that makes true Illumi-
nation, ~nd juft Morality proceeding from it, fo ne-
ceffary to public happinefs, namely, the vice ~nd in...
juftice of thofe whp cannot innocently have the com-
mand of thofe offenfive elegancies of human life. l.ux,..
urious tafte, keen defires, and unbridled paffions, would
prompt to all this; and this Ilhn11ination is, as 've fee,
equivalent to them in effect. The aitn of the Order
is not to enlighten the mind of man, and fhe\v him his
n1oral obligations, and by the praCtice of his duties to"
make fociety peaceable, pofieilion fccure, and coercion
unneceffary, fo that all n1ay be at refl: and happy, even
though all were equal; but to get rid of the coercion
\Vhich muft be etnployed in the place of l\1orality, that
the innocent rich n1ay be robbed with in1punity by the
idle and profligate poor. But to do this, an unjuft ca-
fuifrry rnufr be en1ployed inftead of a juft Morality;
and this 1nuft be defended or fuggefted, by n1ifi·epre...
fen ting:the true ftate of n1an, and of his relation to the
univerfe, and by retnoving the reftrictions of religion,
and giving a fuperlative value to all thofe conftituents
of human enjoytnent, vvhich true lllunli!)ation fhews
us to be but very frnall concerns of a rational and vir-
tuous n1ind. The n1ore clofely we examine the prin-
ciples and praEtice of the Illuminati, the n1ore clearly
do v.;e perceive that this is the cafe. Their firfi. and
i1nmediate ain1 is to get the poifeffion of riches, power,
and influence, \Vithout induftry; r~nd tO accompJinl
this~ they \varH to abolifn Chriflianity; and then dif-
folute Jnanners and univerfal profligacy will procure
rhen1 the adherence of all the ·wicked, and enable then1
. .
to
/
£58 THE 1LLUiixNATx. CHAP. rr.
elegance offlrchiterfture and Gardening, withoutfany
wiih to
fweep the palaces, the gardens, and their owner,
from off the earth, merely becaufe he is their owner.
We are therefore fufpicious of this Illumination,
and apt to afcribe this violent antipathy to Princes and
fubordination-to the very caufe that makes true Illumi-
nation, andjult Morality proceeding Hom it, fo ne-
ceffary to
public happinefs, namely, the vice and in-
_iuftice of thofe wb,o cannot innocently have the com-
mand ofthofe oliceniive elegancies of human life. Lux,-
urious tafle, keen delires, and unbridled pamons, would
prompt to all this, and this Illumination is, as we fee,
equivalent to them in elifefl. The aim of the Grder
is not to
enlighten the mind of man, and fhew him his
moral obligations, and by the practice of his duties to
make fociety peaceable, poilellion fccure, and coercion
tinnecellary, fo that all may be at tell and happy, even
though all were
equal, but to
get rid of the coercion
which muflg be employed in the place of Morality, that
the innocent rich may be robbed with impunity by the
idle and profligate poor. But to do this, an
unjuft ca-
fuiltry mul? be employed inltead ofa juft Morality;
and this mu{'t be defended or
fuggelled, by mihepre-
fentingthe true ftate of man, and of his relation to the
univerfe, and by removing the reftridtions of religion,
and giving a
fuperlative value to all thofe conllituents
of human enjoyment, which true Illumination fhews
us to be but very fmall concerns ofa rational and vir-
tuous rnind. The more
clofely we examine the prin-
ciples and prafticc of the Illuminati, the more
clearly
do we
perceive that this is the cafe. Their lirlt and
immediate aim is to
get the poffeflion of riches, power,
and influence, without incluftry , ,and to
accompliH1
this, they want to abolifh Chrillianity, and then dif-
lblute manners and univerfal prorligacy will procure
them the adherence of all the wicked, and enable them
to
la
• CHAP. II. THE lL L U 1'.11NAT 1.
to overturn all the civil governments of Europe; after
which they will think of farther conquefts, and extend
rheiWflperations to the other quarters of the globe, till
theyWflave reduced mankind to the ftatc of one undif...
tinguilhable chaotic mafs.
~But this is roo chimerical to be thought their real
~ ain1. Their Founder, I dare fay, never entertained
: fuch hopes, nor troubled himfclf with the fate ofdiftani
lands. But it comes in his way \Vhe_n he puts on the
mafk of hun1aniry and benevolence:. it muil: embrace
all mankind, only becaufe it muft be ftronger than pa-
triotifm and loyalty, \vhich ftand in his \vay. Obferve
that W eifhaupt took a nan1e expreffive of his princi-
~ ples. Spartacus was a gladiator, \vho headed an in-
furreEtion of Roman fiaves, and for three years kept
the city in terror. W eifhaupt fays in one of his let-
ters, " I never \Vas fond of en1pty titles ; but furely
" that man has a childifh foul who would not as rea-
" dily chufe the narne of Spartacus as that of Otl:a-
. '' vius Augufius." The names vv·hich he gives to fe-
veral of his gang exprefs their differences of fenti.-
n1ents. Philo, Lucian, and others, are very .fignifi-
J candy given to Knigge, Nicholai, &c. He \vas vain
of the name Spartacus, becaufe he confidered himfelf
as employed fomewhat in the fame way, leading ilaves
to freedom. Princes and Priefl:s are n1entioned by him
on all occafions in terms of abhorrence.
Spartacus employs powerful n1ean5. 1'he ftyle of
the Jefuits} (as he fays,) he confiders every mean as
canfecrated by the end for which it is e1nployed, and
he fc1ys with great truth,
" Jtlefltrefi nequeojuperos, Acheronta 1no~·elo."
To fave his reputation, he fcruples not to murder
his innocent child, and the won1an whom he had held
in his arms 'vith en1otions of fondnefs and affecrion.
But
CHAP. 11. THE I_LLUMlNATl.
1:59
to otverturn all the civil governments of Europe; after
which they will think of farther conquelts, and extend
thei 4
perations to the other quarters of the globe, till
they ave reduced mankind to the Ftate of one undif-
tipguifhable chaotic mafs.
But this is too chimerical to be thought their real
aim. Their Founder, I dare fay, never entertained
fuch hopes, nor troubled himfelfwith the fate ofdillant
lands. But it comes in his way when he puts on the
mafk of humanity and benevolenceu it mullt embrace
all mankind, only becaufe it mu{'t be ilronger than pa-
triotifm and loyalty, which Ftand in his way. Obferve
that Weifhaupt tool; a name
exprellive ol' his princi-
ples. Spartacus was a
gladiator, who headed an in-
furrection of Roman llaves, and for three years kept
the city in terror. Weiflaaupt fays in one of his let-
ters,
"
l never was fond of empty titles; but lfurely
"
that man has a childifh foul who would not as rea-
"
dily chufe the name of Spartacus as that of' Octa-
Q'
vius Augultus." The names which he gives to fe-
veral of his gang exprefs their differences of fenti-
þÿ1`llCI`l' ¬S. Philo, Lucian, and others, are
very Iignifi-
cantly given to Knigge, Nicholai, Src. He was vain
of the name Spartacus, becaufe he conlidered himfelf
as
employed fomewhat in the fame Way, leading flaves
to freedom. Princes and Priefls are mentioned by him
on all ocealions in terms ofabhorrence.
Spartacus employs powerful means. The Ptyle of
the jefuits, (as he fays,) he coniiders every mean as
confecrated by the end for which it is employed, and
he fays with great truth, .
"
Fleééwej rregzzeo/iqberfor, _/iwaerorztrz maw.Ze0."
To fave his reputation, he fcruples not to murder
his innocent child, and the woman whom he had held
in his arms with emotions of fondnefs and affeélion.
But
THE I L L U !\1 I N AT I. CHAP. II.
But left this fhould appear too felfifh a n1orive, he f.1ys,
" Had I fallen, my precious Order \vould havt fallen
" with me; the Order which is to bleJs n1ankinclr: I
" fhould not again have been able to {peak of vir~ue fo
. " as to make any lafting in1preffion. rviy exanlple
" might have ~ruined n1any young n1en." This he
thinks will excufe, nay fanftify any thing. " My
" letters are my greattft vindication.." He employs
the Chriftian Religion, \vhich he thinks a falfthood,
and which he is after'.vards to explode, as the IRean for
invitingChriftians ofevery deno1ninarion, and gradually
cajoling thern, by clearing up their Chriftian doubts in
fucceffion, till he lands them in Deifn1 ; or if he finds
them unfit, and too religious, he gives them a Sta be11e,
and then laughs at the fears, or perhaps n1adnefs, in
\vhich he leaves then1. I-Javing got thetn the length
of Deifn1, they are declared to be fit, and he receives
.them into the higher rnyfterie5. But left they ihould
frill fhrink back, dazzled by the Pandernonian glare of
Illumination which \Vill no\v burfi: upon them, he ex-
aB:s fi·orn thetn, for the firft titTle, a bond of perfe-
verance. But, as Philo fays, there is little chance of
tergiverfation. The life and honour of moft of the
candidates are by this time in his hand. They have
been long occupied in the vile and corrupting office of
fpies on all around them, and they are found fit for
their prefent honours, becaufe they have difcharged
this office to his fatisfaEtion, by the reports \V hich they
have given in, containing ftories of their neighbours,
nay even of their O\V{l gang. 1"hey tnay be ruined in
the world by difclofing thefe, either privately or pttb-
licly. A n1an \Vho had once brought hirJ.1ftlf into this
perilous fituation duri1: not go back. He might have
been left indeed in any degree of Ilitnnination ; and..· if
Religion has not been quite eradicated fron1 his 1nind,
he muft be in that condition of painful anxiety and
doubt •
•
160 'ri-115 ILLUMINATI. CHAAP. it.
But leit this fhould appear too felfifh a motive, he Hays,
"
Had I fallen, my precious Order would have fallen
"
with me; the Order which is to blels nianltinqf l
"
ihould not again have been able to
ipealt of virtue fo
"
as to make any laiting impreihon. ls/Iy example
"
might have _ruined many young men." This he
thinks will excufe, nay fancftify any thing.
"
My
"
letters are my greateft vindication." He employs
the Chriftian Religion, which he thinks a falfehood,
and which he is afterwards to
explode, as the mean for
invitingChriitians ofevery denomination, and gradually
caioling them, by clearing up their Chriliian doubts in
fucccliion, till he lands them in Deifm ; or if he Ends
them unfit, and too religious, he gives them a Sm éefze,
and then laughs at the fears, or
perhaps madnefs, in
which he leaves them. Having got them the length
of Deifm, they are declared to be fit, and he receives
them into the higher rnyiteries. But left they lhould
Itill fhrink back, dazzled by the Pandemonian glare of
Illumination which will now burfl: upon them, he ex~
acfts Hom them, for the firiit time, a bond of perfe-
verance. But, as Philo lays, there is little chance of
tergiverfation. The life and honour of moft of the
candidates are by this time in his hand. They have
been long occupied in the vile and corrupting office of
fpies on all around them, and they are found fit for
their prefent honours, becaufe they have difcharged
this orifice to his fatisfaftion, by the reports which they
have given in, containing Ftories of their neighbours,
nay even of their own gang. They may be ruined in
the World by difclohng thefe, either privately or
pub-
licly. A man who had once
brought himfelfinto this
perilous htuation durft not
go back. He might have
been left indeed in any degree of Illumination 5 and, if
Religion has not been quite eradicated from his mind,
he muff be in that condition of painful anxiety and
doubt
CHAP. II. THE lLL'UMINATI.
doubt that makes him defperate, fit for the full ope'ra-
tion of fanaticifm, and he may be engaged, in the caz!Je
of God, "to com1nit all kind of vvicke<.~nefs and greedi-
" nefs. '' In this Hate of mind, a n1an L.~uts his eyes,
and ru!hes on. Had Spartacus fuppofed that he \Vas
dealing ·with good 111en, his conduct \vould ~ave been
the reverfe of all this. There is no occafion for this
bond from a perfon convinced of the excellency of the
Order. But he knew them to be unprincipled, and
that the higher myfteries \vere fo daring, that even forne
of fuch mea \Vould ftart at them. But they n1uft not
blab.
Having thus got rid of Religion, Spartacus could
with more fafety bring into view· the great aim of all his
efforts-to rule the world by means of his Order. As
the immediate mean for attaining this, he holds out
the profpeEt offreedon1 frorn civil fubordination. Per-4
feet Liberty and Equality are inter\voven \vith every
thing ; and the flatteriqg thought is continually kept
up_, that "by the \Vife contrivance of this Order, the
" tnoft comolete knowled2e is obtained of the real
L i.J
'~ worth of every perfon ; the Order will, for its own
"Jake, and therefore certainly, place every n1an in
'' that fituation in which he can be tnoft effective. The
cc pupils are convinced that the Order will rule the
'' world. Every n1ember therefore becorne-s a ruler. n
We all think ourfeJves qualified to rule. /'fhe diffict1lt
tafk is to obey wirh propriety ; but \Ve are honeftly
generous in our proipeEts of future cotnmand. It is
therefore an alluring thought, both to good and bad
men. By this lure the Order will fpread. If they are
active in infinuating their members into offices, and
in keeping out others, ( \vhich the private correfpon-
dence fnews to have been the cafe,) they n1ay have had
frequent experience of their fuccefs in p-aininn- an infiu-
o 0
ence on the world. This mu!t \vhet their zeaL If
X \:../eilbaupt
CHAP. 11. THE ILLUMINATI. 161
doubt that makes him defperate, Ht for the full opera-
tion offanaticifm, and he may be engaged, in the may
q'G0d,
"
to commit all kind ofwickednefs and greedi-
"
nefs." In this Hate of mind, a man fhuts his eyes,
and rufhes on. Had Spartacus fuppoied that he was
dealing with good men, his conduit would have been
the reverfe ofall this. There is no occahon for this
bond from a
perform convinced of the excellency of the
Order. But he knew them to be unprincipled, and
that the higher myfleries were Ib daring, that even fome
of fuch men would itart at them. But they mutt not
blab.
Having thus got rid of' Religion, Spartacus could
with more fafety bring into view the great airnofall his
efforts--to rule the world by means ofhis Order. As
the immediate mean for attaining this, he holds out
the profpeft ofireedom horn civil fubordination. Per-
fect Liberty and Equality are interwoven with every
thing; and the Hattering thought is continually kept
up, that "
by the wife contrivance of this Order, the
"
moft complete knowledge is obtained of the' real
"
worth ofevery perfon 5 the Order Will, for iz: own
"fm{>e, and therefore certainly, place every man in
"
that iituation in which he can be moft efieciive. The
"
pupils are convinced that the Order will rule the
"
world. Every member therefore becomes a ruler."
We all think ourfelves qualified to rule. "Tire difhctllt
tafk is to
obey with propriety; but we are
honeftly
generous in our
proipeéts of future command. It is
therefore an
alluring thought, both to
good and bad
men. Ey this lure the Order will fpread. If they are
aétive in inhnuating their members into oflices, and
in keeping out others, (which the private correfpon-
dence fhews to have been the cafe,) they may have had
frequent experience oftheir fuccefs in gaining an influ-
ence on the world. This muft whet their zeal. If
P X
`
'Neilliaupt
TflE ILLuMINATI. CJ:IAP. II.
\\Teirn~upt \\':lS a Gncere Cofmo- polit~, he had
the pleafl!re of feting " his "'ork profpering in his
hands.''
It furely needs little argument no'v to prove, that
the Order of I!lun1inad had for its irnmediate objeCt:
the abolifhing of Chrifrianity, (at leaft this'vlas the iJJ-
_tention of the Founder,) wich the fole vie\V of over-
turning the civil governn1ent, by introducing univerfal
diffolutene.fs and profligccy of n1anners, and then getting
the affiftance of the corrupted fu~jeCts to overlet the
throne. The whole conduEt in the prep:1ration and
inftrutlion of the Preroyrer and .tl(egens is directed to
this point. Philo i~1ys, " I have been ~t unwearied
" pain~ to ren1ove the fears offome 'vho in1agine that
" our Superiors \Vant to aboli!h ChriH:ianity; but by
'' and by their prejudices \vill wear off, and the:y \vill
" be n1ore at their eaft. Were I to let them know
cc that our Qenrral holds all Religion tp be a ]ie, ?nd
" ufe<; even Deiftn, only to lead tnen by the nofe-
'' vVere I to conneCt myfelf again 'vith the Free Ma-
(( fons, and tel! them our defigns to ruin their Fra-
" ternity by this circular letter (a letter to the Lodge
" in Courland)-TvVere I but to give the leaft hint to
" any of the Princes of Greece (Bavaria)-No, my
'' anger i11al1 not carry tne 1o far.-An Order, forfooth,
" which in this tnanner abufes human nature-which
" will fubject tnen to a bondage n1ore inrolerable than
" Jc-fuitifm-1 could put it on a refpetl:able footing,
" and the \Vorld ,,vou1J be ours. Should I mention
" our ft,ndameraa l principles] (eve~ ~frer all the pains
'' I have been at to n~itigate them,) fo unquefl:ion_aqly
'' dangerous to th·e 'vorld, \vho \\'ould remain ? \iVhat
" flgnifits the innccFnt ce:ren1onies of the Prieft's de-
,, gree, as I have con1pofed it, in con1parifon v;ith
'' your n1J:xim> th:1t we may ufe for a good end thofe
" mear.s \Vhich t!~e wickeden1ployfi)r a bafe purpofe ?'~
Brutus
16,2 ,rua 1L1.UMrN.~=_Tr. M
QLIAP. 11.
Veil"n:upt was a lineere Cofmo-polite, he had
the pleafure of ieeing
"
his work proiinering in his
handsf' _
It Purely needs little argument now to prove, that
the Order of Illuminati had for its immediate objeét
the abolifhing ofChrif`tianity, (at leahi thisfwas the in-
tention of the Founder,) with the Hale view of over-
turning the civil government, by introducing univerfal
diffolutenefs and proiligaeyofrnanners, and then getting
the amllance of the corrupted liibiefts to overlet thc
throne. The whole conduct in the preparation and
inflruclion of the Prefbyter and Regex; is direflzed to
this point. Philo lays,
"
I have been at unvvearied
"
pains to remove the fears offome who imagine that
our
Superiors want to abolilh Chriflianity 5 but by
"
and by their prejudices will Wear oH'", and they will
"
be more at their eafe. Were I to let them know
that our General holds all Religion to be a lie, and
"
ufes even Deifm, only to lead men
by the nofe-
"
`/Verel to connect myfelf again with the Free Ma-
ibns, and tell them our
defigns to ruin their Fra-
"
ternity by this circular letter (a letter to the. Lodge
"
in Courland)-'Nere I but to
give the leall hint to
"
any of the Princes of Greece (Bavaria)-No, my
"
anger llzall not carry me io far.-An Order, forfooth,
"
which in this manner abufes human nature--which
"
will fubjeét men to a
bondage more intolerable than
"
_lefuitiirn--I could put it on a
refpeftable footing,
"
and the world would be ours.
§hould I mention
"
our fundamental principles, (even after all the pains
"
lhave been at to
mitigate them,) io unqueflionably
"
dangerous to the world, who would remain ? What
"
lignifies the innocent ceremonies ofthe Prie{l;'s de-
"
gree, as I have compofed it, in comparifon with
"
your maxim, that we may ufe for agood endthole
"
means wirich the wieketlemployhir a bale purpofe P"
Brutus
(K
((
(¢
'E ,.-
CHAP, 11, frm; ILLUMINATI. 153
Brutus writes, "»Numenius now
acquiefces in the
"
mortality of the foul; but, l leer we lliall lofe Lu-
"
dovicus Bavarus. He told Spartacus, that he was
"
miftaken when he thought that he had fwallowed
"
his ftupid Mafonry. No, he few the trick, and did
"
not admire the end that required it. il do11't know
"
ivhétt to do; a Sm éene would make him mad, -and
f'
he will blow us :ill up.
"
The Order mult poilefs the power of life and
"
death in conliequence of our Oath; and with pro-~
"
priety, for the fame realon, and by :he fame right,
"
that any government in the World pofferfes it: for
"i
the Order comes in their place, intiking them un~
"
necefary. When things cannot be otherwife, and
"
ruin would enfue if the Allbciation did not
employ
"
this mean, the Order rnull, as Well as
public rulers,
"
employ it for the good of' mankind; thereH>re har
"
its own
preferv2.ti_on." (N, E. Obferve here the
cafuiflry.}
"
Nor will the political conftitutions fur-
*
fer by this, for there are
always thoulhnds equally
"
ready and able to iiipply the place."
'We need not Wonder that Dioinedes told the Pro~
felfors,
"
that death, inevitable death, from which no
"
potentate could protect them, awaited every traitor
"
of the Order," nor that the French Convention
propofed to take oFr` the German Princes and Generals
by fword or
poifon, &c.
`
Spartacus might tickle the fancy of his Order with
the notion of ruling the' world; but l imagine that his
own innmediette objeft was
ruling the Order. The
happinefs of mankind was, like 'Neilhaupfs Chri{li_
anity, a mere tool, 11 tool which the Regt>1ffe.r made ai.
joke of But Spartacus would rule the ,[<eg@fzfe5; this
he could not fo eahly accomplifh. His defpotilin was
infupportable to mofl of them, and finally brought all
to light. Vhen he could not
priluade then: by his
_
CWD
THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
O\V'n firn1nefs, and indeed by his fuperior talents and
difinterei1:ednefs in other refped:s, and his unwearied ac-
tivity, he en1ployed jefuitical tricks, caufing them to
fall out with each other, fetting them as fpies on each
other, and feparating any tv;o that he faw attached to
each od:.er, by n1aking the one a Mailer of the other;
and, in fhort, he left nothing undone that could fecure
his uncontrolled con1n1and. 'Ihis caufed Philo to quit
the Order, and tnade Balfus, T'on Torring, Kreitnzaier,
and feveral other gentlemen, ceafe attending the tneet-
ings; and it was their mutual diffenfions which made
them fpeak too fi-eely in public, and call on then1-
fel ves fo much notice. At the time of the difcovery,
the party of \'Veifhaupt confifred chiefly of very mean
people, devoted to him, and willing to execute his
orders, that by being his fervants;, they tnight have
the pleafure of cornrnanding others. ·
The objeB:s, the undoubted objects of this Ailoci-
ation, are furely dangerous and deteftable; namely,
to overturn the prefent confritution5 of the European
States, in order to introduce a chin1era 'vhich the
hiftory of 111ankind fhe\VS to be co~trary to the nature
of n1an. · ·· ·
]'{atpra;Jz expel/asJured, tainen zifque recurret.
~uppofe it pofiible, and done in peace; the ne\v fyfiem
could not ftand unlefs every principle of activity in the
human mind be enthralled, all inciten1ent to exertion
and induftry removed, and man brought into a condi-
tion incapable of improvement; and this at the ex-
pence of every thing that is valued by the ber= of n1en
-by mifery and devafiation-by loofening all the
bands of fociety. To talk of tnorality and virtue in
coniunEtion with fuch fchemes is an infuli:--to comn1on
fenfe; diffolutenefs of n1anners alone can bring n1en to
think of it.
Is
164 THE ILLUMINATI. cHA1=.11.
own lirmnefs, and indeed by his fuperior talents and
dihntereilednels in othcrrefpe6'ts,andhis unwearied ac-
tivity, he employed jefuitical tricks, cauhng them to
fall out with each other, letting them as
fpies on each
other, and leparating any two that he faw attached to
each other, by making the one a l\/laiter ofthe other;
and, in lhort, he left nothing undone that could fecure
his uncontrolled command. This caufed Philo to
quit
the Grder, and made B/$45, Tim Taffrizzg, Kreiimrzier,
and feveral other gentlemen, ceafe attending the meet-
ings, and it was their mutual diffenlions which made
them fpeak too freely in public, and call on them-
felves fo much notice. At the time of the difcovery,
the party of `Weifhaupt coniifted chiefly of very mean
people, devoted to him, and Willing to execute his
orders, that by being his fervants, they might have
the pleafure of commanding others.
The objects, the undoubted objects of this Aifoei-
ation, are furely dangerous and deteiftable; namely,
to overturn the prefent conilitutions of the European
States, in order to introduce a chimera which the
hiilory of mankind lhews to be contrary to the nature
ofman.
`
" '
'
"
hhfrzrmzz expellfzs_/Qfrcfi, mmeiz /Mme recurrei.
Suppofe it poiiible, and done in peace, the new
fyftem
could not lland unlefs every principle of acftivity in the
human mind be enthralled, all incitement to exertion
and induftry removed, and man
brought into a condi-
tion incapable of improvement; and this at the ex-
pence of every thing that is valued by the belt of men
--by mifery and devaftation--by loofening all the
bands of fociety. To talk of morality and virtue in
conjunction with fuch fchemes is an inl`ult~to common
fenie; diffolutenefs of manners alone can bring men to
think ofit. '
i.
Is
CI-IAP.,II. THB rr.r,u1.1rNAT.1.
165
Is it not aftonilliing, therefore, to hear people in
this country exprefs any regard for this inftitution ? Is
it not moft mortifying to think that there are
Lodges
of Illuminated among us? I think that nothing bids
fairer for weaning our inconhderate countrymen from
having any þÿconne ¬tio'n
with them, than the faithful ac-
count here given. Ihope that there are few, very
few of our
countrymen, and none whom we call friend,
who can think that an Order which held fuch doélrines,
and which praftifed fuch things, can be any thing elfe
than a ruinous Affociation, a
gang of profiigates. All
their profeliions of the love of mankind are vain; their
Illumination muft be a
bewildering blaze, and totally
ineffectual for its purpofe, for it has had no fuch influ-
ence on the leaders of the band; yet it feems quite
adequate to the effects it has produced; for fuch are
the charaéters ofthofe who forget God.
If We in the next place attend to their mode of edu-
cation, and examine it by thole rules of common fenfe
that we
apply in other cafes of conduct, we fhall find
it equally unpromiling. The fyftem of Illuminatifm
is one ofthe explanations of Free Mafonry; and it has
gained many partifans. Thefe explanations reit their
credit and their preference on their own merits. There
is fomething in themfelves, or in one of them as dif-
tinguifhed from another, which procures it the prefer-
ence for its own fake. Therefore, to
give this Order
any dependence on Free Mafonry is to
degrade the
Order. To introduce a Mafonic Ritual into a
manly
inftitution, is to
degrade it to a frivolous amufement
for great children. Men really exerting themfelves to
reform the World, and qualified for the tafk, mult have
been difgufted with fuch occupations, They betray a
frivolous conception ofthe tall; in which they are real-
ly engaged. To imagine that men
engaged in the
ftruggle and rivalfhip of life, under the inriuence of
felfifh,
166 THE 1LLUM1NA'rr.~ CHAP. Ir.
felfilh, or mean, or impetuous pafiions, are to be
wheedled into candid fentiments, or a generous con-
duct, as a froward child may fometimes be made gen-
tle and tractable by a rattle or
humming-top, betrays
agreat ignorance of human nature, and an
arrogant
lelllconceit in thofe who can
imagine that all but
the-mfelves are babies. The further we proceed, the
more do we lee of this want cy" 'lC'i/ZQIOIIZ. The whole
procedure of their inl'truc`tion fuppoles fuch a
complete
l`urrender of freedom of thought, of common
lenfe,
and of common caution, that it feems irnpollible that
it fhould not have alarmed every fenlible mind. This
indeed happened before the Grder was feven years old.
It was wile indeed to keep their Areopagitfe out of
iight; but who can be lo lilly as to believe that their
unknown Superiors were all and always faultlefs men ?
But had they been the men they were
reprefented to
be,--lfl have any knowledge of my own heart, or any
capacity or' drawing juft inferences from the conduct
ofothers, I am
perfuaded that the knowing his Supe-
riors would have animated the pupil to exertion, that
he might exhibit a
pleahng fpeétacle to fuch intelligent
and worthy_iudges. Did not the Stoics profefs them-
felves to be encouraged in the fcheme of life, by the
thought that the immortal Gods were
looking on and
palhng their judgments on their manner of acting the
part aliigned them P But what abject fpirit will be con-
tented with working, zealoudy working, for years,
after a
plan ofwhich he is newer to learn the full mean-
ing? In fhort, the only knowledge that he can
per-
ceive is knowledge in its worft form, C`zrnni;1g. This
muft appear in the contrivances by which he will loon
find that he is kept in complete fubjeétion. Iflie is a
true and zealous Brother, he has put himfelf in the
power of his Superiors by his relicripts, which they
required of him on
pretence oftheir learning his own
character,
CHAIRII. THE ILLUMINAT1. 167
characflter, and of his learning how to know the cha-
racters of other men. In theie refcripts they have get
his thoughts on many delicate points, and on the con-
ducflt of others. His Direflors may ruin him by be-
traying him; and this without being feen in it. I
ifhould think that wife men would know that none hut
Weak or had men would fuhiegfl themfelves to fuch a
talk. They exclude the good, the manly, the only
fit perfons for afiiiling them in their endeavrnirs to in-
form and to rule the world. Indeed I may fay that
this exclulion is almofl made already by connecting
the Order with Free Mafonry. Lodges are not the
reforts of fuch men. They may fometimes be found
there for an hour's relaxation. Kit thefe places are
the haunts of the young, the thoughtlefs, the idle, the
weak, the vain, or ofdeligning Literati, and accord-
ingly this is the condition of three-fourths of the Illu-
minati whofe names are known to the public. I own
that the reafons given to the pupil for prefcribing theft:
talks are artful, and well adapted to produce their et"-
feét. During the Hurry of reception, and the glow of
expectation, the danger may not be þÿful`pe ¬ted;
but I
hardly imagine that it will remain unperceived when
the pupil hrs down to write his Hrlli leffon. Mafon
Lodges, however, were the mo{'t likely places for
finding and enlilting members. Young men, warmed
by declamations teeming with the Himly moral cant of
Cofmo-politilm, are in the proper frame of mind for
this Illumination. lt now
appears aim, that the _dif-
fenlions in Free ldal"onry mnll' have had great influence
in promoting this ichemc of Veilhat1pt's, which was,
in many particulars, ii; unpromihng, hecaufe it pre~
fuppofes fuch a
degradation of the mind. But when
the fchiftnatics in l'Iai"onry diliputed with warmth, tri»
Hes came to
acquire unfpeakable importance. The
hanltering alter wonder was not in the lealt abated by
all
168 THE 1LLUar1::,'r1.c y
CHAP.1I.
all the tricks which had been cletecfted, and the impoil
Hbility ofthe wilhed-for difcovery had never been de-
monflrated to
perfons prepol`l`eH"ed in its favour. They
itill cbgpz to believe that the fymbols contained fome
important fecret; and happy will be the man fwho
iinds it out. The more frivolous the fymbols, the
more does the heart cling to the myltery; and, to a
mind in this anxious ftate, V'eifhaupt's proifer was
enticing. He laid before them a
fcheme which was
fornewhat fealible, was
magnificent, furpalling our
conceptions, but at the
fame time fueh as
permitted
us to expatiate on the fublect, and even to
amplify it
at
pleafure in our
imaginations without abfurdity. It
does not appear to f'me wonderful, therefore, that fo
many were fafcinated till they became at laft regardlefs
of the abfurdity and inconhltency of the means by
which this fplendid object was to be attained. Hear
what Spartacus himielffays ofhidden mylteries.
"
Of
"
all the means I know to lead men, the moll: effec-
"
tual is a concealed myltery. The hankering of the
"
mind is irrehflible; and if once a man has taken it
"
,into his head that
there is a
myftery in a
thing, it
"
is impoillble to get it out, either by argument or
"
experience. And then, we can fo change notions
"
by merely changing a word. `/Vhat more
contempti-
"
ble tlianftzrzcztécyfz; but call it eff!/Ezffyiz; then add
"
the little word noéle, and you may lead him over
"
the world. Nor are we, in thefe bright days, a bit
"
better than our fathers, who found the pardon of
"
their lins mylterioufly contained in a much greater
"
lin, viz. leaving their family, and going barefooted
"
to Rome."
Such being the employment, and fuch the difciples,
ihould we
expecft the Huits to be Very precious P No.
The dot'Ttrines which were
gradually unfolded were
fuch as iiitcd thoic who continued in the Guys; _/Ym-
ziemifzzs. ,
cHAP.1r. THE ILLUMIN.-LTI. 16g
demicur. Thofe who did not, becaufe they did notlike
'thern, got a Sm nene, they were not fit for advance-
ment. The numbers however were
great; Spartacus
boaflted of 500 in Eavaria alone in 1783. `VVe don't
know many of them; few of thofe we know were in
the upper ranks of life , and I can lee that it required
much wheedling, and many letters of long worded
German compliments from the proud Spartacus, to
win even a
young Baron or a Graf _jullt come'of age.
Men in an eafy htuation in life could not brook the
employment of a ipy, which is bale, cowardly, and
corruptidg, and has in all ages and countries degraded
the perfon who engages in it. Can the perfon he call-
ed wife who thus enllaves himfelf? Such perfons give
up the right ofprivatejudgment, and rely on their un-
known Superiors with the hlindeit and rnoft ahjeét conF1~
dence. For their fakes, and to rivet ltill falter their own
fetters, they engage in the mofl corrupting of all em-
ployments--and for what ?-To learn fornething more
of an Order, of which every degree explodes the doc-
trine ofa former one. Wotlld it have hurt the young
I//sffzzimzzm to have it explained to him all at once?
'Would not this lire his mind--when he fees with the
fame glance the great ohiecft, and the iitnefs of the
means for attaining it? 'Would not the exalted charac-
ters of the Superiors, fo much excelling himlelfin ta-
lents, and virtue, and happinefs, (otherwife the Order
is good for nothing,) warm his heart, and fill him
with emulation, Hnce he fees in them, that what is fo
ftrongly preached to him is an attainable thing? No,
no-it is all a trick, he tnull be kept like a child,
amufed with rattles, and ltars, and rihands-and all
the fatisfaftion he obtains is, like the l/Iafons, the di-
verhon of feeing others running the fame gauntlet.
/Veifhaupt acknowledges that the great influence of
the Order may be abufed. Surely, in no
way fo eahly
` `
Y or
176 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II,
or fo fatally as
by corrupting or lecluftive leilons in the
beginning. The millake or error of the pupil is un-
difcoverable by himfelf, (according to the genuine
principles of Illumination,) for the pupil muff believe
his Mentor to be infallible--with him 'alone he is con-
nected-his leflbns only mufl he learn. "Who can tell
him that he has gone wrong-~or who can fet him
right?
Here, therefore, there is confufion and deliciency.
There mufl: be iome Ptandard to which appeal can be
made, but this is inacceflible to all within the pale of
the Order; it is therefore without this pale, and inde-
pendent of the Grder-and it is attainable only by
abandoning the Order. ~The Quitsus L1 CET, the
Pnmio, the Som, can
procure no
light to the perfon
who does not know that he has been led out ofthe
right road to virtue and happinefs. The Superiors
indeed draw much uieful information from theie re-
ports, though they aflect to Ptand in no need ofit, and
they make a cruel return.
All this is fo much out of the natural road ofinftrucé
tion, that, on this account alone, we
may prefume
that it is wrong. We are
generally fafe when we fol-
low nature's plans. A child learns' in his father's
houfe, by ieeing, and by imitating, and in common
domeilic education, he gets much ufeful knowledge,
and the chief habits which are afterwards to
regulate
his conduct. Example does almoft every thing; and,
with refpeét to what may be called living, as di{'tin»
guifhable from profeiiion, fpeculation and argumenta-
tive inltruélion are feldom employed, or of any ufe.
The indihnenlablenefs of mutual forbearance and obe-
dience, fordomcilic peace and happinefs, forms moft
of thefe habits 5 and the child, under good parents, is
kept in a Htuation that makes virtue eaher than vice,
and
C}_.1Ap_1[_ TUE ILLUMINATL
171
and he becomes wife and good without any exprels
Rudy about the matter.
But this Illumination plan is darknels over all--it is
too artificial--and the topics, from which counfel is to
be drawn, cannot be taken from the peculiar views of
the Order--for thefe are yet a fecret for the pupil--
and muit ever be a lecret for him while under tuition.
They mult therefore be drawn from common fources,
and thc Order is ofno ufe, all that can
naturally be
efiecftuated by this Affoeiation is the forming, and alli-
duoully foftering a narrow, jewifh, corporation fpirit,
totally oppolite to the benevolent pretenlions of the
Qrder. The pupil can iee nothing but this, that there
is a fet of men, whom he does not know, who may
acquire inepntroulable power, and may perhaps make
ufe of him, but for what purpofe, and in what way,
he does not know; how can he know that his endea~
vours are to make man
happier, any other way than as
he might have known it without having put this collar
round his own neck?
Thefe`reHe6tions_addrels themfelves to all men who
profefs to conduct themfelves by the principles and dic-
tates of common fenfe and prudence, and who have the
ordinary lhare of candour and good-will to others. It
requires no
lingular fenlibility of heart, nor
great ge-
nerolity, to make fuch people think the doctrines and
views of' the Illuminati falle, abfurd, foolifh, and ru-
inous. But I hope that I addrefs them to thoulands of
my countrymen and Gienrls, who have much higher
notions of human nature, and who cherilh with care
the affections and the hopes that are fuited to 3 rational,
a benevolent, and a
high-minded being, capable of
endle& improvement.
To thofe who enjoy the cheering conlidence in the
fuperintendance and providence oi'God, who conlider
tliemlelves as creatures whom he has made, and whom
he
T72 THE iLLU'MINA'I'I. CHAP. Il,
he cares for, as the fuhjeéts of his moral government,
this.Order mufd appear with every charaeter of falle-
liood and abfurdity on its countenance. 'Nhat CAN
BE Mons 11»rPRoBA1a1.E than this, that He, whom we
look up to as the contriver, the maker, and director of
this goodly dame of things, lliould have fo far niiftalieri
his own
plans, that this world of rational creatures
lhould have fublifled for thoufands of years, belore a
way couldtbe found out, by which his intention ofmak-
ing men
good and happy could be accomplifhed; and
that this method did not occur to the great Artift him-
ielf, nor even to the wifeft, and happielt, and belt men
upon earth; but to a few inhgnificant perfons at lVlu-
nich in Bavaria, who had been trying to raife ghofls, to
change lead into gold, to tell fortunes, or difcover trea-
fures, but had failed in all their attempts; men who
had been engaged for years in every whim which cha-
raeterifes 2. Weak, a
greedy, or a
gloomy mind P Find-
ing all thele beyond their reach, they combined their
powers, and, at once, found out this infinitely more
important sE_cRET--for fecret it muflt Ptill be, other-
wife notonly the Deity, but even thefe philolophers,
will Ptill be difappointed.
Yet this is the doctrine that muil be fwallowed by
the li/iinervals and the I/Zzmzifwfi ]l/Iizfazfes, to whom it
is not yetffafe to difclofe the grand fecret, !/ani ibeffe is
feojfrb/r_;'Je1"i2zfe22zz'fz;1'ce g"DeiQ1. At lallt, however, when
the pupil has conceived fuch exalted notions of the
knowledge of his teachers, and fuch low notions of
the- blundering projector of this world, it may be no
diflicult matter to
periiiade him that all his former no-
tions were
only old wives tales. By this time he muff
have heard much about fuperilition, and how men's
,minds have been dazzled by this fplendid picture ofa
'Providence and a moral government of the univerfe.
lt now
appears incompatible with the great object of
the
Qtgplp. II, THE II.LUM`INAT`I.
173
the Order, the principles ofuniverfal liberty and equa-
lity-it is therefore rejeéled without farther examina-
tion, for this reafon alone. This was
precifely the ar-
gument ufed in France for rejecting revealed religion
It was incompatible with their Rights ofMan.
It is richly worth obferving how this principle can
warp thejudgment, and give quite another appearance
to the fame object. The reader will not be difpleafed
with a moit remarkable initance of it, which I beg
leave to give at length. t
Our immortal Newton, Whom the philofophers of
Europe look up to as the honour of our
fpecies, whom
even Mr. Bailly, the Prefident of the National Aifem-
bly of`France, and Mayor ofParis, cannot findiwords
fuiiiciently energetic to praife , this patient, fagaciousf
J
and fuccefsful obferver ofnature, after having exhibit-
ed to the wondering World the charaéleriflic property
of that principle of material nature by which all the bo-
dies of the folar fyitem are made to form a connefted
and permanent univerle; and after having `fhoWn that
this law of action alone was
adapted to this end, and
that if gravity had deviated but one thouiiandth part
from the inverfe duplicate ratio of the diftances, the
fyilem muft, in the courfe of a
very few revolutions,
have gone into confuhon and ruin-he Hts down, and
viewsthe goodly fcene,--and then clofes his Principles
of Natural Fhilofophy with this relieélion (his Sfboiizrm
geizemlej :
~'
,
_
"
This moit elegant frame of things could not have
"
arifen, unlefs by the contrivance and the direction of
"
a wife and powerful Being; and if the fixed flats are
"
the centres of fyitems, thefe iyiitems muff be Hmilar;
"
and all thefe, þÿcon{'tru ¬tedaccording to the fame
plan, are
l`ubie& to the government ofone i»eing.
"
All thefe he governs, not as the foul of the World,
¢' but as the Lord of all ; therefore, on account of his
government,
(C
174 THE ILLUMINATI. UHAP. ll.
"
government, he is called the Lord God--Pmz/ckm-
"
for ; forGod is a relative term, and refers to
fubjefts.
"
Deity is God's government, not ofhis own
body, as
"
thofe thinle who conlider him as the foul of the
"
world, but of his fervants. The fupreme God is a
"
Being eternal, infinite, abfolutely perfect. But abc--
"
ing, however perfect, without government, is not
"
God; for we lay, my God, your God, the God ol
"
Ifrael. 'Ne cannot faymy eternal, my infinite. /Ve
"
may have fome notions indeed of his attributes, but
"
can have none ofhis nature. Wfith refpeet to bodies,
"
we fee only fhapes and colour-hear only- founds--
"
touch only furfaces. There are attributes ofbodies ;
"
but oftheir eIl`ence We know nothing. As a blind
"
man can form no notion of colours, we can form
"
none of the manner in which God perceives, and
"
underllanlds, and inlluences every thing.
"
Therefore we know God only by his attributes.
"
What are thefe? The wife and excellent contri-
"
vance,, Pcruéture, and final aim of all things. In
"
thefe his perfeetions we admire him, and we wonder.
"
In his clirecftion or
government, we venerate and
"
worfhip him--we Worlhip him ashis fervants; and
"
God, without dominion, without providence, and
"
Final aims, is Fate-not the object either of reve-
"
renee, ofhope, oflove, or offear.
,But marl; the emotions which afl`eé`ted the mind of
another excellent obierver of Nature, the admirer
of Newton, and the perfon who has put the linilliing
ftrolte to the Newtonian pliilofopliy, by l.l`lO'»/lllg that
the acceleration ofthe moon's mean motion, is the
genuine refult ofa gravitation decrealing in the preeife
duplicate ratio of the diftance inverfely, I mean Mr.
Delaplaee, one of the moft brilliant ornaments ol' the
French academy of feiences. He has lately publifhed
the tS`_}ji'e1.1ec :Zu .fl/faerie, a mofl: bCE1lllIlf'Ul compend of
aftro mony
»
QHAP, Ii. THE ILLUMINATI. 175
aflronomy and of the Newtonian philofophy. Having
linifhed his work with the fame obfervation,
"
That a
tc
C(
(C
be
pa
gravitation inverfely proportional to the fquares of
the diltances was the only principle which could
unite material Nature into a
permanent l`y{'cem 5"
alfo lits down'--furveys the fcene--points out the
rts which he had brought within our ken--and then
makes this reflection: "
Beheld in its totality, a{'tro~
((
CC
(C
(C
(C
(¢
(VC
'E
(C
(I
CC
¢(/
C(
KC
(C
Cc
Cf
(C
G(
(5
(K
(F
nomy is the nobleft monument of the human mind,
its chief title to intelligence. e
But, feduced by the
illuiions ofienfe, and by felf-conceit, We have long
conlidered ourfelves as the centre of thefe motions
and our
pride has been punifhed by the groundlefs
fears which we have created to ourfelves. /Ve
imagine, forfooth, that all this is for us, and that
the liars influence our defiinies ! But the labours of
ages have convinced us of our error, and we Find
ourlelves on an inhgnificant planet, almoftiniper-
ceptible in the immenhty of fpace. But the fub-
lime difcoveries we have made richly repay this
humble iituation. Let us cherifh thele with care, as
the delight of thinking beings--they have delltroyed
our rnifcakes as to our relation to the reit oi' the uni-
verle; errors which were the more fatal, becaufe
the focial Order depends on
juiiice and truth alone.
Far be from us the dangerous maxim, that it is fome-
times ufeful to
depart from thefe, and to deceive
men, in order to infure their happinefs; but cruel
experience has Ihewn us that thefe laws are never to-
tally extinct."
'i
There can be no doubt as to the meaning ofthefe laft
5
~.
words-they cannot relate to aflrology--this was en~
tirely out of date. 'i`he "
attempts to deceive men,
(C
in order to infure their happiuefs," can
only be
thofe by which we are made to think too
highly' of our-
felves. "
Inhabitants ot this pepper-corn, we think
"
ourfelves
1176 THE ILLUTvfINA'l`I. icnar. II;
"
ourlelves the peculiar favourites of Heaven, nay the
"
chief obje6ts of care to a
Being, the Maker of all 5
"
and then we
imagine that, after this life, we are to
"
be happy or miferable, according as we accede or
"
not to this fubjugation to
opinions which enHave us.
"
But truth and jultice have broken thefe bonds."--=
But where is the force of the argument which entitles
this perfeéter of the Newtonian philofophy to exult fo
much? It all reflts on this, That this earth is but as a
grain ofmullard-feed. Man would be more worth at-
tention had he inhabited ]upiter or the Sun. Thus
may a Frenchman look down on the noble creatures
who inhabit Orolong or Pelew. But whence arifes the
abfurdity of the intellectual inhabitants of this pepper-
corn being a
proper object of attention ? it is becaufe
our fhallow comprehenhons cannot, at the fame glance,
fee an extenhve fcene, and perceive its mo& minute
detail.
David, a
King, and a foldier, had ,forne notions of
this `kind. The heavens, it is true, pointed out to
him a Maker and Ruler, which is more than they feeni
to have done to the Gallic philofopher; but David was
ahaid that he would be forgotten in the crowd, and
cries out,
"
Lord what is man that thou~art mindful of
"
/vim?" But David gets rid of his fears, not by be-
coming a
philofopher, and difcovering all this to' be
abfurd,-he wotlldftill be forgotten,--he at once thinks
of what he is--a noble creature--high in the fcale of
nature.
"
But," fays he, "I had forgotten myfelfi
"
Thou halt made man but a little lower than the an-
"
gels-thou haft crowned him with glory and honour
"
--thou haft put all things under his feet." Here
are exalted fentiments, lit for the creature whole ken
pierces through the immenhty of the vilible univerie,
and who fees his relation to the univerle, being nearly
allied to its Sovereign, and capable of tiling con--
tinually
CHAP. It. THE ILLUMINATI. 177
tinually in his rank, by cultivating thofe talents which
dilltinguilh and adorn it.
Thoufancls, I trullt, there are, who think that this
life is but a
preparation for another, in which the mind
of man will have the whole wonders of creation and of
providence laid open to its enraptured view-where
it will fee' and comprehend with one
glance what New-
ton, the moft patient and liiccefsful of all the obfervers
of nature, tool; years of meditation to Find out-where
it will attain that pitch of williom, goodnefs, and en-
ioyrnent, of which our confciences tell us we are ca-
ipahle, though it far furpalles that of the wifeft, the
belt, and the happiell: of men. Such perhms will con~
Hder this Order as
degrading and deteltahle, and as in
direcft oppohtion to their rnollt confident expeélationsz
For it pretends to what is impollible, to perleét peace
and happinels in this life. They believe, and they
feel, that man mull; be made perfeét through fulierings,
which fhall call into aétion powers of mind that other-
wife would never have unfolded thetnfelves--powers
which are
frequently fources of the pureit and moll:
foothing pleafures, and naturally make us felt our
eyes
and hopes on that Ftate where every tear lhall be wiped
away, and where the kind allfeétions fhall become the
never-failing fources of pure and unfading delight.
Such perfons liee the palpable ahfurdity of a
prepara-
tion which is equally neceflfary for all, and yet muit he
conlinecl to the minds of a few, who have the low and
indelicate appetite for frivolous play-things, and for
grofs fenfual pleafuies. Such minds will turn away
from this hoalled treat with loathing and ahhorrence.
I ani well aware thatiome of my readers may linile
at this, and think it an enthuhaiiieal working up of'
the imagination, limilar to what lreprobate in the cafe
of' Utopian happinefs in a ftate of univerfal Liberty
and Iiquality, it is like, they will fay, to the decla-
Z mation
1743 TH; 1LLUi»i1N./tri. cttw. tr.
mation in rt fertnon ly perions of the trade, who are
trained up to iiineiife, by which they allure and tickle
weak minds.
Iac1<:n<>wletEge that in the preient cafe E do not ad-
cirefs myfeifto the Coit! hearts, who contentetiiy
"
Sine aifdjZ;f'f,=2.£cr in tfftféf' cali: city ;
----Peace to all Qich 5----but to the "_;2Zjfe§ dliifflfff,
"
gz1i£}zz5Zm°t' þÿ{0§7i%C` ¬i'»L'frenz ;"--to thofe who /i'J¢Z'?.'6' en-
Ijoym' the pieafures of feienee, who have been fucceis-
fiii-vviio have rnatie difeoveries-who have really il-
Iuniinateti the worid--to the Bacons, time iwiewtons, the
Loekes.--Aiiow me to mention one, Hattie] Eernoui-
ii, the moi? eiegant niathernntician, the oniy phiioi`o~
pher, and the moi? worthy man, of that celebrated
iltrniiy. He ihid to a
gentleman, (Fr. f5taehiing,)
who repeated it to me, that "
when rezttiing fome of
"
thoie woncierhtzi gizeiies of Sir ifttae Newton, the
"
fubiequent demoniiration of which has been the
"
chiefiburee of fame to his moit celebrated commen-
tators--his mind has ibmetimes been fo overpower-
ed by thriiling emotions, that he has Wiiixed that
"
moment to be his laft; and that it was this which
"
gave him the eieareft conception of the iiappinefs
of heaven." If fueh Cieiight§`ui emotions could be
excited by the perception of mere truth, what muft
they be when each of theii: truths is an iniianee of wif-
dorn, and when we reco1Ie&,that what we call wifdom
in the works ofnature, is aiwrtys the nice adaptation
of means for producing þÿ5/'¬726_}¬¢'¬i2'f
ends; and that _each
of thefe þÿnii'e ¬tingqualities is fufceptible of degrees
which are bountiiefs, and exceed our
highefc concep-
tions? 'What can this complex emotion or
feeling be
but rapture E' Ent Bernoulli is a i'3o£i`tor ofTheoiogy-~
and therchire a iiifpicious perfon, perhaps one of the
combination
C(
I(
66
CH.A:P1 it. THB ILLUMINAT1-
179
combination hired byclelinots to enilaveius. I will
take anether msn, fi
gentiemrm of rank and himily, a
foldier, who often Egnalilrtl himielf as ot naval com-
mander--who at one time ibrced his way throtigh tv.
powerful fieet of the Venetiztns with at linall fquaciroii,
and brought relief to Z1 diiiregetl garrifon. _
I wouiti
clehre the reader to
perufe the coneluiion of Sir Ken-
helm Digbyk finffij/és viz Bwfy ami' _Mfrs/3; and after
having refieéteti on the [tate offciehce at the time this
author wrote, ist him coolly weigh the ineitements to
manly Conduft which this foltiier iihtis in the Clifferences
obfervccl between botiy and mind; and then let him
ily, on his comfciezzce, whether they are more feeble
than thofe which he draw from the eternal ileep
ofcleath. Effie thinks that they are---he is in the pro-
per hrame for irzitietiori into S;i:irtacus's l}igll(il'_l_11E}'&C-
ries. He may be either sous or Rex.
Vere this a
proper piece for coniiéering the que?-
tiori as a
queiltion offcience or truth, it wouici Yay, that
every man who has been a
þÿJQ/C ¬§Q,7£l!Z
&ucie;it ofn;itt1z'e,
and who Wili refi his conchifiams on the fame nisxiatis
of probable resfiming that have proeureti him hrecefs
in his pait refearehes, will conhcler it as next to certain
that there is another ftate of exiftence for rational man.
For he Hlllil own, that if this be not the cafe, there is
a moit iingulztr exception to a
propohtion which the
whole courfe of his experience has made him coniicler
as a truth fountleil on univeriitl inchiétion, viz, that
imiure accofwipiylrer zz!! Aw' jsifmr, and that every clafs of
beings attains all the improvement of which it is capa~
ble. Let him but turn his thonqhts inward he will
L, D
feel that his iritelieit is capable of improvement, in
compariibh with which Newton is but 21 chilti. I
I1
.f .|,:~ ,,,,_ ,
t
~
,..,
5 d I
1°
in
cout
puiiue this
.ngiitiiant vcr) ar, an
( tmnic/
warm the heart of every mm vuhom I ihoulti wiih
`
to
cali my friencl.
W £2 at
ISO 'I`HEILLUl1lN`A'1`I. CHAP. ii.
Vifhat opinion will be formed of this Aflbciation by
the modelt, the lowly-minded, the candid, who ac-
knowledge that they too often feel the fuperior force
of prelknt and fenhble pleahires, by which their minds
are drawn ol? from the contemplation of what their
confcienees tell them to be right,-»~to be their dutiful
and lilial iientiments and emotions reiiuetfting their great
and good Parent---to be their dutiful and neighbourly
þÿalTe ¬tioris,
and their proper conduél; to all around them
---and which diminilh their veneration for that purity
of thought and moderation of appetite which becomes
their noble natures P 'What mullt ring' think of this Or-
der F Confcious offrequent faults, which would ollfend
themlelves if' committed by their dearellt children,
they look up to their l/falter with anxiety-are grieved
to have fo fhr forgotten their duty, and fearful that
they may again forget it. Tlieir painful experience
tells them that their realbn is often too weak, their in-
formation too fcanty, or its light is OlJFII'Ll(9£FCl by pai"-
lion and prejudices, which diilort and difcelour every
thing; or it is unheeded during their attention to
pi-e~
lent obiecfts. Happy fhould they be, ifit lhould plealiz
their kind Parent to remind them of their duty from
time to time, or to inliuence their mind in any way
that would compenfate for their own
ignorance, their
own wealcnelé, or even their indolence and negleet.
They dare not
expeill fuch a favour, which their mo-
delly tells them they do not deferve, and which they
fear may be unht to be granted; but when fuch a com-
fort is held out to them, with eager hearts they re~
ceive it--they bleh; the ltindnefs that granted it, and
the hand that brings it.---Such amiable charat5`ters
have appeared in all ages, and in all lituations of man-
kind. They have not in all inlliances been wife--often
have they been precipitate, and have too
readily caught
at any thing which pretended to
give them the lo
nguth
wil Jed-
c;~rfir>. rr. 'rnrz 1r.LuMrN.»r'rr. QS;
wifhed-for afiiftances; and, unfortunately, there have
been enthuhafts, or villains, who have taken advan~
cage of thiscuniverfal wiih of' anxious man; and the
world has been darkened by cheats, who have mifre-
prefented God to mankind, have filled us #with vain
terrors, and have then quieted our fears by lines, and
facrihces, and mortihcations, and fervices, which they
laid were more than iiifiicient to expiate all our
faults.
Thus was our duty to our
neighbour, to our own
dig-
nity, and to our Maker and Parent, kept out of fight,
and religion no
longer came in aid to our fenfe ofright
and wrong, but, on the contrary, by thefe fuperlli-
,tions it opened the doors of heaven to the worthlefs
and the wicked.--But I wifn not to ibeak of thefe
men, but of the good, the candid, the Moozsfr, the
HUMBLE, who know their failings, who love their du-
ties, but wifh to know, to perceive, and to love them
ilill more. Thefc are
they who think and believe that
"
the Gofpel has brought life and immortality to
"
light," that is, Within their reach. They think it
worthy of the Fatlier of mankind, and they receive it
with thankhul hearts, admiring above all things the
limplicity of its rnornlity, comprehended in one fen-
tCl'1CC,
"
Ho to another what you can
reafonably wilh
"
that :mother ihould do to you," and THAT PURITY
or 'ruouonr AND JWANNERS wrricu nrsrruovisrans
r1' FROM ALL '1'Hr:sis't'EMs or moan. r:rsTRUc'r1oN
'rriaur HAVE even BEEN OFFERED TO MEN.. Here
they find a
ground of relignation under the troubles of
life, and a
fupport in the hour of death, quite hzited
to the diflidenee oi' their own character. Such men
are ready to
grant that the Stoics were
perfons of no-
ble and exalted minds, and that they had worthy con-
ceptions of the rank of man in the fcale of G»od's
works; but they confcfs that they themlelves do not
feel all that iizpport from Stnieal principles which man
[OO
139; THE 1LLUM1:~:A"ri. c<nAi°.1r,
too
frequently needs; and they fay that they are not
lingular in their opinions, but that the bulk ofrnan-
kind are prevented, by their want heroic fortitude,
by their lituation, or their want ofthe opportunities of
cultivating their native Ptrength oi' mind, from ever
attaining this hearty liibmiliion to the will ofthe Deity.
They maintain, that the Stoics were but a few, a
very
few, from among many millions-»-and þÿ' ¬ll ¬1` ¬lCOf ¬l.Z? ¬l°7'
being fatisfied was but a trifle amidft the general dil"-
content, and anxietyf and deiioair.--Such men will
moft certainly flart back from this Illumination with
horror and fright-f°rorn a
Society wliieh gives the lie
to their fonrleit expeélzations, rnaltes a
fport of their
grounds of hope, and oftheir deliverer; and which,
after laughing at their credulity, bids them lhalte of?
all religion whatever, and denies the exiltenee of that
Supreme Mind, the pattern of all excellence, who till
now had hlled their thoughts with admiration and love
--from an Order which pretends to free them from
Qéiritual bondage, and then lays on their necks a load
ten times more
opprellive and intolerable, from which
they have no
power of ever
eltraping. Men oflenfe
and virtue will fpurn at fuch a
propoiiil; and even the
prolligate, who trade with Deity, mutt be lenlible that
they will be better of' with their priefts, whom they
know, and among whom they may make a leleéliion of
fueh as will with patience and _gentlenefs clear up their
doubts, calm their fears, and encourage their hopes.
And all good men, all lovers of peace and ofjuftice,
will abhor and reieft the thought of overturning the
prefent conhitution of
things,` haulty as it may be,
merely in the endeavour to eitabhlh another, which
the vices of mankind may iirbvert again in a twelve-
month. They niiiit fee, that in order to
gain their
point, the propofeishave found
it neceilfary to
deltroy
the grounds ofmorahty, by permitting the moft
Wickgl
to
C
cHAr>.11. THE 1LLUMrNAT1.» 183
ed means for accomplifhing any end that our
fancy,
warped by paflion or` intereft, -may reprefent to us as
of great importance. They fee, that inltead of mora-
lity, vice muflt prevail, and that therefore there is no
lecurity for the continuance of this Utopian lelicity;
and, in the mean time, delblation and mifery muff lay
the world wade during the Iiruggle, and half' of thoife,
for whom we are
Ftriving will he fwept from the face
of the earth. 'We have but to look to France, where
in eight years there have been more executions and
fpoliations and cliftrefles of every kind by the pau-voir
7°e~vo!z¢fiw;ffzzif'e, than can he found in the long records
of that deipotie monarchy.
There is nothing in the whole eonfiitution of the
Illuminati that itrilies me with more horrorthan the
propoials of ll-Zercuies and l`/}ili]OS to enlilt the women
in this Hzocliing warfare with all that "
is good, and
"
pure, and lovely, and of good report." They could
not have fallen on any expedient that will be more ef#
feéhial and fatal. If any of my eountrywomen Coall
honour thefe pages with a
reading, I would call on
them, in the moit earneit manner, to conhder this as
an aiiiair of the utmoft importance to themlelves. I
would conjure them by the regard they have hir their
own
dignity, and for their rank in lbciety, to join
againft thefe enemies of human nature and profligate
degraders of the iiex; and I would aiiire them that
the prefent fiate of things almoft puts it in their power
to he the faviours of the world. But if they are remifs,
and yield to the fedufftion, they will £2111 from that high
ltate to which they have arilen in Chriliian Europe,
and again Hnk into that iniignilicancy or
Havery in
which the lex is found in all ages and countries out of
the hr-ating of Chrillianity.
I hope that my couhtrywomen will conider this fo-
lemn addrelis to them as a
proof' of the high eflzeem in
which
134 "rHLr1.LuMfN_fl'rr. CHAP. ri.
which Ihold them. They will not be offended then
ih in this feafon of alarm and anxiety, when I wihi to
irnprels their minds with a ferious truth, llhall wave
ceremony, which is always dehgning, and fpeak of
them in honelt but decent plainnezfs.
Man is immerled in luxury. Our accommodations
are now fo numerous that every thing is pleafure. Even
in very fober iituations in this highly-cultivated Soei~
CKY, there is hardly a
thing that remains in the form
ofa necellfary orflile, or even of 9. mere
eonveniency--
every thing is ornamentech-it rnult not
appear of ufe
-it mult appear as
giving fume fenhhle pleaihre. I
do not (ay this hy Way of blaming--it is nature-man
is -a
rehning creature, and our molt boaltecl acquire-
ments are but refinements on our
necehltry wants. Our
hut becomes a
palace, our blanket a line clrels, and
our arts become fciences. This difcontent with the
natural condition of things, and this clifpofition to re~
hnement, is charafteriltic of our
fpecies, and is the
great employment of our lives. The clireftion which
this propeniity chances to take in any age or nation,
marks its þÿchara ¬ter
in the nzoh conllpicuous and inte-
relting manner. All have it in lhme degree, and it is
very conceivable that, in fome, it may conlliitute the
chiefolajecli of attention. lfthis he the cafe in any na-
tions, it is Purely molt likely to he fo in thofe where
the accommodations of life are the mofl numerous-
therefore in a rich and luxurious nation. I may furely,
without exaggeration or
reproach, give that appella-
tion to our own rm-tion at this moment. lfyou do not
go to the very lov/ef: elals ofpeople, who :null lahour
all clay, is it not the chiefohject oi" all to
procure per-
cep/tiéle p/eayzfe in one Way or another 3 The loher and
buiiv Ptruggle in the
thoughts arid hopes of getting the
means ofenioying the c'§>ffg,fof'f5 of life without l-3.I'{|lC'l'
'labour-anal runny have no
þÿoth1;;'oh;e ¬`t
than plealure.
Then
mar. 11. Tm: ILLUMINATI. ISE*
Then let us rellefl: that it is woman that is to grace
the whole-It is in nature, it is the very confliitution of'
man, that woman, and every thing conneéted with
woman, mufl; appear as the ornament of life. That
this mixes with every other focial lentiment, appears
from the conduct ofour fpecies in all ages and in every
Iituation. This I prefume would be the Cale even
though there were no
qualities in the lex tojuflify it.
This fentiment refpetflting the fex is necelfary, in order
to rear fo helplels, fo nice, and fo improveable a creas
ture as man; without it, the long abiding talk could
not be perform-eel;-=-and I think that I may venture
to hiy that it is performed in the diliferent Hates of fo-
ciety nearly in proportion as this preparatory and indill
penfable fentiment is in force. I
On the other hand, I think it no leis evident that it
is the deiire of the women 'to be agreeable to the men,
and that they will model themfelves according to what
they think will pleafe. Without this adiuftment of
fentiments by nature, nothing would go on. VVe ne-
ver obferve any fuch want of fymmetry in the works
of God. If, therefore, thofe who take the lead, and
give the fafhion in fociety, were wife and virtuous, I
have no doubt but that the women would let the
brighteft pattern of every thing that is excellent. But'
if' the men are nice and faflidious fenfualilts, the women
will be refined arid elegant voluptuaries.
There is no deficiency in the female mind, either in
talents or in difpoiitions; nor can we
lay with certainty'
that there is any fubjeét of intellectual or moral difcuf-
lion in which womeir have not excelled. If the deli-
cacy of theiriconltitution, and other phylical mules,
allow the female lex a linaller fhare of' ibme mental
powers, they olfefs others in a
fuperior degree, which
are no lefs r peftable in their own nature, i1l'lflOFL1S
great importance to ibeiety. lnftead of defcanting at
2 A large'
186 THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. 11.
large on their powers of mind, and fupporting my af-
fertions by the infiances ofa I-Iypatia, a Schurman, a
Zenohia, an Elizabeth, &c. I may repeat the account
given ofthe fex by a
perfon ofuncommon experience,
who faw them without difguife, or
any motive that
cnuld lead them to
play a
feigned part--Mr. Ledyard,
who traverfed the greateft part of the world, for the
mere indulgence of his tafte for obfervation of human
nature; generally in want, and often in extreme mi-
fery.
'
"
Ihave {fays he) always remarked that women,
'f in all countries, are civil, obliging, tender, and hu-
"
mane; that they are ever inclined to be gay and
'F cheerful, timorous and modeft; and that they do
"
not helitate, like men, to perform a kind or
gene-
"
rous
aéiionf-Not haughty, 'not _2l'r'Og9.IlC, not fu~»
"
percilious, they are full of courteiy, and fond of fd-
"
ciety-more liable in general to err than man, but
"
in general, alfo, more
virtuous, and performing
'_' more good aftions than he. To a woman, whetl ez'
"
civilized or
favage, I never addreffed myielf in the
"
language of decency and friendfhip--withnut þÿ1" ¬C*ffi`2'~
"
ing a decent and friendly anfwer-with man it has
þÿ ¬'often been otherwife.
"
In wandering over the barren plains of in-
"`
holpitable Denmark, through honeit Sweden, and
"
frozen Lapland, rude and churlifn Finland, imprin-
"
ciplcd Rufha, and the wide fpread regions ofthe wan-
"
dering Tartar,--ifhungry, dry, cold, wet, or lick,
"
the women have ever been friendly to me, and uni!
"
formly io; and to add to this virtue, (fo worthy of
"
the appellation of benevo1ence,) theie actions have
"'
been performed in fo free and fo kind a manner, that
ff ifl was thiriiy, I drank the fweeteft draught, and
"'
if hungry, I ate the coarfe meal with a double
cc
1.e1i{h_'> _
1- _
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINAT1. 187
.And thefe are they whom VVeifhaupt would cor-
rupt! One of thefe, whom he had embraced with
fondnefs, would he have murdered, to fave his honour,
and qualify himfelfto preach virtue! But let us not bc
too fevere on Vfeiihaupt-let us Wafh ourfelves clear
of all [tain before we think of reprobating him. Are
We not
guilty in fome degree, when we do not culti-
vate in the women thofe powers of mind, and thofe
difpoiitions of heart, which would equally dignity them
in every itation as in thofe humble ranks in which Mr.
Ledyard mofc frequently faw them? I cannot think
that we do this. They are not only to grate the whole
ofcultivated fociety, but it is in their faithful and afl
fectionate perfonal attachment that we are to End the
fweeteflt pleafures that life can
give. Yet in all thefe
Htuations Where the manner in which they are treated
is not dictated by the ftern laws ot' necefhty, are
they
not trained up for mere amufement--are not ferious
occupations conlidercd as a tafk which hurts their love-
Iinefs? What is this but felrifhnefs, or as if they had
no virtues'worth cultivating? Their éz#n¢fv is fuppofed
to be the ornamenting themfelves, as if nature did not
dictate this to them already, with at leafl: as much
force as is necefifary. Every thingis prefcrihed to
them beta# if þÿ77l£Zk ¬5
-thanx more
lofveiy--even their moral
lelfons are enforced by this argument, and l/Iifs Vool-
Ftoncraft is perfectly right when fhe lays that the Hne
lellbns given to
young women
by Fordyce or Rouileau
are
nothing but felhih and refined vo1uptuou1"nel's. This
advocate of her fex puts her fillers in the proper point
of view, when fhe tells them that they are, like man,
the fubjeélts of God's moral government,-like man,
preparing themfelves for boundlefs improvement in a
better [tate of exiftence. Had Ihe adhered to this view
of the matter, and kept it conitantly in Hght, her book
(which doubtlefs contains many excellent things, highly
deferving
188 TH; ILLUMINATI. eau. rx.-
deferving of their ferious conlideration) would have
been a moPt valuable work. She juflly obferves, that
the virtues ofthefex are
great and refpeftable, but
that in our mad chace of pleafure, only pleafure, they
are little thought of or attended to. Man trufts to his
own uncontroulable power, or to the general goodnefs
ofthe lex, that their virtues will appear when we have
occalion for them 5-" but we will fend finr theie fomf:
"
other time 1"--Many noble dilplays do they make.
ofthe molt difhcult attainments. Such is the patient
bearing up under misfortunes, which has no
brilliancy
to
fupport it in the effort. This is more difficult than
braving danger in an active and confpicuous Iituation.
How often is a Woman left with a
family, and the [hat-
tered remains ofa fortune, loft perhaps by clifllpation
or
by indolence--and how feldom, how very feldom,
do we fee woman fhrink from the tafk, or
difcharge it
with negligence ? Is it not therefore folly next to mad.
nefs, not to be careful of this our
greatelt blefling---of
things which foa nearly concern our
peace-nor guard
ourleives, and thele our bell companions and friends,
from the effects ofthis fatal Illumination? It has in-
deed brought to
light what dreadful lengths men will
go, when under the fanatical and dazzling glare ofhap~
pinefs in a flate of liberty and equality, and fpurred on
by infatiable luxury, and not held in check by moral
feelings andthe reltraints of religion-and mark, reader,
that the Women have here alfo taken the complexion ofthe
men, andhave even gone beyondthem. If we have feena
fon prefeut himfelf to the National Aifembly of France,
profefhng his fatisfaétion with the execution of his fa-
ther three days before, and declaring himfclf a true
citizen, who prefers the nation to all other confidera-
tions; We have alfo feen, on the fame day, wives cle-
nouncing their huibands, and (O ihocking to human
nature?) mothers denouncing their fons, as bad ci-
tizens
cHAP.11. THE ILLUMINATI.
189
tizens and traitors. Mark too what return the women
have met with for all their horrid fervices, where, to
cxprefs their fentiments of civitm and abhorrence of
royalty, they threw away the character of their lex,
and bit the amputated limbs of their murdered coun-
trymen*. Surely thefe patriotic women merited that
the rights of their fex zlhoultl be conlidered in full coun-
cil, and they were well entitled to a feat 5 but there is
not a
Hngle aft oftheir government in which the lex is
conlidered as
having any rights whatever, or that they
are things to be cared for.
Are not the accurfed fruits oflllumination to be feen
in the prefenthumiliating condition ofwoman in France?
pampered in every thing that can reduce them to the
mere inftruments ofanimal pleafure. In their prefent
ilate of national moderation (as they call it) and fe-
curity, fee Madame Tallien come into the public thea-
tre, accompanied by other befzuzgful women, (l was
about to have milinamed them Ladies,) laying alide all
modefty, and prefentingthemfelves to the public view,
with bared~ limbs, :E [zz Srzzwage, as the alluring objects
of' delire. Imake no doubt but that this is a ferious
matter, encouraged, nay, prompted by government.
To keep the minds of the Patihans in they prefent fe-
ver
ofdiliblutepgaiety, they are at more
expence from
the nationaltreafury for the fupport of the hxty theatres,
than all the penfions and honorary oflices in Britain,
three times told, amount to. 'Was not their abomina-
ble farce in the church of Notre Dame a bate of the
fame kind in the true
fpirit of lVeilliaupt's Ef'oferi.m ?
_
<6
,VC
*"
I lay this on the authority ofa young gentleman, an
emigrant,
who law it, and who laid, that they were women, not of the dregs
ofthe Palais Royal, nor of infamous cliarafler, but well drefleel.-I
am forry to add, that the relation, accompanied with looks ofhor-
ror and diligull, only provoked a
contemptuous fxnile from an illumi-
nated Brmfh Fair-one. _
up
IQO THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
£' We do not," faid the high prieft,
"
call you to the
"
worfhip ofinanimate idols. Behold a
mailer-piece
"
ofnature, (lifting up the veil which concealed the
"
naked charms of the beautiful Nladrnf. Barbier):
"
This facred image Hiould inlilame all heartsi" And
it did fo ; the people lhouted out,
"
No more altars,
"
no more
pieiells, no God but the God ofNature."
Orleans, the Brit prince ofthe blood,did not
fcruple
to
proilitute his daughter, it" not to the embraces, yet
to the wanton View of the public, with the precife in-
tention of inhaming their delires. (See the account
given ofthe dinners at Sillery's, by Camille Defmou-
lines, in his fpeech againlt the Briifotins.) But what
will be the end of' all this P The fondlings of the weal-
thy will be pampered in all the indulgences which
fallidious voluptuoufneiis finds neceffary for varying or
enhancing its pleafures; but they will either be Ilighted
as
toys, or they will be immured; and the companions
ofthepoor will be drudges and flaves.
I am
fully perfuaded that it was the enthulialtic ad-
miration ofGrecian democracy that recommended to
the French nation the drefs Zz [zz Greet/ue, which exhibits
not the elegant, ornamented beauty, but the alluring
female, fully as well as Madame Tallien's drefs Ez /az
iS`zzu'vagc. It was no doubt with the fame adherence to
_kffious 'pri/fczlple, that Madenioifelle Therouanne was
melt beautifully dreffed fi þÿ/7/f77Z(!$Z077}I ¬
on the 5th of
October 1789, when fhe turned the heads of fo many
young ofliccrs of the regiments at Verfailles. The
Cythera, the /Qamirzzzm :ii-vmzgzze wlupiar, at the cathe-
dral of Notre Dame, was alfo drelfcd :Z Za Grecgzze:
There is a molt evident and charaeterifltic change in
the whole fyftem of female drefs in France. The Filler
de l'Opcm always gave the ton, and were
furely withheld
by no
rigid principle. They fometimes produced
very extravagant and fantaftic forms, but thefe were
I
almoit
GI-IAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
191
almoft always in the flyle of the highellt ornament, and
they truftrd, for the reft of the imprellion which they
wifhed to make, to the mfcinating exprellion of elegant
movements. This indeed was wonderful, and hardly
conceivable by any who have not feen a
grand ballet
performed by good aétors. I have Ihed tears of the
molh Iincere and tender forrow during the exhibition of
Antigone, fet to mulls by Traecta, and performed by
Madame l/lcilcour and SFC Torelli, and Zantini. I can
eahly conceive the impreilion to be [lil] lironger, though
perhaps of anotherkind, when the former fuperb dref-
les are
changed for the exprellive Iimplicity ofthe
Grecian. I cannot help thinking that the female orna-
ments in the reil ofliurope, and even
among ourfelves,
have lefs elegance Hnce we lofi the l`an<E`tion of the
French court. But fee how all this will terminate,
when We fhall have brought the fer; fo low, and will
not even wait for a Malioinetan paradiie. 'Nhat can
We expect but fuch adiifolutenels ofmanners, that the
endearing ties of relation and mmily, and mutual con-
fidence within doors, Will be ilighted, and willceafe;
and every man IULIFI lltand up for l1imlelQ lingle and,
alone ?
Fzeczmrizz cuéofsffecula mqiiizzf
Primzwz ingzzinmférc, ef g6'}ZZZ5, ef d0m0.r.
Hocfozfle þÿ6f ¬i`I'U[Z/ZZ
clade; f
_Hzpsfrizmzpapzfizmzgue/ilzzxif. I-IOR. iii. 6. I7.
This is not the fuggeflion of prudilh fear, I think it is
the natural courfe of things, and that France is at this
moment giving to the world the fulleft proof or
Weill1a1pL's lagacity, and the judgment with which he
has formed his plans. Can it tend to the improvement
of our morals or manners to have our ladies Hequent
the gymnaftic theatres, and fee them decide, like the
-
Roman
F
192 THE ILLUMINATI. QHAP. ir.
Roman matrons, on the merits ofa naked gladiator or
wrefller? Have we not
enough of this already with our
vaulters and poliure~maf'ters, and fhould we admire
any lady who had a
rage for fuch fpeftacles? Will it
improve our tafle to have our rooms ornamented with
fuch paintings and fculptures as hlled the cenaculum,
andthe ftudy of the refined and elegant moralifi H0-~
race, who had the art--ric1'emz'o 6Z7fc6f`6 verzmz? Shall
we be improved when fuch indulgences are
thought
compatible with fuch leffons as he generally gives for
the conduct of life? The pure Morality of lllumina-'
tifm is now employed in (tripping Italy of all thofe pre-
cious remains of ancient art and voluptuoufnefs-,T and
Paris will ere
long be the depolit and the reibrt of ar-
tiils from all nations, there to Ptudy the works of an-
cient mailers, and to return from thence panders of
public corruption. The plan is mafterly, and the low-f
born Statefmen and Generals oflirancc may in this ref-
peril be fet on a level with a Colbert or a Condé. But
the coniequences of' this Gallic dominion ovexqthe'
minds of fallen man will be as
dreadful as their domi-
nion over their lives and fortunes. '
Recollect in what manner
Spartacus propofed to-
corrupt his hllers (for we need not
fpeale of the manner
in which he expecled that this would promote hisplan
--this is abundantly plain). It was
by deilroying their
moral fentiments, and their fentiments of religion. Re-
collecft what is the recommendation that the Atheifit
Mines gives of his Prep-daughters, when he ipeaks of
them, as
proper periiins for the Lodge of Siilzers.
"
They have got over all prejudices, and, in matters
"
of religion they think as I do." Thefe proiligates
judged rightly that this affair required much caution,
and that the utmofl attention to decency, and even de-
licacy, muft be obferved in their rituals and ceremo-
nies, otlierwife the women would be
dgyggujefzl; This
was
CHAP. 11. THE ILLUMINATI.
I93
was judging fairly ofthe feelings of a female mind:
But theyjudged falfely, and only according to their
own coarfe experience, when they attributed their dif-
guft and their fears to coynefs. Coyncfs is indeed the
initinétive attribute of the female. In woman it is very
great, and it is perhaps the genuine fource of the djgu/1?
of which the Illuminati were fufpicious. But they have
been dim-lighted indeed, or
very unfortunate in their
acquaintance, if they never ohferved any other fource
ofrepugnance in the mind of Woman to what is im-
moralior immodeit--ifthey did not fee diflike--moral
difapprobation. Do they mean to iniinuate, that in
that regard which modeft women
exprefs in all their
words and actions, for what every one underftands by
the terms decency, modefty, and the difapprobation
of every. thing that violates thofe feelings, the women
only fhow female coynefs? Then are they very blind
þÿinf'tru ¬'tors. But they are not fo blind. The account
given of the initiation of a
young Sifter at Frankfort,
under the feigned name
Pjjfcbrzrion, lhows the moft
ferupulous attention to the moral feelings of the fex,
and the confuhon and difturbance which, after all their
care, it occahoned among the ladies, Ihows, that when
they thought all right and delicate, they had been but
coarfejudges. Minos damns the ladies there, becaufe
they are too free, too rich, too
republican, and too
wife, for being led about by the nofe (this is his own
expreIlion).' But Philo certainly thought more cor-
rectly ofthe fex in general, when he fays, Truth is a
modeft girl: She may be handed about like a
lady, by
good fenfe and good manners, but ITILIPC not be bullied
and driven about like a
Ptrumpet. I would here infert
the difcourfes or addrefies which were made on that
occalion to the different claifes of the aifembly, girls,
young ladies, Wives, young men, and ftrangers, which
*QB are
4
194 ILLUMINATJ. e'HA1°. lf.
are really ingenious and well ccmpofed, were
they not
fueh as would ollend my fair countrywomen.
~
The religious fentinients by which mortals are to be
alhfted, even in the difcharge of their moral duties,
and flill more, the fentiments vohich are
purely reli-
gious, and have no reference to any thing here, are
precifely thole which are mofl: ealily excited in the
mind of woman. Affection, adniiration, lilial reve-
rence, are, if I niiilalte not
exceedingly, thofe in
which the women hir furpafs the men; and it is on
this account that we
generally find them fo much dif-
pofed to devotion, which is nothing but a fort of fond
indulgence ofthofe alifeétions without limit to the ima-
gination. The enraptured devotee pours out her foul
in expreilions of theie feelings, juft as a fond mother
mixes the eareiles given to her child with the moil ex-
travagant expreflions of love. The devotee even en-
deavours to excite higher degrees of thefe 'aFE`eé`tions,
by expatiating on fuch circumllances in the divine
conduct with refpect to man as
naturally awaken them;
and he does this without any fear of exceeding; be-
cauie infinite Vvildom and Goodnefs will alwaysjuftify
the ientiment, and free the expreiiion of it from all
charge of hyperbole or extravagance.
I am convinced, therefore, that the female mind is
well adapted to cultivation by means of religion, and
that their native ioltnefs and kindnefs of heart will al-
ways be hifhcient hor procuring it a favourable recep-
tion from them. It is therefore with double regret
that I fee any of them _ioin in the arrogant pretenhons
of our lllutninated philofophers, who lee no need of
iuch aliillances for the knowledge and difcharge of
their duties. There is nothing fo unlike that general
modeliy of thought, and that dillidence, which we are
difpofed to thinl; the chara_c`ter of the female mind. I
£1111
CHAP_ 11, THE ILLUMINATI.
195
am inclined to think, that fuch deviations from the ge-
neral contluét of the fex are marks of a harhier chri-
raéter, ofa heart that has lefs iienhbility, :tml is on the
whole lefs amiable than that of others. Yet it mutt
be owned' that there are fome fuch among us. Much,
ifnot the whole of this perverfion, has, I ani perfaiacl-
ed, been owing to the contagion of bad example in
the men. They are made familiar with hich expreil
lions--their hril horror is gone, and (would to heaven
that I were rniltalaenl) iome of theinhave already
wounded their conlciences to fuch a
degree, that they
have fome reaibn to wifh that religion may be Without
foundation, _
But I would call upon all, and f,i7Q/.lf women in parti--
Cular, to conhtler this matter in :mother light--as it
may alleét themfelves in this life, as it may þÿafi`e ¬t
their
rank and treatment in ordinary fociety. I would fay
to them, that if the world fliall"onCe adopt the belief
that this life is our all, then the true maxim ofrational
conduét will be, to
"
eat and to drink, iince to-mor-
"
row we are to die," and that vvhen they have no-
thing to troll to but the fondnefs of the men, they
will ivon Find thetnlelves reduced to
flavery. The
crown which they now Wear will hill hom their heatis,
and they will no
longer be the arbiters of what is lovely
in human life. The empire of beauty is but fhort;
and even in republican France, it will not be many
years that Matlame Tallien can &f<2inate the Farilian
Theatie by the exhibition ofher charms. l/Ian is faf-
ticlious and Changeable, he is the l'tronger animal, and
can always take his own will with refpeit to wfman.
At prefent he is with-held by refpecft tor her moral
worth-and many are with-held by religion--anti ma-
ny more are with-held by public laws, which laws
were hwarnecl at a time when religious truths influenced
the
196 'rue ILLUMINATI. CHAP. 11.
the minds and the conduct of men. Wlien the fenti-
ments ofmen change, they will not be fo foolifh as to
keep in force laws which cramp their ftrongeft deiires.
Then will the rich have their I-Iarems, and the poor
their drudges.
Nay, it is not merely the circumitance of woman's
being confidered as the moral companion of man that
gives the fex its empire among us. There is fome-
thing of this to be obferved in all nations. Cf all the
diltinctions which fet our
fpecies above the other fen--
tient inhabitants of this globe, making us as unlike to
the belt of them as
they are to a
piece of inanimate
matter, there is none more remarkable than the differ-
ences obfervable in the appearances of thofe defires by
which the race is continued. As I obferved already,
fuch a diitinction is indifpenfably necellary. There
muliz be a mom! connection, in order that the human
fpecies may be a race of rational creatures, improve-
able, not only by the increaiing experience of the in-
dividual, but alfo by the heritable experience of the
fucceihve generations. It maybe obferved between
the folitary pairs in Labrador, where human nature
Ptarves, like the Ptunted oak in the crevice of a baron
rock, and it is feen in the cultivated focieties of Eu-
rope, where our nature in a feries of ages becomes a
majeftic tree. Yi/'hatever may be the native powers
of mind in the poor but gentle Efquimaux, lhe can do
nothing for the fpecies but nurfe a
young one, who
cannot run his race of life without incellant and hard
labour to keep foul and body together-here therefore
her Ration in fociety can
hardly have a name, becaufe
there can hardly be faid to be any affociation, except
what is neceffary For repelling the hoftile attacks of
Indians, who ieem to hunt them without provocation
as the dog does the hare. In other parts ofthe world,
,
'
.
'
`
We
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
197
we fee that the conlideration in which the fex is held,
nearly follows the proportions of that aggregate of ma-
ny different particulars, which We eonhder as conlti-
tuting the cultivation of a
fociety. We may perhai 5
err, and we
probably do err, in our eflzimation of thofe
degrees, becaufe we are not
perfeé`tly acquainted with
what is the real excellence of man. But as far as we
crm
judge of it, I believe that my aflertion is acknow-
ledged. On this authority, I might prefume to ity,
that it is in Chriflian Europe that man bas attained his
higheft degree of cultivation-and it is undoubtedly
here that the women have attained the higheilt rank.
I may even add, that it is in that part ofliurope where
the effential and cliftinguilhing doctrines of Chriilian
morality are mofl: generally acknowledged and attended
to by the laws of the country, that woman acts the
higheft part in general fociety. But here We mufr be
very careful how we form our notion, either of the
fociety, or of the female rank-it is furely not from
the two or three dozens who 511 the higheit ranks in
the ftate. Their number is too fmall, and their litu-
ation is too
particular, to afford the proper average.
Beiicles, the lituation ofthe individuals ofthis clafs in
all countries is very much the fame-and in all it is
very artihcial-accordingly their character is fantalti-
cal. Nor are we to take it from that elafs that is the
molt numerous "of all, the lov/eflf clafs of fociety, for
thefe are the labouring poor, whofe conduct and oc,
cupations are
il) much dicftated to them by the hard
circumftances of their lituation, that fearcely any thing
is left to their choice. The lituation of women of this
clafs rnuil be nearly the fame in allinations. But this
clafs is (till ftifceptible of Home variety-and we lee it
--and I think that even here there is a
perceptible fu-
periority of the female rank in thole countries where
"
the
3-93 THE ILLUMINATI. ~crtaP. 11.
t_he pureft Chrillianity prevails. Vvre mufl however
take our meafures or
proportions from a numerous
clal`s, but alfo a clafs in lbmewhat of eafy circum-
ilganees, where moral fentiments call fome attention,
and perfons have fome choice in their conduot. And
here, although I cannot
pretend to have had many
opportunities of obfervation, yet I have had fome. I
can venture to
fay that it is not in Ruliia, nor in
Spain, that Woman is, on the whole, the rnoft im-
portant as a member of the community. I would
fay, that in Britain her important rights are more
ge-
nerally refpeeted than any Where elle. No Where is,
a man's charafter fo much hurt by conjugal infide-
lity--no where is it fo difhcult to rub o§ the Ftigrna
of baltardy, or to
procure a decent reception or loci-
ciety for an
improper conneftion, and I believe it
will readily begranted, that the more of the women
in fucceilions, their authority in all matters of domef-
tic truft, and even their opinions in what concerns
life and manners, are fully more
rel"pe£`:ed here than
in
any country,
I have long been of the opinion, (and every oblier-
vation that I have been able to make Ence I firft
formed it confirms me in it,) that woman is indebted
to Chriftianity alone for the high rank fue holds in
lbciety. Look into the writings of antiquity--into
the works of the Greek and Latin poets-into the
numberlefs panegyrics of the fex, to be found both
in prole and verle-I can rind little, very little in-
deed, where woman is treated with relpeet--there is
no want of love, that is, of fondnefs, of beauty, of
charms, of graces. But of Woman as the equal of
man, as a moral companion, travelling with him the
road to felieity--as his adviler»-his folace in misfor-
tune-as a
pattern from which he may fometimes
copy
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
copy with advantage ;»--of all this there is hardly a
trace. X/T/vOf`i'L1i1lS always mentioned as an
0hie& of
pailion. Clialtity, modeily, fober-mindednefs, are
all eonhdered in relation to this iiugle point; or fome..
times as ofimportance in refpeft of economy or do-
meftic quiet. Recolleét the Ezmous fpeeeh of Metel-
tellus Numidieus to the Roman people, when, as,
Cenfor, he was
recommending marriage.
"
Si fine uxore
poifemus Quirites elle, omncs ea
"
molellia careremus. Sed quoniam ita uatura tradi-
"
dit, ut nec cum illis commode, nec fine illis ullo
"
modo vivi poifet, faluti perpetux potius quam brevi
"
voluptati confulendum."
Azzl. Gall. Il/'viii _/fir. I 6.
What does Ovid, the great panegyrift of' the fex
fay for his beloved daughter, Whom he had praifed
for her 3['Cl°&'fi`lOl'lS in various places of his Trillia and
other eompohtions? He is writing her Epitaph--and
the only thing he can
fay of her as a rational creature
is, that Ilie was--Dom@'Z¢z'rz-not a Gadabout.--Search
Apuleius, where you will hud many female charac°ters~
in zzby?mt7c-You will find that his little Photis (a
cool:-maid and ftrumpet) was neareft to his heart, af~
ter all his philofophy. Nay, in his pretty ltory of
Cupid and Piyche, which the very Wife will tell you
is a fine lellon of moral philofophy, and a 1'eprel`enta»~
tion of the operations of the intellecftual and moral fa-
culties of the human foul, a
Ptory which gave him
the Fineft opportunity, nay, almoft made it neceilfary
for him to infert whatever can ornament the female
charaéter; what is his Plyche but a beautiful, fond,
and filly girl; and what are the whole fruits of any
acquaintance with the lex ?--Pleafiire. But why take
more pains in the fearth ?---Look at their immortal
goddeilks-
3
ZOO THE ILLUMINATI. CHAP. II.
goddedes-is there one
among them whom a wife man
would leleélt for a wife or a friend ?--I grant that a
Lucretia is prailed-a Portia, an Arria, a Zenobia-
but thefe are individual charadters--not reprefentatives
ofthe Ex. The only Grecian ladies who made a
figure by intellectual talents, were
your Afpalias, Sap-
phos, Phrynes, and other nymphs of this caft, who
had emerged from the general inligniftcance of the fex,
by throwing away what We are accuftomed to call its
greateft ornament.
I think .that the firft piece in which Woman is pic-
tured as a
refpeclable character, is the oldeflt novel
that I am
acquainted With, written by a Chriftian Bi-
Ihop, Helioclorus--I mean the Adventures of Thea-
genes and Chariclea. I think that the Heroine is a
greater character than you will meet with in all the
annals of antiquity. And it is worth while to obferve
what was the eflfeél; of this painting. The poor Bi-
fhop had been clcpofetl, and even excommunicated,
for doctrinal errors, and for drawing fuch a
pié`ture of
a heathen. The magillrates of Antioch, the moft
voluptuous and corrupted city of the Iiaft, wrote to
the Emperor, telling him that this boolt had reformed
the ladies of their city, Where Julian the Emperor and
his Sophills had formerly preached in vain, and they
therefore prayed that the good Bifhop might not be
deprived of his mitre.--It is true, we read of Hypatia,
daughter of Theon, the mathematician at Alexandria,
who was a
prodigy of excellence, and taught philofo-
phy, i. e. the art ofleading a
good and happy life, with
great applaufe in the famous Alexandrian fchool.-
But fhe alfo was in the times of Chriftianity, and was
the intimate friend of Syncellus and other Chriftian
Bilhops.
It
cHAp,11, THE ILLUMINATI. QQ;
It is undoubtedly Chriftianity that has fet woman on
her throne, making her in every refpefk the equal of
man, bound to the fame duties, and Candidate for the
fame happinefs. l/lark how woman is defcribed by a
Chriftian poet,
----~" Yet when I approach
Her lovelinefs, fo abfolute ihe feems,
And in herfelf complete, fo well to know
Her own, that what fhe wills to do or
fay
Seems wi/2/2, virtuou/Ep, dfcreetfji, bcjl
_
Neither her outlide, form'd fo fair,--
So much delights me, as
tbzyé graccfizl ¢zé?f,
T/10/E* fb0zWnr! decefzcies that daily flow _
From all her words and aiftions, mix'd with love
And fweet compliance, which declare unfeignfd
Union Qf`77'l;71{l'7 or in us bot/2 one_hz»:!.
----And, to confummate all, _
Gfeatmylr qfmind, and noblenefv, their feat
Build in her loveliefl, and create an awe
About /Jer, as zz
guard zmge/ic p/ae'a'."
MILTQQ-f.
This is really moral painting, without any abatement
of female charms.
This is the natural confequence of that purity or
heart, which is fo much inlifred on in the Chrillian mo-
rality. In the inftruétions of the heathen philofophers,
it is either not mentioned at all, or at moll, it is recom-
mended eoldly, as a
thing proper, and worthy of a mind
attentive to great things.--But, in Chriilianity, it is
infifted on as an
indifpenfable duty, and enforced by
many arguments peculiar to itfelii
It is worthy of obfervation, that the moft prominent
fuperiltitions which have dimonoured the Chrillian
churches, have been the excellive refinements which
'
*QC
A
the
2132 THE ILLUMINATI. Cl"-IAP. II,
the enthuliaf'tic admiration of heroic purity has allow-
ed the holy trade to introduce into the manufacture of
our
ibiritual fetters. VX/'ithout this cnthuliafm, cold
expedieney would not have been able to make the Mo-
nafiic vow fo general, nor have given us fuch numbers
of convents. Theie were generally founded by fuch
enthuhafts--the rulers indeed of the church emoumged
this to the utmoll, as the beft levy forthe fpiritual
power»--but they could not
efjoifz fuch foundations,
From the fame fource we
mayderive the chief influ-
ence of auricular confefiion. Vsfhen thefe were
firmly
eftablilhed, and were venerated, almolt all the other
corruptions of Chriftianity followed of courfe. I may
almoft add, that though it is here that Chriflianity has
ihiifered the rnoft violent attacks, it is hire that the
place is moft tenable.-Nothing tends lb much to knit
all the ties of fociety as the endearing connedtions ot'
family, and whatever tends to leffen our veneration for
the marriage-contract, wealiens them in the moii edec-
tual manner. Purity of manners is the mod' efleclual
iiapport, and pure thoughts are the only fourcesfrom
which pure manners can flow. I readily grant that in
former times this veneration for perlional purity was
carried to an
extravagant height, and that feveral very
ridiculous fancies and cuftoms arofe from this. Ro-
mantic love and chivalry are
flrong inftances of the
ilrange vagaries of our
imagination, when carried along
by this enthuhailic admiration of female purity; and
fo unnatural and forced, that they could only be tem-
porary falhions. But I believe that, with all their ri-
dicule, it would be a
happy nation where this was the
general creed and practice. Nor can I help thinking
a nation on its decline, when the domeftic connections
ceaie to be venerated, and the illegitimate oH"spring of
a nabob or a noblcman are received with eafe into good
company.
Nothing
CHAP. II. THE ILLUMINATI.
QG3
Nothing is more clear than that the delign of the Il~
luminati was to abolifh Chriltianity--and we now fee
how effecfltual this would be for the corruption of the
Fair fex, a
purpofe which they eagerly wilhed to
gain,
that they might corrupt the men. But if the Women
would retain the rank they now hold, they will be
Careful to
preferve in full force on their minds this re-
ligion, fo congenial to their difpohtions, which nature
has made adiectionate and kind.
And with refpeft to the men, is it not
egregious
folly to encourage any thing that can tend to blaft our
fweeteft enjoyments? Shall we not do this moft ellec-A
tually if we
attempt to corrupt what nature will always
make us conlider as the higheft elegance of life? The
divinity of the Stoics was,
'¢
Zwefzsffzizzz in cof;1>orefa1w,"
-but it is equally true,
"
Gmfior fy? pulcbro fvenieffs e
corpore <vif'2'u.¢."
If, therefore, inltead of profeiledly tainting what is of
itfelf beautiful, we could really work it up to
"
That fair form, which, wove in fancy's loom,
F' Floats in light vilions round the poet's head,"
and make woman a
pattern of perletftion, we fhould
undoubtedly add more to the heartfelt happinefs of' life
than by all the difcoveries of the Illuminati. See what
was the ellect of Theagenes and Chnriclea.
And we lhould remember that with the fate of wo-
man that of man is indiilolubly knit. The voice of
nature
fpoke through our immortal bard,when he made
Adam lay,
------" From thy Ptate
§' Nline never lhall be parted, blifs or woe."
Shot ld.
ZZCJAI. TI-I~E ILLUMINATI. C1-IAP. II
Should We fufiér the contagion to touch our fair part-
ner; 9.31 is gone, and too late [hall We
fay,
"
G fais'ePc of creation I lafi and belle
"
Gi' ail God's works, creature in Whom exceH'd
"
þÿYFT111% ¬ ¬' ¬1'
can to
Hght or
thought be form'd,
"
_E'7f?i3', ffivifze, good, L'l7?'lf£Z@-'37 arfweet!
"
How art thou loii,-and now to death devote?
Kimi me with I/nee haff ruin'd; for with thee
"
'Corwin my refolution is to die."
I
l 197 1
C H A P. uit
The Gewfzan U71l'07f.
H E N fuch a fermentation had been ex-
cited inthe public mind, it cannot be fuppofed that
the formal fuppreflion of the Order of the Illumi-=
nati in Bavaria, and in the Duchy of Wirtemberg,
by the reigning princes, would bring all to reft again.
By no means. The minds of men were prediibof-
ed for a change by the reftlefs fpirit of fpeculation
in every kind of enquiry, and the leaven had been
carefully and fkilfully difieminated in every quarter
of the empire, and even in foreign countries. VVeif=-
haupt faid, on good grounds, that "
if the Order:
ihould be difcoveqed and fupprefied, ,he would re-
ftore it with tenfold energy in a twelvemonth." Even
in thofe ftates where it was
formally abolilhed, no-
thiug could hinder tl1e enliftipg new members, and
garrying on all the purpofes of the Order. The
Areopagitx might indeed be changed, and the feat
of the direilion transferred to fome other place, but
the Minerval and his Mentor could meet as for,mer~
ly, and a ride of a few miles into another State,
would bring him to a
Lodge, where the young would
he amufed, and the more advanced would be engag¢
ed in ferious rnifchief. Vfeiihaupt never liked chil-
dren's play. He indulged Philo in it, becaufe he
faw him taken with fuch rattles: but his own pro:
jecis were dark and foleymrn, and it was a _relief to
him now to be freed from that m,urnmery. He foqn
found the bent of the perfonfs mind on whom he
had fet his talons, and, he fays, that "
no man ever
efcaped him whom he thought it worthwhile to ¢f-ef
cure." He had already hlledthe _ljils with ,enough
Q B -
`
of
198 'rr-in GERMAN UNION. cmrp. iii.
ofthe young and gay, and when the prefent condition
of the Order required fly and experienced heads, he
no longer courted them by play-things. He commu-
nicated the ranks and the _
inilructions by a letter,
without any ceremony. The correhiondence with
Philo at the time ofthe breach with him, ihews the
fuperiority of Spartacus. Philo is in a
rage, provok-
ed to find a
pitiful profeflor difcontented with the
immenfefervices which he had received from a
gen-
tleman of his rank, and treating him with authority,
and with dihngenuity.-He tells Spartacus what Hill
greater fervices he can do the Order, and that he can
alfo ruin it with a breath.-But in the midli of this
rage, he propofes a thoufand modes of reconcile-
ment. The fmallefi concellion would make him
hug Spartacus in his arms. But Spartacus is deaf to
all his threats, and firm as a rock. Though he is con-
fcious of his own vile conducfl, he abates not in the
iinalleii point, his abfolute authority-requires the
moftfimplicit fubmiiiion, which he lays
"
is due not
to him, but to the Order, and without which the
Order inull immediately go to ruin."--He does not
even
deign to challenge Philo to do his worfl, but
allows him to go out of the Order without one
angry
Word. This lhows his conlidence in the energy of
that fpirit of relllefs difcontent, and that hankering
after reform which he had fo fuccefsfully fpread a-
broad.
`
»
This had indeed arifen to an
unparalleled height,
unexpeéled even by the feditious' themfelves. This
appeared in at remarkable manner by the reception
given to the infamous letters on the conllitution of
the Prullian States» 1'
"
-`
The general opinion was, that Mirabeau was the
author ofthe letters themfelves, and it was
perfeflly
underllood by every perfon, that the tranflation into
French was a
joint contrivance of Miraheau and Ni-
cholai.
ewan. iii. THE GERMAN UNION.
199
cholai. I was aflured ofthis by the Britilli Miniller
at that Court. There are fome blunders in refpeft
of names, which an inhabitant ofthe country could
hardly_ be guilty of, but are
very coniillent with the
felf-conceit and precipitancy of this Frenchman,-
There are feveral inllances of the fame kind in two
pieces, which are known for certain to be his, viz.
the C/Jrozzzqzrejrzfzdalezje and the HMOz're _kcreiie de
la Com' de Berlin. Thefe letters were in every hand,
and were mentioned in every converfation, even in
the Prufhan dominions-and in other places ofthe
empire they were quoted, and praifed, and com-
mented on, although fume of their-contents were
nothing ihort of rebellion.
Mirabeau had a
large portion of that felf-conceit
which dillinguilhes his countrymen. He thought
himfelf qualified not only for any high oliice in ad-
minillration, but even for managing the whole afa-
fairs of the new
King. He therefore endeavoured
to obtain fome poll of honour. But he was
difap-
pointed, and, in revenge, did every thing in his
power to make thofe in adrniniilration the objeéls of
public ridicule and reproach. His licentious and
profligate manners were fuch as excluded him from
the fociety of the people of the Full clafles, whom
it behoved to
pay fome attention to perfonal digni-
ty. His opinions were in the highefl degree cor-
rupted, and he openly profefled Atheifm. This
made him peculiarly obnoxious to the King, who was
determined to correcl the dilturbances and difquiets
which had arifen in the Prutlian Hates from the in~
difference of his predeceflbr in thofe matters. Mi-
rabeau therefore attached himfelf to a
junto of wri-
ters and fcribblers, who had united in order to dif-
feminate licentious principles, both in refpeft of re-
ligion and of government. His wit and fancy were
great, and he had not
perhaps his equal for eloquent
and
#Zoo 'ms GERMAN UNION, can, iii,
and biting fatire. He was therefore carefied by
thofe writers as a moll valuable acquifition to their
Society. He took all this deference as his juil due;
and was fo confident in his powers, and fo foolifh,
as to advife, and even to admonifh, the King.
Highly obnoxious by fuch conduél, he was excluded
from any Chance of preferment, and was exceeding-
ly out of humour. In this flate of mind he was in
a fit frame for Illumination. Spartacus had been
eyeing him for fome time, and at lall Communicated
this honour to him through the intermedinm oth/Iat1»
villon, another Frenchman, Lieutenant-Colonel in
the fervice of the Duke of Brunfwick. This perfon'
had been moil atflive during the formal exillence of
the Order, and had contributed much to its recep-
tion in the Proteflant Ptates-he remained long con-
cealed. Indeed his Illumination was not known till
the invalion of Holland by the French. Mauvillon
then Ptepped forth, avowed his principles, and rel
commended the example of the French to the Ger-
mans. This encouragement brought even Philo
again on the flage, notwithilanding his refentment
againil Spartacus, and his folemn declaration of hav-
ing abjured all fuch focieties.-Thefe, and a thou-
fand fuch facts, fhow that the feeds of licentious
Cofmopolitifm had taken deep root, and that Cut-
ting down the crop had by no means defiroyed the
baneful plant.--But this is not all-a new method of
cultivation had been invented, and immediately
adopted, and it was now growing over all Europe in
another form.
`
»»
I have already taken notice of the general perver-
Iion of the public mind which co-operated with the
fchifms of Free Mafonry in procuring a
liiiening
ear to Spartacus and his afiociates. It will not be
doubted but that the machinations of the Illuminati
increafed this, even among thofe who did not enter
. into
cms. iii; 'ma GERMAN umorr. Q01
into the Order. It was eaiier to diminlh the refpeffl
for civil eflablilhments in Germany than in almoit
any other country. The frivolity of the ranks and
court-offices in the dilierent confederated petty Hates
made it impoihble to combine dignity with the ha-
bits of a
fcanty incorne.--lt was ftill eaher to
expofe
to ridicule and reproach thofe nurnberlefs abufes
which the folly and the vices of rneu had introdu-
ced into religion. The irifiuence on the public mind
which naturally attaches to the venerable oflice of a
moral þÿinllru"(,
was
prodigiou{ly dirniniihed by the
continual difputes of the Catholics and Proteftants,
which were carried on with great heat in every little
principality. The freedom of enquiry, which was
ihpported by the fiate in Protefiant Germany, was
terribly abufed, (for what will the folly of man not
abufe?) and degenerated into a wanton licentiouf-
nefs of thought, and a rage for fpeculation and fcep-
ticifm on
every fubjeét whatever. The Ptruggle,
which was
originally between the Catholics and the
Proteltants, had changed, during the gradual progrefs
of luxury and immorality, into a Contelt between
reafon and fuperllition. And in this conteft the
denomination of fuperftitiou had been gradually ex-
tended to every doéirine which profefied to be of
divine revelation, and reafon was declared to be, for
certain, the only way in which the Deity can inform
the human mind,
'
Some refpe&able Catholics had publiihed works
filled with liberal fentiments. Thefe were
repre-
fented as villainous machinations to inveigle Protei-
tants. On the other hand, fome Proteitant divines
had propofed to imitate this liberality by making con-
Qeliions which might enable a
good Catholic to live
more at eafe among the Proteftants, and might even
accelerate an union of faiths. This was hooted be-
yond meafure, as jefuitical, and big with danger.
'While
Q02 rua GERMAN UNION. naar. iii.
While the fceptical junio, headed by the editors of
,rhe Dmiwbe Bib/inthe/c and the Berlin Mofzazjbrfi,
were recommending every performance thatwashof-
tileto the eftablifhecl faith ofthe country, Leuehtfen~
ring was
equally bufy, finding jefuits in every corner,
and we-nt about with all the inquietude of a madman,
picking up anecdotes. Zimmerman, the refpe<fia'n'le
phylician of Frederick King of Prnfiia, gives a di-
verting account of a viht which he had from Leucht-
fenringat Hanover, all trembling with fears of je-
fuits, and wiihing to perfuade him that his life was
in danger from them. Nicholai was now on the
hunt, and during this crufade Philo laid hands on
him, being introduced to his acquaintance by Leucht-
fenring, who was, by this time, cured of his zeal for
Protelianifm, and had become adifciple of Illumi-
natifm. Philo had gained his good opinion by the vi-
olentattack which he had publilhed on the Jefnits and
Rofycrucians by the orders of Spartacus.-He had
not far to go in gaining over Nicholai, who was at
this time making a tour through the Lodges. The
fparks of Illumination which he perceived in many
of them, pleaied him exceedingly, and he very cheer-
fully received the precious fecret from Philo.
This acquihtion to the Order was made in janua-
ry 1782. Spartacus was
delightedwith it, conHder~
ed Nicholai as a moli excellent champion, and gave
him the name of Luczkzzz, the great feoffer at all reli-
gion,~as aptly exprelhng his charafier.
Nicholai, on his return to Berlin, publilhed many
volumes of his difcoveries. One would imagine
zhat not a
Iefuit had efcaped him. He mentions
many firange fchiiinatics, both in religion and in
Mafonry--But he never once mentions an Illzmzzizzz-
lus.-VVhen they were iirfi checked, and before the
difcovery ofthe fecret correfpondence, he defended
them, and iirongly reprobated the proceedings of the
Eleeior
f
CHAP. iii. 'ms GERMAN UNION. £203
Eleétor of Bavaria, calling it vile perfecution.--
Nay, after the difcovery of the letters found in
Zwaclfs houfe, he periifted in his defence, vindica~
ted the poffeliion of the abominable receipts, and
highly extolled the character pf /Veiihaupt.--But
when the difcovery of papers in the houfe of Batz
informed the public that he hirnfelf had long been
an I//uzlzifzafus, he was
Ladly put to it to reconcile his
defence with any pretenlions to religion*".--
Weiihaupt Qtved him from difgrace, as he thought,
by his publication of the iyltem of Illttmiziatifm-
Nicholai then boldly faid that he knew no more ot
the Order than was contained in that book, that is,
only the two Hrlt degrees.
But before this, Nicholai had made to himfelf a
'moft formidable enemy. The hifiory of this con-
telt is curious in itfelf, and gives us a very iniirutftive
picture of the machinations of that (`07gl£7'dfl'0?Z de;
pbz`/Wpbes, or
gang of fcribblers who were leagued
againfi the peace of the world. The reader wili
therefore find it to our purpofe. On the authority
of a
lady in Conrland, a Countefs von der Recke,
Nicholai had accufed Dr. Stark of Darnifladt (who
made fuch a
figure in Free Mafonry) of jefuitifm,
and of having even fubrnitted to the Zo1Mz;"e. Stark
wasa moit reftlefs fpirit-had gone through every
myiiery in Germany, Illutninatifm excepted, and
had ferreted out
many of Nicholafs hidden tranfac-
*
He impudently pretended that the papers containing the
fyftem and doétrines of Illuminatifm, came to him at Berlin, from
an Gnknown hand. But no one believed him_it" was inconliilent
with what is faid of him in the fccret correfpondence. He had
faid the fame thing concerning the French tranflation of the Let-
ters onthe Conltitution of the Pruflian States. Fifty copies were
foundin his ware-houfe. He faid that they hadbeen fent from Straf-
burg, and that he had never fold one of them.-Suppoling both
thefe alfertions to be true, it appears that Nicholai was cdnlidered
as 21
very proper hand for difperiing fuch poifon.
»
tions.
I
9.04 Tue szxrmxu union. cnar. iii;
tions. He was alfo an nnwearied book-maker, and
dealt out thefe difcoveries by degrees, keeping the
eye of the public continually upon Nicholai.
`
He
had hilpecfled his Illumination for fome time pall,
and when the fecret came out, by Spartacus' letter,
where he boaiis of his acquiliion, calling Nicholai
a moit llurdy combatant, and laying that he was
com'fn/i/frfzzrs, Stark left no Prone unturned till he
dilcovered that Nicholai had been initiated in all the
horrid and moll profligate mylleries of Illuminatifm,
and that Spartacus had at the very tirlt entrulled him
with his moll darling fecrets, and advifed with him
on
many occahonsié.
"1 his complete blalling of his moral character*
Could not be patiently borne, and Nicholai was in
his turn the bitter enemy of Stark, and, in the pa»
*Q
Of this we have complete proof in the private correlipond-
ence. Philo, fpeakingin one of his letters ofthe gradual change
which was to be produced in the minds of their pupils from Chrifti#
anity to Deifm, fays,
"
Nicholai informs me, that even the pious
"
'Zollikofer has now been convinced that it would be proper to let
"
up a deiftical church in Berlin." It is in vain that Niehelai
fays that his knowledge of the Order was
only of what Weidiaupt
had publilhed; for Philo fays that that correelted fyllem had not
been introduced into it when he quitted it in 1784. But Nicholai
deferves no credit-he is one of the molt fcandalous examples of
the operation of the principles of Vlleiihaupt. He procured ad-
million into the Lodges of Free Mafons and Rofycrucians, merely
to aft the difhonourable part of a
fpy, and he betrayed their fecrets
as far as he could. In the appendix to the 7th volume of his
journey, he declaims againlt the Templar Mafons, Rofycrucians,
and jcfuits, for their blind fubmillion to unknown fuperiors, for
their fuperllitions, their priefthoods, and their bale principles-and
yet had been five years in a
fociety in which all thefe were carried
to the greatelt height. He remains true to the Illuminati alone,
becaule they had the fame ohjedt in view with himfelf and his
atheiilical aflbciates, His defence of Proteilantifm is alla cheat;
and perhaps he may be confidered as an
enemy equally formidable
with Vfeilhznipt himfelf. This is the reafon why he occupies fo
many of thele pages.
`
roxy fms
cnaa. iii; TI-IE. GnttMAN UNIGN.
Q05
roxyfms of his anger, puhliihed every idle tale, al-
though he was often obliged to contradiit them in the
next Review. in the conrfe of this attack and de-
fence, Dr. Stark difcovered the revival of the Illn-
minati, or at leait a
iociety which carried on the
iame great work in a fotnewhat different way.
Dr. Stark had written a defence againit one of Ni-
cholai's accuittions, and wiihed to have it printed at
Leipzig. He therefore ient the manufcript to a
iz-'D
'
J
Qizdn l tkay. Tl :~ fl: 111' vw an
|t1,l]G., Vi UO IX, 1 ,C» L A~.,-C- [hh þÿiI`1 ¬uC
lffllue :HL.»"
ly propofed it to a rnoft itnproperperfon, Mr. Pott,
who had written an anonymous commentary on the
King of Pru{iia's edidl for the uniformity of religious
worlhip in his dominions. This is one of the moft
ihainelefs attacks on the ehabliilied faith of the na-
tion, and the authority and Condu& of the Frince,
that can be imagined. Stark's friend was
ignorant
of this, and fpoke to Pott, as the partner of the
great puhliiher þÿ'VV3l[ll ¬T. They, without hehtation,
undertook the publifhing; hut when Hx weeks had
paffed over, Stark's friend found that it was not he-
gnn. Some exceptionable pafiagee, which treated
with difrefpeet the religion of Reafon, were given
as the cauie of delay ; and he was told that the an-
thor had been written to ahoutthem, but had not yet
returned an anfwer. This was afterwards found to
he falle. Then a
pafliage in the preface was
objeil-
ed to, as
treating roughly a
lady in Courland, which
'Nalther could not
print, becaufe he had connections
with that court. The author muft he entreated to
Change his expreliions. After another delay. paper
was
wanting. The MS. was withdrawn. 'Walther
now faicl that he would print it immediately, and
again got it into his hands, promiling to
_fend the
iheets as
they came from the prefs. Thefe not
ap-
pearing for a
long time, the agent made enquiry,
and found that it was fent to l/iichaelis at Hehe, to
-
Q C he
206 THE GERMAN UNION; CHAP. iii;
be printed there. The agent immediately went
thither, and found that it was
printing with great al-
terations, another title, and a
guide or
key, in which
the work was
perverted and turned into ridicule by
a Dr. Balnrdt, who relided in that neighbourhood.
An afiion of recovery and damages was
immediately
commenced at Leipzig, and after much conteft, an
interdiét was
put on Michaelis's edition, and a
pro-
per edition was ordered immediately from Y/Valther,
with fecuritty that it fhould appear before Bahrdt's
key. Yet when it was
produced at the next fair,
the bookfellers had been ah eady fupplied with the
fpurious edition; and as this was
accompanied by
the key, it was much more faleable ware, and com-
pletely fupplanted the other. _
This is furely a
ftrong inftance of the machina-
tions by which the Illuminati have attempted to
deitroy the Liberty of the Prefs, and the power
they have to difcourage or
fupprefs any thing that
is not agreeable to the taflte of the literary junto;
It was in the courfe of this tranfadtion that Dr.;
Stark's agent found people talking in the coffee-=
houfes of Leipzig and Halle of the advantages of
public libraries, and of libraries by fubfcription,
in every town, where perfons could, at a frnall ex#
pence, fee what was pafling in the learned worldi
As he could not but acquielee in thefe points, they
who held this language began to talk of a
gene-=
ral Aflociation, which fhould aet in Concert over
all Germany, and make a full communication of
its numerous
literary þÿprodu ¬tions
by forming ib-
cietics for reading and inftruétion, which thould
be regularly fuppiiecl with every publication. Fly-
ing [beets and pamphlets were afterwards put into
hishands, fiating the great ufe of fueh an Alfoci-
ation, and the efeét which it would fpeedily pro-
duce by enlightening the nation. By and by he
_
learned
cam. iii. THE GERMAN UNION.
Q07
learned that fuch an Aflhciation did really exift,
and that it was called the G12aM.A. ri UNION, for
noorzno our SUPERSTITION AND Pnejuotcas,
if-.No ADVANGING TRUE CHr<.ts'ri_ez~1tTY. Gu
enquiry, however, he found that this was to be a
Secret Society, becaufeit had to combat prejudi-
ces which were hipported by the great of this
world, and becaule its aim was to promote that
general information which priefts and defpots
dreaded above all things. This Ailbciation was
acceliible only through the reading focieties, and
oaths of lecrecy and fidelity were required. In
lhort, it apppeared to he the old fong of the Illu-
minati.
This difcovery was
immediately announced to
the public, in an
anonymous publication in defence
of Dr. Stark. It is linppofed to be his Own per-
formance. It difclofes a fcene of complicated
Villiany and folly, in which the Lady in Courlancl
makes a
very ftrange Hgure. She appears to be a
wild fanatic, deeply engaged in magic amid ghoft-
railing, and leagued with Nicholai, Gedicke, and
Bielter, againft Dr. Stark. He is very completely
cleared of the faits alledged againft him; and his
three male opponents appear void of all principle
and enemies of all religion. Stark however would,
in Britain, be a
Very fingular þÿchara ¬ter,
conlider-
ed as a
clergyman. The frivolous fecrets of Ma-
lbnry have either engrolled his whole mind, or he
has laboured in them as a lucrative trade, by which
he took advantage of the folly of others. The
contelt between Stark and the Triumvirate at
Berlin engaged the public attention much more
than we lhould imagine that a
thing of fo private
a nature would do. But the characters were Very
notorious; and it turned the attention ofthe pub-
lic to thofe clandeltine attacks which were made
,
.
In
Q08 *fins GERMAN UNION. gimp. iii.,
in every quarter on the civil and religious el'i9.bli§"z~~
ments. It wasobvious to <;ve1'V pex'1on,,th;1t theie
reading lbcieties had all on 3 iizdcieu become þÿV ¬1`}'
numerous; and the clwr;;@;ers of thoie who pu-
troniied them only increatbcl the iirfpicious which
were now relied.
The iirit wori: that {i:eai;s eXpref`sly of the Geaw
man Union, is zz
very leuiible perfmmcmce
"
Un
"
Z/ze R{9L'z"z'0dfrcc?2'/lit?Kc/Jgiorzcy"I./2:5.1" z'0 dfrcc? 2'/lit? Kc/Jgiorz cy" I./2: 5.1"
"
Sit/,j6'(f;Zf.'7 The next is 11 curious wox"l<, 2 fmt
of narrative Dia/oglze 011 Me C/2m"adz'er'.r rf Fai'/2c~
{¢1z`, G.fn'!c'.fl"f, (253, B!e_/Zczf. It is Cliieily occupied
with the coutefl; with Ur. Steele, but in the 5th
part, it treats
particularly of the Geynzon Union.
About the Lame time appeared fome þÿfE;!\`{l`l ¬1`
ac-
count, in a bool; called .1f1'I`£`/2'fU»f'J` of Fr:/z::!z`:'{}?1z:z:z&5
./
I//zzfw'fzaz'¢22. But all thcfe accounts are
very
vague and un§<1tist`a&ox'y. The fulleilt account is
I°*
to be had in a Work publiilzecl at Leipzig by uoil
Chen the bookfeller. It is entitled,
"
Zl4'arc Notes
z'/mn Taxi, or the G-crmrzlz Union aznew az new
"
Same! Sociey/ for fkc Gcod cy"./l4fa1M'i7zd," Leip-
zzlg 1789. The publiS1e1' fays that it was fem;
him by an unknown hzmzl, and that he publiihetl
it with all ioeecl, on account of the nlfmy mill
(L
chiefs which this Society, (of which he liao* bc~
fore hearcl {e\'era1reports,} might do to the world,
and to the trade, if allowed to go on working in
fecret. }§`ro1n this work, tl:ex'et`o1~e, we
may fiwrtn
a notion of this þÿ1` ¬(.l0lll){&biC
Society, and judge
how far it is þÿp;':1 czzble
to prevent lush iizeret
maclxioations againilt the peace and lmppixzc-ik of
mafzlaiud.
Them is another work,
"
fFZ!7`Z'/;7{'}` 51;/'2~r:cf2a2*z`0r2
"
cofzcerzzfng 1?/ze German Union. (Nalierc Beleuclv
"
tung der Deutfche Ur1ion,} af/B j%c'tU:`.»§g~ flow,
"
fora rnoflemle price, one þÿ72`2(I_}»'1'¬L`L'$'/26" rz Scorch
"
Free
K
exam. in. "mea censure UNION.
2209
"
Free z7lrf£_pi7.', F1t'¢z;z,lf5rcZ and Leifzzf, I
789.
The author lays the* he had all the papers in his
hands ; whereas the þÿ}1LZ ¬llClòf [i6,'"0;'e 1\f?OfC_§` T/;'[:'fZ
Tux! acknowledges the want of lenze. Ent very
little aalclitional light is thvown on the iizbjeft hy
this work, and the nrit is fiili the mon init; uffiive,
and will chiefly be followed in the aeeeunt which
is now to he laid bet`o1'e the rea-Ller.
The bool; /'ygfore Z'.70z'ef Ziiéfffl Text contains plans
and letters, which the '§`venty-two United Ere-
. .
three: have allowecx to DS given out, anti of which
the greateh *cart were printed, but were entrnlted
'only to atlhred members,
No. I. is the firii plan, pyinted on a hngle quat-
to page, and is addreiiled, To xi! r/Ee F:-iefzdf qr"£=5ea~
fail, Q" Trzsi/1, and Qf Wrtzze. It is pretty well
Written, and ltates among other things, that "
be-
"
caufe' a
great number of nerfons are lahonring,
" with united effort, to bring Reafon under the
yoke, and to prevent 21lll1lilIl`U(9llOD, it is there-
"
fore necellfary that there he a cornhiuatio n which
"
fhall Work in oppoiition to them fo that n;an~
"
kind may not Iink anew into irx'eeove1°ahle har-
S' barifnx, when Reafon and Virtue fhall have been
¢¢
completely fubclued, o'Je1'powereclhy the re-
<'
ftgaints which are put on ont' opinionsfll
°'
For this noble pnrpofe a
company of twenty-
'=
two perfons, public initruétors, and men in pri-
"
vate itations, have united themielves, according
"
to a plan which they have had under Conlitlera-
"
tion for more than a
year and a
halt", and which,
"
in their opinion, contains a method that is fair'
and irrefillible by any human power, for pro-
moting the enlightening and forming of inan-
kind, and that will gradually remove all the oh-
"
Rattles whicll l`upe1~itition Hipported by force
C4
(6
Gt
LC
(C
has hitherto put in the way."
This
'21o' *run GERMAN UNION. CHAP. iii.
This addrefs is intended for an
enlifting advexx
tilement, and, after a few
inlignificant remarks
on the Affociation, a rix~dahler is required along
with the fubfcription of acquiefcence in the plan,
as a compenfation for the expences attending this
mode of intimation and confent.
'Nhoever pays the rix-dahler, and declares his
wilh tojoin the Allociation, receives in a few days,
No. EI. which is a form of the Gath of Qecrecy,
alfo printed on a
fingle alto page. Having fubfcrib-
ed this, and given a full deiignation of himfelf,
he returns it agreeably to a certain addrefs; and
foon after, he gets No. IH. printed on a
4to fheet.
This number contains what is called the Second
Plan, to which all the fiabfequent plans and circu-
lar letters refer. A copy therefore of this will
give us a
pretty full and jult notion of the Order,
and its mode of declaration. It is intitled,
lfhe P/azz qf the Twelzzj/-Two,
and begins with this declaration :
"
Vi/e have unit-
GS
ed, in order to accomplifh the aim of the ex-
"
alted Founder of Chriltianity, viz. the enlighten-
"
ing of mankind, and the detlironemenfof fu-
"
perltition and fanaticifm, by means of a fecret
"
fraternization of all who love the work of God.
"
Our lirlt exertion, which has already been
"
very exteniive, conlilts in this, that, by means
"
of confidential perfons, We allow ourfelves to
"
be announced every where as a
Society united
"
for the above-mentioned purpofe; and Wein-
"
vite and admit into brotherhood with ourlelves
"
every perfon who has a fenfe oi"theirI1po1"tanCe
¢G
of this matter, and wiihes to apply to us and
"
fee our
plans.
u
"
We
i:HAP. iii. THE GERMAN UNION. ;iiT
"
VVe labour Hrll of all to draw into our AH`o~
"
ciation all good and learned writers. This we
"
imagine will be the eafier obtained, as
they
"
mull derive an evident advantage from it.
"
Next to fuch men, we lcel; to gain the mailers
"
and fecrctaries of the ?olt-ohices, in order to
"
facilitate our COi`1ICl`l)O1](lCl1CC.
"
Eehdes thefe, we rece-ive perfons of every
"
condition and iiation, excepting princes and
"
their miniiters. Their favourites, however,
"
may he admitted, and maybe ufeful by their
"
influence in behalfof Truth and Virtue.
"
VVhen any perfon writes to us, We fend izizn
"
an oath, by which he malt ahjnre all
treachery
"
or
clifcovery of the Aflociation, till circum-»
"
ftances fhall make it proper for us to come for~
"
Ward and fhow ourlelves to the world. Vifhen
"
he fuhfcrihes the oath, he receives the plan, and
"
if he finds this to be what Qitislics his mind as
"
a
thing good and honourable, he becomes our
"
friend only in l`o far as he endeavours to gain
"
over his friends and acquaintances. Thus
"
We learn who are
really our zealous friends,
"
and our numbers incrcafe in a double pro-
"
portion.
"
This procedure _is to continue till Provi-
"
dence fhall fo far blefs our
endeavours, that
"
we
acquire an aétive Brother and coadjutor in
"
every place of note, Where there is any 1ite~
rary prolellion; and for this purpole we have
"
a
fecretary and proper office in the center of
"
the Aflbciation, where every thing is expedit~
"
ed, and all reports received. Vvhen this happy
epoch arrives, We begin our fecond operation."
That is to lay,
We intimate to all the Brotherhood in every
quarter, on a certain day, I/za!" THE GERMAN
"
Union
Cl
(L
46
(G
2 Tm; cz~;n;,x_=zf Uzuon. nnfuéiiig
UNION IQIIJ now
acquired zz
607%/QCFZCF, and We
now ciivicle the {`x'atex'ni(`ed part of"'the nation
into ten or twelve Provifzcef or
D,'0c¢f, efseiz
clireélzed by its Diocffzyz at his oflice ; and thefe
J
are in a1~;';mgecl in time fulnorclinaiion, that all
bulinefs comes into the UNIUN-HOUSE as into
the reenter of the whole.
"
Agreeably to this manner of proceeding there
are t',V.'1 elnflies of the Bmtherliootl, the Orff#
nary and the Z`ié'a;zag;`frg Brethren. The latter
alone know the aim of the alloeiation, and all
the means for attaining it; and they alone
þÿcon bute
the UNION, the name, and the con~
neéftion of which not intended to be at all
conlieieuous in the world.
nal form. The Brethren, to wit, fpeak not or
the Union in the places where they relide, nor
of a
Seeety, not of enlightening the people;
but the" allismble and aét toffether in ever'
J 9 <3
quarter, merely as a LITERARY SOCIETY,
bring into it all the lovers of reading and 0
u{`e%`,l lxnowleclgge; and ftieh in faft are the
O1~'d:`:éef';/ 5`f'ez')'zz'ez2, who only know that an
Alllmeiation exilts in their place of reEclence
fm' the eneswurzagement t>flite1';11'y men, but
by no means that it has any Cnnneetion with
any other limilzzr Soeiety, anti that they all
etuniilitmite one whole. But theft: Societies will
natznally point out to time intelligent Bretliren
iiieli pcribns as are proper to be þÿ§3l ¬'9£ ¬(l
for
carrying forward the great work. For pei'-
fons of a ferious turn of mimi are not mere
lnungers in fuch Company, but lliow in their
COI1`v'CTliZl{lOH the iutereit they take in real ln-
ll1`u&i<_>=1. And the Call uf their 1`Cllill1`};f', vrhich
muft not be cliecltetl in the beginning in the
"
fanalleft
"
To this encl the buiinefs takes Z1 new exter-
I*
L.
I.
can. iii. 'ri-:E GERMAN UNION.
213
" fnalleli degree, although it may be gradually
=' direfted to proper fubjeits of information, will
"
point out in the inoli unequivocal manner their
¢'
peculiar ways of thinking on the important
¢'
iiibjeéis connected with our great object. Here,
¢'
therefore, the aétive Brethren will obferve in
¢'
fecret, and will feleéiz thofe whom they think
=' valuable acqnilitions to the facred Union. They
<' will invite fuch peribns to unite with them-
" felves in their endeavours to enlighten the
" reft of mankind, by calling their attention to
1*
profitable fubjeets of reading, and to proper
"
books. Pteaeing Societies, therefore, are to be
" formed in every quarter, and to be furnifhed
"
with pioper books. In this provilion attention
" muft be paid to two things. The talie of the
¢'
public rnult be complied with, that the So-
¢'
ciety may have any effect at all in bringing
" men
together who are born for lbniewhat more
¢' than juft to look about them. But the general
" taiie may, and mutt alfo be carefully and [kil-
¢'
fully direétecl to fubjefts that will enlarge the
"
cornprehenlion, will fortify the heart, and, by
'>'
habituating the mind to novelty, and to fuc-
"
cefsful difcovery, both in phyfics and in morals,
¢' will hinder the timid from being Ptartled at
"
doctrines "and maxims which are lingular, or
='
perhaps oppolite to thofe which are current
¢' in
ordinary fociety. Commonly a man fpeaks
¢'
as if he thought he Was uttering his own fen-
"
timents, while he is only echoing thegeneral
='
found. Our minds are dreffed in a
prevailing
~" fafhion as much as our
bodies, and with liulf
"
as little congenial to lentiment, as a piece
" of woollen cloth is to the human lltin, So care-
lels and inflolent are men, even in what they
call hrrious converfation. Till reHe&ion be-
2 D "
comes
C(
£6
li
014 'run GERMAN UNION. cnar. iii.
1
comes a habit, what is really a thought itartles,
however lirnple, and, if really uncommon, it
allzonifhes and confouncls. Nothing, therefore,
can fo powerfully tend to the improvement of
the human charaéier, as well-managed R,ead~
ing Societies.
'i þÿll/Vl1 ¬Il
thefe have been eftabliihed in clill'erent
places, we mult endeavour to accomplilh the
followingintermcdiate plans: I. To introduce
a
general literary Gazette or
l"ltevie'v, which,
by uniting all the learned Brethren, and com-
bining with judgment and addrefs all their
talents, and lteadily proceeding according to
a diltinct and preciie plan, may in time fup-
plant every other Gazette, a
thing which its
intrinfic merit and compreheniive plan will
ealily accomplifh. 2. To felecft a fecretary for
our
Society, who (hall have it in charge to
comniiliion the books which they lhall feleét
in conformity to the great aim of the Affocia-
tion, and who (hall undertake to comrnillion
all other books for the curious in his neigh~
`oourhoocl. If there be a bookfeller in the place,
who can be gained over and fworn into the
Society, it will be proper to Choofe him for
this oflice, lince, as will be made more
plain afterwards, the trade will gradually
come into the plan, and fall into the hands
of the Union.
i
"
And now, every eye can perceive the pro-
greflive moral influence which the Union will
acquire on the nation. Let us
only conceive
What fuperllition will lole, and what inftruc-
tion mult gain by this; when, 1. ln every
Reading Society the books are leleftecl by our
`E"raternity. 2. VVhcn we have confidential
perfons in every quarter, who will make it
,,
"
their
camp, iii, THE GERMAN UNIONA
Q15
"
their ferious concern to fpread fuch perform-
"
ances as promote the
enlightening of mankind,
"
and to introduce them even into every cot-
"
tage. 3. Vi/'hen we have the loud Voice of the
"
public on our
lide, and lince we are
able,
"
either to baniih into the fhade all the fanatical
"
writings which appear in the reviews that are
"
commonly read, or to Warn the public againft
"
them; and, on the other hand, to
bring into
"
notice and recommend thofc performances
"
alone which give light to the human mind;
"
4. Vifhen we
by degrees bring the Whole trade
"
of bookfelling into our
hands, (as _the good
"~
writers will fend all their performances into
"
the market through our
means) we (hall bring
"
it about, that at lalt the Writers who labour in-
"
the caufe of fnperftition and refitraint, will
"
have neither a publifher nor readers. 5. Wlien,
"
laftly, by the fprcading of our
Fraternity, all
"
good hearts and fenlible men will adhere to
"
us, and by our means Will be put in a cou-
"
dition that enables them to work in lilence
"
upon all courts, families, and individuals in
"
every quarter, and acquire an influence in the
"
appointment of court-officers, ftewards, fecre-
"-
taries, parilh-prieits, public teachers, and pri-
"
vate tutors.
"
Remark, That we fhall fpeedily get the trade
"
xinto our
hands, (which was
formerly the aim
"
of the Aflbciation called the Gelelzrkvzbuch-
"
ham!/zizzg) is conceivable by this, that every
"
writer who unites with us
immediately acquires
"
a triple number of readers, and finds friends
"
in every place who promote the {`ale of his
"
performance, fo that his gain is increafed ma-
"
nifold, and confequently all will quit the bool<~
"
fellers, aiid accede to us
by degrees. Had the
"
above
'216 'PHE GERMAN Uuzozv. CHAP. iiia
"
above named Ailiociation been conltruiited in
"
this manner, it would, long ere now, have
"
been the only ihop in Germany."
The book called Fuller f7@`7"7?2(Z2'i01l, &c. gives
a more particular account of the advantages held
forth to the literary rnanufaeiurers of Germany
by this Union jbr G0d'J 'axcrit The clafs of lite-
rary Brothers, cry writers by trade, was divided
into Mqfopé/i!e_r, þÿ;Z§Ud ¬7'7725I2,
Me1z, and Czzdezir.
The i'»/IESOFOLITES, Gr lfIe'tropolitauS,- are to
be attached to the archive-ofiicc, and to be taken
care ofin the Union-houfe, when in firaits through
age or misfortune. They will be occupied in the
department of the fciences or arts, which this:
A1Tociation profefs principally to cherifh. They
are alfo Brethren of the third degree of Scotch
Free Maionry, a
qualification to be explained af-
terwards. The Union~hou{e is a
building which
the ofienfible Founder of the Union profeffed to
have acquired, or
fpeedily to acquire at --»---,
through the favour and proteétion of a German
Prince, who is not named.
ALDERMEN are perfons who hold public of-
iices, and are engaged to exercili: their genius and
talents in the feiences. Thefe alfo are Brothers of
the third rank of Scotch Free Mafonry, and out
of their number are the Diocefans and the Direc¢
tors of the Reading Societies leieéted. ,
The members who are" defigued (imply MEN,
are Brothers of the leconal rank of hflafonry, and
have alto a definite fcientilic occupation afligued
them.
The CADETS are writers who have not yet
merited any particular honours, but have exhi~
bited fixicient clifpoiitions and talents for diiiier-
ent kinds of literary zuanuf`a¢`ture.
Every
num. iii, me GERMAN union.
my
Every member is bound to bring the protluc~
tions of his genius to inarket through time Union,
An Alderman receives for an
original Work <30 per
eent.ol` the returns, and 70 for a tranhatiora, 'The
member of the next clals receives 60, and the
Cadet éo. As to the expense or' printing, the Ai-
clerman pays nothing, even tliough the Woil;
iheulcl he on hand unlbltl ; but the _/'/Iam aucl the
Cade! mult pay one-half, Three months after
publication at the fairs an account is brought in,
and after this, yearly, when and in what manner
the author (hall delire.
In every Diocefe will he ellablilhed at leallc one
Reading Society, of which near Soo are
pro-
pofed. To each of' thele will a
copy of an fflder-
manfr work he fent. The Rinse favour will be
lhown to a clillcrtation by a
Zl4'mz, or
by a
Csfcief,
provided that the nianuicript is documented by
an
Alderman, or formally approved by him upon
ferious perulhl. This if}?'U7'!.7/!(ZliZm'l", which mult be
conliderecl as a
powerful recommendation of the
work, is to be pnblillzed in the þÿG ¬l! ¬l`Qi
.Review or
Gfzzerie. This is to be a vehicle of political as
well as of literary news; and it is hoped that, by
its intrinlie worth, and the recornmentlation or
the members, it will (bon fupplant all others,
(W/ith reipeet to ahairs of the Union, a fort of
Cypher was to be employed in it. Rach Diocefan
was there cleligned by a letter, of a lize that
marked his rank, and each member by a number.
It was to appear weekly, at the very linall price
of five-and-twenty lhillings.)-*But let us return
to the plan. ,
V7hen every thing has been eltablifheil in the
manner let forth above, the Union will alliime
the following republican form, (the reader al-
ways recolleiting that this is not to appear to
the
Q
213 THE GERMAN Union. cnnp. iii.;
the World, and to be known only to the mczm1g~
ing Brethren.
Here, however, there is a
great blanlt. The
shove-namecl fltetch of this Conltitution did not
come to the hands of the perfon who turnithed
the boolzfelier with the reft ot' the infortnation.
But we have other documents which give futh-
cient intbrniation for our
purpofe. In the mean
time, let usjuft take the papers as they ftancl.
No. lV. Contains a liit of the German Union,
which the lender received in manufcript. Here
We find many names which we fhould not have
þÿexpe ¬ted,
and mils many that were much more
likely to have been partners in this patriotic
fcheme. There are leveral hundred names, but
very few dehgnations; fo that it is ditlicult to
point out the individuals to the public. Some
however are
defigned, and the writer obferves
that names are found, which, when applied to
ibme individuals whom he knows, accord furprif-
ing-ly with the anecdotes that are to be feen in the
private correibondence of the Illuminati, and in
the romance called Materials for the Hiftory ot'
Socratilin (llltimixiatiihifé. It is but a
dil`ag`ree~
able remarlt, that the lift of the Union contains
*
This, by the by, is a
very curious and entertaining work,
and, had the whole affair been better known in this country,
would have been a much better antidote againft the baneful
eflieets of that Affociation than any thing that I can
give to
the public, being written with much accutenefs and knowledge
of the human mind, and agreeably diveriified with anecdoIC and
ironical exhibition of the attested wifdom and philanthropy of
the knaviih Founder and his coadjutors. If the prefent imper-
fedft and defultory account fhall be found to intereil; the public, I
doubt not but that a tranllstion of this novel, and fume other
fanciful performances on the þÿ{ub_§e ¬t,
will be read with entertain-
ment and profit,
I
the
Gimp. iii. Tan GERMAN union.
'
Q19
the names of many public teachers, hoth from the
pulpit, and from the accademic chair in all its
degrees; and among thefe are feveral wholecy-
pliers (how that they have been aftive hands.
Some of thefe have in their writings given evi~
dent proofs of their rnifconception of the lirnple
truths, whether dogmatieal or
hiliorical, of re-
vealed religion, or of their inclination to twill;
and inanufaftnre them lb as to chime in with the
religion and n1ox'ality_,ofthe Sages of France. But
it is more diftrefling to meet with unequivocal
names of fome who profefs in their writings to
eonlltler thele {`nhje&s as an honeit man lhoulcl
conlider them, that is, according to the plain and
common fenie of the words; whereas we have
demonltrative proofs that the German Union had
the diametrically oppolite purpofe in view. The
only female in the lift is the Cm/511 1/012 der Racke,
the Lady who gave Dr. Stark of Darmltadt fo
much trouble about his Tozjzre. This Lady, as
we have already feen, could not occupy herfelf
with the frivolity of clrefs, tlirtation, or domef-
tic þÿC3.1' ¬S.
"
Femilza jZmz'e_1mfez', 'air pecifore." She
was not pleafed ,however at lincling her name in
fueh a Pleheian lilt, and gave oath, along with
Eielter at the centre, that the was not of the All
fociation. I lee that the public was not fatisliecl
with this denial. The Lady has pnblilhed fome
more fcandal againlt Stark hnce that time, and
takes no notice of it; and there have appeared
many accounts of very ferious literary connec-
tions hetween thefe two perlbns and the man who
was afterwards difcoverecl to he the chief agent
of the Union.
No. V. is an
important document. It is a letter
adclrelled tothe fworn members of the Union, re-
minding the beloved fellow-workers that "
the by-
"
gone
5
220 rar; erasure: unrox. cms. iii.
"
gone management of the buiinefs has been ex~
"'
peniive, and that the XXII. do not mean to make
"
any particular charge for their own
compenfation.
"
But that it was
necefiary that all and each of the
"
members ihould know precifely the Objeci of the
'"
Aiibciation, andthe way which :nature conhdera~
"
tion had pointed out as the mofl effecftttal method
"
of attaining this object. Then, and not till then,
"
could the worthy members act"hy one
plan, and
"
confequently with united force. To accompliih
"'
this purpofe, one of their number had compofed
"
a Treatiie on I/ylrzzéiion, and Ike means
gf _proximi-
"
ing z`i*" This work has been revifed by the whole
number, and may be conlidered as the refult of their
deepeft reiieciion. They fay, that it would be a
hgnal misfortune fhould this Affociation, this under-
taking, fo important forthe happinefs of mankind,
be cramped in the very beginning of its brilliant
progrefs. They therefore propofe to
print this
work, this Holy Scripture of their faith and praéiice,
by fubfcription. (Theyphere give a lhott account
of the work.) And they requeft the members to
encourage the work by fubicribing, and by exerting
more than their ufual aé`tivity in procuring fubfcrip-
tions, and in recotnrnending the performance in the
newfpapers. Four perhans are named as Dioceiaus,
who are to receive the money, which they beg may
he fpeecliiy advanced in order to
purchafe paper,
that the work may be ready for the iirll fair (Earlier
3
738)
No. VI. isa printed paper (as is No. V.) without
date, farther recotnmending the Efiay on ltnfirudtion.
No. VII. is in niannfcript, without date. It is ad-
Ufbfl' AUFFKLARUNG and dem: Brjbrrlerungs-Illiffel. The only
proper travwflation of this word would he, clearing rg) or
ffzliglylen-
ing. If!/;I'!{¢;fi0ll feems the fiugle word that comes neat-ell to the
pvecife meaning of Afglvfffkzrz/ng, but is not fynonymous.
drffied
CHAP. iii. 'rr-is GERMAN UNION. Q21
dreffed to
"
a
worthy man," intimating that the like
are fent to others, to whom will alfo fpeedily be for-
warded an
improved plan, with a
requell to cancel
or dellroy the former contained in No. III. It is
added, that the Union now contains, among many
others, more than two hundred of the moll refpec-
tahle perfons in Germany, of every rank and condi-
tion, and that in the courfe of the year, (1788,) a
general lill will be fent, with a
requefl that the re-
ceiver will point out fuch as he does not think wor-
thy of perfect confidence. It concludes with ano-
ther recommendation of the book on
]2g#rz¢é?;°o1z, on
the returns from which firll work of the German
Union the fttpport of the fecretary's oflice is to de-
end.
P
Accordingly No. VIII. contains this plan, but it
is not entitled T/oe Improfved P/cm. Such a denomi-
nation would have called in doubt the infallibility of
the XXII. It is therefore called the þÿP7'0g7"(j%`2' ¬
(vorlaufig) plan, a title which leaves room for every
fubfequent change. It differs from the former only
in fome unimportant circumflances. Some exprell
Hons, which had given oifence or raifed fufpicions,
are
foftened or cancelled. Two copies ofthis, which
we
may call A and B, are
given, diliering alfo in
fome circumllances.
"
The great aim of the German Union is the good
"
of mankind, which is to be attained only by means
"
of mental illumination (dujit/arzzng) and the de-
"
throning of fanaticifm and moral defpotifm."
Neither paper has the expreilion which immediately
followed in the former plan, "that this had been
"
the aim of the exalted founder of Chriilianity."
The paper A refers, on the prefent fubjetfl, to a dili-
fertation printed in 1787, without ia name, Ou the
freedom fy" the Prcfv ana' its Lz`mz`/alien. This is one
ofthe moli licentious pieces that has been publifhed
2 E f
on
'TL
222 1-as GERMAN UNION. cms. iiis
on the fubjedl, not
only enforcing the molt unquali-
fied liberty of publifhing every thing a man
pleafes,
but exemplifying it in the nmoll lcandalous manner ;
libelling characters of every fort, and perfons of eve-
ry Condition, and this frequently in the mod abu-
ftve language, and exprefhons lo coarfe, as lhewed.
the author to be either habituated to the coarfefl com-
parhy, or determined to try boldly once for all, what
the public eye can bear. The piece goes on:
"
The
Union conhders it asa chief part of its fecret plan
of' operation, to include the trade of bookfelling
C3
"
in their circle. By getting hold of this, they
"
have it in their power to increafe the number of
"
writings which promote inllrutnion, and to lefien
"
that of thofe which mar it, hnce the authors of
"
the latter will by degrees lofe both their publilh-
"
ers and their readers. That the prefent book-¢
"
fellers may do them no harm, they will by degrees
Ci
draw in the greater part of them to unite with
"
them."--The literary newfpaper is here llrongly
inhlled on, and, in addition towhat was laid in the
former plan, it is faid,
"
that they will include po-
"
litical news, as of mighty influence on the public
"
mind, and as a
fnbjetft that merits the clofefl at-
"
tention ofthe moral inllrnélor. For what illumi-
"
nation is that mind fufceptible of, that is fo blind-
"dbytl pjd td d fdbytl
'
e ie re`u ice Crea e an nur e ie
"
habits of civil fubordination, that it worlhips f'tu-
"
pidity or wickednefs under a Coronet, and neglefts
"
talents and virtue under the bearlkin cap ot' the
oor _ e mu ere ore re re en 0 i ica
"b ?W ftthf pltpltl
"
tranfaélions, and public occurrences, not as
they
"
affect that artificial and fantallical creature of ima-
'/G¢
9
gination that we lee every where around us wheel-
"'
ed about in a chariot, but as it atlefls a MAN, ra:
tional, active, free born man.
By thus Ptripping
the tranfatflion of all foreign circumllances, we
`
r
"
lee
¢¢
it
CHAP. iii. THE GERMAN UNION.
Q23
"
fee it as it affecfls, or
ought to affeii, ourfelves.
"
Be
aifured that this new form of political intelli-
"
gence will be highly interelling, and that the
"
Gazette ofthe Union will foon fuperfede all others,
"
and, of itfelf, will defray all our
neceflary ex-
"
pences."
`
This is followed by fome allulions to a fecret Cor-
refpondence that is quick, unliifceptible of all dif-
covery or
treachery, and attended with no
expence,
by which the buhnefs of the fecret plan (dgférefzi
from eifbar ry" ibye cor/z1fzzmic¢ztc'd§ to the /worn Bre-
thren cz!
large) is carried on, and which puts the
members in ai condition to learn every thing that
goes on in the world, for or
againfl their caufe, and
alfo teaches them to know mankind, to
gain an in-
Huence over all, and enables them effeetually to
pro-
mote their beli fubjeéis into all o{lfices,&c. and finally,
from which every member, whether fiatefman, mer-
chant, or writer, can draw his own
advantages. Some
paflages here and in another place make imagine
that the Union hoped to get the command of the
poll-offices, by having their Brethren in the di-
reflion.
`
It is then faid, that "
it is fuppofed that the levy
"
will be fulhciently numerous in the fpring of the
'"
enfuing year. When this takes place, a
general
"
fynod will be held, in which the p/an fyfkcret
"
0perczz`z`o1gs will be Hnally adjuiled, and accommo-
f' dated to local circumflances, io as to be digefled
"
into a law that will need no farther alteration. A
"
proper perfon will fet off from this fynod, with
"
full powers to viiit every quarter where there are
"
fworn Brethren, and he will there eflablilh 21
"
Lodge after the ancient hmple ritual, and will
"
communicate verbally the plan qfkcret opera-
"
7"dfl`0/Z, and certain inllruélions. Thefe Lodges
"
will then ellablilh a
managing fund or box. Each
"
Lodge
'ZQ4 THE GERMAN UNION. CHAKP. iii.
"
Lodge will alfo ellablifh a
Reading Society, under
the management of a bookfeller rehding in the
place, or of fome perfon acquainted with the me-
"
chanicalconduet of things of this nature. There
"
mufl alfo be a colleftor and agent, (Ex}0edz`z'eur,)
fo that in a moment the Union will have its of-
fices or
compioirs in every quarter, through which
"
it carries on the trade of bookfelling, and guides
the ebb and How of its correfpondence. And thus
the whole machine will be fet in motion, and its
"
atftivity is all directed from the centre."
I remark, that here we have not that exclulion of
Princes and minillers that was in the former plan;
they are not even mentioned. The exclulion in ex-
prefs terms could not but furprife people, and ap-
pear fomewhat fufpicious.
No. IX. is a
printed circular letter to the fworn
Brethren, and is fubfcribed "
by their truly affociat-
"
ed Brother Barthels, Oéfraf/12%/ian (lirfi bailii'r`)
"
for the King of Pruliia, at Halle on the Saal."
In this letter the Brethren are informed that "
the
"
XXII. were wont to meet fometimes at Halle, and
"
fometirnes at Berlin. But unavoidable circum-
"
ilances oblige them not
only to remain concealed
"'
for fometime, but even to
give up their relation
"
to the Union, and withdraw themielves from any
ihare in its proceedings. Thefe circumllances
are but temporary, and will be completely ex-
plained in due time. They trull, however, that
this neceffary flep on their part will not abate the
Zeal and activity of men of noble minds, engag-
ed in the caufe by the coiwiélion of their own
hearts. They have therefore commtrnicated to
their worthy Brother Burners all neceliary in-
formations, and have unanitnoully conferred on
him the direction of the fecretary's omce, and
have provided him with every document and
"
mean
ll
LG
LL
Ll.
IL
LL
(C
(C
£L
LL
ll
ll
(G
GG
CL
LG
li
BHAP. iii. *ma GERMAN UNION.
225
"
mean of carrying on the correfpondence. He has
"
devoted himfelf to the honourable office, giving
"
up all other ernployments. They obferve that by
"
this change in the manner of proceeding, the Af-
"
fociation is freed from an
objeetion made with
"
jullice to all other fecret focieties, namely, that
"
the members fubjeél themfelves to blind and un-
"
qualified fubmillion to unknown fuperiors."--
"
The Society is now in the hands of its own avow-
"
ed members. Every thing will loon be arranged
"
according to a conflitution purely republican; a
"
Diocefan will be chofen, and will direét in every
"
province, and report to the centre every fecond
"
month, and inilruélions and other informations
"
will iffue in like manner from the centre.
"
If this plan fhall be approved of by the Affo-
"
ciated, H. Barthels will tranfmit to all the Dio-
cefes general lifts of the Union, and the PLAN or
SECRET Or=£RA'rioN, the refult of deep medita-
tion of the XXII. and admirably calculated for
carrying on with irreiiflable effect their noble and
patriotic plan. To flop all cabal, and put an end
to all flander and fulpicion, H. Barthels thinks it
proper that the Union lhall llep forward, and de-
clare itfelf to the world, and openly name fome
of its moil refpesflable members. The public
r
mufl however be informed only with refpecl to
the ex!erz`0r of the Society, for which purpofe he
had written a lheet to be annexed as an
appendix
to the work, On [ap'rz¢é?io1z, declaring that to be
the work of the Society, and a fuflicient indica-
tion of its moft honourable aim. He defires
fuch members as choofe to [hare the honour
with him, to fend him their names and proper
tlefignations, that they may appear in that Ap-
pendix. And, laflly, he requefis them to in-
ilrnéft him, and co-operate with him, according
.
"
to
(I
CL
GL
(G
LL
H
(C
Ll
LL
LL
GC
u
Ll.
ta
¢¢
H
H
G(
U
Ll
226 Tm: GERMAN UNION. M cHAp.iii.
"
to the concerted rules of the Union, in promot-
"
ing the caufe of God and the happinels of man-P
"
kind."
The appendix now alluded to makes No. X. of
the packet {`ent to the Booltfeller Golchen of Leip-
zig, and is dated December 1783. It is allb found
in the bool; On In/?rz¢éZz°0fz, éicc. printed at Leipzig
in 1739, by Vvalther. Here, however, the Appen-
dix is dated _lanuary 1789. This edition agrees in
the main with that in the book from which I
have made fuch copious extrafts, but cli&`ers in
fome particulars that are not unworthy of remark,
"
In the packet it is written,
"
T/fe Ufzder-
"jgned ar fléfember and _/iqeazi of Me Germm;
"
Union, in order to
rectify feveral miflakes and
"
injurious ilanders and accufations, thinks it ne-
"
ceffary thatthe publicitfelfihould judge oftheir
"
object and condut'ft."-ToW:n'ds the end it is
faid,
"
and all who have any doubts may apply
"
to thofe named below, and are invited to write
"
to them." No names however are
fnbjoined.
In the Appendix to the book it is only faid,
"
the
"
agent of the German Union," &c. and "
per-
"
fons who with to be better informed may write
"
to the agent, under the addre&, To z%c»Germa/z
"
Urziofz-under cover to the lhop of Wfaltlxer,
"
bookfeller in Leipzig."~Here too there are no
names, and it does not appear that any perfon has
chofen to come from behind the curtainili.
Walther is an eminent hookfeller, and carries on the bulinefs of
publifhing to a
great extent, both at Leipzig and other places.
He was the publifher of the moit virulent attacks on the King of
Pruflia's Edift on
Religion, and was
brought into much trouble
about the Commentary by Pott which is mentioned above. He
alfo publilhes many of the fceptical and licentioilsrgvritings which
have fo much difhirbed the peace of Germany.
There
ensue. iii. me GERMAN UNION.
Q27
There has already been fo much laid about .En-
/zgbf.f1zz`1zg, that the reader mull be almoli tiretl of it.
l-le is allurecl in this performance that the Illumina-
tion propofed by the Union is not that of the h9b/-
fezzéuiile Fragnzmls, nor that of Hoaus, nor that of
Babrdf. The þÿI'T7"dg`77l¬7lf.§`and Horus are books which
aim directly, and without any concealment, to de-
llroy the authority of our
Scriptures, either as hillo-
rical narrations or as revelations of the intentions of
providence and ofthe future profpecis of man. The
Theological writings of Babrdf are grofs perverhons,
both of the fenle of the text, and of the moral in-
Ptructions contained in it, and are
perhaps the melt
exceptionable pertormances on the fu_bjec'l. They
are
Ptigmatifed as abfurd, and coarfe, and indecent,
even
by the writers on the fame licie ; yet the work
recommended io often as containing the elements of
that Illumination which the world has to
expeci from
the Union, not only coincides in its general princi-
ples with thefe performances, but is almoll an ab-
itracl of fome of them, particularly of his Popular
Reifgiofz, his Pampbm/f on 1158 Sermon on fbe fsiozzrzi,
and his lllom/z`zfy Q' Re!z;gz`o1z. W'e have alfo feen
that the book on the Liberty of the Prefs is quoted
and recommended as an
elementary book. Nay
both the_vorl< on Inlhuétion and that on the Liber-
ty of the Preii are now known to he Bahrdt's.
But thefe principles, exceptionable as
they may
be, are
probably not the worll of the inllitution.
We fee that the ouzfde alone of the Union is to be
lhewn to the public. Barthels felicitates the public
that there is no fubordination and blind obedience
to unknown Superiors; yet, in the fame paragraph,
he tells us that there is a fecret plan of operations,
that is known only to the Centre and the Confiden-
tial Brethren. The author of Fu!/er ]1y'01'mfzz'i01z
lays that he has this plan, and would print it,, were
-
he
Z
9.28 "ma GERMAN UNION. cnAt>. iii.
he not relirained by a
promife*. I-Ie gives us
enough
however to ihow us that the higher mylteries of the
Union are
precifely the fame with thofe of the Illu-
minati. Chriltianity is exprefsly faid to have been
a
Myftical Aiiociation, and its founder the Grand
Maller of a Lodge. The Apoflles, Peter, james,
John, and Andrew, were the E!eé'?, and Brethren of
the'Third Degree, and initiated into all the myfie-
ries. The remaining Apoftles were
only of the
Second Degree ; and the Seventy-two were of the
Firft degree. Into this degree ordinary Chriiiians
may be admitted, and prepared for further advance-
ment. The great miftery is, that J--C---wasa
Naiuralf, and taught the doctrine ofa Supreme
Mind, the Spectator, but not the Governer of the
World, pretty nearly in the fenfe of the Stoics.
The Initiated Brethren were to be iniiruafled by read-
ing proper books. Thofe particularly recommend~
ed are B'af~dow's Prfz£2'im! Knowledge, E5erb¢zr¢z".¢
Apology for Socrafes, Bfzlvrcz'z"s Apology for Reqhn,
S!eirzoard1"s Syjom cy".Moral Educaiion, .Moz`ner'.s /fn-
cieni My/}erz'es, Babr¢Z!'.v Lefiers on I/oe Biole, and
.Bo/orcifs Comp/e!z`on ¢ the P/an and Aim Q" jf--
C--. Thefe books are of the molt Antichriltian
eharaéter, and fome of them aim at fhaking off all
moral obligation whatever.
Along with thefe religious dotfirines, are incul~
cated the molt dangerous maxims of civil conducft.
The defpotifm that is aimed at over the minds of
men, and the machinations andgintrigues for obtain-
ing potfeflion of places of truit and influence, are
equally alarming; but being perfectly iimilar to thofe
of the Illuminati, it is needlefs to mention them.
The chief intelligence that we'get from this
author is that the CENTRE. of the Union is at a
*
This I find to be falfc, andthe book a common job.
i
houfe
eiiar; iii.: iran GERMAN UNION; Qiig
houfe in the neighbourhood of Halle. It is a fort
of tavern, in a
vineyard immediately without the
city. This was
bought by þÿDo ¬tor
KARL Fein-»
DERICH BAHRDT, and fitted up For the amulement
of the Univerlity Students. He calls it BA!-lRDT,S
RUHE (Bahrdt's Repole). The author thinks that
this mutt have been the work of the Ailociation,
heeaufe Bahrdt had not a
farthing, and was total-
ly unable for lilch an undertaking. He may how#
'ever have been the eontriver of the inflitutiona
'He has never afhrmed or denied this in explicit
terms; nor has he ever laid who are the XXII eo-
adjutors. VVucherer, an eminent bookfeller at
Vienna, feems to have been one of the molt aétive
hands, and in one
year admitted near two hun-
dred members, among whom is his own (hoe-
maker, y
He has publifhed fome ofthe molt profli-
gate pamphlets which have yet appeared in Ger-
many;
The publication of the lift of members alarmed
the nation ; perfons were altonilhed to find them~
felves in every quarter in the midlt of villains who
were plotting againft the peace and happinefs of
the country, and deftroying every fentiment of re-
ligion, morality, or
loyalty. Many perfons pub~
lilhed in the newfpapers and literary journals aliir-
mations and proofs of the falfe inlertion of their
names. Some acknowledged that curiolity had
made them enter the Alfociation, and even conti-
nue their eorrefpondence with the Centre, in or-
der to learn fomething of what the Fraternity had
in view, but declared that they had never taken
any part in its proceedings. But, at the fame time,
it is certain that many Reading Societies had been
fet up during thefe tranfaéftiozis, in every quarter
of Germany, and that the oltenlible managers
were inigeneral of very
léfmfpiciouscharaéters, both
Q ~
ZS
2383 ras GERMAN union. cnas. iii.
as to morals and loyalty. The Union had actual-
ly fet up a prels of their own at Calbe, in the
neighbourhood of Halberfladt. Every day there
appeared itronger proofs of a combination of the
jonrnalilts, Reviewers, and even ofthe puhlifhers
and bookfellers, to lilpprels the writings which
appeared in defence of the civil and ecelelialtical
conltitntions ot' the States of Germany. The ex-
tenlive literary mannfafture of Germany is carri-
ed on in Rich a manner that it is impofhble for any
thing leis than the joint operation of the whole
federated powers to prevent this. The fpirit of
freethinking and innovating in religions matters
had been remarkably prevalent in the dominions
of the King of Prullia, having been much encou-
raged by the indilierence of the late King. One of
the vileflthingspublilhed on this occahon was an a-
bominable farce, called the Religion Ediéft. This
was traced to Bahrdt's Ruhe, and the Doctor was ar-
refled, and all his papers feized and ranfacked. The
civil Magillrate was glad of an
opportunity of expif-
Cating the German Union, which common fame had
alfo traced hither. The correfpondence was ac-
cordingly exarnined, and many difcoveries were
made, which there was no occahon to communicate
to the public, and the profecution of the buiinefs of
the Union was
by this means
llopped. But the per-
fons in high ollice at Berlin agree in faying that the
Aflociation of writers and other turbulent perfons in
Germany has been but very faintly hit by this blow,
and is almoll as aélive as ever.
The German Union appears a mean and precipi-
tate Alfociation. The Centre, the Archives, and
the Secretary are
contemptible. All the Archives
that were found were the plans and lifis of the mem-
bers anda parcel of letters of correfpondence. The
correfpondence and other bunnefs was
managed by
an
eau. iii. THE GERMAN Union.
231
an old man in fome Very inferior office or
judicato-
rv,,who lived at bed and board in Bahtdfs houfe for
ahout hx ihillings a week, having a chefi of papers
and a writing-deff; in the corner of the common
room ofthe houfe.
Bahrdt gives a
long narration of his Concern in
the affair, but we can
put little conndence in what
he fays :
yet as we have no better authority, I lhall
give a
very ihort ahllracfi of it, as follows :
He faid, that he learned Cofme-political Free
Mafonry in England, when he was there getting pu-
pils for his academy-~-but negleéied it on his return
to Germany. Some time after his fettlement he
was rouied by a viht from a
flranger who paifed for
an Englifhtnan, hut whom he afterwards found to be
a Dutch oflicer---(he gives a
defcription which
bears coniiderable refemhlance to the Prince or Ge-
nera1Salms who gave fo much difiurbance to the
States General)---He was Ptill more excited by an
anonymous letter giving him an account ofa Society
which was
employed in the inftruéiion of mankind,
and a
plan of their mode of operations, nearly the
fame with that of No. III. He then fet up a
Lodge
of Free Mafonry on
Cofmo-political principles, as a
preparation for engaging in this great plan-»-he was
iiopped by the National Lodge, hecaufe he had no
patent from it.-~-This obliged him to work in fe-
cret.---He niet with a
gentleman in a coiiee-~houfe,
who entreated him to go on, and proxnifed him great
afhliance---this he got from time to time, as he iicod
inofi in need of it, and he now found that he was
working in Concert with many powerfnl though un-
known friends, each in his own circle. The plan
of operation of the_XXII. was
gradually unfolded to
him, and he got folemn protnifes of being made ac-
quainted with his colleagues. But he now found,
that after he had fo eiientially ferved their Poole
Caine,
'13'2 'rua GERMAN union. CHAP. iii.
caufe, he was
dropped by them in the hour of dan#
ger, and thus was made the facrifice for the public
good. The lafl packet which he received was a re-
quelt from a Pifzknd to the Union to
print two
per-=
formances fent him, with a
proxnile of loo dahlers
for his trouble. Thefe were the aboniinable farce
called the Religion Ediél, and fome Dillertations on
that Royal Proclamation.
He then gives an acco1_1ntoFhis.fyl`tem of Free
Mafonry, not very different from Vfeilhaupt's Ma»
fonic Chriftianity-and concludes with the follow-
ing abftraft of the advantages of the Union»--Adf
fvancenient of Science-f-A general interefl and con-
cern for Arts and Learning--Exciternentof Talents-f
Check of Scribbling--Good Education--Liberty--=
Equality-Hofpitality-Deliveryof many from Mis~
fortunes--Union of the Learned?-eand at lali--pew
haps--Amen.
Vhat the meaning of this enigmatical conclulion
is we can only guefs--and our conjectures cannot be
Very favourable.
The narration, of which this is a
very lhort inf
dex, is abundantly entertaining; ,but the opinion of
the moil intelligent is, that it is in a
great meahire
fictitious, and that the contrivance of the Union is
mollly his own.
Although it could not be legally
proved that he was the author of the farce, every
perfon in court was convinced that he was, and in-
deed it is perfeftly in Bahtdt's very lingular manner.
This invalidates the whole of his llory--and he af-
terwards acknowledges the farce (at leall hy impli-
cation) in feveral writings, and hoafis of' it.
For thefe reafons I have omitted the narration in
detail. Some information, however, which I have
received lince, feems to confirm his account, while
it diminilhes its importance. I now tincl that the
book called Fu!/er ]1W:'maIz`o1z is the performance of
'
a cicrgynian
enn. iii. THE GERMAN Union.
234
a
clergyman called Sc/Butz, of the lowelt clafs, and
by no means of an eminent charatfier.-Another
performance in the form of a
dialogue between X,
Y, and Z, giving nearly the Raine account, is by Pott,
the dear friend of Bradht and of his Union, and au-
thor of the Commentary on the Edicit. Schntz got
his materials from one
Roper, an
expelled iludent
of debauched morals, who fubiilied by copying and
vending filthy manufcripts, Bahrdt fays, that he
found him naked and ftarving, and, out of pity,
tool; him into his houfe, and employed him as an
amanueuhs. Roper Hole the papers at various times,
taking them with him to Leipzig, whither he went
on
pretence of hcltnefs. At laft Schutz and he went
to Berlin together, and gave the information on
which Bahrdt was
put in prifon. ln fliort they all
appear to have been equally profligates and traitors
to each other, and exhibit a dreadful, but Ihope a
ufeful piéiure of the influence of this Illumination
which fo wonderfully faicinates Germany.
This is all the direci information that I can
pick
up _of the founder and the proceedings 'of the Ger-
man Union. The project is coarfe, and palpably
mean, aiming at the dahlers of entry-money and of
annual contribution, and at the publication and pro-
fitable fale of Dr. Bahrdt's books. This circumflance
gives it llrong features of its parentage»-Philo fpeaks
of Bahrdt in his Pina! Declamfion in terms of con-
tempt and abhorence. There is nothing ingenious,
nothing new, nothing enticing, in the plans; and
the immediate purpofe of indulging the licentious
tafte of the public comes fo frequently before the
eye, that it bears all the marks of that groffnefs of
mind, precipitancy, and impatient overiight that
are to be found in all the voluminous writings of
Dr. Bahrdt. Many in Germany, however, afcribe
the Union to
Weilliaupt, and lay that it is the Illu-
inmatz
4
234 THE GERMAN UNION. CHAD. iii.
minati working in another form. There is no
deny-
ing that the principles, and even the manner of
proceeding. are the fame in every eifential circum-
iiance. Many paragraphs of the declamations cir-
culated through Germany with the plans, are tran~
icribed verbatim from VVeifhaupt's þÿC0r:f ¬5" ¬¢{
'Lv/fem
of [Z/ur/zz'/zfzlz/Su. Much of the work O11 _[ig/}}"llLC?f0/Z,
and the MEGIZJWV prof/zofifzg z`z', is very nearly a
copy
of the fame work, blended with flovenly extracis
from fome of his own writings-There is the Rune
feries of cielulions from the beginning, as in Illumi-
natifm--Free Mafonry and Chriiiianity are corn-
pounded-iirit with marks of refpeii--then Chrif-
tianity is twifted to a
purpofe foreign from it, but
the fame with that aimed at by Veilhanpt-then it
is thrown away altfogetlier, and Natural Religion and
Atbeifm fubllituted for it-For no
perfon will have
a momenfs hehtation in faying, that this is the creed
of the author of the books On If;/z'rzz5z'0n and On I/be
Liberfy cy' the PNQG. Nor can he doubt that the
political principles arc
cqually anarchical with
thoiie of the iiiuminati.-The endeavours alib to
get poffeiiion of public ofhccs-~ef places of edu-
cation-of the public mind, by the Reading So-
cieties, and by publications-are fo many tran-
fcripts from the Illuminati. Add to this, that
Bahrdt was an I//zz/¢z2':1cz3'z4f-aratl wrote thc Eefim'
1"/im? Horzzr, at time command of Vvcilhaupt. Nay,
it is well known that VVci{hanpt was twice or
thrice at Bahx'dt's Ruhc during thofe ti'anfe6`tions,,
and that llc Zcaloufiy promotccl the i`Ol`H`ifl[i(`>D of
Reading Societies in lieveral pieces.-But I am i'a~
ther of the opinion that Vx/cilhuupt made tbofc
vihts in order to keep Bzilirclc within tome
bounds of decency and to hinder him from hi:x°t~
'
- 7
U s
mg thc þÿcz1a ¬i:byh1S;51°5cap1tar1cy7
vslicn Qnnrrcd on
by the want of money. `Wciliianpt could not work
in
GZHAP. iii. THE GERMAN UNION.
235
in fuch an unflcilful manner. But he would be
very glad of fuch help as this coarfe tool couid
give him-and Bahrdt gave great help; for, when
he was imprifoned and his papers feized, his Ar-
chives,_ as he called them, fnewed that there
were
many Reading Societies which his projeit
had drawn together. The Pruliian States had
above thirty, and the number of readers was af~
tonilhingly great-and it was found, that the per-
nicious books had really found theinway into
every hut. Eahrdt, by defcending a
itory lower
than VVeifhaupt, has greatly increaied the number
of his pupils.
But, although l cannot conhfier the German
Union as a formal revival of the Grder under an-
other name, I mutt hold thofe U/zifed and the
1,3 L'
'g
-
7
memoers oi thole Rteacling Societies, as I//zmzzizafz
antl/Winer*0a/J. I mutt even confider the Union
as a part of Spartacus' work. The plans of Weié
lhaupt were
partly carried into elfeét in their dif~
ferent branches-they were pointed out, and the
way to carry them on are
cii{lin&ly defcrihed in
the private coriefpondenee of the Order--It re-
quired little genius to attempt them in imitation
Bahrdt made the attempt, and in part iiicceeded
V7ei(haupt's hopes were well founded--The lea-
ven was not only difltributed, but the management
of the fermentation was now
underfiood, and it
Went on
apace.
It is to be remarked, that nothing was found
among Bahrdt's papers to fupport the Rory he
writes in his diary-no fnch correfpondences-
but enough for detcéting many of thefe Societies.
l/Iany others however were found unconneéted
with Bahrdt'SRuhe, not of better charaéter, either
as to Iviorality or
Loyalty, and fome of them C011-
iiderahle and expenlive; and many proofs were
; found
Z
5236 frm; GERMAN union; eau; iii;
found of a combination to force the public to a
certain Way of thinking, by the manageiiieiitof
the Reviews and journals. The extenfive dealings
of Nicholaiof Berlin gave him great weight in
the hook-making trade, which in Germany iiir-
paifes all our conceptions. The catalogues of new
writings in fheets, which are printed twice a-year
for each of the fairs at Leipzig and Frankfort,-
Wouid aftonifh a Britiih reader by the number;
The booicieilers meet there, and at one glance
fee the whole republic of literature, and, like Ro#
man
fenators, decide the fentiments of diitant
provinces. By thus ieeing the whole together,
their fpecuiatiolns are national, and they really
have it in their power to give what turn
they
pleafe to the literature and to the fentiments oi?
Germany. Still however they muft be induced by
motives. The motive of a merchant is gain, and
every objetft appears in his eye fomething by
which 'money may be made. Therefore in a lux~
urious and voluptuous nation, licentious and free#
thinking books will abound. The writers Iiiggeit;
and the bookfeliers think how the thing will tickle.;
Yet it muft not be inferred, from the prevalence
of fuph books, that fuch is the common fenfe of
mankind, and that the writings are not the cor=
rupters, but the corrupted, or that they are what
they ought to be, becaufe they pleafe the public.;
'R/Ve need only pulh the matter to an
extremity;
and its caufe appears plain. Filthy prints will al-
ways create a greater crowd before the ihop wins
dow than the fineit performances of Wollett. Li-=
centious books will he read with a
fluttering eager*
nefs, as
long as
they are not univerfally permitted ;
and pitiable will be the ftate of the nation when
their number makes them familiar and no longer
captivating. _ .
But
CHAP. iii, THE GEl{N1AN' UNION. 237
But although it mutt be confeifecl that great en-
couragement was given to the fceptical, infidel,
and liceutious writings in Germany, We fee that
it was ltill neceffary to praétife feduétion. The
Relzgionyi was made to expect lbme engaging ex-
hibition of his faith. The þÿCil'Z'Z ¬7l
mult be told
that his civil conneftions are refpeétecl, and will
be improved 5 and all are told that good manners
or virtue is to be lhpported. Man is fnppofed to
be, in very elfential circumliances, what he Wifhes
to be, and feels he ought to be : and he is cor-
rupted by means of falfefhoocl and trick. The
principles by which heis Wheedled into wicked-
neis in the firil; inftance, are therefore fuch as are
really addreffed to the general fentiments of man-
kind: thele therefore lhould be conliderecl as
more expreilive of the public mind than thofe
which he afterwards adopts, after this artificial
education. Therefore Virtue, Patriotifm, Loy-
alty, Veneration for true and undefiled Religion,
are
really acknowledged by thofe corrupters to be
the prevailing fentiments; and they are good if
this prevalence is to be the telt of worth. The
mind that is otherwife affeéted by them, and hy-
pocritically ufes them in order to get hold of the
uninitiated, that he may in time be made to cherilh
the contrary fentiments, cannot be a good mind,
notwithftanding any preteniions it may make to
the love of mankind."
No man, not Viieifhaupt himfelf, has made
flzronger profellions of benevolence, of regard for
the happinels of mankind, and of every thing that
is amiable, than Dr. Bahrdt. It may not be ufe-
lefs to enquire what effect Rich principles have had
on his own
mind, and thofe of his chief coadju-
tors. Deceit of every kind is difhonourable ; and
the deceit that is profeffedly employed in the pro-
2 G ceedings.
238 THE GERMAN UNION. ,cfmsiiii
_ceeclings of the Union is 'no exception. No pi-
ous fraud 'zu/zafcver muflz be ufed, and pure reli-
gion mu(°c be prefentecl to the View without all
difguife.
"
The more fair Virtue's feen, the more ihe charms.
"
Safe, plain, und eafy, are her artlefs ways.
"
With face ereéi, her eyes look ilrait before ;
"
For dauntlefs is her march, her Rep fecure.
"
Not fo, pale Fraud-now here fhe turns, now there,
"
Still feeking darker fhades, fecure in none,
"
Looks often back, and wheeling round and round,
"
Sinks headlong in the danger fhe would fhun."
_
The mean motive ofthe Proteltant Scepticis
as inconiiilent with our notions of honelly as with
our notions of honour ; and our fufpicions are
juftly raifed of the charaéfter of Dr. Bahrclt and
his a{l`ociates,e/en although we do not fuppofe that
their aim is the total aboliihing ofreligion. With
propriety therefore may We make fonie enquiry
about their lives and conduit. Fortunately'this
is eafy in the prefent inltance. A man that has
turned every eye upon himfelf can
hardly efcape
obfervation. Butit is not fo eafy to get fair infor-
mation. The peculiar fituation of Dr. Bahrclt,
and the caufe between him and the public, are of
all others the mofi: procluéiive of millake, mif-
1*epre{`entation, obloquy, and injuliice. But even
here we are fortunate. Many reniarkable parts
of his life are eftablifhed by the moli refpcétahle
teflimony, or
byjudicial evidences; and,to make
all fure, he has written his own life. I lhall infert
nothing here that is not made out
by the two lafl
modes of proof, refting nothing on the firii, how~
ever refpeétable the evidence may be. But I mult
obferve, that his life was alfo written by his dear
friend Pott, the partner of Waltliei' the bookfel-
_
ler.
erin. iii.` Tux: GERMAN UNION-X 25g
ler. The ftory of this publication is curious, and'
it is inltruftive.
Bahrdt was in prifon, andfin great poverty. He
intended to write his own life, to be printed by
VValther, under a fictitious name, and in this work
he intended to indulge his fpleen and his dillike of
all thofe who had oliended him, and in particular
all prielts, and rulers, and judges, who had given
him fo much trouble. He knew that the lirange,
and many of them fcandalous anecdotes, with
which he had fo liberally interlarded many of his
former publications, would let curiolity on tiptoe,
and would procure a
rapid fale as foon as the pub-
lic fhould guefs that it Was his own performance,
by the Iingular but lignificant name which the
pretended author would ailume. He had almoft
agreed with Walther for a thouland dahlers,
(about L. 200), when he wasimprifoned for being
the author of the farce fo *often named, and of
the 'commentary on the Re/zgion Edz`c'z', written by
Pott, and for the proceedings of the German Uni-
on. He was refufed the ufe of pen and ink. Ho
then applied to Pott, and found means to corref-
pond with him, and to give him part of his life
already Written, and materials for the reli, con-
liiling of llories, and anecdotes, and correfpon-
dence. Pott fent him feveral fheets, with which
he was fo pleafed, that they concluded a
bargain.
Bahrdtfays, that Pott was to have 400 copies, and
that the reft was to go to the maintenance of`Bahrdt
and his family, conlifiing of his wife, daughter, a
Chriiiina and her children who lived with them,
&c. Pott gives a different account, and the truth
was different from both, but of little confequence
to us. Bahrdt's papers had been feized, and fearch-
ed for evidence of his tranfacftions, but the l`tri<Et-
ell attention was paid to the precife points of the
clrig
Q40 rm; GERMAN UNION. cr~1A.P.iii.
charge, and no
paper was abftra6`ted which did
not relate to thele. All others were kept in a teal-
ed room. Pott procured the removal of the foals
and got pollemon of them. Bahrdt lays, that his
wife and daughter came to him ian prifon, almolt
flarving, and told him that now that the room was
opened, Pott had made an olifer to write for their
liipport, if he had the ufe of thefe papers-that
this was the concluiion of the bargain, and that
Pott took away all the papers. N. B. Pott was the
affoeiate of Vifalther, who had great confidence
IU him (daecdorenbzic/1 fm* meiizefz leiben _»§'mzf/®r/¢-
der, p. 400) and had condufted the bulinefs of
Stark's book, as has been already mentioned.
No man was better known to Bahrdt, for they had
long a&ed together as chief hands in the Union.
He would therefore write the life of its founder
con amore, and it might be expected to be a rare
and fiiikling perfornlance. And indeed it was,
The Hrfl part of it only was publilhed at this Lime;
and the narration reaches from the birth of the
hero till his leaving Leipzig in 1763' The atten,
tion is kept fully awake, but the emotions which
fucceiiively occupy the mind of the reader are nor
thing but ltrong degrees of averlion, diiguli, and
horror. The figure fet up to view is a monder,
a man of talents indeed, and capable of great things,
but lofi to
truth, to virtue, and even to the attec-
tati0Il of common decency-In fhort, a fhameleis
pr0fligate.--Poor Bahrdt was al'to1'iifhed,_itared
--but, having his "Wits about him, faw"that this
lite would fell, and would alio fell another.--
Without lofs of time, he laid that he would hold
Pott to his bargain--but he r;'Ci<.oned without his
hofi.
"
No, no," faid Pott,
"
your are not the
"
man I took you for-your corrdiaondence was
"
put into my hands-f-I law that you had de-
"
ceived
CHAP. iii. 'rua GERMAN UNION.
241.
ceived me, and it was
my duty, as a man
who love: trzifh above all 1*/zifzgf, to hinder you
from deceiving the world. l have not writ-
ten the book you delired me. I did not work
for you, but for rnyielf--therefore you get
not a
grofchen."
"
Why, Sir," faid Bahrd t, wc?-
both lgnovv that this won°t do. You and 1 have
already tried it, You received Starl=.'s manu-
fcript, to be printed by V*/alther--'vValther and
you fem; it hither to l/Iichaelis, that l might lee
it during the printing, 1 wrote an illultratino
and a
key, which made the fellow very ridicu-
lous, and they were printed together, with one
title page.-=You know that we were cali in
court.-VValther was obliged to print the work
as Stark firlt ordered, and we loft all our la-
bour.-So lhall you now, for I will commence
an action this inllant, and let me fee-with what
face you will defend yourfelf, Within a few
Weeks of your lalt appearance in Court." Pott
faid,
"
You may try this. l'v'Iy work is already fold,
and difperfed over all Germany-and Ihave
no
objecftion to begin yours to-morrow-heliev~e
"
.
.1
me, it wi lfell." Bahrdt pondered-and refolv-
ed to Write one himfelf.
This is another ipecimen of the Union.
DR. CARL FREDERICK BAHRDT. was born in
1741. His father was then a
parifh minilter, and
afterwards Profellbr of Theology at Leipzig,
where he died, in 1775. The youth, when at
College, enlilied in the Prullian lervice as a
liufhxr,
but was
bought off by his father. He WHS M. A.
in
1761. He became eatechilt in his t`ather's
churvh, was a
popular preacher, and publilhed
fCrIn0HS in
1765, and forne controverlial Writings,
which did him honour--But he .then began to in-
dulge in conviviality, and in anonymous pafqui-
nades,
242 rms GERMAN UNION. CHAP. iii.
hades, uncommonly bitter and oiienlive. No per-
fon was {afe»--Profelibrs--hflagil`trates-Cler_gy-
men, had his chief notice--alib lludents-and
even comrades and friends. (Bahrdtfays, that
thefe things might cnt to the quick but they were
alijuft.) Unluckily his temperament was what the
atornical philofophers (who can
explain every
thing by athers and vibrations) call fanguine. He
t!2ercyQ>re (his own
word) was a
paflionate admirer
of the ladies. Coming home from fiipper he fre-
quently met a
young I/Iifs in the Way to his lodg-
ings, neatly drelled in a rofe-coloured iilk jacket
and train, and a fable bonnet, coftly, and like a
lady. One evening (after l`ome old Renilh, as he
lays,) he faw the lady home. Some time after, the
miflrels of the houfe, Madam God{`chu{l<y, came
into his room, and faid that the poor maiden was
pregnant. He could not help that--but it was
very
unfortunate, and would ruin him if known.-He
therefore gave the old lady a bond For zoo dah~
lers, to be paid byinftalments of twenty-five.i
"
The girl was
feniible, and good, and as he had
"
already paid for it, and her converfation was
"
agreeable, he did not dilcontinue his acqua1nt~
"
ance." A comrade oneday told him, that one
Bel, a
magiilrate, whom he had lampooned, knew
the ariair, and would bring it into court, unlefs he
immediately retrieved the bond. This bond was
the only evidence, but it was enough. Neither
Bahrdt nor his friend could raile the money. But
they fell on another contrivance. They got Ma-
dam Godfchufky to meet them at another houfe,
in order to receive the money. Bahrdtwas in a
clofet, and his comrade wore a fword. The wo-
man could not be prevailed on to produce the
bond till Bahrdt fhouid arrive, and the money be
put into her hands, with a prefent to herfelf. The
comrade
iHAP.1l]. THE GERMAN UNION.
comrade tried to flutter her, and, drawing his
livord, fhewed her how men fenced-made pafles
at the Wall-and then at her-but fhe was too
firm--he then threw away his fword,»~and began
to try to force the paper from her. She defended
herfelfa good while, but at length he got the pa-
per out of her pocket, tore lt in pieces, opened the
clofet door, and laid,
"
There you b--, there
f' is the honourable fellow whom you and your
C(
wh-- have bullied-but it is with me
you have
to do now, and you know that°I can hring you
to the gallows." There was a great Qiuahble to
be fure, fays Bahrdt, but it ended, and I thought
all was now over.-But llvlr. Bel had got Word of
it, and brought it into court the very day.that
Bahrdt was to have made fome very reverend ap-
pearance at church. In fhort, after many attempts
of his poor father to fave him, he was obliged to
fend in his gown andband, and to quit the place.
It was fome comfort, however, that Madanl
Godlchufky and the young l`/lifs did not fare much
an
ic
better. They were both imprifoned. Madam G."
died lbmetime after of lome fhocking difeafe.
The court records give avery different account of
the whole; and particularly of the fcuffle; but
Bahrdt's ftory is enough.
'~
Bahrdt fays, that his father was fevere---but ac-
kuowledges that his own
temperament was
hally,
(why does not his father's temperament excufe fome-
thing? VYéra!izmcu/fe will explain every thing or
nothing.
"
T/aerq/"0re.,(again) I fometimes forgot
myfelf. One day I laid a loaded piflol on the table,
and told him that he lhould meet with that if he went
on fo. But I was
only feventeen."
Dr. Bahrdtwas, of courfe, obliged to leave the
place. His friends, and Semler in particular, an
eminent theological writer, who had formed a very
_
favourable
Q44 'rm-1 GERMAN UNroN. gimp, iii;
favourable opinion of- his uncommon talents, were
alliduous in their endeavours to get an eflablilhment
for him. But his high opinion of himfelf, his tem~
per, impetuous, precipinanhand overbearing, and a
bitter fatirical habit which he had freely indulged
in his outfet of life, made tlieir endeavours Very in-
effectual.
At lail he got a
profefiorfhip at Erlangen, then at
Erfurth, and in 1771, at Gieflen. But in all thefe
places he was no' fooner fettled than he got into difi
putes with his colleagues and with the eilablilhed
church, being a flrenuous partizan of the innovaf
tions which were
attempted to be made in the doc-
trines of chrillianity. In his anonymous publica-
tions, he did not trufl to rational difcullion alone,
but had recourfe to ridicule and perfonal anecdotes,
and indulged in the mofl cutting farcafins and grofs
fcurrility. Being fond of convivial company, his
income was infuifiicient for the 'craving demand,
and as foon as he foundthat anecdote and llander
always procured readers, he never" ceafed writing.
He had wonderful readinefs and activity, and fpared
neither friends nor foes in his anonymous perform-
ances. But this could not lail, and his avowed the-
ological writings were fuch as could not be fuifered
in a Profeilor of Divinity. The very Ptudents at
Giellenwere ihocked with lbine of his liberties. Af-
ter much wrangling in the church judicatories he
was
juil going to be difrniiled, when he got an invi-
tation to Marfchlins in Switzerland to fuperintend
an
academy. He went thither about the year 1776,
and formed the ieminary after the model of Bale-
dow's Philanthropine, or academy, at Defiau, of
which I have already given fonie account. It had
acquired fome celebrity, and the plan was
peculiarly
fuited to Bahrdt's taile, becaufe it left him at liberty
to introduce any lyllern ,of religious or irreligious
opinions
GHAP. iii; "tar, GERMAN union.
245
opinions that he pleafed; He refolved to avail him-
felf of this liberty, and though a
clergyman and
Doeior of Theology, he would outftrip even Bale-
dow, who had no
eccleliaftical orders to reftrain
him. But he wanted the moderation, the prudence
and the principle of Bafedow. He had, by this time,-
formed his opinion of mankind, by meditating on
the feelings of his own mind. Histheory of human
nature was
limple-~" The leading propenlities, fays
he, ofthe human mind are three--lnftinclive liber-
ty (Freyheitftriebe)--inftinflive atfiivity (Triehe
fur Thatigkeit)----
and inftinéiive love (Liehes
triebe)." I do not with to mifunderftand him, but
I can
give no other tranllation.---" If a man is ob-
"
iirueied in the exercife of any of thefe propen1i~
ties he fuifers an
injury.--The buiinefs of a
good
education therefore is to teach us how they are to
be enjoyedin the higheft degree."
We need not he furprifed although the Doétor
fhould find it ditlicult to manage the Cyclopedia
in his Philanthropine in fuch a manner as to
give
fatisfaétion to the neighbourhood, which Washa-
bituated to very diiinerent fentiments,--Accord-
ingly he found his Iituation as uncomfortable as at
Gieileu. He lays, in one of his lateit performances,
"
that the Grifons were a
ilrong inllance of the
GL
U.
CL
"
immenfe importance of education. They knew;
"
nothing but their handicrafts, and their minds
(C
were as coarie as their perfons." He qnarrelled
with them all, and was
obliged to ahfcond after
lying fometime in arreft,
He. came to Durkheim or
Turkheim, where
his father was or had been miniiter, His literary
talents were Well known,--After fome little time
he got an aflociation formed for ereéfting and fup~
porting a
Philanthropine or houfe of education.
A large fund was
coileéized, and he was enabled to
2 H travel
246 'ms GERMAN union; cam, iiii
travel into Holland and England, to engage pu-
pils, and was furnillied with proper reconimend~
ations.-On his return the plan was carried into
execution. The caltle or rehdence of Count Lein-
ing Hartzburgb, at Heidelheini, having gardens,
park, and every handfoine accommodation, had
been fitted up for it, and it was conlecrated hy a
lolemn religious feltival in 1773.
A But his old misfortunes PLl1`lllC(.l him. He had
indeed no
colleagues to quarrel with, but his
avowed publications became every day more oh~
noxious-»and when any of his anonymous pieces
had a
great run, he could not ltille his vanity and
conceal the þÿ£lLliIl)01`,SIl3Hl ¬.Ofthefe pieces, lorne
were even
lhoclting to decency. lt was indilierent
to him Whether it was friend or foe that he abull
ed ; and fome of them were fo horribly injurious
to the characters of the molt refpeétable men in
the Ilate, that he was continually under the cor-
rection of the courts ofjuflice. There was
hardly
a man of letters that had ever been in his com-
pany who did not l`ufl"er by it. For his conllant
practice was to father every new ftep that he took
towards Atheiiin on fonie other perfon ; and,
whenever the reader fees, in the beginning of a
book, any perfon celebrated by the author for
found fenfe, profound judgment, accurate reafon-
ing, or prailed for aetsof friendlhip and laindnels
to himfelf, he, may he allured that, before the
clofe of the book, this man will convince Dr.
Bahrdt in forne private converlation, that lome
doctrine, cherilhed and venerated. by all Chrill
tians, is a
piece of knavifh l`uperl`tition. So loll;
was Dr. Buhrdt to all lenfe of fhame. He faid that
he held his own opinions independent of all n1an~
kind, and was indifferent about their praile or
their reproach.
Bahrdt's
CHAP. iii. THE GERMAN UNION.
247
Eahrdt's licentious, very lieentions life, was the
caufe of moft of thefe enormitics. I*-lo income
could fuffice and he wrote for bread. 'The artful
manner in which the literary 1nanufa<f`turc of
Germany was conduéied, made it impofiible to
hinder the rapid difperiion of his writings over
all Germany; and the indelicate and coarfe maw
of the public was as ravenous as the fenfuality of
UG: Bahrdt, who really battened in the Epicurean
ity. The coniequence of all this was that he was
obliged to
ily from Heidefheim, leaving his fnreties
in the P/i'i!mzMr0,c'1`7ze to pay about 14,000 dahlers,
hehdes debts without number to his friends. He
was impriibned at Dienheim, but was releafed I
know not how, and fettled at Halle. There he
Rink to be a
keeper of a tavern and billiard-table,
and his houfe became the relbrt and the bane of
the ftudents in the Univerhty.-He was
obliged
therefore to leave the city. He had fomehow got
funds which enabled him to buy a little vineyard,
prettily lituated in the neighbourhood. This he
fitted up with every accommodation that could
invite the ltudents, and called it Ba£=rdz"f Rake.
We have already feen the occupations of Dr. B.
in this Bzfefz Retiro--Can we call it ofizzm cum
dzgniiafe? Alas, no! He had not lived two years
here, huftling and toiling for the German Union,
fornetimes Without a bit of bread-when he was
fent to prifon at Halle, and then to
Magdeburg,
where he was more than a
year in jail, He was
let at
liberty, and returned to Bfz/zrr!f'J Ru/ze, not,
alas, to live at cafe, but to lie down on ahck-bed,
where, after more than a
year's fullering increafl
ing pain, he died on the 23d of April 1793, the
mofl wretched and loathfome viétimof unbridled
þÿf ¬r1h1Hlit§/.The account of his cafe is written by
a
friend, a Dr. Jung, who profeffes to defend his
memory
248 "ras GERMAN UNIGN, can, iii,
memory and his principles. The medical delbripf
tion melted my heart, and I am certain would
make his bitterell: enemy weep. _lung repeatedly
fays, that the cafe was not venereal-calls it the
vineyard difeale---the quicklilver dileale, (he was
dying of' an
unconquerable l`aliVation,) and yet,
through the whole of his narration, relates lyrnp~
toms and fulierings, which, as a medical man, he
could not polhhly mean to be taken in any other
fenfe than as effeéts of pox. He meant to pleafe
the enemies of poor Bahrdt, knowing that fuch a
man could have no
friends, and being hirnfelf igf
norant of what friendlhip or
goodnefs is. The
fate of this poor creature al'r`e&ed me more than
any thing I have read of a
great while. All his
open enemies put together have not laid fo much
ill of him as his trufted friend Pott, and another
coniclent, whole name I cannot recolleét, who
puhiiihed in his lifetime an
anonymous bool; call-
ed _Ekzhrdi wif/z Z*/ze Iron _Broun---and this fellow
jung, under the abfurd mall; of friendlhip, exhif
bited the loathfome Carcale for a
florin, like a ma-
þÿI>3f`a"('s
at Surgeon's Hall. Such were the fruits
of the German Union, of that Illumination that
was to refine the heart of man, and bring to ma-
turity the feeds of native virtue, which are ehoakf
ed in the hearts of other men
by fuperiiition and
fleiinotifm. Vie fee nothing but mutual treachery
and bafe defertion.
I do not concern myfelf with the gradual per-
verlion of Dr. Bahx°dt's moral and religious opi-
nions. But he affeeted to be the enlightener and
reformer of mankind; and aliirrned that all the
mifchiefs in life originated from cielbotifni fup-
ported by fuperltition.
"
In vain," lays he,
"
do
"
we
complain of the inemcacy of religion. All
"
politive religion is founded on
injuilice. No
"
Prince
char. iii, 'ma GERMAN UNION; Q49
"
Prince has a right to prefcribe or {`ané`tion any
"'
lhch lyitem. Nor would he do it, were not
"
the prieils the irmelt pillars of his tyranny,
"
and l'nper{`tition the ftrongelt fetters for his fub-
"
jects. He dares not fhow Religion as the is-
"
pure and undefiled ----
She would charm the eyes
"
and the hearts of mankind, would immediately
"
produce true morality, would open the eyes
"
of freeborn man, would teach him what are
G'
his rights, and who are his oppreifors, and
"
Princes would Vanilh from the face of the
"
earth."
Therefore, without troubling ourfelves with
the truth or falfehood of his religion of llature,
and afihming it as an
indifputable point, that Dr.
Bahrdt has feen it in this natural and fo efieftive
purity, it is furely a
Very pertinent queilion,
"
þÿX/7l1 ¬i2l`|CIh̀as the Gght produced on his mind
"
an ell"eé`t fo far lnpcrior to the acknowledged
"
faintneis of the imprellion of Chriltianity on
"
the bulk of mankind, that it will be prudent to
"
adopt the plan of the German Union, and at
" once put an end to the divilions which fo nn-
"
fortunately alienate the minds of profeding
"
Chriltians from each other P" The account
here given of Dr. Bahrdt's life feems to decide
the quellion.
But it will he faid, that I have only related io
many inftances of the quarrels of Prielts and their
llavilh adherents, with Dr. Bahrdt. Let us View
him in his ordinary conduct, not as the champion
and martyr of Illumination, but as an
ordinary
citizen, a
hufbancl, a
father, a friend, a teacher
of youth, a
clergyman.
'When Dr. Bahrdt was a
pariih-minifler, and pre-
iident of fome inferior ecclehailical diflricl, he was
empowered to take off the cenfures of the church
from
250 'ran GERMAN Umonl snap. iii.
from a
young woman who~had born a ballard child.
By violence he again reduced her to the fame con-
dition, and eleaped Cenfure, by the poor girl's dying
of a fever before "her pregnancy was far advanced,
or even
legally documented. Fxllo, on the night of
the ioleznn Farce of confecrating his Phiianthropine,
he dehanched the maid-fervant, who bore twins, and
gave him up for the father. The thing, I pre-fume,
was not judicially proved, otherwifie he would have
fnrely been difgraced; but it was afterwards made
evident, bythe letters which were found by Pott,
when he undertook to write his life. A feries of
thefe letters had paffed between him and one Graf, a
fieward, who was
employed by him to
give the woman
the fmall pittance by which lhe and the infants were
maintained. Retnonlirances were rnade when the
money was not advanced ; and there are
particular-
lyletters about the end of 1779, which lhonv that
Bahrdt had ceafed giving any thing. On the
of February 1730, the infants (three years old) were
taken away in the night, and were found expofed,
the one at Uffiein, and the other at Vforins, many
miles diliant from each other, and almoll frozen to
death. The hrli was difcovered by its moans, by a
fhoexnalter in a field by the road-hde, about tix in
the morning; the other was found by two
girls be-
tween the hedges in a lane, fet between two
great
ftones, pall all crying. The poor mother travelled
up and down the country in quell of her infants,
and hearing thefe accounts, found them both, and
took one of them home ; but not
being able to main-
tain both, when Bahrdt's commilhwner refuied Con-
tributing any more, it remained with the good wo-
man who had taken it inf
"'
This is worfe than RouH"eau's conduct, who only lent his
children to the Foundling hofpit l, that he might never know
them again. (See his Confeliicna)
Bahrtlt
GHAP. iii; THE GERMAN UNION.
g¢51»
Bahrdtwas married in 177'2, while at Gieffen; but
after wafiing the greateli part of his vife's little fore
tune left her by a former hufband, he was
provoked
by loling looollorins (about 110/.) in the hands of
her brother who would not pay it up. After this
he ufed her very ill, and fpealzs very contemptuoullgn
of her in his own account of his life, calling herri
d<JWdy, jealous, and every thing contemptible. In
two infzimous novels, he exhibits charaflers, in
which ihe is repreiented in a nzoii cruel manner;
yet this woman (perhaps during the honey-moon)
was enticed by him one day into the bath, in the
pond of the garden of the Pliilantliropine at Heide-
iheim, and there, in the light oi' all the pupils did he
(alio undreiied) toy with his naikedwife in the water.
'Vhen at Halle, he ufed the poor woznfin
extremely
ill, keeping a miilrefs in the houfe, and giving her
the whole command of the family, while the wife and
daughter were confined to ai feparate part of it.
'Vhen in prifon at lVlagdc-zburgh, the lirumpet lived
with him, and bore him two children. -He brought
them all to his lioufe when he was :tt
libertyf Such
barbarous ufage made the poor woman at lair leave
him and live with her brother. The daughter died
about a
year before him, of an overdofe of léudanum
given by her father, to procure Heep, when ill of a
fever. I-Ie ended his own wretched life in the haute
manner, unable, poor man, to bear his diiirefs, with~
out the fmalleli Compuu§ion or iorrotv for his Con-
dufl; and the lall thing he did was to fend for rt
bookfeller, (Vipinle of Halle, who had publifhed
fome of his vile pieces,) and recommend his ilrum-
pet and her children to his proteiftion, without one
thought of his injured wife.
I fhall end my account of this profligaternonder
with a f ecimen of his wa
'
of uiiutt his friends. ~
A
3 M
L
GL"
C
1
25? THE carlman umow. cum. iii.,»
"
Of all the acquifitions which I made in Eng-4
land, Mr. ------
(the name
appears at full length)
was the moft important. This perfon was ac-
complilhed in the highelt degree. With found
judgment, great genius, and correot talte, he was
'peti`e.¢`tly a man of the world. He was
my friend.;
and the only perfon who warmly intereited him-
felf for my inilitution. To his warm and repeat-
ed recommendations I owe all the pupils I got in
England, and many molt refpe&able connections;
for he was
univerfally elleemed as a man of learn-
ing and of the molt unblemifhed worth. He
was
my friend, my conduetor, and I may fay my
preferver ; for whenl had not bread for two days,
he took me to his houfe, and fupplied all my
wants. This gentleman was a clergyman, and had
a fmall but genteel and felecfted congregation, a
flock which required firong food. My friend
preached to them pure natural religion, and was
beloved by them. His fermons were excellent,
and delivered with native energy and grace, he-
caufe they came from-the heart. I had once the
honour of preaching for him. But what a dif-
ference»-I found myfelf-afraid---I feared to
fpealc
too boldly, becaufe I did not know where I was,
and thought myfelf fpeaking to
my crouching.
countrymen. But the liberty of England opens
every heart, and makes it accelhble to
morality;
I can
give a
very remarkable inftance. y
"
The women of the town in London do not, to
be fure, meet with my unqualified approbation in
all refpecfts. But it is impollible not to be ltruck
with the propriety and decency of their manners,
fo unlike the clownilh impudence of our German
wh-. I could not diltinguilh them from modelt
women, otherwife than by their greater attention
and eagernefs to fhew me
civility. My friend
"
ufed
CHAP. iii. THE c.z:aMAN onion; 2555
"'
ufed to laugh at my mifiakes, and I could not be-
"
lieve him when he told me that the lady who had
"
kindly fhewed the way to me, a
foreigner, was a
°'
votary of Venus. I-le maintained that Engliih li-
"
berty riaturally produced morality and kindnefs;
"
I fiill doubted, and- he faid that he would con-
"
vince me
by my own
experience. Thefe girls
"
are to be feen in crowds every evening in every
"
quarter of the town. Although fome of them
"
may not have even a lhift, they come out in the
"
evening drelfed like princeffes, in hired clothes,
"
which are entrufied to them without any fear of
"
their making off with them. Their fine fhape,
"
their beautiful {l-rin, and dark brown hair, their
"
bofoms, fo prettily fet oif by their black Elk drefs,
"
and above all, the gentle fweetnefs of their man-
"
nets, makes an
imprellion in the higheft degree
"
favourable to them. They civilly offer their arm
ff and lay,
"
My dear, will you give me a
glafs of
"
wine." If you give them no
encouragement, they
"
pafs on, and give no farther trouble. I went with
"
my friend to Covent Garden, and after admiring
"
the innumerable beauties we faw in the piazzas,
"
we
gave our arm to three very agreeable girls, and
"
immediately turned into a
temple of the Cythere-
"
an Goddefs, which is to be found at every fecond
"
door in the city, and were fhewn into a
parlour
"
elegantly carpeted and furnillied, and lighted with
"
wax, with every other accommodation at hand.-f
"
My friend called for a
pint of wine, and this was
"'
all the expence for which we received fo much
"
civility. The converfation and other behaviour
"
of the ladies was
agreeable in the higheft degree,
"
and uofa word pafied that would have diltinguilh-
"
ed them from nuns, or that was not in the higheft
"
degree mannerly and elegant. 'Ne parted in the
"
(lreet--and fuch is the liberty of England, that
'2 I "
my
254 "ma orrznirrc umon. A
CHAP. iii.
"
my friend ran not the fmallell rilk of fuliering ei-
"
ther in his honour or ulefulnels.-Such is the ef-
"
feel of freedom."
Ve may he lure, the poor man was allonilhecl
when he law his name before the public as one ofthe
enlighteners of Chriflian Europe. He is really a
man of worth, and of the moll irreproachable chav
raéler, and knew -that whatever might he the protec-
tioniof Britilli liberty, fuch conduct would ruin him
with his own hearers, and in the minds of all his re-
fpeélable conntryfnen. He therefore lent a vindica-
tion of his charafier from this llanderous abufe to the
puhlilhers of the principal newfpapers and literary
journals in Germany. The vindication is complete,
and B. is convi&ed of having related what he could
þÿ210z']>oj?5{ybtwe_£' ¬n. It is worthy of remark, that
the vindication did not appear in the Bar/in Monatl
_y/rhrj/91 nor.in any of thejournals which made favor~
ahle mention of the performances of the Enlight-
eners.
"'
Think not, indignant reader," lays Arhuthnot,
"
that this man's life is ulelels to mortals." It lliews
in a lirong light the falhty of all his declamations in
favour of his fo much praifed natural religion and
univerfal kindnels and humanity. No man of the
party writes with more
perlixalive energy, and,
though his petulance and precipitant l`ell`»conceit
lead him frequently aliray, no man has occalionally
put all the arguments of thefe philofophers in a
clearer light ; yet we fee that all is falfe and hollow.
He isavile hypocrite, and the real aim of all his
writings is to make money, by foliering the fenfual
propenlities of human nature, although he fees and
feels that the completion of the plan ofthe German
Union would he an event more clelirucfiive and la-
xnentahle than any that can he pointed out in the an-
nals of fuperflition. I will not
faythat all partifans
of
emit. iii. Tae e1att1f1AN Umes.
255
of Illumination are
hogs ofthe liy of Epicurus like
this wreteh. But the reader mull acknowledge that,
in the inliitution of '/Veifhaupt, there is the fame
train of fenfual indulgence laid along the whole, and
that purity of heart and life is no
part of the -morali-
ty that is held forth as the perfeéiion of human na-
ture, The final abolition ofChrillianity is undoubt-
edly one of its ohjefts-whetl1er as an end of their
efforts, or as a mean for the attainment of fome end
ilill more
important. Purity of heart is perhaps the
moll diliineiive feature ofCl1riiii;:n morality. Of
this Dr. Eahrdt feems to have had no
conception;
and his inftitution, as well as his writings, fhew him
to have been a
very coat-fe fenfualiil. But his tafte,
though coarfe, accorded with what Vlfeiihaupt confi-
dered asa ruling propenlity, by which he had tl1e beft
chance of fecuring the fidelity of his fuhjeeis.-Crap
Ving delires, beyond the bonds of our means, were
the natural confequences of indulgence; and Hnce
the purity of Chritlian morality ftood in his way, his
firft care was to elear the road hy rooting it out alto-
gether--/Vhat can follow but general dillolutenefs
of ma11nc1's ?
'
Nothing can more diftinéily prove the Qrookecl
politics of the Reformers than this. It may he
coniidered as the main-fpring of their whole ma-
chine. Their pupils were to he led hy means of
their fenfual appetites, and the aim of their con-
duetors was not to inform them, but merely to
lead them; not to reform, but to rule the world.
--They iw ould reign, though in hell, rather than
ferve in heaven.-Dr. Bahrclt was a true Apolile
of lllumiliatifmg and though his torch was made
et' tl1e grolieft materials, and "
tervcd only to clit"-
"
cover
fights of woe," the horriti glare darted
into every corner, rouling huntlrecls oi' filthy ver-
min, and direéting their Eight to the rotten car~
'<
_ mon
____,.---f
256 THE GERMAN UNION. cx~1A:=.iii,
rion where they could belt depolit their poilbn
and their eggs ; in the breafts, to Wit, of the fen-
fual and proliigate, there to fefler and burit forth
in a new and lilthy progeny; and it is alltonifhing
what numbers were thus roufed into aétion. The
fcheme ofkeading Societies had taken prodigia
oufly, and became a
very profitable part of the
literary trade of Germany. The bookfellers and
writers foon perceived its importance, and aéted
in concert,
I might fill a volume with extraéts from the
criticifms which were pnblilhed on the Re/egimz
Edz`c'If' fo often mentioned already. The Leipzig
catalogue for one
year contained 173. Although
it Concerned the Pruilian States alone, thefe ap-
peared in every corner of Germany.; nay, alfo in
Holland, in ]§`landers, in Hungary, in Switzerland,
in Courland, and in Livonia. This fhows it to
have been the operation of an Ailbciated Band,
as was intimated tothe King, with fo much pe-
tulance by l'lirabeau. There was (palt all doubt)
fuch a combination among the innumerable fcrib-
blers who fupplied the fairs of Leipzig and Frank-
fort, Miragbeau calls it a Conjz¢mz'z`0fz der Phi/ryo~
jahef, an exprelhon very clear to himlelf, for the
'myriads of gareteers who have long fed the crav~
ing month of Paris (" always thirlting after fome
9*
new thiug") called themlelves philofophers,
and, like the gangs of St. Gilesfs, converled with
each other in a cant of their own, full of mom/6,
of energie, of þÿbl' ¬li'Z)ff/(NICK,
&c. dec. &C, unintelf
ligible or xnifunderltood by other men, and ufed
for the purpolfe of deceit. Vvhile l'1irabeau lived
too, they formed a
Cozgumiiozz. The 14th ofjuly
1790, the moft folemn invocation of the Divine
pretence ever made on the face of this earth, put
an end to the propriety of this appellation; for it
`
y
became
eau. iii. 'rua GERMAN UNION.
257
became neceffary (in the progrefs of political Il-
lumination) to declare that oaths were nonfenfe
becaufe the invoiied was acreature of the imagi-
nation, and the grand federation, like fVie{hanpt
and Bahrdt's l'iafonic Chril`tianity, is declared, to
thofe initiated into the higher myiteries, to be a
lie. But if we have no
longer a
Conjzfmfiozz des
PM/Mzpker, We have a
gang of fcrihhlers that has
got poffeliion of the public mind by their nia-
nageznent of the literary journals of Germany,
and have made licentious ientiments in politics,
in morals, and in religion, as familiar as were for~
merly the articles of ordinary news. All the fcep-
tical writings of England put together will not
make half the number that have appeared in Pro-
teftant Germany during the laft twelve or fifteen
years. And, in the Criticiiins on the Ediét, it is
hard to fay whether inhdelity or
difloyalty fills
the moii pages. f
To fuch a degree had the Illuminati carried
this favourite and important point that they ob-
tained the direction even of thofe whofe office it
was to prevent it. There is at Vienna, as at Ber-
lin, an otiice for examining and liceniing writings
before they can have their courfe in the market.
This office publilhes annually an index of forbid-
den books. In this index are included the account
of the laft Operation; rfSpczr!aczz.r and Philo in
the Order of I//umirmii, and a differtation on ET/ie
Fi/za! OverZhrow,QfFree fl/frdj/0727)/, a moft excel~
lent performance, ihowing the gradual corruption
and final perveriion of thatlihciety to a
ieminary
of fedition. Alhi the Vienna [`lJ6Zg'(lZZ'716 of Liz'em-
ture and Arif, which contains many accounts of
the interferences of the Illuminati in the dif'turb~
ances of Europe. The Cenfor who occaiioned
this prohibition Was an I/iziminzzizzr named Reizer.
He
1
>i_
E253 *mi-: GERMAN union. `cHAi>. iii,
He makes a znofli pitiful and _lefuitical defence,
fhowing himfelf completely verlbnt in all the chi~
cane of the If/Zl77Zj7l6ZfZ., and devoted to their iu~
liclcl principles. (See Rel. Begebezzii. TjQ5, p.
49s~) ~
There are two performances which give us
much information þÿrefpe ¬ting
the lftate of moral
and political opinions in Germany about this time.
One of them is called, Proq/G qfa /ziddevz Ccnzbifm-
tion to
deJ@rQy f/ze þÿFl" ¬ ¬6iU77Z
Qf Y'/song/zf and k'7ri!~
ing in Gc?1"i7Z(Z7i:}/. ffhefe proofs are general, taken
from many concurring circum{'tances in the con-
dition of German literature. They are convinc-
ing to a
thinking mind, but are too ablitracted to
be_very impreiiive on
ordinary readers. The
other is the _ffppeal z'0 my Cozfvztfy, which I men-
tioned in page 84. This is much more ftrikiug,
and in each branch of literature, giyes a
progreil
Iive account of the changes of fentiment, all Rip-
ported by the evidence of the books themielves,
The author puts it pail: coutradir§`tion, that in
every fpecies of literary compolition into which it
was poliible, Without palpable abiiirdity, to intro-
duce licentious and feditious principles, it was
done. hfiany romances, novels, journeys through
Germany and other countz'ies'*'l, are written on
purpofe to attach praiie or
reproach to certain
iizntiments, cliaraélzers, and pieces of contluihc. The
Prince, the nobleman, is made delivotic, opprcil
five, unieeling or rieliculous--the poor, and the
man of talents, are unfortunate anti neglcciecl-~
and here ;and there a þÿii< ¬]filIll)l_1S(}1`11i}"()1B̀aron is
'*
A plan adopted within thefe few years in our own country,
which, if profecutcd with the fame induftry with which it has
been begun, will foou render our
circulating Libraries fo many
Nurferies of Sedition and Impiety. (See Travels into Germany
ii Bile.) i
Y 'i
,made
cn/un iii. 'mx-: GERMAN UNION. Q59
made a divinity, by philanthropy expre{l`ed in ro-
mantic Charity and kindnefs, or oitentations indif-
ference for the little honours which are fo preci-
ous in the reyes of a German.-In ihort, the fyll
tem of VVClll`13LI)iI and Knigge is Carried into _vi-
gorons effect over all. in both thefe performances,
and indeed in a vaft number of other pieces, I fee
that the influence of Nicholai is ninch comment-
ed on, and coniiclered as having had the Chief
hand in all thofe innovations.
Thus I think it clearly appears, that the fnp-
preiiion of the lllnminati in Bavaria and of the
Union in Brandenhnrgh, were iniiiflicient for re-
moving the evils which they had introduced. The
Elector of Bavaria was obliged to ih"ue another
proclamation in November 1790, warning his
fiibjeits of their repeated machinations, and par-
ticularly enjoining the magifirates to obferve
carefully the aiiemblies in the Reading Societies,
which were multiplying in his States. Afimilar
proclamation was made and repeated by the Re-
gency of Hanover, and it was on this occafion
that l/lauvillon impudently avowed the moft anar-
cliical opinions.--But R7eifhanpt and his agents
were flill buiy and lhccelsful. The habit of plot-
ting had formed itfelf into a regular iyitem. So-
cieties now acted every Where in fecret, in cor-
refpondencc with iimiiar ihcieties in other places.
And thus a mode of cooperation was fnrniihed to
the difcontented, the refllefs, and the unprincipled
in all places. without even the trouble of formal
initiations, and without any external appearances
by which the exilience and occtipations of the
members could be dillingnifhed. The l1ydra's
teeth were
alreatlyfliiwn, and each grew np, in-
dependent of the reii, and foon fent out its own
offsets.-In all places where fnch fecret praftices
were
260 Tae GERMAN Union. tzaariiit
f
were going on, there did not fail to appear fome
individuals of more
than common Zeal and a6ti~
vity, who took the lead, each in his own
circle.
This gave a
conliliency and unity to the opera~
tions of the reft, and they, encouraged hy this co-
operation, could nov/ attempt things which they
would not otherwife have ventured on. It iswnot
tillfthis iiate of things obtains, that this influence
becomes fenlible to the public. Philo, in his puh~
lic declaration, unwarily lets this appear. Speak-
ing ofthe numerous little focieties in which their
principles were cultivated, he fays,
"
We thus be-i
"
gin to be t`orinidable.°' It may now alarm--but
it is now too late. The fame germ is now fprout-
ing in another place.
I muii not forget to take notice that about this
time (1787 or
1788,) there appeared an invitation
from a Baron or Prince S---, Governor of the
Dutch fortrefs H----, before the troubles in Hol-
land., to form a
lfocietyjbr I/oe Proiea7z'07z Qf Prizzces.
--The plan is exprefled in very enigmatical terms,
but fuch as
plainly fhew itto be merely an odd title,
to catch the puhl ic eye ; for the Aliociation is ofthe
lame feditious kind with all thofe already fpoken of,
viz. profefiing to enlighten the minds of men, and
making them imagine that all their hardlhips proceed
from fuperfiition, which fubjecfis them to ufelefs and
crafty priells ; and from their own indolence and
want of patriotifm, which make them fubmit to the
mal-adminifiration of miniflers. The Sovereign is
fuppofed to be innocent, but to he a
cypher, and
every magillrate, who is not chofen by the people
atftually under him, is held to he a
defpot, and is to be
bound hand and foot.--Many circumliances concur
to
prove that the projeclor of this inlidlous plan is
the Prince Salms, who fo alhduoully fomented all
the diiltirbances in the 'Dutch and Aullrian Nether-
lands.
icriar. iii; *rata GERMAN UbIION. 261
lands. He had, before this time, taken into his
fervice Zwack, the Cam of the Illuminati. The
projetft had gone fome length when ii WHS difcovered
and fupprelled by the þÿStat ¬S~ _
_
Zimmerman, who had been þÿPrefid ¬Uf
Of þÿfll ¬
Illlle
minati in Manheim, was alfo a moll adive þÿP ¬1`f01"1
in propagating their doctrines in other þÿCOUHI1`i ¬SL
He was employed as a
miilionary; and ereflfid þÿf0fI'1 ¬
Lodges even in Rome--alfo at Neufchatel'-211Cl in
Hungary. He was
frequently feen in the latter
place by a
gentleman of my þÿacquaintaU'3 ¬»Hlld
preached up all the olleniible dotftrines of Illumina-4'
tifm in the moft public manner, and made 111211151
profelytes. But when it was difcovered that the r
real and fundamental doétrines were different from
thofe which he profeffed in order to draw in profe-
lytes, Zimmerman left the country in hafte.-Some
time after this he was arrefled in Pruflia for feditious
harangues-but he efcaped, and has not been heard
of lince.-/Vhen he was in Hungary he bo lied of
having erected above an hundred Lodges n dif#
ferent parts of Europe, fome of which were in
England,
.=
That the llluminati and other hidden Cofmo-po#
litical focieties had fome influence in bringing about
the French Revolution, or at leall in accelerating it,
can
hardly be doubted.. In reading the fecret cor~
refpondence, I was always furprifed at not
finding
any reports from France, and fomething like a heh-
tation about eftablilhing a million there ; nor am I
yet able thoroughly to account for it.. Ent there is
abundant evidencethat they interfered, both in pre~
paring for it in the fame manner as in Germany, and
in accelerating its progrelfs. Some letters in the
2 K Brunfwick
252 'ma GERMAN UNION. cfmv. iiil
Brunfwick Journal from one Caffzpe, who was an in-
fpeclor of the feminaries of education, a nian of
talents, and an I!!umz'mzz'us, put it beyond doubt.
He was reliding in Paris during its firit movements,
and gives a minute account of them, lamenting
their exceffes, on account of their imprudence, and
the rifk of lhocking the nation, and thus defiroying
the project, but juliifying the motives, on the true
principles of Cofmo-politifrn. The Vienna Zeit-
ichrift and the Magazine of Literature and Fine
Arts for 1790, and other pamphlets of that date, fay
the fame thing in a clearer manner. I fhall lay to-
gether fome paffages from fuch as I have met with,
which I think will fhew beyond all poliibility of
doubt that the Illuminati tool: an active part in the
whole tranfaclion, and may be faid to have been its
chief contrivers. I ihall premife a few obferva-
tions, which will give a clearer View of the matter.
[253]
CHAP. rv.
The Frefzcb Revo/uiiofz.
URING thefe dilfeniions and difcontents.,
and this general fermentation of the public mind in
Germany, political occurrences in France gave ex-
ercife and full fcope for the operation of that fpirit
of revolt which had long growled in fecret in the
different corners of that great empire. The Cof-
'mo-political and fceptical opinions and fentiments
fo much cultivated in all the Lodges of the Plaila-
[fiber had by this time been openly profefied by ma-
ny of the fages of France, and artfully interwoven
with their Ptatiitical economics. The many contefts
between the King and the Parliament of Paris about
the regiltration of his edicfts, had given occaiion to
much difculiion, and had made the public familiar-
ly acquainted with topics altogether unfuitable to
the abfolute monarchy of France.
This acquaintance with th.e natural expefiations
of the nibjeft, and the expediency of a candid at-
tention on the part of Government to thefe expec-
tations, and a view of Legillationland Government
founded on a
very liberal interpretation of all thefe
things, was prodigioufly promoted by the rafh inter-
ference of France in the difpute between Great
Britain and her colonies. In this attempt to ruin
Britain, even the court of France was obliged to
preach the dotfirines of Liberty, and to take its chance
that Frenchman would confent to be the only flaves.
But their oihcers and foldiers, who returned from
America, imported the American principles, and in
every company found bearers who lifiened with de-
light and regret. to their fafcinating tale of American
independence.
264 urns ramen mvorurron. eau. lvl
independence. During the war, the Miniiler, who
had too confidently pledged himfelf for the deftruc-
tion of Britain, was obliged to allow the Pariuans to
amufe themfelves with theatrical entertainments
where Englilh law was
reprefented as
opprellion, and
every fretful extravagance of the Americans was
applauded as a noble Ptruggle for native freedom.-J-,
All wi&ed for a talle of that liberty and equality
which they were allowed to
applaud on the [lager
but as foon as
they came from the theatre into the
ftreet, they found themfelves under all their former
reftraints. The fweet charm had found its way in~
to their hearts, and allthe luxuries ol' France be-
came as dull as common life does to a fond girl when
fhe lays down her novel.
ln this irritable flare of mind a
fpark was fufi:1~
cient for kindling a flame. To import this dange~
Ious delicacy of American growth, France had ex-
pended many millions, and was drowned in debts.
The mad prodigality of the Royal Family and the
Court had drained the treafury, and foreflalled every
livre of the revenue. The edicts for new taxes and
forced loans were moll unwelcome and oppreflive.
The /ffuocais axparlefnefzf had nothing to do with
flate-affairs, being very little more than barrillers in
the highefi Court of juflice; and the highell claim
1
of the Prelidents of this court was to be a fort of
humble counfellors to the King in common matters.
It was a
very Ptrange inconulteucy in that ingenious
nation to
permit fuch people to touch on thofe {iate~
iiilnjerfls; for, in fagfl, the King of France was an
abfolute Monarch, and the fubjeéls were llaves. This
is the refult of all their painful refearch, notwith~
flanding that glimmerings of natural jullice and
of freedom are to be met with in their records.
There could not be found in their hiflory fo
much as a tolerable account of the manner of
calling
QHAP. iv. 'ma Paenen REVOLUTION.
265
calling the nation together, to learn from the people
how their chains would bell pleafe their fancy. But
all this was againll nature, and it was neceffary that
it fhould come to an end, the firll time that the mo-
narch confeffed that he could not do every thing
unlefs they put the tools into his hands. As things
were
approaching gradually but rapidly to this con-
dition,lthe impertinentinterference (for fo a French-
man, fubjefi ofthe Grand Monarch, Hllffi think it)
of the advocates of the Parliament of Paris was
popu-
lar in the highell degree ; and it mufi be confelied,
that in general it was
patriotic, however inconhlient
with the conllitution. They felt themfelves plead-
ing the caufe of humanity and naturaljuilice. This
would ernbolden honeft and worthy men to
fpeak
truth, however unwelcome to the court. In gene-
ral, it :null alfo be granted that they fpoke with cau-
tion and with refpecl to the fovereign powers; and
they had frequently the pleafure of being the means
of mitigating the burdens ofthe people. The Par-
liament of Paris, by this conduél, came to bellooked
up to as a fort of mediator between the King and his
fubjecls; and as the avocats faw this, they naturally
Iofe in their own eilirnation far above the rank in
which the conllitution of their government had pla-
ced them. For it mull always be kept in mind, that
the robe was never conlidered as the drels of a No-
bleman, although the cafiock was. An advocate was
merely not a rotourier; and though we can
hardly
conceive a
profefhon more
truly honourable than
the difpenhng of dillributive jullice, nor any (kill
more congenial to a rational mind than that of the
practical morality which we, in theory, conlider as
the light by which they are
always condufied ; and
although even the artificial conliitution of France
had long been obliged to bow to the diélates of na-
ture and humanity, and confer nobility, and even
title,
256 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. eau. iv.
title, on
fuch ofthe profeffors of the municipal law
as had, by their fkill and their honourable character,
rifen to the firlt offices of their profeiiion, yet the
Noblelie de la Robe never could incorporate with
the Nobleiie du Sang, nor even with the Noblelie de
l'Epee. The defcendants of a
Marquis de la Robe
never could rife to certain dignities in the church
and at court. The avocats de la parlernent felt this,
and frnarted under the excluhon from court-
honours; and though they eagerly courted fuch no-
bility as they could attain, they feldom omitted any
opportunity that occurred during their junior prac-
tice, of expoiing the arrogance ofthe Nobleffe, and
the dominion of the court. This increafed their
popularity, and in the prefent fituation of things,
being certain of fupport, they went beyond their
former cautious bounds, and introduced in their
pleadings, and particularly in their joint remon-
ilrances againit the regiftration of ediéis, allthe wire-
drawn morality, and cofmo-political jurifprudence,
which they had fo often rehearfed in the Lodges,
and which had of late been openly preached by the
economifts and philofophers.
4
A hgnal was
given to the nation for engaging
"
en
matic" in political difcufiion. The Notaé/es were
called upon to come and advife the King ; and the
points were laid before them, in which his Majetiy,
(infallible till now)acl<nowledged his ignorance or his
doubts. Butwho were the Notables? Were they more
knowing thanthe King, or lefs in need of iniiruction?
The nation thoughtotherwife; nay, the Court thought
otherwife; for in fome of the royal proclarnations on
this occahon, men of letters were invited to aflili with
theircounfels, and togive what information their reads
ing and experience fhould fuggelt as to the beii me-
thod of convoking the States General, and of con-
duiiing their deliberations. Vhen a Minifrer thus
folicits
&HAi>. iv. Tm; FRENCH REVOLUTION;
367,
folicits advice from all the world how to govern, he
rnolt afhlredly declares his own
incapacity, and tells
the people that now they mnll govern themfelves.
This however was done, and the Miniller, l`lecl<ar
the Philofopher and Philanthropill of Geneva, iet
the example, by fending in his opinion, to be laid on
the council-table with the felt. On this Hgnal, coun-
fel poured in from every garrer, and the prefs
groaned with advice in every fhape. Ponderons
volumes were written for the Bilhop or the Dulce ;
a handforne Svc for the ]V02':zb/e Ollicer of eigh-
teen 5 pamphlets and lingle iheets for the loungers
in the Pa/zzif Royal. The fermentation was all0~
nifhing; but it was no more than lhould have been
ezgpefted from the moft cultivated, the moft inge-
nious, and the leaii halhfnl nation on earth. All
wrote, and all read. Not contented with bringing
forth all the fruits which the Illumination of theie
bright days of reafon had railed in fnch abund~
ance in the confer-varories of the Pfifiia/ether, and
which had been gathered from the writings of
Voltaire, Diderot, Rouli`eau,`Raynal, &c. the pa-
triotic counfellors of the Notables had ranfacked
all the writings of former ages. They difcovered
THAT FRANCE HAD ALWAYS BEEN FREE! One
would have thought, that they had travelled with
Sir john lvlandeville in that country where even
the iiweeches of former times had been frozen, and
were now thawing apace under the beams of the
fun of Reafon. For many of thefe eilays were as
incongruous and mal a-propos as the broken fen~
tences recorded by Mr. Adciifon in the Speétator.
A gentleman who was in Paris at this time, a
per-
fon of greatjudgrnent, and Well informed in every
thing relioeéiing the conftitution and prefent con-
dition of his country, aliured me that this invita-
tion, followed by the memorial of Mr. Neclrar,
.
operated
268 THE FRENCH R1~;voLU'r1oiv. eww. ivfe
operated like an electrical fliock. In the eourfe of
four or five days, the appearance of Paris was
completely changed. Every where one favv crowds
flaring at papers patted on the walls--breaking
into little parties--walking up and down the Ptreets
in eager converl`ation-~adjourning to coffee-houfes
-=-and the converfation in all companies turned to
politics alone 5 and in all thefe converlations a nevv
vocabulary, where every fecond Word was Morali;
ty, Philanthropy, Toleration, Freedom, and Equalia
lation of' property. Even at this early period per-
fons were lillened to without cenfure, or even
furprile, who laid that it was nonfenfe to think
of reforming their government, and that it muft be
completely changed. In ibort, in the courfe of ~a
month, a'
fpirit of licentioufnefs and a
rage for in=
novation had completely pervaded the minds of
the Parilians. The molt confpicuons proof of this
was the unexpected fate of the Parliament. It met
earlier than nlimal, and to give greater eclat to ite
patriotic efforts, and completely to fecnre the gra-»
titude of the people, it illiled an arret on the pre-
fent Ptate of the nation, containing a number of
refolutions on the diilierent leading points of nas
tional liberty. A few months ago thefe would
have been joyfnlly received as the Magna Charta
of Freedom, and really contained all that a Wife
people fhould defire; but becanfe the Parliament
had fometime before given it as their opinion as
the conllitntional counfel of the Crown, that the
States lhould be convoked on the principles of their
lalt meeting in 1614, which preferved the diltinc-r
tions of rank, all their pall fervices were
forgotten
-all their hard llruggle with the former admi-
niflzration, and their unconquerable courage and
perfeverance, which ended only with their down~
ful, all were
forgotten; and thofe dillinguilhecl
members
than iv. me rrusncn azvotufrron.
269
members Whofe Zeal and l`uH`erings ranked them
with the moft renovved heroes and martyrs of pa-
triotiliu, were now regarded as the contemptible
tools of Ariliocracy. The Parliament now
ict, in
2
hery troubled (ky-to rile no more.
Of' all the barrilters in the Parliament of Paris,
the moft confpicuous for the dihilay of the eu-
Clianting doftrines of Liberty and Equality was
Mr. Duval, fon of an Avocat in the fame court
and erinobled about this time under the name of
Defprefrrienil; I-Ie was member of a
Lodge of the
7
'yifmif Rezuzir at Paris, called the Coszz'rac'¥ Social,
and of the Lodge of Chezfaiierf Bz`e1gfczy2z1zz'_r at
Lyons. His reputation as a barrifter had been pro-
digioully increafedabout this time by his manage-
ment of a caufe, Where the defcendant of the un-
fortunate General Lally, after having obtained
the reltoration of the family honours, was (triv-
ing to get back fome of the efiates. lNIr. Lally
Tollendahl had even trained himfelf to the pro-
feliion, and pleaded his own caufe with altonifh-
ing abilities.~» But Defprefmenil had near connec-
tions with the family which was in pollellion of
the ellates, and oppofed himlwith equal powers,
and more addrefs. He was on the Bde which was
molt agreeable to his favourite topicsiof declama-
tion, and his pleadings attracted much notice both
in Paris and in fome of the provincial Parliaments.
I mention thefe things with fome intereft, becaufe
this was the beginning of that marked rivallhip
between Lally Tollendahl and Defprefmenil, which
made fuch a
figure in the
journals of the National
Afiembly. It ended fatally for both. Lally Tol-
lendahl was
obliged to quit the
Ailernbly, when
he favv it determined on the deltrusftion of the
monarchy and of all civil order, and at lait to
emigrate from his country with the lols of all his
2 L property,
2770 -rm: FRENCH 'REVOLUTION¢ casa. iv,
property, and to fubfilt on the kindnefs of Eng-
land. Dfepreiinenil attained his meridian of po-
pularity by his difcovery of the fecret plan of the
Court to eftablifh the Cour p/eniere, and ever after
this took the lead in all the Ftrong meafures of the
Parliament of Paris, which was now
overftepping
all bounds of moderation or
propriety, in hopes
of preferving its influence after it had rendered
itfelf impotent by an unguarded ftroke. Defprefl
menil was the firlt martyr of that Liberty and
Equality which it was now boldly preaching,
having voluntarily furrendered himfelf a prifoner
to the oflicer fent to demand him from the Par-
liament. He was alfo a
martyr to
any thing that
remained of the very fhadow of liberty after the
Revolution, being guillotined by Robelpierre.
I have already mentioned the intrigues of Count
Mirabeaii at the Court of Berlin, and his fedi-
tious preface and notes on the anonymous letters
on the Rights of the Prullian States. He alfo,
While at Berlin, publilhed an
E_E_$2ij¢rij¢r la Seéfe der
I//zmzinef, one of the ftrangelt and molt impu-
dent performances that ever appeared. He there
clefcribes a feet exilting in Germany, called the
Illzrmirzaied, and lays, that they are the.n1of't ab-
furd and grofs fanatics imaginable, waging war
with every appearance of Reafon, and maintain.-
ing the rnolt ridiculous fnperllitions. He gives
fome account of thefe, and of their rituals, cere-
monies, &C. as if he had feen them all. His leel;
is a confufed mixture of Chrillian fuperflitions,
Rofycrucian nonfenfe, and every thing that can
raile contempt and hatred. But no fuch Society
ever exiited, and Mirabeau confided in his own
powers of deception, in order to fcreen from ob-
lervation thofe who were known to be Illuminati,
and to hinder the rulers from attending to their
real
5
mar. iv. 'rua FRENCH REVOLUTION.
2'71
real machinations, by means of this Ignis fatuus
of his own brain. He knew perfectly that the Il-
luminati were of a ftamp diametrically oppoiite;
for he was illuminated by Mauvillon long before.
He gained his point in fome meafure, for Nicho-
lai and others of the junto immediately adopted
the whim, and called them 01%z¢ra1z!em, and
joined with Mirabeau in placing on the lift ofOb-
_kuramfem feveral perfons whom they wifhed to
make ridiculous,
Mirabeau was not more difcontented with the
Court of Berlin for the fniall regard it had teltifi-
ed for his eminent talents, than he Was with his
own Court, or rather with the minilier Calonne,
who had fent him thither. Calonne had been
greatly diffatisiied with his conduct at Berlin,
where his felf-conceit, and his private projeéts,
had made him aft -in a
way almolt contrary to the
purpofes of his mifiion. Mirabeau was therefore
in a
rage at the minifter, and publifhed a pam-
phlet, in which his celebrated memorial on the
Rate of the nation, and_the means of relieving it,
was treated with the utmoft feverity of reproach;
and in this conteft his mind was
wrought up to
that violent pitch of oppolition which he ever af~
ter maintained. To be noticed, and to lead, were
his fole objects-and he found, that taking the ide
of the -difcontented was the belt field for his elo-
quence and refilefs ambition.--Yet there was no
man that was more devoted to the principles of a
court than count Mirabeau, provided he had a
fhare in the adminillrationg and he would have
obtained it, if any thing moderate would_have
fatisfied him--but he thought nothing worthy of
him but a place of active truft, and a
high de-
partment. For fuch offices all knew him to be to-
tally unfit. He wanted knowledge of great things,
»
and
272 'rniz FRENCH Rsvosurron; _ cant. iv;
and was learned only in the hnliling detail of inf
trigne, and at
any time would facriiice every
thing to have an
opportunity of exerciling his
brilliant eloquence, and indulging his paliion for
fatire and reproach .5--The greatelt obliacle to his
advancement was the ahjeét worthieflheh pf his
charaifter. VVhat we
ufnally call protligacy, viz,
debauchery, gaming, impiety, antlevery kind of
feiifuality, were not enongl.-f-he was
defiitute of
decency in his vices?-tricks which would difgrace
a thief-catcher, Were never boggled at in order to
fnpply his expenees. For inhance,--His father and
mother had a procels of þÿf ¬P21I`3{iOI`lgf-l'1l1`3_b ¬2L1
had
juli been liberated from prifon for a
grofs mifde-
meanour, and was
in want of moneyff-He went
to his father, hded with him in inveékives againft
his mother, and, for loo guineas, wrote his fag
ther's memorial for the conrt.f--He then went to
his mother, and by a
lirnilar condnét got the farne
fum from her-and both memorials were
prefentf
ed. Drinking was the only vice in which he did
not indulge---his exhaufteil conliitution did not
permit it. His brother, the Vifcount, on
the con-
trary, was apt to exceed in jollity. One clay the
Count fiiid to him,
"
How can
you, Brother, fo
"
expofe yonrfelt`?"----" What l" fays the Vif~
count, f' how inlatiable you are-~---Nature has
f' given you every vice, and having left me
only
"
this one, you grixdge it me."-V*/hen the elec-
tions were making for the States-General, he off
fered himlelf a candidate in his own order at Aix
--But he was fo ahhorred by the Nohleile, that
they not
only rejeéted him but even drove him
from their meetings. This aihont fettlefl his mea~
fnres, and he determined on their ruin. He went
to the Commons, difclaimed his being a
gentle-
rnan, fat up alittle fhop in the rnarket place of
'
Aix
(map. iv; THE FRENCH Rm/0LuT1oN.
273
Aix, and fold trilles-and now, fully refolvecl what
line he fhould purfue, he courted the Commons,
by joining in all their exce{l`es againllt the No-
blelle, and was at laft returned a member of the
Allembly.
From this account of Mirabeau we can
ealily
forctel the ule he would make ofthe Illumination
which he had received in Germany. Its grand
truths and jult morality feem to have had the
fame ell`eé`ts on his. mind as on that of Weifnaupt
or Bahrdt.
'In the year 1768, Mirabeau, in conjunélion
with the duke de Lauzun and the Abbe Perigord,
afterwards Bifhop of Autun (the man lb pulled in
the National Alfemblies as the brighteft pattern of
humanity) reformed a
Lodge of Pliilalethes in
Paris, which met in the jacobin College or Con~
Vent. It was one of the Amir Rezmiy, which had
now rid itl`elf of all the inligniiicant mylticifm of
the feet. This was now become troublefome, and
took up the time which would be much better
employed by the Chem:/ferr du Soliel, and other
ftill more refined champions of reafon and uni-
Nerfal citizenfhip. Mirabeau had imparted to it
fame of that Illumination which had beamed up-
on him when he was in Berlin. In 1733, he and
the Abbe were wardens ofthe lodge. They found
that they had not acquired all the dexterity of
management that he underltoocl was praétifed by
his Brethren in Germany, for keeping up their
conneétion, and conduéting their corefpondence.
A letter was therefore fent from this Lodge, lign~
ed by thefe two gentlemen, to the Brethren in
Germany, requefting their aliiltance and inltruc-
tion. In the courfe of this year, and during the
`1'ittingof the Notables, A DEPUTATION was SENT
from the German Illuminati to catch this glori-
`
ous
/V
Q74 'mn FRENCH xavoturton. CHAP. iv;
ous
opportunity of carrying their plan into full
execution with the greateft eclat.
Nothing can more
convincingly demonltrate
the early intentions of a
party, and this a
great
party, in France to overturn the conititution com~
pletely, and plant a
democracy or
oligarchy on
its ruins. The Illuminati had no other object.-~
They accounted all Princes ufurpers and tyrants,
and all privileged orders their abettors. They in-
tended to eltabliih a government of l/Iorality, as
they called it, (Sittezzregimezztj Where talents and
charatfter (to be eltimated by their own fcale, and
by themfelves) fhould alone lead to preferment.
They meant to abolilh the laws which protected
property accumulated by long continued and fuc-
celsful indultry, and to prevent for the future any
fuch accumulation. They intended to eltablilh
univerfal Liberty and Equality, the imprefcripti-
ble Rights of Man, (at lealt they pretended all
this to thofe who were neither Magi or
Ptegentes.)
And; as
neceifary preparations for all this, they
intended to root out all religion and ordinary l"1`1O~
rality, and even to break the bonds of donieltic
life, by dellroying the veneration for marriage~
vows, and by taking the education of children
out of the hands ofthe parents. .Yhir 'war al! that
2*/ze f[!zmzi1zrzz'i could tear/1, and THIS WAS PRE~
cisizm' WHAT FRANCE Has DONE.
I cannot
proceed in the narration vvithont de-
filing the page Withthe detelled name of Or/fam,
Iiained with every thing that can degrade or difgrace
human nature. He only wanted Illumination, to
lhew him in a
fyliem all the opinions, difpohtions,
and principles which filled his own' wicked heart.
This Contemptible being was illuminated by Mira-
heau, and has lhown himfelf the moli zealous dif-
ciple of the Order. In his oath of allegiance he
_
declares
CHAP. iv. 'rms FRENCH REVOLUTION.
275
declares,
"
That the interells and the object of the
"
Order lhall be rated by him above all other rela-
"
tions, and that he will ferve it with his honour,
"
his fortune, and his blood."-He has kept his
word, and has facriliced them all-And he has been
treated in the true
ipirit of the Order-ufed as al
mere tool, cheated and ruined.-For I mutt now
add, that the French borrowed from the Illuminati a
maxim, unheard of in any other aflbciation of ban-
ditti, viz. that of cheating each other. As the ma-
nagers had the fole poflemon of the higher myfle-
ries, and led the fell by principles which they held
to be falfe, and which they employed only for the
purpofe of fecuring the co-operation of the inferior
Brethren, fo Mirabeau, Sieyes, Pethion, and others,
led the Duke of Orleans at firfl by his wicked am-
bition, and the expeftation of obtaining that crown
which they intended to break in pieces, that they
might get the ufe of his immenfe fortune, and of
his influence on the thoufands of his depending
fycophants, who ate his bread and pandered to his
grofs appetites. Although we
very foon find him
acling as an I!/umz`1zrzz'us, we cannot
fuppofe him fo
loft to common fenfe as to contribute his fortune, and
rilk his life, merely in order that the one lhould be
afterwards taken from him by law, and the other
put on a level with that of his groom or his pimp.
He furely hoped to obtain the crown of his indolent
relation. And indeed Mirabeau laid to Bergaile,
that "
when the projedt was mentioned to the Duke
-" Of Orleans, he received it with all pollible gra-
f' cioufnefs," (avec toule la _gmre z`1/zagzkzaé/e.) Dur-
ing the contefls between the Court and the Parlia-
ment of' Paris, he courted popularity with an inde~
cency and folly that nothing can
explain but a mad
and fiery ambition which blinded his eyes to all con-
ff-fquences. This is put out of doubt by his behavi-
, our
276 -run FRENCH REVOLUTION.
cmtp. iv:
our at Verfailles on the dreadful 5th and 6th of Oc-
tober, 1789. The depolitions at the Chatelet prove
in the rnoit inconteilible manner, that during the
horrors of thofe two days he was
repeatedly feen;
and that whenever he was regcognized bv the crowd,
he was huzzaed with Wwe Or/cans, Wwe notre Roi
Orleans, &"5'c.--He then withdrew, and was Teen in
other places. VVhile all about the unfortunate Roy-
al Family were in the utmofi concern for their fate,
he was in gay humour, chatting on indifferent fub-
jefls. His la{'t appearance in the evening ofthe 5th
was about nine dclock, converhng in a Corner with
men difguifed in mean drefs, and fome in women's
clothes ; among whom were Mirabeau, Barnave,
Duport, and other deputies of the Republican party
--and thefe men were feen immediately after, con-
cealed among the lines of the regiment de Flandre,
the corruption of which they had that day Compleat-
ed. 'He was feen again next morning, converting
with the fame perfons in women's drefs. And when
the infulted Sovereign was
dragged in triumph to
Paris, Orleans was again feen fkulking in a
balcony
behind his children, to view the procellion of devils
and furies ; anxioufly hoping all the while that fome
dillurbance would arife in which the King might
perilh.--I fhould have added that he was feeu in the
morning at the top of the llairs, pointing the way
with his hand to the mob, where they ihould go,
while he went by another road to the King. In
fhort, he went about trembling like a coward, wait-
ing for the explohon which might render it fafe for
him to lhew hiinfelf. Mirabeau faid of him,
"'
The
fellow carries a loaded piflol in his bofom, but will
never dare to pull the trigger."_ He was faved, not-
withllanding his own
folly,`by being joined in the
acculation with Mirabeau, who could not refcue him-
felf without Ptriving alfo for Orleans, whom he def-
piled,
reap; iv. THE raefscra REVOLUTEON.
QW
pifed, while he made nie of his fortunef--In ihort,
Qrieans was but halfiliuminated at this time, and
hoped to he King or
Regent.
Yet he was
deeply verfed inthe preparatory lef-
fons of Illtiminatiiin, and well convinced of its fun-
damental truths. He was well aflhred of the great
influence of the women in iociety, and he employed
this infiuence like a true
difciple of /Veiihaupt.-
Above three hundred nymphs from the purlieus of
the Paiais Royal were
provided with ecus and Louis
d'ors, hy his grand procureur the Abbe Sieyes, and
were fent to meet and to illuminate the two battalions
of the Regiment de Flandre, who were
coming to
Verhilles for the proteéiion of the Royal Family.
The privates of one of thefe regiments came and in-
formed their oflicers of this attempt made on their
loyalty,-45,oool. livres were
given them at St. De-
nys, to make them difband themfelves-and the
poor lads were at iirfi dazzled by the name of a fum
that was not familiar to them--but when fome think-
ing head among them told them that it only amount-
ed to two Louis d'ors a
piece, they difclofed the hri-
bery. They were
then offered Qo,ooo, but never
faw it, (Depaolitions at, the Chatelet No. 31 7.)
Mademoifelle rifherouane, tliefavforiizz of the day,
at the Palais Royal, was the mofi afiive perfon ofthe
armed mob from Paris, drefled en þÿ./f7.7Z(ZZ0i77Z ¬,
with
all the elegance of the opera, and turned many
young heads that day which were afterwards taken
ol? by the guillotine. The Duke of Urleans acknow-
ledged, before his death, that he had expended above
5o,oool. Pterling in corrupting the Garde; Plfczizcozjiw.
The armed mob which came from Paris to Verfailles
on the 5th of Oifiober, importuning the King for
bread, had their pockets filled with crown
pieces-
and Orleans was feen on that day by two gentlemen,
with a
bag ofmoney fo heavy that it was faflened to
`
"2 il/I, his
278 'mr FRENCH RzvoLuT1oN.' CHAP. iv:
his clothes with a
iirap, to hinder it from being op-
preilive, and to
keep it in fuch a
polition that it
lhould be accetlible in an inllant. (See the Depoh-
tions at the Chatelet, No. 1-77.)
But fuch was the contempt into which his grofs
profiigacy, his cowardice, and his niggardly dilpoli-
tion, had brought him with all parties, that, if he
had not been quite blinded by his wicked ambition,
and by his implacable refentnient of fome bitter
taunts he had gotten from the King and Qaeen, he
muil have [een very early that he was to be facriliced
as foon as he had ferved the purpofes of the faélion.
At prefent, his alliliance was of the utmoii confe-
quence. His immenfe fortune, much above three
millions fterling, was almoii exhaufted during the
three firlt years of the Revolution. But (what was
of more confequenee) he had almoft unbounded
authority among the Free Mafons.
In this country we have no
conception of the
authority of a National Grand Maller. When
Prince Ferdinand of Brunfvrick, by great exertions
among the jarring þÿfe ¬ts
in Germany, had got him-
felf elecied Grand Maiier of the SIrz`¢f2' Oéferfvafzz,
it gave ferious alarm to the Emperor, and to all the
Princes of Germany, and contributed greatly to
their connivance at the attempts of the lllumimz-
fi to difcredit that party. In the great cities of
Germany, the inhabitants paid more refpeét to the
Grand l`/Iaiter of the Mafons than to their refpec-
tive,Princes. The authority of the D. of Urleans
in France was ftill greater, in confequence of his
employing his fortune to liipport it. About eight
years before the Revolution he had (not without
much intrigue and many bribes and promifes}
been elected Grand Mafter of France, having
under hisdireetions all the Improved Lodges. The
whole Aflbciation was called the Gram' C?riem' de'
, [zz
e-HAP. iv. 'run FRENCH REVOLUTION.
279
la France, and in 1735 contained 266 of thef`e
Lodges; (fee Frey/mc1zn'er%he Zeit/sing, Nezzwied
1787.) Thus he had the management of all thofe
Secret Societies :, and the licentions andjrreligi-
ous fentiinents which were
currently preached
there, were fore of his hearty concurrence. The
fame intrigue which procured him the fnpreme
chair, mult have filled the Lodges with his de~
pendents and emiilaries, and thefe men could not
better earn their pay, than by doing their ntmoft
to propagate infidelity, imrnorality, and impurity
ofi manners.
But lomething more was wanted : Difrefpeft
for the higher Orders of the State, and difloyalty
to the Sovereign.--lt is not fo eafy to conceive
how theie fentiments, and particularly the" latter,
could meet with toleration, and even
encourage-
ment, in a nation noted for its profeilions of vene-
ration for its Monarch, and for the pride of its
Nohleife. Yetl am certain that fuch doitrines
were habitually preached in the Lodges ot' Phila-
lcfher, and Amir Reunir de Ia Verife. That they
Ihould be very current in Lodges of low-born
Literati, and other Brethren in inferior ftations,
is natural, and Ihave already faid enough on this
head. Bnt the French Lodges contained many
gentlemen in eafy, and aflitient circnrnftances. I
do notiexpeét liich confidence in my affertions, that
even in thefe the lame opinions were
very preva-
lent. I was therefore much pleafed with a
piece of
information which I got while thefe fheets were
printing OH, which corroborates my affertions.
This is a
performance called La wife retiree, ou lc
Sears! df' Za,!?ew!zzI1`01z exp/z`gzze par /cz Fraqzc Ma¢'0n-
rzerie. It was written by a Mr. Lef°ranc.,iPrehdent
of the Seminary of the Emir/is at Caen in Norman-
dy, and a feconci edition was
publiihed at Paris in
`
1792.
230 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. cults. iv;
1792. The author was butchered inthe mallacre of
September. I-le lays, that on the death of aifriend,
who had been a
very zealous Msien, and many years
Maller of a
refpetflable Lodge, he found among his
papers a colletdion of l/Iaionic writings, containing
the rituals, catechifms, and fyrnhols of every kind,
belonging toa longtrain ol' degrees of Free Malon-
ry, together with many difcourfes delivered in dif-
ferent Lodges, and minutes of their proceedings
The perulal hlled himwith allonihcitnent and anxiety
For he found that doflrines were taught, and maxinis
of conducit were inculcated, which were fubverlive
of religion and of all good order in the llate ; and
which not only countenrmced dilloyalty and fedition,
but even invited to it. He thought them fo dange-
rous to the liate, that he lent :itraccount of them to
the Archbilhop of Paris long; before the Revolution,
and always hoped that that Reverend Frelate would
reprefent the matter to his l_laje{iy`s Minillers, and
that they would put an end to the meetings of this
dangerous Society, or would at leait reilrain then;
from fuch excelles. But he was
dilappointed, and
therefore thought it his duty to
lay them before the
publicili.
l`r§1'. Lefranc fays e:<preli;l§', that this fhocliing
perverlion of Free l/iaibnry to feditious pnrpoles
Had the good man been fpared hut Z1 few months, his fur,
prife at this neglefi; would have cealed. For, on the 19th of
November 1793, the Archbifhop of Paris came to the Ear of the
flllernbly, accompanied by his Vicar and eleven other Clergyrnen,
:who there renounced their Chriitianity and 'their clerical vows ;
acknowledging that they had played the villain for many years
againlt their confcienccs, teaching what they knew to be a lie, and
were now refolved to be honell men. The Vicar indeed had bf:-
havcd like a true I//llmillllflli fome time before, by running off with
another man's wife and his ltrong box.-None of them, however,
feem to have attained the higher mylteries, for they were all guil,
lotined not long after.
was,
cnlap. iv. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION." 281
xvas, in a
great meallure, but a late thing, and was
chiefly brought about by the agents of the Grand
Maller, the Duke of Grleans. He was, however,
of opinion that the whole Wlafonic Fraternity was
holtile to Chriftianity and to good morals, and
that it was the contrivanee of the great fcliilinatic
Faultus Socinns, who being terrihed by the fate of
Servetus, at Geneva, fell on this method of pro-
mulgating his doctrines among the great in fecrct.
This opinion is but ill fupported, and is
incompa-
tible with many circnrnltancesin Free lfIafonry-
But it is ont ot our
way at prelent. Mr. Lefranc
then takes particular notice of the many degrees
of Chivalry cultivated in the Lodges, and (hows
how, by artful changes in the ihccellivc explana-
tions of the fame fymbols, the clotftrines ot`Chrif-
tianity, and of all revealed religion, are com-
pletely exploded, and the Phi/0/bpke Izzcomzu be-
comes at lalt a
profelfed Atheilt.-He then takes
notice of the political doctrines which are in like
manner
gradually unfolded, by which "
patriot»»
CC 3
ifm and loyalty to tne prince are declared to be
F' narrow
principles, inconliftent with univerllal
"
benevolence, and with the native and impre-
9'
fcriptible rights of man
; civil fubordination is
"
actual oppreflion, and Princes are ex #aio ufur-
"
pers and
tyrants." Thefe principles he fairly
d dt ces from tl e (latechilms of the C/zez/fz¢'z`e1f du
e 1
'
i
Solicl, and of the P/zilybp/ze Izfcomzu. He then
proceeds to notice more
particularly the intrigues
of the Duke of Orleans. From thele it appears evi-
dent that his ambitious views and hopes had been
of long llaneling, and that it was
entirely by his
fnpport and
encouragement that lleditious doc-
trines were
permitted in the Lodges. Many no-
bleznen ana
gentlemen were
clifgnlted and left
Khefe Lodges, and advantage was taken of their
ablencc
235: THE FRENCH REVOLUTION- CHAP. iV.'
abfence to improve the Lodges ftill more, that is
to make them ftill more anarchical and feditious;
Numbers of paltry fcrihhlers who haunted the
Palace Royal, were admitted into the Lodges, and
there vented their poifonous þÿdo ¬trines.
The Duke
turned his chief attention to the French guards,
introducing many of the privates and inferior of-
ficers into the ohlicure and even the more relioec-
table Lodges, fo that the officers were
frequently
difgufled in the Lodges by the infolent behaviour
of their own foldicrs under the malldof Mafonic
Brotherhood and Equality-and this behaviour he-
eame not unfrequent even out of doors. He a{l`erts
with great confidence that the troops were much
corrupted by thefe intrigues-and that when they
fometimes declared, on
fervice, that they would
not iire on their Bret/zrefz, the phrafe had a parti~
cular ref`er'ence to their Mafonic Fraternity, he~
caute they recogniled many of their Brother I'»/la~
fans in every crowd.--And the corruption was
by
no means confined to Paris and its neighbourhood,
but extended to every place in the kingdom
Where there was a
Municipality and a Mafon
Lodge.
Mr. Lefranc then turns our attention to many
peculiarities in the Revolution, which have a re-
femblance to the practices in Free Ivlafonry. Not
only was the arch rebel the Duke of Orleans, the
Grand D/Iafter, but the chief actors in the Rev/olu~
tion, l`~/Iiraheau, Condorcet, Ptochefoucauit, and
others, were
diltinguilhed oftice-bearers in the
great Lodges. He lays that the clillrihution of
France into departments, diftri&s, circles, can~
tons, &c. is perfectly limilar, with the fame de-
nominations, to a diftribution which he had re~
marked in the correlpondence of the Grand Ori-
ent?
GEAP. iv. 'rms ~~FRENCE~I rtavotufmon. 233
ent*. The Prelident's hat in the National Afl°em~
bly is copied from that of a Tre; Vefzerable Grand
Iwaifre.--The fcarf of a
l/lunieipal Officer is the
fame with that of a Brother Apprentice.-V7hen
the Affernbly celebrated the Revolution in the
Cathedral, they accepted of the higlielt honours
of Mafonry by paliing under the A/'rcfl of Sfcci,
formed by the drawn fwords of two ranlts of Bre-
thren.-Alfo it is worthy of remarlt, that the Na-
tional Allembly proteéied the meetings of Free
Mafons, while it preremptorily prohibited every
other private meeting. The obligation of laying
alide all liars, ribbands, Crolifes, and other honour#
able diltinétions, under the pretext of Fraternal
Equality, was not merely a prelude, but was in-
tended as a
preparation for the deltrufilon of all
civil diliinftions, which took place alnioft at the
beginning of the Revolution;-cmd z'he_/in/Z pro-
pcfzl Qfa _/Z¢rr6fza,'er~, lays Mr. Lefranc, tofu made
by cz zealozw /14/'cz/bn.-He,fartl1er obferves, that
the horrible and fanguinary oaths, the daggers,
tleatlrheads, crols-bones, the imaginary combats
with the murderers of Hiram, and many other
gloomy ceremonies, have a natural tendency to
harden the heart, to remove its natural dilgull at
deeds of horror, and have paved the way for tliofe
lliocking barbarities which have made the name
of Frenclimen abhorred over all Europe. Theft:
deeds were indeed perpetrated by a mob of fanai
ties; but the principles were
promulgatetl and
foliered by perlbns who ftyle tliemfelves pliilo-
fophers.
'
I fee more evidence of t`nef`e important faéfizs in
another book juli; publilhed by an
emigrant gen-
* I Cannot help obferving, that it is perfeéily fimilar to the an
xangement and denominations which appear in the fecret correl-
pondence of the Bavarian Illuminati.
tleznan
284 THE FRENCH RHVOLUTIONS CHAIR iv,
tleman (Mr. Latocnaye). He Confirms my repeat~»
ed affertions, that all the irreligious and feditious
doctrines were the fubjeéts of repeated harangues
in the Mafon Lodges, and that all the principles
of the Revolution, by which the public mind was
as it were fet on iire, were
nothing but enthuliall
tic amplitications of the common-place cant of
Free I/lafonry, and aroie naturally out of it. He
even thinks "
that this mag? qf`¢zc'cq§Cz`z;1/ be the cafe
"
in every country where the minds of the iower
"
Clafifes of the State are in way eoniiderably
"
fretted or irritated; it is aimoit impoiiible to
"
avoid being drawn into this vortex, whenever
"
a cliihontented mind entersinto a Iwiaion Lodge,
"
The *Fcale ftory of brotherly love, which at an-»
"
other time would only lull the hearer alleep,
"
now makes him prici: up his ears, and liiten
"
with avidity to the iiiiy tale, and he cannot
"
hinder fretting thoughts from continually rank-
"
ling in his mind."
l'¢Ir1 Latocnaye fays exprefsiy,
"
That notwith-
"
ftanding the general contempt of the public for
"
the Duke of Grieans, his authority as Grand
"
Maiter of the Mafons gave him the greatelt
"
opportunity that a feditious mind could dehref
"
for helping forward the Revolution. He had
"
ready to his hand a conne&ed iyftem of hidden
"
Societies, protected by the State, habitnated to
"
fecrecy and artitice, and already tinged with
"
the very enthuiiafm he wifhed to infpire. In
"
thefe he formed political committees, into which
"
only his agents were admitted. He filled the
"
Lodges with the French guards, whom he cor-»
"
rupted with money and hopes of preferment;
"
and by means ot' the Abbe Sieyes, and other
"
emi{l`aries, they were harangued with all the fo-
"
phiitical declamation, or cant of l_`vIal`onry."
Mr.
naar. iv. frm: FRENCH aavoturron. 285
IfIr. Latocnaye lays, that all this was peculiar
to the Lodges of the Grand Qrient; but that
there were many (not very many, if we
judge by
the Neurvied alnianse, which reckons only 2S9iu
all France in I7`8_'§_, of vshich Q66 were of the
Grand Orient) Lodgesaxlio continued on the old
plan of aznullng themlelves with a little folemn trifl
ling. He coincides V4ill1l"vil'L Lefranc in the opinion
that the þÿ ¬lV{Llll;1ll(l
gloomy rituals of Malbnry, and
particularly the levere trials of conhdence and lhb-
million? malt have a
great tendency to harden the
heart, and lit aman for attrocious aetions, No one
can doubt of this who reads the Followinginllance:
"
A candidate for reception into one of the
highelt Orders, after having heard many threat-
enings denounced againll all who fhould betray
"
the Secrets of the Order, was conducfted to a
"
place where he [aw the dead bodies of feveral
who were laid to have lhllered for their trea~
"
chery. He then faw his own brother tied hand
and foot; begging his mercy and interceflion.
"
He w as informed that this pcrfon was about to
"
fuller the punilhment due to this offence, and
"
that it was referved for him (the candidate) to
"
be the inftrurnent of this jolt vengeance, and
"
that this gave him an
opportunity of manifelt-
"
ing that he was
completely devoted to the Gr-
C(
:L
it
és
cc
der. It being oblerved that his countenance
"
gave ligns of inward horror, (the perfon in
"
bonds imploring his mercy all the
while) he
"
was told that in order to fpare his feelings, a
"
bandage lhould be put over his eyes. A dagger
"
was then put into his right hand, and being
"
hood-winked, his left hand was laid upon the
"
palpitating heart of the criminal, and he was
"
then ordered to llrike. He inltantly obeyed;
þÿ ¬¢
and when the bandage was taken from his eyes,
2 N he
235 THE FRENCH tim/'oLU1"1oN. eau. iv.,
"
he faw that it was a lamb that he had ftabbed.
"
Surely ihch trials and fiith waiiton cruelty are
L4
it only for training <:onl"piratorS."
Mr. Latocnaye adds, that "
when he had been
initiated. an old gentleman afked him what he
thought of the whole ?" He anhvered,
"
A great
"
deal of noife, and much nonfenfe." "
Nonfenle."
faid the other,
"
don't judge fo raihly, young man;
I have worked thefe tventy~f1ve years, and the
farther I advanced, it intereiled me the more;
but I llopped fhort, and nothing ihall prevail on
me to advance a
ftep farther." In another Con-
Verfation the gentleman faid,
"
I imagine that my
"
iioppage was
owing to my refnfal about nine years
ago, to lilien to fonie perfons who made to me,
out of the Lodge, propoials which were feditious
and horrible; for ever hnce that time I have re-
"
marked, that my higher Brethren treat me with a
"
much greater referve than they had done before,
"
and that, under the pretext of further linliruéiion;
"
they have lahoured to confute the notions which
°'
I had already acquired. by giving ibnie of the
"
moft delicate fuhjeéis a different turn. I hir
"
that they wanted to remove fonie fufpicions vfliieh
I was
beginning to form Concerning the ultimate
"
fcope of the whole." .
I imagine that thefe Ol)`lrC1`'3l.iG1]S will leave no
doubt in the mind of the reader with refpeét to the
iniluence of the fecret Fraternity of Free Mafonry
in the French Revolution, and that he will allow it
to he highly probable that the infamous Duke of Or-
leans had, from the beginning, entertained hopes of
mounting the throne of France. It is not my pro-
vince to
prove or
difprove this point, only I think
it no evident, from man); circumliances in the
traniarfiions et thoie tumultuous days, that the
aéiive leaciera had quite ditiercnt views, and were
inapcllerl
¢¢
LL
LL
GL
GK
GL
L(-
¢L
GL
. l
erin. iv. THE FRENCH RE*/oLUrroN.
'237
izzipelled by fanatical notions of democratic felicity,
or, more
probably, by their own ambition to be the
movers of this vall machine, to overturn the ancient
government, and ereél a
republic, of which they
hoped to be the managersii. Mirabeau had learned
when in Germany that the principles of anarchy
had been well digelled into a
fyliem, and therefore
wilhed for fome inll'rué`tionNas to the fubordinate de-
tail of the bolinefs, and for this purpofe requelled a
deputation from the 1',//zm:z`2:f:z.'z`.
In fuch a Carrie as this, we
may be certain that no
ordinary peribn would be fem. Une of the depu-
ties was Aurelius, the next
perion in the order to
Spartacus and Philo. llis worldly name was Johann.
C. Bode, at '~Veirnar, privy-counfellor to the
Prince of Helie-Darmliadt. (See þÿP'I"Q_Q`7}J¬72f6' der
Bing þÿ75110/i7Z°¬
des 'L'e1j/foréerzes ]ii'@'}ae1'i" Bride lil! Wififizar,
mf!
zzzfverlaufgefz Ur/zzuzdrr, Sw. ]i'iom. 1795. See
alib lfzzd/ic/Je Sbicllfzll der ['i"¢j}'//za1zrt°f'¢;y, 1794 ; alfo
f17i2>;z¢>r Zeizf/brQ'z' fur 1793.)-This perlon has
played a
principal part in the whole fcheme of Illu-
mination. He was a
perfon of couhderable and
ihowy talents as a writer. He had great talents for
converhtioo, and had kept good company. 'With
The depoiitions at the Chatelet,which I have already quoted,
give repeated and unequivocal proofs, that he, with a conliderable
number of the deputies of the National Aliembly, had formed
this plot before tl1e 5th of October 1789. That trial was con-
ducted in a
ftrange manner, partly out of refpeft for the Royal
Family, which llill had fome hearts affectionately attached to it,
and to the monarchy, and partly by reafon of the fears of
the members of this court. There was now no
fafety for any
perfon who differed from the opinion oifthe frantic populace of
Paris. The chief points of accufation were written in a fchedule
which is not publifhed, and the witnc{l`es were ordered to depofe
on thefe in one
general Yes or No ; fo that it is only the leailt im-
portant part of the evidence that has been printed. I am well
informed that the whole of it is carefully preferred, and will one
day appear.
refpecfl
Q88 THEFRENCHREVOLUTION.
'
c:nAp.iv,
refpeft to his rnyitical chara&er, his experience was
great. He was one of the Templar Mafons, and a-
mong them was
Egan zz Li/z`z`5 Cafzvrziiizmz. He had
fpeculated much about the origin and hitiory of Ma-
fonry, and when at the Willexnflaad convention.,
ivasi converted to Illuminatifm. He was the great
inlligator of Nicholai, Gedicke, and Bielier, to the
hunt after jefuits which fo much occupied thezn, and
fuggelled to Nicholai his journey through Germany.
Lenchtfenring whom I mentioned before, was
only
the letter-carrier between Bode and thefe three aw
thors. lie wasjull fuch a man as
Weillaaupt willi-
ed for; his head filled with Mafonic fanaticifm, at~
taching infinite importance to the frivolilies of Ma-
ionry, and engaged in an enthuhaiitic and fruitlel°s
refearch after its origin and hiiiory. He had col-
lected, however, fuch a number of archives (as they
were
Called) of Free Mafonry, that he fold his manu-
fcrip: to the Duke of Saxe Gotha, (into @0112 fer-
vice Vei{haupt engaged hinrfelf when he was driven
from Bavaria), for 150 dahlers. This little anec-
dote lhows the high importance attributed to thofe
matters by perfons of whonn we lhould expeéi better
things.
"
Bode was alto a moil determined and vio-
lent materialifl. Behdes all there qualities, ioaccepta-
ble to the Illuminati, he was dilcontented Templar
Mafon, having been repeatedly difappointed ol" the
preferment which he thought hirnlelf entitled to.
Wlien he learned that the firll operations of the Il-
luminati were toibe the obtaining the foie direction
of the Malkin Lodges, and of the whole Fraternity,
his hopes revived of riling to iome of the Corn-
inanderies, which his entliuliafm, or rather fanati-
cifm, had made him hope to fee one day regained
by the Order :-bntwhen he found that the next and
favourite object was to root out the SINE? OM'?"'Z'(Z}2i2'»
altogether, he llartcd back. But Philo hav/ that the
nnderflandiirg
cimp. iv. rm; FRENCH asvoturtow.
289
underliaridiug (lhall we call it ?) that can be dazzled
with one whim, may be dazzled with another, and
he now attached him to Illuminatifm, by a
magni-
ficent diiplay of a world ruled by the Order, and
conducied to
happinefs by means
of Liberty and
Equality. This did the bulinefs, as we 'tee by the
private correfpondence, where Philo informs Spar-
tacus of his lirh diliiculties with Aurelius. Atneli~
us was
gained over in Augull ;782, and we fee by
the fame correfpoudence, that the greateii affairs
were foou eutrulled to him-he was
generally em-
ployed to deal with the great. /Vhen a Graf or a
Baron was to he wheedled into the Order, Amelius
was the agent.--He was alfo the chief operator
in all their contelts with the Jeluits and the Rofy-
cruciaus. It was alfo Bode that procured the im-
portant acceiiion of Nicholai to the Order. This
he brought about through Leuchtfenring ; and lati-
ly, his numerous couneciious among the°Free Ma-
ibns, together with Knigges influence among them,
enabled the llluminati to worm themfeives into
every Lodge, and at lait gave them almoli the entire
command of the Fraternity.
Such was the firli of the deputies to France. The
other was a Mr. BuH"che, called in the Order Bay-
ard; therefore probably a man of refpediable Cha-
ra&er; for moit of Spartacus's names were hgniii-
cant like his own. He was a
military man, Lieu-
tenant-Colonel in the fervice of delle -Darrnliadt.--
This man alfo was a difcontented Templar Mafon,
and his name in that Fraternity had been Egues cz
}'b1zz'1`<'5u; Eremi. He was illuminated by Kntgge.
He had alfo been unfuccefsful both at court and iu
the field, in both of which Htuations he had been at-
tempting to make a
diiiinguiihed Hgure. He. as well
as Bode, were immerfed in debts. They were there-
fore
290 frm; FRENCH Ri;vt>Lu'r1oN. QHAP. iv.
fore 'uit in then rover tem er for Cofmo- oliticnl
J 1 P P
cnterprife.
They went to Paris in the end of 1733, while the
Notables were
fitting, and all Paris was
giving :id-
vice. The alarm that was railed about Animal Mag-
I
netifm, which was indeed making much noife at that
time, and particularly at Paris, was alligued by them
as the great motive of the journey. Eode alto fctid
that he was anxious to learn what were the Correc-
tions made onthe fyftetn of the Cfbawrz/z`¢-r5 f;?z`c'7y"fz!-
V/Emir. They had taken that name Rt hril, to lbreeu
thetnfelves from the Charges againft them under the
name of Template. 'lihey had Corretied fomethiug
in their fyllexn when they tool: the name Phi/tr/elbes.
And now when the Schifuis of the ]'bz`!rz/eibfs were
healed, and the Brethren again united under the
name of .4/721-5 }?¢=mzz`s, he fulpe&ed that Iefuits had
interfered ; and heeaufe he had heard that the prin~
ciples of the .imzlv Rezmif were very noble, he willi-
ed to be more certain that they were
purged of eve-
ry thing jefuitieal.
The deputies- accordingly arrived at Paris, and
immediately obtained zdmiliion into the-fe two Fra-
terziities? They found both of them in the ripell
To prevent interruptions, I mayjult mention here the autho-
rities for this journey and co-operation ofthe two deputies.
I. Ein fzuic/ziéger _/i71%.§/:ft zidsr ff: 2205/5 þÿ'ZU¬7Z%Tbeéamzfe Veran-
ir_r§7Ivn_g der Franztwlicn Revolution, in the Vienna Zeitfchrift for
1793> Pi- 145-
2. Endfif/ye S/air/#1/1' :fer Freyrmzurer Ordwzr, 1794, p. Ig.
.3. Nkucjfe Afrlwifmzg des 51.0611 mc:/.r and P/if/0, Illfuniah, 1793. p.
15 1'--5 4.
4. Hf}'ior%/5a Ivraclvric/5!¢'n Liber die Franc Revo/zzficn I
792, 'von
Gfrfrznnfr, 'U/lr. loc.
5. Rem/frriafrf A7z'17zaf1a;l»_/iff 1
792~-4, Goitizzgezs, war. /ac.
6. £>)f_§,'[?'{7'L"c' .zur
_Bi0§1'aAfJ,5fe [fer þÿ'l'¬)j?02'»L¬lZL'JFrey-Herr fu. Banff,
7
794° ..
'_ jfcfraaifsdss þÿ.L;f ¬]'JZ!'Z/F
ft Kr/4/2 for 1'7. 2 A, 556- <56-
J c J 9 4 9 9 r
flute
crisp. iv. THE FRENCH 'R§.V0LUrrroN'.
291
Hate for Illumination, having fhalren off all the caba-
liflical, chemical, and niytlical whims that had for
merly dillurbed them, :md would now take up too
much of their time. They were now
eultivating
Y
with great zeal the philofophico political oothrines
of univerlal citizenlhip. Their leaders. to the
number of twenty. are mentioned by name in the
Berlin Monutfclirilt for 1785, and among them are
fereral of the 'iirll þÿa"(s
in the French Revolution.
But this is nothing diiliniiive, becaufe perfons of ali
opinions were Mafons.
The Amis Reunis were little behind the Illunii=
mti in every thingthzat was irreligious and anarchi~
eral, and had no inclination for any ofthe formaii~
ties of ritual, Sac. They were already fit for the
higher mylteries, and only wanted to learn the me-~
thocls of buiinefs which had fucceeded fo well in
fpreatling their dotflrines and maxims over Germa~
ny. Belides, their docirines had not been digelied
into a
Qliem, nor had the artful methods of leading
on the pupils from bad to worie been praélifed. For
hitherto, each intlividtial had Vented in the Lodges
his own
opinions, to unburden his own mind, and
the Brethren liliened for in[lru&ion and mutual en#
couragement. Therefore, when Sp:-.rtacus's plan
was communicated to them, they im at once its im-
portance, in all its branches; fuch as the tile of the
Niafon Lodges, to lilh for Minervals-~the rituals and
ranlzs to entice the young, andto lead them by de#
greets to
opinions and meafures which, at firll light,
would have lhoclzed them. The firm hold which is
gotten of the pupils, and indeed of all the inferior
claliies, by their reports in the courfe of their pre~
tended training in the knowledge of themfelves :md
ofothermen-and, above all,the provincial arrange~
mentofthe ordenand the clever fubordinzztion and en-~
tire dependence on a ielccl hzmtl o1°P:mtleemouium at
'
Paris,
2952 THE rltsricn Ri;voi_UTioN.~ ciiitp. iv:
Paris, which lhould infpire and dire& the whole.--I
think (altho' I have not
exprefs afiertions of the thc?)
from the fubfequent conduit ofthe French revolters,
that even at this early period, there were
many in
thofe focieties who were ready to
go every length pro-
pofed to them by the Illuminati, fuch as the aboli-
tion of royalty, and of all privileged orders, as
ty-
rants by nature, the annihilation and robbery of the
prieilhood, the rooting out oi' Chrillianity, and the
introduéiion of Atheilin, or a
philofophical Chimera
which they were to call Religion. Mirabeau had
often fpoken of the lall branch of the Illuminated
principles, and the converfations held at Verfailles
during the awful paufes of the 5th of Oclober,
(which are to be feen in the evidence before the
Chatelet in the Orleans procefs,) can hardly be
fuppofed to be the fancies of an accidental mob.
l/Iirabeau was, asl have faid, at the head of
this democratic party, and had repeatedly faid,
that the only ufe of ai King was to ferve as a pa-
geant, in order to give Weight to public mealhres
in the opinion or2=the'populace.-fund l/ir. Latoc-
naye fays, that this party was
very numerous, and
that immediately after the irnprudeut or madlike
invitation of every fcribbler in a
garret to give his
advice, the party did not fcruple to fpealc their
fentiments in public, and that they were encou-
raged in their encomiums on the advantages of a
virtuous republican government by Mr. Neckar,
who had a moflt extravagant and chilclilh predi~
leftion for the conflitutiou of Geneva, the place
of his nativity, and was alfa much tinged with
the Co{`mo~political philofophy of the times. The
King's brothers, and the Princes of the blood,
prefentecl a memorial to his l'Ia_ielly, which con-
cluded hy laying, that
"
the eiiervefeuce of the
"
public opinions had come to fuch a
height that
"
the
CHAP. iv. 'mia FRENCH mzvorurxon.
293
"
the moft dangerous principles, imported from
"
foreign parts, were avowed in print with per-
"'
feet impunity--that his majefty had unwarily
"
encouraged every fanatic to diétate to him,
"
and to (bread his poilbnons ientiments, in which
"
the rights of the throne were not only diffe-
"
fpeéted, but were even difputed-that the rights
"
of the higher cEaH`es in the ltate ran a
great rilk
"
of being fpeedily iiippreiied, and that nothing
"
would hinder the facrccl right of property from
"
being ere long invaded, and the unequal diliri-
"mbution of wealth from being thought a
proper
"f'i1b_}e& of re{'orm."
'
'When fueh was the (tate of things in Paris; it
is plain that the buiinelk of the German deputies
would he ealily tran{`aé`ted. They were received
with open arms
by the Pkilalefhef, the Amir dc
la Verife, the Social Co/1tmc'i', &cL and in the
courle of a
very few weeks in the end of 1783,
and the beginning of 1789, (that is, before the
end of March) the Whole of the Grand Orient,
including the P/zilaleihef, Afazif ifezmif, Marfifzf
fer, &c. had the fecrets of Illumination commu-
nicated to them, The operation' naturally began
with the Great National Lodge of Paris, and thole
in immediate dependence on it. It would alfo feem,
from many circum{`tances that occurred to my ob-
fervation, that the Lodges in Alface and Lorraine
were Illuminated at this time, and not long before
as I had imagined. Stralburg I know had been
Illuminated long ago, while Philo was in the Or-
der. A circumltance ltrikes me here as of fome
moment. The {`e&s of Phi/aiefher, and Ami;
Rezmif were refinements engrafted on the fyftem
of the Chevalier; Beinf2z1]Zmz'.r at Lyons. Such re-
f'
finements never faii to be conhdered as a fort or
herefy, and the profeflbrs will be held with a
jea-
2 Q lous
Q94 'mr FRENCH REVOLUTION. CHAP. iv.
lous and unfriendly eye by fome, who will pride
thelnfelves on
adhering to the old faith. And
the greater the fuccefs of the herefy, the greater
will be the anirnofity between the pa1'ties.-May
not this help to explain the mutual hatred of the
Parihans and the Lyonnois, which produced the
moit dreadful attrocities ever
perpetrated on the
face of the earth, and made a fhambles and a de-
fert of the iiuelt city of France?
'
The nrft proceeding by the advice of the de-
puties was the formation of a political committee
in every Lodge. This committee correfponded
with the diftant Lodges, and in it were difcuI`r3eci
and fettled all the political principles which were
to be inculcated on the members. The author of
the þÿNez1 ¬He
A/'1'bciz'zmg fays exprefsly, that "
he
"
was
thoroughly inlirufted in this; that it was
"
given in charge to thefe committees to frame
"
general rules, and to carry through the great
"
plan (grand auvre) of a
general- overturning
"
of religion and government." The principal
leaders of the fubfequent Revolution were mem-
bers of thefe committees. Here were the plans
laid, and they were
tranfmitted through the king-
dom by the Correfponding Committees.
Thus were the ftupid Bavarians (as the French
were once pleafed to call them) their infiruétors
in the art of overturning the world. The French
Were indeed the firit who put it in practice. Thefe
committees arofe from the Illuminati in Bavaria,
who had by no means given over
working; and
thcfe committees produced the jacobin Club. It
is not a frivolous remark, that the Mafonic phrate
of the perfons who with to addrefs the Brethren,
"
S. je þÿd ¬?72[Ll1d ¬Z6l
parole, which the F. S. re-
"
ports to the V. G. M. and which he announces
"
to the Brethren thus,
"
Mer y9'ere.r, ]%=re tc!
CC
demand:
cr-IAP. iv. -ms FRENCH REVOLUTION.
Q05
"
demrznde lo parole, Io parole /ui ejl aceordeef)
is exactly copied by the Jacobin Club. There is
furely no natural þÿconne ¬tion
between Free Ma-
fonry and jacobinifm--but we feek the link-IL
luminatifm.-
The office-bearers of one of the Lodges of Phi»
lalethes in Paris were ll/Iarfin, /7f/'il/ermooz, (who
had been deputy from the þÿC/Z ¬Ud]Zi67'I
Beinfzyonfr
to the Vi/illemfbad Convention) Choppe, Mz'1zet*,
de la Henrjere, and Sfzvafiar de l'A'ng@. -In an-
other (the Conz'roé2 Social) the Political Commit-
tee conlilted of Lo Fen/efie, Cozzciorcet, Pethiofz,
d'Or/eazzf, ff/Joe Bfzriholif, di./.¥ig"ZlZ.!]07I, Bai/Q/,
Ilfarq. de la Sa/le, Deforeffzefzi/. This particular
Lodge had been founded and coudutfted by one
De Leuife, an adventurer and cheat of the tirft
magnitude, who fometimes made a
figure, and at
other times was without a
fhilling. At this very
time he was a
fpy attached to the oiiice of the po-
lice of Parisi". The Duke ofOr"/ezzzzf was W/arden
*
Minet was, I think, at this time a
player. He was ion of
a
furgeon at Nantes-rob'<ed his father and fled-er1li{'ted in
Holland-deferted and became fmuggler-was taken and burnt
in the hand-became player and married an acftrefs-then became
priefl--a d was made Bifhop of Nantes by Couftard in dilcharge
of a debt of 5001. Mr. Latocnaye often law Coullard kneel to
him for benedirftion. It cannot be fuppofed that he was much ve-
nerated in his pontilicals in his native city.-It feems Minet,
Minet, is the call of the children to a kitten--This was
prohibit-
ed at Nantes, and many perfons Whipped for the freedom ufed
with his name.
-l' I am told that he now
(or very lately) keeps the belt com-~
pany, and lives in elegance and aH'luence in London.
Augur, j'lm°1zo6ate.r<, mediczzs, mzzgu: omrzicz rzofuit
Grzculzzs ijizriens ; in ca'/um jzfforis, ioffi.
fngeniufn 'volex lllldtlfill pera'ita, _/Erma
Promptu.r.-
All fciences a hun r f
Frenchman knows
3 l 1
And bid him go to hell-to hell he goes.
_7o/5n_/bn'.r Trdfg/lation.
,
0
296 "mit FRENCH Rnvotufrron. cum. iv.
of the Lodge. The Abbe Sz`e_;/cy was a Brother
Grator, but not of this Lodge, nor, I think, of
the former. It was
probably of the one condncft-
ed by lvlirabeau and the Abbe Perigord. Ent it ap~
pearstiom the piecefrom which I an; at prefent bor-
rowing, that Sieyes was prefent in the meetings of
both Lodges, probably as
viliting Brother, employ-
ed in bringing them to common mealiires. I mnlt
obferve, that the fubfcqnent condtft of fome of
thefe men does not juli accord with my conjec-
ture, that the principles of the Illuminati were
adopted in their full extent. 'But we know that
all the Bavarian Brethrenwere not
equally llln~
minated, and it would be only copying their
teachers it' the cleverelt of thele their icholars
lhoiild hold a
/21fzf'z'zm1 /Emeiorzzm among them-
iclves, without inviting all to the conference. Ub-
lerve too that the chief leflbn which they were
now
taking from the Germans was Z/Qc meihocl qf
doizfg 61%/if/I", of rnanaging their correfpondence,
and of procuring and training pupils. A l?`rench~
man does not think that he needs þÿin{irn ¬tion
in any
thing like principle or fcience. He is readyon all
occalions to be the inllrnitor.
Thus were the Lodges of France converted in
a
very lhort time into a fet of fecret a$liiited lb-
cieties, correfponding with the mother Lodges of
Paris, receiving from thence their principles and
inftrluetions, and ready to rife up at once when
called upon to
carry on the great work of þÿO\' ¬1`~
turning the ltate.
Hence it has arifen that the French aimed, in
the very beginning, at
overturning the whole
Woiltl. ln all the revolutions of other countries,
the lchcmes and plots have extended no farther
than the nation where they took their rife. Ent
here we have feel] that they take in the whole
world
caar. iv. 'ms FRENCH asvoturxon.
Q97
World. They have repeatedly declared this in
their manifeltos, and they have declared it by
their conduet--This is the very aim of the Illu-
minati. Hence too may be explained how the re-
volution tool; place in a moment in every part of
France. The revolutionary locieties were
early
harmed, and were
working in feeret before the
opening of the National Allemloly, and the Whole
nation changed, and changed again, and again, as
if by heat of,druni. Thrale duly initiated in this
xnyltery of iniquity were
ready every where at a
call. And we fee VVeilhaupt's wiih accomplilhed
in an
þÿune>;pe ¬ted
degree, and the debates in a
club giving laws to folemn allemblies of the na-
tion, and all France bending the necl; to the city
of Paris. The members of the club are
Illuminati,
and fo are a
great part of their correl`pondentS.--
Each operates in the ltate as a Minerval would do
in the Order, and the Whole goes on with fylte-
matic regularity. The famous jacobin Club was
juli one of thole Lodges, as has been already ob-
ferved ; and as, among individuals one
commonly
takes the lead, and contrives for the reft, fo it has
happened on the prefent occalion, that this Lodge,
fiipported by Grleans and Miraheau, was the one
that ftepped forth and Siewed itlelf to the world
and thus became the oracle of the party 5 and all
the relt only echoed its dileourles, and at lall; al-
lowed it to give law to the whole, and even to
rule the kingdom. It is to be reniarked too that
the founders of the club at ll/lentz were lllunii-
nati, (Re/(gf. Bege/éefz/2. 1793. p. 443) before the
Revolution, and correfponded with another Lodge
at
Stralburg ; and theft: two produced mighty ef-
fects during the year I
790. In a
performance call-
eil [»;z'ef1z0if"e.r P0_;?»%ume.f de þÿCI{£il2 ¬
it is faicl, that
when that general was
bending his courfe to Hol-
land,
lug...-
ff*
QQS 'rms rumen REVOLUTION. cum, ivy
land, the Illuminati at Straiburg, Worms, and
Spire, immediately formed clubs, and invited him
into that quarter, and, by going to lVIentz and en-
couraging their brethren in that city, they raifed
a
party againlt the garrifon, and actually deliver~
ed up the place to the French army.
A little book, juit novv printed with the title
Panzgraphafz, lays, that Zimmerman, of whom I
have iboken more than once, went to France to
preach liberty. He was employed as a
miliionary
of Revolution in Alface, where he had formerly
been a moft fuccefsful miliionary of Illuminati{`m.,
()f` his former proceedings the folioxving is a curi~
ons anecdote. He connecfted himfelfvvith a
highly
accompliihed and beautiful woman, whole con-
verfation had fuch charms, that he fays (he gained
him near a hundred converts in Spire alone. Some
perfons of high rank, and great exterior dignity
of charaéter, had felt more tender imprefiions-
and when the lady informed them of certain con-
fequences to their reputation, they were
glad to
compound matters with her friend Mr. Zimmer-
man, who either patted for her hniband or took
the fcandal on himfelf. He made above 1500
Louis d'ors in this Way. Vifhen he returned, as a
preacher of Revolution, he ufed to mount the
pulpit with a labre in his hand, and haw] ont,
"
Behold, Frenchmen, this is your God. This
"
alone can fave you." The author adds, that
when Cuftine broke into Germany, Zimmerman
got adinhiiozi to him, and engaged to deliver
Ii/Ianheim into his hands. To gain this purpofe,
he oi'i2:red to fct ibme corners of the city on fire,
and al`i`urcd him ofliipport. Cnitine declined the
ofifer.--Qfliminerznan appeared againft him before
the Revolutionary 'l`ribunal, and accufcd him of
treachery to his caufc.-Cui`tin<;';s aniwer is re-
rc mark able,
CHAP. iv. 'mr runes REVOLUTION.
Q99
markable. "
Hardly," faid he,
"
had I let my
"
foot in Germany, when this man, and all the
"
fools of his country, beliegedine, and would
"
have delivered up to me their towns and vil~
"
lages--'v`Vhat occaiion had I to do any thing to
"
Nlanlieim, when the Prince was neutral P" Zim-
merman found his full account in Robel`pierre's
bloody l`way-but the fhort term of his attrocities
was alfo the Whole of Zimmerman's carreer. He
was arrefted, but again liberated, and foon after
again imprifoned, after which l can learn no more
of him. The fame thing is pofitively aflerted in
another performance, called Cari de /zz Rafue, and
in a third, called Lex [Wa/qzzef _/ifrraclzeef. Ols-
ferve too, that it is not the clubs merely that are
accufed of this treachery, but the Illuminati. De
la Met/terie alib, in his preface to the "four/ml .de
þÿPh)/%`QZ{ ¬
for 1790, fays exprefsly, that "
the caufe
"
and arms of France were
powerfully fupported
"
in Germany by a feet of philofophers called the
"
Illuminated." In the preface to the fourmzl for
1792, he fays, that "
Letters and deputations were
"
received by the Affembly from feveral Corref-»
"
ponding Societies in England, felicitating them
"
on the triumph of Reafon and Humanity, and
'i
promiling them their cordial aliiftance."-~
He read fome of thefe manifefios, and fays,
that "
one of them recornniencled ltrongly the
"
political education of the children, who lhould
"
be taken from the parents and trained up
"
for the liate."---Another lamented the bale~
ful influence of property, faying, that
"
the ef-
"
forts of the Affemhly would he fruitlels, till the
"
fence was removed with which the laws fo
"
anxioully fecured inordinate wealth. They
"
fhould rather be direéted to the fupport of ta-
£§
lents and virtue; becaufe property /would al~
»
(¢
V»/3yS
300 :rue FRENCH REVOLUTIONi CHAP. iv.;
"
ways fupport itfelf by the too great influence
"
which it had in every corrupted llate. The
"
laws fhould prevent the too
great accumulation
"
of it in Particular f`arnilies.">In fhort, the
counfel was almofi verbatim what the Abbe Cof-
fancley declared to have been preached in the
meetings of the Illuminati, which terrified him
and his colleagues, and made them quit the aflo-
ciation. Anarcharlis Cloots, born in Pruihan 'Q/`Vel`t~
phaiia, a keen llluminatus, came to Paris for the
exprels purpofe of z°`orwarding the great work, and
by intriguing in the llyle of the Order, he got
himfelf made one of the Reprefentatives of the
Nation. He feems to have been one of the com-
pletelt fanatics in Cofmo-politilin, and juft l`uch a
tool as VVei{haupt would choofe to employ for a
coarie and arduous job. He broke out at once in-
to all the lilly extravagance of the unthinking
herd, and his whole language isjuft the jargon of
Illumination. Citizen of the World-Liberty and
Equality, the imprefcripitible Rights of Man--_
l\/lorality, dear l'v'lorality-Kings and Priells are
ufelefs things-they are Defpots and Corrupters,
éfrc.--He declared hirnfelf an
atheift, and zealouf-
ly laboured to have atheifm eflablilhed bylaw.
He conduéted that f`arcical proce$on in the true
ltyle of the molt childifh ritual of Philo, where
counterfeited deputies Hom all quarters of the
world, in the dreffes of their countries, canze to
congratulate the nation for its victory over Kings
and Priellts. It is alfovvorthy of renlarlc, that by
this time Leuchtfenring, whom we have feen fo
zealous an
[[!.Zl7?2i/Zflfllf, after having been as Zea-
'lous a
Proteftant, tutor of Princes, Hofrath and
Hofmeilter, was now a
fecretary or clerk in one
of the Bureaus of the National Afienihly of
France.
li
I may
cnrxp. iv. 'rua FRENCH
REV(¥.L'TION. 301
I may add as a
Enifhing touch, that the National
Aflembly of France was the only body of men that
L have ever heard of who openly and fyllematically
propofed to employ aflamnation, and to inllitute a
band of patriots, who ihould exercife this profellion
either by fword, piilol, or
poifon ;--and though the
propoml was not carried into execution, it might be
conlidered as the fentiments of the meeting; for it
was
only delayed till it ihould be conlidered how far
it might not be imprudent, hecaufe they might ex-
peél reprifals. The Abbe Dubois engaged to
poifon
the Comte d'Artois; but was himfelf robbed and
poifoned by his accomplices.--There were
ilrong
reafons for thinking that the Emperor of Germany
was
poifoned--and that Mirabeau was thus treated
by his pupil Orleans,--alfo Madame de Favras and
her fon.-This was copying the Illuminati very
carefully.
After all thefe particulars, can
any perfon have a
doubt that the Order of Illuminati formally inter-
fered in the French Revolution, and contributed
greatly to
itsvprogrefs? There is no
denying the in-
folence and opprefhon of the Crown and the Nobles,
nor the mifery and flavery of the people, nor that
there were fufhcient provocation and caufe for a to-
tal change of meafures and of principles. But the
rapidity with which one
opinion was declared in
every corner, .and that opinion as
quickly changed,
and the change announced every where, and the
perfect conformity of the principles, and famenefs
of the language, even in arbitrary trifles, can hard-
ly be explained in any other way. It may indeed
be faid "
que /es beczux genie; /e reizconireni,-tliat
"
wits jump. The principles are the fame, and.
"
the conduft of the French has been fnch as the
"'
Illuminati would have exhibited; but this is all
"
ee-the Illuminati no longer exiiled." Enough has
"2 1" been
P
302 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. CHAP. iv.
been laid on this point already.--The faéis are as
have been narrated. The Illuminati continued al*
an Order, and even held affemblies, though not fo
freqnently nor fo formally as before, and though
their Areoprzgrfs was no longer at Munich. But let us
hearwhat the French themfelves thoughtof the matter.
In 1789, or the beginning of IQQO, a
ffzanyfq/ie
was
fm* from lbs GRAND NATIONAL Lone; gf Fir.:
I£yo1zs (fo it ig entitled) at Paris, jgncd by lb:
Duke qf Orleans as Grand _M`a]?er', acldrfjed and /em"
to Zlae Lodges in all the refoefiaéle' cities if Europe,
f.»vborlz`ng llafm fo auitefor the /upper! Qfp ilae þÿf'}" ¬71Cb
Refi/o!uiz`ofz, to gala z`rfriena's, clqfemlers, and dependefzls ;
ana' acc0ra'lng to their opporiafzilies, and the praé?ica_
éiliiy ff the fbifzg, to kindle and propagate Il1eLDz`riz'
gf re~v0lzzrz`01z fri71"0élgb all lands. This is a molt im-
portant article,and deferves a very ferious attention.
I got it fxrfl of all in a work called, Hocln/le wiv/Bizgs
þÿ.E)°f}17Z ¬7'IlI1g ¬ll
zur recblezz Zell uéar ez`nzLgc' der aller-
þÿerfgp'l:'a/ ¬'e/lm fffzgelegezz/aeiiea ali¢fs'.v Zeilalierf, 'vm
L. A. H#2zazzfz, Vienna, 17Q5;'%.
~
The author of this work fays,
"
That every thing
'»' he advances in thefe memorandums is Conliftent
" with his own
perfonai knowledge, and that he is
(1
ready to give convincing proofs of them to any
"'
refneefiable perfon who will apply to him pe1'1'ot1~
"
ally. He has already given fttchconvincing do-
f" cuments to the Emperor, and to feveral Princes,
"
that many of thetnachinations occaiioned by thia
'"
manifeiio have been deteéied and Ftopped; and
"
he would have no
fcruple at laying the whole be~
"
fore the public, did it not unavoidably involve
(S
feveral worthy perfons who had fuiierecl them-
." felves to be milled, and laeartily repented of their
4*
Zlvicli impertant Memoratadumg, in proper Seafon, eongem-
fag :me of the molit fmfious Qccurreuces of the P1-efent Age, by L.
JE.. Haihxaaan, Vienna, 1795. /
A
"
errors."
cusp. iv. 'ma ritnwca REVOLUTION.
303
"
errors." Heis naturally (being a
Catholic) very
fevere on the Proteliants, (and indeed he has much
reafon,) and by this has drawn on himfelf many
bitter retorts. He has however defended himfelf
againll all that are of any confequence to his good
name and veracity, in a manner that fully convinces
any impartial reader, and turns to the confuhon of
the flanderers.
Hoffmann fays, that "he faw fome of thofe mani-
"
feilos; that they were not all of one tenor, fonie
"
being addrefled to friends, of whofe fupport they
"
were
already alfured." One very important artij
cle of their contents is Earns/2' 6'.9c`/,707`f6lfI'0l1J` I0 Qfaé/5%
in er/ery guar!ar_[~r1'et /51500/.v fy" ]>0]z`f1`rfz!er{z¢cz1!z`m,
and ji:/90015for tba pun/ic education W' I/be fbz'/rfren gf
the people, zmdffr the d{reé?z°0/z fy" we!!-pr/`1zfz¢/fc! mfr/-
ierr ,- and @'rs q"pecz¢1zz`ary cz_Mfa1zcef0rz'!9z°.vpzzr{2cjc,
dllflifbf I/ae efzcoumgef/2672! Q/` wrzkrs in _/`(lZ'U0l»l7' ay" tba
Revo/zzz'z`o1z, and for z`1m'e1/zn@fz`1zg I/be pair:`oz'z`c éookjél-
[ers w/a0`f1gjfér éy tizeir ffzdewvozzrs io fupprqk pun/zl
caiiofes 'wbic/J have an appwle lendefzq/. VVe know
very well that the immenfe revenue of the Duke of
Orleans was fcattered among all the rabble of the
Palais RWM. Can we doubt of its being employed
in this manner? Our doubts mufi vanilla, when
we fee that not long after this was
publicly Enid in
the National Affembly,
"
that this method was the
molt effeéiual for accomplilhing their purpofe of
fetting Europe in a flame." "
But much expence,"
fays the fpeaker,
"
will attend it, and much has al-
"
ready been employed, which cannot be named
"'
becaufe it is given in fecret." The Affembly'
had given the Illumination war-hoop--" Peace 'wifb
"
roffrzges, éut 'zega1~'wz'rb fm/acer"--A p0I1'voz`r sferfofu-
/zbizizazre is mentioned, which fuperfedes all narrow
thoughts, all ties of morality. Lequinio publilheg
the inoli detellable bool; that ever iflued from 3
printing
304 'ma rfitncia REVOLUTION. can. iv.
'printing prefs, Les Prejzzges fvaincus, containing all
the principles, and expreiled in the very words of
Illuminatifm.
Hofiinann lays, that the French Propagcmda had
many emilihries in Vienna, and many friends
whom he could point ont. Mirabeau in particu-
lar had many connections in Vienna, and to the
Certain ltnowledge of Hoffmann, carried on 21
great correl`pondence in cyphers. The progrels of
Illumination had been very great in the Auhrian
States, and a ltatefman gave him an account of
their proceedings, fquifofzt þÿ7' ¬C[l`fHé7`
/er chevezixj
which makes one's hair ftand on end. "
I no lon-
"
ger wonder," fays he,
"
that the /V,:';¢cp'eA'rr5ei-
"
Zzmg def Sparfzzclif und P/zi/0 was forbidden.
"
O ye almighty I/Zzmeifmii, what can
you not
"
accomplilh by your ferpent~lil<e inhnuation and
"
cunning!" Your leaders lay,
"
This hooliis
"
dangerous, becaufe it will teach wicked men
¢'
the moft refined methods of rebellion, and it
"
muft never get into the hands of the common
"
people. They have faid with the molt impu-
'=
dent face to lbme Princes, who did Hot per-
"
ccive the deeper-laid reaibn for fupprefiing the
"
book. The leaders of the [."!zmzifmz'i are, not
"
withiout reafon, in anxiety, lell; the inferior
'=
clalles of their own
Society fhould make juit
"
reprifiils ibr having been fo bafely tricked, by
"
keeping them back and in profound ignorance
¢"
of their real deligns; and for working on
"
them by the very goodneis of their hearts, to
"
their final ruin; and left the Free lfIafonS',
"
whom they have alfo abuied, iliould thinlt of
"
revenging themielves, when the matchlefs vil-
"
lainy of their deceivers has been lo clearly ex-
"
_pol`ctl. It is in vain for them to talk of the danger
"
of inltrucftinglthe people in the methods of fol
f'
menting
c-mr. iv. #ma FRENCH Ravotufrzon.
305
"
menting rebellion by this book. The aims are
too apparent, and even in the neighbourhood of
Regeniburg,`where the llrength of the Illumi-
"
mari lay, every pcrfon faicl aloud, that the Illu-
"
minati{`m difcovered by this book was
High
Treafon, and the rnolt unheard of attempt to
annihilate every religion" and every civil go-
vernment." He goes ou:
"
In
17901 was as
well acquainted with the fpirit of the 1llumina~
tion-fy item as at prefent, but only not fo docu-
"
mented by their conftitutional afts, as it is now
by the Neazey'}e Arbeitzzng de: S/Jartrzczzf mmf
Phi/0. My Mafonic connections were
formerly
"
extenlive, and my publication entitled Ezghfeefz
Pamgmp/zf Cofzcerfziug Frec
Ma/nfzry, procured
me more acquaintance with Free Mafons of
the greateft worth; and of I/lZl77ZZ.7Z(Iff equally
"
upright, perfons of refpeélability and know-
"
ledge, who had difcovered and repented the
"
trick and inveigling conduct of the Order. All
"
of usjointly fwore oppoiition to the IZ/zmzimzz'z',
"
and my friends conlidered me as a proper in~
"
Ptrument for this purpofe. To whet my zeal,
"
they put papers into my hands which made me
fhudder, and raifed my diflike to. the highell;
"
pitch. I received from them lills of the mem-
"
bers,"'and among them law names which I la-
mented exceedingly. Thus ftood matters in
"
1790, when the French Revolution began to
take a ferious turn. The intelligent faw in the
open Q,ff'cem of the Jacobins the complete hid-
den fyllem of the illuminati. VVe knew that
this lyftem included the whole world in its
aims, and France was
only the place of its firll;
Cxplohou. The Propaganda 'works in every
corner to this hour, and its emiflaries run about
in all the four quarters of the world, and are to
_
GL
(C
GC
'C
LG
C6
$4
IC
CC
GG
C(
£6
(C
(C
ll
(G
L(
£6
CG
C(
¢C
64
£(
305 THE FRENCH R1:v0LUT1oN. cr~1Ar.iv;
"
be found in numbers in every city that is a feat
"
of government."
-
"
He farther relates how they in Vienna Want-
"
ed to enlill him, and, as this failed, how they
"
have abufed him even in the foreign newil
"
papers.
"
I have perfonal knowledge (continues he)
"
that in Germany a lccond Mirabeau, Ivianvil-
"
lon, had propofed in detail a plan of revolution,
'S
entirely and precifely fuited to the prefent ltate
"
oi' Germany. This he circulated among feve-
"
ral Free Mafon Lodges, among all the Illumi-
"
nated Lodges which ltill remained in Germany,
"
and through the hands of all the emiffaries of
"
the Propaganda, who had been already dif-
"
patched to the frontiers (vozpopcvzj of every
"
diltri6`t of the empire, with means for ftirring
"
up the people." (N. B. In I'j'Q2, Mauvillon,
finding abundant fupport and encouragement in
the appearance of things round him, when the
French arms had penetrated every where, and
their invitations to revolt had met with fo hearty
a reception from the difcontented in every Hate,
came boldly forward, and, in the Brnnfwick Jour-
nal for l'la;'eh 1792, declared that "he heartily
"
rejoiced in the E`rencl1Re/elution, wilhed it all
"
fuccefs, and thought himfelf liable to no re-
"
proach when he declared his hopes that a limi-
"
lar Revolution would fpeedily take place in
"
Germauyfi)
In the Hamburgh Political journal, Auguit, Sep-
tember, and Oitober 1790, there are
many proofs
of the machinations of emilfaries from the _/Wa-
/Twz L0d;3c:f of Paris among the German Free Ma-
éions-See pages 5336, 963, 1037, &e. It appears
that a club has taken the name of Projmgfsrzdrz-
and meets once a week at leaft, in the form of a
Mafon
amp. iv. rm: FRENCH REVOLUTION.
3679
hiafon Lodge. It confifts of perfons of all nations,"
and is under the dire£`tion of the Grand Ilvlafler,
the Duke of Orleans. De Leuére is one of the
Vifardens, They have divided Europe into colo-
nies, to which they give revolutionary names,
fuch as the Cap, the Péke, the Lantern, éfcc. They
have miniilzcrs in thefe colonies. (One is pointed
out in Saxony, hy marks which I prelhme are wel?-.=
underftood.} A fecret prelé was found in Saxe
Gotha, furnifhed with German types, which print-
ed a feditious work called the ffozzrzzal cy" Hzmzrr
aiiy. This journal was found in the morninga
lying in the llreets and highways. The houfe be-»
longed to an Ilz'z¢mimzz'uf of the name of Duport,
a
poor fchoolmaiier-»--he was aifociated with an~
other in Strafhurg, who was al{`o an Ii'/Z!?7?i?I£ZfZ(5`.""~
His name was
Meyer, the writer of the Strafburg
Nexvfpaper. He had been fume time a teacher in
Salzmanxfs accde-my, who we fee was al{`o an 1'!~
Zzmzifzaizzf, but clifpleafed with their proceedings
almofi at firft.. (Private Correfpondence.) _
1 have perfonal knowledge (continues Pro»
feffor Hoffman) that in 1791, during the tem-
"
porary dearth at Vienna, 1>@v@m1'Of thefe emiil
Qi
CB
¢G
[aries were
hufy in corrupting the minds of the
"
poor, by telling them that in like manner the
"
court had produced a famine in Paris in
1789.
"
I detecfteci iome of them, and expofetl them in
"
my Pafriofic Ramsar/is on me Pre/E>nz' Deazrr/1,
"
and had the fatisfaéiion of iifeing my endea-
SC 73
vours of eoniiderahle efieft.
Surely thefe Faéks (how that the Anarcliilis of
France knew of' the German Illuminati, and con-
hdecl in their fupport. They allb knew to what
p'-articular Lodges they could addrelé themlfelves
with fafety and confidence.--But what need is
there of more argument, when We know the zeal
of
303 "ma ritrxcu Riavoturxoiv. CHAP. iv.
of the Illuminati, and the unhoped for opportu-
nity that the Revolution had given them of aft-
ing with immediate effect in carrying on their
great and darling work? Can we doubt that they
would eagerly put their hand to the Plough P And,
to complete the proof, do we Dot know from the
lifts found in the iecret correfpondence of the Or-
der, that they already had Lodges in France, and
that in 1790 and 1791 many Illuminated Lodges
in Germany, viz. I*/Ientz, Vvorms, Spire, Frank-
fort, actually interfered, and produced great ell
fefts. In Switzerland too they were no lets aétive.
They had Lodges at Geneva and at Bern. At
Bern two
Jacobins were fentenced to feveral years
imprifonment, and among their papers were found
their patents of Illumination. I alto fee the fate of
Geneva afcrihed to the operations of Illuminati
reliding there, by feveral Writersf-particularly
by Girtanner, and by the Gottingen editor of the
Revolution Almanac.
`
n
I conclude this article with an extraét or two
from the proceedings of the National Affembly
and Convention, which make it evident that their
principles and their praétiee are precifely thofe of
the Illuminati, on a
great fcale.
When the affumption of the Duchy of Savoy as
an
84th Department was debated, Danton faid to
the Convention.
"
In the moment that we fend freedom to a
nation on our frontier,"we mult fay to them you
"
muft have no more Kings--for if we are fur-
"
rounded by tyrants, their coalition puts our
"
own freedom in danger.-VVhen the French
"
nation fent us hither, it created a
great come
"
mittee for the general infurrection of the peo-
¢¢
P1632
On
¢¢
snap. iv. 'rnn ramen xavomrrxon.
309
On the 19th of November 1792 it was de-
creed,
"
That the Convention, in the name of
"
the French nation, tenders help and fraternity
"
to all people who would recover their liberty."
On the 21{`t of November, the Preiident of the
Convention faid to the pretended deputies of' the
Duchy of Savoy,
"
Reprefentatives of an inde-
"
pendent people, important to mankind was the
"
day when the National Convention of France
"
pronounced its fentence, Royal dig11z°z'_y if abo-
"
/i%ed.-_-From that day many nations will, in
"
future, reckon the era of their political exi{'c-
"
ence.--From the beginning of civil eltablilh-
"
ments Kings have been in oppoiition to their
"
nations--bitt now
they rile up to annihilate
"
Kings.-Reafon, when fhe darts her rays into
"
every corner, lays open eternal truths----She
"
alone enables us to pals Fentence on ciefpors, hi-
"
therto the fcare-crow of other nations."
But the moft diftinii: exhibition of principle is
to be feen in a report from the diplomatic com-
mittee, who were commiflioned to deliberate on
the conduct which France was to hold with other
nations. On this report was founded the decree of
the 15th of December 1793. The Reporter ad-
dreffes the Convention as follows:
"
The Committees of Finance and War afk in
"
the beginning-What is the objeéi; of the war
"
which We have taken in hand? Without all
doubt the objeft is THE ANNIHILATION OF
"
ALL PRIVILEGES, WAR VVITH THE
PALACES,
"
PEACE WITH THE GOTTAGES. Thefe are the
(L
¢¢
principles on which your declaration of 'war is
"
founded. All tyranny, all privilege, muit be
"
treated as an
enemy in the countries where we
"
{`et our foot. This is the genuine refult of our
(1
principles.-But it is not with Kings alone that
2
Q,
"
we
lo T1-in ERLNCH Rizvotujriow. cum. iv,
we are to wage war-were thefe our fole enef
mies, we fhoulcl only have to bring down ten
or twelve heads. VVe have to iight with all
their accomplices, with the privileged orders,
who devour and have
opprefliicl the
heople dur-
ing many centuries.
"
We muft therefore declare ourfelves for a
revolutionary power in all the countries into
which We
enter-(Loud applanfes from the All
{`embly)=fNor need we put on the cloak of hu-
manity--We difdain fuch little arts.-¢~VVe :null
clothe onrfelves with all the brilliancy of rea-f
fon, and all the force of the nation. VVe need
not mall; our principles-~-ithe dehuots know
them already. The hrft thing we mult do is to
ring the alarum bell, for infurrefftion and up-
roar.»--"»/Ve ifnull, in a folemn manner, let the
people fee the banifhrnent of their tyrants and
privileged calls---otherwile, the people, acf
cuftomed to their fetters, will not be able to
break their bonds.-flt will etfeét nothing, mere,
ly to excite a
rifing of the people--this would
only be giving them words inftead oi' (landing
by them.
"
And lince, in this manner, we ourfelves are
the Revolutionary Adniinilheation, all that is
againlt the rights of the people muft he over-
thrown at our entry-1-VVe mull clifplay our prin-
ciples by actually cleltroying all tyranny ; and
our
generals after having chafed away the ty-
rants and their fatellites, mnil proclaim to the
people that they have brought them happinelé;
and then, on the fpot, they muli fupnreie tithes,
feudal rights, and every fpecies ol' lervitnde."
" But we fhall have done nothing if we ilop
here. Ariltocracy ftill domineers--we mufl:
therefore fupprelé all authorities exilling in the
' "
hande
enola; iv: THE riizncn Ravorurzon; 31 i.
lc
ic
LC
lc
Z:
it
lc
24
M
ic
&¢
sc
cc
sc
sc
as
¢¢
za
sc
24
tc
ac
it
be
cc
ic
cc
lc
CF
hands of the upper ela'fi`es,+=VVl1en the Revo-
lutionary Authority appears, there muft nothing
of the old eltabliihment remain.--A popular
lyflem mutt be introdueech-every olhce mutt
be occupied hy new funitionaries-1-and the
Sans 'Cullottes mull; every Where have a [hare
in the Admini'3tration, .
"'
Still nothing is done, till we declare aloud
the pfeeffon of our principles to luch as
want
only halt' f1'Ct3LlOIIl.*-/h/C muilifay to them;-if
you think of compromiling with the privileged
calls, we cannot fuller luch dealing with ty-
1'ants-»-Tlley are our enemies, and we muli; treat
them as enemies, beeaufe they are neither for
Liberty nor
Equality.-Show yourlelves di§
pofed to receive a free conftitution;and the
Convention will not
only ltand by you, but Will
give you permanent l`upport;_ We will defend
you againlt the vengeance of your tyrants-a
againlt their attacks, and againlt their return
--There fore abolilh from among you the No-
bles, and every ecclelialtieal and military in~
eorpdration. They are incompatable with Equa-
lity.--Henceforwarcl you are citizens, all equal
in rights--equally called upon to rule, to de-
fend, and to {`erve your country.+--The agents
of the French Republic will inftruét and allillz
you in forming a free conftitution, and allure
you of happinefs and fraternity."
This Report was
loudly applauded, and ade-
ee formed in preeife conformity to its prinei~
ples. Both were ordered to be tranflated into
all languages, and copies to be furnifhed to their
generals, with orders to have them carefully dif-
perled in the eountries which they invaded.
And, in completion of thefe decrees, their ar~
mies found it eafy to colleét as
many dilbontented
Ol'
312 'mu FRENCH REVOLUTION. caan. iv.
or worthlels performs in any country as fufliced for
fetting up a tree of liberty. This they held' as a
fulhcient call for their interference. -~-~
Sometimes
they performed this ceremony themfelves-a rc~
prefentation was
ealily made up in the fame way
--and then, under the name of a free conllitu-
tion, the nation was forced to acquiefce in a form
diéftated at the point of the bayonet, in which
they had not the fmallefl liberty to choofe-and
they were plundered of all they had, by way of
compenfating to France for the trouble fhe had
taken.--Andthis they call Liberty.-It needs no
comment.-
-
Thus have I attempted to prove that the pre-
fent awful fituation of Europe, and the general
fermentation ofthe public mind in all nations,
have not been altogether the natural operations of
difcontent, opprellion, and moral corruption, al-
though thefe have been great, and have operated
with fatal energy; but that this political fever has
been carefully and fyltematieally heightened by
bodies of men, who profelfed to be the phylicians
of the State, and, while their open praéiice em~
ployed cooling medicines, and a treatment which
all approved, adminiliered in fecret the molt in-
ilammatory poifons, which they made up fo as to
Hatter the difeafed, fancy of the patient. Al-
though this was not a plan begun, carried on, and
completed by the fame perfons, it was undoubt-
edly an uniform and conhlient fcheme, proceeding
on the fame unvaried principle, and France un~
'doubtedly now linarts under all the woes of Ger-
man lllumination.
`
I beg leave to fuggell a few thoughts, which
may enable us to draw fome advantage from this
fhocking mafs of inforniation.
_ E
_
'
Gezzeml
GHAP. iv. THE FRENCH Rvorufrzox.
gig
Gezzeml i°eji7f'¢'?i0;z.r.
I. I may obferve, in theff;/2* place, and I beg it
may be particularly attended to, that in all thofe vil-
lainous machinations againll the peace of the world,
the attack has been lirfl made on the principles Ok
Mo1'ality and Religion. The confpirators [aw that
till thefe are
extirpated, they have no chance of fuc-
cefs; and their mannerof proceeding lhews that
they conhder Religion and Morality as
infeparably
connecfled together. VVe learn much from this-Far
c/if ez* ab ho/Ze a'0cef'i.-They endeavour to
deltroy
our
religious fentiznents, by firlt corrupting our mo-
rals. They try to inllame our
paliions, that when
the demands from this quarter become urgent, the
rellraints of Religion may immediately come in hght,
and Hand in the way. They are careful, on this oc-
calion, to give fuch a View of thofe rellraints, that
the real origin of them does not
appear.-Vie are
made to believe that they have been altogetherthe
contrivance of Priells and defpots, in order to
get
the command of us.
They take care..to
fnpport thefe
allertions by facts, which, to our
great lliatne, and
greater misfortune, are but too numerous.
Having
now the paflions on their Bde, they find no
difliculty
in perfuading the voluptuary, or the dilcontented,
that tyranny, aéiually exerted, oi' refolved on in fu~
ture, is the fole origin of religious rellraint. He
feelts no further argument, and gives himfelf no
trouble to find any. Had he examined the matter
with any care, he would find himfelf juli brought
back to thofe very feelings of moral excellence and
moral depravity that he wilhes to
get rid of;iltoge~
ther; and thefe would tell him that pure Religion
does
L'
.314 'rm rnuznctr Rzvothrzoft. crrazf. itfr
does not lay a
hngle rellraint on us that a noble na-:fi
ture would not have laid on itfelf-+-nor enjoins a
tingle duty which an
ingenuous and warm heart
would not be alhamed to find itfelf deficient in. He
would then lee that all the fanclions of Religion are
fitted to his high rank in the fcale of exiltence; And
the more he contemplates his future profpefls, the
more they brighten upon his view, the more attainable
they appear, and the more he is able to know what
they may probably be. Having attained this happy
Hate of mind, (an attainment in the power of any
kind heart that is in earnelt in the enquiry) he will
think that no
punilhtnent is too great for the un-
thankful and groveling foul which can
forego fuchl
hopes, and rejeél thefe noble proffers, for the comf
paratively frivolous and tranhtory gratifications of
life. He is not frightened into worthy and virtuous
conduct by fears of fuch merited punilhment; hut,
if not enticed into it by his high expetfiations, he is,
at le-aft, retained in the paths of virtue by a kind of
manly fhame. _
But all this is overlooked, or is kept out of iight,
in the inllrnéiions of lillutninatifrn. In thefe the eye'
rnull be kept always direfted to the Defpot. This is
the hughear, and every thing is made to conneei
with ptefent or future tyranny and oppreiiion---~
Therefore Religion is held out as a combination of
terrors---the invention of the fiate-tools, the prietls.
But it is not
eafy to ftifle the fuggefiions of Nature-<
therefore no
pains are
fpared to
keep them downi
by encreafing the uncertainty and doubts which arife
in the courle of all fpeculations on fnch fubjecls.
Such diliiculties occur in all fcientihc difculhons.--6
Here they mutt be numerous and ernbarralhng--=
for in this enquiry we Come near the Hill principles
of things, and the firli principles of human know-
ledge. The geometer does not wonder at mif-
takes
gimp. iv. 'rue FRENGH R£voLwT1oN.` 515
takes even in his fcience, the mofl hmple of all
others. ----
Nor does the mechanic or' the chemill;
reject all his fcience, becaufe he cannot attain
Qlear conceptions of iome of the natural relations
which operate in the phenomena under his conhde-
ration.--Nor do any of thefe itudents of nature
brand with the name of fool, or knave, or
bigot,
another perfon who has drawn a different conclu-
lion from the phenomenon.----In one
point they
all agree--they find themfelves polfeffed of faculties
which enable them to fpeculate, and to difcover ;
and they End, that the operation of thofe faculties is
'quite unlike the things which they contemplate by
their rneans-:md lbey fee! a
jzz'z°.y'¢zé?z`0n in ibe 10%
/e@on 9" 2'/26772, and in this dil'tin6`tion.---But this
,feems a misfortune to our Illuminators. I have
long been llruck with this. If by deep meditation
I have folved a
problem which has balfled the en~
deavours of others, I lhould hardly thank the perfon
who convinced me that my fuccefs was
entirely ow-
ing to the particular iiate of my health, by which
my brain was
kept free from many irritationsto which
other perfons are
expofed. Yet this is the conduct
of the Illuminated--'l`hey are abundantly felf-con-
ceited ; and yet they continually endeavour to de-
l`troy__all grounds of felf-ellimation.-"They rejoice
in every difcovery that is reported to them of iozne
refemblance, unnoticed before, between mankind
and the inferior creation, and would be happy to
find that the refemblance is complete. It is very
true, Mr. Pope's
"
Poor Indian, with untutor'd
"
mind," had no
objetfliosn to his dog's going t0
heaven with him :
"
And thinks, admitted to that equal fiiy,
"
faithful dog fhall bear him company."
This
316 'ma' FRENGII §EVOLUTION. GHAP. iv_
This is not an
abjeéi, but it is a modeli fentiment.
But our high-minded philofophers, who, with Bea-
trice in the play,
"
cannot brook obedience to a
"
wayward piece of mari," if it be in the lhape of
a Prince, have far other notions of the matter. In-
deed they are not yet agreed about it. Mr. de la
Metherie hopes, that before the enlightened Repub-
lic of France has got into its teens, he fhall be able
to tell his fellow-citizens, in his _'}'01zr/ml de P/ajjégue,
thatparticular form of cryiiallization which men have
been acculiemed to call God.---Dr. Priefiley again
deduces all intelligenee from elaftic undulations,
and will probably think, that his own great difcove-
ries have been the quiverings of fome liery marfh
miajfm. VV`hile Pope's poor Indian hopes to take
his dog toheaven with him, thefe Illuminators hope
to die like dogs, and that both foul and body fhall
be as if they never had been.
ls not this a melancholy reliilt of all our Illumi-
nation? It is of a
piece with the termination of the
ideal Philofophy, viz. profelled and total ignorance.
Should not this make us liart backand hefitate, before
we
pout like wayward children at the hardlhips of
civil fubordination, and before we make a facrifice
to our ill humour of all that we value ourfelves for ?
Does it not carry ridicule and abfurdity in its fore-
head ?---Such afiertions of perfonal worth and dig-
nity, (always excepting Princes and Prie{is,_) and
nach abjeifit acknowledgments of worthlellnefs.-~
Does not this, of itfelf, fhow that there is fonie ra-
dical fault in the whole ? It has all arifen from
whatthey have called _U/Z£7lliIZ6lfl.07l, and this turns out
to be worle than darknels---But we alfo know that it
has all ariien from felf-conceited difcontent, and
that it. has been brought 'to its prefent [late by the
rage of fpeculation. `Ve may venture to
put the
queiiion to any rnan's conlcience»--whether difcou-
þÿl ¬I'lI
CHAP. iv. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.
317
tent did not precede his doubts about his own nature
and whether he has not encouragerithe train of argu-
ment that tended to degrade him ?
"
Thy wifh
"
was father, Harry, to that thought."---Should not
this make us diiiruli, at leaii, the operations of this
faculty of our mind, and try to moderate and check
this darling propenhty.---It feems a misfortune ot'
the age---for we fee that it is a natural fource of dif-
turbance and revolution.
'
,
But here it will be immediately faid,
"
What,
"
mufl we
give over thinking--»be no longer ration-
"
al creatures, and believe every lie that is told us?"
By no means.---Let ns be þÿ7" ¬(l[{}'
rational creatures-»
and, taught by experience, let us, in all our
fpecu-
lations on
fubjecis which engage the pallions, guard
ourfelves with the mofi anxious care
againli the rifk
of having our
judgments warped by our dehres.-
There is no
propenity of our nature of which the
,proper and naezleii indulgence is not benehcial to
man, and whiori; is not hurtful, when this indulgence
is carried top if we
candidly perufe the
page of li?{i;r>1"j, fnall be convinced that the abufe
is greats ¢ewi»tgtr ifrtron as the fubjecft is important.
'VFf7l`.!lil yeen fo ruinouflyvperverted as the reli-
giott pri
't"*
:
ciplei--~Wl1at horrid fuperliition has it
_nci produced? The Reader will not, I hope, take
it amiis that I prefume to direét his attention to forne
maxims which ought to conduit a
prudent man in
his indulgence of a
fpeculative difpoiition, and ap-
ply them to the cafe in hand.
Vhoever will for a while call oFr` his attention
from the common affairs of life, the Czme /aominum,
fi þÿ7" ¬1"ll7/2
pandas zizane, and will but refleéi a little on
that wonderful principle within him, which carries
him over the whole univerfe, and lhows him its va-
rious' relatiotis---Whoever alfo remarks how very
fmall a
proportion his own individual exiiience bears
2 R rg
318 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. caae. iv,
to this imrneafurable fcene, cannot butfeel an inex-
premble pleafure in the contemplation of his own
þÿpOVJ ¬1`S4--HC
muli rife in his own ellimation, and he
difpofed to cheriili with fondnels this principle which
fo eminently raifes him above all around him. Ut"
all the iburces of human vanity this is furely the
moil manly, the moll excufable, and the mollt likely
to be extravagantly indulged.-"Ne may be certain
that it will be fo indulged, and that men will fre-
quently fpeculaze for the falze of fpeculation alone?
and that they will have too much Confidence in the
refults of this favourite occupation,---As there have
been ages of indolent and abjetfi credulity and fuper-
liition, it is next to certain that there are alfo times
of tvild and extravagant fpeculation---and when we
fee it becoming a fort of general pallion, we
may be
certain that this is a cafe in point.`
'
_
This can
hardly be denied to be the eharacler
of the prefetlt day. It is not denied. Un the Con-
trary it is gloried in as the prerogative of the eigh-
teenth century. All the fpeculations of antiquity are
conlidered as
glimrnerings (with the exceptions of a
few brighter flalhes) when compared with our
pre-
fent nieridian lplendor. Vi/e fhould therefore liflen
with caution to the inferences from this boafled Il~»
lurnination. Alfo when we reilefl on what paflies in
our own minds, and on what we obferve in the
world, of the mighty influence of our dehres and
paihons on our
judgments, we ihonld carefully no-
tice whether any fuch warping of the belief is pro-
bable in the prefent cafe. That it is fo is alrnoll cer-
tain---for the general and immediate effeél of this
Illumination is' to lellen or remove many rellraints
which the fan&ions of religion lay on the indul»
gence of very flrong paihons, and to diminiih our
regard for a certain purity or correcilnefs of man-
ners? which religion recommends as the only
u
5
0 I
naar. ivl THE FRENCH aavottmoni gtg
duct fuitcd to our noble natures, and as
ahlblutely
necellary for attaining that perfection and happi*
nefs ot' which We are capable:--For furely if we
take away religion, it will he
wildom f' to eat and
"
to drink, hnce to-morrow we die." If, more-
over, we fee this Illumination extolled above all
fcience, as
friendly to virtue, as improving the
heart, and as
producing a_ jult morality, which
will lead to happinels both for ourlizlves and others,
but perceive at the fame time that thefe aflertions
are
made at the expense of principles, which our
natural feelings *force us to venerate as ihpreme
and paramount to all others, we
may then be Cer#
tain that our informer' is trying to millead and cle-
ceive us.~-#For all virtue and goodnelis both of
heart and conduct, _.is in perfect harmony, and
there is no
_jarring or
inconlillency. But We muil:
pafs this fentence on the doctrines of this Illumi-
nation. For it is a
melancholy truth that they
have been preached and recommended, forthe
moft part, by clergymen, parifh-minillers, who,
in the prefence of invoked Deity, and in the face
of the world, have fet their folemn (cal to a
fyf-
tem of doctrines directly oppofite to thofe recom-
mended in their writings; which doctrines they
foleninly profefs to believe, and folemnly fvvear to
inculcate. Surely the informations and inltruc-
tions offfuch inen fhoulrl be rejected. Wliere lhall
we find their real opinions? In their folemn oaths?
--or in thefe infidel clillertations ?-In either cafe,
they are
deceivers, whether milled by vanity or
by the mean delire of chnrclbemoluments; or
they are
proflitntes, courting the fociety of' the
'Wealthy and fenlhal. Honefty, like juftice, admits
of no
degrees. A man is hone-lt, or he is a knave,
and who would truit a knave? But {`uch men are
unfuitable inltruftors For another rcafon-they are
unwife ;
320 THE FREVNCH REVGLUTION. CHAP. iv.
nnwile ; for, whatever they may think, they are
not refpefted as men of worth, but are
inwardly
defpifed as parafites, by the rich, who admit them
into their company, and treat them with civility,
for their own reafons. We take inftrufftions not
merely from the knowing, the learned, but from
the wife-not therefore from men who give fuch
evidences of wcal<ne%.
~
Such would be the conduit of a prudent man,
who liitens to the inltruétions of another with the
ferious intention of profiting by them. ln the pre-
fent cafe he fees plain proofs of degraded fel? ef-
timation, ofdilhoneity, and of mean motives. But
the prudent man will go further-he will remark
that diilblute manners, and aétions which are ine-
vitably fubverlive of the peace and order, nay,
of the very exiltence of fociety, are the natural
and neceffary confequences of irreligion. Should
any doubt of this remain in his mind ; Ihould he
lbmetimcs think of an Epicftetus, or one or two in-
dividuals of antiquity, who were
eminently vir-
tuous, without the iniiuence of religious fanétions,
he fhould recolleét, that the Stoics were animated
by the "thought, that while the Wife man was
play-
ing the game oflife, the gods werelooking on, and
pleafed with his ikiil. Let him read the beautiful
account given by Dr. Smith of the rife of the
Stoie philofophy, and he will fee that it was an
artificial but noble attempt of a few exalted minds;
enthufiafts in virtue, aiming to fteel their fouls
againit the dreadful but unavoidable misfortunes
to which they were
continually expofed by the
daily recurring revolutions in the turbulent demo-
cracies of ancient Greece. There, a philofopher
was this day a magiftrate, and the next day a cap-
tive and a flave. He would fee that this fair pie~
ture of mental happinets and independence was
~
fitted
caar. iv. THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. 3:1
fitted for the contemplation of only a few choice
Qairits, but had no influence on the bull; ol' mam
kind. He Inuit admire the noble eharaelers who
were animated by this manly enthuliafm, and
who have really exhibited foine vfonderful pic-
tures of virtuous heroifm ; but he will regret, that
the influence of thefe manly, thcfe natural prin-
ciples, was not more extenhve. He will layto,
himfelf,
"
How will a whole nation aft when re-
"
ligions fancftions are removed, and men are ac-
"
tuated by reafon alone §"'--He is not without
inltruétion on this important fubjeé`t.` France has
given an awful lellon to l"urrouncling nations, by
lhewing them what is the natural eifeet of fhaking
off the religious principle, and the veneration;
for that pure morality which charaiizerifes Chrif-
fiianity. By a decree of the Convention, (june
6, 1794) it is declared, that there isqnothing
criminal in the prornilcuous commerce of the
fexes, and therefore nothing that derogates fron;
the female þÿchara ¬ter,
when woman
forgets that
lhe is the depolitary of all domellic fatisfaétion
----that her honour is the facred bond of fo-
cial life--that on her ,modelly and delicacy
depend all the refpefi and confidence that will
make a man attach hirnfelf to her foeiety, free
her from labour, lhare with her the fruits of all
his own exertions, and work with willingnels and de-
light, that lhe may appear on all oeealions his equal,
and the ornament of all his acquihrions. ln the ve-
ry argument which this felecfietl body of fenators has
given for the propriety ofthis decree, it has degraded
woman below all ellirnation.
"
It is to prevent her
"
from murdering the fruit of unlawful love, by re-
"
moving her lhame, and by relieving her from the
"
fear ofwant." The fenators lay,
"
the Republic
"
wantsieitizené, and therefore mnll not only re-
-
"
move
322 THE FRENCH R1;voLU'r1oN¢ CHAP. iv;
"
move this temptation of lhame, but mufl take care
"
of the mother while lhe nurfes the child.; It is
°'
the property ofthe nation, and mull not he loll."
The woman all the while is conhdered only as the
lhe-animal, the breeder of Sans Culottes. This is
theju/1' morality ofllluminatjon. It is really amuf-
ing (for things revolting to nature now
amufe) to
obferve with what fidelity the principles ofthe Illu-
minati have expreffed the fentiments which take pof#
felhon ofa people who have ihaken oflthe fanélions
of Religion and morality. The following is part of
the addrefs to
_.fp/_}'EbCl7"Z.0Il and the company mention-
ed in page Q57:
"
Once more, Pfycharion, I in-
"
dulge you with a look behind you to the flowery
days of childhood. Now look forwards, _young
'woman ! the holy circle of the marriageahle,
(mamzéfzren) welcome your Young men, honour
£6
GG
CL
"
the young woman, the future breeder (geéczera
"'
rin) I" Then, to
all,-" Rejoice- in the dawn of'
"
Illumination and of Freedom. Nature at lall ené
GL
joys her iacred never-fading rights. Long was
her voice kept down by civil fuhordination; but
the days of your majority now draw nigh, and you
will no
longer, under the authority of guardians,
account it a
reproach to confioler with enlighten-
ed eyes the fecret worklhops of nature, and to en#
joy your work and duty." l/linos thought this
very fine, hut it raifed a terrible diilurhance and
hrolte up the Yallernhly.
Such are the effetds of this hoalled enlightening of
the human mind with refpeft to religion and mora-=
lity. Let us next conhder what is the refult of the
mighty informations which we have got in refpeft
of our iocial or
political connections.
ll. VX/'e have learned the fum total of this politi~
cal Illumination, and fee that, if true, it is melancho-
ly, dellru&ive of our
prefent comforts, numerous as
they
L#
QL
AL
l.&
QL
LL
.¢*'
naar. iv. rar-: FRENCH REVOLUTION.
323
they are, and affords no
profpetfl of retlrefs from
which we can
prolit, but, on the contrary, plunges
mankind into dillention, mutual injury, and univer~
ial mifery, and all thisfor the c/nance only of prevail~
ing in the contell, and giving our
pofierity a cbmzcg
of going on in peace, if no
change lhall be produced,
as in former times, by the eiorts of ambitious men.
But the Illumination appears to be partial, nay falfe.
Wlsat is it ? It holds out to the prince nothing but
the rehgnation of all his poffellions, rights and claims,
Qtnélionecl by the quiet poflelhon of ages, and by all
the feelings of the human heart which give any no-
tion of right to his lowelt fubjeci. All thefe pofief-
lions and claims are difcovered to have arifen from
ufurpations, tzimf are iberfy'ore zyrazzny. It has been
difcovered, that all fubordinate fubjeélions were en-
forced, I/Jfr¢2re i/aeir coizizizzrzzzzce is /Ifrveiy. But
both of thefe hillorical allertions are in a
great cle-
gree falfe, and the inferences from thern are unrea-
ifonable. The world has gone on as we fee it go on
at
prefent. Moll principalities or
fovereignties have
arifen as we fee perfonal authorities and influence
ariie every clay among onrfelves. Bunnefs for the
whole rnull be clone. Moll men, are
lufliciently oc-
cupied by their private affairs, and they are indolent
even in thefe--they are contented when another
does the thing for them. There is not a little vil-
lageknor a fociety of men, where this is not feen
every day. Some men have an
enjoyment in
this kind of vicarious employment. Other men
like influence and power, and thus are
compen-
itted for their trouble. Thu-s many petty mana-
gers of public affairs arife_in every country. The
mutual animohties of individuals, and fiill more,
the aniinohties ot' tribes, clans, and different af-
fociations, give rife to another kind of fuperiors-
£0 leaders, who diretfl the flruggles of the fell,
whether
324 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. err,/ir. iv.
whether for offence or defence. The defcendants of
Ifrael faid,
"
they wanted a man to go out before
"
the people, like other nations." As the fmall buli-
nefs of a few individuals requires a
manager or a
leader, fo do fome more
general affairs of thefe petty
fuperiors.--»Many of thefe alfo are indolent enough
to wiih this trouble taken off their hands ; and thus
another rank of fuperiors arifes, and a third, and fo
on, till a
great State may be formed; and in this
gradation each clafs is a
competent judge of the
conduct of that clafs only which is immediately
above it.
All this may arife, and has often arifen, from vo-
luntary concefhon alone. This conceilion may pro-
ceed from various caufes,--from conlidence in fu-
perior talents-from confidence in great worth,"-
molt generally from the refpeél or deference which
all men feel for great poflefiions. This is frequent-
_ly founded in ielf-interell and expeélations of ad-
vantage; but it is natural to man, and perhaps fprings
from our inflinétive fympathy with the fatisfaflions
_of others---we are
unwilling to dilturb them, and
even wilh to
promote them. ,
_
But this fubordination may arife, and has often
arilen, from other caufes---from the love of power
and influence, which makes fome men
eager to lead
others, or even to manage their concerns. VVe fee
this every day, and it may be perfeoily innocent. It
often arifes from the dehre of gain of one kind or
another.---This alfo may frequently be indulged
jlvith perfect innocence, and even with general ad-
fvantage. Frequently, however, this fubordination
is produced bythe love of power or of gain pufhed
to an immoderate degree of ambition, and rendered
unjull. Now there ariie opprelnon, tyranny, hzf-
fer1ngs,and ilavczry. Now appears an
oppohtion
hettweeim the rights or
claims of the ruler and of the
`
epeople.
tiriaif. iv. 'miie riisnen Fiavotix-i~roi§i. 335
people. Now the rulers come ILS conhder them#
ielves asa different clafs,and theirtranfaéiionsaie now*
only with each other.---Prince becomes the rival or
the enemy of Prince; and in their contells one
pre-
vails, and the dominion is enlarged. This rivalfhip
may have begun in any rank of fuperiors; even he-
fween the firil managers of the affairs of the fmallelf
Comrnunitiesj and it niufi he remarked that they
only are the immediate gainers or lofers in the con-
teil, while thofe below them live at eafe, enjoying?
many advantages of the delegation of their own
concerns. _
_
No human fociety has ever proceeded purely in
either of thefe two Ways, but there has always been
a mixture of both.---But this p-rocefs is þÿindifpenla- ¬
bly necelfary for the formation of a great nation,
and for all the confequences that refult only from
fuch a coalition.-==T1ierefore it is neceffary for giv-
ing rife to all thofe comforts, and luxuries, and elel
gances, which are to be found only in great and
cultivated Hates; It is neceflary for producing fuch
enjoyments as we fee around us in Europe; which
ive prize fe highly, and for which we are making all
this ilir and difiurhance.: I believe that no man
who expects to be believed will pontively affert that
human nature and human enjoyments are not me-
liorated by this cultivation.---It feems to he the in-»"
iention of nature, and, notvvithfianding the follies and
vices of many, we can have little hentation in fay-
that there are in the rnoft cultivated nations _of
Europe, and even in the higheli ranks of thofe nia~
lions, men of great virtue and worth, and of high
iiccompliihment--Nor can we
deny that fuch men
are the finefl fpeciniens of human nature. Rolfeau
indeed wrote a whimiical pamphlet, in which he had
the vanity to think that he had proved that all thefe
fruits of cultivation were loifes to humanity and vir-
tue-§Yet Roulfeau could not be -contented with the
Q `S fociety
326 'me rizeucn REVGLUTION. eau.
fociety of the rude and unpoliihed, although he pre~
tended that he was altnoll the fole worlhipper of pure
virtue.--He fupported hirnfelf, not by alhfling the
iiznple peafant, but by writing mulic and lufcious
novels for the pampered rich.,
This is the circumliance entirely overlooked, or
a1'tt"ully kept out of iight, in the hoailed Illumina-
tion of thefe days. No attention is paid to the im-
poitant changes which have happened in national
greatnefs, in national connefflion, in national im-
provement--yet we never think of parting with any
of the advantages, "real or
imaginary, which thefe
changes have produced-»nor do we reflefft that in
order to keep a
great nation together--to-make it
aol with equality, or with preponderancy, among
other nations, the individual exertions mutt he con-
centrated, mufl he direfled--and that this requires
a ruler vetted vvithafupreme power, and z`nier¢;Q'ed by
fame _grmi amz'eudearz`11g moiztve, ihch as
hereditary
poflemon of this power and influence, to maintain
and defend this coalition of men.--All this is over-
looked, and we attend only to the fubordination
which is indifpenfably neceflary. Its grievances are
immediately felt, and they are
heightened tenfold by
a
delicacy or
fenlibility which fprings from the great
improvements in the accommodations and enjoy-
inents of life, which the gradual ufurpation and fub-
fequem fubordination have produced, and continue
to
fupport. But we are determined to have the
elegance and grandeur of a
palace without the
prince.-~'Ve will not give up any of our luxuries
and refinements, yet will not
fupport thole high
ranks and thoie nice minds which produced them,
and which mutt continue to
keep them from degene-
rating into barbarous iimplicity and coarfe fenfuality.
`7Ve would keep the philofophers, the poets, the
artills, but not the Mwcenafes. It is very true that
in iitch a iiate there would be no
C0.'{jzu'alz`a,1z deer
_
_IJ/hi./Mapfrfzr ,-
»e-HAP. iv. THE FRENCH mtvoturtbn. 3527
Pbz`!¢ybp/aes ; for in fuch a [tate this vermin of philo-
jbp/acr and fcribblers would not have exilied. In
lhort, We would have what is impoflible.
I have no hehtation in faying, that the Britilh
Conllitution is the form of government for zz
great* mm' rejined amtion, in which the ruling fenti-
ments and propenhties of human nature feem
mofi happily blended and balanced. There is no
eccalioii to vaunt it as the ancient rights of Bri-
tons, the wifdom of ages, &c. It has attained its
prefent pitch of perfeiftion by degrees, and this
not hy the efforts of vwifdoni, .hut by the itruggles
otlvice and folly, Working on a rich fund of good
nature, and of manly l`pir-it, that are confpictious
in the Britifh character. I do not helitate to fay
that it is the ongf form of government which will
admit and give full exereile to all the refpecftahle
propenlities of our nature, with the leait chance
of dilturhance and the greateft probability of
man's arriving at the higheft pitch of improve-
ment in every thing that raifes him above the
beafts of the field. Yet there is no part of it that
may not, that not, abufed, by pnfhing it to an
improper length, and the fame watchful care is
neceffary for preferving our ineltimable blellings
that was
employed in acquiring them. This is to
be done, not
by liying at once to an abltraét theory
ofthe rights of man. There is an evident folly in
this procedure. What is this theory? It is the
heft general lketch that We can draw of focial life,
deduced from our knowledge of human nature.
And what is this knowledge? 'lt is a well digelled
ahltraét, or rather a declaration of 'w/za! we have
obkrved of human aétions. V/hat is the ule there~
fore of this intermediate piéture, this theory of
the rights of man ?--It has a chance of being un-
like the original---it mutt certainly have imper~
feéiions,
328 -rna FRENCH REVOLUTION, CHAP. ive,
feétions, therefore it can be of no ufe to us. We
lhould go at once to the original-we lhould con-
lider how men have aékdfwhat have been their
mutual expecftations---their fond propenlities~--F
what of thele are inconliltent with each other-f
what are the degrees of indulgence which have
been admitted in them all without clillurbance.-
I will venture to Fay that whoever does this, will
find hinifeif imperceptibly led to contemplate a
mixed hereditary monarchy, and will ngure to
himfelf a
parliament of King, Lords, and Com-
mons, all looking at each other with fornewhat of
a cautious orjealous eye, while the relt of the na-
tion are fitting,
"
each under his own vine and
"
under his own
fig-tree, and there is none to
"
make him afraid ;"--in one
word, the Confli-
tution of Great Eritain.
A melt valuable rsfult of liich contemplation
will be a thorough convicflion that the grievance
which is moft clamoroully inhfled on is the inevi-
table confequence ofthe liberty and fecurity which
we
enjoy, I mean minilterial corruption, with all
the clifmal tale of placemen, and penfioners, and
rotten boroughs, &c. &c. Thefe are never feen
in a defpotic government----there they are not
wanted-nor can
they he very apparent in an un-
cnltivated and poor llate--but in a luxurious na,
tion, where pleafures abound, where the returns
of incluflry are fecure; here an individual looks
on every thing as his own
acquilition+he does not
feel his relation to the (tate--has no patriotilin-~
thinks that he would be much happier if the flate
would let him alone. He is fretted by the re-
ftraints which the public weal lays on him---there-.
fore government and governors appear as checks
and hindrances to his exertions-~ hence a
general
inclination to relilt adininiltration. Yet public
buhnefs
mar. iv., THE FRENCH REVOLQTION. 329
bufinefs muft be done, that we
may lie down and
rife again in fafety and peace. Adminii`tration mufl:
be fupported---there are
always perlons who with
to poifefs the power that is exerciied by the pre-
ient minillters, and would turn them out. How is
all this to be remedied? I fee no
way but by ap~
plying to the felfifh views of individuals---by re-
warding the friends of adminiftration---'[`his may
be done with perfeét virtue--~and from this the
felfifh will conceive hopes, and will fnpport a vir-
tuous minillry-~-but they are as
ready to help a
wicked one. This becomes the greateft misfor-
tune of a Hee nation. Minifters are tempted to
bribe---and, ifa fyflzematic oppofition be confider~
ed as a
neceffary part of a
praélical coniiitution,
it is almolt inclifpenfable---and it is no Where lb
prevalent as in a pure democracy. Laws may be
contrived to make it very troublefome, but can
never extirpate it nor
greatly diminiih it ; this can
be done only by defpotifm, or
by national virtue.
It is a lhameful complaint--we fhould not repro~
bate a few miniflters, but the thoufands who take
the bribes. Nothing tends fo much to diminifh it
in a corrupted nation as
great limitations to the-
eligibility of reprefentatives~--and this is the beauty
of our conftitution.
We have not
d%o°Uersd, therefore, by this boalt-
ecl Illumination, that Princes and fuperiors are
uielefs, and muit vanifh from the earth; nor that
the people have now attained full age, and are fit
to govern themfelves. 'Ne want
only to revel a
little on the laft fruits of national cultivation,
which we would quickly coniiime, and never al-
low to be raifed again. No matter how this pro-
grefs began, whether from _concellion or uhirpa-
tion~--We po{l`e{`s it, and, if wife, we will preferve
it, by preferving its indifpenfable Papports. They
have
330 'rms ramen Rsvowrtow. cam. iv.
have indeed been frequently employed very im-
properly, but their moit pernicious abnfe has been
this breed of fcrihbling vermin, which have made
the body politic linart in every limb.
Hear what opinion was entertained of the fages
of France by their Prince, the father of Louis
XVI. the unfortunate martyr of l*»/Ionarchy.
"
By
"
the principles of our new
Philofophers, the
"
Throne no
longer Wears the fplencioniwof divi~
"
nity. They maintain that it arole from vio-
"
lence, and that by the fame jultice that force
"
ereétecl it, force may again lhake it, and over»
"
turn it. The people can never give up their
power. They only let it out for their own ad~
"
vantage, and always retain the right to refcincl
(C
"
the contract, and rcliime it whenever their per-
"
fonal advantage, their only rule of conduit,
"
requires it. Cnr philofophers teach in public
"
what our
pailions fuggeit only in lecret. They
"
fay to the Prince that all is permitted only
"
when all is in his power, and that his duty is
"
fulhlled when he has pleafed his fancy. Then,
"
furely, if the laws of lelfinterelt, that is, the
"
felf-will ofhurnan paflions, (hall be fo generally
"
admitted, that we thereupon forget the eternal
4
"
laws of God and of Nature, all conceptions ot
"
right and wrong, of virtue and vice, of good
"
and evil, mult be extirpatecl from the human
"
heart. The throne muft totter, the fubjeéts
"
mufl become unmanagcable and mutinous, and
"
their ruler hard-hearted and inhuman. The
"
people will be inceffantly opprellaed or in an
'f uproar."---" 'Nliat fervice will it be if I order
"
ihch a book to be burnt?~-~ti1e author can write
"
another to-morrow." This opinion of a Prince
is unpolilhed indecrl, and homely, but it.is juit.
Vifeilhaupt
emit. iv. frm: FRENCH REVOLUTION,
gg!
Weifliaupt grants, that "
there will he a terri-
"
ble convulfion, and a ftorm---but this will be
liicceeded by a calm---the unequal will now be
"
equal---and when the eanfe of diffenlion is thus
removed, the world will be in peace."--~Trne,
when the canfes of dilleniion are removed. Thus,
the deftrnétion of our
crop by vermin is at an end
when a Hood has fvvept every thing away~ --but
as new plants will fpring up in the Waite, and, if
not inltantlydevonred, wiil again cover the ground
with verdure, fo the indnftry of man, and his de-
iire of comfort and coniideration, will again ac-
cumulate in the hands of the diligent a
greater
proportion of the good things of life. In this in-
fant ftate of the emerging remains of former cul-
tivation, comtbrts, which the prefent inhabitants
of Europe would look on with contempt, will be
great, improper, and hazardous aequiiitions. The
principles which anthoriie the propofed dreadful
equalifation will as
jnflly entitle the idle or unfue-
eefsful of future days to ftrip the poH`e{l`o1° of his
advantages, and things xnnlt ever remain on their
favage level.
Ill. I think that the im-preilion which the in~
iinecrity of conduétof thofe initrufftors will leave
on the mind, mult be highly ufeful. They are evi-
dently teaching what they do not believe them-
ielves----
and here I do not confine my remark to
their preparatory þÿ(lO ¬iI`l12 ¬S,
which they after-
wards explode. I make it chiefly with refpeét
to their grand oltenlible principle, which per-
vades the whole, a
principle which they are
obliged to adopt againit their will. -~They know
that the principles ot' virtue are rooted in the
C(
S(
heart, and that they can
only he fmothered-----
but did they pretend to eradicate them and pro-
claim Z>omz'm°1,>zl2or;':z`fri /l£f7£!?ff, all would lpurn at their
inliruétion
339. 'run FRENCH REVOLUTION. cr-1AP. iv!
inflruilion. VVe are rvheedled, by tickling our fan~
cy with a notion that facred virtue is not
only fecure,
but that it is only in fuch hearts that it exerts its na-
tive energy. Senlible that the levelling maxirns now
fpoken of are
revolting to the mind, the Illumina-
tors are under the necellity of keeping us from look-
ing at the lhocking piclure, by difplayiug a beauti-
ful fcene of Utopian happinefs--and they rock us
afleep by the eternal lullaby of morality and univer#
Q1 philanthropy; Therefore the foregoing narra-
tion of the perfonal conduct of thefe inllruftors and
reformers of the world, is highly ufeful. All this is
to be brought about bythe native lovelinefs of pure
virtue, purged of the corruptions which fuperfli-f
tious fears have introduced, and alfo purged of the
fehilh thoughts which are avowed by the advocates
of what their opponents call true religion. This is
faid to hold forth eternal rewards to the good, and to
threaten the wicked with dreadful punilhment. Ex-
perience has fhorvn how ineflicient fuch motives
are. Can they be otherwife ? lay our llluminators.
Are they not addreffed to a
principle that is ungene-;
rous and felfilh? Butour doclrines, fay they, touch
the hearts of the worthy. Virtue is beloved for her
own fake, and all will yield to her gentle frvay. But
look, Reader, look at Spartacus the murderer, at
Cato the keeper of poifons and the thief---Look at
'l`iberius, at Alcibiades, and the rell of the Bavarian
l'andemonium. Look at
poor Bahrdt. Go to
France---look at Lequinio, at Corrdorcetil. Look
'le
De la Metherie fays, (yearn. de Pbyf Nov. 17974) that
'Condorcet was
brought up in the houfe of the old Duke of Ro-
chefoucault, who treated him as his fun-=got Turgot to create a
lucrative office for him, and railed him to all his eminence-T-yet
he purfued him with malicious reports-and actually employed
ruliians to aflailinate him Yet is Condorcet's writing a model of
imnranity and teudernefs.
Eli
ézzifxii. iv; THE rksizen REVOLUTION. 333
iit the Monlier Orleans.-4-#All were liars. Their
divinity had no influence on their profligate minds;
They only wanted to wheedle you, by touching the
flrings of humanity and goodnefs which are yer;
braced upin yotir heart, and which fiill yield fweet
harmony if you will accompanyi their notes with
thofe of religion, and neither clog them with the
groveling pleafures of fenfe, nor
damp the whole
with the thought of eternal hlence;
~
A moli worthy and aecompliihed gentleman, who
took refuge in this country, leaving behind him his
property, and friends to Whom he was moll tenderly
attached, often faid to me that nothing fo much af-
fec`ted him as the revolution in the hearts of men.
L-Charaflers which were
unfpotted, hearts thorough-
ly known to himfelf, having been tried by many
things which fearch the inmoli folds of felfifhnefs or
malevolence-=-in ihort, perfens whofe judgments
were excellent, and on whofe worth he Could have
relied hishonotir and his life, fo fafcinated _by the
contagion, that _they Came at lall to behold, and even
to commit the mofl atrocious crimes with delight.--
He ufed fornetimes to utter a
iigh which pierced my
heart, and would fay, that it was caufed by fotne of
thofe things that had come acrofs his thoughts. He
breathed his laii among us, declaringthat it was im-
poliible to recover peace of mind, without a total ob-
livion ofthe wiclcednefs and miferies he had beheld.
--Vhat a valuable advice,
"
Let him that thinketh
he ilandeth, take heed lell he fall."---VVhen the pro»
phet told Hazael that he would betray his Prince, he
exclaimed,
"
Is thy fervrmt a dog, that he ihould do
inch a
thing ?" Yet next day he murdered him.
Never Hnce the beginning ofthe world, has true
religion received fo complete an
acknowledgment of
her excellence, as has been extorted from the fana-
tics who have attempted to
dellroy her. Religion
92 T ilood
3534 ran: FRENCH REVOLUTION. cnarf. iv.
Hood in their way, and the xvretch Marat, as well as
the fieady villain Weifliatipt, law that they could
not
proceed till they had eradicated all fentiments of
of the moral government of the univerfe. Human
nature, improved as it has been by religion, ihrunla
from the talks that were
impofed, and it 1'1'1UiiJ[ there-
fore he brutalized---The grand Confederation was fo-
lemnly fworn to by millions in every corner of
France---but, as Mirabeau faid of the declaration of
the Rights of Man, it muit he rnade only the "
Al-
manack of the bygone year"---Therefore Lequinio
mutt write a book, declaring oaths to be nonfenfe
unworthy of San Culottes, and all religion to be a
farce. Not long after, they foundthat they had fome
ufe for a God---but he was
gone---and they could
not find another. Their conliitution was
gone---
and they have not yet found another. VVhat is now
left them on which they can
depend for awing a man
into a
refpeet for truth in his judicial declarations ?
what but the honour of a Citizen of France, who
laughs at all engagements, which he has broken
again and again ? Religion has taken off with her
every fenfe of human duty. Wliat can we
expecft
but villainy from an
Archbilhop of Paris and his
chapter, who made a
public profefhon that they had
been playing the villains for many years, teaching
what they thought to be a bundle of lies ? _
Vr7hat
but the very thing which they have done, cutting
each other's throats ?---Have not the enlightened ci-=
tizens of France applauded the execution oftheir fa-
thers ? Have not the furies of Paris denounced
their own children? "
But turn your eyes from the
horrifying fpeéiacle, and think on
your own noble
defcent and alliance. You are not the accidental
productions ofa fatal chaos, but the work of a Great
Artili, creatures that are cared for, born to noble
profpeifis, and conduéied to them by the
plaineg
an_
7
Cass. iv. THE rrzsweff REVOLUTION.
335
and tnoit Hmple precepts, "to do jullly, to love
"
mercy, and to walk humbly before God," not be-
wildered by the falfe and fluttering glare of French
Philofophy, but Conclufled by this Clear, tingle light,
pereeivable byall,
"
Do to others what you fhould
"
reafonably expeft them to do to
you."
Think not the Mufe whofe fober voice you hear,
_ Contrarfts with bigot frown her fullen brow,
Calls round Religioifs orb the mills of Fear,
Or fhades with horror what with fmiles ihould glow.
No-lhe would Warn
you with feraphic Fire,
Heirs as
ye are of Heaven's eternal day,
Wotlltl bid you boldly to that Heaven afpire,
Not Holi and Humber in your cells of clay.
ls this the bigot's rant ? Away, ye vain,
Your doubts, your fears, in gloomy dulnefs fteep ;
Go-foothe your fouls in ficknefs, death, or
pain,
Vilith the fad folace of eternal Heep.
Yet know, vain fceptics, know, th' Almighty Mind,
Who breath'd on man a
portion of his fire,
Bade his tree foul, by earth nor time con{in'd,
To Heaven, to immortality afpire.
Nor lhall this pile of hope his bounty rear'd,
i
By vain philofophy be e'er de{'croy'd ;
Eternity, by all or
hop'd or fear'd,
Shall be by all or fufl`er'd or
enjoy'd.
Mason.
The unfortunate Prince who has taken refuge in
this kingdom, and whofe htuation among us is an
illullrious mark of the generohty of the nation, and
of the fovereignty of its laws, faid to one of the
Gentleman about him, that '"
if this country was to
"
efcape the general wreck of nations, it would
"
owe its prefervation to Religion."--Vhen this
was doubted, and it was obferved, that there had
not been wanting many Religionills in
Prince;
"
true.,
r
U
336 'me nuance ttavowtrron. gnu. ivf
"
True," faid the Prince, "but they were not in
"
ezirneft.--I fee here a ferions interell inthe thing;
9' The people know what they are
doing when they
2*
go to church--they underiiand fornething of it,
"
and take an intereit in it." May his ohfervatioir
bejnii, and his expeeiations he fulnlled !
'
IV. I would again Call upon my Conntrywomen
with the moli earnefl concernd and befceeh them to
eonhder this fubjecfi as of more particular importance
to themfelvesthan even to the men.---Vfhile wo-
man is conndered as a
refpecfiable moral agent, train»
ing along with ourfelves for endlefs improvement 5
then, and only then, will ihe be Confidered by lord-
ly man as his equal ;---then, and only then, will ihe
be allowed to have any rights, and thofe rights he
refpeéled, Strip women of this prerogative, and
they hecorne the drndges of n1an's indolence, or the
pampered playthings 'of his idle hours, fuhjetfi to
his caprices, :ind flaves to his mean.
paiiions. Soon
will their prefent empire of gajllantry be over.. It
is a
refinement of manners which fprang from
Chriftianity; and when Chriitianity is forgotten,
this artihcial diadem will he t;;l<;en from their heads,
and nnlefs they gdopt the ferocious fentiments of
their Gallic neighbours, and join in the general
uproar, they willlink into the iniigniiicanee of the
women in the turbulent republics of Greece,
ztvhevre .they are
never feen in the hufy haunts of
men, if we
except four-or live, who, during the
gtonrie of as
many centuries, emerged from the
general ohfcnrity, and appear in the hilioric page,
hy their uneorninon talents, and by the facriiice
of =.~h:rt my fair conntrywonien fiill hold to he
the ornamental' their fex. I would remind them,
that they have it in their power to retain their
prefent honourable Station in lhciety. They are
our
early inf`tru6i:ors5 anti while mothers in the
1'e§`pe&ahle
ignav, iv. Fiuancn R£'voLUTxoN.
33?
refpeétahle ltations of lite continued to inculcate
on the tender minds of their fons a veneration
for the precepts of Religion, their pliant children,
receiving their inltruétions along with the affec-
tionate careiies of their rnothers, got impreihons
which long retained their force, and which pro-
tected them from the impulfes of youthful pallions,
till ripening years iitted their minds for liliening
to lerions inllruftion from their public teachers.
5$<>h»r2ety and decency of manners were then no
§lu;:' onthe character of a
youth, and he was
thought capable of Pcruggling for independence,
or þÿPTC- ¬D`1ll] ¬llC ¬,
lit either for iilpporting or de-
fending the ftate, although he was neither a
toper
nor a rake. 1 believe that no man who has feen
thirty or fbrty years of life will deny that the
manners of youth are
fadly changed in this refpeét.
And, without prefuming to
lay that this has pro-
ceeded frorn the neglect, and almolt total cella-
tion of the moral education of the nurlery, I think
myfelf well warranted, from my own ohfervation,
to fay that this education and the lbber manners
of young men have quitted us
together.
Some will call this prudery, and croaking. But
l am almolt tranfcribing from Cicero, and from
Qiuintilian. Cornelia, Aurelia, Attia, and other
ladies of the rirft rank, are praifed by Cicero only
for their eminence in this relineét ; but not he-caufe
they were/r`/rlgrztlar. Quintilian fays, that in the
time immediately prior to his own, it had been
the general practice of the ladies of rank to fhper-
intend the moral education both of fons and
daughters. But of late, fays he, they are lb engag-
ed iu continual and corrupting amufements, fuch
as the ihows of gladiators, horfe-racing, and deep
play, that they have no
time, and have yielded
their places to Greek goxferneffes and tutors, out
`
call`
s
r
338 THE_ FRENCH REVOLUTION. CHAP. iv.
Calls ot' a nation more fubdued by their own vices
than by the Roman arms---I' dare fay this was
laughed at, as
croaking about the corruption of
the age. But what was the confequence of all
this ?-The Romans became the mutt abandoned
Voluptuaries, and, to preferve their mean plea-
fures, they crouched as willing flaves to a fnccell
lion of the vileft tyrants that ever difgraced hu~
manity. i
W/hatea noble fund of felf-eftimation would our
fair partners acquire to then1l`elves, if, by reform-
ing the manners of the young generation, they
fhould be the means of reftoring peace to the
worldl They have if in 2*/961% power, by the re-
newal of the good old cuftom of early inftruc-
tion, and perhaps (till more, by impremng on the
minds of their daughters the fame lentiments, and
obliging them to refpeet fobriety and decency in
the youth, and pointedly to withhold their liniles
and civilities from all who tranfgrels thefe in the
fmalleft degree. This is a method of proceeding
that will maj! cfriaifzg/ be þÿUl'. ¬(?0}"Z:0Z!J'.
Then indeed
will the women be the faviours of their country.
'While therefore the German fair have been re~
peatedly branded with having welcomed the
French invadersii, let our ladies ftand up for the
honour of free-born Britons, by turning againf;
the pretended enlighteners of the World, the arms
which nature has put into their hands, and which
thofe prolligates have prcfumptuoully expected to
5*
I have met with this charge in many places; anclone book
in particular, written by a Prullian General Ollicer, who was in
the country over-run
by tne French troops, gives a detail of the
conduct of the women that is very remarkable. He alfo lays, that
iinhdelity has become very prevalent among the ladies in
the higher
circles. Indeed this melancholy account is to be
found in
many
paffages of the private correfpondence of the Illuminati.
employ
CHAP. iv. 'ras FRENCH aiavowrion.
33g
employ in extending their influence over mankind,
The empire of beauty is but ihort, but the em-
pire of virtue is durable ; nor is there an inllance
to he met with of' its decline. If it he yet pollible
to reform the World, it is poliible for the fair. By'
the conliitution of human nature, they mutt al-
ways appear as the ornament of human life, and
he the objeéis of fondnefs and afieftiong fo that
if any thing can make head againft the felfilh and
overbearing difpolitions of man, it is his refpeétful
regard for the fex. But mere fondnels has but lit-
tle of the rational creature in it, and we fee it har-
bour every day in the brealt that is filled with the
meanelt and moft turbulent paiiions. No Where is
it fo iftrong as in the harems of the cali; and as
long as the women all; nothing of the men but
fondnefs and admiration, they will get nothing
elfe-they will never be refpeéted. But let them"
roufe themfelves, a{l`ert their dignity, by fhewing
their own elevated fentiments of human nature,
and by ailing up to this claim, and they may then
command the world. ,
V. Another good confequence that fhould re-
liilt from the account that has been given of the
proceedings of this conhiiraey is, that lince the
fafcinatiug piéiure of human life, by which men
have been wheedled into immediate anarchy and
rebellion, is infincere, and ri mere artificial crea-
ture of the imagination, it can have no
fteadinefs,
but mult be changed by every freak of fancy, or
by every ingenious fophilt, who can
give an
equal
plaulibility to whatever fnits his prefent views. It
is as much an
airy phantom as
any other whim of
_Free Mafonry, and has no
prototype, no original
pattern in human nature, to which reeonrle may
always he had, to correcft rniftakes, and keep things
in a Conftant tenor. Has not France given the
rnoft
340 Tar; rnaricn 'dI:lifOLf]T1ON. naar. iv;
1110ll unequivocal proofs of this? Was not the de-
claration of the Rights of Man, the production of
their mofi: brilliant Illuminators, a
picture, in ab-L
jfradfo, where man was placed at a diftance from
the eye, that no falfe light of local Iituation might
pervert the judgment or
engage the pailions? Was
it not declared to be the mafter-piece of human
Wifdom? Did not the nation conhder it at leifure?
and, having it continually before their eyes, did
they not, ftep by Hep, give their affent to the dif-
ferent articles of their Conltitution, derived from
it, and fabricated by their mollt choice Illumina=
tors? And did not this Conltitution draw the ap-
plaufes of the bright geniufes of other nations,
who by this time were
bufy in perliiading, each
his countrymen, that they were ignoramufes in
ltatiltics, and patient llaves of oppreflion or of ans
cient prejudices? Did not paaegyrics on it ifliue
from every garret in London? Wliere is it now?
where is its fuccellior? Has any one plan of goVern+
ment fublifted, except While it was fupported by
the incontroulable and inexorable power ofthe
guillotine? Is not the prefent adminiliration of
France as much as ever the object of dilcontent
and of terror, and its coercions as like as ever to
the liimmsry jultice of the Parifian mob? Is there
any probability of its permanency in a Rate of
peace, when the fears of a foreign enemy no lonf
ger give a confolidation to their meafures, and
oblige them either to agree among themfelvcs, or
immediately to perifh?
VI. The above accounts evince in the moll;
nncontrovertible manner the dangerous tendency
of all myftical ibcieties, and of all allbciations
who hold fecret meetings We fee that their uni~
form progrefs has been from frivolity and nonfenfe
to wickednelis and ledition. VVei{haupt has been
at
gimp, iv; ina FRENCI+l REVOLUTION. 34l'
at great pains to lhew the good efiefts of fecrecy iii
the Aflociation, and the arguments are valid fox*
this purpofe, But all his arguments are fo many
diffuafive advices to
_every thinking and fober
mind. The man who really wilhes to difcover all
abftrufe truth will place himfelf, if pollible in a
rn/i/72 lituation, and will by no means expofe him-
felf to the impatient hankering for fecrets and'
Wonders~>and he will always fear that a
thing
ivhieh refolutely conceals itlelf Cannot bear the
light; _All who have ferioully employed them#
felves in the difcovery of truth have foundthe
great advantages of open communication of femi-
timentp And it is againll; common lenfe to ima-
gine that there is any thing of vaft importance td
mankind which is yet a lecret, and which muft
be kept a fecret in order to be ufeful. This is
againft the whole experience of mankind-1-And
fiirely to hug in one's breaft a fecret of fuch mighty
importance, is to give the lie to all our
profeflions
of brotherly love. VVhat a folecifm! a fecret to
enlighten and reform the whole world. We ren-
der all our endeavours impotent when we-grafp at
a
thing beyond our
power; Let an affociation be
formed with a ferious plan for reforming its own
members, and let them extend in numbers in pro-
iiortion as
they fucceecl-this might do fome goodi
But mullz the Way of doing this be a fecret?-It
may be to many-J-who will not look for it where
it is to be found#-?-It is thisi =
3* Do good,-Jack peace,--Sand purfué it."
but it is almolt alfronting the"reader to fuppdfé
arguments neceffary on this point; If there be a,
heceliity for fecrecy, the purpofe of the alfocia-
tion is either frivolous, or it is lelfiflz. "
2 U Now'
342 THE Paenen REVOLUTISN. ie.;
Now, in either cafe, the danger of fuch fecreti
aflemblies is manifefl. l'Iere frivolity can never
ferioully occupy, men come to age. And accord-
ingly we fee that in every quarter of Europe where'
Free l`~/Iafonry has been eltablifhed, the Lodges
have become feed-beds of public mifchief. I be-
lieve that no ordinary brother will lay that the
occupations in the Lodges are
any thing bettea
than frivolous, very frivolous indeed. The diflri-
bution of charity needs be no_l"ecret, and it is but
a very fmall part of the employment of the meet-
ing. This being the cafe it is in hum-an nature
that the greater We liippofe the frivolity of fnclr
an aflbciation to be, the greater is the chance 05'
its ceahng to give fufhcient occupation to the
mind, and the greater is- the rifk that the meet-
ings may he employed to other purpofes whiclr
require concealment. 'When this happens, [elf-
intereft alone mufl prompt and rule, and now
there is no length that fome men will not go, when
they think themfelves in no danger of detection
and punilhment, The whole proceedings of the
lecret lbcieties of Free Maions on the Continent
(and I am authorifed to lay, of fame Lodges in
Britain) have taken one turn, and this turn is
_ee1'fe&ly natural. In all countries there are men
licentious morals. Such men wilh to have a
ifafe opportunity of indulging their Wits in fatire
{`arcai`m ;~ and they are pleafed with the hip-
't§3iii`t of others, The delire of making profelytes is-
in every breait--and it is whetted by the reftraints
lbciety. And all countries have difcontented
Wien, whofe grumblings will raife difcontent in
others, who might not have attended to fome of
fthe trining hardfhips and injuries they met with,
fhafi they not been reminded of them. To be dil-
ffontented, and not to thin-l< of fchemes of redrefs,
is
enar. iv. 'rua FRENCH Rnvoturron.
343
is what We cannot think natural or
manly--and
where can fuch fentinients and fchemes End fuch
fate utterance and ihch probable fupport as in a
fecret focicty? Free Mafonry is innocent of all
thefe things; but Free Mafonry has been abufed,
and at laflc totally perverted--and fo will and muft
any fuch lecret allbciation, as
long as men are li-
centious in their opinions or Wicked in their dif-
pofitions.
lt were
devoutly to be wifhed therefore that the
whole fraternity would imitate the truly benevo-
lent conduit of thofe German Lodges who have
formally broken up, and made a patriotic facrifice
of their amufement to the fafety of the ftate. I
cannot think the facrifice great or
coftly. It can
he no diiiicult matter to find as
plealing a
Way of
pailing a vacant hour---and the charitable deeds
of the members need not diminiih in the fmalleft
degree. Every perfon's little circle of acquaint-
ance will give him opportunities of gratifying his
kind difpoiitions, Without the chance of being mill
taken in the Worth of the perfon on whom he be-
llovvs his favours. There is no occafion to go to
St. Peterlbnrg for al poor Brother, nor to India for
a convert to Chriftianity, as
long as we fee fo
many furlerers and infidels among ourfelves.
But not only are fecret focieties dangerous, but
all focieties whofe objeét is myfterious. The Whole
hiftory of man is a
proof of this polition. in no
age or
country has there ever appeared a
myfteri-
ous aflfociation which did not in time become a
public nuifance. Ingenious or
deligning men of
letters have attempted to Ihovv that lbme of the
ancient myfteries were ufeful to mankind, con-
taining rational dodftrines of natural religion. This
was the ftrong hold of Viieilhaupt, and he quotes
the Eleufinian, the Pythagorean, and other myll
teries,
J*
344 THE Fasncn aavotnnon. c;;_»a';>. iv?
teries. Butfurely their external Iigns and tokenswere
every thing that is fhocking to
decency and civil
order. It is uncommon preliunption for the learn~
ed of the eighteenth century to pretend to know
more about them than their contemporaries, the
philofophers, the lawgivers of antiquity. Thefe
give no fuel; account of them. I would de{1re any
perfon who admires the ingenious clilfertations of
Dr. Vlfarburton to read a
dull German hook, call-
Camc?e1f1fli/(> der My/ie1°z`ez; der _/i']z'e'rrz, puhlilhed
at Frankfort in l787,` The author contents him~
:felf with a patient þÿcolle ¬'tion
of every fcrap ot
every ancient author who has laid any thing about
them. If the reader can fee any thing in them but
the moft abfurd and immoral polytheifm and faf
ble, he Inuit talge words in a genre that is ufelefs in
reading any other piece of ancient compohtion,
I have a notion that the Dionyiiacs of Iona had
ibme fcientifie fecrets, viz. all the knowledge of
practical mechanics which was employed by their
architeéts and engineers, and that they were re-
ally a l`/iafonic Fraternity. But, like the !l[lH72f72dZ'i2
they tagged to the fecrets of Mafonry the fecret
of drunkennels and dehauehery ; they had their
Sifter Lodges, and at laft hecame rebels, fubver-
ters of the liates Where they were protefted, till
aiming at the dominion of all lonia, they were
attacked by the neighbouring (lates and difperfedi.
They were Illuminators too, and wanted to in~
troduee the worfhip of Bacchus over the whole
country, as appears in the account of them given
by Sim/Jo. Perhaps the Pythagoreans had allo
fome icientific lecrets; but they too were Illumi-
nators, and thought it their duty to overfet the
State, and were themlelves overlet.
Nothing is fo dangerous as a
myflic A@iciation.
The objeft remaining a Iecret in the hands of_ the
managers
eau, iv. 'rua FRENCH REVOLUTIO>!.
345
rnanagers, the reft fimply put a
ring in their own
nofes, by which they may bc led about at
pieafure;
and flill panting after the fecret, they are the bet-
ter pleated the lefs they fee QF their way. A myf-
tical objeét enables the leader to fhift his ground
as he pleafes, and to accommodate liimlfelf to
every current fafhion or
prejudice. This again
gives him almollt unlimited power; for he can
make ufeof thele prejudices to lead men by troops,
He nods them already aflhciatecl by their preju-
dices, and Waiting for a leader" to concentrate
their Ftrength and iet them in motion. And when
once great bodies of men are fet in motion, with
a creature of their fancy for a
guide, even the
engineer hitnlelf cannot fay,
"
Thus far (halt thou
"
go, and no farther." P
VII. VVe may alfo gather from what we have feet;
that all declamations on univerml philanthropy are
dangerous. Their natural and immediate eii`eé`t on
the mind is to increafe the difeontents of the un-
fortunate, and of thofe in the laborious ranks of life.
No one, even of the Illuminators, will deny that
thofe ranks mutt be filled, if fociety exilis in any de-
gree of cultivation whatever, and that there will al-
ways be a
greater number of men who have no far-
ther profpefft. Surely it is unkind to
put fuch men
continually in mind of a fiate in which they might
be at their eafe; and itéis unlcindnefs unmixed, be-
caufe all the Change that they willproduce will be, that
james will ferve Iohn, who formerly was the fervant
of vlames. Such declamations naturally tend to
caufe men to make light of the obligations and du#
ties of common
patriotifm, becaufe thefe are
repre-
fented as luborclinate_ and inferior to the greater and
more noble affection of univerfal benevolence. I
do not pretend to fay that patriotifm is founded in a
rationally perceived pre-eminence or excellence of
'
the
f
546 'ma FRENCH REVOLUTION. CHAP. iv.
the fociety with which we are connetfied. But if it
be a fa<E`t that fociety will not advance unlefs its mem-
bers take an intereft in it, and that human nature
improves only in fociety, furely this intereli ihould
be cheriihed in every breaii. Perhaps national
union arifes from national animonty ;--but they are
plainly difiinguiihable, and union is not neceliarily
produéiive of injuliice. The fame arguments that
have any force againii patriotifm are
equally good
againfi the preference which natural inliin& gives
parents for their children, and furely no one can
doubt of the propriety of maintaining this in its
full force, fubjeét however to the precife laws of
juliice.
I
But I am in the wrong to adduce paternal or fi-
lial affefiion in defence of patriotifm and loyalty,
lince even thofe natural inliinéis are reprohated by
the I!/zwzi1mz'z', as hofiile to the all-comprehending
philanthropy. Mr. de la l/Ietherie fays, that among
the memorials fent from the clubs in England to the
National Affembly, he read two, þÿ(p1`iHl ¬d»)
ill which
the Affembly was
requefied to efiabliih a communi-
ty of wives, and to take children from their parents
and educate them for the nation. In full compli-
ance with this diciate of univerfal philanthropy,
Vfeifhaupt would have murdered his own child and
his Concubine,-and Orleans voted the death of his
near relation.
"
Indeed, of all the confequences of Illumination,
the rnoli melancholy is this revolution which it feems
to
operate in the heart of man,--this forcible f3CI`i~
:lice of every affeétion of the heart to an ideal divi-
nity, a mere creature of the imaginationf-It feerns
a
prodigy, yet it is a matter of experience, that the
farther we advance, or vainly fuppofe that we do ad-
vance, in the knowledge of our mental powers» U16
more are our moral feelings Hattetned and dow? HWHY-
1 remember
tartar. iv. THE FRENCH Revornrrort. 345
I remember reading, long ago, a di{i"ertation on the
nurhng of infants by a French academician, Le
Cointre of Verfailles. He indelicately fupports his
theories by the cafe of his own lon, a weak puny in-
fant, whom his mother was obliged to
keep continu-2
ally applied _to her bofom, fo that lhe rarely Could
get two hours of fleep during the time of fuckling
him. Mr; Le Cointre fays, that lhe Contracted for
this infant "
une ;Uarfz`¢z/z`z'¢> inure-afaii darrzwfzaé/e."i
-Plato, or Socrates, or Cicero, would probably
have explained this by the habitual exercife of pity,
a
very endearing emotion.---But our Academician,
better illuminated, folves it by llimuli on the _papi//te*
and on the nerves of the (kin, and by the meeting
of the humifying aura, Src. and does not feem to
think that young Le Cointre was much indebted to
his mother. It would amufe me to learn that this
was the wretch Le Cointre, Major of the National
Guards of Verfailles, who countenanced and en-
Couraged the fhocking trealon and barbarity of thofe
ruflians on the 5th and 6th of Gfiober 1789. Com-2'
plete freezing of the heart would (I think) be the
confequence of a theory which could perfeftly ex-=
plain the affecftions by vibrations or
cryllallizations.
---Nay, any very perfect theory of moral fentiments
mutt have fomething of this tenclency.---Perhaps?
the ancient fyfiems of moral philolophy, which were
chiefly, fearches after thefumf/111112 lwzuffz, and iyftems
of moral duties, tended more to form and f't1°ength=
en the heart,~ and produce a
worthy man, than the
moll perfect theory otmodern times, which explains
every phenomenon by means of a nice anatomy of
our alifeflions.
i
So far therefore as we are
really more illuminated,
it may chance to give us an ealier victory over the
natural or inftincftive attachments of mankind, and
make the facrifice to un-iverlal philanthropy
l1e1if<r
co try
Q48 'run FRENCH m;'o1.ur1oN. criain ivs
eoftly to the heart. I do DOI however pretend to fay
that this is really the cafe : but I think inyfelf fully
warranted to Yay, that increale of virtuous afieélions
in general has not been the fruit of modern Illumi-»
nation. I will not again hcken the reader, by calli
ing his attention to Weilhaupt and his afiociates of
fuccefiors. But let us
candidly contemplate the
world around us, and particularly the perpetual
advocates of univerfal philanthropy. What have
been the general effects of their continual declama-
tions? Surely very melancholy; nor can it eahly
be otherwife.--An ideal liandard is continually re-
ferred to, This is made gigantic, by being always
feen indiilintflly, as
through a niiil, or rather a flut-
tering air. In compariion with this, every feeling
that we have been accuiiorned to refpeci vaniHies as
iniigniiicant ; and, adopting the Jefuitical rnaxirn,
that "the great end fantiihes every mean," this fum
of Colino-political good is made to
eclipfe or cover
all the prefent evils which mutt be endured for it.
The fail now is, that we are become fo familiarifed
with enormities, fuch as
brutality to the weaker fex,
cruelty to old age, wanton refinement on
barbarity;
that we now hear unmoved accounts of fcenes, from
which, a few years ago, we would have fhrunk back
with horror. With cold hearts, and a
metaphyhcal
fcale, we rneafure the prefeut miferies of our fellow
creatures, and compare them with the accumulated
miieries of former times, occaiioned through a courfe
of ages, and afcribed to the ambition of Princes. In
this artificial manner are the atrocities of' France ex-
tenuated; and we ftruggle, and partly fucceed, in
reafoning ourfelves out of all the feelings which linh
men together in fociety.-The ties of father, hui'-
band, brother, friend-#all are abandoned for an
emotion which we muii even Iirive to excite,--uni#
Ferfal philanthropy; But this is fad perverlion of
nature.
CHAP. iv. THF. FRENCH REVOLUTION.
349
nature.
"
He that loveth not his brother whom he
"'
hath feen, how can he love God Whom he hath not
"
feen ?" Still lets can he love this ideal being, of
which he labours to conjure up fome indiilinfl and
Heeting notion. It is allo highly abfurd ; for, in
trying to collect the circurnflances which conllitute
the enjoyrnents 'of this Citizen of the World, we find
ourfelvesjufl brought back to the very moral feel-
ings which we are
wantonly throwing away. Veif=-
haupt alluresus by the happinefs of the patriarchal
life as þÿtl`l ¬fZi77l7ilZ{7/I
éozzzzm of man. But if it is any
thing more than eating and fleeping, and fquabbling
with the neighbouring patriarchs, it mull conhll in
the domellic and neighbourly alleflions, and every
other agreeable moral feeling, all which are to be
had in our
prefent Hate, in greater abundance.
But this is all a
pretence ;--the wicked corrupters
of mankind have no fuch views of human felicity,
nor would they be contented with it ; they want to
intrigue and to lead; and their patriarchal life an-
fwers the fame purpofe of tickling the fancy as the
Arcadia ofthe poets. Horace fhows the frivolity of
the-fe declainations, without formally enouncing the
moral, in his pretty Ode,
Beatus ille qui procul negotiis..
The ufurer, after expatiating on this Arcadian feli-
city, hurries away to change, and puts his whole
calh again out to ufury.
Equally ineffective are the declamations of Cof-
ino-politifm on ia mind filled with fellifh paliions ;--
they juli ferve it for a fubterfuge.--The ties of or-
dinary life are broken in the firll place, and the Ci-
tizen of the X/VOYld is a wolf of the defart.
, The unhappy confequence is, that the natural
progrefs of liberty is retarded. Had this zgrzis _jal-
2 V fuzz:
550 'ms FRENGH Ravoturion. cum. iv;
iuzzs not appeared and milled us, the improvements
which true Illumination has really produced, the
increafe in fciences and arts, and the improvement
in our eliimate of life and happinefs, would have
continued to work Hlently and gradually in all na-
tions ; and thole which are lefs fortunate in point
of government would allo have improved, by little
and little, without loling any fenlible portion of their
prefent enjoyments in the poffeflion of riches, or
honours, or
power. Thofe pretentious would gra~
dually have come to balance each other, and true
liberty, fuch as Britons enjoy, might have taken
place over all.
In-[lead of this, the inhabitants of every [late are
put into a iituation where every individual is alarm-f
ed and injured by the fuccefs of another, becaufe all
pre-eminence is criminal. Therefore there mull be
perpetual jealoufy and Ptruggle. Princes are now
alarmed, hnce they fee the aim of the lower clafies,
and they repent of their former liberal concellions.
All parties maintain a fullen diliance and referve ;
--the people become unruly, and the fovereign
hard-hearted ; fo that liberty, fuch as can be enjoyed
in peace, is banilhed from the country.
VIII. When we fee how eagerly the Illuminati
endeavoured to inhnuate their Brethren into all of-
fices which gave them infiuence on the public mind,
and particularly into ferninaries of education, we
fhould be particularly careful to
prevent them, and
ought to examine with anxious attention the manner
of thinking of all who oiier themfelves for teachers
of youth. There is no
part of the fecret corref-
pondence of Spartacus and his Aflociates, in which
we fee more varied and artful methods for fecuring
pupils, than in his own condutfl refpecfling the fiu-
dents in the Univerhty, and the injunéiions he gives
to others. There are two men, Socher and Drexl,
"
who
='»
a
H
l
eau. iv. 'rm-: FRENCH REVOLUTION.
351
who had the general infpection of the fchools in the
Eleélorate. They are treated by Spartacus as
perfons
of the greatell confequence, and the inllruftions
given them [lick at no kind of corruption. 'Vei-
lhaupt is at pains, circuitous and mean arts, to in-
duce young gentlemen to come under his care, and,
to one whom he defcribes in another letter as a little
mailer who mull have much indulgence, he caufes it
to be intimated, that in the quarters where he is to
he lodged, he will get the key of the ilreet-door, fo
that he Can admit whom he will. In all this C311-
valiing he never quits the great obieél, the forming
the mind ofthe young man according to the princi-
ples of univerfal Liberty and Equality, and to
gain
this point, fcruples not to flatter, and even to excite
his dangerous pallions. We may be certain, that
the zeal of Cofmo-politifm will operate in the fame
way in other men, and we
ought therefore to be fo-
licitous to have all that are the inftrué`tors of youth,
perfons of the moft decent manners. No queition
but fobriety and hypocrify may inhabit the fame
brealt. But its immediate elieél on the pupil is at
lea{'t fafe, and it is always eafy for a fenhble parent
to
reprefent the refiriétions laid on the pupil by
fuch a man as the effects of uncomuion anxiety for
his fafety. Wliereas there is no cure for the lax
principles that may ileal upon the tender mind that
is not early put on its guard. Vei{haupt undoubt-
edly thought that the principles of civil anarchy
would be ealielt inculcated on minds, that had al-
ready fhaken oil" the reftraints of Religion, and en-
tered into habits of fenfual indulgence, We fhall
be fafe if we truft his judgment in this matte1'.--
We fhould be particularly obfervant of the charac-
ter and principles of Men ry" Ta/ents, who ofier
themfelves for thefe ofhces, becaufe I/oeir influence
mull be very great. Indeed this anxiety fhonld ex-
tend
352 frm; FRENCH REVOLUTION. cuAt>. iv,
tend to all ofhces which in any way give holders any
remarkable influence on the minds of conhderable
numbers. Such fhould always be filled by men of
immaculate characters and approved principles; and,
in times like the prefent, where the moll efiential
quellions are the fubjeets of frequent difcumon, we
Ihould always conhder with fome dillruft the men
who are
very cautious in declaring their opinions
on thefe queftions.
It is a
great misfortune undoubtedly to feel our-
felves in a iituation which makes us
damp the en-
jvyments of life with fo much fufpicion. But the
hiflory of manlrind fhows us that many great revo-
lutions have been produced by remote and appa-
rently frivolous caufes. VVhen things come to a
height, it is frequently impoihble to find a cure--
at
any rate þÿm ¬d2'c'i11¢zf>1'0
parafzfr, and it is much bet~
ter to prevent the difeafe-#pri/zcz;pz`is þÿ013:/2l6Z--'U ¬7Z£. ¬7Ifi
0c¢'z¢rrz`i¢? moréo.
IX. Nor can it be faid that thefe are vain fears.
Ve know that the enemy is working among us, and
that there are
many appearances in thefe kingdoms
which flrongly refemble the contrivance ofthis dan-
gerous affociation. We know that before the Urder
of Illuminati was broken up bythe Elector of Bava-
ria, there were feveral Lodges in Britain, and wc
may be certain that they are not all broken up. I
know' that they are not, and that within thefe two
years fome Lodges were ignorant or affected to be
fo, of the corrupted principles and dangerous deligns
of the Illuminati. The conflitution of the Order
Ihews that this may be, for the Lodges themfelves
were illuminated by degrees. But I muft remark,
that we can
hardly fuppofe a
_Lodge to be eflablillied
in any
place, unlefs there be fome very zealous Bro-
ther at hand to inlirucl and direti it. And I think
thzta perfou can`hardly be advanced as far as the
I rank
I
l
l
cum. iv. 'rm-: FRENCH Rrvoturtou.
353
rank of Scotch Knight ofthe Urder, and be a fafo
man either for our Church or State. I am
very well
informed, that there are feveral thoufands of fublcrib-
ing Brethren in London alone, and we can
hardly
doubt, but that many of that number are well advan-
ced. The vocabulary alfo of the Illuminati is cur-
rent in certain focieties among us. Thefe focieties
have taken the very name and conflitution of the
French and German focieties. Correfponding--
Affiliated-~Provincial---Refcript---Convention-----
Reading Societies--~Citizen of the Vlfiorld---Liberty
and Equality, the Imprefcriptible Rights of Man,
Vac. &c. And muil it not be acknowledged that our
public arbiters of literary merit have greatly chang-
ed their manner of treatment of Theological and po-
liticalwritings of late years? Till Paine's Age of
Reafon appeared, the moll fceptical writings ofling-
land kept within the bounds of decency and of argu-
ment, and we have not, in the courfe of two centu-
ries, one
piece that lhould be compared with many
ofthe blackguard produélions of the German prefles.
Yet even thofe performances generally met with
fharp reproof as well as
judicious refutation. This
is a tribute of Commendation to which my country
is moll jullly entitled. In a former part of my life
I was
pretty converiint in writings of this kind, and
have feen altnoll every Englillr performance of note.
I cannot
exprefs the furpriie and difgufl which I felt
atthe number and the grofsindecency of the German
differtations which have come in my way hnce I be-
gan thislittle hiflory,---and many of the titles which
I obferve in the Leipzig catalogues are luch as I
think no Britifh writer would make ufe of. I am
told that the licentioufnefs of the prefs has been
equally remarkable in France, even before the Re-
volution.---May this fenfe of propriety and decen-
cy long continue to
protetft us, and fupport the na-
tional
354 'rua ramen REVOLUTION. can. iv.
tional charafter for real good breeding, as our at-
tainments in manly fcieuce have hitherto gained
us the refpeét of the furrounding nations I
I cannot help thinking that Britilh fentiment,
or Britiih delicacy, is changed ; for Paine'S book
is treated by moft of our Reviewers with an af-
fected liberality and candour, and is laid before
the public as
quite new matter, and a fair lieltl for
difculiion-=-and it itrikes me as if our critics were
more careful to let no fault of his opponents pals
unnoticed than to expofe the futility and rndenefs
of this indelicate writer. In the reviews of polia
tical writings we fee few of thofe kind endeavours,
which real love for our conftitutional government
would induce a writer to employ in order to lefl
fen the fretful difcontents of the people ; and
there is frequently betrayed a fatisfaiizion at find.
ing adminiftration in liraits, either through mill
conduél: or misfortune. Real love for our coun-
tryiand its government would (I think) induce a
perfon to mix with his criticifrns lbme fentiments
of fympathy with the embarraflinent of a minifter
loaded with the buiinefs of agreat nation, in a ii-»
tuation never before experienced by any minifter.
The critic would recolleét that the minifter was a
man, fubjecft to error, but not neceflhrily nor alto-
gether bafe. But it feems to be an alfumed prin-
ciple witii fome of our political writers and re-
viewers that government mufl: always be in fault,
and that every thing needs a reform. Such were
the beginnings on the continent, and we cannot
doubt but that attempts are made to influence
the public mind in this country, in the very way
that has been practifed abroad.-Nay,
X. The deteflable doétrines of Illuminatifm
have been openly preached among us. Has not
Ur. Prieftley faid, (lthink in one of his letters on
<
°
the
c.~H.»1P. ii/. THE FRENCH R1:Vo1.U'r1oN.
the Birmingham riots,)
"
That if the condition of
"
other nations be as much improved as that of
"
France will be by the change in her fyltem of
"
government, the great crilis, dreadful as it may
"'
appear, will bea confummation devoutly to be
"
wilhed for ;-H-and though calamitous to
many,
"
perhaps to many innocent perfons, will be even-
46
tually glorious and happy ?"_1s not this equi-
valent to Spartacus faying,
"
True--there will be
"'
a
ftorm, a convullion-but all will be calm
"
again ?"--Does Dr. Prieltley think that the Bri-
tilh will part more eafiily than their neighbours in
France with their property and honours, fecured
by ages of peaceable poffeliion, protenfted by law,
and acquiefced in by all who Wilh and hope that
theirown defcendants may reap the fruits of their
honelt induftry ?éVVil1 they make a lel`s manly
ltruggle ?--Are they lefs numerous P-Muft his
friends, his patrons, whom he has thanked, and
praifcd, and flattered, yield up all peaceably, or
fall in the general ltruggle ? This writer has al-
ready given the molt promiling fpecimens of his
own
docility in the principles of Illuminatifm, and
has already paifed through ieveral degrees of ini-
tiation. He has refined and refined on Chrifii-
anity, andiboallts, like another Spartacus, that he
has, at lalt, hit on the true fecret.-Has he not
been preparing the minds of his readers for Athe-
il`m by his theory of mind, and by his commen-
tary on the unmeaning jargon of Dr. Hartley ?
I call it unmeaning jargon, that I may avoid giv-
ing it a more appolite and difgraceful name.
For, if intelligence and delign be nothing but a
certain modiiication of the vibmfizzizczz/fe or un-
dulations of any kind, what is lupreme intelli-
gence, but a more extenlive, and (perhaps they
will callit) refined undulation, pervading or mix-
ing
355 THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. eiiatf. iv;
ing with all others ? Indeed it is in this very man-
ner that the univerfal operation of intelligence is
pretended to be explained. As any new or paw
tial untlulation may be liiperinduced on
any other
already exifting, and this Without the leall diflurb-
ance or
confufion, fo may the inferior intelligen-
ces in the univerfe be only fuperinduétions on the
operations of this fupreme intelligence which per-
vades them all,-And thus an undulation (of`what?
Iiirely of fomething prior to and independent of
this modification) is the canfe of all the beings in
the univerfe, and of all the harmony and beauty
that we lobferve,-And this unclnlation is the ob-
ject of love, and gratitude, and confidence (that
is, of other kinds of undulations.)--Fortunately
all this has no
meaning.--But furely, if any thing
can tend to diminilh the force of our religions
fentiments, and make all Dr. Prie{lley`s difcoveries
in Chriltianity inlignificant, this will do it.
Were it pollible for the departed foul of New-
ton to feel pain, he would furely recollect with re-
gret that unhappy hour, when provoked by Dr,
Hooke's charge of plagiarifm, he hrfl threw out his
whim of avibrating ether., to lhew what might be
made of an
hypotheiis.-For Sir Ifaac Newton mutt
be allowed to have paved the way for much of the
atomical philofophy of the modems. Newton's
:ether is aflhmed as a
fac ioium by every precipitate
iciolifl, who, in defpite of logic, and in contradic-
tion to all the principles of mechanics, gives us the-
ories of rnufcular motion, of animal fenfation, and
even of intelligence and volition, by the undula-
tions of mtherial fluids. Not one of a hundred of
thefe theorilis can
go through the l`undamental theo-
rem of all this docfirine, the 47th prop. of the ad
book of the Principia, and not one in a thoufancl
know that Newton's invefligation is inconclu{ive,.-
Yet
mme. iv. True ramen Revoturiow.
357
Yet they talk ofthe þÿeE`e ¬ts
and moclifications ofthofe un-
dulations as tamiliarly and Corzfirlentlyasif theyeould
demoritirate the propoiitions in EtzClicl's Elements.
Yet fueh istlie realon that fatisfies Dr. Prie{tly.-
But I do not
fuppoie that he has yet attained his atrme
of Illumination. His genius has been cramped by
Briti& prejudices.-Thefe need not fway his mind.
any longer. He is now in that '"
?'¢27":2 !c'm}>0rz`s (cf
"
-!ofz`} fe/if/ft:z'@, z4§z`fe¢z!z`re gore; wfis, ef gztfefeizlzkxs
"
dz`c¢1'a I/Z'6`6'f,n--ill the country which was honour-
ed by giving the world the Hrlt avowed edition of the
fig: gf Req/Tiff, with the name of the iliop and pub-
lither. I make no éouht but that his miuclwill now
take a
higher flight,-and we
may expe& to fee him
tire "
that train by which he boatied that he would
"
blow up the religious ellablilhxneut of his iiupid
"°
and entlaved. native country."--Peace be with
him.--But I grieve that he has left any of his friends
and abettors among us, who declaim, inthe mofli'
violent and unqualified terms, againlt all national
E{let>iiHm1ents of Religion, and in no
friendly
terms of any eltabliflimeuts which maintain or allow
any privileged Urders. Difcanting much on fuch
topics increafes the ditiétisfzftion of the lefs 'fortu-
1'i2tC
part of mzarilrind, who miaturally repine at ad-
vantages which do not from the perional merit
of the pofl"cH`or, :although they are the natural and
z'ie<:eii?z1'yfruits oi merit in their ancetlors, and of
the-jtifiice and fecurity of our
happy Coullitutiou.
No Well informecl and 'fetilible man will deny that
the greateit injury was done to pure Religion when
Conllamtitie declared Chriliiauity to he the Religion
þÿo ¬tl1eEmpire,
and ve&ecl the Church with allthe rich-
es and power of the Heathen Prietlliood. Butit is falfe
tliatthis wasthe fource of all or of the wor{l"eorruptions
of Chrilliaoity; The rnerell novice in Church Hillary
knows that the errors of the Gnoilics, of the þÿC ¬l`iI'1-
C: X thizms,
358 THEQFRENGH REVOLUTION. cum. ive
thians, and others, long preceded this event, and
that thoufands lofi their lives in thofe metaphyhcal
difputes. But I cannot
help thiniting that, in the
prefent condition of Europe, religion would defert
the world, if the opinions of men were not direct-
ecl,' in iixrne proper degree, by National Eliablilh-
ments. Teachers among the Independents will
Court
popularity, as they have always courted it ; by
fohering þÿl"Ol`i1 ¬i`21VOLl!`i[!;!
anti cfiifrriminating opinion
of their heaters. The old fnbie&s of debate have
now lotl their zeQ, and I Qiould fear that the teach-
ers would find it a fucceiisttxl, as it is an
eaiy roacl to
popularity, to lead their heurers through za feries ot'
rehnernents, till they are landed, much to their fa-
tisfaftion, in the þÿB/i£iY ¬l`i3l_li`IH
of Dr. Prieliley, from
which it is but a
nep to the Atlieiftn of Diderot and
Condorcet.
Seeing that there are fuch grounds of apprehen-
iion, I think that we have caufe to be upon our
guard, and that every man who has enjoyed the
fweets of Britifh liberty lhould be very; anxious in.-
deed to
preferve it. Vile £1-_ould difcourage all fe~
cret alfernblies, which arforel opportunities to the
dihncfeeted, and all converfations which foller any
notions of political perferftion, and create hanlzer-
ings after unattainable happinefs. Thefe only in-
creafe the difcontents of the unfortunate, the idle,
and the worthlefs.-~ Above all, we ihould be careful
to difcourage and check immorslity and licentiouf-
nefs in every Hiape. For this will of itfelf fubvert
every government, and will fnbjefl us tothe vile
tyranny of a
profligate mob.
XI. If there has ever been a feafon in which it
was
proper to call upon the public inilruefiors of the
nation to exert themlelves in the caufe of Religion
and Virtue, it is furely the prefent. It appears,
from the tenor of the whole narration before the
A
°
reader,
camp. iv. 'rr-nz FRENCH REVOLUTION.
35§
reader, that Religion and Virtue are conhclered as
the great obllacles to the completion of this plan
for overturning the governments of Europe--and
l hope that I have made it evident that thole con-
lpirators have prefuppofed that there is deeply
rooted in the heart of man a hncere veneration
for uillbpliifiicatetl virtue, and an afleftionate pro-
penhty to Religion; that is, to coniider this beau-
tiful world as the producftion of wifdom and pow-
er, rcliding in a Being different from the world
itfelf, and the natural object of admiration and of
love --I do not fpealc of the truth of this princi-
ple at prelent, but only of its reality, as an im-
prellion on the heart of man, Thefe principles
mutt therefore be worked on,-and they are ac-
knowledged to be llrong, becaufe much artis em-
ployed to eradicate them, or to overwhelm them
by other powerful agents.-T/'Ve all`o fee that Re-
ligion and Virtue are conhderefi by thofe corrupt-
ers as
clofely united, and as
mutually lhpporting
eachother. This they adrnit as a faét, and la-
bour to prove it to be a millake.--And laltly, they
entertain no hopes of complete fuccefs till they
have exploded both.
This being the cafe, I hope thatl fhall be clear
of all charge of impropriety, when l addrefs our
national inltruétors, and earnefiily dclire them to
coniider this caufe as
peculiarly theirs. The world
has been corrupted under pretence of moral in-
{lIl`l1CillOYl.i*B'é1Cl{VZll`Cl1lC&, therefore, on their
part, may do inconceivable harm, becaufe it will
iTl0l`i C¢f1"C21iHly be interpreted as an
acknowledg-
ment of defeat, and they will he accufed ot' in-
difference and
inlincerity. I know that a modell:
man
relucftantly comes forward with any thing
that has the appearance of thinking hin1fel'f` wifer
or better than his neighbours. But if all are fo
bafhful
360 'rnra rnrncn ttiavoturron. cutie. iv,
balhful, where will it end? Mull we allow a
parcel
of worthleis pronigates, whom no man would trult
with the management of the moll trifling concern,
to
pafs with the ignorant and indolent for teachers
of true wifdom, and thus entice the whole world
into a
trap? They have iiicceeded with our unfor-
tunate neighbours on the continent, and, in Ger-
many, (to their ihaine be it fpoken) they have been
alliiled even by fome faithlefs clergymen.
But lwill hope better of my countrymen, and I
think that our
Clergy have encouragement even from
the native character of Britons. National compari~
ions are indeed ungracefnl, and are rarely candid--
but I thinl; they may be indulged in this inllance.
It is of his own countrymen that Voltaire fpealzs,
when he fays, that "
they refeznble a mixed breed
"
of the rnonkey and the tiger," animals that mix
fun with rniichief, and that fport with the torments
of their prey.-They have indeed given the inoll
ilioclring proofs of the julinezfs of his portrait. It is
with a conliderable degree of national pride, there-
fore, that I compare the behaviour of the French
with that of the Britilii in za very hmilar litnation,
during the civil wars and the ulnrpation of Croin~
well. There have been more numerous, and in~
iinitely more atrocious, crimes cornrnitted in France
during any one half year Hnce the beginning of the
Revolution, than during the whole of that tumultu-
ous
period. And it lhould be þÿ1" ¬_'lTl' ¬l1'lb ¬I` ¬Cl.,
that in
Britain, at that period, to all other grounds of dif-
content was addedno fmall lhare of religious fanati-
cifrn, a
pafiion (may [call it) which feldorn tails to
route every angry thought of the heart.-~Much may
be hoped for from an earneft and judicious addrels
to that rich fund of manly kindnefs that is conipicu-
ous in the Biitilli chara§er,--a fund to which I am
perfuaded we owe the excellence of ourconliitntion~
al
eimr. iv. Tse FRENCH ssvosurzon.
361
al government---No where elfe in Europe are the
claims of the different ranks in fociety fo generally
and fo candidly admitted. All feel their force, and
all allow them to others. Hence it happens that they
are
enjoyed in fo much peace
~---
hence it happens
that the gentry live among the yeomen and farmers
with fo eafy and familiar a
htperiority :
-----I --Extrenza per il/or
_7z_§/fifia fxfef/snr þÿl' ¬i"i'i.''rig/Zfgia _/Ecif.
Our clergy are aifo well prepared forthe taflc.
For our anceitors differed exceedingly from the pre-
fent lllutninators in their notions, and have enafied
that the clergy ihall he well inllruéled in natural
philofophy, judging that a
knowledge of the lym-
metryof nature, and the beautiful adjuftment of all
her operations, would produce a firm belief of 21
wifdom and power which is the fource of all this
fair order, the Author and Conduélor of all, and
therefore the nmural ohjeét of adrniration and of
love. A good heart is open to this imprefiion, and
feels no relu&anf;e, hut on the contrary a
pleafure,
in thinking man the fuhjeci of his government, and
the ohjefi of his care. This point being once
gain-
ed, I lhould think that the hltitary truths of Reli-
gion will be highly welcome. I fhould thinlathat
it will he eaiy to convince fuch minds, that in
the midft of the immenfe variety of the works of
God there is one great plan to which every thing
feems to refer, namely, the crowding this world,
to the utmoll degree of pombility, with life, with
beings that enjoy the things around them, each in
its own
degree and manner.
Among thefe, man
makes a moil corifpictiotis hgure, andthe mam'-
ZUFHIZ of his enjoyments feerns a
capital article in the
ways of Providence. It will, I think, require little
trouhle to ihew that the natural di&a;es of Religion,
crthe immediate reftilts of the belief of Gods
moi
ra
SCIQ THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. CI-IAP. IV.
ral government of the univerfe, coincide in every
circumltance of fentiment, difpohtion, and condutft,
with thofe that are moll produflive of enjoyment
(on the whole) in focial life. The fame train of
thought will lhew, that the real improvements in
the pleafures of fociety, are, in fact, improvements
of 1nan's rational 1i2ttu1'C, and lo many lleps toward
that perfection which our own confciences tell us we
are
capable of, and which Religion encourages us~to
hope for in another Hate of being.--And thus will
"
the ways of Vtfifdom appear to be ways of plea-
°'
fantnefs, and all her paths to be peace." _
Dwelling on fuch topics, there is no occalion for
any political difculhon. This would be equally im-
proper and hurtful. Such difcufhons never fail to
produce ill-humour.--But furely the highett eom-
placence mutt relirlt from the thought that we are
co-operating with the Author of all wifdom and
goodnefs, and helping forward the favourite plans of
his providence. Such a
thought mutt elevate the
mind which thus recoguifes a fort of alliance with
the Author of nature.-~()ur brethren in fociéty ap-
pear brethren indeed, heirs of the fame hopes, and
travelling to the lame country. This will he a fort
of moral patriotifm, and lhould, I think, produce
mutual forbearance, hnce we difeover imperfeélions
in all creatures, and are Confcious of them in our-
lelves-nottvithflanding which, we
hope to he all
equal at lafl in worth and in happinefs.
I 'lhould gladly hope that Ilhall not be accufed of
prefumption in this addrets. There is no
profcllion
that I more
lincerelyrelpefl than that of the reli-
gious and moral inllruftor of my country. I am
laying nothing here that Iam DOI accullomed to
urge at much greater length in the courfe of my pro~
fcltioual duty. And I do not think that I am
jullly
clrargezzhle with vanity, when I fuppole that many
years of delightful liucly of the works of God have
given
CHAP. iv. THE FRENCH RIQVOLUTION, 353
given me foznewhat more acquaintance with them
than is probably attained by thofe who never think
of the matter, being continually engaged in the
bulile of life. Should one of this delcription fay
that all is fate or chance, and that "
the fame thing
"
happens to all," &c. as is but too common, I
Ihould think that a
prudent man will give fo much
preference to 1191 aiiertion, as at leaii to think feri-
oufly about the thing, before he allow himfetf any
indulgence in things which Ialhrni to be highly
ciangerous to his future peace and l]ElPE)iI1CI_S.---I:O1`
this realhn I hope not to he a-;cu'l`ed of going out of
my line, nor hear any one
iay
"
Ns"/iiffar zz/im cre-
"
pi<irm1." The prelent is a feahgn of anxiety, and
it is the duty of eatery man to contribute his mite to
the general good.
It is in fome fuch hopes that I have written thefe.
pages; and it' they have any fuch efi`eé`t, I lhali
think myfelf fortunate in having by chance hit on
iomething ufeful, when Itvas only trying to ainufe
myfelf during the tedious hours of bad health and
confinement. No perfon is more fenlihle of the
many imperfections of this performance than my-
felf. But, as I have no motive for the publication
but the hopes of doing fome good, I trnii that I lhall
obtain a favourable acceptance of my endeavours
from an
intelligent, a candid, and a
good-natured
public. .I rnult entreat that it be remembered that
thefe iheets are not the work of an author deter-
mined to write a book. They were for the tnoiit
part notes, which I took from hooks I had borrowed,
that I might occalionally have recourfe to them
when occupied with Free IIafonry, the firft objeét
of my curiohty. My curiohty was diverted to ma-
ny other things as I went along, and when the Il-
luminati came in my way, Iregretted the timeI
had thrown away on Free I»Iafonry.---But, obferving;
their
Hauser; tt;;vor,U'rtt>rJ. caste. iv.;
their connection, I thought that I perceived the
progrels of one and the lame delign. This made
me
eager to find out any remains of `Wei{haupt's
Ailhciation. I was not ziurprized v;§':en it flaw matics
of its interference in the French lrievolution.-in
hunting for clearer proofs I found out the German
Union--and, in line, the whole appeared to be one
great and wicked projeei; fermenting and working
over all Europe.---Some highly relpefted friends
encouraged me in the hope ot doing forne fervice by
laying my informations hefore the public, and laid
that no time *fhould be loit.---I therefore fet about
collecting my fcattered faéls.---I undertook this talk
at a time when my otclicial duty prefied hard on me,
and had health made me
very unit for ftudy.---The
eifecls of this lfittlill appear in many faults, which I
lee, without being able at
prefent to amend them. I
owe this apology to the public, and I truii that my
good intentions will procure it acceptance*.
Nothing
'While the lheet commencing p. 34.1 was
printing oft, I got
za
light of a work publilhed in Paris laft year entitled La Conjurae
Zion a"0r/.efm.r.' It conlirms all that I have faid refpecfting the ufe
made of the Free Mafon Lodges.-It gives a
particular account
of the l`@rmati#n of the _lacobin Club, by the Club Breton. This
ialt appears to have been the Allociation formed with the aliiiiaricc
of the German deputies. The _facobin Club had feveral com-
mittees, iimilar to thofe of the National Allembly. Amoig
others, it had a Committee of Enquiry and Co1're{`pondence,
whofe bulinefs it was to
gain partizans, to difcover enemies, to
decide on the merits of the Brethren, and to form limilar Clubs
in other places. -
The author of the abovementioned work writes as follows,
(vol. iii. p. Ig.) 'We may judge of what the D. of Orleans
could do in other places, by what he did during his lliay in Eng-
land. During his Ptay in London, he gained over to his interelt
Lord Stanhope and Dr. Price, two ofthe moli; rel'pe@table
members of the Rc-voluiiarz Society. This Society had no other
object
EHAP. iv.; Tae Paenen REVOLUTION. ~
355
Nothing would give me more hncere pleafure than
to fee the whole proved to be a mifiake;-to be
convinced that there is no fuch plot, and that we
run no rifk of the' contagion ; but that Britain will
continue, by the abiding prevalence of honour, of
virtue, and Ot' true 1`CllglOl],AtO exhibit the fairell
iloecimen of civil government that ever was feen on
earth, and a national charaéler and conduei not un-
worthy of the inellimable bleilings that we
enjoy;
Our excellent Sovereign, at his aeceliion to the
throne, declared to
his,Parliament that HE
otonreo
IN HAVING BEEN BORN A Barron. -lll/'onld to G-Od
that
_-1_
4_____--11i.1_1_»1;.-<_1.._.___.
object (it faid) but to fupport the Revolution, which had dria
ven james H. from the throne of his anceftors.
Orleans made of this aflociation a true _lacobin Club.-lt en-
tered into correfpondence with the Committee of Enquiry of our
Commune, with the fame Committee of our
_lacobin Club, and
at laflz with our National Afiembly. It even fent to the Afiem-
bly an oltenlible letter, in which we may fee the following paiiages :
"
The Society congratulate the National Aflembly of France
"
on the Revolution which has taken place in that country. it
"
cannot but earnellly with for the happy concluiion of fo im-
"
portant a Revolution, and, at the fame time, exprefs the ex~
"
treme fatisfaélioii which it feels in reflecting on the glorious
"
example which France has given to the world." (The Reader
will remark, that in this example are contained all the horrors
which had been exhibited 'in France before the month of March
1790; and that before this time, the condu& of the Duke of
Qrleans on the 5th and 6th of O&Ober 1789, with all the (hock-
ing atrocities of thofe days, were fully known in England.)
"
The Society refolves unanimouily to invite all the people of
"
England to eitablifh Societies through the kingdom, to
fupport
"
the principles of the Revolution, to form correfpondence he-
"
tween themfelves, and by thefe means to cllablifh a
great con-
"
certed Union of all thetrueFriends of Liberty."
Accordingly (fays the French author) this was executed, and
_lacobin Clubs were ellablilheal in feveral cities of England, Scot-
land, and Ireland. 2 Y
366 THE FP.;-:Non REVOLUTION. crm P. iv.
that all and each of his fnbjecfis had entertained the
fame lofty notions of this good fortune! Then
would they have laboured, as he has done for near
forty years, tofupport the honour of the Britifh
name
by letting as
bright an
example of dornellic
and of public Virtue.---Then would Britons have
been indeed the boafl of humanity---then we lhould
have viewed thefe wicked plots of our
neighbours
with a frnile of contempt, and of lincere pity~--and
there would have been no need of this imperfeft
but well-meant performance.
I 367 I
Pqipripf.
LTHOUGH I favv no reafon to doubt of the
validity of the proofs which I have oflered in the
preceding pages, of a confpiracy againll the
dearelt interefts of every nation of Europe, nor
of the importance of the information to my own
countrymen, it gives me great þÿ{`atisf`a ¬tion
to
learn that it has been received with favour and
indulgence. Thisl may conclude from the im-
preilion's being exhaulled in a few days, and be-
caufe the publilher informs me that another edi-
tion is wanted immediately. I could have Wilh-
ed that this were deferred for fome time, that I
might have availed myfelf of the obfervations of
others, and be enabled to corretft the miftakes
into which I have been led by 1ny fcanty know-
ledge of the German language, and the millakes
of the writers from whom I derived all my in-
formations. I fhould, in that cafe, have attempt-
ed to make the work more
worthy of
the public
eye, by correéting many imperfections, which
the continual diftraélion of bad health, and my
ha{`te to bring it before the public, have occafion-
ed. I fhould have made the difpolition more na-
tural and perfpicuous, and have lopped oil' lbme
redundances and repetitions. But the printer tells
me, that this would greatly retard the publication,
by changing the leries of the pages. At any
rate, I am not at prefentin a condition to engage
in any work that requires difpatch. I mult yield
therefore to thofe reafons, and content myfelf
with fuclx correétions as can be made immediately.
I have found, after minute enquiry, that I
was miltaken as to the expreflion of an eminent
-
follower
` wr
358 PTDSTCRIPTv
follower of Dr. Prieftley, mentioned beforeq
The perfon alluded to clifelaims all languinary
proceedings, and my infortnation arofe from 8,
very erroneous account which was circulated of
the converiation, But I flill think the caution
equally necellary, which ireeornmencleti to the
hearers ot' the frequent and violent cleclamations
made by thofe alluded to, againlt all religions
eil§ablifhments.$
Except the anecdote of Diderofs library, I do
not reeolie¢`t another alfertion in the book, for
which I have notthe authority of printcdevidencc.
This tlory was told me by lb many perlbns of cte~
clit, who were on the fpot at the time, that I
have no doubt of its truth.
I alfo lintl that I was miilalieza in my conjec-
ture that hir. .Le Fnznc communicated his liiihi-
cions ol' the horrid deligns ,of the Free Mafons
to
Archbifhop Gobcf. it utuft have been to Mr.
Le C/err de 3,721/Qgize, a molt worthy prelate, -w hot-11
the hatreol of the Jacobins obliged to Hy into
Switzerland. The Catholic clergy were l)LlfCl1'~
ered or
banifhetl; and the Jacobins ftilmititutetl in
their places fuch as wonltl feeontl their views,
Gabe# was
Worthy of their Confidence, and the
ffrchbzféop of Thculouf' (B1'z`f'f11ze) himlelf Could
not have ferved the caufe of the philofophilts
more efieéttiaily, had they Hicceecled in their at~
tempts to get him continued Archbifhop of Paris.
As the poetical piétnre of unqualified Liberty
and Equality, and the inciolcnt plealiires of the
patritirchal life, are the charm by which the Illu-
minators hope to fafcinate all hearts, and as
they
reprobate every conilruction of fociety which to-
lerates any permanent fubortlination, anti parti-
cularly fuch as fbund this liiborciination on dill
A
tinetions
Posfrscstrr.
369
tinélions of ranks, and fcout all privileges allow-
ed to »partiCular orders of men, I hope that it
will not be thought foreign to the general purpofe
of the foregoing Wo1'l<, if, I with great defer-
ence, lay before the Reader fome of my realbns
for ailerting, withouthehtation, in a former part,
that the Britilhconftitution is the only one that will
give permanent happinefs to a
great and luxurious
nation, and is peculiarly calculated to give full
exercife to the belt propenlities of cultivated
minds. I am the more delirous of doing this, be'-
caufe it feems to me that molt of the political
writers on the Continent, and many of my coun-
trymen, have not attended to important Circum-
Iltances which difiinguilh our eonllitution from the
States General of France and other Countries.
The republieans in France have, lince the Revo~
lution, employed the pains in fearching their re-
cords, which ought to have been talten before
the convocation of the States, and which would
probably have prevented that ilrep altogether.
They have lhewn that the meetings of the States,
if we except that in 1614 and 1483, were uni-
formly ocealions of mutual contelts between the
different Cirders, in which the interefts of the na-
tion and the authority of the Crown were equally
forgotten, and the kingdom was
plunged into all
the horrors of a rancorous civil war. Of this
they give us a
rennarkable inllzance during the
captivity of King John in 1355 and 1356, the
horrors of which were
hardly exceeded by any
thing that has happened in our
days. They have
fhewn the fame difrnal confequences of the HIYCHI-
bly of the different Qrders in Brabant ; and llill
more
remarkably in Sweden and Denmarlc, where
they have frequently produced a revolution and
change of government, all of which have termi-
nated
376 rosrci-uw.,
nated in the abfblute government, either of thc.
Crown, orof one of the contending Orders. They
laugh at the limplicity of the Eritilh for expeéiz-
ing that the permanent fruits of our conltitution,
which is founded on the fame jarring principles,
[hall be any better; and affert, that the peaceable
exereife of its leveral powers for fomewhat more
than a
century, (a thing never cxperienced by
us in former times,) has proceeded from circum-
ftances merely accidental. With much addrefs
they have lelecited the former dilturbauces, and
have conneéted them by a fort of principle, fo as
to liipport their fyltem,
"
that a States General
"
or Parliament, confilting of a reprefentation of
"
the different claffes of citizens, can never deli-
"
berate for the general good, but muft always
"
occupy their time in contentions about their
"
mutual invaiions of privilege, and will faddle
"
every aid to the .executive power, with ionic
"
unjult and ruinous aggrandifement of the viéto-
"
rious Order;7` They have the effrontery to
give the l/[AGNA CHARTA as an inftance of an
uliirpation of the great feudatories, and have re-
prefented it in fuch a
light as to make it the game
of their writers and of the tribunes.-#All this
they have done in order toreeoncile the minds of
the few thinking men of the nation to the aboli-
tion of the different Orders of the State, and to
their National Convention in the form of a chao-
tic mals of Frenchmen, one and indivilible :
Non berzejzmfiarum c/y20r;lia_/Erniiza rerzmz,
U6ifrigizlapuegna5a1z! ralialis, /Jumentia fcrfr,
flffof/ia cum durir, fueporzdcre badenfia pondus.
Their rcalbnings vt ould be juli, and their proofs
from hiflor' would be cunvincinn' if their ,re-
.7 ov
dl
,
miles
POSTSCRIPT., 371
miles were true; if the Britiih Parliament were
really an allembly of three Orders, either perfon-
ally, or
by reprcientation, deliberating apart, each
having a veto on the decilions of the other twa.
And I apprehend that mofi of my countrymen,
who have not had occalion to canvas the fubjeft
with much attention, fuppofe this to be really the
Britilh Conllitutionz for, in the ordinary table
converfations on the fnhjecft, they feldom go far~
ther, and talk with great complacence of the bal-
ance of hoftile powers, of the King as the umpire
of diEerences, and of the peace and proiiuerity
that refults from the whole.
But I cannot help thinking that this is a mifcom
ception, almoft in every circunnitance. I do not
know any oppolite interefts in the State, except
the general one of the governor and the governed,
the king and the fubjerft.-»1f there is an
umpire
in our conftitution, it is the houfe of Lords-but
this is not as a
reprefentation of the perfons of
birth, but as a court of hereditary rnagil`trates:
the Peers do not meet to defend their own privi-
leges as citizens, but either as the counfellors of
the King, or as
judges in the lalt refort. The
privileges for which we fee them fometimes con-
tend, are not the privileges of the high-horn, of
the great vaffals of the Crown, but the privileges
of the Houfe of Lords, of the fupreme Court of
jndicature, or of the King's Council. In all the
nations on the Continent, the difierent Orders, as
they are
called, of the State, are corporations,
bodies politic, which have jurifdiétion within
themfelves, and rights which they can maintain
at their own
hand, and privileges which mark
them moft diftinétly, and produce fuch a complete
feparation between the clilferent Orders, that they
can no more mix than oil and water. Yet the
great
Q72 rosrscnirri
great preiiclent Montelbiuieu lays, that the lleeragéa
of England is a
lfociy of Nobility ; and he ufes the
term Zfody in the itriét fenfe now mentioned, as
iy~
nonymous to corporation. He has repeatedly uieei
this term to denote the feconcl order of ]?`rench~
men, perfons of noble birth, of ennobled, (that
is, vefteci in the privileges and diitinétions of the
nobly born,) united by law, and having authority
to maintain their privileges. The hilltory of
France, nay of our own
country, fhows us that
this body may enjoy all its diftinftions of nobility,
and that the Great Barons may enjoy the preroga~
tives of their baronies, although the authority of
the Crown is almoit annihilated.-'Ne have no
cogent realon, therefore, for thinking that they
will be eonitantly careful to fupport the authority
of the Crown ; and much lefs to believe that they
will, at the fame time, watch over the liberties
of the people. In the eleétion of their reprelenta-
tives, (forthe whole body of the gentlemen muft ap-
pear by reprefentation,) we muft not expeét that
they will feieit fueh of their own number as will
take care of thofe two effential objeets of our
con»
ititution.f,Etqually jealous of the authority ofthe
Crown and of the encroachments of all thole who
are not gentlemen, and even fearful of the all
iixrnptions of the Great Barons, the powerful in-
dividuals of their own order, they will always
ehoofe fueh reprelentatives as will defend their
own
rights in the iirit place. Such peribns are by
no means fit for maintaining the proper authority
of
,the Crown, and keeping the reprcfentativesot`
the lower Claffes within pro-per bounds.
But this is not the nature of our Howie of Lords
in the prelenttlay. it was lo tbrnierly in a
great
mealiire, and had the fanie Ciiecfts as in other
eozmtries, Ent iinee the Revolution, the Peers
of
V
»
POSTSCRIPT.
of Great-Britain have no
important priviieges which
relate merely or chieiiy to birth. Thefe .all refer
eo their fismékions as
Magifirares of the Supreme
Courr. The King Can, at any time, place in this
Houfe any eminent perfon whom he thinks worthy
of rhe oihce of" hereditary rnzigihrate. The Peers
are nobie--thai is, remarkable, iihzfirious ; but are
not neeefirriiy, nor in every infhmee, perions of
high birth. This Home rherefhrfs is not, in any
fort, the repr'ei"ervra&ive of what is eaiied in Fmxice
the
Nobieiie-11particularCiiioéfthenation;--nor particular Ciii oéfthe nation ;--nor
is it ri
þÿ_jl1ll' ¬IiOI`l
of ziie proprietors ofthe gggreaz fees
of the Crown, as fuch;--for many, very rmmy, of
rife gre;-rzefia baronirzs are in the hands ofrhoie we
call Commm1e1's.--Th<.°§,' he as the Eiiiigs Counfei-
lors, or as
Iridges.-Thereiore rhe memisers ofour
Upper Eioufe are nor
ii/vsyeci by the pzeiueiiees of
any eiais of the cicizens. They are hereeiitary ma-
gifrrates, created by the Sovereign, for his cormfei,
to defend his prerognzives, to hoid the bsianee be-
tween the throne and the people. The grezrteft part
of the Nobi1if;y(iri the eominenrai fenfe of the word)
are not called imc this I-§<>u§e, hue they may be
members of the Lower I-§oui`e,` which we cali the
Commons; may the fons and the brothers of the
Peers are ir; the fame Htuazion. The ?eers there-
fore cannot he hofiiiie or iridiiiierent to the liberty,
the rights, or the happinefs of the Commons, with~
our
being the enemies of their own ilrmilies.
Nor is our Eioufe of Commons at .eil fimilar to
the Zbimf If/1lafe<>f`any iof the neighbrmrihg king-
doms. They are not me
reprehgnrarives ofthe
nobiy born, or
ofany crisis of citizens. The mem-
bers are the proper repreiientatives oi? the 'zzrlvcfie fm-
ljzfiz, and Conhft of perfons ofevcrjy' eizfs, §>eriZ`r»ns
þÿ()iEi`}CiiiF?i1 ¬i)[
birth zerions of great éoimfzwe, rierrons
of
)
ef' -
s.
ofedrlentron, of knowiesigge, of rairnrs.
., ff fer, ,N
-M 131 ._ lzi.4§
374 Pos'1'sc1ui>T.
Thus the caufes of diffenhon which refer to the
diftinétive rights or
prerogatives of' the diderent
claifes of citizens are removed, becaufe in each
Houle there are
many individuals feleéted from all
the clafles.
A Peer, having attained the higheft honours of
the itate, muft be an
enemy to
every revolution.
Revolution mnift certainly degrade him, Whether it
places an ablolute monarch, or_a democratiojunto,
on the throne.
The Sovereign naturally looks for the fupport of
the Upper Houie, and in every meafure agreeable
to the eonftitution, and to the public weai, exerts
his influence on the Houfe of Commons. Here
the character of the monarch and his choice of mi-
nilters muft appear, as in any other conllitution;
but with much lefs chance of danger to political ii-
berty.--The great engine of monarchy in Europe,
has been the jarring privileges of the different 0r»
ders, and the Sovereign, by fiding with one of
them, obtained acceiiions of prerogative and pow-
er.-It was thus that, under the Houfe ot' Tudor,
our conftitution advanced with hahy itrides to ab-
iolute monarchy; and would have attained it, had
james the Firft been as able as he was
Willing to fe-
cure what he firmly believed to be the divine rights
of his Crown.
I do not recollect hearing the lower ranks ofthe
State venting much of their difcontents againit the
?eers, and they feem to perceive pretty clearly
the advantages ariiing from their prerogatives.
They feem to look up to them as the Brit who will
protect them againit the agents of fovereignty.
They know that a man
may' rife from the loweft
Ration to the peerage, and that in that exaltation
he remains connefted with themfelves by the
dearé
e
Q-
PosTs<:RiPT.
375
eft ties; and the Houfe of Commons talte no oi
fence at the creation of new Peers, becaufe their
privileges as a Court, and their private rights, are
not affected by it. Accordingly, the I-loufe has al-
ways oppofed every project of limiting the King's
prerogative in this relperft. _
How unlike is all this to the conllitution ccn{i{t~
ing of the pure reprefentatives of the Privileged
Orders of the Continental States. The1"elt`-con-
ceited conftitutionalifls of France faw iomething
in the Eritifh Farliament which did not fall in with
their own he/bf notions, and prided themfelves in
not
copying from us. This would have indicated
great poverty of invention in a nation accuftoinetl
to conlider itfelf as the teacher ot" nzanltind. The
moft l`enlilJle.of them, however, wifhed to have a
conititution which they called þÿanimpr0tfe:~f1 ¬;1i
ofonrs:
and this was the limple plan ofa re_p1~f%°;2faz°i0§2 oi" the
two or three Grders þÿo ¬~the,
State. Their Upper
Houfe lhould contain the reprefentatives of 100,000
nobleffe. The Princes of the Blood and Great
Barons fhould lit in it of their own
right, and the
reft by deputies. The Lower Houfe, or 1'2:f'f"5 Emi,
fhould conhllt of deputies hom thofe ignobly horn;
fuch as merchants, perfons in the lower ohices ot'
the law, artilans, peafants, and a linall number of
freeholders. Surely it needs no
deep reflection to
teach us what fort of deliberations would occupy
fuch a houfe. It would be a molli ufeful occupation
however, to perufe the hihory ofllrance, and ofother
nations, and fee what þÿ7' ¬flZ{}'
di¢!0cm_;!>y the Tiers Etat
thus conllrucfted, and what were their proceedings,
their decilions, and the Reps which they tool; to
make them effectual. lhave no doubt but that this
liudy would cure nioft of our advocates for general
eligibility, and for general fnFfz'age. I have
lately!
rea
f
375 POSTSCRIPT.
read Vciiey ami Villzzrees Hifcory of France; (hy
the bye, the Abbe Ezrruei has ihewn that the Club
d`Ho1bach rnzmaged the pubiicatiori uf this Elif-
wry after the firif eight or :en voiumes, and flipped
inm it mmy things iiiiteal to their impious pr<;{ie&,}
and the accounts of che t1~m_zbieiF;i12e reigns of johzi
and Charics his fucceiilw, by auihcfrs who wrote
long beibre the Rcvoiuaion; and they filled me wich
horror, only iniianee thaclmet with of any
thing like mocieraiion in the ciaims and diiiautes of'
the different Qrders oftheir E">m£es General, and of
paa:i'io=.:i§`m, or
regarci fb: :he general incerefis of the
Same, is in theiij meetixfgs ciuring the minority of
Charles "V iii.
)
1
'With i'efi3e~f`f to the iimitaticms of me eli ibiiit
_ W
.
/_ Y
_
Q Y
into the Houfe or Commcris, 1 thank that there can
be no cloubc tha; rhoii: Qiouid he excluded whoie
'
/` 1 .
§
1
'
°a'.
habits OI neeciy and .aoorious hie hav/e preciumed
them from ai! opporturiiiies oi acquiring fomc gene-
ral views of poiitical? relaticins. Such perfons are
totally unhc for deiibei-atxens, where genera! or
Comprehenilve views only are so he the iiihieéis of
difcu@on 5 they can have conceptions of the i`uEJ~
jeéfc, and therefore no
iiezféy notions or
opinions,
but Yllllijf change them ufier es/ery fpeaher, ami muif
become me ciu'*c<° of ei/ew cici':'i;wz><>izc.
_m _
Y'
"1 _
J
`
an J
'_ 1
Eu; 'cizere are archer Cil`CU2E1iiL ;1f1<_:es which maiae me
77'if,_¥,_JF,gf11.!_|__'1qm»':_'{f~.!_:L__,T_hrA,I
'
if ,_¥,_JF ,gf 11 .!_| __
'1qm»':_' {f~ .!_:L__, T
_
hr A
,I
x
Lixnit, (JL nil §.iL.;_S OL þÿcILLL¢ ¬A§}
INC. Lzlnx(
§>i°op1'1etf>r5 are she iiiteiifcfr hticling thu i;:ip<>z°tant
oificc. ido PG; iiiécr ii}1Sil'O!`¥E their h;1v;i'2;; zz more
rw!<c~<;m:iei.ii§c¢i wéegh ihe imiifm, ;iri<§ ei
i'is";>zigcr in-
1'ei"cft in ms §L;tc»L~§ gvrcfez' Eiueiii cm ;a<;ii'L>uiir ofzheir
f;§<":;ei'a! i";;iiii;._.Qfzlzcufgiit. f,i;`-'iciig all thei;"<>i'ci11i:z~-
15; rraiii¢;c;;~r;1;3 me éxaagh as iu:i'§;§;;»; chem acquainted
wich the ixfcwciis cf' <>;hei°¢1, came chem to conhdcr
t2;C~ie in e?;eic§'.s,§ iwixitsi ci viuv 5 Nici, in ihorf, mofc
'J `
of
POSTSCRIPT.
ofthelr occupations are, in fome degree, xuational.
They are aceuftorned to iettle dlilferences between
thofe of lower ilatlons--they are
hequently in the
Kings commifllon as _lullices of the Peace; Pell
thefe circutnftances malta them much apter fcholars
in that political linowledge, which is ahfolute-ly nc-
ceilhry for a member ol' the Houfe of Commons.
But, heflcles this, l have no heitatlon in faying
that their turn of mlncl, their principles ofconcluet,
are more
generally hrch as hecome a Senator, than
thole of my 05/56? C1196 of men. This; clafs includes
almoll all men of fhmily. l cannot help think.-
ing that even what is culled family pride is Z1 fenci-
ment in their flavour. I am convinced that all our
properahties are ufeful in fociety, and that their had
elleels arile wholly from want of moderation in the
indulgence of them, or fometlnnes from the impro-
priety of the oecafion on which they are exerted.
'QE/'itat propenilty is more
general than the Clellre ot
acquiring permanent con{lcle1'atlonfor ourfzlves and
OUl'lflH`flll{'S ? 7l'l1ereis the rnan to be flwné lbmean-
fptrzted as not to value hitnfelf tm' being horn ot'
c)
crefnrahle parents, and for creditable elomeftie con-
nections? is this wrong becauie it has been t:l>ul`e;l?
So then is every pre-eminence ol? ofhee; and the
direetors of repnléliean France are as criminal as
her former 154 ooies. This proprnlity of the human
heart lhould no more he rejected than the cleflre of
power. lt Qzoulcl he regul;».te;l--but it fhoulel Cer-
tainly he matle ufe ct' as one 'lili the means: ot' car-
rying on the nzzrloml l;t'=§n<;i`5. lthi:'.l°; that we know
lbme ofits good rhleiz--~lt lncfites to 21 certain izro-
priety of contlucli that is generally agreeahlo-its
honefly is emhelllhwal hy 21 nlanner that makes it
more
tfieazilngg. Thr re is ilrrnethlng that we call the
b5lfm:t'zr;:;';° nf tc £1f;;z'[:f¢rm that is immetliatly and unif
formiy nntaerf;f>ef.l. The ylalneil þÿ}" ¬¢l.ll1i?{O1`l&lJOll!'-
(fl`
373 1*os'rsc1>.1PT.
er will Yay of a man Whom he ellteerns in acertain
way,
"
He IS a Gentleman, every bit of him,"--
,and he is perfectly underltood by all who hear him
to mean, not a rank in life, but a turn of mind, a
tenor of condué`t that is amiable and worthy, and
the groundiof confidence.--lmemarlt, with fome
feeling of patriotic pride, that thefe are
phrafes al-
moflt peculiar to our
language-in Ruliia the words
would have no meaning. But there, the Sovereign
is a defpot, and all but the Gentry are llaves; and
the Gentry arexat no
pains to recommend their clals
by fuch a diltiiiction, nor to
give currency to fuch
phrafe.-I would inter from this peculiarity, that
Britain is the happy land, where the wifeft ule has
been made ofthispropenlity of the human heart.
It therefore there be a foundation for this pecu-
liarity, the Gentry are
proper objects of our choice
for hlling the Houfe of.Commons.
If theoretical conhderations are of any value in
quellions of political difculiion, Iwould fay, that
we have good realons for giving this elafs of citizens
a
great ihare in the-public deliberations. Behdes
what Ihave already noticed of their habits of conli-
dering things in general points of view, and their
#cling acloler connection with the nation than any
other clals, lwould fay that the power and influence
which naturallyattaeh to their being called to orhces
of public trullt, will probably be better lodged in
_their hands. lfthey are generally feleétetl for thefe
oHiees,they come to coniicler them as parts oftheir
civil condition, as lituations natural to them. They
will therefore exercile this power and inhuence with
the moderation and calmnels othabit,-they are no
novelties to them--they are not afraid oflolingthem;
--therefore, v. hen in oliice, they do not catch at the
opportunities ol'c>;erciling them. This is the Ordi-
nary
POSTSCRIPT.
37g
nary conduct of men, and therefore is a
ground of
probableweafoning.-ln fhort, l lliould expect from
our
Gentry lbmewhat of generolity and candour,
which would temper the commercial principle,
which feems to
regulate the national tranfadtions of
modern Europe, and whofe eflfeffts feem lefs friend-
ly to the belt interefls of humanity, than even the
Roman principle of glory.
The Reader will now believe thatl would not
recommend the Filling the Home of Commons with
merchants, although they feem to be the natural Re-
prelentatives of the monied interefl ofthe nation.
But Ido not wiih to coniider that Houfe as the Re-
prefentative of any Orders whatever, or to difturb
its deliberations with any debates on their jarring
interefis. The man of purely commercial notions
difclaims all generolity--recommends honefly be-
caule it is the bell policy-in fhort, "places the
"
value of 21
thing in as much money as'tWillbring."
lfhould watch the conduct of fuch men more nar-
rowly than that of the Nobles. Indeed, the þÿhi"(y
of Parliament will Ihow that the Gentry have not
been the molt venal part ofthe Houfe. The illu-
mination which now dazzles the world aims direclly
at
multiplying the number of venal members, by
filling the fenates of Europe with men who may be
bought at a low price. l/linilterial corruption is
the fruit of Liberty, and freedom dawned in this na-
tion in Q}een Elizabetifs time, when her rniniller
bribed 'Wentworth--A wife and free Legiflation
will endeavour to make this as
expenlive and trou-
blefome as
pofhble, and therefore will neither ad-
mit univerfal fuffrage nora very extenlive eligibility.
Thefe two circumflances, belides opening a wider
door to
corruption, tend to dellroy the very inten-
tion ofall civil conflfitutions. The great objeét in
them
380 PosTsct<1t=r.
them is, to make 21
great number ofpeople liezppv,
Some men
place þÿ[lECl1`Cl1l ¬{ ¬i`ljO§/l'I1 ¬l"][ll]
nieafuriiig
their Ptrength with others, and love to be continually
employed in canvahing, intriguing, and carrying on
iorne little pieces of 3. fort ofpublic buhneié, to
fuch men univerliil fulffrage and eligibility would be
paraclife--but it is to be hoped that the number of
iitch is not very great : for this occupation mutt be
:accompanied by much difquiet among their neigh-
bours, much dihenhon, and mutual ofiience and ill-
will--Yantl the peaceable, the intlolent, the {i;u
and the halt" ofthe nation, the women, will be great
fuliferers by all this. In a 1135.031 pofehhng many
ofthe corntbrts and plealbres of lihc, the hnppielt
government is that which will leave the greateft
number po§ible totally unoccupied with notional
alfairs, and :tt full liberty to
enjoy all their tlonief-
tic and locial þÿPl/i'Zl`l1tlI' ¬S, to do this with heority
and _permanence Great limittitiozzs in the right of
eleniing feertis therefore at ciretnniiftznce iiecelfary
for this purpoie; and limitations are
equally ne~
eelllzry on the eligibility. When the ofiices of
power and emolument are
open to all, the fcramble
becomes tmiver&l, and the nation is never at peace.
The rom' to tt feat in Parliziniezit haoulcl be acceié
ble to all; but it fhoultl be long, fo that many
things, which all may in time clit-ttziri, fhell be re-
quilite for qut=.li'fying the cfnitfitiate. The
Ezoultl nllo be fuch that all Qioultl be intiucetl to wall;
in it, in the profecution ot' thiir ortiinarj; btlhnefs;
enrol their ailmi$on into public cfices fhoultl depend
on the progrefs which they have made in the acl-
vztncemcnt of their own fortunes. Such regula-
tions would, I think, give the greateft chance of
lilling the o$ces with peribns tizteft for them, by
their
POSTSCRIPT. 381
their talents, their experience, and their habits of
thinking. Thefe habits, and the views oflife which
a rnan forms in confequence of his htuation, are of
the utmoll importance.
After all thefe obiervations, I muflt Ftill recur to
a
polition which I have repeated more than once,
nkaniely, that our confiitution, which nearly em-
braces all thefe circumftances, has attained its pre-»
fent excellence chiefly in confequenee ofthe innate
worth ofthe Britifh charafler. About the time of
the Conqueft, our conflitution hardly differed from
that of France. But the clalhing of interefis be-
tween the different Ordersof the iiubjeets was not
fo rancorous and obftinateé-thefe Orders melted
more ealily together--the purity of the principle
of Reprefentation in the States was lefs attended
to; and while the French Peers gradually left ol?
minding any buiinefs but their own, and left the
High Court of Judicature to the lawyers, and the
King to his Cabinet Council, the Peers of Great
Britain, overlooking their own lefs important cliftinc-
tions, attended more to the State, became a
perma~
nent Council to the Sovereign in the adminilltration
and legiflation, and, with a
patriotifm and a
pati-
ence that are unknown to the other Grandees of
Europe, continued to hear and tojudge in all quef-
tions of ultiee and ro ert between the inferior
..
-l P P. Y _ _ _
,
citizens ofthe State. Brit1Ih Liberty is the highly-
prized fruit of all this Worthy conduft, and moflt
eo le afcribe it to the fu erior f irit and indepen-
P
f
_
P P _
.
dence OL the national character. It ftrikes me,
however, as more furely indicating fuperior virtue,
and more _judicious patriotifm; and our happy con-
ilitution is not more _iulily entitled to the admira-
tion and refpeét that is paid to it by all Europe,
3 A than
382 rosrscrupr.
than to the aiiecftionate and grateful attachment of'
every true-hearted Briton.
Since the publication of this volume I have feen
a
very remarkable work indeed, on the fame fub-
jecl, M'e/fzoires pour _/erfoir a Z'HU20ire du ifacobizzyme,
par Jil. Z'/iébé Barruel. This author confirms all
that I have faid of the Ezzligbleners, whom he very
aptly calls P/oilwp/ayfr; and of the abufes of Free
Malbnry in France. He fhows, unequeftionably,
that a formal and fyftematic confpiracy againil Re-
ligion was formed and zealoufly profecuted by Vol-
taire, d'Alembert, and Diderot, afiifted by Frede-
ric ll. King of Pruilia; and I fee that their princi-
ples and their manner of procedure have been the
fame with thofe of the German athei{'ts and anar-
chifts. Like them they hired an
Army of Writers;
they induftrioufly pufhed their writings into every
houfe and every cottage. Thofe writings were
equally calculated for inflaming the fenfual appetites
of men, and for Perverting theirjudgments. They
endeavoured to get the command of the Schools,
particularly thofe for the lower clalTes; and they
þÿere ¬ted
and managed a
prodigious number of Cir-
culating Libraries and Reading Societies. M. Bar-
ruel lays, that this gang of public corruptors have
held their meetings for many years in the Hotel dc
Holbac/9 at Paris, and that Voltaire was their hono-
rary Preiident. The moft eminent members were
d'/flezfzberf, Diderot, C01m'orcet, La Hczflpe, Turgot,
Lfzmoigzzon. They took the name of(]2coNoM1sTs,
and affected to be continually occupied with plans
for improving Commerce, Manufactures, Agricul-
ture, Finance, &c. and publilhed from time to
time re{'peé`table performances on thofe fubje6ls.--
But their darling project was to deltroy Chriflianity
and all Religion, and to bring about a total
Chang;
0
rosrscizrpr.
383
of Government. They employed Writers to com-
pofe corrupting and impious books--Lhefe were
revifed by the Society, and corrected till they fuited
their purpofe. A number were printed in a hand-
fomemanner, to defray the expence; and then a
much greater number were printed in the cheapeit
form poflible, and given for nothing, or at
very
low prices, to hawkers and pedlars, with injunctions
todiltribute them fecretly through the cities and
villages. They even hired perfons to read them to
conventicles ofthofe who had not learned to read.*
(See vol. i. 343-355.) ~
Iam particularly [truck by a
poiition of Abbe
Barruel,
"
YM! Irreligiozz amz' zmgurzlgfea' Liéerfy and
"
Equality are lbs gemzine and original Secrets Q" Free
"
Mfwnry, and I/ae zrllif/zatum Q" zz
regular progrrfr
"
I/arougb all its degree5." I-Ie fupports this re-
markable polition with great ingenuity, and many
very pertinent facts. I confefs that now, when I
have got this impreflion, I fliall Find it very difiicult
to @PEa¢¢ it; But I muf't alfo fay, that this thought
never ftruck me, during all the time that I have
been
*
The author makes an obfervation which is as
juli as it is
agreeable. This atrocious gang folicited, with the moli anxious
alliduity, the participation and patronage of the great ones of
the world, and boalt of feveral very exalted names; Frederic
11. of Pruflia, whom they call the Solomon of the North, Ca-
tharine II. Gullavus King of Sweden, the King of Denmark,
Sze. &c. But in the whole feries of their correfpondence there
is not the leaft trace of any encouragement or any hopes from
our excellent Sovereign George III. Defpiling the incenfe of
fuch wrenches, and detelting their fcience, he has truly merited.
the title of P/Ji/Mzpber, by having done more for the real Illu-
mination ofthe World, by the promotion of true Science, than
Louis XIV. with his penlioned Academicians, or than all the
prefent Sovereigns of Europe united ; and has uniformly diflin-
guifhed himfelf by his regard for true Religion, and every thing
that is venerable and facred. This omiilion is above all praifei
384 PosTscR1PT.
been occupied with it; nor have I ever heard it ex-
preiTed by any Brother, except fuch as had been
illuminated; and fuch Brethren always conhdered
this as an innovation or
improvement on
genuine
Britifh Free Mafonry. I recolleft, indeed, that
Nicholai, in his account of the German Roiyeru-
Cians, fays, that the obje5t of Free .flylafonry in
England, iince the time ofjames ll. is" Qlblemflon in
Religious Opifzloizs, as
Royfzlyifz had been the objefl;
before that time.
The account which the Abbe gives of the Che-
wlerie du Soleil is very conformable to one of the
three rituals in my poifeflion. His account of the
Claeftfalerle ale Rye Crolxfand fome others, differs
coniiderably 'H-om thofe in my box. I have reafon
to think that my materials are
tranfcripts from the
rituals, (Sec. which Rofa introduced into the Ger-
rnan
Lodges, becaufe the writer of the greatcft part
ofthem is an inhabitant ofthat city.
I think that the Abbe Barruel's account of this
matter fuggefts a
pleahng reiiecftion. All the Bre-
thren on the Continent agree in faying, that Free
I/lafonry was
imported from Great Britain about
the beginning of this century, and this in the form
oi' a
Myitical Society. It has been aiiiduouily cul-
tivated in Britain ever ince that time, and Ibelieve
that the Fraternity is more numerous here, in pro-
portion to the population of the country, than in
any other kingdom; yet in Britain the Brethren
have never
fufpecfted that its principles were fedi-
tious or atheiftical. 'While the Free`l/laionry of
the Continent was tricked upiwith all the frippery
of Ftars and ribands, or was perverted to the' rinolt
profiigate and impious purpofes, and the Lodges
became feminaries of Foppery, of Sedition, and
Impiety, it has retained in Britain its original form,
` ` i
iimple
POSTSCRIPT.
385
fimple and unadorned, and the Lodges have re-
mained the fcenes ofinnocent merrirnent, or meet-
ings of Charity and Benehcence. As the good
fenfe and foundjudgrnents of Britons have prefer-ved
them from the abfurd follies of Traniinutation, of
Gholt-railing, and of Magic, fo their honeft hearts
and their innate good dilipolitions have made them
detelt and reject the mad projects and irnpious doc-
trines of Coiinopolites, Epictirifts, and Atheifts.
O fommzzfos rzimizmz, jzzzj bam: Hariri!
Anglicolas .'
Ihave more confidence than ever in the fenti-
ment which I exprelTed as an
encouragement for
our moral inilzruétors; and with greater earneft-
nefs do I call on them to refcue from corruption
and impending ruin a nation fo highly deferving
of their care.
Mr. Barruel, in the eighteenth chapter of his
work, has fuggefted fome refieetions, which highly
merit attention, and greatly tend to eiiiace the ini-
prefiion which is naturaily made on the minds of
the unthinking and precipitant, when they obferve
fuch a lift of authors, whom they have been acculi-
tomed to admire, all leagued againft Religion. I
think, however, that nothing can more
efteftnally
remove it, than Whatl have already hiown of' the
vile and diigraceful tricks which thele ibphiits have
been guilty of to
fupport their caufe. The caufe
of this numerous affociation is diltinitiy feen in their
very procedure. The very firlt [tep in their pro-
grefs is ci¢°J_z>1'awz'ion J fimzzzzerr. In this they have
laboured with as much earneltnefs as either Sparta-
cus, or Minos, or Bahrdt. It was a treat to me to
learn that La Clofe's abominable bool; Le; Ling?-»:zs
D¢§;;§uf~w_9'2'J,
386 Pos'rscR1rr.
Dfmgerezyes, was not merely pandering for his pa~
tron Orleans, but alfo working for his mafters at
the Hotel d'I-Iolbach. Nothing gives fuch certain
bread to thoie authors, in the beginning of their
career, as immoral and impure writings ;-and with
iiich did even their chief fet out, and fill his pock-
ets; witnefs his Pucelle ¢i'Orlmm°; and even after
they became the frzges qf France, they continued,
either from eoarfe tafie or from lerious principle,
for the diabolical purpofe of inflarning the paliions
of others, to interlard their graveft performances
with impure thoughts and fentiments. Nay, the
fecret of the Hotel d'Holbach fhews us that, for
any thing we know to the contrary, the vileft pro-
duélions of their prefs may have been the compofi-
tions ofthe octogenary Voltaire, ofthe Ily d'Alem-
bert, or of the author of the Pere de Fami//e. VVhat
a
pity it is that the Dedine qf the Roman _Empire was
not all written in England, and that its learned and
elegant author, by going into their fociety, has
allowed himfelf to be drawn into this muddy and
degrading vortex l
I fhould fcarcely aik for more to
difgufl me with
the philofophy of theie fages, and to make me dif-
truii; all their preteniions to knowledge. The
mcannefs ofthe conduit fuited the original poverty
of the whole of them, but its continuance Ptrips
them of all claims to the name of philofophers.
Their pretended wifdom is only cunning,-and we
mu{'t acknowledge that their conduct was clever:
for this mean of corruption, concealed or embel-
lifhed by their talents for fentimental (lang, (I can
give it no better name,) made their converfation
and their writings moft acceptable to their noble
patrons.-Now it is that Religion, of neceliity,
comes on the iield; for Religion tells us, that thefe
`
are
Posfrscarpfr.
387
are mean pleafures for creatures born to our prof-
pefts; and Chriflianity tells us, that they are
grofs
tranfgreliions of the 01zZyjzW mom/ign The progrefs
of the pupil will now be rapid; for he will liften
with willing ears to leffons which Hatter his pal-
Iions. Yet Voltaire thinks it necefliary to enliven
the leH`0ns by a little of the _/rzlawn, guelr/ues 50775
moi: fi-_propos auprér der fmzmes, which he recom~
mends to d'Alembert, who, it feems, was deficient
in this kind offmall talk.
Surely all this is very unlike to wifdom; and
when we fee that it is part of a
plan, and this an
obvious one, it Ihould greatly lelfen our wonder at
the number of thefe admired infidels. If we would
now
proceed to examine their pretenhons to fcience,
on which they found their claim to the name of
philofophers, we mu{'t be careful to take the word
in a fenfe that is unequivocal. Its true
meaning is
by no means what is commonly alligned to it, a
lover ofknowledge. It is a lover of wifdom; and
philofophy profeffes to teach us what are the con-
lltituents of human felicity, and what are the means
of attaining it; what are our duties, and the gene-
ral rules for our þÿcondu ¬t.The Iloics were
philo-
fophers. The Chrillians are alfo philolophers.
The Epicureans and the Sophills of France would
alfo be called philoibphers. I have put in my ob-
jeélion to this claim already, and need not
repeat
my reafons for laying that their doftrines are not
dictates of' wifdom. I fhall only add, that their
own conduit [hows plainly that their principles had
no ellerft on themfelves, becaulie we fee, from the
feries of correfpondence which Mr. Barruel has laid
before us, that they do not
fcruple to praélile vil-
lanous and hypocritical tricks, which never fail to
difgrace a man, and are
totally irreconcilable with
our
388 »PosTsceaiz='r.
our notions of human dignity. Voltaire patiently
took a
caning from an ofiicer at Frankfort, for ha-
ving wittily told lies of his fcholar Frederic, and
his wifdom told him that his honour was cleared by
o1°r"ei'itig to meet the hiajor, each of them provided
with an
injection fyringe. This was
thought fub-
lime wit at
Ferney. I do not
fuppofe that the Have
Epiélietus, or the foldier Digby, would have ended
the afiiair in this manner. Fviany ofthe deeds of
wifdom of the club d'l-lolbach were more
degrading
than even this; and I am confident that the whole
of' this phalanx of fages were confcious that they
were treated by their patrons and pupils as Voltaire
was treated by the Solomon ot' the North, and that
their notions of the þÿ'Ui'(ii ¬_J/C/Zglfaié'were alto the fame
with his. He gives this account of it in his letter
to his niece: "
Le Roi lui avoit repondu; 'j'aurai
"
sbefoin de "o_ltaire un an tout au
plus-Un preffe
"
Vorange, ct on
_jette l'écorce.' _le me fuis fait
"
repeter ces douces paroles"--(How poor Vol-
taire would grin 1)-" je vois bien qu'on a
preffé
"
l'orange--il faut penfer it fauver l'ecorce."
But, as
things itand at
prefent, philofopher means
a man of fcience, and in this fenfe of the word our
fages claim great refpeét. No claim can be Worfe
founded. It is amuhng to obferve the earneftneis
with which they recommend the iludy of natural
hiftory. One does not readily fee the connection
of this with their oftenlible object, the happinefs of
man. A perufal of Voltaire's letters betrays the
iecret. Many years ago he heard that fome obfer-
vations on the formation of Ptrata, and the foilils
found in them, were
incompatible with the age
which the Mofaic hiiiory ieems to ailign to this
globe. He mentions this with great exultation
in fome of his early letters; and, nom that time
forward,
POSTSCRIPT.
339
forward, never ceafes to enjoin his colleagues to
prefs the iludy of natural hiilory anal eofniogony,
and carefully to bring forward every feel: which was
hollile to the D/lofaic acceizlzfisa. lt beeamf: a ferieus
part of the exerciiiés ef their v:e,.;lr§:j: pugigs, and
their perplexing diiizoveries tnrii; fQCI{;'."lOl1lNlY
cliizolayecl. lvl. cle Luc, a mtxiiiezitn:f:;;r;<+l%li;, mtxiiiezit n:f:;;r;<+l%li;,
has ihewn, in a letter to tht; tiV$7l;f?i' E); lQ'i;n-
mermann, {r31_xbliig;e¢:i, ft§.ii'r§;, ahrvtwz f' _;;
tg'
how very ikfafity the þÿl3§i`t~i"V3fl'¬t§lf*;&?uf 3 .iZ1§lE1'\'C§'S
has been, and how preeijzireiie Eififxe tfeir eeri-
elunons. For my own
psirt, l tlirl; :line zviffiir is
of little confequence. lvieiffs writes the hirtery,
not of this globe, but of the O§`fl_<;iS2T1.
The fcience of thefe philofophers is not remarlv
able in other branches, itwe except lvl. é'r";lem-
bert's inatlienzatiesf. Yet the inwjeoiiiig confiiierne
of Voltaire was fuch, that he giaiies fer a
perfon
hilly informed, and he pronounees on
every iiibjeft
with fo much authority, with izeh 3 force cfezipref-
Hon, and generally with lo much wit or
plealiintry,
that his heaters and readers are faicinateel, anal leon
convinced of what they wi& to be true.
It is not by the' Wifdom ner by the pro&und
linowleéige which thefe writers ciirialay, that they
3 have
*
Never was there any thing more centemptible than the
phyical and mechanical pofitions in ]}i:lerot's great work, the
Syfewe de Ia Nafsfra, (Barruel afiirms, that he was the author,
and got loo ]>l&4jfi'3S for the cepy, from the perfon who related
the Ftory to him,) that long ago found that Diclerot had a§lled
Robinet to make a book ont of his Fflafonic Cration, which I
mentioned in page 41. llobinet trailed to Diderot's knowledge
in natural philcfophy. But the junio were aflzzzmecl ofthe boeic
De la Nature. Diderot feems to have, 35562: this, read Dr.
Hartley's book, and has greatly refined on the crude of
Robinet. But after all, the §§;yi'a/:ze de Ia ]Vatzirfr if; emteniptible,
if it be conidered as
pretending to what is rez:.z:3e'L as lcieece
by a mechanical phlioiopher.
390
POSTSCRIPT.
have acquired celebrity, a fame which has been fo
pernicious. It is by fine writing, by works ad-
dreifed to the imagination and to the affections,
by excellent dramas, by affecting moral effays, full
of expreiiions of the greateft refpeft for virtue, the
moft tender benevolence, and the higheft fenti-
ments of honour and dignity.--By thefe means
they fafcinate all readers; they gain the eilceem of
the worthy, who imagine them iincere, and their
pernicious doctrines are thus fpread abroad, and
Fecal into the minds of the diifolute, the licentious,
and the unwary.
But I am writing to Britons, who are coniider-
cd by our
neighbours on the Continent as a nation
of' pliilofophers-to the eountrytnen of Bacon,
ofLocke, of Newton--who are not to be wheedled
like children, but muft be reafoned with as men.--
Voltaire, who decides without helitation on the cha-
raé`ter§of` the moit diiiant nations in the mofl: remote
antiquity, did not know us: he came among us,
in the beginning of his career, with the higheft
expeélations ofour fupport, and hoped to make his
fortune by his Pucelle d'Orleans. It was
rejefftecl
with difdain--but we
publifhed his Henriade for
hiignz and, notwithftanding his repeated difappoint-
nigiits of the fame kind, he durft not oiiend his
countrymen by llandering us, but joined in the pro-
found refpeit paid by all to Britifh fcience.--Our
writers, whether on natural or moral fcience, are
ftill regarded as Ptandard clafiics, and are ftudied
with care. Lord Verulam is acknowledged by eve-
ry man of fcience to have given the firft juli' de-
fcription oftrue philofophy, pointed out its objecfts,
and afcertained its mode of procedure-And New-
ton is equally allowed to have evinced the propriety
of the Eaconian precepts by his unequalled fuccefs,
_furi
4
rosrsekrpfr. 391
fud Matbqifacenz pfjq'erente.-The molt celebrated
philofophers on the Continent are thofe who have
completed by demonftration the wonderful gueffes
of his penetrating genius. Bailli, or Condorcet,
(I forget which,) Ptruck with the inconceivable
reaches of NeWton's thoughts, breaks out, in the
words of Lucretius,
Tepquar, 0 magma gcnti; deczfs, inquc iuis num:
Exa pedum pono prefix -ue/iigizzfgnix.
Tu pater et rerum inventor, tu patrizz ncbi:
Suppedifa: preceptcz, fllwué ex inclute c/aartir,
.F/oréferis ut ape: ifzhltibus omnia libzznt,
Omnia nos ilidem depaiimur aurecz diéihfz;
Aurea, perperucfpvnper dignijjimzz vité.
After fuch avowals of our
capacity to inftruélt
ourfelves, fhall we Ptill fly to thofe diiiurbers of the
world for our leifons ? No-Let us rally round our
own ftandarcls-let us take the path pointed out by
Bacon--let us follow the Iieps of Newton--and, to
conclude, let us feriouHy conuder a mof't excellent
advice by the higheft authority:
'F Beware of falfe prophets, who come to you
"
in fheep's cloathing, but inwardly they are rs.
"
vening wolves-BY THELR FRUITS YE sua ;
"
KNOW 'rr-IBM--Do men
gather grapes of thorns,
"
or
figs of thillles P"
THE END.
To like Binder.
*
2 B, and ""
2 C, are to be placed before 2 B,
thefe pages being repeated.
