{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__hungerford___exploitation_of_superstitions_for_purposes_of_psychological_warfare.pdf","mytitle":"Exploitation Of Superstitions For Purposes Of Psychological Warfare","mylang":"de"}
34 PP
U.S. AIR FORCE
PROJECT RAND
RESEARCH MEMORANDUM
THE EXPIDITATION OF SUPERSTITIONS FOR
PURPOSES OF PSYCHOIDGICAL WARFARE (U)
Jean M. Hungerford
RM-365
ASTIA Document Number ATI 210637
14 April 1950
Assigned t o - - - - - - - - - - -
This is a working paper. It may be expanded, modified, or with-
drawn at any time. The views, conclusions, and recommendations
expressed herein do not necessarily reflect the official views or
policies of the United States Air Force.
1700 MAIN ST. • SANTA MONICA• CALlfOINIA----
CONTENTS
Summary
I. Introduction
II. Superstition in World War II
A. Germany-
B. Other Countries
III. Postwar Reports of Superstition in
the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
IV. Deliberate Manipulation of Superstitious
Attitudes for Purposes• of Psycho-
logical Warfare
V. A Few Factors to be Considered in
Exploiting Superstitions
l
3
4
4
7
10
1.3
l7
RM-365
1,-1 l.-56
_,_
''
-· ~- ·----~~-~-'"""''~#·~-..-.~--~~,·-· -~···-=-'·~----- ., ---~·-•' -·----- ~ ---•---~~.--~.-"'<y--~T--- ------• •• ---.--- ~ •~-~--~---···~-~~-~~,-,~-1
~65
4-14-50
-1-
The scattered and fragmentary material available in unclassified sour es
indicates that a number of people in nearly all major societies are suscep ible
to superstitious appeals. There is a frequent assumption that receptivity
to such appeals increases during wartime. but no conclusive evidence to pr ve
'Vhis assumption has been found. (Indeed• the fact that certain types ot
neuroses were found to decrease in incidence and severity during the pa.st
war casts a measure of doubt on this assumption.) It is olear• however• t
susceptibility to such non-rational appeals ca.uses considerable trouble to
the secret police and for other autherities in totalitarian states. This
is shown with particular clarity by the preoccupation of the German secre
police with chain letters during the war. and by periodic denunciations of
non-rational behavior in the Soviet press and radioo
The most comm.on types of non-rational appeals which have been noted i
the unclassified literature are as followsc
lo Prophesies concerning future events. either optimistic or pessimi tic.
2. Belief in protective devices and acts.
3o "Fringe" or "radical" religions• particularly those :maintaining t at
the end of the world is at hand.
4. Belief in magical phenomena. mire.oles• etc.
5. Fatalistic attitudes towards one's chances of escaping harm.
All of these appeals. in varying degrees. may produce behavior which
runs contrary to the needs o~ a society a.t 1'1'll":
1. Indifference to rational activity. caused by the belief that non-
rational factors are more important. that "fate" has already
decided, etco
RM-365
4-14-50
-2-
2. Preoccupation with non-rational acts which are not conducive to e
war effort. In some cases• these non-rational acts will be of su h
a nature as to overburden the postal system. transportation syste
{e.g. pilgrimages). or other instrumentality of govermnento In
addition. the energies of internal security forces may be taken
up with investigating and suppressing non-rational behavior.
3. Weakening of power of approved symbols to hold allegianceo
I. Introduction
RM-365
4-l4-50
-3-
The purpose of this paper is to present a few examples of superstitio s
(observed lioth during World War II and• in the case of the
the Eastern European countries. in the postwar period). to show some of
techniques which have been used by wartime propagandists to exploit pop
superstitions• and to suggest very briefly some of the factors which might
be considered in any attempt to exploit superstitions for psyohologioa.l
warfareo
Although during the recent "War sporadic attempts were made by propa-
ganda specialists to make use of the enemy• s non-rational beliefs• so far s
we know no major or systematic attempt to exploit potentialities in this
area was made.1 The :field is thus relatively unexplored,. and scraps o:f
material bearing on it must be glee.ned from a mass of literature published
during and after the war. No attempt has been made in this paper to exami
all works of possible relevanoeo The observations presented here are base
on a reading of the major works on psychological warfare and of a few of t
many books which deal with wartime conditions in the principal countries
involved in World War II. With the two exceptions of a file of ca.p-tured
Nazi Security Service documents and of the weekly FCC reports on Nazi
propaganda for 1943 and early 1944• all material in this.report is based
on open. published sourceso
1
Several attempts were made by 11
blaek1t propagandists on both sides to
make use of non-rational appeals during the past waro Since the file
of these "black" operators were not examined in the course of prepari
this memorandum,. the extent of their activities cannot be described
!___ ---~=re~------ _____ ------·------- -~- __
II. Superstition in World Wa.r II
A. GERMANY
RM-365
4-14-50
-4-
Both the FCC sumnaries of domestic German radio broadcasts and the
Nazi Security Service reports on German morale make reference to the
prevalence of several types of superstitious belief's and practices in war-
time Germany. Anxiety about the future. coupled with ignorance about how
the war was going• led to the patronage of soothsayers of all sorts who
claimed to be able to guess the future -- astrologers. fortune-tellers.
crystal-gazers. ouija board manipulators, tea leaf readers, numerologists.
and the like. Early in the war several different types of chain letters
began to circulate; some of these contained prophecies of an early armisti e.
while others purported to be good luck letters which if passed on would
serve to placate unseen forces and preserve the welfal'.e of the oonmunice.to o
A description of several chain letters circulating in 1942 is contained in
a. Nazi Security Service report of lfay 21. 1942, a translation of which
appears as an appendix to this paper. As the war progressed and its out-
oome grew more uncertain and foreboding. apocalyptic stories appeared.
such story recounted that in a certain observatory a new planet had been
1
sighted which was moving rapidly tol'l9.rds collision with the earth.
Finally. in 1943, an increase in non-institutionalized forms of religion
-was reported(> A];'parently this took the form of brooding about death and o
metaphysical speculations about the after life and had no connection with
2
organized church groups or activitieso
l
FBIS. FCC• Central European Analysis, Jan. 7• 1944• A-4.
In Nazi Germany several of the top Nazi elite were no less subject
l
to superstitious beliefs than were the common people. It is widely
known that Hitler was e. very superstitious man. During the period of his
preparation for power in the twenties,, he is said to have frequented
spiritualistic circles and taken part in seances,, and he claimed to have
2
heard voices commanding him to save Ge~. Rudolf Semmler reports in
Goebbels -- The Man Next to Hitler
3
that Hitler consulted and wa.s greatly
moved by a. fortune-teller who told him in 1923 that he would come to power
4
in 1933 wi:th Hindenburg. It bas even been reported -- although no verifi~ ation
has been found ror this -- that since he regarded "seven" as his lucky
number. Hitler liked to launch large-scale attacks on Sundays (e.g. Austrb •
Poland,, the Low Countries,, Greece,, Yugoslavia, and Russia.).
l
3
4
It should be pointed out that demoeratio as well as totali'tarian eli'tE s
may be susceptible to superstition. Various American. generals and
admirals are noted for their s'tock of superstitious notions. Admiral
Halsey is a parlioularly s-triking example: he carries innumerable
talismans and good-luck charms• a.voids traveling in the same plane
with Admiral Nimitz (whom he feea Jia.s bad luck: in the air),, and
regards the numb.er thirteen as his jinx. In his memoirs he describes
an incident which illustrates this last phobia:
"When we received orders for our next operation,, we were appallec
to find that not only had we been. designated Task Force 13,, but ~ ur
sortie had been set for February 13,, a Fridayl Miles Browning a.J1 d
my Intelligence ot.ficer,, Col. Julian P. Brown of the Marines.
i.mnediately went to CINCPAC rs headquarters and asked his chief o~
statr. Capt. Charles H. M.oMorris, 'What goes on here? Have you ~ot
it in for us. or what?'
"'Sook' Morris agreed that no sane
a combination of ill auspices. and
and our sortie to the fourteenth."
Admiral Halsey's Story,, P• 970}
sailo:rman would dare buck suoi,
changed our designs.tion to TF 16
(Halsey.. William F. and BI'Y8l! J. •
Bychlowski. Gustav,, Dicta.tors and Disciples .. PP• 152-154.
Semmler. Rudolf• Goebbels -- The Man Next to Hitler,, PP• 166-168.
ttsoldiers t Superstitions•11
New York Times Magazine• April 2• 19440
RM-365
4-14-50
-6•
Goebbels too was superstitious. Semmler recounts an incident which
1
illustrates the Propaganda Minister's non-rational fears:
uGoebbels is very superstitious. The more obscure the situation
and the gloomier the future, the more this is noticeable •. • •
"At the usual time to-day I went into his room to show him some
press telegram.r:;. Among them was an .American radio announcement
that Hitler \18.8 ill beyond recovery and that the General Staf't
had decided to force him to retire. Goebbels passed me the shee
o.f paper with a remark• and as I stretched out 'Iq b.a1ld to take i
I brushed Tlf¥ sleeve against the silver-framed picture of Hitler
which stood on the desk. It swayed, slipped and fell to tbs f'l
the glass flying in all directionso For an instant there 118.S a
painful silence. Goebbels' face had gone pa.le. I was horrified
Then with a furious expression he shouted: 1Jfo bad omens from
please.• •••• The whole evening Goebbels remained upset by this
occurrence and looked thoroughly nervous."
British doctors reported Rudolf Hess' interest in the occult and his
great confidence in horoseopes; Hess himself said that one factor in his
decision to fly to Engla.nd was that his old friend and professor Haushofer
2
had seen him in three dreams piloting an airplane across the ocean.
There is no way o:t measuring accurately how widely held superstitious
beliefs were in wartime Germany nor to what extent they served to depress
morale. produce defeatism, impair working efficiency. or otherwise lessen
the war etforto But as the attached ~eport on chain letters by the Securi y
Service indicates. (See A~:pendix A) Nazi authorities regarded chain letter
as a nuisance problem, were aware that they might weaken morale. and were
sufficiently concerned to take steps to combat them. Similarly, they took
measures against fortune-tellers. Count Ciano reports in his diary that
l
Semmler. op. cit., ppo 166-1680
2 The Case of Rudolf Hess. edited by John R. Rees. P• 13.
RM-365
4-14-50
"since the Hess affair, all fortune-tellers and astrologers in Germany
l
have been arrested.• Penalties for .fortune-telling first involved
-7-
payment of a fine, and when this proved an unsuccessful deterrent, fortune
tellers were imprisoned. Press and radio publieity of such punishment was
given as a warning to others. Provincial and later national press article
and domestic radio broadcasts sought to dispel superstitieus notions eithe
through ridicule or ratio:nal arguaents. One sueh article appeared in the
2
October 25• 194-3 issue of' Der Mittag:
*'German victory must coma before German peace. '!'his is our un-
shakeable determination. But the day of victory can not be
discovered from tea leaves. stars. through horoscopes. slide
rules. or tricks with numbers. Yet. there are people who have
been doing so recently. They juggle the chronology of the
Middle Ages or take at random various dates regarding the ages o
army leaders• politicians ot: past centuries• and our Fuehrer• s
age. The main thing for them is that the result points to peace
in the near or distant future. Another sort of clairvoyant deal
with nature. Some municipal zoo has a. .female elephant which ga.
birth to a baby in 1871 and again in 1918• it is therefore ealle
the 'Peace Elephant.• It is quite natural that this elephant wi l
soon have a baby again. To complete the story it is said that
this elephant basks in the sun under a 'peace palm tree' whioh
always blooms in the year before a peace. Others spread copies
of some documents which have even 'been released by the Fuehrer'
and were written in the 17th century by monk who predicted. the
great struggle between East and Westo••He said that the decision
of the war woult\ tall between .four towns or .four ruins; the vie r
would kneel between two limetrees /1 announcing the vi.ctory to his
people. This and similar stuff' /1 if' it is oopied. seven times and
sent out to others who do the same thing 11 is supposed to bring
luck to the writer.•
B. OTHER OOUN'IRIES
Simila.r examples of auperstition have been reported in other oountrie
a.t war. both democratic and totalitarian.
l
2
The Ciano Diaries, edited by Hugh Gibson, Po 370.
FBIS" FCC, Central European .Analysis, November s. 194-3 • B-10-11.
RM-365
4-14-50
-a-
In London. although newspapers were sharply reduced in size. the numb r
of astrological advertisements increased.
1
It was reported that fortune-
telling and astrology enjoyed new popularity in the United Stateso
2
Foreign correspondents stationed in the Soviet Union report occasional ins ces
of superstition among peasants and the more ignorant groups in the Russian
population. Robert Magidof.f• for example. describes a conversation he had
with an uneducated cook whom he had promised to employ when the war was
over. She came to him in September• 1944 to ask him to hire her because.
she said• the war was almost over. When Magidof.f asked her what made her
think so. she pointed out that there were no mushrooms th.at year and tha:t
3
almost all the newborn babies were girls. In Mo1tcow. in the st.mm.er of
1941• an acquaintance of Alexander Werth told him that the peasants were
predicting that Hitler would die on August 5 and that the war would end
4
August l2o
It has been widely observed that in combat soldiers tend to adopt
superstitious practices and .fetishes which they believe will protect
them from harm. Japanese troops, for example. wore good-luck sennin-bari•
or belts-with-a-thousand-stitches; these were belts which Japanese
women had passed from hand to hand• each woman in turn adding a stitch.
5
l
4
5
Kris. Ernst and Speier. Hans. German Radio Propaganda, P• 103.
Zolotow, Maurice, "The Soothsayer Comes Baek.11
Saturday Evening Post,
April 17• 1943.
Magidof'f• Robert,, In Anger and Pity, ppc. 114-115.
Werth. Alexander. Moscow War Diary. P• 129.
"Good Luck Belts .'t New York Times Magazine, January 11• 1942.
RM-365
4-14=50
-s-
A foreign correspondent describes superstitions among Russian troops:
"In some (troops). war strengthened their belief in the Church.
others acquired curious fetishes and superstitions. They belie ed
they would not die .... if such-and-such did not happen. They wo ld
be safe if they did not look back:we.rd in battle. They would be
safe if they did net think of death. They would be safe if the·r
wives or sweethearts did not lose fe.ith in them. This last
belief' was widespread in the Red Army. In letter after letter
Red Army boys wrote back to their sweethearts and wives: 1
80
long as you a.re faithful to me• I will not be killed. 1 "
u.s. air combat crews considered it unlucky to make their beds befor
going on a mission but lucky to sh.ave.
2
Among the top brass. General
Eisenhower carried a 5-guinea gold piece for good luck• and General Kenne
carried a pair of dice 'Which had been blessed by a priest in World War I;
Admiral Halsey's superstitions have been noted aboveo The American Soldi
observes that many u.s. soldiers carried protective amulets or cherished
articles of clothing which they had worn in previous dangerous battles,
or ma.de pre-battle preparations in a ritualistic fashion. others
fatalistically assumed that they would not be killed until their number
up or that they would only be killed when a shell had their number on it.
There is no statistical evidence to show how many soldiers accepted magic
and fatalistic practices. but there are indications that even those men
did not really think that these superstitious practices had any efficacy
4
adopted them and felt that they derived some measure of confidence from t mo
l
2
3
4
Salisbury. Harrison. Russia On the Way. P• 286.
•soldiers t Superstitions.'' New York Times Magazines, April 2, 1944.
Ibido
The American Soldier, edited by Samuel A. Stouffer et al, Vol. II.
ppo l88-l9lo
l~·--~--~~-~~~-~~-~~·-·-·-·~--·.·---~--~~·~-~~~~~~-------·----------·---~~~-- -~~
RM-365
4-l4-50
-10-
Magic and fatalism apparently fulfilled much the same function as prayer
and to some extent represented alternative techniques for dealing with thej
problem of anxiety. Sometimes. however. soldiers adopted all three
techniques concurrently on the theory that it did no harm to try anything.
III. Postwar reports or s~rstition in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe
From oocasiona.l references in the Soviet press and in the cemm.ents ot
foreign visitors reoertl;ly returned from the Soviet Union it is apparent
that thirty years• struggle against the 8
vastiges or decadent bourgeois
culture• has not been entirely successful in stamping out "reactionary•
superstitions. especially among peasants and unskilled laborers. One
correspondent reports that when he 1-hrew a bread crust in the wastebasket.
his maid reproved him• saying that not only was it sinful but that it woul~
bring down dark spirits upon him.
1
Another recent visitor reports that
among the few topics which it is still 11
safe1t ror foreigners to discuss
with Russians are fortune-telling and superstitions. and she reportsi2
11
(In Moscow) you can get your fortune told by cards, by tea
leaves• by water reflection, by black: rats• by birds, by
paychic mani.festations. Within two kilometers of Jlosoow there
is a woman who guarantees to influence your lover -- by means
l
2
of his photograph .,_ so that ha will never look at another woman
but you•••
"People understand that if you drop a fork a woman is coming to
oa.11, but if you drop a knif'e it will be a man. You have only
ta ,tell a. sympathetic listener what you dreamed last night to
have the dream interpreted for good or ill. It you break a
mirror -- well• you know'Wha.t. Russians love ghost stories
e.nd grisly supernatural tales and have a good store of them
which they will relate with relish and enthusiasm.."
Moorad, George, Behind the Iron Curtain, P• 149.
Atkinson, Oriana, OVer At Uncle Joe•s. po 310.
RM-365
4-14-50
-11-
Superstitious practices are widely enough accepted and indulged in
to call forth an occasional article of reproof in the Soviet press.
in 1945• for example, Komsomolskaya Pravda, a newspaper for Soviet young
people, published an article entitled •The Strange Case of Motia-Madelein °
which satirized a Soviet girl for aping Western ways in her dress and co
Among the .foolish attitudes for which she was ridiculed were her acoeptan of
Western superstitions -- in particular, the belief that she could talk to
l 2
the dead. Late in 1949 another Soviet periodical remarked:
"It is still possible. sometimes, to .find children in Soviet
schools who suppose that the way to pass an exam is not by
diligence and systematic work0 or conscientious and pro.found
knowledge o-r a subject, but by all sorts o.f magic actions like
putting on 'a lucky suit,• t~ knots in one's handkerchief,
and other similar acts •••"
Despite official discouragement of nrringe" r~ligious groups, the disrupt·
behavior of one such sect was se~ous enough to provoke a recent article
3
Litere.turnaya Ga.zeta. According to this account, a religious fanatic
in a rural district persuaded a group of collective farmers that on a
certain de.y they would be able to leave the earth and ascend -to heaven.
At the ~ppointed hour the .farm.era and their families le.rt their work: and
1 ~thered together to await the ascension, but the ascension did not
materialize although the group waited patiently for two weeks. Meanwhile
concludes by berating local agitators and propagandists for not counteri
"this raving propaganda" with "educational scientific-political
l
2
3
Moorad, George. op. cit., PP• 54-58.
Oleshehuk:• F~ "Religion -- A Reactionary Ideology," Uchitelskaya Ga eta,
November 26, 1949• in Current Digest of the Soviet Press, December , 949•
RM-365
4-14-50
-12-
Similarly, there are occasional references to superstition in the
Peoples' Democracies. About a year ago a curious rum.or -was reported from
Rumania.
1
A woman was reported to have said to a mysterious old man,
"Don't be an ass." He replied, "Who says so, istt and vanished. Since
then, the story runs, the "WOms.n has had a donkey's head.
2
A few days ago, according to a New Yorker item:
"the government of Czechoslovakia decreed. the Associated Press
says, that all palmis-ts, fortune-tellers, and 'other specialist
in the occult' must suspend operations in that country at once•
on the ground that they are 'medieval remains of the capitalist
era.if•
Recently a series of religious "miracles" has been reported from Ozecho-
3
slovakian villageso In one instance the cross on the alter of a parish
church was reported to have bowed right and le.ft and finally, symbolioall •
to the West; the "miracle" so impressed the Czechs that pilgrims began to
converge on the village from miles around until Conmunist officials close
the church and turned the pilgrims away from approaching roads. In a.not
instance, the Virgin Mary was said to have appeared in a vision and to
struck llllconscious a local Communisto Finally, a report from Western
Bohemia even stated that the Virgin Mary had been seen waving an American
flag and followed by American tanks and troops.
The number of broadca,sts from Moscow and Czech radios "Which have
appeared sinae the reported "miracles" would indicate that the Comnunists
l Washington News, January 24, 1949.
2 "Talk of the Town," The :New Yorker• February 4, 1950.
1
3 Hew York Times, February 9, 1950.
~ ...-. --~~~~-~~~-~~~~~~~~~~----~~--
RM-365
4-14-50
-13-
were considerably annoyed at the interest they provoked. According to
the Foreign Broadcast Information Service's daily reports of Soviet e.nd
Eastern European radio broadcasts, there were nine broadcasts concerning
the ttmiracles" between February 28 and March 19, seven from Czech trans-
mitters and two f'rom Moscow (including a review of a New Times article on
the subject). The "miracle 0£ the cross" has been denounced as "an
outrageous swindle" engineered by the parish priest "with the aid of e.
steel wire, a coil spring, and rubber bands"; the "fraud" was inspired
by the Ve.ti can as part of its plot to undermine the new regime. It was
explained to newspapermen at a press con:ference, and on March 10 all
Czech motion picture houses were instructed to show a newsreel of it. A
Prague Sunday newspaper featured a story with pictures to show how the
trick -was perform.edo
As for the report of the Virgin Mary's appearance waving the .Amerioe.n!
l
flag, a Prague broadcast to Europe says:
"It is obvious at first sight that this apparition bears the
mark 'made in the United Stateso' These despicable machinations
only help to unmask the high clergy as executers of the plans of
the imperialist warmongers communicated to them by the Vatican
through its agents.•
IV• Deliberate manip_ulation of superstitious attitudes for _E_U....!:E_Oses 0£
psychological warfare
From the days of Xerxes, who told the Greeks that when the Persians
2
shot off their arrows they shut out the light of the sun, military
strategists and propagandists have tried to capitalize on the superstitio~
foibles of the enenw• In an ancient Chinese military campaign one
l FBIS, March 14, 1950, GG9e
2 Margolin, Leo J., Paper Bullets, P• 20.
RM-365
40914-50
-14-
commander tried to destroy his opponent's rorces with an army that includ
l
large detachments of sorcerers. In more recent times the British• by
exploiting local superstitions, achieved some military successes during t
19201 s: when British plane-mounted loud s peak:ers told tribesmen along th
Northwest Frontier that God was angry with them for brea.k:ing the peace,
the tribes scattered; the Russians who were attacking religion in their
propaganda were reportedly considerably irritated at what struck them as
2
improper form. of warfare.
During World War II both sides me.de occ~sional attempts to exploit
the natural wartime interest in the supernatural.- In the course of the
1940 campaign on the Western f'ront, the Germ.ans sent persons who masquera d
as astrologers into France ahead of the a.dvaneing armies with instructions
to try to depress French morale by spreading dire predictions among Freno
3
women about the fate of their husbands. They also used magic lanterns
4
to project images on the face of drifting clouds. In the United States.
the FBI was said to have kept a .file of wartime astrologers and fortune-
tellers suspected of being Axis agents. and a few .fifth columnists of thi
$
nature were arrested.
1
2
3
4
Linebarger• Paul M.A.• Psychological Warfare• PP• 6-'1.
.!!!!!.•• po 3 7o
Braden, Charles s•• "Why Are 1:he Cults Growing•" Christian Century.
January 12• 1944.
German Psychological Warfare, edited by Ladislas Farago. P• 41.
i_:__n ~ Zolo~~=~--~-~~ce:.~~~~~~~~-~~~,- ,~--~"·~·~·-·---~··~~---···-"-~~·-·~
RM-365
4-14-50
-15-
As the following 1942 entries in his diary indicate, Goebbe s was
well aware that there were propaganda potentialities inherent in the
popular wartime interest in astrology and fortune-tellings
1
"Mareh l6s The enemy is now making use of horoscopes in the
form of handbills dropped from planes. in which a terrible
future is prophesied f'or the German people. But we know some-
thing about this ourselves' I am having counter-horoscopes
worked up which we are going to distribute• especially in the
occupied areas.•
"April 28: In the United States astrologists ere at work to
prophesy an early end for the Fuehrero We know that type ot
work as we have often done it ourselveso We sh.all take up our
astrological propaganda. again as S(!)on as possible. I expect
quite a little of it• especially in the United States and
England."
"May 191 Berndi> handed in a plan for oooultist propaganda to
be carried on by us. We are really getting somewhere. The
Americans and English fall easily for that type of propagaru:la.o
We are therefore pressing into our service all star witnesses
!'or occult prophecy. Nostradamus must once again submit tG
being quotedo"
But Goebbels' astrological propaganda was not designed exclusively
for the enemy; he also saw the possibilities of spreading occult
prophecies domestically to bolster the morale of the German people.
Semmler describes a device used by Goebbels in the spring of 1944:
2
1
2
11
A new propaganda trick has been thought of b7 Goebbels. He
has notioed that in times of danger al3d distress people become
much more prone to superstition or occult practices -- he is
so himself -- and will seek the advice of card-readers or other
fortune-tellers.
"A month a.go there appeared in a Norwegian paper. at Goebbels'
instigation: t The Revelations of the Swedish fortune-teller•
Gruenberg. 1 These give a forecast of the future course of the
waro They are fa:n:tasti c and orazy but he foretells• after a.
The Goebbels Diaries. 1942-1943. edited by Louis P. Lochner. PP• 126
193. 220.
Semmler, Rudolf'. opo cit•• PP• 123-124.
RM-365
491~50
-16-
period ot much bitterness e.nd disappointment. a victory for
Germany. After many de.feats. 1946 will be Hitlerts greatest
year. All this is embroidered with details• as these things
always are. The final conclusion ia that Germany and the
Western Powers will figh't together against Bolshevi am. with
Hitler hailed as the saviour of Europe.
"Soon after the Norwegian paper had published these sensational
forecasts. a typewritten leaflet began to turn up in a number o~
German cities. giving extracts t'rom the article. It was passed
i'rom. hand to hand and one can imagine even sober• serious men.
talking worriedly about the war• pulling out of their breast•
pockets the comforting prophecies of Gruenberg• showing it to
one another. a.nd persuading one another once a.gain that every-
thing will turn out all righton
The Allies too put out propaganda designed to produce defeatism
among superstitious peopl&•• According to the passages from Goebbels'
diaries quoted above. they dropped leaflet horoscopes in oeeupied oountriE a
predicting a German defea:to In the Far East a ble.ok radio program. known
as Operation Hermit and beamed by OSS to Na.liking. used astrology. phrenoltjgy.
fortune-telling. etc. to analyze puppet rulers in East Asia to pre4lot tb.ttir
downfall and the collapse ot the Japanese Co-Prosperity Sphereo With 'Whai
looked like real clairvoyance• the program even predicted a great disaste~
1
for the first week in August. 1945. During the Italian campaign
British Army magicians used their talents to conjure up devices to sea.re
Italian peasants J one such device is described by Captain .Maskelyne in
2
Magic Top Secrets
"Our men•••were able to use illusions of an amusing nature in
the Italian mountains• especially when opera.ting in small groupi
as advance patrols scouting out the way for our general moves
forwardo In one area. in particular• they used a device which
na li'ttle more than a. gigantic seareorow. a.bout twelve feet
high• and able to stagger forward under its own power and em.it
.frightful .flashes and bangs. This thing sea.red several Italian
Sicilian villages appearing in the dawn thumping its deafening
1
MacDonald• Elizabeth. Undercover Girl. PP• 200-201.
'--2-~---askelyne. Ja~r. Bgic fop Seoret. P• 129.
RM-365
4914-50
-11-
way down their streets with great electric blue sparks jumping
from it; and the inha.bitants. who were mostly illiterate pea.sa.n:
simply took to their heels for 'the next village. swearing that
the Dev:i. l was marching ahead of the invading English.
11
Like all ta.las spread among uneduoated folk {and helped• no
doubt• by our a.gems)• this story assumed almost mp•neg:eable
proportionso Villages on the route of our advance began to
refuse sullenly to help the retreating· Germans• and to take
sabotage age.inst them; and then• instead of' waiting for our
troops to arrive with food and congratulations of their help.
the poor people fled.• thus congesting the roads along which
German motorized transport was struggling to retire. The
German tankm.en sometimes eut through the refugees and this
inflamed feeling still more. and what began almost as a joke
was soon a sharp weapon in our hands which punished the Germans
severely. if indireotly. for several critical weeks."
v. A few factors to be considered in exploiting superstitions
On the basis 0£ ._r and postwar evidence it seems evident tha"h in
both the Soviet Union and the Peoples' Democracies superstitions exist
whioh could be exploited in the event of a possible future conflic-t with se
countries. How \fl.despread these tendencies are is unknown and is a mot
question; it would undoubtedly be possible to find~ evidences of
superstition in 9."C11' country in i;he world• and the mere fact that there
occasional references to this i;ype of behavior in the books of Western
observers of the Soviet scene should not be tB.ken to mean that superstiti
is neeessa.rily widespread. But the :fact that the Soviet press. one of
whose principal functions is to point out the shortcomings of Soviet soci
has commented in national newspapers and periodioa.ls on the phenomenon
be taken to mean that Soviet leaders are aware that the problem does exis •
Since it is doubtful that the "Soviet man" is motivated by psyeholog
mechanisms that are fundamentally different from those whioh animate his
Western counterpart. it can be reasoned -- although conclusive evidence t
RM-365
4-14950
-1a-
support this point has not been found in the material examined -- that
wartime will aggravate superstitious tendencies. It seams likely that
superstitions flourish in an atmosphere of tension and insecurity and tha when
daily experiences fail to provide sufficient reassurance and freedom from
anxiety, when in :faot factors making for anxiety and insecurity are multi
as they are in time of war, an atmosphere exists which is conducive to th
acceptance of superstitions.
In wartime, the average person feels himself' at the mercy of fate,;
whether he and those he loves are killed or wounded seems a matter of
chance. Yet perhaps these forces are not entirely blind or beyond contro J
perhaps they can be placated if only he carries a good-luck cha.rm. or make
six copies of a chain letter and passes it on. At any rate it can do no
harm to try•
Further.more, in wartime the individual's insecurity is increased
because, since military security imposes at least a partial blackout of
news. he .feels he does not know what is going on at a time when what ha.pp ns
otrtside his immediate locality is of vital importance to him.o This is
probably especially true in a totalitarian country 'Where individuals have
long been accustomed to a government-controlled press and radio which giv
out only as much information as they choose and which choose to leave out a.
great de~l and to treat the news which is presented with something less
than complete frankness and objectivity. Most of all• the individual --
whether he lives in a demoore.tic or in a totalitarian state -- wants to
know not only what is happening today but what~ happen tomorrow. So
he turns to the crystal-gazers and the fortune-tellers and the astrologer
who claim they can lift the veil from the future.
RM-365
4-14-50
-19-
Finally, many a superstitious belief' is the product of wishful
thinking and is accepted beoa.use it represents something the individual
would like to believe. Since most people hate war and long not only for
victory but for peace. prophecies of an early armistice or of new measure
to end the war speedily• even if baaed on nothing but rumor and superstit on•
find a receptive audience.· On the other hand, the anxious individual is
not necessarily receptive only to those prophecies which are in accord wi h
his wishesJ he may also accept those whioh confirm his worst fears. Thus
dire prophecies of serious reverses or of cataclysmic destruction of the
world also are accepted• often by the same individual who accepts optimis ic
propheoies.
Presumably the better-educated and more intelligent groups in the
u.s.s.R. and Eastern Europe will be less susceptible to superstition than
the more ignorant groupso Undoubtedly there is some correlation between
the type and am.ount of education a man has received and his readiness to
accept such a non-rational idea as that passing on a chain letter can aa
him from harm, but the correlation may not be as close as is popularly
assumed. The .faot that superstition was as prevalent as it was in World
War II in the supposedly more enlightened and scientific era. of the
twentieth century is evidence that the rejection of superstition does not
necessarily follow enlightenment. Even men who under normal circumstance
would scoff at the idea that there was any :magical potency in a chain let r
may in wartime rationalize to the extent of saying: "I don't really
believe in this, but at least it does no harm to try- it."
--------~~~~-----~--------------
______J
RM-365
4-14-50
"----~
On the other hand• the more intelligent and better educated groups
in the population will probably be ~ likely to fall prey to the more
obvious and blatant forms of superstition. Given the sa:me degree of
insecurity• the better-educated man may be more likely to seek relief'
from his anxieties in other ways. Or he may be willing to accept a harml ss
superstition like carrying a gold coin for good luok while he draws the l
at going so re.r as to consult and accept the prophecies of a ouija board
manipulator. In view of the emphasis which Soviet leaders have placed on
materialistic explamtions of the laws of the W1ivarse. it ia unlikely t t
the Soviet elite are as addicted to superstition as the Nazi elite were.
but the sub-elites may not have been equally success.tul in ridding them-
selves of such bourgeois notions. Attempts to manipulate popular beliefs
in superstition will probably be most suceesstul, however, if directed
against peasants• old people• and the more ignorant workers in Russia
and her satellites.
There would seem to be two major directions wbi ch attempts to exploi
popular superstitious ideas might talce. The first would involve using
fortune-telling• astrology. and any of the occult techniques for guessing
the future to predict dire events likely to befall the enenw• It should
be relatively easy to devise general prophecies of eventual disaster. but
although vague prophecies might produce a general state
those who accepted them, more decisive results might be obtained by some t
more specific predictions coupled with instructions ot what to do to avoi
the predicted disaster.
The second common type ot superstition which might be exploited is
the popular acceptance of devices and practices calculated to ward off ha o
RM-365
4-14=50
-21-
Chain letters instructing the recipient to make several copies of the
letter and pass them on to friends would fall into this category. Suoh
letters may pose nuisance problems for the enemy govermnents in that they
consume time that could more profitably be spent on war tasks. If widely
disseminated• they may overburden the postal system. Instructions on
what to do to appease fortune should be devised with emphasis on aots
which will cause greatest annoyance to the enenw government.
If an attempt is ma.de to exploit superstitions for purposes of
psychological warfare. it will be necessary to explore a number of probl
not investigated in this paper. The questions listed below are merely
suggestive of the various types of problems which should be considered.
Answers to some of them may be round in the literature regarding World Wa
II nblaclc" propaganda operations.
1. Wha.t types of superstious appeals will be best adapted to the
various audiences to be propagandized? What superstitions are peculiar t
Eastern Europeans. to Russians. to the various nationalities of the Sotle
Union? What superstitions are most prevalent among peasants. among
combat troops or airmen,. amo:ag civilians? What evide:ooe is there the.t
given members of the enenw ~lite are addicted to certain types of super-
stitions? In addition to biographical and other material regarding group
and individuals in the enemy country. a study 0£ local superstitions as
reflected in popular folk lore might be profitable in providing answers
these questions.
2. What timing factors should be considered in attempts to exploit
superstitions? Will superstitions find greater accepta.nce after the ene
RM•365
4-14-50
-22-
has suffered reverses or deprivations -- a.go after an air raid or after
a reduction in rations or an increase in the length of the prescribed
working week? 'What types of superstition, are likely to be acceptable in
the early part of a war as contrasted to later years? As war progresses.
is there an increase in fatalistic attitudes and a corresponding decrease in
the belief' in the efficacy of' magical devices? What evidence is there t t
some types of' superstitions lose their credibility after enjoying a brief'
vogue?
3. What results have previous psychologica.l warfare operations in
this field obtained• and what specific effects should this type of non-
rational appeal attempt to achieve? What types of nuisance behavior woul
be most annoying to the enem:1 government or most likely to impair the war
ettort? What types of nuisance behavior are possible for the individual
in a totalitarian country in wartime?
4. What are the best methods for communicating non-rational appeals to
the intended audience? What audiences can be reached by leaflets or radi
broadcasts? What are the relative advantages of disseminating this type f
appeal through word-of-mouth rumors introduced by a.gents? What are the
potentialities for word-of-mouth comnunica.tion within the enemy country?
s. What special limitations are attempts to exploit superstition su
to? To what extent can ene!D¥ eounter-pro~ganda offset the effect of our
propaganda• e.g. by offering the domestic population reassuring prophecie
to combat the effect of dire predictions? What may be the boomerang effe ts
~-
:..-
RM-365
4-14-50
-23-
of attempts to exploit popular folk lore? Finally• to what extant
will the police controls in a totalitarian country make it difficult or
impossible for the individual to engage in the nuisance behavior suggeste<
by our propaganda even if' he should wish to do so?
1 One illustration of the fact that such attempts can boomerang is
afforded in the reoent exchange of Russian folk tales by Messrs.
McNeil and Vyshinsky. At a UN meeting. Melfeil recounted a Russian
folk tale about a serpent to whom he compared Vyshinsky. Vyshinsky
neatly parried with another tale entitled "The Serpent and the
Slanderer." According to this story. when the slanderer and the
serpent were yYing f'or first place as the :mosii loai;hsome creature
in Hell• top honors went to the slanderer.
CHAIN LETTERS IN WARTIME GERMANY
Under the Nazi regime in Germany, Section III of the Office of
fiM-365
'r-llr-50
_,_
the Chief of the Security Police and the Security Service issued periodic
reports describing for the benefit of higher authorities what the German
people were thinking and doing in the course of their daily life. These
documents deal, for example, with the reaction of the population to variou
radio broadcasts and articles in the press, with rum.ors, with difficuJ.ties
which the man in the street had in dealing with his.food ration office,
and with the prevalence of various types of crimes and misdemeanors.
Entitled "Meldungen aus dem Reich" (the title was later changed to "Barich e
zu Inlandsfragen"), the reports were classified "Secret". How the materi
was gathered is not specified in the issues which have been examined, but
it is clear that lower echelons of the police and security serviee had
informants sprinkled througheut the population and in addition made use of
various types of police files. Periodic summaries from these lower eehelo s
were sent to Berlin and an over-all report was prepared there in the Prinz
Albrecht Strasse police headquarters.
The issue of Meldungen a.us dem Reich for May 21, 1942, contains a
rather ful1 treatment of the problem or chain letters which, since ini'orma: ion
on this subject is comparatively scarce, has been translated in full below
Resurgence 0£ the Chain Letter Problem
A :few months after the start of the war, strange letters appeared in
various parts of the Reich proper. These had a partially religious, parti
religious-political content and were widely distributed -- especially in t a
country districts -- because of their prophesies about the progress and
outcome of the war or because they were regarded as good-luck letters whic
would preserve the safety of their possessors.
j
These letters soon came to the attention of thousands of persons, i
both because of the prescribed method or transmission (each recipient was I
told to make three to four copies), and because people were told that any-
one who breaks this "lucky chain" rill be pursued by misfortune and will I
not find "salvation." · ,
I
In the months from April to June, 1940, the transmission of these I
messages reached such an extent that the press, film., and radio had to i
expressly point out the foolishness of the chain letter nuisance. As a I
resu1t, the number of such letters visibly decreased, and al.most disappe~d
in the year 1941. In February of this year (1942), however, a new wave of1
I
···---~---~--·--·-·------------~----·----------~---~·-·-_J
y
RM-365
1,-11,-50
-.2-
chain letters began, which - as can be ascertained from the available
reports - threatens to assume .tar larger proportions in al1 parts of' the
Reich, and in fact has already surpassed the levels of the previous years.
(Ed. note: there follows a list of 22 cities from which reports were
received by police headquarters.)
In the most.cases these letters consist o! the so-called "Greeting
from Lourdes", which has achieved the greatest circulation not onlT beeaus
of its brevity1 but also because o:f the "plea. :for an armistice" which it
aontains.
Thb letter, which. allegedly started its rounds on November 1, 1942,
in Lourdes, begins with the words: "A mother passes it on, so that an
a:rmistiee will eemen. Then the usual demand follows that the letter be
cepied and sent. on to four persons "to whom one wishes good luck." The
letter ends with the words: "But ;you may not step the letter, for ir you
do you will have no more happiness. These words will be fulfilled. Pray
three Ave Marias, and within 177 hours you will experience unexpected good
fortune.•
A similar chain lettsr, perhaps started as the "Greeting .from Lourdes
and was altered as a joke, is circulated especially by young women and
girls, because it allegedly originated with young soldiersl An extract
trom it is as :follows:
Somebody sent it te me and I am sending it te you. Copy
it three times and send the text to four people to whom
you wish good fortune. The lucky chain began with two
young soldiers. The lucky chain must make its way around
the world. Persons who break the chain will never be
happy•••• The lucky chain began on November J, 1939• A
group o.f yomig soldiers, who deserve good fortuneJ You
keep nothingJ
I Again and again the so-called "Testament of a fleeing monk from the
1
17th Century" appears, and in spite of its long-winded expressions is
lfrequently copied off, probably because of the prophesies in the text j
/about the progress and outcome of the war. Its circulation continues,
!in spite of the fact that the Archive of the City of Wismar, which
laccot"ding tg the "Testament" possesses the original document, has attempte
Ito point aut the false statements in the letter. Because of the numerous
:questions which it has received, Wismar has already made arrangements to I
;provide the requested information on printed posteard.s, whieh read as 1
~follows: I
' The so-eal1ed testament of a fleeing clergyman is in all I
respects a complete invention. A document with such contents I
has neither been found here nor is it preserved in the City
11
Hall. We request you to assist us in suppressing this
l
falsehood. 1
____J
I
'0,--~-•e~-~-~~~~~--=-~---=~... ,..,~-,.--...,.~-.,,_,,=-=--
RM J6~
4 14 50
3
The same motives may have contributed toward assisting in the
distribution of another forgery for the superstitious, the allegeci
"Vision of the Countess Pillante, Princess of Savoy". This one ends
with the words:
But the peoples who have raised themselves against
Christ will perish in flames. Starvation will destroy those
who remain, so that Europe will beeome empty. Then the sons
of the hoq Francis and Dominick will go through the werld
and lead those who remain to Christ. But the bent cross
wil.l be branded on the foreheads of the criminals.
A "Letter from Heaven" is also very widely distributed, and has
achieved as great cireul.ation among the Volk Germans and the transferred
German popul.a.tions as in the Old Reich. It owes its popul.arity primarily
to its use as a "lucky piece". After being told to cease working on
Sunday and to go regularly to church, the recipient is also threatened -
a.s in all other cases - with eternal damnation:
Whosoever does not believe this letter shall not achieve
eternal salvation. But whosoever carries it with him and
gives it to others to read or to copy, his sins shall be
forgiven even though t-hey are as numerous as the stars in
the heavens and the sands of the sea. But he who does not
heed this letter atld. does not pass it on to be rea.d or
copied, he shall. be damned.
The letter :promises further all kinds of miraeuil,QUs eff'eets. Whoever
carries it with him will "suffer no harm :f'rom a gun loaded by anyone",
and will be protected from all other bodily ha:na. As proof' it is stated
that a "Count Felix of Flanders, who wanted to behead a knight for his
misdeeds was able neither to wound nor to behead the knight". It
developed that the latter carried with h:lln. the Letter f'ran Heaven with
the mysterious characters, and the Count then immediately copied it for
him.self. The letter is supposed to ha.ve been found in Jesus' grave and
was also at one time in the possession of the Kaiser Karl. The latter
had the letters emblazoned on his shield in gold.
Another "protective letter", which a housewife in Hamburg circulated
and also gave to an Italian citizen when he left the country, differs
very little f'rem. the so-called Letter from Heaven. It begins with the
following words:
Holz froteotive Letter.
In the Name of God the Father and of the Son•••Just as
Christ stoed still in the garden, so all guns shall be
silent. Whoever carries this with hlin will not be harmed.
The guns, swords and pistols of the enem;r shall not strike
him•••This letter was sent from heaven and was found in
1724 in Holstein. It was written with golden letters and
hovered over the holy baptismal font."•••
BM-J65
1,-11. 50
-'1-
The letter ends with a row of capita1 letters in an arbitrary arrangement.
Another "protective letter", which is sent. especially frequently to
the front, begins in the following manner:
The words in this verse will bring help when it is asked for:
In the name of the Father and of the Son and or the Holy Ghost.
Heavenly Father, I always carry Thee with me,
According to Thy will, whieh is bound to my heart..
Thou wilt also bring my enemies
To me here in quietnessl
Protect and preserve me from all. harm,
With Thy mighty merey•• •"
The strikingly large circulation of the chain letters, according to
the reports, can be ascribed to several motives. First, the centuries-old
deep-rooted superstition that special devices can be used to in£luenee one
own fate or the tat.e oE relatives a.t the front, a.gain and again leads the
population to the use of these chain letters. At least it eann.ot do any-
ha.rm to obey the admonition ef the cha.in letters that they should be sent
on. In by far the majority of the cases the letters were sent on by the
recipients wi~h a certain anxiety and fear that if they destroyed the
document the misfortune threatened in the letter would strike them or
their families. In many cases, however, the unquestioned reliability and
power of these protective letters was believed in just as firmly as the
power of certain ho]Jr objects, rosaries, medallions, crosses, etc., are
believed in by Catholic circles. One report states:
Sinee aJ.l.eged1y so many or the statements in these letters
have been fult:illed, believing citizens are influenced by them
to sueh a degree that,, for example, the date predicted f1Ur the
end of the war in these letters (three years and five months)
has already achieved the status of a. fixed idea. (Bayreuth)
Also in Protestant circles people have becGm.e thoroughly convinced
of the effectiveness of these protective letters and they are often sent
to the soldiers at the front as a talisman. One report. states:
According t0 the belief of the woman wh0 was questioned -
a member of the Evangelical Church - the letter must a.t all
times be carried by the soldier in his breast pocket, and
a00ve all., the soldier must believe in it. Then this letter
would bring the help that was asked for1 or would keep the
soldier from harm. A soldier on leave, who carried the
letter, cenfirmed this report., and alleged that without the
letter he never would have come safely out of battle. A
comrade, who also carried the letter but apparently didn't
believe in it, had fallen. (Chemnitz)
I
!
I
I
j
.J
RM-;,65
l.-H-50
As typical of the point of view of the rural population toward the
hain letters, a report states:
Questioning of a whole series -0f cha.in letter writers -
only females from peasant circles were concerned - showed
that the population was seized as if by a psychosis. One
woman brought the chain letter to the others with the
urgent admenition that they sheuld eopy it three or four
times as soon a.s possible and send it on te acquaintances.
Even children are sent. from .farm to fa.rm in order to deliver
these letters. The women a.11 maintained that they ha.d not
dared to destroT t.he chain letter or to refrain from. passing
it on, since they feared that otherwise they would be visited
by a major tragedy. It appears that this undesirable be-
havior cannot be checked without strong threats or punish-
ment. (Innsbruck)
It is clear that worry about relatives at the front plays a large
le in the present wide eircul.ation of these let.ters:
One can conclude frem the availabl.e :reports that the chain
letter writers are motivated primarily by !ear of further
bloody battles. People want to do ev-erything they can for
the soldiers. Fer this reason, even chain letters are
written for them, with belief in their mir~us quality.
The l.etters certainly do not contribute to improving war
mcraie. It is, after a.11, the purpose ef the "Greet.ing
from LolWdes" to seek an earl.y armistice. (Bayreuth)
The l.etters are written almost exclusively by wemen and
they are sent on largely to women who have relatives in
the army or at the front. In order to obtain these
protective let.tars and to send them on to soldiers at the
front, service wives are o.ften even sought out in their
homes and. requested to provide the desired document.
(Graz, Oppeln, etc.)
-5-
The clergy do not play a. prominent part. in spreading chain letters,
but they indulgently overlook this "pious and harmless superstitiontt. It
rarely happens that the clergy, to whom the chain letter nuisance cannot
be unknown. take a stand themselves against this perni~iaus behavior. For
instance, the following information canes from Linz:
RM-365
4-14-50
-6-
n the course of the month of April, 194.2, a single office was able to
eize from 20 to JO chain letters almost daily. Since it was necessary
o assume that the number of letters in circulation must have been several
imes this number, the appropriate church authorities were asked to take
ea.sures against the circulation of chain letters. Only after this demand
he Bishop's office in Linz sent the following instruction to the lower
clergy of the diocese:
"The chain letter nuisance has assumed such propert.ions during t e
past weeks that there is cause to make a., general appeal to
ecunteract it. In cases where the Pastor bas net al.ready done
so on. his own responsibility in the recent. past, the next
opportunity should be taken in a sermon or in an announcement
from the pulpit to state expressly that these chain letters
re~sent gross superstition, which no real Catholic can take
part in or promote. The Faithful are to be exhorted to destroy
such chain letters in the event that they come into their hands
and in atQ" ease not to cire'1la,te them further. For your
information it is added that the seel'et police have brought
this nuisance to our attention and have asked that we take
measures from this quarter to he1p suppress it.
Not only in the Alp and Danube dietriets, bui; also in all part.a. et
the Reich, even in the territories which have been n.ewly won or retaken,
there are compl.aints about a steadily increasing flood of cha.in letters.
The ehain letter "Greeting from Lourdes" is circulating to a.
continually increasing extent. In Ha.usaeh/Kinzigta.l alone 20
copies o~ it could be seized in a single day. The letters
are eireul.a.ted by the entire Catholic population. Through
letters whieh were apprehended in the LSrrach Kreis it was
possible te aseertain that the Catholic priest in Haslach/
Kinzigtal had also circulated. the letters. In spite of all
measures the constantly increasing .flood of the chain letters
cannot be stopped. (e.g. Karlsruhe)
In Oberkrain the letter .from Lourdes is circulating not only
in German, but also in Slovene.
In the past two months the circulation of this chain letter
(Greeting from Lourdes) has grawn to a veritable flood in the
whole district. In nearly all. towns, but especially in the
country, this document - in which as is well known t.he wish
for an early armistice is expressed - is continually being
copied and sent on. The Reichspost has constantly seized and
turned over to the police whole sheaf's of letters which from.
their outer appearance alone can be identified as chain letters.
It should be noted in this connection that only a. very sma.11
percentage of the letters ever come to the attention of the
authorities at all. (Innsbruck)
_ _ _ _ ,_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ '--'-'""-..-.c
RM-365
11-111-56
-7-
rom Vienna, Dortumund and Dflsseldorf it is reported a.Jlllost unif"ormly:
Various observations lead one to the conclusion that the chain
letters are being circulated by the same people who recently
circulated the Galen sermon and the other pastoral letters.
The purpose may be on the one hand to preserve the belief of
the people in their church through this superstitious nonsense,
and on the other to encourage the desire for peace in order that
the morale ot these unreflective and primitive sectors of the
pepW.a.t.ion may be weakened.
cal attempts to suppress the chain letter nuisance have been unavailing u
o the present time. For example, it has been reperted from Gra.z:
The well-known cha.in letters continue to be circulated, in
spite of the fact that the loca.l press has already denounced
this malpractice which overburdens the post. office in an
irresponsible manner.
Party eireJ.es have therefore proposed that, just. as in 1940, the pres ,
adio 1and film be em.ployed again to check this eonst.antly increasing
:uisance by pointing out the nonsensical nature of such activity.
WPD/sj
BIBLIOGRAPHY
RM-365
lr-1 lr-50
-8-
Atkinson, Oriana. Over At Uncle Joe's. Indianapolis: Bobbs-Merrill
Co., 1947•
Gouzenko, Igor. The Iron Curt;a.:in. New York: E. P. Dutton & ·Co., 1948.
Halsey, William F. and Bryan J. Admiral Halsey's Story. New York:
Whittlesey House, 1947•
Kravchenko, Vietor. I Chose Freed.em. Garden City, New York: Garden
City Publishing Co., 1946.
Kris, Ernst and Speier, Hans. Gennan Radio Propaganda.• London: Oxford
University Press, 1944.
Linebarger, Pau:L M. A. Pszehological Warfare. Washington, D.C.: Infant
Journal Press, 194S.
MacDonald, Eliza.beth P. Undercover Girl. New York: Macmillan Co., 1947•
Magidof'.f, Robert. In Anger And Pity. Garden City, New York: Doubleday
& Co., 1949.
Margolin, Leo J. Paper Bullets: A Brief' Stoq of Ps1ehological Warfare
In World War II. New York: Froban Press, Ine., 1946.
Maskely:ne,, Jasper. Magic Top Secret• London: stanley Paul. & Co.
Moorad, George. Behind the Iron Curtain. London: Latimer House Ltd.,
1947·
Salisbury, Harrison. Russia. On the Wa,y. New York: Maomillan Co., 1946.
Semmler, Rudolf. Goebbels. The Man Next to Hitler. Westhouse, London, 19 7.
Sington, Derrick and Weidenfeld, Arthur. The Goebbe1s Experiment. London
John Murray, 1942.
White, William L. Land of Milk a.nd Honey. New York: Harcourt, Brace &
Co., 1949.
The American Soldier: Combat and Its Aftermath. (Volume II). edited by
Samuel A. Stouffer et al. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton
University Press, 1949.
~--~-------~-·--·-~
The Case of Rudolf Hess, edited by John R. Rees. London: William
Heinemann Ltd., l947.
RM-365
4-14-50
-9-
The Ciano Diaries, 1939-1943, edited by Hugh Gibson. Garden City, New
York: Doubleday & Co., l946.
German Psychological Warfare, edited by Ladislas Farago. New York:
Committee for National Morale, 1941.
The Goebbels Diaries, 1942-1943, edited and translated by Louis P. Lochner~
Garden City, New York: Doubleday & Co., 194$.
Braden, Charles s. "Why Are the Cults Growing." Christian Century
(January l2, 1944).
"Good Luck Belts." New York Times Magazine (January ll, 1942).
~1<¥-~~,' 'Superstitions.11 New York Times Magazine (April 2, 1944).
"Talk or the Town." The New Yorker (February 4, 1950).
Zolotow, Maurice. ''The Soothsayer Comes Back." Saturday Evening Post
(April 17, l943).
Currant Di~est of the Soviet Press. Published by the Joint Committee on
Sla.vic Studies (March 1949-March 1950).
Soviet Press Translations. Published by the Far Eastern and Russian
Institute, University of Washington (October 31, 1946-0ctober 15,
1949, passim).
Weekly Intelligence Reports on Nazi Propaganda, Central European Radio
Analysis, Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service, Federal Communi-
cations Commission, 1943-1944·
