{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1950__fleet___rays_of_the_dawn.pdf","mytitle":"Rays Of The Dawn","mylang":"de"}
RAYS of the DAWN
BODY• MIND• SOUL
By
THURMAN FLEET
REVISED EDITION
Copyright, 1950, by
THURMAN FLEET
PREFACE
"God breathed into man's nostrils the breath of life and
man became a living Soul" constitutes the basic precept of
this book. As a Soul, man is confronted in this life with
many vital problems, the solutions of which are of paramount
importance to his happiness and well-being. The events con-
cerning man's soul are taking place in the world today, and
man is, to a great extent, the pilot of their course.
During the past there has been much misunderstanding
and confusion regarding the right way and the wrong way to
live in order to be in harmony with the God within. We have
had centuries of superstitious credulity and metaphysical and
theological dogmatization concerning man's spiritual relation-
ship with God. The world today is in chaos. Those who have
"eyes to see" and "ears to hear" can but be pained and hu-
miliated that the world is farther from real peace, farther
from a new order based on mutual understanding and justice,
than it has ever been before. A titanic struggle is taking
place between the two forces now competing for mastery of
the world. The spirit of brotherhood is in danger of being
stifled and crushed because selfish desires for aggrandizement
are supplanting sound reason.
One might ask the reason for all this confusion. On every
side there is a feeling of uncertainty, a feeling of distress.
Everywhere men are questioning, "What is truth, what is re-
liable? Where can we find some rock on which we may place
our feet amid all the buffeting of conflicting opinions, of
doubt, yea of skepticism and unbelief?"
This book is addressed to those who are in need of a work-
able, livable philosophy of life, and the message that it brings
is a method by which the Will of God may be enthroned in
the realization of the destiny of the human soul. It's central
theme is the subordination of the will of man, perfect in its
iii
iv PREFACE
freedom, to the obediel).ce of the Natural Laws which govern
the Body, Mind, and Soul in accordance with the purpose and
Divine Plan of the Creator.
The most advanced thought of today concedes that God
is within man - or that man is within God - and expresses
Himself as man's spiritual consciousness. All should strive
with intense enthusiasm and reverence toward the develop-
ment of this consciousness in order that we may have Life
and have it more abundantly.
Life will be glorious and happy when we realize that the
Universe is one of law and order and is governed by Natural
Divine Laws. As man becomes aware of the laws to which
he is subject and learns to harmonize with them, he auto-
matically attunes himself with the Divine. The individual
who co-operates with natural law is always benefited. Many
physical ills may be cured by correct dietary measures. It has
been found that mental disorders can be cured by right think-
ing, and hence it is only logical to assume that spiritual in-
harmonies may be alleviated by right acting. The laws of
Nature are assuredly good and may be regarded as dependable
as they follow discernible routes which can be known. The
greatest gift to man is his ability, through his intelligence, to
discern and utilize Nature's methods.
The best definition of Natural Law seems to be that "It
is the uniform and orderly method of the omnipotent God."
Natural Law, which pervades the physical, mental, and spirit-
ual planes of life, is God in manifestation. It is generally rec-
ognized that man's body is a part of Nature and therefore
subject to its forces and laws. Our philosophies are filled
with statements that man has a mind that is governed by
mental laws. All our religions begin with the precept that
man is a Soul, and each outlines certain rules of conduct that
the Soul should abide by. Therefore, one will not dispute the
fact that the body, mind, and soul are, like everything else
in the universe, governed by certain laws. The question is
"What are the laws?" This work offers certain rules or laws
as an answer. We do not maintain that all the laws are em-
bodied herein. We merely offer a set of rules which can be
PREFACE V
examined critically to determine whether or not they are
beneficial to man.
When the human soul (man) was created, he was given
certain powers which no other form of life possessed; namely,
the POWER OF CHOICE or FREE WILL. Certain re-
sponsibilities have been placed upon man in the exercise of
this power. The capacity to choose does not involve freedom
from the consequence of his choice. The laws or rules which
govern man, and which are outlined in this work, are as exact
as the laws which govern the material universe. Man may
act in accordance with these laws or he may disregard them,
but he cannot in any way alter them. The law forever oper-
ates and holds man to strict accountability. Man will be
punished or rewarded according to the way in which he utilizes
the law. He may act as he chooses, but he cannot escape the
inevitable consequence of the act. Man may have faith or
fear, but he cannot avoid the reaction upon his own physical,
mental, and spiritual being. Nature (or God) within always
operates according to law - never by chance - and man
with his intellect and gift of reason may, if he so desires, be-
come an ally working in harmony with law, or he may act
contrary to it, but the law determines the result that shall
befall him in consequence of his choice.
All through the long history of the evolution of man, life
has been a battle. Man has fought among the species and
among his own kind. Ignorance of the natural laws of life,
which bring peace and harmony, caused a desire for power,
self-assertion, exaggerated ambition and greed, and terrible
suffering resulted. Man's warfare against his fellows has
been physical, mental, spiritual; and discord, strife and war
still continue. The world today is suffering from the Will to
Power, and chaos reigns.
It would seem that man's intellect is now sufficiently well-
cultivated to discern the fact that he is an heir and sharer of
the Divine Nature, that his universe is one of law and order,
and that all must operate according to law or be destroyed.
Man should strive to discover the laws which govern his life
vi PREFACE
so that he can consciously co-operate with them. When these
laws are discovered, they should be made a part of the cur-
riculum of every school so that everyone will have the op-
portunity of learning the proper way to live. Undoubtedly
this would bring about a method of co-operation and collabora-
tion which promises a future era in which brotherly love and
mutual helpfulness would supplant the evils of today.
Until such knowledge and the urge to co-operate with
the Divine in the ceaseless evolution of the Soul does become
a part of our educational system, it would seem to be an act of
the highest wisdom for an individual to learn the laws of his
being and begin an active co-operation in order that he may
reach peace, happiness, health and prosperity, for "As a man
soweth, so shall he also reap." When one is sufficiently well-
versed in the "secrets of life," he can by rigid discipline, under
law, enter into and understand what was referred to by Jesus
as the "Kingdom of God is within you."
CONTENTS
PART ONE - The Laws of the Body
CHAPTER PAGE
I. THE LAW OF NOURISHMENT . 11
II. THE LAW OF MOVEMENT . 19
III. THE LAW OF RIECUPERATION . 25
IV. THE LAW OF SANITATION . 82
PART TWO - The Laws of the Mind
V. FEAR. 89
VI. WORRY 45
VII. ANGER 52
VIII. JEALOUSY 58
IX. DESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM, CONDEMNATION,
GOSSIP, AND SLANDER . 62
X. VANITY. 68
XI. HATRED 75
XII. ENVY. 81
XIII. DECEIT, HYPOCRISY, AND
SELF-CONDEMNATION 87
XIV. PREJUDICE AND INTOIJERANCE. 92
xv. . SELFISHNESS 97
XVI. GREED 102
PART THREE - The Laws of the Soul
XVII. FAITH 109
XVIII. HOPE. 115
XIX. GENEROSITY - CHARITY 119
XX. ASPIRATION 123
XXI. PATIENCE. 127
XXII. SYMPATHY 131
XXIII. NON-INTERFERENCE 136
XXIV. KINDNESS. 141
XXV. COURAGE 146
XXVI. FORGIVENESS 152
XXVII. DUTY. 157
XXVIII. LOVE. 161
vii
Part One
THE LAWS OF THE BODY
Chapter One
THE LAW OF NOURISHMENT
"Growth is the inevitable corollary of the undisturbed
operation of Nature's Laws." There are four immutable
physical laws which Nature demands that we obey, and the
PHYSICAL part of every human being is governed by these
four great laws; namely,
THE LAW OF NOURISHMENT
THE LAW OF MOVEMENT
THE LAW OF RECUPERATION
THE LAW OF SANITATION
Much has been said and written concerning the subject
of food and the problem of diet. Every living organism re-
quires food for its sustenance. Ev,en the simplest vegetable
cell takes nourishment and replaces its waste products by
fresh material taken into the system. Thus, guided by Innate
Intelligence, the plant absorbs the food that is essential for
its growth and development. Grown in a soil and climate
conducive to its well-being, Nature produces the finest speci-
mens of plant life known to man. On the other hand, if grown
in a soil that is impoverished and devitalized, the plant then
adapts itself to its environment, and we have a corresponding
degenerate specimen. Only when allowed to grow and de-
velop in its true environment can the perfect specimen be pro-
duced. Thus we find manifest in the vegetable kingdom an
Intelligence expressed through natural law that guides and
controls the sustenance of plants.
Having evolved to a higher state of consciousness than
the p'lant, the animal's taste and appetite is guided by
11
12 RAYS OF THE DAWN
INSTINCT. The animal allowed to roam in his free and
natural state is a perfect specimen unless attacked by some
outside destructive force. He secures his food in its natural
form and eats only when his body requires nourishment, and
thus unmolested by the touch of man, or REASON, we find
the animal in all of his perfection.
Man in his primitive state was directed to a great extent
by his instinct in selecting his food and satisfying his appetite.
As man began to use the new gift, REASON, he started to
cook, preserve, and concoct his food. He began to tamper
with Nature's product, and as a result, he destroyed much of
its original nutritive value. Consequently, man's digestive
apparatus has become degenerated, and his food has become
deficient in the elements essential to the sustenance of his
body and the maintenance of his health. Only natural food
can properly nourish man's body. But the man of today is
far from the perfect natural man as he was in the Garden
of Eden. He has disobeyed the Law of Nourishment so long
that he does not have perfect digestive organs. They have
degenerated due to improper food and wrong living; therefore,
the Law of Nourishment must be so modified that it will
pertain to man as he is today.
In presenting the Law of Nourishment, we must differ-
entiate between DEAD, DEVITALIZED FOODS and LIVE
FOODS. DEAD foods are those that have been cooked, pre-
served, or tampered with, so as to destroy some or all of the
original vitamin and mineral content; that is, any food that
is not in its NATURAL STATE. LIVE foods are those that
come to us as grown by Nature. It is necessary that some
foods be preserved in cans, but the fact remains that if we
can get natural food, we should use it in preference to the
unnatural.
The following analysis and discussion of foods will in-
clude both the dead and the live foods. In order to arrive at
a proper understanding of foods - their nature, their rela-
tion to each other, and their function in the human body -
and also the proper combination of foods, it is necessary to
classify foods into certain classes or groups. If we should
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 13
take all the foods in the world, we could divide them into
FOUR CLASSES.
The First Class or Group
These are the foods that BUILD the body. They are
ACID-FORMING, however. One should eat enough but not
too much of this class of foods. The ordinary person should
eat at least ONE BUILDING FOOD PER DAY. The great
majority of people can eat one kind of building food at each
meal. Building foods include: all nuts, avocados, milk, eggs,
dried peas, dried lima beans, mushrooms, dried kidney beans,
dried navy beans, dried lentils, butter, cheese, fish, fowl, beef,
pork, lamb, and all other flesh foods.
The Second Class or Group
These foods TEAR DOWN, REPAIR, and ELIMINATE
the waste material from the body. They tear down that part
of the body that needs to be torn down. ALWAYS eat three-
fourths as much of this food as the building food. Everyone
should have some of Group II food with all of his meals. The
eliminative foods include the following fruits: 'lemons, limes,
grapefruits, oranges, pineapples, peaches, cherries, apricots,
plums, apples, pears, blackberries, raspberries, strawberries,
cranberries, currants, gooseberries, cantaloupes, muskmelon,
honey-dew melon, watermelon, tomatoes, and all other fruits
except bananas.
The Second Group also includes the following vegetables:
celery, spinach, endive, lettuce, carrots, asparagus, dandelion,
parsley, swiss chard, onions, beets, green peppers, peas, cu-
cumbers, raw cabbage, cauliflower, string beans, artichokes,
summer squash, and all other vegetables except avocados,
dried beans, dried peas and potatoes. These last three contain
too much starch and are not eliminative foods. Avocados
contain protein and fat and are classed under Group I.
The water used in cooking vegetables should not be thrown
away as it contains the mineral salts. DRINK IT AS SOUP.
14 RAYS OF· THE DAWN
The Third Class or Group
These are the SWEETS and STARCHES. Their func-
tion in the body is to prevent oxygen from remaining in in-
soluble combinations with minerals during energy release.
DO NOT EAT AN OVER-AMOUNT of sweets and starches
as they cause congestion.
The STARCHES include: Irish potatoes, sweet potatoes,
all breads, all cakes, macaroni, noodles, spaghetti, flour, gravies
made with flour, anything made from flour, all cereals and
old corn.
The SWEETS include: all sugars, bananas, pumpkin,
squash (Hubbard), honey, all molasses, all dried fruits, all
candy, all gum, all soft drinks containing sugar, all canned
fruits containing sugar, jams, jellies, or anything containing
sugar.
The Fourth Class or Group
This group includes all vegetable oils, olive oil, butter, and
fats. These foods BUILD and LUBRICATE. If one is too
thin, he should eat freely of these foods; if too fat, he should
use them sparingly.
ARRANGING MENUS
A well-arranged meal should comprise the following:
One kind of food from Group 1, which is the base of the meal.
Two kinds of food from Group 2.
If hungry, have one kind of food from Group 3.
Use Group 4 if needed.
The meal can easily be divided into three courses.
The first course is for BUILDING FOODS, Group 1.
The second course is for ELIMINATIVE FOODS, Group II.
IF STILL HUNGRY, have the third course, which consists of
Group III.
Group IV is to be used when needed.
J
THE LAWS OF -THE BODY 15
GROUP I GROUP II GROUP III GROUP IV
SELECT ONE SELECT TWO EAT SPAR- USE AS
KIND FOR KINDS FOR INGLY AT NEEDED AT
EACH MEAL EACH MEAL EACH MEAL EACH MEAL
Builders: Eliminators: Congestors: Lubricators:
Avocados All fresh fruit All candy Butter
Beans, lima except bananas All cereals
All oils
All gum
Beans, kidney All fresh green All soft drinks
Beans, navy vegetables containing All fats
Beef Canned spinach sugar
Butter (also Anything made
No. 4) Canned tomatoes from flour
Cheese Bananas
Bread
Eggs Cake
Fish Dried fruits
Fowl Flour
Lamb Gravies made
from flour
Lentils Honey
Milk Jams
Mushrooms Jellies
Nuts Macaroni
Molasses
Pork Noodles
Potatoes
Old Corn
Spaghetti
MOST PEOPLE EAT TOO MUCH STARCH. That is
the reason we have so much sinus trouble, constipation, colds,
asthma, whooping cough, colitis and diseases of congestion.
MANY PEOPLE EAT TOO MANY ACID-FORMING
FOODS. This is the cause underlying so much arthritis,
rheumatism, neuritis, aches in the joints, eczema, skin trouble,
etc.
The following are correctly-combined menus. You may
use these or make up your own menus.
16 RAYS OF THE DAWN
BREAKFASTS
(Read A.cross)
GROUP I GROUP II GROUP ill GROUP IV
2 poached or
coddled eggs
¾ grapefruit 1 slice toast Butter
Eggs Dish of prunes Toast Cream
Cheddar cheese Apples or other
fresh fruit Crackers Butter
1 handful Pineapple juice Whole wheat Cream
shelled nuts or sweet fruit cereal (dry)
Scrambled eggs Orange juice 1 slice toast Butter
2 soft boiled Baked apple Toast Butter
eggs Cream
Cottage cheese
Fresh pineapple
or other fresh Crackers Butter
fruit in season or Ry-crisp
Eggs and bacon
(crisp)
Tomato juice 1 slice toast Butter
Fresh or canned Maple syrup
sweet fruit Whole wheat
waffles Butter
Stewed or
fresh fruit Cereal Cream
LUNCHEONS
(Read Across)
GROUP I GROUP II GROUP III GROUP IV
Lamb chops
Fruit cup
Lettuce and
tomato salad
Baked potato Butter
Omelette Orange juice or Ry-crisp or Butter
grapefruit toast
Half avocado Lettuce, celery
Olives
Crackers Salad dressing
Lemon
Cottage cheese Sliced pineapple Toast or Butter
or other fruit crackers
Lima beans Combination Whole wheat Butter
salad crackers Salad oil
Buttered beets
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 17
Cheese
Tuna fish salad
Handful of nuts
Custard
GROUP I
Baked fish
Roast meat or
fowl
Pea soup
Liver
Broiled steak
Egg omelette
Lima beans or
baked beans
Luncheons, Cont'd
Stuffed celery
Lettuce or 1 slice bread
water cress
Fruit or
tomato juice
Pineapple or
lemon Crackers
Lettuce, celery
Olives
Combination
salad of fresh
vegetables
Lemon juice
Vegetable plate Baked potato
DINNERS
(Read A.cross)
GROUPII GROUP III
Lettuce and
tomato salad
Lemon
Baked potato
String beans
Cranberries Dressing for
Celery the meat
Spinach Potatoes
Tomato juice
Fruit salad Macaroni and
Celery cheese
Olives
Tomato juice
Combination 1 slice bread
vegetable
salad
Onions
Tomato juice or
vegetable Baked potatoes
cocktail or yams
Buttered beets
or green peas
Fruit whip or
fruit jello
Half grapefruit
or tomato Potato salad
juice
Peas and carrots
Celery hearts
Lettuce
Stuffed tomatoes Dried fruit
Butter
Mayonnaise
Butter
Salad dressing
Olive oil
Butter
GROUPIV
Butter
Mayonnaise
Butter
Butter
Salad dressing
Butter
Butter
Salad dressing
Salad dressing
18 RAYS OF T;HE DAWN
DO NOT EAT UNLESS there is a natural craving for
food. If a person is not hungry, he should omit a meal and
allow the natural appetite to return.
There is no field of science that has been more exploited
by theorists and commercial faddists than the science of nutri-
tion. With all the theories and fads that are in circulation
regarding food and the proper combination of food - what
to eat and what not to eat - it is little wonder that the
average mind is hopelessly confused, and often that person
will go to his doctor in quest of reliable information.
A person with a normal digestive system can eat good
wholesome food properly combined. The Intelligence within
the body is the chemist that extracts from "good wholesome
food" all the chemicals, minerals, and vitamins essential for
health and vitality. In combining foods there are two ex-
tremes. The exponents of one extreme limit their diet to
natural foods only. The followers of the other extreme com-
bine their meals without any regard for dietetic rules.
BALANCED
MEALS, a booklet of scientifically combined menus
properly and sensibly balanced for health, is a compromise
between these two extremes. If conscientiously followed, the
Balanced Meal Booklet is an assurance that one is obeying the
Law of Nourishment.
'
I
Chapter Two
THE LAW OF MOVEMENT
The Law of Movement is the second law which governs
the PHYSICAL part of every human being. If one knows,
understands, and obeys this law, his health and his life take
on a different expression. People of the world are living in
ignorance and defiance of Nature's laws and are leading false,
artificial lives. In order that life shall be progressive, IT
MUST BE NATURAL. Nature demands obedience to her
laws, or she will gradually but surely eliminate the individual
who violates them.
The body must ABSORB and DISTRIBUTE the nourish-
ment contained in the food that each individual eats. If the
proper food is consumed, thereby complying with the Law of
Nourishment, and the body is unable to absorb it, then ill
health will inevitably follow. If, however, the body can absorb
the nourishment but cannot distribute it, ill health will also
result. These laws are absolute. MOVEMENT, or EXER-
CISE, IS THE ONLY DISTRIBUTING AGENT OF THE
BODY.
The Creative Intelligence that planned and made our
bodies intended that we should be able to obey the Law of
Movement, and to that end the Creative Intelligence gave us
joints and muscles intended to be moved. When we exercise
these joints and muscles sufficiently, the nutrition that we
get from our food is distributed, by being moved, to all parts
of the body. Many people have stiff backs, stiff legs, stiff
arms, stiff necks, stiff fingers, stiff hips, etc., all because
they have ceased to move them and to care for them in-
telligently. They have been violating Nature's laws. They
may continue in their violation for a certain period of time,
but eventually Nature will eliminate them.
Much erroneous information has been circulated regard-
ing the kind and amount of exercise that an individual should
19
20 RAYS OF THE DAWN
take. Exercise, unless it is based on TRUTH and COMMON
SENSE, and KNOWLEDGE of a person's physical and mental
condition, is dangerous. There are a great many people who
are engaged in selling sets of exercises which really do a great
deal of harm to thousands of individuals every year. Prescrib-
ing a system of exercises to millions of people is just as un-
scientific as prescribing cooked cabbage to those same mil-
lions. Where is the man or who is the doctor that can IN-
TELLIGENTLY tell another man what he should do in the
form of ARTIFICIAL EXERCISE when he has never seen
and does not know the physical condition of that individual?
NATURAL MOVEMENT can be prescribed to any hu-
man being that lives, for it complies with the Law of Move-
ment, but ARTIFICIAL MOVEMENT (exercise) can be injur-
ious. EXERCISE, like everything else concerning a human
body, is an INDIVIDUAL matter. What is indicated for one
person may be all out of order for another; what is good for
one may be harmful to another, unless it is a system where
INDIVIDUALITY PREDOMINATES.
In order that a person may KNOW and UNDERSTAND
what is required for obedience to NATURE'S LAW OF
MOVEMENT, he must know:
1. Why our joints should be moved.
2. When our joints· should be moved.
3. Which of our joints should be moved.
4. How our joints should be moved.
1. Why should our joints be moved? They should be
moved for the simple reason that they are designed for use
and movement. If we use and move them and care for them
INTELLIGENTLY, they will become strong and healthy; if
we do not use and move them and care for them intelligently,
they will soon lose their STRENGTH and POWER of MOVE-
MENT. This law is absolute.
As an illustration, let us assume that one would tie his
left arm to his side in such a manner that it could not be
moved and that he would allow the arm to remain tied that
way for one year. Then if he would untie the arm and try
THE LAWS OF THE B OD Y 21
to move it, one would find that IT WOULD NOT MOVE. The
muscles, due to inactivity, have lost their tonicity. The joints
have become stiff. This individual did not comply with
Nature's Law of Movement, and the INTELLIGENCE WITH-
IN his body gradually but surely started to eliminate the arm
because it failed to comply with the Law of Movement.
One should ask himself this question: Do I have any
movable joints in my body which are stiff and sore when I
try to move them? If there are any stiff and sore joints,
then that is conclusive proof that one has been disobeying
Nature's Law of Movement, and the soreness he feels is part
of the PENALTY that he is beginning to pay.
One should now stand erect and start MOVING his eyes,
neck, shoulders, elbows, fingers, hips, knees, ankles, toes,
spine, etc., and determine for himself if he is able to move
them EVERY WAY THEY WERE INTENDED TO MOVE
without pain. If any of these parts produce pain upon move-
ment, that is an indication that they are abnormal; then one
should resort to the necessary therapeutic measures in order
to bring these parts back to normal.
2. When should our joints be movedi? We should move
our joints EVERY DAY SUFFICIENTLY. When an individ-
ual lives a natural life, as he was intended to live, he is
compelled to move all of his joints. But living as we do in
an UNNATURAL ENVIRONMENT - confined to cities,
buying our food instead of raising it or hunting for it, riding
in automobiles instead of walking and running, staying up late
at night instead of lying down to rest and sleep when dark-
ness arrives, eating artificial and dead, devitalized food in-
stead of natural, live food, and having reduced BODILY
MOVEMENTS to a minimum, we are compelled to resort to
ARTIFICIAL MOVEMENT or EXERCISE in order to keep
our joints in good order.
As soon as one has moved his joints sufficiently, he will
experience a feeling of tiredness in the muscles or in the joints
being moved, and that FEELING OF TIREDNESS is a
message from the INTELLIGENCE WITHIN that enough
exercise has been taken. Only the person himself can de-
22 RAYS OF THE DAWN
termine when he has had enough exercise; and only the
person himself, or someone thoroughly familiar with that
person's physical condition, can prescribe the kind of exercise
that he can take.
What, would happen if a man with arthritis would sub-
scribe to a set of commercial exercises wherein he was told
to walk five miles a day, to bend down and touch the floor
with his fingers twenty times in succession, to hop on one leg
ten minutes and then to hop on the other leg ten minutes?
What would happen to a person suffering from a stiff neck if
he should indulge in the exercise that states that he should
rotate the neck as far as it will go, backwards, forwards, side-
ways, forty times each day?
3. Which of our joints should be m!Oved? All movable
joints should be moved; namely, jaws, shoulders, hands, hips,
neck, elbows, fingers, knees, feet, toes, chest (by deep breath-
ing), wrists, ankles, the entire spine. One can be assured
that when he moves all these parts sufficiently, until tired-
ness develops, he is moving all the muscles attached to them,
and NUTRITION is being evenly DISTRIBUTED to all parts
of the body.
The commercial exercise faddists make their mistake
when they try to develop some muscle at the expense of others
and at great expense to the HEART. Many people taking
their exercises do develop great strength in some of the
muscles, but some other part of the body pays the price.
What has the man gained who has developed great strength
in his arms and legs and chest but has WEAKENED HIS
HEART?
4. How should our joints be moved? Exercise is good
and is necessary for health, particularly for the lungs and
heart, yet too much or too strenuous exercise will cause heart
disease and destroy the lungs. It is EXCESS that is harm-
ful and MODERATION that is beneficial. In both work and
play we must use the Law of Movement, but there is much
difference between the two. Some tell us that work is a task,
a duty, and therefore is not pleasant. But that is not true.
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 23
When the body is in good physical and mental condition, work
is a pleasure.
Play relieves the working muscles by using them in a
different way or by relaxing them in associate use with other
muscles. The letter carrier would not deem walking a pleas-
ure, but the boy who sawed wood would consider whitewash-
ing a fence the height of sport. It is change that pleases.
The spirit of anticipation adds zest, and as long as it con-
tinues, the muscles will respond to the demands made upon
them. When anticipation ceases, then the muscles are tired,
and that is the SIGNAL TO STOP.
Just before going to bed and upon arising are good times
to indulge in EXERCISE. Stand up straight and begin mov-
ing the eyes EVERY WAY THAT THEY WILL MOVE
UNTIL tiredness develops; then move the jaws EVERY WAY
THAT THEY WILL MOVE UNTIL tiredness develops. Open
a window - do not stand in a draft - and draw in DEEP
BREATHS. INHALE AND EXHALE until tiredness de-
velops; then move the shoulders, elbows, wrists, hands,
fingers; then exercise the twenty-five joints of the spine by
bending forwards and backwards and from side to side UN-
TIL tiredness develops. Then place the hands on the hips; ro-
tate the hips backwards, forwards and from side to side until
they feel tired; and then the knees, ankles, feet and toes, etc.
THERE ARE TWO SIMPLE RULES TO BE OBSERVED:
Rule 1. Move every movable joint EVERY WAY THAT
IT WILL MOVE UNTIL TIREDNESS DEVELOPS.
Rule 2. If pain develops in any joint during movement,
DO NOT CONTINUE THE MOVEMENT PAST THE POINT
WHERE PAIN DEVELOPS. And gradually the pain will
diminish.
It is not advisable for any person to indulge in a set
system of exercises which prescribe that one should move this
way so many times and that way so many times, because the
SIMPLE TRUTH of the whole question is that EVERY
24 RAYS OF THE DAWN
HUMAN BEING IS DIFFERENT, and what will apply to
one will not be indicated for another. The INTELLIGENCE
within the body, which created the body and which governs
it (when allowed to do so), is the ONLY JUDGE as to how
much exercise is required for that body. Exercise will create ·
tiredness when the joints and muscles have been given suf-
ficient movement, and that is the STOP SIGNAL.
In order to comply with the Law of Movement, every
movablejoint must get sufficient MOVEMENT EVERY DAY.
Chapter Three
THE LAW OF RECUPERATION
There is a great Natural Law that demands of every
living creature a sufficient amount of rest and sleep. During
this period of inactivity, the forces of the body endeavor to
repair the damage that has been done throughout the day.
Every human being and every animal must obey this law in
some degree because continuous, never-ceasing activity for
any living thing means untimely death.
To recuperate means to RECOVER. With reference to
the Law of Recuperation, it means to recover the energy that
one has expended during the day. There are three ways to
recuperate. First, there is REST; second, there is RECREA-
TION; and third, there is SLEEP.
REST is the most important element in a life of health-
ful living. Even when we are hard at work, we need frequent
breathing spells and changes of occupation and amusement
to keep our muscles and our minds in a healthy condition.
Even the strongest and hardiest of us cannot continue in-
definitely in an unbroken line of endeavor. There will come
a time when mere sitting still will not rest us. Sleep is then
needed to restore the body.
Nature has provided for alternate activity and rest. Rest
is the counterpoise of movement or exercise. In the vegetable
kingdom we see no apparent cessation of activity. Plants are
stationary; they are not subject to voluntary motion. No
movement is initiated from within except the phenomena of
growth, preservation, and reproduction. These activities are
all purely physiological; hence plant life is governed only by
physiological rest. We see plants and even seeds going
through periods of activity and dormancy. Possessing no
muscular system, plants do not engage in muscular activity,
25
RAYS OF THE DAWN
and the neural or conscious activity manifest in some forms of
highly developed plant life is not sufficient to call for rest.
To maintain health and vitality, both man and the animal
must obey the Law of Recuperation. The animal is subject
to the Law of Movement; therefore, he must obey the Law of
Recuperation. Engaging in neural and muscular activity, the
animal must rest and sleep. There is an instinctive force that
directs the animal in search of food, water, and building
material for his home, or it may be driven about, or frightened
away from its abode, by some outside force. Thus the animal
is kept in motion. As long as its activity is not interfered
with by man's reason, the animal will obey the Law of Re-
cuperation. It will rest after action. When the task is
completed or the chase is ended, the animal will lie down
and rest, though it may not sleep. Some animals sleep or rest
during the day and go out on the hunt at night. Others pro-
long their rest periods and hibernate for a season. Although
th~ animal may engage in some mental activity, this is of a
purely sensuous nature, and therefore requires only physical
rest.
Man with his highly developed muscular and nervous
system must obey all three phases of the Law of Recupera-
tion; namely, REST, RECREATION, and SLEEP. In order
to fully understand the Law of Recuperation, one should know
the facts of the three divisions of this law. First, we shall
discuss that of REST. Every individual should know:
1. Why we should rest.
2. When we should rest.
3. What we should rest.
4. How we should rest.
1. We should rest for the simple reason that we get
tired, and tiredness is a signal from the INTELLIGENCE
WITHIN that activity should cease, as harm is being done.
If we do not rest when we feel this tiredness, GREATER
HARM IS BEING DONE.
2. When should we rest? We should rest when we are
conscious of being tired or as soon after as possible.
r
r
r
(
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 27
3. What should we rest? We should rest our entire
body or any part that is tired.
4. How should we rest? We should rest by putting the
body or any part of it that is tired in a position where it
relaxes completely.
Whenever man exercises or engages in any type of phys-
ical activity, he consumes energy and muscular power. These
sources of power must be replenished at intervals in order
that the physical part of the body can function effectively.
Even though man rests the physical part of his body, many of
the physiological processes do not cease as they must con-
tinue in their function until death. But during periods of
rest, the strain on the organs and muscles such as the heart
and lungs is lessened, and thus they are strengthened for
further activity.
When man was endowed with REASON and the power
of choice, he began to indulge in mental activity of a very
complex nature. Man uses and often overtaxes his brain;
hence it is evident that man must not only have PHYSICAL
and PHYSIOLOGICAL REST but there must be periods of
CESSATION of ALL MENTAL CONCENTRATION. Unless
this mental or brain activity ceases at times, or is changed to
lesser forms of activity, the mind becomes a parasite upon
the body and the whole organism suffers as a result. The
brain must relax; that is, there must be a diversion from work.
People who overindulge in physical activity deplete their
physical strength and overdraw on the supply of energy re-
quired to carry on the physiological processes. Those who
allow their brains to work day and night without cessation will
eventually deplete their nervous energy, and as a consequence
they will suffer impaired health and low vitality. Such indi-
viduals soon become a "bundle of nerves," suffer from nervous
exhaustion, and are the victims of all types of physical and
mental disorders.
At times when there is not a complete cessation of con-
centrated effort, the mental energy can find an outlet in a
change of activity or in some form of recreation. This brings
28 RAYS OF THE DAWN
us to an analysis of the second phase of the Law of Recupera-
tion, that of RECREATION.
RECREATION is essential in the maintenance of health-
ful and wholesome living, but it is not a substitute for rest.
Recreation differs from rest. "It is activity which calls into
action parts of the body or brain not ordinarily used, or which
uses parts previously active in a different manner. It re-
creates by a change of activity."
Recreation should be indulged in frequently because it
rests the mind and certain muscles of the body. Freeing the
mind from the strain of daily tasks and the responsibilities
of life is of untold benefit; therefore, every individual should
daily participate in some form of amusement. Everyone
should have a hobby. Latent talents and abilities often find
expression through hobbies. Within every individual there
is an urge for self-expression. This desire for expression
often finds an outlet in hobbies, whereas the routine of daily
work may not present such opportunities.
Through recreation, we can balance our program of daily
activity. The nerves and muscles that have been actively
engaged in routine work are allowed to rest, and those that
have been inactive or dormant are stimulated and set into
motion. Thus we see that by changing the nature of our
activity, we can reduce the amount of rest required. We
must not make the mistake, however, of over-indulging in
recreation and reducing the amount of necessary sleep. Also,
we should not allow our participation in hobbies, sports, and
other forms of recreation to become a dissipation of energies
essential for efficiency in work.
The third phase of the Law of Recuperation is SLEEP.
Sleep is a natural temporary period of almost complete un-
consciousness, normally at night, in which the body rests.
During sleep there is a cessation of voluntary muscular activ-
ity, except for slight unconscious movements. However, the
involuntary muscles controlling the processes of circulation,
respiration, digestion, etc., continue in their activity though
at a lessened or slower pace. When the body falls asleep,
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 29
the conscious mind also comes to rest, and frequently the
thoughts and problems that have been the object of conscious
mental concentration during waking hours pass into the sub-
conscious and become the subject of dreams. Also, it is no
uncommon occurrence to awaken with a problem solved that
was weighing upon the conscious mind during a previous day's
activity. Hence we see that although sleep is a state of rest
or freedom from physical and mental effort, still it is not com-
plete, for many of our functions and activities, physical,
mental, and physiological, continue throughout the period of
sleep.
In order to maintain health and vitality, every human
being must i,ecure a sufficient amount of sleep. During this
period of rest, the fatigued body is restored to normal. The
muscles, nerves, and glands are reinvigorated for further ac-
tivity, and the mental capacity is renewed and refreshed. Just
how much sleep a person needs is an individual matter, but
one should awaken feeling rested and rejuvenated. Eight
hours is considered to be the normal amount of sleep required
for the average person; however, some may require more and
others less, depending upon the individual's physical status,
nervous temperament, age, and the type of activity that he
engages in during waking hours. People who do not obtain
sufficient sleep become nervous and irritable, and thus they
impair their health and happiness.
Nature demands i,leep. It is the only way that the forces
of the body and mind can successfully repair the damage
which has been done during the day. Much reconstructive
work is done during sleep. Not only are both body and mind
replenished and strengthened to continue functioning effec-
tively but much waste material is also eliminated during this
period of freedom from tension. When mind and body are
relaxed, Nature can more easily eliminate acids and toxins
from the system. Thus sleep provides a time for the body
to detoxify and alkalinize.
To insure restful sleep, mind and body must be complete-
ly RELAXED. People who know how to relax, physically
and mentally, require less rest during the day and find it
30 RAYS OF THE DAWN
easy to slip off to slumber at night. Much valuable energy
is dissipated by those whose activities are characterized by
haste, turmoil, and confusion. The hurry and tension of
modern-day living must be controlled and kept at a minimum
to conserve the energy needed to carry on the vital functions
of both mind and body. When lying down to rest or sleep,
one should clear the mind of all thoughts and relax every part
of the body completely. RELAXATION provides for COM-
PLETE REST and INDUCES SOUND SLEEP.
If one cannot sleep well, there is something wrong with
his health or with his habits. Insomnia is a danger signal
that should be heeded at once. Generally speaking, there are
two main causes for sleeplessness or insomnia; namely PHYS-
ICAL DISTURBANCE or MENTAL DISTURBANCE. Both
of these can be intelligently eliminated.
The inability to sleep can, as a rule, be attributed to a
lack of physical exercise and an over-indulgence in the de-
structive emotions, especially fear and worry. A normal
person cannot expect to sleep if he has not exerted himself
sufficiently to require rest, or if he is emotionally disturbed.
Also, people who are physically ill usually experience a cor-
responding mental depression with its accompanying states
of fear and worry. A program designed to eliminate the
mental causes of insomnia requires, in most cases, a corre-
sponding change in the physical condition of the individual
and of his activities. One whose mind is daily occupied in
constructive work and who seeks diversion in outdoor activ-
ities rarely suffers from insomnia. Not only does such ac-
tivity produce a tiredness in the muscles but it also provides
an outlet for mental energy and tension. A brisk walk in
the open air will also relax the tense muscles and nerves and
hence is conducive to restful sleep. Those who have difficulty
in sleeping should eat lightly in the evenings. A "loaded"
stomach in a tired body will interfere with sleep, at least
such rest will not be as beneficial as when the digestion is
not overtaxed.
PROPER VENTILATION is most important during
sleep. One should sleep in a room that has plenty of fresh air,
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 31
but not in a draft. Where climate and circumstances permit,
sleeping in the out-of-doors is very beneficial. One should
assume the position that is most comfortable for him and that
produces the greatest degree of relaxation.
Generally speaking, every individual should secure
PLENTY OF SLEEP, and only the person himself can know
when he has a sufficient amount. Also, one should indulge
in good, clean RECREATION such as shows, games, amuse-
ments, hobbies, etc., and have plenty of REST in order to com-
ply with Nature's Law of Recuperation.
ChapterFour
THE LAW OF SANITATION
The fourth law governing the physical part of every
human being is the Law of Sanitation. Cleanliness is indis-
pensable in keeping the body healthy, wholesome, and beauti-
ful. Not only does cleanliness affect the body but it reaches,
also, to the confines of the mind, the soul, and the Spirit.
Since the body is the abode of the mind and the soul, and the
instrument of the Spirit, these can evolve to higher planes
of existence only in an environment that is clean and pure.
If man were living in a natural state, he would scarcely
have to concern himself with the Law of Sanitation, for
Nature would take care Qfhim. But man is living artificially
- he is exposed to an unnatural environment - and he
violates the Laws of Nourishment, Movement, and Recupera-
tion; therefore, man must obey the Law of Sanitation in order
to maintain any degree of health and wholesomeness. In
presenting the Law of Sanitation, we shall consider the human
body as having two sides, the OUTSIDE and the INSIDE.
Both must be kept clean or the individual will compensate
for his neglect in ILL HEALTH and DISEASE.
External cleanliness affects not only the purity of the
blood but the general internal wholesomeness. The OUTSIDE
of the body is literally covered with tiny pores, commonly
called sweat glands. These tiny pores are constantly eliminat-
ing waste material that the Intelligence within the body can-
not utilize and is trying to dispose of. Were man living in a
natural state, he would not be wearing clothing, and his skin
would be exposed to the rays of the sun which in turn
would absorb the poison that is being eliminated. But the
natural functioning of the pores is interfered with by the
wearing of clothing; hence man must resort to the use of soap
and water to remove the daily accumulation of poisons.
32
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 33
The poisonous material excreted by the pores is continu-
ously being eliminated. If it is not washed off it hardens and
clogs the pores, and then the balance of the toxins in the
system cannot be discharged. Thus the body becomes poison-
ed by the very poison that the Intelligence is trying to elimi-
nate. For this reason a bath once or twice per week is not
sufficient. Therefore, one should bathe his body every day
with soap and water. In general, the amount of bathing
necessary for an individual is determined by his physical
condition, his diet, and his activities.
The farther man allows his body to deviate from a state
of physical perfection, the greater the accumulation of acids
and toxins in the bloodstream, and the greater the burden
placed upon the eliminative organs in Nature's effort to rid
the body of these poisons. Consequently, there is a greater
need for bathing to insure external cleanliness so that the
pores of the skin can perform their function effectively.
In bathing one should remember that the temperature
of the body is 98.6 degrees. If one jumps into water that is
TOO HOT or TOO COLD, he immediately SHOCKS the inside
and the outside of the body. As a result, the entire system
has to work hard to compensate for this shock in order to
maintain normal temperature. Considerable harm can be
done in this manner. As a precautionary measure, one should
always have the bath water about the same temperature as
the body, or just a few degrees higher, and then gradually
change to hot or cold if desired. This does not mean that
HOT and COLD BATHS are not to be recommended because
both have their merits, but they should be approached
gradually.
A hot bath is more cleansing than a cold one and .is
especially indicated when the pores are clogged with dirt and
grease due to exposure. Not only do hot baths open and
cleanse the pores but they further facilitate the elimination
of poisons by inducing perspiration. The hot bath tends to
relax, whereas the cold bath is stimulating; however, the
neutral bath is often used in preference to these two, especial-
ly when the vitality is low or the individual is suffering from
34 RAYS OF THE DAWN
a nervous condition. Cold baths are invaluable for their in-
vigorating and toning effects upon the whole system.
External cleanliness involves not only the skin but also
the hair, nails, mouth, teeth. It pertains, also, to those things
in our immediate environment that we come in contact with
such as clothing, food, dishes, bedding, etc. That the hair,
nails, mouth and teeth be kept in a sanitary condition is just
as important as the daily bath. Habits of cleanliness regard-
ing the body should be developed in little children, and then
these habits will become an automatic part of the individual's
routine throughout a lifetime.
Let us now consider the INSIDE OF THE BODY. If
one's diet consists of NATURAL FOODS CORRECTLY COM-
BINED, the body will naturally cleanse itself. A diet consist-
ing chiefly of fruits and vegetables balanced by sufficient
building foods, whole grains and lubricating foods will not
only nourish the body but will, at the same time, insure the
proper elimination. Fruits and vegetables have a flushing
and cleansing effect that eliminates the waste material. They
also possess the necessary cellulose to exercise and tone up
the whole digestive and eliminative tract. Whole grains also
provide the necessary bulk, and in addition they are one of
the richest sources of Vitamin B, which is so essential in
maintaining normal elimination.
Living as most of us do on DEAD, ARTIFICIAL FOODS,
we quite naturally produce DEATH inside our bodies, and
this DEATH is exceedingly difficult to get rid of. We eat
food that congests our entire system, and as a result we be-
come constipated. When the bowels fail to move, we resort
to the customary use of "high-powered" laxatives, and again
we harm the body. Very often we find that these laxatives
lose their power, and then we resort to the use of the enema in
our efforts to secure elimination. Laxatives will never cure
constipation, and their continued use will only aggravate the
condition. The use of the enema to secure elimination is a
most unnatural procedure and should be confined to emer-
gencies only. Its constant use will soon weaken and ballooia
the bowels and thus leads to further intestinal trouble.
THE LAWS OF THE BODY 35
The causes of constipation are many and varied, but
fundamentally they can be attributed to a failure to obey
the Laws of Nourishment, Movement, and Recuperation. In
the past, it has been the concensus of opinion among doctors
and health authorities that constipation is due to a lack of
exercise, and a lack of bulk or cellulose in the diet. With the
discovery of vitamins, however, it has been proved that in-
testinal stasis, in many instances, is caused by a deficiency
of Vitamin B, especially B-1. It is essential, therefore, that
one include in the daily diet sufficient of the foods that are a
good source of Vitamin B, including whole grain. Those who
cannot tolerate these foods should supplement their meals
with the accessory Vitamin B complex.
Exercise should not be overlooked as an essential factor
in insuring internal cleanliness. People who never exercise
lack strength and tone in their abdominal muscles, and this
weakness often leads to constipation. A person must indulge
in a certain amount of physical activity to induce perspira-
tion, which in turn assists the pores in the elimination of
poisons. Unless perspiration takes place, a greater load is
placed upon the kidneys which must throw off the poisons
that were not eliminated through the skin. Furthermore,
normal circulation depends upon exercise, and without proper
circulation, the blood cannot carry the waste products to the
eliminative organs for disposal.
Nervous tension is another source of intestinal stasis ;
and, conversely, intestinal trouble causes nervous tension.
Constant physical and mental nervous tension affects all of
the organs of the body and especially the endocrine glands.
One must obey the Law of Recuperation to insure proper
digestion and elimination and thus provide for internal clean-
linei,s. The mind plays an important role in the source of
constipation. Destructive emotions such as worry, hatred,
fear, and all thoughts of that nature, will directly or indirect-
ly interfere with the normal functioning of the digestive
organs and thus pave the way for an unwholesome internal
condition.
Although water is important in maintaining internal
cleanliness, it is erroneous to believe that by drinking large
36 RAYS OF THE DAWN
quantities of water one can cleanse the system of its waste
material. Water only flushes, and it never cleanses unless it
is combined with alkaline elements that will dissolve the acids
and toxins so that they can be absorbed by the bloodstream
and excreted. Natural fluids, especially fruit and vegetable
juices, not only supply the body with the necessary liquid but
they also enrich the bloodstream and thus promote all of the
functions of the body, especially that of elimination of wastes.
The amount of water required by an individual depends upon
such factors as climatic conditions, diet, exercise or labor, and
fluids taken in other forms.
Adequate elimination is essential to the preservation of
health, and this means elimination through every eliminative
channel - kidneys, bowels, skin, and lungs. The bowels
should evacuate never less than twice a day on an ample diet;
however, three evacuations per day are preferable. It is a
well-known fact that when food is placed in the mouth, it
takes a certain length of time to pass through the digestive
tract, and then it is eliminated. It follows, therefore, that if
one eats three meals per day, then he should have three bowel
movements per day. If a person has only one, then he can be
certain that the other two remain on the inside too long, and
part of the toxins are being absorbed inside the body. If one
will comply with the Laws of Nourishment, Movement, and
Recuperation, and comply w:ith them LONG ENOUGH, he
can be assured that his elimination will be normal.
Part Two
THE LAWS OF THE MIND
Chapter Five
FEAR
"The wise man seeketh that which is in harmony with
his own nature and endeavors to fit his life accordingly, rather
than to seek after things contrary to his nature."
Man has a BODY, a MIND, and a SOUL. In order to
maintain a perfect state of health, it is necessary for man to
obey the laws of Nature which govern these parts. Having
completed the laws which govern the human body, we now
are brought to the subject of the human MIND and its facul-
ties in their relation to health. In analyzing the destructive
forces which operate in the mind, it is our purpose to show
their action and just why they should be eliminated.
The first destructive force that we shall consider is
that of FEAR. Fear in the mind disturbs the entire make-up
of a human being - body, mind, and soul. Fear paralyzes
growth; therefore it should be controlled. After one has
acquired a knowledge of the law involved, he will no longer
allow fear to rule or disrupt his being. And in the degree
that he liberates himself from the bondage of fear, he will
enjoy greater health, happiness, and a greater peace of mind.
Deliverance from fear will release the powers within which
promote the development of the whole organism.
Fear is the antithesis of faith. It is based upon a lack
of confidence or an apprehension of danger, unhappiness,
doubt, anxiety, worry, dread, hatred, anger, horror, fright,
shock, terror. All of these emotions are direct results of the
different phases of fear. Each shares the general character-
istics of the state known as being afraid of some thing, person,
influence or action not desired and hence feared in direct ratio
to its undesirability.
39
40 RAYS OF THE DAWN
The existent mental state is frequently the result of
thought applied to the fear in regard to its probable effect
on the happiness of one's own life or, perhaps indirectly, on
the life of another. It is an emotional state of mental dis-
quiet, unrest, unease, which is dis-ease wrongly called disease.
Through a knowledge of the laws governing the mind, the
mind has control over itself and over the body, and can in-
telligently carry it safely through many of the occurrences
that would otherwise result in creating an unhealthy state
and eventually in an untimely death. It is generally conceded
today that chaos and fear in our thought will produce suffer-
ing and disease in the body.
Experiments with animals have shown that under the
pressure of fear the whole metabolic process is disturbed.
The digestive and assimilative functions are retarded and, in
some instances, may entirely cease. Other physiological proc-
esses are altered or accelerated. The heart, lungs, and adrenal
glands are stimulated to greater activity. There is constric-
tion of the abdominal arteries, and thus large quantities of
blood are forced to other parts of the body, especially to the
lungs, brain, skin, and the skeletal muscles. Hence we see
that the emotion of fear prepares the individual, man or ani-
mal, for the greatest muscular strength and endurance.
Fear is a stimulus to action, and the individual instinc-
tively prepares himself for fight or flight. In primitive life,
man found an outlet for this preparatory energy. He had to
contend with human and animal enemies and with natural
forces that were hostile to his well-being. In modern life
these preparatory reactions do not always find expression in
physical exertion ; in fact, such expression is a rare occurrence.
If the individual fails to act, fear becomes inverted, for that
which cannot go outward must go inward. Thus panic is
created within the individual, and the whole organism is
disturbed.
FEAR IS OUR GREATEST ENEMY with all of the evils
of doubt, uncertainty, and apprehension that follow in its
wake. To eliminate or at least control fear, we must conquer
it; to conquer fear, we must face it. Fear is a challenge
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 41
that we must meet. "Man finds his significance by WORK-
ING THROUGH HIS DIFFICULTY, not by cringing in the
presence of it." Whenever fear presents itself in the life of
an individual, it should be met, analyzed and, if possible, in-
telligently eliminated. If a person cannot effect some intel-
ligent activity when he is confronted with fear, then he should
do something foolish, but action is imperative. Activity will
obscure the emotion of fear by bringing into play the thought
processes and other emotions of a constructive nature. Fur-
thermore, the pent-up energy is liberated and utilized. In-
decision leads to perdition. It is better to make a wrong
move and later rectify the mistake than to remain undecided
as to what course of action to pursue.
There are thousands in our hospitals who are suffering
from physical and mental disorders - thousands whose minds
and bodies are wrecked - because they have not learned to
rid themselves of needless fears. They and their doctors are
more concerned with treating the effects. than with eliminat-
ing the cause of their illness; namely, the demon of fear.
Also, it is no uncommon occurrence to find doctors who use
fear as a weapon to coerce patients to follow their instruc-
tions and, in some instances, to continue needless treatment.
And what is worse, we often find parents who continue the
pernicious practice of instilling fear in the minds of children
to force them into obedience of certain rules of conduct.
Frequently we find that a patient will come to a doctor
for treatment, and although the patient is concerned over
his condition, he harbors no fear in his heart. The doctor,
however, feels that he should impress the patient with the
seriousness of his condition and instills the fear of death in
an untroubled mind. As an illustration, let us assume that a
Mrs. Roe is suffering from high blood pressure and goes to
her doctor for treatment. Being unaware of the nature of
her illness, she suffers only physically from it. The doctor,
doing what in his ignorance he thinks is right, places FEAR
in her mind. He impresses Mrs. Roe with the seriousness of
her condition, telling her that high blood pressure often results
in paralysis. Mrs. Roe remembers that she has heard that
42 . RAYS OF THE DAWN
people die with high blood pressure and so FEAR, TERRIBLE
FEAR, enters into her mind. Now she suffers mentally as
well as physically from her illness.
Instead of CO-ORDINATING THE BODY AND MIND
into a cure, the doctor did just the opposite, thereby making
Mrs. Roe a great deal worse. Further, the element of FEAR
generated in the mind brought on other physical symptoms
such as loss of appetite, wrinkles, loss of energy, etc. This
fear completely upset the mind. The subconscious mind was
impressed to the extent that even though Mrs. Roe did recover
eventually from the high blood pressure, there would have
been a FEAR COMPLEX in her make-up that would have
disturbed her entire organism, and it would have remained
in the subconscious until such time as it would have been
intelligently removed.
The intelligent doctor is cautious and tactful in present-
ing the facts to a patient and does not unduly alarm him
regarding his condition. Such a doctor would tell Mrs. Roe
that her blood pressure is too high but that it is not to be
considered as especially dangerous PROVIDING THE PA-
TIENT WILL USE HER INTELLIGENCE AND OBEY THE
SIMPLE LAWS INVOLVED IN HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE
while the doctor is INTELLIGENTLY DOING SOMETHING
TO REDUCE THE BLOOD PRESSURE.
The doctor then truthfully, forcefully, intelligently, and
logically explains the laws involved and exp'lains WHAT HE
INTENDS TO DO to remove the condition until Mrs. Roe
SEES, KNOWS, UNDERSTANDS, and BELIEVES that what
he has told her fa, in fact, a TRUTH. Then, and only then,
does Mrs. Roe use her intellect and reasons upon this truth
that has been proved, and quite naturally she comes to the
conclusion that SHE CAN GET WELL.
FEAR can be and is a DESTRUCTIVE EMOTION. Any-
one who suffers from fear should know and comply with the
laws governing fear.
1. Find out what it is that CAUSES you TO FEAR.
2. ELIMINATE the fear by INTELLIGENT ACTION.
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 43
3. If it is not within your power to eliminate the fear,
then consult someone who has made a study of the
human mind. Present your case to the doctor, or
mental healer, who in turn will ANALYZE THIS
FEAR. Then, with the aid of your intelligence and
will power, ELIMINATE THE FEAR.
4. Do not fear anything needlessly. Analyze your fears
in the light of TRUTH, and you will find that there
IS, IN REALITY, NOTHING WORTHY OF BEING
FEARED.
In eliminating fear we must learn that the trials of life
are not motiveless. The problems and difficulties that we
must face and overcome are really incentives to further human
development. Appearing as ugly excrescenses on the path
of life, they are in reality the stepping-stones to better things,
for we must have the bad in order to appreciate the good.
Real happiness comes to us through struggling with the dif-
ficult and overcoming it.
Fear is only a beacon that warns us of an impending
danger. To allow' fear to absorb and control the nature mere-
ly indicates that one is the victim of negative thinking. When
we think negatively, we attract to ourselves those forces that
are destructive to our being. Fear is a signal to withdraw to
safety or to call upon Divine Guidance for protection, to
KNOW that no evil can befall us. The universe is one of law,
order, and harmony and not the result of mere chance or
accident. Accidents and misfortunes are not the normal out-
come of man's experience and do not constitute a part of the
Divine Plan.
There are many types of fear. Psychologically we know
that most of them are unconscious. Some of our fears have
their origin in childhood experiences; others originate from
ancestral memories that are hidden and obscured in the sub-
conscious. In our conscious and waking state, we must strive
to bring these experiences and memories to the threshold of
consciousness in order to eliminate the negative thought pat-
terns and thus free ourselves from the domination of fear.
44 RAYS OF THE DAWN
To free oneself from the bondage of fear is, indeed, a
great victory. But as 1ong as we are slaves to the illusion
of the pair of opposites, such as good and evil, love and hate,
life and death, we shall be imprisoned to our thought. Once
we see the opposites in their true light, we rise above them
and harmonize ourselves with the Divine. Harmonizing with
the Divine indicates that we have attained to wisdom, and
no longer is our consciousness capable of being disturbed by
destructive emotions.
Chapter Six
WORRY
In presenting the second destructive force of the human
mind; namely, WORRY, we must differentiate between good
healthy planning or constructive thinking and the destructive
state of mind that manifests itself in the form of nervous
anxiety or mental distress. The word worry as used in
this discussion may be defined as follows: "A destructive
state of mind manifested in the form of mental distress con-
cerning some person, thing, circumstance, problem, condition,
or situation, and associated with the emotional state of ap-
prehension, fear, anxiety, dread, or regret."
It is a psychological fact that thoughts must be either
positive or negative. Negative thinking results in real dis-
ease or disturbed mentality, either of which is destructive of
health and happiness. Worry, being negative, is an enemy
and should be eliminated. If we allow worry to dominate
our consciousness, intelligence must, of necessity, be submerg-
ed. It is only when we use our God-given reason that we
are able to remove this useless and antagonistic force from
our consciousness. Not only is worry a diseased condition of
consciousness but, interfering as it does with the normal
functions of the bodily organs, it is the cause of many physical
diseases, and also of many mental disorders of varying kind
and degree.
Worry depends upon an incorrect interpretation in our
consciousness. As man evolves to a higher state of existence,
as he becomes more civilized and thoughtful, as he lives less
in the present and more in the past and future, and as man's
nervous system undergoes a higher organization and be-
comes more sensitive, he becomes more susceptible to a dis-
turbed condition of the mind; and in this respect, he is more
subjected to worry and its effects than any organism of a
lower order of intelligence.
45
46 RAYS OF THE DAWN
Every individual life must, of necessity, experience ob-
stacles, problems, difficulties, disappointments, and thwarted
plans. These things are but challenges that we must meet.
Either we must conquer them through elimination or adapta-
tion, or else we become their victims and are subdued. "It is
a first law of growth that surroundings must suit the needs
of species and organisms, or distortion and death follow." It
is paramount, therefore, that if we cannot overcome condi-
tions, we must adapt ourselves to them. When confronted by
a problem or a situation that disturbs the individual's peace
of mind, he should prepare to meet the situation and elim-
inate it from his experience. If it is beyond his power to
overcome the difficulty, then he must adjust himself to it.
The solution of most of life's problems is a process of adapta-
tion, the conquest of environment. Adjustment begins with
what one contributes to experience, not with what he takes
from it.
If a period of concentrated thinking offers no solution to
a difficulty, the natural course of action pursued by the aver-
age person is to begin worrying, as though such a reaction
would produce an answer to the problem. The individual
begins to fret; then enters the fear of consequences followed
by mental depression, despondency, and brooding, and soon
the whole organism is disturbed. Like the emotion of fear,
worry directly affects the physiological processes. Strange
symptoms are the result of worry, and immediately the in-
dividual begins to attach these symptoms to more serious
causes. Worry is a destroyer of health, wealth, love and ex-
pression and then creates bigger difficulties to worry about
- all the outcome of negative thinking.
Nature did not intend that we should worry. She en-
dowed us with a brain wherein is stored wisdom, instinct, in-
tellect, will power, and the POWER TO REASON. Further-
more, Nature intended that we should use these attributes
INTELLIGENTLY so that our lives would be such a beauti-
ful, harmonious expression that any condition that creates
worry would be foreign to our experience. When we worry,
it is generally because we find ourselves involved in a situa-
THE LAWS· OF THE MIND 47
tion other than that which we anticipated. We did not cor-
rectly USE OUR POWER of WISDOM, INSTINCT, INTEL-
LECT, WILL POWER, and REASON; or, in other words,
WE MADE A MISTAKE.
We did not have the mental capacity to cope with the
situation, or we failed to use our intelligence properly, and
we were led into an error. Our plans did not materialize
as we anticipated, and we found ourselves involved in a dif-
ficulty that we had not expected. Then instead of IMME-
DIATELY GETTING BUSY AND DOING SOMETHING
THAT WOULD CORRECT THE SITUATION, we were prone
to just sit down and begin to WORRY. The MIND, being dis-
turbed by the confused state, was then unable to properly
govern the BODY; consequently, MENTAL and PHYSICAL
trouble began to develop. Worry, like fear, will disorganize
the whole being - body, mind, and soul. Most people who
are ill are the victims of worry. Either their illness is a direct
outcome of worry or this destructive force is associated with
the condition in some form or degree.
Worry is responsible for more disease than all the germs
that exist upon the face of the earth. We believe that al-
most everyone suffers from it in some form or another. Few
of us ever realize just what harm we do when we allow our
minds to indulge in this most destructive emotion. Worry
has been aptly called the "foolish American pastime."
The findings of every investigator show that worry is
not only created by physical conditions but itself creates
bodily sickness. There is an intimate relation between high
blood pressure, heart failure, and all phases of serious anxiety.
Loss of appetite and weight under prolonged worry is often
observed. It is commonly believed that worry and other de-
structive emotions and irritations of life hasten the breakdown
of the organic functions, and it is well known that diseases
or deficiencies of these functions are greatly aggravated by
emotional disturbances.
As a direct cause of the various kinds of functional nerv-
ous disease, worry is most important. Many people cannot
48 RAYS OF THE DAWN
sleep because they worry about their inability to sleep. The
more the individual concentrates on trying to go to sleep,
meanwhile becoming more apprehensive of failure, the more
apt he is to stay awake. The same is true of nervous indiges-
tion. In fact, any part or function of the body"is apt to be-
come disordered if too much attention is centered upon it.
Those bodily processes and functions under the control of the
subjective or innate mind are best performed when left un-
disturbed by orders from the educated mind. This is true not
only of such functions as sleep and digestion but also of other
functions which require the most direct and painstaking ef-
forts of conscious attention. In the case of sleep and diges-
tion, we cannot pay too little attention.
To illustrate exactly how a WORRY in the MIND can
produce pathology or trouble in the BODY, we shall present
the following case: Let us assume that Mr. and Mrs. Jones
are people of moderate circumstances who wish to enjoy the
comforts and conveniences of average individuals. They de-
cide to purchase a home, a car, and furniture. But not having
sufficient cash to buy these items, they decide to use the in-
stallment payment plan. They make the purchases - MORT-
GAGE THEIR FUTURE - and indebt themselves to pay to
creditors $150.00 per month for years.
The plan works out very well for over a year. Then, due
to a period of depression, Mr. Jones suffers a great financial
loss in his business. He begins to worry. He is reluctant
to tell his wife, but he must let her know that they cannot
meet the allotted payments on their purchases. Mrs. Jones
begins to fret and worry. Her mind being disturbed by a
worry, her whole system becomes involved. Her appetite is
lost, sleep is broken, and she feels depressed and "out of sorts."
A spirit of gloom settles over the Jones' household.
Mr. and Mrs. Jones decide that they MUST DO SOME-
THING, so they try to borrow some money from the bank.
Conditions have changed things, and the bank refuses the
loan. Money seems so difficult to raise. They go from place
to place and finally are convinced that they cannot get the
money. WORRY CONTINUES AND GROWS IN ITS IN-
TENSITY. There seems no way out.
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 49
The collectors call again and again. They threaten to
repossess the house, the car, and the furniture. Mrs. Jones
immediately creates a mental picture of her furniture being
moved out. She wonders what the neighbors will say, and
this increases her worry. Her pride is now involved. She
sits around and broods all day. Finally she becomes PHYS-
ICALLY ILL. (She has already been MENTALLY ILL).
Her stomach is all out of order; it will not retain food. She
is nervous and irritable.
Mr. Jones comes home and finds his wife quite ill. He
urges her to see a doctor, and she follows his advice. She
consults a medical doctor, a chiropractor, and a Christian
Science practitioner. Each in his turn treats the physical
symptoms without any inquiry into the mental cause of her
trouble. Mrs. Jones receives some relief from her illness, but
the WORRY which originally made her ill is still there; so
she continues in her quest for a doctor who can successfully
cure her malady.
The type of doctor that Mrs. Jones needs would, at the
present time, be very difficult to find, for he is the type
of doctor that the entire world needs - one who in his treat-
ment CO-ORDINATES THE BODY, THE MIND, AND THE
SOUL SO THAT ALL THREE OF THESE PHASES THAT
MAKE UP THE HUMAN BEING WILL WORK TO-
GETHER HARMONIOUSLY. To cure this woman, the doc-
tor must find the real CAUSE which is WORRY, and he must
ELIMINATE it from the MIND, thereby restoring the mind
back to normal. Then he must TREAT the BODY for the
PHYSICAL condition that the mind caused, and when all this
has been accomplished, Mrs. Jones will be WELL.
This discussion brings us to the LAW THAT GOVERNS
WORRY. The law that governs worry requires:
1. That one determines WHAT IT IS that causes him
to worry.
2. That he ELIMINATES this worry by INTELLIGENT
ACTION.
50 RAYS OF THE DAWN
3. If it is not within his power to INTELLIGENTLY
ELIMINATE the worry, then he is to accept the situation as
being one over which he has no control, and he is to REFUSE
TO WORRY.
4. One should not CREA TE WORRIES. He must plan
his acts so INTELLIGENTLY that worries will not develop.
When Mrs. Jones discovered that her husband's salary
had been cut and her intelligence told her that it was no longer
possible to pay the bills, she should have used this intelligence
and should have gone to the creditors and honestly explained
the situation. She should have asked that a new arrange-
ment be made, with smaller payments; and if this was not
acceptable, then she should have realized that IT WAS A
SITUATION OVER WHICH SHE HAD NO CONTROL, and
she should have allowed the creditors to do what they did
in similar conditions. If they repossessed the home, the car,
and the furniture, she should have accepted the situation in
a calm, peaceful manner and REFUSED TO WORRY ABOUT
IT, and then she should have adapted herself to the new
situation.
In order to eliminate worry from his experience, the in-
dividual must face life with courage. He must discard biases,
as well as opinions and conventions of others. We shall not
be free from the pangs of worry as long as we allow our
thinking and our activities to be governed by the beliefs,
customs, opinions, and traditions of others instead of follow-
ing the guidance and dictates of one's true self. Living as
we do in a world of untruth, the conventions which we are
called upon to observe, if analyzed, seem absurd in many cases.
Yet the majority of us are inclined to worry if we cannot fit
our lives according to these false standards. The farther
the individual digresses from the natural way of life, the great-
er and more numerous become his anxieties. "The standards
of man are temporal; those of nature, eternal."
Beyond food, clothing, shelter, health, danger, and the
necessities of life, there are no disturbances which rest upon
the fact,s themselves. Facts, events, and circumstances take
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 51
on their color and significance only in the light in which we
view them. Everything is relative. There is no big or little,
fast or slow, ugly or beautiful, rich or poor, except by com-
parison. One man feels financially depressed on a salary of
$3600.00 per year; another prospers on the same income. Each
man's outlook is determined and measured by his standard.
We judge life not by its realities but by its appearances.
Worries are but phantasies of the mind.
In the art of avoiding worry, we must guard against be-
coming involved in other people's troubles and the conditions
which they allow to disturb their lives. Unless one builds
a wall around himself, so to speak, intended to protect his
peace and happiness, he will be exposed to all of the negative
vibrations of people whom he contacts. One who is subjected
to the vibrations of the emotional conflicts of the crowd must
possess a vigorous constitution to maintain his own emotional
stability.
Many strive for perfection, and worry lest they fail to
attain their goal. Such individuals lack an understanding of
the true principles upon which life is built. Every phase of
Creation has its imperfections. Life cannot be perfect, for it
is in the process of evolution and is subject to variation and
change. Man cannot be without his. limitations, nor will the
product of his efforts be without a flaw. We must seek to
learn a lesson from our failures, losses, and suffering, for
through them we grow spiritually. "It is not the victories
but the defeats of life that strengthen us."
Life presents the opportunity for joy and happiness in
equal measure with discontent and worry. But, if we under-
stand the Laws that govern our being and direct our lives
accordingly, we can avoid the suffering that results from the
transgression of these laws and the emotional disturbances
which come as an inevitable consequence of their violation.
Chapter Seven
ANGER
"He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and
he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city."
-Prov. 16:32
The destructive emotions of the human MIND are many,
and the individual who understands how to control them is,
indeed, fortunate. Emotion represents a very intimate inter-
action between the mind and the body. To attain a high
degree of self-control, the individual must begin with the emo-
tions, but instead of suppressing or annihilating them, rather
he should endeavor to control and co-ordinate them. If the
emotions are not controlled, they will eventually evolve into
veritable psychic demons intruding ruthlessly upon the con-
fines of the whole being - creating physical and mental dis-
orders, utterly destroying the finer sensibilities, building
themselves up into despotic masters, dominating the mind at
will, and completely supplanting reason and judgment.
ANGER may be defined as a "sudden, keen displeasure
aroused by real or assumed injury or injustice and usually
accompanied by the desire to punish. INDIGNATION is in-
tense anger awakened by anything unworthy, as cruelty or
meanness; RAGE is a vehement expression of anger; and
FURY is an excess of rage."
Anger, and other similar states, such as rage, fury, vexa-
tion, irritation, revenge, and perhaps jealousy and scorn,
distort and darken the nature. One should recognize the
necessity of conquering these evils. So identified has the
consciousness of man become with these destructive emotions
that, although man realizes that these forces are detrimental
to his development, he is deluded with the idea that they con-
stitute a necessary part of human life. The popular belief
and prevailing tendency is to hold the worst in check, prevent-
52
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 53
ing the operation of these forces where their destructive
nature is most pronounced. Such false belief is entirely mis-
leading. Until the individual awakens to the fact that the
imperfections retained in his consciousness are detrimental
to his well-being - physical, mental, and spiritual - and that
his progress depends entirely upon his own effort to eradicate
these animal traits, he is not only a slave to the animal ele-
ments of his nature but he is subject to all the vibrations
about him arising from similar faults in others.
As a person allows himself to become more and more in-
volved in traits of character brought over from the animal
plane of consciousness, he gradually loses strength of his will,
his powers of resistance are weakened, and the entire organ-
ism loses equilibrium. There are some people whose nature
is mild and passive, and the expression of anger in such in-
dividuals is not so objectionable. Still, this :destructive force
reaps its penalty and prevents the individual from reaching
a higher standard of consciousness. There are others whose
natures are intense and aggressive, and the same degree of
emotional upset makes such persons most offensive not only
to themselves but to all whom they contact.
Anger is an "affect which is the veritable epitome of the
striving for power and domination." This emotion reveals
very clearly that its objective is to destroy quickly and force-
fully any obstruction in the path of its angry victim. Ob-
servation and research have taught us that an angry indi-
vidual will utilize all of his powers, physical and mental, to gain
superiority and recognition. We often find individuals who
respond to the least stimulus that might retard their ambi-
tion, or detract from their sense of superiority, with fits of
passion, anger, or touchiness. They are convinced that they
can force their issues or conquer their opponents by the use
of this weapon. Such persons vibrate on a very low plane,
and actually they are a menace to society.
There are occasions when anger is justified, but we a.re
considering only the destructive phases of this emotion. Some
persons actually make a system out of their' anger and make
themselves conspicuous by their aggressive approach to a prob-
54 RAYS OF THE DAWN
lem or situation. They are usually highly sensitive individuals
who harbor a false pride and whose inferiority complex is
such that they cannot tolerate an equal or a superior, and
who must themselves be superior to be happy. Consequently,
they are ever on the alert lest someone should approach them
too closelyor does not value them with the proper esteem.
One of the most inexcusable forms of lack or loss of self-
control is displayed by those who attempt to heal the sick.
Toooften doctors becomeirritated and angry at their patients,
forgetting for the moment that the patient is ill. Among
those who understand the action of the mind, there is a great
desire to overlook and excuse the idiosyncrasies of persons
who live in a state of unrest and illness. To allow oneself to
be dragged down to a lower plane in order to protect an "in-
flated ego" is a flagrant violation of Natural Law.
Often a patient will go to a doctor seeking treatment for
some organic disturbance, whereas the cause is due to emo-
tional upheavals in the life or environment of such an in-
dividual. Treatment of the body alleviates some of the dis-
tress, but no cure can be effected unless the cause be corrected.
Either the doctor with his advice, or the patient with an _
awakened understanding, must eradicate the cause. It is such
cases as these that are responsible for some of the failures
in healing.
As an illustration of how ANGER in the MIND can pro-
duce pathology in the body, let us assume that a person is
eating a meal containing a substance opaque to X rays. The
normal rhythmic churning movements of the stomach can be
clearly observed before the screen of the fluorescope. Now,
assume that this person becomes angered by the naggings of
a jealous mate. The peristaltic movements will be greatly
diminished or, perhaps, may cease altogether. Even in milder
vexation such as arguments, stomach movements are inhibited;
the flow of saliva may stop, producing the dry mouth char-
acteristic of rage, fear or nervous anxiety. Glandular activities
of digestion are diminished, secretion of gastric juice is
retarded, and thus the whole digestive process becomes dis-
ordered. One who is subject to habitual anger will so weakP.n
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 55
his digestive tract that ill health will be the inevitable con-
sequence of this violation of Natural Law.
During paroxyms of anger, every function of the body
operates in an extravagant fashion, and all bodily work is per-
formed in a most wasteful manner. The muscles of the: entire
organism become tense and contracted. This tenseness per-
vades even the sympathetic nervous system, and as a result
there are pronounced circulatory changes due to sympathetic
discharge. The heart beats more rapidly and with greater
amplitude. The smaller blood vessels contract in spasmodic
fashion. This constriction of the arteries, together with in-
creased heart action, produces a higher blood pressure and
more effective circulation through the organs involved in bodily
action. Thus the heart is overworked; the circulation, the
digestion, and the elimination are interfered with; and the
breathing become~ deeper and more rapid. Hence we see that
the entire physical mechanism is disorganized.
The enormous amount of work performed by both brain
and body when in a state of anger represents a useless ex-
penditure of vital physical and mental energy. Not only is
there a useless waste of valuable effort but a great deal of
harm is being done to both mind and body. Persons actively
engaged in systematic and constructive mental and physical
endeavor are not apt to become the victims of habitual anger
and the harmful, useless, and unwholesome upheavals that are
concomitant with this most destructive force.
Destructive anger and its associate phases may be listed,
according to their degree of intensity, as follows: Irritability,
sensitiveness, anger, rage, hatred, and revenge - all different
degrees of the same state- the more intense forms following
in inevitable sequence to the unrestricted operation of the
milder ones. If one is repeatedly detained by mild or subtle
weaknesses, his progress is interfered with just as effectively
as one who is subject to the grosser or more intense forms.
IRRITABILITY is a subtle form of anger, and the individual
who allows himself to be affected by it should not delude
himself by thinking that indulgence in this emotional state
will produce no apparent harm. The more intense forms of
56 RAYS OF THE DAWN
evil, which eventually take the nature by storm, are but the
more developed states of the milder forms and exist solely
because they were not checked in their incipiency.
The person in whom DESIRE, AMBITION, SELFISH-
NESS and PRIDE, one or all, are fostered will so lose his
balance as to be easily wrought into a state of IRRITABIL-
ITY, which, if unchecked, will cause the individual to bristle
with points through which he takes personal offense. One
who is conscious of his own worth will not easily be insulted
if accused of, or blamed for, anything that is below his dignity.
Most fits of anger or touchiness are but an expression of a
feeling of insecurity, inferiority, or a sense of false pride.
SENSITIVENESS depends upon the degree of pride and self-
importance that serves as its foundation. Let the individual
analyze the consciousness through which he becomes hurt or
offended, and he will soon recognize that it arises from
wounded pride or a sense of self-importance that is not duly
appreciated.
One who has risen to the state which tolerates no pride
or special estimation of himself, as apart from others, never
takes offense at any slight or insult. His acts are governed
by his highest sense of right or duty. He does not allow his
judgment to be swayed by the opinion of others, nor does he
in any degree yield to their influence. The thwarted will,
directed toward the fruition of ambition and the fulfillment
of desires, also results in various stages of irritability, of
which the most intense stage is ANGER. The nature in which
ambition, pride or indulgence, one or all, are well developed,
will be capable of extreme anger, and anger usually increases
in the degree that the will, which operates in -connection with
the above errors, is curtailed.
When anger from any cause is tolerated and allowed to
grow, HATRED is soon engendered and extends to both people
and things. Anger against, or hatred of, the most evil con-
dition or person should find no place in the person who
desires to have HEALTH and HAPPINESS. Even likes and
dislikes should be checked, and hatred under no circumstances
should be allowed. Out of hatred grows the spirit of RE-
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 57
VENGE. Revenge, too, operates in different degrees, accord-
ing to the intensity of the force back of it. To permit a desire
or disposition to return evil for evil, or, in common parlance, to
"get even" with the wrongdoer, at once levels the aggressor
to the plane of his opponent, feeds the animal natures of both,
and poisons the whole organism. The nature of revenge,
whether mild or intense, is to wreak vengeance directly upon
its victims.
When we consider how far the people of the world are
from the standard of absolute non-revenge, non-anger, non-
hatred or even non-irritability, it is little wonder that injustice
is almost always the accompaniment of authority. Though
one's purposes and resolves are to do right, unless the indi-
vidual is free from emotional upsets, the mind is not clear, and
correct judgment cannot at all times be formed. All people
need to learn this lesson, especially those in authority. There
is one class in particular to whom we wish to make appeal.
Let the teachers, parents, and all who have direct control
and guidance of children, rid their natures of anger and
irritability. As a result, not only would children be saved
from the polluting influence of such characteristics and result-
ing injustice, but righteous discipline would be far more
effectual, and the power to control has, in that degree, power
to govern others. One who has not gained self-control is, in
the degree that he lacks it, unfitted to be dn authority. The
only attitude supportable by the progressive individual is that
in which the greatest usefulness is promoted. If one is angry,
if he hates, or feels revengeful toward any condition or person,
he is thereby unfitted to be helpful.
To be forever free from the emotion known as ANGER,
one must first eliminate its lesser degrees, IRRITABILITY
and SENSITIVENESS. This can be done only by an under-
standing of the cause. If the cause be a person, then one must
understand that the person is only a victim of destructive
emotions and does not understand. One must not allow him-
self to become involved also. The individual should strive to
develop the art of being patient with people or things that
irritate, and as a consequence he will enjoy greater health
and happiness.
Chapter Eight
JEALOUSY
Characterized by anxiety, envy, distrust and suspicion,
jealousy is an emotional state which manifests itself in the
form of a demand for exclusive affection or attention. Jeal-
ousy implies "wounded vanity, conscious or subconscious in,.
feriority, and fear - fear of not being able to hold something
desired." Jealousy is a trait of character which grows out
of greed and the conditions arising therefrom. In perfect accord
with Nature's law of action and reaction, greed promotes
jealousy, and jealousy increases greed. If there were no greed
operating in human nature, no one need fear that his own,
or that which he lawfully acquired, would be taken from him.
Not only does jealousy weaken and disrupt love relation-
ships but it also directs its destructive course into all human
ties. Most manifestations of jealousy in adults can be traced
to some childhood memory or experience in which the feeling
of being neglected or the sense of being discriminated against
was predominant. Jealousy frequently develops in children
from a desire for superiority or from fear of being supplanted.
It is no uncommon occurence to find a child expressing ex-
treme jealousy with the advent of a younger brother or sister
into the family, especially when the older child has been the
exclusive object of his parent's love and attention.
There are some people whose ego is such that they can-
not tolerate the superiority or preferment of another; hence
jealousy is aroused by whomever they cannot equal or sur-
pass. Although the recognition bestowed upon another is not
always deserved, still one can 'never be justified in indulging
in the negative emotion of jealousy, a destructive form of
hypersensitiveness, destructive not so much to its object as
to the one who harbors it. The person who has evolved to
the point where he is conscious of his own faults and limita-
58
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 59
tions will react favorably to the recognition of superior qual-
ities in another. When the individual becomes cognizant of
the ONENESS of all mankind, he realizes that the excellence
or accomplishment of the one will contribute to the better-
ment of the whole, and hence also to his own individual de-
velopment.
Jealousy assumes various forms and proportions. It can
be detected in destructive criticism of another individual or
of his accomplishments, in distrust of another or suspicious
apprehension of his activities, and in the fear of being slighted
or neglected. As to which of these manifestations predominates
in a person depends upon the concepts that have been built
up in his preparation for social life. Jealousy may express
itself in obstinacy, in self-destruction, in damaging another's
possessions, or in disorganizing his plans and spoiling his
pleasure - always in some type of useless opposition. But the
most outstanding of these manifestations can be classified
as a restriction of another's freedom, and this is the most
objectionable form. Placing physical, mental, and spiritual
bonds around another only causes the victim to strive to break
away from such imprisonment.
The .emotion of jealousy is generally considered to be an
inborn tendency, but the most superficial glance at its effects
will contradict such an erroneous conclusion and will show
that this aggressive force is a logical and rational tool, un-
consciously acquired for the enslavement of another human
being. Jealousy is the unfailing index of an inferiority com-
plex. It is "an artificially prepared emotional feeling-tone"
which exerts its harmful influence both upon the individual
who is jealous and the unfortunate object of this disruptive
trait .. In its destructive .effects upon the whole being, jealousy
can be compared to hatred, to which it is closely related.
That great love is impossible without some jealousy is a tragic
fallacy that is prevalent in the minds of most people.
Whenever a person is jealous, he tacitly acknowledges
his inability to maintain the love of a beloved and further
admits his unworthiness of that affection; hence he resorts
to the artificial limits and restrictions of jealousy to avoid
60 RAYS OF THE DAWN
any outside competition that might reflect upon his own
inferior status. He who attempts to command and own those
he loves by the means of the fetters of jealousy denies his
loved ones the freedom of thought and activity which is in-
dispensable for the preservation of enduring love.
The very nature of jealousy condemns it, and only in an
abnormal life can it find expression. Its nature is revealed
through its action, which is to CLUTCH, GRASP, and BIND
for personal gratification; It also gives rise to suspicion,
hatred, and anger. It pollutes the nature in which it exists
and poisons the atmosphere breathed by its victims. There
is no circumstance nor relationship that justifies its presence,
yet people are deluded by the idea that it is the accompani-
ment of 'love. Be sure that where jealousy exists REAL
LOVE IS UNKNOWN, and in its place is only an unholy
emotion born of lust for self. Jealousy is the "poison ivy
that grows around the tree of love and chokes its branches
and withers its roots."
Jealousy it not an attractive but a repellent force. One
who becomes jealous of another's love or attention takes the
attitude most detrimental to his desire. The desire is not in
any sense justifiable, but from his own selfish standpoint,
jealousy diametrically opposes the gaining of one's end. One
who is the victim of1
jealousy will naturally resist the unjust
bondage to which such jealousy subjects him; so the more
intense the clutching directed towards one, the greater the
resistance and the wider the breech becomes.
UNSELFISH LOVE IS THE ATTRACTIVE FORCE, and
when this is not active or when it suffices not to unite and
harmonize, all effort on low planes becomes useless. An in-
dividual may watch and guard his possessions as he will, but
never will he be able to insure them against the destructive
forces which are everywhere in operation on the low plane
coexistent with jealousy. Thus we see that this state is use-
less as well as destructive.
If an individual imagines that his happiness depends upon
a person, place, condition or circumstance and thus he be-
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 61
comes jealous, he is pitifully deluded, for happiness is born
of a pure spirit. The more absorbing one's jealousy becomes,
the more miserable his plight; so again his end is defeated.
Jealous thoughts will upset the entire organism - BODY,
MIND, and SOUL - and will bring on a nervous condition
that all the doctors in the world cannot cure.
If one is inclined to be jealous of persons or things, he
can be sure that deep in his subjective mind are concepts
from past experiences of childhood days acquired from a mis-
use of reason at that time. These concepts ,become active at
the most inopportune moments and enslave the individual.
Through an understanding of mental laws, the individual can
closely analyze his jealousies, and realizing that such emo-
tional states are destructive to his health and happiness, he
will strive to eliminate them through intelligent thought. Let
us therefore cease to be jealous, for happiness comes from
within, never from without, and hence it depends upon no
person, place, nor thing.
Chapter Nine
UESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM, CONDEMNATION,
GOSSIP AND SLANDER
"If he who carefully picks holes in the character of others
would but expend the same skill upon himself, what could
prevent him from breaking through the bonds of ignorance?''
Another scale of errors which plagues the human mind
and darkens the soul consists of destructive criticism, con-
demnation, gossip and slander. These characteristics are in-
terdependent, and if the milder form is checked, the more
virulent phases cannot ensue.
Criticism is a phase of mind which, when used in certain
ways, is generally considered not only justifiable but exceed-
ingly valuable. Such utilization of criticism, however, is con-
fined to a limited scope. The original and more restricted
meaning of the word criticism is a fine and accurate judgment
of an object, especially applied to works of art and literature,
with a view of presenting their excellences rather than find-
ing fault. But from this standard, usage has caused criticism
to degenerate into an agency for unrestricted faultfinding.
The confines of advantageous criticism are very limited.
In fact, criticism has become almost wholly destructive.
Teachers and those in authority, when their personal interests
are involved, may closely scan the work or natures of those
directly under their supervision with the sole objective of
exposing errors and correcting them. But this is, strictly
speaking, rather analysis than criticism, in the sense in which
criticism is currently' understood and used. Analysis, used in
this connection, is the division of certain conditions into their
various parts for the purpose of showing the individual that
which is destructive and to be avoided and that which is
constructive and to be cultivated. Such analysis should be
62
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 63
used only by those who are free from selfish interests and
where duty commands.
Thoughts of criticism - of people, places or things - are
definitely negative and constitute the most common form of
negative thought. It is a psychological fact that our judg-
ments of others are apt to be self-judgments. We tend to
censure and criticize in others the things which are at fault
in our own natures. If the criticism of others would form the
basis of improving one's own ways of living and thinking, it
might prove to be beneficial, but when criticism degenerates
to the 'level of undermining others, it can only result in
producing discord and unhappiness in the lives of those who
indulge in this pernicious habit. The critical mind is forever
blaming, judging, and condemning the world, yet little does
he contribute toward bettering the ways of man. Destructive
criticism, like jealousy, is an indicator of an inferiority com-
plex and is used as a means of attaining superiority over
another.
Like all habits, criticism, indulged in, rapidly grows and
takes possession of the individual until, whatever his sur-
roundings, his peace of mind is marred because of the flaws
which everywhere present themselves to his fastidious mind.
Through cultivating the mind according to certain standards,
the senses may become so keenly critical that whenever they
contact an object, comparisons are at once made and criticism
formed corresponding to one's likes and dislikes. When any
person or thing irritates or annoys, one should examine his
own mind, and he will find that he is disturbed through his
own criticism. As one CEASES THE CRITICISM, the dis-
turbance will pass.
The habit of destructive criticism, or faultfinding, grows
out of the discontented mind. Could the faultfinder regulate
the circumstances or people of which he complains, he would
only vary the state of imperfection. People and conditions
. of this world can never be changed to satisfy the individual.
No two people have the same taste or standards as to what
constitutes beauty or desirability. This is a world of end-
less variety and imperfections, all created according to wide-
64 RAYS OF THE DAWN
ly different ideas. If one allows himself the privilege of
criticizing, even in his thought, that which does not conform
to his particular fancies, he will not only make himself and
others unnecessarily uncomfortable but he will be detained
in his progression towards health and happiness by trifles
unworthy of his consideration.
It would be illogical to conceive of an Infinite Being as
imperfect, weak, powerless, poor, indifferent, yet we allow
critical thoughts of the shortcomings and weaknesses of others
to tinge our thinking. God rules the world, plans the world,
and must of necessity have different people with varying
expressions; therefore, one should recognize this fact and be
less critical of those with whom he does not "vibrate in
resonance." Every individual should strive to acquire the
habit of viewing all persons as children of God, made in His
image, and to look for such good qualities as are apparent.
When we contact an indi:vidual who vibrates on a low plane
of existence, rather than criticize his weakened or corrupt
nature, we should lend our efforts toward directing such a
person to a better way of life. One must learn to see people,
conditions, and things just as they are without being affected
by comparisons, and soon:he will check the habit of criticism.
Whenever one ceases to vindicate firm likes and dislikes, he
automatically eliminates critical thoughts and critical speech
from his experience.
Destructive criticism leads to a train of disruptive habits
and passions. Because it has long been given such free scope,
it has become such a persistent and insidious habit that even
after the aspirant has conquered other errors and the grosser
aspects of criticism, it often insinuates itself on his unsuspect-
ing mind and once more drags him into the mire of its own
plane. There is only one way to handle destructive criticism,
and that is to throttle it in its incipiency, whenever and wher-
ever it appears.
A critical mind not only in itself checks progression but
it leads to the more destructive quality of condemnation. If
one does not begin by criticizing, he will not end in condemn-
ing. Condemnation is a two-edged sword which very few are
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 65
capable of using, and indiscriminately handled, as it is today,
infused with the harmful elements of anger, hatred and re-
venge, it is wholly destructive.
Because of the power that evil has gained over the life
of man, condemnation is occasionally unavoidable, but the
circumstances under which it is beneficial are even more limit-
ed than those which circumvent the use of criticism. Had
man not entangled himself in evil, neither criticism nor con-
demnation would ever have entered his consciousness, much
less would it have been necessary to employ either one to
promote his advancement. But he has become tremendously
involved. It is therefore sometimes indispensable, for one
who is especially appointed, to not only analyze the conditions
which hold an individual but to forcefully denounce them ere
the individual can himself. In extreme cases, when every
other method has failed, suffering is the only remaining
means of bringing one to himself.
When one condemns maliciously, or for any reason except
when compelled by duty, he sets destructive forces to work
within himself. He is subject to the law of reaction and opens
himself to the disruptive influences which inhabit low planes.
Unless one is in a position that unquestionably demands his
judgment and regulation, he must never allow his interests
to carry him far enough into the affairs or conditions of
others to criticize, condemn, or even to form an opinion
thereon.
Where indiscriminate criticism and condemnation become
habits of mind, it is an easy step to GOSSIP and SLANDER.
We need not devote much time to the discussion of slander,
fol" its destructive nature is so thoroughly recognized that it
has come under the limit of criminal law. GOSSIP, its in-
evitable forerunner, is considered more innocent. It is, how-
ever, both idle and pernicious. The individual is warned
against allowing himself to enter any territory except where
duty calls. This is another way of saying, "STRICTLY MIND
YOUR OWN BUSINESS." If this rule is observed, one will
never be led into the consideration of people or things that
do not concern him. Gossip is not confined to speaking ill of
66 RAYS OF THE DAWN
people, but any idle discussion of the affairs of others falls
into this category. One who wishes to progress must absolute-
ly cease from any phase or form of gossip.
Gossip can be described as probably the most clearly self-
revealing method of personal expression. It extends its de-
structive forces to the limits of another's possessions, con-
duct, misfortunes, sufferings, and qualities, and ev:en pen-
etrates the sacred sphere of family ties. The world is full of
gossip, and one must closely guard himself against becoming
involved in other people's idle and pernicious "chatter." By
listening to the gossip of others, one becomes a party to it,
and hence he is quite as responsible as those engaged in the
actual practice of it.
Every person possesses both good and bad qualities, and
we have the choice of recognizing either of these. It is the
prevailing and far-reaching tendency, however, to ignore the
admirable traits in an individual and to magnify his short-
comings. But it is a natural law that "with what measure
we mete, it is measured to us agam"; therefore, let us closely
analyze this statement before we indulge in discordant
thoughts or idle talk regarding the character or behavior of
another individual. Gossip is another insidious habit, as dif-
ficult to check as it is destructive, and it should be coped
with, whenever it interferes, with inexorable severity.
CRITICISM, CONDEMNATION, GOSSIP and SLANDER
are dangerous forces. Criticism, in the sense of faultfinding,
should never enter the thought or conduct of an individual
who hopes to maintain his health, happiness, and peace of
mind. Condemnation should be handled only by those who,
having gained wisdom, have been especially appointed to
authority; and it should never be used in malice, anger, irrita-
tion or selfishness. Gossip will hold the individual on a low
plane, and ends in slander. Slander is a crime punishable
by law.
In a world of imperfections, chaotic conditions and con-
fusion, it is difficult to remain undisturbed and unaffected
by the faults and flaws that are everywhere in evidence. Man
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 67
has always conceived of the perfect, and because he visualizes
the perfect but has the imperfect, he is easily inclined to
find fault and to condemn. Constructive criticism is desirable
and should be encouraged when the occasion demands. But
when criticism becomes negative, and therefore destructive,
it only contributes to the general chaos of life. This tendency
should be checked and eliminated whenever it presents itself.
Not until a person has risen to the plane where his character
is freed from all imperfections is he qualified to censure
others.
Chapter Ten
VANITY
Whenever the desire for recognition assumes control of
the psychic life of an individual, there is a constant striving
for power and superiority which expresses itself in thoughts
or activities which seek to display and glorify the self. Such
an individual soon loses his contact with reality, he fails to
contribute to society or to co-operate with his fellowmen, and
his sense of appreciation and understanding of the laws that
govern human life become sadly lacking. Being primarily
concerned with the impression that he makes and with his
reputation among others, his thinking becomes inverted and
his most obvious character trait is vanity.
Vanity is "an inordinate desire for the notice, approval, or
praise of others." Although vanity is a phase of pride, one
may be proud without being vain. But a vain person, ever
seeking for approval or commendation, is excessively proud
when his desire for personal worth is gratified. The vain
often sacrifice the necessities of life in order to appear well
in the eyes of society. They will sacrifice their health and
comfort for the sak~ of being in fashion. They even forfeit
peace, 'love, and security for the sake of wealth and social
prestige. Generally speaking, vanity may be described as an
extreme stage of self-importance, and in this respect its de-
structive action is at once apparent.
The degree of vanitYipresent in an individual, the course
of its activities, and the instruments employed to effect its
ends, depend entirely upon the extent to which a person is
absorbed and enslaved by this unsocial character trait. No
doubt, every human being is vain to some degree. But as its
external manifestations are generally considered unpleasant,
vanity finds expression through the most diverse transforma-
tions, concealing and diguising itself at its earliest stage of
68
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 69
development. Vanity clearly indicates that its predominant
motive is to conquer everyone and everything, and when this
tendency begins to dominate the 'life of an individual, it be-
comes extremely dangerous. Not only is the individual en-
gaged in useless and needless effort centered about the mere
pretense of things, ignoring their true nature and value, but
his chief concern being the opinions and impressions of others
regarding himself, he loses his understanding of human rela-
tionship, ignores his responsibilities in life, and violates the
laws that control his freedom. As a consequence, his out-
look on life becomes narrowed and selfish, and he fails in his
mission to become a contributing factor to society.
There are some persons whose ambitions are limitless.
They are ever aspiring to achieve something which is con-
siderably beyond their means and capacities. This type of
person is not contented unless he holds the center of attention,
and his sole object is to outdo the other fellow in order
to gain distinction for himself. An exaggerated ambitious
tendency always results from a feeling of inadequacy and
inevitably leads the individual to frustration or defeat. The
over-ambitious, realizing the futility of his efforts in one line
of endeavor, will try another. Thus he goes through 'life at-
tempting everything but accomplishing nothing, and in the
end he is the victim of disappointment and disillusion. People
of this class are usually without friends and are difficult to
get along with.
Another guise used by vanity to conceal itself is the com-
mon trend to be different from others. Some people glory in
individuality, in anything that is novel, distinctive or striking.
The desire to be unusual is reflected in their dress, in their
speaking, and in their manners. Their every gesture is direct-
ed towards making themselves conspicuous. Many will resort
to extremes of fashion to attract attention, while others will
hide their vanity behind the cloak of shabby attire. Every
attempt is made to camouflage vanity; however, close observa-
tion will reveal that those who are extremely modest, who
neglect their appearance, and those who adhere to everything
old are no less vain than those who go to the opposite ex-
tremes.
70 RAYS OF THE DAWN
Another form of vanity is self-admiration or narcissism.
The narcissist seeks not only for a mirror in which to admire
his own physical image but he is overly eager for approval
and praise of his personal traits and qualities. Any com-
pliment that is paid him only accentuates his self-love, and
since his personality reflects conceit, self-centeredness, ego-
ism, his character becomes unattractive to others. In the
final analysis, he suffers from a loss or lack of the thing
that he is striving so hard to gain, the love and admiration
of others. The individual who is fortunate enough to possess
personal beauty, health, talents, unusual skill and capabilities,
should remember that these gifts are only temporal. They
should never inspire self-admiration but only gratitude for
their possession while they endure.
Inflated pride and vanity often find expression in posing
- in attempting to appear more or greater than one actually
is, in pretending to be worthy of commendation rather than
striving for it. The pride that some people take in being a
"tin god" is often very great. Among the most common types
of posing are boasting and flaunting oneself, disparaging one-
self, and appearing to be intellectual. Dressing extravagantly
and making a showy exhibition of one's possessions are also
common ways of posing. Persons who magnify and make
public their accomplishments and who make impressive dis-
plays of themselves frequently hope thereby to "climb the
social ladder."
As apparently superficial as are appearances, they are
given a place of tremendous importance in the life of man.
That he may appear well before the world forms a major
part of man's motive power to action. Society does not ask
after the character of its devotee, nor trace his antecedents to
ascertain their standard of right or wrongdoing, but the ques-
tion is: Does he come from a family who has been well
stationed politically, intellectually and, above all things, finan-
cially? To be sure, no blatant crime may be tolerated in the
family tree closer than two generations back. But much may
be forgiven and forgotten which, on the ground of decency,
would ostracize the individual, providing he carries a polished
I
(
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 71
exterior and his golden mantle is thick enough to hide the
impurities of his nature.
When we speak of society, we do not refer to one class
alone but to every class belonging to the whole social fabric.
Each has its vanities, and whether these vanities belong to
the lowest or to the so-called highest, they operate in exactly
the same way. To one who is sufficiently free from these
things to enable him to get a sort of bird's-eye view of the
whole situation, the aspect that is presented would be irre-
sistibly ludicrous were it not so pitifully degrading to the
whole human family and were there not caught in the meshes
so many beautiful ones who have lost their way and forgotten
their earthly missions. In every land there are social divisions
whether among the rich or poor, learned or ignorant, or even
among the lowest haunts where immorality needs no cover.
With all alike, such social divisions are based never upon nobil-
ity of character but on some vainglorious bauble which man
has enthroned and tried to inflate with some semblance of
reality.
Appearances, however, are not to be altogether despised
nor neglected. A person should seek to make as good an ap-
pearance, according to current standards or individual taste,
as he can without any cost to his higher development. If the
appearance one wishes to make costs him justice, honesty or
integrity, then he should sacrifice it. If, upon conscientious
analysis, one finds that his appearance militates for or against
his happiness, then he should sacrifice it until such time as
his attitude becomes neutral. When he is neutral he may,
without danger of vanity, give whatever attention to appear-
ances that the occasion demands. A good appearance without
cost to character, genteel manners and a courteous address,
born of a kindly nature and regards for others, all tend to
soften and harmonize conditions and may thus serve in the
path of progression. The point we wish particularly to em-
phasize is that it is not the native goodness of the individual
that makes him valuable in the eyes of the world but, good
or evil, how brilliant an appearance can he make. Social
caste is not based upon true merit but upon superficial acquire-
ment whether such acquirement be on the spiritual, intel-
72 RAYS OF THE DAWN
lectual or physical planes, and more and more is the requisite
being narrowed down to a mere material acquisition.
It is not uncommon for an individual to pose as being in-
tellectual. One popular means of trying to appear intellectual
consists in excessive reference to literature, constantly quot-
ing noted authors, to impress the audience with one's familiar-
ity with famous works. Another means employed to pretend
to possess a high degree of intelligence and understanding con-
sists in the use of showy or "high-sounding'' language that is
unintelligible to the average person. One whose intellectuality
is genuine strives to simplify his diction in order to convey
his thoughts to others, and he uses abstract and technical
terms only when necessary. It is the mediocre mind that
tends to clothe his speech in gaudy and "high-sounding"
terminology.
It might prove interesting to question an exponent of
the caste that has perched itself on the pinnacle of intel-
lectuality and which grows such prickly hedges between itself
and the "vulgar herd." Tell us, our intellectual friend - you,
who have delved into all the ancient and modern lore of the
known world - tell us, whence came you? Why are you here?
What is the purpose of your being? Whither are you going?
Do you live after the demise of your body and if so, what
then? What? YOU do not know these things? W_eshall
give you another trial. Itemize your character. Be honest
and analytical - how does it "measure up?" Are you self-
possessed? Do you control your own mind? Do\ you think
your own thoughts? Do you know whether you think your
own thoughts or not? Do you get angry? Do you criticize
or condemn? Do you have any ill feeling toward another?
Is there anyone whom you cannot forgive. Are you irritable?
Do you yield to disturbing influences? Are you wide-awake,
calm, contented and happy at all times, under all conditions?
Are you violating Nature's laws? Do you know what Nature's
laws are? If you cannot pass this examination creditably,
then take down your barriers and mingle with common, simple
folk. They may teach you some valuable lessons about life
and Nature and your responsibility. If your intellectuality
has left you wanting in the principles of a self-possessed,
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 73
noble, pure and happy life, then, because it assumes so much
and gives so little, must it be classed as vanity of vanities?
Superiority and inferiority are relative; therefore, their
presence and contrast are in evidence in all human experiences
and associations. Vanity is always a mark of inferiority. All
exaggerated attitudes of superior knowledge, wisdom, author-
ity, and morality are unmistakable indicators of the opposite
qualities. They are the most obvious attempts to pose as
superiority, "weakness masquerading as strength." Every
individual has at one time experienced a sense of inferiority
and therefore desires an appreciable measure of personal
pre-eminence and prestige. Hence it is logical to assume that
the character and personality of every human being retains a
certain degree of vanity. It would be unwise for the individual
to attempt to purge his nature of egoism, self-centeredness,
and similar traits as if they were so many demons, but he
should recognize their false and destructive nature and en-
deavor to redirect such tendencies and divert them into chan-
nels of socially useful effort.
As long as the ancestral memories and concepts whi-ch
profoundly affect the thoughts, feelings, and actions of man
remain buried in the subconscious, they will continue to domi-
nate and control his life and behavior. Once these memories
and concepts are brought to the surface and their false nature
is exposed, then the individual begins to take the necessary
measures to liberate himself from the domination of the lower
self. The extent to which a person can free himself and find
peace depends upon the development of his will power and
his sense of discrimination. Of all the disruptive tendencies
that tend to influence the conscious life of an individual, vanity
is one of the first to make its appearance and one of the last
to be subdued. Even those who have reached an advanced
stage of their evolutionary progress still show traces of per-
sonal vanity. The vanity and touchiness of so many ex-
ponents of our professional classes are marked evidences of
a lack of spiritual development. Professional people are still
the victims of conceit, egoism, and touchiness which can be
attributed to a lack of discrimination with regard to true
values. They tend to over-estimate themselves and their
74 RAYS OF THE DAWN
abilities. Touchiness associated with any special acquired
capacity is due to personal vanity. This vanity originates
from an over-valuation of one's specialty and from a lack of
discrimination with regard to relative values.
It is unwise to be vain about one's possessions because
they constitute no part of the Divine heritage. Material
possessions are temporal, worldly, fleeting. True and lasting
happiness comes from within and finds expression in construc-
tive activity designed to contribute to the larger co-operation
of human life. It is likewise foolish to be vain about one's
beauty, and it is equally futile to be proud of one's financial
status or intellectual capacities. The merit of intellectual
capabilities is determined by their social usefulness. If one
has been instrumental in promoting the welfare of humanity
for all posterity, then the world will pardon his vanity as
reasonably justified. All other forms of vanity are to be
discouraged as destructive forces in the life of the individual
and of society. Vanity, boastfulness, pride, self-centeredness
are poor tools for acquiring the peace and security essential
for man's happiness.
Chapter Eleven
HATRED
All human life is in a state of constant change and evolu-
tion. Some individuals still vibrate on a very low plane of
existence - physically, mentally, and spiritually. Others have
advanced to a highly developed stage. In the lower depths
life is shrouded in ignorance, discord, and gloom, while at the
higher levels it abounds in wisdom, love, peace and harmony.
Always the expression of life takes on the values of its plane
of evolution. Those who are still submerged are imprisoned
by ignorance and indolence and are governed by fear, doubt,
worry, hatred, jealousy, greed, and all the other negative at-
tributes that keep the individual in darkness and confusion.
Between the animal with his lack of reason and the person
with a limited degree of intelligence and discrimination, there
is little difference. Just as long as the individual harbors in
his heart the destructive emotions that color the life and be-
havior of the animal and the savage, there is 'little hope for
his advancement. Once these negative tendencies have gain-
ed weight and momentum in the personality of an individual,
they will wreak destruction and disaster throughout his ex-
perience, finally resulting in mental bitterness, physical dis-
ease, and spiritual disintegration. It is ignorance of mental
laws that permits these forces to govern and control one's
life. Among the most destructive of these forces is the emo-
tion of HATRED.
The Spirit within is ever striving to break through the
barrier of ignorance and to direct the soui to a better way of
life. When this barrier has been penetrated, one feels a re-
vulsion against savagery and animalism, and the individual
begins to climb upward. At this moment the stream of
materialism gradually ceases in its power to absorb the in-
dividual, and the character expressions manifest less and less
of the animal traits. Whatev.er the mind firmly believes in,
75
76 RAYS OF THE DAWN
and adheres to, tends to shape and mold the thought patterns
that find outward expression in the personality, character, and
conduct of a person. Once these inner concepts are changed,
the individual's whole life and experience take on a different
form and expression. Thus he who masters his animal nature
and rises above it "finds himself in and of a new world."
If we should draw a horizontal line and call it the rela-
tionship of personalities, we would place LOVE, which is the
highest attribute of the human soul, at one end, and at the
other end we would place its opposite, HATRED. Every
thought, act or expression between personalities must, of
necessity, find its resting place somewhere along this line.
Hatred is the negative aspect of that which we call love. It
can be described as "an emotional attitude characterized,by
anger and an extreme aversion, enmity, ill-will, together with
a desire to inflict injury upon some individual or object."
Actually, hatred is an associate state of anger, and as such
its action has already been discussed in a previous chapter.
Let us digress, for a moment, and go back along the evolu-
tionary highway to the time when the first spark of reason
was given to the soul. We would observe, perchance, one of
the first crude manifestations of human life walking through
the woods and experiencing a terrific storm. The roar of
thunder and crash of lightning were incomprehensible to man,
and as he looked up in wonderment, his reaction was the
same as it is today with things we do not understand. Hence
fear, terrible fear, took possession of his consciousness. It
is a mental law that whatever the mind does not understand,
it will either fear or worship. When that which arouses the
emotional state of fear does not inspire awe, admiration, or
worship, then it will provoke a feeling of hostility, a form of
hatred.
Hatred, therefore, is an aspect of fear. We hate our
enemies because we are afraid of them. We scorn those whom
we do not fear. Where there is no fear, there is no hate.
With all the chaos, destruction, and suffering rampant in the
world today, there are many who still remain calm and poised
in their thinking. Their hearts are not filled with hatred, for
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 77
they are confident that good will ultimately prevail. Few of
us are conscious of the fact that the great conflict of nations
had its origin in the hatred and greed that was nourished in
individual minds. One of the most disastrous beliefs of the
great majority of people is that they feel justified in their
hate; but not until the individual minds are purged of hatred,
greed, and all their attending evils, will there be hope for
an enduring peace. The wars of the world ·will not cease
forever until mankind learns and applies the lessons of the
Great Teacher that we should "love those who hate us" - that
we must fill our hearts so full of love that there is no room
for hate.
The concept of hatred born in prehistoric man has been
transmitted to his descendants as part of their heritage. The
little child, having inherited from its ancestors all the ac-
cumulation of destructive emotions, is very easily led into
error. With the proper guidance and under normal environ-
mental conditions, however, the child gradually learns to rec-
ognize those objects that are conducive to his well-being and
therefore to be desired and loved, and those that are destruc-
tive to his progress and therefore to be feared, avoided, or
fought against. As soon as the child acquires the power of
making careful and accurate distinctions, the aggressive or
destructive tendencies will find an outlet in constructive chan-
nels and thus aid in promoting the welfare of the individual.
As the modem child is thwarted in the expression of his
natural tendencies and unsocial habits, he is denied the love
that is necessary to compensate for his sacrifices. It is not
surprising, therefore, that the average child grows up with
a lack of the affection required to nurture his love concepts.
A certain amount of restriction must be imposed upon a child's
conduct, but when these limitations are accompanied by the
parents' expression of hostility toward a child because he
intrudes upon their time, comfort, or pleasure, it is little
wonder that such children become embittered and suffer from
repression.
Hatred does not always appear openly but, iike vanity,
knows how to mask itself and often appears in the guise of
78 RAYS OF THE DAWN
parental love and guidance. Some parents expose their
children to the same harsh treatment and sufferings that
they had to endure as youngsters. Deluded by the idea that
they are rearing their children according to "good old-fashion-
ed principles," they are actually impressing their children's
subconscious mind with the same concepts of hatred and re-
venge that are so clearly displayed in their own disciplinary
measures. Chiidren soon recognize such hypocrisy and that
their parents are able to dominate them only because of their
superior strength and size. Such children grow up with the
desire to reach adulthood so that they can assert authority
and power through punishment and restriction of those that
are weaker than they are. Thus the "revenge of parent upon
child is perpetuated for another generation."
The injustices imposed upon children by parents, guardi-
ans, and teachers are innumerable. Parents and superiors will
be harsh, inconsistent, threatening, un11easonable,jealous, and
even quarrelsome with those entrusted in their care, yet in
return they demand love and respect. They will burden a
child with their own worries, problems, and anxieties, and
often they will criticize and embarrass him, exposing his
weaknesses and shortcomings. Absorbing a child's personal-
ity and limiting his freedom unreasonably can bring only
physical, mental, and spiritual suffering to both child and
parent, for no one can love his superiors as long as they hold
him in bondage. If we could provide children with an atmos-
phere of affection and understanding instead of one colored
by restriction, compulsion, and violence, the emotional balance
of the younger generation would be assured so that their sub-
sequent lives would be freer from the aggressive tendencies
that tend to destroy their health and happiness.
In order to cope with the hatreds and enmities that ac-
company adult life, we must recognize their origin and back-
ground in childhood experience. Most parents are unconscious
of the injuries they are inflicting upon their children, who, in
turn, repress the memories of these experiences into un-
consciousness so that they too become unaware of them. Hav-
ing passed the stage of childhood, most of us are now combat-
ing the hostilities that present themselves in the outside world,
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 79
and at the same time we must battle the conflicts within
our own personalities that give rise to uncontrolled hatred.
What course of action must we now follow to better human
relationship? What methods are effective in cultivating love
and in controlling or diminishing hatred?
A knowledge of and obedience to the laws that govern
human life give us the answers to these questions. Through
an understanding of the truth, we shall cease to frustrate
each other. The basis for peace and harmony in the home,
in the community, the nation, and among nations, rests upon
a correct understanding of the nature of man. In every human
being there is a spark of Divinity. As long as we are disturb-
ed by hatreds and misunderstandings, we tend to disintegrate
our consciousness. Harmony and love must originate from
within our own consciousness. Any thought or feeling that
tends to create inner conflict must be eliminated. This end
cannot be achieved by excluding the irritating personality
from our experience, by pushing him aside or avoiding him.
We must face him and attempt to teach him the laws that
govern human conduct. We must strive to redirect his ag-
gressive tendencies and re-shape his life through love, kind-
ness, and understanding. We must radiate so much love
toward the annoying personality until no pain, jealousy, re-
sentment or bitterness remains. Only when confusion, hatred,
and resentment are dissolved are we at peace with ourselves
and with our fellowmen.
All hatred is disastrous. It darkens the soul, poisons
the mind, and brings suffering to the body. One who has
progressed sufficiently to know that there are natural laws
which govern human conduct soon recognizes that the im-
mutable Law of Cause and Effect forever operates. This law
exacts from everyone precisely what is due, for "as ye sow,
so shall ye reap." As long as we plant seeds of hatred,
resentment and revenge, only bitterness and suffering will
be our yield. If another person has harmed us and we feel
justified in hating him, let us first analyze the situation, and
we will recognize that it is the animal traits displayed and
not the person himself that we despise. If we would but
penetrate beneath the surface, we would find the same God
80 RAYS OF THE DAWN
Power within the offensive person that is present in every
man, only such an individual is still enslaved by his animal
nature. Let us not stoop to his low plane by retaliating with
like destructive traits, but rather let us seek to show him
the "lighted path" through love and understanding. Remem-
ber that the penalty for hatred is hate with all its accompany-
ing evils, whereas the reward for love is love with all its en-
nobling attributes.
Chapter Twelve
ENVY
The trait of envy is an unfailing accompaniment of the
striving _for power and: domination, and always these tenden-
cies result from a feeling of inferiority. Such an inferior at-
titude tones and colors the life of an individual and exerts a
powerful influence over his behavior. Furthermore, the low
evaluation of the self and the constant dissatisfaction with
life indicate that such an individual has not yet reached a very
advanced stage of his evolution. Having acquired a false
interpretation of the laws that govern the human being, he
allows himself to be disturbed by the opposites in measuring
the success of others, their possessions and personal qualities.
He is guided by the opinions of others and their accomplish-
ments in making his decisions and directing his activities
instead of permitting the Inner Light to illuminate his path.
He becomes the victim of a sense of neglect and feels that he
has been discriminated against, whereas he may actually be
superior to others. These attributes are, indeed, unmistakable
evidences of an unsatisfied vanity, of a desire to have more
than another, and as a result the trait of envy is called into
consciousness.
Envy may be defined as "an unpleasant social feeling or
attitude aroused in an individual by another's possession or
accomplishment of something that he himself lacks or desires."
A feeling of chagrin or resentment is usually associated with
envy. The false pride of many people is touched as they see
themselves excelled in personal qualities or outdone in material
possessions, and often the destructive trait will lead an in-
dividual into evil ways in order to equal or surpass those of
a superior standing.
Envy finds expression, sometimes, in the very counte-
nance of a person. Being an attribute of a low vibratory plane,
81
82 RAYS OF THE DAWN
envy seeks to reduce others to its own level. The envious
person, ever desirous of gaining superiority, attempts to gain
advantage over others in various ways and often by; the use
of clever schemes. He may meet his superiors with coolness
and indifference, depreciate their qualities or attainments,
magnify their weakness or ridicule their aspirations, and may
even seek to retard their progress by placing obstacles in their
way. Often a person entertaining an original idea or plan
must proceed cautiously lest he be hindered by an incom-
petent one who is envious of his advancement. Envy may
even express itself in the form of personal or material damage
to some unfortunate victim.
The feeling of envy which develops in the process of meas-
uring another's successes does not contribute to greater hap-
piness but, on the contrary, it retards the individual in his
progress by holding him on a low plane. Attracting as it
does those attributes of like destructive character, it can re-
sult in producing only discontent, inharmony, and unhap-
piness. In spite of the universal disapproval of envy because
of its socially hostile nature, still there is scarcely a person
whose character is entirely free of this trait. As long as the
life of a person moves along at the normal speed and momen-
tum, the trait of envy is not frequently called into play. But
whenever a man begins to suffer, when he is deprived of his
needs and comforts, when his fame, fortune, or love is taken
from him - when his present is troubled and his future is
darkened - then envy begins to assume control of his con-
sciousness. Only when man has risen to the state where he
is no longer enslaved by the opposites - good and bad, wealth
and poverty, abundance or lack, fame or obscurity, envy or
admiration - when he ceases to make comparisons or draw
conclusions regarding others or their possessions, then, and
only then, will he cease to desire that which is foreign to his
stage of evolutionary development.
Not only must a person cease to indulge in envy if he
wishes to progress mentally and spiritually but he must refrain
from provoking envious tendencies in others. Any ostenta-
tious display of superiority over one's fellows is antagonistic
to social well-being. A genuinely superior person conducts
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 83
himself in an humble manner and with due respect for those
of lesser achievement. He avoids any showy exhibition of
his standing which naturally arouses the chagrin and resent-
ment of those lower in the scale. Every man has a part to
play in life, and it is each man's duty to fulfill his mission to
the best of his ability. We do not always have conscious
control over our achievements, the nature or extent of our
pursuits, our successes, or failures. Each individual reacts to
life according to his stage of evolution. Just as it is a viola-
tion of mental law to blame, criticize or condemn a man for
his weaknesses, his failures, his defeats, his wants, it is like-
wise a transgression of law to parade or over-emphasize one's
pre-eminence, abundance, or superiority. "Genius is modest"
is applicable in overcoming the tendency to incite envy in
others because of superior intellectual capabilities. Mental
and physical excellences are gifts that are to be appreciated,
enjoyed, and utilized in the interest of individual and social
betterment. He who is possessed of an abundance of material
possessions should be moved with a feeling of generosity
toward those less fortunate fellowmen who are not as blessed
as he is in this world's material goods. Remember, also, that
"charity envieth not, and is not puffed up." An individual's
achievements, merits, and superior qualities speak through
his deeds ; they require no formal publication.
The extent to which a person longs for the possessions
or enjoyments of another depends upon his appreciation of
his own environment. According to one's understanding and
stage of advancement, he will view the wealth, the power,
and the renown of other persons. He who understands and
applies the laws that govern human beings will welcome the
accomplishments and superior qualities of others as a chal-
lenge, an incentive to strive for better things. If he is suf-
ficiently advanced, his peace of mind will not be disturbed by
these things, because such an individual is too deeply absorb-
ed in constructive thoughts to allow himself to become involved
in the destructive forces of envy. Anyone appreciative of the
things he possesses is not inclined to envy.
Many persons are unaware of the joys, beauties, and
abundance in their immediate surroundings because of their
84 RAYS OF TiHE DAWN
negative attitude. They are always finding fault with their
lot in life, comparing their state of affairs with those of a
more fortunate nature, anxiously longing for what another
has instead of utilizing their God-given powers to attain that
which their hearts desire. Most of our potential powers iie
dormant, which, if awakened, could gain for us all that we
desire in life. It is our negative thoughts, our fears of lack,
of illness, of misfortune, of unhappiness that actually pro-
duce these things in our lives. If we would think health,
abundance, contentment, peace and happiness, and lend our
efforts in that direction, these things would be added to our
experience. As long as we sit back and bemoan our predica-
ment, begrudging others for better fortune, we shall continue
to suffer. Only when man recognizes that he has the power
to use his thoughts to lift himself from misery, only then
does his freedom begin.
Anyone who allows enVYto influence and color his life
is a hindrance to society. Such a person constitutes a useless,
disruptive force that leads toward destructive ends - in dis-
turbing others, in depriving them of their rightful posses-
sions, in harming them in some form or fashion. Always striv-
ing for that which is seemingly beyond his achievement, he is
constantly defending his lack of attainment with groundless
alibis, usually placing the blame for his failure upon someone
else. Such an individual is a foreign element in society where
understanding, generosity, co-operation and love form the
bond of human relationships.
Like vanity, the trait of enVYreaps its victims from the
over-ambitious class. He whose aspirations axe limited is not
as frequently or as readily exposed to the forces of enVYas
one whose ambitions are without bounds. There are some
people who cannot enjoy the accomplishments of others be-
cause they themselves aspire to excel in everything. Every-
one has some line of endeavor in which he has talent and can
surpass his fellows, but even in his special field the wise
person does not strut, or disdain those of lesser ability .or
achievement.
A person would not be human if his personality did not
retain some trace of enVY, Since we cannot entirely eliminate
THE LAWS OF THE MIND
envy from our consciousness, we must attempt to control
or sublimate it. In the individual, this feeling can be directed
toward activities that elevate the person's self-esteem. The
same course of action applies to the community and to the
nation. The individual who feels himself neglected and slight-
ed must be educated in new ways of developing his latent
powers, in an understanding and application of the laws that
govern his being, thus contributing to his own peace and
happiness and that of his fellowmen. One who keeps himself
occupied in some useful activity not only develops personal
qualities but often acquires possessions that will diminish his
feeling of inferiority. As an individual grows and develops
in every phase of his being, he gains that deeper understand-
ing and broader vision that welcomes the good of others and
thus eliminates the consciousness of the disparity between
himself and them.
Let us remember that there is a Power higher than we
are that guides and controls the destiny of man and determines
his mission in this life. According to the Divine Plan, each
individual is assigned an allotted task to be performed to the
best of his ability. Some will be appointed to positions of
authority and superiority, while others must serve lower in
the scale, but each one constitutes an intricate and essential
part in the great scheme of things. However firmly we may
believe that it is within our own power to choose an occupa-
tion according to our liking, still there is an Unseen Force that
determines who shall be the doctor, the lawyer, the artist,
the statesman, the philosopher, the teacher, and who shall
be the servant or the laborer. When a:person becomes cogni-
zant of this impe1Iing Force, he should willingly accept his
role and play his part, and knowing that each man's part is nec-
essary to the proper functioning of the whole, he will not allow
envy to color his attitude toward one who has been designated
to a higher place. The only logical course of action is t,o
accept one's own station in life, to do his duty to the best of his
ability, knowing that it is necessary in his evolution and that
in due time he will be elevated to a higher task. It matters
not whether one's calling is exalted or humble, whether king
or slave, only how well does one perform the duties of his
assignment.
'·
86 RAYS OF THE DAWN
A cross section of human personalities would reveal the
harmonious amalgamation of some and the constant friction
of others - all designed for the proper advancement of each
individual along the evolutionary highway. It is only when
we contact traits of personality that irritate us that we are
able to gain a valuable lesson from them by eliminating like
traits from our own consciousness. Instead of permitting
envy to be aroused in our hearts by the pompous exhibitions
of others, let us rather profit by our observation and under-
standing of these destructive forces by successfully coping
with them in our own consciousness.
When those about us manifest abundance in the things
which we desire in our own lives, let us not envy them, but
rather let us be grateful for the ever-abundant supply that
God has provided for us and of which we may partake in the
degree that we understand and utilize the Law.
Chapter Thirteen
DECEIT, HYPOCRISY, AND SELF-CONDEMNATION
"To thine own self be true, and it shall follow as night
the day that thou canst not then be false to any man."
-Shakespeare
That part of human nature that is patterned according
to Divine law and order is the true self; that form of human
thought and expression that is out of harmony with the
Divine Plan is the false self. Had the human race not begun
wrongdoing, false representation would never have entered
the mind. When a spider weaves his web, one strand forms
the foundation for another, and every fiber of that intricat,e
little mechanism connects, directly or indirectly, with every
other, and the whole is for the specific purpose of entangling.
In this same way, evil has woven the network of perverted
human nature, and every individual is caught therein.
The more complex human nature becomes in its errors
and the more complete its subjection, the more necessary does
deception seem, and the more varied do its forms become.
The further human nature descends from the high state to
which it really belongs, THE MORE IT ASSUMES TO BE
WHAT IT IS NOT, the more nefarious its means to ends, and
the greater the necessity of covering its tracks. The reasons
for deceit and hypocrisy are manifold, depending upon the
density of the errors in which the individual is involved.
Generally speaking, because people have never been able to
forget their ideals, they are not willing to acknowledge their
iniquities. The individual represents himself to be better
than he is, largely because he has not the courage to face
the judgment of his own errors. The condemnation of others
plays its part, but even if one does not fear this, the con-
science is less troublesome when the evils in the nature are
well cloaked. The exception to this state can be found when
87
88 RAYS OF THE DAWN
one is sufficiently intelligent to condemn one's own errors,
whether they are known to others or not, but this is the
first step to self-purification.
Whenever a person deceives another without just cause,
there is an inevitable. condemnation of the self. Such deceit
can be observed in all forms of social intercourse. A little
child may mislead its parents, but always it suffers the
remorse that follows. A student may deceive his superiors
and profit temporarily, but in the degree that he employs
the destructive tool of deception, he will lose his honor and
self-respect. A man may cheat his neighbor and gain momen-
tary advantage, but the price for such transgression must be
paid in self-condemnation. Nothing is so destructive as self-
condemnation. It causes more misery and suffering than
anything inflicted from the outside, because it is a; "gnawing
pain" deep within our own being. Viewing the past with
regret does not help the present nor does it brighten the
future. If we repent being involved in some deception, dis-
honesty, or misrepresentation, the only sensible course of
action to follow is to refrain from making the same mistake
again.
Doctors of all classes, not being fully aware of the under-
lying principle of all healing and being conscious of their in-
adequacy, sometimes react to a subtle form of deceit - an
unavoidable form of deception which can be attributed to the
doctor's limited training, for none of the healing professions
is sufficiently broad to embrace the whole phenomena of heal-
ing the sick. Many doctors of a high evolutionary status, in
order to escape from the self-condemnation of their ignorance,
frequently resort to the use of opiates or alcohol to escape
from the reality of consciousness of having deceived their
patients. The more one is responsible for another's well-
being and indulges in deceit or hypocrisy, the greater the
penalty he must pay. Sometimes this penalty is a disrupted
bodily condition which results in the various forms of illness.
It is well known among psychiatrists that many physiological
ills expressing themselves in the body may be directly traced
to a feeling of guilt caused by deceit and hypocrisy in the
mind.
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 89
When man found that he must either give up his evils or
be exposed, the intellect, which has always ministered to arti-
ficial development, gave him the mantle of misrepresentation.
This mantle he has used to its utmost, until today deception
and hypocrisy are so universal that their manifold hues have,
consciously and unconsciously, deeply dyed the whole of human
nature. Social relations reek with insincerity and assumption.
Religious life has few corners that are not infested with
hypocrisy. In home life lurks secret disloyalty. Business
and political life flaunt their prostituted honesty, justice, and
integrity to the four winds of heaven. There is practically
no evil more theoretic-ally condemned and condoned than dis-
honesty. It is another of GREED'S hideous offspring, and
an inseparable twin to injustice. Man dare not effectually
attack dishonesty, for such an attack would reach back to its
parentage, whose roots are buried deep in the vitals of civiliza-
tion. He must tolerate dishonesty, or yield up greed and
shake the institutions built thereon from center to circum-
ference.
Suspicion of one's integrity often expresses itself in the
constant mistrust of the honesty of others. Apprehensive
people are conscious of the uncertainty of their own rectitude;
hence they are ever on the alert lest someone be scheming
against them. Humanity is predominantly trustworthy, and
the confidence that one manifests in his fellowmen tends to
call forth similar vibrations in others. It is evident that a
man may be honest in certain directions yet suffer privations,
and it is equally obvious that a man may he dishonest in
definite ways yet acquire wea:Ith. Viewing1 the trustworthy
man as entirely virtuous and the dishonest man as totally
corrupt will lead to the erroneous conclusion that the one man
fails because of his particular honesty and the other prospers
because of his outstanding dishonesty. Closer observation and
broader analysis, however, will reveal that the honorable
person reaps the rewards of his upright thoughts and actions
but also the sufferings that r,esult from his vices. Likewise,
the dishonest person brings upon himself his misery and his
happiness in proportion to the evil and the good that he pro-
jects into his life.
90 RAYS OF THE DAWN
It is satisfying to man's false nature to believe that suf-
fering can be attributed to one's virtue, but not until man
has purged every negative thought from his mind and every
sinful blemish from his soul, is he in a position to know
and to judge that his sufferings are the result of his good
and not his bad qualities. As man progresses along the
evolutionary path, he will recognize the Divine Law, infinitely
just and immutable, forever operating in his mind and life.
Possessed of a knowledge and understanding of the laws which
govern human life, he will view his past in retrospect to the
time when he was still submerged in darkness, suffering, and
confusion; and he will know that all these past experiences,
good and evil, were the inevitable outcome of his evolving
self. In order to arrive at a precisely correct interpretation
of good and evil, the individual must analyze his concepts of
right and wrong according to universally accepted standards.
If a person is possessed of universally accepted concepts of
right and wrong, then it follows that good thoughts and ac-
tions can never produce bad results and that bad thoughts
and actions can never be effective in creating good. Suffer-
ing is always the effect of wrong thought in some direction.
It is an indication that the individual is out of harmony with
himself, with the Law of his being.
"It is hard to personate and act a part long, for where
Truth is not at the bottom, Nature will always be endeavor-
ing to return and will peep out and betray herself one time or
other." None but the self-deluded believes that he can fool
others by pretended virtues, appearances, or conduct. None
is deceived except he who tries to deceive others. Misrep-
~esentation, either direct or implied, to gain one's ends or
purposes will eventually lead to degradation of the self - to
confusion, suffering, and unhappiness. That which cannot be
legitimately gained through developed intelligence and ability
must be sacrificed without one moment's hesitation. For the
one who would progress, there is no possible compromise.
There must be absolute integrity in every detail of the daily
life, and whatever else one is called upon to sacrifice, his
character must be preserved.
Referring to the more petty forms of deceit and hypocrisy,
there is nothing that will add more to one's own self-respect,
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 91
and more quickly demand respect from others, than a non-
assuming attitude. However little, however humble, BE
YOURSELF. Comparing oneself with others or emulating
them brings into play the destructive forces and hence such
thought or activity should be avoided. Individuality is unique
in its expression; therefore, no two personalities are identical.
Each phase of human expression is as desirable as another,
and each constitutes an essential part in making a perfect
whole.
Among the people we meet daily, there are few whose
faces reflect true peace and happiness. Lacking in creative
activity, which permits expression of the higher self, and
devoid of a knowledge of the laws that govern the human
being, they are masked with the artificial, with sensuality,
with cold practicality, or with unworthy fears and uncertain-
ty. If one would cast aside these masks and attain health,
happiness, and peace of mind, he must release himself from
the sophistication and set patterns of the multitude and follow
his truer and less complex personality. The individual must
assemble his inner forces to rid himself of his negative
identity and to return to the actualities of self. To achieve a
positive identity, one must refrain from deceit, which will re-
bound with self-condemnation and throw one into the negative
column, for negativeness in any of its forms will eventually
produce an instability of mind and body. Peace of mind is a
far greater possession than any material thing, and one can-
not have peace of mind when self-condemnation enters. Elim-
inating the necessity of deceiving others will insure greater
peace with oneself and with the world.
ChapterFDurteen
PREJUDICE AND INTOLERANCE
Prejudice, in its broader sense, includes all the innate
capacities and all the acquired tendencies that create a be-
havior bias in the human organism. In its more restricted
sense, however, prejudice may be defined as "premature judg-
ment, bias, often grounded, on sentiment, ideas, or associa,-
tions." The prejudiced mind is a closed mind, narrow, bias-
ed, opinionated, one that is inclined to pass judgment before
a full and complete inquiry has been made. In this sense,
prejudice is regarded as an evil, an undesirable trait, and
constitutes a retarding force in the individual's evolutionary
progress.
In the light of prejudice we interpret .eventsand project
our fears and hopes into them. Our judgment or misjudg-
ment of others is influenced by our distinctive way of think-
ing and believing. Prejudice constitutes the spectacles out of
which we view the world and hence molds and shapes our im-
pressions of the world and our reactions to these impressions.
Whenever there is expression of individuality, a difference of
any kind or manner, prejudice will assert itself. The false
deduction from difference to inferiority or superiority is readi-
ly made. In the degree that vanity and egoism dominate our
behavior, we are inclined to assume that our point of view
is the correct one. If others differ, they must be wrong; if
they are unlike, they must be inferior. Whenever the element
of rivalry enters into the picture, the prejudice is intensified
and often ''blazes forth" into dramatic competition. Wars
have always magnified and intensified all sorts of prejudices,
making it more difficult to maintain world peace and harmony.
Nearly every person is a "crank" on some subject or
other. Strengthened by conviction and sentiments, mere
opinion and belief dominate our thinking to the extent of
92
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 93
obstructing the outlook and clouding the vision, preventing
us from seeing the facts. We are averse to following any line
of thought or reasoning that is antagonistic to a strong emo-
tional prejudice. The emotional intensity and the quality of
the sentiments attached determine the degree to which prej-
udice can hold and sway the mind.
Deep in the subconscious memory of every individual are
implanted experiences that help form our opinions and limit
our judgment. Too often these experiences would not endure
the test of right reason, and impressions produced by them
tend to delude and misguide the individual. As a consequence,
the mind becomes confused and imprisoned by prejudices,
biases, set opinions, queer ideas and taboos. Without in-
vestigation into causes and effects, we confidently turn to
these subconscious memories to direct us in meeting real life
situations. It is not until we inquire into experiences and
measure effects in the light of their origin that we can hope
to use experience as a reliable guide. Masses of likes and
dislikes, ideas of right and wrong, conscience and belief are
often the product of false memories of experiences submerged
in the "ignorance-bound regions" of the mind. When one
is called upon to answer a question or render a decision
regarding a subject of which he has only limited knowledge,
the prevailing tendency is to call up such false memories,
which color and sway his thinking. He should instead pursue
an unbiased investigation of facts to guide him in arriving
at his judgments or conclusions.
Prejudice is usually considered an evil, but however much
we may disapprove of its existence, we cannot dispense with it.
To entirely eliminate prejudice from one's experience would
necessitate a renouncement of all convictions, conventions,
beliefs, principles, and conscience itself. The man of prin-
ciple will maintain an open mind to all issues and will not
pass judgment until a thorough, unbiased investigation of
facts has been made. He asserts his own rights but at the
same time he respects the rights and privileges of others,
permitting them their freedom to think and believe according
to their understanding. By means of prejudice the individual
protects himself against unpleasant, undesirable and hence
94 RAYS OF THE DAWN
usually destructive tendencies that militate against his in-
tegrity, his peace of mind, his settled convictions. But when
prejudice becomes a retarding factor in progress and coopera-
tion, then it is an evil and destroys the very objective it
seeks to attain.
Prejudice leads to intolerance, and intolerance leads to
criticism and self-condemnation. Intolerance may be defined
as "lack of forbearance, narrow-mindedness with, regard to
tke opinions and beliefs of otkers; Q111, inability to endure."
It is the inability to understand intellectually and to accept
emotionally, facts as they are. We are in the habit of being
intolerant; we allow ourselves to be disturbed by the short-
comings and mistakes of others and of ourselves; we con-
centrate on insignificant details and on petty differences. We
fail to understand the operation of the Law of the Opposites
and the Law of Cause and Effect. Intolerance of others ieads
to criticism; intolerance of ourselves leads often to self-blame
and feelings of guilt.
Tolerance, too often, is not the result of what one thinks
but how one feels about any particular person, institution, or
idea. Just so long as our analysis and interpretation of facts
are arrived at through emotions, we are the victims of in-
tolerance. Only through reason do we attain genuine under-
standing and tolerance. Feeling superior purely on the basis
of being born into a particular race, we become intolerant of
race, creed, and color. We often boast of tolerance in religion,
but in reality question the integrity of anyone of a different
faith. How open-minded is an individual who concedes that
all truth is relative but who finds himself emotionally upset
at the expression of ideas that contradict his viewpoint? Yes,
we profess that others have the right to solve their problems
according to their own dictates, but still we find fault and
criticize anyone with a code of behavior different from our
own. As long as we continue feeling tense and irritated by
whatever does not conform to our particular desires, notions,
or prejudices, we are ignorant of the meaning of tolerance.
It is the nature of Spirit to express Itself in many ways
and in many forms. If there were no change, no diversity,
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 95
life would become dull and uninteresting. The Spirit within
must, of necessity, express Itself through the medium which
It has created. Some media are destined on a lower scale than
others, and the expression therefore is different. And here
again the Law of the Opposites is in operation. Without a
knowledge of perfection we could not be conscious of imperfec-
tion; hence in order to progress we must have both. From
these expressions we gain a knowledge that enables us to
choose and accordingly to progress or retrogress. All persons,
nations, and races constitute but an integral part of the great
scheme of things. Can we say that any race, religious sect
or class of people is inferior and therefore to be despised, mis-
treated and cast off? Are we justified in denying them their
rights and freedom just because their traditions, standards,
customs and beliefs differ from ours? Why should the color
of a man's skin, his mode of dress, his religious worship make
him the victim of criticism, condemnation, or ridicule? Each
must express himself according to his ability and to the limit
of his understanding; therefore, as long as man does not in-
terfere with the welfare of his fellows, who has the1right to
deny him his way of living and thinking, and who has the
authority to judge his fellowman?
It is only natural and normal that we have individual
preferences, but we do not become obsessed with our own
ideas and opinions. All are traveling the Path, each seeking
his highest good according to his own understanding. None
are perfect. All have their limitations, yet all are struggling
onward, and some day each in his own way will attain his
goal. What undreamed of heights might we achieve if we
would only realize, with understanding, that there is only
one mighty Essence that permeates all creation and that
obedience to the Laws of Life will elevate us to these heights.
When enough of us, through obedience to these laws, will
automatically cease elevating ourselves to the detriment of
others, real unity will be assured. Peace, happiness, and un-
derstanding will then prevail throughout the world.
In a progressive world there is no place for intolerance.
Mankind is rapidly increasing its storehouse of knowledge;
science is ever discovering new methods of improving our
96 RAYS OF THE DAWN
daily living. Yet, if we retrospect but a few years, we would
find that the action of our intolerant ancestors prohibited the
world, for a time, the full benefits of such great inventions as
the automobile, the airplane, the steamboat, the telephone.
The inventors of these devices were persecuted by the prej-
udices and intolerances of narrow-minded, biased, critical and
jealous individuals who feared that their security was threat-
ened. Insecurity is probably the basic reason for our in-
tolerance, as it is for many other destructive attitudes. Noth-
ing is fixed or assured. From within ourselves and from
our environment, we are exposed to dangers that challenge
our physical, mental, and spiritual security, and every other
little "security-seeking ego" represents a potential danger to
our own welfare. Hence we become the victims of fear, jeal-
ousy, envy, prejudice, and intolerance, along with a score of
other evil tendencies, in a vain attempt to attain the hap-
piness and peace which, in our ignorance, we are destroying,
or at least we are making the attainment more difficult and
more remote.
All new systems of thought must undergo a form of
crucifixion before being accepted by the world. People will
blindly cling to their old beliefs, ideas, opinions and traditions
with a closed mind to anything new or different that might
contradict or expose some of their convictions. Not only do
such individuals have a closed mind to any new system of
thought or religion but they will ruthlessly attack, without
investigation, anything that might tend to shatter the founda-
tions of their ways of thinking or believing. Remember that
"condemnation without investigation is a mark of ignorance."
It is wrong to unsettle the minds of those not ready to
accept the Truth. Only those who are ready will investigate
with an open mind and will cast off the mantle of false beliefs,
prejudices, and intolerances. Once freed of its old masquerade,
the real self, with a broader and deeper understanding, will
embark on its crusade onward and upward to a better life.
Chapter Fifteen
SELFISHNESS
Selfishness is the antithesis of generosity. It is an off-
spring of greed and has its origin in the instinct of self-pres-
ervation. The selfish person concerns himself solely with his
own needs, wants, and desires. Selfishness, in its last analysis,
means that a person is living for himself alone, unconcerned
as to the welfare of his fellowmen, uninterested in his organ-
ization - be it local, state or national.
Everyone is in love with himself to a certain extent. No
one wants to exchange places with any other person unless
he is assured of personal gratifications. We are all necessarily
self-centered. We tend to concentrate upon those things that
concern us personally and those things which we have grown
accustomed to identify with our real selves. Yet, if all people
were selfish, society would be in chaos. Fortunately, many
people have evolved far enough that they have eliminated
this undesirable trait. Were this not true, governments,
organizations, and social gatherings would be impeded by the
selfish.
In this economy of ours, one should recognize that he is
on an equal footing with his associates. If he should gain
the desirable things of life such as wealth, prestige, or fame,
it should be realized that these things were acquired either
by chance or by the operation of Natural Law. One should
entertain no selfish desire to take away that which has been
rightfully earned. Many people, due to the operation of
Natural Law, acquire riches; others live in comparative pover-
ty. Those who live in poverty and who do not understand
the operation of the Law will be inclined, in comparing their
own plight with others, to become selfish to the extent of
criticizing, even hating, those more fortunate.
There are some individuals who have an abundance of the
good things of life; in fact, more than they need. Instead
97
98 RAYS OF THE DAWN
of sharing their excess worldly goods among those less for-
tunate, they are guilty of ignoring the apparent need of their
fellowmen. Here, again, we have an expression of selfish-
ness. If these individuals understood the Natural Law in-
volved, they would comprehend the teaching of the Great
Master: "It is more blessed,to give than to receive." Many an
overambitious person who has utilized selfishness and greed as
a means to amass wealth has sought relief from self-condemna-
tion by engaging in a program of charity and social welfare.
Although there is a certain amount of pride and self-satisfac- -
tion involved in such philanthropic endeavors, still they tend
to sublimate, also, the baser emotions of greed and selfishness.
Even in the homes, where selfishness should find no refuge,
many an individual will shower his loved ones with gifts on
certain occasions to ease his conscience of his habitual ex-
pressions of selfishness.
One of the most difficult lessons that we have to learn
in life is that we are ONE with all people. Since we are in-
dividuals, we are so absorbed in thinking of the self that we
tend to ignore the interests of other people. We need oc-
casionally to ponder over the fact that the universe must flow
out of One Source. It is evident that each of us, being some
part of the whole, must be in essence with the other and
therefore not separated completely. One of our greatest
mental victories is the comprehension of the idea of individual-
ity without separation. Only through such an understanding
can we bring help to our friends and neighbors who are ONE
with us in spirit and in essence. When a person has risen to
the extent that he recognizes that all are ONE, he then be-
comes altruistic. He realizes the truth of the aphorism:
"Bread, cast upon the waters will be returned, threefold in
time." Being familiar with this great spiritual law, he gives
freely, expecting nothing in return. The Law then com-
pensates him threefold. There was a time in the evolution
of the consciousness of man when selfishness was an asset
in self-preservation, but that was the law of prehistoric man.
In our present day civilization, selfishness no longer plays a
part. It has been outgrown, outmoded, and should be elim-
inated.
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 99
The only effective means of developing ourselves and of
improving our environment rests upon the principle of com-
bination. We as individuals must consciously be aware of,
and participate in, the common interests of all other indi-
viduals. We must become imbued with a determination to
help others succeed that we may succeed, and thus we are
building a common ideal to grow and develop. To participate
successfully in the lives of others, we cannot at any time
selfishly and intentionally deprive others of the things they
desire nor are we justified in interfering in any way with
their growth and development. In the degree that we assist
others to success and happiness, we also increase our abun-
dance and our happiness, for "the greatest joy in life is the joy
we can give to others." It is impossible for us, as fair and
reasonable individuals, to believe that we can attain ultimate
success by depriving others of what is rightfully theirs. The
most complete life is always found when the individual seeks
self-expression in integrating all his aspirations and desires
with those of his fellowmen.
In overcoming selfishness, we must differentiate between
egoism on the one hand and extreme altruism on the other.
As we view all men as actors on the stage of life, we see the
slaves of selfishness playing a pathetic role, but no less
pathetic is the picture presented by the slaves of mistaken un-
selfishness. When a person sacrifices himself at too great
an expense of his own welfare, then he is no longer a con-
tributing factor to society, but rather he becomes a burden,
actually contributing no more than the man of greed. Even-
tually he breaks down and has to be helped by those whom he
hoped to assist. Hence altruism improperly understood causes
suffering, whereas the selfish seem to gain ascendancy; for
those in whom evil predominates are clever in their schemes,
and they take advantage of the good. Most individuals per-
vert the innate urge of self-regard by allowing it to find ex-
pression in the destructive force of selfishness; others, how-
ever, in an attempt to escape from the evil of self-love,become
the victims of self-neglect.
If, in our attempt to overcome selfishness, we concentrate
solely upon others and lose all interest in ourselves, then we
100 RAYS OF THE DAWN
are defeating the purpose we set out to attain, and we are
creating a situation that is both unnatural and unethical.
The individual who ceases to care for himself is violating the
laws of his own being - physical, mental, and spiritual. Only
those who have developed themselves can be instrumental in
assisting others, and the real self of the person who attempts
to assist another must be of such inherent quality that what
he does for another will help that individual to climb upward,
for "all valuable altruism roots back in a valuable kind of
person who is being altruistic."
Both a child's behavior and his thinking are directed
toward the self. The young child is decidedly egoistic by
nature, but the maturely developed and evolved personality
is not self-centered. He has objective interests; he cares for
his fellowmen and their concern. He discovers ideals that
constitute the guiding principles of his life and the lives of his
fellowmen, and he is ready to die for them. He becomes
habitually absorbed in creative work. He evaluates life not
according to his possessions and interests but rather accord-
ing to the persons and interests to which he belongs. His
greatest satisfaction comes from projecting his life outside
of himself, thus finding expression in the benefits of others;
and, as Jesus said, "He finds life by losing it."
How, then, can the individual span the gap from infantile
self-centeredness to this highly developed and evolved mature
individual? Many adults are still living according to a child-
ish pattern. They are censured as being selfish, but if we
investigate further we will find that they are "specimens
of arrested development." Only through an understanding
of and an obedience to the Laws of the Body, Mind, and Soul
can the individual span that gap. Just as the body becomes
dwarfed through a violation of certain physical laws, so the
self is stunted unless it frees itself from the bonds of self-
absorption, objectifies itself, discovers itself in family, friends,
interests, and loyalties beyond itself.
Along with love and friendship, one of the most enduring
satisfactions in life is to lose oneself in creative work. Every
wise man will seek a work in which he can find self-expres-
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 101
sion, an outlet for his higher nature, a "task to dignify his
days." Deep within the subconscious of each individual is an
innate urge to create, an impulse to construct, an intense
desire to express oneself in a work that becomes an extension
of the self. In some individuals this innate urge is repressed;
in others, it lies dormant and never r.eaches the threshold
of consciousness. But the history of great personalities, in
eminent or humble places, shows that these individuals have
really expr.essed themselves, and their common quality has
been self-expansion and not self-absorption. They found an
outlet in objectives not primarily concerned with the self.
Obviously, it would be a false infer.ence to state that all
human nature is essentially and altogether selfish. But man's
nature is so constituted that it does not really blossom forth
until it has been released from the destructive influence of
absorbing self-concern. When the innate urge to extend the
self culminates in its highest expr.ession, we have the world's
saviors. Although apparently they seem to be the victims
of self-sacrifice, they are actually the exponents of exalted
self-expansion. Thus the little ego is enlarged and developed
into a higher state of being. But the life of the extended
self is not without its trials and tribulations. The mother
who dedicates herself to the care and protection of her chil-
dren may be crushed by what happens to them. One who
devotes his life to a great cause may be shaken by disappoint-
ments and failures. All the progress of the civilized race has
been due to the unselfish devotion of those advanced souls who
have brought to the world the truth. It is a well-known fact
that all truths have been persecuted and vilified by selfish
men and women. The history of great inventions, philoso-
phies and religions will verify this statement. Nevertheless,
any wise man with true regard for his higher development
would choose to face the problems of an expanded personality
rather than the dwarfed and narrow life of selfishness.
Chapter Sixteen
GREED
Greed is an inordinate desire for power, wealth, luxury,
honor, security, prestige, or any personal satisfaction or grati-
fication. Through desire man took his first step downward.
The desire to gain more knowledge, greater power, and better
security, in a shorter time and an easier way than through
the process of natural growth, entered the mind of man. Thus
began the long descent from a state of purity, simplicity,
sweetness, and possibilities for development, wholly beyond
man's present power of conception. The gratification of one
desire led to the creation of others, until today humanity is
so entangled in the net it has woven about itself that no in-
dividual on the earth plane C3.Il/wholly extricate himself.
History has no record of man before he began violating
laws and, therefore, falling from his native state. We have
only the story of the Bible concerning the Garden of Eden.
The historical record points to ages of wrongdoing, during
which humanity has fluctuated through various stages of in-
feriority. In an effort to compensate for this inferiority, we
have the great and complex mechanism called civilization,
nearly all of which would have been practically useless to
the exalted and powerful being into which man would have
developed had he not begun transgressing laws and interfer-
ing with the natural trend of his being.
All the different historical epochs define only different
stages since the fall of man and his long climb up the ladder
of artificiality. He has invented all kinds of artificial and
mechanical means and appliances to overcome the difficulties
which beset the way. His accomplishments toward bolstering
and "patching up" his weaknesses he calls wonderful progress.
His success is so limited, however, and his infirmities so ap-
parent that he has no recourse save to attribute the deficiency
102
THE LAW S O F THE MI ND 103
to Nature and to lower the standards of human ability,
whether mental, physical or spiritual, to the plane that be-
fits his action.
If we would go back to the days of savagery and review
the history of man through the different stages of barbarism
and civilization, we would find that the differences lie not
so much in the moral status of society, nor in the amount
of evil extant, as in the crudeness and fineness of the methods
pursued. So far as the potency of evil is concerned, the dif-
ferences are in favor of the more primitive states. The civi-
lized man has polished up his exterior and glossed over the
reflected ugliness of his savage mind, but he is a "whited
sepulcher." Active in the heart and mind of the twentieth
century are all the evils and passions of every known age.
While the grosser forms of evil have passed away, man has,
step by step, learned to use his mind to further his selfish
ends and to gratify his more and more complex desires, until
he has developed an intellect which has taught him the use
of finer methods and subtler forces, giving into his hands
greater power to do evil than ever before.
Even were it possible to consider all th~ past and present
phases of earthly conditions, no one could accurately estimate
whether, on the whole, evil has increased or decreased during
the long ages of its fluctuations. But, comparing man's
progress with the possibilities of natural growth - while he
has gained in temporal power, he has lost in the real power
vested in himself; while he has gained in intellect and super-
ficial knowledge, he has lost in intelligence and wisdom; while
he has advanced in mechanical ingenuity, he has lost in the
intensity of his senses and brilliancy of his faculties; while
he has found remedies for some of his deficiencies, he has
forgotten how to prevent them; while he has innumerable
ways to gratify his desires, he has lost the key to happiness;
and with all his boasted gain of whatever kind, he has lost
the consciousness of even the possibility of living to the stand-
ard of a perfected human nature, which standard is only the
first step toward an exalted individuality.
If we are daily and hourly indulging in thoughts and
actions which scatter and destroy the life forces, - forces
104 RAYS OF THE DAWN
upon which the body, mind, and soul feed and depend for
health, strength, light, power, wisdom, and life itself - then
no advance in the science of healing, in intellectual accumula,.
tion, in inventive genius, in creations for gratifications, in
artificial practices for spiritual development, can keep pace
with the destruction wrought upon the very essence of
our being. It is not sufficient to comprehend all that is com-
prised in the Law. It must be as fully lived as comprehended.
Neither can we half understand and half live, nor fully under-
stand and partly live. Even though one has fulfilled all the
requirements save one, he is not trustworthy, for through that
weakness he may be led into darkness and confusion. AL-
WAYS IS MAN FACED WITH THE INEXORABLE LAW.
He must either cease from the gratification of his inordinate
desires and committing of other destructive errors, and begin
the disentanglement of his fettered being, or continue in these
things and plunge more deeply in the abyss. There is no salva,.
tion save through straightening out the distorted nature.
Two thousand years ago the great Master Christ, who was
sent by the Divine to give an erring world the Truth, realized
that many souls were enslaved by the emotion known as
GREED. He told humanity, "Seek ye not these m.aterial
things which rust and moth will consume, lJrutfirst seek
spirifrualthings (or knowledge); then all these m.aterial things
will b·eadded unto you." Christ realized that men of intel-
ligence would allow material possessions to enslave their souls
and pervert their lives; therefore, He tried to convey the
message that these things were false. Seeking material things
such as gold, property, power, is purely of the physical plane.
These things are temporary, transcient, earthly. Due to this
understanding, Christ was led to inquire of man: "What
would it profit you to gain the whole world and lose your own
soul?" Those who have evolved sufficiently to understand
that the entity within, the soul, is the real man are capable
of knowing that the treasures, possessions, and powers should
have an affinity with the soul instead of with the body.
Therefore, they realize that spiritual attributes are more
. valuable and lasting than all the physical possessions which
exist.
THE LAWS OF THE MIND 105
There are many people scarcely differentiated from the
higher animals who, due to an inordinate ambition, are able
to accumulate vast fortunes. Only the necessity of maintain-
ing self-respect prohibits such individuals from engaging in
questionable and dishonest enterprises which may yield them
wealth. But the person who has advanced to any extent or
degree would not exchange places with such individuals and
revert to their low state of spirituality in exchange for all
their possessions. There are others who feel so inferior that
life would be intolerable without the prestige of name, of
wealth, or of power, and in the lives of such individuals am-
bition again becomes the tool of greed and lust. Such ex-
pression is a misuse of reason. The history of the world is
strewn with the wrecks of egoistic ambitions. Wars and the
fall of nations have resulted from ambitions for aggrandise-
ment. Only when ambition is employed as a socially useful
force can it be encouraged. The only constructive outlet for
human ambition is to promote a greater knowledge of the
world we live in, a better and broader understanding of our
neighbors, and a fuller and richer life resulting from the qual-
ity of our co-operation. All the other ambitions end in defeat
and destruction, or the tragic crippling of body, mind, and
soul.
Until individuals cease to consider themselves as an en-
tity, separated from the Creative Source and also from their
neighbors, human society cannot hope to eliminate the ele-
ments of savagery and barbarism. Greed and lust will con-
tinue to contaminate our homes, our governments, our human
relationships. Wars and crimes will continue, and man will
fail to attain the goals to which he aspires. Man's function
in life becomes important not as an individual but as a part
of the whole, and it is in this capacity that man becomes
"God's greatest revelation." Only by uniting his mental and
physical efforts with others can man hope to broaden and
elevate his thoughts and experiences, and hence achieve a
rational existence.
One should concentrate first on what he can give to life,
rather than what he needs or can get from it. Too many
people approach every situation with the attitude: "What am
106 . RAYS OF THE DAWN
I getting out of this deal?" To think exclusively in terms
of what he must get makes a person greedy, selfish, ag-
gressive, egotistical, self-centered, whereas thinking in terms
of giving makes for humility, generosity, kindness, and co-
operation. The individual· who participates in the service of
others receives a greater reward both financially and spirit-
ually, for generosity and love, not greed and selfishness, are
the ftrlfillment of the Law on every plane of life - physical,
mental, and spiritual. Those whose thoughts are centered
upon giving and doing for others will be amply rewarded by
the unfailing Law of Compensation. The person who thinks
only of getting, or of getting first and giving afterwards, is
deluded by a false interpretation of the Law. Invariably he
ends up in failure and disappointment.
The history of mankind shows that the great artists and
thinkers, inventors and discoverers have been dominated by
an urge within themselves to give to the world something
that will help their fellowmen,some contribution to all poster-
ity. The creative or constructive thinker does not suppress
his creative urge by concentrating on what financial gain will
be his lot before he sets out to begin his task, or whether there
will be any reward at all. Yet, in the final analysis, his
reward is greater than anything received by those who con-
centrate on material remuneration before they set out to use
their talents.
Greed is an offspring of egotism. The opposite of
egotism is extreme altruism, which gives all without due re-
gard for one's essential requirements on the physical plane.
Both are wrong in the results they produce. Wisdom dic-
tates that one should use discretion in providing the needs for
existence - food, clothing, shelter, essential comforts, recrea-
tion. The Great Master made note of this when He said,
"The servant is worthy of his hire." Beyond these essentials,
there should be no necessity to accumulate useless possessions
or wealth. One must provide for himself in moderation, but
he should eliminate any tendency to grab, or hoard, to desire
beyond his needs and wants, thus limiting the supply that
would bless many. The Law of Compensation forever operates
and will exact from those who overdraw.
I
I
!
I
Part Three
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL
Chapter Seventeen
FAITH
Christ recognized faith' as a great attribute of the human
soul, and being aware of its power and magnitude, he said:
"If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say
unto this mountain, 'Remove hence to yonder place,' and it
shall remove and nothing shall be impossible to you."
-Matt. 17:20
Endowed with faith, man has magnified his strength,
his courage, and his power. The greatness of mankind has
been displayed by obscure individuals who have had faith in
an idea or an ideal. Faith is the great inspiring and buoyant
force that tides man over the difficulties of life, the uncertain-
ties, the disappointments, the failures that tend to obstruct
his path of progression. Whenever a powerful, "one-direc-
tional drive". takes possession of an individual's life, it can
always be traced to faith in or knowledge of a vision, a plan,
or persons.
Faith means confidence in the integrity of the natural
world order, in the infallibility of law, and in the uniformity
among the facts of cause and effect. Faith is an abiding
trust that all is well because governed and protected by Super-
lative Powers which fail not. In the beginning man knew the
powers that governed and protected his life. He knew the
laws of Nature and their unfailing results. So long as he was
simple and obedient, all his activities were in accord with a
perfect confidence that his life was governed to promote his
highest well-being. Through his own indiscretions, man be-
gan to transgress the laws of his being. As his nature be-
came darkened, the light that was still able to penetrate the
errors took on the coloring of his increasing impurities, and
his operations and their results became correspondingly
mixed. In this state were born the opposites of good and evil,
109
110 RAYS OF THE DAWN
and the long conflict began. One' of the first costs paid by
erring humanity was the sweet, peace-preserving faith in the
happy fruition of life and its activities.
Faith on the physical plane is prompted and controlled
almost entirely by organic forces that are, for the most part,
. unconscious. But man, endowed with reason and the power
of abstract thought, employs faith, as a substitute for exact
knowledge, in his effort to interpret the meaning and the
value of life. Man begins to penetrate beneath the surface
of things, to look beyond the facts of immediate experience,
and in the absence of tangible evidence, faith must supply the
inspiration and the courage to go ahead. When man centers
his intelligence upon objectives that he desires to achieve, the
inspiration of such intellectual endeavor is always faith in
something. In scientific investigations, as well as in philo-
sophical thought, faith must be relied upon to provide the real-
ities not present in consciousness. There are always unknown
factors or qualities that must be accepted on faith to com-
plete the solution, the structure, the design. In the healing
realm we have many and varied systems of securing health,
but all of them depend upon faith for their effectiveness.
Even Christ, the Great Healer, recognized that faith was a
necessary requisite to cure. Faith is the "master key" to
great discovery, invention, and achievement. Faith cannot be
described as being blind, artificial, or credulous, nor is it
synonymous with just ordinary belief. Belief is of the in-
tellect, but faith is of the soul.
"No man is the whole of himself; those to whom he
has givenJhis faith are the rest of him." When we transcend
the limits of our being and reach out toward others whom
we understand and sincerely believe in, incorporating and
blending our lives with theirs, then our lives become trans-
formed, empowered and enriched. Only through our capacity
to believe in others do our personalities reach their fullest
and highest state of development. In all human contacts and
relationships, faith is the keynote of success. In the home,
the community, the nation, and the world at large, faith in
the people concerned is indispensable in securing lasting har-
mony, understanding, peace and happiness. One cannot find
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 111
real happiness in love that does not also encompass faith.
Romantic love may constitute the motive and the basis of
many a home, but the substance of faith is essential in assur-
ing its permanency. Without this abiding trust, the home be-
comes but a dwelling place built upon the foundations of
shifting sands. Faith is the bond that perpetuates human
understanding and friendship.
All thoughts strive for outward bodily expression.
Thoughts of health are vastly more important than thoughts
of illness, for in the degree that thoughts are positive they
will materialize themselves in the body as health. Thus the
manner in which we handle our faith-faculty is vitally im-
portant even to physical health. We can no longer separate
the physical and the psychic in the diagnosis and treatment
of disease. The whole person is involved in illness and its
cure; therefore, the importance of a constructive use of the
faith-function cannot be over-emphasized. Where there is no
faith, there is no cure unless the illness is caused by a purely
physical medium. Whenever the psychic is involved, as it is
in the great majority of cases of illness, faith is imperative.
Miracles of healing always result from the application of
physical, mental, and spiritual laws bringing the one to be
healed into harmony with the Divine. Viewed in this light
of understanding, miracles are no longer regarded as super-
natural. If the whole man - body, mind, and soul - is
master over fear, anxiety, hah·ed, resentment, jealousy,
selfishness, he automatically brings himself in harmony with
a great part of Divine Law, and consequently he becomes
strengthened, physically, mentally, and spiritually.
When an individual loses faith in life in general, he can
be compared to a boat without a rudder, tossed about on the
wav,es of life. This condition is not conducive to health and
happiness. Often the mental and spiritual dissatisfaction re-
sulting from a lack of faith in the wholeness of life brings so
much bitterness and confusion that physical inharmonies re-
sult. Many physical diseases can be traced to this cause.
Nothing is more effective in bracing a shattered or broken
life than positive faith. However futile, useless, or deplorable
a situation may appear, faith will buoy up the spirits. This
112 RAYS OF THE DAWN
is especially true in the effect of genuine religious faith.
Although the faith-function is often exposed to grave mis-
use in the religious realm, still confident faith is the only
salvation for many insecure and shaken lives who will never
find solace, coherence, and peace of mind without it.
Man today longs and seeks for a method which will enable
him to harmonize with the Divine within himself. Religion
satisfies some people. A great majority, however, are seek-
ers. Somewhere along life's highway one may find a system
of thought or of philosophy which gives him that priceless
attribute FAITH. Only when the Truth, or True Knowledge,
has been found is faith no longer required to satisfy the seek-
ing soul. It is only through an understanding of and obedience
to the laws governing the body, mind, and soul that we can
hope to realize any real emancipation from illness, negative
thought, and limitation.
The quality that is claimed and felt by many people called
faith in God is an abstract idea based on widely divergent
theories which have been accumulated as the race has passed
through the different stages of intellectual development. If
faith is not born of a clear understanding of unvarying and
irrefutable truths, it necessarily degenerates into a pretense
or counterfeit emotion with no other foundation than shifting
beliefs. In order to gain the truth underlying all these in-
herited and acquired beliefs, one must analyze them complete-
ly. Each individual has his own interpretation of life's basic
meaning. We naturally attain to this idea due to our environ-
ment and association with persons and things. When the
light of truth is applied, we can easily discard the ideas which
are false.
The idea that faith is associated only with one's religious
experience results from incorrect reasoning. Faith is a facul-
ty of the soul that finds its most perfect expression in the
spiritual nature, but it must be developed in all of its phases
in order to manifest its complete character. Spiritual under-
standing does not imply anything strange, unnatural or in-
comprehensible, but it does mean that our belief in goodness
must be the supreme master over any apparent manifestation
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 113
of evil. We must have faith in the Laws of the Soul if
through their operation we hope to mould our characters and
shape our personalities. Success in life depends upon the
faith we have in our fellowmen, while the goal of achieve-
ment that we have set for ourselves is anchored in the faith
we have in our own ability. We must have faith in the be-
neficence of Law as applied to life, for the Source of all Law
is the Omnipotent God.
Faith is an inherent attribute of the human soul. As
the soul has evolved throughout all the past ages, it has retain-
ed the essence of the memories of its past lives and knows by
experience that in each crisis God always comes to its aid.
Due to this experience, we are enabled to have the priceless
attribute Faith, faith in the eternal, upward progression of
life.
Crises come into human affairs as a necessary part of
cosmic evolution. The minds of men then become confused,
and the confusion leads to discord and to fear. People see
the old order being swept away, and the future is viewed with
bewilderment. But, as in the past, God always sends a man
whom He has selected and trained, and when the stage has
been set, the man assumes the role he is destined to play.
Nearly two thousand years ago such a crisis came upon the
earth. Rome was in her glory; she dreamed of philosophy,
and dominions without end. But the dawn of a new age was
ushered in with the birth of Christ. He ministered in Pales-
tine and taught the new philosophy of life. Men of that day
knew not that His message gave birth to a new species of
thought, but after more than nineteen hundred years have
elapsed, we of this generation can see that His message was,
indeed, the end of an era.
There is a similar crisis before our eyes today, and not
one nation but ali nations are involved. The world is confused
and afraid. Everywhere men look for a teacher. Where is he
whom God has selected, whose mind holds the remedy for the
world's ills? In whose heart is the spirit and in whose hand
lies the power to alleviate the sufferings of the world? From
the hearts of men all over the world a cry has gone forth for
a teacher, and from the bosom of God a Son shall come.
114 RAYS OF THE DAWN
When he that the world waits for shall appear, what will
be his work? What will it be, but to carry the work of the
Spirit one step further. The day has passed when men can
go forward with greed as their criterion. This new age, which
is being ushered in, demands of men that they shall be Sons
of God in deed and not merely in name. Until He comes this
new age will drag slowly along, but when the great destined
personality arrives upon the earth, then whatever he says,
teaches, and does will be proof to us that it is He.
Then, due to his teaching, science will be our religion and
religion, our art, and we shall cease to be slaves of unknown
forces. Then shall we know that this universe and all life is
ordained by beneficent Law - that our bodies, minds, and
souls are governed by Law - and only through obedience to
these Laws shall we enter upon our heritage. Those who obey
the Law will know Divinity within; those who transgress the
Law will again descend into the abyss from which they came.
Again and again must they come to rebirth until finally they
learn the lesson of life. Until that hour the Spirit toils at her
hidden work, and it is through the hidden light that reveals to
advanced souls her process of evolution as she shapes from
out of the dust the immortal Sons of God.
Christ foretold that the time would come when the knowl-
edge of God's Laws would cover the earth. We are assured
that the Prophet was right. Men are losing faith in the
philosophies which embody superstitions and fears, and are
beginning to understand that this is a universe of law and
order. Jesus declared many times that FAITH was an abso-
lute essential in the many remarkable healings of his minis-
try. The secret of this teaching lies in the fact that faith was
needed in the absence of perfect knowledge of the laws in-
volved. Faith is necessary when one possesses limited knowl-
edge in the thing he has faith in, but when perfect knowledge
of the thing is obtained, faith is no longer needed. Faith is
the great transforming power of all life and brings in its wake
the Divine inheritances of health, happiness, and the more
abundant life.
Chapter Eighteen
HOPE
When God created the first single cell of life and there-
fore the latent soul, He endowed it with the capacity to acquire
the necessary attributes by which it could struggle upward
from the planes of darkness to the planes of light and
become an individualized, fully-awakened human soul. In-
carnated as it was in its many multiple forms, it experienced
certain stages of evolution, many of which led to despair and
gloom. The latent soul at first was devoid of hope. Being ex-
posed, however, to repeated calamities which apparently were
fatal, the soul surprisingly survived these crises. Thus hope
originated as an inherent capacity of the human soul.
Through the long dark ages of the past, the soul gained
the knowledge that even though its material form was dis-
solved by death, it remained secure and possessed of the ac-
cumulated knowledge of all the errors of its past liv,es. This
experience naturally led the soul to believe that it could climb
upward regardless of its apparent material position at any
given time; therefore, we find in each human soul an attribute,
based upon experience, called hope - hope in the upward
progression of life.
Man of today is dual. He is possessed of a carnal con-
sciousness, which is the result of his experiences since birth.
Man is also possessed of a spiritual consciousness, which is the
accumulation of all experiences since creation. Unfortunate-
ly most individuals are aware of only the material conscious-
ness, but working within themselves is this great spiritual
consciousness which is possessed of all knowledge. The whole
purpose of the soul's evolution is that it may eventually be-
come cognizant of its Divine origin. Through the acquisition
of wisdom, the soul can then bring itself into harmony with
God, its Source. Obedience to the Laws governing the body,
115
116 RAYS OF THE DAWN
mind, and soul enables the carnal consciousness to work in
harmony with, instead of contrary to, the spiritual conscious-
ness, and toward this end we toil.
The carnal consciousness, possessed of limited experience,
finds itself confronted with an unsolvable situation, and when
it sees no way out, it very frequently gives up to what is
known as despair. Life becomes dark, undesirable, meaning-
less. Were it not for the indispensable emotion of hope, which
lies dormant in each human soul, this particular carnal con-
sciousness would eliminate itself through self-destruction, but
always the voice of past experience comes to the rescue and
says, "Have hope."
Even doctors, when confronted with a disease that they
know will prove fatal to the patient, will bring encouragement
with the words, "Where there is life, there is hope." And
this hope rests upon the fact that each soul has within itself
the accumulated memories of past lives and knows that it is
indestructible. Temporarily the consciousness of man may
concede that the body is the man, and having to view the
dissolution of the body by disease, it believes that all is lost
and that death will be the inevitable result. Still the invincible
spirit of hope is cl.amoring for acknowledgment, and then
we see that person calling upon those in whom he has faith
to intervene. The individual called upon may be a doctor, a
religious man, or another person, but always it is an expres-
sion of hope.
The human soul of each individual, having its memory
of the past not available to the carnal consciousness, can
never be without hope, for during the dark, dismal ages of the
past it has experienced trials and tribulations never known
in this material life and having always survived the expected
annihilation, it knows that it is immune to lesser destructive
forces. To this knowledge we can attribute the spirit known
as hope - hope in the immortal evolution of life. During
the evolution of the human soul from the first stage of life
to its present form, there has been a gradual acquisition of
knowledge that enables the human soul to become aware of
its divinity and of its immortality.
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 117
Immortality is man's supreme hope and constitutes the
greatest venture of faith. The hope of life after death pro-
vides an incentive for moral perfection. It enlarges and in-
tensifies the worth of personality. It gives significance to
many facts of human experience that would otherwise be
meaningless. Upon this hope re:::ts our faith in the inherent
beneficence of the world order, our discrimination of values,
and our conviction that Truth and justice will ultimately pre-
vail. The hope of immortality constitutes one of the great-
est stabilizing forces for all mankind.
As the soul evolves and becomes conscious of its destiny,
it begins to differentiate between that whieh is true and that
which is false. It realizes that some individuals personify
the attributes of good, while others are but an expression of
evil. With its gift of reason and choice, the soul affiliates
itself with one or the other. If it aligns itself with those
who are good, it becomes, in a sense, the agent of the Divine,
and by its acts it assists in bringing to a realization the
brotherhood of man. But, on the other hand, if it affiliates it-
self with the exponents of evil, it increases their power, and
thus life moves on either positive or negative. When negative
elements predominate in human life, God in His divine wisdom
looks down, so to speak, upon the earth and decrees that
justice shall prevail and sends His Son, who by His teaching
and example brings back to the minds of men the realities
that exist, and again He creates order out of chaos. Due to
this action of the Divine, the human soul, which has ex-
perienced these things in the past, is imbued with the spirit
of hope.
Those who are ill, those who have problems, and those
who despair should heed the words that "God is in His heaven
and all is right with the world." Nothing happens by chance.
All is according to a Divine Plan. That which causes an in-
dividual despair has been sent in order that he may overcome
the obstacle and advance himself upward in the eternal pro-
gression of life. Were it not for the survival of hope, in many
instances, by the time the individual had suffered enough to
make him willing and obedient to the laws that operate for his
good, there would remain no incentive for effort. In fact, hope
118 RAYS OF THE DAWN
is the motive power of all effort. It is the attribute which
becomes the stepping-stone to the awakening of the soul.
Out of the awakening, there shall inevitably grow an abiding
faith in the powers which operate through Nature to bless
the pure life and lead along the path of unbroken progression
to higher and higher states of nobility and happiness.
There are two kinds of hope. One is hope in the eternal
progression of life and all its goodness. The other is the per-
verted idea of life for material gain. One is purely spiritual,
born of a desire to serve the masses. The other seeks personal
gain. Hope is largely centered in many things that have only
temporal value and even in the gratification of desires and
selfishness ; stili its nature, especially in reference to its per-
sistency, lends to humanity a buoyancy which greatly aids to
keep it from sinking into greater darkness and despair. So
long as the individual lives on the plane of desire, hope must
survive the dissatisfaction resulting from repeated disappoint-
ment and failure or from satiation through gratification, until
the soul is led, step by step, to see that the ultimate of all
hope lies in purity, simplicity, and obedience to Nature.
Chapter Nineteen
GENEROSITY-CHARITY
"And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand
all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith,
so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I
am nothing." - I Cor. 31 :2
Great fallacies prevail regarding the nature and sig-
nificance of true charity, or generosity. Much so-called
"charity" is done through a sense of obligation and not as an
expression of love. The majority of people consider that they
have contributed to the betterment of mankind when they
have given financial aid, which often finds no higher ex-
pression than dropping a coin in a beggar's cup.
Then we find the selfish individual who gives only where
the compensation is equal or greater in proportion to the
contribution. This type of charity sinks to the level of a sort
of business deal designed to promote selfish social gains and
self-glorification. The person so indulging rarely sacrifices
of his time or energy to do a charitable act for another. He
prefers to feel exclusive and aloof from his fellowmen. Too
busily absorbed in his own selfish interests, he resents being
inconvenienced to assist the needy or the handicapped.
Inevitably the time arrives in every individual's life when
he faces a difficult situation and must call upon a fellowman
for help. The person who has done no charity will then feel
humiliated to ask another to render him assistance in time of
need. Ignorant of the Law of Generosity, he attempts to
remunerate for favors in terms of material things that he
has gathered and hoarded. Little does he realize that the
deeds of the Spirit are performed without any thought or hope
of gain or reward and cannot be compensated for in terms of
the material. True generosity, concomitant with love, is a
120 RAYS OF THE DAWN
quality of the soul that expresses kindness, beneficence, mer-
cy, and tolerance.
He who gives from his heart•must also receive from the
heart. Thus one establishes an equilibrium between giving
and receiving and maintains the two sides of his conscious-
ness. It is only through an awareness of the value of giving
that the consciousness receives its greatest power. One who
feels that he has fulfilled his obligations by having made an
appreciable contribution to charity should realize that the
mere giving of money is not enough. One should give of him-
self and his love, thus causing his consciousness to grow and
expand, enabling it to receive the best his fellowman has to
offer.
One is always dealt with generously when his nature be-
comes generous, enabling the Divine to have greater expres-
sion through his thoughts and actions. Until one reaches the
plane where there is free giving and receiving, he cannot
be assured of lasting security. "He profits most who serves.,.
-~e~"-~_e_~gm.~~-;;t
_!i_y!~g_p_~t:t]..£!ple
and truth when the i~diyi_4u~l
_
_
, gives not from his hand but from his heart. It is a law of
spiritual compensation that if "we give to the 1
world the best
that we have, the best will come back to us," and often in
greater abundance.
Therefore, we are to do unto others as we would have
them do unto us, but we must use discretion in exercising
our generosity. Being too generous often debilitates the will
of those we desire to help and circumscribes their experience
necessary for their progress. At the same time an excess of
generosity may deplete our own resources destined to promote
other worthy causes. Charity thus becomes misdirected and
defeats its own purpose, for people become irresponsible, shift-
less, and dependent when we absorb all their problems and
' take on all their burdens. It requires fine control and discre-
tion never to do for others what they are not willing to do for
themselves. We cannot always compensate for the ignorance
of others ; furthermore, it is a violation of Law to be kind to
one person at the expense of another.
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 121
True g1vm is wisel directed· it hel s others to help
themselves. The person who merely flings a coin to one ask-
ing alms is not expressing true charity. On. the contrary, he
often encourages some vice in the individual to whom he
gives and this endangers society in general. To those who
do not understand the Law of Generosity, this method of giv-
ing merely offers balm to their sympathetic nature or their
false sense of duty. Charity in its right conception is not
synonymous with mere giving but is distinguished by discern-
ing service, true helpfulness, kindness, and love.
The mark of true love and service, in distinction from the
mere pretense for show or for vainglory, is that it does not
seek praise nor publicity. The individual with the spirit of
true service in his heart has no desire for commendation
nor does he boast of his good deeds. His reward comes from
the knowledge of a deed well done, and the joy he can give
others becomes his greatest joy. His whole nature radiates a
spirit of love, kindness, and generosity, and thus he uninten-
tionally but irresistibly draws to himself a rare and divine
praise.
He who allows his interests to center only about himself
deprives his life of its chief charms and, moreover, he defeats
the very objectives he hopes to attain. Just as in the natural
world there is a law that whatever is of no use or serves no
purpose will wither and shrivel up, so it is a law of our own
being that he who contributes nothing to the great body of
mankind, who makes himself of no use or service to others,
will find that those qualities of his nature that promote the
development of his higher self begin degenerating and disin-
tegrating. Thus he loses the chief charm and happiness of
his life. Such an individual lives only with his own small
and stunted self, while he who projects his life into the service
of others, in generosity, kindness, and helpfulness, will evolve
to a very high plane of existence. His whole nature will grow
and expand, and he will share in the greatest joys of life, his
own life becoming rich and beautiful. He has entered into and
taken part in many other lives, and as a consequence he shares
in their successes, their joys, and their happiness.
122 RAYS OF THE DAWN
Once we become cognizant of the truth that all are ONE,
and that each individual is an integral part of the whole
body of mankind, then we will strive for the perfection of all
people. Just as the imperfect functioning of one bodily organ
can impair all function, so in the greater body of mankind
when one individual is poor, disheartened or ill, all men in
some degree will share his suffering. All men are created in
the image or likeness of God. All are the Sons of God, and
therefore all are entitled to share in His beneficence and
abundance. Each individual constitutes but a channel for the
outflow of God's abundance to bless all mankind. Just as an
individual contributes to the enrichment of his fellows, so all
mankind contributes to the individual well-being.
Once we have purged our minds of hatred, fear, and their
allies and have welcomed into our minds love and its com-
panions, we will recognize that these positive attributes of
the soul bring with them a peace of mind and an infinite
inspiration which clarify the vision until one can see all the
beauties of the earth and recognize the perfection of man.
The individual is that man, the ONE in many, the many as
ONE. As that man, the individual finds his God-given confi-
dence and ability to go forth and "carve out" a career of divine
usefulness.
In accordance with what we give, and the spirit in which
it is given, so shall we receive. If we understand and obey
the Law of Generosity, or Charity, life is bound to give us
what we ask. The Law of Compensation forever operates,
and we cannot bargain with life on any other terms. Gen-
erosity is a quality of love that gives of itself without any
expectation of a material reward, the giving that grants true
freedom.
Chapter Twenty
ASPIRATION
Aspiration is the guiding power that directs the individual
in striving for loftier things. It motivates an exalted life.
It elevates the individual beyond the plane of selfishness and
desire in the development of a pleasing personality and a noble
character. Desire and aspiration are not synonymous. To
desire is to obtain; to aspire is to achieve. Aspiration points
to the exaltation resulting from the purification of the soul
and not to conditions or endowments that may follow. That
which one aspires to be, he can attain so far as the spiritual
organism is concerned.
Each individual soul, whether he is conscious of it or not,
is evolving toward perfection. That is the Divine Plan. While
there may be many reverses from which valuable lessons may
be learned and which enable one to advance more rapidly,
still it is necessary that each soul retains within its conscious-
ness a picture of the ideal. Jesus exemplified for us the high-
est human traits of character. This ideal of character acts
as a guiding light to those who aspire towards perfection.
One should not lose hope if he slips backward, or is retarded,
in the upward climb, but rather one should hold the picture
which Christ personified as an ever-guiding light by which
the individual may aspire to the heights and ultimately achieve
them. It is an axiom of philosophy that nothing stands still;
either one progresses or retrogresses. And the great onward
movement of consciousness, if viewed in the light of past
history, can be seen as progressing towards the Divine.
As man's intellect has developed, it has been directed to
the accumulation of knowledge and the manipulation of con-
ditions to serve selfish ends. When consciousness evolved over
into the human plane, life was so organized that the law of
the survival of the fittest did not predominate; therefore, the
123
124 RAYS OF THE DAWN
intellect should have changed accordingly. But man is slow
to learn, and having inordinate greed and desire in his heart,
he still created evil conditions which became intolerable, and
as a consequence man revolted.
Revolts always come in natural sequence when evil ele-
ments predominate. This is especially true of nations as ex-
emplified in the French and Russian Revolutions. When the
masses are held in subjection by evil men, they will in time
rebel. A perfect example of evil causing an individual to
revolt will be found in the Biblical story of the Prodigal Son.
Intellect had so overshadowed the inherent aspiration within
the soul of the Prodigal Son that, finding himself in an in-
tolerable condition, he was compelled to reverse the procedure
and turn his footsteps back toward the Father's house.
Viewed in the light of our obedience to or disobedience
of the Natural Law, we are all more or less prodigal sons of
God; and the further that the misuse of our intellect leads us
away for the Divine, the more desperate our position be-
comes, until finally aspiration leads us gently by the hand
and impels us to turn towards the better and more con-
structive things of life. Those who live without a knowledge
of the Laws of the Body, Mind, and Soul may be compared
to a ship without a rudder. They are tossed about on the
great sea of life by detrimental thoughts and actions which
they allow to affect them due to a lack of understanding. A
time comes, however, in each individual's life when he aspires
to seek the Truth, and in seeking he will find. This brings
wisdom, and wisdom soon brings intellect under control so
that it begins to seek the spiritual treasures instead of the
material. Inevitably one possessed of spiritual wisdom always
expresses himself in a different form of action, which many
writers have referred to as "live and let live." Such souls then
recognize that God rules His universe under exact law, and
then the soul aspires to a full understanding of and obedience
to the law. As a result, there follows in natural sequence the
knowledge that all are ONE. All are traveling the same path
of evolution towards perfection, and the soul then begins to
enlighten those who are farther back on the path.
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 125
As the intellect of man becomes sufficiently developed
and knows that obedience to the laws which govern the body,
mind, and soul always brings an immediate reward, it auto-
matically chooses to align itself with the positive attributes of
life. Man then begins to eliminate the negative and thereby
becomes a powerful factor in the upward progression of
humanity. Each one who so lives that his life shall be govern-
ed by Natural Law will become a center through whom the
forces and influences of restoration may operate to conquer
evil. One who has purified his nature may be compared to
a dynamo which generates a subtle but a powerful force. Un-
der the guidance of wisdom, such a force may i,et into opera-
tion vast mechanisms for the production of many forms of
good over which no evil shall ultimately prevail. In this way
the work of restoring such portions of the human race as can
be reached may be powerfully reinforced by every individual
who obeys the Laws of the Body, Mind, and Soul.
One's ideals should alwayi, conform to the standard of a
perfected nature. Each form of life tends toward the state
of perfection possible to its kind, or through contravention
growth is arrested, and the trend is immediately changed
toward degeneration. Analogous to this is the development of
the individual. He must either progress to the apex of human
excellence, or from any point at which his growth is checked,
he will retrograde. The individual soul who has purified his
nature and becomes cognizant of his ONENESS with Divinity
has reached the highest possible point which aspiration can
take him.
Spiritual men are the saviors of the world. As the
material phase of life is sustained and governed by the
spiritual, so men, through all their trials and tribulations and
sordid vocations, are nourished by the beautiful visions of
great souls who have lived before them. Christ was the great-
est personification of the ideal soul, and his method of l1fe
stands as a beacon which serves to light up the path of those
who are evolving upward. The composers, sculptors, painteri,,
poets, philosophers, prophets - these are "the makers of the
after-world, the architects of heaven." Our world is more
126 RAYS OF THE DAWN
beautiful because they have lived and given us their visions.
Without them we would have perished long ago.
Man's life is patterned according to his aspirations. He
who cherishes a beautiful vision in his heart, whose life is
guided by a lofty ideal, will ultimately achieve his goal if he
lives in obedience to the laws of his being. The highest of
those who have walked the earth reveal to us what we too
may some day be. They link us with the Divine and teach us
that, however pathetically defaced by our infirmities and
distorted by our imperfectiom;, we may yet reflect the Image
of God.
Chapt.er
Twenty-One
PATIENCE
Patience is that faculty inherent in the human soul which
enables the individual to accomplish his mission without allow-
ing himself to be diverted from his purpose by the obstacles
that could obstruct his path of progression. Patience
strengthens the will and fortifies the intellect against the
discouragements of life. It constitutes a motivating force, en-
abling the soul to keep walking steadily in the path it has
chosen despite the pitfalls encountered along the way. Many
wander along blind alleys and meet with difficulties that retard
advancement. With the exercise of patience such obstacles can
be avoided, or at least they can be overcome. Thus progress
is maintained. If patience is lacking, the project is abandon-
ed. The individual is then convinced of his weakness, and ad-
vancement is impossible.
The spiritual attitude necessary to one who would advance
is one of keen sensibility and endurance. When the soul is
peaceful and pure, it awakens to the higher states of conscious-
ness, and the growth of the entire organism is assured. In
the midst of surrounding inharmony and chaos, the pro-
gressive soul must maintain its calm. Though fraught with
trial, it must be composed; though faced with deprivation,
it must be content; though surrounded by sorrow, it must be
happy. A nature that has become disinterested in worldly
considerations, that vibrates only in response to duty, that is
alive and awake to necessities, that is serene and peaceful
under any pressure, that is sweet, satisfied and happy in any
environment, presents an invulnerable front to evil. The world
is full of densest sin, and life is teeming with misery. None
can wholly escape its nefarious conditions. The only way to
wade through its mire without sinking therein is by respond-
ing only when duty calls, and even then to navigate through
stormy waters requires patience.
127
128 RAYS OF THE DAWN
Patience is concomitant with and indispensable to per-
severance. When unforseen difficulties occur, perseverance
comes into play by aiding us to surmount them and by provid-
ing us with the patience and endurance necessary to success-
fully combat such difficulties. The continuity as well as the
frequency of effort depend upon patience, whereas persever-
ance is but the will to make this effort. Patience enables us
to estimate persons, conditions, and things in their true light
and to guard against the emotional upsets and biased judg-
ment that often cloud the vision. It is patience also that en-
ables us to choose with discrimination and to carry out with
clearness and precision the actions that reason has counseled
us to perform.
Man's entire world of thought and action should be colored
by the quality of patience, yet little observation and investiga-
tion will reveal that this positive and ennobling attribute is
sadly lacking in the home, in the community, and among
nations. The need of patience is nowhere more pressing than
in the home. Members of a family tend to be hasty and head-
long, with little consideration for individual differences. Par-
ents and those entrusted with the guidance and discipline
of children are especially guilty of violating the Law of
Patience. To be hasty and inconsiderate with children breeds
fear, discouragement, self-condemnation. Many an inferiority
complex can be attributed to, a parent's or teacher's habitual
impatient attitude toward a deficiency or a lack in the child.
Not only does the parent or teacher thus violate the Law of
Patience but he is lacking in the traits of sympathy, charity,
kindness, and duty.
Impatience leads to irritability, which in turn produces
anger, and hence the mind becomes engrossed in the negative
phase of reaction. In the business world there are many in-
dividuals who, perplexed and preoccupied with their own prob-
lems, exhibit an attitude of impatience toward those whom
they propose to serve. Such an attitude, perhaps bringing
temporary satisfaction, will in the end defeat its purpose.
Only when one is patient under all circumstances can harmony
be maintained.
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 129
Even in the realm of healing, where patience should find
a prominent place as an indispensable factor in producing
results, this constructive force is often lacking. Still ignorant
of all the laws involved in healing, many doctors will display
impatience and irritability towards patients - especially nery-
ous and neurotic cases - when in reality the fault lies with
the doctor. He has failed to create the composite personality
or to instill the concepts necessary to produce constructive
results. Some individuals have drifted so far into the negative
phase of life that it requires persistent effort and a great deal
of patience to bring them back into the positive realm.
When considering the necessity of exercising patience
and its stronger complement endurance, one is apt to con-
template the greater obstacles and to forget the trivial an-
noyances which beset the daily life. Stumbling over petty
offences by allowing them to repeatedly stir the mind into
little bubbles of irritation does as much to undermine the
nature as the failure to surmount greater errors. Through
continuous failure to patiently endure little disturbances, life
forces are scattered and the whole organism is depleted. In
this way one becomes totally unfitted to cope with severer
trials, and for such trials one should always be prepared. If
the disposition be carefully watched and the lesser discrep-
ancies eradicated, force and power will gradually be added
with which to meet and rise superior to any emergency.
Patience rests upon faith - faith in ourselves, in our
fellowmen, and in God. Men do not attain to greatness in any
line of endeavor without patient, persistent effort. Creative
genius has always utilized patience as an essential factor for
achievement. The victory may be at hand, the goal may be
in sight, the plan may be nearing its completion, but if we
falter or stumble through impatience to reach the end, that
which was within our grasp will end in defeat or disappoint-
ment. Life is one great battle with all its trials and problems,
but whatever the necessities of life and whatever the tribula-
tions, small or great, one must remember that unwavering
patience, and endurance unto the end, of necessity will fortify
the character with increased strength toward final mastery
of all the circumstances that tend to impede our progress.
130 RAYS OF THE DAWN
The weaknesses in an individual's own nature he has the
power to conquer through a knowledge of and obedience to
the laws governing his body, mind, and soul, but the evils of
the world are beyond his jurisdiction save where he can serve
to help others to see the right path. This is best done by
example. To those souls who constantly by their actions
personify the positive attributes such as faith, hope, charity,
patience and love, the world owes its advancement, and when
these are in the majority we may expect the coming of the
brotherhood of man. When men will love one another, they
will by their own actions gradually eliminate from the earth
all the evil attributes which we now know.
As the individual becomes cognizant of his part in the
Divine Plan, he cheerfully accepts his obligations, and with
patience and perseverance he performs his allotted task.
Realizing that the guiding light may often be dimmed by his
restricted vision and that many things which appear painful
are in reality designed for his own good - that he may grow
and advance - then he will have the faith, the hope, the
patience and the courage to struggle onward, for he knows
that he is on the path that is "built unerringly along the
course of the laws of life."
Chapter Twenty-Two
SYMPATHY
In man's instinctive nature there originates a desire to
be with his fellows and to share their feelings. As man
evolved to a higher state of consciousness, this instinctive trait
developed into the attribute of sympathy, based upon love,
devotion, and human understanding. In its perfected state,
sympathy constitutes a necessary prerequisite toward the pro-
mulgation of the Golden Rule.
As man's thought and conduct, in many instances, is still
controlled by his animal traits, so we are constantly aware
of manifestations of sympathy expressed in its cruder forms.
When the individual confines his feelings, his interests, and
his helpfulness to certain groups or classes, when he allows
himself to be conscious of kind, then he is expressing a very
mediocre and undeveloped form of sympathy. This type of
sympathy gives rise to all sorts of racial conflicts and mis-
understandings. It is the cause of inharmony and leads to
open hostility between races and between groups of radically
different beliefs, opinions, and social status. This type of
sympathy is a detriment to the advancement of the soul.
When the indivi<;lual no longer discriminates between
races, creeds or color, when his sympathetic consciousness en-
compasses all men in all stations of life - when he radiates
a spirit of kindness, charity, patience, and love to the whole
body of mankind - then the individual is expressing sym-
pathy in its highest and most developed stage. Only through
awareness of the ONENESS of mankind can we acquire the
quality of feeling that is characterized by mutual understand-
ing and genuine helpfulness toward all men.
Sympathy, used in the sense of sorrowing with others,
is a violation of Natural Law and should not be indulged in.
131
132 RAYS OF THE DAWN
It may be exercised in appreciation of another's suffering,
but it should never be enlisted to the point of disturbing one's
own equilibrium. When sympathy disturbs, it weakens, and
that which weakens tends to destroy. Through weeping with
or for another, one increases his own suffering and unfits
himself for helpfulness. No circumstance justifies a disturbed
attitude.
In each person's conscious existence there comes a time
when he has risen in consciousness to the extent that a ONE-
NESS with all life is felt. There follows in natural sequence
the realization that whatever befalls the many also harms the
One, and to this type of soul, sympathy reaches its most
beautiful expression. The life that exists in the plant, the
animal, and the man may then be said to be en rapport with
this type of evolved soul. It is only when one is aware of his
separateness and individualized existence that he feels alone
and perhaps afraid. To him all forms of life are separate
and distinct entities, some of which are looked upon with
abhorrence. In such a personality the right kind of sympathy
cannot exist.
The individual who is truly in sympathy with animal
nature cannot ruthlessly blot out its life for mere pleasure.
The hunter who delights in the destruction of animal life for
sport certainly does not understand that all life is ONE. Being
unaware of the laws involved, he is merely satisfying an in-
herited egotistical urge brought over from the lower states of
existence to match his wits against those of the animal. When
one becomes cognizant that all are ONE, he no longer can ruth-
lessly destroy life unnecessarily. Rather he endeavors to
make the life of the lower and lesser beings more pleasant.
When this point of consciousness has been reached, true sym-
pathy is then being expressed by the soul. We have a good
example of such expression in the organization against cruelty
to animals, where individuals devote their time and money to
alleviate the suffering of these unfortunate beings.
The needless and unaided suffering of both animals and
human beings is sufficient evidence to support the statement
that sympathy in the true sense is sadly lacking in our vaunt-
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 133
ed and prosperous civilization. Not only are animals neglect-
ed, without adequate food and shelter, but the aged and the
infirm walk the streets seeking sustenance and the bare com-
forts of life. The undernourished and underprivileged chil-
dren fill the slums of our large cities, and although we have
welfare organizations charged with the responsibility of caring
for these individuals, they perform their services in a cold,
merciless manner and do not alleviate the conditions that exist.
It is obvious that the great mass of humanity displays a super-
ficial, sentimental, and insincere sympathetic attitude towards
its fellows.
As more and more souls advance along the Path of Attain-
ment, spiritual illumination will bring sympathy of the true
kind to the earth. Then a great change will be in evidence.
Animals will no longer be ruthlessly slaughtered, the aged and
infirm will be alleviated of their suffering, and no longer will
infants be allowed to be born in filth and squalor. Neither
will little children be denied the proper nourishment and care.
When these reforms are made a reality, then true sympathy
has come into its own.
Sympathy often degenerates into a morbid sentimental-
ism that brings no stimulus to healthy effort and encourage-
ment. No true soul will tolerate pity for himself, either in his
own mind or the mind· of a friend, nor will he inflict it upon
another. The average individual tends to conclude that his
own problems, struggles, and sorrows are greater than those
of his neighbor, and at times greater than any other person.
We must recognize that life is a battle and through our trials,
our suffering, our disappointments and sorrows, we are
strengthened and are able to grow spiritually. Each soul has
its duties to perform, its lessons to learn, its battles to fight,
but through a knowledge and application of the Laws of Life
we gain the faith, the hope, the sympathetic understanding, the
courage, and the power to meet the challenges that face us
throughout life.
The ability to feel for and with others constitutes a vitally
important factor in promoting the advancement of the in-
dividual and of the race. Sympathy for one another's prob-
134 RAYS OF THE DAWN
lems contributes to unity, harmony, and understanding in a
home, a community or a society. But the individual must
guard against the misuse or abuse of sympathy, especially
in the home. Members of a family will discover that they
can use the emotion of sympathy as a medium by which they
can enslave those who love them. It is not uncommon to find
a neurotic mother playing upon the sympathy of her children,
nor to find a neurotic wife who enjoys posing as an invalid
to gain her husband's sympathetic attitude. Children soon
learn that they also can utilize this illegal weapon to accom-
plish their selfish objectives. This is a violation of law, and
while there is a temporary advantage to be gained, in the
end the result is disastrous. When one places spiritual chains
around his loved ones, by the misuse of the attributes of the
soul, he succeds only in slowly losing those who love him.
Sympathy, properly used, is an attribute of the soul, and
only according to its use or misuse will it serve as a power
for good or evil. Those who realize that all life is ONE
will recognize the evils that exist and will regret the existence
of such evils that operate to injure many. Immediately sym-
pathy is experienced and felt for the oppressed, and a desire
is born to assist in some way or to contribute something, how-
ever little, to alleviate their misfortunes. All the progress
the world has made toward that state known as the brother-
hood of man is due to the sympathetic understanding and co-
operative efforts of those advanced souls who have used their
time and influence to remedy the evil conditions which enslave
the masses.
Social progress and individual achievement are rooted not
in competition, in the effort to subdue, defeat or hold down
one's fellows but, on the contrary, the advancement of the in-
dividual and of society rests upon co-operation, sympathetic
understanding and reciprocity. By helping our fellowmen,
and by being in turn assisted by them, we enlist their capaci-
ties, their talents and attributes with ours, and as a result
we multiply the power of all instead of destroying it by strug-
gling one against another. No community or nation can stand
alone; all are dependent and interdependent. Only through
a recognition of the principle of brotherhood can we hope for
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 135
a solution of the social problems that face the world. The
mass consciousness must become aware of the ONENESS of
all humanity, and each individual must recognize that his own
interests and welfare depend upon the welfare of all other
members of society.
Sympathy, in its higher sense, is a subtle faculty through
which one readily comprehends and appreciates the finer,
higher sensibilities of others, and through which one's own
are in turn comprehended and appreciated. It is the invari-
able accompaniment of pure love, and lends a sweetness and
joy to human relationships unparalleled by any other qualifi-
cation.
Chapter Twenty-Three
NON-INTERFERENCE
Each individual soul is destined to fulfill some mission on
this earth plane, his life being patterned according to his
stage of evolution. The path that he must travel in order to
fulfill his duties will be burdensome or free from pain and
worry in the degree that the individual understands and obeys
the laws of his being. Just as the rays of the sun individually
function to produce part of the great light that illuminates
the universe - each functioning as an integral unit yet con-
stituting a composite part of the whole and still not interfer-
ing one with the other - so each individual soul must play
his part cheerfully and willingly, contributing to the whole
and yet refraining from any interference with the function
or mission of another soul.
Each person h.as his own phase which he is carrying out
in accordance with higher laws. In order to perform his
mission, he should not be unduly interfered with. We see so
many people who, in their egotistical manner, take upon them-
selves the responsibility of instructing or otherwise impeding
the destiny of others who do not desire such instruction.
This is a violation of law. God, in His Divine Wisdom, has
ordained the true course for all, and each one should be allow-
ed to pursue his course without unwarranted interference.
Had man in his original state of innocence not broken
this law, he would not have fallen to his present condition.
His calling was to maintain his undisturbed state of mind,
to do duty and to grow, but he tried to climb another way
and interested himself in many things which did not belong
to the life of natural progression. Whenever his interests en-
gaged him in pursuits that were unnecessary to his growth,
he disobeyed one of Nature's most essential provisions; name-
ly, non-interference or, in the language familiar to all, "strict-
186
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 137
ly minding his own business." It is, however, far more dif-
ficult to mind one's own business in the turmoil of present
conditions than it would have been had man not become en-
tangled. Life is now full of disturbing influences, and duties
have become complicated and difficult. There is, neverthe-
less, no other constructive course to follow than to perform
one's duties to promote self-development without retarding
the progress or interfering with the well-being of another
person, or of other persons.
The average individual has become so accustomed to in-
terfering, not only with Nature's laws but with innumerable
affairs that should not concern him, that considerable train-
ing is usually necessary before he realizes the scope of the
application of the Law of Non-Interference. It is not sufficient
for one to refrain from intruding upon the affairs of others
in deed only; one must abstain in thought, word, and deed.
In fact, the first intrusion is always in thought, and much
destruction may be wrought even though such transgression
does not go beyond this plane. Furthermore, it is not only
necessary for the individual to learn not to intrude upon others
but he must guard his own territory with equal care. The
utmost effort is made to protect earthly possessions, but the
treasures of the mind and the soul are left wide open to in-
trusion.
When one places his mind upon another person to scan
him with interest, to speculate upon his condition or nature,
even though one does not make the greater mistake of criticiz-
ing - and especially if one tries to read or influence his mind
- one has penetrated the sacred chambers of his being, and
both individuals concerned are harmed beyond one's present
power of realization. In whatever way or for whatever pur-
pose one mentally or spiritually intrudes upon another mind or
soul, he unlawfully handles dangerous forces. Whether this be
done through mental suggestion or by any other method and
whether it be done with or without permission, injury and
ultimate destruction will surely follow. Both the one who
practices these methods and the one practiced upon become
victims.
138 RAYS OF THE DAWN
When the mind is carried away from the body and from
its activity in abstract thinking or speculation, when it in
any way intrudes upon the domain of another, when it is in- i-
fluenced or disturbed by being intruded upon or disturbed
by its own errors, the soul, through the vibrations thus set in
motion, is pierced, opened and scattered in the degree that
the agitations are violent or prolonged. Thus the soul is con-
stantly exposed to chaotic, contaminating and deadening con-
ditions with which the very atmosphere of the globe is filled.
On the streets, in crowds, wherever one goes, he is con-
stantly subjected to such interferences. If one wishes to pre-
serve and protect his soul, which is his only means for growth,
he must avoid promiscuous and unnecessary mingling with
people. When called into their midst through duty, one should
take the utmost care not to interfere with so much as one
thought and maintain an unyielding attitude against any in-
trusion from others. When one's territory is in any way tres-
passed upon, it is necessary for one to inform the intruder that
the individual himself will permit no interference. This should
be done without any annoyance on one's own part and in the
wisest way possible to avoid giving offense.
Not only has man degenerated to the plane of interfering
with his neighbor in thought, word, and deed but man
habitually intrudes upon the domain of his own being - in-
terfering with the laws governing the subconscious or auto-
matic phase of his mind and body. When man begins to
tamper with the subconscious functioning of his body~then
he is violating the Law of Non-Interference. When man's
thought process becomes inverted, when he over-indulges in
self-analysis and introspection, constantly centering his atten-
tion upon his very thought, word, and action, then he becomes
the victim of self-condemnation and self-consciousness, all re-
sulting from an intrusion upon that phase of his being that
should be controlled by the subconscious mind. Within each
person is a Spiritual Force that directs certain activities as
digestion, breathing, rate of the heartbeat, elimination. These
functions do not come under the jurisdiction of the conscious
mind and hence should not be interfered with. Through con-
i
I
I
j
I
l
I
I
I
I
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 139
stant interferences by the conscious mind, these activities
begin to function abnormally, or they cease to function ac-
cording to the nature or the degree of interference, resulting
in various bodily and mental disorders.
When we become acquainted with the Truth about life
- the laws governing our being and how to apply them - im-
mediately we want to teach others. But often we find that
the other person is not ready to accept the Truth. His mind
is closed to anything that might militate against his opin-
ions, beliefs, prejudices and superstitions. He is not eager to
seek the lighted path, but rather he chooses to struggle on-
ward in darkness, adhering to his artificial way of living and
thinking. To attempt to sow the seeds of Truth in such in-
fertile mental soil is like "casting pearls before swine." Some
must experience a terrific psychic upheaval resulting from
long continued suffering before the mind and the soul are
awakened to an understanding of and obedience to the Laws
of Life.
We should never impose our way of living and thinking
upon others. Our divine authority over ourselves does not
grant us the least jurisdiction over our neighbors. We have
the capacity to control our own thinking and to determine
what is best for us, but we are not always in a position to
judge what is best for our neighbors. When we have evolved
to the point where we recognize the unique individuality and
divine freedom of every human being, then we will allow our
fellowmen the liberty to think for themselves. The other
fellow may have a better way of life - he may be a step
lower or higher on the path - but that is none of our concern.
Helpfulness without interference comes as a natural con-
sequence to an understanding of the underlying unity of all.
We cannot stand aside when our brother is in distress, though
we cannot always give physical aid, but it is our duty to
offer our sympathy, kindness, patience, and love. Forgive-
ness and love follow in the wake of understanding. We must
realize that every man has his own interpretation of life and
that the shortest and easiest road for one man is not necessar-
ily the most direct route for another. Each individual has
140 RAYS OF THE DAWN
the right and privilege to take his own evolution in hand in
accordance with his understanding so long as he does not in-
terfere with the well-being of his neighbor. It is not our
duty to direct another's life but only to make sure that we are
in the right in our relation with others. Before we attempt
to force another to pursue our path, it would be wise to in-
vestigate his course, for his way might be better for him.
The Law of Charity dictates that we must be ever ready
to help our fellowmen to the fullest extent of our ability, but
we ought never to interfere.
Chapter Twenty-Four
KINDNESS
Kindness is a quality of charity and an attribute of love.
It connotes benevolence, consideration, unselfishness, and sym-
pathetic understanding. Its beneficence blesses not only every
phase of human life but encompasses the far-reaching limits
of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. The person who has
risen above such destructive traits as greed, selfishness,
hatred, jealousy, envy, and has evolved to the plane where
generosity, patience, tolerance, sympathy and love radiate
from his every thought, word, and deed - such an individual
is obeying the laws of his soul and embodies in his character
and personality the essence of kindness.
Kindness of thought and action should extend to all of
our fellow beings, but especially to those who are needy, help-
less, infirm, and to those who are in any way deprived of a
normal, happy existence. Kindness should constitute a pre-
dominant trait in the character of all parents, teachers,
doctors, and all those entrusted with the care and super-
vision of children or of any fellow human being. In business,
in professional life, in travel, in all social intercourse - at
home, in the community, and among nations - consideration
and sympathetic understanding of one's neighbors is a para-
mount factor in maintaining peace and happiness in the great
human family.
In dealing with our fellow human beings, let us first
consider our children. They are but sparks of the Divine Life
that have been entrusted to us that we may guide and direct
them along the evolutionary highway until they have matur-
ed sufficiently to find their own way. Domination and mis-
treatment of children is cruel despotism designed to promote
the selfish interests of individuals who vibrate on a very low
plane of existence. Children have their lives patterned ac-
141
142 RAYS OF THE DAWN
cording to Divine Plan, and when we interfere with their
evolution by abusing them and using them for our profit and
advantage instead of directing them with loving kindness and
promoting their welfare, then we are violating a divine trust.
To our children we must be as a friend with an understanding
heart but never as a selfish and cruel dictator. No child is a
bad child. He may have undesirable traits that need to be
thwarted or directed into channels of usefulness, but that is
our duty - to guide children with perfect kindness and with
love to bring forth an expression of their divine nature.
The aged, the feeble, the poor, and the sick so often be-
come the victims of neglect, indifference, abuse and even
cruelty. Their greatest want is consideration and sympathetic
understanding - the little kindnesses that make their burdens
a trifle lighter, their lives a bit more cheerful. In every in-
dividual's life, somewhere and somehow, he will experience
the pangs of weakness and suffering. Then he will long for
the touch of a helpful hand, an expression of kindness in the
hour of need. Kindness lays the foundation for friendship
and constitutes one of its most enduring attributes.
Kindness to others reaps its own reward, for the Law
of Compensation provides adequate remuneration for the good
that we bestow upon our fellows. The benefits conferred upon
us by another's thoughtfulness should act as a motivating
power to treat with consideration and benevolence those whom
we contact. When some person has been kind to us, we should
express our appreciation by an equal readiness to serve an-
other who needs assistance. Thus the good deeds of the
human family are kept in constant circulation, and no individ-
ual is left to suffer needlessly. We often receive kindnesses
from persons whom we, perhaps, may not have the opportunity
to make a direct return in favors. But we can show our grati-
tude for these blessings by the good thoughts and deeds that
we convey to our fellowmen, for we must remember that we
are all ONE, all members of the great body of mankind.
The Law of Kindness extends, also, to the forms of life
lower than the human. It is the duty of man to try to under-
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 143
stand the animal, to provide for it when it is deprived of its
natural means of self-preservation, and to assist in its evolu-
tion. To acquire an understanding of the animal, we must
look at its world through its eyes, and in turn we will gain
its faith and devotion. Children, in particular, should be
taught to be gentle with animals and to respect them as
part of God's creation. In avoiding man's harsh or cruel treat-
ment, the animal's mind may possibly be evolved as the animal
must learn to think its way out of man's abuse, but at the
same time there are developed the undesirable emotions of
fear and hatred. In our relations with all forms of life, it is
our duty to love and to help, to be kind and to co-operate in
promoting the welfare of all of God's creation, as all are a part
of the One Life. Even vegetable life must not be abused or
ruthlessly destroyed. God in His Divine Wisdom has decreed
and designed a purposeful life for every living organism. We
must work in harmony with, not against, the Laws of Nature.
The human soul responds to vibrations, and all vibrations
can be classified as being either positive or negative. All
destructive emotions are negative in character and invariably
produce negative results. When we realize that all are strug-
gling daily to eliminate, or at least control, the destructive
attributes which we all possess, then it behooves us to stop
and think before we allow ourselves to be impelled by the laws
of vibration to give vent to our baser nature in responding to
the negative thoughts, words, or deeds of others which may
give offense. To those whom we come in contact with in our
daily lives and whose conduct is such that it could be classified
as cruel and abusive, we have two alternatives to consider.
One is to recognize the source and ignore it completely, and if
this is not possible, the individual assaulted should have as
his guide the axiom: "A soft answer turneth, away wrath."
But in no event should one allow the vibratory effects of the
evil thoughts or actions of others to cause him to descend to
their level and to do likewise. Living as we do in a world of
constant change and endless variety, we are thrown among
souls who are struggling upward; therefore, we should adapt
ourselves to our environment and endeavor to assist those
who are lower in the scale.
144 RAYS OF THE DAWN
The individual who understands the laws of his being,
and lives in harmony with them, will find it quite easy to
"build a wall around himself," so to speak, which will keep the
negative vibrations of lower souls from dragging him down to
their level. The Law of Polarity works in kindness just as it
does in every circumstance and condition concerning life. The
path of least resistance is to go through life responding to
every negative vibration or act, with one equally as crude or
as cruel, but that is the coward's way. To recognize the
source of evils, and to overcome them by positive thoughts,
words, and acts - this is the motive and the essence of kind-
ness. Let us not just "batter" our way through life, but
rather let us look upon our existence on this earth plane as a
stepping-stone to a higher life, and hence let our conduct be
colored by the noble attributes that characterize the evolv-
ing soul.
Often we find individuals who are so deeply submerged
in their evil ways that kindness cannot lift them out of their
abyss. The idea, so currently expounded, that love leads the
way to a higher life and that, to righteousness and purity,
love will open the doors even of a nature which has closed
them by the densest form of evil, is only one of the fallacies
that divert the minds of the people into wrong channels and
keep them revolving in their unconquered errors. Love is
never the harbinger of the Law but follows in its wake. It is
true that every teacher or reformer should have risen to the
plane of love. It is also true that kindness governed by wisdom
should be the motive power. Wisdom, however, may demand
the greatest severity in the handling of an evil nature, and
the only kind method is the one that effectually conquers
the evil and leaves the individual free. Methods may some-
times be mild and gentle and still be effectual, but there are
occasions when necessity demands drastic measures. Whether
gentle or loving methods will lead the soul forward or not
depends upon the extent of its involvement and submissive-
ness, and upon its obedience to guidance.
When right and justice are submerged, kindness will not
avail, and love may stand and beat in vain at the door of a
nature that is governed by selfishness. Under such condition
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 145
the sword must be used, and love is not the sword but the
motive power behind it and the balm that heals the wound.
Whatever resists the law of right will smother love, and one
who tries to use love's methods indiscriminately, in evil con-
ditions, will find himself like a child beating flames with a toy.
Kindness, operating under the light of love and guided by
wisdom, may take many forms. That quality which acts ac-
cording to individual caprice, independent of either love or
wisdom, is not kindness but a mere imitation which often
does more harm than good. Only one who is obedient to the
laws of his being can always know how to be truly kind. To
gratify an indulgent nature is not kindness. That which aids
the soul to rise above desire, or rid itself of weakness, is
truly kind. To be kind is first to be just and demand justice,
to do right and demand right in return. To be kind is to be
merciful, charitable, and generous, whenever occasion permits
without cost to the higher nature. To be kind is to bless
where such blessings enrich the soul and lead it toward the
light. Let all who would grow be kind in nature, in conscious-
ness, in speech, in acts, as opportunity permits, as love prompts
and wisdom guides.
Chapter Twenty-Five
COURAGE
Courage is that attribute of the soul which gives the in-
dividual the strength, the power, and the endurance to over-
come or surmount obstacles, weakness, hardships, failure, loss,
disappointment, crisis - any force, circumstance, condition,
person or thing that tends to impede the progress or interferes
with the well-being of an individual. There are many types
of courage, finding expression on every plane of man's being
- physical, mental, and spiritual. Courage is closely associat-
ed with bravery, gallantry, valor, and heroism. Bravery im-
plies fearlessness in the face of danger, whereas courage may
be shown in spite of fear. Gallantry is "dashing courage";
valor defies danger; heroism signifies self-denial and self-
sacrifice in the face of danger. Heroism is a spontaneous act
of extraordinary courage.
There is always a motivating force behind courage de-
termining its nature and intensity. Aside from the instinctive
traits that motivate man's courageous action, every human
being is endowed, according to his stage of evolution, with at-
tributes of the soul such as love, faith, devotion, loyalty, and·
unselfishness that stimulate the noblest form of courage.
Spiritual courage is founded upon faith and unselfishness. It
is concomitant with loyalty, devotion, and self-commitment.
Those causes, persons, and values that, are nearest and dear-
est to our hearts inspire the strongest and most enduring
courage.
Courage is a vibratory emotion of a positive nature, and
all souls within its sphere of radiation are instantly attracted
by it. When we face a dangerous or difficult situation coura-
geously, we transmit the same feeling to others. Thus by the
constant exercise of this positive attribute in meeting life's
problems and adversities, we benefit not only ourselves but all
146
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 147
those whom we contact. Courageous men and women never
indulge in self-pity or complacency. Their souls shine as ever-
guiding lights to lead others out of darkness and confusion.
Life has many trials and tribulations, and it is only the courage
to face these and master them that allows one to strive
upward.
When courage is lost, all is lost. One becomes a weakling,
afraid to meet the test of life. Examples may be seen every
day among those people who have lost their courage, who
have given up hope, who allow themselves to sink to the
depth of human society. The person who indulges in self-
pity is naturally a coward. When man's power and energy
becomes inverted, when he becomes overly concerned about
himself, then he has incapacitated himself for brave and dar-
ing action. His inevitable reaction to danger and difficulty
is not with courage but with "alibis and escapes."
Courage is a great constructive power in overcoming the
negative and destructive forces within the self. It is an
essential factor in self-control and self-discipline. As long
as man succumbs to the desires, urges, and tendencies of his
animalistic nature, he will continue to vibrate on a low plane.
Only as man learns, through courageous thought and action,
to control and redirect these tendencies, will he evolve to a
higher plane of existence. Man's duty is not to live to him-
self and for himself alone, but recognizing his ONENESS with
all life, he must exercise courage in controlling those habits
and traits that tend to degrade his nature. As a consequence,
he will aspire to live according to man's highest ideal of his
relation to God and to his fellowmen. In the character make-
up of each individual, we find the carnal man and the spiriflual
mami constantly struggling for supremacy. The carnal man
embodies all the destructive, worldly traits that tend to lower
man's nature. The spiritual man represents all the attributes
of the soul, which shine like a light to direct the soul on the
upward path. Self-control and self-discipline do not mean
self-repression but, on the contrary, they spell power for self-
expression gained through the exercise of courage in over-
whelming the destructive forces within ourselves and those of
our fellowmen.
148 RAYS OF THE DAWN
It requires courage to shoulder one's own responsibility,
to work out one's own problems. It is so much easier to
burden the other fellow, often taking advantage of his friend-
ship and love. "Misery likes company," and the selfish, cow-
ardly person doesn't possess the character to fight his own
battles - physical, mental, or spiritual. When he is incon-
venienced, when he is in distress, he never fails to share his
discomfort with those about him, disrupting their peace and
happiness. So many individuals delight in posing as martyrs,
but such behavior clearly indicates a weakness of character
and a lack of courage. To assume the role of suffering inno-
cence is a violation of the Law of Courage, and he who pities
himself is lost. What more destructive habit to mind and soul
could man indulge in than to "nurse his nerves, coddle his
whims, or baby his sins." Man is entitled to peace and happi-
ness, and it takes courage to face the evils of the world and
rise above them. When people and things about us become
irritating and depressing, we must adapt ourselves and rise
superior to the annoying elements in our environment or in
other personalities. To become weak and indulge in the de-
structive forces of the mind can only result in one's own down-
fall. The man of courage defenda his rights, controls his
emotions, and ever maintains a happy state of mind.
In meeting the challenges of his environment, man must
either conquer them or they will conquer him. Either he must
be the victor over circumstance or else become its victim.
Most people follow the path of least resistance. They long
for a life of ease, free from struggle and pain, and were it
within their power to plan and arrange the conditions and
circumstances of their lives, there would be nothing that would
interfere with their ease and comfort. Consequently, the most
stimulating elements for growth and development of body,
mind, and soul would be eliminated. God, in His Divine Wis-
dom, has designed and planned the world so that struggle and
effort are compensated for by development of character. It
is through the heroic effort of those brave souls who have
recognized that growth and achievement lie in meeting the
conflicting forces and difficulties of Nature and of man, and
of mastering them, that the great discoveries, inventions, and
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 149
productions in every field of human endeavor have been possi-
ble. The height of man's possibilities and the fullness of his
power rests upon his awareness of the "world of realities"
in which he might grow and develop, and upon his capacity
to meet the challenges of life and master them. Many persons
become dwarfed in mind and darkened in spirit because they
live in a world of unrealities. They lack the courage to seek
for enlightenment and to struggle through the "mire" of op-
posing forces in conquest of their environment. They lack the
faith in themselves, in their fellowmen, and in God to strive
in co-operative effort until the final victory is achieved. The
individual who sees the "challenging vision of the far horizon,
and girds himself and presses on, growing in wisdom and ex-
perience each day, stretching toward the mount of conquest,"
will ultimately reach his goal.
In our daily lives we meet obstacles which seem so great
we wonder what's the use of going on. We are inclined to give
up, to blame our bad luck, and to look upon the world in a
pessimistic manner. On such occasions we should recognize
the fact that life was, is, and always will be full of obstacles.
We should utilize these experiences to gain more and more
courage so that, as we evolve, we will have an abundance stor-
ed up. When the soul recognizes that this universe is govern-
ed by God's Immutable Laws and that nothing happens by
chance, that each difficulty met with has its own purpose in
the Great Plan, then one ceases to rebel against the great
scheme of things. Through our struggles in this world of
"unharnessed" Nature and endless difficulties, we gain ex-
perience and wisdom, and thus we evolve to higher and higher
planes of existence until we attain our destiny as Sons of God.
As we grow spiritually, we enter into a better understanding
of our fellowmen. And when we take the material of this world
and through it allow our souls to find expression, then we have
contributed something of value to humanity. Mental and
material wealth contribute to character development only in
the degree that they are utilized as a medium in serving the
Divine for the good of mankind, and as a tool to promote
the individual's evolutionary progress. All of our resources
are temptations to selfish desire, and unless we use them
150 RAYS OF THE DAWN
constructively they will lead us on the downward path. It
requires the constant exercise of courage to guard against the
downward pull of mental or material riches.
"The soul would have no rainbow had the eyes no tears."
Many individuals owe their successes and their triumphs to
tremendous difficulties, and some of our greatest contribu-
tions to life have been the outcome of the pressure of suffer-
ing. We find those who are physically handicapped displaying
unusual courage. Their other powers seem to become magni-
fied, their limitations motivating a courage which strengthens
their mental and spiritual capacity for self-expression. Some
of the greatest masterpieces have been the expression of
individuals who have been deprived of some physical pos-
sibility - individuals who defied Fate and had the courage
to overcome their handicaps. When pain, suffering, mis-
fortune or calamity threaten our peace and happiness, and
at times our very existence, then let us have the courage
to fight onward and overcome the demons of fear and worry
that rise upon such occasions to subdue the mind and dim
the visions of the soul. Much of our misery and depres-
sion in this life is due to our own violation of the laws
of our being. As long as we allow people and things to in-
fluence us to a spirit of fear, so long will chaos, confusion, and
destruction be rampant in the world. But when we radiate a
spirit of faith, love, and courage - when we embody in our
souls all the noble attributes which lift man above the plane of
selfishness and desire - when we keep our "faces turned
toward the sunshine, the shadows will fall behind us."
It is through the Law of Opposites and the Law of Rela-
tivity that we obtain our sense of beauty and goodness, and
it is through the operation of these laws that we are provided
with an ever-present stimulus for courageous thought and
action. Some people get little joy out of life because they
have few appreciations. Their interests are confined to a
small selfish circle. Outside of that limited sphere, their eyes
are blind and their ears are deaf to the appeals, attractions,
and challenges in every field of human enterprise. They do
not possess the courage to pioneer new ideas or movements,
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 151
to explore strange regions, to invent different ways and means,
or in any degree to alter the accepted order of things. We
have countless examples of brave souls who have exposed
themselves to criticism, condemnation and vilification of the
most diverse kinds, while timid souls, who actually admire
their courage, hold back their approval in order that they
themselves might stand safely back among the masses. The
universe is a vast panorama of contrasts and variableness fill-
ed with endless appeals and challenges for heroic effort, but
our minds must be open and our souls must be generous,
imbued with faith, love and courage, in order that we might
combat the obstacles of life and ultimately achieve our goal.
Chapter Twenty-Six
FORGIVENESS
"He who cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over
which he must pass himself, for every man has need to be
forgiven."
The latent attribute of forgiveness was brought to the
threshold of consciousness when man first transgressed the
Law of his being. The friction, pain, and penalty resulting
from the violation brought physical and mental suffering, and
man in his distress, repenting the wrong action, recognized
the need to be forgiven. Only the individual who has reached
a state of perfection is free from the ignorance, temptation,
and corruption that leads to transgression of law. However
far along the path toward perfection we may have traveled,
unless we have reached the summit, we still make mistakes.
We will possess our shortcomings and our weaknesses, and
there will arise the necessity to be forgiven for the faults,
the flaws, the offenses that characterize our thoughts and
actions.
Kindness, sympathetic understanding, charity and love -
these are the attributes that prepare the way for forgive-
ness. As long as we have need to be forgiven, we must pardon
others for their trespasses. It takes an open mind and a kind
and generous heart to view the situation through another's
eyes, to get his outlook, his perspective, his viewpoint. It is
so easy to condemn another for his iniquities. Let us first
analyze the circumstances that led to the wrongdoing, for all
of us are only human. The cruel despots of hatred and revenge
are ever ready to sway the mind in its judgment and to blind
the soul from seeing the good there is in man. Let us not
stoop to these destructive forces when evil torments us.
Sometimes people will hurt us intentionally and grievous-
ly, and often without any expression of regret. Whether we
152
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 153
should overlook and forgive such offenses depends upon the
circumstances and the motive behind the thought or action.
One should not be vindictive, for revenge is a "boomerang,"
and it harms the person indulging in this destructive force
more than it does1its victim. The person who is not content
until he gets even with his aggressor holds himself on a low
plane, bringing illness to his body, confusion to his mind, and
darkness to his soul. Whether to repay injuries by justice or
kindness depends upon the nature and extent of the violation
of law.
It is necessary, at this point, to differentiate between
the two types of vindication. The method of revenge ex-
pressed in the maxim: "An eye for an eye and a tooth for a
tooth" prevailed when the human race lived in ignorance of
its relationship with one another. But as mankind became
more intelligent, there gradually developed the method taught
by Jesus; namely, "If a man shall strike you on one cheek,
turn the other." The one expresses love and the other, hatred;
therefore, in our relationship with one another we are com-
pelled to choose which method we shall employ.
Being aware of the fact that those who harm us by word
or deed, and who do so knowingly, are engaged in violation
of Natural Law to their own detriment, then instead of harbor-
ing a grudge against them or a desire to secure revenge,
we should realize that the very laws they violate bring in-
evitable retribution. Therefore, it is unnecessary for us to
intensify their punishment. Rather we should realize that the
one who injures or damages does so in ignorance, and his ac-
tion should incite our pity. With this attitude in mind, it is
easy to do as Jesus did when he was nailed to the cross.
Looking down in his agony upon those who had tortured him,
he realized that they were as little children unaware of the
enormity of their crime, and thus he was led to exclaim:
"Forgive them, Father, for they know 'rllotwhat they do."
This does not mean that we should look upon all harm in this
manner. There are some people whose souls are so perverted
that they intentionally and deliberately bring injury to others
to advance some evil purposes of their own. Such individuals
154 RAYS OF THE DAWN
should be brought to justice for the deliberate, premeditated
evil which they cause.
Since we are all human and to some extent, at least, we
are all subject to violation of law, we cannot hold a person
accountable for unavoidable ignorance. However, it becomes
the duty of each individual to become as informed ai:;possible
regarding the truth about life - to seek a knowledge of the
laws of his being and, in so far as possible, to obey them. With
wisdom comes understanding, and when we understand the
laws we cannot willfully violate them without expecting due
punishment. Surely we cannot hope to transgress Nature's
laws without the inevitable penalty or suffering, for the Law
of Compensation makes no exceptions. In spite of good in-
tentions, we may bring injury and even tragedy into the lives
of others. In a complex society, ignorance and carelessness
may do as much damage as willful aggression, especially where
powerful individualists exert their influence over many people.
To be able to choose between right and wrong action, one must
know what is right under the circumstances and act according-
ly. When ignorance constitutes the basis of violation of law,
one can be more generous in imposing a penalty or in granting
forgiveness, and it becomes the duty of those possessed of
knowledge and of authority to instruct and aid others who
live in ignorance and darkness. To condemn, and to refuse
to assist those who are ready to learn, is contrary to the
Divine Plan.
Every individual possesses within his personality certain
ideals and aspirations. In the degree that he becomes conscious
of these ideals and aspirations, they create within his con-
sciousness a sense of obligation. The more sensitive a man's
nature, the more acutely will he feel the defeat or inner discord
when he chooses unwisely or violates the laws of his being,
and the greater will be his desire for forgiveness. When man
has evolved to the point where he can choose with wii:;dom
and discriminate between right action and wrong action, he
has not only learned the full responsibility of his actions to
himself but their possible effects upon others. He has broad-
ened his vision, deepened his understanding of human nature,
and increased his power of forgiveness. But even the man of
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 155
wisdom must guard against the sense of guilt or remorse that
becomes inverted and results in self-condemnation.
Forgiveness of a wrongdoing, sin, or mistake implies the
liberation from every sense of condemnation, freedom from a
sense of punishment, fear and morbidity. No man can be for-
given as long as he retains within himself the burden of con-
demnation. In order to gain freedom from the relentless
pressure of condemnation, we must learn to forgive ourselves
and to forgive others. Self-condemnation can bring more pain
and suffering than any outside destructive force, and if in-
dulged in continually it will stunt the growth of the whole
organism- body, mind, and soul. If we sincerely regret some
wrong thought, word, or deed, the logical course to follow is
to analyze the situation and profit by the failure or trans-
gression, strengthening our powers in a firm resolve to avoid
making the same mistake again. Jesus understood that a
sense of guilt was at the root of most illnesses; therefore, he
often told those who came to him to be healed, "Your sins are
forgiven you."
"Let not the sun go down upon your wrath." Let us make
peace with our fellows today, for tomorrow may be too late.
During our brief stay here on this earth, why should we in-
dulge in hating anyone? Let us rather exchange a good deed
for an evil one, forgiving the other man for his offense, and by
so doing we will contact his soul and lead him toward the
light. If we continuously emphasize the good in a person,
the positive forces will soon predominate. They will then
assume command of the soul, liberating it from the fetters of
the evil forces that have held it in bondage, in ignorance, and
in darkness. Forgiveness, at times, may be difficult or even
appear inadvisable, but it is the charitable thing to do. One
who never forgives should make sure that no occasion arises
when he will require forgiveness. The person who relieves his
conscious thought of all injuries and who refuses to indulge
in revenge or animosity has elevated himself to the exalted
place where these evil forces can no longer disturb his peace
or interfere with his happiness.
So long as evil natures endure, so long as the individual
is caught, bound, and subjected to habits and passions which
156 RAYS OF THE DAWN
enthrall him and rob him of his self-possession, forgiveness
must repeat itself. Whenever the nature is penitent, it must
be given another opportunity. Unforgiveness can never be
vindicated whether the wrongdoer is penitent or not. Unfor-
giveness is born of a deep sense of injury, which is usually
brooded over and always excused in the mind of the one thus
indulging. It is a sort of solace for self-pity and has no place
in the progressive life. One who has risen above the petty
offenses of others never allows the wrongdoing of another to
influence his nature in the least degree. The individual has
nothing to do with any evil directed toward him, other than
to protect himself to the best of his ability and in whatever
way the occasion demands, and to preserve his attitude from
being disturbed. We must learn to forgive and forget the
offenses of others and realize that true forgiveness "flows
only from a strength and greatness of soul, conscious of its
own force and security, and above the little temptations of
resenting every fruitless attempt to interrupt its happiness."
Chapter Twenty-Seven
DUTY
When reason is given to a latent soul, the individual is
endowed with the power of free choice in order that he might
learn through his experience. In the degree that we view man
as a free creative personality, duty must be interpreted in the
light of its relation to the individual will and impulse. From
this vital relationship, duty derives its moral quality. The
duties of an individual depend upon his spiritual standing and
the conditions to which he has become subjected, upon his
own personal ideals and the social standard1:1that influence
his thinking and activity. Duty is largely an individual mat-
ter, for what is regarded as a moral obligation for one person
may not be so regarded by another. An act becomes one's
moral duty according to his standard of right and wrong and
in keeping with his personal ideals.
On the question of duty, there i1:1
much misunderstanding.
One may do many things from a misconceived sense of duty;
and, on the other hand, he may neglect actual responsibilities.
We find the individual who is ever striving for perfectionism,
burdened with superficial and imaginary duties, constantly
submerged in a turmoil of nervous activity, hoping to fulfill
all of his obligations in the line of duty. Many persons, also,
accept their conscience as a guide to conduct; in fact, they are
"disastrously" conscientious. Hence they become the victims
of worry and remorse over unimportant issues and insig-
nificant details - enslaved by a misdirected sense of duty.
Although the nature of duty is decidedly individual, still
each one must so live as to receive sufficient wisdom for
guidance. There is, however, a general rule for all; namely,
it becomes the duty of each person to cease all mental and
spiritual action that interferes with growth of character and,
as far as possible, to make his physical conditions or surround-
157
158 RAYS OF THE DAWN
ings conform to the best interests of progression. A provision
must be made concerning the physical plane because many are
so encumbered by conditions and relationships that it is not
possible for them to free themselves immediately. Whatever
one's environment, however, he should do the utmost to govern
the mind and purify the soul. One who really purposes to
reach the highest standard should closely analyze himself to
see that he is not held in detrimental conditions through
selfishness or desire. It is many times necessary to choose
between two evils, and in this case, decision should be made
in favor of the thing that is the less indulgent to a selfish
nature, whether that nature is one's own or belongs to another.
There are times when one is held in bondage to others
under the subterfuge of duty, and is thereby prevented from
taking necessary steps to augment progression. Such duties
should not hold, and sometimes severe methods must be used
to free the individual. The mere fact of relationship should
not prevent one from arranging his affairs to best conform
to his development. Duty should be measured by something
more profound than earthly ties. One has no right to be an
obstruction in the path of another through the sense of owner-
ship accompanying such relations. The selfish and detri-
mental demands made by a father, mother, son, daughter,
sister or brother who refuses to live the true life should not
be regarded by the person who is trying to purge his life of
all that is false and detrimental. The people who are truly
related are those that are united in progression.
Man's duties extend to the physical, mental, and spiritual
planes. It is the duty of man to utilize his powers to best
assist his fellows, to develop his own higher self, to meet the
challenges of life; in short, to seek a knowledge and under-
standing of the laws governing his own being - body, mind,
and soul - and to obey them, thus becoming an outlet or
channel for Divine expression. Ignorance and transgression
of the Laws of Life bring confusion, pain and suffering. But
a knowledge of and obedience to the Laws shows wisdom and
results in the highest possible development attainable on this
earth plane. As long as the individual lives in antagonism
to the rest of the universe, his growth is checked. Harmony
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 159
must be maintained among all the parts of the whole, and
each person must contribute his dutiful share.
Within each individual is the latent capacity to know and
utilize the Laws of Life, but this power must be consciously
developed. The person with the greatest power is the one
whose consciousness has become fully aware of the Divine
within itself, and who projects this realization into his life.
To each one of us is assigned a job to be done in this world,
a mission in life, a duty to be performed to the best of our
ability. We may be inclined to believe that one work is more
commendable than another in the eyes of the Divine, but
whether our work is humble or dignified, perfect or imperfect,
Divine or secular, depends upon the manner in which it is
done. Great souls have labored at menial jobs faithfully and
well, realizing that these tasks were but stepping-stones, nec-
essary experiences, in their evolution. The merit or demerit,
success or failure, of a work is determined by the spiritual
qualities accompanying it. "It matters not to God or the world
whether a man is a butcher or a bishop, but it matters whether
he is a good butcher or a good bishop."
A Power higher than we are plans our duties and desti-
nies. Each person has a calling, a talent, a mission designed to
assist the individual in his progress. These may not be of
our own choice nor according to our likes or dislikes. Our
task may be merely a preparation for greater work; there-
fore, we must not remonstrate when we are assigned a job
that is difficult, unpleasant, or contrary to our wishes. When
we are ready for a better work, it will be placed before us.
The honest and faithful performance of duty is rewarded by
the knowledge of a job well done. Resentment often tempts
us in the throes of suffering or punishment, but out of our
misery some good may be forthcoming. Severe punishment
often awakens those who refuse to see the light. We are but
souls animating these bodies - instruments of the Divine.
When we fail to perform our duties, when we become im-
patient, negligent, and faultfinding, then we are straying from
the path that leads to a higher life.
Not only is the individual obligated to pursue that course
of action that is in harmony with right reason but he must
160 RAYS OF THE DAWN
also exercise caution not to overdo duty. Under existing cir-
cumstances of human life, the latter is perhaps the more dif-
ficult phase of the Law of Duty to thoroughly understand
and properly apply. So unconscious has humanity become of
the source of its helpfulness, and so closed are the avenues
through which such aid may come, that many people are al-
most defeated by their environment, the pressure being so
great that enforced duty carries them far beyond the natural
limit. One,should never be called upon to sacrifice physical,
mental, or spiritual welfare through the performance of duties.
The fact that this is necessary is only the web in which the
human race has entangled itself. Here, as always, one must
face the condition as it is, and to the best of his ability observe
the laws which make for freedom.
In regard to helping others, one must learn to estimate
accurately modifying circumstances in order to be able to de-
termine when duty calls and how far it extends. There is al-
ways a price to pay for everything we do in this world, for
the Law of Compensation forever operates. Every act of
life costs life forces, and one's capacity to receive is necessari-
ly limited. Regardless of the abundance of Nature's supply,
expenditure must never exceed accumulation. If, at any time,
a person uses or scatters his life forces more rapidly than he
gathers or appropriates them, he becomes impoverished. One
must consider what he can afford. It is a well-known fact
that cost is always estimated in terms of material wealth to
be expended, but it is necessary to make much closer divisions
when soul or life elements are in question.
It is man's duty to develop his own potentialities - phys-
ical, mental, and spiritual - and as he becomes aware of the
ONENESS of all life, he recognizes his duty to all God's crea-
tion. He then begins to control and eliminate the negative
forces that bring discord, suffering, and unhappiness into his
own life and to that of others. The spark of Divine love begins
to flame forth in his soul, growing in intensity and magnitude
until it embraces all life. It is the duty of man to be happy
and to provide an atmosphere of peace, joy, and devotion to-
ward his fellows.
Chapter Twenty-Eight
LOVE
True love is of the Divine and is the highest attribute of
the human soul. Among individuals, it is the harmonious
vibrations between bodies, minds, and souls. Love is the
dynamic principle of life itself. It is the interior element
of the creative principle and the central fire of the soul. Had
human nature remained true enough to itself to have permit-
ted the development and free activity of this mighty force, all
humanity would have been vitalized and glorified by its in-
fluence, and nowhere would it have been lacking. The golden
rule would have been a natural function of human life, and
peace, happiness, and good will would have breathed in every
soul.
Love is the most powerful spiritual force in the world. It
embraces within its sphere of radiation all the other positive
qualities of the soul; namely, faith, hope, charity, kindness,
patience, sympathy, forgiveness, unselfishness, courage. Love
is the expression! of the Divine through the medium of the
human soul. It constitutes the most vital energy required
for man's spiritual advancement, and the farther the individ-
ual has advanced in the scale of evolution, the more spon-
taneous and far-reaching will be his expression of love.
Among those of limited understanding, there is be-
tween bodies a sort of chemical affinity which draws one to
another. This is misconstrued as love. Individuals may be
attracted toward each other through the physical alone,
through the mental alone, or only through the spiritual. Vari-
ous combinations among the three may also be formed through
which people are attracted. When union takes place through
only the senses or physical organism, the vilest passions of
perverted nature counterfeit love and are soon expended in
satiated desire. From this state, under the pressure of the
161
162 RAYS OF THE DAWN
accompanying passions of anger, jealousy and hatred, it is an
easy step to tragedy and crime.
Unions formed through mental attractions, or attraction
of minds of like character, are less destructive, but such con-
tact does not awaken love. It gives rise to an attachment
born only of the gratification of blended intellectual tastes and
qualifications. No union can be blessed with pure love that is
influenced by either sensual or intellectual gratification. In-
dulgence of desires on any plane is a contravention of natural
law and must result detrimentally. Those who are attracted
through their spiritual natures do not necessarily love. They
may be kindred souls on a low plane, but love cannot live in
other than a pure atmosphere. Whether the emotion felt by
like souls is pure love or not depends upon their standards.
Individuals may be united through a harmonious blend-
ing of the physical, mental, and spiritual natures and even
then know nothing higher than a set of emotions generated
through the contact of like elements. By these examples one
may readily see how the law of attraction, operating under
various superficial influences and associations, may draw to-
gether all kinds of people. Many combinations are thus form-
ed which by their very nature must be inharmonious, in-
consistent, and temporary.
Not only are the emotions between the sexes usually no-
thing more exalted than chemical affinity or magnetism on
another plane but the attachments between parents and their
children, and among all sorts of earthly relationships where
love is said to exist, are for the most part formed of far baser
metal than the gold of pure love. Almost all parental love,
which is considered the highest type of earthly love, is selfish
and binding to the child, while filial love is equally selfish
and exacting. When criticism, condemnation, selfishness, and
general inharmony characterize family life, the attachments
are little more than fleshy ties.
If desire, jealousy, or any form of selfishness surrounds
or colors the feeling called love, know that they mark an at-
tachment of a much lower order. If one grieves for the loss of
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 163
a loved one, his love is selfish. When there is a bond between
two people, and a necessary separation ensues, grief on the
part of either one darkens or binds both. When death comes,
sorrowing relatives and friends hold the soul earth-bound and
in the condition of suffering and darkness that belong to this
plane. Love is absolutely unselfish and never binds its object.
If one's love is pure, he will release the selfish ties that bind
and will give his loved one, whether on the earth or having
passed beyond, freedom to go and come in response to duty or
in pursuit of his higher well-being, or to advance as Nature
guides.
Of all the attributes preserved in human nature, the qual-
ity of love is most misrepresented and least understood. When
one learns that love can become active only in a soul that is
pure, and that it is not co-operative with the errors of an
artificial nature, one may understand to what extent it has
been counterfeited. As desire and selfishness colored the
nature, and their long train of evils crowded in, the flames
of love were smothered, and only a spark has remained to
cast its faint glow through the darkness. But, notwithstand-
ing all the evils that have surrounded and stifled human love,
its fires have never been wholly quenched in the soul of man.
For this reason dissatisfied natures delude themselves by
grasping counterfeit emotions to fill the void felt by the soul
whose love nature is not dead but submerged. That love has
never been quite lost to the soul has preserved man from utter
desolation. By its remaining warmth hope has lived, hope
which leads to light and faith.
True love emanates from the Divine. It is "self-giving-
ness through creation, the imparta.tion of .the Divine through
the human." Love is a complete unity with life, and only as
the soul becomes conscious of its ONENESS with all that lives,
can it give expression to love that is genuine. When we be-
come cognizant that God and man are One, then we shall love
man as an expression of God, and God as the Life Principle
in all creation. The nature of true love is to give and to bless,
as the sun gives its light and the flowers their fragrance,
and it does not demand or require anything in return. False
164 RAYS OF THE DAWN
love centers about itself; it is selfish, binding and exacting.
Since it is not genuine, it is narrow, shallow, temporary, and
in the degree that it is influenced by the attending evils of
criticism, condemnation, jealousy, it will ultimately turn to
hatred. False love gives only with the thought of getting
something in return. It lives for itself and its own grati-
fications.
When our love is confined only to certain individuals or
groups; when it is colored by our tastes, opinions, and prej-
udices; when it is restricted by custom, belief, social status,
nationality, then we are indulging in a counterfeit love. People
have always thought of love as something we can express or
repress at will. We classify and segregate people according
to our likes and dislikes. We show kindness and consideration
to our intimates, but to strangers we are cold and indifferent.
We are taught to love our country, our religion, our way of
thinking and living, while those who differ from us in na-
tionality, in religious training, in custom and point of view
become the victims of disdain and bitter aversion. Two
opposing forces cannot flow from the soul at the same time.
Love is the opposite of hatred, and it is contrary to the Law of
Opposites for the vital energy of life to be malevolent and yet
also be benevolent; therefore Jesus said, "Love your enemies;
love those that hate you." The emotion of love is an electro-
manifestation from the brain which is stronger than that of
hatred; hence it overcomes the hate. When the soul is ani-
mated with love, it radiates the warmth of its feeling, and it
blesses and inspires whomsoever it contacts so that the object
of its beneficence will reflect back the same ennobling in:
fluence.
True love expresses itself in the growth and develop-
ment of personality. Through Divine love we become con-
scious of tremendous power, amazing capacities, higher aspira-
tions, and greater freedom. As we begin to love all life as
an expression of the Divine, we find it easier to perform our
daily tasks and to meet life's challenges. Other individuals,
though they appear lower in the scale, no longer constitute
an obstruction to our advancement. Through love we rise
above the baser elements in ourselves and in others. We be-
THE LAWS OF THE SOUL 165
come conscious of greater beauty and joy in the universe,
which was shrouded from our view as long as we lived in
the darkness of evil tendencies. Counterfeit love stunts the
growth of the individual on every plane of his being; it warps
his personality and darkens his soul. Love must be the master
of the self. It must control the passions of the body, the
thoughts, the imagination and the longings of the soul. It
never expresses itself on a low plane, but leads us away from
our baser selves to the realms of loftier expression.
One of the most beautiful qualities of love is the faith it
creates - faith in God, faith in humanity, faith in the purpose
and possibilities of life. "Perfect love casteth out fear," and
with faith comes courage and strength. Courage constitutes
the essence of sacrificial love; without it we could never elevate
ourselves to higher planes of living and thinking. When we
truly love a person, a priceless possession, a truth, we are
willing and ready to fight for it. There is always some truth,
dimly perceptible, which gleams forth to light our pathway
only when we love it to the extent of dedicating our lives to
it. Every truth which has been responsible for higher achieve-
ment has risen from the sacrifice of individuals. "Truth has
many names, but it is best known as Love."
The power of attraction of genuine love brings together
those who are Divinely inspired to create something worthy
of love. The bonds of loyalty of souls who are thus united
cannot be broken. If man's creative capacity is endowed with
love, it will release untold benefits to bless mankind; whereas
if those possessed of great powers choose to exercise them in
conformity with the grosser attributes of man, as greed,
selfishness, lust, then discord, suffering, and destruction will
be the inevitable consequence. How cold and barren and mean-
ingless is life where love is wanting? What satisfaction or
reward comes in performing tasks or rendering service for
mere material gain, or in the line of duty, with no inspiration
of love? When human souls mingle among themselves, or in
groups, societies, organizations or nations, their actions are
governed by either greed or love; and if love does not pre-
dominate, then someone suffers in the degree that another
gains.
166 RAYS OF THE DAWN
.As the soul conquers its weaknesses, meets the require-
ments for progression and returns to its pure nature, love,
fanned by the breath of purity, awakens and flames into being.
The life that is lived in accordance with the Laws of the Body,
Mind, and Soul, and which embodies all the other positive
attributes, culminates in love. Love is the fruition of the
purified nature. When individuals who thus have risen come
together and their pure elements contact through the law of
spiritual affinity, love becomes active and, true to its nature,
radiates of itself and blesses whomsoever it touches. Pure
love responds only to the union of souls that are characterized
by the highest attributes, and their capabilities of pure love
are measured by the degree in which the lower elements have
been misplaced by the nobler qualifications. Inharmony
results from a conflict of elements governed by selfish, crude
and uncontrolled natures. When individuals unite through
the blending of souls that are unselfish, self-possessed and
pure, the mental and physical organisms are subjected and
harmonized.
If we desire love, we must set up a "polarity" which will
attract love. This powerful force can awaken the greatest
that is in our souls, and thus it constitutes the medium for
remarkable spiritual development. The law of spiritual affinity
cannot have its perfect way until individuals have lifted
their natures from the plane of selfishness and desire, and
the spiritual natures have become pure enough and vital
enough to govern the whole organism and overcome attraction
on any other plane. When individuals unite under the perfect
working of this law, love seals the union with a bond that
endures not only during earth life but through eternity.
