{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1949__kenn___fire-walking_from_the_inside.pdf","mytitle":"Fire-walking From The Inside","mylang":"de"}
FIRE-WALKING
From ike Inside
BY
ARII-PEU TAMA-ITI
(Charles W. Kenn)
Ordained and Initiate Fire-walker
A report on four fire-walking performances in
Honolulu, and a critical study of them from the
point of view of the initiate fire-walker instead of
that of the onlooker.
Published By
FRANKLIN THOMAS
1530 Glendale Boulevard
Los Angeles 26, Calif.
Copyright 1949
By
Charles W. Kenn
*
These tests and critical studies of fire-immunity
were made in conjunction with similar studies and
investigations being conducted by Huna Research
Associates.
For further information address,
Huna Research Associates
czo Max Freedom Long
P. O. Box 2867
Hollywood Station
Los Angeles 28, Calif.
Mr. Long died in Vista, California in
1971. Huna Research Associates carries
on under the direction of Dr. Otho Wingo,
126 Camellia Drive, Cape Girardeau, Mis­
souri 63701
Fig. 1.
Fig- < Fig. 2.
Fig. 5.
Fig. 6.
Fig. 7.
4
ILLUSTRATIONS
Fig. 1.
The master fire-walker, Tu-nui Arii-peu and his young assistant,
both from Huahiui, with Charles W. Kenn.
Fig. 2.
Turning the hot stones over and leveling and finning them Just
before the fire-walking.
Fig. 3.
Tu-nui Arii-peu leads the procession across the very hot stones.
Insert shows him at the time of a later test, in native costume, pausing
to recite an invocation after crossing the pit. He carries ti-plant
wand on shoulder.
< Fig. 4.
The author of the report fire-walks.
Fig. 5.
The fire-walkers' contemplative expression may be seen here.
Nearly all experienced a peculiar mental state during the walk.
Fig. 6.
Note the wrapt expression on the face of the lady Just finishing
her successful fire-walk. Assistants stand anxiously by lest there be
another accident or fall on the hot stones.
Fig. 7.
After the fire-walking. Child finds stone hot enough to burn fingers.
Below her hand a wad of paper is beginning to char. At the far
corner a stick is beginning to smoke as a young man watches. In
heating the stones the green wood first covered the stones with soot.
The stones later became red-hot and the soot was burned away.
Some stones split when their hotter sides were turned up to the air
before the performance. Immediately before a fire-walk, a cracked
stone, later walked on, registered a surface temperature of 620 de­
grees Centigrade on the hotter upturned side, and 598 degrees at the
bottom of the crack.
Fig. 8.
The successful fire-walkers did not hurry. With short steps on the
uneven surface and with an expression akin to that of sleep-walkers,
they made the crossing. Heat was felt on hands and face, but not
on the feet. Prickling was the only sensation in the feet unless some­
thing broke the spell and sharp pain was felt. Soles were cool to the
touch after contact with the hot stones. Crossings took from 5J^
seconds to 8 seconds. The Chief took 9 seconds for his crossings.
INTRODUCTION
The publication of this report by Charles W.
Kenn, marks the first really important step taken
in years in the direction of understanding fire-walk­
ing and related phenomena.
His findings and conclusions are of such a nature
that they open once more the entire question of fire­
immunity which was partly closed in the past
decade by tests and reports which now appear much
less than valid.
Despite the reluctance of “science” to accept
evidence of the verity of the materials of psychic
science and its various branches, progress is being
made toward fuller understanding.
On the part of the Huna Research Associates, I
wish to congratulate Mr. Kenn on his outstanding
work. For the first time, here is set before the public
a full and careful report on fire-walking from the
point of view of the fire-walker himself.
(Signed)
Max Freedom Long
FIRE-WALKING
From the Inside
Up to this time we have had the results of fire­
walking tests placed before us by men of science and
by travelers, but have never been given the fire­
walker’s side of the story.
As the reports thus far available give no valid
explanation of the phenomenon of fire-immunity in
its several forms, it is apparent that it is high time
for the persons who are able to do such things as
fire-walking, to be given their say in the matter.
The scientists are not entirely to blame for the
omission of acceptable information as to (1) the
training of the fire-walkers, (2) their beliefs and
educational backgrounds, and (3) the rituals used
as a preparation for the fire-walk. The scientists
failed to give needed information on these points,
either because it seemed too unimportant to stress,
or because they could not obtain it from the fire­
walkers—such information often being held both
sacred and secret, as in Polynesia.
The University of London Council for Psychical
Investigation, when reporting on the tests made of
Kuda Bux, wrote, “He (Kuda Bux) stated that
any impurity in the fire (of wood and charcoal)
11
such as cow dung, would inevitably bum him. He
also offered to walk on red-hot stones, if we wished.
. . . Kuda Bux stated that his immunity from bums
was due to ‘faith’; that he had to ask a ‘higher
power’ in India whether he might perform the feat.
He also claimed that he could convey his immunity
from bums to another person and take him over
the fire without injury. . . . Before . . . the first walk,
he stood in the end of the trench (filled with glow­
ing coals) on a wooden platform that had been
placed there for that purpose, and, with left hand
upraised, muttered a prayer from the Koran. He
then carefully brushed away the ash from the
embers, with his hand. He said he sometimes uses
a fan. He then stepped on the fire, taking four
steps, each foot being in contact with the embers
twice. .. . There was no sign of blistering . . . paper
tossed on the fire blazed almost instantly.”
The conclusion of the report was not greatly
enlightening. It was, in part, “. . . it is possible . . .
with chemically unprepared feet (not calloused) to
take four rapid steps on (burning) charcoal at (a
surface temperature of) 430 degrees Centigrade,
without injury to feet.”
Later reports made on similar tests with Hussain,
gave no additional information, but it was decided
at that time that anyone could fire-walk if he only
had the courage, and walked steadily across the
coals. This conclusion was reached after an English-
12
man who had these qualifications, performed a short
fire-walk better than Hussain. The flaw in the con­
clusion seemed to be that not everyone was able to
qualify. However, the world was told to dismiss
the idea that there might be an element of magic
or of the supernatural in the fire-walk.
An inspection of the mass of information available
on the externals of other kinds of fire-immunity
makes it clear to the layman that the famous reports
in question are wanting in many respects, and that
the conclusions reached are not at all final. In his
book, The Secret Science Behind Miracles,
Max Freedom Long has assembled evidence of a
very striking nature which bears on this point. Per­
formers have, several times a day, held red-hot iron
bars gripped tightly between their teeth while bend­
ing them up and down at the free ends. The enamel
of the teeth showed no cracking, but such heat
applied as a test to newly extracted teeth cracked
the enamel instantly. A blow-torch used for cutting
steel was allowed to play on the throat of the same
performer. He repeatedly chewed up live coals a
half inch in diameter, and he drank boiling water
so hot that it bubbled violently in the cup. In the
records of spiritualistic phenomena, fire has been
handled in similar ways, and D. D. Home held his
bushy head in the flames in a fireplace without being
scorched, also doing the same with flowers and fine
fabric. He presented a blazing log to a woman
13
observer and she held it in her arms with no injury
to skin or clothing.
It is evident to the student who is looking for the
answer to the secret of fire-immunity—not simply
for a negation of the phenomenon—that the short­
ness of the time in which feet contact heated sub­
stances in the fire-walk, is NOT THE COMPLETE
EXPLANATION.
In making the tests about to be described, and
while keeping in mind the findings and opinions of
the scientists and their friends, my attention was
directed primarily to the psychological side of the
matter. Tests of temperature and of the length of
time for feet to contact stones were secondary.
However, it is necessary to describe the externals
first, to prove the genuineness of the demonstrations.
The tests took place in Honolulu, beginning in
the month of January, 1949. Tu-nui Arii-peu, a
high priest and high chief of the fire-walk (Te Umu
Ti cult) visited Honolulu from the island of Hua-
hine in the Society Islands. He was accompanied
by four young men and two young women. They
staged four demonstrations in the amphitheater of
the University of Hawaii in Manoa Valley, Hono­
lulu, and one demonstration in Wailuku, Maui.
More than six hundred people attended each of the
Honolulu demonstrations and, in all, some 567
people fire-walked.
14
For the demonstrations, a rectangular pit six feet
wide, fifteen feet long, and four and one-half feet
deep in the center, was dug in such a way as to
create a gentle slope on all sides running towards
the center. The pit was supplied with the follow­
ing materials:
1. Small pebbles were strewn on the bottom.
2. Dried coconut leaves were piled on top to a
height of over two feet.
3. Four and one-half cords of green hau (native1
hibiscus) wood were then piled over this heap ex­
tending above the surface of the ground for three
feet at the highest point.
4. Two heavy truck loads of large basaltic stones
obtained from a dried-up river bed (called imu
stones) were then piled over this heap, covering the
hau wood. The stones weighed from 10 to 60
pounds each.
Long poles were placed at each comer and one
on each side at the middle of the pit to provide
sufficient draft, and to hold up the materials.
A tz-leaf stalk was planted at each comer of the
pit.
The fire was lighted at -lO-'a.m. as the ceremony
was to start at 10 a.m. That gave five hours’ time
for the wood to bum and the stones to become
very hot.
15
After all the wood had been burned, the stones
were leveled and made firm with long poles to pro­
vide a good surface across which to walk. All stones
were turned over so that the hottest side would be
uppermost. Many split upon contact with the
cooler air. .
During the fourth Honolulu demonstration which
took place February 19, 1949, the following tests
were made: The temperature of the heated stones
was measured accurately, as we had the co-opera­
tion of the Hawaiian Sugar Planters’ Association, in
providing the use of a thermo-electric pyrometer
equipped with two thermo-couples. Also the valued
assistance of Mr. Henry Iwata of the Association
staff.
Mr. Moses Ome of Honolulu kindly loaned his
stop watch with which the time of each step of the
controls could be secured, as well as the length of
time it took to walk through the pit.
After the fire-walking, four pieces of steak were
broiled on the stones and their cooking timed. Pieces
of newspaper were allowed to catch fire as well as
small pieces of wood, and timed.
Mr. P. C. Hu, an expert photographer, took
hundreds of pictures, some of which illustrate this
report.
Cine-Pic Hawaii made a 16 mm. colored moving
picture of the demonstration.
16
The ^temperature of the pit was taken shortly
before the fire-walking began, and was found to be
920 degrees Centigrade. The heat of the stones
averaged 610 degrees Centigrade; however, the heat
of the first stone on which every fire-walker had to
step was only 210 degrees Centigrade at the start
of the fire-walk. But it was more than twice as hot
as boiling water, and the stones farther from the
edge of the pit, and which made up the fire-walk
proper, averaged over six times the boiling tempera­
ture. It may be noted that cotton cloth scorches
at about 120 degrees, and a comparison may be
drawn between the familiar heat of an electric iron
being used on clothing and the temperature of the
stones in the pit. The ends of the thermo-couples
were left on the first stone throughout the demon­
stration which took 17 minutes, and during which
a total of 167 people fire-walked. The stone lost
35 degrees of heat during that time, which shows
fairly well that its porous nature did not prevent
its sending out heat—a supposedly non-conducting
characteristic offered to explain away fire-immunity.
The chief fire-walker was the first to step into
the pit. He stood with both feet resting flatly upon
the first stone for 1| seconds, slapping the stones
ahead with his wand of ti-leaves, and at the same
time invoking the deities of the fire-walk. He then
walked deliberately but slowly across the pit in
8 seconds and nine steps. He was closely followed
17
by his assistant. Their feet were examined before
they entered the pit and after they emerged from it.
They were not blitered nor burned. The next two
fire-walkers took 5| seconds and eight steps, each
foot coming in contact with the stones for | second.
They were young men 20-22 years old, both Cauca­
sian. Neither had fire-walked before. There was
no sign of a blister or bum on the soles of their feet;
as a matter of fact, their soles were cool to the touch.
At each crossing, those who were lined up waiting
to fire-walk closed in and followed the chief across.
There was sufficient time between repetitions for
about forty to cross. Some crossed more than once.
Tu-nui Arii-peu did not say that he would protect
anyone. All were warned that they must walk at
their own risk, but it was understood that it would
be almost safe to cross. Immunity was provided
for most, but failed for a few.
The chief and his assistant fire-walked four
times, after which their feet were again examined.
Although the feet of neither were burned nor
blistered, the soles of the chief fire-walker appeared
yellowish along the edge after his four trips. They
were cool to the touch, and the Chief stated that
they did not feel hot or even warm. He suffered
no ill-effects. His assistant likewise escaped injury.
However, the next two fire-walkers did not do
so well, for by this time, both had tiny blisters along
the insteps, and on each toe of both feet. They
18
stated that they felt as if many tiny needles were
being jabbed into their feet.
Among the amateur fire-walkers, Mr. John F. G.
Stokes, retired curator of the Bernice Pauahi Mu­
seum, reached about three-fourths of the walk, when
he began to wobble and had to be helped out of
the pit. The ball of his right foot was severely
burned. The skin was peeled off in three long strips
and the entire ball was left raw and exposed, but
not bleeding. Mr. Stokes kept repeating to himself,
“It didn’t work with me, I wonder why?”*
At the end of the ceremony, the test with steak
broiling was made. The results:
1. One side browned in 2| minutes.
‘A week later, Mr. and Mrs. Stokes called at my home. Although
Mr. Stokes had his right foot bandaged with a white stocking over it,
he was driving his car. And, he did not walk with crutches. He
could not remember exactly what took place that day, and still
wondered why it was that he was burned. He said that he believed
that the prayers used by the chief fire-walker would have a psycho­
logical effect on the minds of the people, and that the materials used
in the pit could have the same effect, especially upon the minds of
the natives (Hawaiians). He stated that his feet felt the heat the
moment he stepped into the pit. Mr. Stokes remembers interviewing
Papa-Ita, a fire-walker who visited Honolulu In 1901, and who would
not allow any one to follow him.
Mrs. Stokes thought that her husband's age (he is seventy-three)
could have had something to do with his being burned, as it tended
to make him unsteady, and he was not accustomed to going bare­
footed even on the ground, to say nothing of over hot stones! As
the tops of his toes were also burned, he must have slipped on the
hot stones.
The element of a psychological hazard may have entered in, for
Dr. Stokes had fire-walked against the express wishes of his wife.
He had decided to chance the walk, as it seemed comparatively safe
and as he relied on his well-known love and sympathy for the
Hawaiians.
19
2. Two sides browned in 6 minutes.
3. One side cooked in 3 minutes.
4. Two sides cooked in 7 minutes.
One piece of newspaper burst into flames instantly
when put in contact with a large stone that had just
previously been walked upon._
Another piece of newspaper turned black in 2
minutes on a smaller stone, and caught fire in 3|
minutes.
A small piece of wood turned black in 5 minutes.
Another flamed in 7 minutes.
Remember, these tests were made immediately
after the fire-walk.
On interviewing the amateur fire-walkers, I found
the majority agreed that upon stepping down into
the pit they felt no sensation of heat in the soles of
their feet, but that on their faces and hands they felt
the heat greatly. As reported in the Kuda Bux tests,
soles felt cooler to the touch after the fire-walk than
before it—a strange phenomenon allowed to pass
as lacking significance by the London investigators,
even though they based their denial of any magic
on the fact that feet must become cumulatively
hotter with each additional step, and that four steps
were, therefore, the limit—two for each foot.
Another experience found to be fairly common
was that pf a prickling sensation in the soles of the
feet during the walk. This sometimes amounted
20
to a painful “needling” or increased to the sharp
pain of a bum if a bum resulted. The average
sensation was close to that felt when the circulation
is cut off and the foot “goes to sleep.” This is a
peculiar matter and remains unexplained. Tests
with materials aside from the fire-walk give no such
sensations. The burning sensation alone is felt, and
after some time of testing and near-burning, only
soreness results.
After watching and testing three of the demon­
strations, being fully convinced of the genuineness
of the demonstration, I crossed the hot stones myself
on the fourth fire-walk. Here is my report as I
wrote it down the day after the walk:
February 20, 1949.
As I stepped down to the first stone in the walk,
any misgivings I may have had, left me. My mind
seemed to become strangely empty or blank. The
very uneven surface before me suddenly seemed to
become smooth almost like a pavement. I stepped
slowly forward, planting my feet firmly on the
stones, but found myself doing as most of the others
had done, using my arms to help keep my balance
as I stepped from one rounded surface to the next.
I felt no sensation of heat on the bottoms of my
feet as I entered the pit and began my crossing,
but the heat on my face and hands was terrific.
21
1
I was nearing the end of the pit, with two steps
to go, when a friend standing at the side called out,
‘‘Atta boy, Mr. Kenn!” My attention was momen­
tarily distracted and I involuntarily glanced up at
him. I did not falter in my deliberate pace, but
at the instant he called out to me, there came a
sharp stab of pain in the ball of my right foot and
in the toes—'this foot was just coming down. My
pace automatically quickened and as the other foot
,made contact with a stone for the last step, a similar
stab of pain was felt in it. I stepped out of the pit
and found both of my feet continuing to pain me
with a sharp tingling, but not with the familiar
sensation of burns. I examined both feet and
nothing was to be seen in the way of markings or
blisters. Later, at home, I made another inspection
and found what seemed to be hard lumps under
each toe. The stinging sensations resembled the
pricking of many needles, but the soles of my feet
were not hot to the touch, or sore. This condition
lasted for about five hours. In the morning my feet
were back to normal in every way and the strange
lumps had vanished completely.
The feeling of having the mind a blank was a
common experience among the fire-walkers I talked
to. It is evident that a break in this peculiar mental
stftte, or an interruption of the successful course of
the walk, acted in some way to “break the spell,”
and that burns then occurred as if no protectionTiad
22
been offered. Rev. N. Vanora Wattson, a visitor
from San Francisco, and a Huna Research Associate,
had the misfortune to slip and fall when she stepped
on a sharp fragment which the heat had caused to
crack off the end of a rock which was being walked
upon. She stated that she had felt no heat on her
soles until the sharp point pierced her foot and she
fell in her effort to leave the pit. As she fell she
sensed a mental change, and bums were suffered
on parts touching the stones before she could rise.
In an attempt to give her conclusions afterwards,
she said, “It seems to me that the secret lies in not
consciously keeping the mind centered on the pro­
tection of the leader, but in allowing a mental state
of a rather definite sort, to withdraw the conscious­
ness from the self, and that when something happens
unexpectedly to bring this self-consciousness back
into function, the fire-immunity momentarily or per-
inanently fails.”
The weight of the person doing the fire-walk
seems to count very little. In the London tests
much was made of the fact that the successfill
English amateur who outdid Hussain in the fire­
walk, weighed many pounds more than Hussain or
Kuda Bux who walked earlier. In the Honolulu
tests the walk was repeatedly made without burns
by individuals weighing up to two hundred fifty
pounds. On the other hand, there is no apparent
reason to conclude that a heavier pressure of foot
23
on stone or coal is of some advantage. The “steadi­
ness” of stride and the “confidence” given in London
as the only necessities for successful fire-walking had
to do with the mental attitude rather than with the
steady placing of feet, the weight or the usual
mental condition of “confidence.” One may be per­
mitted to guess that the Englishman who bested
Hussain at his own game made use of the special
state of mind even though not familiar with it as
such. One might even guess that he found favor
in some way with the ancient gods whom Hussain
had invoked with no great success, in so far as he
was personally concerned that day.
The time limit of contact with a very hot surface
was given by the London testers as about a half
second and not more than three-quarters. The
Chief, at the beginning of the walk stepped down
on the first rock in the pit and remained with both
feet flat on it for a timed period of one and a half
seconds while he brushed the stone with his Zz-leaf
wand before making the crossing.
Out of the 567 people who fire-walked in the
four performances, about 50 suffered bums ranging
from the slightest blisters to bums of a serious
nature. At least three individuals required hospital­
ization, and a half dozen were treated by emergency
stations and sent to their personal physicians.
The stones of the walk were hot enough to bum.
They burned some who crossed at a running pace,
24
but not the majority who crossed much more slowly.
The conclusion that seems impossible to avoid is that
some psychological element set in action some un­
identified force which prevented the fire-walkers
from being burned except in certain circumstances.
Having stated the conclusions reached at the end
of these tests, the next step is to move on to the far
more important business of trying to learn some­
thing of the possible nature of the psychological or
other factors which upset the usual “law of physics”
and give fire-immunity.
The rite of fire-walking did not form a part of
the older Polynesian culture. It was introduced
about a hundred years ago from Fiji, and spread
to many of the South Sea Islands.
It appeared in Huahine, the Chief’s island,
around 1850, and at about the same time began to
be reported from Taha’s and Raiatea, the Cook
Islands, Fiji and New Zealand. The ritual in various
forms was already known in Japan, Malay lands,
China, Tibet, India and elsewhere. Fire-immunity
was also known in the Americas.
While the fire-walk was often made across burn­
ing coals in other lands, it was made across heated
stones in the South Seas. This was natural because
it was the native practice to cook food in under­
ground ovens, the cooking heat being supplied by
25
, in the neighborhood of the active
rocks, heated in advance in pits. Such rocks furnish­
ed a simple fire-walking surface at any time a feast
was to be prepared, and could have been used for
the rite before being placed in the ground oven or
imu to cook the food.
Jn Hawaii
volcanoes, fire-walking was done on lava overflows
when they had hardened sufficiently to bear a man’s
weight. The records of this type of fire-walk are
scattered and it can only be supposed that the date
of 1850 niay apply to Hawaii’s introduction to the
rite as it does in a general way to other parts of
Polynesia.
One thing is clearly seen, and that is that the
native priests or kahunas of Polynesia must have
been so well grounded in matters of psychological
magic that they accepted with ease the variations
found in fire-walking.
From such writings as are available touching the
rituals in question, it is to be seen that their purpose
was accepted along with the theory and practice.
In the lands of origin the rite had been used to
provide or to give proof of, “purity” or “purifica­
tion” in the religious sense. It was supposed to bring
clairvoyance and clairaudience so that the fate of lost
voyagers might be learned, lost articles recovered
etc. It was a thanksgiving ceremony. It called
down a blessing on crops and people and animals.
It brought rain. It replenished the fish in waters
26
«e
nearby. In India one fire-walked to fulfill a vow
when prayers had been answered. It was supposed
to cure sterility. In Japan it was used as a healing
ritual for various forms of sickness. In Polynesia
it was used more or less for the same purposes, but
as an additional rite and not to replace older rites
already in use. The Polynesian was and is most
adaptable. He accepted Western civilization in a
generation. Everything is grist in his mill, and his
flexible inind quickly grasps and puts to use new
ideas. Once a set of ideas has been accepted, it is
fitted neatly in with other ideas already a part of
the scheme of things, and soon takes mi the aspect
of having been a part of the older systems for
centuries back.
In this process of adopting the new beliefs and
practices, slight changes are made. Words are
changed, invocations made over into the more
familiar tongue, and the names of the foreign gods
replaced by the Polynesian counterparts.
While some parts of the transition are missings
the picture as a whole is fairly clear, providing one
understands the culture of the Polynesians which
forms the background for the picture.
It seems to have been a simple matter for the fire­
walking rite to become a part of the old Polynesian
beliefs. The people of each locality were united in
one set of beliefs. They were of the same blood,
had the same cultural background, and were con­
27
ditioned to the same general pattern of behavior.
When those whose duty it was to act as priests saw
fit to accept fire-walking, all accepted it as a matter
of course.
The priests (called kahunas in Hawaii, but with
variations in the pronunciation of the word in the
other Polynesian dialects) all belonged to the priest­
ly families, as the chiefs did to ruling families. It
was natural, therefore, that the priests who took up
the new rite should count it as more or less a family
possession, and should guard its secrets with the
other secrets of their religious beliefs. In a short
time the new rite was being handed down from
parent to child in the same way as other rites.
Fire-walking was handed down to the eldest son,
or, lacking a son, to one consecrated as a blood son
(hoolaa) for that purpose.
In the case of Tu-nui Arii-peu, he is a descendant
pf the original fire-walker in his part of Polynesia,
a priest whose name was Mae-haa, who passed on
the prayers and secrets to his son, Ma-oa, and who
in turn consecrated his son, Papa-Ita, from whom
it was passed on to Afaitaata, then to Arii-peu, the
present fire-walker. There is now only one other
Tahitian fire-walker, Arii-pao who resides in Rai-
atea. Arii-peu is the fifth generation in his family,
and is able to fire-walk, offer immunity to those
whom he permits to follow him, and to pass on the
28
secret to his successor, who then becomes the sixth
generation.
From this it will be seen that it was no easy
matter for me to approach Tu-nui Arii-peu with
my questions. He had come to Honolulu on a busi­
ness errand, not a social one. He wished to perform
his self-appointed task of raising money by giving
fire-walking performances in order to send home
stranded young Tahitians, and then to return home
himself. He had no slightest desire to make con­
verts—to the contrary. In fact, although he had
retained the ancient lore of his people to a large
extent, he had more or less accepted Protestantism,
and in deference to a real or fancied command
derived from that religion, he no longer performed
the fire-walk at night—only by day. (Although
night performances were urged by those who point­
ed out the fact that more people could come out
in the evening, and that the fire pit would then
show red, he steadfastly held to his refusal.)
The advertising of the fire-walking, and of the
native Tahitian dancing on the program, was poor.
The attendance was also poor. This gave me an
opportunity to press my offers of assistance, without
remuneration, in such matters. I wrote articles for
the papers and helped in various ways with the
publicity. The chief quickly lost his suspicion of
me as a pressing stranger, and accepted me as a
friend. But to be a friend, even a very close friend,
29
was one thing. To be told the secrets surrounding
the fire-walking rites was something else again. My
every effort to learn of the ritual and the prayers
was met with polite but firm silence. My help and
my friendship were most appreciated. I was warm­
ly assured of that, but to let me into the secrets of
t'he fire-walking cult was out of the question. In
the first place I was not a son, not even a blood
relative. In the second place, if I, a stranger, were
to be given the secrets, there was no telling what
disasters might be visited on the islands to the south
as a consequence.
For a time it appeared that I would have to
make the usual tests for temperature of the stones,
write the usual impotent report, and content myself
by standing on the pier and waving when the Chief
sailed for home.
As luck would have it, however, in searching
through a very considerable amount of accumulated
and uncatalogued material on matters dealing with
early beliefs and customs in Polynesia, I was able
to unearth a rare article in an old copy of the
Journal of the Polynesian Society, and in this
article find a translation of the prayers used in the
fire-walking ritual. An early missionary who had
lived in Tahitian parts had managed to get the
material. He had set it down in the native tongue.
It had later been translated by a Miss Teuira Henry,
30
and her translation had been checked by J. L.
Young. (AU credit to all of therii.)
The Hawaiian and the Tahitian dialects of the
Polynesian tongue are much alike, and in a few
hours I was able to memorize parts of the prayers
so that I could recite them fairly well. I had also
found some information as to the origin and nature
of the rites, which I will sketch briefly.
The ancient gods of Polynesia, Tu and Hina—
the universal god-parents of all the Polynesians—
have long since replaced foreign gods of the fire­
walk, and are appealed to through four invocations
which have been handed down from Mae-haa, who,
according to tradition, received them directly from
the deities themselves. (Traditional history takes
the place of written history in such matters, and in
this case no mention is made of borrowing invoca­
tions or rites from non-Polynesian sources.)
In other lands greenery of different kinds plays a
part very often in rituals of fire-walking, but in Poly­
nesia, where the ri-plant had been used for centuries
in religious observances, it was very natural that
it should be selected for use in the new ritual. This
plant grows profusely throughout the South Seas
and for use in rituals there arc selected stalks having
two crowns, one to represent Tu, and one Hina.
Whatever foreign names may have been given to
the ritual, it became known in short order as the
“Ceremony of the Ti Root Oven” (Te Umu Ti}.
31
The roots of the ti-plant were baked in ground ovens
on occasion, especially when other food was scarce,
and because the cooking took much time, many
heated rocks had to be made ready to place in the
pits. It is not difficult to understand the transition
from hot coals to hot stones in the rite.
The tz-plant, the leaves of which are called la’i in
Hawaii, is known botanically as Taetsia fruticosa,
and is a member of the lily family, as the structure
of its flowers would indicate. Certain varieties had
a fragrant scent, and the leaves turn yellow or
“ripen” after a while. The flower is made up of
closely-set white buds tinged with pale purple. Be­
cause of this scent, Hina is said to make known her
presence by exuding a fragrant odor, by which
she is called Hina-nui-i-te-aara (Great-Hina-in-the-
fragrance). The fire-walker uses the “double­
headed” branch of the H-plant like a wand, or brush,
and ties strips of the individual leaves around his
head and neck, as well as around his waist like a
belt. The leaves were used to expel or ward off
evil spirits. The lai is an important item in the
fire-walk.
The wood used is that of the hau (pariti tilia-
cium), and is a member of the mallow (hibiscus)
family. Like the ti, the hau was an important com­
modity in ancient Polynesian life. The word hau
means “breath of life, spirit of life,” and therefore,
is most important in religious practices.
32
Niau, or coconut leaves, are also important in
the ancient life of the Polynesians. They were used
as a medium through which the spirits of deities
might be transmitted to certain objects, thus con­
secrating them. The husk was made into twine for
various uses, some of them significantly religious.
In one of the invocations given, Hina is called
upon to “lie upon the hot stones.” Traditionally,
she radiates “cold heat,” especially at night (as she
represents the moon),, and, originally, this was a
night ceremony in Polynesia for this reason. (Not
generally so in other lands.)
Stones for the rite come from dried river beds
and rounded ones are selected. They need to be
smooth and of good weight. As they are similar
to those used in the ground ovens, they are called
umu stones. (In Hawaii hot lava was used, and
worked equally well. The rough and clinkery lava
which would have had the greatest porosity was
not walked upon—only the lava which was of a
close texture like glass.)
I have been able to piece together an account
of the training taken by the beginner to become
an initiate priest of the Ti Oven Cult—a master of
the fire-walking ritual.
The selection of a candidate for the fire-walking
priesthood is a momentous matter. As explained
before, the eldest son is the most appropriate person
33
for that honor, as it is a Polynesian custom that he
should continue the family line. However, lacking
an elder son or sons, it was not uncommon to go out­
side the family. Originally, however, only nephews
were chosen, but as time went on, total strangers
to the family were consecrated. The Polynesians
had a university of two colleges in which selected
youths had to study. At an early age, a man child
of the gentry, or priestly family, was either dedicated
to Tu or to Romo. If to Tu, then he became a
student under the Tu papa kahuna (class of experts),
and entered the Auwae Runa College (pertaining
to things celestial); if to Rono, he was passed into
the Auwae Raro College (pertaining to things
terrestrial). The literal meanings of these terms
were “Upper Jaw” and Lower Jaw.” The student
was known as the hau-mana (“occult-power-in­
spired”), or as the mana-ai (“occult-power-food”)
of the expert under whom he was placed.
The training was extremely strenuous. The
student had to undergo hardships and suffer priva­
tions. He had to learn the invocations, the proper
methods of caring for, installing, or empowering
the deities. He learned through a process of
“mental absorption,” observation, close contact with
the spiritual forces, and strict adherence to rules
and regulations. The Hawaiians have a saying,
“He ala iki ko ke kahuna, aole hiki ke hookolo ia.”
This embodies the Polynesian theory that through
34
constant invocations, using the same words and tone
of voice, eventually the deities become accustomed
(hoomau) to the calls, and will respond readily,
willingly, and promptly. But, to neglect them by
not calling upon them frequently, will cause them
to “die” (desert the kahuna}.
Furthermore, it was the belief of the kahunas
that as the invocations were handed down, the later
kahunas became more and more powerful. This
was because they have a longer line of direct
ancestors, all of whom have acquired mana (power)
in great amounts, which is, in turn, passed on down
the line.
Having accumulated such pertinent bits of in­
formation, and armed with the prayers I had
memorized, I began a new attack on the wall of
secrecy. I eventually found the opportunity to
recite a little of the material to the Chief, and,
having made myself a counterpart of the fabled
camel who was allowed to get his head inside the
Arab’s tent, I was soon all the way in. If one is in,
he cannot be kept out. Chief Tu-nui Arii-peu let
down the bars and made, the inevitable welcome.
Being permitted by circumstances to let down the
bars, he opened his heart as well, and with his custo­
mary generosity offered me everything.
Gratefully, and in all humility, may I state that
he has adopted me as his blood son, has given me
an honored place in his family line, and has made
35
me the proud possessor of his distinguished ancestors.
He has also given me a new name to use as a mem­
ber of his family. I am using that name in the
author’s signature of this report. I am Arii-peu
Tama-iti as well as Charles W. Kenn. At this
writing I plan to accept his warm invitation and
go to spend most of the coming winter season with
him on Huahine where I can continue searching for
information of value. I shall also, in all probability,
complete my initiation into the cult of the fire-walk
to the point of being able to use for myself what
has been taught to me. If I succeed, I shall be one
of the three remaining fire-walkers in Polynesia.
As a candidate for initiation as a fire-walking
priest of the Ti Oven Cult, I was allowed to see
every step leading up to the final crossing of the
hot stones. Of necessity I was permitted to forego
the long and arduous training of other days, but
was given the assurance that once I learned every
step in the rite and all of the invocations, I would
undoubtedly be able to perform the ritual. I would
then have been consecrated to the work and would
have been properly ordained, or introduced to the
gods so that they would, thereafter, respond to my
invocations.
36
CONDUCT OF THE CHIEF FIRE-WALKER
IN PREPARING FOR THE CEREMONY .
Tu-nui Arii-peu supervised the preparation of
the pit, the gathering of the stones, the cutting of
the wood, and the securing of the coconut leaves.
Each step was preceded with a prayer asking Tu
and Hina for permission to take the materials.
In seeking the proper iz-leaf wand, the Chief
went alone into a grove, muttering an invocation
as he did so. He stopped in front of the first two-
headed stalk that he saw, and while praying, de­
liberately broke off the stalk; then he stood perfect­
ly still with the stalk over his right shoulder, and
said another prayer. After this, he returned to his
Home, wrapped the Zz-leaf stalk in cloth (originally
this was done in bark cloth, made from hau fibers),
and stood it up in his room. Originally, the ti-leaf
stalk was taken to the marae (temple) of the fire­
walkers, and left on the altar overnight.
The men chosen as assistants saw to it that the
selected materials were conveyed to the proper
place. The pit was dug and the wood and stones
placed in the prescribed way. This work was com­
pleted by the next afternoon, and plans were made
to fire the pit in the morning following.
The Chief then settled down( to remain the night
if necessary) beside the waiting pit and assumed a
37
prayerful attitude. He had not been there long
until he announced that he had seen what he had
waited to see, the spirit forms of the deities “dancing
upon the stones ” This was a good sign, for surely
“his deities would be with him on the morrow” and
crown his efforts with success.
Here are the invocations used during the selection
and handling of the special materials used in the
ritual. The cult of secrecy is still such that I am
not allowed to give the prayers or chants which
have been taught me by my mentor. But, as the
material already long in print is almost a duplica­
tion in every respect, and as it covers exactly the
same ground, I am giving that.
FIRST INVOCATION
(Upon approaching Tz-plant)
1. Te hii tapua’e tahi!
2. Te hii tapua’e rua!
3. Te hii tapua’e teru!
4. Te hii tapua’e ha!
5. Te hii tapua’e rima!
6. Te hii tapua’e ono!
7. Te hii tapua’e hitu!
8. Te hii tapua’e varu!
9. Te hii tapua’e iva!
10. Te hii tapua’e tini!
IL. Te Vahine-nui-tahu-ra’i e!
12. Poia!
38
Translation
1. Holder of the first footstep!
2. Holder of the second footstep!
3. Holder of the third footstep!
4. Holder of the fourth footstep!
5. Holder of the fifth footstep!
6. -Holder of the sixth footstep!
7. Holder of the seventh footstep!
8. Holder of the eighth footstep!
9. Holder of the ninth footstep!
10. Holder of the tenth footstep!
11. Oh-great-woman-who-set-fire-to-the-skies!
12. All is covered!
SECOND INVOCATION
(Before breaking Ti-plant)
1. E te Nu’u-atua! a ra, a tia i nia!
2. Te haere nei taua i te Umu-Ti ananahi!
3. E te Nu’u-atua e! E haere oe i teie nei po!
4. E ananahi tatou atea ia!
Translation
1. O hosts of gods! Awake, arise!
2. You and I are going to the ti-oven tomorrow!
3. O hosts of gods! Go tonight!
4. And tomorrow you and I shall go.
39
THIRD INVOCATION
(While placing Ti-plant in Marae)
(Before leaving the Ti-plant area)
1. Ae! e ara, e te Nu’u atua e!
2. To avae e haere i te Umu-Ti.
3. Te Pape e te miti, e haere atea.
4. Te to’e, ma te to’e tea,
5. E haere i te Umu;
6, Te ura o te auahi, e haere ana’e;
7. Na oe e haere, e haere oe
8. I teia nei po e ananahi o oe ia e o vau;
9. JJr. haere taiia i te Umu-Ti.
Translation
1. Arise! Awake, O hosts of gods!
2. Let your feet take you to the fi-oven.
3. Fresh water and salt water come also.
4. Let the cool darkness and the cool light
5. Go to the oven; ,
6. Let the redness and the shades of the fire all go;
7. You will go, you will go
8. Tonight, and tomorrow it will be you and I;
9. We shall go to the Umu-Ti.
The next day, after supervising the lighting of
the fire in the pit, the Chief kept to a temporary
shelter on the grounds, meditating until time for the
fire-walking to begin.
40
When the time came, he walked several paces
from the fire-pit toward the sea, and facing the sea
(which was some distance away), he'uttered the
third Invocation. (As just given.)
After this he turned around and walked slowly
and deliberately toward the pit, reciting the first
Invocation.
Upon reaching the pit, he repeated the following
Invocation, at the end stepping down to stand on
the first (and cooler marginal) stone in the pit
while slapping or brushing the stones quickly with
the ti-Ieaf wand which he had all this time carried
over his shoulder. (He had more ti-leaves draped
about him. See photographs.)
FOURTH INVOCATION
(Before Fire-walking.*)
1. E na taata e tahutahu i te umu e!
2. A tapohe na!
3. E to’e uri! E to’e tea!
4. TePape! Te Miti!
5. Te a’ama o te umu!
6. Te ruirui o te umu!
7. A hi’i atu i te tapuae avae o te feia e haere nei,
8. A tahiri na i te ahu o te ra’i!
9. E te feia to’eto’e na,
10. E taoto anae tatou i roto i teie nei umu.
‘From Miss Teulra Henry’s article in J. P. S., val. 12, p. 105, checked
by J. L. Young's article in J. P. S., vol. 34, p. 214-222.
41
11. A mau na, e te Vahine-nui-tahu-ra’i, i te tahiri.
12. E haere na taua i te repu o te umu!
Translation
1. O ye attendant^ of the fire-pit!
2. Extinguish the flames!
3. O dark cool heat! O light cool heat!
4. The fresh water! The sea water!
5. The heat of the fire-pit!
6. The low-flickering of the fire-pit!
7. Hold up* the footsteps of the common people
advancing,
8. Fan away the heat of the atmosphere!
9. O cold beings
10. Let us lie down together in this fire-pit.
11. Hold fast the fan, O Great-Woman-who-lights-
the-skies.
12. And let us go to the center of the fire-pit.
At the end of the Invocation, and again shoulder­
ing his h’-leaf wand, the Chief walked slowly across
the hot stones to the far end of the pit and stepped
off to the ground. He continued to walk straight
ahead for twenty paces, ajjjjthe while not looking
back. He paused and stood facing East while he
recited the third Invocation again. Meanwhile the
people had been following him across.
Returning to the pit he repeated the first part
of the performance in exactly the same way, again
42
approached the fire, again brushed the stones, and
again made the crossing. This he did four times
over, followed by the people. After the fourth time
he left the field.
It was announced that all were forbidden to try
the fire-walk after the Chief had retired. One
young man tried the walk later, despite the warning,
and was severely burned.
All four of the performances were given with the
same preparations and the same steps, care being
taken to perform the ritual in that exact way.
During every performance a number of people
walked the pit safely while a few were burned to
some degree. No explanation was offered for the
fact that these few were burned except that they
probably had some lack of faith or some mental
condition that prevented the protection from being
given.
“O ka pule ka mea nui,” say the Hawaiians—
“Prayer is the most essential thing.” The meaning
is that prayer conditions a person to receive the
blessings he seeks, and faith and understanding are
the essential qualifications.
Thus, from the native’s point of view, the materials
used, and the invocations uttered, impress his mind
that every precaution has been taken care of and
everything is in his favor.
He knows that his deities will come to his aid
because he has taken care of them, for the life of
43
4
the kahuna is the aumakua, and the life of the
aumakua is the kahuna. Each needs the other to
survive.
44
MY CONCLUSIONS
While official “science” elects to remain stranded
on the physical aspects of fire-walking (and to ignore
other forms of fire-immunity), it is high time that
psychic science picks up where physics leaves off,
and continues the study of the phenomenon in terms
of the psychological. I aver that I am well within
my scientific rights, and I certainly am in the very
best of company, as I offer the conclusions which
I do.
The old gods still live. By “gods” I mean the
conscious entities or psychological forces which in
this case, we see recognized and named as “Tu” and
“Hina.” To be less explicit, we may refer to these
“gods” under the generic term, aumakuas. As such,
they may range from the hypothetical level of con­
sciousness and being next above the level of the
conscious mind, to higher and higher levels.
The more lowly aumakuas may be the personal
guardian spirits who watch over us. They in turn
may have above them what in Hawaiian are called
the akua aumakuas (or more god-like aumakuas}.
If my efforts to increase our store of knowledge
through an investigation of fire-walking, and my
conclusions as a result of that investigation, are to
be of value, I must be frank and forthright. There
is no longer a place for subterfuge and evasion.
45
What I have gained because of the advantage
of my Polynesian blood and background, can be of
value only if shared. I come from a long line of
ancestors who have enjoyed a heritage of psychic
gifts. I have lived fairly close to things Polynesian.
Because of this I am able to feel what other Poly­
nesians have felt when it comes to the “gods”—
the aumakuas. I offer you psychological evidence
from my own experience that the aumakuas are
very real, very close, and very much what they are
thought to be. I have been reared with a knowledge
of them., I have seen their guidance and protection
requested, apparently given, and gratefully acknowl­
edged all my life. I have sensed them for myself,
and such a heritage has made an acceptance of
them not only easy but almost inevitable.
For me and for others of a similar heritage, the
needed “faith” is easy to acquire.
I have had no difficulty in understanding and
accepting my training in fire-walking. My ordina­
tion, or introduction to the conscious beings who
preside over the fire-walk, was to me a very real
experience.
If we are able to pull ourselves up and out of the
mire of materialism, and push forward in the field
in which we find non-physical consciousness, we will
have an opportunity to learn and progress. If we
are not, we stand to lose one of our brightest
heritages.
46
There IS some invisible form of consciousness,
using some form of energy, and probably some form
of matter, to produce fire-immunity in the fire-walk.
This consciousness may be brought into action to
furnish the immunity through ritualistic actions.
If such impressive aid can be obtained for fire­
walking, it is reasonable to believe that aid in other
patters can be obtained by the use of similar means.
47
FIRE WALKING FROM THE REAL INSIDE!
Yes, from the Astral Plane comes
this information. Two years before
Chief Arii-peu came to Honolulu, in
April 1947, a group of San Diego bor­
derland researchers were asking for
information on the subject. They were
lead by Newton Meade Layne, founder­
director of BSRF. Through trance me­
dium Mark Probert they could talk
directly to Inner Plane entities who
had direct knowledge of such things.
Meade had been reading Madam Al­
exandra David-Neel’s description of
taking initiations in Tibet in using
body heat to thaw out frozen blankets.
A Tibetan-Chinese, Lo Sun Yat, is in
control of Mark’s body.
’’About thawing blankets,” said
Meade, "is it done by mental control?”
’’That is right. This is a mental
vibration thrown out from the body
through deep concentration. This subtle
energy ill thaw out ice from around the
body besides thawing out and drying the
blankets.”
"Meditation?” asked Meade. "In
what way is the mind manipulated?"
"It is almost a state of hypno­
sis, "replied Lo Sun Yat, "but it is
something even beyond that. It is
self- induced.
"Is it produced by meditation on
48
fire, flame, heat?"
"The mind must concentrate on it­
self. To concentrate on the thing will
not do. The mind must go inward or fire
will bum and cold will freeze."
"Then all consciousness is withdrawn?"
"All consciousness is withdrawn.
This is the same method used in control­
ling bleeding when wounded. You can con­
trol your blood or your heartbeat. If
you withdraw blood from the injured part
the pain will cease; if blood is flowing
it will take a sense of pain to the brain."
"Is coagulation of the blood hastened?"
"Almost immediately."
"One can increase or decrease circu­
lation at will. Is that the same thing you
are referring to?"
"Precisely.”
"Is this difficult? Take long practice?
"Very difficult, especially if you are
not brought up in that manner," replied Lo
Sun Yat (suggesting that he might have been
apprenticed to magick as a boy in some Ti­
betan monastery). "If many years run along
before you start training you will have a
most difficult time, if at all you can ac­
quire it."
"But if exposed to heat instead of
cold?" continued Meade.
"You are drawing within the blood from
49
from the outer surface of the skin. Adepts
have been known to walk into heated ovens.
This they can do because they withdraw
the blood deeper into the body. Only the
surface of the body is left without blood
flow. At the same time all the organs are
kept in low function.”
’’But what prevents the burning of
the tissues?”
’’Hang on to that question. I am lo­
sing strength. I will be back.”
Mark’s body falls silent and still
while Lo Sun Yat shifts to another level
of consciousness for a moment, to re­
charge the body. He continues.
’’When the mind has trained itself
to withdraw the blood, it also sends out
an energy that encases the skin. This
causes a layer between the skin and any
object. Between the skin and this en­
ergy force is a constant cooling process.
’’Like the hardening of a shell?”
”No, it is not a hardening. You
have an egg. On the insideof the egg is
a thin skin. Between the skin and the
shell is a space. That forms or keeps a
cooling cooling process or a protecting
pad.
”Decidely a non-conductor, is that
correct?” observes another sitter, and
then someone asks about the ability to
confer this fire immunity to another.
50
As
Mark Probert and painted
by him.
10 SUN YAT
seen clairvoyantly by
"This can be
done by those who
know," replies Lo
Sun Yat, "by the
same process they
give to themselves,
they can extend to
whoever will have
the faith to put
their foot on the
hot place."
"Faith?”
"Not faith as
we call faith re­
ligiously, some­
thing much deeper.
The Ego must be as­
sured that no harm
will come to the
body that it oc­
cupies.
’’Confidence, perhaps.”
’’That is right."
"Is ritual a means of inspiring con­
fidence?"
"That is one means, but as I have told
you, this is something that.must be developed
slowly from childhood. You can extend it
for. a short time to someone else who knows
nothing of it, but should that power of ex­
tension run out, the man or woman on the coals
would be consumed immediately, a great deal
faster than if they had walked out there
without it."
51
This idea of a suddenly unpro­
tected fire walker being quickly con­
sumed caused considerable comment
among the sitters. They had never
heard of that before, but we are re­
minded of the mysterious fire deaths
which continue to make the news over
the years, men and women being en­
tirely consumed by fire from an in­
ternal source, which sometimes scar­
cely scorches the chair or the bed
in which they are reclining, and
leaves the authorities completely
mystified.
This suggests to the present
director of BSRF, Riley Hansard Crabb,
' that a fire elemental has been drawn
to the person so consumed, consciously
or unconsciously; and the spontaneous
combustion that results is caused by
the blending of two forces.
I am somewhat surprised that Lo
Sun Yat didn’t mention the necessity
of having the cooperation of elementals
in the fire walk, perhaps because that
aspect of the work was not brought up
by Meade Layne or the others. They did
refer to fire-eating performers at
carnivals and circuses, applying blow-
torcy flames to mouth, face, etc.
’’Is the secret known to them in
some unconscious way?”
52
"I would say yes,” replies Lo Sun Yat.
”Yes, a natural gift -- like a musical
child --a genius -- again I am losing
strength here — ”
And that ended the session with Lo
Sun Yat. This bit of informative dia­
log is from BSRF No. 8-A, "Seance Memoranda
From the Inner Circle”, $2.50 a copy.
LEARNING THE ART IN CHILDHOOD
An important part of Max Freedom Long’s
introduction to real magick in Honolulu,
Hawaii in the 1920s was watching the per­
formances of a young couple with a travel­
ling carnival, a man and wife "who later
tried to explain their magic to me and try
to tell how they had learned it. . .
"The fire magician gave his perfor­
mance in a small tent. A railing separa­
ted him from his audience from three to
six feet. His apparatus was a pine table
on which lay the few things he used. The
only part of his performance in which real
magic was not used was the part in which
his little dog leaped delightedly through
through a small hoop soaked with oil and
set afire. Everything was done at close
range and the watchers encouraged to test
the heat of every article before it was
brought into contact with flesh. Every
move was made slowly and with no attempt
to ‘juggle* or conceal.
"The following things were done by
53
the magician in each of the two perfor­
mances I witnessed: (1) He boiled wa­
ter in a cup and drank it down rapidly
while still bubbling and steaming. (2)
Finger-thick pieces of soft pine wood
were held in the blaze of a gas burner
until they were turned at one end to
glowing charcoal. He took up six of
these, bit off the live ends, and chewed
them. (3) He heated thick iron bars
to a bright red heat in the middle and
then passed his tongue along the red
surface repeatedly -- resulting in siz­
zling steam rising from his bare tongue.
(4) He lighted an ordinary welding torch,
drew the flame down to a cutting cone of
blue-green, used the flame to cut through
iron bars repeatedly, gave the bars and
the torch to members of the audience for
examination.
"Without adjusting the torch in any
way, and seeming to have no protection or
method of temporarily extinguishing the
flame, he introduced it repeatedly into
his mouth. His mouth remained open to
its fullest extent and the flame could be
seen playing from the end of the burner,
even when it had been thrust in as far
as his lips. (5) He heated an iron bar
to redness and handled it with bare hands
in a way which would have burned another
severely indeed. He took a heavier flat
bar and heated it to redness in the cen­
ter. He took the heated part between
his teeth and, holding the ends of the
54
bar in his hands, bent:it up and down
twice from the center. . .
SWALLOWED BY AN ELEMENTAL GOD
’’Naturally enough, I questioned
the fire-eater about his use of Magic.
I also questioned his wife, who walked
on sharp swords with her bare feet, and
climbed a ladder cf them.
’’The fire-magician was perfectly
willing to try uo explain the nature of
his Magic; but like all individualts who
attempt to describe a part of what is
discovered in Realization, he was handi­
capped by the lack of words to describe
the superphysical.
”He had been born in India of English
parents and left an orphan at an early age.
He had fallen into the hands of a Hindu
fire-magician who befriended him and taught
his his art.”
Interesting that this soul could not
or would not be bom to fire-walking Hindu
parents who could have started teaching him
the magical art at an early age; so he
chose to take a Caucasian body of English
parents living in India. Thus when or­
phaned at an early age he could be picked
up and adopted by a Hindu fire magician
who could aid him in what was obviously
his life-plan before birth.
’’The training was long,” continues
Max. ’’For hours the lad was made to sit
55
before the flame of a butter lamp and
endeavour to see and feel the ’god’ be­
hind and in it. One day he became
aware of the ’god’. It had ’swallowed’
him as his teacher had predicted that
it would, and he had become the fire
itself. (Remember what Lo Sun Yat
said about going within?) With more
training he became able to ’become
fire’ at will and so was able to handle
fire or fire-heated objects as a part
of himself without being burned.
"I was especially anxious to learn
whether or not this magician had been
deep enough in Realization to see past
the ascetic dogmas of modern India. I
questioned him on that point.
THE KNOWLEDGE WHICH SETS US FREE!
"’At first I couldn’t do any­
thing but pray and watch my flame,’
he explained. ’Everything was a sin
from which I must be purified by pas­
sing through fire under the protection
of my master. But after I came to know
fire and that I was a part of it, I
found that I was a part of everything.
That knowledge set me free. There are
only two things which I cannot do and
continue my work. First I cannot in­
jure anyone in any way, and second, I
must never give up my practice for more
than a few days at a time.’
56
"I asked why he could not injure
anyone.
"’Because to injure anyone in any way
of cause them sorrow makes it impossible
for me to become a part of fire. I do not
know just why, but it seems that to in­
jure someone automatically makes me afraid.
I become afraid of fire and so I cannot be­
come fire or touch it without being burned.
Twice I had to go back to my master and get
him to put me through the fire to purify
me so that I could get away from the vague
fear that I could not otherwise overcome.*
"I asked how he went about his daily
work -- whether he invoked fire or not.
"’There are invocations, but one gets
past them in time. I have worked so long
that just to come near anything hot changes
me to a part of fire. While I talk to my
audience I have another part of me that is
fire, but which never shows itself. (The
fire elemental assigned to him at his ini­
tiation?) It is in the air around the top
of my head. If I get out of practice —
like I have done a few times between engage­
ments -- I have to use the old invocations
for a little while until I get so I can be­
come fire again whenever I wish to.’
CHO-CHO SAN AND HER YAMABOOSHI
"The little wife of the magician was
eager to tell me of her training in Japan
under her Master. She showed me his pic­
57
£5^ &
ture, and I have never seen a more ser­
ene face or one which gave such an im­
pression of wisdom and power.
’’She had been taught Realization
by a peculiar method which she failed
to describe very well, but the results
of which was an ability to identify her­
self with ’the god in me’. She became
that ’god’ as she worked, knowing with
serene faith that It would keep her
from being cut by the swords.
"’At first I was often cut,* she
related, ‘but my master called silently
to the god in me and it healed me before
a drop of blood came. Soon I learned
to do my own calling. When I walk on.
my sharp swords I am not myself. I am
my god.
"She lived by the same rules of
non-injury as did her husband, and for
the same reason. In the days of her
training her ’sins’ had been ’forgiven*
by her master. He had spoken the form­
ula of forgiveness while she had rolled
on splintered glass. When she came to
him bleeding, he healed her with a sin­
gle word."
Of course we dont have a copy of
Cho-cho San’s picture of her master,
the Yamabooshi of Japan;. but we do have
a portrait of a Mahatma of the Himalayas,
from Manly Palmer Hall’s book, "The Guru".
Here again are the telltale serenity, wis­
dom and power of a man beyond mankind.
58
THE LORD OF LORDS
