{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1949__curtiss___reincarnation.pdf","mytitle":"Reincarnation","mylang":"de"}
/eeiiicarnation
By
F. HOMER CURTISS, M.D.
Founder of The Universal Religious Fellowship, Inc.
and Co-author of 'The Curtiss Books."
WILLING PUBLISHING COMPANY
P 0 lox si
SAN GASRIU.. CAUIORNIA
Copyrfht, 1949
by
UNIVERSAL RELIGIOUS FELLOWSHIP, Inc.
HollywoocL CaRt.
INTRODUCTION
So many have asked for a brief and direct, though com-
prehensive treatment of a subject that especially concerns all
thinking peoplenamely Reincarnationthat it becomes almost
imperative that we, The Universal Religious Fellowship, Inc.,
issue such a treatise. However, instead of writing one, it oc-
curs to us that since we have not found any treatment of this
vital subject in clearer or more definitely organized form than
in the four pamphlets issued some time ago by Dr. F. Homer
Curtiss, our late beloved teacher and friend, we could do no
better than to combine these four booklets into one, and put
this valuable information forth for the blessing of all who read
it.
[51
CONTENTS
INThODUCrION I
PART L
THE DocnuNE 9
PART IL
Wii4t How 22
PART III.
THE NEw Tsmit. OBJECIIONS MSwE1u. 37
PART IV.
SCIENTIFIC Evn AND PHYSICAL PROOF
(71
REINCARNATION
PART I.
HOur birth is but a sleep and a forgetting;
The Soul that rises with us, our life's star,
Hath had elsewhere Its setting
And cometh from afar,"
Intimations of Immortality, Wordsworth.
"Think not, whener material forms expire,
Consumed by wasting age or funeral fire,
Aught else can die; souls, spuming death's decay,
Freed from their old, new tenements of clay
Forthwith assume, and wake to life again."
Metamorphoses, Ovid, Book 15, line 150.
TIlE DORE
9ßms BOOK is not written to convince the skeptics with long
IlL
arguments and masses of evidence, as there are nearly
fifty more or less elaborate volumes and countless articles
on the subject available for those who honestly wish to mvesti-
gate the subject seriously, wherein all phases are treated. We
simply set forth our own interpretations of the Law of Rein-
carnation to give you a clear understanding of the doctrine,
clarify disputed points, and to summarize briefly the best
available concepts of the subject from many sources.
THREE THEORIES
There are three main theories which attempt to account for
the appearance of man on Earth. The materialistic theory is
that man is the product of a blind and purposeless evolution,
and that his mindand Soul if such is admittedis the result
of the chemical and molecular activity going on within the
[9]
REINcARNATIoN
body. With the cessation of those activities the body dies and
the body and mindand Souldisintegrate and disappear
forever.
The one life theory holds that each Soul is created brand
new by Cod and enters the body at the time of birth. On this
basis the Soul is a slave to a heredity and environment that
is not of its own choosing and with which it had nothing to do.
According to this theory, at death the Soul remain in the
grave until the last trump," when it is released to pass into
purgatory or into heaven or into a hell of everlasting torment.
The third theory is that of reincarnation or the repeated
incarnations of the same Soul in one body after another from
time to time in various eras.
FACTS EXPLAINED
The supreme test of any theory is: How completely does
it explain the facts? Reincarnation explains apparently dis-
cordant and irreconcilable phenomena, the inequality of life,
the apparent injustice of Cod, the great differences in per-
sonality, from the idiot to the child prodigy and the genius, and
assures the certainty of future lives here on earth in which to
correct our mistakes, right our wrongs and attain our cherished
ambitions and Ideals. This removes all fear of death as the
certainty of the coming of spring removes the fear of winter.
THE DOCTRINE
Reincarnation is a simple doctrine which is a natural corol-
lary to that of the immortality of the SouL Briefly, it gives the
reasons for, the method and the proof of the repeated, cyclic
embodiments on Earth in human form, of the same Spiritual
Being or individual Soul. In thus incarnating you do not be-
come someone else but are always yourself, but manifesting
through various human bodies from age to age, just as you
dress in different clothes at different seasons of the year. As
the most sacred of the Hindu scriptures puts it: "As a man
ElO]
THE DOCTRINE
throweth away old garments and putteth on new, even so the
dweller in the body, having quitted its old mortal frames, enter-
eth into other which are new."'
These new garments make you appear outwardly quite
different, yet you are always yourself no matter how many
outer garments become worn out and are discarded incarna-
tion after incarnation. Your body is merely your outer gar-
ment which you don in order to manifest in this material
world. When you are through using it you discard it and
withdraw to your home in the higher worlds whence you came.
After a period of rest and assimilation of your life's experience
you don another body for use during another "day" of experi-
ences in the material world. it is not your present personality
perhaps called "John Smith"which reincarnates, but the
Spiritual Self which animated "John Smith" which is reborn
in a new body. The incarnating Ray is the spiritual thread on
which all the transient personalities are strung.
The reincarnation of man is as simple and natural as the
reincarnation of Nature in the Spring. And rebirth is no more
a miracle than is birth.
TRANSMIGRATION
Opposed to reincarnation is the repulsive doctrine of
transmlgration of Souls or the incarnation of the Soul in the
body of some lower animaL Although held by numbers of the
less educated and superstitious Asiatics, this doctrine is a
fallacy; for once having reached the human stage of unfold-
ment, no body less evolved than the human would have the
centers and faculties necessary to accommodate and give ex-
pression to a human SouL A pint cup cannot hold a quart. The
lesser can never contain the greater. No doubt this doctrine
arose because the cultivation of gross animal traits in this life
will carry those qualifies over into the next incarnation. The
glutton will look like a pig, a schemer like a fox, a miser like
a vulture, etc.
REINCAINATION
TESTIMONY OF THE ACES
Aside from the fact that this doctrine most satisfactorily
wives the problems and includes all the facts of our life here
on Earth, how else do we know that the doctrine is true? 1st,
there is the testimony of the ages. No doctrine or theory can
survive critical examination and application from age to age
if it is not founded on truth. Theories of science, religion and
philosophy arise, flourish for a time, then pass away, but rein-
carnation eternally remains. In fact, it reaches back beyond
recorded history. It Is found in the most ancient writings of
Egypt, Babylonia, India, Greece, China, Japan, even in Atlantis
and Lemuria. Alexander found it among the Cymnosophists
of India, Caesar among the Druids of Gaul, and Herodotus
among the Egyptians and the Magi of Persia. It was also
taught in the mystery schools of Eleusis, Baccus and Isis.
TESTIMONY OF TODAY
Reincarnation is believed in today by more than two-thirds
of all mankind, approximately 750 millions in the Orient and
over 10 millions in the Occident. But as these numbers in-
dude great masses of the uneducated, the mere fact of num-
bers is not convincing. But when we find the greatest minds
of age after age following this doctrine it merits our greatest
respect. Among spiritual teachers it was taught by Krishna,
Buddha, Confucius, Laotsze, and Jesus. Among the ancient
philosophers, Pythagoras, Plato, Plotinus, Hermes, Proclus,
lamblicus, Porphory and Hirocles. Among the early Church
Fathers, Origen, Ammonius Saccus, Justin Martyr, Philo Ju-
deus, Clemens Alexandrinus, Arnobius, Pamphilius, Bruno, St.
Bonaventure, St. Francis and St. Gregory, etc. Among later
philosophers, Scbopenbauer, Lessing, Swedenborg, Hagel,
Leibnitz, Boehme, Herder, Fitchte, Descartes, Voltaire, More,
etc. Among great authors, Baizac, Victor Hugo, George Sand,
Cautier, Sardou, Goethe, Bacon, Scott, Shelley, Flammarion,
[12]
THE DOCTRINE
Poe, Haggard, Corelli, Coleridge, Franklin, Emerson, Chandi,
Tagore, Henry Ford, etc. Thus the fact that we have the
almost universal testimony of the greatest and most acute
minds the human race has produced throughout the ages to
testify to the truth of the Law of Reincarnation, should have
great weight with us.
LAW OF CYCLES
The Law of Cycles rules the world, for all manifestation
takes place in cycles. Day and night, summer and winter,
birth, death and rebirth follow one another in endless suc-
cession. First there is expression and manifestation, then with-
drawal, assimilation and growth. The tree clothes itself with
a body of leaves. This body dies in winter but the tree re-
turns into manifestation in a new body of leaves in the next
spring. It is the same tree, but with an entirely new body.
The butterfly grub dies as the chrysalis is formed, but it is the
same entity that is reborn in the entirely different body of
the butterfly. The body is no more you than the caterpillar
is the butterfly or the grub which enabled the butterfly to
manifest The water-breathing tadpole is reincarnated in the
entirely different body of the air-breathing frog, and the
wriggling larva reincarnates in the entirely different body of
the mosquito. Your life here on Earth is but one summer-
period or adayatschool_ for the SouL Just as it takes many
summer-periods of expression, or incarnations, to perfect the
oak, so does it take many summer-periods of expression, or
incarnations, to perfect the Soul's expression on Earth.
LAW OF CONSERVATION OF ENERGY
Reincarnation is a perfect illustration of the scientific con-
ceptionof the Law of the Conservation of Energy. This law
shows that a cause once set in motion must have its resultant
effect. Hence, no effort, whether for good or evil, but has its
results: for no energy is ever lost. Only its form of expression
[133
REINCARNATION
may be changed. The energies generated in one season or one
life cannot be obliterated by death, but must find expression
in a subsequent season or life. New growth comes forth on
the twigs of last year's growth. It does not have to repeat the
last season's growth, but has it to start with, build upon and
add to.
Soul-force, like all other forms of energy, is likewise con-
served. The Soul that has longed and struggled for a desired
end, finding its realization cut off by the death of its body, does
not lose the fruit of its labor, self-denial and sacrifices. The
energy thus generated will accompany It and so affect and
modify the next incarnation as to continue the expression of
its aim until perfected. Thus the Soul loses nothing and a-
capes from nothing it has generated. Nor does it have to repeat
the lessons it has already learned. It brings back all the talents
and attainments it has slowly gained through growth, and
builds them Into the new personality as Inherent faculties with
which to start the new life.
Innate likes and dislikes, tastes, impulses, fears and even
ingrained habits are brought over from the past Those who
fear to enter caves or tunnels may have lost their lives under-
ground in a past life. Those who fear water or ships may have
been drowned in the past Those who love mountains or even
deserts, or long to live in some place they have never seen in
this life probably had a happy former life in those surround-
ings. In fact, you bring over at least half the traits of your
present personality; all those that you have not developed in
this life. If one could see your picture from the last life, any-
one would recognize your face.
LAW OF CAUSE AND EFFECT
AU manifestation is under Cosmic Law and the Law of
Cause and Effect governs all expression. Whatever appears to
spring suddenly into being seemingly without reason, must
(14 1
THE DOCTRINE
nevertheless have an adequate cause, even if as unrecognized
as the unseen vapor that condenses into clouds of rain or snow.
Mi attainments are gained only through the slow Law of
Growth, cell by cell. The seemingly spontaneous and miracu-
lous attainments of precocious children and geniuses must be
the results of the slowly acting Law of Growth. Where and
when? Where else could the cause of this effect be generated
but in previous lives? Your being born with your innate char-
acteristics and talents, also your obvious shortcomings, must
be the result of causes you set up before your birth and must
be personally related to you. For your talents, traits and
powers are not the sum of those of your parents, but are yours.
Where and when were they set up? Naturally not in heaven,
but by you only in some previous life. For you are the mathe-
matical resuU of the causes you set up and the growth attained
by your efforts or lack of effort in past lives. Progress is made
by overcoming the practical difficulties of our everyday lives,
not by running away from them.
INFANT PRODIGIES
Infant prodigies manifest their mng talents even before
their brains are fully aeveloped. The ability of Mozart to play
the piano at two years of age, write a sonata at four and an
opera at eight cannot be explained by heredity. Joseph Hoff-
man gave such marvelous improvisations upon themes suggest-
ed without notice that he was considered a master of the piano
at the age of ten. In fact, many consider him a reincarnation
of Mozart.
The mentally deficient negro boy, Blind Tom, never had
a musical lesson but could accurately reproduce the most diffi-
cult music after hearing it played but once. The uneducated
shepherd-boy, Zerah Colburn, at the age of eight could per-
form such marvelous mathematical feats as mentally extract-
ing the cube root of numbers in hundreds of millions and the
[15]
REINCARNATION
square root of numbers containing six figures. He instantly
gave the correct number of minutes in 48 years! Pascal, at the
age of two, demonstrated mathematical problems with dia-
grams. At six he wrote the most learned treatise on conic sec-
tions that had appeared for ages. Young read fluently at two
years of age, and at eight had a thorough knowledge of six
languages. William Hamilton began the study of Hebrew at
three and at thirteen knew thirteen languages!
The great Hindu sage, Sankarachaiya, wrote his great
commentary on the Vedas at the age of twelve and it still
stands today as the greatest masterpiece of its kind. The saint.
Ramakrishna, was born so spiritually unfolded that he entered
the highest state of spiritual consciousness, Samadhl, at the age
of four. And the boy Jesus was able to astonish the learned
masters at the temple in Jerusalem at the age of twelve. These
prodigies must have been the result of causes which cannot be
accounted for by heredity and environment, as their great
talents were not possessed by their parents, their ancestors or
by the other children of the same family. Obviously, the only
explanation is that they were attainments brought over from
previous lives.
The attempt to explain the amazing talents of both preco-
cious children and geniuses by either their horoscopes or by
psychic control by some ancient discarnate astral personality,
does not explain the facts. Twins born so nearly at the same
minute that the difference in time could have had only a trifling
effect on their horoscopes, should therefore have almost exact-
ly the same characteristics. But the fact is that they may differ
widely in size, color of hair and eyes as well as in sex and in
character.
A genius whose talents were manifested only when over-
shadowedif not actually obsessedby an astral entity would
lead such a Dr. Jekyl and Mr. Hyde life as to clearly reveal
the obsession. Also such entities are usually anxious to reveal
f 16]
TUE DOCTRINE
their names and claim the credit while the genius insists that
he be recognized as the creator of the results. Only reincar-
nation can explain all the facts.
THE LAW OF RECOGNITION
Upon meeting certain people for the first time why do you
often feel that you know them well, as though they were old
friends? When you meet others for the first time why do you
feel a sudden aversion to them, even though they may be ciii-
hired and charming and you know nothing at all about them?
In both instances it is because of the relationships you bad
set up with them; strong ties of either love or dislike made with
them in a past life. Similarly, when you visit a city or see a
landscape for the first time you feel that you have been there
before, and in some instances you know your way among the
streets and can even recognize a certain house as being the
one in which you had lived once upon a time. Why is your
interest in a particular historical personage so intense that you
so thrill at seeing his or her picture, or even upon having the
name mentioned, that you think you must have been that
character? it is because in a past life you were either per-
sonally closely associated with that person or had made him
your ideal or had identified yourself with his party or cause.
Reading about him revives the old memories and feelings.
THE LAW OF JUSTICE
The Law of eternal justice demands reincarnation to ex-
plain the great inequalities of birth and condition, for these
cannot be explained on the one life theory without making Cod
a monster of injustice. We cannot conceive of Cod as being
bnjust And yet if all Souls are created new and are scattered
out over the world haphazardly to incarnate for the first time
at birth, then justice demands that all be given equal oppor-
tunities and environments. Why should a Cod of love and
mercy afflict the many and favor the few? Why should He
[17]
REINCARNATION
create some born diseased or crippled and others healthy and
strong; some dying in youth, others in old age; some living In
peace and happiness, others in sorrow and tragedy; some with
brilliant minds, others imbecile?
If Cod creates them so unequal and then abandons them
to the influence of heredity and circumstances with which
they had nothing to do, instead of guiding them to health
and happiness, then He would be less considerate and more
unjust and unloving than hnmn parents. The wretch who is
born of &minið or drunken parents, in the slums where neither
health nor virtue are possible, and foredoomed to a life of
want and woe; and the genius who is born with every advan-
tage of wealth, education and refinement, have both created
causes in past lives which make it impossible for them to be
born under any other conditions. You are rewarded not for
what you have done, but by iL
COD NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR EVIL
Certainly Cod could not create evil nor create Souls only
to make them suffer. But all becomes clear and just when we
realize that Cod Is not responsible either for the parents and
their heredity and environment, nor for the character and
talents of the children. For all the inborn qualities and their
physical setting are not a gift of grace from some capricious,
whimsical and unjust deity, but are the mathematically exact
results of the causes those SouLs set up in previous lives. The
Law of Justice, as defined by JesusWhatsoever a man sow-
eth, that shall he also reap. . . not one jot or little shall in
anywise pass from the law until all be fulfllled*_demands that
we reap the results of what we sow. And since mercifully we
do not have to reap all the good and all the evil in one short
life, we must be reborn again and again to reap the results
here on the plane where they were created. For you cannot
sow a crop in one field and reap it in another, but only in the
field where it was sown.
[183
THE DOCTRINE
A PHILOSOPHIC NECESSITY
Reincarnation explains all the objections to survival brought
in the name of logic, and removes the challenges brought by
materialism against idealism. The presence of evil in the
world cannot be explained or accounted for by either material-
ism or divine providence. Reincarnation shows that evil is
created by man through his ignorance, mistakes or wilfulness,
so naturally he must reap the results of the causes he has set
up, not as punishment but in exact justice. Thus evil is a whip
which goads you by its painful reactions to correct the error
and so to progress. Evil measures a lack of unfoldment and is
therefore relative and transitory and can be neutralized and
paid off. Hence evil is bound to diminish as mankind slowly
progresses toward mastery.
Reincarnation is not a mere theory or probability, nor Is it
revelation. it Is a general law of manifestation embracing all
life. It is the key to many psychological enigmas not other-
wise explainable. It is based on positive evidence and demon-
stration, and has many phy*al proofs, as we shall see later on.
One season of expression and growth is too short to mani-
fest the perfection of the oak. One life-expression on Earth Is
too short to mirnifest the perfection of the Soul. Just as you
are learning how to make the most of life, you have to leave It
incomplete and pass on. The absence of high qualities and
attainments now shows the need for their cultivation in a sub-
sequent life. Hence, after a period of rest and assimilation,
you desire to return to complete your task. But you have the
satisfaction of knowing that suffering bravely endured now
produces patience and fortitude in the next life. Hardships
overcome now produce strength and courage in the future.
Self-denial develops the will, and the industrious worker is
now sowing the seeds of greatness and plenty in the next life.
The wealthy sluggard of today may be a beggar in the next
[191
REINCARNATION
life, a domineering person may return as a slave or servant
A selfish and frivolous woman of fashion may return as a
servant, but with the same habits and tastes. Misuse of or
squandering of wealth, or even taking religious vows of pov-
erty to enter convents or monasteries in a past life, necessitates
a lack of wealth or even poverty in this life. Cultural tastes
cultivated and acquired now will bear fruit as innate refine-
ment and good taste in future lives.
SCIENTIFICALLY ACCEPTABLE
it is scientifically acceptable because it is not a religious or
metaphysical revelation, but a logical probability which has
now been scientifically proved. It agrees with our actual
scientific knowledge and contradicts none of it. It agrees with
natural history, astronomy, geology, palaentology, compara-
tive anatomy and physiology. It reveals the unknown factors"
in evolution that are more powerful than heredity, natural
selection and environment It explains the mental and psychic
inequalities even between homologous or identical twins, and
the enormous paradoxical differences between physical and
psychical heredity. It explains the problem of cryptomnesia or
the subconscious memory of past lives revealed under hypno-
sis or in trance. It abolishes the need for bizarre hypotheses
of "unperceived causes" and "obscure influences" which can-
not be verified.
IT IS MORALLY SATISFYING
Reincarnation is morally satisfying, as it eliminates injus-
tice from Cod and from life. It shows that immanent justice
does not depend upon a whim of Deity, but is the result of
the universal Law of Cause and Effect Thus there is no need
for supernatural intervention. And there are, therefore, no
everlasting torments or punishments without end. In the astral
world after death, in the lower realms called "purgatory," you
do suffer from remorse as you look over the moving picture
(20]
THE DOCTRINE
film of your past life, for on it is recorded not only your acts,
but every thought, word and deed, and you can see all your
many mistakes and should learn your lessons from them. And
naturally you are anxious to come back and correct them. But
there you do not remember previous incarnations any more
than when here.
You also suffer in your astral body the effects of all the
destructive forces you have generated which you have not
worked out or neutralized by good thoughts and deeds before
death. You continue to suffer from such destructive forces,
not forever, but until the amount accumulated has spent itself.
Sincere repentance, prayer and a desire to repay and to pro-
gress spiritually, gradually purge you from such forces and
permit you to ascend into the higher realms. Thus there is no
pnnkliment by Cod, only a reaping of some of the effects of
what you yourself have sown. The actual final adjustment
must take place in the next life with the other Souls involved.
All must be equalized and ended by your own efforts one
incarnation after the other. There is then no condemnation for
the less advanced, for you also are not as advanced as you
might have been if you had worked harder.
It reveals your personal responsibility for your conditions.
Thus it incites to sincere repentance and definite work and
accomplishment, not only individually but collectively for the
good of ill. It inculcates tolerance for the mistakes of others
through understanding; brotherhood through realization; co-
operation through gratitude; love through compassion; kind-
ness and sympathy through sufferin& and service to others as
others have helped you.
Part II will explain why, how, when and where you incar-
nate.
'The Bhagavad GUn, Chapter II.
'For details see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss.
[21 :i
PAHT II
WHY AND HOW
"None sees the slow and upward sweep
By which the Soul from life-depths deep
Ascends,unless, maybe, when free,
With each new death we backward see
The long perspective of our race,
Our multitudinous past lives trace."
A Recon4 William Sharp.
ou are truly a spiritual being and one with Cod in the
JJ[
spiritual world, why should you come down to Earth and
so terribly limit the expression of your Spiritual Self by
embodying yourself in matter through incarnating in a human-
animal body? We have already explained' that it is your des.
tiny to learn by experience how to manifest your Divinity in
all planes and in all worlds, even in this dense and unrespon-
sive physical world. The physical body is therefore the most
Important of all your bodiesyour four bodies being the phy-
sical, astral, mental and spiritualfor only through it can you
complete your mission to manifest your Spiritual Self here on
Ears
REASONS FOR REINCARNATION
But since the Cycle of Necessity requires you to manifest
as much of your Spiritual Self as you have learned to express
through the body of flesh; you may ask why should you thus
incarnate again and again?
1. Becauseone life Isfartooshortfor you to gain the
experience in matter necessary for you to fulfill your destiny.
You-are eager to carry out your unfulfilled plans and desires
of the past life.
[223
WHY AND How
You come back to learn the next major lesson needed to
round out your character and add its qualities to your unfold-
ing spiritual growth. In each incarnation you learn certain
major and minor lessons. After assimilating them and build-
ing them into character, since this Earth is the Plane of
Demonstration where all growth must be proved, after ascend-
ing out of earth conditions, you naturally desire to incarnate
again to be tested so as to prove through trial that you have
actually built the lessons of the past life into your character
and can demonstrate itthrough new methodsby passing the
same tests successfully the next time.
You return to unfold the next spiritual quality or
power needed to take your next step in accomplishing your
great mission of becoming a Lord of Creation "to have doimn-
ion over every living thing that creepeth upon the Earth," by
perfecðy manifesting your Spiritual Self in earth conditions.
To accomplish this you must train the animal self to respond
to the guidance of, and express, your Spiritual Self.
You return to work out and redeem the results of past
mistakes, reap the rewards of your good deeds, and complete
the good plans left iinRnhhed in the last life. Thus as you
conquer and progress here and now you can make yourself
whatever you wish to be In the next incarnation. Through
kindness to others you will reap happiness in your next incar-
nation.
You return to be with the ones with whom you set up
strong ties of love, affection and comradeship, or to neutralize,
redeem and secure forgiveness for the enmities and hatreds
setup with others. Since hate Is the most binding force next to
love, be sure to "agree with thine adversary quickly whilst
thou art in the way with him" or you will be bound to him
closely in the next life until you have worked out the inhar-
mony.
[233
REINCARNATION
You return to do your part in the redemption of mat-
ter from the curse of impurity and inharmony which the sins
of mankind have placed upon the lower kingdoms and even
upon the atoms of the ground you walk on. For in proportion
to the degree that you embody and radiate the currents of
peace, love, harmony and joy from the Divine Self within, the
radio-activity of those spiritual forces purify, uplift and redeem
the atoms of your bodies and all the atoms of matter you
contact. Your spiritual radiations also uplift and advance the
evolution of the lower kingdoms through your understanding,
kind and sympathetic treatment of them. Thus do you be-
come an active worker in the redemption of the Earth by
radiating the Christ-force from within. Through man came
sin into the world and by him must it be redeemed, not through
his own power but by the use of the power of the Christ
flowing through him.
You must continue to return until you learn how to
mould and use matter so as to complete your mission of build-
ing up a form so perfectly developed that its centers and
faculties will permit the expression of the Spiritual Self as
perfectly as the limitations of matter will permit. But you
must also train the human-animal personality to respond to
that spiritual guidance willingly and harmoniously and gladly,
subordinating its will to the will of the indwelling Spirit.
Even after you have reached full Mastery and no longer
need to return to Earth for your own advancement, you may
voluntarily return out of love and compassion so that you may
teach, relieve suffering or otherwise help your less advanced
fellowmen; as do so many great teachers of mankind. Also
many advanced Souls return to incarnate in backward or
colored races to advance their development, as did Booker T.
Washington and Dr. George Washington Carver, etc.
Wu AND How
MAJOR AND MINOR INCARNATIONS
Incarnations run in cycles of seven. There are three major
incarnations, during which you work chiefly to accomplish
the main mission for which you came to Earth. In between
these major incarnations are four minor ones. In these you
work out minor details of the major step you did not complete
in the past life and correct the mistakes made. Thus you clear
the way for greater advance in the next major incarnation. In
the major incarnations you rise to the greatest heights your
degree of spiritual unfoldment permits, and may have a dis-
tinguished personality. In the minor incarnations, since you
are only working out minor details, you may have a very in-
significant personality and position in life.
PECULIARITIES EXPLAINED
If no strong ties have been set up, almost any parents in
the general environment with the needed unfoldment would
do. Parents who strongly object to having children cannot
expect a very advanced Soul to come in where it was not
wanted, so they often have to put up with an undeveloped
Soul who wants a body so badly that it is willing to push in
where it is not wanted. And this resentment or even antagon-
ism is often plainly exhibited by the child after birth. If the
parentsespecially the motherare indifferent or resentful
there may be a fight between several low-type entities to get
possession of the body. This struggle may be so great as to
affect the mother's mind and cause "puerperal insanity" until
the child is born. A child born from a true love union is usually
quite superior to one born of either mere passion or when one
parent is indifferent or especially if filled with resentment, dis-
gust or loathing.
On the other hand, by holding high ideals the parents can
draw to them the highest type or most advanced Soul to which
they can aflinitize and attract to their environment. Often,
[25]
REINCARNATION
however, they may have to give a body to some less advanced
Soul with whom they have made strong karmic ties in the past.
And this may be a cripple or mental defective or even an
imbecile.
«CHANGELINGS'
A change in the Soul incarnating may also take place after.
birth, usually before seven years of age. Thus the Soul who
gains ultimate possession of the body may, in rare cases, be
quite different from the one who was born in it. This second
Soul is called a 'changeling." This usually takes place when
the family conditions are so inharmonious that the advanced
Soul which had incarnated could not stand those conditions
and so withdrew and allowed a lower type to take its place.
This sometimes happens over night.
In the case of the suicide,2 since the Soul has neither Rnih-
ed out its cycle of life nor prepared to progress in the higher
realms, it remainc earth-bound until its cycle is up and death.
would have occurred normally.
LAW OF SEX
Some writers hold that you incarnate first in one sex and
then in the other. Others teach that you incarnate seven times
in one sex and then seven times in the opposite sex. This is
said to be necessary so that the Soul may learn the lessons of
both sexes. But our teaching is that the masculine ray of the
Spiritual Self"male and female created He them' (Genesis i,
27)always incarnates in a male body and the feminine ray in
a female body, with certain exceptions. Since by their union
on Earth"they twain shall be one flesh" (Genesis II, 24, Mat-
thew xix, 5)each learns the lessons of the other by this intim-
ate contact. The man must develop the feminine qualities of
love, compassion, tenderness, sympathy and intuition, while
the woman must develop the masculine qualities of courage,
will-power, reason, logic and executive ability.
[26]
WHY AND How
EXCEPTIONS
The exception occurs when one refuses to learn the les-
sons of the other, violates their sacred relationship or so mis-
treats the other that a negative Karma is created which neces-
sitates an incarnation in the body of the opposite sex to learn
its lessons by experience instead of by the normal way of
association. In these exceptional cases of "mis-fit sexes" the
difference between the sex of the incarnating Ray and the sex
of its body is so marked that it can be recognized at a glance.
often as far as across the street. The "sissy" or effeminate man,
and the domineering, masculine type of womenoften with a
distinct mustache and masculine hands and feetare examples.
Such men prefer foppish dress, have effeminate voices and
ways, while such women prefer imrnnich clotheswe know one
who has for years had a police license to wear entire male
clothing and pass as a manand usually have masculine voices,
ways, etc.
"MIS-FIT MATES"
Such "misfit incarnatIons" are usually very unhappy, as no
one seems to understand them and they cannot understand
themselves. They often meet their true mates and fall deeply
in love, but find themselves tragically In bodies of the same sex.
This explains why two women fall in love with each other
or two men are inseparably attached. This often leads to a
beautiful life-long relationship. But if sex relations are at-
tempted perversion naturally results. Our explanation also
shows why perverts are homosexual. A number of our stu-
dents in mis-fit bodies have come to us in despairone on the
verge of suicideover their strange and unhappy condition,
only to have things happily straightened out by our almost
obvious explanation which they had been unable to find else-
where.
[21)
REINCARNATION
PARENTS FURNISH THE BODY ONLY
Parents furnish only the body, with its family heredity,
and the environment. They do not furnish the Soul, the char-
acter or even the mind, although the type of brain furnished
for the mind of the incarnating Soul to use does modify its
expression, just as a colored glass modifies the light that passes
through it, or as a violin virtuoso is limited in expression by
the character of the violin he is obliged to use. The character
of the incarnating Soul also modifies the disposition and often
the health of the mother, making her happy or cross and irrit-
able, while she is carrying it. This often varies markedly with
different children in the same family before their birth.
HOW YOU INCARNATE
Since Cod is infinite He has no limitation, hence He can
have no form. He manifests as a Divine Outshining, an
illimitable Radiance. To manifest in the worlds of form He
projects individualized Rays of Himselfyour Spiritual self
to achieve a definite destiny. Through this Cycle of Necessity
your Spiritual Self must learn how to "do the will of the Father
on Earth even as it is done in heaven." Hence he must build
up a limiting vehicle of expression or body through which to
manifest in each world of form.
MENTAL BODY
Responding to the Decree of Manifestation, your Spiritual
Self in turn projects from the spiritual world into the mental
world a reflection of its Egoic or Causal Body. This forms
your mental body or the ideal type of the perfect body you
desire. This perfect pattern is then modified by the forces
concentrated in the mental permanent atom, which contains
the essence of all the mental attainmentsalso faultsdevel-
oped in the previous incarnation. The result is by no means
the perfect mental body you desired, but it is the best you can
[28]
Wu AND How
have in view of the limitations the last personality generated
in the last life. This mental body is composed of the substance
of the mental world whose atoms are called "mentoids" or
"psychoids.
ASTRAL BODY
Your Spiritual Self then projects a pattern of the mental
body into the astral world where it is embodied in astral
matter. There the astral body is modified by the astral per-
manent atom, making it somewhat like but different from the
astral body of the previous life. This releases the residue of
the forces of the desires, passions and other emotions you
experienced in the last incarnation, and thus embodies them
in the new personality. As a child you manifest the same
mental and emotional traitsboth good and badyou had
developed in the past, modified by the family heredity. This
accounts for the otherwise inexplicable innate impulses, pecu-
liar tendencies, unconscious habits, favorite pursuits, prefer-
ences, fears, phobias, prejudices and antipathies, as well as
the unaccountable Soul-stirring friendships between new ac-
quaintances so often manifested before they could have been
acquired in this life.
Infancy thus brings to Earth not a blank scroll to be in-
scribed only with the events of this life, but a scroll bearing
the net results of all your past lives. The record of this life
will be but the latest page in the history of your manifestation
on Earth.
YOU CHOOSE YOUR PARENTS
Once the cyclic time chosen for your incarnation has ar-
rived you are caught in the downward vortex of embodiment
and are magnetically attracted to the general environment
race, country, locality, etc.whose characteristics will give you
the best field in which to work out your problems. You then
await the zodiacal and planetary conditions most favorable
[29]
REINCARNATION
for accomplishing the chief purpose of your incarnation. You
do not have certain characteristics because you were born in
a certain zodiacal sign and under certain planetary configura-
tions; you are born under those conditions because you already
have certain characteristics which affinitize you to those condi-
tions. The astrological environment at the time of birth is de-
termined largely by degree of unfoldment, the desires and the
Karma of the Soul.
A fish desires water, a bird the air and the gopher the earth
because those are the environments which furnish the condi-
tions necessary for their evolution. Thus the astral atmosphere
at the time of conception and birthas determined by the con-
vergence of the planetary raysrepresents the environment
best suited to your spiritual evolution. The ancient axiom is,
The stars impel but do not corn pei"
Therefore do not blame astrological conditions for either
your success or failure. They do have an influence, just as do
the sunshine and the rain, but they simply act upon qualities
of character already present or absent. It rests with you how
you react to them; for another axiom is, "The wise man rules
his stars, the fool obeys them."
Within the environment to which you are thus drawn you
are then attracted to the parents whose characteristics and
heredity will give you the type of body and environment you
desire. Usually the parents are those with whom you have set
up strong ties in the past For your further growth and unfold-
ment must progress from the point where it left off. Thus you
choose your parents, not for an easy life, but from the Soul
standpoint of love, justice and spiritual progress.
The more advanced Soulsunder the guidance of their
Mentor or Guardian Angel, and within the limits imposed by
their Karmachoose the parents they wish, well knowing the
Karma of the past and also the limitations their heredity and
[301
Wn AND How
environment will impose. But in spite of any such drawbacks
they choose that avenue of incarnation as the best one through
which to work out their problems, make their desired advance
and attain the destined position in life to which their Karma
entitles them.
If the parents chosen fail to give them a body they have to
take the next best body they can find. This accounts for one
member of a family's being so entirely different from the rest,
hi both looks, tastes, disposition and habits. If these differences
are of a negative character such a one may be a "black sheep
and often without any affection for his parents or brothers and
sisters. Often such a one may find greater 'friendships, love
and closer ties with the members of another family in which
it should have incarnated, were it not prevented by karmic or
other reasons. Such a one simply did not belong to the first
family group in the past and so does not "fit in" to it now.
STAGES OF INCARNATION
The incarnation is a progressive affair, one stage following
another. The Soul may have been overshadowing the mother
for some time, but makes direct contact at the time of concep-
tion. At the lime of conception the forces of the physical per-
manent atom are then encountered. These modify both the
etheric double or pattern-body and the physical body. This
modification brings over so much of the last personalitywe
would say at least halfthat it modifies the family heredity so
markedly that, as we have said before, if anyone could see a
picture of you in your last life he would instantly recognize
you. This accounts for the marked differences in appearance
body, color of hair and eyes, etc.of the children of the same
parents. Otherwise they should be as alike as peas in a pod
as they all have the same family heredity and environment.
The next major stage of incarnation is at the time of "quick-
ening." The next stage is at the first breath; the next at 7 years
[31]
REINCARNATION
and at 12 years. Thus the Soul is not fully incarnated until
puberty when the power to create is present, approximately
from 10 to 14, according to climate, race, etc.
LENGTH OF INCARNATION SET
You usually incarnate for a definite term of years or the
time judged necessaly to accomplish the program of attain-
ment you have laid out. You therefore come with a store of
vitality to last for that period approximately. This is general-
ly recognized in the expression "his time had come" or "his
time was up," etc. But if the cycle you have set is abnormally
cut short by war, accident or murder, you may return immed-
iately without ascending into the higher realms, to live out
the balance of your cycle. In this case such an incarnation will
be a short one. For instance, if your intended cycle was plan-
ned for 60 years and you were killed at 20, if you decided to
incarnate at once it would be only for the 40 year balance of
the cycle of 60 years that was cut short. Hence you would
probably live only forty years.
DEATH IN CHILDHOOD
If the Soul plans the length of its incarnation, some persons
ask, why it should incarnate for only a few years and die in
early childhood. There are several reasons for this. Often
the Soul did not need to incarnate at that period but did so be-
cause of the intense longing of the mother and the desire of
the Soul to comfort her. Sometimes a somewhat advanced Soul
comes to lift the mother's thoughts to higher things. Often the
whole life of worldly-minded parents is changed to a more
spiritual one after a short visit of a more advanced Soul as
their child. The short incarnation was like the visit of an angel.
Perhaps in the past the Soul refusedby abortion or other-
wiseto give a body to some Soul who desired to incarnate,
and so must learn what it means to desire incarnation and be
(321
THE DOCTRINE
prevented through the destruction of the body through which
it wished to be born. If a mother's resentment against mother-
hood attracts a low, undeveloped Soul, the fight among such
Souls for possession of the body may cause it to abort or be
still-born or die soon after birth. Again, an advanced Soul
may find inharmony in the family and environment too great
for its sensitive body to endure, and so it has to withdraw in
early childhood. Remember that the Soul is not an infant
when it incarnates, but is at the full stage of unfoldment and
maturity its many incarnations have produced. It is only the
body that is an infant
TIME BETWEEN INCARNATIONS
When the planned attainment is accomplished you usually
simply withdraw during sleep and the body dies without dis-
ease or accident But if the life..cycle is cut short by conditions
beyond controlsuch as war, pestilence or uncontributed acci-
dentyou may incarnate directly from the lower astral within
a few weeks, months or years, sometimes through the same
mother.3 But, as we have said elsewhere: Those who do
reincarnate without entering the higher realms are less well
equipped for their new Earth life, just as a child who leaves
school before his education is completed is more or less han-
dicapped by his lack of advanced training."4 Also, in the case
of quick reincarnation, if the old astral body has not disinte-
grated before the new incarnation, it may attach itself to the
new personality as a 'dweller" or incubus.4
As every mother must be open to the astral to give incar-
nation to the overshadowing Soul, if she Is sensitive she may
recognize who it is who wishes to incarnate, and even give
him the name desired. She may also be Impressed with the
Soul's chief object in incarnating and so train and prepare him
for it.
Thus the lime between incarnations varies greatly, from
[331
REINCARNATION
in exceptional casesa few months to thousands of years. The
general average is said to be from 200 to 1500 years. As we
personally have always been anxious to help humanity our own
average has been about 150 to 200 years. In our investigation
we encountered one astral teacher who claimed that she was
an old Atlantean teacher who had refused to incarnate for over
20,000 years so that she might continue to give her teachings
to humanity through various mediums all down through the
ages. Instead of incarnating from time to time and progress-
ing, her mighty will and her intense desire to help humanity
held her voluntarily earth-bound in the higher astraL So
instead of teaching advanced concepts of the laws of life, she
continued to give out the same old Atlantean concepts.
As a rule the more advanced one is, the longer he remains
out of incarnation, unless there is some special reasonsuch as
helping humanity in some special way, such as spiritual teach-
ing, etc.that brings him back earlier. Some advanced Masters
have had to wait for centuries for the proper planetary and ra-
cial cycles and karmic conditions to arrive which would permit
them to accomplish their mission.
SPECIAL INCARNATIONS
There are special messengers who incarnate to teach or
rule or warn, like the prophets, or to intervene to save a na-
tion like Joan of Arc. There are other great Souls whose
mission requires them to remain on Earth for exceptionally
long periods, such as the Masters of Wisdom of India and the
Masters of Egypt who are at the head of the Egyptian Hier-
archy of the Great White Lodge of Masters who usually remain
in incarnation in certain Egyptian temples for 300 years or
more.
Then there are the Celestial Beings, the Avatars, like Mel-
chizedek, Krishna and Jesus. They incarnated not through the
gate of ordinary birth, but phenomenally. Such Avatars incar-
[341
REINCARNATION
nate at the beginning of evely Great Age (2160 years) to give
out the teachings of that Age. Or they incarnate "whenever
there is a decline in virtue and an insurrection of vice and in-
justice in the world; and thus I incarnate from age to age for
the preservation of the just, the destruction of the wicked, and
the establishment of righteousness." The cycle for another
such celestial incarnation is now at hand and the great event
may take place at any time after the Battle of Armageddon.'
TIMES OF VARIOUS CLASSES
According to Dr. Frank Crane the time between incarna-
tions varies as follows: "Unskilled laborers from 60 to 100
years. Skilled laborers from 100 to 200 years. The Bourgeoise
from 200 to 300 years. And so on up to the highest class of
'gentlemen farmers' and professional men who remain out
from 600 to 1000 years or more."
Dr. Crane gives the following as probable: "Epictetus re-
turned as Ralph Waldo Emerson; Cicero as Gladstone; Julius
Caesar as Theodore Roosevelt, (some say as Mussolini);
Ashoka of India as CoL Olcott; Hypatia of Alexandria as Cior-
dano Bruno and then as Mme. Blavatsky; Alfred the Great as
Queen Victoria; William the Conqueror as Lord Kitchener;
Virgil as Lord Tennyson; Pythagoras as loot Hoomie; Francis
Bacon was Robertus in the 16th century, Hunyadi Janos In the
15th and Christian Bosencreuz in the 14th century."
We do not give the above as authoritative but as one writ-
er's estimate. But it is suggestive.
Since animalc do not have individualized souls, but are
limited expressions of their Group Soul in the higher astral,7
they do not reincarnate individually, although they do have
varying lengths of life in the astral world after death.7 But
if a pet animal has been given a great amount of attention and
trainin& and has had much love lavished on it, it has absorbed
so much of your human atoms from your physical, astral, men-
[35]
REINCARNATION
tal and spiritual bodies that it is to that extent partly human-
ized. In other words, you have "ensouled" it with a partthe
emanationsof yourself. It therefore may reincarnate with
you, even more than once in your present life time. For in-
stance, when a dog suddenly sees a stranger and persistently
follows him and attaches himself to him, the dog may have
simply recognized a former master.8 No doubt the above is
the reason Mohammed declared that some animals enter hea-
ven, meaning an after-death existence.
'For Details see Why Are We Here? Curtlss.
'For details as to the fate of the suicide see Realms of the Living
Dead Curtiss, 151-2.
$ See Letters from the Teacher, I, Curtlss, 151.
'Realms of the Living Dead Curtlss, 91-85.
'The Bhagavad Gita, Chapter iv.
'For details see The Phil sophy of War. Curtiss, chapter vu.
'For details see Letters from the Teacher, I, Curtiss, 223-226. Mso
Realms of the Living Dea4, Curtlss, 45.
'When Your Animal Pies, BarbaneU.
[36]
PART III
IN THE NEW TESTAMENT. OBJECTIONS
ANSWERED
"'The first centuries of Christianity found reincarnation still the
prevailing creed, as In all previous ages. . . . It enlarges Christian-
ity to grander capacity than it has hitherto known, and so furnishes
at once an inspiring religion for the loftiest spiritual aspiration, a
most satisfactory philosophy for the Intellect, and the strongest
basis for practical nobility of conduct."
Reincarnation, Walker, 225, 318.
9 flEUTH IS A MANY-SIDED jw which can be possessed only
]L
through understanding. In every age certain rays of uni-
versal truth are flashed to the world, but colored by the
current stage of civilization and interpreted according to the
popular race-thought of the times. To grasp a truth itself you
must rise above racial and sectarian concepts and prejudices
and get the cosmic concept of the ray of truth under consider-
ation. Then you will see that it is only a colored aspect of the
truth itself, just as the colors of the spectrum are not light it-
self, only colored aspects of the one white light The Bible is
the ray of spiritual light for the western world. To understand
it properly you must rise above sectarian interpretations and
get the cosmic concept of its presentation of truth.
A CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
One objection which some narrow-minded people make
to reincarnation, which prevents them from even studying it,
is that it is not sanctioned by the Church and is therefore not
-aChristiandoctrine. This,ofcourse,isnottrue,andsucha
statement only reveals the speaker's ignorance of Church his-
tory. In reality, reincarnation is the philosophical salvation of
[37]
REINCARNATION
Christianity. Without it the scheme of universal salvation
fails, for Cod has had the vast majority of mankind incarnate
in races which never heard of Jesus or the Christian doctrines.
Hence, according to certain sects, they are thereby condemned
to hell-fire.1 Even in so-called Christian countries, few really
live up to the Christian teachings, so only those few are
theoretically saved." But with Reincarnation, no matter how
great the failures or how great the evil generated in one life,
none are condemned to "everlasting punishment," but will have
many more chances to redeem their mistakes and continue
their advance.
CHURCH FATHERS
To say that reincarnation is not a Christian doctrine is to
ignore the teachings of the most distinguished authorities of
the early Church Fathers. For more than three hundred years
after Jesus' specific teaching on the subject it was distinctly
preached as the only means of reconciling the existence of
suffering and inherited deformities and diseases with a just
and merciful Cod.
Justin Martyr (100-167 A. D.), the greatest authority on
Church history up to the middle of the second century, express-
ly speaks of the Sours inhabiting more than one human body.
St. Clement, Bishop of Alexandria (150-215 A. D.), who
brought the culture and philosophy of the Creeks to the
Christian Church and who was the teacher of Origen, also held
and taught this doctrine. St. Gregory of Nyssa (329-389) said:
"It is absolutely necessary that the Soul should be healed and
purified, and If this does not take place during its life on
Earth, it must be accomplished in future lives." St. Jerome
(340-421) A. D.), in his Epistle to Avitus, held the doctrine was
taught as a mystery in the early Church. Arnobius Rufinus
(345-410 A. D.) in his letter to Anastasius says: 'We die many
times," and that this doctrine was common anlOng the early
(381
OBjEcrioNs ANSWERED
Church Fathers. St Augustine (354-430 A. D.), Bishop of
Hippo, in his great Opera I, 294 also held the doctrine, and
in his Confessions, i, 8, asks: "Did I not live in another body,
or somewhere else, before entering my mother's womb?'
ORIGEN ADAMANTWE
And Origen (185-254 A. D.), who is called, '7he most dis-
tinguished and most influential of all the theologians of the
ancient church. . . the father of the Church's science . . . the
founder of the Church's theology . . . finding an intellectual
expression and philosophical basis for Christiam....besides
whose essays later teachings are like school boys' essays," held
firmly to reincarnation. In Dc Principls he iays that in the
body each Soul enjoys that lot which is most exactly suited to
his previous habits. In Contra Celsum he asks: "Is it not more
in conformity with reason that every Soul. . . is introduced
into a body.. . according to its deserts and former actions?"
In this way alone he thought the justice of Cod could be de-
fended.
It has been said that his opinions were condemned by the
Church, but such condemnation was made by the Patriarch of
Constantinopleinstigated by Emporer Justinlusat a local
synod in 543 A. D. and not by the Fifth Ceneral Council in
553 A. D., at which time the question was not even raised. So
the doctrine has never been officially anathematized or declar-
ed heretical by the Christian Church, in spite of the fact that
"Emperor Justinius condemned Origen by an imperial edict
which later was confirmed by Pope Vigilius."
IN THE NEW TESTAMENT
The reason for belief in reincarnation by the Church Fa-
thers is found in the Bible itself; for to say that it is not taught
in the New Testament Is to ignore what Jesus specifically
stated, as well as several other passages where it is either re-
[39]
REINCARNATION
ferred to or implied. The passages which are most convincing
and which forestall all argument are Jesus' own direct and
specific statements that John the Baptist was the reincarnation
of Elias.
WHO WAS JOHN THE BAPTIST?
In Matthew, xvii, 10-13, we read: "Elias truly shall first
come and restore all things ("fulfill the ancient teachings,"
Larnsa). But Isay unto you, That Elias Is come already, and
they knew him not.. . . then the disciples understood that he
spake unto them of John the Baptist." We find the same state-
ment in chapter xi, 14. Referring to John the Baptist, Jesus
said: "And if ye will receive it, this is ERas which was for to
come." As John's teachings spread it was generally recog-
nized, "That it is Elias. And others said, That it is a prophet"
(reincarnated). Mark vi, 15.
Some writers try to get around these specific statements
by saying that John fulfilled the prophecy quoted in Luke, I,
17, by coming "in the spirit and power of Elias," only. Of
course John had the spirit and power of Elias because he
brought over all his previous attainments and powers as innate
qualities with which he was born, as we have already ex-
plained. Others say that John could not have been Elias be-
cause when he appeared with Moses at the Transfiguration
(Matth. xvii, 3) he appeared as Elias and not as John. This is
easily explained by the fact that after death you usually prefer
to assume the likeness of the greatest personality you have
manifested in your major incarnations, as the personality and
station in life assumed during the minor incarnations is rela-
tively insignificant.
Since we have estimated that you bring back at least half
the characteristics of your previous personality, we would
naturally expect this rule to apply to Elias, and so we find it.
"He was a hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about
(40]
OBJECTIONS ANSWERED
his loins." (II Kings, 1,8). And he resided largely in the wild-
erness. Likewise, "Came John the Baptist, preaching in the
wilderness. . . And the same John had his raiment of earners
hair, and a leather girdle about his loins." (Maith. iii, 1-4).
"And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias"
(Luke, i, 17). Why "in the spirit and power of Ella? rather
than any other prophet If lie were not Elias? Thus 1000 years
after Elias, John the Baptist came with the same type of person-
ality and with the same habits that he had as Elias, and pro-
phesying the coming of the Lord just as did Elias (Malachi lv,
5; Luke iii, 4). The fact that John denied that he was Elias
(John 1,21) merely proves that we do not remember our past
incarnations.
REINCARNATION WELL KNOWN
The doctrine was so well known that when Herod heard
of Jesus' fame as a preacher he naturally concluded that "This
is John the Baptist (whom Herod had already beheaded);
he is risen from the dead." Likewise reincarnation was so
well known to the disciples that when Jesus asked them:
"Who do men say that I the Son of Man am?" they all began
to guess who He might have been in a previous incarnation.
"Some say thou art John the Baptist; some Elias; and others
Jeremias, or one of the prophets." (Matth. xvi, 13-14).
Familiarity with reincarnation by the disciples is again
clearly shown when they asked Jesus about the man who was
born blind. "Master, who did this sin, this man, or his parents,
that he was born blindr (John lx, 2). It is reasonable to im-
agine that the parents may have committed some sin because
of which the son was born blind, but how could the man him-
self have sinned before he was born? Could he have sinned
in heaven before his birth? Obviously not. Therefore the fin-
plication is plain that he must have sinned in a previous life
to be born blind in this life.
f 41]
REINCARNATION
JONAH AS PETER
Jesus called Peter "Simon Bar-jona" (Matth. xvi, -17), mean-
ing "son of Jonah," although Peter was not a lineal descendant
of Jonah. This plainly referred to a previous incarnation as
Jonah. This is confirmed by the marked similarity in character
and habits of the two personalities. For Peter was the same
type of obstinate, combative, self-assertive and impulsive char-
acter as Jonah. Peter was so impulsive that he cut off the right
ear of the high priest's servant. Also he was so impressed by
the materialization of Moses and Elias to Jesus on the mount
of transfiguration that immediately he wanted to establish
three tabernacles in commemoration of so remarkable an
event. When he was accused of being a follower of Jesus, he
was afraid and denied Jesus thrice and then fled and wept
bitterly. Likewise Jonah was afraid and fled when ordered
to go to Ninevah.
When Jesus told Nicodemus: "Except a man be born again
he cannot see the kingdom of Cod," Nicodemus showed both
his lack of knowledge of reincarnation and also of Jesus' spir-
itual meaning (John, iii, 3). But this lack of understanding of
the meaning of "born again" (yalad) was only natural as he
spoke only the Chaldean Arainaic, like all the Jews of Judea,
while Jesus spoke the Galilean Aramaic. Jesus was so aston-
ished at Nicodemus' lack of knowledge of both reincarnation
and spiritual birth that He exclaimed: "Art thou a master
(teacher) of Israel, and knowest not these thingsr (Jchn, iii,
10).
QUEEN OF SHEBA
In Matthew xii, 41-2 we have two verses which have no
relevant meaning except in the light of reincarnation. "The
men of Nineveh shall rise up in judgment with this generation,
and shall condemn it: because they repented at the preaching
of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here." How could
(42]
OBJECrIONS ANSWERED
the men of Nmeveh rise and condemn that generation unless
they were again in incarnation, as was also Jonas as Peter?
Also, "The Queen of the South (Sheba) shall rise up in judg-
ment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for she came
from the utttermost parts of the earth (Ethiopia) to hear the
wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is
here." To thus condemn that generation the Queen of Sheba
must also have been in incarnation like the men of Nineveh,
and condemned it for the same reason.
Again, we find Jesus saying that those who have attained
full Mastery, which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that
world, and the resurrection from the dead (or from the neces-
sity of reincarnating) . . . Neither can they die any more: for
they are equal to the angels; and are the children of Cod, be-
ing the children of the resurrection." (Luke xx, SS-6).
In Acts xv, 16, we are told that Jesus would return and re-
build His tabernacle or the "throne of David," on the former
ruins, as promised to Mary at the time of her conception. To
confirm this we are told: 'Bethlehem.. . out of thee shall he
come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel: whose goings
forth (incarnations) have been from old, from everlasting."
(Mlcah, v, 2,3.)
In ReveLritlon, lii, 12, we are told: "Him that overcometh
(or has finished his incarnations) I will make a pillar in the
temple of my Cod, and he shall go no more out." That is, will
no longer need to descend or "go out" into incarnation again.
Another passage that is frequently overlooked in this con-
nection is found in St. John, viii, 53-54. Therein Jesus plainly
states that He was in incarnation during the days of Abraham
and saw him personally. When the Jews asked Him: "Whom
makest thou thyself?" Jesus replie,cJ: "Your father Abraham
rejoiced to see my day: and he say it, and was glad." Then
said the Jews, "Thou art not yet fifty years old, and thou hast
(43]
REINCARNATION
seen Abraham?" Jesus said unto them, "Verily, verily, I say
unto you, (even) Before Abraham was, I am."
Thus we see that reincarnation is not only taught specifi-
cally by Jesus Himself, but is in the background and is assuni-
ed in all His general teachings.
OBJECTIONS ANSWERED
1. "Why cannot I remember?"
Probably the objection most often raised to reincarnation
is the fact that you do not remember your past lives.2 Since
progress depends upon your forgetting the details of your
earlier steps, your progress here would be tremendously han-
dicapped if you remembered all the events of your past lives.
In fact, it is providential that your memory of past enmities,
hatreds, prejudices and injustices is forgotten, so that when
you associate with those with whom they were formed you
can start afresh and give them and yourself a chance to adjust
the inharmony without your opposition. Also, since if the re-
calling of past mistakes and faults in this life makes you sad
and remorseful, remembering those of past lives would be
overwhelmingly discouraging.
The reason you do not remember past lives is that your
parents have furnished you with a brand new brain, and
naturally it records only that to which it responds In this life.
And since you did not have this brain in a past life you cannot
expect it to record the vibrations of a past life which it never
experienced.
For students to find out who they were often so diverts
their attention from their present-day duties that their present
incarnation is greatly hampered. Do not look to the past for
guidance, but to the Christ-within who knows all and there-
fore what is best for you. No matter what you have been in
the past you are now the embodiment of all you have been.
You are here to live this life and learn its lessons here and now.
[441
OBJECTIONS ANSWEBED
So do not waste time dreaming about what you might have
been, but live in the ever-present now. It is not what you have
been but what you are now that counts. What use you make
of your opportunities in this life will determine what you will
be, and also your conditions, in your next incarnation. Your
future life will be what you make it now.
Only when you advance to a point where, through spiritual
growth, you can respond to spiritual forces, can you tap your
Soul-memory, wherein the experiences of all lives are recorded,
and remember your past lives. Sometimes in an emergency a
flash or picture of some particular incident in the past is given
you in a dream, vision or intuition to warn, encourage or other-
wise help you to conquer a test in which you failed in a pre-
vious life.'
"Does not heredity account for all?"
Not so, for heredity transmits bodily characteristics only.
If mental characteristics seem to be transmitted it is only be-
cause all the children are necessarily furnished brains having
the same family heredity which naturally modifies the expres-
sion of the mind manifesting through them. Heredity does
not accunt for many things, such as the great divergencies
from th family type, or for the different color of hair or eyes
among children of the same parents. Nor does it account
for the possession of unusual talents or genius where there is
no trace of them in the family tree. If heredity were the dom-
inating factor the Dione quintuplets would be as alike as peas
in a pod, as they were born of the same parents, at the same
time and in the same environment. While breeding is trans-
mitted by heredity, genius is not
"Does not determinism or the influence of environment
account for all?"
Environment has an influence but it is a minor one. If it
were the dominant factor it could not be transcended. Great
[45]
REINCARNATION
men and many others often succeed by transcending all the
limitations and influences of determinism in their environ-
ments. Hence, if environment can be so easily transcended it
is only a secondary influence. Lincoln, Franklin, Carnegie,
Schwab, Knudsen, Edison and Ford had no formal education
yet they each transcended that limitation and have made in-
delible marks in the world.
"I don't want to be someone else."
You always remain yourself, even though dressed in a new
suit or body which makes you appear different, although you
still look so much as you did in the last life that anyone
would recognize you from a picture of you in the last life.
"Would it not separate families and loved ones?"
It would not, for families and loved ones tend to incarnate
together. Loved ones are brought together sooner or later,
often from the ends of the earth. Groups, nations and races
also incarnate together because of the ties set up together.
"Isn't it unjust to be punished for something you know
nothing about?"
You are not. Even in this life you often suffer later in life
for faults, sins and mistakes made in youth which you had en-
tirely forgotten and hence know nothing about until they are
recalled to your mind. In either case you are not punished.
You are only reaping the results of your own causing. You are
not punished for your sins, but by their results.
"Might I not come back as an animal?"
No. That is not the doctrine of reincarnation. That is the
erroneous and misguided doctrine of transmigration. It is not
possible, because no body below the human shape has the
centers and organs that can accommodate a human SouL
"Isn't it a cold and irreligious doctrine?"
It is not a man-made doctrine but a cosmic law. It is
taught by nearly all the great religions.
(46]
ODJECrIONS ANSWERED
"Doesn't it do away with the forgiveness of sins?'
Your sins may be forgiven but you must still reap the outer
results of your own creations unless their Karma is neutralized
by an cxcess of spiritual attainment or by the GrAce of God.
1)oesn't it do away with 'the atoning blood of the
Christ?'
It does not; for the 'blood" or the spiritual life-force of the
Christ is still the power which must be used to redeem your
mistakes and set you free.
'Isn't it anti-Christian?'
Not so. Jesus and the early church taught it specifically, as
we have already explained.
"Wouldn't it take too long to master all Earth conditions?'
You have all the time there is, eternity. There is neither any
compulsion nor any hurry. You take your own time and can
remain out of incarnation as long as you wish.
'The Earth is not the only plane on which you can pro-
gress. You can advance in the astral world after death
here."
You do progress there, but you have to come back and
prove that progress by demonstrating it in the flesh, the most
hampering and hardest condition to mnffest in. The Earth is
the plane of testing and demonstration. All must be expressed
in matter to complete the cycle The astral is the "Hall of
Learning," the physical the "Hall of Redemption and Demon-
stration.'
"You can progress on other planets so why do you needto
come back to Earth?'
So you can, but you have to come back and demonstrate
your advance here In matter until you have attained full
Mastery here. Your Soul-home may be on another planet
but you must demonstrate your degrees of unfoldment here.
Those from the Sun are teachers, usually spiritual teachers.
[471
REINCARNATION
Those from Jupiter have the judicial temperament, judges,
etc. Those from Mars are not only warriors but executives,
those who get things done. Those from Venus excel in the
mothering quality. Those from Mercury are scientists or high
intellectuals, etc., but all have to demonstrate their talents
here in matter.
"A child in the eighth grade doesn't need to come back
and start in all over again, forgetting all advance and re
peating old lessons."
You do not have to repeat old lessons unless they were not
fully learned. If their qualities were built into your character
they will appear in the new personality as inherent faculties.
You start in right where you left off.
"Spirit Guides say they know nothing of reincarnation."
Since you associate with people of like interests and ad-
vancement after death, just as you do here, if none of your
friends or those who are guides now were interested in rein-
carnation while here, it is not likely they would be interested
afterward unless they made a special study of it after passing
over. We have induced many guides to look into it and they
have all been thoroughly convinced after contacting the higher
teachers over there, and have taught it at their seances ever
since.
"If I am tired of earth conditions do I have to come back?"
You do not have to until you wish to. You can remain out
as long as you wish. (Remember the Atlantean teacher who
had been out for 20,000 years!) When you have learned all the
lessons life here can teach, and have demonstrated all your
spiritual qualities you need not return.
"If rebirth perfects the Soul, why Is humanity still so im-
perfect, and where are the perfected ones?"
For the masses the process is a slow one, like evolution,
because they make no definite efforts to conquer and progress.
[481
OaperIoNs ANSWERED
The advanced Souls who have completed their experiences and
work on Earth still carry on in the higher realms, as they have
no need to remain here unless they come back to help the less
advanced. They are the great spiritual leaders.
With regeneration, translation and the ascension, is re-
birth necessary?'
Regeneration and the ascension come not by 'decrees," but
only through the mastery of all earth conditions and the trans-
mutation and spiritualization of the flesh through the radia-
tions of the indwelling Christ-power. If this is really your last
incarnation and you are taking the last steps necessary for the
ascension you will be so spiritually advanced that you will lead
such a beautiful life that you will be known as a saint practi-
cally from childhood. If you have not led such a life natural-
ly and instinctively then this is not your last life here and you
are therefore not ready to make the ascension.
"So many claim to have been kings and queens or of
exalted rank or position."
If they were, then the qualities which made them great In
the past will show in their character now. Many in the past
so identified their interest and admiration with a great char-
acter that they brought over an intense admiration which is
aroused by a picture or any reference to the great personage.
According to the Cl2imS made, many were the Virgin Mary,
Julius Caesar, Napoleon, etc., but unless they can demon-
strate the qualities of the great ones they claim to have been
they are mistaken.
21: "Is there any scientiflc factual proof?'
There are now a great number of physical proofs, cases in
which the reincarnation has been proved and legally acbsowi-
edged as we will record herein.
It should be remembered that science is not Infallible, but
varies Its teachings from age to agc. It once taught that the
[49]
REINCARNATION
Earth was fiat; that the sun revolved around it; that there could
be no light without heat; that atoms were composed of mat-
ter, etc., all of which have subsequently been proved to be
erroneous.
GROWTH DEMANDS EXPANSION
Since you grow through experienceswhich bring happi-
ness or sufferingand through the expression of the wisdom
learned, the continual expansion of your unfolding powers re-
quires a constant development of the body through which they
are expressed. But the limits of growth in one personality are
soon reached, and your further progress would be limited if
you were confined to one body.
DEATH A RELEASE
Death is, therefore, a welcome release from a worn-out
and out-grown body. It enables you to continue the unfold-
ment and expression of your Spiritual Self by reincarnating
in a new and more nearly perfect body which will better ex-
press your continued expansion of consciousness.
THE RHYTHM OF LIFE
Death thus acquires a new and deeper significance when
we regard it no longer as the end of your only life on Earth,
but as part of the continually recurring rhythm of eternal
progress, as inevitable, as natural and as benevolent as when
we die to earth consciousness during sleep. Death leaves
youth behind as sunset leaves the dawn. But both will return
in their due cycle to give you a new day in which to continue
your progress.
See "The Doctrine of Hell Fire," The Voice of isis, Curtiss.
'For details see "Memory of Past Lives" In Letters from the Teacher,
Qutiss, ii, 269.
[50]
PART IV
SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE AND PHYSICAL PROOFS
"Creat hypotheses have always preceded demonstrations and
verifications. . . There exists an hypothesis which Is In accord
with all the Ideas of modern science, and which explains all the
obscure phenomena of normal, abnormal, supra-normal and even
pathological psychology. This same hypothesis overthrows, decides,
difficulties of the moral and even of the metaphysical order, which,
since the beginning of the human race, have paraded themselves
before the consdence and intelligence."
Reincarnation, Celey, 51,42.
ÇcE
ThE SOUL-MEMORY of past lives is impressed upon
the subconscious mind in this life during the first 21 to
48 months, many children have distinct memories of the
past. And since their minds are not crowded with memories
of this life, the memories of the past are just as vivid as any-
thing in this life. Hence children should not be laughed at or
be accused of "wild imagination" or of telling fibs or be made
to suppress them when relating such memories. Later in life
the mind becomes so filled with reactions to present-day con-
ditions that the memories of the past become overlaid and
buried in the deeper layers of the subconscious. The ancient
Egyptians knew enough to pay attention to such memory-re-
coveries of children. They analyzed them, allowed for the
exaggeration of imagination and often thus learned truths
that guided them in the education and up-bringing of the
child.
CHILDREN'S SAYINGS
One little girl of five, astonished her mother by sudden-
ly remarking: "Mummy, isn't it funny that you didn't know
me when I was a grown up young lady? You never were my
[513
REINCARNATION
mother before." Another child said: "1 grew up old in heaven
before I was born." After being rebuked for a fault another
child explained: "You stop! You never dared talk like that to
me when I was grown up!" Every little while another child
would cry: "I want my two babies." When quizzed about
them she said: "I had two babies just alike and Cod took them
away. But He said I could have them when I was grown up
again." Attempts to satisfy her with twin dolls were in vain.
She insisted: "No, I want my really, truly live babies."
A student recently wrote us: "Beginning at the age of four,
and on through my childhood, hearing music invariably made
me see the same picture: A very large gray stone house (about
the size of the White House) set far back from the road in a
beautiful park of huge trees. The house could be plainly
seen because the trees were very tall and with no low branch-
es. As far as I could see the ground was level and covered
with thick, closely cut grass. I did not think much about the
house at the time, but as I look back on the picture the build-
ing was a large mansion of classical simplicity, with no portico
and the wide doorway was only one step above the ground.
I did not enter the house, but I could see it plainly in the dis-
tance through the enormous trees and I can see it just as
plainly today.
"To the right of the walk, which led straight to the front
door, and in the midst of a circle of trees, a band played stir-
ring music. The musicians were seated, excepting the leader,
and all wore scarlet uniforms with gold braid. There were
quite a number of 'grown-ups' walking around, some stand-
ing or sitting in groups, but I was the only child present. I
can still see my little sheer white dress and light blue sash;
my golden curls (and I really had them 'when I was a baby!)
were tied with a light blue ribbon to match my sash. White
socks and tiny black slippers completed my toilet.
[52]
EvmTcE Aw PHYSICAL PnooFs
UI can remember so well wondering why every body there
made so much over me. I have no memory of knowing anyone
there personally, yet I was not afraid of anyone. Even the
musicians and the band leader seemed to try to pay me some
special attention. Though I did not understand it and wonder-
ed what it was all about, I accepted their admiration gravely
and was more dignified at the age of four than I am at sixty-
one! And my dignity was not confined to this 'dream,' as it
was called, for I was in real life a very quiet and thoughtful
little child.
«1 did not think much about this dream or vision, until I
heard music and then the picture was so startlingly clear and
vivid that I would cry out to my parents: '0 tell me where is
the big gray stone house and who are the men that play music
under the trees?" My parents tried their best to think of any
place we had been that was like the picture I described, but
all they could say was that it must have been a dream.
"To call it only a dream bothered me greatly. I would ex-
claim: But I know I was there!' And I always wanted to find
the beautiful green park, the stone house and the wonderful
old trees. As I grew older and heard music more frequently, I
could hear it without thinking of the dream. Never-the-less,
there was quite a thrill in store for me the first time I heard
that lovely song from 'The Bohemian Girl'.
'I dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls
With vassals and serfs at my side
And of all that dwelt within those walls,
I was their joy and pride.'
«1 can't describe how that affected me . . . it brought back
the dream so vividly and by changing a few words it seemed to
be my very own song:
(33]
REINCARNATION
'I dreamt I dwelt In gray stone halls
With many kinds Mends at my side
And of all that dwelt within those walls,
That I was their joy and pride.'
"As I grew older and became much interested in history,
archeology and genealogical research, I have so often felt
myself being strongly drawn back to the past and have so fre-
quently felt that I do not belong to this age at all. Though
interested in Egypt and the Holy Land, some strong invisible
tie seems to bind me to England and Ireland. Though I do
not know that I had any Irish ancestors, yet ancient Ireland, as
well as my beloved 'Mother Country,' England, keeps pulling
me back."
SPEAKING FRENCH ONLY
A mother recently told us: "Our third child, Carol, was
different in all her reactions from the first two children. She
refused to attempt to speak English and formulated a com-
plete language of her own. I took her to several psychiatrists
in the hope that I would discover what caused her speech aver-
sion. They found her to be perfectly normal mentally, but
could give no reason for her refusal to attempt to speak
English.
"This attitude continued until she was four years of age.
Several months before her birthday I said: 'Carol, let's go for
a walk. Co upstairs and get your hat.' She looked at me
blithely for awhile and trilled: 'Mais oui, Maman, ou est mon
chapeaur As our only household help had consisted of a good
old Virginia mammy, and my journey into French had begun
and ended in high school, I was completely taken by surprise.
I followed a strong hunch and took Carol to a private kinder-
garten run by a delightful French woman. Carol joined in the
singing of French songs and after a month of joy in an atmos-
phere peculiarly her own, began to speak English volubly.
(543
EvmEicE n PHTSICAL PROOFS
She is now twelve years of age and continues to reach back to
another life and time, with constant references to the beauty
of France and her love for Paris. She said to me the other
day: 1(ou must really go to Paris with me, Monle It is beauti-
fuL Of course, England is lovely too, but I always liked France
much more than England"'
NO EXPLANATION
Merely to say that such spontaneous and detailed memor-
ies of places and languages "came from the subconscious
mind," when there had been no experience in this life even re-
motely to suggest them, is to explain nothing unless it can
also be shown how such detailed and circumstantial Ideas got
into the subconscious mind. Their presence in the subcon-
scious cannot be accounted for except as memories of past
lives transferred there during the first two years of life, as al-
ready described in Part II of this series.
PHYSICAL PROOFS
While such memories of children are significant and of pre-
sumptive evidence, they are not conclusive proof until scien-
tifically corroborated and verified. Fortunately there are a
number of such cases which have been scientifically verified
and acknowledged and substantiated by evidence produced
in court.
Perhaps the most remarkable and thoroughly proved case,
which cannot be explained away by imagination, dreaming or
telepathy, is that of the 9 year old Hindu girl Shaeti Kumarl,
sometimes called Shanti Devi, living in the Cheera Khana
quarter of Delhi, India. From earliest childhood she insisted
that the house was not her home, nor was Delhi her home
town. Later she added detail after detail about her former
life. She said she was the wife of a cloth merchant by the
name of Pandit ICadar Nath Chanbey living at a given address
In the village of Muttra, by whom she had had two children.
(551
REINCARNATION
Her grand uncle, Mr. Bishan Chand, wrote to Pt. Chanbey at
the address given and all were astonished to receive a reply
from him corroborating the details given in the letter. Later
his elder brother visited her at Delhi, was immediately recog-
nized by her as her Jcth or elder brother-in-law, and she cor-
rectly answered all his questions.
Still later Kedar Nath and his son (now 10 years old)
themselves visited her and both were recognized with tears
of joy, and she was able to answer the most intimate questions
as to the details of their family life so correctly that Kedar
Nath said he felt that he was indeed talking to his former wife.
She gave detailed descriptions of the clothes and ornaments
she had worn, together with a correct description of the closets
in which they were kept, and using the idioms of the Muttra
dialect which were unknown in Delhi.
IDENTIFIES HOME AND FRIENDS
Later on Shanti Kumari was taken to Muttra where she
directed the driver of the tonga to the street she had named.
There she jumped out and ran up to the correct house.
She identified various members of the family and friends
out of a group of more than fifty persons. The aged Brabman
whom she greeted as "father-in-law" was indeed the father of
Pt. Chanbey whom she recognized as her former husband. She
pointed out where there should be a well. Some coverings
were removed and the well was found. Shanti Kumari had
promised the Dwarkadhish Temple 100 rupees which she had
accumulated and hidden under the floor boards in a certain
room of her former home. Upon removing the boards, to the
astonishment of all, the money was found.
The facts of this test are vouched for both by her former
husband, mother, son, father-in-law, and also by the distin-
guished independent investigator, Lal Desh Bandhu Gupta,
managing director of the leading newspaper of Delhi, The
[56]
Evm AND PUTSICAL PROOFS
Daily Tej, Pandit Neki Rain Shanna, the leader of the National
Congress Party, and Prof. Indra Sen, the distinguished psychist
of Delhi University, who represented the All-India Psychists'
Association. This case was also reported by James A. Miller,
foreign correspondent for The Associated Press, adding that
Mahatina Gandi had invited Kumari Shanti Devi to his sem-
inary at Wardha. Since there can be no doubt about the facts,
this case must be regarded as a physical proof of reincarnation.
MONSUR ATRASH
Another physical proof of reincarnation is the case of
Monsur Atrash of the Jebel Druz in Syria. Some time after he
married the beautiful girl Ummrumman, he was killed in a
raid. At the hour of his deathafterward verifieda boy
named Najib Abu Faray was born in the mountains of Le-
banon, hundreds of miles away. Reaching the age of 20
without having left his native mountains, by accident he was
taken to the mountain home of Monsur Atrash. As soon as be
reached the mountain he exclaimed: "I must be in a dream!
I have seen all these places before; they are more familiar than
my native mountains."
When he came to the village where Monsur Atrash had
lived he said: "This is my village, and my home is up a certain
street on a certain corner." He walked through the queer
twisting streets, straight to the house of Monsur Atrash, went
to a walled-up window, had the bricks torn out and found
a bag of money he remembered having put there before he
went on the raid in which Monsur Atrash was killed.
Later he was taken to some vineyards of the Atrash family
about which there were disputed boundaries. He pointed
out the boundaries he had laid down as Monsur Atrash, and
a court of law accepted them as correct. He had now given so
many proofs of his identity that he was recognized by the
children of Monsur Mi-ash as their father, and he received ten
[57]
REINCARNATION
camel-loads of grain as a present from the Atrash family.
Where a court of the land, after full investigation, officially
recognizes the reincarnation of the same person, no further
proof is necessary.
ALEXANDRINE SAMONA
On March 15th, 1910, Alexandrine Samona died at the age
of 5. Three nights later her mother dreamed of her saying:
"Mamma, do not cry any more. . . I shall return as small as
that," showing a little embryo. Three nights later the dream
was repeated. A few days later while the parents were hold-
ing some typtological mediumistic sittings, Mexandrine com-
municated the statement that she would be reborn through
her mother "before Christmas." She also said that her father's
sister, Jeanne, who died at the age of 15, would incarnate
with her, but if the mother did not cease grieving she would
give them greatly depleted bodies. This shows the powerful
effect the mother's emotions can have on the children she is
carrying. Jeanne also stated that Alexandrine would be reborn
"at least a little more beautifuL"
On November 23rd the mother gave birth to twin girls.
The two differed perceptibly in height, complexion and figure.
The smaller was a faithful copy of Alexandrine at the time
she was first born; and extraordinarily, she had hyperemia in
her left eye, a slight running in the right ear, and a slight
irregularity of the face all quite Identical with that which
Alexandrine had at the time of her first birth.
PRINCESS LEI KAHANNI
As a child, Princess Lei Kahanni of Hawaii insisted that
she had been the mother of a beautiful baby boy and had
lived on a large estate near a lake and a marsh. She also
described the various rooms of the mansion and their fur-
nishings. She was so insistent that her parents jokingly began
to look for such a place. After some time a place was found
(58]
EvmacE AND PHYSICAL PROOFS
about which there was a tale of a beautiful lady and her baby
who had mysteriously disappeared years ago. It was haunted
by a woman's screams and the wail of a baby.
When the Princess was brought to the spot she recognized
it as her former home. This caused much excitement, as none
of the family had ever been in that part of the country. The
little girl led them to a room in which there was a picture of
a baby, and said: "That is my baby. I was married to onç of
two brothers, but was told that I would never live to enjoy
my married bliss. When my husband went away on long
trips his brother made love to me, but I repulsed him....
One moonlight night I was out near the lake with the baby
when he came after me, seemingly intoxicated. My resistance
drove him into frenzy. He grabbed my baby and strangled It
and threw it into the lake. . . then choked me to death and
threw my body into the quicksand by the lake." Later the
details of this child's weird story were corroborated by the
history of the place. Another physical proof of reincarnation.
MME. LOURE RAYNAUD
At the beginning of the last century Mme. Loure Baynaud
remembered, from childhood, that she had lived before and
gave detailed descriptions of her former home and the condi-
tions of her death. She said she was not buried in the local
cemetery, but in a church some distance away. Forty-five
years later, on her first visit to Genoa, she located her former
home and research proved that a young lady of her descrip-
tion had died in that house and had been buried in the
church Mine. Raynaud had described.
ANNA KONNERSREUTH
The case of Anna Konnersreuth, the young Austrian peas-
ant girl, is also a most remarkable one. At certain feast days
of the church she would show the stigmata of the wounds of
Jesus when on the cross, and they would bleed freely on each
[59]
REINCARNATION
occasion. On these occasions she would also speak the Call-
lean dialect of the Aramaic language which Jesus spoke. She
would also describe various incidents of Jesus' life, which
were filled with eye-witness details. As she was an uneducated
peasant girl, naturally she had never heard a word of Aramaic,
still less the peculiar Calilean dialect, nor was she under
psychic control of some disembodied Calilean. So it is evident
that her descriptions and use of the language were memories
brought over from a Calilean incarnation.
Reincarnation is therefore sustained not only by tradition,
reason, logic and the testimony of the greatest minds through-
out the ages, but is definitely proved by those who have amply
substantiated their claims.
PLAN YOUR FUTURE LIFE
A practical understanding of the Law of Rebirth, and of the
interval between incarnations while in the higher realms,1 is
most advantageous for planning your life here and hereafter,
as well as cultivating happiness, developing love and brother-
hood, and protecting yourself from misery and suffering here
and now. Ignorance of this law is one of the prime factors in
the growth of atheism, crime, racketeering and totalitarian
despotisms. Such ignorance also contributes to self-indul-
gence, lack of discrimination and callousness to the suffering
and fate of others. Thus the world is sinking deeper into the
unhappiness and miseries brought about by materialism and
the ignoring of spiritual values.
How different the life based on the Law of Rebirth! Then
the whole outlook is optimistic and encouraging. Life opens
out as a beneficent path of eternal progress onward and up-
ward. Even though the forces of evil are great and multiply
themselves tremendously through ignorance of this basic law
of life and progress, nevertheless there can be no doubt that
the fundamental powers of the universe are infinitely good.
(601
Evinai AND PHYSICAL PROOFS
And although humanity is now passing through the darkest
hour before the New Day of light, love and brotherhood, the
supre,nacy of good will uliimately ocercosne the evil, for good
Is positive and Immortal while evil is negative and transitory.
The darkness of the night is chill and depressing, but it is sure
to be dispelled by the light and warmth of the rising Sun.
And an understanding of the Law of Rebirth assures us that
the New Day will dawn.
Belief in reincarnation is not essential to your spiritual
growth nor to your salvation' after death. So, if it does not
appeal to your reason and common sense as the only explana-
tion that covers all the otherwise inexplicable events of life,
and if it does not appeal to your heart as the only solution of
the many seeming injustices of life, then just put it aside and
do not give it a second thought. You will come back lust the
same whether you believe in it or not.
ITS MOTIVE POWER GREAT
As a Scotch professor has said: 'The ethical leverage of
the doctrine is immense. Its motive power is greaL It reveals a
magnificent background to the present life, with its contra-
dictions and disasters, as the prospect of immortality opens
up an illimitable foreground. It binds together the past and
the future in one ethical serits of causes and effects. . . With
peculiar emphasis it proclaims the survival of moral individu-
ality and personal Ideniity along with the final adjustment
of external conditions to the internal state of the Soul" This
explanation of life restores the continuity of the Past, Present
and Future of htlm2n evolution and clearly emphasizes the
vital truth of your own responsibility for your present condi-
tions and also for what they will be in your future incarnations.
A GLORIOUS PROSPECT
The spectacle of the glorious unfoldment of all your god-
like spiritual powers through repeated lives, however dormant
(81]
REINCA1tNATI0N
those powers may be now, presents a vision magnificent and
encouraging beyond description. And It more grandly ap-
proaches the sublime ideal of human perfection than any other
conception of the ultimate mnifestatjon of Cod in man, the
radiant outshining of the Real or Spiritual Self of you through
your purified and perfected personality.
"Bc worthy of death; and so learn to live
That every incarnation of thy Soul
In varied realms, and worlds and planes
Shall be one more step toward thy goal."
'For details see Realms of the Living Dead, Curtiss.
[823
