{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1949__clymer___mastership_the_divine_law.pdf","mytitle":"Mastership The Divine Law","mylang":"de"}
Mastership: The Divine Law © 1949
A full explanation of the Laws governing the inner
development necessary to attain to Philosophic Initiation or
Mastership together with a detailed account of the Priests of
Aith or the Priesthood of Melchizedek.
Rev. R. Swinburne Clymer, M.D.
Director General: Church of Illumination, Supreme Grand
Master of the International Confederation of Initiates, Supreme
Grand Master of the Merged Occult Fraternities
Comprising:
The Priesthood ofAith • The Rosicrucian Order
The Secret Schools • The Hermetic Brotherhood
Illuminatae Americana; ♦ Fraternitas Rosae Crucis
Temple of the Rosy Cross ♦The Order of the Magi
Sons of Isis and Osiris
FOREWORD
Throughout all ofthe vast Arcane, Occult and Esoteric literature
runs the thread or theme of a Secret Doctrine and the Greater
Mysteries. The Bible itself is far from free of this same sugges­
tion. The life and Ministry of the Nazarene is built upon this
idea, and the very basis of his teachings is the secret or Dou­
ble Doctrine; one for the greater mass, the multitude; while the
other is for the few; for those who made themselves the select -
Gods chosen people; the theme, assurance or promise of which
was, and is:
“To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of
Heaven, to others it is not so given.” - Matt. 13:11
When he made this statement as variously recorded by the
disciples, he was speaking only to the few; hence only to the few
is it given to know this secret ofthe kingdom. All the others, the
vast majority, are taught in parables, and herein is the Arcanum
of his teachings and his mission; the Secret or Double Doctrine.
If we believe that religion, or more correctly, the Scriptures
which teach man the Laws and his duties to himself, to God and
to his fellow man, were coexistent with man himself, then we
find in the very beginning ofthe Bible, Genisis 14:18, one ofthe
greatest of all the Mysteries.
The Greater Mysteries and the Secret Doctrine throughout
time were based on this reference to Melchi2edek, High Priest to
God and His “kingdom of righteousness,” an Arcanum wholly
neglected or evaded by orthodoxy, but so vital and so “eternal”
that the centuries have not dimmed its importance, but greatly
and gradually brought it more and more to the fore.
Though this Priesthood of Melchizedek is, insofar as we can
learn from the Biblical text, the only one established according
awakening of the Priesthood of Melchizedek in the teachings of
the true Gnostic fathers and their Gnosis, an Arcanum of the
select few who were willing to so live that they might experience
the awakening o fthe Christos within themselves, those who did so
live, who succeeded in finding the light o fthe Holy Ghost, became
the knowers, hence the Gnostics, the first Christo-ians.
To these the Gnostic Initiates might have said as truthfully
as did the Nazarene to his close associates: “To you, the few
who have listened and obeyed, the Kingdom ofHeaven has been
opened; the others who would not follow the laws can be taught
only in parables and symbolism.”
The Gnostics and their Secret Doctrine and Arcane were com­
pelled to enter into the silence. While they were in process of
doing this, one humbly born took up their banner, and, as a
descendant ofAbraham, like him, became a Priest after the Or­
der of Melchizedek. He taught these Secret Doctrines; the same
Arcamum of Light or the Holy Ghost, and like the Gnostics,
boldly proclaimed that to only the very few was given the secret
of the Kingdom of Heaven.
These few were the Chosen People of God; a peculiar people
indeed, because they, from among the many, were willing to live
the regenerative life and experience the second birth so necessary
if the eyes were to be opened to spiritual things.
Again there is a period of outer silence. During this time were
born the Acarnum Fraternities working in silence for centuries,
but teaching these same Greater Mysteries and Secret Doctrines
to the few ready to accept and obey.
The Mysteries and Secret Doctrines of the Initiates now be­
came the Arcane Science and continued to be taught in their
court of the Fraternitas Rosae Crucis and released by him to his
Initiate members. We are personally responsible for its interpre­
tation and the notes.
In the hope that our efforts will be of help to those seeking the
Light and the goal of man’s existence, we remain,
Sincerely,
R Swinburne Clymer
The See
Beverly Hall
Quakertown, Pennsylvania
March 25, 1949
Within a few years these publications became widely known and
were accepted as authoritative throughout the world; when lo,
organizations sprang up like mushrooms, overnight. Most of
these, without authority or authentic direction, assumed tides
and insignia belonging exclusively to Fraternities able to trace
their lineage to centuries before the Christian era. This in nowise
prevented pseudo-initiates from claiming these names for them­
selves and using them for their own selfish purposes. Among the
names assumed was that of the Magi.
The Apostolic descension of the Priesthood of the Magi, that
of Melchizedek, dates beyond the year 4255 B.C. The Magi
were ages old when the Nazarene was born and it is recorded
that they visited him and acknowledged him as the new inter­
preter of the Law.
In the Priesthood of the Magi, a neophyte was never allowed
to be present, or take part in any Initiatory rites, until he had
attained to what is now known as Philosophic Initiation.
Later, these Mysteries, in one form or another, were taught in
the Secret Schools of Greece, India, Persia, Thrace, Scandinavia,
the Celtic and other nations.
In Egypt, during the years of her glory, no one could be a
Priest, or occupy a State position, unless he was a Philosophic
Initiate. In the Egyptian Mysteries were taught and made mani­
fest, as a result o f the self-effort by the Neophytes, the Unity of
God, the Immortality of the Soul, and the bringing into Con­
scious manifestation of the Flame of the individual Soul. From
the first dawn of spiritual consciousness in man, all who sought
knowledge of the powers and potentialities of the Soul, and the
Light that dwells in the Soul, entered these schools ofthe Sacred
It is well said that: “One mans meat is another mans poison.”
This is equally true of the meat, which, in Biblical sense, is a
spiritual food for man. The method which will transmute one
seeker from a state ofdegradation to the highest spirituality may
arouse unworthy inclinations in another.
These are but a very few of the reasons why a most solemn
obligation is compulsory upon all seeking entrance into the por­
tals of the August Fraternity. He who, in any manner of form,
proves recreant to his sacred vows will bring damnation upon
his Soul itself.
The Priesthood which existed even in the wilderness, in which
Moses was taught and trained, most active in Egypt during her
glory, functioned both before and after the birth of the Naza-
rene. It was the Priesthood ofthe Magi, and ofthe Gnostics - the
Wise Men, or knowers. These men ofMelchizedek are older than
any written record possessed by men. This is clearly indicated
by the writer of Hebrews. Before there were records, these men
of Melchizedek were active. No one ever possessed authority, or
can now possess authority, except those who entered, or now
enter, its portals in a natural and legitimate manner; who took,
or take, the prescribed obligation, and who were, or are, trained
and Ordained by this Fraternity of Initiates.
That the Priesthood of Melchizedek existed long before
the Christian era is clearly indicated in the Biblical narrative.
Chapter Five of Hebrews, tells us:
HEBREWS - Chapter Five Interpreted
1. “For every high priest taken from among men is ordained
for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts
and sacrifices for sins.”
Law, and he must make retributionfor himselfas he teaches oth­
ers to do so. Being a priest does not exempt him from the Law;
on the contrary, his greater knowledge of the Law imposes upon
him the greater responsibility.
4. “And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that
is called of God, as was Aaron.”
Because one selects himselfto become a High Priest, or is called
of God to such office, is no excuse for pride. The higher the
office and the farther one has advanced in the Mysteries of the
Priesthood of Melchizedek, the greater need there is for hum­
bleness and thankfulness, for permission to be a servant in the
services of god. This is made plain in the following verse:
5. “So also Christ glorifies not himself to be made an high
priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, today have
I begotten thee.”
Is the Bible accepted as truth? As the word of God? If so, then
we are here informed in no uncertain terms that after his proba­
tion the Nazarene did become a High Priest after the Order of
Melchizedek.
Concurrently with his reception into this high office, he also
was recognized by God as His Son. Becoming a high priest, i.e.,
one who serves God in the capacity of a leader and a preacher to
those less informed or less advanced than himself.
6. “As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest forever
after the order of Melchizedek.”
It was not man who ordained the Nazarene into the Priesthood
of Melchizedek, but God. Taught in the Divine Law, and hav­
ing attained Soul Consciousness as a result of his own blameless
edge, and attaining Consciousness of his Sonship with the Fa­
ther, he was “called,”i.e., became, a high priest after the Order
of Melchizedek. This is an Arcane Law and so recognized by the
Secret Schools.
11. “O f whom we have many things to say, and hard to be
uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.”
“Ye are dull of hearing.” The profane, those who have not lived
the Life who have refused to obey the Law, and have not attained
to Soul or Christie Consciousness, cannot possibly comprehend
the real meaning of Christie Consciousness.
Naturally, they are “dull ofhearing,” unable to understand, and
cannot know what it actually means to have become, or to have
been Ordained, a High Priest after the Order of Melchizedek.
Nevertheless, if they will obey the law as formulated, they,
also, will ultimately become Illuminated and attain to the same
Consciousness as have these High Priests of Melchizedek.
It is all in the willingness to obey; seeking to come into the
spirit of the Christos and the attainment of Christhood. The
“door” is open for all to accept and enter.
12. “For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have
need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the
oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and
not of strong meat.”
A great, all-embracing Law is here described, he that would be
served mustfirst be wholeheartedly willing to serve, that he may
learn the duties o fa servant.
This is a lesson for all to learn. They who would be teachers
and guides, even Priests of Melchizedek, must first be willing
to humbly kneel at the feet of one who has so served and been
of the Kingdom of Heaven; but to them (the ignorant) it is not
given.” Matt. 13:11.
This further explains the need of obligations or sacred vows. The
weak are not ready for strong meat; to attempt to explain the
Mysteries to them would be as pearls thrown before swine, or
the kingdom of heaven revealed to those unprepared according
to the Laws here taught.
This Mystery ofMelchizedek is mighty. Few other than Philo­
sophic Initiates have had the courage to wrestle with it, lest they
be falsely accused or face defeat. The writer never hesitated, in
common parlance, to call a spade a spade. Everything he wrote
agrees fully with the teachings of the Greater Mysteries.
This is especially true relative to those who have made great
progress toward regeneration and Soul enlightenment, or Illu­
mination, and have then forsaken the path for the world and its
illusions. His cleavage between these, and those who continue
faithful, is wide and all embracing, as so clearly shown in Chap­
ter Six of Hebrews:
HEBREWS - Chapter six Interpreted
4. “For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened,
and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of
the Holy Ghost.”
Here the word “impossible” is used in the text. This would indi­
cate an actual impossibility. The translators erred in their inter­
pretation. The original indicates that it is “almost” impossible.
This also agrees with the writer who said that it is “as
impossible for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of Heaven as
it is for a camel to pass through the eye of a needle (because
the thoughts of the rich man are on his possessions and not on
it?)” - John 6:60
8. “But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is
nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned.”
Those who “bear thorns and briers” are those who refuse to ac­
cept the dictates of the Divine Law. They continue to “sin,” that
is, continue evilly and contrary to the actual welfare of them­
selves and others. They refuse to make the necessary effort to
find the Divine within themselves; the Path toward REgenera-
tion and the enlightenment; the tasting of the heavenly gifts
which come to those who are partakers of the Holy Ghost.
There is no qualification to this statement. The end of these is
to be “burned,” that is , to be destroyed. The Law is.
9. “But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and
things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.”
The “beloved are those who, contrary to the former, have ac­
cepted the Law and are trying to live within the Law. These shall
find “salvation,” that is, REgeneration. They will receive the bet­
ter things in life and be saved from much others must suffer.
10. “For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and la­
bour of love which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye
have ministered to the saints, and so minister.”
The key to this promise is in the use of the statement: “Your
works and labour of love.” All that is done in love is from the
heart.
It is a spiritual work; a Godly work, and its impression is upon
the Soul within. Such work of love is a message to heaven; the
work itself is a prayer; and that prayer reaches the Godhead and
is then reflected back upon the individual Soul, helping in its
15. “
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the
promise.”
Here, in these few words, mankind is given a mighty truth. Hu­
manity as a whole, in this year of 1949, should ponder and take
this saying to heart, making of it the foundation of life.
In doing this, men free themselves from the yoke binding
them to slavery, and obtain the promise, that is, the reward for
their action.
“After he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise,”
i.e., his reward or payment. In this year of non-grace, men uni­
versally are making every effort conceivable to obtain first, and if
so inclined, make effort or give service. Still the world has been
led astray, into illusion and delusion, by being given worldly
substance without first having earned or become worthy, and
ofttimes without even a promise of laboring for it or repaying.
In doing this they are, in common parlance, being subsidized,
which, in ordinary language, means that they are becoming
slaves to the givers. By following this plan they are weakening
themselves to a degree that will finally not even permit them to
fight for right living and a return to freedom.
This is wholly contrary to the Divine Law and God’s promise
to man, through Abraham. All the world will suffer when the re­
action takes place as it surely will, and then men will curse God
and men for things ofwhich they alone are guilty. “After one has
patiently endured,” i.e., labored and made effort, the promise,
the reward or payment, will accrue to him, in righteousness and
with blessings.
16. “For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for con­
firmation is to them an end of all strife.”
The “slaughter of the kings” has reference to all men in high
places possessed of authority and power, who misuse their po­
sition to self-glory, self-benefit, or to be acclaimed, instead of
working for the welfare of all, even though the course they pur­
sue may temporarily be unpopular. This is why egomaniacs, who
became almost legendary in their power, fall from their high
places and their life’s history is one of dishonor.
2. “To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being
by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King
of Salem, which is King of Peace.”
The practice of tithing is today continued by numerous of the
smaller religious denominations. Among these people there have
been no paupers, even during the greatest depressions. It has
likewise been made manifest that those who also possessed the
spirit of tithing, and who do so and give in the spirit of love,
never thinking of it as a sacrifice, are the most successful and
fortunate in the affairs of life. In the Great Work there are those
who do this of their own free Will and accord, and confess that
they received manifold blessings.
3. “Without father, without mother, without descent, having
neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto
the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.”
Profane history tells us nothing of Melchizedek; Arcane records
do: “Melchizedek, the Divinity, personated as the Holy Spirit,
or Divine Light dwelling within every human Soul, awaiting
awakening, and which if awakened, is being prepared for its
highest orders of estate, becoming a perpetual priest (teacher
and guide) at the divine Altar, where, as in the Holy of Holies or
innermost Sanctuary, the pure white Light of the Soul burns as
13. “For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to
another trib (another people), ofwhich no man gave attendance
at the altar (did not serve God according to the Law).
14. “For it is evident that our Lord (the Nazarene) sprang out
ofJuda; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priest­
hood.
15. “And it is yet far more evident; for that after the similitude
of Melchizedek there ariseth another priest.
16. “Who is made, not after the law of a carnal command­
ment, but after the power of an endless life.
17. “For he testifieth. Thou art a priest for ever after the Order
of Melchizedek.”
The only Order or Priesthood spoken of in the Bible as being
without time - forever, is the Order of Melchizedek. It is found­
ed upon the Law itself. Its basis is God and the human Soul that
has been awakened by REgeneration into Illumination or Con­
sciousness, having been reborn in the spirit, as it was previously
into the flesh.
18. “For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment
going before for the weaknesses and unprofitableness thereof.”
That which does not serve its intended purpose is automati­
cally discarded. That which is not made use of becomes inert
and dies. This is the story of the talents. It is an eternal verity.
Use, application, creates strength and greater life; misuse creates
weakness, and weakness ends in death.
19. “For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of
a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.”
The Soul came to earth without knowledge of good and evil.
has for past centuries under the Order of the Magi. All sincere
seekers may enter its portals if they are prepared and willing to
assume the obligation required.
The instructions and training are complete in detail and are
advanced to meet the requirements of the individual Aspirant.
Ordination to the Priesthood is conferred only upon those fully
and truly prepared and who are willing to assume full respon­
sibility for their obedience, service and behavior in their high
office.
We are fully aware that there is a race which claims to be
“Gods chosen people;” that there are religious denominations
who claim to be “the only true church.” We do not quarrel with
either.
Accepting the Biblical statement as true, the Priesthood of
Melchizedek might readily claim to be the only true, God-Or­
dained Church, whose Priests shall sit in judgment if we are to
believe the Psalmist:
PSALM 110
5. “The Lord at thy right hand (of the Priest of Melchizedek)
shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath (when He
comes to judgment).
6. “He shall judge among the heathen (those who refuse to
accept and obey His Laws), he shall fill the places with the dead
bodies (judgment come upon those who by continued disobedi­
ence have destroyed the Soul); he shall wound the heads over
many countries (eliminate those in high position who betray
their office and their people).
7. “He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he
lift up the head.”
interpretation and be possessed ofa keen desire for truth and the
restoration of righteousness.
To become an adherent of the Church of Illumination does
not require of anyone to withdraw from his or her church affili­
ations, but it does demand ofthem that they be seekers after the
“Second” birth, and the attainment of .^generation.
The Church of Illumination has several basic tenets which
must be adhered to: It expects its adherents to stand firmly for
the basic truths inculcated; the firm conviction that it is possible
for “mortality to put on Immortality”; the equally strong con­
viction that for Americans, the American Constitution is basi­
cally the work of God; that the right belonging to every human
creature come from God and not the State, i.e., that the State is
created for the people, and not the people for the State; the inal­
ienable rights of the possession of personal property, and finally,
man’s personal responsibility for all his acts.
The Church of Illumination does not possess a formal mem­
bership list, hence cannot be made an instrument for political or
other purposes; nevertheless it is enabled to contact its adherents
almost at a moment’s notice.
God’s “chosen” people are those who, in loving spirit, obey
His Law. His Priests are those who uphold and fulfill the Law.
1. INITIATION
Philosophic Initiation has as its aim a fourfold purpose which
must be attained if the Neophyte is to be hilly successful.
First: During the process, growth or progress, all the inner
potential forces of the entire complex being - of body, mind and
Soul - must be aroused. The ultimate must be attained on each
plane of being; assuring a full measure of health, strength, suc­
cess and power in the true sense. This permits rendering service
to humanity generally.
Second: Either before, or during, the process there must result
the birth of one dominant desire. This desire must constantly
burn with an unquenchable fire within the mind and the, as
yet, dormant Soul of the aspirant. It must enthrall him to such
a degree that he will find no rest unless he is active in making
every effort for the attainment of the inspired or aspired ideal.
Third: The concentration or centralization of all potential
forces within the entire being gives the individual the necessary
strength, patience and fortitude to work incessantly toward the
fulfillment or the desire.
Forth: (a) There must be desire and effort toward the awaken­
ing, and the Illumination ofthe Christos or the Soul Center, (b)
The establishing of contact, i.e., contracting an alliance with one
of the Hierarchical Centers of activity
To this end the Neophyte must learn to Obey, to Know, to
Will, to Dare, and yet remain Silent. He must recognize the tru­
ism that in silence there is strength.
It is only natural that there should be misconceptions and
misgivings relative to this subject in the minds of those to
whom it is comparatively new. To anticipate difficulties which
will present themselves to searching, questioning minds, and to
if the desire toward that end is not sufficiently strong, if the
actor is not ready, aye, anxious, to give up all else in the accom­
plishment of the one desire, and if this one desire is not potent
enough to induce every mental and physical activity necessary to
bring it about, then failure is certain.
Will power is always based on desire, because desire is always
the activating and governing principal. Desire is comparable to
love. Where love is strong, even the certainty of death cannot
intervene with its dictates.
Higher, or spiritual, development admittedly demands the
cultivation of a masterful Will. Much stress is therefore laid on
this part of the Great Work. Simple, sane, reasonable methods
must be followed in its development. The methods best suited
to the purpose are actually so simple that they are often ignored,
and the means so continusously present that their power is often
overlooked. In the process of Philosophical Initiation and in the
cultivation of the Will, the Divine Law is:
Do that which is to be done, iresspective of how menial it
may be. Do it when it should be done; the way it should be done,
without repugnance. If it is something usually disliked, do it
with a willingness to accomplish a useful duty, ending with the
feeling of satisfaction that it was well done and your duty and
mission, therefore a means to an end.
Equal stress must be placed on the importance of directing
the Will into channels of obedience to the Divine Ideal. Besides
the factors already mentioned, there are still others important in
the development of a superior Will and the power that accom­
panies it: First, the quality of truth, that is, knowledge concern­
ing the laws of right-ness and goodness. Secondly, the quality of
effort to achieve their desires. They have become hypnotized by
the slogan: “M ind is All ” or “Think and Be Rich ”They actually
believe that to sit and think, and will, will bring riches pouring
into their laps.
This is an illusion and a delusion. The awakening is usually
sad, and this often comes only after they have become so in­
ert that they no longer possess the energy to make a real effort
to achieve success by means of the two-edged sword that never
fails: Will and Effort (work).
It has been our experience, during forty-five years as physician
and teacher, that many a failure and great disaster is wrought by
an irrational system of developing the Will. In most instances
those who suffer are themselves to blame. They are governed by
an ignoble self-interest; the age-old delusion that it is possible to
obtain something for nothing; ignoring the fact that perfect ex­
change is the Law; that he who obtains or accepts that which he
has not earned is a robber and a thief, and every-thing so gained
will ultimately be taken from him. The greatest Philosophic In-
titate of all pronounced it as a Law:
Only “the laborer is worthy of his hire.”
This means that no man can honestly receive until he has offered
something in return for that which he desires.
Partially or erroneously instructed students fancy that it is pos­
sible to develop such superior power of mind and Will that, by
means of mental gymnastics alone, they may correct every un­
satisfactory condition of life. They believe that by mental force
and Will power exclusively they can build health of body and
gain sufficient strength for the maintenance of health, which is
so essential to Occult science.
Neither is mere concentration of thought on a business enter­
prise or a money-making scheme sufficient to assure permanent
success. Just as partaking ofalcoholic stimulants may give a sem­
blance of brilliancy of mind, or bring activity to even a dying
body for a short period oftime, so may Will power alone sustain
super-activity for a time, but it is self destructive and defeats its
own ends.
Mark well the requirements to attain and maintain physi­
cal health, strength and vigor. First of all, the mind and Will
must be directed toward attaining accurate knowledge of the
Laws underlyingphysical health, strength and vigor. Secondly, this
Knowledge must be directed into channels o fusefulness; all in har­
mony with the Law. To attain success in business, the mind and
the Will must be directed toward mastering the laws underly­
ing commercial enterprises. There must be proper and complete
preparation for the business in mind.
After all this, the Will must be strong enough to direct and
hold the desire to attain success-, refusing to become impatient,
indolent, inert or careless, because success is slow in appearing.
It is at this critical point that the Will is of paramount impor­
tance.
Spiritual Laws, the Laws dealing with the Christos or Soul of
Man, are in perfect harmony with the so called natural laws. The
natural world is a prototype of the spiritual world. The Tablets
of Hermes the Law giver plainly state:
“As above, so below;
as below, so above.”
Because of this Law, any functioning of mental forces and ofthe
Will which violates natural law likewise violates the Divine or
It is common knowledge that the ordinary business man and
brain worker who is not at all interested in spiritual affairs suffers
greatly from nerve exhaustion when little or no attention is giv­
en to his nourishment, rest, breathing, recreation and exercise. It
is equally certain that the sensitive system of the Neophyte will
be affected if these important things are neglected; his organism
being peculiarly sensitive and his imagination especially alert.
Higher occultism, or the Arcane, aims at spiritual or Philo­
sophic Initiation. This is neither erratic nor irrational. Such Ini­
tiation embraces the establishment or an equilibrium or balance
between body, mind and soul. It includes a well-rounded devel­
opment of man’s fourfold nature: body, mind, spirit (the life or
vital forces) and the Soul. The human being in all itsparts must
have equal consideration and attention.
We are familiar with the many who deny the actual exist­
ence of the material and the body, claiming it to be illusion and
delusion, but who nevertheless live like gluttons to satisfy an
abnormal physical appetite, and make every effort to obtain and
accumulate material riches to satisfy their desire for possessions,
which are also of a physical nature.
They are enmeshed by a smug, fallacious delusion which they
call “faith.” We do not hope or profess to reach them. We are
laboring only for the many rational, reasonable seekers for bet­
ter things and a higher life, who are ready and willing to be
instructed and directed in the Way of Life: in what we term the
Great Work.
The Neophyte should give first and most careful considera­
tion to his physical being, providing it with the best food and
recreation for its improvement. A natural, rational system of
principalities spoken of in sacred literature. These the Neophyte
is to contact for the purpose of forming an alliance later in his
progress toward development. They will be of help to him,
provided such help will not interfere with his normal and
natural growth. Philosophic Initiation guards against hypnotic
influences; guards against all other evil influences and discourages
phenomena-seeking tendencies and the inclination to depend
upon others rather than on ones own individual efforts.
The underlying principles and the methods followed in true
initiation are distinctly positive, constructive, uplifting and are
calculated to develop self-control under all conditions and self-
mastery in every department of the individual being. The posi­
tive power of thought, desire and Will is fully taught.
No claim is made that the mind, or the Will, can endow inert
substances with life-giving power for any length of time; nor is
the doctrine endorsed that any force or power can be projected
contrary to natural laws. There is insistence that the masterful
and effective Will depends on the ability to work in harmony
with natural and spiritual laws after gaining a full knowledge of
these laws.
There is no pretense that mere thought attitude in and ofitself
is ever sufficient to lift man out ofundesirable and into favorable
environments. Effort alone brings about the result. The “laborer”
is being paid.
The Neophyte is taught to recogni2e that the aim of life is
service: that efficiency and efficacy demand self-knowledge, self-
improvement and self-development before man is able to truly
serve others. In the system of Soul awakening, in which the Au­
gust Fraternity is engaged, we not only advocate the adage ofthe
and system oftraining while on the path to attainment of Philo­
sophic Initiation. Many are under the impression that rigid and
austere demands are made, and that painful self-denial is neces­
sary in diet, exercise and the pleasures of life. These ideas are
based on ignorance. Nothing is required ofthe Neophyte except
that which is for his own temporal and eternal welfare.
Respecting diet, a preponderance of Philosophic Initiates,
among them many long-experienced physicians, maintain that
the natural and proper diet for man excludes the warm-blooded
meats, because of the content of disease, toxins and ureas; nev­
ertheless, these men are not radical. Climate, occupation, tem­
perament, physical conditions and ancestral inheritance must
be taken into account. Here, as elsewhere, “circumstances alter
cases.”
There are instances where the organism of an individual may
for a period of time require animal protein1, but in such in­
dividual cases the person under consideration would hardly be
physically or mentally fit to proceed with the Great Work. The
first essential is to establish mental and physical balance, or what
we term “health.”
In some countries, notably China, India, Japan and a number
of smaller countries, a diet of rice and fish is almost universal.
These appear to furnish sufficient nourishment to both body
and mind, building great physical endurance, nerve force and
mental alertness.
In this connection we must bear in mind two important fac­
tors; First, in these countries, rice and fish are the two principal
1. A protein cell is just a protein cell to the physical system. It does not matter whether this is
obtained from an animal product, a warm-blooded animal, or from one of the many sea foods
or the legumes.
The school ofInitiates regards the non-meat diet as ideal, natural
and normal, and for a period oftime during training a necessary
one. If forefathers and fathers have been ravenous meat eaters,
it is generally unwise for anyone to suddenly discontinue warm­
blooded meat entirely. The habit should be overcome gradually,
substituting natural foods that contain identical elements essen­
tial for nerve, brain, muscle and bone until one finds that his
system no longer requires meat.
The Neophyte entering the path should become acquainted
with all of these things. It is for this reason that he should study
texts which will familiarize him with the natural laws govern­
ing his being. He should also seek the personal instruction and
guidance of one who has traveled the path and is blessed with
a vast fund of knowledge and great experience. If the seeker at­
tempts to follow general instructions only he may meet with
many disappointments. To avoid failure, the Neophyte requires
personal instruction, guidance and protection adapted to his
particular needs.
In respect to physical exercise, the Neophyte may be left
largely to his own inclination. Everyone must necessarily take
a certain amount of calisthenics, NOT because of his desire to
become a Philosophic Initiate, but to establish health; build up
energy and a plentiful supply ofvitality for endurance; all neces­
sary to be at peace and succeed in life.
What of the general pleasures of life? Do the Philosophic Ini­
tiates and members of the August Fraternity teach the idea that
a long, wry face, sans joy, sans laughter and the denial of the in­
nocent pleasures of life are conducive to spiritual advancement?
Do they forbid the sports and games of the field, the opera and
Details regarding Divine Law are observed by the individual ac­
cording to his enlightened interpretation. It is necessary, how­
ever, to call attention to the negative operation of the Divine
Law, so that by contrast the positive becomes clearer and more
forceful.
By knowing the effects of the negative application of Divine
Law we can constantly be on guard and thus protect ourselves
against its reactions.
Philosophic Initiation presupposes its possessor as having
found the “White Chalice of God, the Holy Grail, the heart of
the Fire - tongue of the Ineffable Light.”
It equally signifies the finding of the “Lost Word” of the Mys­
teries ofwhich the Alchemists, the Magi and other Initiates have
written so much. It is the finding of the Christos within the
temple which is Man.
He who has attained to Consciousness has also found the Divine
Light burning upon the Alter. He has succeeded in purifying his
heart so that it throbs with love for humanity, is free from criti­
cism of others.
The Initiate has learned the lesson the old Masters taught that
“He who knows all forgives all.” The Nazarene phrased this dif­
ferently. “Forgive them for they know not what they do”
One of the attainments aimed at by Initiation is the art of
“righteous judgment” - a judgment that neither censures nor
condemns.
If you have the Will to obey and do, then it will be well for
you to enter the Path of Philosophic Initiation.
2. VIBRATIONS - THEIR POWER AND INFLUENCE
Those who seek to advance themselves through the science and
art which Soul development offers must of necessity familiarize
themselves thoroughly with the laws underlying and governing
the method of procedure. Vibrations operate in every depart­
ment of life and on every plane of the universe. There can be
neither life nor manifestation of any kind without the activity
of vibrations. At the moment we are concerned more especially
with the laws which govern thought vibration in its relation to
Soul development and all that this embraces.
Every thought, every desire, every act creates or sets into mo­
tion certain vibrations. Mind is the creator ofthought. The body
manifests that thought by means of action. The manifestation
naturally harmonizes with the ideal or spirit of the thought, be
this good or bad; that is, constructive or destructive.
The laws governing here, like the laws of nature and those
of the spirit or Soul, are impartial, impersonal and absolute in
their operation. These laws cannot be catalogued as either good
or bad, but their functioning admits of two distinct phases of
manifestation: their expression is in one or the other of two op­
posites. To state the idea differently, these laws are directed in
one or the other oftwo channels governed by the spirit or nature
of thought or desire.
Man designates these active manifestations of vibrations as
good or evil, beneficent or destructive, in accordance with the
effect both on the thinker and in the world of action. The di­
rection of the channel through which the vibrations manifest
determines the result of the activity, whether constructive or the
reverse.
In reality, there are only two avenues through which life
rapidity originate in love and kindness. The heavy, sluggish,
clogging, poisonous vibrations are the result of thoughts of hate
and malice.
Vibratory forces are dual in their effects: First, they profound­
ly influence the individual in whose mind the thoughts or feel­
ings originate. Secondly, they may leave permanent impressions
upon others.
In a general way, those who are reached by the thought wave
or vibratory force may (we again use that term) be affected by
this thought atmosphere or aura, but only if: (a) they entertain
the same type of thoughts or feelings, or (b) if they are negative
and therefore open to such influences. It is possible for such
persons to be affected in a very positive manner.
The remedy against this evil influence is: (a) to be free from
such tendencies, and (b) close the mind, by an effort of the Will
(strongly Willing), against any such forces or influences; thus
they will not find lodgment in the mind and being.
The most marked impression ofsuch thoughts and the result­
ant vibrations are upon the person who originates and harbors
them.
Upon the creator of the evil thought, or the originator of
equally undesirable desires, the influence is twofold: he is im­
mediately impressed by the thought or desire as it enters the
mind, and, again, by the return or reaction of these thoughts
and desires. Biblically stated:
“Man reaps as he sows.”
It is comparable to holding a most poisonous snake to your own
bosom.
The thoughts man thinks, the desires to which he gives birth,
reinforce his own thoughts, doing greater evil, and the com­
bined vibrations of evil will then return to the one first sending
them out.
On the contrary, thought waves oflove, kindness, hope, cour­
age and good will create vibrations oflike forces. When these vi­
brations leave their creator they depart on a mission of love and
kindness, the nature of the original thought. On reaching those
open to these thoughts, the vibrations will awaken them and
be a stimulus to healthful, successful, optimistic ideas, helping
them to well-being, happiness and success; then, to complete
the cycle, return to their creator, bringing with them accumu­
lated forces for good.
Vibrations created by gloomy feelings, fears, suspicions, mal­
ice and the like will be depressive and lower the health and suc­
cess vibrations. The positive mind, by constructive and enno­
bling thoughts, can so raise its vibrations that it will dissipate
and eliminate all disease and failure-producing vibrations.
It is not really necessary to specifically direct your thoughts to
another. Your mental attitude, if habitual and intense, whether
ofgood will and benevolence or resentful and malevolent toward
another, creates and sets into motion vibratory waves which will
find their way to the object ofthe thought. Ifsuch a person is of
like mental attitude, these waves will find lodgment; otherwise
they will return to the creator or sender heavily laden with crea­
tive or destructive power, as the case may be.
Telegraphy ispatterned after mans mental activity. A generator
creates the current, the operator transmitting the message. Man
is within himself a complete transmitter. The mind, including
the thoughts and desires, is the generator which creates the
recognize that the thought attitude is largely a matter of habit,
which in turn may become Will power, or desire, crystallized
into a definite tendency.
If Will power has unconsciously lapsed into a negative, in­
different attitude concerning the affairs of life and action, with
the thoughts drifting into undesirable and depressing channels,
there is every reason for exerting strenuous, positive, persistent
effort to improve this mental laxity, which really amounts to an
illness or disease.
The development of a correct, wholesome, creative, construc­
tive thought activity is a factor of the utmost importance in the
study and practice of the Arcane; in the effort toward Soul de­
velopment and the attainment of Soul Consciousness. Even a
mediocre understanding of the Laws of vibration will readily
explain why so much stress is laid on the necessity of cultivating
healthy thinking and a masterful Will.
It will also be recognized by such a study that the legitimate
function of Will power is so to control and guide the thought
avenues of activity to attract only good to oneself and others.
It must be recognized that while our kindly thought forces
have a wholesome effect upon others, their reaction doubly ben­
efits us. Au contraire, if out mental activity is harmful to others,
it is thrice destructive to us if we are guilty of such activity.
If we are thoroughly convinced of the harmfulness of all un­
desirable thoughts, first upon oneself and then upon others,
then we have taken a long step toward self-mastery. This leads
us to a comprehension of the absolute necessity of consciously
making every effort to cultivate only habits of positive, health­
ful, elevating and constructive thoughts.
constructive thinking should arouse everyone to a determined
and persistent effort to overcome the habit itself and all ten­
dency toward negative thoughts.
A full understanding of the Laws of Vibration places and al­
most unlimited power into your hands and offers you a mul­
titude of new opportunities for good. Such a power is a two-
edged sword. To pervert this knowledge to unholy or selfish use,
regardless of the welfare of others, is often a great temptation
and must be rigorously avoided.
The mere knowledge of the penalty brought about by the re­
action of such selfishness should prevent us from any attempt to
misuse this or any other Godly or Spiritual power.
To insure our safety against danger, it is necessary to establish
in our consciousness the conviction that all life is interwoven
and interdependent. Mankind is one family. There is a link that
binds together all the members of the household. What truly
uplifts and benefits one tends to do likewise for all others.
Whatever has a tendency to work detriment or injury to an­
other will surely reflect harmfully upon the one originating and
harboring the evil. To establish a desire for the well-being of all,
a longing for the highest good of the mass, will insure discretion
in making definite use of thought power. Our intention or mo­
tive is the feature that gives color and character to the thought
and determines its effect. In cultivating the qualities of a power­
ful Soul we must recognize the unity and the solidarity of life,
and also have supreme regard for the Law of Love and Service to
all mankind. Each must do his duty in every respect and render
just compensation for every benefit which the vibratory laws
grant.
The principle, “
As a man soweth, so shall he reap,”3 applies here
as in every department oflife. No one, irrespective ofhis shrewd­
ness, can escape, for, by the automatic, impersonal functioning
of her own laws, nature keeps strict account and renders justice
according to mans desserts. Many of the things that come to
man as misfortunes and disasters are to be accounted for in this
light.
It is wiser to allow our attention to dwell upon the happier as­
pect of the law. It should be remembered that there are likewise
reactionary effects of good thoughts, noble desires and worthy
deeds. This is evidence of the impersonal functioning of this
same Law ofJustice or Law of Compensation. Many of the for­
tunate surprises in life, as well as the desirable conditions fre­
quently termed “good luck,” are to be attributed to the unerring
operation of the impartial law of “cause and effect.”
It is wholesome, legitimate and God-ordained to desire suc­
cess, congenial surroundings and the beautiful, refining influ­
ences of life. Such longings are in themselves neither harmful
nor selfish; they are commendable and elevating. If an individ­
ual’s motives and purposes are to seek advantages for the better­
ment and the enjoyment of others as well as himself, if he seeks
self-improvement for the sake of enabling him to render better
service to other, then he may justly expect the vibratory power
of thought to work in his favor.
To this end man must cultivate habits of constructiveness:
wholesome, positive, cheerful thoughts. He must seek to estab­
lish in his nature the inclination to think kindly of others; judg­
ing the acts of his fellow man with compassion and humility.
3. Tliis is the LAW OF ALL LAWS. Thought, desire and feeling are governed by it. That which
we send out returns laden with itself.
attempt to do this without returning hill and overflowing meas­
ure for all they had received.
Thoughts, powerful in constructive tendencies, and at the
same time light, fine, ethereal, penetrating in quality, and of a
high rate of vibration, compel slow, heavy, destructive forces to
give way. They dissipate and dispel these influences. They trans­
mute the undesirable into the exalted and constructive. Crimes
and malicious tendencies decrease. Under the impetus of such
thoughts, general interest is aroused in elevating and universally
profitable pursuits.
A period in which such thoughts dominate becomes known
as an age of reconstruction. It constitutes a revolution toward
higher and better things. It is a process of evolution to a higher
plane. Happily, we are rapidly approaching such a period.
In such manner and in such times, the Hierarchies are ena­
bled to perform their work. Thus, after a period of general stag­
nation and lack of individual honor, does the world advance to
higher stages of development. Constructive forces always labor
for righteousness, though their influence is often retarded for
long periods. Steadily, however, and very slowly, through the
ages, are the powers of darkness and negation forced to give way.
Destructive and deteriorating conditions will diminish in
proportion as constructive forces operate through the channels
of wisdom, love and goodness of heart. Cooperation will take
the place of strife, bloodshed and warfare. Labor under safe and
sanitary conditions will become general and the laborer on his
part will return full value for compensation received.
Physical health, strength and vigor will become prevalent.
Wholesome pleasures and stimulating recreation, widely
practiced, will relieve lethargy and the strain of health-giving
know as “naturally magnetic.” These possess the properties of
artificial or manufactured magnets without the necessity of be­
ing brought into contact with electricity or magnetic fields for
“charging.” Their peculiar properties are due to their contents
and the surroundings in which they are found. There are other
metals which, though not naturally magnetic, are capable of be­
ing “charged,” thus taking on the properties of a magnet.
In comparison, there are men and women who are naturally
magnetic, or attracting. It is not necessary for them to build into
themselves the qualities necessary for an attractive personality.
Instead ofexhausting their vital forces, they appear to automati­
cally create more and still more magnetism as they properly use
this attracting force which they possess. They seemingly were
born with an abundance of magnetic energy or personal mag­
netism, much in the same manner as the natural magnet is so
“born” by nature.
There are others, and a far greater number of humanity, who
possess vary little virility, practically no personal magnetism and
only a sufficient amount of vitality to maintain life; to move
about and obtain the bare necessities of life. They have not suf­
ficient vital force to be either really strong or healthy, while real
well-being or happiness is unknown to them, and success con­
tinually evades them.
However, if they possess the Will and determination, they
may, like the non-magnetic metals, become charged, or more
correctly speaking, may change themselves and become filled with
magnetism, or the vital energy which is the basis ofstrength and
well-being, the attracting power that will bring them success.
When a magnetizable substance is brought near, or in contact
Man, on the contrary, may live in the midst of plenty, sur­
rounded by pure air, sunshine, cheerful companionship, and the
choicest of food products, and yet having free choice, but being
ignorant of the laws of proper selection, may be in a state of
disease, unhappiness and discontent.
The lily has no free choice because it has not been given
consciousness by the Creator, but through its inherent nature
chooses only the best.
Man, created like unto the gods and endowed with their pos­
sibilities, through exercise offree choice and non-obedience (the
emphasis is on non-obedience) to natural law, may refuse to ac­
cept the Law. He may develop his powers and forces contrary to
Divine Law, with the result that instead of becoming the master
of circumstances, he remains the plaything of fate, and when
condemned, places the blame upon everything and everyone
but the right one - himself.
A piece ofproperlypreparedsteel may be energized by an elec­
tric current. First of all, the steel must be properly prepared, and
secondly, it must then be properly charged under its own natural
law to convert it into a magnet.
In like manner, man must first assume the proper attitude
toward the Natural Governing Law, accept and obey it. He
must prepare himself, taking the proper exercise, free his body
of impurities, and make it receptive and retaining. He must then
establish a positive attitude in his mind; in short, assume the
uprightness of a man in all respects, and then in time, by con­
stant effort, he may become magnetic, a storehouse of personal
magnetism.
Mesmer, the great exponent ofmagnetism, taught that: “There
the more powerful will be the magnet after it has been charged.
It is equally true that the purer the cleaner the body, which is
also to be charged, the greater its capacity for retaining vital or
personal magnetism.
Under the Mosaic dispensation all acts which had in mind
the purification of the body, and the elevation (ennobling) of
the mind, were religious functions and considered of the utmost
importance to the welfare (salvation) ofthe Soul. Gradually, hu­
manity lost the spirit of religion, and as a consequence of fanati­
cism, all sanity in these matters was discarded. The body could
be damned as of little importance, if only attention be given to
the Soul.
Once again, the thinking and reasoning man is returning to
sanity. Rational religious thought and medical art are proclaim­
ing the advantages of a natural life as a companion of spiritual
religious teachings and practices.
Breathing correctly is one of the fundamentals and as essen­
tial in the storing of these vital forces as proper diet and self­
purification. The act of breathing is to the various mineral ele­
ments in the blood exactly what the charging of the steel is in
the production of a magnet. As an example: The iron carried
by the blood-stream in not “alive” or magnetic until it has been
oxidized (charged) by the air inhaled.
The manner and time of sleeping are equally important in
building up an accumulation of vital or magnetic force. It is
during sleep and rest that the life-giving, vitality-carrying foods
are used as re-building material to restore the bodily functions.
If there is an insufficient amount (period) of sleep, then these
workmen cannot rebuild the body and weakness must follow.
character. We must select, as rightly belonging to us, success,
love, happiness and other desirable conditions not prohibited to
man. We must seek for truth, the attainment of righteousness,
wisdom, and an upright and understanding heart. All of these
are necessary steps toward the accumulation of dynamic energy
to be used for the fulfillment of any desire based on Divine Law.
All these are yet of the mind. They may simply be mind desires
for the moment. Effort, patience, uninterrupted and painstaking
action must follow the direction of our desire until success is
attained.
From this it is readily recognized that we must master the
technique of accumulating vital energies and the virile forces
called animal magnetism. We do this by means of the law of
selection and accumulation. Those on the path must also be able
to govern their activities and direct them into practical chan­
nels. Unless rightly employed, the forces stored will be of little
avail and may even become a detriment. Any force stored and
unused tends toward stagnation; stagnation being death. To re­
main strong, normal and healthy, all forces possessed must be
constantly active and properly directed.
The law of transference and use can best be designated as the
“Law of Equalization,” or of “Equal Exchange.” At its founda­
tion, it is nature’s law of exchange. It exists on all planes as a
principle of generous reciprocity, or cooperation. It is based on
the fact that all things in life are intended to serve a just and
noble purpose. A willingness to serve the purpose intended by
nature; to give in proportion as we receive; to bestow on others
the benefits that accrue to ourselves. This attitude of mind is an
expression of the natural law of Equalization, of fair exchange.
man before he can be more than man; i.e., “mortality taking on
Immortality. “ He can be neither truly man nor a godlike rep­
resentative of Divinity, without willingly paying the necessary
price for that which he wishes to obtain or attain.
When a person has trained his mind to think thoughts which
will build up the desired faculty, when the art of concentration
has been mastered, when he has accumulated the forces that
make for health, happiness and success, then he must make cer­
tain to employ his concentrated forces and powers constructive­
ly, both as it concerns himself and others.
The Biblical story of the talents clearly illustrates that unless
proper use is made of our talents, our powers and possessions;
even the little that we have will be taken from us.
The law of right use may be termed the Law of Justice. In
employing our forces, we must be guided by the principle of
fairness and of justice towards others. We must think not only
of ourselves, but also of those whom our actions may affect. To
be sure, man owes a first duty to himself. He should not allow
others to take advantage of him, for nothing is to be gained by
this; but rather, harm results to both himself and to the per­
son or persons he permits to take such privileges. A man should
be equally conscientious in watching that he himself gives just
compensation for all he receives, and so far as he is able, demand
that others in their dealings with him likewise have regard for
the Law ofJustice.
Within man are all the properties of the sun, moon, earth
and stars. In truth he combines in his nature all potencies of the
physical universe; for, in reality, he is a miniature world. The
identical laws that control and govern the earth on which he
creature, is the prime essential in the development of a magnetic
(attractive) personality. Every external experience that will help
to intensify in life the force of this truth is to be welcomed by
the sincere searcher for the attainment of all things Personal
Magnetism is capable of bestowing.
Too much stress cannot possibly be placed on the importance
of the cultivation of a kindly, but just and strong love and genu­
ine good-will toward all creatures under all circumstances. By
definite, positive desire, by systematic training toward self-mas­
tery, by conscientious direction of the mental forces; in brief,
by a masterful thought control, man’s mentality will become a
mighty power for attracting to himself the energy and ethereal
forces pervading all the Universe.
It is greatly to man’s interest and benefit to subject his mental
attitude to rigid and wise training to harmonize with the laws of
love and good-will; ofJustice and Equalization.
In every walk of life, irrespective of what the desire of man
may be, it is essential that he possess a goodly store ofvital and
virile life principle. To be without this is to be lacking that much
in health and the energy to accomplish his aim. Energy is the
ability to labor, to make effort. It is the stimulus or urge to con­
sistently pursue a given aim to successful accomplishment.
This being admitted, to accumulate and store for constant
use, the dynamic force termed animal magnetism, is one of the
requisites of a successful life. Properly understood, success is
identified with usefulness to self and others. A useful career is
a successful one. The truly useful life is one that puts to good
use the talent God has given it. It may be but one talent, a gift
inconspicuous or unpromising in outward appearance, but, by
be made for the development within the selfof the forces which
create ability, and this must be followed by the efforts that assure
success. Within each and every one there is a generator ofpower.
By a willingness to learn the laws of its operation, to meet the
required conditions and then exert the necessary effort to set it
into operation, the powers and forces of animal or vital magnet­
ism will be generated or created, and these in turn changed into,
or transmuted into, Personal Magnetism, the medium for all
success.
By continued effort we gain a knowledge of the means and
methods necessary to create vital forces or virile power within
ourselves. We may actually become stronger in every respect than
another with a naturally magnetic personality. Those naturally
gifted with a magnetic personality for which they as individuals
are not consciously responsible, rarely possess the knowledge of
how to create or generate this force. Consequendy, to lose the
forces they possess, is to lose all.
On the contrary, those who were compelled to learn the laws
governing the development of vital energy, virility or animal
magnetism, and who did so by their own efforts, possess the
means to do this so long as they are in need of it and are willing
to obey the laws. They learn to replace this force as they use it by
obeying the law of demand and supply.
To establish within ourselves a vital, magnetic field makes us
the center for the attraction of still greater forces; the influx of
the highly spiritualized ^Tth Fires, the Light “on neither land
nor sea.” This is made possible only by individual, conscious,
spiritualized effort, the incentive of which is an exalted spiritual
Ideal.
4. EVIL - THE CAUSE AND THE REMEDY
All things were made by Him; and without Him was not any­
thing made.” - John 1:3.
This statement, one of the most positive in Sacred literature,
has been accepted by an infinite number of people as conclusive
evidence that there is no such thing as evil. Those who believe in
the non-existence of evil reason thus:
God has created all things and He, being all good, can create
only good. It therefore follows that there can be no such thing as
evil. That which appears to be evil is neither more nor less than
an illusion of sense.
Admittedly, God, or Jehovah the Creator, being all good, all
loving and all wise, i.e., without evil, could not Himself create
evil as such. Therefore, insofar as He and His works are con­
cerned, it is correct to say: No evil was created by, or emanates
from, God.
All things in themselves were good. There is no denial of this.
Man, given free Will, inventive ability and freedom of choice,
has made evil use of agents otherwise good. He has abused or
misused, and continues to abuse or misuse, that which is good
and constructive.
In doing this, man has brought evil out of good. Even so,
these agents, powers, forces and abilities, are not in themselves
evil; it is their application that becomes evil, or productive of
destructive results.
Two fundamental factors enter into mans activity. Each of
these must receive its full share of attention in the solution of
the difficulties that have arisen from mans birth on earth and his
free Will or right of choice.
First is the fact that man was endowed with Divine powers
ofhis free Will. He can use all things for good and so glorify the
Creator; or he may choose to misuse the good for ignoble pur­
poses, thus becoming the symbol ofevil, i.e., that which debases
and destroys.
Any number of self-evident conclusions may be deducted
from this two-fold proposition, among them:
First: God is responsible for our experiences only because
He gave man freedom of action, this freedom including that of
thought, desire and action.
Second: This freedom of choice permits the use of everything
that is good, elevating and constructive. Every power, faculty,
and potentiality inversely used, i.e., for other than a “good” pur­
pose, is misuse and constitutes evil and all that follows.
Third: Man alone, of all created things, because of his carnal
desires, perverted appetites and ignoble feelings, is held responsi­
ble and mustpay unto “
the uttermostfarthing”
for the evils thatfol­
low his actions, and he cannot befree until he has sopaid. Were it
otherwise, there would be no Law; hence no order, and universal
chaos would result.
These propositions may be considered from another angle:
First of all, there are not two distinct powers, forces or beings
(the word “beings” is used for want of a better one) in the Uni­
verse; one good, known as Good, and another evil, all too famil­
iar to us as “His Majesty, the devil.” Second, the struggles of life
are not between gods and demons, divinities and Satanic forces.
There is but one, an all-inclusive conflict. This conflict is con­
stantly in man’
s heart; between the inclinations o fhis own dual na­
ture. This may be expressed in another positive statement: There
is only one force active in the universe; the application ordirection
these actualities and possibilities are included in the term Crea­
tive power and ability.
Creative energy and its companion, Creative ability, are the
highest attributes of the Divine in man. This Creative instinct
and power, understood in the fullest meaning, constitutes the
most sublime characteristics of man’s nature and when rightly
used actually makes him a coworker with God. Degraded, lower
than the lowest demon in Hades; hence the question: “Whom
will ye serve?” a question every human being must answer at
some time or other.
Man possesses one agent or medium which he must always
use in his creative capacity and with which God is not encum­
bered; this is his physical body. True, we may think of the Uni­
verse as God’s body; Mother Earth as His spouse, and man as
His physical expression. O f the three parts, man must be the
greatest encumbrance. Nevertheless, in the Universe, the Divine
Will is supreme. These several creations are of no hindrance to
Him, since the Cosmos in itselfhas no sense-desires; the Crea­
tive Energy being free from the desires native to the flesh.
Man, on the contrary, is possessed of a physical organism
upon which he is entirely dependent. It possesses demands in
the form of appetites and physical requirements. It is constantly
overwhelmed by a multitude of desires and tendencies. These
naturally blind him to the truth, hence hold him in bondage un­
til, by his search, he finds “truth that saves,” thus freeing himself
from his delusions and illusions and bringing him to the Light
and a rightful supremacy in his sphere of action.
God, or the Creative Jehovah, uses His creative powers only
for good and constructive purposes. Being Himself impersonal,
normally good, noble, beneficial and constructive.
How and in what manner is man held accountable for evil?
What department of his being is to be held responsible? To an­
swer these questions logically, it is necessary to consider man in
his fourfold nature: body, mind, spirit and Soul.
Man possesses a body; the product of Mother earth. This
body, being of the earth, is naturally earthy in its inclinations;
the earthly turned to flesh, it is fleshly in its tendencies; being
also on the plane of sense, it is sensual or carnal in its desires.
The body - the human - recognizes nothing that is like its
creator except the generative ability. Even the incentive of the
body is purely a desire to satisfy the flesh or carnal self for the
moment. The body and its normal, natural demands are not in
themselves evil; but it is evil to permit the body to dictate the
actions of life, because it is based on the purely temporal and its
tendencies are often destructive.
Besides the body, there is the mind, and generally speaking,
evil originates, or has its source, in the mind. The root of evil
is in the desires of the body communicated to the mind, and
the mind, recognizing the desires, seeks ways and means of
satisfaction. The mind must eradicate all that is not beneficial.
The mind has reason and can be trained to choose between that
which is good or constructive and evil or destructive.
It is to be emphasized that the mind is not in itself an entity.
It is not eternal. It is not Immortal and does not possess the pos­
sibility of Immortalization. It is an agent in the building of that
which may be Immortal. The mind is the activation spirit of the
brain. The brain is a medium between the body, the temporal,
and the Soul, the eternal.
functioning of the brain, with the resultant activity we term the
“mind.”
Body, the spirit which is life, and the mind are to be thought
of as mortal, changeable, transitory and evanescent. The em­
bryonic Soul, the Divine Spark, is the only part of the being
called “man” which possesses the possibility of Individualiza­
tion, therefore Immortalization, IF the mind can be activated to
bring this Divine Spark into its own Consciousness.
The Divine Spark, of which we speak as a “Soul,” is neither
Individualized nor an Immortal entity, until by means of an
awakened mind, it is developed and brought into Illumination
or the Light.
The body is activated by the force which we know as “life”
and which is breathed in with the first inhalation of air. With
the first breath, containing the “spirit” oflife, the body becomes
alive and is, from that time on, an entity in itself. This spirit
is Divine in the sense that it comes from God; nevertheless, it
cannot attain to a self-consciousness because it is not peculiar
to man.
Every living creature, every animate object, in fact, everything
that exists - even vegetables and mineral forms, each to its own
degree of development - breathes in this same spirit which is life.
This life is a principle and not an entity. It animates, but does
not control, every living thing.
Spirit is neither personal nor individual. It is an essence; nei­
ther good nor evil; it simply IS. At the change called death, this
“spirit” leaves that which it inhabited and returns whence it
came, to its original storehouse, to again become the “life” of
another object. It is to be emphasized that the Life principle,
and means for the accomplishment of a given effort, is the seat
of responsibility in the application of creative energy.
The destiny of the Soul of man is to become an exact pro­
totype of its Creator, the Infinite. God, as creative being and
all-Father of His family, embodies, as chief characteristics, the
two eternals: Love and Wisdom, which assures, insofar as He is
concerned, that all creative ability and energy will be eternally
directed into channels of usefulness or constructiveness.
In one manner ofexpression He is the impersonal personifica­
tion of the Divine Law of Love; the Ideal or ultimate of Infinite
goodness. Man, being an expression of the Infinite, embodies
these expressions in potentiality. Man, in toto, created after the
Divine likeness, is an embryonic embodiment of the Cosmic
Creator. Whether or not he will manifest this supreme attain­
ment is left to his own choice.
The Divine Law in one of its highest aspects is not to be
thought of as an external authority, something outside of man,
but as the incentive of qualities and tendencies inherited in
the Soul itself. It comprises the intricate parts which cannot be
separated from the Soul and must become aroused, unfolded
and grow as normally and naturally as the embryonic seedling
locked up in the acorn, which under normal and natural condi­
tions will germinate and become an oak. The law o f the oak is
within the acorn itself.
It has a choice ofonly one oftwo things: the seed, which con­
tains the picture or image of the oak, either dies and rots, or the
seed germ sprouts, grows and becomes an oak. The law govern­
ing the Soul of man and the seed germ of the oak are identical.
“Each must produce after its own kind, or die.
creative faculties toward the fulfillment of a noble ideal. It cons-
cously accepts its responsibilities for the accomplishment of this
Great Work.
Although possessing in potentia divine attributes and possi­
bilities, man as he ordinarily exists, lives and has his being, has
lost all recollections of his first estate - before his “fall.” He is
governed by his animal tendencies because he gives thought to
little or nothing else.
To express this more accurately, man is purely a carnal, sen­
sual being, governed by the desires ofthese natures. Certainly he
is given possession of a “Soul” or, more correctly speaking, he is
entrusted with the Divine Spark which may ultimately become
A Soul, but which is now all but dead; little else than a possibil­
ity.
Instead of recognizing the promptings which the Law itself
sends out from its station or center, much as the radio station
sends out its waves, he is bewildered by the dual inclinations of
good and evil, both arising within him and creating a constant
conflict in his nature and inclinations.
The Spark of Divinity is smouldering beneath the ashes of
carnality and selfishness. The desires of the body have been so
constantly gratified from infancy that by the time the child at­
tains the age of accountability he recognizes no higher appeal
than the flesh. His Soul nature is buried beneath earthly desires
and tendencies, and his Divine heritage virtually lost.
The body, having no Divine impulses, holds supremacy over
the entire being. Flesh and fleshy desires are in control. The car­
nal nature is supreme. The mind, unawakened to the dictates
of a higher plane of thought, meekly favors selfish and sensual
this inertia to a recognition of his true responsibility.
“Repent ye, for the Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.” This
warning must be sounded with convincing force. “Seek ye the
Kingdom of God and its righteousness.” This great Law must
be brought to mans attention again and again, with increasing
emphasis.
Convinced that it is his duty to put forth every effort to find
the Kingdom of God within his own being, his conscience be­
comes aroused to activity, and a conflict quickly commences
between the lower self with its ignoble demands and the Soul
nature with its idealistic tendencies.
This war of the two natures is to be regarded as an omen of
health rather than of disease and is not cause for discourage­
ment. It indicates that the Soul and its monitor, the conscience,
are being awakened, and that the mind is becoming alive to its
true function of utilizing its powers and faculties, its thoughts
and desires, in furthering Soul growth.
During this stage man requires careful guidance that he may
skillfully train his mind to become the redeemer of his own
spiritual nature. Through firm and steady use of Will power,
by directing his mental activities and faculties into constructive
channels in harmony with an exalted and ennobling Ideal, man
will bring about the eradication, or rather, the Transmutation of
all evil tendencies and desires ofhis mortal nature. By doing this
“mortality has (will have) taken on Immortality,” the fulfillment
of the Law.
Evil has its origin in mans carnal nature. It consists in using
for evilpurposes that which isgood in itself. The redemption from
evil, i.e., the elimination of evil, can be brought about only by
5. THE LAW OF COMPENSATION
Who is a failure in the correct sense of the term? Why do so
many men fail?
Failure implies that a man has not fulfilled his full duty ei­
ther as it concerns himself or others; that he has failed in some
manner to meet the conditions necessary for success. In other
words, it indicates that in his own case he has not paid the price
demanded for success; has not complied with the terms of the
Law of Compensation.
Man was created in the image ofhis Creator. He is potentially
endowed with all of the attributes, possibilities and creative ca­
pacities that his Creator possesses, though of course in lesser
degree. This being admitted, it is certain that in the case of fail­
ure it is due either to ignorance regarding the things he seeks to
accomplish or achieve, or the incorrect use of his forces, power,
abilities or knowledge.
The Nazarene gave us what is perhaps the simplest, yet most
difficult, of all Laws for success: “Seek ye first the Kingdom of
Heaven, and all these things shall be added unto you.” By no
means should we construe this in a purely religious sense. It
is sound business sense. It commands no more, no less, than:
“Do all things right - correctly,” then all things may be yours.
To accept this command, to comply with it, is the assurance of
success.
This statement means exactly what it says. It is a fair, just,
righteous command. First be certain that you (a) know what
you want to do, (b) learn how to do it, (c) proceed to do it the
way it should be done; and, more important still, (d) do it when
it should be done and (e) in the spirit in which it should be done;
workingpatiently andpersistently until the task is accomplished.
of these latencies to a state of dynamic efficiency and construc­
tiveness. If man is actually willing to do this and proceeds to do
so, he will soon realize that all things are within the individual,
ready to be made available and productive.
To become capable of applying these talents and potentiali­
ties, man must search his own within. This is implied most posi­
tively in the command “Seek youfirst t\\t kingdom of Heaven.”
He must learn how to explore this inner kingdom, a world or
universe in itself, and there discover the means of attainment
and accomplishment. He must seek for and proceed to attain
self-mastery, making himself proficient and efficient in the ap­
plication of his creative power of thought, desire (love for the
thing he seeks to achieve and accomplish), and the Will to stick
to it until the accomplishment has been achieved.
In the meantime he dare not neglect the opportunities offered
him in the material world ofsense, but must thoroughly prepare
himself in the fundamentals and basic principles of the work
which he seeks to accomplish. Preperation and uninterupted ef­
fort are the fundamentals of success. Some there are who, be­
cause of their knowledge and ability to succeed; others must
learn from the beginning and develop the ability.
The inner realm of untold possibilities is indeed the “King­
dom of Heaven” or of “all good and righteous things,” and else­
where termed “the Kingdom of God and His rightousness.” It is
well named, for it is the domain where reside, to be drawn upon,
all the Divine powers and resources with which the Creator en­
dowed his creature.
However, this thought must be emphasized: Even thought all
that is to be found in this inner self may have been developed
both materially and spiritually, will be yours.” Such is the Law.
It is the plan of the Divine Law that man should succeed in
the realm of his choice, but the Divine inculcation - “ Seek ye
first” - commands that man must start with righteousness, i.e.,
begin rightly.
The responsibility of accomplishment rests entirely with the
individual himselfand the method he pursues. He must be will­
ing to “pay the price,” because another Law is: “Only the laborer
[after he has labored) is worthy ofhis hire,” hence success that is
real and lasting follows only after man has obeyed all the parts
of the Law. The greater the purpose and the higher the plane he
seeks to achieve, the heavier will be the price he must pay. This
includes self-preparation and effort.
These two are ever and forever the handmaidens of success.
Excuses for lack of preparation and inertia (laziness) are not ac­
ceptable in the realm of success. Effort continued and sustained
- labor - alone is the exchange to be made. That which is ob­
tained or gained except by fair exchange is robbery and will be
recalled at a moment least expected.
He who demands, or accepts, that which he has not earned
beggars himself. He is thereby “beholden” to the giver; he is
“subsidized” and to that degree in bondage, hence a slave. He
has not complied with the Law of seeking first the “Kingdom,”
i.e., depending upon himself and his God-given abilities and
capabilities.
The just, those who acknowledge the Law, investing effort,
time, material substance and making the necessary sacrifices
in achieving or gaining possessions, experience great joy and
pleasure in possession. Theirs is a righteous feeling for honestly
advancement, thwarting their efforts. This may be true, possibly
is, but if so then it is the incontestable proof that they are slaves
and in bondage to conditions or persons that stand between
themselves and the fulfillment of their desires.
It is a certainty that until they arouse themselves and rise
above such bondage and obtain their freedom, they are unwor­
thy of freedom and success, irrespective ofwho or what happens
to be their stumbling block. The price of liberty (freedom) is
eternal vigilance.
It is equally true that the price to be paid to rise above cir­
cumstances, conditions and environment is constant effort, the
never-give-up spirit, the 1-Will-Win determination uninterrupt­
edly adhered to.
Countless others believe foolishly that the secret of success,
or getting into more desirable circumstances, rest with someone
else; that some outside power or influence is capable of lifting
them out ofthemselves. This may be true in many instances, but
it is an artificial success and is only temporary. Those who believe
this, and they are legion, continually seek for something outside
of themselves as a means of advancement. They seek to be sub­
sidized, unaware that this is nothing less than selling themselves
into bondage and far less desirable than ordinary failure.
To many depend upon influential friends, relatives or a “pull”
with political factions. When these fail, they are in despair and,
lacking the manhood and incentive to depend upon themselves
and their own abilities, they forfeit what might be turned into
success and therefore fail, condemning and damning everyone
but the right one, themselves.
Admittedly, no man is sufficient unto himself, nor able to live
position for every capable man. In this effort others may be of
great service in guiding and preparing him, just as he later may
render like service to others.
However, he must not get the idea that others can do this
work of preparation for him or even make it easier for him,
because the effort necessary will give him the strength to carry
through to success after he has prepared himself.
“Seek first the Kingdom of Heaven” signifies that it is incum­
bent upon man to first labor for the attainment of oneness and
harmony (a state of peace) within the self and not be torn con­
stantly by conflicting desires and uncertainties.
Such conflicting desires and uncertainties are always certain
to bring about failure and defeat in whatever the undertaking
may be. “Be sure (certain) you are right, then go ahead,” unfal­
teringly and unhesitatingly. The individual must establish peace
(certainty and assurance) in his own household: his thoughts,
desires, purpose and motives.
Nothing is certain so long as the carnal desires are toward one
thing, the mind toward another, and the spiritual self toward
still another, and, possibly, in addition to all this inner conflict
and turmoil, family and friends in still another direction. A man
in such a position is like an aviator who finds favorable indica­
tions in one direction, but flies in a directly opposite and dan­
gerous one.
All too many, perhaps ninety-nine out of every hundred, fan­
cy they want certain things above all others. When the desire
is subjected to reason and analysis they find themselves wholly
uncertain, their convictions at cross purposes and without a real
urge to proceed in the indicated direction for success.
Even casual, listless, dreamy, fanciful visions of him-self in the
desired position, if these are incentives to action, will be of some
slight avail. Man must fully comprehend that his thought king­
dom, must be changed into “the Kingdom ofHeaven” within his
own being and through his own resources and manifold powers.
This is in truth and fact the Center ofCausation, the Crucible
ofPower. We should learn to understand the psychological prin­
ciples and Divine Laws underlying and controlling the activities
of both thought force and Will power - while also cultivating
the ability to recognize and the Will power to do our God-given
duty - whatever it may be. An understanding of these principles
and Laws will enable man to consciously direct all the energies
and faculties ofhis being into channels for the attainment or ac­
complishment of his desires.
At this point of the progress of the individual he is depend­
ent upon and requires the help of instruction and direction of
one who fully understands the laws and principles of construc­
tive thinking, wise direction and the efforts necessary to attain
success. No one but himself can make the effort and do the
work, but others can teach and guide him in the principles of
self-mastery - the first step toward mastery of conditions and
circumstances - encourage and guard him until such time as he
is capable of charting his own path.
It is at this point that man most frequendy meets with fail­
ure. Due to erroneous concepts and a disregard for the Law of
Compensation, he is all too often unwilling to pay the price
of attainment; to comply with the requirements of the Law of
Compensation and fair exchange.
Once he understands the underlying principles and the
others may say or think, and there is a nameless and indefin­
able dread in making the necessary change. We have this fear or
dread even when moving from one house to another; one city
to another.
Moreover, there is still another price to be paid for success
or attainment. This involves pain of another type; the repeated
struggles and battles with the lower nature clamoring for the
ease and pleasure of a less strenuous life. It is not yet fully un­
derstood that when the challenges of the lower, lazy nature are
met and overcome, the battles won, they give man in exchange
a constantly increasing strength and ability to meet still greater
difficulties and overcome them, which in turn offer still more
strength.
The Law of Compensation concerns the individual; every in­
dividual, in its relation to fairness and justice. He who is helped
by another, or accepts something from another, should willingly
comply with the requirements of the Law of Exchange. The
principle and honor embedded within should urge man to not
only willingly obey the law, but be anxious to do so in order to
remain free, whether or not the creditor is in need of repayment.
The Law is not concerned with what others may need, but with
the nature of our inner self.
As soon as a man becomes convinced of the absolute and un­
erring accuracy of the Law of Compensation in every depart­
ment of life, he will at the same time realize that his own self-
preservation, self-promotion and inner happiness (peace and
contentment) are undeniably dependent upon his satishying the
requirements ofthis law. The Law is self-operating; self-reacting.
To possess true friends, one must feel real friendship and offer
they will ultimately be successful, while the others will remain
failures; the victims of both themselves and those who possess
the shrewdness to use their weakness to their own benefits.
What is the reason for these diverse issues? What is the under­
lying principle involved? At first glance, and without full knowl­
edge of the Law, this is not so readily understood, but a careful
analysis furnishes the answer.
Those who seek the best, and find it, are willing to make an
exchange ofequal value, no matter what sacrifice is necessary. In
doing this they raise themselves up; uplift themselves, thereby
raising their vibrations, attracting to themselves the best there is
for their welfare.
On the contrary, those who compromise with their higher na­
ture, those who are “cheap” with themselves, and who, opportu­
nity offering, will take advantage of others for their own benefit,
thereby lower their inner nature and their vibrations to such an
extent that they draw to themselves just what they deserve.
He who sincerely is seeking to attain the highest, whether it
be material or spiritual, is not actuated by the thought or feel­
ing; “I cannot afford it,” but by the question: “Can I afford to
do without it? When our ambition reaches the conviction that
nothing but the best will do, then we willingly work to obtain
the best.
This does not imply that in ordinary life, merely knowing
what is best and wanting the best, will enable us to immediately
step into the exact position desired. It is necessary to first hilly
prepare to fill such a position. In the meantime we should gladly
accept any position, however menial, and in that lowly position
give our best, lifting ourselves, as a result, up to the spirit of the
In our emphasis on the acceptance and fulfillment of the Law
ofCompensation we should not become guilty ofwithholding a
neighborly spirit, nor refuse kindly help to the needy. We must
indicate by our actions that to be worthy of the pleasures of
human intercourse and good-fellowship we must not forget the
necessity of living in the spirit of the Law.
To become a recipient of regard, we must in turn be a giver.
To expect honest and just treatment in our business transac­
tions, we must in turn render like service to others; remember­
ing at all times that “to give is to receive,” if not at once, then
certainly “after many days and when most in need.”
In accepting anything whatever, even as a gift, we are held
strictly accountable to the Law. If we do not give freely in re­
turn, then at some time, somewhere, by some means, we will be
deprived of an equal value as an exchange or repayment; hence
it is better to remember the Law and consciously and willingly
comply with the Law.
The operation of this Law is unerring, impersonal and accu­
rate. We do pay for all we receive, whether we know it or not;
either consciously and deliberately, or grudgingly and unwill­
ingly. The losses, injuries and misfortunes, and even the rebuffs
of daily life are all too often the demand of repayment by the
Law, or because we fail to live in the spirit of it, even though we
comply with it physically or materially.
How much happier and successful life would be if we would
willing comply with the Law’s principle of equality and equi­
librium, instead of so frequently cheapening our character and
spirit by the attitude of mind savoring of continuous “bargain­
hunting,” even in spiritual things.
6. THE “WHY” OF SUFFERING
Man suffers and is in sorrow! Is suffering mans enemy or his
greatest friend? Will man ever regain his Divine inheritance
without the agony of suffering to awaken him from error into
enlightenment? Is not suffering the effect of a condition which
should arouse man to seek the cause and be the incentive for the
elimination or removal of the cause responsible for his suffering?
There are many reasons for mans suffering. Almost all ofthem
may be roughly grouped into four classes:
First: The pains, sorrows and miseries caused by his own acts
and committed in the present life.
Second: The misfortunes and losses due to his own actions
but committed in former incarnations.
Third: The sorrows, losses and distress following in the wake
of his own sins of omission.
Fourth: The misfortunes, sufferings and sorrows resulting
from the acts and interferences of others and for which the vic­
tim is in no sense responsible.
All of the undesirable experiences we pass through as a result
of the first group of causes are due to the activity of the Law of
Consequences; the effects following causes. These might righdy
be classified under the Law of Retribution.
These experiences include distress of every type, pains and
suffering, sorrows and losses as a natural result - the inevetable
consequences of our own thoughts, desires and acts. The princi­
ple involved can be succinctly stated as: Thoughts, desires, and
our actions as a result of them, though the unerring and unpre-
ventable operation of an impartial and irrevocable Law, produce
“fruit after their own kind.” The returns, whether happy or sor­
rowful, painful or pleasant, are the result of a cause which we
insignificant and insufficient it may be, becomes guilty of the
sin of omission ifhe neglects to perform his full duty. He simply
stores up Karma that must be paid at some fixture time, possibly
when he is least able. The inadequacy ofthe compensation is not
an excuse.
The mere acceptance of the terms, though unjust, makes him
responsible for rendering his duty fully and well performed. It is
a contract; a contract is an obligation; an obligation is a promise;
a promise is a vow. This is the Law; the Law is just.
Under that Law a wise Providence with its exacting Law has
decreed, that if the illy paid laborer, or any laborer, for that mat­
ter, performs more than he has agreed to do and for which he is
not reimbursed fairly, he thereby accumulates a “fund” for the
future which will inevitably be turned over to him when he is
most in need.
The housewife who neglects her duty, illy performs them or
procrastinates, is guilty under this Law. The business man who
employs unfair methods, renders poor services or charges more
than honest prices, is equally guilty. The employer of labor who
takes advantage of those who labor for him is guilty.
All may profit for a time, but sooner or later the “laborer must
be paid” and he will be paid according to the labor rendered
and in the spirit in which it was rendered. “Man reaps as he
sows,” whether this be “wheat,” i.e., work well done, service ren­
dered or fair compensation returned; or the sowing of “tares,”
the shirking of one’s duty; promises broken, or advantages taken
of others.
To more fully understand the Law of Consequences, and of
course, the Law of Compensation, we should possess a full com-
This Christos is just like a mortal child. It requires arousing and
nourishing as the loving mother does her child. It must be well
guarded, and this guarding and nourishing grows out of our
deeds of goodness and kindness and our conscious efforts to
bring the innate Spark into Consciousness.
When and as we think elevating and ennobling thoughts,
when our thoughts are constructive, and when our deeds are of
goodness and kindness, when graciousness possesses the heart,
all this is impressed upon the Christos, the Immortal Spark
within us. If such exalted thoughts, creative desires and noble
deeds continue, then this tiny Spark ofJehovah, this eternal Fire
Spark within, will become more and more aroused, and in good
time the Chistos becomes the risen Christ; man has become the
Son of God.
On the contrary, if the thoughts are evil, the desires degrad­
ing, hence destructive, and the acts evil, then the Light of this
Christie Fire is that much more dimmed. Whatever the intent
of the thoughts, desires and deeds, the Law of Consequences or
Compensation functions in harmony. He who sows wheat, shall
eat the bread oflife; he who sows tares, shall be burned with the
tares. This is the Law.
When mans deeds are more evil than good, there is no spir­
itual growth. The Soul-potency remains in an inert, unaroused,
and non-individual state. There is an accumulation of the debris
that effectually buries the tiny spark ofthe Divinity. This contin­
ues until the time of the death of the body. Then the part from
Jehovah returns to the storehouse ofGod, and man - the person­
ality - is dead unto destruction. To him has been offered the gift
of individual Immortality, and he, in his blindness, refused it.
or, even, by lack of responsiveness to offered kindness. These are
merely a few ofthe avenues through which we may be the means
of inflicting sorrow and misery on another by our attitude of
mind.
Then, there are manifold practices in which we may be unjust
to another by our words; saying unkind things; spreading evil
reports; insinuations and subtle suggestions of discredit. Again,
we may deeply injure another by the injustice of our deeds in
business transactions and by the various other means coming
under the category of wrongdoing.
Much of our own suffering is due to the reactionary influence
ofthings mentioned. There are few of us who have not done and
said much to cause sorrow or loss to others. O f this we would
be well aware, had we a more comprehensive understanding of
the Law.
Financial losses may be traced to the defiance of the Divine
Law. In some way, at some time, we failed to give full value for
something received; or, in doing work for which we received
value, but did not render hill equivalent in service. This may
have continued for a long period, all ofwhich was placed against
us by the Divine Law, and, meeting with a loss, we are simply
paying that just debt with added interest. We are called on to
pay it, not to the person we injured or defrauded, but to the Law
ofRighteousness. This same Law will wisely operate that the one
whom we wronged, is recompensed justly.
Let us consider the justice ofthis all-governing dispensation. It
may be that I, personally, am a drone, and refuse to do the work
that I am capable of performing. However, I have the means to
hire some one to do that which I might, and could, do myself.
Having committed evil or “sin,” and man does this continually
and consistently, consciously and unconsciously, he seeks to re­
gain his freedom from the serfdom to which evil sentences him.
By rendering service where it is actually needed and in other
ways man can pay his indebtedness to his fellow man and the
Law of Karma. If he fails in doing this during his present earth
life, then he must return to the earth plane, laboring, sorrow­
ing and suffering until he becomes conscious of the cause of
his “evils” and begins to free himself by living the exalting, con­
structive life. This means neither more nor less than to live a
natural, normal and spiritual life.
Once man attains to Soul Consciousness and the At-One-
Ment, he will cease to be guilty of the thoughts, acts and de­
sires which bring him naught but the undesirable. He will pay
his Karmic debts. After his Illumination or finding of the light
within, all that he does will be with the thought of good, both
to himself and to others. In this way he will not only gain his
freedom from the Karmic Law, but he will at the same time “lay
up his own treasures in Heaven.”
Reincarnation is made necessary by the functioning of the
Law of Karma and the payment of all debt upon the records of
the Soul. Reincarnation is necessary only for those who refuse to
live according to the dictates of the Divine Law. True, at times
some of those who did attain to Illumination and Soul Con­
sciousness, who became Sons of God, hence one ofthe Gods, do
return to earth, but this is of their own free choice, because they
so “loved the world” they desire to return to it; rendering serv­
ice, giving guidance to those in need and sincerely desiring it.
Man is in no sense responsible for the suffering, sorrows and
Illumination.
Unfailingly must we remember that there is no reward for loss
and discomfort when we accept it with impatience or with com­
plaint. The fretting under the injustice will offset any benefit
that might otherwise justly accrue to us. It is written of Apol­
lonius ofTyana that no matter what he was forced to suffer, he
always accepted it with patience, without a word of complaint,
as thought he were meeting something that was his due.
As a result, for every agony through which he passed, he re­
ceived greater power to do greater work, and additional strength
to undergo trials. Is is not always easy to understand whether a
certain test or undesirable experience is due to our misdeeds in
this or a past life, or something for which we are in nowise re­
sponsible. It is for us to accept that which we cannot avoid, and
to do so in harmony with the Law of love.
We must learn from the lives of the Initiate Masters that no
one is exempt from suffering so long as he is on the earth plane.
The Master often passes through far grater agonies than could
possibly be experienced by the unenlightened of Gods children.
The refinement of the material elements produces a sensitive­
ness unknown to the ordinary mortal and it is because of this
transmutation of the gross into the refined that the sorrows and
miseries of the Master or Initiate are so much greater than those
of earth’s children. The earth plane is a training school for all. If
we refuse to master our lessons during regular hours, we must
remain while others more obedient have their freedom.
To summarize the four groups which cause suffering, here are
the facts in condensed form:
1. For the thoughts, desires and acts of the present life, these
7. SOUL ILLUMINATION vs. DESTRUCTIVE
NEGATIVISM
To the majority ofWestern minds, the terms Initiation, Master­
ship, Adeptship and Illumination, or Psychism, Yogism, Occult­
ism, Mysticism and even spiritualism, are more or less synony­
mous, vague terms and thoroughly confusing.
It is important to students, as well as to those who are inter­
ested and may become students, that they have a clear and read­
ily understandable definition of these terms. It is our purpose to
present in unmistakable terminology the dangerous tendencies
and the ruinous effects certain forms ofYogism, Psychism, Spir­
itualism and other forms of practice may have on the Western
constitution. We will contrast these practices with forms of true
development leading to Initiation, Soul Illumination and the
New Birth as indicated in Sacred literature.
YOGA and YOGI
The terms Yoga and Yogi have come to us from India, and to
the people of that country have a specific meaning. It is not
generally known to the students in the Western world that in
India there are two distinct systems of practice. The one class
in times past represented the true Initiates or Adepts. These are
now practically unknown, due to the degradation of that peo­
ple. The other class, numerous in the Orient, represents a type
ofYogism that deserves unflinching condemnation.
It is this class that is so active in America and has claimed,
and continues to claim, so many victims who, as a result of the
practices taught, become negatives and incurable neurotics. It
can be stated as a basicfact that no form of Orientalism is wholly
suitable to the Western mind and if consistently practiced,
always leads to negativism and ultimately to the unbalancing of
the mentality and the shattering of the nervous system.
He who follows this path develops into a mere machine, a play­
thing of disembodied spirits or of his own degraded imagina­
tion. He may master certain forces sufficiently to enable him
to employ them in producing phenomena, but in turn he is
enslaved by these forces and becomes an unthinking machine,
controlled by forces which are themselves the result of destruc­
tive tendencies and practices.
PSYCHISM
Much of what is known in the 'Western world as Psychism
comes under the same classification as Yogism. Anyone who is
truly seeking and trying to attain to the highest must shun it .
Those who are engaged in this type of misnamed development
always follow procedures which bring about negative conditions
of body and mind and are destructive to the truly spiritual, the
Christos within. We recognize no exceptions.
It is impossible to become a Psychic (this term is actually a
misnomer) without first becoming a negative; subject to foreign
entities and to inimical forces surrounding those who practice
Psychism. True development, seeking Regeneration or the new
birth, is always positive.
Individuals who become psychics or victims to any form of
negative practices are most often women of highly refined and
sensitive natures. The more refined, the easier it is to become
negative. Because of the practices followed, negatives are almost
invariably physically delicate, possessed of a highly-strung nerv­
ous system emotional in temperament and lacking in self-con­
trol. Most of them have been deeply disappointed in life in one
manner or another, and seek to find in psychic practices some­
thing that will help to fill the void in their lives. Strange as it may
led to the game. In like manner through sensing the Universal
Atth that would be connected with herself, the psychic would be
enabled to comprehend the influences about her.
Records ofinvestigation prove that this does not occur; conse­
quently, there can be but one conclusion; psychics are the dupes
of their own negative physical and mental conditions, resulting
from their continued harmful practices which deplete them of
their vitality and unbalances them; reason giving way to uncon­
trolled emotions.
The psychic is seldom, if ever, in good physical health. The
nerves are on edge continually; fault-finding is a prominent
characteristic, combined with the sincere beliefthat he, the psy­
chic, alone is right. The emotions sway reason, rise, surge and
swayjudgment, and are without semblance ofcontrol. The sense
of self-injury, hence of deep self-pity, is strong, causing an un­
balanced judgment and soon a feeling, amounting to absolute
certainty, that they alone are of a highly developed nature, far
above the ordinary individual.
These persons who believe themselves psychic or of a highly
developed state, nearly always display signs indicative of a lack
of nerve energy, frequently to a degree of nervous breakdown.
In plain truth, they are but victims of destructive negativism due
to self-delusion, or the sapping of their vital forces by outside
influences believed to be entities.
SOUL SCIENCE IS POSITIVE AND LEADS TO TRUE
ILLUMINATION
Opposite to the Yogism, psychism, or destructive negativism as
taught and practiced in America and other 'Western countries,
there is a system ofdevelopment whose sole aim is the perfection
benefit to none. It is a detriment to all who come into contact
with those who follow the negative path, because it is an un­
natural state and leads to wrong conclusions concerning that
which is, in its very nature, high and holy.
A wrong and misdirected development of the spiritual fac­
ulties is a curse of the worse kind, leading, as it does, the one
concerned to imagine himself or herself on the road to Divin­
ity; to all that is good and desirable; whereas, in reality, it is a
path of self-delusion and finally self-destruction, mentally and
spiritually.
No possible advantage could be gained even if it were possible
to leave the body at will. The thought that it can be done and
the effort made to do it, is destructive to every fibre of the moral
and spiritual nature. The manifestation ofanything unnatural or
abnormal is to be shunned by every aspirant to Arcane knowl­
edge and attainment.
True Arcane or Soul development properly and whole-somely
directed will benefit not only he who follows the Path to the new
or second birth, but everyone else as well. He who seeks Master­
ship should constantly have in mind that the aim is Soul Illumi­
nation and Soul Consciousness, the awakening of the Christos
and bringing Him into manifestation.
Yogism in every one of its phases is anti-Christos; in the ul­
timate, Anti-Christ. Few Westerners who follow this delusion
ever give it a thought, possibly because their attention has not
been called to it.
Clear vision, generally called Clairvoyance, attained by a few,
has sometimes, been mistaken for what the possessor thinks
is the ability to “leave the body.” This error is understandable
Its ideal is to make man a man; woman a woman. Its aim is to
create of them helpers of humanity - not through a means that
weakens, or shifts the load from the shoulders on which it has
been placed, but by pointing out the way to self-help. It incul­
cates the tenet that strength comes through overcoming obsta­
cles of every type and nature.
The efforts and struggles of every-day life are the price the
sincere aspirant willingly pays for attainment and achievement
in both natural and spiritual activities. The true aspirant, like the
real Initiate, never makes definite claims to Illumination or Soul
Consciousness. He never displays his powers; rather, he hides
from his “left hand the kindly deeds ofthe right” and strictly ob­
serves the truth of the statement: “he who talks does not know;
he who knows does not talk,” and certainly he does not prosti­
tute or commercialize his spiritual possessions.
Further contrast is to be noted between the two paths or types
ofdevelopment in the fact that negative practices exalt and exult
the personality, the outer self, the perishable part of man’s na­
ture. It perpetuates its life by advertising itselfin one manner or
another; by the manner of clothing worn, a display of one thing
or another, ofsetting the selfup above others. The negative Yogi,
psychic, or call him what you wish, is an exhibitionist, because
he also is an egotist.
True, positive, practical efforts in spiritual development give
birth to humility, and develop the individuality, the inner self,
the Christos, the “child” that has as yet not attained to having
been “born again.” Its whole aim is the development of the soul
with all its potential possibilities.
Positivemethods ofdevelopment do not ignore the personality,
This system ofdevelopment leading to final Initiation also aimed
at the development of the mind that it might become capable
of clear thinking, clear reasoning and accurate analysis; follow­
ing this, through careful direction of the positive mental facul­
ties, the Neophyte developed the interior, spiritual alter-self, the
Soul.
When the student had finally, by persistent, conscious, posi­
tive effort, grown into Individualization or become Soul Illu­
minated by means of inner development, his life of usefulness
began. Frequently he became a teacher or physician, ofservice to
all in need. His was always a positive, active, practical, natural,
constructive life. He had become a man in the true sense of that
word, a free man, slave neither to men, his own passions, nor
the forces of nature. This training was exemplified in the new or
re-birth.
Contrasting the actual efforts of the true Arcane schools and
their teachings with the doctrines and practices that have, in
part, or in whole, emanated from India and the vast Orient, in­
cluding those supposedly brought here from that land by fakirs
ofAmerican birth, Tibet1, all are negative in character and those
who attempt to follow them become as negative and Neurotic as
are the millions of India.
1. Tibet, the land of mystery! Also the country of supposedly great Initiate teachers. A land of
mystery it truly is; also a land of general ignorance. Those who have been honest and sincere,
unbiased and unprejudiced and have made every possible investigation, have been utterly unable
to find a single Initiate; not one who had attained to Cosmic Consciousness.
Moreover, investigation has further shown that of all those who claim to have been in Tibet and
received their Initiation in that land ofmystery, possibly no two have ever been near that country
and certainly never received Arcane (Occult) training and Initiation there. Even if they had, such
instructions and training would be decidedly less useful to the Western mind than it is to those
who actually live there. What have the people of Tibet done for themselves by means of their
supposedly great knowledge? What has the priesthood ofTibet done for the people? What, in
either a material or spiritual sense, hasTibet accomplished that the Western people would want?
in one direction will soon find the vision beclouded and see as
“through a glass darkly.”
Mans duties are many and varied and all of them must have
their proper attention. “Thou hast been faithful to a few things,
I will make thee master over many,” (St. Matt. - 25:21) is in
itself indicative that the Master has overcome many things and
hence is above not one thing, but over many things.
The attainment of Initiation or Mastership is by no means an
assurance against what are generally termed annoyances and dif­
ficulties. Frequently, the contrary is true. These are accepted as
so many steps along the way. They are necessarily a part of life.
As shoulders become broader, burdens may become heavier.
Strength, also power, is gained by overcoming. The faculties
adapted to the overcoming of adversity would quickly become
inert and man less a man if there were nothing more to over­
come.
The Initiate Master welcomes the problems of life, both favo­
rable and unfavorable, recognizing them as opportunities to still
greatergain. His training has taught him to view conditions and
circumstances differently than most men do. He accepts condi­
tions as they appear; meeting them as man should and turning
disadvantages to benefits. He lives in a world ofaction; reconizes
action as opportunity, and advances himself by his efforts.
Action is Life, he who ceases to exert
himself ceases, byjust so much to live.
Everyone who has made a study of the subject, especially the
Occultist and physician who makes a specialty of treating nerv­
ous, neurotic or neurasthenic people, is all too well aware of the
powerful influence which the mere belief in such a possibility
has on those who believe that one person can be affected or in­
fluenced by the mind of another.
The unscrupulous, fully aware of this fact, word their adver­
tisements and literature in such manner that believers in the
power of mental influence will be drawn to them, and they, the
advertisers, reap the benefits. This is a dishonorable, degrading
and demoralizing game in which many are engaged and is suc­
cessful only because so great a number seek gain without effort;
the eternal desire to obtain something for nothing; hence dis­
honorably, ignobly and unmanfully.
All who have studied this subject are well aware of the change
that may be brought about by the action of one Will upon the
mind of another. A fact that is notgenerally understood, and never
mentioned by those who seek to benefit by advocating the study of
the subjectfor personal, selfish benefit, is that like every other ac­
tivity in which man may engage, the result is governed by a just
and righteous law - a Divinefiat that is absolute and never-failing
in its operation or reaction, a law that is a protection to all who
meet the conditions requiredforprotection.
Our purpose is to fully explain this Law which will enable
anyone to protect himself, and be protected by the operating
Law, against all who might attempt to influence him against his
Will or to his detriment in one manner or another.
Thought force, or directed will power, like all other forces
known to man, may be used for two distinct purposes. The one
door to invasion.
There are continually countless disease germs around and about
us, many of virulent types, if the body is in a normal condi­
tion, healthy and clean, such disease germs find no lodgement,
because no sooner do they come in contact with the natural
acids and alkalies of the healthy body than they are destroyed by
these acids and alkalies, in the manner of an invading army by
a superior force.
However, when the resistive forces resident in man and nor­
mally a part of his being, have become weakened due to un­
cleanliness, congestion, incorrect and improperly selected and
prepared food, dissipation, irregular hours of rest and sleep,
lack of exercise, or by an unwholesome attitude of mind such as
worry or inordinate sorrow, the evil passions and, above &\\,fear,
then natural immunity is that much reduced, the door is wide
open, disease germs, and/or viruses find ready lodgement in the
organism and result in some form of disease.
This weakness, whatever its form, is a defiance of Natures
Law. It is disobedience or defiance to Law, and such disobedi­
ence is sin. It is written that the “wages of sin, is, first disease,
then death.”
Obedience to the natural, protective Law in nature makes it
obligatory for us to live in a natural, normal manner and to ob­
serve the conditions to be complied with if we desire in turn to
be normal and healthy, and live the abundant life.
The prophylactics against disease - their prevention - are
found in natural, nourishing, well-selected foods adapted to the
individual s occupation, temperament and the demands of his
peculiar individual organism; sufficient rest and sleep; plenty of
remember this mantle of Dinine protection. Let us cultivate the
spirit of kindness and generous judgment of the acts of others.
The secret of power ofthe Master lay in this prayer: “Father, for­
give them, for they know not what they do.”To root out all feel­
ings of revenge, retaliation, resentment and hatred; to eliminate
the desire for every type of “get-even-ness;” - to substitute for all
negative, destructive tendencies the positive virtues of kindness,
graciousness and correct understanding oftruth -indicate clearly
the Path we must tread to be able to receive the overshadowing
of the Divine Law, though this does not decree that we must be
inert in our endeavor to prevent wrong being done to us or oth­
ers. It is our positive duty to discourage with all our might every
attempt to do us harm or injury.
This we may do effectively by the power the Creator gave us.
We must have a positive attitude of mind, free from fear of such
influences and hold the thought: no evilforce in the universe is
powerful enough to enter my mind, heart orsoul.
There is no power on earth strong enough to adversely influ­
ence the individual whose heart is enshrined in the armor of
pure, unselfish love toward all creatures. As the iron, white with
heat, upon which falls a drop of water, instantly dissipates it, so
the warmth of a pure heart, toward which thought vibrations of
a harmful nature are directed, will quickly change or transmute all
such evilforces into those o fpower and the means to advance and
succeed.
The heart in which love and forgiveness have their dwelling
place is mightier than the strongest Will or mentality. The
Soul which enshrines the Flame of love and good-Will is so far
above that of a perverted, though gigantic Will, and is literally
We should make ourselves powerful against the reception of evil
mental currents, not simply as a means of self-protection, but
more especially because the highest aspiration of the heart is to
do good; Because we love to do that which is best. This is real
protection against all evil.
As virtue is said to be “its own reward,” so likewise is “good­
ness its own protection.” True virtue is its own reward because
it cannot bepersuaded to do otherwise. Impartial, impersonal love
and forgiveness are self-adjusting, self-operative weapons, con­
cerning which we need give little thought except to make certain
of being free from selfish interests. The Divine Law of love and
purity of heart is automatic in its operation.
A clear conscience in respect to our own intentions and pur­
poses, even though we may be guilty of mistakes and missteps,
does more toward insuring a sense of security than any deliber­
ate effort to counteract intentional harm from another.
The mind, as well as the heart, acts like a magnet. Only that
which is drawn to the mind from the outside by means of some
power residing within itself can materially effect it. This is the
law. Something within the self is harmonious with, or receptive
to, the conditions that persist in coming our way. This may be
unconscious on our part; it may be a relic of past lives, neverthe­
less, it is still part of us and, if undesirable, must be eradicated.
Unwholesome, despairing thoughts and desires become a
center about which other thoughts and feelings of the same ten­
dency accumulate. Thoughts of failure, harm, fear, defeat and
illness, even if sent us by a master mind, find little chance of
entrance or a prolonged stay unless there is already in our nature
a center of similar thoughts.
dissatisfaction in general.
The creative forces and the transcendent powers ofthe universe
flock to the aid of all who cleanse the heart of impurity, fear
and inertia. Good, kind, noble and generous thoughts radiating
from a pure, unselfish heart become a part of the atmosphere,
or aura, surrounding the self. These thoughts contribute to the
mighty magnetic field of universal love.
Thus, by increasing the ocean, or the atmospheric sea of love
and good-will, we both add to the blessings of others and at the
same time increase the store from which we ourselves may draw.
We are limited in our drawing power only as we limit ourselves.
Thomas Paine never wrote a more potent sentence than: “The
greatest religion that man can have is to do good.” Basically we
must agree with this, since, in doing ennobling deeds, it is nec­
essary for man to possess goodness of heart. There is, however,
a negative type of goodness. Many are virtuous not because the
heart dictates the acts, but for some ulterior reason. They fear to
do otherwise or they seek for the resulting advantages.
This is a purely selfish form of goodness and fails to bring
about beneficial results or the protection of Divine Law. The
Divine Law functions only through reactionary effects of the
radiations of the heart. To outwardly perform good deeds, while
internally harboring selfish motives and ignoble purposes, does
not meet the requirements of the Laws protection. In this, as in
all other respects, the functioning of the Creative Fiat is impar­
tial, impersonal and automatic.
The thought and the motive ofthe heart determines the effect
of the deed. The intent of the heart, rather than the outer act,
sets into motion the vibratory forces and finally indicates the
This does not imply that we should not seek justice or must
again offer them the opportunity to take advantage of us; to do
this would be a weakness and on a par with the action of a man
who displayed his valuables, knowing that they would be temp­
tations to those morally weak.
When we have learned to forgive, we have found the path
leading to power, to freedom from undesirable things. This plac­
es us on a plane where the thoughts of another, or of many oth­
ers, be they ever so potent, will have no perceptible effect upon
us. The consciousness of a true, pure, kind heart makes man a
king, a free man, even in a world of slaves.
Many students have expressed the belief that, in order to be­
come free from the evil influences of other minds, it is necessary
for them to have some one - master or adept -who understands
the Laws, to create counter influences. It is undoubtedly possible
for another to do this; but it is not always a desirable method. It
is employing the Mosaic law: “an eye for an eye.” The better plan
is to learn the truth and always be protected.
There is but one satisfactory way of attaining freedom; free
the mind and heart from evil. Once this is accomplished, there
will no longer be the creation ofany but the most exalted, elevat­
ing and ennobling vibrations, thus prohibiting all low, deceitful,
malicious and destructive influences from entering within the
personal aura.
Even when we know that someone is trying to injure us by the
specific use of thought or Will power, we should seek the shelter
ofthe heart plane, and there hold the thought: “Though you are
trying to harm me, to bring me misery and failure, yet do I fully
forgive your act. Your evil be upon yourself.”
irrespective of his greatness and goodness, dwells in this mate­
rial sphere because of his need for further experience and the
necessity of greater purification. Through failures and resulting
sorrows he is induced to seek the cause thereof and to eliminate
it; he gains in wisdom and becomes enlightened. Each and every
adverse experience becomes a benefactor and not something to
dread and evade; he finally succeeds because he refuses defeat.
When he has succeeded under such conditions, he is indeed
a free man, a son of the Father. In the final reckoning, his earth­
ly mission has not been a failure, but a worthy and exemplary
success. We are not promised protection against adversity and
struggles; but guidance and strength in the midst of them, The
Divine Law teaches us to use the undesirable as stepping stones
by means of which we may climb to greater heights, to more
exalted planes, and to a clearer vision of the truth.
These are the principles leading to freedom from every form
of evil - not merely the evil sent out by malicious or self-seek­
ing minds. Do not think it possible to become free, happy and
strong through any other means than obedience to the Law of
Love and Service. Nor is it, after all, so difficult to attain this
plane. Once we are fully convinced that only the good is truly
lasting, the work is already largely accomplished. This is the
thought making us free; protecting us from all that is non-good.
of its limitations. Because of a vicious circle man has permitted
himself to be enslaved by conditions, circumstances, environ­
ments, personalities, and, above all, and most ofall, by his carnal
or mortal self; all of these stifling the constructivities of the real
man within.
Thus enslaved, man has refused to recognize the first great law
toward freedom; to become the master one mustfirst serve. To be
a free man must first learn to serve. Only by doing this will he
be able to gain the full comprehension of the suties of the serv­
ant, and what it is to be a master. By refusing to recognize this
Law, many of those who prate most of their emancipation from
bondage and consider themselves most free, are actually held on
the heaviest bondage.
By no means would we indicate that man can at “once fell
stroke” arise in anew sense of freedom and walk upright as a
truly freed man. Man’s emergences from a state of bondage to
one without limitation must pass through the various stages of
growth and development, just as the infant grows into child­
hood, and from childhood to maturity.
The creeping stage, filled with thoughts of groundless fears,
must gradually give place to the ability of holding the body
erect, which in due time leads to walking.
When man has long been accustomed to depend on the opin­
ions and creeds of other, the sense of subjugation remains until,
through trial after trial, he becomes conscious of his personal
connection with the source ofall. This is a relationship as actual
in his own individual case as that of those to whom he formerly
looked for guidance.
Naturally, time and again he attempts to sever all bonds
circumstances and conditions from which he would, and could,
otherwise shortly free himself.
No wiser saying is recorded, and none more applicable to
mortal man’s need than this: “The truth shall make you free.”
This saying is not as complete as it would be if we added
just one more word to it: “The truth applied shall make you
free.” Knowledge without being applied to conditions, is inert to
change them. What is truth in this respect: The truth that what
man has done, man may do again if he is ready and willing to
follow in the footsteps of those who succeeded in the things he
desires to do. The great teacher, the Nazarene, stated this some
what differently and more clearly:
“These and greater things than these shall ye also do, if...”
To this is to be added the precepts of another Law: Whatever
work or mission we undertake, if we are to obtain the best re­
sults, must be done in the rightspirit; willingly, gladly, wholeheart­
edly, not hesitatingly, reluctantly, grudgingly and under protest,
otherwise neither moral nor spiritual benefit will be derived
from it.
Another mighty and potent Law might well be added to this:
“Perfect love casteth out all fear.” I John 4:18.
This could profitably be changed to: “The love of doing a
thing makes it a pleasant duty and fear is forgotten.” This Law
directly informs us that when man has learned to labor in love he
has come into the knowledge andpower enablinghim to become the
master. Here is another statement of the Law:
“Thou hast been Faithful over (has willingly performed) a few
things, I (the Law) will make thee ruler over many things.” Matt
25:21.
though he may be grievously mistreated. These are all bonds
fettering the Soul to the lower self and cannot right a wrong.
The moment man decides to become free in thought and deed
and in strict accordance with the “truth that makes you free, he
must eliminate all thoughts that tend toward weakness and sub­
stitute in their stead ideals of strength, love and selfmastery.
“The truth shall make you free.” Again, what is this truth? It
is the uncontradictable fact that nothing can harm us unless we
permit it to do so. It is the truth that nothing is gained by hat­
ing another, or holding any form of illfeeling toward another,
though such a one may have been, or continue to be, the cause
of loss or pain and sorrow.
We know that everything which is really ours will be attracted
to us if we persist in the correct attitude of mind and recog­
nize that ill-will and grudges can never result in true benefit to
ourselves or to others. Love and goodwill are the only ultimate
good. Aspects of truth such as these, if accepted in the right
spirit, will set one free from the bondage of fear and limitation,
though each one must formulate a statement of truth especially
adapted to his own particular need.
The Nazarene and other Initiates of old recognized this great
Law when they formulated the statement concerning those who
would bring them harm: “Father, forgive them for they know
not what they do.”
Buddha worded this somewhat differently, saying: “To know
all is to forgive all.” This is the attitude of mind that expresses
mastery, superiority and supremacy over divers adverse condi­
tions, and will assuredly attract to the individual all that really
belongs to him, connecting him with the one and only source
within ourselves for our faults and shortcomings and to fight the
winning battles that we so vaingloriously think others should
wage within themselves.
Kindliness of thought and forgiveness toward others consti­
tute only one form of freedom; it is an important one, leading
us gradually and in an orderly process toward emancipation. The
truth that stimulates and fosters love is the truth that sets us free.
In the mind guided by a heart and filled with love, all the poten­
cies of life are to be found. Therein is latent the “peace that pas-
seth all understanding,” and in such environments is found the
state termed “heaven,” the Kingdom which all men would like
to enter but are unwilling to pay the necessary “entrance fee.”
To win the battle against error is highly desirable, but is far
from final. Freedom from one weakness, or victory in one strug­
gle, merely offers greater ability to cope with others. One prob­
lem solved confers strength to attack the next and possibly a
more difficult one.
To obtain a diploma in mathematics is not evidence that one
has solved all the problems that the science affords. Rather it is
indicative that, having mastered some problems, one is capable
of finding the solution of others, and of developing strength
whereby to gain the mastery of the future more perplexing ones.
Pleasure and zest in his subject ceases, if the mathematician is
deprived of other and more abstruse and complicated formulas
to unravel. The scientist takes pleasure in the unknown rather
than the known; the hidden, the experimental, leads him on to
deeper research and to keener investigations. The linguist takes
delight not so much in his fund of acquired knowledge as in the
opportunity of prying more deeply into the intricacies of root
unpleasant conditions or attained success in some particular
aspect and foolishly think we are at rest, an unwary step betrays
some other weakness and the battle is on once more.
This should not and must not be a source of discouragement to
the real aspirant who, if he has analy2ed his experiences as he
should, will know that with each trial comes the strength and
the endurance to insure certain victory. This also brings a deeper
humility and grace of character proportionate to the weakness
mastered.
The “ups and downs” of life enable us to become conscious
of the possibility of contacting with the one and only source of
real power; the attainment of Soul Consciousness and Oneness
with the Center of Light, Life and Love. Were it not for the
clouds, shadows and storms of life that constantly try the Soul,
we would be in danger of becoming so weak and inert as to lose
the little already gained.
Faith in, and understanding ofthe truth, together with effort,
is the key that will admit us into the storehouse of all power and
give us the means to succeed. Success in any endeavor is possible
only as we learn to truly love the task in which we are engaged.
This is the basis of all success; hence ultimate freedom. This is
the truth that should be burned deep into the consciusness of
every one seeking freedom. It is the only means sanctioned by
the Divine Law.
Manhood and reason should constantly urge us to make
continuous use of this key; use it as an incentive to unremitting
effort and labor for success. The alternations of “ups and downs,
ins and outs,”the recurrence of“tight places” in our undertakings,
the temporary blocking of the way, the seeming unfortunate
only to the degree that he has mastered his art by faithfully, duti­
fully and patiendy serving as an apprentice. The moment man
places himself, because of conceit or vanity upon a pedestal as
the Creator, as “God,” instead of as a Son of God, he is prepar­
ing for his “fall.”
It is highly important to frequently call attention to the Naza-
rene’s admonition: “ When ye think ye stand, take heed lest ye
fall.” This is especially applicable in this connection. Instead
of actually “standing,” man has progressed no higher than the
creeping stage. He moves so cautiously under the burden of fear,
hatred and malice the threegreat destroyers,; jealousy, ill-will and
the mental depressants, that when he does attain to any degree
of proficiency and wisdom, he is all too prone to become arro­
gant and vainglorious and “ride” to a fall.
On the contrary, as he begins to “bethink himself,” and as
a result of his thinking, discovers his true state; recognizes his
weaknesses; becomes acquainted with the Dicine Law, and puts
forth real effort in humility to live in harmony with the Law, he
will begin to rise up from his fallen state. Love and graciousness
will gradually, perhaps slowly and painstakingly, be substituted
for the destructive desires and carnal passions. He will be able to
stand in an upright position as “all true men should” and walk
as Manly men should. There is danger still, because much after
the child that has just learned to walk, many weaknesses remain,
and these may lead him to a fall.
Freedom in one direction attracts toward error in another.
Understanding of Divine principles, recognition of many as­
pects of truth, application of these to needs, and intelligent use
of creative power such achievements lead to emancipation and
bringing with them the identical things we do not desire.
“Does it pay? A thought, a desire or act pays only when there
is no loss either directly or indirectly, now or in the future. Feel­
ings of hatred and ill-will bring a direct and immediate loss.
Moreover, there is also an indirect loss, since harmful reaction­
ary effects must be met.
On the contrary, feelings of goodwill, love and consideration
for the welfare of others bring a double profit; immediate vi­
brations of wholesomeness and stimulation to body, mind and
Soul; also the return waves from such thoughts, which are re­
freshing and encouraging.
The fact that the constructive attitude of mind is a paying
proposition in every respect does not, however, lead to the con­
clusion that the man who is determined to live the correct life is
exempt from sorrow, loss and suffering. As long as man is domi­
ciled in the world of cause and effect, there will be occasion for
these unsought conditions; but sorrow will appear in a different
form from what it did formerly.
Such a man knows in his heart that he is trying to do his best;
that he no longer bears any ill-will to any creature; consequently,
he feels that he is not consciously at fault. The assurance of his
own attitude toward all mankind enables him to rightly accept
loss or misfortune. He comprehends that whatever comes to
him is for some good purpose, though it may not be apparent
at that particular moment. He has learned that the happening
which man usually regards as unfortunate often proves to be
a great blessing; or, at least, is preventive of something which
might have brought serious loss or great sorrow upon him.
The self, steeped in some great loss or sorrow, is unable to see
the babe to the breast of its mother, and to enthrone Love as
king upon the throne in the heart. All things must be judged in
the light ofLove, irrespective ofhow unworthy they may appear.
This thought the Nazarene had in mind when he admonished:
“Judge not that ye be not judged.” Matt. 7:1.
If we see good in all, it is a righteous judgment, even though
the good we see is the goodness within ourselves, then likewise
will we be judged. Each thought bearing on judgment is crea­
tive of a vibration; if our judgment be erroneous, and the one
judged in Love is not reached by these vibrations, they will re­
turn to us with increased power for good. That which we create
by thought, desire or act is ours, and fortunate indeed are we if
our thought creatures be born of love, kindness, graciousness
and constructiveness.
Cast all fear from the heart by replacing it with love, good will
and graciousness, but be not led into weakness. Be at all times
“wise as the serpent, harmless as the dove.” In such manner is
Freedom won.
deliberate effort.
Despite his imperfections, he is endowed with creative pow­
ers. On this plane of being and to the degree ofhis development,
he functions and manifests under the Divine Law and its infinite
variations. This fact offers us the “key” to all stages of existence
and every possibility of development.
What, then, constitutes faithfulness? Is it the possession of
faith that certain man-made claims are true? Is it that we recog­
nize the existence of God and are satisfied in that belief? Is it in
first accepting Divine Law as a fact, being obedient to it so that
we may unfold the divine the Christos - within ourselves and ex­
press it externally by manifesting the prototype of the Creator?
Man, created in the image (after the pattern) of the Father, is
not now, but may become, like the Creator. He is endowed with
power over himself, and this attained, over all things beneath
him.
An old philosopher has wisely said: “Govern thyself, than
thou mayst govern thy mate, finally a kingdom.” Our first and
most necessary duty is to learn to govern the self, then as a natu­
ral sequence, man becomes allied to all creative ability and a
co-creator with the Creator, not in the same degree, but in a
lesser sense.
This is not selfishness, otherwise it would not have been Gods
first command to man. The contrary is true. Ifman is truly faith-
fixl to himself, if he proceeds to unfold his inner potentialities, if
he endeavors to express the Divine image in which he is created,
then it is certain that he has been faithful to Gods edict and will
be as an example, a shining light, to his fellow man. The poet
expresses this well:
within every man, irrespective of his degree of moral-spiritual
development, there is something, a monitor, which silently but
impressibly tells him what is right and what is wrong. His “fall”
results when he ignores this feeling and becomes guilty of any
thought or deed which was indicated as wrong or undesirable.
This feeling of wrong becomes a feeling of guilt; an uncom­
fortableness. This creates vibrations of condemnation which will
gradually but surely manifest themselves through the personal­
ity. The ill committed against him-self through disobedience to
the law of his own being will enslave him to like conditions in
his everyday life.
For this reason it is important that man should subordinate
all tendencies toward retrogression and replace them with in­
clinations toward moral and spiritual self-improvement. This
requires conscious and deliberate effort, but it is essential in his
progress toward self-mastery. In the struggle of his dual nature,
either the lower or the higher nature will predominate and his
choice determines which it is to be. Man has the privilege of
choice, and must pay the price for his choice, which may be
either a reward or a penalty.
So far as man is concerned, he is given the privilege to gain
dominion over all things, both here below and above. He may
in truth become the “master over fate,” or permit fate to become
the master over him. He has the right, the privilege and the op­
portunity to change conditions in which he is placed; to govern
his environments, both physical and spiritual; if ifhe is willing to
make the effort andpay theprice.
If he is not willing, he is compelled topay theprice anyhow, but
will not receive the reward or blessings self-mastery would bring.
forth the fruits of the spiritual within that these may in turn
serve to guide and protect him.
When, finally, he has established the supremacy of his better
nature over the lesser, he has then earned the right, together with
the ability, to govern circumstances instead of being mastered by
them. This is possible as a direct result of obedience to the Law
of faithfulness as it concerns his every activity.
Bondage to the lower self admittedly results from ignorance
of the operation of the laws which govern man’
s fourfold nature.
This is not at all strange for the reason that all men, with the ex­
ception of those many times reincarnated, are born in ignorance
of all the laws which govern their being. This permits them to
become slaves and to remain in slavery until finally liberated as a
result of suffering, experience, and lastly, self-mastery.
Enslavement is the result of disobedience to the promptings
of man’s better nature, while the method to be followed for gain­
ing wisdom and freedom consists in a rational reversal of the
up-to-the-present way of thinking, feeling and living.
This is a twofold process: First of all, knowledge, as a result
of thinking, reasoning and effort, must replace ignorance. Sec­
ondly, as the laws become understandable they must be faith­
fully observed. As a principle, this appears to be both simple and
easy, but it requires much self-discipline, great patience and a
Herculean effort to follow through to the final achievement. The
effort is worth while. The reward is freedom from everything
that is undesirable; the ultimate conquest - “mortality putting
on Immortality.”
There is a bright side to everything. He who feels himself
enslaved by undesirable environments and self-degrading
weaknessand illness, and then giveswayto bitterness, resentment,
envy and other evil, negative, disintegrating thoughts and
feelings, he creates vibrations of like nature and these vibrations
are certain to repelpeople and conditions that might otherwise help,
and at the same time draw to the thinker those who willfurther
impoverish and degrade him. This is an absolute law based on the
indisputable fact of the Biblical edict:
“As ye sow, so shall ye reap.”
Here is the same Law in other words:
“
Action gives birth to inaction; The /^action is according to the
Action. Effort is Action, and whatever effort is made by us will
bring a inaction, or Return of our effort and the Spirit in which
it was made.”
Again Biblically speaking: “Bread cast upon the waters will re­
turn after (more or less) many days,” but whatever the time, it
will return.
It is to be emphasized that mere thought, powerfully as it
reacts upon the thinker, is, in and of itself, by no means suffi­
cient to bring about desirable conditions and environments. The
thought must give birth to vital, intense, all-firing desire.
This desire, in turn, must be the incentive to constant, never-
ending effort to bring about the desired changes. In almost all
instances of failure it will be found upon analysis that such fail­
ure was the result of ignorance, disobedience, or lack of obedi­
ence - an unwillingness to accept the truth as it manifests itself
- in some aspect of the Divine Law, which in turn affects the
individual and his immediate way of life.
Only by obedience to the dictates of the Divine Law in its
various aspects can man unfold and express the divine Image in
receive something for nothing; something which I have not
earned and for which I have made no exchange:” “Morally, am
I not in fact a thief?” “Who, if not I, will pay for it?” “If I, the
receiver, do not compensate in some manner for it, why should
anyone else, willingly or unwillingly, do so.
Strangely enough, nowhere is this desire to “receive some­
thing for nothing” more pronounced than in the consciousness
of many who profess the Truth; enlightenment; the way o flife.
Truth, admittedly, may appear to be free. So is electricity, but
to become a master electrician requires time, effort and money,
even thought nothing material is returned to the student for his
money. It is also necessary to consider proper housing, power
plants, generators and what not, all to be installed before elec­
tricity can be generated.
There is no actual difference between the electrical power
which does man’s work and the knowledge and wisdom that
will save man’s spiritual nature. Truth is free, but where and how
is it to be found or obtained?
Is it not most likely to be found among those who may have
renounced a successful career or business in order to find this
truth, first for themselves, through long hours of study and te­
dious and non-compensating years of training, in order to be
prepared to teach others the Truth, the Way and the Life?
Those properly trained and capable of guiding others are of­
ten unable to follow the usual means for a livelihood. Yet these
must live, and it is passing strange that those seeking knowledge,
wisdom and guidance expect on their part to receive it; at the
same time feeling firmly convinced that those engaged in teach­
ing and guiding them, without compensation, should live in
Very few possess the slightest idea ofthe success-attracting power
of such a desire-filled mental attitude, free from envy.
Man may consider himself as capable and worthy of high
compensation for his efforts, but conditions may be such in his
special field that he will be forced to accept but a portion of
what he feels he should receive. If, hampered by a sense of mis­
treatment, or under-payment, he shirks his duty or is unwilling
to do his best, he thereby defeats his own interest because by
his attitude he also repels the forces that would draw him to the
field of success.
Honor, another word for duty and manhood and the Law
of Faithfulness, demands that man always and under all
circumstances do his best, and, most important of all, in the
right, a willing spirit. If he is underpaid, or unjustly treated,
then, because o fhis willingness to obey the law, the Equalizing Law
will see to it that he will not only be repaid, but that there will
ultimately be an opening which will assure him success. There
is an old saying which explains this Law: “You must earn more
than you get in order to get more than you earn.”
Faithfulness to duty performed in the right (envyless) spirit
never actually goes unrewarded, even if for a time it may so ap­
pear. To evade responsibility, irrespective ofthe reason, to render
careless, shiftless, indifferent service under any circumstances, is
a direct means of binding ourselves irrevocably to the very con­
dition we seek to avoid or from which we seek to free ourselves.
He who feels himselfenslaved or retarded by another only wastes
his own time and energy by concerning himself about the one
who, in his opinion, is taking advantage of him.
The worker, irrespective of his field of labor, need concern
has worked his way through college. Through effort man gains
strength and the incentive to make still greater effort. This in
turn results in the energy which assures success.
The gross, weakening and self-defeating error ofthose who are
self-dependent is the expectation that someone else will in some
way supply their needs without any great effort on their part.
This attitude weakens and cheapens the mentality. It lowers the
vibratory forces and attracts failure. The ideal is for man to train
himselfin his ability to serve so that he may honesdy earn all he
desires and requires; and to give to others that he may receive.
Such an ideal, such a mental attitude, will free him from en­
slaving circumstances, conditions and environments and set into
motion laws - creative vibrations, - that will attract opportuni­
ties for service and place him in harmony with the creative laws
of the Universe. It will build up in him confidence in his ability,
because it is potent to arouse in him his own latent manhood.
This genuine sense of manhood creates self-respect, which in
turn will manifest itself in his personality, and all this in its turn
will attract to him, and win for him, the confidence of those
who are not only in need of his services, but are in a position to
help him to advance to ultimate and lasting success.
He who seeks to apply in his own behalf the laws of true
faithfulness must learn to look for the good in all things and not
permit the false to mislead him; he must turn present adversity
to his benefit. His efforts may for the moment appear as failure.
This should induce him to analyze them and his activity to find
the cause, even accepting every momentary failure as a stepping
stone to success. He must see in such a failure the possibility of
its having prevented him from making a real and lasting failure
It is our duty to be in constant search for the truth; for an un­
derstanding of the Divine Laws in their relation to every depart­
ment of life as it concerns us; to health, vigor and strength; suc­
cess; moral and spiritual advancement; knowledge and efficiency
in business, and happiness to be found only in well-doing and
peace of mind.
Having at least partly gained such wisdom and become con­
scious ofthe requirements of the Law, we must be faithful to the
Law and with good will try our best to fulfill its demands. We
dare not become lax in our endeavor; nor must we weaken and
exchange that which we already possess for the legendary “mess
of pottage,” otherwise, we cannot hope to succeed in finally and
fully breaking the shackles binding us to inharmonious condi­
tions and to varying degrees of bondage.
All of these things we must do for ourselves. If we permit
someone else to do it for us, we have merely exchanged mas­
ters; we have sunk deeper into slavery than before. Others, it is
true, can teach us the operation of the Law, show us the way,
encourage, guide and befriend us until we have attained to self-
mastery; but we ourselves must travel the path and by so doing
gain the strength to meet all conditions.
We must never forget the fundamental truth that “eternal
vigilance is the price of liberty” in every department of life. He
who is so short-sighted that he will permit another to fight for
his liberty will find to his sorrow that he has lost it to that other.
We must continually, without intermission or intercession, en­
deavor to unfold and express the Divine Law in all our activities;
be faithful to the ideals in whose image we desire to recreate
ourselves. Let us be too much of men to stoop to that which will
11. YOU! YOUR SOUL!
What of the Soul?
Do all Souls ultimately reach perfection? How can we account
for the various degrees of Soul development as manifested in the
lives of men?
These questions are of absorbing interest to an ever increas­
ing number of people. Many truly hunger for this wisdom and
enlightment. They will never be able to find complete peace of
mind until they obtain satisfactory answers to these questions.
They cannot obtain the answers from another. They ultimately
must find the answers within themselves by means of awaken­
ing the Consciousness of the Soul through conscious effort and
living in harmony with Divine Law.
Search as we will through all ofthe Biblical Texts, we find that
the Soul, like God, its creator, is always described as a Light, or a
Fire, and as from heaven, or on high. God is, insofar as man can
comprehend, a light or Fire.
Man’s Soul is a Spark from that Light or Fire; hidden from the
view of all, even from himself, until by effort he has brought it
(a) into manifestation and then (b) Consciousness.
The Soul ofthe average human being is deeply imbedded as in
a tomb - a tomb covered with the rubbish of his unwise (sinful)
living. It cannot be brought into manifestation or Consciousness
unless and until man awakens to the truth and then proceeds by
wise (righteous) living to gradually remove all the debris, so that
the Christos may come forth as did the Nazarene from his tomb.
When this happens then the Soul will be found to be a pure
Light. In the Arcane this process is known as Initiation.
In general sense, the Soul can be defined only in terms of its
relationship with God, its creator, and its connection with, and
air which is to be its life and takes in the “first breath,” it likewise
is given in trust a Spark from God which may, if “cherished and
protected,” and wisely guided, become a Son o f God, one o fthe
Gods.
Biblically speaking and in different phraseology we are told
that at the dawn of creation “God parted the earth from the wa­
ters and there was light over the face of the earth.” Every birth is
the creation of a new world. Once we fully understand this the
rest of the mystery is not so difficult to unravel. The new crea­
ture is born by being severed from the mother - while the “earth”
does part and the “waters” by which it had been enveloped for
many months are released. As the new creature comes forth and
inhales its first breath, the spirit of its own body, that is, the indi­
vidual life, is being isolated and lifted out of its darkness within
the “sea” into a world, the greater world, of light.
At that very moment, the Soul, or Divine Spark, an emana­
tion from Jehovah (the Creator), is drawn into this newly born
creature and at this moment there is a co-mingling of body
(earth), spirit (individual life) and Soul (the Divine).
The entity which we know as the brain becomes active. That
which we know as the mind is brought into being. An earth-
child is born with all the potentialities and possibilities, all the
opportunities and privileges, of becoming God or Cosmic Con­
scious, one o fthe Gods.
The body of man is mortal. Its creation is begun and is fash­
ioned by the earthly parents. The spirit which animated it from
the very beginning is the principle of life. This spirit of life is
common to all living things, animate and inanimate. It is an
universal principle. Being impersonal and non - individual, all
The acorn, as an example, contains within itself in potentiality
all the characteristics of the stately oak. This acorn planted in
the earth will, under proper conditions, germinate, put forth its
sprout, and grow into the tree.
As a germ, the Spark of Divinity implanted in man contains
in potentiality all the attributes and possibilities of the Divine
Nature.
As the Spark is inhaled (drawn in) by the newly born child for
its first incarnation, it is like an ungerminated seed. It is as yet
undeveloped, unindividualized, unconscious of its Divinity and
unawakened to its possibilities. Like the ungerminated seed, it is
sleeping the sleep of latency. It must continue so until man, its
possessor, awakens to his responsibility and recognizes the pos­
sibility of developing the Soul germ within himself.
If, during its first pilgrimage, the process of awakening is
begun, but not concluded, then, at the transition of the body,
which we know as death, the Soul will pass into the Soul sphere
or beyond. Here it will remain until there is an opportunity for
it to again enter upon another earthly pilgrimage to make fur­
ther progress toward achieving the final goal of the Soul, which
is Self-Consciousness.
Whether or not the Soul within any man is on its first pil­
grimage is impossible to tell, but the basic standard ofjudgment
is given us by the Nazarene: “By their fruits shall ye know then.”
By all indications there are at the present time no new
emanations from the Creator, Jehovah. This implies that Souls
now inhabiting the millions of temples of clay have been on
earth before and are in various stages of development toward the
ultimate.
Having made every effort toward attainment of Cosmic Con­
sciousness, this Soul, during the process, has become so fully
charged with the vibrations of the one supreme desire to reach
an all-around perfection and purity of heart leading to Con­
scious Individuality, that on passing through the Great Divide,
its every action is governed by this one great desire or aspiration.
It is automatically drawn to the persons and the environment
making possible its further advancement toward the ultimate
goal.
All who make a conscious and continual effort during the
present life to attain Soul Consciousness and Illumination,
whether or not they wholly succeed, have, by such efforts,
earned the right to choose what they wish to attain to in the
next incarnation, so that their progress toward the desired goal
will not be impeded following reincarnation.
To express this Law more definitely: If they will center their
desire during the present incarnation, specifically on one fixed
purpose, one governing passion, this will govern their every ac­
tivity in the Soul realm, and will be the attracting force in find­
ing the proper parents for further progress. That which becomes
established in our consciousness during the present earth life will
continue to be a controlling vibratory force until another and
stronger force takes its place.
This change must be made by us if we desire advancement.
The magnetic or vibratory (this is one and the same) force re­
sulting from one intense desire long adhered to, will guide the
Soul to a parentage and environments that will best enable the
Soul to attain its desire and fulfill its wishes. Such a Soul, having
become highly sensitized by its one dominant desire and willing
conscious efforts and attained to Soul Consciousness and
Illumination. These have become, by right of choice and correct
living, Sons o fGod, one with the gods. They have attained to or
found “the Kingdom of Heaven.”
They have the right of choice between leaving the earth plane
permanently and becoming one of the Hierarchies of the White
Brotherhood, or returning to the earth plane, becoming teachers
and guides to mankind and experiencing with them their sor­
rows and joys. Many of these reincarnate at a time best suited to
render real service to mankind.
Through suffering, man awakens to the undesirability of liv­
ing the purely carnal life. Many ofthese become conscious ofthe
benefits of the higher life. As the years pass, more and more of
them will adopt and follow the path ofthe way oflife. Many will
attain to Soul Consciousness; choose to become world teachers;
be of service to mankind and advance the cause of good will to
men; peace on earth; thereby bringing nearer the promise of
the “Kingdom of Heaven on earth,” as visioned by John, the
Revelator.
An advanced Soul may be governed by some special desire,
such as a passion for music or art, but be unable to fully real­
ize this ambition during the present incarnation. Such a Soul,
though having gained full Soul Consciousness and otherwise
free, would not find complete happiness in “heaven.”
The vibrations governing such a desire have a tendency to
gradually draw the Soul earthward until it finds the proper
medium for its reincarnation in a family offering the opportunity
to become a Master artist and fulfill its desire. Ifthe Soul permits
itself to be governed by the desire it will be brought back into
by any impressed vibrations strong enough to attract them to
any specific medium during incarnations, nor for any specific
purpose. They live and are wholly governed by their own weak­
nesses and by those who take advantage of them. They must
continue to so live, life after life, until there is an awakening - a
“baptism by water” - and a new understanding comes to them.
Perhaps a far greater number of the human family are lower
than these. They are those who do not even attempt to make
anything of life. They are satisfied to live a life which is abnor­
mal to both man and animal; a life characterized by immorality,
thievery, cruelty and by taking every possible advantage of oth­
ers.
These live solely for the selfish self without a thought for the
welfare of others. They would consider it a weakness to give
a kindly thought to their fellowman. They simply exist, and
though endowed with the right of choice and free-will, they fol­
low the path of darkness.
The Souls of these have never been aroused from their slum­
bers. On leaving the house of clay and desolation such a Soul
is nothing more than a Spark or atom of Divinty; little more
awakened than it was when it first emanated from Jehovah, its
creator. In this unaroused, unawakened, unconscious, non-in-
dividualized state, it returns to the universal storehouse of Soul
emanations whence it came.
At a later time such a Soul will once more be given an op­
portunity to enter upon a cyclic round of pilgrimages for the
purpose of ultimately becoming cognizant of its real mission on
earth.
There is another large class of Souls which are to be shunned
These are all Souls which continually do evil and, inevitably,
they shall meet the fate of the Law. They are the Lucifers of the
ages, the Angels cast down from heaven, because having gained
some degree of Divine wisdom, they use it for evil purposes in­
stead of for their own welfare and the advancement of others.
There are others even more evil than these. They are those
who in a former life gained great knowledge of the Divine Law
and its possibilities. They developed great power but began to
misuse these forces. Before they could complete their evil pur­
poses they passed into the Great Beyond, from whence after a
time they reincarnated.
In due time they again resumed their evil actions, developing
into the egomaniacs and destroyers we have known and which
history records. These are the Souls which, having so grossly
sinned, are “destroyed,” though it is not the Soul Spark itself
that is destroyed, but the individuality wherein it was incarnated
for the time being.
Insanity was once considered as a great Soul evil, but it need
not necessarily be such, as the condition may be almost wholly
of mind and body. The causes are varied and many. It may be
brought about by over-work; efforts beyond the endurance of
the physical. It may be the result ofsome great sorrow; it may be
some severe illness; it may follow long-continued indulgences;
denials of necessary rest or sustenance of the body. It may have
been induced by a multitude of other causes; all due to igno­
rance and disobedience to natural laws, but not necessarily to
viciousness of any nature.
In all instances where deliberate evil was not the cause and
where the Soul had gained Consciousness, the misfortune of
Why do churchmen evade the subject?
“For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world,
and lose his own Soul? - St. Mark 8:36.
Once we accept the implication of this question as a fact, as a
truth, as a Law, then we must at once recognize that the most
important thing in life and throughout all life, is our spiritual
welfare - the soul.
From the beginning of the age of responsibility to the end of
life we should not recognize anything as ofgreatervalue than the
Soul. We may with benefit and profit work for the possession of
things which will make life more pleasant and easier, but we must
not neglect the welfare o fthe soul.
When working toward success in any business or profession
we may not put off until tomorrow that which we should do
today, lest it result in failure, so may we not, must not, dare not
say, or even admit to ourselves, that the spiritual need of today
can be put off till tomorrow, lest there be no tomorrow. Under
such circumstances we may succeed, or partly succeed in attain­
ing success, and have gained “a little ofthe whole world,” but the
Soul, and all that belongs to us, will be lost.
It is our privilege, aye, our duty to improve our every condi­
tion in life. This is part of life’s responsibility, but side by side
with this we must also make the necessary effort toward spiritual
realization.
This great, mighty, all-embracing Law is not sidestepped by
the Church of Illumination, or the Priest of Melchizedek, but
receives first consideration. It is the very foundation of man’s
future happiness; his future, and even his present, welfare. If
neglected, it will lead to the loss ofhis most precious possession,
“The Soul that sinneth it shall die.” That is, this something from
God, this “talent” given to you, and because of your failure to
“use” it, concentrating your interest elsewhere, is taken from
you. Y'ou are bereft ofwhat might have become a Divine birth­
right, in addition to your mortal at birth. “Unless ye be born
again ye shall in nowise enter the Kingdom of heaven.” This is
the same saying employing different words. Bringing the Soul
into Consciousness is this rebirth so much spoken of and yet so
little understood.
The life of the mortal, our everyday affairs which concern the
welfare of the body, must not take precedence over the Soul -
or its spiritual welfare. Both must proceed hand-in-hand if the
Soul is not to be lost to the individual and he thereby be lost in
turn, his personality passing into the realm of nothingness.
“What will it profit a man ifhe gain the whole world and lose
his Soul?” What will it profit him if he becomes possessed of
many things; a mansion and all that goes with it; a great leader
with much power - dominance over others - even ruler over the
world - if, by neglect ofhis spiritual self, he loses everything in the
loss ofhimself.
This Law underlying the salvation or Immortalization ofman,
or his Soul, brings us face to face with the original, basic, spir­
itual Law concerning tithing to the extent of five or ten percent.
Under the Law given the original Priesthood, stated right in the-
beginning of the Scriptural text for the guidance of man and his
Soul, you find this statement.
“and Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine:
and he was the Priest of the most high God.” - Genisis 14:18.
This Law of tithing was first revealed to man by the original
question or statement: “If I could be certain of heaven hereafter,
I believe I would become a more active member of the church,
more of a Christian; but it appears that we cannot be certain of
anything.”
This expresses one of the lowest instincts in human nature.
Never before in the history ofthe world has it fallen so low. Gov­
ernments and men in high places are largely guilty of arousing
this ignoble tendency in humanity, so that it has become well
nigh universal.
The Biblical concept is certain as well as positive. It clearly
indicates our responsibility. It states in no uncertain terms what
almost all of humanity either ignores or has forgotten:
“... For the laborer is worthy of his hire.” - Luke 10.7
Only he who has labored is worthy of his hire and must be paid.
This great law of exchange has been so degraded, that now, due
to propaganda, all the world is expecting to be paid whether it
labors or not. Mankind is commanded to labor and earn, behave
and become worthy, then to receive, but instead, millions and
millions are taken from those who labored honestly and given to
those who “labor not, nor do they spin.” Consider this modern
attitude:
“We beg of you to accept this payment. Now try to behave
and please work so that there may be production of the things
needful to man.”
So imbued in mankind with the thought and desire of receiv­
ing something for nothing; of being paid whether or not they
honestly labor; whether or not they are worthy, that the millions
are becoming dependents, receiving much and giving nothing
in exchange. The few who obey the Law: “labor well that you
such a life, will gradually change “mortality into Immortality”
and the heavens will open to him.
Here is an associate question of many who seek to enter
the Arcane: “Does the August Fraternity and its Priesthood of
Melchizedek posses the proofs or is it possible to set forth con­
vincing facts that man does possess a Soul, and that God exists
and heaven is actually a state or place?”
Such proof exists, but neither the Priesthood nor the Frater­
nity would produce evidence or proof, even if by doing so the
multitudes would flock to it. Why not? Those who do not have
the love ofGod in their hearts and are not willing to accept Him
by faith; who are not inclined to do good, or to love for loves
sake, but for a reward that might follow, are wholly unworthy.
All the evidence in the universe, even God Himself, would be
no proof to selfish seekers. If they did accept the evidence, they
would be wholly unworthy.
Men who seek to do good because it pays, are not good in
heart. Those who in good time will come to know God must
have goodness, that is, love in the heart. They must live goodness
because of their love for that which is good.
Men who request proof that goodness pays, before they are
ready to do good, are on a par with those who seek to be paid
first and then labor, or who labor as little as possible and de­
mand all they can obtain, though it was never earned by them.
Perhaps St. Matthew had many of the present-day leaders and
self-appointed teachers in mind when he wrote:
“For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and
shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were
possible, they shall deceive the very elect.” - St. Matthew 24:24.
it may be said that “he who sinneth by refusing attention to his
Soul, shall lose it, and ofwhat benefit is it that he has gained the
whole world?”
All he does toward this end must be of his own free Will; his
own lofty desire for the good; for things spiritual and Divine,
and not merely because a benefit is to be gained. The good that
must be bought by promises of benefit or assurances of success,
is not goodness.
It is no more than lulling the “beast” (selfish self) to sleep,
only to awaken more of the beast when appeasement, prom­
ises and benefits cease. God neither appeases nor subsidizes any
man. What right has man to do so?
is made manifest by the manner and action of the one making
it. He who claims to believe in God, but does not follow the
teaching of the Divine Law, and displays little or no love for his
neighbor, lacks sympathy for the sorrows and sufferings of his
friends and neighbors, aye, even his enemies, and is incapable of
appreciating the beautiful in nature, assuredly fails to give evi­
dence of an actual belief of God in his heart. He is a hypocrite.
Within him is neither the truth, faith, nor love, hence there is
no respect for God.
Whoever has great love for friends and neighbors, for the
home circle and the sub-human kingdom, for the beautiful, the
chaste and the elevating, who is willing to lend the helping hand
in times of distress without question as to social standing or
church affiliation of those in need - he it is who foreshadows
by the acts of his life that God is in his heart; that the Christos
is within; irrespective of any verbal avowal of non-faith in the
existence of a Divine Ruler.
Consciously or unconsciously, those who are truly human
seek the best that life can give and this in itself indicates a heart
religion. Knowingly or unknowingly, these admire the beauti­
ful in everything around them; this is a form of worship. This
proves the fact that there is, within the innermost self, some
Ideal, some form of Godliness, enshrined in the heart.
The possessor, or professor, may be utterly unconscious ofthe
fact that this is worship. He may be unaware that his devotion
to an Ideal and his love for the beautiful, or reverence for the
great and successful, constitutes “worship” in the true sense of
that term.
It is immaterial in what form man worships God, the Father.
refer to a personal being who loves, but also hates; who mani­
fests kindness, but offsets this by taking revenge on those who
disobey.
They imagine a personal entity who, though primarily creat­
ing absolute laws, nevertheless Himselfsets aside these laws. The
profession and contrary behavior of man generally lead many
who are religious in heart to believe Him (the Father) possessed
ofwhims and passions; one who issues arbitrary commands and
rules of conduct for man, but refuses Himselfto be governed by
them; that He punishes and rewards, condemns and blesses, ac­
cording to an autocratic standard.
Such a concept of God and interpretation of His Laws is
wholly misleading in that it makes of God a brutish, variable
being who punishes and rewards; whereas it is not Godwho pun­
ishes man for his misdeeds, but the misdeeds themselves in their
reactions. Man ispunished by his acts; by the action ofthe eternal,
unchanging law established by God; not by Godhimself.
The professed non-believers cannot at first realize that the ad­
vanced and enlightened conception has in mind a Divine Con­
sciousness fundamentally different from the usually-accepted
one. They may not have heard of the mystics idea of the Deity
- a Universal Personification of creative Love, Justice, Goodness,
Kindness - a Being knowing neither hate nor revenge, one who
established laws conjunctively with the creation of the heavens
and earth; who is Himself now governed by these Divine Laws
and cannot set them aside without bringing about universal
chaos.
He is a Father who is all love, who knows neither hatred, mal­
ice nor revenge; who does not, and cannot punish, but who so
to them no more than a nebulous theory and as yet incompre­
hensible.
The church, almost as a whole, has not concerned itselfwith
instructing its adherents in the how of awakening and bringing
into manifestation this Christos, this Divine Spark. At most, all
it has done is to repeat, without explanation or further enlighten­
ment, the Nazarenes statement:
“Ye must be born again,” - St. John 3:7
This is the Great Work that we must commence now. We must
retrace our steps to the time when these instructions, this guid­
ance and training was general. Since the fall ofthe Initiate Priests
of Egypt, the instruction and training for the awakening of the
Divine nature, or Christos, in the individual man, has been al­
most totally neglected except in the Arcane schools.
Men almost as a whole have been led to believe that their
salvation depends entirely upon others, just as they feel their
health is a problem for the physician alone; that personally and
individually they have little to do with it. By watching the life
and behavior of those who have been appointed, or have ap­
pointed themselves as teachers of Divine service, there need be
little wonder that the faith of humanity in the existence of an all
wise God has ebbed dangerously low, if it is not already dead.
Gradually, imperceptibly, “little by little,” man is coming into
the consciousness of a deep, inborn and insatiable longing ofthe
hidden spiritual self, the Soul, for a satisfying concept of God,
no longer now as a creator, but as a Father.
This conception must become a vital, positive belief- a strong
and enduring faith - that a means does exist whereby this belief
or faith, may be brought into a consciousness.
that benefits both the possessor and all those who come in con­
tact with him.
Men admit, without question, that there is a law of creation,
one governing generation. They daily see this law in manifesta­
tion, hence it is not difficult to believe. Not being able to see
the workings ofthe Law of Recreation, or of Regeneration, they
find it difficult to accept the tenet that it exists. Yet it is the Law
governing Recreation with which man must work in harmony,
if he desires to attain a satisfying consciousness of unity with
God, the Father.
Throughout all the domains of nature, there is a double, or
dual, law. The pendulum of the clock swings first to one side,
and then an equal distance to the other. The moment the pen­
dulum swings to one side and fails to return to the other, the
clock stops. Throughout all nature, in fact, in all that is, the
same law applies. Man is a little world fashioned after the uni­
verse. Identical laws govern the two.
Generation, or creation - which simply means a bringing forth
to visible manifestation - is the swinging of the pendulum ofthe
law of expression to one side of existence. When man begins to
comprehend the Law of Regeneration, then the pendulum will
swing in rhythmic motion and an equal distance to the other
side of the clock, and regeneration, or the Souls Consciousness,
will be attained.
The law of creation is under the control of God, the Father,
the Universal Lawgiver. He it is that governs creation. The Law
of Recreation is likewise under His direction, but man has free
Will and may refuse to be so governed, even though for his own
benefit. God is the power that functions in and through all
is also governed by a law and that requires a lawgiver. The law
governing generation is the incentive to reproduce, and is a
biological urge or instinct in all living forms. It is not a law that
needs to be learned or understood in order to be of use; because
inborn instinct or desire dictates to all things that bring forth
according to their kind.
The law governing Recreation, or /^generation, is far differ­
ent. Man only is capable of applying this law. Being endowed
with reason and the power of selection, he is capable of making
intelligent use of it. This he does, not by blind instinct, but by
an intelligent direction of the deepest feeling of his being.
Moreover, the desire for knowledge, of God and the longing
to become /^generated go hand in hand. There cannot be a real
knowledge of God, no true knowing of God and being at one
with Him, unless there has also be a /generation of the whole
being. This /^generation is implied in the Nazarenes fiat: “Ye
must be born again.” - St. John 3:7. After /fegeneratopm is ac­
complished, the instinct for creation gives place to the intuitive
powers of the Soul.
Although the carnal man does reason to a certain degree; nev­
ertheless, he depends greatly upon his instincts to guide him in
all things. His passions and his desires - the instincts that belong
to all animal creation - mostly selfish, guide and govern his ac­
tions. With the /generated, or the Recreated being, instinct is
no longer the ruling force. Reason, guided by intuition, directs
him and leads him onward.
The ability to become /^generated is within every human be­
ing who possesses the embryo of a Soul, and requires merely to
be called into activity.
man is trying to find his God - not a Being in some far-off
heaven - but the Christos that may dwell within each human
creature and come into unity with the Universal Being whom
we call God, the Father. When /^generation has become estab­
lished, unity with God also has been attained. This is the con­
ception of God, the Father, that satisfies the hungry Soul.
It must not be understood that when man commences the
process of Regeneration, activity on the plane of creation nec­
essarily ceases. Some, in fact, many, to their own harm, have
entertained the idea that /^generation entirely supplants genera­
tion and that the two labors cannot harmoniously be carried on
together. This is a mistaken idea.
Man can live the /^generate life and be a better husband and
father, citizen and friend. In fact, he can be a thousand-fold bet­
ter father; for, when he is living the /^generate life, he is certain
to do his full duty toward his children because he fully compre­
hends the seriousness of the governing Law.
The man living the creative life with a family to care for, to
guide and to lead in the right, can lead the /^generative life as
easily as the one who has no one depending upon him for guid­
ance and support. In truth, in this case, as in the former, he may
become as great, if not a greater, Master, if he is married, and
has children for the reason that these children and their require­
ments will call forth love, sympathy, kindness and other good
qualities, which, otherwise, might be more or less dormant in
him.
He who seeks Mastership must remember that every law in
the universe is dual in its expression. To attempt to stop the Law
from functioning in one direction is to nullify its effectiveness
of using the creative law. To imagine an ideal, a house that we
wish to build and dwell in, a friendship that we wish to possess,
a business that we wish to establish, a benefit that we desire to
confer - these are legitimate and fundamental uses ofthe creative
power; but we must ever be careful to employ the Law for noble
and worthy purposes and in a constructive manner.
On the one plane of Recreation, we construct and build by
the power of thought and imagination an ideal that pertains to
our finer nature, the Soul. The aspiration to find God, the Fa­
ther, within, to know Him and to feel united with Him - this is
employing both the law of creation and the principle of Recrea­
tion. Our desire is for manifestation both on the material and
Soulual plane. We aspire to express the attributes of God, the
Father, in the activities of a practical, useful life. We long also to
reach out toward the Divine Being and to unite our conscious­
ness with Him on the Plane of Soul, or Divinity - this dual
expression of our desire is a manifestation ofthe Laws governing
creation and Recreation.
We obey the law of creation in doing our duty to our fellow
man, as we do when we act in harmony with ethical and moral
laws; but there is something higher than ethical law and moral
obligation. To meet the conditions of the higher we must har­
monize our thoughts, desires and acts to commune with Him,
we must observe the requirements of the Divine Fiat.
As we do this, gradually our whole being becomes purified,
transformed, exalted and /^generated and we come to know
God. No longer have we need to merely believe in His exist­
ence. We have become like Him in thought and feeling. We
have become conscious ofHim. Faith has been transformed into
13. THE JETH FORCES OR FIRES
Vibrations are created by every form of activity.
Thought, in which all conscious actions have their beginning,
is in itself an action and creates vibrations to the degree of its
intensity. If exalted, then high (uplifting) vibrations; if evil, de­
grading or destructive, then low depressing, failure, death-cre­
ating.
Marconi is said to have made the statement: “
A word, or its
equivalent (starts or) creates a vibration in the air just the same
as a pebble thrown into the water starts a ripple over the surface.”
Accepting this as a fact, it is logical to say that the larger the
pebble, the deeper the ripple. In like manner and under the
same law of cause and effect, it cannot be contradicted that the
deeper, stronger or more inclusive the thought, the more intense
will be the vibrations; hence the more potent will be its influ­
ence for good or ill, for action or inaction; the nature of the
thought always governing the influence of the vibrations.
Initiates of the Aith Priesthood have long since proven to
themselves by innumerable experiments that the means to all
power, force and energy, other than the purely physical or ani­
mal, has its beginning in the mind. The mind, in giving birth
to the thought-desire, is the generator of the energy to be em­
ployed or directed in any given purpose.
As the generator in an electric plant generates the current,
so does the mind create the “field” of magnetic forces. Like the
electric generator, the mind is capable of creating, but has no
facility to store that which it creates, and unless there are provi­
sions for the storing of these forces, they are dissipated.
The beginner in this field of study will find that his first at­
tempt to bring these forces into activity by means of thought,
The other and much more desirable plan is to connect a storage
battery to the generator so that all current generated will first
flow to this battery to be stored for present and future use. This
method permits the generation of electricity at any odd time so
that the power will be available whenever required, and without
any thought of at once starting engine and generator.
Analogous to this is the functioning of the human power
plant, composed of body, mind and spirit; the last being life and
the spark of power or activity.
The body of man, however, is somewhat different from the
engine, because it has a double function. In it and by it, are cre­
ated or produced heat and life, hence activity.
In turn the activity creates power, and this power is either
used as created, or is in part stored for future use. This activity
of the body in turn induces action in the mind and as a result
there is “thought.” Thoughts are like the electricity created by
the generator. Thoughts in action are vital power.
The comparison may be continued. Suppose the engine con­
nected with an electrical generator is not in good working order,
running more or less irregularly and at less speed than required
for the proper generation of electrical current. What is the re­
sult? The storage batteries will receive current from the generator
only when it is running at a speed closing the contacts, so that
the current can flow into the batteries. The storage batteries may
be in splendid condition, the generator in perfect running order,
but the speed of the engine being at fault, the current generated
is not sufficient to keep the contacts closed and whatever cur­
rent is generated is lost and there may even be a loss from the
batteries.
cannot be desirable, because the one below normal effectually
reacts upon the other.
Those who enter the path ofthe Aith Priesthood for Initiation
quickly become aware that the first necessity in the development
of their higher potentialities depends upon the cleansing (puri­
fication) and the rebuilding (rehabilitation) of the physical self.
This physical machine, generator and storage battery ofpower
must be kept in first-class condition so that in all its parts it can
function properly.
This essential precludes all excuses for not doing all those
things to this human machine, which the master mechanic does
almost automatically to put a machine in perfect running order.
Further application may be made of the analogy between mans
organism and the power plant for the generation of electricity.
This magnetic field is a fine, delicate and scientifically wound
net-work of wires. Any interference or break in this instrument
prevents the production or flow of electrical current. No me­
chanic worthy of the name, being aware of a defect, would per­
mit the plant to continue to run with the remark: “Oh, well, I
think it will be all right.” Is this true ofthe human engineer who
has full knowledge that something is amiss in his “plant”?
In the human body there are the like positive and negative
forces that should be just as delicately balanced. The nervous
system is the worlds finest magnetic field. Its network of wires
are the finest that God and Nature working together could cre­
ate or produce. In the human organism or machine, these nerves
or wires do not often literally “break,” but all too frequently they
are starved, weakened and literally bare of their proper insula­
tion.
because the means are unavailable.
The effect of these various exercises on the body and nervous
system is much the same as overhauling, cleaning and properly
lubricating an engine. By means of exercise the lungs are com­
pelled to inhale their full capacity of fresh air, rich in oxygen.
This at once oxidizes the iron in the blood, furnishing the means
for greater vital and virile power.
Such exercises also help to throw out the poisons of dead cells,
freeing the body from the congesting accretions which so often
interfere with the proper functioning ofthe body. Just as it is im­
possible for an engine to continue to function properly without
frequent cleaning, so is it equally impossible for the human ma­
chine to work efficiently without normal exercise and a proper
cleansing regime.
We resort once again to analogy between the body of man and
an engine:
To keep an engine in the best working order, running smooth­
ly and without friction, it must be, as already stated, regularly
cleaned, and as regularly oiled. The fuel must be of the best. If
the single item of correct lubrication is neglected, the engine
is certain to become overheated within a very short time. The
grade of oil is of the utmost importance. By using an inferior
grade of oil the engine may continue to run, but there will be
friction, much wear, reduction in speed, and the possible pro­
duction of poisonous gases.
The food ingested by man is in part to the human body what
oil and fuel are to the engine. Man may select an inferior qual­
ity of food, or a kind not adapted to his needs. The result will
be an impoverished physical and mental condition. The human
with developing Personal Magnetism or the Aith Fires?” They
know that the highest must begin in, and be based on, the low­
est! The highest love may be transmuted out of malice and hate.
Continuing or analogy, if the storage battery is not in proper
condition to receive and store for future use the charge it receives
from the generator, there will be no stored electrical energy, ir­
respective of how long the generator may have been running or
how much current may have been created.
In like manner, ifthe inner selfis not properly prepared, if the
mind is still filled with thoughts ofhate, malice, resentment and
all the other evil passions, and the heart imbued with them, then
no matter how perfect the food, how much exercise is taken,
how perfect the breathing and how great the effort, the Aith
Fires are no more aroused or augmented than can the imperfect
storage battery be made to store the current it receives from the
generator.
These retarding influences of forces which close the inner self
to the influx of (1) Magnetic forces, and (2) theiEth Fires, may
be eliminated just as a defective storage battery may be restored.
A deep and sincere aspiration for the higher, if continually held
in the mind and heart, will gradually remove all thoughts and
feelings of hate, bitterness, malice, revenge, jealousy and the ig­
noble passions and prepare the entire inner being for the influx
of constructive and exalting forces.
It is therefore of primary importance that all who seek to de­
velop (1) Personal Magnetism, and (2) the Aith Fires, should
cleanse the heart of its critical tendency and the inclination to
sit in judgment over others and pay strict attention to their own
weaknesses in order to eliminate them.
14. T H E ^ T H AND ITS SUBLIME POSSIBILITIES
It has already been stated that within man there is a force, pow­
er or potentiality commonly called “personal magnetism.” The
word “personal” is used because the manifestation is individual.
This power is latent or dormant in the vast majority of people.
The possessor is either ignorant of his possibilities, or too lazy to
make the effort to bring it into activity.
Those individuals who naturally posses a goodly store of per­
sonal magnetism are generally considered as unusual personali­
ties. They are attractive, likable people who command the in­
stantaneous respect and attention of the multitude. Their very
presence immediately arouses something latent in those near
them and they exert a powerful influence over those whom they
contact.
There are other individuals, the majority of those whom we
constantly meet, possessing neither an attractive nor a repelling
influence. They are negatives. Within them is the nucleus for the
development of a magnetic force, but it is in an inert state, never
having been aroused or developed.
The majority ofthis class are not even aware that it is possible
to develop this latent energy and power within their nature, and
being unconscious ofthis possibility, they naturally make no ef­
fort toward its development.
Much has been said and written about personal magnetism,
but there is another power, force or energy, far superior to per­
sonal magnetism even in its highest form. This is a potential
agent, the existence of which is known only to a very few. The
Initiates know it as the fftth Fire and as creative of a spiritual
aliveness that may be felt as vibrations in every part of the body.
This exalted feeling or energy is employable or directable in the
undertaking to connect himselfwith the^Eth forces. The TEth is
an element ofliving Fire which is destructive to all unwholesome
conditions. It would be hazardous for one whose health is in an
impaired state, and whose mental atmosphere is miasmic with
gloom, depression, or a sense of injury and failure, to attract and
store TEth forces and energies. The Fires from theTEth sphere are
so penetrating and mighty, that they would prove destructive
to one whose organism has not been subjected to thorough
preparation.
Through TEth forces it is possible for one characterized by fail­
ure, unhappiness and discouragement to be transformed into a
being ofself-respect, marvelous power and success. But it should
be emphasized that this transformation will be a gradual process
requiring time and effort. Man cannot suddenly change from a
state of disease, discouragement and failure, into a consciousness
of the TEth and acquire the capability of directing it.
Man must begin a new existence in harmony with the dictates
of God and Nature. He must set aside old, destructive habits,
both physical and mental, and in turn form and establish in his
character and disposition, new, constructive desires, and follow
desires by active practice.
He must gradually rebuild his shattered body in its various de­
partments; learn to accumulate and conserve his physical forces
and vital energies, and direct and use these magnetic influences
in channels of usefulness and goodness. He must endeavor to
seek and find the cause of failure, illness and inertness; remove
them by substituting conditions of health, activity and success,
and in addition, gain command over his selfishness.
He must establish satisfactory conditions ofhealth and vitality
This explains why it would be hazardous for one to undertake
contact with the dith unless he has previously undergone puri­
fication of both the physical being and the mind. The purefires
of the dith are instant in their consuming potency. Their fine,
rapid vibrations cause immediate devastation to gross materials.
Electricity is a powerful force and may be utilized for the most
beneficial purposes. When misapplied or misdirected, its charg­
es, when heavy enough, may result in instant death. Likewise,
the dith essence is a factor for good, in fact, the most powerful
known to man, but when deliberately directed with intent to
harm others or used for unhallowed purposes, it also, like the
electrical charge, may cause instant death.
After the resurrection of the Nazarene, his first words to Mary
were: “Touch me not for I am not yet ascended unto my Father.”
- St. John 20:17. It was dangerous for one even as REgenerated
as Mary, to touch his body immediately after he had arisen from
the tomb full of the vital dith and/or holy Fires which made
possible his resurrection.
This is an instance in which the body, through a system of de­
generate living and conscious training, become pure dith Fire; a
globe of pure Light; consequently, destructive to everything not
previously prepared to receive it.
Admittedly, this is an extreme illustration. It is perhaps only
once in a cycle that a man so thinks, lives, acts and loves as to
become thus charged with the dith, and therefore so strong and
powerful, as to be destructive to all gross matter which he may
contact, even to the “burning out” of disease.
With the ordinary man it is far different. There are so many
affairs, so many interests to absorb his attention, that it is only
The first degree, or attainment of Soul Consciousness; the sec­
ond degree, or spiritual (Hierarchic) baptism; and finally, the
Exalted Third, of which nothing may be said or written, the
Arcanum being conveyable only by word of mouth.
He who attains to this last degree is already a Priest after the
Order of Melchizedek, with all its rights and privileges; one of
God’
s chosenpeople.
To exercise Mastership and superior authority in harmony
with the ideals of love and justice within one’s own thought do­
main, is the first requisite toward triumph on the material plane
and deserves the term “success” in the correct meaning of the
word.
Too much emphasis cannot be placed on the importance of
lofty and worthy motives in every avenue of life. He who as­
pires to connect his consciousness with the infinite resources of
the TTh Hierarchies must be certain that there hovers over his
Soul the dove; emblematical of the “winged globe,” representing
“peace on earth and goodwill toward men.”
Space will not permit us in this chapter to teach much rela­
tive to the method that will enable one to establish conscious
connection with the iEth Sphere.2 The earnest and faithful as­
pirant will seek until he finds those who are qualified to show
him “the Way, the Truth, and the Life,” so that he may, in time,
consciously attain oneness with the Center ofiEthic Potentates.
Another aspect in which the iEth differs from personal magnet­
ism and every other magnetic force, is that he who utilizes the
Aith Fire or Light can see it and have conscious knowledge of
what he is directing.
2. Consult the text: SCIENCE OF THE SOUL, or the Monograph: THE2Eth PRIESTHOOD.
Philosophical publishing company, Quakertown, Penna.
The art of healing by means of applying the Aith forces is thor­
oughly scientific. The method may be subjected to the most care­
ful analysis and may be directed in the treatment of disease with
as much precision as electricity or any other mechanical agent.
These Fires and this method of healing the sick was known to
the Initiate Priests of Egypt and practiced by them and is illus­
trated in the still existing paintings in the temples of Egypt.
In time past, when Egypt was in her glory and when the
mighty temples and magnificent monuments were built, there
existed a Priesthood of men who lived in harmony with the Aith
Hierarchies. They gave their entire time to helping the unfortu­
nate and the discouraged; to those who were ill, as well as those
who were struggling under difficulties.
Their mission was to guide, guard and protect the neophyte
under training, while also striving to become Initiate Priests. In
turn, the entire populace contributed to their support in keep­
ing with their exalted service and position.
In that age, the Priest Initiates were men of mighty power,
men who healed by the touch as portrayed on the ancient mon­
uments, as the Nazarene and Apollonius of Tyana are said to
have done. They were men who lived the ideal life, who thought
and acted in harmony with the Divine Law, and thinking and
working in this manner they were enabled to accumulate iEth
forces to such an extent that they were masters indeed.
With the fall of Egypt and the closing of its Schools of Initia­
tion, conditions changed. The dark ages quickly followed. Nev­
ertheless, throughout the centuries, there have been at all times
Priests of the iEth who were capable of mighty works.
In the centuries most characterized by selfish interest and
of the Aith as it is at present only to a few earnest, unselfish
Souls who are really seeking the truth and a way whereby to help
themselves and others less fortunate.
These are the aspirants who are trying to eliminate from the
heart and Soul all selfishness, malice, bigotry, harsh judgment
and the spirit of criticism toward others. These are the few who
are beginning to feel a new born faith in God and also those
appointed by God to teach the truth, even if made to suffer be­
cause of their obedience to the Divine Fiat.
As in all ages of the past, the first Masters must suffer and
go the way of the flesh. They are born in mortality, and, conse­
quently, after their work is finished, must pass the way of mor­
tality, even though “mortality has put on Immortality.” The new
civilization, both in truth and under the Law of Light, will reap
the benefits.
As the Nazarene was born for a specific purpose and labored
to indicate the Path to others, so is it with the Priests of Aith
who are paving the way for the new civilization. These Priests
of Aith who become active in the service of humanity are Or­
dained by the Church of Illumination as Priests after the Order
ofMelchizedek, with all the rights and privileges of an Ecclesias­
tical Order, that they may the better be prepared for the Divine
Mission in which they are engaged.
How glorious and powerful the reborn and reconstituted
Priesthood may become none can know. We, the Initiates, are
confidently looking forward to a great and mighty revival ofthe
spirit of religion; a religion not of faith alone, nor with the ex­
pectation of a Messiah who will take upon himself the sins of
those who are without enough manhood or womanhood to be
willing to be responsible to the Law of Compensation.
EPILOGUE. THE PRIESTHOOD AFTER THE ORDER
OF MELCHIZEDEK
Melchizedek, as a word or term, is all-inclusive in that it means
“my Kingdom is of righteousness,” or “of the righteous,” hence
those belonging to the “kingdom” or “exclusive” circle, are natu­
rally and Divinely “Gods chosen people.”
These few words contain all ofthe religion in the world. They
are a philosophy or way of life, not in the sense of being a creed,
but as a means of attaining the “kingdom,” or becoming one
with it. This is the Arcanum of the Priesthood.
This Kingdom co-existed with the beginning of the world.
More properly speaking, it descended with the first innocent
Soul into the world of matter. For that very reason, the creation
of the world, our world, and “let there be Light,” and the estab­
lishment of the Priesthood of Melchizedek, were spoken of in
the very beginning of Genesis, i.e., Genesis 14:18.
Melchizedek in turn conferred the Priesthood upon Abraham,
while Abraham and his people rendered tithes to Melchizedek
or the Priesthood, and were continually for it. Because of their
obedience thay were, or became, “God’s chosen people.” This
Priesthood has continued in one form or another by the Schools
of Initiation; also in the Lesser and Greater Mysteries, and the
revelations as taught in the Arcane of these Schools.1
The secrets of the Priesthood of Melchizedek, together with
its blessings to mankind, have been lost to all but the very few.
The Bible itself, though it contains the “key” to becoming one of
1. The term “Priesthood of Melchizedek” has not been in general use by the Fraternity, except
among the Initiate Brethren. Instead, an Arcane designation has been used, VIZ: the Priesthood
ofAith, i.e., Priesthood of Light (“Let there be Light,”) or “Let thy Light descend upon men.”
In the outer Church or Church of Illumination, men properly prepared, are ordained to the
Church as Priests of Melchizedek; Philosophic Initiates alone being admissible into the zEth
Priesthood. A Monograph PRIESTHOOD OF JETH, PHILOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING
COMPANY, QUAKERTOWN, PENNA., gratis on request.
separated from the “wheat and gold,” those who sincerely seek
for truth (actual fact), and that finally only the best; the select;
“God chosen” will remain.2
It is a great pity that the church as a whole should gradually
weaken in its influence for good. If only the churches would see
the Light of the Divine Truth and revise their creeds, theologies
and rituals to meet the present and progressive needs of the hu­
man Soul, then would they come into a full understanding of
the one all-important fact; that religion does not dependfor its
existence upon the church; the church depends upon religion.
The moral and spiritual teachings of the Bible are revelations
only because they are based on unrecognized truth. Truth that
applies to the activities o flife alone determines the spiritual sub­
stance of revelation, and such revelations must find an echo in
the human heart.
All that is known historically of Melchizedek is contained in
the Bible in Genesis 14:18, Psalms 110 and Hebrews 5,6 a n d l.
The incident which connects him with Biblical and mans his­
tory is the story of how Abraham, returning to his own country
with the spoils captured from Chedorlaomer, who was battling
Lot, his sons and his tribe, and whom Abraham sought to res­
cue, gave tithes to this superior functionary, Melchizedek, High
Priest of rightiousness (not of any mere human institution), and
king of Salem; Salem meaning the city or abode of peace (heav­
en), or of righteousness.
It relates how this God-selected and anointed priest of the
Most High God refreshed Abraham with bread and wine (the
2. Here in this paragraph is a great mystery. The sincere seeker for truth should not only read
it time and again, but study it until he comes into full comprehension of its mighty import.
It is no longer denied by scholars and sincere investigators that
there is a “Secret Doctrine,” or more correctly, an Arcanum
which was known to the schools of the Greater Mysteries.
This Arcanum has been ignored in the modern world by all
but the comparatively few, and glimpsed only by certain God­
conscious, Illuminated Souls. It is this doctrine or Arcanum
which was hinted at by Paul in his reference in Hebrews to the
Order or Priests of Melchizedek.
In the metaphysical analysis of “Ehye Asher Ehyse,” that is, I
am that I am, spoken by the Voice that was hidden in the Light,
the hidden source ofthe (a) selfconsciousness is contrasted with
the (b) consciousness (Illumination) of the Divinity or Christos
within.
The former is conditioned and free. In the one, the Divinity,
its Christos hidden within; in the other it is awakened and con­
scious of the Christos.
In the arcanum of the Bible it is taught that there are four
elements and four principles, as well as four manifestations and
expressions of life.
These four elements, and this is in accord with the teachings
of the Initiate Alchemists, are: (1) fire (oxygen); (2) water (hy­
drogen); (3) air (nitrogen); (4) earth (carbon), all necessary to
the organism or manifestation. The four principles are (1) divine
or spiritual, (2) mental, (3) physical, and (4) Soul; all necessary
to expression.
Mind, body, spirit and Divinity of Soul constitute the four
corner stones of a full life and have reference to the North, East,
West and South, on which, broadly speaking, the foundation of
Solomon’s Temple is built or becomes established.
Also the profound saying of Iamblichus: “The day time of the
body is the night time of the Soul; the night time of the body si
the day time of the soul.” Spheres thus reflect their contents and
substances on corresponding and kindred planes, according to
the law of expression and manifestation.
The Soul, in fact, all life, essentially spirit, functions on the
four planes and in the four spheres, designated by the terms:
physical, mental, spiritual and Soulual. The Soul is of the one
essence in all forms of expression and manifestation; forms dif­
fer, principles do not.
The Soul and spirit do not create matter. They use it. They
vitalize cells, attract and arrange atoms, determine and dispose
of the quality of the physical substance, and by thought, feeling
and desire, and by type or character, build or destroy forms and
transform them into the images (or desires) they love. Thus the
physical body and the human personality are related integrally
to the Soul and Divine Entity.
It is a well-known teaching ofthe Arcane Science ofthe Bible,
that the ladder on which Jacob (the Soul in its expression of
manifestation) saw angels ascending and descending, applies to
the Soul s own powers or spiritual faculties.
The Soul powers transcend the sphere and limitations of the
senses and faculties of the natural man, and afford a means of
delivery from time and space and the obsessions of the human
brain, to bask in the infinitude of eternity, where time is not,
and where the Soul itselfis free to live untrammeled for the time
being.
On the plains of Mamre, Abraham realized that the soul
is never born (in the ordinary sense) and never dies. This
If supernaturalism suggest the idea of deus ex machina (a deity
outside the machine), and the word miracle, an act of such a
deity, then the idea is unnatural and erroneous. If the Soul can
and does express its divinity, so that it sees, hears and feels be­
yond the powers, law and limitation ofthe physical senses, these
results are not to be accepted as miracles or supernatural, even
if they are classified as supernormal (above, or higher than the
normal), because they occur under Divine Law.
The Arcane Science in the Bible assures us that the inner sense,
the esoteric of the Scriptures depends upon the use we make of
our Soulual and spiritual powers. Only the Initiate, who realizes
that his Soul's divinity and its powers alone are a lamp (Light)
to his feet and to his intelligence, has a right to use his powers
and personality in this divine activity.
If the Arcanum of the Bible makes demands upon us, and if
these demands when obeyed, bring about desirable results, he
would be foolish who expected to stand in the outer court of
the temple, and receive the blessings which belong only to those
who have prepared themselves to be worthy to enter the inner,
or Holy of Holies - the Sanctum Sanctorum.
Even those who are admitted to the inner courts see the vision
oftruth and hear the inner voice only according to the degree of
their spiritual attainment, but no matter what degree ofspiritual
attainment has been developed, they must also prepare them­
selves for the still greater things yet to come.
Mere intellectuality, culture and refinement, desirable as they
are; or self-love, egotism and ambition, lead to a fools paradise;
and yet, without intellectuality, culture and refinement, the Ne­
ophyte cannot attain or master the Arcane Science.4
The impersonal enjoyment of the spiritual life will guard and
protect one from the blind alleys and temptations which lead
to darkness and misery. Among those who have been delegated
and called, only a few are “chosen” to become the disciples, to
say naught of becoming perpetual High Priests after the Or­
der of Melchizedek. If the Soul must be iteborn of water (the
awakened mind), and Fire (Light), the physical man (Vitality)
becomes transmuted into the divine man. The active physical,
when passive, becomes the passive spiritual, so that the physical
is transformed by the spiritual becoming active.
This is the Arcanum of the Three Degrees of development:
(1) the finding of the Center from whence cometh the Light;
(2) the spiritual baptism, and (3) finally the Gnosis of the 2Eth
(Melchizedek) Priesthood.
This is the Arcane Science hidden in the Biblical narrative
concerning the spiritual, or “Ac-borning,” which Nicodemus, as
a materialist, could not grasp. John, the simple or singled-mind-
ed beloved disciple, readily grasped the meaning, because in his
gospel he taught this Arcanum of the Aebirth, announcing it to
the Initiates in the very first chapter. This is the logos, which
when received as a result of the Illumination, qualifies one as a
Prince, or Priest after the Order of Melchizedek.
The profane ask: What was and is the purpose of the Arcane
Science, a secret teaching of a spiritual nature which has en­
dured throughout the ages, stood firm against all manner ofper­
secution; perpetuated by the prophets, is communicated only
in silence and is the foundation of the spiritual Order after the
Priesthood of Melchizedek?
The Holy Spirit, Ghost or Grail undefinable to profane
the life,” “I am the Christos awakened and brought to life.”
To prove our Divinity and make of it a conscious, helpful
principle in life, is the supreme end of true religion. All of its
prophets declared this message. The martyrs died for it; the be­
lievers gave freely of what they had to keep it alive.
Despite this fact, today a false metaphysics and theology ad­
vocated by creeds, has made the spiritual fact of the survival of
the personality after death a basis of belief, and the innate po­
tential divinity of the Soul a gift from God to the few, a miracle
of salvation, and not the greaterfact o funiversal, human, divine
possibilityfor all.
In metaphysics and psychology (mental science falsely so
named) “God has been hitched to business,” as though any kind
of ill-begotten prosperity is of his Will and Providence; despite
the fact that the Nazarene chose to be poor (in worldly goods)
that he might the better devote his entire time to divine service
and be rich in his Godliness and toward his God; in short, that
he might the better avoid being influenced or obsessed by riches
or the power riches can direct.
Any sophist who makes God (who is no respecter of persons)
favor one class has an effete, tribal conception of God. Money,
prosperity, wealth and their opposites, are largely matters of de­
sire and effort, labor and ingenuity, knowledge and wise direc­
tion. This interpretation is endorsed by the Nazarene. He gave
us a luminous exposition of it in the parable of the five talents,
emphasizing the law ofthrift and effort (work) in the accumula­
tion of money or material means.
The five talents wisely used resulted in an increase of talents,
but he actually condemned the man who hid his one talent
for naught. These are just so much faith or prayer without the
commanded works or efforts.
The Arcanum in the Scriptures first of all established a reign
of Law on allplanes o flife, and our attainments and obtaining
result from strict compliance with spiritual and scientific condi­
tions, established by the Law itself.
“The natural man receiveth not the things which are ofthe spirit
of God, for they are foolishness to him; neither can he know
them, for they are spiritually discerned.” - I Cor. 2:14.
Could this not be well paraphrased: “Unto Caesar is rendered
(by the Law) that which belongs to Caesar; and unto God that
which belongs to God.” Indeed, such is the relationship between
cause and effect and their resultant causes and effects, that the
Law of Justice or Retribution is not mocked, each Soul reap­
ing whatever it sows, not in the sense of reward or punishment,
but in the deeper sense of spiritual and natural consequence, or
sequence.
The Christie Arcanum begins with the divine and ends with
the human order of Will, intelligence, feeling and living. God’s
Will is expressed in the Universe as law, not caprice; Order, not
chaos; intelligence, not chance or accident; love, not hate; life,
not death.
The result of our Willing, thinking and feeling (as each one
Wills, thinks and feels), is registered in the character of our life,
The Law not only governs and finds its supreme justification in
man’s possibility of divinity, whence he originated, but in hu­
manity; not only in the spiritual, but the natural world as well.
Our divinity is in our humanity. The character of humanity is a
negative or positive expression of divinity.
proceeding from his divinity.
The Arcane Science affords a near vision and realization of
the essential self, mans divinity, mystically uniting the Soul with
God - “This is my beloved Son.” The supreme and Absolute In­
telligence is lawfully fixed (as matter) in time and space, but law­
fully free in spirit. It can be transformed and made manifest to
the higher, more sublime uses of the divine in Will and power,
coordinating with the lower mental faculties and powers, reveal­
ing the occult and divine ends, which the physical and chemical
laws of matter observe.
This explains how the seeming miracles and supernaturalism
of the Bible, as displayed by the Master Initiate at times, are not
suspensions of natural law, nor violations of Divine principles,
but the clear and undeniable evidence of the law in operation
under the Conscious Soul’s own divine sovereignty.
This Arcane communion between our higher self or Divinity
and God concerns the ego or self-selfin the divine life; in the su­
per-consciousness, rather than in our use ofsupernormal powers
on the normal or supernormal plane. Occult experiences must
be and are universal and unique. Many have enjoyed them, such
as the prophets, philosophers, poets, avatars and Philosophical
Initiates. These experiences are called “religious,” because they
concern the divine within and God. they are o fthe soul.
They must not be confused with merely supernormal experi­
ences. While they are most useful and inevitable in the attain­
ment of spiritual realization, they are not directly and integrally
of the impersonal spirit or of God consciousness. Such experi­
ences are individual, and concrete.
They relate both to the Divine Guidance and human needs.
reality of spiritual and occult experiences.
The moment the ego is disenthralled from the senses and lib­
erated from the self-imposed obsessions of its desires, and these
desires transmuted, then the ego is free, as was Paul, to enjoy
consciously the reveries, ecstasies, visions and voices of the Soul
and ofthe Hierarchies as permitted by God - a part ofhis divin­
ity and destiny.
To seal the lips (ofgossip and small talk), close the eyes to evil,
and the ears to what is not elevating - this is the first need in con­
centration or centralization. This process concerns the center of
being and divinity, and not any one particular subject or object
of consciousness and life.
Such centralization ofthought, first, and then of desire, helps
to release the soul from its bondage of purely sense attractions
and attachments, mental habits and reactions of undesirable
types, and fortifies it against similar, sensuous temptations.
A divine feeling (love) and thinking (feeling) and being (as
from God) transforms the nature of the Soul and, by its divin­
ity, “it is on the earth, but not of (the nature of) it.” Man lives
a normal life as an Initiate, under the Christie principle, and
no longer as the obsessed, controlled slave of the carnal life and
those stronger than himself. To this end the Arcanum of the
Soul Science (not psycho-ology) leads, and as it does, the Soul
awakens and establishes a union between man (itself) and God.
The practice of the Arcanum leads to final divine realization and
Illumination, the becoming of a Philosophic Initiate or Prince
of Melchizedek. Its supreme purpose is to clear the conscious­
ness of all veils, shadows, mists, obsessions, inhibitions, habits,
prejudices, objective and subjective obstructions, which deflect,
Corinthians 14:1, refers to supernormalism, notto mediumship
or supernaturalism, and not the supernaturalism as used by
theologians, implying an accidental or sporadic happening
impossible under natural and spiritual law, traceable to an
alleged fiat of God, to whom spontaneity of action is a privilege
inexplicable to human reason, even in the absolute perfection of
the Divine Will.
Evolution, in a divine sense, implies involution, but does not
deny the innate, potential, ultimate perfection of the Soul. Cre­
ation suggests recreation; generation, regeneration.
Supernormalism signifies no accidental fiat of God, because
His eternal plan failed or because the Soul from birth in matter
could, but would not, save itself from ignorance, weakness, sin
and sickness, as does the word “supernaturalism,” but affirms the
unfolded, involved potentialities of divine being, which, when
expressed, prove one’
s divinity and Arcanely associate man with
God.
The impersonal, divine use of powers, whether normal or su­
pernormal, makes the degree of difference between the meaning
of words, which the word “supernaturalism” does not convey
except to make confusion more confounded.
Supernaturalism implies miracle, while supernormalism im­
plies the generally unknown, but which Arcane Science can ex­
plain. To see, hear and feel spiritually so that we may function on
a higher plane, receive inspiration and revelations consciously,
heal, interpret visions and the Law, and know the deeper things
of God; to do these things will appear mysterious to those who
do not understand, but they are not miraculous, as a knowledge
of supernormalism will readily explain; hence it is ignorance
the Bible to be as the fig tree, concealing the fruit under the
shadow of its literature, or as the cocoanut, containing the water
of life within its historical shell.
This is the science ofeternal life. Mere existence as lived by the
mass is not really life. Divine realization is everything. The Con­
scious knowledge that in the sovereign power ofDivine Love the
Soul discovers God, as in the passion of selfish love it loses God,
is the sublime and perpetual revelation of creedless religion.
The occult explains this as the maculate and immaculate con­
ception of the incarnation of God in the human race, and re­
veals it as the inhibition and exhibition of the super, or Soul
Consciousness, the Christie life wherein our own Divinity must
bear witness unto God.
Man in the microcosm and God in the macrocosm are of one
Divine being. The Soul’s awakening the triumph over the carnal
of the flesh and the carnality of the mind demonstrates its celes­
tial origin and destiny.
Melchizedek, without birth or death, Abraham (historical
man) with the mantle of his majestic and sovereign Divinity,
typifies that our Divinity, the Divinity of man, the Christos
within, like the lily bulb buried in the mud, may rise to express
the Christie being, affirming: “This is (IAm) the resurrection (the
Christ) and the life. ”not by words, but by deeds; by living the life
and obeying the law, does man achieve his destiny.
