{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__ewen___seances_and_statutes.pdf","mytitle":"Seances And Statutes","mylang":"de"}
ls. 6d. net.
I
SEANCES AND' STATUTES
IlY
C. L'ESTRANGE EWEN
Author of '·A History of Surnames, ' ' '' Witchcraft and Demonian-
ism,'' Psychic Phenomena in the Witchcraft Cases,'' etc.
C. L. EWEN
31 MARINE DRIVE, PAIGNTON, DEVON
January, 1948
Seances and Statutes
By c. L 'EsTRANGE EWEN
In Scotland law and equity are close companions, but in Eng-
land litiga nts are more liable to painful experiences of anomalies
even to hearing a sitting judge declare his sympathjes are with the
defendant, but his duty is to admjnister the law. The immense
amount of protracted legal process points also to the " written law"
being quite often unintelligible even to those learned in it. Some
enactments continuing in force are centuries old, yet the phraseology
in the courts of justice is as immutable' as counsel's wig and gown,
notwithstanding that the primary signification, now forgotten, has
altered in modern parlance to something never anticipated by the
ancient draftsmen. The thin kjng layman who rubs shoulders to
any great extent with jusisprudence may well fea r that the preserva-
tion of archaic statutes (so ]jable to lead to rrusunderstanding and
tedious argument) is as capricious a directive factor in verdicts, as
wind is to a weather vane.
A second factor of importance in the eyes of the technical
litigant is that eminent barristers, while steeped in legal intricacies,
are often without elementary knowledge of the matters fa lling to
their exa minations. Some counsel are versed in the classics even to
bandying quotations with the equally scholarly judge, others again
have facility in history, philosophy, literature, or other branch of a
University curriculum, but genera lly neither time nor inclination
has permitted the acquisition of a skilled insight into any mechanical
trade or scientific study. It is distressing to a practical client to
listen to his highly-feed advocate disregarding time to establish a
legal quibble when a valuable point could be ga ined by a few di rect
questions on technical matters. To achieve success there a.re some
barristers who will, with commendable assiduity, study text-books
to obtain a comprehensive grasp of the theory of an art or craft,
but with the best wi ll in the world the gleanings of a few days cannot
reach the completeness attained by a p rofessional in many yea.rs.
Even outside the operative callings the legal lumjnary seldom
masters the rudiments of an extrinsic subject, and this is particularly
noticeable with psychic phenomena, wruch, centuries ago, regarded
sometimes as acts of witchcraft, occasionally as sorcery, have come
in our own time to be classed in the courts as fraudulent juggling.
To satisfy the reader that these observations are not captious
criticism and that lawyers do ma ke trivial mistakes over archaisms
reference is directed to Wharton's Law Lexicon, so popular a com-
pendium that by I938 it had exhausted no fewer than fourteen
editions. Opening the first page, under art. " Ab," may be seen
'A n in tance otherwise will be seen below , fl· 9 ,
2 SEANCES AND STATUTES
the wild derivation, accepted without commeht from the centur ies-
old Law Dictionary of Blount, i.e., '' Ab. at the beginning of English-
Saxon names of places, is generally a contraction of Abbot or
Abbey .. . as Abingdon in Berkshire." In point of fact, this local-
ity having been formerly A::bbandun, the signification is A': bba 's
dun (hill). Turning to near the end of the book, under art. '' Witch-
craft,'' there are illustrations of that dreadful phase of Christianity,
which have been collected most recklessly. The story of mother
and child being hanged in Huntingdon for selling their souls to
Satan in 1716 is derived from nothing more than a contemporary
chap-book ! There may have been an info rmation and apprehension
but the remainder of the relation is the write-up of an inventive
journalist.1
In fact, a search of MS gaol books has revea led that
the last execution fo r witchcraft in England was that of Ali~e
Moliand sentenced at Exeter Assizes, 20 March J684/5, by Sir
Cresswell Levins, Kt. • During the life of the statutes, hanging was
the penalty in England and no witch went to the stake unless con-
vict~d of s?me other crime, as e.g. petty treason. One has become
faIDJ l1ar with novelists and magazine hacks romancing of faggots,
but more exactitude is expected from a lawyer. The unfortunate
women condemned by Sir Matthew Hale at no time occupied tar-
barrels, but hangman's nooses. Only in Scotland, as on the Con-
tinent,_ witches. were burned, but usually after being .s_trangled.
Such maccurac1es repeated in a book of reference, ed1t1
on after
edition, is evidence that jurisprudents are not infallible a_nd that error,
not only m _fact, but also in law, is not beyond expectation. '
The ~st<?ry of Babylonians, Israelites, ancient G reeks,. a.nd
Romans, 111d1cates very irregular treatment of the practising
''medium,'' ranging from tolerance to extermination. The ancient
and popular art of necromancy is much mingled with magic, wi~ch­
craft, and sorcery: terms in the absence of authoritative defimtwn,
ort~n given equivalent vaiue. In Britain, in pre-conq uest days, both
civil and eccles1astical powers condemned iviccan, then correspond- ·
rng to "soothsayers" (clairvoyants?). Sometimes the <?ffe~ce
appears as consulting " eviJ spirits " from which charactensat1on
it may be inferred that harmless gho~ts were tolerated. Necromancy
was included among the subjects prohibited by King Edgar (958-
979).' Britton, the principal legal writer of the thirteent~ century,
ref~rred to sorcery (without defining its nature) as a c~p1tal cnme.
ThJiteenth and fourteenth-century clerical decrees punished necro-
mancers, pythoners, sorcerers, diviners, and soothsayers, but often
1Ewen, Witc/icraft and De:monianism, 1933, p. 4ul (hereinafter EWD) .
'ibid.. p. 444 .
•Even the famou commentators, Coke (d . 1U34) and Blackstone (d.J780)
are not free from oversights.
, , . 'A touvenient digest of the Jaws is in Ewen, IJl·itch ll1u.ti11g and Witcli
'.lnals, 1920 (lJereinafte.r EWll).
SEANCES AND STATUTES 3
demanding nothing more than penance. 1
Civil authorities were
satisfied with abjuration.
Lenient treatment in an upper court is illustrated by the trial
of John Crok of Tetteworth, in 1371, arraigned in the King 's Bench
before Sir John Knyvet, L.C.J., charged with possession of a skull
and book of sorcery. Upon swearing to the bead having been taken
from a Saracen and that nothing had been done against the faith
of Holy Church, he obtained enlargement. '
Soothsayers, false prophets, necromancers, and pythons, were
reported as duping and cheating the credulous community on such
an extensive scale as to create a public mischief. The City of London
records of the fourteenth century certify tbe usual punishment to
have been an hour in the pillory. One Berkyng additionally endured
several week's incarceration and was then allowed to abjure the
City and the vocation of soothsaying.• Early in the fifteenth
century savage statutes against heresy passed and, every practice
of an occult nature other than those of the orthodox church being
heretical, mediums again, and until the repeal in l Eliz., must have
been liable to death by fire, yet they commonly suffered no more
than deprivation of civil rights by excommunication, or even
escaped with purgation or admonishment.
Henry V commissioned doctors, notaries, and clerks, to destroy
necromancers, witches and sorcerers,• without defining their spec-
iality and, as in the Codex Theodosianus, a thousand years earlier,
the employers of a ' 'medium' ' might also be charged. Such cases
are actually entered in extant episcopal registers, for instance, on
22 June, 1457, Thomas Hulle of Hertford came before the Bishop
of Lincoln and having confessed to engaging Thomas Curteys in
the exercise of '' nigromancy and heresy,'' in All Saints Church,
promised "never to use nigromancy in time to come. "• In the
Archbishop's Court at York, in 1467, one Byg, an invocator
spirituum, and sortilegus, who professed to find thieves in a crystal,
upon conviction, underwent no more inconvenience than a penance.•
That necromancers bad some fear of interference by authority even
though dealing with harmless ghosts, appears from a petition in
1531 from two learned divines (Consell and Clarke) to Henry VIII
craving licence to converse with spirits.' Herbalists (and doubtless
'According to Cistercian S tatutes, A.D . 1256-7 (ed. Fowler, 1890 ,
p . 56) monk or lay-brother guilty of sorcery was disciplined by six days
penance, two being on bread and water .
21<.B. 27, 443, m. Rex 23; EWD 34 .
3
1-I. T. Ri ley, Memorials of London and London Life, 518f. EWH 9.
•Foedera , x , 852; EWD 38.
'Lincoln Diocesan Documents, EETS, p. Ill.
6E WH JO.
' Hone's Year Book, 1832, p. 213. I have not been able to trace a n
acknowledgement. Presumably t hese psychic researchers feared common
law as well as ecclesiastical proceedings .
4 SEANCES AND STATUTES
"spirit healers") came under the ban of 3 Hen. VIII, c. 11, but
were again permitted to practice by 34-5 Hen. VIII, c. 8. It is
patent that down to this date the treatment of psychic practitioners
in both ecclesiastic and secular tribunals had been very uneven, but on
the whole not harsh enough to discourage the main body, and
necromancers of calculating and conjuring type flourished much as
did such passive operators as clairvoyants and mediums.
Without any definition of terms, and so perpetuating uncer-
tainty and confusion, the first statute against "conjurations and
wichecrafts and sorcery and enchantments" is 33 Hen. VIII, c. 8,
passed in 1542. Pertinent to the theme of the present paper it is
to be observed closely that the prohibitions cover ''any invocations
and conjurations of sprites, witchcrafts, enchantments or sorceries,
to the intent to get or find money or treasure .. or for any other
unlawful intent or purpose. " 1
So far the inhibition is clearly confined
to illegal operations and therefore it may have seemed unnecessary
to specify evil spirits. Continuing, the act proscribes invocation
of sprites, etc., to tell where lost goods a re become. 2 Apparently
in this particular pursuit good as well as evil informers were banned.
Few bills of indictment under the act have been preserved, and
therefore of particular value is the pardon granted to one Morris,
a yeoman, for crimes of the " magic arts, divinations, and sooth-
sayi ng (of(ensiones ariolarum).• The phraseology of the charges
points to his occult proceedings having been unrecognised as statu-
tory offences, which might well be if as inferred, the written law
did not apply to transactions with u'nin'voked harmless spirits except
possibly in the discovery of misplaced chattels.
The mfluence of the statute remained after it had ceased to
run,• a~d an oath of abjuration in the King's Bench, 23 June 1561 ,
1s particularly to the point.' It follows the text of 33 Hen. VIII
save that the word " unlawful" is omitted consequently and
exceptionally it covers invocation of both evil'and good sprites for
'EIVll 13.
• nlcss covered by '·witchcraft enchantment or sorcery " simp le clai r-
"?yance i.e,. , without invo ·ation , is not thereby interdicted , nor is the
cl~ cove~· of lo t.pcrson.s, water upplies, etc ., noi· conference wrth ghosts ,
either with or without 111\'0cat ion. In later acts (Eliz. and .Jas .) the refer-
ence to ' ·invocation and onjuration " wa dropped , perhaps as redundant.
•Letters and Papers of the Reign of Hen. J'JIJ. xvii, 567. EWll 11.
' The treatment of the Privy Council 15.;2 to 1556 continued as before,
ranging from _committ~ l to the Tower to warning and release . A ~Velsh
hOOthsa)·er botmd over m 40 l . and enlarged at Ludlow in 1556, cont1nu1!1g
to deceive the people . stLfrercd fu rther irnvrisonment in London (Acts Prw .
Cnunc .. :--1 .S ., v. 362). For case in 1578 a nd 1580, see EWil 28::1.
. F ru11d · Coxe of St. Gile wit hout Cripplegate . a · 'physicia n ," charged
wi th sor(·ery, came before the Privv Council. \Vit h others he stood on the
pillory withi n the Palace uext the.Great H all of Pleas . His a bjuration is
rm Controlment Roll , K.Il . 29 , 194 . m. ;;2 . Two pamphlets a rc {i) The
C11fai1
lt'd He!~action of 1"rmincf!i Coxe, J.jGJ ; ( ;i) .1 Short 'Treatise declmimg the
Detestable H ickednesse of 1
Vlagicatl Sciences, as 11rcronutncie, Coniiu·ations of
Spirit&, C't£riouse .1strologie, and such tyke.
SE A ~CES AND STAT UTES 5
any purpose. An indictm~nt of the same year charges the discovery
of money by invoking evil spirits (to make doubly definitive adding
cacodemons). 1
Realisation of later legislators that ambiguity had
resulted in misunderstanding may also be demonstrated. With the
accession of Queen Elizaqeth ecclesiastics pressed for a new statute,
and in 1563, was passed 5 Eliz. c. 16,' the draftsman of which, in
the preamble, although citing the act of 33 Hen. VIII, and especiaUy
the invocations and conjurations practised " since the repeal,"
amends it by specifying only " evil and wicked spirits." No inten-
tion of limitation could be expressed more clearly. In the prohibi-
tion of occult detection of treasure or lost goods, invocation and
conjuration are no longer detailed and the ban may be read as
covering in a limited degree the advices of good spirits. A further
act, 23 Eliz. c. 2, made a capital felony of "conjurations or other
like unlawful means·" of determining how long Her Majesty would
live, etc.3 For this special line of divination spirits either good or
evil were obnoxious in the eyes of the Queen, as with any ruler
objecting to his future being investigated. As in the other acts,
aiders, procurers, and abettors were graded equally culpable with
principals.
With the legal compendiums of the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries attempts were made to define various terms describing
the occult, but without sweeping away ambiguities and confusion.
Neither the difference (ifany) between' ' witchcraft '' and ' ' sorcery,''
nor the respective scope of the arts, has ever been generally estab-
lished. •
It is of interest to compare the Scottish act passed by the ninth
Parliament of Queen Mary (i.e. 1563) forbidding the use of'' witch-
craftis, sorsarie and necromancie .. under the pane of deid alsweill
to be execute aganis the vsar abusar as the seikar of the response or
consultation."• In Scotland many dittays (i ndictments) disclose
that psychic manifestations without any known association with the
devil were included under " witchcraft " and "sorcery,"• and the
1Suffolk Ass izes (K .R. 9. 604, no. IO). For further procedUl"e witho11 t
a statute, see EWD 45n .
'EWH 15. Adopted by the hi h in 1586 .
'EWll 18 .
4
W. West 's Symbolneogmph'ie , 1594, ss . 168, 173 (see E Wll 22f) in-
cludes necromancy tmder magic . Soothsaying and witchery involve confer-
ence with the devil, and sorcery is not mentioned. l\Iichael Dalton , 1'he
Countrey Justice , 1618, who follows, introduces orcery as calling for oo
cooference wit h the devil , a lthough contrad ictorily covenants are said to be
made with him (p. 275 (279) ed . 1630). The d i t ingui bed jurisprudent Coke
in bis Thi?'d Institute (ch . d) printed 1644 , deflnes a witch as "a persoo t hat
hath conference with the devi l ; to consult wit h h im to do ·ome act ." But
neit her E lizabethan nor Jacobean t ranslators of the B ible had thought so.
See the contents head to l Sam. xxviii, the text having no reference to de,·il.
6EW!i 26 .
6
For example , Thomas Greave (of F ife) wa charged inter alia wit h
washing the sark of Elspeth Thomesone in south-mnn ing wat er and putting
it upon her , curing her of a grievous sickness . · 'thereby committing manife, t
sorcerie aod witchcraft. " (Pitca.irn, Criminal Trials, iii , 557).
,,
6 SEANCES AND STATUTES
act is heavily loaded not only against "mediums," but also against
the '' sitters.''' That the patron, as in the English acts, was rc;:garded
as no less sinful is illustrated by the trial of Barbara Naipar of
Edinburgh, 8 May 1591, charged with consulting Agnes Sampson,
the wise woman of Keith, and Richard Graham, called " necro-
mancer and abusar of the people," to obtain help in personal
matters contrary to the statute.'
The Act of 1 (2) Jas. I, c. 12 repealing that of 5 Eliz. repeat.s
its phraseology, i.e., ''any invocation or any conjuration of any .eyti
and wicked spirit. '" The fact that in both of t!.ese statutes sp1nts
a re particularised as evil gives further indication that good wer~
recognised and tolerated, or amply treated in common law an
ecclesiastical courts.
The original broad meaning of wicce covering the psychic
''medium '' tended to become obsolete with criminal officials south
of the Border, and "witchcraft" applied rather more to th~ bla~k
variety of the art, although the ancient signification survived. in
some parts of England, in Scotland, and our American Colomes.
Here also, certain application of clairvoyance (but not under that
title) is proscribed without any reference to evil spirit. Apart from
this possible exception the implication is that no English statute
made communication with ghosts of innocent character a felony
and support is obtained from every reference to entertaining .or
conjuration in bills of indictment, since they uniformly specify
"evil spirits. " Contemporary opinion of prominent writers on
the same lines may be cited.
The honoured astronomer, mathematician and alchemist, Jo~n
Dee of Mortlake, who, as confessed in his diary (1581), in~ulged ID
cr):'stal-gazmg a.nd study of occult matters, living as he did at the
height of the witch executions, cannot have doubted that consulta-
tion of harmless spirits had not been prohibited by statute, when
without fear he wrote: '' Having always a great regard and care ~o
beware of the filthy abuse of such as willingly and wittingly did
mvocate and consuJt (in divers sort) spiritual creatures of the
dam?ed sort." Evidently he believed that the spirits ~h1ch he
fancied presented themselves at his or Kelley's invitat10n were
innocuous and their bidding occasioned no breach of the law.
Flourishing also before the witchcraft persecution faded out
was Robert Boyle (1627-1 691), the celebrated scientist, who, _al-
though a solid supporter of the Church, characterised "cons~tmg
the dead" as an "innocent kind of necromancy."• It is unthink-
~ble tha~ at the time he wrote, the attempted approach to friendly
unmatenal beings ranked as a capital felony.
1
See an instructive indictment, EWJJ 286·ff.
•Pitcairn, Criminal Trials, i, pt. 2, 242ff. She was found guilty, but
enlarged in "ignorant error ." (Ibid. 244ff.)
1
In this act for the first time, the title also nominated the "evil spirit."
'Occasional Reflections, 1665, Disc. Occas. Medit. II, ii.
SEANCES AND STATUTES 7
About the same time the Rev. John Pordage (afterwards an
associate of Mrs. Lead, the psychic founder of the Philadelphians)
being before the Commissioners for ejecting Scandalous Ministers
had no anxiety in admitting consultations with spirits.'
John Aubrey, F.R.S., in 1696, related without any criminal
suggestion, that Dr. Richard Napier, physician and astrologer,
sometime rector of Lynford (Bucks.), obtained prescriptions by
conversing with the angel Raphael. '
Jt cannot be doubted that in England communion with "good
spirits" was not a criminal association and so must have continued.
A weighty statutory innovation of the eighteenth cenlury was the
repeal of the acts of 1 (2) Jas. I and Mary.3
The inferences are that
the educated and responsible classes in England had ceased to believe
in the actuality of associating and communing spirits, or if they did
exist, that there was either no harm in summoning them, or no
possibility of doing so. The repealing statute of 9 Geo. H, c. 5
was passed to take effect from 24 June 1736, and abolished prosecu-
tion of persons (i.e. both principals and consultants) for ' 'witchcraft,
sorcery, inchantment, or conjuration, or for charging another with
any such offence in any court'' in England and Scotland. • Ob-
viously these terms have been chosen to comprehend practices
in the past treated as felony, and so classed, without definition, in
the two acts repealed.•
There is no preamble to the act, but s. 3 shows that the bill as
drawn retained none of the former offences, substituting (s.4)
pretences•'' to such arts and powers as are before mentioned whereby
ignorant persons are frequently deluded and defrauded.'' The
only arts '' before mentioned '' are those in s. 3, which cease to be
felonies by the repeals of ss. I, 2, i.e. " witchcraft, sorcery, inchant-
ment, or conjuration.' ' It cannot be doubted that these terms
retained their former values (differing, it seems, in England and
Scotland), but their nature remained undefined, and a new era of
misconception was ensured.'
The letter of the act remained untouched until 1867 when the
'Cobbett, State Trials , 18l0, v. 539-632.
':v.n~cellan ies, ed. 4, 1851, p. l 59.
3The I rish E lizabethan Act was not repealed until 1821.
·•The full text may be seen in EWH 44f. There had been numerous
slander actions, see EWH 210ff.
6The construction of the t it le in ll Geo. II directly co,·ers the repeals of
ss. l and 2 and the preteDce of s . 4. In the absence of mention otherwise,
it is to be supposed that the terms used in t he prohibition of s. 3 cot-re pond
to those of the repeals .
6An earlier reference to "pretence" may be seen opening t he preamble
to 33 Hen . VIII.
'Thirty years late r t he eminent solicitor-general, Black toue, com-
menced publication of his Commentaries ·wherein he glos e : "pretending
skill in occult sciences" (iv. 6) . The act give no warrn nt for wide inter-
pretation (sees. 4, ll. 8-10).
8 SE.~:\ CES AND STATt;TES
Statute Law Revision Act 30 & 31 Viet. c. 59 repealed s. I (repeal
of Jas. f) and s. 2 (repeal of Mary). Twenty years later another
S.L.R. Act (50 & 51 Viet. c. 59) repealed the title in part ands. 4
as to punishment by pillory. For our own time, 9 Geo. II, c. 5 has,
therefore, read as fo llows:
An Act ... for puni. hing such P ·r ons as pretend to exercise or use
any kind of \\"itclwrnft . Sorcery , Inchantment , or Conjuration.'
a Be it .. enac·lcd , That from and after the said 24th day of
.l une [l'iaG]. no Prosecution , Suit, or Proeeeding, sha ll be commenced
or carried on aga inst any Per on or Persons for YVitchcraft, Sorcery,
Lnchantment. or Conjuration, or for charging another with any such
Orrence . in am· Court whatsoever in Great Brita in .
4 And ro;. the more effectual prcwnting and punishing of any
Pretences to such Art. or Powers as are before mentioned, whereby
ignorant per ons are frcrJlt<'ntly deluded •md defrauded; be it further
enacted bv the Aut hority aforesaid, That if anv Person shall , from and
after t he said 24-th Day 'or June, pretend to exercise or use a ny kind of
"Witchcraft, Sorce1y . Inchantment, or Conjuration, or undertake to tell
Fortunes. or pretend. from his or her Skill or I<nowledge in any occult
o r crafty Science. lo d iscover where or in what Manner any Goods or
Chattel . supposed to haYc been ·sto len or lo t may be found, every
Person, ? ofCcnding . being thereof lawfally coo~icted on Indictment or
Information 1n that Part of Great Britain enlied Encrland, or on lnd1ct-
rneot or Libel. iu that Part of Great B-ritain called Scotland , shall , for
every such offence. uffcr impri ·onment by. the Space of one '~hole Y<;ur
w1
thouL Ba il or )fa1npr1ze .. (Further imprisonment w1t1! Sureties
be gh·en) . '
The crux of the statute is the word ' ' pretence,'' that is faili~g
to produce what has been undertaken in a professional capacity
at least as a possibility, but denied by legislators to be a human
possibility.•
Whjle "aiders and abettors" (such as sitters at a seance) are no
longer men~oned as particeps criminis, and by the repeal of s. 2
consultants m Scotland are likewise given freedom, justice elects
to charge them as conspirators.
. Until the twentieth century no application of the act has b_een
noticed, various Vagrancy and Larceny laws being found sufficient
to check the activities of per ons receiving valuable consideration
from the public for alleged psychic phenomena. For the present
illustration of legal anoma lies one of the most illuminating causes
arising was Rex 1•. Duncan and others at the Central Crimjnal Court,
23-3 1 March, 2 and 3 Apr. 1944, before the Recorder of London,
Sir Gerald Dodson. Helen Duncan a materialisation medium, and
three others, employers and associates, had been holding public
seances at the '·Master Temple Psychjc Centre" (registered as a
church), 301 Copnor Road, Portsmouth, and, in particular, on the
'By .79 & 60 Viet. (· . 14 (Short 'l'itles Act, 1806) 9 Geo. II , c. 5, and
one hundred earlier statutes were given short titles and so for convenient
use, we get " Witchcraft i\(·t, 1735, " but the older title is ,;ot a bolished .
'Acts of P:irliamcnt (VVatk ins, xiii, 9). Also EJVIJ 44'£.
3
ln any event it would be useless to plead performance in t he face of
two policemen who say they were watching , but did not see any phenomenon.
SEANCES AND STATUTES 9
14th, I6th, 17th and 19th January 1944, on which last day two
police representatives paid for admission, and during the red-light
seance switched on a torch to seize Mrs. Duncan and arrest all the
sitters, but failed to secure any incriminating or satisfying proper-
ties.' The four defendants severally pleaded " not guilty " to an
indictment of seven counts on the first of which the trial proceeded
(RTD 344) accused being thereby charged that between I Dec. 1943
and 19 Jan. 1944 they conspired together ... to pretend to exercise
or use a kind of conjuration .. . that through the agency of Helen
Duncan spirits of deceased persons should appear ... and that the
spirits were communicating with living persons then and there
present, contrary to section 4 ofThe Witchcraft Act, 1735' (RTD 26).
It is to be observed that the prosecution did not make use of the
terms ''witchcraft " and "sorcery " either of which (but particularly
the latter) would have covered psychism, although nowadays diffi-
cult to establish.
Prosecuting counsel, J. Maude, K.C., in opening, informed the
jury that " tbe act had remained in the Statute Book untouched
since the reign of George II, which they might think for a very good
reason." 3 One suspects that if the jury (seven persons) pondered
on the age at all. they assigned the long life to legal slackness,' but
did not dare to express the truth that the act had never filled any want
and had become too archaic to be serviceable. Maude himself
actually abandons the letter of the law to change the meaning of a
word, "shall " to ' ·may."•
Twelve witnesses were called for the prosecution to prove
conjuration, faked ectoplasm, and feigned voices, but the evidence
is little to the purpose and quite unconvincing to one who hasexperi-
1
For t he evidence and speeches verbatim running to nearly 200,000
words, see C. E . BecW10fer Roberts, The Trial of Mrs. Duncan, 1945 (herein-
a~er cited as RTD); A short popular account, M. Barbanell, The Case of
Ile/en Duncrin , 1945 (hereinafter cited as BCD). Comment by defending
counsel, C. E. Loscby, Witchcraft ctnd the La:w , 194G.
' RTD 26. ln the second count all four accused were charged wit h pre-
t ending to exercise or use a kind of conjura tion , etc. The 3rd and 4th counts
charged false pretences, and the 5th , 6th and 7th with ..effecting a public
mischief. " The Recorder, in summfog up (/lTD 321), says the charge was
not only conspiracy (i.e. count l) but " pecifically pretending," et c. (i .e.
count 2), but according to the later judgment in the Appeal Court (RTD
343 , 344) the trial proceeded on count 1 only.
•RTD 27. Actually (as a bove, p. 7f) parts had been repealed.
'As with 23 E liz. c. 2, which, ceasing to have any force after the death
of the Queen , remained in the Statute Book for afortber260year ! (EWH 18,
' According to the tatute any person convicted "shall suffer imprison-
ment by the space of one whole year , a nd t hat, Maude declared, •'of course,
means may" (RTD 28), but he fa ils to explain how or when the significa-
tion became mod ified.
10 SEA~ CES AND STATUTES
eoced the remarkable corroboration which can be obtained by
police witnesses when determined to secure a conviction. '
For the defence, C. E. Loseby, in his opening address to the
jury, stressed the important argument that there had been no
pretence to " conjuration,"• and since that term, as commonly
understood, applied only to "evil spirits" plus elaborate cere-
monial, most laymen wiU agree. The word " sorcery" being neg-
lected by twentieth-century lawyers the prosecution of 1944 depended
on '' conjuration,'' and a few additional citations may not be amiss.
Glosses of the 10th and 11 th centuries show that confw"Ctl1'.o was a n
equivalent of conspiratio a nd had nothing to do with demons. To
conjure or constrain a devil or spirit occurs c . 1290: Manie deuelene he
conjurede that buy to h im wende (So1£th-English Legendary EETS,
188i, I 35/45) . Chaucer, J38G, used the word "conjuration ·· in the
sense of " invocation., : adjuracion and conjuracion as <loon these fa lse
enchantours or nigromancien ; bewytched by sum conjuration. R~fer­
ence may be made to ··conjuration•• in contemporary legal cornpendmms
uch a . for instance Cowell's I nterpreter, adopted by Dalton (op . cit .):
·'It is specially used for such as have personal conference with the D evil
or E vil Spirits." Accord ing to Les Ta mes de la Ley, 1641 , p. 76.
"Conjuration-seemeth by prayers and invocation upon the powerfull
name of God to compell the Devi II to say or do what bee commandeth."
. Conjuration of spirits has been repeatedly described. -:rhe
prmc1pal feature of the ritual is a circle (decorated with appropriate
symbols) to ensure safety, usually by keeping out interfering spmts,
but sometimes by keeping them in, and these magic rings date at
least from Assyrian days.• Incantations and fumigations were
necessary and mathematical accuracy of the formalities was held by
successful practitioners to be essential. • While in Scotland also the
periphery was customary,• exceptionally, christian orison only bas
been held to be conjuration.• •
The attempt in Rex v. Duncan to establish " conjuration" was
1
Loseby put it to Worth that his tatement was a completely untrue
account(RTD69). In Hex v. Hatcher a nd Little at Cardiff, 3 Nov. 1942,
th~ .charge being unlawfully pretend in~ to hold communication with .the
spmts of dead people, the defending solicitor Russell John , had no hesita-
tion in accusin~ the police of " deliberate perjury." (Daily TelegraJJh , 4
Nov. 1942). It 1
s not suggested here t hat accusations are proof, but I cannot
forget that in 1917 I had e:o..11erience of an entire police case being fabricated;
and was not a lie by defendants in llforrisv. Dailyl\'.!ail , 1942, " fair comment"
in Court of Appeal and the House of Lords ?
2 RTD 113.
•For instance., see E liphas Levi (Transcendental Magic, \¥aite, 1896)
and for an 1llustrat1on, EWD frontispiece. Another is in Newes of Scotland
.. . 1591.
4
An account of evocation and the circle is given by E. Smedley, 1'he
Occult Sci.ences, 1855, p . 188.
•Newes of Scotland . . . 1591 .
'In the High Court of Justiciary, Edinburgh 1591, the prayer in God's
name offered up by.the "wise woman of Keith,'l a " healer of sick folks,"
was regarded as conjuration and a capital felony. For example, see Pitcairn
Criminal Trials, i. pt. 2, 230ff.
1
[
SEA~CES AND STATUTES II
by similar exploitation and misrepresentation of the simple church
prayers and songs rendered, as habitually at seances, "to increase
vibration,' ' and the reference in count I of the indictment is not to
any practice hitherto recorded in England as "conjuration," and
could not have been so recognised by the .draftsman of 9 Geo. IT,
c. 5. 1
For the defence one prisoner only spoke, but 44 witnesses, who
entered the box, presented Mrs. Duncan as a med.ium of marvellous
power before, after, and at material seances, where a number of
them claimed to have recognised, spoken with, and kissed material-
ised spirits, and to have seen white ectoplasm appear and disappear.
One witness• testified to following the form of his deceased mother
into the ' ' cabinet'' :ind seeing it "standing in front and to one side
of Mrs. Duncan, with only a little white stuff between them." In
the present short paper it is not practicable to say more than that,
if sworn testimony of responsible persons is of value, the positive
statements of the defence overwhelm the negatives of the prosecu-
tion.
To balance the evidence of successes other than at material
times the police cited a trial in the Sheriff Court at Edinburgh,
11 May 1933, when Mrs. Duncan had been charged with fraudu-
lently obtaining £4 from various persons by pretending to be a
medium through whom the spirits of deceased persons were openly
materialised, etc. She was convicted and fi ned £10.' The allega-
tion that the chief police witness, a "very muscular woman,"
clutched a '' stockinet article,'' but could not bold on,4 may be
compared usefully with the evidence of Police-Constable Cross in
1944, who grasped a " sheet," which appeared to be " similar to
butter muslin,"• but it was pulled away,• and these two testimonies
may be contrasted with the flat contradictions of several (including
three police witnesses, RTD 89, 92, 99), who deposed to seeing the
white material disappear at, if not th rough, the floor, rather remark-
1rn Hex v. Duncan , a police witness and medium , C.R . Burrell , under
cross-examioation . testified that he had oe,·er '"conjured up spirits, " nor
knew aoy who had. Through him " one spirit from one world can contact
or communicate with the pirits of this world. ' · (RTD 84).
•w. J . Williams, 28 March 1944 ; RTD is.;.
•Evidence of A . C. West , RTD 336. Sir J . \\". Herrie. .•J.P .. who sat
in court, believed that an error was made (RTD 287).
4 RTD 287.
5Tbe idea of ""butter muslin" seems to ha,·e originat ed with tests by
H . Price at his National Laboratory of P ychical R e earch in 1931 , when he
photographed faked ectoplasm and extJosed the medium (Regiirgitation an.d
tile Duncan M edimnsllip , 1931).
•RTD 101. Cross claims to have identified the nature of the "sheet "
although only " holding it for a moment" (RTD 106) in d im red lig11t.
12 SEA..
'<CES AND STATUTES
able behaviour for manufactured fabric, but not an unusual depart-
ure for ectoplasm.1
All over the world pertinent displays in court have been es-
teemed as " best evidence" and commonly welcomed and allowed,
as a few instances will demonstrate.
In England at Warboys in 1593 the Judge by threatening a n old man
with a verdict of guilty made him recite a dictated charm in court
whereupon a cltild came out of her fit (EWD 126). Sometimes the judge
ordered experimental contacts between witch and victims as, for instance,
Sir Matthew Hale in 1665 (EWD 349, 351). Some modern examples of
court exhibitions are cited by H. Price, Fifty Years of Psychic Research .
1939, p. 22lf. At lnsterburg , East Prussia, in l\fay 1928 , Frau E lsa
Gunther-Geffers, clairvoyant, on an appeal by the l'ub lic Prosecutor ,
was tested in court. In trance she described accurately the details of a
robbery and so earned an acquittal , the President admitting being durnb-
fotmded . The Governor of Konigsberg thereupoD proclaimed the
emploJment of mediums by the police. H. Steinschneider , clairvoyant,
charged in a court in Czechoslovakia in 1930, was authorised to demon-
mate his powers , and so obtained his discharge. It is said that Houdini ,
professional magician, on one occasion in court was suffered to illustrate
an escape from handcuffs (BCD 93) . Durinu a fortune-telling case at
Hull. about April or May 1944, the magistrat;, J. R . Macdonald , offered
the accused that if her crystal would d iscover the amount of the fin e
proposed he wm1ld dismiss the case. The woman perhaps due to the
pervading scepticism not feeling in the humour, refused to try, a logical
excuse. The magistrate there~1pon mo~t illogically called her "a fake "
(BCD 93). In the d1vorc<> action, Davidson v. Davidson (Court of Sess-
sion , Ed inburgh, 7 March 1947), the husband wa allowed to rebut the
wife's st;atement by proYin~ to .the Court that licking red labels would
colour hps as well as did lipstick! (Daily Mail, s i\Iar. 1947). And
ht1gants are even permitted to encourage dogs to wag tails before the
judge to establish ownership.
A prominent feature of the trial here introduced was the offer
of Mrs. Duncan to demonstrate her passive powers to secrete
ectoplasm, materialise spirit forms, and transmit the voice of her
guide, 2
but the Recorder rejected the overture.• Moreover he ruled
inapplicable the proposal of the defence to prove by experienced
sitters that Mrs. Duncan had exuded ectoplasm a few days before
the trial,• notwithsta~ding that he allowed prosecuting counsel
(Elam) m cross-examination to touch on proceedings in another
Continent ("'Indian rope trick") • and impertinent ·to the matter
'Genuine ectoj)lasm has b".en repeatedly analysed and photographed.
See the references m my Psychic Phenomena in the Witchcraft Cases, 1947,
and more fully in numerous text-books.
2 R7'JJ 119, :319.
3
RTD 142. ' ·The trial must proceed upon the evidence of witnesses
relating to matters which have taken place .'' Later the jury said they did
not want to see the t est (RTD :305). pheld by Court of Appeal.
'Upheld by Court of Appeal. BCD 132ff. Marylebone Spirituali t
Association , 15 l\farch, 1044, where ectopla m was seen to stream from mouth
and nostrils of Mrs. Duncan.
'RTD 221.
SEANCES AND STATUTES 13
in issue. Maude, in a brief address to the jury, had little to say. but
gave an even more profound example of irrelevancy and waste of
time. Was it necessary to quote Shelley's Ode to a Skylark or
Browning's libellous and non-evidential attack on Sludge, the
Medium, or again, to ask the jury to ima.gine themselves in the
Beyond sitting round Mary, Queen of Scots, with her head on?1
This kind of oration may sway a jury of poor quality, but in cold
print merely incites contempt of the law.
Touching the alleged exudation, the Recorder, in summing up,
observed unconvincingly: ' If it was ectoplasm, you would not
expect to be able to hold it, and, if you could not hold it, I suppose
you would not be able to feel it.· ' Why?' He then added ··that
nobody can explain what an ectoplasm is.''' Actually experienced
investigators had spoken familiarly of the substance and he himself
had interrogated 8 . K. Kirkby, for twenty years a·student of ·' the
stuff. "• Moreover, when the defence asked a witness to character-
ise ectoplasm, he had remarked: " We heard it described this
morning" (27 March 1944); • and he added that it did not return to
Mrs. Duncan, '· because it went some other way- there is no
question about that,0
but the police testimony is not coherent. '
The Recorder, without apparent grounds, instructed the jury
that " going into a trance and pretending to hold communion with
spirits was the kind of conjuration referred to in the statute."•
It is now submitted that this dictum indicates fail ure to divine the
intention of the legislators. At no time has trance been associated
with conjuration. [t is difficult to avoid a further feeling of error
and unfa irness in the Recorder informing the jury that Mrs. Du nca n
did not appeal from the judgment of the Sheriff-Substitute in
Edinburgh, 1933,• and omitting, as the defence pointed out in later
proceedings, that there was no faci lity for so doing.1°
I BCD S:Jf.
'C:an you not reel a live eel without being ab le to ho ld it?
' flTD :i27. Ag.tin ' ·\Vas t here rm cctophtsm pre ent? " (RTD l.J.-1-).
' ll1'D 210. The R ecorder's reasoning cem to be that if you cannot te ll
what ectoplasm is then it mu t be butter muslin. T his is remini cent of an
address to the jury hy nder on , L .C .J. in Hl02 , who, turnincr to the phy ic-
ians who had bee n argu ing on the naturcof a disea e, · ' ifyou can tell neither
cause nor cure. it is not natura l" (i.e. it i witchcraft) EWD 127.
•R'J'D 120. Evidently Lo eby in his addrcs' to the jury (120). See a l'o
154 . 212.
6 ll7'D :327.
' Worth saw 1t fall to tloor in a little l1
cap; he ·uw it pulled into the
aud ience; and he saw it pulled into the bay window ( H'l'D 52) , yet the
flimsy mate1
·ia l wns not tret~ hed (R'l'D 67 .)
8R'l'D 321.
•R'J'D 333.
••see below, ground Gd (p. 14).
14 SEA:-1CES A:-;D . TATUTES
On the first count, the jury brought in the prisoners guilty of
conspiracy to contravene the Witchcraft Act 1735, and were dis-
charged from giving a verdict on the other counts.' On 3 April,
the Recorder sentencing the prisoners told them that they " had
been found guilty of conspiring together to commit an unlawful
act, namely, of pretending to recall spirits of deceased persons in a
visible and tangible form. ''' Evidently the interpretation of''any
kind of conjuration,'' and here thought to be erroneous as explained
(p. JOf). How came the Recorder to fail to comment on police-
witness Burrell 's assertion that there was no conjuration of con-
ferring spirits? (p. I In.1). He referred to the proposed demonstration
of powers, which he had refused, making some curious comments
such as, .. if this had taken place and nothing bad appeared, Mrs.
Duncan would have been condemned even before she had been
tried.' '3
Actually whether she materialised forms or not at the
Old Bailey in April would not have proved what occurred at Ports-
mouth in March. • While success might have biassed the jury
in her favour, surely fai lure would have led to the defence submitting
that conditions were unsuitable for such a delicate operation cal.ling
for harmonious vibrations or special atmospheric conditions.•
The Recorder branded the proposed trance exhibition as a'' reversion
w the dark ages" and " to something very akin to trial by
ordeal."• The supposed simile i not even a " near miss "-a
dangerou and often unfamil iar physical activity calling fo r skill
and strength cannot be likened to a pas ive catalepsy.
Various appeals aga inst conviction and sentence having been
entered, in a shelter fo r protection from " flying bombs, " on 8-9
June, the Court of Criminal Appea l (Caldecote, L.C.J., Oliver, J.,
and Birkett, J.) heard the a rguments of counsel. Briefly the eleven
grounds stressed were:
(1- 3} No offence under the Witeheral't Act 1735. (4-5) Rejection
ur the e,·idence of ix witnesse calculated to prove thatM.rs. Dtu1can on
1.; :\Jar. 1044 and at a ll material time was a materialisation medium.
(H) The H.ecorder failed to direct the jttry on law a.nd facts (specified
fl- e), for instance (d) he stressed the failure of Mrs. Dtmcan to appeal
against a preYious conviction when in law she had no right. (7) The
Hecorder refused to allow Counsel to call the pri oner at a ny time at his
discretion. {8- 10) No evidence sullicient for conviction, perverse
,·erdict , mi. carriage of justice. (11 ) E\"idencc of previous conviction
wrongly adm itted. (RTD 342).
'RTD 3:i6.
'RTD 839.
' Ibid.
'See the Recorder's own ruling above, p. 12n.3
' Be_lieving that manifes~ti<?ns are mental I personally doubt whether
the medmm would be successful m t he presence of incredulous police officers
or aggress iv~ investigators .
0 RTD 339.
SEANCES AND STATUTES 15
Not only did the judgment read by Caldecote (L.C.J.) throw
no light on the difficulties and uncertainties arising from the arch-
aisms of the statute, which bad punctuated the court process and
the summing up, but a number of the observations of the Lords
Justices of Appeal to at least one layman are also either inaccurate,
or unwarranted, and further confuse the issue.
The first three grounds brought up whether the Act of 9 Geo. lI,
c. 5 (In printed versions of the judgment occurring four times
wrongly as 2 Geo. II) covered other than ' ·evil and wicked spirits"
and the'' meaning to be attributed in law to the term 'conjuration '. ·'
Neglecting the descriptions " witchcraft" and " sorcery," at one
time corresponding to modern ' ' psychism,'' and running over
historical points, the L.C.J. begins with 33 Hen. VIII' and by
ignoring such restrictive phrase in the statute as ''finding money,' '
or "goods stolen," or " unlawful intent or purpose " (see above,
p. 4) and " evil and wicked spirits" in the later acts, gives to
" conjuration" a weight never hitherto carried in England, and this
misrepresentation occurs in the face of a citation ' of the legal inter-
pretation of the sixteenth century as it appears in the preamble of
5 Eliz. c. 16 (see above p. 5) i.e. "the wicked offences of conjura-
tions and invocations of evil spirits which were made felonies by
the statute of Henry.''
Further objection must be made to the L.C.J. referring to
I (2) Jas. I, c. 12 and describing the expression " conjuration of
evil and wicked spirits'' as a '·characteristic example of the attitude
of James I to this practice. ''• As amatter of fact neither words nor
sentiment are Jacobean at all, for the draftsman of 1604 merely
copied the phrase verbatim from the act of 5 Eliz. King James,
contrary to popular belief, did not harry mediums, and an excellent
example is the latitude accorded to the renowned wizard, Dr.
Lambe.•
The ancient meaning of ' ·conjuration" has been exemplified
above (p. IO). The defence, in particular, cited the definition given
in Cowell 's Interpreter, 1672, but the Justices of Appeal expressed
doubt on its authority, • and that " any kind of conjuration " in
9 Geo. JI, c. 5. bas "the meaning or interpretation given," since
" the express alteration from the statute of James I, which is being
repealed, and the use of the words ' any kind of conjuration' without
reference to spirits, evil or otherwise, would seem to indicate the
'RTD 346. ' RTD 347. ' ibid.
•Having four spirits "botLnd to his crystal" t.e wa permitted to carry
on his mediuroship even when lodged in the King's Bench prison (EWD 20.t).
•John Cowell (155~-1611 ) was a distinguished LL.D. whose work was
reprinted at intervals covering 120 years (1607-1727). As he lived during the
height of the witch persecution he is likely to have had first-band knowledge
nf the current use of the t erms .
16 SEANCES AND STATUTES
contrary. " 1 They err in saying that the words "any kind of" were
added,2 for they merely replaced " any " having the same implica-
tion, and the present writer suggests that ''any kind of conjuration'•
signifies no more than " any conjuration" in the three acts of 1542,
1563, and 1604, and if in 9 Geo. II, c. 5 after reciting " conjuration,,
of those acts it was intended in using the term to embrace other
than the usual evil spirits the draftsman should have been specific
on the point.
In allusion to " traffic with spirits" in the sixteenth and seven-
teenth centuries the judges of appeal are also on doubtful ground in
stating that "all such spirits were regarded as and were apt to be
described as evil spirits.''' With Roman Catholic obscurantists
this might be so, but is far from general treatment (see instances
cited above, p. 6-7).
Irrelevant exploitation and even ignorance of the Scriptures are
both exemplified in Rex v. Duncan. The Recorder several times
unnecessarily interpolated questions about religion ;• and the Lords
Justices gave a pathetic exhibition of toying with excerpts from the
Bible, a book with which they were evidently not folly conversant.
Unfortunate inspiration by the unreliable Coke • resulted in adducing
second-hand 1 Chron. x, 13, while failing to mention J Sam. xxviii,
6, 18, the source and contradiction in some respects.• The quotation
not furthering any argument the fault is perhaps of lesser magnitude
than a suppressio veri, but why cite Coke 's unhelpful scripture and
omit his considered definition of '' witch' ' with its limitation to
" evil spirits"?1
. Is it not an unjustifiable anomaly that while lawyers, with~rnt
evidence and with rank superstition, accept the reality of a diety
originating in Israelitish legend and permit him to be petitioned and
invoked, class attempted communication with humble ghosts as
'' pretence' ' worthy of imprisonment, and la unch this incongruity in
the face of tbei ' 'familiar spirits'' (oboth) of Leviticus• and the story
of the " woman of Endor "?• Citation of this incident (fact or
:fiction) would have demonstrated that abnormal psychic manifesta-
tions 3,000 years ago being commonplace, belief and attempted
approach 1s not now necessarily fraudulent.
All appeals against conviction and sentence were dismissed. 1
•
The reasonable hope of the defence to carry the case to the House
'RTD 347. ' RTD 348. 3 R'l'D 847 .
' BCD 50 .
•Institutes, iii. ch. vi.
•e.g . in Samuel Saul " enq uired of' th~ Lot·d ." and in Chron . he " en-
<
'jllired not of the Lord .· '
' See above, p 511 .41,
' x ix, :n . In t he OT there a re tweh·c other instances .
•1 Sam. xxv iii , 7IT.
10 R TD 348 .
SEANCES AND STATUTES 17
of Lords was frustrated by the Attorney-General refusing the essen-
tial fiat '-another grievance.
Consideration of the collection of data here passed in review
leads to the opinion that the act of 9 Geo. II, c. 5 !s an uninterpret-
able rigmarole wholly inapplicable to modern requirements, and
laymen, with astonishment, read that, in the House of Commons,
3 May 1945, the Home Secretary (Morrison) stated that he had
been advised ' 'there is no real dubiety about the law.'' The statute
may be satisfactory to counsel, Recorder, and Lords Justices of
Appeal, who have nothing to lose, but legislators might remember
that the public have the burden and expense to bear and if the law
were i:nade comprehensible to them much litigation and criminal
procedure might be avoided.
Quite apart from the question of guilt, not entered into here,
the rejection of the appeals accentuates the uneasy feeling of irrele-
vancy, religious humbug, misinterpretation of the old laws,I mis-
representation, omission and resulting injustice, much of which
results from hanging on to the ancient writings long since obscure
and unserviceable. Is it too much to ask that if this monstrous
farrago must be retained that an amending or declaratory act will
be passed?
1 B CD mo.
MONOGRAPHS
BY C. L'ESTRANGE EWEN
31, MARINE DRIVE, PAJGNTON, DEVON
Lording Barry, Poet and Pirate. 8vo., 16pp. Is net.
The author of Ram Alley, commonly supposed to be a son of Lord
Barry, is here shown to be the son of a London fishmonger, and a
buccaneer.
Raleigh's Last Adventure. 8vo., l6pp. ls net.
Bailie's allegation of piratical intent refuted by depositions recently
obtained from the archives of the High Court of Admiralty.
Shakespeare No Poet? 8vo., 6pp. 6d net.
The story of an unpublished volume. A brief summary of the facts
in the life of William Shakespeare pointing to claims for his author-
ship having no foundation.
Captain John Ward, "Arch-Pirate." I6pp. Is net.
"A stirring narrative of brutal lawlessness combined with energy a nd ,·
in his occupation, considerable ability and power of organization .. ..
The pirate's story is most carefully documented ."-Notes and Queries,
28th October, 1939.
The Earliest Postal Stamps. Introducing some recent discoveries. With
4 plates. 7pp. Is net.
''A discovery of outstanding importance to students of postal history.''
-Stamp Collecting, Ist July, 1930.
The Golden Chalice. A documented narrative of an Elizabethan pirate.
I7pp. Is net.
"Mr . L 'Estrange Ewen has done much good work among the Admiralty
papers. "-Times Literary Supplement, 23rd September, 1938.
What Shakespere Signatures Reveal. With 4 plates. 6pp. ls net.
The six known signatures are compared with those of other Shake-
speres to conclude that neither originality nor literary talent is
indicated.
The British Race-Germanic or Celtic? I5pp. Is 3d net.
A brief historical, biological and onomatological outline leading to
a refutation of the popular error describing the white inhabitants
of Great Britain and the Dominions racially as Anglo-Saxons.
POSTAGE EXTRA
BY THE SAME AunrnR
Shakespeare No Seaman. 6pp. 6d. net.
The theme of an unpublished book illustrating the dramatist's
lack of understanding and appreciation of marine subjects.
Witchcraft in the Norfolk Circuit. 7pp. 6d. net.
Abstracts from the records of Assizes recovered by the Public
Record Office I934-7. ·
Roger L'Estrange 's "Autobiography. " 13pp . Is. net.
Did the " translator" (J . D. Daly) dupe the explorer ( H. M..
Stanley)?
A remarkable case of plagiarism. "Mr . Ewen , who may be termed a
literary Sherlock Holmes, ... is distinctly in his element in answering the
query."-Cbristopher Yorke in Yorkshire Evening Press, 23rd May, 1939.
Devon Taxation Returns in I334· 21pp. IS. net .
An Exchequer Roll showing the division of the hundreds under
682 heads and their assessments.
Witchcraft in the Star Chamber. 68pp. 3s . 6d . net.
•'The most interesting thing in the book is the light it throws on King
J ames 's attitude towards witchcraft. "-Notes and Queries , 28th J an. r938 .
Shakespeare, Automatist or Nothing. 8pp. Is. net.
•'The a uthor at leastmakes hisargumentplausib le .' '-Light , Apri l, 1947 .
Additions and Corrections to A History of Surnames. npp.
Is. 6d. net. Owners of the History, I93I, may send stamp for
free copy.
Observations on the Le Stranges. 8pp. and a table. IS . 3d, net.
•'The snares that. beset the researcher in genealogies .. . a.re well illus-
t rated. The author rightly lays stress on the supreme importance of trac10g
the devolution of family lauds. "-The Genealogists' Magazi·11e, March , 1947.
Psychic Phenomena in the Witchcraft Cases. 29pp . 2s . (Jtl.
net.
" A condensed and ob1ect1ve study of the evidence .. profuse ly a nnota·
ted . a concise, balanced resume, written by an acknowledged a uthority ''
-Western Morning News, 29th April , r947.
POSTAGE EXTRA
BY THE SAME AUTHOR.
A History of Surnames of the British Isles. A concise account
of their origin, evolution, etymology, and legal status. Demy
8vo. xx. 508 pp. (Kegan Paul, Trench, Trubner & Co.,
1q31. 25/- net . Out of print.)
"A notable book . . One rises and bows in reverence before the
learning disp layed It is an epitome of a vast subject."
-Daily T r.legraph, 29th August, 1931 .
"The matter reveals wide reading, tbc reasoning is sound and the
conclusions are logica I . . . a book . . . that no historian, ethnologist,
genealogist or philoloa ist can afford to be without.''
- Jiies/em Mail , 17th September , 193 1.
''Many books have been written on this fascinating subject . . . but
the most accurate and comprehensi,·e of them a ll is 'A History of Surna mes
of the British Jsks.' "-Morning I'ost, 21st September , 193 1.
"The general aim is to provide a trustworthy history of the surnames
. an undertaking wh ich nobody but a scholar of the widest read ing an.ct
the greatest courage would attempt. Mr . Ewen is well qualified for hts
task in both these respects. "-Irish Times, 18th September, 193 r.
" Fascinating and erudite book. "-Gtt,ardian, 18th September, 193I.
The Families of Ewen of East Anglia and the Fenland. Demy
4to . xx . 487 pp. {3 3s. net. Only roo copies printed.
"A model of the scholarly research and accuracy of the new school or
genealogy."-Tlie Genealogist's Jifaga;ine, June , 1929 .
"A valuable work which wi ll a lways serve as a standard fo r fa mily
histories. "-Miscellanea Genea/ogica el Heraldica, June, r929 .
"We congratu late the author on a book of interest not only to genealo-
gists and antiquaries, but to others also.•'
-Times Uterary Supplement, 13th June, 1929.
Lotteries and Sweepstakes. An Historical, Legal, and Eth!cal
Survey. of their T.ntrodurt ion , Suppression and Re-esta~hsh­
rnent m the British Isles. With 24 contemporary illus-
trations. Demy 8vo . 403 pp. (Heath Cranton , Ltd., 1932 .
15/- net.) Out of print .
"It is of interest to examine the whole history of lotteries , and
Mr. L'Estrange Ewen has done so on a big scale .. . not likely to be super-
seded. His work will find its way into every library of reference."
-Sm1day Times, 4th September, 1932.
"A connected .narrat ive by Mr. Ewen, who gives dated and docum~nted
evidence on all points material to the student of history , law, economics or
sociology."-Financial Times, 30th August, 1932.
"Well-documented history .... it is a curious story which Mr .Ewen,
with a great wealth of historical detail , has to tell ."
-Times Literary Suppleme11t, rst September, 1932.
"We heartily welcome this substantial fruit of :.\fr . L ' Estrange Ewen's
met iculous researches in a subject which is too often debated with little
more than explosions of fee ling."-Church Times, 23rd September, 1932.
'' lost recommendable and of value to those who require a concise
h istory of an extremeI)" complex subject. ' '-Tablet, 8th October, 193~.
