{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V18 1903-4","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v18_1903-4.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V18 1903-4","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XVIII
(CONTAINING PARTS XLVI-XLIX)
1903-4.
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
LONDON
R. BRIMLEY JOHNSON
4 ADAM STREET, ADELPHI, W.C.
1904
[Toe Rights of Translation and Reproduction are reserved]
CONTENTS.
PART XLVI.
June, 1903.
PAOK
Presidential Address. By Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. ... ]
Supplement.—Reviews :
Mr. F. W. H. Myers's "Human Personality and its Survival of
Bodily Death":
L By Professor William James .... 22
II. By Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. 34
IIL By Professor Th. Flournoy 42
rv. By Walter Leaf, Litt.D. - - 53
"The Nineteenth Century" and Mr. Frederic Myers. By Andrew
Lang 62
Reply to Mr Podmore's Criticism. By Professor James H. Hyslop - 78
PART XLVII.
January, 1904.
General Meetings • 103
L On the Types of Phenomena displayed in Mrs. Thompson's
Trance. By J. G. Piddington 104
II. On Certain Unusual Psychological Phenomena. By John
Honeyman, R.S.A. 308
PART XLVIII.
March, 1904.
Address by the President, Professor W.F. Barrett, F.R.S. - 323
, I'HOFESSOK VV. f
iv Contents.
PART XLIX.
October, 1904. pack
General Meetings 351
I. A Case of Multiple Personality (with Illustrations). By
Albert Wilson, M.D.
Introduction 352
History of the Case - 355
Theory of Cerebral Changes connected with Changes of
Personality 380
Appendix I. :
Writings of the different Personalities - 387
Comments on the Writings and Drawings of the
Secondary Personalities. By Alice Johnson - - 393
Diary of Appearances of different Personalities - - 398
Diary of Appearances of the Normal State ... 400
Description of Illustrations 402
Appendix II. :
Letter from Mr. Piddington to Dr. Wilson - 405
Comments by Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey - - - 412
Comments by Dr. Robert Jones - - - - 413
II. The Answers to the American Branch's Questionnaire regard
ing Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. By F. C. S.
Schiller 416
III. The Poltergeist at Cideville. By Andrew Lano - - - 454
Supplement.
I. The History of a Haunted House. By Dr. J. Grasset.
Translated and Abridged by Vera Larminie - - - 464
II. Reviews :
Dr. J. Milne Bramwell's " Hypnotism : its History,
Practice, and Theory." By Walter Leaf, Litt.D. - 481
Dr. J. Maxwell's " Les Phfinomenes Psychiques : Re-
cherches, Observations, Methodes." By The Hon.
E. Feildino 490
Editorial Note - - - 601
Mr. F. C. S. Schiller's " Humanism : Philosophical
Essays." By F. N. Hales 501
Officers and Council for 1904 505
List of Members and Associates ..... 506
List of Members and Associates of the American Branch 533
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART XLVI.
June, 1903.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on January 30th, 1903.
P,y Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
In taking the Chair of this Society for one more year and
giving a third Presidential Address, I think it desirable to
treat the subject from a business point of view, and to con
sider on what lines the Society may profitably work in the
future. It must be remembered that our primary aim is to
be a Scientific Society, to conduct our researches and to
record our results in an accurate and scientific manner, so
as to set an example of careful work in regions where it has
been the exception rather than the rule, and to be a trust
worthy guide to the generation of workers who shall follow.
To be scientific does not mean to be infallible, but it means
being clear and honest, and as exact as we know how to be.
In difficult investigations pioneers have always made some
mistakes, they have no immediate criterion or infallible
touchstone to distinguish the more true from the less true, but
if they record their results with anxious care and scrupulous
honesty and painstaking precision, their mistakes are only less
valuable to the next generation than their partially true
generalisations ; and sometimes it turns out, after a century or
A
2 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
so, that mistakes made by early pioneers were no such thorough
errors as had been thought, that they had an element of
truth in them all the time, as if discoverers were endowed
with a kind of prophetic insight whereby they dimly glimpsed
theories and truths which it would take several generations
of workers to disencumber and bring clearly to light.
Suppose, however, that their errors were real ones, the
record of their work is just as important to future navigators
as it is to have the rocks and shoals of a channel mapped
out and buoyed. It is work which must be done. The
great ship passing straight to its destination is enabled to
attain this directness and speed by the combined labours of
a multitude of workers, some obscure and forgotten, some
distinguished and remembered, but none of whom were able
to realise the stately passage of the great ship through the
channels marked out for it, and by aid of mechanism which
they had taken a part in designing or constructing. So it is
with every great erection ; and the Forth Bridge stands upon
piers sunk below the water-mark by the painful and long
continued labours of Italian workmen in "caissons" full of com
pressed and heated air.
The study of specifically Natural knowledge was fostered
and promoted by the recognition in the reign of Charles II.
of a body of enthusiasts who, during the disturbed but hopeful
era of the Commonwealth, had met together to discuss problems
of scientific interest ; and to-day the Royal Society is among
the dignified institutions of our land, taking all branches of
Natural Philosophy and Natural History—the Physical Sciences
and the Biological Sciences—under its wing.
Us it does not recognise, but then neither does it recognise
Mental and Moral Philosophy, or Ethics, or Psychology, or
History, or any part of a great region of knowledge which has
hitherto been regarded as outside the pale of the Natural
Sciences.
It is for us to introduce our subjects within that pale, if it
turns out that there they properly belong ; and if not, it is for
us to do pioneer work and begin the establishment of another
Society or group of Societies for recognition and promotion of
work in the mental, the psychological, the psychical direction,
until the day for unification shall arrive.
XLvi.] 3
Presidential Address.
Half knowledge sees divisions and emphasises barriers,
delights in classification into genera and species, affixes labels,
and studies things in groups. And all this work is of the
utmost practical value and is essentially necessary. That the
day will come when barriers shall be broken down, when
species shall be found to shade off into one another, when
continuity and not classification shall be the dominant feature,
may be anticipated by all, but we have no power of hastening
the day except by taking our place in the workshop and
doing our assigned quota ; still less have we any advantage in
pretending that the day of unification has arrived while as
yet its dawn is still in the future.
Returning to my thesis I say our primary aim is to be a
scientific Society, doing pioneering and foundation work in a
new and not yet incorporated tract on which future genera
tions may build, and making as few mistakes as we can
reasonably contrive by the exercise of great care.
We are not a literary society, though we have had men of
letters among our guides and leaders ; and we are not a
religious society, though some of our members take an
interest in our subject because it seems to them to have a
bearing on their religious convictions or hopes. I will say
a few words on both these points. First, our relations to
literature.
The name of Francis Bacon is a household word in the
history of English scientific ideas. I do not mean in the recent,
and as it seems to me comic, aspect, that he wrote everything
that was written in the Elizabethan era (a matter to which I
wish to make no reference one way or the other, for it is
completely off my path), but before that hare was started his
name was weighty and familiar in the history of English
scientific ideas. It is instructive to ask why. Was he a man
of Science ? No. Did he make discoveries ? No. Do scien
tific men trace back their ancestry to him ? No. To Isaac
Newton they trace it back, to Gilbert, to Roger Bacon,
speaking for those in England ; but of Francis Bacon they
know next to nothing. Outside England all the world traces
its scientific ancestry to Newton, to Descartes, to Galileo, to
Kepler ; but of Francis Bacon scientific men outside England
have scarcely heard, save as a man of letters. Yet the pro
4 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
gress of science owes much to him. All unconsciously scientific
men owe to him a great debt. Why ?
Because he perceived afar off the oncoming of the scientific
wave, and because he was able, in language to which men would
listen, to herald and welcome its advance.
Scientifically he was an amateur ; but he was an enthusiast
who with splendid eloquence, with the fire of genius, and with
great forensic skill, was able to impress his generation, and not
his own generation alone, with some idea of the dignity and
true place of science, and to make it possible for the early
pioneers of the Royal Society to pursue their labours unim
peded by persecution and to gain some sort of recognition even
from general and aristocratic Society.
For remember that the term " science " was not always
respectable. To early ears it sounded almost as the term
witchcraft or magic sounded, it was a thing from which to
warn young people ; it led to atheism and to many other
abominations. It was an unholy prying into the secrets of
Nature which were meant to be hid from our eyes, it was
a thing against which the Church resolutely set its face, a
thing for which it was ready if need were to torture or to burn
those unlucky men of scientific genius who were born before
their time. I mean no one Church in particular : I mean
the religious world generally. Science was a thing allied to
heresy, a thing to hold aloof from, to shudder at, and to
attribute to the devil. All which treatment that great and
eminent pioneer, Roger Bacon, experienced at our beloved
University of Oxford ; because the time was not yet ripe.
How came it that in the days of the Stuarts the atmosphere was
so different from that prevalent in the days of the Plantagenets ?
Doubtless the age of Elizabeth, the patriotism aroused by the
Armada and by the great discoveries in geography, had had their
vivifying effect ; and the same sort of originality of thought
which did not scruple to arraign a king for high treason like
wise ventured to set orthodoxy at defiance, and to experiment
upon and investigate openly all manner of natural facts. But I
wish to maintain, or at least to suggest, that the result was
largely due to the influence of the writings of Francis Bacon.
He had accustomed scholars and literary men to the possibili
ties and prerogatives of scientific enquiry, he had emphasised
XLv1.] 5
Presidential Address.
the importance and the dignity of experiment, and it is to his
writings that the rapid spread of scientific ideas, discovered
as always by a few, became acceptable to and spread among
the many.
Do not let us suppose, however, that the recognition of
science was immediate and universal. Dislike of it, and
mistrust of the spread of scientific enquiry, persisted well
into the Victorian era, and is not wholly extinct to this
day.
I am not at the moment speaking of investigation into
affairs of the mind—that is unpopular and mistrusted still, and
still good people are found who will attribute anything un
usual to the devil, and warn young people from it,—but I refer
to some slight trace of lingering prejudice against the orthodox
sciences of Chemistry and Physics and Biology. They have
achieved their foothold, they are regarded with respect, people
do not disdain to make money by means of them when the
opportunity is forthcoming, but they are not really liked. They
are only admitted to our Schools on sufferance, as an inferior
grade of study suited to the backward and the ignorant ;
they are not regarded with affection and enthusiasm, as revela
tions of Divine working, to be reverently studied, nor as
subjects in which the youth of a nation may be wholesomely
and solidly trained.
Very well, still more is the time not quite ripe for our sub
ject ; pioneers must expect hard knocks, the mind of a people
can change only slowly ; and until the mind of a people is
changed, new truths born before their time must suffer the
fate of other untimely births ; and the prophet who preaches
them must expect to be mistaken for a useless fanatic, of
whom every age has always had too many, and must be con
tent to be literally or metaphorically put to death, as part of
the process of the regeneration of the world.
The dislike and mistrust and disbelief in the validity or
legitimacy of psychical enquiry is familiar. The dislike of
the Natural Sciences is almost defunct. It survives un
doubtedly ; they are not liked but they are tolerated : and I
am bound to say that part of the surviving dislike is due not
alone to heredity and imbibed ideas, but to the hasty and
intolerant and exuberant and splay-footed attitude of some
6 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
men of science, who, knowing themselves to be reformers, feel
ing that they have a grain of seed-corn to plant and water,
cannot be content to go about their business in a calm and
conciliatory spirit, but must seek to hurry things on by a rough
shod method of progression, which may indeed attain its ends,
but gives some pain in the process, and perhaps achieves results
less admirable than those which might have been attained by
the exercise of a little patience, a little more perception of the
point of view of others, a little more imagination, a little more
of that recognition of the insignificance of trifles and of the
transitory character of full-blown fashions which is called a
sense of humour, a little more cultivation of the historic sense.
In a word a little more general education.
I am digressing again. I was pointing out the importance
of Francis Bacon as a man of letters in the history of the
development of the national recognition of the natural sciences
in England.
Has it struck you, it has often struck me, that in the history
of the psychical sciences we too have had a Bacon, and one
not long departed from us ? Is it possible that in the two
volumes, which to-day or to-morrow may be emerging from
the press, we have a book which posterity will regard as a
Novum Orijanon ? History does not repeat itself, and I would
not draw the parallel too close. It may be that posterity will
regard Myers as much more than that, as a philosophic pioneer
who has not only secured recognition for, but has himself
formulated some of the philosophic unification of, a mass of
obscure mental and barely recognised human faculty, and has
thrown a light on the meaning of personality which may sur
vive the test of time. It may be so, but that is for no one
living to say. Posterity alone, by aid of the experience and
further knowledge which time brings, is able to make a
judgment of real value on such a topic as that.
Meanwhile it is for us to see that time does bring this greater
knowledge and experience. For time alow: is impotent. Mil
lions of years passed on this planet, during which the amount
of knowledge acquired was small or nil. Up to the sixteenth
century, even, scientific progress was at the least slow. Becently
it has been rapid—none too rapid, but rapid. The rate of
advance depends upon the activities and energies of each
Presidential Address. 7
generation and upon the organisation and machinery which it
has inherited from its immediate forebears.
The pioneers who created the S.P.R. have left it in trust
with us to hand it on to future generations an efficient and
powerful machine for the spread of scientific truth, and for the
advancement of scientific knowledge in a direction overgrown
with thickets of popular superstition, intermixed with sandy
and barren areas of resolute incredulity. We have to steer
our narrow way between the Scylla of stony minds with no
opening in our direction, and the Charybdis of easy and
omnivorous acceptance of every straw and waif whether of
truth or falsehood that may course with the currents of popular
superstition.
Realising this to be our duty, and perceiving that we have
a long period of danger and difficulty before us, it has become
evident to persons of clear vision that the Society must be
established on a sound and permanent basis, and must endeavour
to initiate an attitude of regarding the psychical sciences as
affording the same sort of scope to a career, the same sort of
opportunities of earning a livelihood, as do the longer recognised
sciences,—those which are more specifically denominated
" natural," because of the way they fit into our idea of the
scheme of nature as by us at present recognised, or at any
rate because they deal with facts to which we have gradually
grown accustomed.
Any young man who wishes to make money should be
warned off the pursuit of pure science at the outset. People
who enter the field with that object in view will do neither
themselves nor science any good. A certain amount of enthu
siasm and pioneering proclivity is essential, but fortunately that
has never yet been wanting in our race ; witness the hardships
willingly entered upon, and the risks run, in Arctic or Antarctic
exploration, for nothing more than a living wage. A living
wage is however to many a necessity. It has always been
recognised that those who labour at the altar should live by
the altar ; and a minimum of provision for bread and homely
needs ought to be at the disposal of a Society like this where
with to enable a person of ability and enthusiasm to undertake
the prosecution of our researches in a definite and continuous
and so to speak professional manner. Hitherto we have
8 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
depended on the spontaneous and somewhat spasmodic work
of amateurs, often of wealthy amateurs, before whose
minds such questions as salary never even momentarily
pass. We shall always have need of services such as
theirs. In the more orthodox sciences, in Physics for instance,
it has been notorious that throughout last century the
best work has often been done by people who having the
means of living otherwise secured to them were able to
devote their time, and often considerable means too, to the
prosecution of research. There has been no rule either way.
Some of the leaders have been paid a small salary, like Faraday :
others have had independent means, like Joule. Always I
say we shall depend upon and be grateful for the spontaneous
work and help of people of means, but we must not depend
solely upon that, else will young people of genius be diverted
by sheer force of circumstance into other channels, and our
nascent science will lose the benefit of their powers and con
tinuous work.
I have had the pleasure of communicating, to the Annual
General Meeting of the Society this afternoon, the fact that a
few friends who desire to remain anonymous have started an
endowment fund in order to achieve this object, in order to
set the Society upon a sound financial basis, and in order to
provide the material means of attacking the problems which
the future may bring before us. Member A has given us £750,
member B £250, the Society has transferred £1000 from
the legacy of Dr. Arthur Myers, and a trust deed has been
drawn up and approved by the Council, whereby the Society
accepts these donations and others which we hope may be
forthcoming,1 and determines to accumulate them until the
sum of £8000 at least has been reached, or until a certain
specified time elapses, whichever event happens first. Ab
soon as a minimum capital sum of £8000 has been attained,
it will be permissible to offer a Research Scholarship in
Psychical Science, to which a holder irrespective of sex or
nationality may be appointed for one year, and from year to
year as may seem good, his or her time to be devoted to the
work of psychical investigation.
If we had more means more might be done ; a uuich-
1 A legacy of £3805 has since been left to the Society by Mr. A. N. Aksakoff.
XLv].] 9
Presidential Address.
needed laboratory, with special appliances such as I fore
shadowed some years ago, might be erected ; but this is to be
the beginning. This is not an appeal to people to increase
or supplement their subscriptions, such as was recently issued,
in order to meet our ordinary working expenses and enable
us to employ an Organising Secretary and to take what I
think you will agree with me in calling improved offices.
The need for ordinary subscriptions and new members con
tinues, and it should be clearly represented to all persons
interested in our work that we should welcome them if
they will join the Society, and that we apply no test save
the test of sympathy and sanity. But the movement I now
report has new and additional objects : it is the establishment
of an endowment fund to place the Society on a sound
and permanent basis and enable it before long to begin
prosecuting its work with greater ardour, and especially with
greater regularity.
We cannot always depend on spontaneous cases alone.
They are most important and are often extremely valuable
instances of a spontaneous and purposeful exercise of the
faculty we are investigating, and it would be a great mistake
to suppose that we have had enough of them. It is essential
that we be kept informed of recent well-attested cases, especially
of apparitions at or near the time of death ; but we shall not
make progress in understanding the laws of the phenomena
and in disentangling their deeper meaning if we confine our
selves to observation alone. We must experiment, we must
endeavour to produce and examine phenomena as it were in
a laboratory and submit them to minute investigation.
For instance there is the question of so-called spirit
photography, there are asserted levitations and apiiorts and
physical movements, none of which have been subjected to
adequate scientific examination ; many such cases have been
examined and found fraudulent, and there is great difficulty
in obtaining the phenomena under prescribed and crucial con
ditions ; but until these things have been submitted to long-
continued scientific scrutiny they will make no undisputed
impression, they will be either improperly accepted or im
properly rejected, and will continue in that nebulous hazy
region, the region of popular superstition, from which it is the
10 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
business of this Society to rescue them : raising them on to
the dry land of science, or submerging them as impostures
in the waters of oblivion. And I may say parenthetically
that we do not care one iota which alternative fate is in
store for them : we only want the truth.
Now I know that some few of our members are impatient
of such an investigation and decline to see any need for it.
They feel that if they have evidence enough to justify their
own belief, further enquiry is superfluous.
These have not the scientific spirit, they do not under
stand the meaning of " law." A fact isolated and alone,
joined by no link to the general body of knowledge, is almost
valueless. If what they believe is really a fact, they may
depend upon it that it has its place in the cosmic scheme,
a place which can be detected by human intelligence ; and
its whole bearing and meaning can gradually be made out.
A still smaller class of persons may of course take the
purely selfish view that what they have already learnt is
sufficient for them, and they will help us no further. To
such I do not speak, except to point out to thein that
their attitude is selfish. Real knowledge, like real wealth
of any kind, cannot be wrapped up thus, it pines for re
production, for increase : " how am I straightened till it be
accomplished " ; the missionary spirit, in some form or other,
is inseparably associated with all true and worthy know
ledge. Think of a man who, having made a discovery in
Astronomy,—seen a new planet, or worked out a new
law,—should keep it to himself and gloat over it in private.
It would be inhuman and detestable miserliness ; even in
a thing like that of no manifest importance to mankind.
The only excuse would be if he lived so much in advance
of his time that, like Galileo with his newly invented and
applied telescope, he received nothing but rebuffs and
persecution for the publication of his discoveries. But even
so, it is his business to brave this and tell out what
he knows ; still more is it his business so to act upon
the mind of his generation as to convert it gradually to the
truth, and lead his fellows to accept what now they reject.
Those who believe themselves the repositories of any form
of divine truth should realise their responsibility. They are
XLvi.] 11
Presidential Address.
bound in honour to take such steps as may wisely cause
its perception and recognition by the mass of mankind.
They are not bound to harangue the crowd from the nearest
platform : that might be the very way to retard progress
and throw back the acceptance of their doctrine. The course
to pursue may be much more indirect than that. The
way may be hard and long, but to the possessor of worldly
means it is far easier than to another. If the proper
administration of his means can conduce to the progress of
science, and to the acceptance by the mass of mankind of
important and vivifying knowledge of which they are now
ignorant, then surely the path lies plain.
The inauguration of this endowment fund, of which I
announce a nucleus to-day, makes it possible and easy for
persons without leisure, but with means and enlightenment,
to assist their fellows by ensuring a continuation and ex
tension of investigation into the more unconscious and less
recognised mental operations.
But still it will be asked, Why investigate further when
we are already convinced ? of telepathy for instance,—it may
be said,—you yourself are convinced of that. Why do you
want us to conduct experiments in that ? Hypnotism again :
An excellent paper was read a few weeks ago to the Society
on certain aspects of hypnotism ; but hypnotism is an accepted
medical fact. Why waste time in making further experiments
on its manner and its bearing ?
Alas, here again the effect of the lack of scientific educa
tion in the schools of England is painfully prominent. Effective
knowledge concerning anything can only be the result of
long-continued investigation, and belief in the possibility of
a fact is only the very first step. Until there is some
sort of tentative belief in the reasonable possibility of a
fact there is no investigation,—the scientific priest and Levite
have other business, and pass by on the other side. And
small blame to them : they cannot stop to investigate every
thing that may be lying by the roadside. If they had
been sure that it was a fellow creature in legitimate dis
tress they would have acted differently. Belief of a tentative
kind will ensure investigation, not by all but by some of
the scientific travellers along the road ; but investigation is
12 [PAKT
Sir Oliver Lodge.
the prelude to action, and action is a long process. Some
one must attend to the whole case and see it through.
Others, more pressed for time, may find it easier to sub
scribe their two pence to an endowment fund, and so give
indirect but valuable assistance.
But once more the question is reiterated, Why investigate
that of which we are sure ? Why seek to confirm that
of which we already have conviction ? Why value well-
evidenced narratives for instance of apparitions at times of
death or catastrophe, when so many have already been
collected in Phantasms of the Living, and when careful
scrutiny by Mrs. Sidgwick proved that they could not be
the result of chance coincidence ? 1 There is a quite definite
answer to this question, which I wish to commend to the
consideration of those who feel this difficulty or ask this sort of
question.
The business of science is not belief but investigation.
Belief is both the prelude to and the outcome of knowledge.
If a fact or a theory has had a prima facie case made out
for it, subsequent investigation is necessary to examine and
extend it.
The object of investigation is the ascertainment of law,
and to this process there is no end. What, for instance, is
the object of observing and recording earthquakes, and
arranging delicate instruments to detect the slightest indica
tion of earth tremor ? Every one knows that earthquakes
exist, there is no scepticism to overcome in their case ;
even people who have never experienced them are quite
ready to believe in their occurrence. Investigation into earth
quakes and the whole of the motile occurrences in the
earth's crust, is not in the least for the purpose of con
firming faith, but solely for the better understanding of the
conditions and nature of the phenomena ; in other words,
for the ascertainment of law.
So it is in every branch of science. At first among new
phenomena careful observation of fact is necessary, as when
Tycho Brahe made measurements of the motion of the planets
and accumulated a store of careful observations. Then came
1 See the Report of Professor Kidgwick's Committee, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. x.
p. 394.
XLVX] 13
Presidential Address.
the era of hypothesis, and Kepler waded through guess after
guess, testing them pertinaciously to see if any one of them
would fit all the facts : the result of his strenuous life-
work being the three great laws which for all time bear
his name. And then came the majestic deductive epoch of
Newton, welding the whole into one comprehensive system ;
subsequently to be enriched and extended by the labours
of Lagrange and Laplace ; after which the current of
scientific enquiry was diverted for a time into other less
adequately explored channels.
For not at all times is everything equally ripe for
enquiry. There is a phase, or it may be a fashion, even in
science. I spoke of geographical exploration as the feature of
Elizabeth's time. Astronomical enquiry succeeded it. Optics
and Chemistry were the dominating sciences of the early
part of the nineteenth century, Heat and Geology of the
middle, Electricity and Biology of the later portion. Not yet
has our branch of psychology had its phase of popularity ; nor
am I anxious that it should be universally fashionable. It
is a subject of special interest, and therefore perhaps of
special danger. In that respect it is like other studies of
the operations of mind, like a scientific enumeration of the
phenomena of religion for instance, like the study of any
thing which in its early stages looks mysterious and
incomprehensible. Training and some admixture of other
studies are necessary for its healthy investigation. The day
will come when the science will put off its foggy aspect,
bewildering to the novice, and become easier for the less
well-balanced and more ordinarily-equipped explorer. At
present it is like a mountain shrouded in mist whose sides
offer but little secure foothold, where climbing, though possible,
is difficult and dangerous.
As a Society we exist to curb rash and inexperienced
novices, and to support trusted and experienced climbers by
roping ourselves together so that we may advance safely
and in unison, guarding ourselves from foolhardy enterprises, but
facing such legitimate difficulties as lie in our path, and
resolved that, weather and uncontrollable circumstances per
mitting, our exploration shall continue, and the truth, whatever
it may be, be ascertained.
14 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
The assuring ourselves as to facts is one of our duties,
and it is better to hesitate too long over a truth than to
welcome an error, for a false gleam may lead us far astray
unless it is soon detected.
Another of our duties is the making and testing of hypo
theses, so as gradually to make a map of the district and
be able to explain it to future travellers. We have to
combine the labours of Tycho with those of Kepler, and
thus prepare the way for a future Newton ; who has not
yet appeared above the psychical horizon.
His advent must depend upon how far we of this and
the next few generations are faithful to our trust, how far
we work ourselves, and by our pecuniary means enable
others to work ; and I call upon those who are simul
taneously blessed with this world's goods and likewise inspired
with confidence in the truth and value of mental and
spiritual knowledge, to bethink themselves whether, either in
their lifetime or in their wills, they cannot contribute to
the world's progress in a beneficent way, so as to enable
humanity to rise to a greater height of aspiration and even
of religion ; as they will if they are enabled to start with
a substantial foundation of solid scientific fact on which to
erect their edifice of faith.
If it be said, but why should investigation be expensive ?
I would ask you to look round and think what is expended
on the investigation of the orthodox sciences. Before Columbus'
voyage could be undertaken, the Courts of Europe had to be
appealed to for funds. Before astronomical discoveries can be
made, large observatories and costly telescopes have to be
provided ; and not one only, but many, so that by collabora
tion of observers in many parts of the world the truth may
be ascertained.
Look at the expense of biological and ethnological explora
tion to-day. Think of the highly equipped physical laboratories,
one of which is maintained at every College or University in
the civilised world. And of chemical laboratories,—remember
that every large commercial chemical manufacturing firm in
Germany maintains a band of trained and competent chemists,
always investigating, in the hope of a new compound or a
new process or some little profitable improvement.
xlvi.] 15
Presidential Address.
Money is not scarce, and if people realised the interest of
science to the human race it would be poured out far more
lavishly than it is at present. Certain small special sums are
now provided for the investigation of disease. The origin of
Malaria has been traced, and this disease has some chance of
being exterminated, so that the tropical belt of the earth may
become open to white habitation. Cancer is being pursued to its
lair, without success so far; but funds for researches such as these
are bound to be forthcoming. I read in the papers only this
week a magnificent donation for the purpose of investigating
cancer, a large portion of a million, attributed to Mr. Rocke
feller, founder of Chicago University.
That is the scale on which to do things with effect. When
practical benefits can be definitely foreseen, people feel justified
in spending money even on Science ; though as a rule that
and education are things on which they are specially economical.
Municipal extravagance in any such things as those is sternly
checked, though in other directions it is permitted.
And why should not psychical investigation lead to practical
results ? Are we satisfied with our treatment of criminals ?
Are we as civilised people content to grow a perennial
class of habitual criminals, and to keep them in check only
by devices appropriate to savages ; hunting them, flogging
them, locking them up, exterminating them ? Any savage
race in the history of the world could do as much as that :
and if they know no better they are bound to do it for their
own protection. Society cannot let its malefactors run wild, any
more than it can release its lunatics. Till it understands these
things it must lock them up, but the sooner it understands
them the better ; an attempt at comprehension is being made by
criminologists in Italy, France,1 and elsewhere. Force is no remedy:
intelligent treatment is. Who can doubt but that a study of
obscure mental facts will lead to a theory of the habitual
criminal, to the tracing of his malady as surely as malaria has
been traced to the mosquito ? And once we understand the evil
the remedy will follow. Already hypnotic treatment, or treat
ment by suggestion, occurs to one. The fact of imprisonment
ought to lend itself to brilliant attempts at reform. It is a
1 E.g. Bulletin de I'Inttitut Oeniral P&yehologiqut, dirige par Dr. Pierre Janet ;
Decembre 1902, p. 225.
16 [xlvi.
Sir Oliver Lodge.
great advantage to doctors to have their patients collected
compactly in a hospital ; and without it medical practice
would languish. It ought to be a similar advantage to have
criminals herded together in gaols, and lunatics in asylums.
It is unwise and unscientific to leave prisoners merely to the
discipline of warders and to the preaching of chaplains. That
is not the way to attack a disease of the body politic. I
have no full-blown treatment to suggest, but I foresee that
there will be one in the future. Society will not be content
always to pursue these methods of barbarism ; the resources
of civilisation are not really exhausted, though for centuries
they have appeared to be. The criminal demands careful
study on the psychical side, and remedy or palliation will be
a direct outcome of one aspect of our researches. The influence
of the unconscious or subliminal self, the power of suggestion,
the influence of one mind over another, the phenomena of
so-called ' possession,' these are not academic or scientific facts
alone : they have a deep practical bearing, and sooner or
later it must be put to the proof.
One of the things I want to impress upon all Members and
Associates and beg them to spread, wherever they have any
influence, among persons who being supernormally gifted may
expect to experience facts and sensations worth recording, is
that too much care cannot be expended in getting the state
ments exact. Exact in every particular, especially as regards
the matter of time. In recording a vision or an audition or
some other impression corresponding to some event elsewhere,
there is a horrible tendency to try to coax the facts to fit
some half-fledged preconceived theory and to make the coinci
dence in point of time exact.
Such distortions of truth are misleading and useless. What
we want to know is exactly how the things occurred, not how
the impressionist would have liked them to occur, or how he
thinks they ought to have occurred. If people attach any
importance to their own predilection concerning events in
the Universe, they can set them forth in a footnote for the
guidance of any one who hereafter may think of starting a
Universe on his own account : but such speculations are of
no interest to us who wish to study and understand the
XLvi.] 11
Presidential Address.
Universe as it is. If the event preceded the impression, by
all means let us know it, and perhaps some one may be able
to detect some meaning in the time-interval, when a great
number of similar instances are compared hereafter. If the
impression preceded the event, by all means let us know that
too, and never let the observation be suppressed from a
ridiculous idea that such anticipation is impossible. Nor let
us exclude attested physical phenomena from a historical
record, on any similar ground of impossibility. We want to
learn what is possible, not to have our minds made up before
hand and distort or blink the facts to suit.
If the correspondence in time is exact, then let future
students be able to ascertain that also from the record ; but
let not the recorder make any remark about " allowing for
difference of longitude " or anything of that kind, unless
indeed he is an astronomer or some one who thoroughly under
stands all about " time." Arithmetic of that sort can be left
to those who subsequently disentangle and criticise the
results. The observer may of course amuse himself in that
and other ways privately, but nothing of it should appear in
the record. That should be accurate and cold-blooded and
precise. Sentences indicating contemporary emotion, in so far
as that is part of the facts to be recorded, are entirely in place ;
but ejaculations of subsequent emotion, speculation as to the
cause, or moralisation as to the meaning, are out of place.
It may be said that these do no harm, and can easily be
ignored by a future student ; and that is so in one sense, but
their atmosphere is rather apt to spoil the record, to put the
recorder into an unscientific frame of mind, and, even when
they have biassed him no whit, to suggest to a subsequent
reader that they may have biassed him, and so discount
unfairly the value of his record.
With respect to the important subject of possible pre
diction, on which our ideas as to the ultimate nature of
time will so largely depend, every precaution should be
taken to put far from us the temptation or the possibility
of improving the original record after the fact to which it
refers has occurred, if it ever does occur ; and to remember
that though we have done nothing of the sort, and are in all
respects honest, and known to be honest and truthful, yet the
B
18 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
contrary may be surmised by posterity or by strangers or
foreigners who did not know us ; and even our friends may
fancy that we did more than we were aware of, in some
access of somnambulic or automatic trance. Automatic writers
for instance must be assumed open to this suspicion, unless
they take proper precautions and deposit copies of their
writings in some inaccessible and responsible custody ; because
the essence of their phenomena is that the hand writes what
they themselves are not aware of, and so it is an easy
step for cautious critics to maintain that it may also have
written when they were not aware of it.
The establishment of cases of real prediction, not mere
inference, is so vital and crucial a test of something not
yet recognised by science that it is worth every effort to
make its evidence secure.
Another thing on which I should value experiments is
the detection of slight traces of telepathic power in quite
normal persons, in the average man for instance, or rather
more likely perhaps, in the average child. The power of
receiving telepathic impressions may be a rare faculty exist
ing only in a few individuals and in them fully developed ;
but it is equally possible, and, if one may say so, more likely,
that what we see in them is but an intensification of a power
which exists in every one as a germ or nucleus. If such should
be the fact, it behoves us to know it ; and its recognition
would do more to spread a general belief in the fact of tele
pathy—a belief by no means as yet universally or even
widely spread—than almost anything else.
The method that has been suggested is to offer to a
percipient the choice of one out of two things, and to see
whether in multitudes of events the predetermination of a
bystander as to which shall be chosen, exerts any influence
whatever on the result. Many devices can be made for
carrying this out, but experiments of greater interest and
novelty will be made if the devices are left to individual
ingenuity and experience. Leisure, and patience, and system,
and industry, are the requisites : and if I do not myself
practise what I preach, in this and other particulars, it is
because whatever I may lack of the others I am at present
conspicuously lacking in the first of these essentials.
XLvi.] 19
Presidential Address.
There are many topics on which I might speak : one is
the recent advance in our knowledge of the nature of the
atom of matter, and the discovery of facts which one would
think must have some bearing,—some to me at present quite
unknown bearing,—on the theory of what are called
physical phenomena ; but I am speaking on this subject
in the summer at Oxford in the Romanes lecture,—I
mean the subject of the nature of matter, not its bearing
upon our researches, for on the latter I have at present
no useful ideas,—so I will not mention it further here and
now, except to call the attention of all educated persons to
the intense interest of this most recent purely scientific subject.
On another topic I might say a few words, viz., on the
ambiguity clinging round the phrase " action at a distance,"
in connection with telepathy. Physicists deny action at a
distance, at least most of them do. I do for one. At
the same time I admit telepathy. Therefore it is sup
posed I necessarily assume that telepathy must be con
ducted by an etherial process analogous to the transmission
of waves. That is however a non-sequitur. The phrase
" action at a distance " is a technical one. It signifies that
no physical force is exerted save through a medium. There
must either be a projectile from A to B, or a continuous
medium of some kind extending from A to B, if A exerts
force upon B, or otherwise influences it by a physical
process.
But what about a psychical process ? There is no such
word in physics ; the term is in that connection meaning
less. A physicist can make no assertion on it one. way
or the other. If A mesmerises B, or if A makes an
apparition of himself appear to B, or if A conveys a tele
pathic impression to B ; is a medium necessary then ? As
a physicist I do not know : these are not processes I
understand. They may not be physical processes at all.
Take it further : A thinks of B, or A prays to B, or
A worships B ;—is a medium necessary for these things ?
Absolute ignorance ! The question is probably meaningless
and absurd. Spiritual and psychical events do not enter
into the scheme of Physics, and when a physicist denies
" action at a distance " he is speaking of things he is
20 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
competent to deal with,—of light and sound and electricity
and magnetism and cohesion and gravitation. He is not,
or should not be, denying anything psychical or spiritual at
all. All the physical things, he asserts, necessitate a medium ;
but beyond that he is silent. If telepathy is an etherial
process, as soon as it is proved to be an etherial process,
it will come into the realm of physics ; but till then it
stays outside.
There are rash speculators who presume to say that
spiritual and psychical and physical are all one. To me
it seems that the instinct for simplification has run away
with them, that they are trespassing out of bounds and
preaching what they do not know, eking out a precarious
ignorance with cheap dogmatism.
I find I have omitted to say anything on one topic
at which I hinted in an earlier portion of my Address,
viz., the bearing of our enquiry on religion. It is a large
subject and one too nearly trenching on the region of emotion
to be altogether suitable for the consideration of a scientific
Society. Yet every science has its practical applications,
and though they are not part of the science, they are
its legitimate outcome, and the value of the science to
humanity must be measured in the last resort by the use
which humanity can make of it. To the enthusiast, science
for the sake of knowledge, without ulterior ends, may be
enough,—and if there were none of this spirit in the
world we should be poorer than we are ;—but for the bulk
of mankind this is too high or too arid a creed, and people
in general must see just enough outcome to have faith
that there may be yet more.
That our researches will ultimately have some bearing,
some meaning, for the science of Theology, I do not doubt.
What that bearing may be I cannot tell. I have indicated
in an article in the Hibbert Journal for January part of
what I feel on the subject, and I have gone as far in
that article as I feel entitled to go. We seek to unravel
the nature and hidden powers of man ; and a fuller under
standing of the attributes of humanity cannot but have
some influence on our theory of Divinity itself.
XLVi.] 21
Presidential Address.
If any scientific Society is worthy of encouragement and
support it should surely be this. If there is any object
worthy the patient and continued attention of humanity, it
is surely these great and pressing problems of whence, what,
and whither, that have occupied the attention of Prophet
and Philosopher since time was. The discovery of a new
star, or of a marking on Mars, or of a new element, or
of a new extinct animal or plant, is interesting : surely the
discovery of a new human faculty is interesting too. Already
the discovery of " telepathy " constitutes the first-fruits of
this Society's work, and it has laid the way open to the
discovery of much more. Its aim is nothing less than the
investigation and better comprehension of human faculty,
human personality, and human destiny.
22 [part
Professor William James.
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEWS.
Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death, By Frederic
W. H. Myers. 2 vols. 8vo. (Longmans, Green & Co., London,
New York, and Bombay. 1903.)
L
Such large portions of the text of these bulky volumes, which are
the legacy of Myers's literary life, have already appeared in these
Proceedings, and their author's general conceptions are so familiar
to my readers, that I feel free to omit from this notice all detailed
account of the book's contents and composition. For aught I know
such an account may be given by my fellow-reviewers. The contents
are so intricate and the ideas so many that the great danger is
that of not seeing the forest for the trees, and of not appre
hending with distinctness the steps of Myers's reasoning. It seems
to me wisest, therefore, to employ the opportunity accorded me
in analysing his argument into its essential features, following, as
I do so, a logical rather than a textual order.
What would entitle Myers, if he were successful in what he
attempted, to be regarded as the founder of a new science is that con
ception of the Subliminal Self, by which he colligated and co-ordinated
a mass of phenomena which had never before been considered
together, and thus made a sort of objective continuum of what,
before him, had appeared so pure a disconnectedness that the
ordinary scientific mind had either disdained to look at it, or pro
nounced it mostly fictitious. Two years ago I wrote in these Pro
ceedings that Myers had endowed psychology with a new problem—
The exploration of the subliminal region being destined to figure here
after in that branch of learning as " Myers's problem." Reading these
XLvi.] Review of Human Personality. 23
volumes, we gain a definite idea of how far he himself had pushed
forward the topographical survey of that region.
Conservatives in anthropologic science will immediately say that
Myers used the concept of the " subliminal " far too broadly, and
that the only safe demarcation of the term is that of the neuro
pathologists. These observers for the most part now recognise a
subliminal region frankly, but they recognise it only as a dissociated
part of the normal personality. Experiences forgotten by the upper
consciousness may here still lead a parasitic existence, and in an
inferior, dreamlike way may interfere with normal processes. For
these critics the subliminal is synonymous with the forgotten and
forms a region of disintegration exclusively.
Most neurologists either ignore those other "evolutive," "superior,"
or " supernormal " phenomena, in which Myers's chief interest lay, or
scout them wholesale as deceptions. The few who admit them are
more likely to see in them another department of experience
altogether than to treat them as having continuous connection with
the ordinary phenomena of mental dissociation.
Those who simply ignore them (for whatever reason) may them
selves be ignored here as belated students. However acutely awaie
one may be of thje sources of fallacy in reports of the marvellous, I
fail to see how the records quoted in these volumes, and in vastly
greater profusion in Gurney's Phantasms of the Living and the other
S.P.R. publications, can rightfully be met by a wholesale and in-
discriminating turn possumus. Any one with a healthy sense for
evidence, a sense not methodically blunted by the sectarianism of
'• Science," ought now, it seems to me, to feel that exalted sensi
bilities and memories, veridical phantasms, haunted houses, trances
with supernormal faculty, and even experimental thought-transference,
are natural kinds of phenomenon which ought, just like other
natural events, to be followed up with scientific curiosity.
Hypnotic phenomena form the centre of perspective for Myers's
map of the subliminal region. In the first place, the system of
faculty of a subject under hypnosis is quite different from his waking
system of faculty. While portions of the usual waking system are
inhibited, other portions are sometimes supernormally energised in
hypnosis, producing not only hallucinations, but after-results in the
way of sense-discrimination and control of organic function, to which
the waking consciousness is unable to attain. We are thus led to
the notion of two different currents of mental life, one deeper, and
the other shallower, of which either is best appealed to while the
24 [part
Professor William James.
other is in abeyance. That these currents may not only alternate
but may co-exist with each other is proved by Gurney's, Binet's, and
Janet's discovery of Subjects who, receiving suggestions during
hypnosis and forgetting them when wakened, nevertheless then
wrote them out automatically and unconsciously as soon as a pencil
was placed in their hands.
Allying the curative phenomena of hypnosis with the great
reparative powers of sleep, and its enhancements of faculty with the
enhancements of faculty to which dreaming and natural somnam
bulism occasionally give rise, Myers postulates a region of sleeping
consciousness present at all times in all of us, a region moreover
which in certain respects has an advantage over the waking levels of
the mind. This subliminal region is usually closed off from the
ordinary waking consciousness, but under special conditions of appeai,
which vary with the idiosyncrasy of the individual, it may break in
with effects which reveal its presence to us. The popular word
" suggestion " is only a name for a successful appeal to this sub
liminal consciousness.
The appeal, in hypnotic subjects, is made through the ordinary
consciousness in the first instance ; and into that consciousness the
effects, when they are "post-hypnotic," return in {he form of "auto
matisms," sensory or motor. In other words, hallucinations or
unmotived impulses to act, which in some cases are upheavals from
the subliminal into the supraliminal region, may be so in all cases.
The two regions thus form environments for each other, with
possibilities of interaction, though under ordinary conditions their
intercourse is small.
So far Myers would seem to be on perfectly solid ground. There
is a subliminal region of life which opens fitfully into the supraliminal
region. The only doubt is as to whether it be general in human
beings, or whether it be not limited to a few hypnotic and. hysteric
subjects.
The subliminal region being thus established as an actuality, the
next question is as to its farther limits, where it exists. My sub
liminal, for instance, has my ordinary consciousness for one of its
environments, but has it additional environments on the remoter
side 1 Has it direct relations of intercourse, for example, with the
consciousness, subliminal or supraliminal, of other men ?
Some of the phenomena of hypnotism or mesmerism suggest that
this is actually the case. I refer to the reports (several of them
irreproachably recorded) of hypnotism at a distance, of obedience to
Review of Human Personality. 25
unspoken orders, and of " community of sensation " between hypnotiser
and subject, of which Sections 568 to 571 of Myers's Volume I. give
some account Remote influences, to which the supraliminal region is
closed, may thus occasionally pass into the subliminal region, showing
that this latter communicates not only with the supraliminal mind
of the subject himself, but with the mind of other persons, and
possibly with a still wider world.
How wide this world may possibly be is suggested by all the
various reports of thought-transference and clairvoyance in the hyp
notic state. And if we now pass beyond conditions of artificial
hypnosis, and take into account states of abstraction like those pro
duced in some persons by crystal gazing and by automatic writing,
and the "trances" of certain somnambulists and mediums, with the
clairvoyant faculty reported to be found therein, we find ourselves
obliged (if we credit the reports) to assume that the subliminal life
has windows of outlook and doors of ingress which bring it (iu some
persons at least) into a commerce, of which the channels entirely
escape our observation, with an indefinitely extended region of the
world of truth.
The jump which Myers makes here is that of generalising his
conclusions. The "conservative" critic who does not deny the
facts in tolo would most probably call them pathological freaks of
idiosyncrasy. He would protest against their being treated as revela
tions of the constitution of human nature at large. Myers, on the
other hand, regards them as such revelations, and considers that
the subjects show their " idiosyncrasy " rather in lying as open as
they do to our observation, than in having the kind of human con
stitution which the observations disclose.
He is thus led to the general conception of a subliminal life
belonging to human nature in general, and having its own indefinitely
wide environment, distinct from that with which our bodily senses
carry on their commerce. Set over against this subliminal life, and
in strong contrast with it, we find the normal consciousness, dealing
primarily through the senses with the material world, and in pos
session of faculties of attention, and in particular of memory, which
are pitifully small in comparison with those which the subliminal
consciousness wields. The normal consciousness is thus only a
portion of our nature, adapted primarily to " terrene " conditions.
Those more directly intuitive faculties which it lacks, and of which
we get glimpses in individuals whose subliminal lies exceptionally
open, can hardly be vestiges, degenerations of something which our
26 [part
Professor William James.
ancestors once possessed. We should rather regard them as germs
of something not yet evolved for methodical use in our natural
environment, but possibly even now carrying on a set of active
functions in their own wider " cosmic " environment.
The "supernormal" becomes thus for Myers synonymous with the
"evolutive" as contrasted with the " dissolutive" with which the
ordinary neurologist would prefer to connect it. The supernormal
faculties of the subliminal take us into the cosmic environment ; and
for Myers this cosmic environment takes on more and more. as the
volumes proceed, the character of a " spiritual world." From its inter
course with this spiritual world the subliminal self of each of us may
draw strength, and communicate it to the supraliminal life. The
"energising of life" seems, in fact, to be one of its functions. The
reparativeness of sleep, the curative effects of self-suggestion, the
" uprushing " inspirations of genius, the regenerative influences of
prayer and of religious self-surrender, the strength of belief which
mystical experiences give, are all ascribed by Myers to the " dynamo-
geny " of the spiritual world, upon which we are enabled to make
drafts of power by virtue of our connection with our subliminal.
He dreams of a methodical evolution and extension, as our know
ledge of the channels shall improve, of our resources in this direction.
Myers's theory, so far, is simple enough. It only postulates an
indefinite inward extension of our being, cut off from common con
sciousness by a screen or diaphragm not absolutely impervious but
liable to leakage and to occasional rupture. The " scientific " critic
can only say it is a pity that so vast and vaguely defined a hypo-_
thesis should be reared upon a set of facts so few and so imperfectly
ascertained.
The vagueness of the hypothesis at this point chiefly consists in the
ill-defined relations of the subliminal with its "cosmic" environment.
Is this latter the Absolute Soul of the World, with which all our
subliminals may be supposed to be substantially continuous? Or
are the various subliminals discontinuous 1—and is their intercourse
transacted across an isolating interval 1
As the work proceeds, Myers tends more and more towards
the latter conception : the " spiritual world " becomes a " world of
spirits " which interact.
This follows naturally from the consideration, to which he next
proceeds, of veridical phantasms and mediumistic messages. At first
sight "ghosts," etc., (if admitted to be actual phenomena) would
seem to require a physical rather than a mental hypothesis for their
XLvI.] 27
Review of Human Personality.
explanation ; and mediumistic messages, if taken at their face value,
suggest that the "controlling" spirit intrudes into the very organism
of the medium rather than that it merely actuates the medium's
subliminal mind. The plot thickens very much hereabouts, and
obliges one to ask more definitely whether the environment of the
subliminal be mental exclusively or whether it may not also be
physical. Myers is shy of putting forth psychophysical hypotheses,
but in his conceptions of " phantasmogenetic invasion " of space and
of " telergy " and " telekinesis," we find that he is forced to abandon
purely mental territory. Subliminal selves, affecting one another in
their quality of purely psychic entities, are not the sole factors that
need be considered in our explanations. Space and their physical
relations to space are also required.
Let me indicate very briefly what are the essential points in
Myers's handling of this new range of experiences.
In the first place, take the so-called "veridical phantasms of the
living." Assuming them to be established by the evidence, the
records show that the mind of the percipient must be at least one of
the factors of their production. If they were purely physical or
" astral " presences, why should they wear earthly clothes, and carry
earthly accessories 1 and when the percipient is in the midst of com
panions, why should they so seldom appear to them ?
Evidently the phantasm, whatever may be its remoter starting-
point, involves, as a mere immediate bit of experience, the psycho
physical process called " hallucination " on the part of the percipient
himself.
Secondly, since there are well recorded cases where a living person,
A, made his phantasm appear to B by simply willing that it should
do so, and since in many of the other cases of phantasms of the
living, the person who appeared probably wished to appear where he
did appear, it seems fair to interpret these appearances generally as
hallucinations produced by the action of one mind upon another,
somewhat after the pattern of the hallucinations which a hypnotiser
makes his subject experience so easily by suggesting that he shall
have them, either during the hypnosis or after waking up. "Tele
pathy " is the name which Myers gave to the immediate influence of
one subliminal upon another. The records seem to prove that
telepathy either may or may not be a transfer of ready-made content
from one mind to another. Sometimes the influencing mind appears
to act only as a suggestive stimulus, and the results on the mind
influenced show every variation from a vague emotional mood to an
28 [part
Professor William James.
elaborated perception full of accessories, or to an automatically
impulsive act.
Activity of the influencing mind at a distance from its body is at any
rate proved, according to Myers, by these phantasms of the living
and by other telepathic phenomena.
It is round this conception of action at a distance, to which Myers
applies the term of " psychical invasion," that his theory now turns
towards its ulterior developments.
The fact that a phantasm may appear to a whole collection of
persons at once, or to an indifferent companion of the person, rather
than to the person himself of whom the phantasm's original might
reasonably be supposed to be thinking, suggests that our soul's invasive
powers apply to outer space as well as to other minds. Myers cites
examples of these, as of all other special types of case which his
argument requires, and considers that the probability of this space-
invasion by the subliminal powers of the living is strengthened by
two additional kinds of fact. First we have cases of apparent
" bilocation " of mind and organism, as when a living person appears
to view his own body from a remote position, or to see his own
" double " as a phantasm ; and second, we have an impressive array
of oases which make for "travelling" clairvoyance, (" telsesthesia," as
Myers calls it) whether in dream, in crystal gazing, or in the mesmeric
trance. Myers indulges in no hypothesis whatever as to the modus
operandi of this space-invasion by our subliminal. At any rate
it seems to bring space in as a portion of the subliminal's environ
ment. The subliminal has relations with space as well as with other
minds.
So far the powers of living persons have been considered exclusively.
But phantasms of the slowly or suddenly dying shade by continuity
of time-relation into phantasms of the recently dead, and these in turn
shade into phantasms of the long dead, i.e. into narratives of the
haunted-house type, of which the mass recorded is decidedly imposing.
The order of theoretic construction, if we go back to the beginning,
is thus somewhat as follows :—From hyperesthesia in the hypnotic
state we pass gradually into telepathy between the subject and the
operator ; from this to phantasmogenetic telepathy between living men
at a distance from one another ; from this to space-invasions, whether
phantasmogenetic or clairvoyant, by the subliminal of living persons ;
and finally from this to similar invasions (phautasmogenetic, at any
rate) by the dead. We thus reach the hypothesis of spirit survival.
Primarily, we reach this only in the somewhat idiotic form of " ghosts,"
Review of Human Personality. 29
for up to this point we have been considering only what Myers calls
automatisms of the sensory order.
But motor automatisms carry us a good deal further towards a
"world of spirits." Sensory automatisms seem to be essentially
fugacious. Rarely is their content elaborately developed or pro
longed. It is quite otherwise with automatic writing and speech,
for here the messages are consecutive, and bring explicit pro
fessions of origin and purpose along with them. This may obtain
when the subject who offers them is awake as well as when he is
entranced.
The whole topic of "spirit messages" is thus opened up to our
reflection. Although Myers died before he could write out his review
of the evidence for spirit messages in detail, he all along shows that
he deemed it sufficient : some such messages, at any rate, he held
to have been proved authentic. With this our "cosmic" environment,
as he believed in it, comes into full view. Our subliminals surround
one another and act upon one another, as well as upon space ; and
spirits of the departed (which may themselves be constituted as
we are, and have something like a subliminal condition of their own)
may also act upon us and upon space, and receive our action too.
When the action is transient, it is probably merely an impact upon
our subliminal, of which we need not necessarily suspect the source.
When it is more protracted or " invasive," space gets affected, and we
either see a ghost or feel a presence ; and it is an open question, in
such effects as these upon our consciousness, how far our subliminal
mind exclusively receives the operation of the invader, and how far
he may act directly on our physical nervous system. Prolonged
"possession" or "control" of the organism seems to involve the
profoundest sort of operation which is possible ; and Myers is willing
here to admit that the foreign spirit may directly actuate the
medium's nervous system.
That spirits of departed men should actuate these living bodies
of ours directly, shows a form of physical influence to which Myers
gives the name of telekinesis, and of which still other instances would
be the raps, the table-movings without contact, and the other
"physical phenomena of mediumship," as they are commonly termed.
Myers discusses these phenomena warily, using delicate methods of
gradual approach (see especially the exquisitely ingenious " Scheme
of Vital Faculty," which ought to have been prominently printed
as the concluding chapter of the whole book, but which appears in
conspicuously among the Appendices as Section 926 A, Vol. Ii.,
30 [part
Professor William James.
pp. 505-554). On the whole he seems well disposed to treat the
evidence for physical phenomena as adequate.
And now his whole theory lies before us. It is a vast synthesis,
but a coherent one, notwithstanding the vagueness of some of the
terms that figure in it. No one of the dots by which his map is
plotted out, no one of the " corners " required by his triangulation,
is purely hypothetical. He offers empirical evidence for the concrete
existence of every element which his scheme postulates and works
with. In logical form the theory is thus a scientific construction of
a very high order, against which one can urge only two general kinds
of objection. One can say first that the stepping-stones themselves,
the corners, are too frail, that the types of fact invoked need much
additional corroboration ; or one can say, even if the kinds of facts
were admitted to be solid where they have been observed, that Myers
has ascribed a universality and an extension to them for which he has
no warrant, that he has drawn his rules from the exceptional cases,
and made his spiritual universe too continuous.
Disregarding these criticisms for the moment, I am impelled to
■say a word about this matter of Myers's " scientific " ability. Reading
him afresh in these two volumes, I find myself filled with an admir
ation which almost surprises me. The work, whatever weaknesses it
may have, strikes me as at least a masterpiece of co-ordination and
unification. The voluminous arsenal of "cases" of which the author's
memory disposes might make the most erudite naturalist or historian
■envy him, and his delicate power of serially assorting his facts, so
as to find always just the case he needs to fit into a gap in the
■scheme, is wholly admirable. He shows indeed a genius not unlike
that of Charles Darwin for discovering shadings and transitions, and
grading down discontinuities in his argument.
Three circumstances, probably, have worked against the general
public recognition of Myers's scientific powers. These have been,
first, the nature of the material he worked in ; second, his literary
.fluency ; and third, his emotional interest in immortality. The two
Jatter characteristics, combining their effects, have given to certain
passages in the present volumes a tone so lyrical that it may well
make them distasteful to the ordinary scientific reader. For propa
gandist purposes the existence of these passages is, I think, to be
regretted. Myers could well have afforded (having shown his undis
puted lyrical power elsewhere) to be dryer in this argument, and by
being so he would have doubtless turned certain possible disciples,
aow lost to him, into respectful listeners. But he so habitually saw
xlvi.] 3 1
Review of Human Personality.
the meanest subliminal phenomena in the light of that transterrene
world with which they might remotely be connected, that they
became glorified in his mind into experiences in themselves majestic.
All his materials were objects of love to him, and the richly latinized
and hellenized vocabulary in which he spoke of them shows how they
affected his imagination.
From this point of view I think we need not regret a feature of
these volumes which to some persons may have seemed pathetic.
Myers, namely, was cut off by death before he could write his direct
discussion of the evidence for spirit-return. But that discussion is a
matter of dry-as-dust detail which may well be left to the pages of
our Proceedings and Journal, and to workers who are not such
universal geniuses. He has fully expressed in this book his general
position on the subject ; and being so lyrical a fountain in the direction
of immortality, he could hardly have embarked on the evidence
without alienating still more a class of students whose sympathy may
on the whole be precious. Even though the cap-stone of the work,
as he projected it, be lacking, still the essential Myers is in it, for it
is as the organiser and co-ordinator, far more than as the critic of
this or that particular set of observations, that posterity will best
remember him.
As regards the truth of his theory, as contra-distinguished from
its formal merits as a constructive effort, it is certainly too early
for any one to pass dogmatic judgment. Most readers, even those
who admire the scheme as a whole, will doubtless shrink from
yielding their credence to it unreservedly. It will seem like skating
over ice too thin for any intellect less nimble than Myers's to place
its feet on boldly. The types of case which he uses as stepping
stones are some of them, at present, either in quality or quantity,
decidedly weak supports for the weight which the theory would rest
upon them, and it remains at least possible that future records may
not remedy this frailty.
The reproach that he has over-generalized the exceptional is also
one which, in the present state of our knowledge, cannot be decidedly
rebutted. He may extend the subliminal too far when he sup
poses that all of us possess it, and that works of genius generally
have their source in it. He may extend " phantasms " too far
when he fills a whole cosmic environment with spirits able to en
gender them. As between the individual subliminal and the cosmic
environment, he may also not have drawn the boundary correctly.
There may well be more of the "dissolutive" subliminal and less of the
32 [part
Professor William James.
" spirit " than he supposes, in some of his palmary phenomena. But
however it may have to be contracted in one case, or extended in
another, the subliminal region, as Myers conceived it, will remain
a vera causa in psychology, explanatory, either of the whole or of a
part, of the great mass of occult occurrences so far as they are
authentic. " Automatisms " are indeed what he first said they were,
messages from the subliminal to the supraliminal regions.
The imperfection which I feel most acutely in Myers's survey of
the subliminal life is its failure adequately to account for its being
so impartially the home both of evolutive and of dissolutive pheno
mena. The parasitic ideas of psycho-neurosis, and the fictitious
personations of planchette-writing and mediumship reside there side
by side with the inspirations of genius, with the faculties of telepathy
and tela'sthesia, and with the susceptibility of genuine spirit-control.
Myers felt the paradoxical character of such cohabitation, and, as
usual, was ready with a suggestion for attenuating the difficulty.
" It may be expected," he writes, " that supernormal vital pheno
mena will manifest themselves as far as possible through the same
channels as abnormal or morbid vital phenomena, when the same
centres or the same synergies are used. ... If there be within
us a secondary self aiming at manifestation by physiological means,
it seems probable that its readiest path of externalisation—its
readiest outlet of visible action—may often lie along some track
which has already been shown to be a line of low resistance by the
disintegrating processes of disease, ... lie along some plane of
cleavage which the morbid dissociations of our psychical synergies
have already shown themselves disposed to follow " (Vol. Ii., p. 84).
But this conception is deficient in clearness. Are there three
zones of subliminal life, of which the innermost is dissolutive, the
middle one superior (the zone of genius, telepathy, etc.), and the
outermost svmeme and receptive directly of the impact of the spirit-
world ? And can the two latter zones reach the supraliminal
consciousness only by passing through the interior and inferior
zone, and consequently using its channels and mixing its morbid
effects with their own ? Or is the subliminal superior throughout
when considered in itself, and are the curious parasitisms of hysteria
and alternate personality, and the curious uncritical passivity to
the absurdest suggestions which we observe in hypnosis to be
explained by defective brain-action exclusively, without bringing
in the subliminal mind ? Is it the brain, in short, which vitiates
and mixes results, or is it the interior zone of the subliminal
xlvi.] 33
Review of Human Personality.
mind ? I make no attempt to solve the question.1 It is practi
cally as well as theoretically a vital one, for there can be no doubt
whatever that the great obstacle to the reception of a Weltanschauung
like Myers's is that the superior phenomena which it believes in
are so enveloped and smothered in the mass of their degenerative
congeners and accompaniments that they beget a collective impres
sion of disgust, and that only the strongest of mental stomachs can
pick them over and seek the gold amongst the rubbish.
Meanwhile it must not be forgotten, if one finds Myers's map
unsatisfactory, that no regular psychologist has ever tried his hand
at the problem. Psychologists admit a subliminal life to exist in
hypnosis and in hysteria, and they use a case like that of Janet's
"Adrienne" to explain the manner in which "secondary personalities"
may become organised. But the existence all about us of thousands
and of tens of thousands of persons, not perceptibly hysteric or un
healthy, who are mediumistic to the degree at any rate of being
automatic writers, and whose mediumism results in these grotesque
impersonations, this, I say, is a phenomenon of human life which
they do not even attempt to connect with any of the other facts of
Nature. Add the fact that the mediumship often gives supernormal
information, and it becomes evident that the phenomenon cannot
consist of pure eccentricity and isolation. There is method in it ;
it must have a context of some sort and belong to a region where
other things can be found also. It cries aloud for serious investiga
tion. Myers's map is the only scientifically serious investigation that
has yet been offered. It is to be hoped that those whom it dis
satisfies may not merely reject it, but also make some effort to
provide something better.
I cannot conclude without paying my tribute to the innumerable
felicities of suggestion with which Human Personality abounds.
Myers's urbanity of style, and his genius for analogy were never
more profusely displayed, or in so many directions. Bold as his
theory is, it is one of its merits that it should be so sober in the
way of either physical or metaphysical hypothesis. What "spirits"
are, or what their relations are to " space," he never tries to say,
but uses the terms like a Naturforsche1; as mere designations for
factors of phenomena. The book on the whole must be considered
a worthy monument to his memory.
William Jamks.
1 For Mr. Myers's treatment of the question, see especially Vol. I., pp.
72-75.—Editor.
c
34 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
II.
Mr. Myers' great conception of the subliminal self has been
adopted, explained, parodied, and paraded, by several writers,
usually in the garbled and misleading form that man has a dual
nature or duplex soul, that sometimes the more usual, and some
times the less usual aspect of his personality comes to the front
and influences his actions and thoughts. In the form of a contest
between two rival principles, this idea is extremely old ; and in
the form of a divided soul or bifurcated personality, a version of
the conception has been elaborated by Mr. Thomson Jay Hudson
in an ambitious book extensively read in America called The Law
of Psychic Phenomena,1 wherein it is sought to explain everything,
from the Christian miracles downwards, by a crudely stated
hypothesis of duplex personality or a double soul : an idea which
seems to have been borrowed, without acknowledgment, from Mr.
Myers' papers in the Proceedings, and spoiled in the borrowing.
And in a recent number of the Nineteenth Century Mr. Mallock,
getting hold apparently of this version of Mr. Hudson's, has skil
fully set it forth as if it were an explanation or summary of Mr.
Myers' own theory ; and has pointed a flippant finger of scorn at
the triviality of the evidence, and at the futility of a life-work
which has this conclusion for its result. Few essays which bear
a .superficial resemblance to the truth could readily be more mis
leading or less illuminating than this article of Mr. Mallock's, and
I am content to caution any student not to accept that ostensible
summary as giving any adequate or true idea of Mr. Myers'
comprehensive treatise.
The doctrine which Mr. Myers arrived at after years of study
is that each individual as we perceive him is but a small fraction
of a larger whole, is as it were the foliage of a tree which has its
main trunk and its roots in another order of existence ; but that
on this dark inconspicuous and permanent basis, now one and now
1Reviewed in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. ix.. p. 230.
XLvi.] 35
Review of Human Personality.
another system of leaves bud, grow, display themselves, wither,
and decay, while the great trunk and roots persist through many
such temporary appearances, not independently of the sensible
manifestations, nor unassisted by them, but supporting them, dominat
ing them, reproducing them, assimilating their nourishment in the form
of the elaborated sap called experience, and thereby growing
continually into a more perfect and larger whole. Many metaphors
could be suggested, but this is the one which occurs to me now,
and it carries us a certain distance.
As the tree periodically buds and blossoms into an aerial life, so
we bud and blossom in a terrestrial life, clothing ourselves with
material particles for a time, assimilating and utilising the sunshine
and the dew, realising the existence and the neighbourhood of
other organisms in a like stage of development, and joyfully
availing ourselves of the consequences that flow from proximity
and contemporaneous specialised existence.
The mystery of incarnation and of gradual development, of the
persistence of existence beyond bodily death and decay, and even
some glimmerings of the possible meaning of the vague dream of
so-called re-incarnation, all become in some sort intelligible on a
basis of this kind—the basis of a full and never wholly manifested
persistent self, from which periodically sprouts a terrestrial mani
festation, though never twice the same. Each terrestrial appearance
flourishes and assimilates mental and moral nutriment for a time,
and the result of each is incorporated in the constant and growing
memory of the underlying, supporting, but inconspicuously mani
festing, and at present barely recognised, fundamental self.
And whereas we, the visible manifestations, exposed to sun and air,
can signal to each other and receive impressions through rays of
light and sound and heat, our transcendental portions with roots in
another order of being must be supposed capable of communication
too; they are individualised but not isolated, being welded into
the framework of things in such way as to receive nutriment from
subterranean moisture and from dying relics of the past, even from
things which to the aerial portion seem useless or noxious; and they
may thus send up to the leaves strange streamings of sap laden with
the common wealth of mother earth.
The metaphor constantly breaks down, as all metaphors must
sooner or later ; for some purposes it would seem better that the
tree should be inverted; and the adjective "subliminal" contains
no reference to what is beueath, except in the sense of foundation
36 [PART
Sir Oliver Lodge.
and support; in every other aspect the subliminal is probably the
more real and more noble, more comprehensive, more intelligent,
self, of which the supraliminal development is but a natural and
healthy and partial manifestation.
The products of the subliminal are to be regarded as "higher,''
in a definite sense, than those of the supraliminal. The supra
liminal is that which is the outcome of terrestrial evolution, and
so is able to manifest itself in a planetary manner ; the subliminal
has a cosmic existence, which may play a part in terrestrial evolution
hereafter, but at present only shows signs of doing so, as, for instance,
in the supernormal uprushes which are known as the inspirations of
genius; signs which may be taken as anticipatory of the course of
evolution in the future.
In this way sleep, death, genius, insanity, hysteria, hypnotism,
automatism, clairvoyance, and all other disintegrations, abnormalities,
and supernormalities of personality, fall into a consistent compre
hensive scheme; and it is the object of the book to elaborate
this hypothesis and to unify all these strange features of human
personality, features which have so long afforded an exercise
alternately to resolute credulity and to blatant scepticism, and have
so perennially perplexed mankind.
It may be that in this my brief summary and metaphorical repre
sentation of the chief theoretical conclusion or unifying principle of
the book I too am guilty of a parody ; but I am writing for
members of the Society, who will surely take the trouble to read the
book itself and not be put off with any brief account or compressed
record of the work of what they know to have been an industrious
lifetime. The book has been editorially prepared by a student for
students, and is provided with syllabuses giving a conspectus of the
contents of each chapter, which may be valuable for reference and
study after the chapter has been read. It is also provided with a
glossary of terms and a copious index. For the student the book is
well adapted ; for the general reader its arrangement is troublesome,
because each chapter and almost each section of each chapter has a
detached appendix as long as itself placed further on in the book ;
and in order to read continuously constant turning over pages is
necessary. If the illustrative cases had been incorporated with the
text, it would have been easy for those pressed for time to skim
them, whereas the tendency now is to skip them altogether from
their proper place, and read them, if at all, subsequently in an
indigestible mass.
XLvI.] 37
Review of Human Personality.
Another feature of the book, against which many persons have
rebelled, is the comparative smallness of the type and over-
transparency of the paper : necessitated probably by the bulk of
material, which otherwise would have run into three volumes.
On these trivial heads I say no more. ,
The book begins with an explanatory and properly prosaic Intro
duction, and closes with a more poetic Epilogue.
Successive chapters deal with the following subjects :
First. Disintegration of personality, such as Multiple personality,
and other hysterical and pathological cases.
Second. Genius, which is one of the most illuminating and brilliant
chapters in the book, where the man of genius so far from being
regarded as afflicted with any form of nascent insanity is regarded
as the standard or norm of the race—a product of a higher stage of
evolution than the average man has yet attained.
Clearly a genius is one who can draw more than others on his
central and sustaining subliminal organisation, one who can breathe
out products obtained not from sun and air alone, but from roots
driven deep into the heart of the universe : one whose existence is
not planetary merely, but cosmic, and in whom subliminal uprushes
of fructifying sap are frequent.
The next chapter deals with sleep, or the state wheu the supra
liminal activities are dormant : when the sun has ceased to awaken
full activities, when the whole self is more massed together and
partially withdrawn from its active planetary existence ; and when
by dreams and visions some reminiscence of a wider though dimmer
purview can sometimes be retained for a time and carried over into
the waking or terrestrially conscious existence.
This leads up to the chapter which deals with the artificial or
experimental induction of this state, the chapter on Hypnotism ; a
process whereby the deeper strata of personality can be reached, and
suggestion and other influences implanted, which may subsequently
bear fruit in waking life. One may liken this to gardening opera
tions, such as grafting and manuring and other systems of treatment,
applied not to the leaves or flowers of a tree direct, but to its
branches and roots ; operations which nevertheless influence those
leaves and flowers in a subsequent and unmistakable manner.
The chapter on Sensory Automatism deals with those conditions
of hallucination of the senses under which clairvoyance or pseudo-
sense-impressions of various kinds are generated : furnishing avenues
whereby telepathy, crystal vision, and other perceptions, not received
38 [part
Sii- Oliver Lodge.
through the normal organs of sense but by some ill-understood
subliminal reaction, become possible.
And chapter viii. in the second volume, on Motor Automatism,
expands this same region into the muscular or efferent output of
the same kind of faculty ;—resulting in automatic writing, and
other physical manifestations of subliminal activity, whether of the
nature of inhibition or of propulsion, up to such strenuously active
but subliminally guided lives, as for instance those of Socrates and
Joan of Arc. Between these two is interpolated a chapter on
Phantasms of the Dead : those hallucinatory appearances or visions
of departed persons, which are here treated as an example of
sensory automatism on the part of the percipient, excited however
in many cases veridically by external influence, and capable of
conveying real information.
And the chapter on Motor Automatism is similarly followed by
a chapter on the developed form of the same, viz. a chapter headed
" Trance, Possession, Ecstasy," in which certain well-known cases of
veridical trance utterance are partially included, though with many
serious omissions, due to the recent occurrence of some of the
cases, so that insufficient time had been afforded for their complete
digestion and for a final decision as to their place and purport.
This, together with sensory and motor automatisms, may be regarded
as the part of the subject-matter which has attracted most popular
attention, and the part which when stated by itself seems to excite
nothing but scepticism on the one hand and superstition on the
other. It was Mr. Myers' plan to so gradually build or lead up
to these strange phenomena that when reached they should be
realised as a fitting and natural consequence of what had gone
before, leaving them no longer as an inaccessible or aerial structure
without foundation, but as the upper storey of a large and lofty
building through which a fairly sound staircase had been constructed.
Myers' life-work either achieves this unification or it does not.
If it does, this book, as I suggested last January in my Presidential
Address to the Society, will stand as a Novum Organon in psychical
science. If it does not, it may mean either that the attempt is
impossible, or that it still remains for some future pioneer to
achieve that which for the present generation has turned out too
difficult.
Myers himself took a modest, but I think hopeful, view of his
labours. He must have felt, at any rate his friends felt for him, that
by the industry of himself and Gurney and the other founders of the
xlvi.] Review of Hurtian Personality. 39
Society, he had, amassed and ready to his hands, a fund of material to
draw upon, such as no philosopher or psychologist had ever had before ;
and although he himself would have seriously deprecated any com
parison with the sages of the past, some of us felt that, building on
their foundation, utilising their work, and fortified with such a vast
mass of modern information, aided also by his classical learning and
by a great natural scientific insight, with the opportunity of con
sulting many scientific men, some hostile, some sympathetic to his
researches, and with the nineteenth century of science behind him,
gifted also with considerable leisure, persistent enthusiasm, and
industry, he was a man supremely fitted to push back the barriers
of ignorance in this region farther than had been accomplished before,
and to give to the human race an insight into the hidden faculties
and destiny of man such as not even the gigantic genius of Plato,
nor the profound insight of Kant had been able to bestow.
It is not a matter on which an opinion of mine would be of
value, nor would I be understood as expressing one, but the glorious
sense of having accomplished a work worthy of the serious atten
tion of humanity has blossomed in an Epilogue where the cosmic
import and religious significance of the whole vista of human faculty
is eloquently set forth. And this specially written epilogue is happily
completed and supplemented by his one Presidential Address to the
Society, an address which will be in the memory of many readers;
and this is further supplemented by two short essays, one on the
"Decline of Dogmatism," wherein the ultimate upshot of the
messages which claim to come from another order of existence are
briefly summarised, and another on " Prayer and Supplication,"
regarded from the illuminating point of view of the telepathic law.
From this last I extract the following quotation :—
"In the law of telepathy, developing into the law of spiritual
intercommunication between incarnate and discarnate spirits, we see
dimly adumbrated before our eyes the highest law with which our
human science can conceivably have to deal. The discovery of
telepathy opens before us a potential communication between all life.
And if, as our present evidence indicates, this telepathic intercourse
can subsist between embodied and disembodied souls, that law must
needs lie at the very centre of cosmic evolution. It will be evolu
tionary, as depending on a faculty now in actual course of develop
ment. It will be cosmic ; for it may—it almost must—by analogy
subsist not on this planet only, but wherever in the universe dis
carnate and incarnate spirits may be intermingled or juxtaposed."
One other portion of the book must be mentioned, for it was a
40 [part
Sir Oliver Lodge.
laborious attempt at a synthesis or conspectus of the whole, viz.,
his " Scheme of Vital Faculty "—sadly buried by the arrangement of
the book between pages 505 and 555 of the second volume—a scheme
wherein the usual orthodox view of the tripartite nature of man is
utilised, and each vital faculty is displayed under the aspect appro
priate to the three heads, somatic, psychic, and pneumatic ; or, as he
styles them, supraliminal, subliminal, and spiritual. The scheme was
the result of a great deal of thought, but it is open to question in
many points of detail, and Myers would have been the last to insist
that each subject is classified precisely in the most appropriate manner,
or that it always fits the niche provided for it. At the same time
it would be well for future students to realise that Myers had a
reason for his system of classification, and that though it may be
changed, it is worthy of being changed not lightly, but after due
consideration.
How far such a scheme as this soars above the range of the
orthodox science of to-day is apparent from the fact that few of the
faculties catalogued and classified in it, beyond those in the first
category, are as yet generally recognised as existing at all. A few
from the second or middle category are coming into recognition—
such as suggestion, hyperesthesia, psycho-therapeutics, and telepathy—
but the greater part even of this second list is still only on the
outskirts of recognised knowledge ; while in Myers' view it is the
third and at present wholly ultra-scientific category which lies in
the path of future knowledge and development, and constitutes the
most pregnant portion of his message to mankind.
It is not to be claimed for a moment that these volumes will
convince a reader of the survival of personality beyond bodily death,
if he was previously hostile to or otherwise fortified against such
an idea. Perhaps they will convince nobody : I see no reason
why they should. The main object of the book is not edification
and finality, but stimulation to enquiry ; and convictions of any
value are seldom attained by mere reading : they can only be
formed by soaking one's mind in a subject for years, by " con
tinually thinking unto it," as Newton said. As the outcome of such
a process it became Myers' undoubted belief that intelligence and
human personality persist beyond bodily death ; and that, between
the two states or conditions of being, intercommunication though
extremely difficult was not altogether impossible. But this conclusion
of his has been popularly seized and over-emphasised till to many
contemporaries it seems that an easy credulity on this point was his
XLvl] 41
Review of Human Personality.
characteristic attitude. Nothing could be further from the truth.
Easy credulity does not lead to a life-long labour and evolution of
a comprehensive scheme such as this. To those who have not been
through it, the assured conviction which was the outcome of his
long training may seem like easy credulity ; just as the physicist is
often twitted for believing in the reality of an " ether," which to
the onlooker is a mere hypothesis—a blank form to be filled up
arbitrarily at pleasure, and with no more reality than the figment of
a dream.
This is one of those cases, and there are several, where the
onlooker does not see most of the game, where the man in the
street with all his conspicuous ability is not an ultimate authority,
and where the profound gibes of the clubs, or of a monthly maga
zine, are not the conclusion of the whole matter.
For people who are immersed in such an atmosphere it is difficult
to realise the strenuously-acquired full-bodied certitude, or the
clear-visioned perception and what one can hardly help calling,
in some sense, knowledge, whether it be concerning the " ether "
or concerning the problem of what is known as human " im
mortality," which may be possessed by a specifically trained man
of science. That is the position in which the author of these two
volumes seems to me definitely to have acquired the right to range
himself ; and in this estimate of his position I believe that scientific
posterity will acclaim agreement. It is by the name of Man of
Science that I wish to hail our late chief and leader, Frederic Myers.
Oliver Lodge.
42 [PART
Professor Th. Floumoy.
III.
L'ouvrage posthume de Fréd. Myers constitue un monument si
vaste et d'une telle richesse qu'il serait téméraire de le juger sur une
première et hâtive lecture. Ce n'est pas au lendemain de sa publi
cation que l'on peut en apprécier tous les détails et mesurer sa
portée réelle : il y faut un certain temps d'accoutumance, de
réflexion, et, pour dire le mot, de digestion subliminale. Aussi me
bornerai-je ici à quelques remarques générales, qui n'ont que la valeur
d'impressions purement personnelles, dénuées de toute prétention au
complet ou au définitif.
(I.) Le premier point qui me frappe dans cet ouvrage est sa ten
dance mixte, à la fois scientifique et religieuse. Le but prochain de
Myers est d'instituer une science, nouvelle, consacrée à la démon
stration expérimentale de l'existence et de la survivance de l'âme ;
mais c'est en vue d'un but lointain, supérieur, à savoir la fondation
d'une nouvelle religion, dont le contenu, quintessence de ce qu'il y a
de mieux dans le triple courant du christianisme, du bouddhisme,
et de la sagesse antique, reposera cette fois sur la connaissance et
non plus, comme par le passé, sur la simple croyance. En soi cette
entreprise n'est pas neuve, puisque l'idée d'une synthèse religieuse
définitive, basée sur l'expérimentation scientifique au lieu de la foi,
appartient en commun à toutes les sectes modernes de théosophie et
de spiritisme. Ce qui fait la puissante originalité de Myers, c'est la
façon dont il en a tenté et poursuivi la réalisation, c'est l'étendue
de ses connaissances, la hardiesse de ses hypothèses alliée à 6on sens
pénétrant des méthodes rigoureuses, en un mot la profondeur et la
solidité de son génie scientifique, qui ne le cèdent en rien à celles
de son enthousiasme religieux. Que l'on compare son ouvrage à
ceux d'Allan Kardec ou de tels autres écrivains français récents de
la même école : l'intention première et la tournure d'esprit, je dirai
la mentalité fondamentale, est identique, mais il y a la même
différence dans l'exécution qu'entre la hutte du sauvage et l'édifice
d'un grand architecte, et l'on s'étonne qu'il n'y ait que l'écart de
XLvi.] Beview of Human Personality. 43
quelques années ou de quelques lieues entre des œuvres qui sem
blent séparées par des milliers de siècles.
Mais pour en revenir à cette mentalité même, qui aspire à l'indis
soluble fusion de la Science et de la Religion, celle-ci reposant sur
celle-là, j'avoue qu'elle me laisse perplexe. Je me sens disqualifié
pour l'apprécier. Personnellement en effet, je me suis trop
profondément pénétré aux jours de ma jeunesse de la distinction
kantienne entre le " Glauben " et le " Wissen " (sans doute parce
qu'elle répondait à ma nature congénitale) pour pouvoir m'en
affranchir aujourd'hui et me couler dans le moule opposé. J'ai beau
avoir depuis longtemps oublié le détail des catégories et le système
compliqué du philosophe de Kônigsberg, mon cerveau ou ma con
science subliminale n'en conservent pas moins, comme un pli
indélébile, son inspiration foncière d'une hétérogénéité irréductible
entre le croire, attitude essentiellement personnelle et morale, fondée
sur des sentiments de valeur, à l'endroit des suprêmes réalités inac
cessibles à la raison discursive,—et le savoir, organisation des phéno
mènes dans les formes indifférentes, amorales, impersonnelles, de la
pensée scientifique. Je ne prétends pas que cette sorte de dualisme
soit préférable en soi à la position unitaire si brillamment représentée
par Myers ; je dis seulement que, relevant de deux types psycholo
giques ou de deux mentalités différentes, chacun de ces points de
vue est bien difficile à comprendre, et impossible à juger équitable-
ment, par ceux qui n'y sont pas adaptés.
Les natures comme Myers éprouvent évidemment un profond
malaise tant qu'elles n'ont pas réussi à transformer les postulats de
leur raison pratique (pour parler comme Kant)—la vie future, l'exis
tence de Dieu, la réalité du Devoir, la communion finale des âmes,
l'efficacité de la prière, etc.—en vérités d'ordre scientifique, objective
ment démontrables à l'égal de la rotation de la terre ou de la loi
de Mariotte. C'est un malaise inverse, mais pareillement profond,
que j'éprouve de mon côté en voyant suspendre ces mêmes croyances,
vitales et essentielles pour moi, au fil ténu d'une recherche de patho
logie, d'une enquête statistique ou d'une séance de médium. Il me
semble que c'est porter atteinte aux ressorts les plus intimes de mon
être, que de les exposer ainsi à tous les risques, en les rendant
solidaires d'interprétations ou de résultats scientifiques tenus aujour
d'hui pour acquis, et demain peut-être renversés. Des goûts et des
couleurs on ne peut discuter, et pas davantage de la confiance
qu'inspirent à l'individu les diverses voies qu'on lui propose pour
atteindre le Réel, saisir la Vérité, asseoir sa vie morale ou sa foi
44 [PAKT
Professor Th. Flournoy.
religieuse. Il est bien entendu, je le répète, que tout ceci ne ren
ferme aucune espèce de critique ou de blâme à l'endroit de Myers.
Je constate simplement que je ne suis pas fait comme lui, voilà
tout ; mais je songe d'autant moins à lui jeter la pierre, que
j'ai rencontré autour de moi une foule de gens partageant (sans le
connaître) sa manière de sentir, sa soif inextinguible de certitude
scientifique en matière religieuse, son ardent besoin d'une démon
stration expérimentale et tangible de la vie future, etc. Et comme
en définitive l'essentiel est que tout le monde soit content, je sou
haite que l'avenir lui donue raison, pour le bonheur de tant dames
tourmentées à qui la garantie de la science, appliquée comme un
poinçon sur leurs aspirations intimes, rendrait aussitôt la joie et la
paix—sans aucun inconvénient d'ailleurs pour ceux que ne tiennent
pas, ou ne se fient pas, à cette estampille officielle.
(II.) Les croyances et l'attitude religieuses visent au bout du
compte le fond des choses, l'énigme suprême, le dernier mot de
l'univers et de la vie. Pour placer ces fonctions de notre être
moral sous la juridiction de la science expérimentale et appeler celle-ci
à prononcer en dernier ressort sur de pareilles questions, il faut
avoir en elle une confiance quasi-absolue, et ne pas s'embarrasser
des petites querelles que les philosophes lui ont faites sur sa portée
véritable. Aussi n'y a-t-il pas à s'étonner si l'un des traits carac
téristiques de Myers est son indifférence pour les problèmes de
métaphysique, ou de critique de la connaissance, agités par les pen
seurs de ces derniers siècles. Toutes les difficultés du commerce de
l'âme et du corps, les questions relatives au réalisme et à l'idéal
isme, à l'existence du monde matériel, aux conditions et limites de
validité de notre connaissance, etc., Myers les passe résolument sous
silence. L'histoire de la philosophie moderne n'existe pas pour lui.
Amateur passionné de l'antiquité classique, il en cite volontiers les
penseurs, surtout si ce furent des poètes, mais c'est vainement qu'on
chercherait sous sa plume les noms de Descartes ou de Spinoza, de
Hume ou de Berkeley, de Spencer ou de Ilenouvier. Leibnitz y est
réduit à partager avec Hamilton une maigre note au bas de la page,
et Kant lui-même n'apparait guère, au cours de ces deux volumes,
que comme historiographe de Swedenborg. Myers ignore jusqu'à
Schopenhauer, dont le "Versuch iiber Geistersehen " avec la théorie
du " Traumorgan " aurait pourtant pu lui fournir d'intéressants
points d'attache pour sa doctrine des facultés subliminales. Il faut
d'ailleurs lui rendre cette justice que s'il fait ainsi table rase de
toute la grande tradition philosophique occidentale, il ne recourt
xlvl] 45
Review of Hximan Personality.
guère davantage à la littérature spirite ou occultiste de notre temps,
sauf pour lui emprunter certaines observations de faits. C'est donc
bien au pied de la lettre, et avec une parfaite conséquence, qu'il se
donne pour le représentant de la " psychologie paléolithique " et
que, sautant à pieds joints par dessus toutes les fortes têtes philo
sophiques de notre civilisation (à l'exception du seul Swedenborg),
il va chercher ses vrais précurseurs dans "les humbles penseurs de
l'âge de la pierre, les adeptes de la sorcellerie et du chamanisme."
Tels sont bien les ancêtres dont il s'est donné pour tâche de
remettre en honneur les conceptions oubliées, en leur apportant
l'appoint inattendu et triomphant de tout le trésor d'hypothèses ou
de faits accumulés par nos sciences expérimentales contemporaines.
Car pour celles-ci, il les connaît admirablement, et il excelle à les
faire servir à ses desseins, en leur empruntant, avec une habileté
consommée tout ce qui peut venir à l'appui de ses vues, depuis les
menues observations de la psychopathologie jusqu'aux théories biolo
giques de l'évolution et aux petits démons de Clerk Maxwell jouant
avec les atomes.
Ici encore, il ne faut pas croire qu'en constatant ce goût exclusif
de Myers pour les sciences positives et son magnifique dédain pour
les problèmes de la philosophie moderne, je songe à lui en faire le
moindre reproche. Bien au contraire ; cette allure dégagée, cet
affranchissement de tout préjugé d'école, cette matter of-fadness si l'on
me pa*se le terme, me plaisent infiniment. Il y a quelque chose de
piquant et de bienfaisant <à voir un système carrément spiritualiste
sortir—par la simple vertu des méthodes empiriques et de la
logique du bon sens, mais maniées par un homme de génie—sortir,
dis-je, de ces mêmes sciences naturelles et médicales d'où tant de
bruyants vulgarisateurs ont cru pouvoir tirer des synthèses matéria
listes et hostiles aux croyances séculaires de l'humanité. Et si
l'œuvre de Myers a pour résultat final de faire un victorieux con
trepoids à celle des Bûchner, Haeckel et consorts, en les battant
par leurs propres armes—c'est à dire sur le pur terrain du raisonne
ment expérimental, sans recourir aux subtilités de l'épistémologie,—
elle aura pleinement rempli sa tâche dans l'histoire de la pensée
humaine, et nul ne lui trouvera à redire d'avoir été droit au but
en dédaignant les détours traditionnels de la critique philosophique.
(III.) Ceci m'amène à parler du noyau plus particulièrement
scientifique de l'ouvrage de Myers, en laissant de côté sa philosophie
religieuse (que je trouve d'ailleurs très élevée et pour laquelle
j'éprouve la plus sympathique admiration). Abstraction faite des
46 [part
Professor Th. Flournoy.
Appendices, Glossaire, et autres pièces d'appui indispensables et du
plus grand intérêt pour le lecteur, ce noyau consiste en huit
chapitres formant deux groupes bien distincts. Les quatre premiers
en effet (Disintegrations of Personality ; Genius ; Sleep ; Hypnotism)
traitent de faits couramment reconnus par la science contemporaine,
mais auxquels Myers apporte une interprétation originale par sa
doctrine proprement psychologique sur la constitution de la per
sonnalité humaine. Les quatre derniers chapitres au contraire, qui
lui servent plus spécialement de fondement pour sa démonstration de
l'indépendance et de la survivance de l'âme, se meuvent dans des
sphères qui sont encore vues d'un fort mauvais œil par la plupart
des savants en renom. Il convient donc de suivre l'auteur sur ces
deux terrains séparément.
Appliquée au premier domaine, la théorie myersienne de la Con
science Subliminale (assez connue pour que je me dispense de la
résumer ici) me parait extrêmement remarquable, et digne d'une
sérieuse attention de la part des psychologues (même officiels et
universitaires), par la merveilleuse souplesse avec laquelle elle se
plie aux groupes de faits les plus divers, la clarté dont elle les
illumine aussitôt, l'enchainement et les relations inattendues qu'elle
introduit entre eux, l'ordre systématique en un mot et l'intelligence
qui, grâce à elle, jaillissent tout à coup de cette masse jusque-là
chaotique et obscure de phénomènes plus ou moins étranges. Sans
doute, sur bien des points elle dépasse notablement les données
rigoureuses de l'observation, et parfois elle peut sembler aventureuse
ou mystique dans sa manière de relier, de compléter et d'interpréter
les phénomènes directement vérifiables. Mais c'est là un trait in
évitable de toute théorie par opposition à la simple notation des faits
bruts ; et la hardiesse d'une hypothèse doit lui être comptée comme
une qualité plutôt que comme un défaut, quand les seules consé
quences de cette hardiesse sont un élargissement de notre horizon,
une intelligence plus complète et plus satisfaisante des données
empiriques, un élan supérieur communiqué à la pensée et à la
recherche. Or sous ces divers rapports la théorie de Myers présente
deux ou trois marques d'excellence qui me semblent la mettre actuelle
ment hors de pair (sans préjudice des améliorations qu'elle pourra
subir ultérieurement).
(1°.) D'abord elle embrasse sous elle, comme un point de vue
supérieur et plus compréhensif, une foule de théories analogues mais
moins élaborées et ne cadrant chacune qu'avec un certain ordre
restreint de faits. Le polypsychisme de Durand de Gros, le double
xlvl] Review of Human Personality. 47
moi de Dessoir, la désagrégation mentale de Janet, les états hypnoïdes
de Breuer et Freud, l'être subconscient de Gyel, d'innombrables
doctrines allemandes de l'inconscient et de non moins innombrables
théories françaises du somnambulisme et de l'hypnose, tout cela
semble n'être en somme que des ébauches préliminaires, des frag
ments, ou des échos déformés, de la doctrine même de Myers. Les
historiens futurs pourront s'évertuer à faire le départ, dans ces
communes analogies, entre ce que le psychologue anglais doit à ses
devanciers ou à ses contemporains moins brillants que lui, et ce que
maints de ces derniers lui ont au contraire emprunté, sciemment ou
non, de son vivant; ce fait reste évident à mes yeux, que si l'idée
de la Conscience Subliminale (par opposition au Moi simple des
spiritualistes classiques et à la cérébration inconsciente des physio
logistes étroits) flotte dans l'air depuis une ou deux générations et
a percé simultanément, sous des formes diverses, dans l'esprit d'une
foule de chercheurs, c'est cependant bien le génie de Myers, qui a
donné à cette idée son expression actuellement la plus parfaite et
la plus fouillée.
(2°.) Une preuve indirecte de la valeur et de la fécondité de la
doctrine de Myers, c'est le trésor de comparaisons heureuses et de
formules bien frappées qu'elle lui a suggérées, et qui, encore trop
ignorées des spécialistes toujours lents à prendre en considération
les travaux des amateurs, jouiront certainement d'une faveur crois
sante à mesure que son œuvre sera mieux connue. Je ne parle pas
seulement des ingénieux néologismes, dont plusieurs sont déjà
devenus courants, incorporés par Myers au vocabulaire psychologique,
mais aussi des explications étonnamment simples et précises que sa
théorie lui fournit pour des choses où tant de maîtres illustres
pataugent encore à l'envi. Par exemple : l'hystérie, attribuée par
Myers à " an undue permeability of the psychical diaphragm "
entrainant un état de confusion dans les échanges entre la per
sonnalité ordinaire et ses couches subconscientes plus ou moins
maladives; le génie, caractérisé par l'inspiration, c'est à dire "a
subliminal uprush of helpful faculty " ; la suggestion, à la fois
éclairée et circonscrite par cette définition, qui est un vrai chef
d'oeuvre, "a successful appeal to the subliminal self," etc. Tout
cela, objectera-t-on peut-être, ce sont des mots ou des images,
non des réalités. Soit, mais comparez donc ces mots et ces images
aux autres assemblages d'images et de mots dont se paient les
auteurs en vogue, et vous verrez vite de quel côté se trouvent au
plus haut degré la clarté jointe à la profondeur, l'exactitude dans
48 [part
Professor Th. Flournoy.
l'expression concise des faits en même temps que l'approche d'une
explication réelle et satisfaisante. Il n'y a qu'à prendre par exemple
les plus récentes théories françaises de l'hystérie1 pour être frappé
de voir combien toutes—à l'exception de celle de Janet, très proche
parente de celle de Myers et psychologique comme elle—laissent au
fond à désirer, en dépit de leurs fréquentes prétentions physio
logiques, et sont encore rudimentaires à côté de la conception que la
doctrine de la conscience subliminale permet déjà de se faire de cette
névrose. C'est bien autre chose encore quand on aborde l'hypno
tisme et la suggestion, et qu'on voit tant d'auteurs se perdre en
discussions oiseuses, faute de connaître les idées et les définitions si
claires de Myers.
(3°.) Sa théorie l'emporte sur toutes ses congénères, à ma con
naissance, par son ampleur et le champ qu'elle laisse ouvert à des
possibilités éventuelles non encore réalisées ; en sorte que, même à
ceux qui ne lui attribueraient aucune vérité en soi, elle offre du
moins les avantages inappréciables d'un schéma suffisamment exten
sible pour embrasser, à l'occasion, nombre de faits nouveaux qui ne
trouvent point de place dans les théories scientifiques courantes et
qui y détonent comme des intrus dont on ne sait que faire. Je
pourrais imaginer le cas, à tout le moins concevable, où la télépathie
et la télékinésie venant à être mises hors de doute par des faits
évidents et répétés, les cadres établis de la physiologie en seraient
absolument disloqués, tandis que ces possibilités ont leur place déjà
marquée, comme bien l'on sait, dans la théorie de Myers. Mais
point n'est besoin d'aller si loin et d'inventer des circonstances
encore imaginaires : il suffit de feuilleter la littérature médicale la
plus récente pour y trouver, sous la plume d'auteurs fort peu suspects
de mysticisme, deux exemples tout frais de ce que je veux dire.
D'une part, des psychiatres français viennent de publier quelques
cas d'aliénés ayant présenté, peu de jours avant leur fin, une
amélioration aussi subite qu'inexplicable, en même temps que le
pressentiment net de leur mort prochaine. D'autre part le fait, cité
par tous les magnétiseurs depuis Puységur, de somnambules ayant
la claire vision de leurs viscères, parfois jusque dans leur structure
1Exemples : Pour Bernhcim, l'hystérie n'existe pas par elle-même, elle n'est que
la réaction exagérée d'un appareil hystérogène particulièrement sensible. —
Suivant Sollier, elle est un engourdissement cérébral, un sommeil dont il n'y
a qu'à réveiller le malade pour le guérir.—D'après Babinsky, elle est un état
où le sujet peut s'autosuggestionner et dont tous les phénomènes peuvent être
reproduits par suggestion et guéris par persuasion.—Etc.
XLvi.] 49
Review of Human Personality.
intime, ce fait vient pour la première fois de franchir l'enceinte de
la science sous le nom à'autoscopie interne ou auto-reprisentation
de l'organisme; et par une amusante ironie du sort, les parrains de
ce nouveau-venu—assurément très psychologique et subliminal—se
trouvent être les tenants d'une école qui prétend rejeter toute ex
plication psychologique de l'hystérie et veut définir cette névrose en
purs termes de physiologie cérébrale ! Je ne m'occupe pas ici de
savoir si ces deux faits—prévision de la mort chez des aliénés, aper-
ception intérieure des moindres détails de l'organisme chez des
hystériques—sont réels et authentiques, ou le produit de la fumisterie
et de la malobservation. Il me suffit de constater que, redécouverts
ces derniers temps par des savants de la nuance la plus positive, ils
trouvent aisément leur explication dans la théorie des facultés sub
liminales de Myers, tandis qu'ils dépassent et heurtent la physiologie
traditionnelle pour le moins autant que l'anesthésie suggérée le faisait
il y a soixante ans ; et si les corps officiels aujourd'hui ne s'insurgent
plus, comme alors, contre des nouveautés aussi incroyables, c'est que
ceux-là même qui affichent encore en paroles un souverain mépris
pour la psychologie subliminale, sont à leur insu déjà tout pénétrés
de cette dernière, qu'ils ont respirée avec l'air du temps, et peuvent
par conséquent être comptés comme des disciples malgré eux de la
doctrine de Myers.
Si j'ajoute enfin que cette théorie, quoique élaborée spécialement
sous la pression des faits anormaux ou morbides, s'applique égale
ment à la psychologie normale et permet d'en élucider beaucoup de
phénomènes quotidiens (le jeu des souvenirs, etc.) mieux que dans
bien d'autres doctrines classiques, j'en aurais assez dit pour justifier
le cas que je fais de l'œuvre proprement scientifique de Myers. Il
est grand temps que pathologistes et psychologues prennent enfin
contact avec elle, et que, mettant de côté leurs préventions vieillottes
contre tout ce qui vient des amateurs de " psychical research "
indistinctement, ils se décident à étudier sérieusement la doctrine de
la Conscience Subliminale chez son plus illustre représentant ; non
pas certes pour l'accepter aveuglément, mais afin de l'utiliser dans
ce qu'elle a d'excellent et de profondément vrai, de l'amender en
ses points faibles, et de l'adapter toujours mieux à la complexité
des phénomènes.
(IV.) Pour ce qui est maintenant des quatre derniers chapitres
(Sensory automatism ; Phantasms of the dead ; Motor automatism ; Trance,
possession, and ecstasy), ils roulent sur des sujets brûlants, qui seront
probablement longtemps encore une pomme de discorde parmi les
D
50 [part
Professor Th. Floumoy.
chercheurs. Les faits que Myers a récoltés ou observés lui-même
l'ont abondamment convaincu de la vérité foncière de l'antique
croyance spirite, dont le seul énoncé a coutume de donner des crises
épileptiques à la plupart de nos penseurs modernes, à moins qu'ils
ne se contentent de se voiler la face ou de hausser les épaules. Tout
bien réfléchi, je ne partage pas leur sentiment d'horreur ou de pitié ;
le spiritisme, d'ailleurs très complexe et savamment élaboré de Myers,
ne me parait point devoir être nécessairement rejeté d'emblée pour
l'unique raison qu'il est aux antipodes de nos habitudes scientifiques
actuelles. En fait, notre psychologie, même physiologique, repose
déjà sur une absurdité telle qu'on n'en saurait concevoir de pire :
je veux parler de l'union des phénomènes de conscience et des phéno
mènes cérébraux. Qu'on la formule empiriquement comme un
commerce réciproque, ou une liaison fonctionnelle quelconque, ou un
simple parallélisme, elle est de toute façon inintelligible, et ne cesse
pas de l'être lorsqu'on se réfugie dans les creuses métaphores du
monisme, la théorie du double aspect, de l'unité à deux faces, du
miroitement subjectif du neurocyme, etc. En sorte que cela n'aggra
vera guère la situation d'admettre, si les faits le riclament, que cette
inconcevable union n'est pas à l'abri du divorce, et que ces mêmes
phénomènes de conscience, que l'expérience ordinaire nous montre
mystérieusement liés à des centres nerveux, peuvent s'en séparer
momentanément ou définitivement sous forme de synthèses mnésiques,
de personnalités psychiques, d'âmes survivantes, d'esprits désincarnés,
peu importe le nom qu'on leur donne.
Si les faits le riclament. Toute la question est là ; malheureusement
elle ne parait pas encore près d'être résolue, et chacun en est réduit
à se faire comme il peut, là-dessus, son opinion personnelle. La
mienne, après avoir lu ces deux volumes, se trouve au même point
qu'avant, c'est à dire d'une prudence et d'une sagesse tellement
banales que j'ose à peine la formuler. Qu'il s'agisse de la télépathie
(entendue au sens de Myers, comme influence purement psychique,
sans le secours de vibrations intercérébrales), de la clairvoyance
(télesthésie), de la précognition qui bouleverse nos idées courantes sur
le temps, de la possession enfin ou envahissement de l'organisme d'un
medium par les désincarnés, j'estime : (1°) que les preuves et raisonne
ments avancés par Myers en faveur de ces phénomènes supranormaux
constituent, par leur nombre et leur poids, un dossier trop formidable
pour qu'on puisse désormais l'ignorer, à moins de se boucher volon
tairement les yeux; et que ce serait une folle niaiserie que de pré
tendre encore l'écarter en bloc sous le fallacieux prétexte que ces sujets
XLvi.] 51
Review of Human Personality.
ne sont pas susceptibles d'être étudiés d'une manière scientifique.
(2°) Que les conclusions de Myers ne ressortent pas de ce dossier avec
une évidence telle, une nécessité si inéluctable, qu'on puisse dores
et déjà les considérer comme hors de contestation. On me fera
grâce, j'espère, des objections et discussions de détail ; il y faudrait un
volume, et je suis d'ailleurs incompétent sur la pièce principale du
dossier, celle que Myers considérait lui-même comme décisive et où il
voyait le couronnement de son édifice. Je veux naturellement parler
des phénomènes de Mme Piper (et j'ajoute de Mme Thompson,
qu'il est vraiment bien singulier de voir entièrement passée sous
silence au cours de ces quatorze cents pages, quand on sait la place
que ses séances ont tenue dans les dernières années de la vie de
Myers et dans la formation de ses convictions sur l'authenticité du
commerce spirite1). Sont-ce réellement les esprits des morts, ou tout
au moins quelque segment de leur personnalité, qui viennent converser
avec nous par l'intermédiaire des mediums intrancés ? Ou bien n'y
aurait-il là que des apparences décevantes, dues à une subtile com
binaison de l'imagination subconsciente, dont on ne connaît que trop
la malice, avec la télépathie des vivants dont on ignore encore les
limites 1 I1 ne faut pas être plus royaliste que le roi ; ce n'est point
à moi, spectateur éloigné et imparfaitement renseigné, à me permettre
une opinion arrêtée sur ces problèmes où le plus auguste aréopage,
siégeant aux premières loges et suivant les choses de près, n'a pas
encore réussi à rendre un verdict unanime. L'expectative patiente,
et sans parti pris, est la seule attitude qui convienne en face des
divergences d'interprétation qui séparaient même Myers et Mme
Sidgwick (l'un étant pour la possession directe, l'autre pour la télé
pathie, de la part des désincarnés), et du désaccord plus fondamental
encore qui subsiste entre des autorités telles que MM. Hyslop et
Podmore, Hodgson et Lang, etc.
(V.) Je conclus. Nul ne peut prévoir le sort que l'avenir réserve
à la doctrine spirite de Myers. Si les découvertes futures viennent
à confirmer sa thèse de l'intervention empiriquement vérifiable
des désincarnés dans la trame physique ou psychologique de
notre monde phénoménal, alors son nom s'inscrira au livre d'or
des grands initiateurs, et joint à ceux de Copernic et de Darwin,
il y complétera la triade des génies ayant le plus profondément
révolutionné la pensée scientifique dans l'ordre cosmologique, bio
logique, psychologique. Si au contraire le voile qu'il a essayé
1 With regard to this point, see a statement in the Journal S.P.R. for May,
1903, p. 74. —Editor.
52 [part
Professor Th. Flovrnoy.
de soulever venait à retomber lourdement, et que les brillantes
perspectives d'une mitaphysique expérimentale, portant jusque dans
l'Au-delà les procédés objectifs et impersonnels de la science, se
trouvassent n'être qu'un mirage trompeur, une illusion d'optique par
laquelle on aurait pris pour des révélations d'outre-tombe ce qui
n'était en réalité que jeux enfantins, ou plaisanteries macabres, de
consciences subliminales très incarnées et plus on moins perverties ;
si, en un mot, il fallait définitivement renoncer, non point à la
survivance (qui est une toute autre affaire), mais à la démonstration
scientifique de la survivance, alors ce serait l'effondrement du but
vers lequel Myers avait fait converger tous ses efforts, et l'idée
dominante de sa carrière n'aurait été qu'une utopie. Mais n'oublions
pas que, dans ce cas encore, son œuvre proprement scientifique, bien
loin de se trouver ruinée, subsisterait intacte et même d'une solidité
d'autant plus évidente que c'est précisément en s'appuyant sur elle
qu'on aurait fini par tirer les choses au clair. Il me parait certain
en effet que si jamais on réussit à dissiper les illusions et à découvrir
la vérité dans ce mystérieux domaine des phénomènes occultes, ce ne
sera qu'en continuant la voie même largement ouverte par Myers, je
veux dire en poussant plus à fond cette investigation, dont il a été
le propagateur par excellence, des fonctions cachées et des puissances
intimes de notre être, et en achevant d'édifier cette Psychologie
Subliminale à laquelle, quels qu'en soient les résultats, son nom
restera glorieusement attaché. Th. Flournoy.
XLvi.] 53
Review of Human Personality.
IV.
It is hard to know the best point of view from which to approach
Myers's great work in writing for the Society for Psychical Research,
in whose publications so large a part of Human Personality has
already appeared, and to so many of whose members these pages
will still bring with them the memory of the thrill of word and
gesture with which their author used to vivify them as he poured
them forth at our meetings in impetuous eloquence. It seems best,
on the whole, that for our members the earlier portion of the book
should be taken as known, and that no time should be spent on
any criticism of the theory of the Subliminal Self, with which we
are now so familiar. The evidential portion too may be taken for
granted, the more so as what evidence is now for the first time
published is not so extensive or so novel in character as to call
for special discussion.
Myers's aim throughout was above all ethical ; his life's task was
to give such a scientific proof of a future life as should provide a
dominating motive for the conduct of this life : and it is by this
standard alone that he would have wished to be judged. I propose
therefore to devote myself almost entirely to the later chapters in
which he sums up his conclusions from this point of view, and to
indicate exactly how far I find myself convinced, and where I have
to leave him, being unable to follow the argument with him to his
end. The whole question must be for every one of us eminently
a personal one, and apologies are hardly called for if I endeavour to
place a personal view on record where no general concord is to be
expected for many years to come.
Unfortunately the portion of the book which is in this respect
the most vital is precisely that which its author's death left in
complete, and we lack the final revision of the ultimate synthesis
which we seek with the deepest interest from a mind so acute, so
logical, and so strenuous. We have indeed much to be grateful
for. In dealing with evidence which is at once disparate and
54 [PART
Dr. Walter Leaf.
voluminous, the mere arrangement is not the least laborious, as it is
perhaps the most responsible portion of the writer's task ; and it
is one for which Myers's special gifts admirably qualified him. The
patience, the penetration, and the lucidity which he has brought
to bear on it are above all praise, and his argument is marshalled
and organised by a master's hand. Only the last deductions are
left unfinished, and even here the argument is from the first so
directed to a plain end that one can never doubt as to Myers's real
opinion on any vital matter. Yet one may well hesitate to raise
objections to which he may seem to have given too little weight;
one may always fancy that so finished a dialectician had his answers
in reserve, and might have found them a place in a completed work.
We have however a right to remember that, for all his real
genius for scientific conceptions, Myers could not really approach
this great subject with scientific detachment. He nowhere conceals
his overwhelming desire that, in the highest interests of the human
race, human personality should be proved to survive bodily death.
The burning conviction that he holds in his hands this irrefutable
proof fires his words with the enthusiasm of the prophet, while his
desire to appeal to the reason of his contemporaries often imposes
on him the stern restraint of the scientific treatise. The struggle
between the two impulses is visible on every page of the book,
and the skill with which they are fused is characteristic and
admirable. But if Myers did not attain to detachment, neither
can any critic hope to do the same ; the matter is too vital for
every man. However surely the evidence be established, it is still
so dark in interpretation that every one will read in it that which
he most wants to read. Let me therefore honestly say at once
that I want to find in it something which Myers did not want,
and that I find it accordingly.
With this confession let me express at once the effect which
Myers's work produces upon me. It greatly weakens my sense of
personality, to such an extent that I am rather less than more
willing to believe that my personality will survive death, at least
in any sense which can make such a belief a dominant motive for
this life's work. This result is clearly not what Myers would have
wished; and yet it seems to me to be the natural outcome of all
his evidence. I follow him in the greater part at least of what he
claims for the "subliminal Self" of the living; and then I have
to ask, " can this subliminal self be called a part of my personality,
in any sense in which such a belief will influence my life 1 " My
XLvl] 55
Review of Human Personality.
subliminal self is something of which I am not conscious. It does not
appear to be governed exclusively by the moral laws which I take
as my guide, or by the physical laws which control my body, and,
through my brain, my consciousness. I am barely aware, through
the experience of others, of its existence, and know nothing of the
laws by which it can affect what I call "me," or "I" can affect
it. It appears, so far as I can learn anything about it, to move
in another world, which approaches marvellously near to the Infinite or
the Absolute or the World Spirit or whatever we like to call it;
at all events in a region where what we call Personality becomes
void of all meaning.
Personality as conceived by the ordinary man—and this is the
view which, for the present at least, is of real moral significance—
has both a positive and a negative aspect. On the one hand it is
based fundamentally on the continuous stream of memory, which
carries with it too our hopes and aspirations for the future. On the
negative side it is equally defined by its limitations—primarily by
its clear separation from the other similar streams of memory which
we conceive as co-existent, and call the personalities of other men.
Normally we think " of our personality as limited by our physical
frame and its capacity for sense impressions, and cut off from other
personalities by a line as hard and fast as that which divides our
bodies from the rest of material nature. It is difficult for a man
to think of his personality apart from his body; and it is no doubt
this difficulty which leads to the conception of what St. Paul calls
the " spiritual body " of the Resurrection. This spiritual body
would I suppose in modern phrase be called a surviving personality,
a boundary, that is, which shall in a future life keep our earthly
memories together in a continuous stream with our discarnate
memories, free from solution and absorption by any surrounding
spiritual medium. And it is at any rate the existence of such a
spiritual body that Myers sets himself to prove.
And yet it seems to me that the whole effect of his book is to
shake and weaken every property of personality. He sets out with
a striking chapter on Disintegrations of Personality, which at once
shatters the natural, if somewhat crude idea of a man's self as a
single stream of continuous memory in a single body. The stream
is not continuous—it is subject to interruptions as capricious as
they may be extensive. It is not single, for several streams,
distinct and in some cases independent, may exist in the same
body during its material life.
56 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf.
He then in subsequent chapters goes on to abolish the limitations
which form the other elements in our conception of self. He conceives
a secondary state in which the "spirit" can leave the body, and
not only travel afar but actually modify spatial relations at a
distance, so as to impress the sense-organs of other conscious
persons. It may enter into their thoughts. It may even be inde
pendent of time, and become precognitive. It can in short take
upon it some at least of the capacities which we usually associate
with the "Absolute." And all of this—most of all the production
of " collective hallucinations," for which the theory of space-modifica
tion seems to me to be a rather crude and unsatisfying hypothesis
—to my mind reduces the notion of personality almost to vanish
ing point. Once more, it seems to take us into a region where
personality becomes meaningless, because it loses its limitations, and,
with its limitations, its unity.
And if this is the case with the incarnate spirit, how much more
must we hesitate before we can ascribe to the discarnate the necessary
boundaries which are required to constitute a personality. Of the
discarnate spirit we only know for certain that if it does exist, it
is without the most obvious bond which constituted it a separate
unity. So far as there can be said to be any probabilities in such
a matter, it would seem probable that the spirit emancipated from
the body would extend those powers of the "secondary self " which
appear to us as transcendental, and would enter into closer communion
with kindred spirits, till the bounds of personality grew vaguer or
even vanished.
This is however a question of evidence, if evidence can be obtained.
And the ultimate object of Myers's work is to bring forward such
evidence and interpret it. Let me say first that the evidence
which he brings is relevant and of the highest importance. It
seems to me to prove much, but not all that he claims. And I
say at once that it does seem to me to prove that something of
us does survive death. It seems to me to show that after the
death of the body there remains a more or less coherent complex
of memories which is accessible to the subliminal self of certain
living persons. What I do not as yet see is that this complex
has such coherence as can enable us to consider it a personality,
or that it is bound up with such continuing vital processes as may
justify us in holding that life in the spiritual world is continuous
with life in this. The evidence seems to point rather to an
alternative which at least is consistent with analogy, and demands
xlvi.] Review of Human Personality; 57
to be fully considered—that as the physical body only gradually
dissolves into its elements after death, so the spiritual retains for
a time a certain coherence which is no proof of life. Under
certain circumstances the physical body may be preserved in a
way which enables us to tell, it may be centuries after, how the
living man appeared externally in the world. It is possible that
the same may be the case with the spiritual. There may be a
process of dissolution, varying perhaps greatly under conditions of
which we know nothing; and it may be possible for peculiarly
gifted living spirits to behold the gradually disintegrating spirit,
and bring us word, with more or less completeness, of what the
spiritual man was during life.
Even if we go no farther than this, we have made a gigantic
step. At all events the great abyss has been bridged, and with
a foot on the other shore we have the possibilities of unknown
realms to explore. Even if we hesitate to follow, we cannot blame
a man like Myers who, with courage and hope, would lead us
into the new world. But we must claim for ourselves the right
to be heard if we carefully examine our first footing before we
take a second step.
It is practically on the evidence of Mrs. Piper that the whole
case is founded. Our reports of her trance-communications are so
full that all other evidence sinks unto unimportance compared to
them, and can only be regarded as confirmatory and of the second
degree. Even the note-books of Stainton Moses, as Myers freely
admits, full as they are, do not offer anything like the same
strength of testimony. It is then to Mrs. Piper that we must
turn, and more particularly to the sittings of her second period,
when she was under the control known as "George Pelham."
Let us see then what are the claims which Myers founds on these.
They are so daring and startling that it is best to state them
in his own words, which are clear and fearless enough.1
" The claim then is that the automatist, in the first place, falls
into a trance, during which his spirit partially ' quits his body ' ;—
enters at any rate into a state in which the spiritual world is
more or less open to his perception ; and in which also—and this
is the novelty—it so far ceases to occupy the organism as to
leave room for an invading spirit to use it in somewhat the same
fashion as the owner is accustomed to use it.
" The brain being thus left temporarily and partially uncontrolled,
1Vol. n. p. 190.
58 [part
Br. Walter Leaf.
a disembodied spirit sometimes, but not always, succeeds in occupy
ing it ; and occupies it with varying degrees of control. In some
cases (Mrs. Piper) two or more spirits may simultaneously control
different portions of the same organism."
Thus we have two distinct hypotheses—first, that the spirit of
the sensitive has access, more or less, to the secrets of the in
visible world ; and secondly, that other spirits can take possession
of the vacant organism, and reveal themselves through it, by
speech or writing, or both together. What a complication results
may be conceived. " We must continually bear in mind the
impossibility of distinguishing the different elements that may enter
into so complex a phenomenon. . . . The transparency which
renders the one possession possible facilitates also the other. This
may be one reason for the admixture seen in most trance-utterances—
of elements which come from the sensitive's own mind with elements
inspired from without. . . . Further, we cannot draw a clear line
between the influence of the organism itself—as already moulded
by its own indwelling spirit—and the continuing influence of
that spirit, not altogether separated from the organism. . . . The
result may be a kind of mixed telepathy between the sitter, the
sensitive's spirit, and the extraneous spirit."1
Let us see if, for this appalling complication, we cannot substitute
a theory more consistent with facts ahead}' observed, and simple
enough to allow of some hope of interpretation. Let us then admit
that Mrs. Piper passes into a secondary state in which her power
of perception of the spiritual world is largely increased. Let us now
suppose that in this spiritual world her secondary self finds memory
groups surviving—possibly undergoing the process of dissolution, but
still surviving and retaining a certain amount of coherence, and thus
representing with more or less completeness the inner life of known
persons who have passed away. Will not the known tendency of
her secondary self to dramatic presentation lead to such communica
tions as those which have been so fully and so carefully reported ?
This question is in fact forced upon us by the principle of con
tinuity which Myers rightly takes as his guide, and which is
notably exemplified in the development of Mrs. Piper herself. Her
first control, as we all know, was "Dr. Phinuit." Myers still clings
to the belief that Phinuit may possibly be regarded "as an intelli
gence extraneous to Mrs. Piper—as in fact a discarnate spirit."2
But he is conscious of the enormous difficulties in the way of such
1VoL ii. p. 249. 'Vol. ii. p. 240.
xlvl] Review of Human Personality. 59
a belief, in view of Phinuit's untrue, and indeed absurd, statements
respecting his life on earth ; and he admits that " many may think
it most probable that the Phinuit control was nothing more than a
secondary personality of Mrs. Piper." This is in fact the only theory
which, at least in the present state of our knowledge, we have any
right to hold.
In her third stage Mrs. Piper is controlled by "Imperator,"
"Rector," and others, who profess to have been when on earth
certain illustrious, but not divine personages. They profess also to
be identical with Stainton Moses' controls, who gave their real
names to him ; these were never published, but were known to
Myers himself. It was therefore an obvious test that they should
give through Mrs. Piper the names which they had given to Stainton
Moses. This simple test they completely failed to fulfil.1 Thus in
the third stage the evidence for external personality breaks down as
it did in the first. If Imperator and his assistants are really dis-
carnate personalities, they are lying spirits. But in the meantime
we are bound to regard them as further dramatis personae of Mrs.
Piper's fertile subliminal self.
There remains her second period, when she was under the control
of "George Pelham," who claimed to be the spirit of a known
person recently deceased. We notice the progressive advance from
the vulgar "Phinuit," through the cultivated "G.P." to the exalted
" Imperator " ; and if we are to follow any principle of continuity,
we must not assume for " G.P." any different origin from the
other two. The evidence may possibly be overwhelming enough
to force us to do so ; but then we must abandon the principle of
continuity.
Is then the evidence so overwhelming ? Is it enough to force us
to acknowledge that the controls of the second period are what
they profess to be—the still living spirits of those who have recently
passed away, and are making themselves known to their friends on
earth ? I have already indicated my own answer to this question.
The evidence is very striking and very strong. It proves, I think,
that memories of the dead survive, and are under special con
ditions accessible to us. But I do not see that it proves the
survival of what we call the living spirit, the personality—a unit of
consciousness, limited and self-contained, a centre of will and vital
force, carrying on into another world the aspirations and the affec
tions of this.
1 Proceedings, Vol. im., pp. 408-9.
60 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf.
Those who took part in Mrs. Piper's earlier sittings came gene
rally to the conclusion that she had by some subliminal faculty
access to a store of memories belonging to the sitters and their
friends, but not consciously present in their minds. As some one
then put it, the effect was as though she had been able to rummage
through a waste-paper basket full of their old letters, often
torn and blurred, containing much that was unintelligible, but often
affording an unmistakable, though forgotten, piece of fact. The main
■question for us in 1890 was whether these broken memories belonged
only to the living, or whether there was not some similar store
house for the dead as well. The result of the later evidence seems
to me to be that we must now accept the latter proposition as true.
Further than this I do not think that it carries us.
A full discussion of the " G.P." communications would mean a
review of Hodgson's and Hyslop's reports, rather than of Human
Personality. But no reader of them can have failed to be struck
by their fragmentary, obscure and generally muddled character.
Professor Hyslop speaks frankly of the "discarnate spirit," as
" exhibiting various degrees of clearness and confusion, merging now
and then into delirium, automatism, or complete syncope."1 No
better illustration of this can be found than the ingenious series
of experiments by which he illustrates the nature of the communica
tions by telegraphic messages between living persons.2 These clearly
show, by the artificial restrictions required, how far the spirits
fall below the intelligence of the normal rational man.
This undeniable and puzzling confusion is explained by Myers as
due to the novel conditions under which a mind is using a brain
which does not belong to it.3 Such a supposition hardly seems
to meet the case. The most obvious puzzle is that the communicating
spirits seem to have the greatest difficulty in getting at what
should be the primary means of identification —their own names.
This is hard to understand if the difficulty is one of means of
communication only ; it clearly points to some imperfect com
prehension at the origin of the message. It becomes intelligible
enough on the alternate hypothesis, that the messages are in fact
being given at second hand. If we imagine ourselves as endeavour
ing to construct a dramatic presentation of a human being from
what we can find in an old diary belonging to him, we see at
once that his own name might be one of the hardest things to
1 Proceedings, Vol. xvi. p. 284. 2 Ibid. pp. 537-623.
3 Vol. II. p. 254.
XLvi.] 61
Review of Human Personality.
make out. And I conceive that the secondary personality of Mrs.
Piper may be in somewhat the same position—having access to a
cluster of earthly memories where the name of the owner is not
explicitly presented, and must be slowly extricated, not by the
agency of the owner himself, but by a process of inference—
largely aided, no doubt, by the recipients of the communications.
And further, the general mental attitude of the communicants
seems distinctly to point to the cluster of memories as disinte
grating—full of the gaps and vaguenesses which we should expect
to find as the forerunners of ultimate dissolution.
That is the conclusion to which Human Personality has brought
me. Myers himself would, I fear, have regarded it as a complete
negation of his hopes, and a practical rejection of his life's work.
To me it is not so. To me " personality " presents itself mainly as
a limitation—as the barrier which inexorably cuts me off from those
who are nearest and dearest to me, so that they can never "know
half the reasons why I smile or sigh." To a large part of the
human race personality means something crippled by surroundings,
or smirched with sin, or distorted by hereditary taint, as it seems
to us, beyond hope of cure. It is a hope and not a fear that the
dissolution of the body may mean the dissolution of this spiritual
crust as well; that one day the infinite which is within us all may
have freer play, and mingle in unconstrained communion with other
spiritual elements equally purged of earthly dross, through channels
infinitely clearer and more translucent than the imperfect and un
satisfying organs of the mortal frame.
And this hope Myers, by the life's work which he has summed up
in Human Personality, has enormously strengthened. He has shown
that even in this life we have, through the subliminal self, a contact
with the infinite which is more than a mere guess—that however
imperfectly and sporadically, man has glimpses of a faculty trans
cending the powers of sense. And he has carried the link across
the grave. This is after all the great step, beside which the rest
sinks into insignificance. When once that is taken, anything else
may follow. Myers's further conclusions may prove in the end to be
right; or man may through the ages work out a scheme of the
spiritual world as far transcending Myers as Myers transcends the
Hottentot. But this will not one whit diminish the debt we owe
to him. Walter Leaf.
62 [part
Andrew Lang.
"THE NINETEENTH CENTURY" AND MR. FREDERIC
MYERS.
By Andrew Lang.
In The Nineteenth Century—and After, for April 1903, appeared two
articles on Human Personality, the book by Mr. Frederic Myers.
At a Highland inn, being destitute of more serious literature, I read
these essays. It did not appear to me that they were quite worthy
of the genius of our leading Comteist, Mr. Frederic Harrison ; and
of one of our most eminent scientific men, theologians, and investiga
tors of Mrs. Gallup, Mr. W. H. Mallock. The essay of Mr. Harrison
was a sportive apologue. Free, as he is, from degrading supersti
tion, Mr. Harrison playfully informed the town that, after "dipping
into " Mr. Myers's book for about ninety minutes, he dreamed
that he died, after an apoplectic seizure. Absit omen ! Mr.
Harrison must be cautious as to what he reads, avoiding what he
disagrees with. He then described his posthumous adventures.
While remaining Mr. Frederic Harrison, he felt great difficulty in
retaining a firm hold of his consciousness of personal existence. The
Aurora Borealis and (I think) other cosmic phenomena, sniggered at
his efforts, and Mr. Harrison found himself tittering in sympathy.
" Was I even a Gas, or a Force ? " Mr. Harrison asked himself with
natural anxiety. We are not concerned to answer these queries,
nor to decide whether Mr. Harrison was a Force, or merely a Gas,
nor even whether a Gas is a Force, as the domestic meter may
seem to suggest. "Was not my dream," he exclaims complacently,
" infinitely more sublime, more beautiful, more wonderful, than
that of any S.P.R. ? "
Who can reply 1 No S.P.R. known to us has any vision of its
own ; we cannot compare such a non-existent dream with the Somnia
Pythagorea of Mr. Harrison, when he asked himself whether he was
not, perhaps, a Gas, or a Force, perhaps.
The apologue of Mr. Harrison, composed after "dipping into" a
book by Mr. Myers, a man of not inconsiderable intellect and
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century" and Mr. Myers. 63
industry, seemed an odd apparition, and a trifle out-of-date, in the
Nineteenth Century—and After. After the Nineteenth Century, are we
to be discussing Mr. Harrison's taste in dreams?
Having read the badinage of Mr. Harrison, I turned to the more
solid arguments of Mr. Mallock. Now I find him deep in the
ornamental title-pages of books of the Elizabethan age, looking for
emblems of the Hanged Hog (or Bacon), and encountering
the Porcupine, collared and fettered Or, which, I learn, was the
crest of Sir Philip Sidney. Again he is in the forefront of
the science of our time, instructing the veteran Lord Kelvin,
who appears to require some hints as to the Suction of the
Cosmic Egg. Next Mr. Mallock reveals to the reading public
the Doctrine of Mrs. Gallup, and examines a Baconian cypher
with the acumen of a Poe or a Phellips ; and anon he dazzles, or
admonishes, as the novelist of Society. It was to be expected that
such a man would have taken Psychical Research, like all the rest
of knowledge, for his province ; while a tie yet more endearing
seemed to exist between the sympathies of Mr. Mallock and those
of Mr. Myers. Among the fair and intellectual daughters of
Columbia there are two whose claims to distinction are not freely
accepted by the wise and learned. One, Mrs. Gallup, has discovered
that Bacon wrote most of Elizabethan literature and did into prose part
of Pope's translation of the Iliad. She has unriddled the cypher in
which Bacon not only reveals his literary secret, but displays an engag
ing ignorance of history, law, and even of his own family circle. In
the most chivalrous manner, and with a mind truly open, Mr.
Mallock advocated the desirableness of studying Mrs. Gallup's system,
though, to the pedantic specialist, it seems to be demonstrably con
spicuous nonsense. Mr. Myers was an even more ardent believer
in those claims to communicate with the dead, which Mrs. Piper, of
Boston, U.S. (as I understand), does not make, the lady leaving the
question to be settled by the learned.
Nobody can believe everything, and it was too much to expect
that an investigator of Mrs. Gallup should also be a student of Mrs.
Piper. Still, one thought that Mr. Mallock would sympathize with
Mr. Myers. He does not, and he even attributes intellectual dis
honesty to that writer. This is an antiquated method in con
troversy, and I do not dispute the intellectual honesty of Mr.
Mallock. Heaven forbid ! Still, when I read his article it appeared
to me that he had not perused his author very carefully, and that
he first attributed to Mr. Myers, and then refuted, certain ideas which
64 [part
Andrew Lang.
Mr. Myers did not, in my opinion, entertain : a practice very
common among critics.
I therefore wrote to the editor of the Nineteenth Century— and After,
saying that if no stronger champion were in the field I would
gladly cross swords with Mr. Mallock. As the editor had given
plenty of room to a discussion about Bacon's claim to the throne
of England, and to the authorship of Shakespeare's plays, I deemed
that he might spare a few pages to my attempt to expiscate Mr.
Myers's ideas. The editor consented ; two or three letters passed
between us. I sent in the following paper, and he rejected it
almost by return of post. I then asked whether I might publish
his letters with my paper, and he,—I think not unnaturally,—refused
his permission. About the contents of these letters my lips are
sealed. The S.P.R., however, will observe that the labour of
half the lifetime of a learned and industrious man appears to be
deemed less worthy of discussion than the cypher of Mrs. Gallup.
But the fault may be my own ; my paper may be unworthy of
the topic about which I treat, and I make no claims to the scientific
eminence of Mr. Mallock, though conceivably I know as much as
he does about psychical research. The rejected paper follows, with
only verbal alterations.
In trying to review Mr. Mallock's review of Human Personality by
the late Mr. Frederic Myers, I attempt a task difficult and ungrate
ful. It is ungrateful because I wish that Mr. Myers had left theories,
especially metaphysical and " metetherial " theories, out of his work;
and it is difficult, because I am not at all certain that the theories
are understood either by Mr. Mallock or by myself. Indeed, if the
theories are bad, they are perhaps a good deal worse than Mr.
Mallock has proved them to be. It is also my misfortune to regard
metaphysics with the extreme distrust and dislike which the general
public, and most men of science, freely bestow on " Metapsychics."
But if I am no psychologist or metaphysician, as Mr. Mallock is,
Professor William James is a psychologist of acknowledged eminence.
It is, therefore, worth remarking that while Mr. Mallock regards
Mr. Myers's theory " as being not only fantastic in respect of its
general character, but also as gratuitously inapplicable to the facts
which he invokes it to explain," Professor Jamec, without actually
accepting the theory, treats it in a much more respectful manner.
He does not like the terms "supraliminal" and "subliminal," and
Mr. Myers himself gave us alternatives, " extra-marginal " and " intra
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century" and Mr. Myers. 65
marginal," which seem less open to objection. But Mr. James, like
Mr. Myers himself, regards the theory as a mere provisional pioneer
ing hypothesis. Mr. Myers says that he does not " claim to attain to a
scientific standard." If a science he has, it is " in its dim and poor
beginnings," as chemistry was " when a few monks groped among
the properties of the nobler metals." (Vol. I., p. 2.) Professor James
says that Mr. Myers took " a lot of scattered phenomena ... he
made series of them, filled in the transitions by delicate hypotheses
or analogies, and bound them together in a system by his bold
inclusive conception of the Subliminal Self. . . . What is the precise
constitution of the Subliminal ? Such is the problem which deserves
to figure in our Science hereafter as the problem of Myers," who
has also added, says Professor James, not without levity, "many
ways of putting the Subliminal on tap."1 Sir Oliver Lodge also
claims for Myers that "he has laid a foundation ... on ground
more solid than has ever been available before," 2 which is not saying
much !
If we listen to these eminent men of science, Mr. Myers's effort
can scarcely be so " fantastic," and " gratuitously inapplicable to the
facts which he invokes it to explain," as Mr. Mallock avers. Au
thority, to be sure, goes for very little in such matters; still the
opinions of two specialists in psychology and other sciences cannot
wholly be disdained. " Analogies " and " delicate hypotheses " are,
as a rule, worth very little (despite Mr. Mallock's own use of them),
and Mr. Myers was clearly aware of the fact. He was groping in
what he calls "the Subliminal," as Friar Bacon may have groped in
"the nobler qualities of metals." He was guessing with a purpose,
namely to form a kind of thread on which to string series of facts,
or of what he believed to be facts. The question is not so much
whether he solved "Myers's problem," but whether he stated his
problem without too much of the inconsistency and self-contradiction
which almost invariably beset the makers of " delicate hypotheses,"
even in such fields as anthropology and history. But if Mr. Myers's
theory turns out to be self-contradictory and fantastic, that does not
damage the value of his great collection of facts, any more than Mr.
Frazer's chain of hypotheses, if here and there to some critics un
acceptable, injures the merit of the vast collections in his Golden Bough.
Mr. Mallock writes : " Mr. Myers asserts that the subliminal self
is not the unconscious part of the supraliminal, but is a separate
Proceedings S.P.S., Vol. XVII., pp. 15-18.
*Op. cit., Vol. XVII., p. 4.
E
66 [pakt
Andrew Lang.
conscious entity, and that the supraliminal is a separate entity also.
The latter is as mortal and as dependent on the physical organism
as any man of science can say it is ; but the former stands on a
totally different footing. The organism depends on it, not it on the
organism, and for it alone Mr. Myers claims immortality" (p. 629).
Does Mr. Myers really mean, or say, all this 1 1 He writes " I do
not . . . assume that there are two correlative and parallel selves
existing always within each of us. Rather I mean by the subliminal
Self that part of the Self which is commonly subliminal." (Vol. I.,
p. 15.) What is "a Self," and what is meant by "a part of a
Self"? I have no clear idea: such phrases seem mere counters
representing notions of no fixed value. But here Mr. Myers certainly
does not speak of "two separate conscious entities," one mortal, the
other immortal. He denies that he makes the assumption which Mr.
Mailock attributes to him. But he goes on to say that " no Self of
which we can here have cognisance is in reality more than a frag
ment of a larger Self,-—revealed in a fashion at once shifting and
limited through an organisation not so framed as to afford it full
manifestation."
All this does not agree with Mr. Mallock's statement of Mr. Myers's
theory. Mr. Myers is not saying that we know here two separate
conscious entities or selves, one deathly, one exempt from death.
He says that we know no such entities, but merely have glimpses
of fragments of "a larger Self" which we cannot know. That larger
Self, I take it, is not the Subliminal Self, as more or less known to
science. If we cannot possibly know it, perhaps the less we say about
it the better; however, man is a guess-making animal.
1Mr. Myers, in a footnote (Vol. I., p. 14) writes: "We may attempt, indeed,
deeper distinctions, and speak of the empirical self on the one hand, and the sur
viving or the transcendental self on the other hand." But he does not say
that the surviving self is exclusive of the empirical self, and he constantly
gives examples of the alleged survival of the empirical self in the alleged
surviving self. In Vol. I., p. 12, he writes: "The 'conscious self of each of
us, as we call it,—the empirical, the supraliminal self, as I should prefer to say—
does not comprise the whole of the consciousness or of the faculty within us.
There exists a more comprehensive consciousness, a profounder faculty, which
for the most part remains potential only so far as regards the life of earth,
butfrom which the consciousness and the faculty of earth-life are mere selections,
and which reasserts itself in its plenitude after the liberating change of death."
The "supraliminal" is a "mere selection" from the "subliminal." The passage
quoted demonstrates that Mr. Mallock has misconceived, and therefore mis
stated Mr. Myers's theory, and, I repeat, he gave no references for his
averments on this important head.
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century " and Mr. Myers. 67
As Mr. Myers denies that he believes in " two separate conscious
entities" in each man, and denies that in this world we know the
whole of any Self whatever, one argument of Mr. Mallock's seems of
doubtful validity. It is a telling argument, as it stands. "The
supposed subliminal self," he says, " as operated on by the hypnotiser,
instead of exhibiting any special independence or superiority, dis
tinguishes itself mainly by its docile and credulous slavery to the
suggestions of any chance operator. It is tricked by statements
which would hardly deceive an idiot" (p. 638).
Indeed I understand that idiots, of all people, are least amenable
to the hypnotist.
Mr. Mallock goes on to say that, according to Mr. Myers, this
ultra-idiotic subliminal self "will do almost anything that the
hypnotiser tells it to do, except what is morally wrong. Here it
shows its innate spiritual purity. ..."
If Mr. Myers really means all this, he has clearly lost hold of
his own theory. For his theory is that in no way can we, while
"here," get knowledge of the whole of "the larger self," or even
of any other self : we cannot, therefore, disengage by hypnotism
the whole of the subliminal self. Consequently " the hypnotic
stratum," as Mr. Myers calls it, which is so easily " tricked " by
the operator, is not all the "larger," or even "the subliminal self."
That self, b}' Mr. Myers's definition, it cannot be. The self mani
fested in the hypnotic condition is not the subliminal self, or the
soul, or the immortal somewhat, neat, for we can never get it
neat ! It is only one " fragment " (or aspect, or faculty, as I should
prefer to say) of a larger self, "revealed in a fashion at once
shifting and limited." This being so, and the hypnotic self being,
in Mr. Myers's opinion, on the moral level of the workaday self,
Mr. Mallock says " it is hard to imagine a clearer admission than
this, that the two selves are the same self in different conditions,
and not, as Mr. Myers imagines, two independent beings."
But Mr. Myers has denied that he conceives any two selves
known to, or knowable by, us, here, as "two independent beings."
I have never understood him, as Mr. Mallock does—apparently—
to hold that, when observing a patient in any hypnotic stage
whatever, we observe the "supposed subliminal self" at work as
"an independent being," in full untrammelled power. I understand
him to mean that a fragment or a potentiality of a self is, in the
hypnotic state, able to exert itself in different degrees,—degrees
"shifting and limited,"—upon our organisms. That self is able,
68 [part
Andrew Lang.
more or less, to trick the body into supposing that soap is chocolate,
for example, or into raising a blister where a postage stamp has
been applied to the skin. Therein lies all of its "supposed inde
pendence or superiority," as far as evinced in certain hypnotic
stages.1 In other cases it appears sometimes to control the tendency
to drink, for example. For all that I know, perhaps a sober man
may be capable of conversion into a drunkard, by suggestion. Mr.
Myers seems to think not, but I am unaware that the experiment
has been tried. Whether improvements of conduct under sugges
tion are without " moral value " (as in Mr. Mallock's view) I do
not know ; but, even if non-moral, such improvements would be
practically welcome. If, indeed, there is no Free Will (as I under
stand Mr. Mallock to argue, but I may misunderstand him), I don't
see where morality comes in, anyhow, but that is a question which
does not interest me.
So far, I really conceive that Mr. Mallock may have glided into
an ignoratio elenchi. Mr. Myers does not hold (I take it) that we
living men know, or can know, two separate conscious entities,
one of which is immortal : nor does Mr. Myers think that this
superior entity is known by us completely, or is fully on view, in
patients under hypnotism. That were absurd. Mr. Myers does
not, I repeat, maintain that in hypnotism or any other condition,
' do we get at the full-blown subliminal self, or at the " larger
self."
If the subliminal self, as known in hypnotism, is in one aspect
rather an ass, it is much worse, Mr. Myers shows, in various
automatisms. Planchette, and a table (in table-tilting), are often
silly, occasionally profane or obscene, more rarely are credited with
knowledge not normally acquired. As a rule, the rubbish of the
subliminal stratum comes to the top in automatic writing. We get
subliminal nonsense, or chaff, or profanity ; as well as subliminal
sagacity, just as in dreams we get nonsense, usually ; clairvoyance
very seldom, even on Mr. Myers's showing. The reason is that
the subliminal self, as hnowable by us here, is not " a separate conscious
entity " of a vastly superior character, but is only a flickering set
of glimpses of all kinds, from idiocy to inspiration. At least I
have always understood Mr. Myers in this sense, while taking him
to mean that, in the inspired sorts of glimpses, we may detect
brief fragmentary visions of his " larger self."
1 In other stages and conditions other powere are supposed to be displayed.
But it is not supposed that the subliminal self is "all there" at large.
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century " and Mr. Myers. 69
On another point the critic seems to me to misunderstand his
author. "For it alone," says Mr. Mallock (meaning his "superior
conscious entity"), "Mr. Myers claims immortality." It appears
more accurate to say that he claims for "the larger self" per
sistence or survival, after death. Immortality is another matter.
But does Mr. Myers say that the supraliminal ordinary self—the
inferior of Mr. Mallock's pair of conscious entities—is mortal, or
is extinguished by death 1 Mr. Mallock avers that he does : if
he does, Mr. Myers rejects much of what he himself accepts as
evidence. The only supraliminal "self" that can be conceived of
as surviving death is the continuous chain of human memories and
associations. Now if these do not survive, immortality had no
interest for Mr. Myers. He wanted to renew his old friendships,
velerum hand immemor amorum. His phantasms of the dead mani
festly remember their earthly homes, friends, and kinships, so do
his spirits which talk through Mrs. Piper & Co., though they
have forgotten any Greek they ever had to an astonishing degree.
"G.P.," that famed spirit, "felt bad in his head"; a thoroughly
supraliminal sensation, just as a man whose leg has been amputated
feels pain in that leg. All these memories—all things, in fact,
that Mr. Myers's spirits do or say—are survivals of the supra
liminal consciousness. How, then, can Mr. Mallock aver that,
in Mr. Myers's theory, the supraliminal self is independent,
and is mortal ? If Mr. Myers has said so, he is not worth
thinking about at all : he is to be placed far below the rather
humble level assigned to him as a reasoner by Mr. Mallock. The
common phantasm of the dead, in Mr. Myers's opinion, is "not
all there " ; the soul of the dead man is not wholly occupied, like
the spectral minister of the Kirk, in tramping round the country
near Lessudden (Vol. II., pp. 396, 397). Only a casual side-stream of
his consciousness is occupied with Tweed-side, but that side-stream
is as supraliminal as trout. Thus the supraliminal self must survive,
despite Mr. Mallock, in the theory of Mr. Myers. If it did not,
the personality of each of us could not survive at all, to the joy
of Mr. Frederic Harrison.
Mr. Mallock remarks that Mr. Myers, in his chapter on Sleep,
"insists again that the subliminal self is a separate self-existing
personality " (p. 630). If so, Mr. Myers contradicts himself, for he has
written "I find it permissible and convenient to speak of subliminal
selves, or of a subliminal self. ... I mean by the subliminal self
th/it part of the self which is commonly subliminal," being no more
70 [part
Andrew Lang.
than "a fragment of a larger self." Now, unlike Mr. Mallock, I
cannot find in Mr. Myers's chapter on Sleep any statement that the
subliminal self is " a separate self-existing personality." An exact
reference to this statement is not given by Mr. Mallock, nor can I
find the passage. I do find Mr. Myers saying that " we shall have
two phases of personality developing into separate purposes and separate
directions from a parent stew," " the waking personality," and " the
sleeping personality" (Vol. I., pp. 151-152). It is true that, elsewhere
in this passage, Mr. Myers speaks of " the soul," but I do not
understand him to mean that " the soul " is identical with the
subliminal self, as known to us.
But what especially puzzles me is that Mr. Mallock, after
asserting that Mr. Myers insists that "the subliminal self is a
separate, self-existing personality," offers the references which he
does give to "the classes of facts which prove this most con
clusively." They are "Sections 413 and 421 A" (Vol. I., p. 130,
p. 379). In one of these cases a woman remembers in sleep events
productive of a mental shock, which she does not remember when
awake. In the other case a man discovers in a dream the place
where a friend has dropped a watch. Mr. Myers conjectures that
the loser's "subliminal self" saw the watch fall, which merely means
that consciousness of the incident did not also present itself to the
loser's ordinary mind; such cases are common, the correct memory
arising later in a dream. In this instance the loser's subliminal
self may have wired on the fact to the friend by telepathy, or,
says Mr. Myers, there may be another explanation. I do not see,
as Mr. Mallock does, that Mr. Myers here asserts that the sub
liminal self is "a separate self-existing personality," any more than
any psychologist does when he speaks of the "separate" or
"secondary personalities" of hysterical patients, FeUida or HeUene
Smith. These are not conceived of as "self-existing entities," but
as mere phases of the personality of Félida or of Hellene.
To me it appears that matters of terminology cause the mis
apprehensions of Mr. Myers's meaning which are entertained either
by Mr. Mallock or by myself. I do not conceive Mr. Myers to
mean that "soul" and "subliminal self" are synonymous terms.
Mr. Mallock speaks of "the subliminal soul," which appears to
imply the existence (in Mr. Myers's theory) of a supraliminal soul,
but did Mr. Myers ever speak of a supraliminal soul 1 In his
Glossary, to my chagrin, " soul " does not appear, nor does " spirit."
But (Vol. I., p. 119) "soul" seems to mean something in man, to
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century " and Mr. Myers. 7 1
which a spirit in the universe is, for purposes of argument,
assumed to be "accessible and responsive," and soul or spirit, or
both, are active in vision, "hypnotic rejuvenation," automatisms, and
so forth. But " soul " is not identical, as I understand my author,
with " subliminal self," as known to us.
Neither Mr. Mallock nor myself is much to be blamed if ono or
both of us misapprehend Mr. Myers's meaning. For my part I
think that he meant "soul is not absent from the constitution of the
subliminal self, as ether is not absent from the constitution of
apple dumpling. But apple dumpling is not ether, and the
subliminal self is not the soul." That is, the subliminal self, as at
present known to psychologists, is not the soul, which, to us here,
is not knowable.
The general reader will not study Mr. Myers's book, but he has
perused Mr. Mallock's article. I am anxious that the authority of
so great a philosophic name should not (without further examina
tion) convince the general reader that Mr. Myers was so abjectly
muddle-headed as Mr. Mallock would induce us to believe. If the
general reader has favoured me with his esteemed attention so far,
I hope that he will feel so hopelessly perplexed that he will try to
hammer out Mr. Myers's meaning for himself, or will dismiss the
subject from his meditations altogether, which I take to be
his better course. Into Mr. Mallock's criticism of Mr. Myers's
" synthesis " I cannot pretend to go. I do not profess to under
stand why, if "ether" is "material," "metether"1 should be
"spiritual" (Vol. I., p. 215). The whole thing merely comes
to this, that Mr. Myers believed in spirit as well as matter, and
that most men of science (but not all) do not. The words
" matter " and " spirit " seem to me but cheques drawn on an airy
capital without metallic basis. But I do not think, as Mr. Mallock
does, that Mr. Myers "juggled with his own convictions," or was
"dishonest" when he wrote " metetherial " in place of " metetheric."
I take no sense of difference between the two new words. It is as
absurd, I think, to talk of the "metetherial" as of the "metetheric
grace of God." Both phrases are absurd. To myself Mr. Myers
appeared unusually honest; one could, and I think that I actually
did, shake or destroy his belief in a case, for example, of supposed
1"Metetheric" apparently includes the meaning, "not etheric," as "meta
physics" includes the meaning, "not physics." Like Mr. Mallock I suppose
the ether (if it exists) to be material, but I must disclaim all knowledge
about ether, matter, and spirit.
72 [part
Andrew Lang.
communication from a spirit, to which he had attached considerable
value. I also notice that the most extraordinary of modern
" ghost stories," which appeared in Mr. Myers's work in the
Proceedings of the S.P.R., is not included in his book.1 Perhaps
he saw reason to distrust this narrative. He was always ready,
beyond most writers whom I have known, to accept criticism with
candour and good humour.
Mr. Matlock, preoccupied with Mr. Myers's theory, does not
criticise his alleged "facts" with any fulness. The facts, not Mr.
Myers's interpretations of them, are to my mind the important part
of the book. For example, Mr. Mallock mentions various categories
of waking hallucinations of the sane and healthy. Some cases, as
Mr. Myers quotes Mr. Gurney (and Mr. Mallock quotes Mr.
Lawrence Oliphant) might be (rather fancifully) ascribed to move
ments leaving " some impress " on things in general " like the
lines in which the voice records itself on the moving disc of a
phonograph," and the person, perhaps long dead, who caused the
original movement, might "be reproduced in the consciousness of
persons sufficiently sensitive." This would imply no survival of the
aforesaid person, any more than a dead man's voice, echoed from a
phonograph, would prove his survival.
Mr. Mallock says "the majority of ghosts can perhaps be disposed
of in these ways, without the necessity of iuvoking any theory
which does not accord in character with current scientific concep
tions." But that things at large are phonographs and spectrographs,
(as if the road, trees, hedges, and so on at Lessudden retained and
reproduced, for Miss Scott of Lessudden and others, the spectre of
a dead minister on his "daidling bit,2") is not "a current scientific
conception," surely ! -Moreover the phantasms of the dead (on the
evidence), usually " take notice " (like babies) of attempts to approach
them. The spook of the minister, pursued by Miss M. W. Scott,
" turned round and faced her," twice (Vol. II., p. 397). As I know
the lady and the place, the adventure interests me, and such cases
are not infrequent, if I ma}' trust persons of honour and distinction
who have been " percipients." Now mere spectrograph^ reflections
would not give these signs of consciousness. However, my point is
that, if science did entertain this spectrographic theory, then science
would not merely deny and say "pooh!" to "ghost stories," but
would admit the facts (if well attested), having secured an expla
nation. In the same humour, Mr. Mallock does not reject, en masse<
1 Proceedings, Vol. XI., pp. 547-554. 2 Sauntering spot.
XLvi.] 73
" The Nineteenth Century " and Mr. Myers.
Mr. Myers's fieath-wraiths, and other hallucinations, nor dispose of
them by the cheap theory of "It happened to be B's hour to see
a hallucination of A, when it happened to be A's hour to die " He
does not reject them, but says, "had Mr. Myers only lived to see
the development of wireless telegraphy, he would have realised how
unnecessary and how childish was the spiritualistic hypothesis
whereby he seeks to explain the fact that a telepathic message is
capable of being conveyed to several recipients simultaneously."
Mr. Myers. died in January, 1901, and, in April, 1901, I ventured
to begin a romance of wireless telegraphy. The topic was not
revealed to man between January and April, 1901. Mr. Myers's
comments ou Sir William Crookes's suggestion of a theory by which
telepathy is propagated by " ether-waves of even smaller amplitude
and greater frequency than those which carry the X rays," are
quite as germane to the matter as the latest exploits of Mr. Marconi.
Any one can read Mr. Myers's objections to Sir William Crookes's
suggestion (Vol. I., pp. 245, 246). To me they appear telling, though
I have no theory, especially no " spiritualistic " theory, of my own.
It does seem clear that, if we accept any of Mr. Myers's cases
either of " precognition," or of phantasms of the dead of a departed
generation, the phenomena cannot be explained by the widest
licence of an assumption based on the analogy of wireless telegraphy,
and postulating similar "waves" from living brain to living brain.
"An etheric telepathy, and other cognate perceptions of distant
things" (distant in space, Mr. Mallock probably means), is a hypo
thesis which cannot explain, (even if it state a vera causa, about
which we know nothing), the classes of phenomena to which I
allude The hypothesis rests on the sand of analogy, and does not
cover all the alleged facts.
Now, in my opinion, theorizing here is but a human weakness ;
we need many years devoted to collecting and criticising statements
of alleged facts. The merit of Mr. Myers and his friends is to
have done in collection and criticism of statements hitherto ignored,
so much work, that scientific men of Mr. Mallock's eminence may
admit the " sober likelihood " of facts previously scouted, but now
explained (by aid of analogy), as the result of processes in the
living organism. To myself, explanations based on analogy appear
of next to no value ; the scientific police " has a clue " of the most
vaporous nature. But Mr. Myers's own explanation, at present,
seems rather poetry than science. The theory, on the other hand,
to which Mr. Mallock inclines is at least as old as Lavaterus (circ.
74 [part
Andrew Lang.
1580) and Izaak Walton. The hypothesis of Mr. Myers is of neo
lithic antiquity, and its modern forms, as held by Hegel and Karl
du Prel, are so closely akin to Mr. Myers's that I am surprised to
find him citing du Prel but once, and Hegel (as far as the index
shows) not at all.1
The success of Mr. Myers and his associates has lain in procuring
a slight amount of attention for facts in human nature accepted by
Hegel, but hitherto dismissed, as a rule, without examination.
Whatever may be the future (or non-future), of the human person
ality, that personality may come to be more closely studied : science
may no longer, like the fabled ostrich, hide her head in the sand.
To me the "Gospel" of Mr. Myers may be expressed in the words,
" Do look into things ! " He aimed at the sky, but he has, I hope,
hit this tree. If we cease to argue about such themes as perplexed
Milton's fallen angels in hell, if we merely study and make experi
ments in human nature, following a path hitherto barred against
trespassers, we may learn that we are other than a vain people
supposes.
Differing from Mr. Myers on a hundred points, holding Mrs. Piper
almost as cheap as I do Mrs. Gallup (but not quite), I yet think
that many qualities and portions of Mr. Myers's work deserve
recognition more generous than Mr. Mallock has given them. Even
if he did " see distant gates of Eden gleam" (a childish and fan
tastic hallucination), even if he did not, like Mr. Mallock's Virginia
St. John, go about giggling at the idea of an Intelligent First
Cause, he worked manfully, courageously,—I say honestly,—at an
uphill task.
It is a matter of detail, and I could only make my point by long
citations, but I do not agree with Mr. Mallock that the cases of
Hélene Smith, Mr. Hensleigh Wedgwood, Mrs. Piper, and the Rev.
Stainton Moses, offer "the best examples" of "veridical phantasms
of the dead," among other phenomena. Indeed I find no " veridical
phantasms of the dead" among the records of these gifted persons.
Possibly Mr. Mallock has not studied Professor Flournoy's two books
about Hélene Smith 3 The examples which Mr. Mallock does adduce,
of other phenomena, are not given at their strongest ; indeed some
are hardly given at all. The odd case of Colonel Gurwood (Vol. II.,
1 Du Prel: Philosophy of Mysticimi, translated by Mr. Massey. Hegel: Philo-
Kophie den Geistes, Werke, Vol. VII., Berlin, 1845. Mr. Wallace's translation of
1894 is published by the Clarendon Press (cf. my Making of Religion,
pp. 33-36, Longmans, 1898).
xlvi.] " The Nineteenth Century" and Mr. Myers. 75
pp. 161-167) is not offered as a proof of the survival of that gallant
officer—with a headache—but as an instance of "the growing diffi
culty which the theory of forgotten memories " (in the living) "here
involves." By the collection of many such records, Mr. Myers thinks
that we might reach, or approach, " some general conclusion as to
the source from which these retrocognitive facts come—if in any cases
forgotten memory fails to explain them " (Vol. II., p. 167). These are
impartial remarks, though, for his own personal part, Mr. Myers
put his trust in some " records " which to me seem valueless, and,
like Dr. Hodgson (a sceptical man), came to believe that he had
proofs of actual " possession."
So far I give my reply to Mr. Mallock exactly as it was written
for the Editor of The Nineteenth Century and After. I now add, by
way of reinforcement, other examples, as 1 conceive, of Mr. Mallock's
misfortune in misunderstanding and misstating the ideas which he
opposes.
The gist of Mr. Mallock's argument is, that "the two selves are
the same self in different conditions, and not, as Mr. Myers imagines,
two independent entities." But Mr. Mallock, though often insisting
on this alleged imagination of Mr. Myers, never once gives a refer
ence to Mr. Myers's book for the opinion. I must repeat that, if I
understand Mr. Myers, he did not occupy the position which Mr.
Mallock attacks. Mr. Mallock climbs a kopje gallantly, with fixed
bayonets and hoorays; he plants his banner victoriously on the top.
But that is easy, for the kopje was not held. Mr. Myers, like Mr.
Mallock, believes that " the two selves are the same self in different
conditions," and not that "they are two independent beings." Mr.
Mallock, at first, seems to understand that this is Mr. Myers's notion,
for he writes—in his second page—"The supraliminal self is" (that
is, in Mr. Myers's theory), " something thrown up above the surface
by the self which is submerged below." If so, how can Mr. Mallock
keep averring that Mr. Myers regards the supraliminal self as "an
independent being"? The so-called "supraliminal self," in Mr.
Myers's hypothesis, is only the one self revealing itself in the con
ditions of explicit, ordinary, every-day consciousness. The hypnotic
self, again, is only the one self under hypnotic conditions of various
kinds and degrees : it is not the one self utterly untrammelled, as
Mr. Mallock seems to think that Mr. Myers held it to be. On the
same page (629) Mr. Mallock asserts both that Mr. Myers holds the
supraliminal self to be an emanation of the submerged self, "some
76 [part
Andrew Lang.
thing thrown up by" that, and also that he holds the supraliminal
self to be "a separate entity." Some one is guilty of a contradiction
in terms, and I do not think that Mr. Myers is the erring logician.
Mr. Mallock drops, I conceive, into another error. We have
noted that, in his opinion, Mr. Myers, had he lived to see the
development of wireless telegraphy (which to a considerable extent
he did), " would have realised how unnecessary and how childish
was the spiritualistic hypothesis whereby he seeks to explain the
fact that a telepathic message is capable of being conveyed to
several percipients simultaneously" (p. 641). Mr. Myers's hypothesis
of telepathy, involving several percipients, is here said by Mr.
Mallock to be "spiritualistic." But (p. 632) Mr. Mallock had
remarked, " telepathy in itself is not, Mr. Myers says, a fact more
spiritual or hyperphysical than light, nor does it point of itself
to an intelligence independent of matter," except in certain cases,
for which he provides a "spiritualistic" and "childish" and "un
necessary " explanation. Now, where does Mr. Myers say that
telepathy "is not more spiritual or hyperphysical than light?" He
says just the contrary in Vol. I., p. 24, and Vol. II., p. 195.
As usual, no reference is given by Mr. Mallock. In Volume I.,
pp. 245, 246, Mr. Myers argues against the theory that a "system
of undulations " (as in light) " can explain the alleged facts " (cf. II.,
141-145). I cannot find that Mr. Myers (while not presuming to
deny that ether and undulations may be concerned in telepathy)
ever says what Mr. Mallock makes him say, that telepathy " is not,
in itself, a fact more spiritual or hyperphysical than light."
In short, Mr. Mallock appears to me too often to credit Mr.
Myers with opinions which he did not hold, to give no references,
and to attack positions which are not held. As to telepathy, Mr.
Mallock does not appear to deny the phenomenon, but to incline
to explain it, if it exists, by the analogy of " wireless telepathy."
Mr. Myers had considered, as we see, Sir William Crookes's
suggestion in that kind (Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XII., pp. 348-352),
and, among other objections, urged that " it is hard to understand
how A can emit a pattern of vibrations which, radiating equally in
all directions, shall affect not only his distant friend B, but also
the strangers C and D who happen to be standing near B, and
affect no other persons, so far as we know, in the world " (Vol. I.,
p. 246).
Mr. Mallock appears to see nothing in all this. The syntonisa-
tion of the cerebral coherers of A, B, C, and D offers no difficulty
xlVl.] " The Nineteenth Century " and Mr. Myers. 7 7
to his expert mind. Not knowing aught about these matters, I
must refer the question to Sir Oliver Lodge, who has gone pretty
deep into these things. Men are not Marconi machines, and, in
my ignorance, I must pause before arguing as if they were, for that,
I repeat, would be a mere argument from analogy.
For the rest, I am not defending Mr. Myers's hypotheses—that
of " possession " I reject—I am only anxious that they should be
understood before they are rejected. In history it is well to quote
the exact words of a document : in science it appears to be enough
to write that " Mr. Myers says " this or that, in the terms of the
scientist himself, and without references to the text of the author.
Daily experience proves that profitable criticisms cannot be produced
in this way. I need hardly add that, though I think Mr. Mallock
misunderstood, I am sure that he never dreamed of misrepresenting
Mr. Myera.
78 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
REPLY TO MR PODMORE'S CRITICISM.
By Professor James H. Hyslop.
In this reply to Mr. Podmore's review in Proceedings, Part xlv., of
my report on the trance phenomena of Mrs. Piper, I shall not say
one word in defence of the spiritistic hypothesis. I do not think
that the defence of this theory is half so important at this stage
of our investigations as an intelligent and consistent conformity to
scientific method, as it must be applied to any mass of facts what
ever. This requires the detailed application of some single hypothesis
to all the facts of a record and the exclusion of all adjunctive
suppositions which do not naturally articulate with each other in
dealing with the concrete totality involved, but which represent some
probability in their conjunction, as well as inherent applicability to
the facts.
There are two considerations to be noticed. They are the
questions of accuracy in dealing with the record and of the appli
cation of general principles evidentially sustained in the case. The
first is a question of fact, and the second a question of method. I
take these in their order.
1. Mr. Podmore says: " The. first seance in Professor Hyslop's
series, according to his own original estimate of it is 'absolutely'
worthless as evidence." Now, if the reader of Mr. Podmore's review
will turn up his own reference to my report and also look at p. 26
of the same, he will find that I did not say that the first sitting
"is absolutely worthless," or that I regarded it in the light which
Mr. Podmore's garbled quotation would imply. I said a very
different thing. I said that I had "treated it and would treat it
alone as absolutely worthless." But I was careful to indicate that I
was treating it as a part of a whole requiring the same hypothesis
to explain it. The statements which follow this quotation do not
commit me to any view that the reader may adopt, but show that
I hold to my present opinion in spite of difficulties which I recog
nised and appreciated in the minds of those who did not and could
xltl] Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 79
not measure the facts as I could. I did not alter my opinion of
its weakness evidentially until I discovered a number of true things
in it, some of them synthetic, which I had at first supposed false.
These gave it a value and unity with other sittings that it did not
seem to have at first.
2. In the allusion to the "communicator's" question, "Do you
hear her sing," Mr. Podmore does not seem to see why I called it
an automatism and apparently refuses to recognise it as such. I
agree that " to the uninstructed reader it was not more out of place
than other remarks interjected in the course of the trance writings,"
many of which in the dramatic play of personality were treated as
automatisms. But I was speaking to the instructed reader, the
psychopathologist, and to those who admitted the trance condition
as Mr. Podmore does, who would recognise on any theory whatever,
except conscious fraud, that as an irrelevant statement it must be
treated as an automatism. Moreover, I did not, as charged, recog
nise the question as relevant, but on the contrary, just because it
was irrelevant, recognised that it was an automatism. The
psychological reasons for this judgment are patent to the student of
abnormal mental phenomena.
3. In regard to the confusion about the names "Alice" and
'• Annie " several things are to be said, (a) Mr. Podmore does not
state what true " valuable information " the trance intelligence could
have easily gained under the circumstances. If guessing is as easy as
he implies, will he please to tell some evidential true fact following
from the suggestion which he insinuates, (b) What has the supposed
fact that the incident is "quite in Phinuit's old style" to do with
the case? Does Mr. Podmore suppose that Phinuit is wholly dis
posed of by a verdict of non-proven in regard to his identity 1 I
had explicitly provided in my discussion for this very matter
(pp. 254-255) and may abbreviate it by referring to what I have said
in the reply to Mr. Carrington on the same point (Part xlv. p. 365).
(c) The remark by Mr. Podmore is wholly irrelevant to the question
of interpreting the record and confuses the reader with implica
tions about the evidential issue which is not here concerned, because
my question, " Is it Alice ? " may have two interpretations other
than the one suggested by the bracketted doubt about the writing
which was inserted afterwards, and in fact, as shown by the next
question, was intended as a ruse to make the medium think that
Alice was correct, and there was no excuse for the correction on
any theory of suggestion.
80 Professor James H. Hyslop.
4. Regarding the confusion of D for NK in the name Frank, I
may say : (a) The reading was primarily Dr. Hodgson's, as explained
in my report (pp. 14-15, and 301), and not mine, and his first im
pression was allowed to stand, although the resemblance to NK is
definite and clear enough. We decided the doubt in this as in
all similar cases against the evidential interpretation, (b) Does Mr.
Podmore think this is a prejudiced way to treat the subject? (c)
The name is distinctly FRAD, except the symbol for D or NK, the
A being a very clear capital. Now how does Mr. Podmore account
for such a name on the hypothesis of either guessing, suggestion,
or inference 1
5. Mr. Podmore says : " The messages for the most part bear no
label of origin." («) If he means some of the messages which he
mentions without explaining their context, his statement, which
allows for some of them having this label, will not be open to criti
cism. If he means, as is most apparent from his allusions being
general, the messages in the whole report, his statement is either
misleading or false, and the facts of the record, which are not so
dependent on " internal evidence " (an elastic expression) as Mr.
Podmore implies, support a very definite "label of origin" in most
cases. A man does not have to announce his name every time he
talks through a telephone, though he may have to do so generally
at first. There may be plenty of conclusive indications on any
theory whatever, fraud, guessing, or secondary personality, of the
origin intended, and this suffices for the psychological question in an
inductive problem. Mr. Podmore is so enamoured of the importance
of proper names that he apparently cannot see or appreciate this
fact, which I suspect, however, he would see easily enough if fraud
were in the question, (b) The proof of my assertions is found all
the way through Appendix iv. of my Report, which apparently Mr.
Podmore has not examined. In the experiments there described
and discussed, it should be noticed that I did not permit any " label
of origin " to be communicated. Only with one exception did I
allow any name or relationship of the communicator, or fragmentary
intimation of them to be sent. I pursued this policy purposely to
anticipate and answer just such reflections as Mr. Podmore indulges
in his review, and there were instances where the correct origin was
discovered when the message very effectively concealed it.
6. Mr. Podmore says : " Names are thrown out haphazard, to be
taken up and identified or left, as the sitter wills," and then he gives
one example of his assertion, and that one not an illustration of
xlvi.] 81
Beply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism.
either the guessing or chance coincidence that he suggests ! (a) The
statement conveys to the reader the suggestion, especially since he
makes the statement general, that we are dealing throughout with
phenomena like those of the ordinary guessing mediums, when as
a fact Mr. Podmore admits both the trance and an unusual intelligence
connected with it. There is just enough semblance occasionally in
the giving of names in the Piper case to deceive the unscientific man,
but that is all. I have had a great many experiences with guessing
mediums, and the haphazard throwing out of names has never shown
systematically the peculiar marks of the Piper case. There is in
the latter instance very generally, when the name is not given at
one shot, some phonetic analogy around which the approximations
to the correct name play, many of them not naturally suggested to
any guessing intelligence. A man who had the slightest acquaint
ance with the phonetics of guessing and experimental fishing would
not confuse the Piper case with the "ordinary professional clair
voyant," even on the supposition of fraud. (6) Mr. Podmore would
have done well to note and mention the experiments on this point
in Appendix v., where phonetics played a part in the results, (c)
The example given, which has no resemblance to the general pro
cedure in the sittings and indicated in the record, does not bear out
the very natural implication of Mr. Podmore's remark, namely, that
the " billet " was found in Dr. Hodgson : for the record (p. 330)
shows that it was not so found either in fact or according to the
spontaneous correction of the "controls" after its possible appli
cability to Dr. Hodgson had been assumed the day before. (d)
After admitting the existence of a trance intelligence in the Piper
case Mr. Podmore ought to have remarked that his instance was
not an example of the " ordinary professional clairvoyant," instead
of allowing the reader to suppose that he was thinking of conscious
frauds.
7. 1n the catalogue of proper names which occur in the first
sitting, Mr. Podmore says, mentioning that of Elizabeth, " It should
be added that the lady introduced as Elizabeth was known in life
as Eliza." This language is not clear in its implications, as a most
important point is omitted. (a) It suggests that I had positively
identified Elizabeth with Eliza, apparently on the resemblance of
names, as Mr. Podmore is here omitting reference to context in
speaking of proper names. I did not so identify them, (b) Mr.
Podmore classes it as correct. I did not say that it was correct,
and the record does not justify any assurance on this point. I
F
82 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
indicated this fact, (c) I explicitly spoke of the name as a " possible "
reference to my mother's sister, and I did so, not primarily on the
ground of any resemblance between Elizabeth and Eliza, but expressly
on the ground that the "communicator" definitely referred to my
mother's sister in close connection with the name Elizabeth, though
in the order of statement the reference could have been to the name
of Mary, and if the reader will examine the record in its psychological
character he will find a natural explanation of even this discrepancy.
Mr. Podmore omits to say anything about the synthetic feature of
the case on which I had founded the "possible," and only the
" possible," reference to my mother's sister. (d) Further, I said
merely that it contained "only this approximation to the truth,"
naming the "possible" meaning of the name. All this should be
recognised in any discussion or remarks about the application of
chance to the first sitting.
8. A little further on, in giving a list of correct names mentioned
at the second sitting, Mr. Podmore explicitly identifies the name
Eliza with that of Elizabeth, as mentioned in the first sitting. This
is a guess by Mr. Podmore and is wrong. There is not a word in
the record or in my statements to suggest this identification. I
had explicitly distinguished them by saying that Elizabeth was
possibly intended for my mother's sister, whose name was Eliza,
and that the Eliza of the second sitting was my father's sister. I
did not know until more than two weeks later (cf. note p. 350) that
my mother had a sister by the name of Eliza, and it was my aunt
that suspected the meaning of the reference to Elizabeth. Mr. Pod-
more's mistake comes from his habit of attaching undue importance
to proper names and ignoring the synthetic and contextual features
of the "communications."
9. Mr. Podmore says that my full name was given at the second
sitting, although this was given only in piecemeal, according to his
statement, (a) This statement of Mr. Podmore is not correct, and
there is not a word in the record to support it. (b) Only a part of
my christian name was given at the beginning of the sitting and no
reference to my surname made afterward at that sitting. (c) The
explicit statement in the record (p. 322) is that "Hyslop" referred
to my father and not to myself. The "communicator" definitely
claimed to be my father as Mrs. Piper came out of the trance, and
my note assumed and discussed only that interpretation of the
name. (d) The reader will see from the facts just stated, including
the context, that the name was not "ejaculated without context,
xlvj.] Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 83
leaving the sitter to find his own application," as is asserted by Mr.
Podmore. This failure to observe contextual incidents is all the
more inexcusable when taken in connection with his own remark,
(e) The name was not the only " definite true statement " made at
the second sitting. There were several of a very pertinent sort and
with as much weight in the recognition of personal identity as many
that sufficed to suggest and confirm it in the experiments recorded
in Appendix iv. (/) The intimation that "the medium had an
opportunity of passing in review the events of the first sitting" is
either a suggestio falsi, contradicting Mr. Podmore's own readiness
to exclude fraud from the case (p. 376), or it is an irresponsible
generality without specific illustration or proof. It does not dis
tinguish between Mrs. Piper's conscious reflection in her normal state
on what was observed by her before and after the trance and normally
conscious knowledge of the " communications " which might be inferred
from Mr. Podmore's statement, but which she has no external means
of obtaining and which all the facts seem to disprove or contradict.
Neither does it distinguish between either of these and supernormal
subliminal action. Now as Mr. Podmore had intimated that there
was nothing of a supernormal character in my record in his remark
that " normal channels of information were wide enough to have
conveyed everything in the later stances which was true and relevant "
(p. 376), the only rational interpretation of his language regarding
the review of the events at the sitting is that he meant to suppose
the possibility of fraud, and unless you specify the kind of fraud
that you mean, the reader is justified in supposing that you mean
conscious fraud. Subliminal fraud I had considered and discussed
(pp. 153, 292). There should be no admission of the trance if you
are going to use such language as " passing in review the events of
the first sitting," as it conveys a wholly false implication in the case.
It is using the imputation of "possible" conscious fraud without
making oneself responsible for evidence that it is a fact, after con
fessing earlier (p. 376) that there was no evidence in Mrs. Piper's
past history that she practised the ordinary fraud.
10. In Mr. Podmore's summary marked (C) he mentions some inci
dents in the record and then says: "In the detailed notes (p. 314)
the passage is interpreted as coming from the father. But in the
report (p. 28) it is apparently assigned to the uncle." Let me
remark : (a) The passage to which Mr. Podmore alludes is not
specifically quoted nor specifically alluded to on page 28 of the
Report, (b) 1 do not "in the detailed notes (p. 314)" specifically
84 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
refer the passage to my father directly. I made a purely hypothetical
statement and it was made with reference to the possibility of
treating my brother Charles as an intermediary, though the "com
munication" be supposed to be thus indirectly from my father,
(c) I do not specifically refer the passage to my uncle on page 28,
and there is not even an appearance of it, unless you assume that
I must indicate all omissions made for the sake of brevity and
including non-evidential matter. I left the reader to observe where
my uncle began, not even specifying page references to the passage
purporting to come from my uncle, as it had no importance for the
summary at this point. There is no such definite contradiction in
my interpretation as is apparently implied by Mr. Podmore's obser
vation, (d) I distinctly said on page 28 that I passed by all that
might have come from my uncle to summarise my father's messages,
and so gave no clue to what I identified and what I did not iden
tify with the uncle's "communications."
11. In Mr. Podmore's summary (D) he says: "Then follows general
talk about the loneliness and grief of Eliza, after the sitter had
intimated by his question that Eliza was still living." A slight
correction is necessary in this statement, (a) Not one word is said
in this " general talk " about the " loneliness " of Eliza either before
or after the question which I asked. The idea has to be imported
into the statement from my note (p. 363). (b) The answer to my
question is not a case of "intimation," or suggestion, as understood
in the phenomena of secondary personality, but is rather amenable
to guessing, (c) If this passage is to be described as "general talk,"
what should be said of the specific and very pertinent incidents in
the reference to " music, flowers, walks, drives," and " she thought
she saw me in her sleep " in close connection with the apparent
allusion to my father ?
12. In summary (A") Mr. Podmore repeats the error made previ
ously in regard to the "ejaculation of the sitter's surname without
context."
13. Mr. Podmore says that the statement, "Give me my hat and
let me go," made in the second sitting, is " claimed as characteristic."
(a) This is not correct. I made no such statement in the record.
(b) I explicitly excluded this statement by " my father " from the
list of phrases which I claimed to be " characteristic " (p. 89). (c) It
was the connection in which it was said, not the fact of it, that
gave the statement interest, and it was made also in the first sitting
in a similar psychological situation and very suggestive connection.
XLvi.] 85
Reply to Mr. Podmorc's Criticism.
(d) It was my brother that discovered and indicated the pertinence
of the statement.
14. As to Mr. Podmore's statements about the Cooper incidents
there are a few things to notice. (a) The correspondence with Dr.
Cooper was not "purely conjectural," and I did not say it was. I
stated that it was probable, which I so put cautiously as against
fairly definite evidence, my stepmother's memory, that it was a fact.
(A) The imputation in Mr. Podmore's statement, " It is true that in
any case writing is not talking," is not justified by the record. The
talks were a fact supported by specific mention of my stepmother of
the time and incidents connected with them : the fact of writing was
not so supported. I mentioned the friendship and talking in my
note on the incident, both certain facts, as evidence independently
of my stepmother's testimony that the correspondence was probable,
as well as indications of correctness in the "communications."
(c) The "communicator" made no reference whatever to a photo of
either this Dr. Joseph Cooper or Mr. Samuel Cooper, the latter of
whom had been suggested by myself. Mr. Podmore's statement implies
that this mention was made in reference to Dr. Cooper, (d) I did
not make the slightest reference in my notes or elsewhere to any
such photo. Mr. Podmore's conception of the incident exists only in
his imagination, (e) The actual "communications" about the photo,
in connection with the name of Cooper, as any intelligent reader of
the record may see for himself, do not lend the slightest support to
Mr. Podmore's supposition that the mention of it referred to either
of the Coopers. The form of statement in this connection explicitly
indicates a previous allusion to it when I was present and out of
all connection with the Coopers and before I had suggested the
name (pp. 52, 397). (/) Mr. Podmore actually quotes the statement
of the " communicator " and does not remark this reference. (g) The
implication in Mr. Podmore's statement, " that Dr. Cooper did not
live West, but, unfortunately, East," is wholly misleading. It implies
most apparently that the interpretation on which the statement is
founded is the necessary one regarding the message. This is not the
fact and I so intimated it. The "communicator" did not say that
Cooper " lived West," but " old friend in the West." How would
Mr. Podmore, on his interpretation, make the falsity of the state
ment rational on the hypothesis of fraud or guessing ? You have to
put on it the interpretation which I said was possible in order to
make the assumption of fraud rational, and I stated this interpre
tation, as my original note shows, to indicate that I was willing to
86 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
test the "communications" by the hypothesis of fraud. (A) The
interpretation of the note (p. 386) which was a correction of the
earlier note and whose most apparent meaning refers to the correct
ness of the allusion " in the West," if it implied the fact of Dr.
Cooper's living there, flatly contradicts Mr. Podmore's interpretation
of the message.1 (») Mr. Podmore omits one of the most important
facts of the Cooper incident and which with its synthetic or con
textual relation to others in the same connection is a circumstance
of some interest. It was the statement regarding the temporal
relation between the death of Dr. Cooper and that of my father.
15. Mr. Podmore quotes (p. 388) a statement of mine relative to
the evidential nature of a passage in the " communications " of my
uncle, James M'Clellan, and names references in the record in which
my statement was not made and which would most naturally imply
to the reader that my statement was made in the connection indi
cated, when it was not. (a) My statement was made on page 109,
and Mr. Podmore's references were 111, 470, 535, representing a
totally different context and one that would conceal the incidents on
which my statement was based. (&) In alluding to the mistake
regarding the identity of John M'Clellan, the incidents of whom I
had summarised separately from those of James M'Clellan, Mr.
Podmore rather intimates, in his remark about a supposed suspicious
circumstance, that my statement respecting the pertinent and eviden
tial character of the incidents from James M'Clellan is not justified.
If Mr. Podmore had actually mentioned the correct and decidedly
evidential incidents in the "communications" of this James M'Clellan
his strictures might have been treated as less objectionable as
regards the facts. But to mention this one lone exception and error
as if it were the whole case is very like concealing the truth from
the reader. Besides Mr. Podmore positively indicates that the
1I shall confess frankly to a sin in this note coriecting the earlier one. Mr.
Podmore, however, has not remarked it, although I had indicated in various
places the proper interpretation of the incident. I confess, on reading it now,
that the note coriecting the earlier one is quite misleading, and should have
been expanded a little or modified to make clear what I had in mind. At the
time it was written, and this was while the report was going through the
press, I was anxious to abbreviate and had the Cooper incident as a whole in
mind, and inserted it here because I was maiuly bent on changing the allusion
to "mediumistic tricks." I am very glad that I can call attention to this
piece of carelessness. It is quite probable also that in writing the note I had
in mind the Cooper Memorial School which was situated in the West from my
father's home.
xlvi.J Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 87
mistake is " suspicious," and this without evidence for the insinuation
of fraud in his allusion to the county history which I had con
sidered in making up my judgment, a fact not told the reader
by Mr. Podmore, and without the consideration of the incidents of
the lost finger and the name Hathaway together with the omission
of all reference to the only other fact than the name, the ensign
commission, that could be obtained in that history and that was uot
mentioned by the "communicator." I had mentioned every circum
stance and fact by which Mr. Podmore's hypothesis could be tried
and it was clear to every intelligent reader that this county history
was not the source of the knowledge conveyed. Cf. Journal S.P.R.,
Vol. X., p. 219.
16. In regard to the name Carruthers, which is not fully ex
plained by Mr. Podmore, I have not to complain of an error of
fact so definitely as in other cases, but only to say that his apparent
representation of the incident seems to insinuate that I did not
treat the failure to get that name as an objection to the hypothesis
that I was testing, and that I should have treated it as he does.
In the statistical summary where I was treating all "factors," or
" single incidents," individually and without relation to context, I
classed this name as a positive error. But it is context and
synthetic character and relation that may serve for positive identi
fication on any theory whatever, even when a large amount of
mistake and confusion occurs. On Mr. Podmore's own supposition,
whether of "possible" or actual fraud, I would have maintained the
same opinion of the meaning, other things being the same, of that
failure in the " ordinary clairvoyant's " performances, though I should
be very much puzzled to know why any conscious fraud would
make such an unnecessary mistake. Mr. Podmore might have
indicated what 1 said about this name and the " communications "
of this uncle on pp. 90, 94, and 223. It would also have been
well to have remarked what I said in the footnote on p. 240
regarding the possible mistake of Charles for Carruthers.
17. In allusion to "normal channels of information," on p. 376,
such as inference and suggestion, Mr. Podmore says : " To this
question Professor Hyslop has not addressed himself at all." This
is not true. I very carefully " addressed " myself to these theories
and rejected them as nonsense. The reader may consult the follow
ing references as proof that I explicitly did so, in my Report,
pp. 16-17, 124, and especially 247-248. As Mr. Podmore gives no
evidence in his review that he had examined what I said between
88 [part
Professor James H. Hyslup.
pp. 124 and 296, he may be able to plead ignorance of my state
ments.
These mistakes have a humorous aspect for me after Mr. Pod-
more's animadversions on the manner in which I treated mistakes
and fragmentary messages in my Report. I have always been
taught to believe that Mr. Podmore could state facts as clearly,
as correctly, and as accurately as people usually suppose that dis-
carnate spirits ought to communicate through Mrs. Piper's organism.
But after all, these numerous mistakes and errors mentioned above
and committed by Mr. Podmore, who might have been in a rational
state of mind when quoting my Report and writing his review of
it, a condition in which the spiritistic hypothesis, as I stated
it, does not suppose the communicator to be, I confess that, if I
cannot use fragmentary messages and mistakes as evidence of per.
sonal identity I must doubt the very existence of the Mr. Podmore
that I have believed in, and may be required to believe that
some fraudulent writer of very ordinary intelligence has been
personating him with less cleverness than the review of my Report
supposes was necessary or adequate to explain the messages in
that record. It may be that spirits ought to do better, but it is
time to be charitable toward them as a "possibility."
II.
I come next to Mr. Podmore's method of treating the record and the
assumptions which he makes without producing evidence that they apply.
1. There are various statements and intimations in Mr. Podmore's
review, which the reader may remark for himself, such as the
'' possibility " that information was or " might be " obtained from
outside sources by at least the medium ; the " possibility " that
chance coincidence, guessing, inference, and suggestion "might"
explain much ; the manner of reversing the emphasis which my
Report placed upon explanatory as compared with evidential
problems there discussed, and especially the limitation of his review
and argument to the earlier sittings and assumptions of " possible "
fraud in connection with the later sittings, though his attitude even
here is not consistent, as he is content with a general and un
supported assertion about the application of inference and suggestion
to the later seances—these statements and intimations which most
apparently show that Mr. Podmore assumed that I was trying to
demonstrate the spiritistic theory, or primarily to convince the reader
XLvI.] 89
Reply to Mr. Podmore s Criticism.
of its truth by dumbfounding the imagination in the exclusion of
the " possibility " of fraud, when I distinctly renounced all intention
of doing this. They go to show this contention, because all
demonstration, in the proper sense of absolute proof, implies the
exclusion of alternative possibilities of explanation, as rationally
sustained to some extent at least. An inductive problem does not
exclude the recognition of alternative "possibilities," but insists that the
entertainment of them shall be accompanied by as much consistent evidence
that they are facts in the particular case as is presented for the hypothesis
adopted. This conception of the problem is fundamental to the
position consciously taken in my Report and defined for the very
purpose of remaining at the inductive point of view until further
evidence was obtained, either for refuting Dr. Hodgson and myself,
or for better chances to convince the reader.
How careful I was to define the problem that I was investigating
and discussing, as both explanatory and evidential, with the emphasis
in my Report on the explanatory character of the hypothesis
defended, can be seen by consulting the following references to that
Report and the Journal (pp. 4, footnote, 86, 90, 124, 244-247, 290-294,
and especially 295-296 : Journal S.P.R., Vol. x , pp. 213-215). I
agree that a hypothesis must have evidence, but it must also explain
and be applicable psychologically to the whole case in court and
consistently adapted to details without imaginary and unsupported
adjunctive suppositions. Now as my explicit statements showed
that I was not trying to demonstrate the spiritistic theory, or to
convince the reader, but only testing a hypothesis formed on other
records and applied to mine with less evidential value, Mr. Podmore
ought to have seen that it was as much his duty to give evidence
of his hypotheses of inference and suggestion as he thinks it was
mine to prove spiritism. If I had professed to demonstrate the
spiritistic theory, the mention of alternative "possibilities" not con
sidered by me might have had some respect given them, but as I
professedly was dealing with an inductive problem, Mr. Podmore
must accept that issue in reviewing the Report, and not demand
that I shall look at the problem in his way, without applying his
" possible " hypotheses to the record evidentially and in detail.
But instead of evidence and detailed application of his theory, he
simply asserts that his various hypotheses are "not excluded," that
they are "possible," that they "might" explain certain incidents.
Of all the words of tongue or pen
The saddest are these : it might have been.
90 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
I do not understand that scientific work consists or is exhausted in
the collection and publication of " might be's."
The reader will now anticipate how I mean to treat Mr. Podmore's
playing with the hypotheses of fraud. I simply repeat what I said
in my Report on this matter (pp. 5-10). I absolutely refuse to
discuss the supposition of it seriously until the issue is squarely faced
as I defined it for myself and as the history of the Piper case
defines it inductively. I explicitly gave my reasons for taking this
position (pp. 5-10 : cf. pp. 298, .344-346). The last page and a half
of my Report (pp. 295-296) also had the same issue in mind. When
Mr. Podmore is prepared to give definite evidence that fraud of
any kind is a probable fact in the case, I can take his treatment of
the subject with some scientific seriousness.
Mr. Podmore's position regarding fraud is this. The first sitting
was a failure, and the second sitting was very poor at least, if not
an equal failure. The later sittings are so separated by intervals
of time and opportunity to coHect information regarding the sitter
that their evidential claims are vitiated. His statements on pp.
376 and 388 have no rational meaning except on the assumption
that he has conscious detective fraud in mind : for he alludes to
" knowledge normally acquired by the medium, either in her waking
state from things heard and read," etc., to information " possibly "
obtainable " from registers, tombstones, old newspapers, directories,
or any other sources," and to the "suspicious mistake" which he
imagines " might " be due to consulting an old county history.
Now I shall frankly admit the plausibility of this claim or insinua
tion by Mr. Podmore that fraud is a factor in my record to be con
sidered, but on the following conditions : (a) If he will show that no
adequate attempts have been made in the past previous to my sittings
to exclude fraud on Mrs. Piper's part and to show that it was both
foreign to her habits and unnecessary to produce the results, (b) If
he will apply the hypothesis of fraud to the whole case in detail and
give specific evidence for the truth of the adjunctive suppositions
necessary to account for these details, including trivialities, mistakes,
confusions, automatic writing, the dramatic play of personality, the
apparent difference of clearness in the " communicators," the absence
of definite time relations in the " communications," and all the
psychological peculiarities generally in the case, as well as the
omissions of what the hypothesis of fraud would most naturally lead
us to expect would be given most easily and without unnecessary
expense and trouble in collecting the information, (c) If he will
xlvi.] Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 91
abandon the admission that there is any " trance intelligence " con
nected with the Piper phenomena, and show that there is no evidence
to support the belief that her trance is genuine. (d) If he will prove,
what his method of treating my "Report in reality assumes—namely
that the Piper and similar phenomena are not to be treated as a
whole after reasonable evidence that fraud is not practised, but
de novo with each new sitting or sitter, and with the liberty to articulate
theories as you please whether consistent with each other or not.
(e) If he will show that the explanatory problem does not enter into
the scientific treatment of the case as a whole, but only his conception
of the evidential incidents. (/) If, remembering that this is an
inductive problem, he will produce specific evidence that there is
reason to believe that "registers, tombstones, old newspapers, direc
tories," and similar sources of information, did actually supply any
one connected with the Piper case with the information contained in
the incidents of the " communications " on which I definitely formed
my reasons for applying the spiritistic hypothesis to my record.
(g) If he will show, after his admission in the review and elsewhere
that there is a supernormal faculty indicated in the Piper case, that
there is no reason to assume this faculty operative when the a priori
and imaginary "possibility" of fraud is not excluded from it all the
time and from all incidents in the same way, and wherein it is rational
for Mrs. Piper, without the collusion of others, to carry on so vast
a system of detective agencies as must be assumed to account for
the peculiarity of many of the details, with the attendant trouble
and expense and so little result, according to the opinion of Mr.
Podmore, when it would have been so easy and inexpensive to get
far better results, and to avoid mistakes and confusions. When Mr.
Podmore has done all these, it will be time to take his reflections as
seriously as he does himself.
But how does Mr. Podmore proceed ] He makes an allusion to
" knowledge normally acquired by the medium," and then goes on
to indicate that the result can be explained by inference from my
statements and suggestions to Mrs. Piper in the trance state, and so
expresses himself as to include this trance state in the conception of
" normal." Now the trance is not a " normal " condition, and Mr.
Podmore's ambiguous way of speaking has the advantage of suggest
ing conscious fraud to the reader, while he shelters himself against
the accusation that he intends this by taking refuge behind the
admission of the trance, and the hypotheses of inference and sugges
tion. Then after intimating that " these normal channels of
92 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
information were possibly wide enough to have conveyed everything
in the later seances which was true and relevant," he returns near
the close of his review to the idea of detective fraud, and even
says that any possible information obtainable from " registers, tomb
stones," etc., " is to be attributed to such sources." This is abandoning
the hypothesis of inference and suggestion from my statements at
the sitting. If you are going to assume the " possibility " of con
scious fraud, you should explain the latter results by it, and if you
are going to explain them by subliminal inferences from suggestions,
etc., you must not hint at conscious fraud of the detective type,
especially after you have admitted that in the previous history of
the case it had been excluded, and that in my case " we may perhaps
exclude it," as his treatment of the first two sittings and explanation
of results in others by subliminal inference and suggestion alone,
and the admission of the trance, show that he does, and must con
sistently exclude it. Now, if inference and suggestion can explain
everything after these two sittings, why did not Mr. Podmore apply
these hypotheses evidentially, as my consideration and rejection of
them explicitly required him to do, to such incidents as the brown-
handled knife with which my father pared his finger nails, the
medicines, hyomei and strychnine, black skull cap, the name of Lucy
M'Clellan, the name of James M'Clellan, the name Hathaway,
the allusion to Swedenborg, and our talk about him, to hallucination,
to the experiment with the young woman in connection with her
dream, the organ incident in connection with the name of Harper
Crawford, the reference to the mortgage, the reference to taxes, the
mention of the talk with the principal of the school about my
brother George, and to the anxieties of my father, my aunt Nannie,
and myself, in connection with this brother, the allusion to war,
and the mental anxiety associated with the injury to my father's
leg. the horse Tom, and my brother's disposal of him, the name
Jerry, the allusion to an organ and the " communicator's " desire
to " hear " my sister Lida sing, the fact of my uncle, James
M'Clellan, despising the name Jim, the name and relationship of
this uncle's brother John, the prediction of this brother's death, and
the message of that death afterwards, the incident of the lost finger
in the case of John M'Clellan, the sunstroke and the name David
connected with it, the allusion to the chimney, and its having been
taken down, the allusion to a school in connection with the name
Cooper, the relative time of this Cooper's death as compared with
my father's, the dog Peter which George had, the tokens, the
XLvi.] Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 93
mention of excitement on the occaaion of my cousin's visit, the
names Jennie and Lucy mentioned together, my father's moving
west, and the visit to my brother just before this move, and many
others which it would unnecessarily swell this list to mention ? I have
given this large list for the reader to decide for himself how utterly
preposterous Mr. Podmore's unsupported assertion is. You may account
for them by detective fraud if you like, but this is not inference,
chance coincidence, or suggestion. The fact is that Mr. Podmore, in
making his assertion, confuses the conditions of fraud with those for
inference and suggestion, when the two theories do not consist with
each other in application to the same facts.
(2) In spite of the fact that Mr. Podmore, on p. 376, says that
we " may perhaps exclude fraud," remarking at the same time that
we cannot equally " exclude chance coincidence, skilful inference,
and the reproduction of information casually acquired," a few pages
later (p. 380), coming to the same situation, he says of fraud, " clearly
that possibility is not one which we can altogether exclude." This
position he apparently reserves as a vantage ground in case the
other assumptions are laughed out of court. Then he proceeds to
discuss the first and second sittings in a manner to suppose the
" possibility " of conscious fraud, chance coincidence, and inference
from suggestion, etc. Now the application of all these hypotheses
to the same data is either superfluous or contradictory. He assumes
that, in the first sitting, I had excluded the opportunity for conscious
fraud, and that chance will account for all that occurred in that
sitting. He limits his treatment of facts, however, to the proper
names in that sitting, and neglects all the incidents which had in
fluenced my mind to consider it as psychologically connected with
later sittings, and to treat it as " slightly evidential " of the super
normal, though not of spirits when taken alone. Now there are
two things which rather discredit the easy application of chance, even
to this sitting. The first is the group of facts associated with my
brother Charles, namely, the relationship to me, the reference to
his fever, to his " bad throat," to his decease many years ago, to
his passing away in the winter, and to the remembrance of seeing
snow on the ground. The mention of typhoid fever was wrong, but
this was spontaneously corrected in a later sitting without any sug
gestion from me that he was wrong. Besides, there were several
other true incidents mentioned by this " communicator " apparently,
but those just given, as there was no fishing or suggestion, are beyond
chance, however you may prefer to account for them. The second
94 [part
Professor James H. Hyslo/p.
fact is that the proper names in this sitting are grouped in a way
to suggest that chance is not the supposition to account for them.
Five names coming close together, and associated with the " com
municator," whom I would not recognise, were all irrelevant to me,
and all the relevant names in the main correct, near the close of
the sitting, applied to me.
Now, when it comes to the second sitting, Mr. Podmore tries the
hypothesis of guessing and inference to account for what he wrongly
supposes, against my definite statement to the contrary, to have
been intended for my full name, and in the remark that " the medium
had had the opportunity of passing in review the events of the first
sitting, and the names of likely sitters," virtually implies the dis
position to conscious fraud on her part affecting the trance utterances,
so that we have a hypothesis which makes guessing and inference
absurd, as these applied to the case assume previous ignorance of
the sitter. Now in his reference to the first sitting, Mr. Podmore
says that " the precautions taken against the discovery of his (my)
identity seem to have been pretty complete." He does not seem
to have remarked that I had a sitting with Mrs. Piper in 1892,
the record of which is published in my report before him (p. 297).
To many persons it would seem impossible after that to exclude
the "possibility" of conscious fraud, and those who believe in
large supernormal powers the fact would settle the probability of my
identity at the outset. In fact, I dispute Mr. Podmore's statement
from the standpoint of " possible " fraud which he flirts with. 1
took the precaution of wearing the mask mainly, as I indicated
explicitly (p. 12), to be able to say so and answer the first objection
of the scientific plebs, among whom Mr. Podmore is apparently
willing to be classed, and not to exclude the " possibility " of fraud.
There are all sorts of ways in which I can " imagine " that Mrs.
Piper " could " have ascertained my identity at the first sitting, or
have known that it was I that had the engagement. My treatment
of fraud showed clearly enough that I so considered the matter, and
my full notes indicated the same (pp. 11, 298-299, 344-346). I make
bold to say that, personally, I had no objections at the time to
Mrs. Piper's knowing who I was, as I had previously been convinced
that fraud was not the hypothesis to account for the facts in the
case, and went solely to test the hypothesis which Mr. Podmore
considers " possibly " sufficient to explain all the true and relevant
incidents in later sittings. I explicitly said so (p. 12). I think
that every intelligent man will agree with the judgment that the
xlvi.] Eeply to Mr. Fodmore's Criticism. 95
results absolutely prove that chance coincidence, skilful inference,
and suggestion are excluded from the account in the explanation of
the facts. I can appreciate this claim for a few of the sittings,
even when I do not agree with it, but it was certainly incumbent
on Mr. Podmore, after his minute examination of the first two
sittings, to test his suppositions, that he should show how the same
hypothesis could apply to the specific and complicated incidents of
later sittings, and not content himself with a mere assertion. The
situation was one for Mr. Podmore to press the " possibility " of
conscious fraud, if he wished to worry the spiritistic believer, since
he could make the most of the time over which the sittings were
distributed, and not to commit himself to so absurd a proposition
as inference, chance coincidence, and suggestion for matter so pal
pably impossible on those hypotheses as the later sittings.
(3) Mr. Podmore's serious and elaborate discussion of the statis
tical summary, particularly in his limitation of the illustrations to
the sittings which he chose, shows that he either does not under
stand the problem we are investigating, or did not notice what I
had said about the summary in the most explicit manner (pp. 116-118).
I regard the statistical treatment of the problem involved in the
Piper case as sheer nonsense, and indicated as much in the discus
sion of it, intimating that I had made the table for the "statisti
cally inclined person." The problem before me was a psychological
not a mathematical one. No one would think of applying mathematics
or statistical methods of this kind to the evidence in a murder case.
But it was necessary to throw a delusive sop to some of our experi
mental psychologists who have a great friendliness for figures. If
all the " incidents " had contained but one '• factor " in an isolated
situation, there might be some apparent plausibility and excuse for
statistics. But even this would be pertinent only in the consideration
of chance coincidence, and not to any other theory. " Skilful in
ference and reproduction of information casually acquired " are not
suitable hypotheses to be tested in any such way. Much less would
the statistical method apply to synthetic " incidents " such as those
on which I laid the whole stress of the argument. One complex
"incident" might outweigh a hundred mistakes or false statements
of the single kind.
Let me take up special points in the review of the statistical
summary, (a) The hypotheses of chance and fraud are absolutely
incompatible with each other when applied to the same data. Fraud
implies knowledge of some sort and chance excludes it. You appeal
96 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
to fraud only when you tacitly admit the striking and intelligent
character of your fact, and to chance when this is not so. If Mr.
Podmore had confined his statistical study to the first sitting in the
record, there might have been some plausible excuse for what he says
of chance as applied to it. But his proper procedure was, according
to his admission, that " the precautions taken against the discovery of
his (my) identity seem to have been pretty complete " in the first
stance, to apply chance coincidence to this first sitting ; and unless
the same security against my identification is not admitted in the
second sitting, to exclude it from that, if he wants to apply fraud in
connection with it, as he says that even the " possibility " of con
scious fraud has not been excluded from it. That either or both
conscious and unconscious fraud is applied to this second sitting is
evidenced by what is said about my full name, and the " possibility "
of this sort of thing is said to increase with the later experiments.
Yet in his application of the statistical summary which deals with
the matter as a whole, not in detail or in single incidents, he applies
chance, not only to the second sitting in the first series, but also
to the first sitting in Dr. Hodgson's series in my behalf more than
a month later. Now, considering that inference—whether consciously
made from data obtained by " passing in review the events of the
first sitting," or subliminally made from data, however acquired,
admitting as Mr. Podmore does, that Mrs. Piper's trance intelli
gence is unique—is a fraud of some kind, we see that Mr. Podmore's
endeavour is to apply fraud and chance to the same data. Carthago
est delenda, whether the policy is consistent or not, seems to be Mr.
Podmore's motto, (b) If Mr. Podmore had remarked the fact which
I stated in my report, that I had the same security against identifi
cation, so far as the mask was concerned, and independently of
detective agencies, at the second as at the first of my sittings, he
might have claimed some immunity in the application of chance to
it. But he would be obliged to exclude fraud of all sorts from it,
whether conscious or subliminal. Granting, however, that the cir
cumstances admit this application of chance, the case of Dr. Hodgson's
sitting would still remain unequivocally against him, according to
his supposition that the " possibility " of fraud increases with the
number and postponement of the experiments, and the statement
that "skilful inference" by this "unique intelligence" explains
" everything in the later seances that was true and relevant." (<•)
Mr. Podmore ought to have seen that I was consistent and correct
in the exclusion of chance from consideration when it is remarked
xlvi.] 97
Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism.
as the evidence of the record shows, that I had intimated as much
"possibility" of fraud in my first sitting as in others, that I had
considered guessing, fishing, inference, and suggestion, and rejected
them on evidence, and that I insisted on my treating the Piper case
as a whole. (d) Mr. Podmore bases his treatment of these sittings
in their statistical aspect, applying chance to the " factors," not to
the " incidents," that is, to the mathematical, not to the psychological
view of the question. He expressly isolates the proper names in
these sittings from all contextual considerations and incidents, and
does not even mention the fact of contextual relation in his summary
of the facts, and treats the proper names as if they were the im
portant feature, when I explicitly said that I attached no superior
value to them (pp. 21, 173). He simply omits to remark for the
reader the synthetic " incidents " such as I have mentioned above as
associated with my brother Charles in the first sitting, as good as
any that led to identification in Appendix IV., and the unity between
the whole series, to which I called attention, and on which I had
based my opinion of the suggestiveness of the two sittings, (e) The
difficulties which Mr. Podmore encounters in the comparison of his
reckoning in the statistical summary with mine are fully explained
in the footnote (p. 115) which he apparently has not remarked. I
leave this to the reader. The case is not based on the " factors,"
but on synthetic " incidents," and I was careful to explain why I
even mentioned the "factors," to which I attached and attach no
importance other than that indicated. It is not the mere counting
of correct and false " factors," or " incidents " even, that determines
this problem, but the question of psychological unity and relevance
in regard to the personal identity of the persons, either actually
present or masquerading as such in secondary personality, that deter
mines the way the facts should be treated.
4. Mr. Podmore says : " The intelligence which inspires those
messages, whatever its precise nature, is certainly complex, and of
an unusual, if not unique kind." This is said apparently with other
records of the same case in view; for he begins the paragraph with
the statement: "In considering generally from the evidential stand
point the utterances of Mrs. Piper's later seances," etc., in which the
implication is reasonably distinct that he includes in his " evidential
standpoint" at least the whole of the Imperator regime, so far as
published, and none of the detailed records even of this have yet been
published for any one's inspection. Let me note the following, (a)
If you are going to isolate my record from previous accounts of the
G
98 [part
Professor James H. Hyslop.
Piper case in discussing the spiritistic hypothesis, the same must be
done in regard to every other. You cannot isolate it, as Mr. Pod-
more does, in order to disqualify spiritism and then connect it with
the larger whole to prove or illustrate an " unusual if not unique "
intelligence. (b) If "later stances" include mine, this "unusual if
not unique " intelligence is admitted there and it is either not con
sistent or not necessary to play with " possible " fraud, inference and
suggestion, as is done. These are very simple affairs in the " ordinary
professional clairvoyants." It is because they are not unusual or
unique that the appeal to them has so much force with the public
and with the scientific mind. But once grant a unique intelligence
not defined, and a supernormal faculty as proved in the Piper case
at large, which is admitted by Mr. Podmore, and assume also, as he
does, that the trance condition, in connection with which this super
normal faculty is usually found, prevailed at my sittings, and you
forfeit the right to suggest without producing evidence suspicions
and "possibilities" on the ordinary grounds, (c) What is the use,
after granting such an intelligence, and after showing reasonable
evidence that the ordinary methods of mediums are not employed by
Mrs. Piper, of talking about fraud, etc., in abstracto, as if our only
duty was to perpetually test the ordinary hypotheses ? When you
have once shown that there are facts which these do not explain,
and therefore that the unity of the case includes the less evidential
situations, and that all reasonable criteria for the exclusion of the
ordinary methods of fraud, etc., have been satisfied, we then, in every
other scientific investigation, proceed to examine and discuss the
case as a whole, and in the Piper phenomena the psychological
analysis of the record has its place. When we have once found
that our machine works rightly under test conditions, we do not go
on testing it perpetually in the same way. We put it to its proper
work. " Das bestandige Wetzen der Messer ist langweilig wenn man
Nichts zu schneiden vorhat."
5. Mr. Podmore evidently attaches much importance to proper
names. This is indicated by the stress laid by him on the failure to
get them at all in some instances and on getting them imperfectly in
others. Here is where I think he entirely misses the problem as I
denned it for myself and as I think the spiritistic theory requires it
to be conceived. Proper names are not the most important evidence
for a spiritistic theory. They are too easily explicable by fraud to
have any primary significance in evidential matters. In the
psychological question they have only two considerations of interest
XLvi.] 99
Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism.
in favour of getting them at all. Firstly, they are corroborative of
other and better testimony, and so afford a cumulative value.
Secondly, they present the definite clue to the segregation of person
alities involved in the "communications," on any theory whatsoever,
and to the discovery of the person whose identity may be concerned
when the sitter does not know the facts. The real evidential crux
consists in those synthetic "incidents" which have a direct psycho
logical bearing upon the personal identity of a deceased person and
against the probability of that selective telepathy from the memory
of the living, for which there is as yet no adequate scientific evidence.
Proper names cannot supply this quaesitum. That they are not this
and that they are not absolutely necessary to prove personal identity
is apparent from the experiments recorded in Appendix iv. of my
Report. When this is read with due care, it will be observed that I
refused to permit the names and relationship of communicators to be
identified to be sent to receivers of the message, except in one instance
and that for a purpose, so that both names and relationships had no
place in the identification of personality. The result might be studied
with some interest to Mr. Podmore and his point of view.
6. Mr. Podmore takes serious exception to my use of confused and
fragmentary messages as evidence of personal identity. I laid stress
on them purposely, because there is no excuse for this character in
them on any of the hypotheses which Mr. Podmore makes so much
of. They are against fraud, chance, inference and suggestion, especi
ally in the form in which they usually occur. If he had studied
Appendix iv, as I intended every scientific reader to do, he would
have found there a definite anticipation and answer to the difficulty
which troubles him. I had purposely constructed these incoherent
and fragmentary messages to test the very question which Mr. Pod
more raises. Pp. 586-590 show occasional instances in which
fragmentary messages succeeded well and the most specific and clear
messages failed. The same phenomenon is observable in this record
between pp. 608 and 623 inclusive. I called special attention to this
fact on p. 268 of my report, and italicised one very interesting
instance bearing upon the point at issue, namely, "Question 7,
p. 619." It must be remembered that these experiments represented
communications, most of them telegraphic, between living persons
where we knew both ends of the line.
7. I must note a number of important omissions by Mr. Podmore
which affect the accuracy of his representation of my Report,
(a) He does not tell the reader that I took precisely the same view
100 [part
Professor Janus H. Hyslop.
of the proper names in the first sitting, considered individually
(pp. 21, 173), that he takes in a criticism which seems to imply
that I had not done so. (b) In regard to such reconstructions as
the incident of " the trip to the lake after leaving the camp," he
does not tell the reader that I condemned them as emphatically as
he does, and I did so right in connection with what he quotes.
(c) He omits to tell the reader that I explicitly rejected the state
ment about the curved-handled cane with the initials in the end as
non-evidential and as having "little or no importance" (p. 61). I
classed the incident as false in the statistical summary, though it
may not be strictly so, but because I could not call it either true
or indeterminate in the proper sense of the terms as defined.
(d) Mr. Podmore omits all reference to and discussion of the syn
thetic incidents on which I specifically laid the whole stress of my
argument as the primary psychological question in the spiritistic
hypothesis (pp. 158-176), and confines his attention generally to the
simple, false, and confused incidents which I had expressly repudiated
as unimportant and non evidential, without telling the reader that
I had recognised this apparent objection, and then claims that he
has fairly represented the whole. (e) He does not even allude to
the dramatic play of personality and my discussion of it, though he
admits the fact of Mrs. Piper's trance intelligence. This dramatic
play is a psychological phenomenon of some importance on any
theory whatsoever, whether of the spiritistic or non-spiritistic sort,
and must be made intelligible as a functional and integral part of
the whole, and must be as explicable by chance, inference, and sug
gestion as the apparently evidential incidents, if you do not expressly
add the supposition of peculiarly fiendish form of secondary person
ality to these processes. (/) He omits all reference to my discussion
of " Mistakes and Confusions " and the reasons for treating them as
I did. They too must be rationally accounted for on the hypotheses
which Mr. Podmore proposes, if they are to have any standing in
court. The problem is not a mere matter of counting the true and
false statements of Mrs. Piper's trance intelligence or of other
mediums, but it is a problem of explaining the correct and incorrect
statements and confusions by the same general theory with the
proper adjuncts from normal and abnormal psychology, which may
be fairly assumed in the case.
In conclusion I have only to say that, as I think no intelligent
reader of my record will accept chance coincidence, inference, and
suggestion without conscious detective fraud as an adequate explana
xlvi.] Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticism. 101
tion of the later sittings and incidents, Mr. Podmore would have
done better to have pressed the supposition of fraud as the only
rational escape from spiritism or some omniscient telepathy. I
should not argue against the hypothesis of conscious and detective
fraud. It is better not to have any theory at all than to propose
such preposterous and unsupported suppositions as Mr. Podmore
entertains. We are not obliged to have explanations. It is open
to us to say that we do not know, or that we are not convinced, or
that the case is not proven.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART XLVII.
January, 1904.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 120th General Meeting of the Society was held in the Hall
at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Thursday, June 18th,
190:!, at 4.30 p.m.; the President, Sir Oliver Lodge, in the
chair.
Addresses on Mr. Myers' " Human Personality and its Survival
of Bodily Death" were delivered by Mr. Andrew Lang, Dr.
Walter Leaf, and the President. These have since been
published in the Proceedings, Part xlvi.
The 121st General Meeting was held in the same place on
Monday, November 2nd, 1903, at 5 p.m.; Sir William Ciiookes
in the chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett read a paper on " Further Experi
ments on Dowsing and some Considerations thereon," which will,
it is hoped, appear in a future Part of the Proceedings.
h
10+ [part
J. G. Piddington.
I.
ON THE TYPES OF PHENOMENA DISPLAYED IN
MRS. THOMPSON'S TRANCE.
By J. (i. Piddington.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Paok
(1) Introduction, - - 105
(2) Amplification of knowledge already in the possession of the
Medium or of the Trance-personality, 116
(3) Mrs. Thompson's Controls and the Dramatic Business of the
Trance, 126
(4) The relations between Mrs. Thompson's normal consciousness
and the trance-consciousness, 157
(5) Mrs. Thompson's recollections on waking from trance, - - 167
(6) The exercise of supernormal faculty by Mrs. Thompson when
not entranced, 182
(7) The Peregrinations of Nelly, 200
(8) Ignorance displayed by the Trance-pei-sonality of matters which
were or might have been within the cognizance of the
Medium, 210
(9) An incident illustrative of the gradual emergence of facts in
the trance-utterances, ........ 214
(10) Nelly's associations of ideas, 221
(11) The Automatic Writing, 231
(12) Prophecies, 246
(13) A Pet Subject of Nelly's, - 261
(14) Nelly on Physical Phenomena, 265
(15) The "Susanna Parkes" Case, 267
(16) "Suspicious Circumstances," 271
(17) Marked Failures in the case of sitters with whom Mrs.
Thompson was pei'sonally acquainted, 291
(18) Cross-con-espondences between the Trance-utterances and script
of Mrs. Thompson and those of other mediums, - - - 294
XLvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 105
(1) INTRODUCTION.
In the records of sittings with Mrs. Thompson, published in
Part XLIV. of the Proceedings, it was indicated that several
omissions were made. Very little of the matter thus omitted
was connected with the main trend of the communications
intended for the sitter immediately concerned ; most of it
had no reference to or interest for the person attending
the sitting, and consisted chiefly of remarks casually and
parenthetically interposed by Nelly (Mrs. Thompson's usual
" control "), and to have retained them in their proper place
in the record would only have interrupted and confused the
main narrative.
I propose to rescue these omitted passages from an oblivion
that in my opinion they do not deserve ; and I shall also
make use of some material taken from some unpublished
records of sittings, and also of certain impressions received
by Mrs. Thompson when in a normal state, or, at least, when
she was not in trance.
Dr. Hodgson has expressed the opinion that, on the occasions
when he was present at sittings with Mrs. Thompson, she was
simulating a state of trance. He has confined his expression
of opinion to the six sittings which he attended, and has not
said that he thinks that the trance is always fraudulently
assumed ; nor, indeed, do I understand that such is his real
belief. I am not at all surprised that Mrs. Thompson's trance
should not have impressed Dr. Hodgson as genuine. So easy,
and sudden, so entirely unannounced, as a rule, is the transi
tion from the medium's waking to her entranced state, and,
except on rare occasions, so free from any, at least apparent,
physical discomfort, and so alert her attention and behaviour
during the trance that to one accustomed to Mrs. Piper's
trance Mrs. Thompson might well appear to be shamming.1
1 In his recent work, Hypnotism : Its History, Practice and Thtory, Dr. J. Milne
Bramwell maintains that, in some cases where only the very slightest hypnosis has
been induced, and even where no certain trace of it has been detected, suggestion
yields therapeutic results as striking as in the case of patients who have been
10C [PAKT
J. G. Piddivgton.
But not only to one accustomed to the deep and dramatic
form of trance displayed by Mrs. Piper might Mrs. Thompson's
trance be unconvincing, but also to one who, having had but
little experience of mediumistic trances, was biassed by pre
conceived notions of what a trance ought to be. Thus after
my first sitting I wrote to Mr. Myers as follows :
" As to the genuineness of her trance I have not enough
experience to pronounce an opinion of any value. . . . The
merely external characteristics of the trance could certainly
be simulated by anybody." Later on I was convinced of the
genuineness of the trance partly by the content of the trance-
communications and partly by the fact that during the not
brief period of my acquaintance with Mrs. Thompson I have
never detected what on reflection I felt could be regarded as
a suspicions overlapping of her normal by her trance memory.
I do not intend to discuss here the genuineness of Mrs.
Thompson's trance ; but, as reference has been made to the
question, it may be of interest to quote a letter addressed
to me by Professor James in answer to my enquiries about
an experiment which I knew that he had made with a view
to testing whether Mrs. Thompson when entranced was in
sensible to pain. Professor James writes as follows :
" Our conception of ' trance ' is anything but definite, and
I know of no test of genuineness.
" Anaesthesia may not be a sure sign of it ; and if it were
a sign it might, within limits, be easily feigned.
" Failure of pupils to react to light has been used to prove
the genuineness of hypnotic trance, and so have other neural
oddities. They certainly would prove an unfeigned and abnormal
state. The altered speech and the amnesia 1 are what are
■understood by medium trance. Insensibility to violent pain being
with difficulty simulable, it would, if found, be presumptive proof
that the altered personality and amnesia were also unsimulated.
deeply hypnotised. Thus the view that the exercise of supernormal faculty need
not be accompanied by either profound or even slight trance would fall into
line with Dr. Bramwell's observations if, with Myers, we attribute both response
to curative suggestions, and supernormal faculties generally to the activities of
the subliminal consciousness.
1 It will appear later that complete amnesia does not obtain in Mrs. Thompson's
ca«e.
XLvIi.] 107
Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance.
" I subjected Mrs. T[hompson] to no violent pain, merely
pricked her lips and hands with a pin, without warning. Her
demeanour might have been feigned, but I doubt or disbelieve
it. It tallies with the demeanour of Flournoy's case, and
combines with the general impression of sincerity which I
receive from Mrs. T[hompson]."
I have never attempted any pain test with Mrs Thompson ;
and indeed in any case if she were shown to be not insensible
to violent pain when in trance, it would only prove that
anesthesia was absent, and not that the trance was feigned.
There is, however, besides Professor W. James' experiment,
one other item of evidence which goes to show that Mrs.
Thompson's trance may be accompanied by anesthesia, and
the case is none the less interesting because the anaesthesia
would seem to have been accompanied by the exercise of super
normal faculty. I am indebted to Mr. Norman Reeve, L.D.S.
(London) of Bennett's Hill, Birmingham, for the account which
follows. Although posted on May 10th, 1899, and so dated,
it was written on May 9th within half-an-hour of the incident
with which it deals, and was addressed to the lady who is
now his wife, together with a covering letter in which Mr.
Reeve wrote:—" I shall deal at some length with the visit on
Monday to show that Mrs. Thompson and her sister were
strangers to me." In a letter addressed to me on November
12th, 190;,, Mr. Beeve writes:—"I have enclosed the letters
and envelopes accompanying [the account] with postmarks
May 10, 1899. You will see by the tone of the narrative
that the effect on me was neither slight nor transient."
Mr. Reeve's Narrative:
May \0th, 1899.
On Monday morning [i.e. May 8th, 1899] I had an appointment
with Mrs. Arter from 1.30 till 3—at 3 o'clock one with Annie Reeve.
At 1 o'clock a telegram came from Mrs. Arter saying she regretted
she was unable to come. At 1.15 two strangers called, sisters I
afterwards found out; one of them, a Mrs. Thompson, wanted some
work done, and had come in quite by chance. I took them into
the surgery . . . Mrs. Thompson . . . placed herself in my hands,
asked me to decide what was necessary to stop a couple of her teeth
with. Gold was required for one and a cement for the other; this
108 [pakt
J. G. Piddington.
I told her would be the best. . . . Mrs. Thompson . . . said although
she had had no breakfast she would have the gold filling put in
there and then. I proceeded at once with the work . . . after I had
been working about a quarter of an hour I noticed that Mrs.
Thompson's eyes had become fixed, that she was entirely oblivious
of anything that was going on. I asked if anything was the matter,
and was she well? She pulled herself together and assured me
she was all right, and by 1.45 I had finished the operation. ... I
made another appointment for Tuesday at 11, and they left at 1.50
by my surgery clock. At 2.50 my cousin Annie came in.
The next morning [i.e. Tuesday, May 9th, 1899] Mrs. Thompson
came in alone. The first words she said as she entered the room
were, " Oh, Mr. Reeve, I did so want to ask you yesterday : have
you any relation named Annie Reeve 1 " I told her if she had asked
last Friday I should have said no, but since I had seen and heard
of her for the first time. " Well," she said, " I used to go to school
with an Annie Reeve, and yesterday as I sat in your chair her figure
appeared before me as plainly as I see you now. . . . I was . . .
absolutely dumfounded, but within two minutes I had so far recovered
as to be determined to sift the matter absolutely to the bottom. . . .
" Do you think," she said, " if I described the clothes she wore, you
would recognise her from the description ? " I answered that from
peculiar circumstances I could tell every garment she had on from
"top to toe, from head to foot" ; for, as you know, after our discussion
at Solihull on Saturday I should take notice of everything she wore
when I saw her on Monday. "Well, she said," "the form that
appeared to me in this room was dressed in a tailor-made jacket, loose
fitting, open at the front, wearing a stand-up collar, and a necktie tied
in a sailor knot." I had by this time ceased to be astonished, and
told her that although she had described the garments fairly well,
she had not given the jacket its proper title. She said that it had
no other description as far as she knew. I then told her it was a
sack-back jacket. She then said as "she had only seen the figure
from the front she was unable to see to tell the cut at the back."
Her next question was : when did I see Annie Reeve last 1 and
I was obliged to admit that the very next person who entered the
room after she had left was Annie Reeve herself. Mrs. Thompson
went out at 1.50; Annie Reeve came in at 2.50.
1 Mrs. Thompson then explained why she did not speak of her experience at the
time, i.e. on the Monday. Her reason is borne out by statements contained in Mr.
Reeve's full account, which have been omitted on account of their private character.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mr*. Thompson's Trance. 109
She asked for corroboration on my part, and I opened my appoint
ment-book and showed her "Miss Reeve—3 o'clock."
I proceeded with the rest of the work for her in the ordinary way,
and after I had finished we had half-an-hour's chat. She then told
me it was nothing new to her to have these metaphysical ex
periences. . . .
(Signed) Norman Reeve.
Air. Reeve had originally sent an account of the episode to
Mr. Myers. It could not, however, be found among his papers,
and I, not thinking that Mr. Reeve would have preserved any
contemporaneous note of the incident, asked Mrs. Thompson to
write me out her recollections of it. Her reply was as
follows :—
Nov. 3rd, 1903.
1n reply to your letter of to-day's date, I have not the account
of my visit to the dentist, Norman Reeve, L.D.S., Bennett's Hill,
Birmingham, but I have done my best to write out my account of
this affair. I think it is a great pity the letter from Mr. Reeve
cannot be found, as it was written within a few days (or weeks at
most) of the whole thing happening, and a business man like Mr.
Reeve might not care to be bothered to write another. However,
I will write out as best I can all that took place. It is more than
strange that the stopping of this very tooth has come out during
these last three weeks, and, as I thought of running down to Birming
ham for a night, I was going to call and have it replaced if he [i.e.
Mr. Reeve] is still at Bennett's Hill ; but now I think it would be
wiser for me to keep away, if you intend to investigate the case, as
I have no desire to be the one to refresh Mr. Reeve's mind. I think
it would be better for someone else to call. I am afraid my account
is rather jumbled.
Mrs. Thompson's Account.
Written from memory, November 3rd, 1903.
I cannot remember the date, but probably 4 years ago I went to
Birmingham to visit my sister, and wrote a letter the day or so
before to my usual dentist making an appointment. This letter was
returned to me "Gone, left no address." When I arrived in Bir
mingham my sister met me, and I suggested, as I had a troublesome
110 [part
J. G. Piddington.
tooth I must at once have stopped, we should go and find a dentist.
We walked across New Street to Bennett's Hill. (The rooms of
nearly all the dentists are in this street, or were, years ago.) Two
or three doors up on the right-hand side we spied a brass-plate with
Mr. Reeve's name, etc. I said : " Oh ! this will do ; ' L.D.S. London '
can surely settle my tooth," and we went inside.
I also attended the next day, and I am not sure if the following
took place the first or second visit, but I think the first. When
the dentist began to work upon the tooth it hurt very much,1 but
I thought I must try to imagine I had no pain. I suppose he went
on just the same, but I felt nothing until I was roused by his hand
on my shoulder, and heard him say: "What's the matter?" I
told him I had been making myself proof against feeling any pain,4
and he laughed and said : " I wondered what was the matter with
you, as I know I was hurting you, and you were so still."
What really happened was this :—Directly I became insensible to
the pain I saw a young lady dressed (I remember this very well)
in a tailor-made grey coat and skirt, and a linen collar.
The name, Annie Reeve, came into my mind, as when I went to
boarding-school at Much Wenlock my first half-term was Annie
Reeve's last half-term ; and I felt certain this was the Annie Reeve
I had known at school, though I had never seen or heard of the girl
except just that half-term 14 years before, and did not recognise the
face. I asked Mr. Reeve if he had a relative A. R., and so on ; and
if she was still living and [if her] name [was] still A. Reeve. He
said : " Yes, she is my cousin, and was the last patient I attended to
before3 you came in, and was dressed exactly as you describe." Mr.
R. looked it up in his book and showed me the entry ; and no
1Mr. Reeve writes on November 10th, 1903:—"I tilled a left upper central
tooth with gold for Mrs. T. At first the patient appeared very sensitive to
the pain occasioned by cutting away the dentine, but quite suddenly appeared
oblivious of everything going on, so much so that when the operation was
finished I had to gently shake her."
2 Mrs. Verrall has described to me how under similar circumstances at her
dentist's she has been able by an effort of will to render herself insensible to
pain. The parrots who defend their want of interest or belief in psychic
faculties with a "But what's the use of it all?" might have to learn a new
cry if this kind of self-induced anaesthesia became common.
3 This should really be "the next patient I attended to after you left
yesterday." It will be noticed that the story has not improved with keeping,
but the reverse, as I believe is often the case. Contemporaneous records cut
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 1l1
doubt he still has the book. I can positively declare I did not see
A. R. in or out of the dentist's rooms, and if I met her to-day I
should not know her, and I thought it was the name Reeve which
suggested to me the name A. R. as that of the girl in grey. It was
not because I recognised her in any normal way. After all this
long rigmarole the points are :—
Does Mr. R. remember writing to me for Mr. Myers? and if so,
does he remember what he said about my not feeling the pain ? and
also does he remember the tailor-made dress and linen collar? and,
last but not least, does he remember me and my trumpery tooth-
stopping ?
(Signed) R. Thompson.
I shall throughout this paper assume the bona fides
of Mrs. Thompson's trance, and at the same time I shall
abstain from discussing the source of the trance communica
tions, and confine myself to describing what took place and
to explaining, in certain instances, my reasons for thinking
that there is evidence for the acquisition of knowledge in
some supernormal manner. But as the record of any observer,
however desirous to be scrupulously accurate and fair, may
be affected by the view that he may take of the phenomena
which he is observing, I think I ought to state what my
view of these phenomena is.
No theory of them satisfies me.
Thus negatively only can I state my view. And I can
perhaps best indicate my position by confessing that after
repeated revisions of what I had written, I have given up
the attempt to define my opinions in despair. I do not halt
between two opinions, but I shilly-shally between many : so
much so that I hesitate to dignify such vacillation with the
name of " suspense of judgment."
Though, as I have said, not avoiding critical discussion
of particular incidents, my paper is chiefly devoted to an
attempted classification of the phenomena. Such a method is
both way| : they check exuberance, but also ' rationalisation.' I submitted
Mrs. Thompson's account to Mr. Reeve, before he discovered his contemporaneous
notes, and he both confirmed and repeated Mrs. Thompson's error. The con
temporary account makes it quite clear that Miss Reeve's visit did not precede
but followed Mrs. Thompson's by an hour.
112 [PAHT
J. G. Piddington.
naturally open to the objection that I may have twisted,
misinterpreted, or selected my material to suit conclusions
which I wished to reach. I can only say that I have not
done so consciously, and that I pursued my study of the
records with no theoretic axe to grind. The more thorough
my acquaintance with the facts grew, the more convinced
became my belief in their authenticity ; and what had once
struck me as awkward and suspicious inconsistencies, now, as
a result of a careful sifting of the evidence (and not, I
venture to hope, because I have talked myself round into a
credulous acquiescence), do so no longer. That from this
process of classification an unforced and reasonable con
sistency has emerged—such as would not have emerged
had the phenomena been fraudulent—is the underlying, though
often unexpressed argument of this paper. I am perhaps
open to attack for not publishing in full the evidence with
which I deal. In defence of this omission I would urge
that, though I do not by any means consider that there is
yet a sufficient mass of evidence, or evidence of sufficiently
various origin, to place the existence of supernormal faculty
beyond cavil or doubt, yet there is enough, both generally
and in Mrs. Thompson's particular case, to create a strong
presumption in its favour, and to justify an attack being
made on the problem from a different standpoint from hereto
fore.
Finally, I would repeat that I have been specially on my
guard against selecting evidence in favour of any particular
theory of the phenomena, and against suppressing any evidence
which might be held to tell against the integrity of the
medium.
The first I heard of Mrs. Thompson was through Mr.
Myers, who wrote to ask if some sentences read by her in
a crystal had any meaning for me. At that time I did not
even know of the existence of Mrs. Thompson, and I have no
reason to doubt, and every reason to believe her statement
that she was then equally unaware of my existence.
I give below Mrs. Thompson's own account of the inci
dent, prepared for Mr. Myers at his request. (I should
explain that at the time when this incident occurred my
surname was Smith.)
xlvii] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 113
It opens with the copy of a letter addressed by Mrs.
Thompson to Mr. Myers on November 8th, 1898:
"About 11.15 this morning I heard a little voice tell me to
look in the crystal. I say a little voice, but I could better
describe it as a very weak adult voice, which was quite
strange to me; and as I was very busy sewing, I must say I
rather resented the suggestion of spending my time crystal-
gazing.
The voice insisted—at least, I may say, commanded me. It
said : ' Put away that work and take for my friend a message.'
I did so, and taking up the crystal I saw perfectly the
following; altogether I was from 11.25 to 12.35 getting the
whole of the letters. They were in large ' block ' capitals,
without any attempt at division into words.
[The letters, transcribed in the order in which they ap
peared—though this was without division into words or
spacing—formed the following sentences :]
'You cough like Noel Smith's acquaintance, that queer old
buffer doctor J. G. Walker. I am still eccentric, and keep
my eye on eccentric folk. His feet are better than mine,
but not his boots, eh Siwel.'"
I sent above to Mr. F. W. H. Myers, who with me
thought the whole thing a stupid senseless message.
When Mr. Myers was having a talk with Nelly on Novem
ber 10th, she said to him: "Mr. J. G. Smith of Sloane
Street will know about that muddled message, which is from
a clergyman named Lewis."
That Mr. Myers had such a friend or that such a man as
J. G. Smith lived in Sloane Street was quite unknown to me.
Mr. Myers had such a friend, and wrote and sent on the
message. This is the reply from Mr. J. G. Smith :
"I understand this is a confused message from a clergyman
named Lewis—(is it E. H. Lewis, or H. E. Lewis, or is eh
simply 'eh'?) and has some reference to me.
Probably on Monday the 7th of November, or possibly on
Tuesday the 8th, about 11 a.m. my wife went to see a Dr.
de Noe Walker. ... He is not her, or my, regular doctor,
but she consults him occasionally, but I have never seen him,
though I have heard a great deal about him from my wife and
other people.
He is an exceedingly clever but eccentric homoeopathic doctor.
11 + J. G. Piddington. [part
He was strongly recommended to my wife's brother-in-law,
who in turn recommended him to my wife
Although he could have had one of the finest practices in
London, he will only see a few people, mostly poor gover
nesses, etc., to whom he charges no fee, and a few people
whom he charges 10s. a visit simply as a protection. . . .
His house is a veritable museum of pictures, statuettes, etc.,
mostly Italian. . . . His house is also a regular ' Zoo ' of
cats and birds, who are his first thought in life. When my
wife went to see him at the beginning of this week she met
him in the street feeding his birds. Whereupon he said :
' You go inside. I'll attend to you when I've fed my birds.'
He wears no socks, wears a red flannel shirt a la Garibaldi,
over which he sometimes throws a curious kind of cloak. He
wears no boots, but some peculiar kind of slipper.
I need hardly add that he is as eccentric as a man can
well be. You will note that in order to read De Noé Walker
into the text one must substitute De Noe for Noel, and join
to it the Walker which occurs further down the sentence.
[And the initials J. G. must be transposed and conjoined with
the surname Smith.]
My wife knows nothing special about his cough.
' Queer old buffer ' and ' eccentric ' suit admirably ; the refer
ence to feet and boots is perhaps to be explained by what I
have said above.
I know no clergyman named Lewis, but perhaps Dr. De
Noe Walker may have known one. I shouldn't dare to go and
ask him, . . . but next time my wife goes to see him I
will ask her to make enquiries.
The doctor is not an acquaintance of mine, though it can be
said that I am acquainted with him."
Dr. Walker died before I screwed up my courage to ask
him if he had known an eccentric clergyman of the name of
Lewis. (If any member of the S.P.R. can supply the desired
information, will he kindly communicate it to me ?) Assum
ing that the coincidences between the crystal-message, Nelly's
explanatory comment on that message, and the real facts are
not accidental (and I for one cannot regard them as such),
two solutions only suggest themselves to me: (1) That in
some ordinary way Mrs. Thompson got to know of my wife's
visits to Dr. Walker, and reproduced this information in the
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 115
crystal-message ; (2) that the information was conveyed to
her in some supernormal way through the crystal.
The former alternative seems to me improbable. I think
it most unlikely that Mrs. Thompson could have learnt of any
connection between myself and Dr. Walker. I can't give my
reasons; I even doubt if I could define them clearly to
myself, let alone make them clear to other people, but anyhow
that is my opinion.
But suppose that this odd scrap of information had reached
Mrs. Thompson accidentally, it is vastly more probable that
she would have learnt, not of my indirect connection with Dr.
Walker, but of my wife's immediate connection with him.
Is it possible that she learnt the facts correctly in her
normal state, and then muddled them in the crystal-vision
version ? Possible, but not very probable, I think, for Nelly,
who is aware of the crystal-vision, though she put Mr. Myers
on the right tack for obtaining verification, doesn't clear up
the muddle, and Nelly seems, as I shall show later, to have
no difficulty in reproducing fully and clearly in the trance
facts known to Mrs. Thompson.
But Mrs. Thompson may have concocted this muddled
crystal-message with deliberate cunning, and with a view to
divert suspicions which might have been felt if the real facts
had been given with perfect accuracy. Well, if any one
likes to adopt that theory, I can't disprove it ; only I would
recall some words written by Professor William James about
Mrs. Piper (see Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 656): "If it be sug
gested that all this was but a refinement of cunning, for that
such skilfully distributed reticences are what bring most credit
to a medium, I must deny the proposition in toto. I have
seen and heard enough of sittings to be sure that a medium's
trump-cards are promptitude and completeness in her revela
tions. It is a mistake in general (however it may occasionally,
as now, be cited in her favour) to keep back anything she
knows."
I should much prefer to believe that the correspondences
were due to chance than that the crystal-message was a
cunning concoction of Mrs. Thompson's.
Whatever the source of the crystal-message, and whatever
its evidential worth, it has an interesting bearing on the first
J. G. Piddington. [part
sitting which I had with Mrs. Thompson, for I cannot doubt
that a great proportion of the true statements made about me
and my affairs and belongings at my first sitting were but
amplifications of, or deductions from, or happy guesses based on
this crystal-message.
(2) Amplification of, and Deductions from, Knowledge
already in the possession of the medium or of the
Trance-Personality.
If my interpretation of the oracular crystal-message is right,
the somebody or something responsible for it certainly knew
five things: (1) My surname; (2) my initials; (3) that I lived
in Sloane Street ; (4) that there was some connection between
me and Dr. de Noe Walker ; and (5) certain facts about Dr.
Walker.
The date of the crystal-message was November 8th, 1898.
Nearly a year later, on October 28th, 1899, I met Mrs.
Thompson for the first time, going, with Mr. Feilding, to her
house under an assumed name. I am not satisfied, for reasons
into which it is not necessary to enter, that the means taken
to conceal my identity were effective ; but whether they were
or not, it does not affect my argument that the greater part
of what Nelly said about me at my first sitting can be re
garded as a mere expansion of the facts given in the crystal-
message, or of facts which, though not actually expressed in
the crystal-message, may without impropriety be treated as
latent in the mind of the author of the crystal-message.
The stance of October 28th, 1899, opened in this way:
Nelly : " Some one belonging to you has got neuralgia ; not
yourself. I see white 'buses going in front of you all the
time. I get the influence of a lady with neuralgia. I think
there is a George in your personality. ... Is your name
Tod Sloane ? . . . You have a wife, but I can't see any
children."
Nelly then suddenly addressed me as " Mr. Smith," which,
as 1 have said, was at that time my name ; and when neither
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 117
Mr. Feilding nor myself gave any indication that the name
was right, the medium wrote on a piece of paper the letters
"HTIMS," i.e. the name Smith backwards. I assume that at
this point—it does not matter by what means—the trance
personality had come to connect me with the Mr. Smith of
the crystal-vision.
I will take these opening sentences of the trance-utterance
seriatim.
" Some one belonging to you has got neuralgia : not
yourself."
" I get the influence of a lady with neuralgia."
The only point of contact between Dr. de Noe" Walker
and myself was the fact that my wife was consulting him
on account of neuralgia.
The author of the crystal-message was aware of there being
some connection between the doctor and myself; and though
what the connection was is not explained, it would seem on
the face of it likely that any one who discovered that there
was a connection at all would have discovered that the connection
was through my wife, and that she was being treated by Dr.
Walker, and if so much was known, it is but a very little
step farther to assume that the particular complaint for which
she was being treated might also have been learnt.
" I see white 'buses going in front of you all the
time."
" Is your name Tod Sloan ? "
At a sitting held on November 10th, 1898, Nelly had
explained to Mr. Myers that Mr. J. G. Smith of Sloane
Street would know about the muddled crystal-message. The
white 'buses are an association of ideas with Sloane Street,
obvious enough to any Londoner ; though it will be noted that,
though clearly latent in the trance-consciousness, the words
"Sloane Street" were not actually mentioned. Obvious too
is the association between Sloane Street (unexpressed) and
Tod Sloan ; though what are we to think of a little spirit
sirl's familiarity with turf celebrities of the hour ? Nelly,
I fancy, afterwards felt that the allusion to Tod Sloan was
rather too incongruous, and needed some apology ; for two or
three months later she said to me : " Do you know any one
named Sloan ? You're the man I called Sloan. I expect
118 [part
J. G. Piddington.
that was mother's subliminal called you that." (Of. " Benson
& Bensons Limited," p. 224).
" I think there is a George in your personality."
My initials J. G. and my then surname had been given,
though in a disjointed fashion, in the crystal-message, and
also had been clearly given by Nelly on November 10th,
1898. The initial G. was correctly interpreted, much as in
another case where the initials E. H., which had been within
the medium's range of vision, were rightly read as Edward
Horace by Mrs. Cartwright (see p. 178).
" You have a wife, but I can't see any children."
My comment on the reference to the lady with neuralgia
applies equally to this sentence. The author of the crystal-
message must, in my view, have been aware of the existence
of my wife ; but need not have known that I had any
children. As a matter of fact I have one child ; to whom
Nelly, since Mrs. Thompson made her acquaintance, has often
referred.
Then came the first reference to " Dorothy," on which I
comment elsewhere (see pp. 214-220). This allusion cannot be
traced to anything contained in the crystal-message. Nelly
subsequently attributed it to the momentary intrusion of
another spirit ; and in any case I am obliged to consider that
she turned at this point to some fresh source of information.
I then gave to the medium an old coin that had been iu
the possession of my father for some years, and Nelly said
it had been worn by a man of whom she proceeded to give
a personal description, and about whom she made in all six
statements ; four of which were correct, while two were possibly
so.1 Still, these details were neither numerous nor distinctive
enough to permit me to say that their correspondence with
facts was beyond chance. Then followed a prediction about
my wife's health, as if Nelly were harking back to the nucleus
of knowledge on which the crystal-message was based. Not
that the prediction came true ; but Nelly, having at her disposal
1 One of these four statements was to this effect : " He has a dead Annie
belonging to him." For over three years I had regarded this as incorrect ;
and it was only in September, 1903, that I learnt from a very old friend
of my father's, who had known him from childhood, that my father had
had a sister Annie, who died more than 50 years ago (see pp. 152-3).
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 119
the fact of my wife's ill-health, could not resist the temptation
of manufacturing a prophecy out of it. (See pp. 246-250.)
A few more statements were addressed to me by Nelly,
but not one of them was right, and none were traceable to
the same source (whatever that may have been) as the crystal-
message. With the exception, then, of the mention of Dorothy,
and of the things given in connection with the coin, which latter,
though not without interest, must on the whole be dismissed
as not sufficiently definite, it will be seen that the successful
hits were such as might without any straining of probabilities
have been made by an intelligent being already possessed of
the information displayed or presupposed in the crystal-message.
In other words, it is not necessary, as far as an important
proportion of the veridical communications is concerned, to
assume that at the sdance of October 28th, 1899, any new
source of knowledge was tapped ; a sufficient explanation is
that knowledge held in reserve or latent was now brought
forward, and that inferences were drawn from knowledge
already manifested.
As an instance of what I should call a happy guess rather
than a logical deduction, I quote the following:
At one sitting Mr. Feilding and a lady were present together.
They did not arrive together, but it would have been obvious
to an observant person from their manner of greeting that
they were friends, and probably intimate friends. Mr.
Feilding is a Roman Catholic, and this fact, if not known
to Mrs. Thompson, might easily have been known to her.
Nelly almost at once observed: "That lady and Mr. Feilding
belong to one another." And later on : " And that lady smells
of incense, too." The lady was a Roman Catholic, and it might
be imagined that the medium either by means of her normal or
a hyperresthetic sense of smell detected an odour of incense
which might have been clinging to the lady's clothes. This is, of
course, a possible explanation, in spite of the fact that the lady
had not been inside a church for ten days at least; but com
parison of this with a similar case makes it more probable that
the allusion to incense was merely a symbolical way of saying
that the lady was a Eoman Catholic, for the same phrase was
used by Nelly on another occasion when there could have
i
120 . J. G. Piddington. [part
been no question of the medium's senses . being brought into
play.
The occasion was Dr. Max Dessoir's sitting on April 19th,
1900. Speaking of a lady who she said was associated with a
locket handed to the medium by Dr. Dessoir, Nelly remarked :
" The lady used to be at school in a foreign country. Of course
that's silly. There's a little chapel inside the school. A' smell of
incense." The statements of fact are wrong ; the lady was not
at school in a foreign country, but in England, and there was
no chapel inside the school, and there was no significance in
the reference to incense.1 It seems clear to me that all three
statements were deductions from the obvious fact that the
sitter was a foreigner. The data were : this man, the sitter,
is a foreigner, and he presents a locket. The train of
inferential reasoning would have been somewhat as follows :
The object being a locket, the dead or living owner must
be a woman ; as it is presented by a foreigner, it is pretty
certain that the woman was also a foreigner ; and if a foreigner,
the chances are in favour of her being a Koman Catholic, and
that she was educated abroad, and very possibly at a convent-
school, and attached to the convent-school was probably a
chapel ; and in the chapel incense would have been used.
Nelly recognises that the inference that the lady was edu
cated abroad is so obvious as to be silly ; but she either does
not recognise or does not admit that the reference to incense
is, if not quite so obvious, at least so obvious on reflection as
to be "silly" too.
A student of the phenomena of Mrs. Thompson or of Mrs.
Piper would do well to exercise a little time and ingenuity in
going carefully through the records of a few sittings, with a
view to tracing how many of the statements contained in them,
no matter whether true or false, can be referred to one or more
parent stems. The point which I am making is not, of course,
1 Since the above was written Mrs. Thompson, in the course of a conversa
tion with me, made use of an expression very similar to Nelly's. Speaking
either of a person or a place (I cannot remember which) she said she felt
there was a smell of incense about him (or it), and a/terimrlh explained
that by that she meant the person (or place) was Koman Catholic. It
will be noticed that she used the symbolical expression first, as if it came
the more naturally to her.
XLvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 121
original, and has often been made before ; but it has not been
enough insisted on, and I fear a careless reader is inclined to
scan the record of a sitting and gather an impression from the
general effect produced on him by seeing a number of state
ments marked as correct or incorrect : counting up the " W.'s "
and the " R's," and by a simple sum in addition arriving at
what he imagines to be the evidential value of a sitting. The
manner in which we are bound for the sake of convenience
and preciseness to affix to each separate statement an affirma
tive or negative comment no doubt tends to encourage such a
system of reckoning ; but if any one really wishes to assess at
their proper worth the strings of details forming the trance-
utterances, he must not consider each detail by itself, but with
an eye to their sequence and interdependence.
The chief difficulty is to decide how far inference can be
carried. Let us suppose that a middle-aged person attends a
particular sitting, and that the medium adjudges his age
rightly to be about 45. An easy inference will be that the
sitter's mother must be an elderly and quite probably an old
lady ; likewise his father. That is inference the first. In
ference the second, let us suppose, might be (a) that the
sitter's mother has or had grey or white hair, or wore a wig ;
(b) that the sitter's father is or was bald or had white hair.
Of course, neither of these inferences might prove to be true,
for both parents might have died young, or they might have
or have had exceptionally luxuriant and healthy hair ; but in
a great proportion of cases they would be correct.
These, of course, are very simple examples ; but with some
ingenuity it ought not to be difficult to plan far more intri
cate and less obvious deductions.
Let us suppose, for instance, that our middle-aged sitter of
45 attends a sitting in England in the year 1900, and is
plainly an Englishman. He was born then in 1855, when
his father was, say, 30 years of age. In 1851 the father
would have been 26. The medium hazards a guess: "I seem
to see your father in a huge building of glass. There are
crowds of people. And now I see him looking at lots of
things, so interested in them ; and he's talking to a lady
in a poke-bonnet who's leaning on his arm. And—Oh ! yes,
it's just like Hyde Park," etc., etc.
122 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
The middle-aged sitter, who doesn't seize the allusion to
the Great Exhibition of 1851, is not at all impressed until
on reading over the notes of the sitting to an elderly aunt he
is reminded by her of the great interest which "your dear
father took in the Great Exhibition. I remember so well his
talking to me about it. I was quite young in those days.
And when he and your mother were engaged he used to take
her there every Saturday afternoon." And aunt and nephew
are both mightily impressed, though neither will admit it, be
cause one thinks such trafficking with mediums not conformable
with strict piety, and the other because, as a man of the world,
he is unwilling to avow any belief in such things.
Now, is my suppositious communication far-fetched? Cannot
parallels to it be found passim in the records of trance-utterances?
Not, indeed, that I wish for one moment to suggest, because
one may in certain instances be able to discover a train of
reasoning that could have furnished a medium with a portion
of his communications, that therefore the process was conscious
or even that any such process was brought into play at all.
All I wish to urge is that any statements made by a medium
in trance which can be accounted for in this normal way, even
if they do not entirely lose their weight, must at least cease to
rank as evidence for supernormal faculty.
I am not losing sight of the cumulative force of a large
number of details in themselves non-distinctive ; but even when
this factor enters into the problem, mere accumulation alone is
not enough to exclude chance, as much will depend on the
character of the details. If all the details, however numerous,
can be traced back to one basic fact within the ken of the
medium's normal or trance-consciousness, or perhaps to two or
three such facts, their cumulative force may not be entirely
destroyed, but it is at least considerably diminished.
There is another type of statement which may be explained
as an inference from antecedent knowledge, though at first sight
only attributable to chance or supernormal power, which I will
illustrate from my own sittings. The following statements were
made by Nelly about a lady whom she subsequently identified
as my mother.
(a) " She used to be fond of doing white embroidery : cut
little holes, and then sew them round. That makes like
xlvil] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 123
Madeira work. They use it for making babies' pinafores,
dresses, and embroidery."
(b) " She had a funny little thing about five inches long
like a needle-case, only like a carved ivory umbrella. You
screwed the handle out, and you could put needles inside."
(c) " She has got a real Indian shawl in the possession of her
daughter still. Is Paisley Indian ? It's a bright-coloured shawl."
As regards (a), my mother, who was very clever with her
needle, did Madeira work, and did it well ; but, so far as my
information goes, she was not particularly fond of it.
With regard to (b), my mother possessed a wooden needle-
case with a bone (not ivory) handle shaped like an umbrella.
It was about 5 inches long, and the handle unscrewed.
With regard to (c), there is in the possession of one of my
sisters a white Chinese shawl that had belonged to my mother.
Before being in a position to comment on these three state
ments, I had to consult some members of my family. At the
time of the sitting the only statement which I thought
might have something in it was that about the needle-case. I
seemed to have a hazy recollection of having seen such an
article in my mother's workbox, though on reflection I was
later inclined to accuse myself of having yielded to Nelly's
suggestion.
What one may know subconsciously only Heaven knows ;
but consciously I did not know that my mother had pos
sessed such a thing as a white shawl, and that one of my
sisters had it still. There was not, however, a complete corre
spondence between Nelly's statement and the actual facts.
As to the Madeira work, I had never known that any
thing except an island, a wine, and a cake bore the name
Madeira ; nor did Nelly's description given in answer to my
enquiry enlighten me much. Now that I know what Madeira
work is, I think it possible that as a child I saw my mother
engaged on it.
No doubt, especially at the first blush, these three coin
cidences taken in combination are impressive, and for the
purpose of my argument it would perhaps have been wiser
to have chosen a less extreme example of what I conceive
may be the results of successful inference. Yet there is a
certain advantage in selecting for discussion what may per
124 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
haps be regarded as the utmost limit of ingenious deduction ;
for if it can be shown to be not outside the bounds of normal
processes of thought, it follows that to less salient instances a
similar treatment can be legitimately and confidently applied.
Apart from the fact that Nelly later on admitted that she
had suspected that the lady about whom she had been speak
ing was my mother, it is clear from the general tone of
the communications that throughout Nelly had in her mind
a person whose career on earth dated back a considerable
time, and one who belonged, roughly speaking, to the mid-
Victorian epoch. Now the question is, to how many women
whose youth or middle age belonged to this period could the
three statements quoted above apply ? It appears to me that
they might be applied with a very fair chance of success to a
very large number of my mother's contemporaries.
The shawl, the needle-case, and the Madeira work : they
seem to me almost as redolent of the mid-Victorian lady as
wax flowers under a glass-case standing on a woolly mat
are of the lodging-house-keeper of blessed memory.1 I was
asking a friend and contemporary of my mother's the other
day about Madeira work, and she said : " Oh ! we all used to
do Madeira work in those days." And then the shawl. Look
in the pages of Punch or at the illustrations of an Anthony
Trollope novel and the ladies all seem to be wearing shawls
at all times of the day, and under all kinds of circumstances,
and I know some ladies of the old school even now who seem
as unhappy apart from their shawls as a man from his pipe.
I understand that such shawls, in spite of their modest appear
ance, were often made of some relatively costly material : which
would explain why, apart from associations, they might be
preserved by a daughter of the wearer.2
1 For an earlier period, cf. Pride and Prejudice, ch. viii. :—' " All young ladies
accomplished ! My dear Charles, what do mean ? "
" Yes, all of them, I think. They all paint tables, cover skreens, and net
purses. I scarcely know anyone who cannot do all this, . . ."'
2 After reading the above, Mrs. Sidgwick sent me the following comment:—
"40 or 50 years ago Indian Cashmere shawls were much more common than
now, and were often very valuable, being heavily embroidered. The patterns
of these shawls were imitated in Paisley shawls. I should think that many
daughters have their mothers' Indian shawls. I have one that was my
mother's."
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 125
As for the ivory umbrella-shaped needle-case, I should class
this under the same heading as the Madeira work and the
shawl : namely, under the heading of typical possessions or
occupations of the mid-Victorian lady.1 There are fashions in
needle-cases as there are in everything else. A particularly
fascinating or artistic novelty will have a great and relatively
prolonged vogue. Needle-cases, workboxes, smelling-bottles,
scissor-cases, pin-cushions, writing-desks, ink-stands, pencil-
holders, blotting-pads, cigar-cases, cigar-cutters, cigarette-holders,
match-boxes, and the thousand-and-one knick-knacks which men
and women possess—of each and all of these some ideal pat
tern may be laid up in heaven, but the earthly artificer is
every year or so fashioning some novel image of the ideal
needle-case, let us say ; and an experienced manufacturer or
retailer of fancy-goods ought, I should surmise, to be able to
date within- a year or two any particular specimen. But
because a specialist might be capable of assigning to the "objects
of his trade the approximate date of their first appearance in
the market, is it reasonable to endow a medium with equal
technical knowledge ? To answer with a bald affirmative would
be ridiculous ; but if the subconscious memory has been rightly
defined as " half lumber-room and half King's treasury," stowed
away in its lumber-room may well be many such trumpery
details ; and if the lumber-room be a woman's, they may not
lie in so inaccessible a corner as in a man's. Most women',
so it seems to me, display an extraordinary power of observing
and recollecting details about material objects. Listen to a
man and a woman describing their reminiscences of their
childish or youthful days, and while the man will talk about
what he has done or thought, the woman will speak of things
which she has possessed or loved, and if she recalls an inci
dent, as often as not she associates it with some material
object: a brooch, a watch, a picture, or what not. It would
be interesting to compare the trance-utterances of a male and
female medium together ; for, if the subliminal memory plays
any such part as I am here suggesting, references to personal
possessions ought to be more numerous in the utterances of
the woman.
1 Mrs. Verrall, likewise, writes :—" We had as children, about 1865, a similar
needle-case."
12G [part
J. G. Piddington.
(3) Mrs. Thompson's "Controls" and the Dramatic Business
of the Trance.
So far as my experience goes, Nelly plays by far the
most important rdle in Mrs. Thompson's trances. Of the
other regular control, Mrs. Cartwright, I have seen but little.
Mr. Myers had a high opinion of Mrs. Cartwright's powers,
and was, I believe, glad when she took Nelly's place. The
results of her rare interventions at the sittings which I
attended were not so successful as to make me regret their
rarity. She seemed to me a good deal more interested, when
she did control directly, in uttering sesquipedalian words than
in doing her best to communicate evidential facts.
Mrs. Cartwright is supposed to be the spirit of a lady
who was (not Mrs. Thompson's school-mistress, but) the
proprietress of the school where Mrs. Thompson was educated.
As represented in the trance, she is the typical school-dame
of caricature ; and indeed the Cartwright impersonation has
never impressed me favourably. It seems to me lacking in
the spontaneity of the Nelly and the " Mr. D." controls ; and
to be not unlike the sort of stereotyped caricature that
school-boys, and, I imagine, school-girls too, make of their
pastors and masters. I have known cases where, when once a
true mimic has shown the way, a whole number of boys or
undergraduates will, though incapable themselves of original
mimicry, reproduce a rather wooden but on the whole
amusing and recognisable caricature of some unfortunate peda
gogue.
Now the Cartwright impersonation struck me as having
much in common with this kind of conventional caricature ;
and I felt as if the medium might be reproducing in her
trance a cut and dried delineation of her old mistress with
which she had been familiar at school. Any one who is
acquainted with the sort of stock caricature which I mean
will understand me when I say that one knew beforehand
almost the exact words which would be put into the mouth
of the caricatured personage under any given circumstances.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 127
In the same way I felt about the Cartwright control that her
mode of expressing herself on any given topic was inevitable.
Yet in spite of creating this effect of being a mechanical puppet,
this trance-personality aroused in me such feelings as one would
suppose could only result from intercourse with a human being.
Foolish as such a confession may seem, I must in justice
to the qualities of this control admit that she irritated me
to so great an extent with her verbosity and pomposity that
I was heartily thankful when she didn't put in an appearance,
or when she disappeared after a short space of time. Her
conversation was as distasteful to me as that of the most in
dubitably alive of living bores ; and the dislike was, I grieve
to say, mutual. There is, of course, a contradiction here: on
the one hand she produced the impression of the most
mechanical of secondary personalities, while, on the other, she
produced the irritation which only a living individual ought
to. I cannot explain the discongruity : I can but record it.
Yet if Nelly is not a mere secondary personality, no more
can Mrs. Cartwright be : for Nelly has no doubts about the
reality of Mrs. Cartwright, and, so to speak, vouches for her,
just as in Mrs. Piper's case G. P. vouches for Phinuit. The
pair of them must stand or fall together. And after all one
must recognise that it is a common enough experience in this
world to come across persons unfortunately and undoubtedly
real who strike one as mere puppets in their behaviour and
in their mannerisms ; and this wooden type is to be found
as often as not among prim old-maidish ladies who think it
unbecoming—indelicate, in fact-—to let themselves go and be
natural spontaneous human beings.
Whatever view one may take of Mrs. Cartwright as a person
ality, it is perfectly clear that she is working behind the scenes
all the time. That she is no mere nonentity in the trance-
drama, to be brought on the stage only to create a diversion,
will be seen from the following quotations:
Sitting of November 29tk, 1899.
In answer to an enquiry which I made about materialisations,
Nelly said : " Whenever a spirit materialises it is quite a
spontaneous thing." And then added, " Mrs. Cartwright dictated
that bit, and also about Alice James."
128 [part
J. G. Piddington.
One might have fancied that the explanatory comment on
materialisations was attributed to Mrs. Cartwright because, in
using language incongruous with the ordinary language of a
child, there was a desire on the part of the trance-consciousness
to correct a momentary slip : but no such motive could have
prompted the assigning of the statement concerning " Alice
James" to Mrs. Cartwright, and, as will appear, this was no
solitary instance, but a regular characteristic of the trance-drama.
Earlier in the sitting I had handed to the medium a letter
written by Mrs. William James ; and in connection with it
Nelly had among other things said : " Alice James writes
letters ; I've got to tell that." She had meant evideutly that
Mrs. Cartwright had told her to tell that.
Sitting of December 1st, 1899.
About a lady connected with an object handed to the medium
Nelly said : " She had one or two unsuccessful trips for her
health. This is what Mrs. Cartwright says."
This is the only reference to Mrs. Cartwright throughout this
sitting; and it occurs just when Nelly has made use of rather
" grown-up " phraseology. " Unsuccessful trips for her health "
is not at all in Nelly's style. If I might venture on a parody,
Nelly's way of expressing the same idea would have been
something of this kind :
" You know Margate, Mr. Piddington. Well, the lady
associated with the hair used to go to Margate when she was
ill ; only it wasn't Margate, but a place like Margate."
Supposing the statement had been expressed both in Mrs.
Cartwright's words, and also in the language which I imagine
Nelly would have used, I believe that the difference in the
mode of expression would not have been due to a difference
in the source of the information, and not altogether—though
perhaps partly—to the difference in the stages of intellectual
development represented by Mrs. Cartwright and Nelly re
spectively, but chiefly to the Cartwright personality being able
to receive general ideas, and to Nelly having to have general
ideas translated to her by means of charade-pictures into
concrete particular ideas. A close study of the trance-utterances
has convinced me that some difference in the mental processes
of these, the two chief controls, is constantly exhibited, and with
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson'* Trance. 129
an undesigned consistency so subtle that it is impossible to
attribute it to deliberate artifice. Although this is the only
instance in this sitting where Mrs. Cartwright's participation
is directly intimated, there is one other passage where Nelly
represents herself as receiving information through another,
though unspecified, intelligence.
Nelly had been making various attempts to pronounce the
name of the sitter, Dr. van Eeden, but had not got very near
it. Then suddenly she remarked : " Do you know van Eeden ?
Somebody said that : somebody slipped in and said that, I
think."
Similarly, in Dr. van Eeden's next sitting, Nelly, in com
pliance with a request that she should try to tell the name
of the favourite place of Dr. van Eeden's father-in-law, said :—
"Am-felt—Hamfelt—Handfelt—," and then after going off' on
another tack renewed her attempts at the name :—
" I am trying to find the name. It's like Shovelt. It's
difficult. They have to say the word and tell Mrs. Cartwright
and she tells me."
The " they " was intended no doubt to refer to the Dutch
friends and relations of Dr. van Eeden from whom communi
cations were purporting to come.
Twice in the sitting of January 23rd, 1900, the notes of
which were taken by Mrs. Benson, Nelly quotes Mrs. Cartwright
as her authority for two statements. The passage runs as
follows, and is worth giving in full because it illustrates very
clearly Nelly's emphatic and apparently motiveless (motiveless,
I mean, unless it really indicates the conveyance of knowledge
to the trance-personality by some involved and not direct method)
attribution to Mrs. Cartwright of certain of her assertions :—
" Mother's brooch. This was her brooch, and belonged to
more than one generation. A lady—two children died. Her
own hair, and two dead children's hair made into a brooch.
The lady seems to be the third generation. Grandmother—
mother—grandchildren. Mrs. Cartwright said ' Mother's brooch.'
Some one telling me to say it was her mother's."
All the points here mentioned were true, but why does Nelly
quote Mrs. Cartwright, or an undesignated " some one," as her
authority for only one of these several correct statements ?
Nelly continues :—" The person who wrapped it up (i e. the
130 [part
J. 6. Piddington.
brooch, which had been wrapped in a sealed envelope) was not
well when they wrapped it up. Inanition. Delicate—not well
at all—wants nourishment. Mrs. Cartwright used the word. I
don't know."
The word meant is no doubt " inanition," which would be
out of place in Nelly's vocabulary. She uses it like a parrot,
and though she translates it correctly, she appears to be un
certain whether her interpretation is right or not. The diagnosis
was quite accurate.
The sitting of February 6th, 1900, furnishes several good
instances of Nelly's dependence on Mrs. Cartwright's coaching.
Speaking of my mother she said :—" Without being religious
she was very fond of her Bible." (" Religious " in Nelly's
sense means what is called " goody-goody.") " The Bible to
her was a comfort. She derived a certain amount of pleasure
from perusing it."
This last stilted phrase made me prick up my ears, and I
asked :—" Did Mrs. Oartwright say that ? " and Nelly assented.
But when I have rightly suspected from the peculiar turn of
a phrase that Mrs. Cartwright is responsible for it, it has not
always been the affectation of the phraseology that has led me
to detect the authorship, but often the manner in which Nelly
has the air of repeating words that she does not understand,
or with which she is unfamiliar. She brings these phrases out
just like a child who, having been entrusted with a message,
delivers it slowly and painfully in the precise words in which
it was given.
Then, again, later in the same sitting, Nelly, describing the
character of a relative of mine, delivered herself of the follow
ing :—" He was a harum-scarum, seek-your-luck man ; not in
a bad sense ; not a man who appreciated any form of civilisation."
The last phrase Nelly admitted in reply to my question was
Mrs. Cartwright's. Nelly's translation (or what I believe to
be her translation of something told her by Mrs. Cartwright),
as in the case just referred to, came first, and the original on
which it was based is given afterwards, as if Nelly is not quite
sure of having conveyed the true meaning. In this instance
the " original " is correct and the " translation " wrong ; in the
statement about my mother and her Bible Nelly's translation
is truer than Mrs. Cartwright's original.
xlvii.] Phenomena vn Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 131
In the case where the symptoms of the lady who wrapped
up the brooch are mentioned, Mrs. Cartwright's " inanition " and
Nelly's rendering—" wants nourishment "—are about equally
near the mark.
A little later, speaking again of the man who " did not
appreciate any form of civilisation," Nelly said :—" When he
went to school he didn't like the monotony of the ordinary
scholastic routine." This pedantic expression I also rightly put
down to Mrs. Cartwright's account.1
Just before this Nelly had been talking about a clergyman
who was said to have played a considerable part in my mother's
life. " He was a friend : he seemed to do her some service.
Mrs. Cartwright says, ' Render her a considerable amount of
assistance,' and she didn't forget it."
Note the mixture of Mrs. Cartwright " tout pur " and of
Nelly's colloquial " and she didn't forget it." Had Mrs. Cart
wright completed the sentence, it would have run like this :
" He rendered her a considerable amount of assistance, of which
she preserved a life-long and most grateful recollection."
During this sitting my mother was represented as communi
cating through Nelly, and once Nelly professes to repeat her
actual words. The words thus repeated are the words of a
grown-up person, and yet not such as Mrs. Cartwright
would have used to express the same idea. My mother is
supposed to be referring to the man who "did not appreciate
any form of civilisation," and Nelly reports as follows :—" Oh I
dear, the lady says ' he was an unorthodox person.' "
The interest of this expression to me is that I have myself
heard this precise phrase in the sense of " unconventional " used
of this precise person by a sister of my mother. Nelly does
not father this phrase on to Mrs. Cartwright, as in other cases
where she has employed a phrase not in keeping with her
usual simple style, but appropriately on to another spirit and
with, at least for me, most telling effect.
Mrs. Cartwright would never have said : " Oh ! dear, he was
1The way in which these passages are strung together may create the
impression that I was responsible for suggesting to the trance-personality
this particular bit of by-play. I am, however, quite clear in my own
mind that I did not suggest it, and that it was only its spontaneous
and frequent recurrence which led me to notice it.
132 [part
J. G. Piddington.
an unorthodox person." In her Daily Telegraphese the senti
ment would have transpired somewhat in this form : " I regret
to be compelled to observe that he was an individual who
possessed but slight regard and respect for the accepted con
ventionalities of social existence." The following effort of a
modern lady novelist might have been written by Mrs.
Cartwright, and would certainly have met with her approba
tion :—" The burnt child is proverbially a dissenter from the
form of religion established by Zoroaster."
But I think I have said enough to indicate what part Mrs.
■Cartwright played in the series of sittings now under con
sideration. I draw attention elsewhere (see p. 212) to a
■case where Nelly appears to have remained in ignorance for
some time of a fact known to Mrs. Cartwright, and I have also
•described (see p. 173) a tiff between the two ; and it only remains
for me here to put on record two grammatical slips made by
that otherwise immaculate stylist, Mrs. Cartwright ; and both,
I regret to say, occurred at the sitting which had been enlivened
by the tiff, and at which Nelly, who was very sore, complained
that Mrs. Cartwright had criticised her culture :—" Mrs. Cart
wright says I'm illiterate."
Nelly's grammar, it is true, is not above reproach, but, in
spite of her choice diction, no more is Mrs. Cartwright's. I
had handed to the medium a cap, and Nelly failed to give
more than one, though that a very essential, fact about its
owner, so Mrs. Cartwright undertook to come to the rescue, and
•expressed her intention as follows :—" With regard to that cap,
Sir, I'm not prepared with any information about it ; but I will
(sic] be able to fathom it out for you. It may be even now
one or two months before I can give details about it, but I
shall eventually do all that you desire."
Note the " I will be able." This is not the language of a
purist. But a more palpable error occurred in the same sitting.
I was the only person present, and Nelly had been giving facts
about Archbishop Benson, although I had not handed to the
medium any object associated with him. Mrs. Cartwright broke
in in reproving tones :—
" I'm afraid that child (i.e. Nelly) has been strolling out of
her usual path, and not attending to the usual round. I refer
•to the Archbishop, you know. It was not given when the
xLvn.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 133
relative of the person, or any article belonging to the person
was present. It is only us [sic] higher spirits who do not
have to make use of material objects in order to obtain
information. You must not allow her to talk of trivial subjects,
but send her back to us. Things that you make use of as
evidence seem rather debasing to us."
I have quoted more of the passage than was necessary to
show the grammatical error involved in using " us spirits "
in the nominative, as it is an admirable illustration of Mrs.
Cartwright's high-falutin' and consequential style. If it
should be argued that these occasional grammatical lapses are
due to what Dr. Hodgson calls a defect in the machine, I
would reply that though Nelly's speech is slangy and incorrect
—in keeping with her character, for she is half Puck, half
gamin, though entirely lovable—not only is Mrs. Thompson's
language vastly more refined and accurate than Nelly's, but
the " Mr. D." control, who has occasionally spoken with great
fluency and ease in my presence, talks as good English as one
can wish to hear.
The occasional mistakes of Mrs. Cartwright are not at all
difficult to reconcile with the theory that she is the spirit
of a middle-class woman of imperfect education (it should be
borne in mind that she was not a teacher, but the proprietress
of a school), who piqued herself upon her superior command
of language ; but it is not quite so easy to explain them if
she is a secondary personality ; for if " Mr. D." can be made
to speak correctly, why not Mrs. Cartwright also ?
Sitting of February 1st, 1900.
There had been a break in the trance of long duration,
over an hour and a half in fact. Shortly before the medium
was re-entranced she said she thought Mrs. Cartwright might
be coming to control. Later on Mrs. Cartwright did control ;
but she was preceded by the control whom I call here " Mr.
D." This control spoke only a dozen words, and disappeared.
Nelly then came on the scene for a moment to say that
Mr. D. had made a mistake, and added that Mrs. Cartwright
would explain better than herself what had happened. Mrs.
Cartwright's explanation was that she could not explain Mr.
D.'s sudden and confused intrusion ; and then the matter
134 [part
J. G. Piddington.
dropped. But the episode was an interesting one to witness,
for the change of controls was effected very rapidly and with
complete ease, only a moment's silence between the going
away of one and the arrival of the next ; the medium displayed
no symptoms of physical discomfort, and the alterations of
personality, occurring as they did within the space of a minute
or two, brought out into strong relief the distinctive features
of these the three principal controls. Mr. D.'s intrusion was
most lifelike and natural, his behaviour and slight discomposure
weie just like those of a person who has entered a room by
mistake and found a stranger in it.
But Mrs. Cartwright is not the only spirit whom Nelly
represents as being, as it were, behind the scenes during the
progress of the trance phenomena and assisting in the play.
Throughout the whole series of sittings, even where it is not
categorically stated, Nelly evidently means it to be inferred
that she is often in direct communication with other spirits,
as, for instance, the friends of the sitters. The directness of
the intercourse seems to vary ; at one instant she appears
to be quoting their actual words, and at another to be drawing
facts out of them without their knowledge or approval. Dr.
van Eeden failed to appreciate this complex phase of the
phenomena, and was led to give expression to an opinion
which is I believe unfounded. He writes (see Proceedings,
Part XLIV., p. 84):
" I feel sure that genuine direct information is far rarer
than the medium believes, and in good faith would have us
believe." [I take it that " the medium " here means " the
medium in trance," i.e. the trance-personality.] " I hold that
a certain amount of unconscious play-acting is nearly always
going on."
And again (ibid., p. 82), "I could follow the process and
perceive when the genuine phenomena stopped and the uncon
scious play-acting began. In hardly perceptible gradations
the medium takes upon herself the role of the spirit, completes
the information, gives the required finish, and fills in the gaps
by emendation and arrangement."
This is in my view a misreading of the situation. Play
acting of a sort there may be : though to apply such a term
to genuine phenomena is not very illuminating.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 135
Nelly does not try to pass herself off as another communi
cating spirit, nor to represent as coming directly from another
spirit information which she has herself acquired telepathically
or clairvoyantly, let us say, or at any rate in some way
other than by direct and mutually conscious intercourse with
another spirit. Indeed she sometimes is at pains to guard
against any misconception of this kind arising, and after
having jumbled up messages from a spirit with other facts
learnt by herself she will carefully differentiate the one from
the other, and at the same time intimate that the more
authentic of the two are the facts derived directly from the
spirit.
It is true that if Nelly's exact words are not caught,
it might appear sometimes as if she were trying to pass
herself off as another spirit ; but there is, I am convinced,
no intent to deceive here, the confusion is due to the com
pulsion she feels to get things " off her chest." I use
this slang phrase advisedly, because I think it hits off the
situation. She either comes to a sitting primed with facts
which she feels she must divulge before she has time to
forget them, or else a sentence reaches her couched in the
first person singular, and she repeats it just as she
receives it except for transposing it into the third person,
or gives it in the first person with the prefix " he " or " she
says." Her chief anxiety is to give statements of fact, aud
other considerations are only secondary. But to any one
familiar with Nelly's style it is nearly always clear when she
is purporting to be in direct communication with a spirit
and when not ; though very occasionally there are indications
that Nelly is herself unaware of the source of her knowledge.
In support of what I here maintain I append some quota
tions, by no means all that might be cited, but selected
specimens. These quotations will also serve to illustrate the
different methods by which Nelly claims to obtain information.
Sittinrj of December 4th, 1899.
Dr. van Eeden asks for details about his father-in-law.
Nelly at once makes a statement, which perhaps had some
significance. Thereupon Dr. van Eeden asks, " How do you
know i " and Nelly replies, " He says ' My son is a doctor.' "
K
136 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
She then goes off on to another topic, but Dr. van Eeden
brings her back to the subject of his father-in-law again, and
more statements are given as coming from him, or rather it
is to be so inferred from the style in which they are made.
Then Nelly says, " He has somebody belonging to him ill now,
not very ill, has to lie down and be careful."
Dr. van Eeden :—" How do you know ? "
Nelly :—" I see a picture of a lady lying down ; she ought
to be in bed. She's not well at all."
Here it will be noticed that Nelly does not claim to have
derived the (correct) fact about the invalid lady directly from
Dr. van Eeden's father-in-law, but from a (clairvoyant) picture.
Yet a few sentences later she names him as her authority for
another (also correct) statement, and again goes on to complain
that he does not pronounce a foreign name which she is
trying to get sufficiently clearly for her to catch it.
Sitting of December 4th, 1899. (Evening.)
Nelly describes the symptoms of a friend of Dr. van Eeden's,
and adds, " This is a description. I can ask him."
" A description " in Nelly's lingo means that she is seeing
a picture in contradistinction to receiving information direct
from a spirit. She then gives further details about the same
person, some true and some false, and Dr. van Eeden asks her
if the spirit is himself speaking to her. " Yes," replies Nelly,
" but yet I can't say he does. He speaks to some one who
tells me."
In connection still with the same spirit more facts were
being given, Nelly speaking slowly as if repeating the words of
an informant. This led Mrs. Verrall, who was recording, to
say, " He is speaking now, is he not ? " Nelly assents, but
nevertheless she was using the third person, not the first.
Sitting of January 18th, 1900 (Mr. Wilson's First Sitting).
The trance was twice broken. In the first part the chief
subject of the communications, Miss Clegg, is not represented
as being present ; at the beginning of the second part she is
said to have come to Nelly in the interval and told Nelly to
ask for her ring to be given to the medium. In the third
xlvii.J Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 137
she is supposed to be communicating not directly, but through
the intermediary of Nelly.
Sitting of January 23rd, 1900 (Mrs. Benson's Second Sitting).
At no time throughout this sitting is any spirit represented
as communicating either directly or through Nelly, but at the
close of it Nelly remarks: "When I can find the young man
he will tell me all about it. He's very interested, but not
quite convinced, rather guarded. In his heart rather religious
scruples about me talking."
Nelly here is careful to point out unasked that on this occa
sion the " young man " (i.e. a deceased son of Mrs. Benson's
who had been mentioned at her first sitting) is not himself
taking any part in the trance-communications ; yet she ap
parently claims to have met him in the spirit-world, and
expects to meet him again.
Sitting of January 25th, 1900.
At this, Mr. "Wilson's" second sitting, Miss Clegg was again
the chief subject of the communications, but not until the end
is she represented as being within close enough range of Nelly
to allow of the direct transmission of messages. At one point
Nelly says : " She isn't a lady who takes notice when I tell
her I'm talking ; " and then somewhat later she makes a state
ment which is in superficial contradiction at least with the
last : " I couldn't find the lady anywhere. I could only find a
brother of this gentleman (i.e. Mr. Wilson) who died, etc."
And then she turns to the sitter and says : " Will you come
and talk secrets ? Perhaps the lady will come in a minute."
Towards the end the lady seems to get into closer relation with
Nelly, for after saying, " Somehow or another I think that lady
sent a message," Nelly proceeds to deliver four messages for
Mr. Wilson, and although it is not definitely stated that Miss
Clegg's words are being repeated textually, yet the messages
are worded in a way which not only suggest, but I have no
doubt were intended to suggest, that they emanated consciously
from the spirit.
138 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Sitting of February 1st, 1900.
1 was the only person present at this sitting. The medium
was entranced very quickly, and before I had time to hand
any object to her, Nelly spontaneously started off on subjects
connected with Mrs. Benson—spontaneously, that is, in the sense
that I had not suggested the topic to her, though possibly it
was suggested to her by Mrs. Thompson having shown me before
trance began an entry in her diary recording a communication
made to her by Nelly about Archbishop Benson. Possibly,
however, this is an example of Nelly's anxiety to unburden
herself of an accumulated store of facts before they have time
to fade from her memory ; for she remarks early in the sitting,
" I have been working hard, finding out about all these people."
Then, after a very brief digression, she reverts to Mrs. Benson's
belongings :
" I've still got the ecclesiastical on my mind. There's an
ecclesiastical standing by you (i.e. by J. G. P.). He has got a
night-shirt on—a respectable night-shirt—loose, blue sleeves ;
no, balloon sleeves—ribbon tied round—full all round. Broad
face."
" Is he really there ? " I ask, " or do you see a picture of
him ? "
" He's showing himself so that I can describe him. He's
rather unapproachable. I can't ask him anything." ..." He's
not a talking gentleman. He's asking for you." (This second
association of Archbishop Benson with myself is quite mean
ingless, and I think it possible that it is to be explained by a
momentary forgetfulness on Nelly's part that I and not Mrs.
Benson was the sitter. Cf. p. 213.)
Then follows another description of the spirit's dress ; and
after this he is said to be asking for some information about
some one named Christopher; but in the middle of the refer
ences to Christopher Nelly interjects this odd remark ; " He's
almost like a queen. He's talking to the. Queen like a great
man." I call it odd, because almost in the same breath Nelly
describes a past event in the life of the spirit and what he is at
the moment engaged upon in the spirit-world, both equally in
the present tense. It is a fine chronological jumble, but at the
same time an instructive one, for it bears witness to the com
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance 139
plexity of the processes employed by the control and tells in
favour of the spontaneity of the phenomena.
The two processes which I believe were in operation—perhaps
in simultaneous, and anyhow in rapidly successive operation—
were converse, direct or telepathic, or both, between the trance-
personality and a spirit, and clairvoyant perception of facts
about this spirit. I do not mean that I hold that to be the
real explanation of the phenomena, but I do hold that the thing
presents itself to the trance-personality somewhat as I describe,
and that whether spirits be involved in the matter or no, know
ledge reaches the consciousness of the entranced medium in the
manner stated or adumbrated in the trance-utterances, and that
there is nothing to show that there is any play-acting on the
part of the trance-personality, and, on the contrary, much—
especially in the artless consistency of the allusions to . the
modus operandi—to disprove it.
At the conclusion of the references to " Christopher," Nelly,
alluding to the spirit from whom the Christopher messages
purported to come, said : " He doesn't like me to talk. He
has got religion in his heart and won't talk to me. He says
he's tolerant to all men. . . ." (Here came an interjected
remark about an object connected in no way with Mrs. Ben
son.) " He nearly said he had many cranks to deal with
in his lifetime. I don't like him to be so consequential."
After this Nelly went off to entirely different topics ; and
subsequently Mrs. Cartwright expressed her disapproval of
Nelly having attempted to talk of matters concerning Mrs.
Benson when she was not present ; as if she wished to indi
cate that Nelly had been exceeding her powers in trying to
get within range of spirits belonging to Mrs. Benson's sur
roundings, when the conditions were not favourable. In any
event it is obvious that Nelly was in a confused state of mind
as to whether she was holding converse or not with the spirit
about whom she was speaking. First she says he is showing
himself in order that she can describe his personal appear
ance, then that he is rather unapproachable, and that she
can't ask him anything, next that he is asking a question and
sending a message, and that he doesn't like to talk, and, not
withstanding, finally reports observations which he apparently
addresses to her.
140 [PAltT
J. G. Piddington.
It is best to record these puzzling and complicated state
ments without seeking to explain or reconcile the contradictions.
I would offer only one reflection, namely that, whatever diffi
culties these complexities may raise on the assumption that
the phenomena are either what they are represented to be, or
are at any rate supernormal, as great difficulties arise on the
assumption that the phenomena are fraudulent ; for, though an
impostor might introduce complexities through a momentary
failure to carry through with perfect consistency either an
elaborate or a simple scheme of mystification, neither from cal
culated artifice nor from want of skill would so erratic a
portrayal of the methods of spirit communication be likely to
result as we are offered in the foregoing instance.
Sitting of February 6th, 1900.
At the end of this sitting another method by which Nelly
obtains information is disclosed. I alone was present, but, as
at the previous stance, Nelly referred to Mrs. Benson's affairs
among others.
Just before the trance concluded she said : " Canon, then
Bishop Bowlby, he came and talked through mother. You
know that old gentleman, Mr. Benson, he was an extreme friend
of his. He told mother. He has been talking to mother."
(For comments on other aspects of this episode, see p. 174.)
Here the source of Nelly's information seems to be the medium
herself, rather than Bishop Bowlby, for Mrs. Thompson, when
she awoke, repeated what Nelly had said, with the exception
of one assertion, namely, that the prelate " was very pompous,"
a fact which she would hardly be expected to have learnt from
the man himself.
As this again sounds intolerably " anthropomorphic," I once
more guard myself against a charge of accepting the phenomena
at their face value, and emphasise the fact that my aim here
is to render a roughly systematised account of the trance-drama
as depicted in the trance-utterances.
Sitting of April IWi, 1900.
Dr. Dessoir was the sitter on this occasion, but interspersed
among communications addressed to him were frequent refer
ences to my own affairs. My mother, too, was represented as
XLVIi.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 141
taking an active part on the other side in the effort to com
municate. She suggests to Nelly that she should ask Dr.
Dessoir for a certain object, and Nelly adds : " I don't under
stand, but somehow the old lady belonging to you is interested
in finding out things for this gentleman."
And then again later she is said to have been talking to
" Mr. D.," " but she didn't think him such an angel as we do."
Yet later on, when the medium was holding an object that
had belonged to my mother, Nelly complains that she seems
" rather indistinct," adding, however, as if in explanation, " she
couldn't talk very distinctly before she died." This, I believe,
was not the ease ; but it may have been a conjecture of Nelly's
to account for the inaudibility of the spirit's conversation, for
she creates the impression of reporting scraps of information
which are being told her by the spirit, and which she has
great difficulty in catching. Here, as elsewhere,, it is clear
that when spirits are represented as " present," or within ear
shot, or within visible range of Nelly, their proximity fluctuates
spasmodically and capriciously ; they flit into focus and out
again like figures in a cinematograph.
Sitting of May 1st, 1900.
This was Mrs. Benson's third sitting, and though, as described
above, Archbishop Benson had formerly been supposed to have
been within near enough range for Nelly to describe his ap
pearance, and to repeat messages sent by him, on this occasion
it is expressly and spontaneously denied by Nelly that he is
present.
" The person belonging to it isn't here a bit. I see a bright
colour, though confused."
At the end of the sitting a dramatic scene occurred (see
p. 212), in which Nelly displays great agitation in conse
quence of discovering—what Mrs. Cartwright already knew—
the identity of " the clergyman who wears the night-shirt over
his clothes."
Following on the long delayed discovery came another passage
of considerable dramatic vividness :—
Nelly :—" What is this ? He wants to say—Mrs. CartWright's
saying it out loud. She can't say it out loud. Write it "
142 [I'ART
J. G. Piddmgton.
(these two last words seemed to be addressed by way of advice
by |Nelly to Mrs. Cartwright.) (The medium here took a pencil
and paper and wrote, apparently under the stress of much
agitation, as follows:—
" He desires me to convey to you his intention to tell you
of his private life apart from his public one. If possible alone,
May 30th.")
Nelly :—" He doesn't want you {i.e. Mr. Myers) to hear, or
any one : he is very certain. Mrs. Cartwright fetched him out.
He doesn't want any one to be there. Mrs. Cartwright has
made him promise that. Very important. May 30th. The
Grey Lady wants to take me home."
Thus it will be seen that throughout this sitting the spirit
about whom facts are being given never comes within Nelly's
range at all.
She sees him only as a bright colour in the distance. Mrs.
Cartwright, however, gets into closer relations ; she " fetched
him out," and is the bearer of a message from him, which she
conveys not by speech, but by writing. Nelly repeats verbally
the substance of the message, and then announces that " the
Grey Lady " (a spirit who plays a subordinate part in the
trance-drama, see p. 147) has come "to take her home."
Sitting of May 30th, 1900.
It might have been expected on any hypothesis of the pheno
mena after this very definite and impressively made appointment
that on May 30th the Archbishop would have been represented,
at the least, as in direct and easy communication with Nelly,
and had he controlled directly no surprise could have been felt.
Yet as a matter of fact neither of these two things took place.
Mrs. Benson sat with Mrs. Thompson alone, acting both as
sitter and recorder, in order to satisfy the desire for privacy
expressed at the last seance. There were good things in the
sitting, but it was neither better nor worse, or at any rate
not markedly so, than the other sittings attended by Mrs.
Benson. Nothing of a specially intimate character was men
tioned, and the best thing given was obtained not from the
spirit concerned, but, so it seems, by means of a clairvoyant
impression received by Nelly from Mrs. Benson's daughter.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson'* Trance. 143
Apart from this particular instance, throughout the sitting
there is a disorderly amalgam of communications, based at one
moment on information supplied from the soi-disant Archbishop,
and at the next on telepathic or clairvoyant impressions.
The stance opened in this way :
Nelly :—" This was the day when time gentleman said he
wanted to come and talk. . . . Now I've got to ask that
gentleman to tell you things. There is an Alice the old
gentleman is very fond of." [Wrong.] He wants to know if
you are lonely, if you are all lonely. What's that weakly
lady with you ? She is getting stronger ; it's like nerves."
[This allusion has significance, but had been made before.]
Was General Buller when you saw him ? " [Mrs. Benson
knows General Sir K. Buller.]
(Here Mrs. Benson handed a ring containing hair to the
medium.)
Nelly :—" Two generations—two gentlemen. [Wrong.] . . .
" The old gentleman has met his dead brother. [The brother
was dead.]
" He had a carriage accident in a country place." [Wrong.]
Then, after some other details, " The old gentleman says he
isn't as interested as you are. He's very happy, perfectly happy
without communications, and he doesn't think you need so
much of his evidence. . . .
" I see the old books of his in the study. No earthly use
having them ; no use your keeping and worrying with them."
[Mrs. Benson notes :—" Our house is full of books we have kept.
We scarcely know what to do with them, and yet don't like
to part with them."]
And so in this fashion the communications continue for some
time, with an occasional message from " the old gentleman," but
nowhere is any personal note struck, such as might well have
been looked for under the circumstances. Then the seance
concludes thus :—
" He (i.e. the Archbishop) blames me—the things he wants
to say. He says one of the boys is going to publish a new
book in the autumn. It will bring him more success than
anything he has published before, but if he can't get it published
in the autumn, he must wait till May; not winter. The old
gentleman is very spiritual : really in a higher world than I
144 [part
J. G. Piddington.
am. Just as difficult for him to tell me as it is for me to tell
you. He is quite a stranger to me. What do you think he
is a clergyman for ? He is not come of a clergyman's family."
Kegarded solely from the point of view of drama, the com
munications at this sitting constitute the flattest anticlimax.
The spirit who announced with so much precision and empresse-
mcnt his intention of communicating seems to have grown
lukewarm in the matter, and Nelly on her part appears to
make no special effort to carry out the intention expressed at
the former sitting, and to prefer picking up scraps of information
by some other method than by holding converse with a remote
spirit.
Sitting of June oth, 1900.
A promise had been given by Nelly that a friend of Dr.
van Eeden's, who had committed suicide, should control directly
at this sitting.
Mr. Myers and Mr. F. N. Hales were present with Dr. van
Eeden at the beginning, and when they left the room Nelly
said to Dr. van Eeden :—" I want you by myself. I do not
like them to know all these things. ... It is not that he
(i.e. the suicide) did not want to come himself, but the strange
gentleman upset him." She then proceeded to give facts about
the suicide and messages from him, and in conclusion said :—" I
do not want to put you off, but next Thursday I promise yon
that he will speak. I want you all by myself."
Silting of June 7th, 1900.
I must refer the reader to Proceedings, Part XLIV., pp. 100-
111, for the report of this sitting, as a summary could not
furnish an intelligible account of the dramatic play and of the
alternations in the controls. I imagine that Dr. van Eeden's
charge of unconscious play-acting was based principally on what
took place at this sitting. The action and the utterance pro
ceeded too rapidly to allow Dr. van Eeden time to take down
a verbatim record, but, judging from the record which he was
able to make, I cannot understand why he supposes that there
is a tendency in Mrs. Thompson's case to exaggerate the extent
and duration of the direct control of a communicating spirit.
So far as I can see, there is no attempt on the part of the Nelly
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 145
control to personate the suicide. The communications, con
sistently with what can be observed elsewhere in Mrs.
Thompson's trance, fall under three heads : (a) impressions about
the spirit, the source of which is not explained ; (b) messages
purporting to be given by the spirit to Nelly : (c) direct control
by the spirit ; and no one who has studied the characteristic
form of Mrs. Thompson's trance-utterances could be in doubt
as to when one control was supposed to have ceased and when
the other was supposed to take up the thread.
Sitting of July \bth, 1900.
Mr. and Mrs. Percival's first sitting. Mr. Myers recording.
Mrs. Cartwright was the only direct control, though the
Percivals' son was, so to speak, in close touch with the control,
and sending messages and information through her. She had
correctly stated that the boy had died from measles, and that
he "had spots over him like measles"; "his face looked
red " ; and added the reflection :—" He thinks it was funny
to describe a spirit with a red blotchy face."
Throughout the sitting many glimpses are afforded of what
is supposed to be going on on the other side.
Mrs. Cartwright opened with the words :—" Mr. Piddington
is just as dictatorial to me as I was in old days to the
children " ; which may have been intended as an explanation
of the infrequency of her appearances at sittings where I was
recorder.
A book that had belonged to W. Stainton Moses was handed
to the medium, but nothing came of this except that the
medium's hand wrote " William Stainton," and that subse
quently Mrs. Cartwright said that she saw little chance of
getting at Moses, who was in a different part of the spiritual
world. She also denied all knowledge of the Imperator group.
Mr. Myers asked what had first interested Mrs. Cartwright
in the subject of spirit communication, and she replied as
follows :—" I abhorred the subject of Spiritualism when on
earth. Yet I could not help thinking about it, and I made up
my mind that the first thing I would do on the other side
was to see whether there was any truth in it, and then, if
possible, come back and tell people it was all nonsense."
H6 [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
Mrs. Cartwright's meaning is clear enough, but her manner
of expressing it suggests that she must have had more than
a drop of Irish blood in her veins.1
Mr. Myers then congratulated her on the improvement in
her own control, " which," he says, " is to-day more flowing
and natural than ever before," and she admits that she can
now control more easily.
Then Mr. Myers asked if more than two sittings a week
were advisable. Mrs. Cartwright answers that she herself does
not think that there would be any harm in increasing the
number, but she must refer the question to Edmund Gurney
and Mr. D., "who are giving orders now." (See p. 299.)
She goes away to consult them, and on her return breaks
into a conversation between Mr. Myers and the sitters, apolo
gises for the interruption, and says :—" I can hear the confused
murmur of voices. I am interrupting. I have consulted Mr.
D. He thinks that besides two sittings there might be a
trance each week at home, when objects brought might be
considered."
Then, as if her return to the atmosphere of the seance-room
reminded her of what had been going on before she went
away, she remarks :—" The boy (i.e. E. H. Percival) is a jolly
little chap. He can't understand why he is wanted to talk
about himself. ' Mother and auntie,' he says, ' know much
more than I do about myself.' "
Yet it is a noticeable fact—an example of the undesigned
and subtle consistency of the trance phenomena—that when
some months later E. H. Percival controlled directly, the
medium exhibited symptoms corresponding to those that the
boy himself had in his last illness ; the breathing was laboured,
curious noises were made in the lungs, there was constant
restlessness accompanied by coughing, and the control spoke of
his dislike of being poulticed. So long, therefore, as the boy was
only represented as conversing with Nelly, he cannot under
stand why the symptoms of his last illness should be mentioned ;
1 Of. F. U. S. Schiller's Humanitm, p. 288 :—" Even if a ghost returned
to announce to us the complete extinction of the soul at death, we could
not credit so Hibernian an assertion." Mr. Schiller wrote, I believe, in
ignorance of Mrs. Cartwright's ' Hibernian assertion,' as did I in ignorance
of his suppositious post-mortem Irish bull.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompsons Trance. 147
but as soon as he controls the medium, physical symptoms
analogous to those from which he suffered before death are
not only manifested in the medium's organism, but form the
subject of the trance-utterance.
Mr. Myers then asked whether she can see any spirit
higher than the governing group, mentioning as one of
that group. " No," she replied, " while I am doing this work
I am excluded from the power of even visualising spirits
higher than these. Names are hard to recall in the trance.
If you had not said ' ' I should not have known the
name of Nelly's ' Grey Lady.' "
The " Grey Lady " is Nelly's name for a well-known authoress
who is supposed to take an active interest in the direction of
Mrs. Thompson's trance-phenomena ; she has already been re
ferred to as waiting to take Nelly " home " at the end of a
trance. (See p. 142.)
Earlier in the sitting Mr. Myers had asked who were
going to control Mrs. Thompson later on. Mrs. Cartwright
said :—" X. Y. will control. She tried yesterday ; she could
not do it gently ; she threw the sensitive on the floor, but
did not hurt her. She was selected by spirits before she
died for this purpose ; she was prepared even in the old
days."
I do not give the name of the spirit here mentioned by
Mrs. Cartwright, because, if this spirit did purport to control
some other medium than Mrs. Thompson, such a development
would be interesting in view of Mrs. Cartwright's assertions :
the more so because the lady mentioned was not the kind of
person likely to suggest itself to the rather conventional fancy
of the ordinary entranced medium.
This is not the only occasion on which a tyro in the art
of controlling has been said to have thrown the medium down
as a consequence of clumsy and inexperienced exertions. Mrs.
Thompson has several times told me that when alone at home
she has been thrown, sometimes with considerable violence,
on to the floor. She herself and Nelly also attributed this
to the ineffectual attempts of a certain spirit to gain control
of the medium. On one occasion, although I did not actually
witness Mrs. Thompson fall to the ground, I saw her lying on
the floor with the leg of a chair poised on her forehead,
148 [part
J. G. Piddington.
where it had raised a biggish bump. I examined this bump
very carefully ; it was evidently freshly caused, of that there
was no doubt, as the lump increased in size and in redness
after I first examined it. Mrs. Thompson was deeply entranced,
and though she showed signs of a good deal of physical dis
comfort, she did not appear to be aware of the bruise on her
forehead. Nearly an hour passed before I parted from her,
by which time the bruise had almost disappeared. Not even
when she awoke from the trance did she seem to suffer
pain from it, but rather from a general sense of malaise.
When she awoke from the trance after the fall I was anxious
to prevent her from going into trance again, but she seemed
compelled to relapse, and quite contrary to her usual custom,
which is to sit perfectly quietly in any sort of chair, she
sank on to the floor, and for some time seemed as if
about to be possessed by the same maladroit spirit as before ;
but gradually the agitated movements subsided and gave way
to the placid control of Nelly. The odd part about it was that
Nelly seemed in doubt as to who it was that had made the
ineffectual attempt to control and caused the rather distressing
symptoms. She was at first inclined to lay the blame on
the spirit who had been supposed to have thrown Mrs. Thomp
son to the ground when she was alone at home ; but afterwards
she was inclined to withdraw this statement and to substitute
the name of another spirit, who has occasionally controlled,
though, as far as I am aware, without causing any bodily
discomfort to the medium.
Sitliny of January 3rd, 1901.
E. H. Percival had been speaking directly, and at intervals
Nelly was telling facts about him. At the first sitting which
Mr. and Mrs. Percival had attended a plain red cap had
been given to the medium that had been E. H. Percival's
school cap ; but it was not presented at this sitting. Nelly
said :—" He was very fond of cricketing, and he wore a red
and black striped jacket ; striped blazer. He says it was a
blazer, not a jacket. (Then in a tone of mixed indignation
and contempt) ' Jacket,' he says ; ' It was a blazer.' " [Correct.]
It would be difficult to portray with a happier or a lighter
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 149
touch the importance which the schoolboy attaches to the use
of recognised terms, especially in matters of clothing, and his
bristling up when a mere girl misnames an object which has
only one possible designation for him.
Sitting of April l$th, 1900.
This sitting supplies another instance of the parenthetical
way in which Nelly intimates the modus operandi of the
trance. Referring to a lady whom she connects with Dr.
Max Dessoir, she says :—" Dead lady. I can see her. I don't
know what's the matter with her. ... It almost makes
my heart stop. (Here the medium puts her hand over the
heart as if in pain.) She is like here quite distinctly. She
doesn't believe I am really talking to you. She very much
objects to one talking to her."
Besides illustrating Nelly's method of acquiring information,
this passage also contains two interesting points.
(1) Although the spirit is clearly represented as not at close
range, the medium displays symptoms of experiencing a sympa
thetic physical pain akin to what the spirit herself is supposed
o have suffered.
If such sensitiveness is exhibited when there is no pretence
of direct obsession, it can hardly be surprising to find symptoms
of bodily disease far more strongly reproduced when a spirit
is supposed to be in actual possession of a medium's organism.
(2) Here as elsewhere (cf. pp. 137, 138, 139, 146), Nelly
intimates that scepticism is not confined to this side of the
veil, and that in her efforts to forward the cause of psychical
research she has to incur the invidious charge of being a
Paul Pry. If my memory serves me well, Phinuit likewise
has complained of the odium into which his inquisitiveness
into the affairs of strangers has brought him.
I did not have any regular sittings with Mrs. Thompson
for the purpose of getting communications on my own account ;
but in the course of three sittings I handed to the medium
objects which had belonged to my mother. Until Nelly had
discovered the identity of the owner of these objects, I most
carefully refrained, at least consciously, from giving any hint
that I was any more interested in these objects than in others
15(1 [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
belonging to other people which I was handing to the medium
at the same sittings. The most noticeable point about the
things, which were given in connection with my mother, was
that the best things were given just at the moments when
my mother was represented as being within very near range
of Nelly.
On the first of the three occasions, my mother was not
mentioned at all ; only my father, of whom a slight, though,
as far as it went, correct personal description was given, and
some other details (see pp. 118, 152-3).
On the second occasion, it was not suggested that my
mother was within speaking range of Nelly, and apparently
such facts as were given were obtained by means of clair
voyant pictures. Still the most striking passage occurred
immediately before Nelly attributed a statement to an un
specified " some one," whose words she heard and repeated.
On the analogy of what took place on the two subsequent
occasions, it would not be inconsistent to regard this " some
one " as my mother. The passage ran as follows :—
" A Mary belonging to this lady. Mary or Marian—a
daughter. And an Uncle John, who everybody has got.
Don't lose Margaret's hair. I heard some one say : ' Move
the hair belonging to Margaret.' "
The overheard sentence indirectly conveys a correct state
ment of fact, and conveys it in a way which can, I think,
without a strain be regarded as Nelly's rendering of a
sentence which might very naturally have been spoken by my
mother under the circumstances.
I had handed to the medium a lock of my mother's hair,
which was part of a larger quantity which had been in the
possession and keeping of my mother's daughter and my
sister Margaret for many years. My sister had given me a
portion of the hair some year or two before this. Nowhere
is it suggested or stated that the dead lady's name was Mar
garet, and though Nelly did not seem to understand what
was meant by the words, " Move the hair belonging to
Margaret," it is noticeable that Nelly did not, as might have
been expected, draw the inference from these words that
Margaret was the name of the dead lady.
The advice to remove or not to lose the hair was
XLvII.] Pfienomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 151
quite appropriate, for the trance was coming to an end,
and I was collecting the various objects and odds and ends
that I had brought to the sitting, and the tiny lock of hair
might very easily have been overlooked. I quoted the mention
of the two names given in connection with my mother imme
diately before the reference to the hair, because they are both
right, and, with the name Margaret, make three, albeit common,
names given close together, which, on the supposition that my
mother was really communicating, I should have expected to
have heard mentioned. Marian (not Mary) was a step-daughter,
always, however, spoken off as a daughter ; and the Uncle John,
" who," as Nelly, with the instinct of the psychical researcher,
remarked, " everybody has got," is my mother's only brother
and my only uncle, that is, my only uncle except for two
uncles by marriage, of whom I have hardly seen anything
at all.
At the next sitting at which mention was made of my
mother, only twice do the words used by Nelly suggest that
my mother was in direct converse with her ; and on each occa
sion the facts given were good.
" There was an Annie and a John belonging to her, not
Jack. She seemed to be deliberate over it, as if it were John."
At first sight it would seem as if this repetition of a John
in connection with the same person was inept and meaning
less. As a matter of fact, it is not so at all. Four members
of my mother's immediate family bore the name of John ; her
father, husband, brother, and son. She would naturally neither
speak nor think of her father by his Christian name. Her
husband was never called by his first name, John, but by his
second Christian name ; her brother, the " Uncle John " men
tioned above, was and is always called John, and never Jack ;
I, her son, am and always have been called Jack, and never
John. Although therefore Nelly does not seem to understand
why any care should be taken to distinguish carefully between
John and Jack, there was, as a matter of fact, need for
careful discrimination.
After the words : " She seemed to be deliberate over it, as
if it were John," Nelly continued without a break : " The
Annie was not like a daughter. She seems to be one that
she used to help. She made her a shawl once. Not help in
L
152 [PART
J. 6. Piddington.
monetary ways, but she helped her and knitted for her, and
she bought Annie an old-fashioned pedestal work-table."
This statement, made in February, 1900, I was not able
to verify until the end of September, 1903. I could not re
member any friend of my mother's whose Christian name was
Annie, and enquiries among my relations did not help to throw
any light on the matter. In the summer of 1903 I received
a letter from an old friend of my mother's, from whom I do
not remember having received a letter before ; though she may
perhaps have written me a letter of congratulation in 1894 ; but
in any case I had seen her only two or three times since my
early childhood, and her existence was so little in my con
scious thoughts that though at some time or other I must have
learnt that her name was Annie, the mention of the name
by Nelly never suggested this lady to my mind. When, how
ever, I noticed the signature of the letter, I recalled the
reference by Nelly to an Annie connected with my mother,
and so I went to see this old friend of my mother's. She
told me that my mother had " been exceedingly good and
kind " to her, and helped her in many ways. She had once,
and once only, knitted a shawl for her. She used to help her
with making clothes for her little children; and especially in
■devising and cutting out patterns for their dresses. She never
gave or bought her an old-fashioned pedestal work-table ; but
having come into possession of some furniture (whether by
purchase or inheritance, I cannot say) on the death of a
relation of my father's, and not needing it all herself, she
gave Annie some of it. This furniture was probably very old-
fashioned even then.
The correspondence is close, and interesting because, though
out of my subconscious memory might have been got the name
" Annie " as that of the friend of my mother, I think it very
unlikely that at any time in my existence had I heard of the
gift of a shawl, or of the help that my mother gave to
" Annie."
I think that such coincidence as there is between Nelly's
statements about this Annie and the real facts is the more
striking because there were two Annies mentioned by Nelly
in my sittings, one said to be connected with my father, and
the other with my mother. Not only at the time of the
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance.
sitting was I, but for more than three years and a half after
it I remained under the impression that the name was without
signi6cance in either connection. The day after I discovered
about my mother's friend Annie, from an entirely different
source, 1 learnt that my father had had a sister named Annie,
who died more than fifty years ago.
I had never, to the best of my knowledge, heard her men
tioned, nor did I know of her existence. My ignorance on
this point may seem curious, but my father outlived all the
immediate relations of his own generation by some twenty
years, and but rarely referred to them. He had, for instance,
an only brother, to whom he was deeply attached ; yet I never
heard him mention him, or even refer to his existence.
Nelly continues to give facts about my mother, but she
does not purport to recite her actual words except once, and
then, as I have already described, with telling effect. She is
speaking about a living relation of my mother's when she
exclaims :—" Oh ! dear, the lady says ' he was an unorthodox
person.' "
There is a note of amused despair at the unconventionality
of the relation's character which strikes me as most lifelike.
Nelly scored a double success, first in hitting off so neatly a
prominent characteristic of the individual in question, and then
in putting the phrase into the mouth of my mother. I am
well aware not only how difficult it is to convey to strangers
the force of little intimate touches of this kind, but also how
easily one may be led into reading into turns of phrase a special
appropriateness when really they are commonplace enough ;
yet neither of these considerations ought to deter me from
admitting with frankness when some small personal point has
produced on me a strong impression.
This sentence alone seems to have been directly inspired
by my mother, for when a little later on Nelly, making the
discovery that the lady about whom she had been speaking
was my mother, I asked :—" Where is she ? " I got the reply :
—" She doesn't seem to be in England." " No," I said, " I
mean in what sphere ? " " It's no good me pretending I know.
I can't see her ; I only see pictures."
At only one other sitting were communications supposed to
come from or about my mother. Though she was said to be
154 [part
J. G. Piddington.
assisting Nelly in discovering facts about the sitter, twice only
is the impression conveyed that she is conversing directly with
her, and then only once were the messages of an evidential
character. They were not so striking, or rather they did not
strike me so much, as the others which I have just cited ; yet
they were the best things said in the sitting. I will not, how
ever, quote them, because they would need a good deal of
explanation, and the point which I wish to make is that the com
munications which either purported, or which were so worded
as to lead me to infer that they purported, to come directly
from the communicating spirit, were more evidential and im
pressed me as more authentic than those which were merely
the outcome of Nelly's own researches.
Sitting of December 20th, 1900.
This was the first of the screen sittings (see p. 163) at
which I was present, and the second that had been tried. The
strange conditions not only annoyed Nelly, but also affected
her powers adversely. Whether the medium would have gradu
ally accustomed herself to them, or whether they would have
permanently hampered the full exercise of her abnormal
perceptive faculties, must remain an open question. I was told
by various critics that in thus rendering the conditions more
severe I was putting an undue strain on Mrs. Thompson's
mediumship, which, remarkable as it might be, would by reason
of the slightness of her trance prove unequal to the new test.
Had a prolonged enquiry shown a lower percentage of success
in screen sittings as compared with others where the sitters
were not hidden from the medium's view, and if similar experi
ments with other mediums produced similarly inferior results,
at any rate we should learn something about the conditions
which influence the exercise of trance-mediumship, instead of as
at present remaining without one glimmer of light to guide us
in such investigations. And I take it that while we do not at
present possess a sufficient mass of evidence to place beyond
doubt the fact of exercise of supernormal faculty, yet there is
enough presumptive evidence to justify us in varying the con
ditions (even though by doing so we diminish the stream of
purely " evidential " facts) in the hope of lighting upon some
law of the phenomena.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Tlumtpson's Trance. 155
After the experience gained at the half-dozen screen sittings
I am by no means sure that the concealment of the sitter
would have necessarily resulted in the eclipse or partial eclipse
of Mrs. Thompson's powers. None of these sittings, it is true,
could be accounted successful, but they were not entire failures,
and such falling off as there was from the general standard
ought not probably to be attributed wholly to the new conditions
but in part to other disturbing influences. And even where
the deterioration was plainly due to the concealment of the
sitter, I am disposed to think that the reason must be looked
for more in the subjective effect produced on the medium
than in the objective separation of the sitter from the medium.
In spite, however, and perhaps in consequence of the com
parative non-success of this sitting, it furnishes several hints of
the various modes of communication resorted to by Nelly,
given as usual in asides :—
"All these are pictures only; not from the lady herself." . . .
"Some knitted bedroom slippers. There's such a lot of
pictures of things."
J. G. P. :—" Can't you get at the people themselves ? "
Nelly :—" Not yet ; they can't understand how to get at
things."
J. G. P. :—" Are they trying now ? "
Nelly.—"Yes, for they've tried before this time."
..." Do you think Mrs. Benson writes poetry ? [ can
only see that old gentleman. Why did you (i.e. J. G. P,)
talk about Mrs. Benson ? "
J. G. P.:—"I didn't."
Nelly :—" Well, I can hear somebody talking about Mrs.
Benson."
(Mrs. Benson was as a matter of fact the sitter, though she
had up to this point been hidden from the medium, but as
she had inadvertently whispered a few words to me, and since,
as a former sitter, she might have been recognised by her
walk, or breathing, or by some other such clue, one is not
bound to conclude that there was anything supernormal in
Nelly's allusion.)
"... I wish you'd tell Mrs. Benson to come and see me."
J. G. P.:—"Why?"
Nelly :—" I only want to tell her that something made them
156 [part
J. G. Piddington.
very thirsty when coming in the train from Ober-Amergau.
Somebody belonging to Mrs. Benson, who took care of them
when they went there, told me that." ..." I can only see
Mrs. Benson now. To begin with the beginning. First comes
the old lady belonging—You do mix it up, you know." (This
remark was not apparently addressed to me, but sotto voce to
spirits.) . . .
(On the removal of the screen.) " You can use the screen
until I've found out six more people. You see, I scored off
you. It's more harder work. I can never find spirits when
I've got anything earthly to find. I can only see pictures.
I don't mean that you are earthly, darling Mrs. Benson ; but
you understand." . . .
" I didn't find anything or anybody. I shall only talk
nonsense if I go on."
This distinction between seeing pictures and direct converse
with a spirit is again brought out in the sitting of January 3rd,
1901. Nelly, referring to the Percival control, says:—"He's
gone away, and there's a picture only."
J. G. P. :—" Won't he come back ? "
Nelly :—" He'll come back soon. He's talking so much to Mr.
Moses. He's a kind of little Moses—a disciple of Moses."
From the record of the sitting of January 8th, 1901, I take
the following illustrations of the trance-mechanism :—
" I can see King's Cross written up in front of my eyes ; not
my mother's eyes. You see the difference ? "
(Referring to the Geoffrey Scott control) " He's trying to find
out [certain information]. My mother's very disagreeable. I'm
only looking after her while Geoffrey's gone away. ... He
can't remember what he said he'd write last night ; but he can't
remember it now. He has got to impress it on Mother's brain,
and Tm using half Mother's brain."
The locus classicvs on the fitful variations in the continuity of
the trance and normal consciousness is to be found in the sitting
of January 29th, 1901. It is worth quoting in full, because it
shows that Nelly recognises and admits not only various sources
of information, but also variation in the authenticity of her own
utterances.
" Sometimes I can really be my mother. Sometimes I can
really think with my mother's thoughts into other people's
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 157
hearts, and sometimes I am really myself, not a bit my mother, a
spirit talking to spirits. When I'm really a spirit talking, every
thing in mother is quiet, like an empty house. When I'm a bit
of my mother, it's like as if I was in an inhabited house, though
I can't see the inhabitant. When I'm inside mother and she's
not right away I seem to hear things said and thought, and
don't know whether it's my mother or something else. ' I
haven't the power to discriminate,' Mr. Sidgwick says that of
it. He can hear me quite well now."
J. G. P. :—" Ask him about ' Trevelyan's transferred.' "
Nelly :—" No, I can't make him understand. I should only
guess."
This avowal was unprovoked by any enquiry on my part, and
its frankness may be compared with other instances where Nelly
has been at some pains to prevent equal confidence being placed
in all her statements indiscriminately.
(4) The Kelations between Mrs. Thompson's Normal
Consciousness and the Trance-Consciousness.
The most marked difference between Mrs. Thompson awake
and Mrs. Thompson entranced lies perhaps in the modification
of the speech. There is an alteration in the manner and also
in the facial play, but both are less clearly defined, and liable to
considerable variation, so much so that at times it would be very
hard, if not impossible, to say whether the Nelly manner and
expression of face or Mrs. Thompson's ordinary manner and
expression preponderated. But between the diction of Mrs.
Thompson and the diction of Nelly there is so great a
divergence that it cannot ever be open to doubt as to which
of the two is supposed to be speaking. Mrs. Cartwright quite
rightly described Nelly as illiterate, and Nelly recognises and
regrets her inability to express herself better : " I wish I could
speak more learned like," she once said. Mrs. Thompson, on the
other hand, is, I need hardly say, nothing of the kind. She
expresses herself both in speech and writing, particularly in the
latter, with intelligence and with rather more than ordinary
158 [part
J. G. Piddington.
precision, and, if not with the grammatical accuracy of a purist,
at least with no more frequent violations of the King's English
than we may any of us be guilty of from time to time. Nelly's
blunders are, on the contrary, committed wholesale, and they are
not merely the careless slips of a person who knows better, but
thorough-going downright barbarisms—the barbarisms of the
nursery, not of the street, however. This feature of the Nelly
personality seems to me equally puzzling on any hypothesis.
At the same time it would be unprofitable to discuss all the
extremely hypothetical points involved, and I content myself
with directing attention to the existence of a problem.
Instead of reproducing in my notes Nelly's mispronunciations
and other grammatical eccentricities, I as often as not sub
stituted for them the proper form of spelling or construction,
except where it seemed possible that some importance might
attach to the misuse of a word or phrase. It will be under
stood that when a recorder has all his work cut out to keep
pace with the trance-utterances, he does not wish to add to
the difficulty of his task by having to represent peculiarities of
speech by means of phonetic spelling. The written records
give, therefore, a rather too favourable idea of the correctness
of Nelly's speech. Still, I very often did have time to report
Nelly not only textually, but phonetically too. I quote some
of the worst specimens of her phraseology in order to make
clear how the illiterate Nelly differs from the educated Mrs.
Thompson.
" That makes like Madeira work."
" I telled you that before." (Yet the same afternoon the
correct form, " I told you," had been used—that is, supposing
that the recorder, Mrs. Verrall, who, however, usually noted
Nelly's ' baby-language,' had not amended Nelly's grammar.)
" He writed with you about mesmerism."
" Cappychising " for " catechising," " muggling " for " mud
dling," and such like childish coinages are frequent.
" It's more harder work."
" Somebody in Mrs. Piper's house they said."
'' She has got a very ill mother."
" X. writed it."
"Ask this lady what she writed in the train with this
pencil."
xlvil] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 159
"He said he writed it, and told the lady about it." ("Writed"
but "told," not "telled." Yet the correct form "wrote" is also
used by Nelly, and always by the Percival control.)
"She only thinked it."
" Tell Margaret to write to Mr. Myers and cheer him up like,
cheer him up."
"She wasn't a sort of consumptive die; much quicker."
" I went, but it was a ' muggled went.' "
These last two instances ought not perhaps to be regarded as
grammatical errors, but rather as a characteristic mode of speech,
and one not altogether foreign to Mrs. Thompson herself. Such
an expression, too, as the one quoted above : " Somebody in Mrs.
Piper's house they said": is due probably to the broken style
of utterance, and were one dealing with Thucydides instead of
Nelly the halting construction would be dignified or white
washed with the name of anacoluthon. Yet many and less
glaring errors in Nelly's speech cannot be got round in this
way, and it is quite certain not only that it would be impos
sible for the normal Mrs. Thompson to use such forms as " more
harder," " writed it," and so on, but that generally Nelly's speech
falls very far below the level of Mrs. Thompson's. Mrs. Cart-
wright's speech neither falls below nor rises above the level of
Mrs. Thompson's. Her parlance is sui generis, and cannot fortu
nately be compared with Mrs. Thompson's. It might be termed
pedantic were it not that pedantry usually connotes an ostenta
tious display of accurate knowledge ; the ostentation is there, but
the accuracy is not, as I have elsewhere shown (see pp. 132-3),
unless, indeed, Mrs. Cartwright's English, pure and undefiled at
its source, has been contaminated in the process of passing
through the speech centres of the less scholarly medium.
I once had a conversation of some twenty minutes' or half-
hour's duration with the " Mr. D." control, and though I
purposely recorded only a fragment of what was said on this
occasion, I was much struck with the accuracy and refinement
of the speech, and nothing said by this control on other occa
sions in my hearing has contradicted or diminished the impression
which I then received.
There was not enough direct speech uttered by the Percival
control to justify any detailed comparison being drawn between
it and the speech of the other controls or that of the medium ;
160 [part
J. G. Piddington.
but so far as it went, it struck me as being quite in keeping
with the character of the personality which this control was
supposed to represent. My contemporaneous note made on its
first manifestation ran thus :—" The part from ' Oh ! I can't
breath,' to ' my Oxford box ' [i.e. the utterances of the Percival
control] was not spoken in Nelly's voice, nor with her manner.
The speech was much slower and more refined."
I refer elsewhere to the character of the Sidgwick control
(see pp. 236-7), which was remarkably life-like. The direct
utterance, however, contained one ungrammatical phrase which
it would appear necessary to assign to the medium's own habits
of speech : " Alice will know that it's me that's written it."
Generally, though not perhaps invariably, Nelly must be
credited with knowing anything that is known to Mrs. Thomp
son ; and the range of common knowledge includes not only
domestic matters or matters in which Mrs. Thompson takes a
special interest, but all such general knowledge as may reason
ably be supposed to be part of the intellectual outfit of a
person of average education.
Nelly refers to mundane affairs, past and present, with easy
assurance, and has only once (see pp. 117-8) within my ex
perience thought herself called upon to explain how a spirit who,
one must not say, left this earth, but, one may say, who died at
the age of a few months is as glibly au courant of the affairs of
this mortal life as if she read her daily newspaper. She nick
names (behind his back) Dr. van Eeden " Brother Boer ": Dr.
van Eeden's father-in-law is described as having worn "a hat like
Tennyson," and knowledge of recent Dutch history is shown.
My mother is said to have " had a lot of people belonging
to her when alive who did a lot of talking, like Parliamentary ;
only they didn't act much ; they helped to make the laws,
but were not officials like Chamberlain, but like John Jones,
M.P., only not Cabinet Ministers." A congress was said to
have been attended by Dr. van Eeden, and the place where it
was held is thus particularised :—" You know the ' North Pole,'
P6le du Nord, where people sing and dance. Turning out
of the street in which was the ' North Pole ' was the big hall
where the Congress was held." She repeats scraps of Mr.
Thompson's conversation, and also of that of Mrs. Thompson. In
connection with an object handed to the medium she says :—" I
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 161
seem to have a feeling of Bruges—where the lace is—where
Ostend is." "How do you know it's Ostend?" I ask. "Oh!"
replies Nelly, " I see little wooden houses."
In one instance Nelly's memory fails where probably Mrs.
Thompson's would not have. She is trying to get hold of the
name " Guernsey," and defines it in this roundabout manner.
" It's very near, near England. Where does Mr. Marsden
[assumed name] live when not at Cheltenham ? Marsden Park?
I can't remember the name of the place ; only the hotel
where they all stayed," and then gives the name of the hotel
correctly. Mrs. Thompson had some time before this stayed
at the hotel named, and visited, with Mr. Marsden, Marsden
Park ; but though Nelly cannot recall the name of Mr. Mars-
den's place for the moment, it is clear that she implies that
she once had known it. The reference to Guernsey occurred
in connection with an incident which exemplifies another aspect
of the relations hetween the waking and the trance con
sciousness.
At the sitting held on the afternoon of January 5th, 1900,
Nelly remarked :—" Have you seen a shipwreck ? Because I
can see it. It is mixed up with Mr. Marsden. He is not in
it, but he has something to do with it. Mr. Marsden is very
ill with bronchitis : that's why he hasn't written to you [i.e.
J. G. P.]. It had got letters on the shipwreck. It's very near,"
etc., and the passage ends as already quoted.
The early editions of the evening newspapers of January
5th, 1900, contained accounts of the shipwreck of the G.W.R.
S.S. Ibex off the coast of Guernsey, and I myself had already
seen the announcements on the posters. I do not remember
if the steamer's name was given ; if not it would account for
Nelly confining herself to saying that " it had got letters on
the shipwreck."
I, however, made no remark to Mrs. Thompson when the
trance was over, and awaited developments. Our next meeting
was on January 10th, and at the conclusion of the sitting held
on that day Mrs. Thompson spontaneously told me that she had
learnt from Nelly that she (Nelly) had spoken about the ship
wreck, and she expressed her annoyance at Nelly's stupidity,
because she had read the news of the shipwreck on the news
paper posters on her way to my house on January 5th. It
162 [part
J. G. Piddington.
would, in my view, be absurd to charge Mrs. Thompson with
having knowingly introduced into the trance-utterances this
reference to the Guernsey shipwreck ; I entertain too high an
opinion of her intelligence to be able to suppose that she, who
has every reason to be well acquainted with the methods of
our Society, entertains so low an opinion of our intelligence as
to imagine that she could pass off as supernormally acquired this
item of news which the very simplest enquiry would have shown
to have been within the range of her normal consciousness. A
nearly parallel case is cited below (see pp. 179-180), a case
which I equally and for the same reasons find it impossible
to regard as suspicious. The interest of these two cases lies
rather in the fact that they suggest that Nelly is not always
aware of the real source of her information, or as Nelly herself
defines the position, " When I'm inside Mother and she's not
right away I seem to hear things said and thought and don't
know whether it's my mother or something else." Now it is
noticeable that these two instances of the reproduction in trance
of specific pieces of information possessed by the medium in
her normal state both occurred at sittings which were very
poor in results, and at which Mrs. Thompson was in a state
of continual restlessness and was obviously ill at ease ; a con
dition which appears to answer to what Nelly terms, " When
I'm inside Mother and she's not right away."
At this same sitting on January 5th, 1900, the following
incident happened :—There had been an interval of about 1 0
minutes during which I had gone into the next room. Soon
after I came back into the seance-room Mrs. Thompson relapsed
into trance, and I then found that I had mislaid my pencil.
I exclaimed, " Where did I put my pencil ? " to be met with
Nelly's instant and correct rejoinder : " In the next room." I
had mislaid the pencil in the interval between the trances,
and not during the time that Nelly was controlling. Her
answer may of course have been based upon a mere conjecture,
or she may have derived her information telepathically from
a part of my consciousness which may have remembered what
I had done with the pencil : an explanation not quite so
gratuitous as it may seem, for I have on several occasions
been convinced that Nelly has during the course of a sitting
read my unspoken thoughts, not obvious thoughts which might
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 163
have been easily conjectured by any one present who was
following the proceedings, but thoughts not suggested by what
was being said or done at the time. Or, again, Nelly may
have drawn on Mrs. Thompson's conscious or subconscious
knowledge of the whereabouts of my pencil, or Mrs. Thompson
may not have been in trance at all and made a silly slip.
The last explanation is the only one that does not recommend
itself to me.
Though this last episode would lead one to assume that
Nelly keeps an eye on what is going on just before and after
trance, an incident that occurred at the sitting on January
18th, 1900, shows that she is sometimes unobservant of matters
which one might have supposed could not have escaped her.
Mr. " Wilson " and I had left the seance-room together
during an interval in the trance in order to talk over what
had been said. On our return we found the medium re-
entranced and Nelly talking gaily and volubly to nobody. I
class this incident under the relations of the trance and normal
consciousnesses because it is evident that, up to the moment of
passing into trance, Mrs. Thompson must have been aware
of our absence from the room and of the consequent inutility
of the trance-utterance beginning before our return.
At a few sittings the sitter did not enter the stance-room until
trance had begun, and was both on and after entering hidden from
the medium by means of a screen, and enjoined to keep strict
silence. At one of this series a lady whom I will call Mrs.
Scott was to be the sitter; and I had previously arranged
with her, for reasons to be explained presently, that when she
came to the S.P.B. Rooms at 19 Buckingham Street, where
the sitting was to be held, she should walk into the Library
with a heavy tread and slam the door after her, so that Mrs.
Thompson, who would be in the next room, might hear her
movements. Mrs. Scott carried out these suggestions, and also
when she came into the stance-room after trance had begun
she pursued the same tactics. The Library, it should be under
stood, was separated from the stance-room by a short passage
or lobby. Mrs. Scott had had several sittings with Mrs.
Thompson before this, as had also another lady, whom for
the purposes of narrating this incident I will call Mrs. Taylor.
I had noticed that Mrs. Scott was unusually tranquil and
164 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
noiseless in all her movements ; whereas Mrs. Taylor's move
ments were marked by a certain energy and impetuousness.
Accordingly it occurred to me to try an experiment by way
of testing how far indications afforded to the waking Mrs.
Thompson would be utilised by the entranced Mrs. Thompson.
The object then of Airs. Scott's assumed gait was to copy that of
Mrs. Taylor. The result of these insidious manoeuvres was
interesting.
After Mrs. Scott had made her noisy entry into the Library,
and before she entered the seance-room, Nelly said :—
" I want to write to Mrs. Taylor. I want to tell her lots
•of secrets." But no sooner were these words out of Nelly's
mouth than another control began to speak, whom I at once
recognised as the control who purports to be the son of Mrs.
Scott. Mrs. Scott then entered the s&nce-room. The Scott
control had ceased speaking before she entered, and Nelly,
after what may have been a passing allusion to a relation of
Mrs. Benson's, returned to the subject of Mrs. Taylor's affairs,
though without actually stating, and perhaps without even
wishing to imply, that Mrs. Taylor herself was present. Mean
while in the intervals of Nelly's silence the Scott control
kept intervening, and Nelly gave messages about or for both
Mrs. Taylor and Mrs. Scott more or less alternatively. Mrs.
Thompson then half awoke, and Mrs. Scott and I retired
into the next room. When I returned, alone, to the seance-
room I found the medium in the middle of writing the
following sentence :—" I am my mother's boy. I am Geoffrey
Hamilton [Christian names, as surname, fictitious] Scott. She
.has gone. I know my . . ."
When the Geoffrey Scott control had plainly shown that
the identity of the sitter was discovered, the screen was re
moved, and consequently Mrs. Scott exposed to the medium's
view. Thereupon the following occurred :—
Nelly :—" If Mrs. Scott were to come and talk to me
properly."
(Mrs. Scott then spoke to Nelly.)
" You were really there all the time ? What was it made
me know it was Mrs. Scott ? Geoffrey's locket told me. It's
•in a box, with the glass broken."
Nelly claimed to havfe known that Mrs. Scott was behind
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 165
the screen ; but though I think she was gradually feeling her
way towards this discovery, she did not definitely announce it.
She does not, it is true, actually assert that she had stated
who the sitter was ; only that she knew that it was Mrs.
Scott, which might be taken to mean that she had had an
underlying suspicion that Mrs. Scott was present, and this I
think there is some evidence to show that she did have, or
perhaps I ought rather to say that she was hesitating between
Mrs. Scott and Mrs. Taylor, inclining, though, if anything, more
to the latter than the former. But, however this may be, it is
rather strange that she should attribute her alleged knowledge
to a locket that had been handed to the medium early in the
sitting rather than to what one would have fancied would have
been the more obvious source, namely, the appearance of the
Scott control, and this control's written and verbal statements.
Yet here again there is another puzzling point, for, although the
Scott control had manifested on several previous occasions, at
this sitting Nelly did not recognise who the control was
until the full name was written just after the break in the
trance. This control was muttering rather inaudibly, and it did
not at first give its name.
Nelly repeated one of the indistinct and incomplete sentences
spoken by the soi-disant Geoffrey Scott with the preface,
" Somebody says." Then later, although I knew who the con
trol was supposed to represent, as I wanted the name to be
given, I asked who the control was. Nelly said : " I shall go
and find out." It was at this point that there was a break
in the trance, and immediately after its resumption the Scott
control gave its name in full, and Nelly showed that she had
found out who it was.
After this was written Nelly began to grizzle, and said
tearfully :—
"You've begun to cheat me again. I want Mrs. Scott.
Geoffrey wants his mother."
When Mrs. Thompson woke from the trance I asked her who
she thought was going to be the sitter. She replied :—" I
thought it was Mrs. Taylor, because the door banged, and also
before I came I thought it was going to be Mrs. Taylor." Then,
turning to the sitter, she added :—" Banging the door was not a
bit like you, Mrs. Scott."
16(5 [part
J. G. Piddington.
This unfair experiment, all the more unfair when the con
ditions had already been rendered sufficiently trying by interpos
ing a screen, was, however, justified by its results, for it goes to
support the view that the different controls are not merely so
many different dramatisations introduced like the puppets of a
ventriloquist's show merely to vary what might otherwise degene
rate into a monotonous show, but that in some sense they are
separate entities, whether creatures of the medium's brain or
external intelligences, possessed of different memories and em
ploying also, perhaps, different methods of communication and of
acquiring knowledge. And it also furnished an example of Mrs.
Thompson's ingenuousness, in so much as she did not attempt to
conceal the deductions that she had drawn from the sitter's
manner of entering the room.
It seems clear that in the case under discussion the Nelly
control was misled either by Mrs. Thompson's incorrect anticipa
tions as to who the sitter would be, or by Mrs. Scott's imitation
of Mrs. Taylor's way of walking, or perhaps by both. But the
Scott control, which it must be remembered manifested before
the entrance of Mrs. Scott, was not misled. One stratum of the
medium's consciousness, or one spirit, made a mistake because it
depended for its information on the normal consciousness of the
medium ; another stratum, or another spirit, not depending on
any such source and acquiring information in some more authen
tic manner, and uninfluenced by the error of its fellow-stratum or
fellow-spirit, rightly foresaw the identity of the coming sitter;
and the trance-personality or the spirit who guessed or knew the
truth was, of the two concerned, the one who the more appro
priately should have done so. On the spiritistic theory it is
simple enough to explain why one spirit should be unaware of
the presence of an individual bound to it by no emotional tie,
and why the spirit of a dead son should more readily detect his
mother's presence or proximity.
I believe that Nelly has sometimes spoken of things which the
normal Mrs. Thompson would not have mentioned to me. It is,
of course, difficult to say what a person will or will not be
reticent about, but some of the more marked instances of Nelly's
artless ipanehement occurred in the earlier sittings when Mrs.
Thompson and I were comparative strangers to one another. I
do not mean to suggest that Nelly was very much of an enfant
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 167
terrible, but she told some tales out of school for which a child
less privileged and one not removed from the sphere of material
punishment would, I fancy, have had to suffer.
Still, I should be doing an injustice to Nelly if I gave the im
pression that she is habitually guilty of grave indiscretions. Her
indiscretions were never blazing, but innocent enough, and where
other people's concerns were in question she has always proved
herself the very soul of delicacy and reserve, I mean in the sense
that she was always most careful to refrain from talking about
the intimate affairs of former sitters in the presence of strangers,
though both about Mrs. Benson's relations and my own she has
expressed opinions the reverse of complimentary and in a style
quite foreign to Mrs. Thompson's courteous nature.
It will be obvious that under this section many other incidents
of the sittings should properly fall, but many such relevant
passages have been narrated and discussed in other sections of
this paper, and, as it would be tedious to go over old ground
simply to treat of the questions involved from a slightly different
standpoint, I must leave it to the reader to elicit for himself the
significance of such other phenomena as bear upon the relation
between the waking and the trance-consciousness of the medium.
(5) Mrs. Thompson's Recollections on Waking from Trance.
Of late years Dr. Hodgson has made a practice of recording
the words spoken by Mrs. Piper during the time that she is
waking from trance : and so gradual is the process in Mrs.
Piper's case that Dr. Hodgson has been able to distinguish
two stages which he calls "Subliminal 1" and "Subliminal 2."
It has also been remarked in the Piper records how often
an important name or statement has been shot out as the
medium was returning to normal consciousness. I have found
no parallel to this type of phenomenon in Mrs. Thompson's
trance-utterances. Her egress from trance is as sudden as
her entry into it. Using the word almost, if not positively,
in its literal sense, one second Nelly is speaking and the next
Mrs. Thompson is, if not wide awake, at least awake and
talking in her natural voice and manner.
H
168 [part
J. G. Piddington.
So far as my experience goes, the rule is for Nelly to wind
up the seance even if other controls have been talking ; and the
approaching end of the trauce is nearly always heralded by Nelly
announcing her departure and bidding good-bye. Sometimes the
leave-taking is prolonged, but as a rule lasts only a minute or
so. When it is prolonged, this seems to me to have been
due to one of two reasons :—either Nelly appears to be
unable to disentangle herself, so to speak, from the medium's
organism, or else she is unwilling to go because she wants
to enjoy a little human gossip. But when she does depart the
severance is instantaneous and complete, and accomplished in
nearly every case without any sign of disturbance or pertur
bation, bodily or mental. There are no contortions, no groan
ing and travailing ; and so, if we are to follow Dr. Hodgson
in his estimate of the character of Mrs. Thompson's trance, we
must conclude that she has missed this obvious opportunity
for the display of effective and easily simulable pantomime.
But though her trance presents no analogies to Mrs. Piper's
in this particular respect, still her waking memory is often
affected by what has occurred during trance, and I accordingly
propose to put together all the instances that are to be found
in the sittings under discussion where this infiltration of the
normal consciousness is exhibited.
Dr. van Eeden's sitting on November 2§th, 1899.
On awaking from trance Mrs. Thompson spontaneously
remarked that she had been in the Jewish sphere : " Only
Jews there. Be sure to tell Mr. Myers." She added that
she had been there once before, but forgot to mention it,
and that a lady in this sphere had said to her : " You
forgot to say what 1 told you on your last visit here, that you
had been very good to my relative." (The message Mr. Myers
found quite intelligible : a Jewish friend of his had recently
had a good sitting.)
Here the medium's post-trance recollections of her experiences
during trance were independent of the trance communications,
which had nothing whatever to do with Jews. Nelly had
stated in the course of the sitting that her mother had gone
XLvII.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 109
away with Mrs. Cartwright and another control to ' her own
house,' that is, the sphere inhabited by these controls ; and
unless we are to suppose that after this visit Mrs. Cartwright,
Vergil-like, conducted Mrs. Thompson to the Jewish sphere,
there is a contradiction between the trance-dream and the
post-trance memories.
Dr. van Eeden's second sitting on December 1st, 1899.
Nelly's last words were :—" Why ! That's ' Talks like a
Dutchman.' " I asked Mrs. Thompson when she awoke, which
she did almost as the last word was uttered, what she had
heard last as she came out of trance. Her reply was :—
" She's talking Double-Dutch, or something like that."
Dr. van Eeden's fourth sitting on December ith, 1899.
On awaking the medium said she felt as if at the top of
a high building. In the course of this sitting the following
words had been spoken :—" You went up a lot of steps round
and round, and both stood at the top looking. He was very
fond of talking and thinking about stars—astrology." It is
immaterial whether these words were to the point or not : what
is material is that the medium received and retained a sym
pathetic physical sensation resulting from an impression ex
perienced during the trance.
Mrs. Benson's first sitting on December 18th, 1899.
This was one of the occasions referred to above when Nelly
seemed to find a difficulty in going away. As there appeared
no chance of any further reference being made to Mrs. Benson's
affairs I reminded Nelly of a promise that she had given to
try to see what Mr. Myers was doing at a given moment
during his absence abroad.
Nelly then said :—" He looks to me as if he was going
through some papers that he ought to have left alone and not
bothered about. They were a species of work., but not ex
amination papers. He's in a room with a slippery floor—not
much carpet. ' Orthodox ' was one word on Mr. Myers' papers,
and ' sincerity.' It s like printed paper—not writing ; yet it's
on writing paper."
170 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
The trance soon came to an end ; and I told Mrs. Thompson
that Nelly had had a vision of Mr. Myers, but did not tell
her any details. She thereupon said :—" I saw him reading
the Times in an armchair with plain red back. I didn't
actually see Times, but I sensed it was the Times because of
the size. The walls were in panels, windows down to the
ground-—a very lofty room. He was wearing his glasses to
read."
Mr. Myers commented as follows on these statements:—
" True description of reading room at Hotel Royal, San Remo,
where I used to read the Times, but not very distinctive
perhaps."
No one of the things said either by Nelly or by Mrs.
Thompson, either about Mr. Myers' occupation or about the
room, was sufficiently distinctive in my opinion to warrant
attributing any such correspondence as there might or may
have been to anything more than guess-work : the interest
lies rather in the differences observable in the two versions
given by Nelly and Mrs. Thompson respectively.
Mrs. Thompson supplements Nelly's account, and in no par
ticular duplicates it, though she contradicts it in one particular:
namely, the subject of Mr. Myers' reading. I have omitted
a passage which followed immediately on Nelly's description
of her vision of Mr. Myers and immediately preceded the
awakening from trance, because it relates to an incident
belonging to the vie intimc of Mr. Myers' family. It was just
the kind of incident that Nelly would delight to seize upon;
but, whether from a discreet reticence or not, Mrs. Thompson
made no reference to it ; so either she shared only a part of
Nelly's perception, or displayed a reserve natural to herself,
but foreign to Nelly. I incline to the second alternative, for I
have on several occasions noticed that Nelly has not hesitated
to divulge matters which I feel confident the normal Airs.
Thompson would have kept to herself.
Sitti?iff of January 16th, 1900.
This sitting was remarkable as affording what at least to me
appeared to be one of the most clinching tests of Mrs. Thomp
son's supernormal powers. A series of communications had pur
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 171
ported to come, for the most part directly, from the spirit whom
I call Mr. D. I had never heard the D. control, and had
not the least notion at that time who it was supposed to
represent. I merely knew that there was such a control, and
that the communications made by him or relating to him were
said to be specially good.
The sitters on January 16th were Mr. Lionel Earle and a
lady, whose name I did not and do not know. Neither were
in any way connected with Mr. D.
Early in the sitting (which, so far as the sitters were
concerned, was a thoroughly bad one) Nelly said :—" Mr. D.
has told Mother a secret. Ask Mother when she wakes up."
There was a break in the trance, and Mrs. Thompson, with
out any question being put to her, said :—" I feel rather muddled.
I did see Mr. D., and he said " (certain words).
Shortly afterwards the trance came on again, and then,
when it was finally over, Mrs. Thompson stated that Mr. D.
had a certain nervous habit, and said that she had learnt
this fact from Mr. D. directly, who had shown himself to her
and exhibited the nervous habit several times in order to im
press it on her memory. Mr. D. had further told her that
" Xelly was not right about the first message." He " said
that the first message had not been delivered correctly, but
that it wasn't worth the trouble of correcting it."
I applied to a former sitter whom the D. communications
immediately concerned for verification of the statements con
tained in the two messages. He replied that, although the
first message seemed to have been muddled in transmission, he
thought he understood what had been intended. The second
message he declared was absolutely correct, and he asserted
that in his opinion, and for reasons which he explained to me,
and which struck me as well-grounded, Mrs. Thompson could
not by any ordinary methods have been cognisant of the fact
contained in the second message.
But I am not so much concerned with the evidential worth
of the messages as with the curious aspects of the medium's
consciousness exemplified in the method of their delivery.
Nelly announces that Mr. D. has told her mother a secret,
which she will repeat when she awakes. Mrs. Thompson
delivers the message when she wakes for the first time, and
172 [part
J. G. Piddivgton.
when trance comes on again and Nelly recommences speaking
she does not enquire if the message has been given, or evince
any curiosity about it ; nor does she announce, as in the first
instance, the delivery of a second' message. Mrs. Thompson,
when she wakes from the trance for the second and final
time, describes her interview in the spirit-world with Mr. D.,
and how she became acquainted with the fact of his having
possessed a certain nervous habit. She then added—and this
is the curious point—that " Nelly was not right about the first
message " ; Mr. I). " said that the first message had not been
delivered correctly."
There is a strange confusion here, for Nelly had nothing
to do with delivering the first message ; it was delivered by
Mrs. Thompson herself when she awoke from trance.
It may be that, although Mrs. Thompson actually voiced
the first message, Nelly was instrumental in impressing it
upon the mind of her mother at the moment of waking. If
this was the modus operandi it would explain the remark
attributed to Mr. D. ; though it would still remain to be ex
plained how it was that Mrs. Thompson did not detect the
discrepancy.
Against this explanation must be set the fact that the
first message referred specifically to Nelly by name, and had
Nelly known the purport of it, to judge from the interest
which she has displayed on other occasions when any refer
ence has been made to herself, she would not have passed the
matter over in silence during the second part of the seance.
As an alternative explanation, one might suppose that the
communicating spirit, Mr. D., was unaware of the method of
transmission, and imagined that Nelly's intermediary was
essencial.
Conjectural hypotheses in this style might be extended in
definitely and lead to nothing profitable : I set no store by
my own suggestions, and I make them more for the purpose
of laying stress on the fact of there being a difficulty than
in the hope of solving it.
It could be argued that the confusion was a slip on the
part of the medium, who was off her guard for a moment, and
had overlooked the fact that she was pretending for the occa
sion to be in direct communication with the spirit-world ; but
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 173
this does not appeal to me as a likely solution, and the per
plexity appears to be such as we might reasonably expect to
present itself in a case of multiple personality like Mrs. Thomp
son's, where the shifting of the two predominant centres of
consciousness is effected with so much ease and rapidity.
Sitthig of February 1st, 1900.
At this sitting Nelly, as usual, controlled at first. Suddenly
in the middle of the sitting another control appeared, spoke a
dozen words, and promptly gave way to Nelly again. Nelly at
once said that Mrs. Cartwright would come to explain the
momentary and irrelevant intrusion of the unfamiliar control.
From that point to the end of the sitting Mrs. Cartwright and
Nelly spoke in turns, and a most amusing scene ensued, Mrs.
Cartwright casting reflections on Nelly's way of doing her work,
and Nelly bobbing in and out to mimic Mrs. Cartwright's
pompous and platitudinous manner and diction, and to complain
of her dictatorial airs.
Nelly, as usual, wound up the sitting, and put in a parting
shot :—" Mrs. Cartwright thinks I'm illiterate. ' She always
thought life not worth living, if you weren't obeyed.' Mrs.
Cartwright says I'm to come before I talk ' insipid nonsense '
(mimicking Mrs. Cartwright's voice and accent). Her compli
ments come thick and fast."
Mrs. Thompson remarked on waking :—" I've been back to my
old school at Wenlock, where Airs. Cartwright was. I saw Mrs.
Cartwright."
We may assume with confidence that there was a casual con
nection between the medium's trance-dream and the trance-
utterances ; but which was cause and which effect may be open
to discussion, though it seems more probable that the business
of the trance-drama suggested the dream than vice versd.
Sitting of February 6th, 1900.
This was one of two sittings where I was present alone ; the
bulk of the communications concerned myself, but longish refer
ence was made to Mrs. Benson, and Nelly also described a pere
grination to Dr. van Eeden's home, and spoke briefly of matters
connected with "Mr. Wilson."
174 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
Actually the last words spoken by Nelly were a prediction of
the date of my next sitting, but this was immediately preceded
by the following:—
" Canon, then Bishop, Bowlby—he came and talked through
mother. You know that old gentleman Mr. Benson ; he was an
extreme friend of his. He told mother. He has been talking to
mother. He was very well known. He was a friend of grand-
mama Middleton. He was very pompous. Mother used to
throw chocolate-creams about at his confirmation class."
A few seconds after coming out of trance Mrs. Thompson
said :—" I've been among the eminent divines. Canon Bowlby
told me I threw chocolate-creams during confirmation class, and
that ' he knew Benson ' (repeating the last three words carefully).
I saw the Rev. W. T. Taylor, Rector of Oldbury, and the other
was Linskell, Rector of Beaudesert, in Warwickshire."
Although here, as in the last instance, the subject of the
closing sentences of the trance-utterances and of Mrs. Thompson's
waking recollections was allied, there is this difference between
the two cases.
In the first the medium's trance-dream corresponded with the
trance-drama only in a general way, namely, only to the extent
that she found herself back at her old school and in the company
of her old school proprietress when Mrs. Cartwright had been
playing a prominent rdle in the trance-drama ; in this second
instance the correspondence was detailed, and, allowing for the
characteristic variation in the versions of Nelly and of Mrs.
Thompson, the trance-utterance and the post-trance memory
pertained to the same incident. Again, in the one case Nelly
seemed to be unaware of Mrs. Thompson's trance-dream and
to gather no information from it, while in the other she not only
knew of it, but profited by it to the extent of acquiring a new
fact, namely, the existence of some connection between Bishop
Bowlby and Archbishop Benson.
I note in passing an important and extremely characteristic
distinction between Nelly's version and Mrs. Thompson's. Nelly
said that Archbishop Benson was " an extreme friend " of Bishop
Bowlby's, whereas Mrs. Thompson makes use of a much less
strong expression, namely, " he knew Benson." Nelly's state
ment was untrue ; Mrs. Thompson's was perfectly correct. Ex
aggerated forms of expression are much indulged in by Nelly,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 175
and many of her statements would have been nearer the mark if
she had exercised a greater reserve in her language.
After the trance of April 19th, 1900, Mrs. Thompson had no
recollection of any dreams. At a few other sittings I failed to
remember to ask Mrs. Thompson if she recollected any experience
during the trance, or, if I did ask her, she gave a negative reply
which I omitted to record. The interest and possible importance
of these post-trance memories did not at first strike me, or I
should have been careful to interrogate the medium regularly.
Dr. van Eeden's Seventh Sitting of June, 7th 1900.
In the middle of this sitting Nelly announced that she was
going away for two minutes. Thereupon Mrs. Thompson awoke
and said:—" I smell some sort of anaesthetic stuff like chloroform.
I can taste it in my mouth. I was dreaming about being chloro
formed, and your trying to wake me up."
Before this point what purported to be the spirit of a dead
friend of Dr. van Eeden's who had made an unsuccessful attempt
to commit suicide had been trying to control the medium, though
with only partial and momentary success. When the trance
was resumed after this break the control seemed to Dr. van
Eeden to become complete.
Dr. van Eeden (see Proceedings, Part XLIV., p. 110) comments
on Mrs. Thompson's waking sensation as follows :—" This is very
remarkable, the taste being probably that of iodoform, which was
used in healing the wound in the throat of my dead friend.
Mrs. Thompson, in reply to inquiry, said that she did not know
the smell of iodoform."
Dr. van Eeden notes also that since the previous sitting
two days before Mrs. Thompson had had a peculiar cough
quite unusual to her that was like the suicide's cough. And
Mr. Myers further noted that Mrs. Thompson had told him
that this huskiness began when she first saw Dr. van Eeden
on his second visit to England, and had continued throughout
his stay, and went off half an hour after his departure (see
ibid., p. 108).
For convenience' sake I have classed these two and also subse
quent instances of physical sensations persisting after trance
under the same head as post-trance memories. But this classi
176 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
fication is perhaps superficial. The physical sensations would
appear to follow " possession " by a soi-disant discarnate spirit
who in life had suffered from corresponding symptoms, whereas
the post-trance memories either bear only a general affinity to
the subject matter of the trance-communications or, as in one
case, have nothing in common with them.
The case where the medium on waking felt as if she were at
the top of a high building seems to fall into an intermediate class
half way between physical sensibility and a purely subjective
impression aroused by memory.
Sitting of January 3rd, 1901.
Edward Horace Percival, son of Mrs. Percival, one of the
sitters on this occasion, purported to control during some time.
He had died from an attack of measles, and, as was stated at a
former sitting, his breathing had been difficult during the illness.
He controlled on two occasions, and each time the medium's
breathing during trance was laboured, and she coughed or
wheezed a good deal. On January 3rd, 1901, Mrs. Thompson
awoke from the trance groaning and muttering, and said :—" I'm
wide awake. I'm only muttering. I could hear myself mutter
ing. Oh ' dear, I'm asthmatical." Shortly afterwards she wrote
a message while awake which purported to come from Edward
Horace Percival. This was one of the only two occasions on
which I witnessed any control other than Nelly bring a seance
to a termination.
Sitting of January 11th, 1901.
In the first part of this sitting Edward Horace Percival con
trolled for a short time, and while Nelly was speaking messages
were being written automatically by Mrs. Thompson's hand and
in her natural handwriting, of which it was evidently implied
that he was the author. There was a break in the middle of the
sitting which had been immediately preceded, not by the Percival
control but, by the Nelly control. During the interval the
sitters, Mr. and Mrs. Percival, who had been hidden from Mrs.
Thompson's view by a screen, retired into another room. Mrs.
Thompson, hearing some one coughing in the next room, re
marked :—" It's some one with a funeral cough, isn't it ? " Then,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 177
after speaking of an impression which she had had the night
before, she said :—" I feel asthmatical—a sort of tightness—
a difficulty in breathing and cough " ; and during the whole
interval, which lasted eight minutes, she exhibited in a slightly
modified form the symptoms of Edward Horace Percival when
controlling.
After the sitters had left, and without any break in the
trance occurring, first a control which purported to be Pro
fessor Sidgwick appeared for the first time, and then the control
whom I call Mr. D. spoke and wrote for about half an hour, and
brought the sitting to a close without Nelly reappearing.
When Mrs. Thompson awoke she said :—" I'm sure that was
Mr. D."
I asked why. " Because I feel so different,'' she replied. I
then asked if she remembered anything, to which came the
answer :—" No. Oh ! yes, I do. I remember hearing Professor
Sidgwick stuttering, and I thought to myself he might have
dropped the stutter when he got to heaven. He was dressed in
just ordinary clothes."
Sitting of January 21st, 1901.
The sitters were Mr. and Mrs. G. F. Raggett, and so far as
they were concerned the seance was an entire failure. After
they had left, the Sidgwick control spoke for a short time and,
at the conclusion of a sentence which had been got out with a
seemingly great effort, Mrs. Thompson awoke suddenly, and in
reply to my question said she had no recollections, but was
" happier now." Nelly reappeared for an instant, and then the
trance was finally over.
Sitting of July 16th, 1901.
Mr. and Mrs. Percival attended this sitting. Mrs. Cartwright
controlled throughout, and though the communications were
almost exclusively concerned with the Percivals' son he did not
control.
The first object presented to the medium was a boy's cap, the
lining of which bore the name of the shop at which it had been
purchased, " Hookham & Co., Oxford." Mrs. Cartwright said :—■
" I am taken to Oxford."
Almost immediately Mrs. Thompson awoke and said that while
178 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
asleep she had seen herself writing " Oxford." She had not
really done so, nor, indeed, so far as the rather scanty record of
the sitting goes to show, was any automatic script executed
during this seance.
Parenthetically I would note the artless way in which Mrs.
Thompson on waking from trance was stupid enough (if she will
pardon me the phrase) to draw attention to the fact that an
object handed to her contained a clue of which undoubtedly the
trance-personality made use, no matter whether consciously or
unconsciously. This is hardly the behaviour of an impostor ;
but treat it as a genuine phenomenon, and it at once falls into
line with other recognised phases of multiple personality, which
not infrequently manifests an overlapping of two generally dis
continuous strata of consciousness.
The cap was obviously a boy's cap, and obviously also a school
cap ; and Nelly drew the correct inference that the wearer of the
cap had been at Oxford, not as an undergraduate, but as a
school boy.
But the cap afforded even another and more definite piece of
information, namely, the name of the wearer, for clearly marked
in ink on a tape affixed to the inside, and right in the centre of
the inside, and in large bold letters, was the name, " E. H
Percival."
This, too, Mrs. Cartwright gave early in the sitting, though in
the form Edward Horace Percival, a correct interpretation of the
initials.
It was not till more than a year after the sitting that it was
noticed that the cap bore these indications ; but Mrs. Thompson
could not have counted on such an oversight, or even if she had,
she would hardly have run the risk of drawing attention to the
source of her information by a reference on waking to one of the
words in the cap. Although at the sitting of July 16th, 1900,
the Christian names Edward Horace were given in their correct
order, and in the order indicated by the inscription in the cap,
and though Mrs. Cartwright spoke of him by the name Edward,
on subsequent occasions the names occur in the automatic script
in the reversed order, Horace Edward, and Nelly speaks always
of Horace, though Edward was the name by which the boy was
called at least during the greater part of his life by his family
and friends.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 179
This failure to give the names in the proper order at later
sittings may have been due to a lapse of memory on the part
of the medium, but it is at any rate worth noting that the names
were not correctly given and then transposed by the same trance-
personality, but that Mrs. Cartwright gives them in the right
and Nelly in the wrong sequence. The Percival control writes
his names in the wrong order.
Sitting of January 1st, 1901.
This sitting was a very poor one as far as the sitter, Miss
Bates, was concerned, though in the course of it Nelly described
two of her peregrinations.
Nelly gave a long account of an incident which had occurred
in Paris, and in which four persons, including Miss Bates, were
mixed up. After the sitting Miss Bates pointed out to me
that Mrs. Thompson had probably learnt of the incident
through a certain lady, Mrs. S., well known to her. On
waking Mrs. Thompson exclaimed :—" I've got a splitting
headache." Throughout the whole seance Nelly had been
extremely cross and restless.
Two days later, I having made not the slightest allusion
to the matter, Mrs. Thompson, before going into trance on
January 3rd, 1901, asked me whether Nelly had repeated
any gossip to Miss Bates about the four people in question,
because directly she saw Miss Bates after the trance when the
screen was removed, she felt a conviction that Nelly had been
talking about a matter which Mrs. S. (the lady mentioned above)
had related to her. I then, without telling Mrs. Thompson
what Nelly had said, asked her to give me Mrs. S.'s version
of the affair : which she did. It corresponded fairly closely
with the version given by Nelly, due allowance being made for
the natural difference between a child's and a grown-up woman's
version of a piece of rather silly grown-up gossip.
In short, as Miss Bates rightly conjectured, the incident
described by Nelly was perfectly well known to Mrs. Thompson.
It would be ludicrous to hold that reproduction in the trance
of knowledge consciously possessed by the medium is indicative
of fraud. What primd facie is more suspicious is the medium's
knowledge of what had been spoken about in the trance. But
180 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Mrs. Thompson's suspicion that Nelly had been repeating a
story known to herself is not an isolated phenomenon, as we
have already seen, but can be paralleled by the instance just
quoted where, when not entranced, she remembered seeing herself
writing the word Oxford which had been within her visual
range when entranced and which Nelly had previously uttered.
Instances have been or will be quoted (see pp. 161, 224-5,
272) where Mrs. Thompson showed knowledge of what had
taken place in the trance : though in some of these cases she
claims to have received her information from Nelly. Complete
amnesia then is not a characteristic of Mrs. Thompson's trance,
and in this she differs from Mrs. Piper.
Now if Mrs. Thompson is an impostor, it is fair to assume
that she wishes to imitate, if not to rival, the phenomena
of Mrs. Piper. Why then should she here have failed to
model her performance on this classical case, and to imitate
this essential characteristic of Mrs. Piper's trance ? There
are, of course, many and important resemblances between the
two ; but there are also some important differences. Thus,
while Dr. Hodgson believes as the result of his long, acute
and searching investigation that Mrs. Piper " is entirely ignorant
of what occurs during trance," the same cannot be said of Mrs.
Thompson. Again " Phinuit is, or pretends to be equally un
aware of the knowledge possessed by Mrs. Piper, and of the
incidents which happen to her in her ordinary life." Nelly
neither is, nor pretends to be similarly ignorant. But, it might
be argued, Mrs. Thompson's knowledge of what has occurred
during trance is only very rarely manifested, and she occasionally
drops the pretence of complete amnesia deliberately in order to
cover the cases in which she has done so inadvertently. There
would, I admit, be cause for such a suspicion if it were not that,
unlike Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Thompson has on several occasions shown
that trance is not an essential condition for the exercise of her
supernormal faculties. I shall give the evidence for this state
ment later on (see pp. 182-196), and in the meanwhile I shall
content myself with showing the bearing which this fact has
on the point under discussion.
If there is good evidence to show that Mrs. Thompson in
her normal state can possess herself of knowledge which could
not have reached her in an ordinary way, then there is nothing
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 181
inconsistent in her claim to occasional acquaintance with what
has passed during the trance.
It is simpler to imagine that the source of this acquaintance
is Nelly, no matter whether Nelly be a secondary consciousness
or a spirit ; but there are of course less shadowy personalities on
whom she might draw telepathically, namely, the sitter, the
recorder or any one who has read the record of a sitting.
Sitting of December 20th, 1900.
As she was in the act of waking from trance, Mrs.
Thompson grasped at some books lying on a writing-table
by which she was sitting, and said in a rather excited and
startled way :—" I saw a hand on the top of these books."
Neither my hand nor the hand of the sitter had been on the
table, nor had anything occurred during the trance to suggest
the idea of a hand.
Sitting of January 8th, 1901.
At intervals during this sitting Geoffrey Scott was con
trolling, and the medium was rather restless. The end of
the trance was abrupt and sudden. Nelly was speaking
and the Scott control speaking or writing short unfinished
sentences in quick succession, and in the middle of a written
sentence the medium began to wake. She was shuddering
and muttering, and, as she was at the point of regaining con
sciousness, she said, "Feef" (pronouncing these three letters
just as Nelly usually pronounces the first syllable of the
word " fearfully "). " I hate it—this treatment " (very em
phatically). Then when quite awake, she added :—" I felt
such a bang. I thought some one knocked me. I seemed
to be looking somewhere, and then some one seemed to shove
their elbow into me and knock me away.''
I ought, perhaps, to have treated this as a third exception
to the general rule throughout this series of sittings that
Nelly brings a seance to an end ; but I hesitated to do so,
because the words " Feef—I hate it—this treatment " cannot
be attributed to the Scott control, and ought, perhaps, to be
ascribed to Nelly. If, however, they were really spoken by
the barely conscious Mrs. Thompson, then the Scott control
182 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
was the last to manifest before the medium came to ; and it
would then be rather singular that these three exceptions
occurred at successive sittings, namely, at those held on
January 1st, 3rd, and 8th, 1901.
Beyond the fact that the medium seemed disturbed through
out the trance, and that Mrs. Thompson seemed a little agitated
when she woke up, she was not thrown from her chair, nor
did she sustain any physical injury as on another occasion
which 1 have described elsewhere (see pp. 147-8), when Nellr
attributed, and, as I think, wrongly attributed, the mishap to
the unsuccessful and unskilful efforts of Geoffrey Scott to
control.
(6) The Exercise of Supernormal Faculty by Mrs. Thompson
when not Entranced.
An instance of a veridical crystal-vision obtained by Mrs.
Thompson when not in trance has already been recited (see
pp. 112-114), and I now proceed to give another and in my
opinion much more remarkable instance of her acquisition,—
I do not say when in a normal state, but, at least, when not
in trance,—of information which could not have reached her
apparently by any recognised channel. As both these cases
occurred when Mrs. Thompson was alone at home, it is,
of course, impossible to express any opinion as to her con
dition at the time ; but later other similar cases will be
described which took place in my presence, and on these
occasions Mrs. Thompson was to all outward seeming wide
awake ; indeed much more so than many other people ever
appear to be, even at the best of times.
Incident of May 24/A, 1900.
On May 24th, 1900, Mrs. Thompson gave a sitting at my
house. Mr. Myers acted as recorder and I was not present,
and had not attended any sitting since April 19th. After
the sitting, Mrs. Thompson came upstairs to the drawing-room
to have tea, and, before tea was served, she told me the story
xlvji.] Plwnomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 183
which is given below in her own words, except for a few
alterations introduced by myself in order to conceal the
identity of a person mentioned by Mrs. Thompson.
Mrs. Thompson's Account.
May 2ith, 1900.
On Monday, May 7th, 1900, about 7.30 in the evening, I
happened to be sitting quite alone in the dining-room, and
thinking of the possibility of my " subliminal " communicating
with that of another person—no one in particular. I was not
for one moment unconscious. All at once 1 felt some one
was standing near, and quickly opened my eyes, and was very
surprised to see—clairvoyantly, of course—Mr. J. G. Piddington.
I was very keen to try the experiment : so at once spoke
to him aloud. He looked so natural and life-like I did not
feel in the least alarmed.
I commenced :—
"Please tell me of something I may afterwards verify to
prove I am really speaking to you."
J. G. P. :—" I have had a beastly row with " [naming
a specified person].
R. T. :—"What about?" (No answer to this.)
/. G. P. :—" He says he did not intend to annoy me, but
I said he had been very successful in doing so, whether he
intended to or not."
After saying this he disappeared, and I began to wonder
if there was any truth in what I had heard from—what
appeared to me to be—Mr. Piddington. I did not like to write
and to ask him if it was so. On May 24th, I had an oppor
tunity of telling him, and was very surprised to hear it was
the truth.
I also told him I had guessed at the subject of the " beastly
row." My conjecture was quite accurate.
(Signed) Rosalie Thompson.
P.S.—People often ask me how I talk with Nelly : just as
I talked with Mr. Piddington on May 7th. I seem to see and
feel what they are saying. The lips appear to move, but they
make no audible sound. Yet unless / speak aloud they do
not seem to understand me. I have tried Nelly when she
N
184 [part
J. G. Piddivgton.
appears to me by asking mental questions, but she does not
understand unless I speak aloud and very clearly.
R. T.
Writing to Mr. Myers on May 30th, 1900, I expressed
myself as follows :—
I entirely endorse Mrs. Thompson's account. I made her
describe the incident in full before saying whether the story-
corresponded in any way with actual facts.
One point I think Mrs. Thompson has omitted from her
account. I feel nearly certain that she described herself as
having been aware that the quarrel was conducted by corres
pondence, as was the case, and not vim voce. The corres
pondence took place between April 28th and May 1st. Mrs.
Thompson's experience was on May 7th. ... I think it highly
improbable that Mrs. Thompson could have had any knowledge
of the " beastly row " in an ordinary way, and of the fact that
my correspondent professed to have had no desire to annoy
me, and of my observation thereon, impossible. I do not
remember, and have no means of recalling, what I was doing
about 7.30 p.m. on May 7th—probably dressing for dinner.
It was this experience of Mrs. Thompson's which compelled
my belief in her supernormal powers. At the time I saw no
way of getting round it and I see no way now. But to my
great regret I do not feel myself at liberty to disclose all
the circumstances. The case must accordingly lose much of
its evidential value, and I therefore cannot hope that it will
produce on others the same conviction that it has on myself.
The quarrel, as has been already explained, was conducted
entirely by correspondence. My correspondent is a person whom
Mrs. Thompson has never seen. He lives in the country, and
though he has, since the date of this incident, heard of Mrs.
Thompson he has never seen her, and takes no interest in her
or her phenomena, and indeed is, I gather, mildly hostile to
psychical research. From him Mrs. Thompson most certainly
did not obtain the facts. Could she have got them from me
or through her acquaintance with me, or by picking up
information on one of her visits to my house ?
The facts connected with the quarrel were known to only
three or four persons, of whom only one except myself, namely,
my wife, was or is known to Mrs. Thompson. My wife did not
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 185
mention the subject to Mrs. Thompson : and it is not a subject
which I should ever have thought of mentioning to her. The
person with whom I quarrelled wrote me two letters. These
two letters were kept among a mass of others in a room at
the top of my house into which Mrs. Thompson has never been :
she has never even been on the floor on which the room is.
My correspondent's statement that he had not intended to
annoy me was contained in a letter addressed to my wife. She
read this letter to me at breakfast one morning, and almost
immediately afterwards destroyed it. I believe the actual words
that I said to my wife when she read the phrase from the letter
were :— Then he succeeded admirably without intending to."
It will be remarked that Mrs. Thompson guessed at the
subject of the quarrel after the vision had passed, and guessed
it correctly. Had Mrs. Thompson got no further than the fact
and the subject of the quarrel, I should not have thought so
much of it. Possibly even if she had been very lucky she might
have guessed the sort of person with whom I was at loggerheads ;
and though I should have been surprised, I should not have
been deeply impressed. But the two other details—my corre
spondent's disclaimer of intent to annoy and my observation
thereon—I know she could not have learned and I do not
believe she could have guessed.
I am only too conscious of how this case suffers from the
reticence with which the circumstances compel me to treat it.
But even had I been able without offending contra bonus mores to
publish the full details without reserve or modification, I could
not expect it to create on others the deep impression that it
did on me. I can satisfy myself and yet fail to satisfy others of
the inaccessibility to Mrs. Thompson of all normal sources from
which knowledge of the facts could have been drawn.
But it is not only the veridicality of the vision, but also
the form of it which deserves attention.
With eyes open and experiencing no conscious lapse of con
sciousness Mrs. Thompson sees and cross-examines a phantasm
of the living. The phantasm refuses to answer one question,
ami after it has vanished the percipient guesses—consciously
guesses—makes a shot at—the answer, and guesses right. Was
this mere dramatisation ? or do we here get a hint of a com
bination of processes which may play a great part in clairvoyant
186 [part
J. G. Piddington.
phenomena ? that is, a combined exercise of supernormal faculty
and of normal inference either from facts previously known or
from knowledge just supernormally received ?
It seems to me now, and it seemed to me at the time, that it
is just possible that when once Mrs. Thompson had learnt that
I had had " a beastly row " and that that row had been between
myself and a certain person, she might by a lucky shot have hit
on the subject of the row.
Is there, though, something more than this ? I fancy there
may be. Something, namely, that confirms the correctness of
the deduction normally arrived at. Thus I imagine that though
Mrs. Thompson may have through the exercise of her ordinary
mental faculties have guessed at the subject of my quarrel, some
other faculty was called into play to confirm the truth of the
inference : and whatever that other suppositional faculty is, I
conceive that it is akin to telepathy and supernormal.
Incident of October 21st, 1902.
Copy of a letter addressed by me to Sir Oliver Lodge on
October 21st, at 7.15 p.m., and read by him on October 22nd,
1902, and endorsed to that effect:—
I am making a note of something that occurred this after
noon with Mrs. Thompson in the form of a letter to yon,
so that if anything further happens, there will be evidence to
show what my recollections and impressions were this
evening.
I met Mrs. Thompson by appointment at 20 Hanover
Square, downstairs in the front hall, at 5 p.m. this afternoon.
I came down from the S.P.R. rooms to meet her, and found
her, as arranged, awaiting me in the hall. At any rate then
she had not had a chance of seeing any letters written by or
to Mr. Thomas. (You will see the bearing of this remark
later on.) We then went to get some tea, and she talked
on various subjects. Just as she was bidding me good-bye
she suddenly said :—
" What about Kiel 1 "
I said :—" What do you mean ? "
" When you were talking about going abroad soon I some
how got an impression of Kiel."
"Well, anything else?"
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 187
"So then I began to visualize, and I got a picture of an
(lold) gipsy woman with a (?red) shawl over her head (or
round her head)."
"Anything more i"
" No ; but does it mean anything 1 "
"Yes, it has some meaning, but I am not going to tell
you anything more. If you get any further impressions, let
me know. Anyhow, write it down as soon as you get home,
and send it to me. When, b3'-the-way, did you first get the
impression 1 "
" Oh ! when we were talking of Polly's varicose veins." (I
had asked Mrs. Thompson to meet me in order to obtain
from her some information bearing on a statement made by
Nelly about a lady who suffered from varicose veins.)
Then we parted.
Before meeting Mrs. Thompson I had wondered whether
she would have had an impression of Mr. Thomas's anxieties,
which are connected with some friends living at Kiel, and,
although I did not actually say the word "Kiel" to myself,
Kiel was definitely connected with my passing fancy.
A friend of Mr. Thomas's has lately been consulting a
fortune-teller at Kiel. I don't remember Mr. Thomas describ
ing the fortune-teller as a gipsy (though he may have done so),
and I feel fairly certain that he never mentioned her wearing
a shawl over her head.
I don't know if Mrs. Thompson knows of Mr. Thomas's
connection with Kiel. / have never been there, and have no
association of any kind with the place, though a few days
ago my wife and I were discussing its exact geographical
position.
Just before I met Mrs. Thompson, Mr. Thomas had written
the name of a member of the S.P.R. on a scrap of paper as a
memorandum for me. Wishing to make a note of something
said by Mrs. Thompson, I took this scrap of paper out of
my pocket, and wrote the note on it. Mrs. Thompson then
wished to write some names down for me, and took the
scrap of paper from me in order to do so. I stopped her
from writing on it, as it was too small, and gave her
instead another piece of paper. She may have seen and
recognised Mr. Thomas's handwriting, which was, however,
on the underside, and not on the side on which I had been
188 [part
J. G. Piddington.
writing ; and if she knew of Mr. Thomas's connection with
Kiel, this may have suggested the impression.
But if so why did she connect we with Kiel ? . . .
Mrs. Thompson, on her return home, wrote me the following
letter :—
October 21st, /02.
Why did you say this afternoon when I mentioned about
Kiel, " I shall not tell you anything, you must go home and
write an account of what you saw and post it to me 1 "
You said : "I am probably going abroad shortly, so have
much work on hand at present." Immediately " Kiel " seemed
to flash before me, and then I saw an old-looking, but middle-
aged, gipsy woman telling fortunes with a plaid round her, and
I think this in some way fell over her head.
I have tried since but can get nothing more, it only seemed
a flash. I have never been in Kiel, and know nothing of
the place or its people. I think I may sometimes eat Kiel
butter !
The following note was written by Mr. X. W. Thomas, and
is dated October 23rd :—■
After hearing J. G. P.'s letter to Dr. Lodge and Mrs.
Thompson's to J. G. P., I note the following points :
I was told by Fran Prof. B[ ] that Frau S. (the for
tune-teller) had said she learnt her fortune-telling from a (! old)
gipsy woman when she was 16. When I saw Frau S. she
wore a red dress, but no shawl or plaid.
Frau S. is about 40, and does not look at all like a gipsy.
N. W. Thomas.
On November 5th, 1902, Mr. N. W. Thomas wrote:—
Fraulein M. B. writes that she went to Frau S. [i.e. the
fortune-teller] at the end of last week, and found her wrapped
in a coloured shawl (over her head, too, I gather).
On October 23rd, 1902, Mr. K W. Thomas informed me
that he felt sure that Mrs. Thompson knew nothing of his
connection with Kiel. Mrs. Thompson knew that I visit
Brussels, Berlin, Paris, and Berne occasionally, but she could
have no reason whatever to suppose that I was going to Kiel,
as I have never been, and am not likely to go there.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 189
At the time of this incident I knew that Fraulein B. was
seeing a fortune-teller at Kiel, and that Mr. Thomas was inter
ested in the fortune-telling, and was having proper records
kept of the fortune-teller's utterances ; but, as stated in my
letter to Sir 0. Lodge, I probably knew nothing of her having
learnt her art from a gipsy, nor of her wearing a red or any
sort of shawl round her head.
Incident of October 17th, 1902.
On the afternoon of October 17th, 1902, Mrs. Thompson
had called at 20 Hanover Square; I do not now remember
for what purpose. Just as she was going away she said
to me :—
" Has Mrs. Finch been up in a balloon ? The night after
the account appeared in the morning papers of the airship
accident I woke up thinking that Mrs. Finch was in the
balloon."
Mrs. Finch is an Australian lady living in Paris, and is
known to Mrs. Thompson and myself. Although she is one
of the last people in the world whom I should have thought
likely to make a balloon ascent, I wrote to Professor Charles
Richet, who knows her well, to ask if there was any meaning
in Mrs. Thompson's dream.
It appears from M. Richet's reply that Mrs. Finch did
make a balloon ascent in July, 1902 ; though she luckily was
not involved in the fatal accident to M. Severo's airship as
Mrs. Thompson had dreamt. Mrs. Finch's participation in a
balloon ascent in July, 1902, was spoken of not only in the
Paris papers but also in the English papers. One French
paper at least, Le Temps, gave her name and nationality, and
possibly, even probably, the English papers copied both items.
Mrs. Thompson may, of course, have seen a mention of a
balloon ascent in which an Australian lady took part at Paris,
or she may have actually seen it stated that Mrs. Finch
made an ascent, but, if so, she had no recollection on
October 17th, 1902, of having done so. An incident of this
kind can never be evidential, as it is impossible to exclude
the chance of Mrs. Thompson having at some time acquired
the facts in a normal way. But convinced as I am that
Mrs. Thompson has far too clear a grasp of what constitutes
190 [part
J. G. Piddington.
good evidence to waste her time over concocting halting little
stories of this kind, I cannot regard this dream impression as
other than a perfectly genuine experience, though inconclusive
of supernormal faculty. Treating it then as genuine, I suppose
that the orthodox view of it would be something of this
kind :—
Mrs. Thompson had read in the English or French news
papers in July, 1902, of Mrs. Finch's exploit. (If Mrs.
Finch's name was not given in any paper seen by Mrs.
Thompson, then it can be supposed that Mrs. Thompson read
an account in which Mrs. Finch was merely described as "an
Australian lady " ; and that probably, not knowing of more
than one Australian lady living in Paris, she subconsciously
connected the balloonist with Mrs. Finch.) Three months
later, when all conscious recollection of Mrs. Finch's balloon
ascent has faded completely away, she reads of the Severo
airship accident. This suggests the dream, and in the dream-
state the submerged memory of Mrs. Finch's balloon ascent
is revived, and a characteristically confused dream results.
Some such explanation as that is the " correct " one, I
should say : it is the line I should advise a candidate for our
Research Scholarship to take if he were asked for his comments
on this incident. But I am by no means sure that it is the
true explanation.
I reject any explanation which supposes fraud on Mrs. Thomp
son's part, not only on general grounds but also for reasons which
result from an examination of what fraud would involve in this
instance. Fraud would mean that Mrs. Thompson knew of Mrs.
Finch's balloon excursion : had the self-restraint to hold this
piece of knowledge in reserve and to wait until another
event of aeronautic interest occurred in order to hash
up the two together in a form which might perhaps
appeal by its subtlety to the jaded appetite of some psychical
researcher.
I cannot believe that so intricate a <rame could be thought
by any medium to be worth the candle. But that consideration
apart, no one would have been better aware than Mrs.
Thompson that the S.P.R. could be relied on to enquire if
any knowledge displayed by a medium could have been
normally acquired, that in this case the simplest enquiry
xlvii.J Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 191
would have disclosed a possible source of her knowledge, and
that, this possible source once learnt, her pretended dream-
impression would be bereft of all evidential value. Against
any possible value, too, that she might hope to see attached
by a few observers to this incident she must have recognised
that there would have to be set the suspicion of others of
her having concocted the whole thing.
I reject, then, any explanation which involves fraud ; and
while T do not reject what I have called the orthodox inter
pretation, though it involves several suppositions, which, if
not unlikely taken separately, are at least not highly probable
when taken cumulatively, I am more inclined to adopt the
following hypothesis :—namely, that knowledge of Mrs. Finch's
balloon ascent had been acquired supernormally by Mrs.
Thompson either at or near the time when it took place,
or at any rate previously to her dream, and had lain dormant
in her subconsciousness until awakened by a natural association
of ideas set in motion on her reading about the accident to
the airship, and not even then emerging into her full conscious
ness, but emerging only in a hypnopompic dream, and then
again only with the confusion typical of dreams.
I have perhaps treated what at first sight may have the
appearance of a very trifling matter at undue length ; but
in the case of mediums for the genuineness of whose phenomena
there is good evidence, I think there is justification for ex
amining closely some of their less full-blown manifestations,
their casual by-products as it were, on the chance that we
may therefrom gather some hint of the obscure laws at work
more readily than from the more well-defined phenomena.
And if I have rightly traced the mental processes which
engendered Mrs. Thompson's dream we have here in simple
form a case analogous to some of the more complex phenomena
of her trance.
Thus here knowledge of Mrs. Finch's balloon adventure
reaches Mrs. Thompson's subliminal, but does not filter into
her supraliminal until after she has read about the air-ship
accident. This awakening in the supraliminal consciousness
of so closely allied a train of thought appears to have given
the subliminal a chance to transmit its knowledge to the
supraliminal stratum, not, however, immediately, but on the
192 [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
first favourable opportunity, namely, the moment between
sleeping and waking. Exhausted with its effort, let us sup
pose, or uninfluenced by the suggestion of the seance room,
the subliminal is content to convey its message in an un
adorned form ; Mrs. Thompson merely thinks that Mrs. Finch
was in the balloon.
In what I term Nelly's " peregrinations," to be dealt with
in the next section, there is the same apparently supernormal
acquisition of knowledge about friends or acopiaintances at a
distance, the same impenetrability of the supraliminal. Only
in these cases no favourable opportunity occurs for the sub
liminal to communicate its knowledge to the supraliminal.
The subliminal, however, gets its chance to impart its news
during the trance, and conveys it, not as a simple thought,
impressed on the brain at the moment of waking, but with
appropriate dramatic detail.
The case where Mrs. Thompson when not in trance seemed
to herself to be holding converse with my " astral form " I
should regard as intermediate between the dream about Mrs.
Finch and the " peregrinations " of Nelly. For in it we
seem to see the two divisions of the consciousness in syn
chronous and no longer disparate activity ; the supraliminal
not in abeyance as in trance, but able to retain a clear
memory of the subliminal's proceedings ; the subliminal in
full tela'sthetic vigour, capable of a partial dramatisation, and
yet unable to impose on the alert and sceptical supraliminal
the complete stage-business of the spiritistic seance.
Incident of January \Ath, 1903.
Mrs. Thompson called at the Rooms of the Society on the
afternoon of Wednesday, January 14th, 190o, just as some
thought-transference experiments were being brought to a
close. I asked her to try two experiments with the subjects
with whom we had just been working, and under the same
conditions ; namely, percipient in one room and agent in
another. She consented, and two experiments were made,
Mrs. Thompson being agent in one and percipient in the
other. Neither was successful.
We chatted for a moment or so after this : other people
joining in the conversation. As she was preparing to go,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 193
and almost in the act of saying good-bye, and as she was in
the act of leaving the room, she turned to me laughing and
pointing to my overcoat which was lying over the back of a
chair in the neighbourhood of the door, said :—" I'm going to
psychometrize your coat. There was some trouble about paying
for it : some bad notes."
While speaking these words, in spite of her having used
the term " psychometrize,'' she neither touched the coat nor
did she move nearer to it. She was thoroughly wide awake,
not in the least dreamy or trancified, but there was a
symptom which I did not remark on the other occasions on
which when not in trance she described clairvoyant impressions
and which I think I may safely say was not then displayed.
As she spoke the few words quoted above, a tinge—a smack—
a dash—I don't exactly know what to call it—of the Nelly
manner came over her; there was the curious unmistakable
and characteristic pulling down of one side of the face, which
always accompanies the Nelly impersonation, and the half
lisp, half simper which is the distinguishing mark of Nelly's
utterance. The mollification of the voice and manner was
momentary, but, though I doubt if a stranger would have
remarked it, quite unmistakable to any one familiar with
Mrs. Thompson's trance-state.
As to the statement about my great-coat, the coincidence
between it and the real facts is not exact, but too close to
attribute with confidence to chance.
I had purchased the coat ready-made at a shop where 1
had not dealt before and was consequently unknown. As I
was starting on a journey the next day, I wanted it to be
delivered the same evening. I offered in payment a cheque,
which I made out in the shop. The sum named in the
cheque contained a numeral of two syllables, and this numeral
I failed to spell correctly. Feeling doubtful of my orthography
I applied to the shopman for information, which he gave me
with a condescending though pitying smile. But my failure
to spell a very simple word had evidently aroused his sus
picions, and a consultation with the shop-manager ensued,
which resulted in my being told with many polite expressions
of regret that it would be impossible to let me have the
coat the same night. I insisted that I must have it the
194 [part
/. G. Piddington.
same night, whereupon another and longer consultation with
the manager took place, and I was eventually informed that
they much regretted, etc., etc., but the coat could not be
delivered to me till the following day, which meant, of
course, until there had been time to see if my cheque was
good. I then said that I quite understood their hesitation
and the cause of it, gave a reference and got my coat the
same evening.
I was rather amused by the incident and told my wife
about it when I got home, and if I told any one else, it was
not at any rate any one from whom Mrs. Thompson is likely
to have heard of it. And indeed it seems clear that Mrs.
Thompson had not been told of this very trivial episode, for
in so far as it had any interest, the interest depended on
the details, and if Mrs. Thompson had heard the story at
all and reproduced it, the reproduction would have shown
traces of the original narrative, whereas the statement made
by Mrs. Thompson on January 14th, 1903, is not only not
in exact correspondence with the facts, but is as bald as it
well could be.
Mrs. Thompson spoke of " bad notes," meaning presumably
bad bank notes, whereas I paid by cheque. Without insisting
on the point, which is a very small one, I think it just
worth remarking that the mention of notes instead of a
cheque or cash goes in favour of Mrs. Thompson having
gleaned her information supernormally. Bad bank notes are
excessively rare in England, and accordingly the chances of a
casual reference to bad bank notes having been offered in
payment proving relevant must be very remote. If a shot
was going to be made at all, the trouble would be more
reasonably assigned to a bad cheque, which is not an un
common thing.
Incident of March 1st, 1900.
Professor C. Moutonnier, formerly Professor at the Ecolc
dcs hatitcs Etudes Commcrcialcs a Paris, sent to Mr. Myers the
following account of how he made the acquaintance of Mrs.
Thompson, and also a record of a sitting which he had with
her. It will be seen that Professor Moutonnier is under the
impression that Mrs. Thompson did not lose consciousness when
XLvli.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson'* Trance. 105
on March 1 3th, 1900, she met him for the second time in
the gardens at Monte Carlo. But I think there can be little
doubt that she was really in trance, and if she was, it only
shows how very slightly marked are the external differences
between her normal and her trance state.
The record of this romantic open-air seance ought strictly
not to come under the head of the " Exercise of supernormal
faculty when not in trance,' but I include it here both for
its intrinsic interest, and for convenience of reference, so as
not to separate the introductory episode from its interesting
sequel.
With regard to her first meeting with Professor Moutonnier,
Mrs. Thompson writes :—" I shall never forget the strange
impulse which made me attack the old folks sitting on the
seat with their little dog."
Hyeres (Var) Villa "Val Fleuri," March 3lst, 1900.
Dear Sir,
I am most happy to comply with your request, and to give you
a detailed and true account of ray meeting with Mrs. Thompson,
and the phenomenon I obtained through her mediumship. It was,
indeed, the most remarkable case I ever witnessed, and I hope it
may bring some new light to your investigations.
How I became acquainted with Mrs. Thompson.
On February the 10th, I received from Prof. C. Richet an invi
tation to attend some psychical experiments which were to take place
at his chateau at Carqueiranne, together with Professors Myers and
James. The names of the mediums he did not mention to me.
Such a great treat I considered most highly, and anticipated the
benefit I would be able to derive from the researches of three
well-known scientists. But, unfortunately, a second letter answering
mine came a few days after, informing me that the Professor was
prevented from coming to Carqueiranne, and I had to give up the
hope I had been indulging in so much.
I was then on a visit at my daughter's at Monte Carlo, with my
family, quite unaware of Mrs. Thompson being at the same place,
as I did not know her, either by name or sight.
On the 1st of March, between 10 and 11 a.m., I was sitting on
a bench with my wife, in one of the most retired spots of the gardens
facing the Casino, where they keep the chamois, and few people go
196 [part
J. G. Piddington.
by. While we were chatting together and commenting the events
of the day, I saw coming up to us three persons, a gentleman ac
companied by a lady and a little girl, eleven years old. The lady
addressed us in English (without knowing our nationality) as old
friends, and in such a familiar way as only those already acquainted
with the subject could take any interest in her conversation. She
told us, ex abrupto, and without being questioned, that she came
from a chateau at Carqueiranne belonging to Professor Richet, where
she had been staying for some time with the Professors Myers and
James, and where Professor Richet was to meet them for some
psychical research, but was afterwards prevented from attending.
On my asking her whether she would consider the fact as a mere
chance, or attribute it to some unknown cause, she answered that
she had been guided to me by her little spirit-girl, notwithstanding
that her husband insisted going by another alley ; and that, as soon
as she perceived us, she saw written before her eyes the word
" Carqueiranne," which gave birth to the whole story I just related.
Great was her surprise when I told her we were intimate friends
of Professor Richet, and greater still my joy on learning that she
was one of the two mediums I was to meet at Carqueiranne. We
took leave of Mrs. Thompson and her family after having made an
appointment for a regular seance.
A Stance with Mrs. Thompson.
Our next meeting took place on the 13th of March, at the same
spot and the same hour, 11 A.M., by a beautiful sunny day, and in
the most romantic resort one could dream of.
Were present : Mrs. Thompson (the medium), and her husband, my
wife and self, and my grand-daughter, Violet Fenton, aged seventeen.
After about a quarter of an hour chatting on different topics, Mrs.
Thompson—without1 losing consciousness—was all of a sudden taken
hold of by her spirit-girl, who spoke through her in the following
manner and terms, written down word by word as uttered from the
lips of the medium :—
1. " Tlie lady who is standing back of you says that you have
a ring of hers, and you should give it to me.
2. " She mentions that Long Henry wants to send a message
to the one who was a little girl.
1 [In the original Mrs. Thompson had here inserted and initialled the word
"apparently."—J. G. P.]
xlvi i.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 197
3. "The lady had white hands, long fingers, and finger-nails
like nut-shells.
4. " You have something that belongs to Harry in your
pocket.
5. " Long Henry was very weak, and suffered from the stomach,
which caused him to stoop a little.
6. "It seems to me that he died in a foreign country; you
remember when you last saw him, he wore a kind of a black
coat and a black tie.
7. " The lady died and she left a little girl, and she is going
to have the ring, but in a long time to come.
8. "There is some one related to Long Henry, and he asks if
you are still teaching, as you could not very well take care of
the babe and do two things together.
9. " When the lady died she left a little carved box, you
know, to put trinkets into it; you don't know but the painting
lady knows all about it.
10. "Hairy says that you have a stud that belongs to him.
It is not to make you feel bad ; but he is very funny, you know ;
he is rather reserved, dignified, and wants to be somebody.
11. "He was very fond of stretching out his legs, when he
was seated ; he liked also sticks and had some very funny ones.
12. "He is very pleased that you wear his stud, and tells
you not to feel bad about it.
13. "It seems to me that he died very unfortunately, when
his prospects were at the highest. It was as if it were a pre
mature death.
14. "He knew you to be very kind, but never thought you
would have done so much for his babe, as it was a very weak
and miserable one.
15. "What made his hands shake so much before he died?
16. " He thinks it is very romantic for his spirit to come in
such a beautiful place.
17. "You have some hair in your pocket; I wish you gave it
to me.
18. "There is a Marie connected with it. The hair was first
brown and then chestnut color.
19. "The lady died; she was quite well and was not to die.
I cannot understand why she died.
20. "It seems to me that 'the stud' and 'the hair' have
some relation between the death of both.
198 [part
J. G. Piddington.
21. "There is also a George connected with it. He is in a
foreign country and alive.
22. " Now I see water all around and some one is drowning.
23. "It seems as if 'the liair' had been in the hands of
another medium; there is an influence of a stout lady.
24. " Harry used to have a seal on the chain of his watch.
25. " Harry says that the chestnut hair was that of his darling
wife."
Here ended the influence and with it this interesting phenomenon.
Explanatory Notes.
For the sake of a better and clearer understanding of the above
message, I have annotated the different sentences.
1. The ring mentioned here was my daughter's, and I am
wearing it ever since her death on the little finger of my left
hand.
(I took it off and handed it to the medium.)
2. Long Henry was an intimate friend of ours, a Dutchman by
birth, but living in Paris. He was very tall and liked my
grand-daughter—then a little child—very much.
3. My daughter's hands were of a beautiful shape, white, long
and tapering.
4. I had in the left inside pocket of my coat a little picture
of Hairy—my son-in-law— (my daughter's husband). I handed
it to her ; she put it on her forehead, but said she could not
get anything from it.
5. Hairy was Mr. Teuton's Christian name. Henry's health
had always been very poor, and his tallness caused him to stoop
a little. He was taken very ill, two years ago, and resorted to
his native country, Holland, where he died amidst his relatives.
6. When we last saw him in Paris—at luncheon—he wore a
black cut-away coat and a black necktie.
7. Both my daughter and her husband died leaving a girl—
then six years old, their only child.
8. The person alluded to by Long Henry is myself. I was then
a professor at the jZcole des hautes Etudes commerciales at Paris.
9. After my daughter's death we found many little boxes, where
she kept her jewels. I, of course, was ignorant of the fact, but
my other daughter, her sister (mentioned by the medium as being
the painting lady, and who is in reality an artist painter) very
likely knew all about it.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson'is Trance. 199
10. On the very day of the stance I had on my shirt, hidden
under my neck-tie, and invisible to any one, a diamond stud
belonging to my son-in-law. I must say that I was quite un
aware having it on that day. Harry was rather a dignified and
very ambitious man.
11. Like all Americans when at leisure, he used to take an
easy position. He was very fond of sticks and had kept one
of the funniest you can imagine in a trunk in Paris that belonged
to him.
12. He died from a neglected cold that settled in his lungs
after an illness of eighteen months.
13. He was only 41 years old when he died, and he had
indeed a great future before him ; being very intelligent, active
and ambitious.
14. He died first and his little girl, my grand-daughter, was
then very delicate and weak.
15. I could not answer this question, as no one but his wife
was at his bedside, when he breathed his last.
16. This place had been selected by the medium.
17. I had in the left inside pocket of my coat wrapped in
paper and in an envelope a lock of my daughter's hair and a few
words written on a note signed by the name of l' Marie " (her
Christian name). 1 handed the envelope containing the hair
to the medium, who put it on her forehead, holding it for some
time.
18. My daughter's hair was of a chestnut color.
19. My daughter Marie caught the influenza from her sister
and was taken away in the course of five days by the dreadful
plague, February, '92, in the prime of her life, at the age of 29.
It was her death that caused me to become a spiritualist.
20. The stud was Harry's and the hair Marie's, as said before.
21. The person mentioned by the name of George is the Chris
tian name of my other son-in law, Mr. Healy (the husband of
the painting lady) who lives at Chicago and is still there.
22. I do not know how to account for this.
23. Never did my daughter's hair go out of my possession.
24. Harry may have had a seal, as he was very fond of wearing
little trinkets ; but I do not remember having seen any, nor did
I find any after his death.
25. The fuiir, as said before, was my daughter's.
As will be seen from the above message and the explanatory notes,
o
-200 [part
J. G. Piddington.
it is obvious that an outside influence was at work to give to the
medium all these minute and private details on family matters only
known to us and some of which none of us three were thinking of
at the moment of the sitting. Who then prompted her [to give]
the names of my children—Hairy, George (who is in Chicago), Marie,
and most wonderfully "Long Henry"—and all the particulars con
nected with their private life ? Psychometry, clairvoyance, mind-reading,
telepathy say the men of science ; but I would rather call it spirit
influence, a tie of union between all the worlds of the universe.
This is a true and genuine account of the phenomena obtained
through the mediumship of Mrs. R. Thompson.
I hereby certify that neither I nor my wile, nor my grand-daughter
had ever seen or heard the name of Mrs. Thompson, nor did any
of us ever suspect her existence. We were perfect strangers one
to the other, till the day we first met her, on the 1st of March—and
since nothing in our conversation could have given her the least
hint to enable her to discover anything connected with my family.
Before closing this long letter, I must say that Long Henry was
conversant with the modern tongues, and understood and spoke
English as well as any of us. Moreover, I state that the message
was given in a child-like way, and with the genuine accent and pro
nunciation of a child.
Any other information you may need on this subject I will be
glad to give you.
With kindest regards, believe me, Dear Sir, yours truly,
C. Moutonnikr, Prof.
(7) The Peregrinations of Nelly.
Mrs. Thompson's trance exhibits a good many instances of a
very distinctive phenomenon, akin to what is called " clair
voyance a distance," or " travelling clairvoyance." But I shall
not employ the term " clairvoyance in, distance" because it begs
both the distance and the clairvoyance, and has acquired a
technical meaning, and also because clairvoyance is frequently
used in two or three different senses.
I prefer then to class these phenomena under a non
technical heading, and call them simply " the peregrinations of
Nelly." It may be objected that this title assumes that Nelly
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 201
peregrinates. I, however, do not mean to assume that, but
merely wish, for convenience' sake, to label certain recurrent
phases of Mrs. Thompson's psychical manifestations by a term
descriptive of their superficial aspect.
Although by using this term I do not commit myself to any
particular interpretation of the facts, I have no hesitation in
asserting my belief that these peregrinations do really repre
sent to the trance-personality a method of obtaining information
quite distinct from the other processes which Nelly calls
" talking to spirits," " seeing pictures," or " getting things out
of Mother's stomach."
These other processes are in operation during the trance: but
the peregrinations are represented as having taken place pre
vious to the trance, the knowledge resulting from them being
held over for disclosure at a subsequent sitting.
Some of these voyages of discovery have been already
recorded in Proceedings, Part XLIV, pp. 112-115, and are all
connected with Dr. van Eeden. One which should have been
included in this series was omitted by mistake, and I will
begin with it.
It occurred at the sitting of December 20th, 1900, and was
preceded by a description of a joint visit of Nelly and Elsie (a
spirit friend of Nelly's) to Mrs. Piper, which is recorded below,
and also by a true description of an incident relating to my
little girl, which Nelly may have learnt about during a pere
grination to my house, but which I have not included in this
series, because she did not actually say that she had thus
acquired the information. Mrs. Benson was the sitter, and
there was nothing to suggest Dr. van Eeden.
Nelly :—" I went to see Brother Boer : that's what Mother
calls him : ' Whiskers.' This was truthfully me, not Elsie, on
Tuesday the 18th instant. (Sic; and spoken as if repeating
a lesson.) There's somebody very ill in his house—in his
colonisation—very ill."
J. G. P. :—"What illness?"
Nelly :—" It's something that draws them up very much."
J. 6. J'. :—"Man or woman 1"
Nelly.—"Woman. I don't mean Sam's mother. She's very
ill. Sam that was at Paris. Sam High Street (then followed
attempts at the name ' van Hoogstraten ') not i's in it ; all o's
202 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
and d's. It's no test to spell the name ; because everybody
knows it. Sam's mother's very ill ; but that's not the person
that's drawn up."
I sent a transcript of this to Dr. van Eeden. I can give
only the substance of his reply, as unfortunately I have lost or
mislaid the original. Luckily the main point does not depend
on memory, and can be checked by reference to documentary
evidence. Dr. van Eeden found a coincidence in the fact that
some days before December 20th, though not on December 18th,
a woman in his colony at Bussum had given birth to a child.
When I discovered that the letter containing this statement
was missing I wrote to Dr. van Eeden asking him if he re
collected the incident, and also for details as to the number
of men and women in his colony. His answer, dated Septem
ber 29th, 1903, runs as follows:—
... I remember her (Nelly's) statement very well, and the
coincidence with the birth of a child at Walden. There were
always between 30 and 40 persons at Walden, men, women, and
children, and never less than three married women. I have never
spoken about Walden and its population to Mrs. Thompson, as tar
as I remember now, because I always avoided the subject. But
Nelly has shown knowledge concerning it on several occasions.
I then asked for the date of the birth of the child, and
writing on October 6th, 1903, Dr. van Eeden stated that it
was December 9th, 1900.
If this case stood by itself, I should not have thought the
problematical coincidence worth narrating; but it is not an
isolated instance of apparent perception by Nelly of what took
place at Walden, and therefore in spite of the error about the
date and the lack of definiteness in her description of the
illness, it deserves consideration.
The chief difficulty is the discrepancy between the date
named by Nelly and the date of the woman's illness. Nelly
as a rule is vague in the matter of dates, which she arrives at
generally by saying that something happened the same day as
or a day or two before or after some incident in Mrs. Thompson's
experience. To the best of my recollection this is one of the
only two occasions on which she gave a day of the month (see
p. 252), and she brought it out as a child does who is using a
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 203
term which it knows sounds well, but of the meaning of which it
is not quite sure. If we regard the coincidence as due to
supernormal knowledge, it is possible to explain the dis
crepancy by supposing that either as a result of a peregrina
tion or telepathically Nelly on December 18th first learnt of
a past fact, namely, the illness.
Again, if there is anything here calling for an explanation
on supernormal lines, I would note that Nelly's description of
the woman's illness is such as might have been given by a
child, who, ignorant of the significance of the symptoms which
she had witnessed, failed to draw the inference which an
adult would have drawn.
Between December 9th, the date of the confinement, and
December 20th, the date of Nelly's account of her peregrina
tion, Mrs. Thompson had given two sittings to Mrs. Verrall on
Dec. 14th and 1 7th ; but at neither was anything said about
a visit to Dr. van Eeden. Nelly's silence on December 14th
and 17 th is in favour of the supposition that she acquired
her knowledge of the illness after it occurred, and after the
sitting of December 17 th.
At a sitting held on January 1st, 1901, immediately the
trance began, and before the sitter had entered the room, Nelly
said to me :—
" Who is that coughing, coughing, coughing in the night—last
night—a nasty sounding cough 1 I couldn't sleep in your house."
J. G. P. :—" Was it last night ? "
Nelly :—" I think so, but it was the night I tried to sleep
at your house."
/. 0. P. :—" Did you see anything or anybody ? "
Nelly.— "I don't know, but I am sure it was Mr. PMding-
ton's house. Where's Monro at your house? Have you got his
box there ? There's a MiinrS box at your house. All boxes
have a strap round. It was a leather portmanteau box with
a strap round, and some white trousers, like football or cricket
trousers, perhaps sleeping things in it. I can see them dis
tinctly."
The facte were these. On the nights of the 29th-30th
and 30th-31st December, 1900, I had been disturbed and
kept awake for an hour or two by the coughing of one of my
204 [part
J. G. Piddington.
servants who was sleeping in the room above mine. On
December 81st I spoke to my wife about it, and advised her
to send the servant to see the doctor. The cough probably
continued for a night or two after this, but I was not dis
turbed on the night of December 31st-January 1st. Coughs are
common of course in December and January, and though Nelly
did not say that I was disturbed by the coughing, it is worth
noting that I have to the best of my recollection been disturbed
at night by another person's cough only once since the date of
this sitting ; in other words, on only three or four nights out
of about 900 nights would a reference to some one coughing
in my house at night have had a special significance for me.
I may add that since Nelly mentioned this coughing I have
borne in mind to note down any other occasions on which I
have been disturbed by coughing at night.
I had not seen Mrs. Thompson for eleven days before the
day on which the sitting was held at which Nelly mentioned
the coughing, and I certainly did not speak to Mrs. Thompson
before the trance about the servant's cough ; so she did not
learn of the incident from me. Mrs. Thompson also had not
been to my house for several months, and the sitting of
January 1st, 1901, was not held there, and so she could
not have noticed that one of my servants was suffering
from a cold. It is not quite clear whether Nelly intended
to convey that she had learnt of the existence of a "Monro
box " at my house at the same time that she heard
the coughing, but I think that this was what she meant. The
bare fact of there being such a box in my box-room was
true, though I had no conscious knowledge or recollection of
it. The other details are probably wrong, except that there
was a strap round the portmanteau. In the box-room, which
is an out-building, and into which Mrs. Thompson has never
been, was at the time of the sitting a portmanteau belonging to
Miss Munro, a sister of my wife's. Attached to it was a laljel
bearing the name and address of the owner. I do not think
that at any rate at this time Mrs. Thompson knew my wife's
maiden name, and if she had heard it she would have heard
it pronounced " Munro," and not " Monro " as Nelly pronounced
it. The box was a small portmanteau, a flimsily-built foreign-
made thing, of some cardboard kind of material, not leather,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 205
and it did not contain trousers or anything of the sort, and it
Ijelonged not to a man but to a woman.
Immediately after this Nelly went on to describe another
peregrination, in this case involving possession of a medium in
trance.
In the account which follows I have substituted fictitious
names for the real ones, but all the people concerned were
friends of Mr. Myers', are all known to me and all are mem
bers of the S.P.R. The lady whom Nelly purported to have
controlled is not a professional medium.
Mr. Myers had written to me as follows :—
Valescure, Dec. 23/00.
" Miss Rawson is here. ... A sitting yesterday, Dec : 22.
At 2.40 French time {i.e. 2.30 English) a soi-disant Mrs.
Thompson possessed Miss R. I don't want to ask Mrs. T.
about it—perhaps when you sit next (Jan. 1) you can find
out whether anything occurred that day to Mrs. T. She
came only for a minute and feebly. I will not tell you the
other sitters for evidence sake."
Before the sitting of January 1st, 1901 began I asked Mrs.
Thompson how she had spent the afternoon of December 22nd,
1900. I did not of course say why I asked the question,
nor did I let her know that I was putting the question on
Mr. Myers' behalf.
In reply to my question Mrs. Thompson said :—" I was in
the house the whole of Saturday afternoon, December 22nd,
talking to a lady. I slept for an hour, probably between 2.45
and 3.45, in an arm-chair in front of the fire in the dining-
room. I remember nothing, and did not dream, so far as I am
aware. I don't think I was asleep as early as 2.30." (This
in reply to my suggestion that she might perhaps have had a
dream, and that possibly she had fallen asleep as early as
2.30.)
When the trance was over, I explained to Mrs. Thompson
why I had asked the question, and although she then knew
that to bring about a very pretty coincidence she ought to
have been asleep by 2.30, she wrote me the same evening to
the effect that on further consideration she felt sure that she
had not gone to sleep before 3 o'clock.
206 [part
J. G. Piddington.
During the trance, and immediately after the statement about
the coughing and the "Monro box," (see p. 203), Nelly said:—
"Where's Millie? Mr. Myers' Millie? Millie llawson?
She knows all about me, because she says I went to her house
the other day."
J. G. P.:—"What day?"
Nelly:—"Don't remember."
/. 6. P. :—"Where is she?"
Nelly :—" I don't know. She has got a very ill mother."
J. G. P. :— "Do you remember going to her house?"
Nelly:—"Yes."
J. G. P.—"What do you remember?"
Nelly:—"It was like this. She said 'Come along, Nelly,
and tell me all about it.' She invited me to go to see her.
She has got a very ill mother. She isn't dead; don't think
she's dead—don't think that. She only thinked it: that's as
good as an invitation. Tell her I'll go and see her for Mr.
Myers' sake, not for her's. I went, but it was a muggled
went. I wish you believed me."
J. G. P. :—" Why ? "
Nelly :—" Because I once said I wouldn't go to any one
but Mother: but I did this time to oblige Mr. Myers. You
know the old lady was lying down at the time. . . . Yet
Mrs. Evie seemed to be there. Don't think I mean Mrs.
Myers. I mean the one (then follows a personal description).
It was the day they forgot to send the turkey."
J. G. P. :—" Who is 'they'?"
Nelly :—" Mother knows about it. Don't put down about
the turkey : Mother won't like it. I'll think of something else
to remember the day by."
/. G. P. :—"No, the turkey will do very well."
Nelly :—" Now, I'm happy ; I've told . you all the secrets
that were on my mind."
Then towards the end of the sitting Nelly recurred to the
subject again as follows:—"I did go to Millie Rawson. Yes,
I did. She seems to be abroad. Mrs. Rawson isn't in that
same bed that she used to be. Miss Rawson likes to talk to
Mr. Myers, and rap the table at him. Not at him, with him.
She always says I have light hair. Elsie has light hair, and
I have got dark and curly hair. That's the truth."
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 207
The following is a copy of an extract from the notes taken
at the sitting of December 22nd, 1900, with Miss Rawson:—
" Mrs. Thompson came with great difficulty at 2.40 p.m.
(Paris time). ' I have come as you asked me.' "
Nelly fixed the date of her visit to Miss Rawson by saying
that it was " the day they forgot to send the turkey." I have
in my possession a statement signed by a lady and gentleman
who were staying with Mrs. Thompson at the time, and also
a statement signed by Mrs. Thompson's cook to the effect that
the " day they forgot to send the turkey " was Saturday,
December 22nd.
There was therefore a coincidence in the dates. There is also
a suggestive resemblance between Nelly's words : " I went, but
it was a muggled went " ; " tell her I'll go and see her for
Mr. Myers' sake " ; "I once said 1 wouldn't go to any one but
Mother, but I did this time to oblige Mr. Myers " ; and the
independent descriptions of what occurred during Miss Rawson's
trance, namely : " She came only for a minute and feebly," and
" Mrs. Thompson came with great difficulty," and the words
spoken by the soi-disant Mrs. Thompson, " I have come as you
asked me."
On the other hand Nelly says she controlled Miss Rawson,
whereas Miss Rawson is supposed to have been controlled by
Mrs. Thompson. Nelly says the lady whom she called " Mrs.
Evie " was present, which was true, but though I ditl not
actually know it to have been the case, I might have surmised
it from something in Mr. Myers' letter to me. She seems to
imply that Mr. Myers was present, which I knew, but she says
Mrs. Rawson was present, when in reality Mrs. Rawson was
dead, and I had known she was dead, though at the time of
the sitting I did not feel sufficiently sure on the point to
contradict Nelly when she told me not to think that Mrs.
Rawson was dead ; Nelly's words seem to imply—what proved
to be the case—that Mrs. Myers was not present, a point on
which I had no information. Two other sitters who were
present at Miss Rawson's sitting, and of whose participation in
the sitting I was unaware, Nelly did not mention.
The death of Mr. Myers, which took place less than four
weeks after the sitting, prevented me from learning from the
most authoritative source whether he had given Mrs. Thompson
208 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
any reason to suppose that somewhere about December 22nd
he would have a sitting with Miss Rawson, and whether he
had expressed to Mrs. Thompson a wish to try for correspon
dences between her and Miss Rawson's trance utterances.
In October, 1903, Mrs. Thompson was kind enough to let
me examine all the letters written to her by Mr. Myers
during the year 1900, and up to date of his death, and in
none of these letters is there any reference to Miss Rawson,
or to his having met her, or to his having had sittings with
her, or to bis having any prospect of having sittings with her.
Naturally I did not give Mrs. Thompson the remotest hint of
my reasons for wishing to examine the letters written to her
by Mr. Myers during a certain period. Her ready acquies
cence is only one more proof of her good nature and intelli
gent appreciation of the need for strict methods of inquiry.
After I bad read through the correspondence, and explained
matters to her, she assured me that she had no recollection
of Mr. Myers having ever told her either that he had had
sittings, or was hoping to have sittings about December 1900,
or at any time with Miss Iiawson. I learn further, from a
good source, that Miss Kawson was not expecting to meet
Mr. Myers in the South of France. (See also p. 302.)
But these peregrinations do not always have such inter
esting results. Of two that I am now going to relate one
was abortive and the other inconclusive.
At a sitting held on December 20th, 1900, Nelly said:—
"Tell Dr. Hodgson I know all about that Mis. Piper thing
that he sent to my mother. I went to Mrs. Piper's house
with the impression of that. And somebody in Mrs. Piper's
house they said—'Well, talk through Mrs. Piper.' I didn't
really talk through her, but Elsie to please me pretended to
be me. I didn't talk to her because I'd promised Mother
never to talk through any one but her. Elsie said:—'Here's
Mrs. Thompson's Nelly come.' You see, Mrs. Benson, Elsie
and I are regular little cheats. We're not really cheats, only
we cheated that time. It wasn't really me. Elsie went and
said that, and Mrs. Piper thought it was me. We're very much
alike."
What Nelly calls " that Piper thing " was not really a
" Piper thing " at all, but an object, about which Dr. Hodgson
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 209
knew nothing, sent over by him to Mr. Myers for the purpose
of an experiment with Mrs. Thompson. Nelly, in spite of her
claim, has failed to give any correct information about this
object.
Dr. Hodgson says that there is no trace in the records of
Mrs. Piper's sittings of any such incident as Nelly describes.
Perhaps Elsie told Nelly a tarradiddle ; an impious suggestion
to make about a spirit, but if spirits can cheat, there is no
saying what crimes they mayn't commit.
The next instance is non-evidential, but I quote it because
it foims one of the series under discussion, and, in order to
form a proper estimate of the value of these particular pheno
mena, all must be taken into account, and also in order to
illustrate the " automatic romance," as Miss Brainstem calls it,
of the trance.
Nelly opened the sitting of January 11th, 1901, in this
way:—
"Mr. Piddington, will you buy me a white rabbit? No, not
a white rabbit, because it would get dirty : a not-white rabbit
to put on that mantelpiece. You can get one at the sweet
shop at the corner of Sloane Street."
J. G. P.:—"What were you doing in Sloane Street, Nelly?"
Nelly:—"I went there to go to your house and try to find
something out about your house. But I didn't get there. I
stopped and looked at the rabbits in the shop."
There were rabbits in the window of a sweet shop at the
corner of Sloane Street at this time and have been ever since,
at least up to July 1903, and the chances are that there were
for a long time before the date of this sitting, as this shop
seems to make a speciality of toy rabbits. We are therefore
at liberty to assume that at some time or other Mrs. Thomp
son had noticed the rabbits. But the point to which 1 want
to draw attention is the extremely happy touch with which
this little episode is treated. All the other voyages of dis
covery lead, or were represented as leading, to some definite
result. This one is frustrated. The attractions of a sweet
shop proved too much for Nelly, and science was deprived perhaps
of some addition to the store of evidence for the existence of
Bupernonnal faculty in consequence. The whole thing is so
artistically done, the episode lightly introduced and as lightly
210 [part
J. G. Piddingtcm.
dropped. It fits in properly as one of a series of similar
excursions, and at the same time delightfully exemplifies the
vividness and artlessness of the child-control.
This by-play, which abounds in the trance utterances of Mrs.
Thompson, produces on me at the time a most vivid impression
of the reality of the Nelly control : an effect which, however
much weakened by subsequent reflection, is never entirely dissi
pated. I dare say as narrated in black and white the things read
commonplace enough ; but they are not in the least common
place as they issue from the lips of the medium, when the
spontaneity with which they are uttered is surprising.
(8) Ignorance displayed by the Trance-Personality of
matters which were or might have been within
the cognizance of the medium.
In every single instance it stands to reason that the
ignorance displayed by the trance-personality may have been
mere pretence, assumed to create effect ; but believing, as I
do, that the phenomena of Mrs. Thompson's trance are genuine,
I regard them as evidence of discontinuity of memory between
Nelly and Mrs. Thompson, and as such worthy of record
and study.
At the same time it seems to me possible that in some
cases the ignorance is assumed by the trance-personality either
from a kind of intellectual tic, or from playfulness, or from
a lazy liking for sticking to an appellation when once used,
or from an instinct for referring to people by nicknames.
Sitting of October 28th, 1899.
At this sitting I handed to Mrs. Thompson a cigar-cutter,
the cover or holder of which was made of gun -metal. Mr.
Feilding who was taking notes refers to it in them as a
pencil ; but he was sitting at some distance from the medium
and so did not get a close view of it. The medium, however,
had it in her hands for some time, and Nelly throughout
spoke of it also as a pencil. For any one who was handling
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 211
it, and at the same time able to see it at close quarters,,
it would have been difficult to mistake it for a pencil.
At the same sitting Nelly referred to Mr. Podmore in a
general way. Mr. Feilding then asked Nelly if she could say
what Mr. Podmore was doing yesterday. Nelly answered :—
" I see him in a big sort of bank, selling money." Mrs.
Thompson and Mr. Podmore live not far apart, and had
Nelly named his real occupation, her statement would have
had no evidential value. Whether at this time Mrs. Thompson
knew Mr. Podmore's profession or not I cannot say ; but I
should think that she probably did ; and if she did not, it is
hard to understand why, if she is a fraud, she should have
risked making a shot at it when with very little trouble
she could have got certain information.
Sitting of November 29th, 1899.
Towards the end of this sitting Nelly said to Dr. van
Eeden :—" I promise faithfully to give you plenty of details
on Friday." (Before the trance Mrs. Thompson had arranged
to give a second sitting on the following Friday. Note the
matter-of-fact way in which Nelly as usual assumes acquaintance
with Mrs. Thompson's affairs.) Then turning to me she
added :—" Don't let your mother or lady at your house be
present at the sitting. It would make Mother nervous."
I think the probabilities are that at this period Mrs.
Thompson knew that " the lady at my house " was not my
mother, but my wife : but whether that was so or not,
Nelly, long after my wife had made Mrs. Thompson's ac
quaintance, continued to refer to her either as " the lady in
your surroundings " or as " the lady at your house," or as
" your little girl's mother," or as " the lady with neuralgia in
your surroundings," or vaguely as " she," or in fact by any
circumlocution rather than as " your wife." Only once, to
the best of my belief, has she ever made use of a direct
and natural designation in speaking of my wife.
Mrs. Veriall has described (see Proceedings, Part XLIV,
p. 194) a similar though more complicated example of this
curious avoidance by Nelly of the obvious way of styling
people ; but in my case there is no reason to suppose that
Nelly failed to put two and two together, and to recognise
212 [part
J. G. Piddington.
" the lady at my house," etc. as my wife. In Mrs. Verrall's
case it seems possible that when she spoke of " the Willgar
gentleman " or of " Arthur," she failed to grasp that the
person to whom these appellations referred was Mrs. Verrall's
husband.
In Mrs. Benson's sittings Nelly spoke of Archbishop Benson
to Mrs. Benson first as " your husband," later as " Mr. Bishop,"
or as " the old gentleman," or " the old gentleman with the
spectacles." Not only up to a certain point where Mrs.
Cartwright referred to him clearly as " the Archbishop " but
afterwards Nelly seemed to be unaware of the title used by
Mrs. Cartwright, and continued to use the same terms as
before or others, such as " that old gentleman, Mr. Benson,"
or " Mr. Truro." Finally, to her great chagrin, Nelly dis
covered that " Mrs. Benson is in the peerage," and that " Mrs.
Cartwright knows " who " the clergyman who wears the night
shirt over his clothes" is, and in a state of great agitation
announces that she is not happy any more {i.e. because when
facts given in the trance are to be found also in works of
reference, their evidential value is lost or diminished), and
that " it's no good any more." " Bishop—Bishop—the Bishop
who preached at St. Paul's Cathedral, Bishop Canterbury. I
never knew before ; Mrs. Cartwright says it's in the book."
(i.e. in the peerage).
Even then she did not use the word "Archbishop," but
" Bishop Canterbury " ; and though Mrs. Benson had two more
sittings after Nelly announced her discovery of the Arch
bishop's identity, she never referred to him by his proper
title, but always by one of the circumlocutions with which
she had grown familiar, or added new ones such as :—" that
gentleman," " the Bishop gentleman," or " the sleeve gentle
man."
I agree with Mrs. Verrall in thinking that the deliberate
maintenance of these devices could serve no obvious purpose,
and their only result would be, one would think, to confuse
the medium, who, if she is fraudulent, must have quite
enough to do to keep all the threads of her puppets from
getting entangled, without introducing further and unnecessary
complications into an already sufficiently complicated game.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 213
Sitting of February 6th, 1900.
I handed to the medium at this sitting a double sheet of
illuminated script done in the manner of the 14th and 15th
century. The text was in English and perfectly easy to read ;
yet Nelly said of it:—"It's all in foreign languages; nobody could
read it." At a later sitting I handed a coin to the medium,
saying as I did so :—" This belonged to my mother." " Ah !
Yes," replied Nelly, " this is the lady connected with the Ger
man prayers." " Why will you say German ? " I protested,
" It's English." So then Nelly conceded the point, excusing her
mistake on the plea that " It's written in Old English letters ;
that looks like German."
Sitting of April 19th, 1900.
There had been an interval of six weeks between this and
the last sitting, and Nelly seemed to have forgotten who I
was. Speaking about a locket which had been handed to her
by Dr. Max Dessoir she casually asked :—" What is that round
the neck, Mr. Myers ? " " I'm not Mr. Myers," I objected, to
be met with the retort:—"/ like Mr. Myers ever so much
better than you, but Mother doesn't. How do you explain
that ? "
But in spite of my reminder she almost immediately showed
again that she failed to remember me ; so I tried to recall
myself to her memory, and this time with success, for Nelly
greeted me with the remark :—" Oh ! yes ; you're the one with
Dorothy " ; a mark of recognition not perhaps flattering, but
quite conclusive : for at my first sitting Nelly had said that
she got " an influence connected with the lady at your house
called Dorothy." In spite of my denial of there being any
person so named connected with my wife, Nelly stuck to her
statement, and the next day I discovered that the name of a
hospital nurse who had come to attend my wife the day
before the sitting was Dorothy. That the name was not a
mere random shot was shown by subsequent and more precise
statements made by Nelly about Dorothy. (See pp. 214-220.)
If Mrs. Thompson's trances are fraudulent, I do not see
what was to be gained by pretending that she did not recognise
me ; nor can I think that it was a momentary slip of memory
214 [part
J. G. Piddington.
llue to her greater familiarity with Mr. Myers as a sitter or
recorder, for the mistake was made twice, and I should
imagine that it was of primary importance to a fraudulent
medium to fix well in her mind the identity of her sitters ;
whereas the same circumspection need not be so essential to a
secondary personality or a spirit.
Nelly always referred to the screen used to hide the sitters
during a certain number of sittings as " the umbrella " ; but
this I fancy was meant as a term of reproach, and was only
one of " Fanny's little ways."
A much more curious point is that for a short time after
his death Nelly denied with obstinacy that Mr. Myers was
dead ; though the fact was of course known to Mrs. Thompson,
and although the Sidgwick control was represented as perfectly
cognisant of it.
(9) An Incident illustkative of the Gradual Emergence
ok Facts in the Tkance-Uttekances.
My first sitting with Mrs. Thompson was, as I have said,
on October 28th, 1899, when I went to her house under
an assumed name with Mr. Feilding.
I was addressed by Nelly in the course of the sitting by
my real name ; but I was not and am not satisfied that Mrs.
Thompson might not have been able (for reasons into which I
need not enter) to make a very good guess as to who I was
without the aid of her " enlarged consciousness." I also think
that a good deal of what was told me at this sitting was
nothing more than amplifications of, or inferences from, the
"Noel Walker" crystal-message. (See above, pp. 112-119.)
But this sitting contained one item of information which was
afterwards in later sittings more fully developed : and this I
find it impossible to consider as deduced from the crystal-
message, and its possession by Mrs. Thompson can best be
accounted for by supposing that it reached her through some
supernormal channel.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 215
While the medium was holding in her hands a match-box
of mine, and also a cap and tie that had belonged to a
deceased friend of Mr. Feilding's, Nelly said :—" I get an
influence, connected with the lady at your house, called
Dorothy. Dorothy also comes with the tie." Towards the
end of the sitting the medium took bold of the cap and tie
again, and Nelly said :—
"There is a Dorothy or a William in connection with
them. I can't attach the cap to either Mr. Feilding or to
you. It seems as if given by somebody else."
I told Nelly at the same time that the name Dorothy had
no meaning either for me or for the lady at my house ; and
as the name Dorothy was also said to be connected with the
cap and tie which had nothing whatever to do with me, I
took it to be merely a name shot out at random like others
at the same sitting.
As a matter of fact, however, the evening before this
sitting took place a hospital-nurse named Sister Dorothy had
come to attend upon my wife. My supraliminal memory was
certainly not in possession of the nurse's name, though perhaps
my subliminal memory was, as on reflection I felt almost sure
that the doctor, who had engaged the nurse for me, had some
days previously spoken of her to me as " Sister Dorothy."
It was not till the morning after the sitting when I was
going through the notes that it occurred to me to enquire
what the nurse's name was. I think I should not« have
troubled to bother about the name had not Nelly, when I
told her at the sitting that she was mistaken about Dorothy,
insisted that she was right. This struck me as curious, and
as not the kind of tactics that a fishing trance-personality
would have pursued in face of my denial. Having then dis
covered that there was a Dorothy connected with my wife,
I waited in the hope of getting some further reference to her.
The next sitting which I attended was on November 29th,
1899. No mention was made of Dorothy; but this was
natural enough, because the communications were addressed
chiefly to a new sitter, Dr. van Eeden, and were not concerned
with me in any way.
Two days later Dr. van Eeden had a second sitting. It
was held at my house for the first time, and this seems to
p
21(J [part
/. G. Piddington.
have reminded Nelly of Dorothy ; for just before the trance
ended she said to me :—
" Have you got a Dorothy in this house ? Some one is
calling Do-ro-thy. A live lady is calling Dorothy. She
wasn't a foreigner—an ordinary lady—a very musical voice
calling Dorothy. Dorothy would be a good medium for
physical phenomena. Peter could do knocks through her."
At this date the nurse was no longer at my house. I can
trace no meaning in the musical voice calling " Do-ro-thy " ;
my wife always called her " Nurse " tout court.
The next sitting at which I was present was on December
18th, 1899. Towards the close of it I asked Nelly for more
news about Dorothy.
Nelly was annoyed and testily replied :—
" Oh, don't bother me about Dorothy. She's a very unim
portant person ; only a kind of servant."
" Well," I said, " if she is so unimportant, why did you
get a message about her ? "
" Because," answered Nelly, without the least hesitation,
" because she has a little dead brother, whoo wanted to send
a message. We call him Bob—Bobby. He's got something
wrong with him in the neck and ear, and it made his head
a little bit sideways."
I wrote to Sister Dorothy to enquire if there were any
truth in this statement. Her reply was to this effect : that
she had no dead brother named Bobby, but she remembers
a little boy in her hospital of that name, rather a pet of
hers, who had a diseased bone in his neck. The neck was
kept between sandbags, and this in time made his ears sore.
The identification is not of course entirely satisfactory,
because Nelly described Bobby as Sister Dorothy's dead
brother. But Nelly has at various times explained that she
has to guess at relationships. She seems to be roughly
cognisant of the relations existing between two individuals,
and from such general impressions to infer the relationship.
But, granting for a moment Nelly's account to be the true
one, it would be easy to account for the error in question.
Let us suppose that a little spirit-child, Bobby, was cog
nisant of Sister Dorothy's presence in my house. He tells
Nelly during the seance on November 29: "A lady con
xlvil] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 217
uected with that gentleman has got Sister Dorothy at her
house." Nelly repeats this information in a parrot-like way :
misunderstands the use of the term " Sister," and imagines
that because Bobby talks of " Sister Dorothy " Bobby must
be Dorothy's brother.
The next sitting was held on January 5th, 1900, and
during the seance proper no reference was made to Dorothy.
After the trance was over, and while Mrs. Thompson
was having tea with my wife and myself, she unexpectedly
relapsed into trance, and Nelly began to chatter away about
matters quite unconnected with those dealt with at the
regular sitting. I took the opportunity to ask for something
further about Dorothy. Nelly said :—" She has left that
situation and gone to another one. It is a place where
there are four children." [See below.]
Nelly was most disdainful about my interest in Dorothy
on this occasion, too : she evidently thought that one ought
to be inquisitive only about one's deceased great-grandmother :
an attitude all the more curious because she usually has the
instincts of the true psychical researcher well developed, and
displays a keen grasp of what is good evidence and what
is not.
At the next sitting, which was on January 10th, 1900,
she had evidently made up her mind to nip any tiresome
enquiries in the bud, for, without my making any reference
to the distasteful subject, she said :—" Don't ask me about
Dorothy." But, undismayed by her aversion, I ventured to
point out to her the importance of obtaining more informa
tion about Bobby and Dorothy, and urged her to try to
find Bobby in order to learn more about him. This she
promised to do, though with a bad grace, and I fear she
did not pursue her mission con amorc.
Nothing was said about Dorothy at the next sitting on
January 12th, 1900, nor at the two subsequent meetings.
On January 23rd, 1900, I was not present at the seance
until just at the end, when I again brought forward the
subject with the words :—" Will you give me more things
about Dorothy ? " " Dorothy," said Nelly, " looks rather like
a hospital nurse. She has a bonnet with white lace on it.
She is now at a house where some one is speaking French."
218 [part
J. G. Piddington.
I wrote to Sister Dorothy, and she replied :—" I think
most of the people I've been with can " [i.e. speak French].
" I do not possess any bonnet with lace on it."
She wears, however, a hospital-nurse's cap with long white
strings. I imagine that the uniform of no hospital-nurse
includes a bonnet trimmed with lace, white or of any
other colour, and it is curious that this unlikely detail of
dress should have been assigned to Sister Dorothy just after
her profession had been rightly named : curious, because not
only has Mrs. Thompson a most observant eye for dress,
but Nelly also shares her interest in frocks and frills.
Nothing further is directly stated of Dorothy, but after a
lapse of nearly two months she is referred to indirectly again.
As I have already described (see ' p. 213) Nelly failed
to recognise me at the sitting held on April 19th, 1900 :
and so I had to try to recall myself to her memory. In
this I was successful, for, when I had finished my explana
tions as to who I was, Nelly said in an off-hand way :—
" Oh ! yes : you're the one with Dorothy." I had flattered
myself that I had other claims on Nelly's recollection than
this, but apparently I had not, for the time at least. Nelly
can be uncompromisingly frank.
Later on in the same sitting, which was for the special
benefit of Dr. Max Dessoir, Nelly began to speak about my
mother, and to give me messages from her. Among other
things my mother was represented as sending her love to
" a particular young man belonging to you named Paul." I
was bidden to tell Paul that he would be better. I there
upon said to Nelly :—" Ask my mother who Paul is " ; for
the name Paul had no meaning for me. Nelly replied :—
" Your own special friend. He has got a sister named Mari«,
and that Dorothy seems to belong to that Paul."
I think that during the progress of the sitting I had no
glimmering who Paul might be, but on reading over my
notes, I saw at once that all the references to " Paul " would
become at once intelligible if applied to my wife ; in spite
of the fact that " Paul " is spoken of throughout in the
masculine gender, 1 have not the least doubt that my wife,
whose name is Pauline (her name must have been known to
Mrs. Thompson), was intended. Some ten days later Mr.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 219
Myers sent me a message from Nelly to say that " Paul is
a lady, a friend of Mr. Piddington's, and she belongs to the
lady that had the prayers that looked like German writing " :
i.e. to my mother.
Dorothy, therefore, is linked in the mind of the trance-
personality with my wife and myself six months after the
first casual reference to her ; although as far as we were con
cerned she would have passed out of our minds when her
short visit was ended.
It would be difficult to find a better illustration of the
oozing out of details in trance-utterance. Mrs. Benson's
sittings provided some good examples of this gradual leakage,
but in that case the details which emerged were known to
the sitter, whereas in this case some of them were not.
I must supposed to have known the name of the nurse,
and 1 knew that Dorothy was " only a kind of servant " ;
and I had known all along, even when I didn't consciously
know her name, that a hospital-nurse was at my house. Yet
this last point—the one thing that I had known from the
beginning—was the very last item of information to emerge.
If Nelly's knowledge was acquired telepathically from me,
it is to be noted that it took close on two months before
she succeeded in tapping my brains of this the most
material fact in the series of statements. But the telepathic
hypothesis has to be strained considerably before it will
cover all the difficulties in this case. For one thing, unless
one supposes that throughout the medium was tapping the
brain of Sister Dorothy, whom she had never seen, never
did see, and within whose vicinity she, to the best of my
belief, never came—unless, I say, one resorts to such a
strained hypothesis as that—one is obliged to assume that
the medium drew her facts first from one source, and then
from another. I knew nothing about Bobby, and nothing of
the nurse's movements after she left my house ; these facts
must therefore be supposed to have been derived from tbe
nurse. Yet Nelly, who is ready enough at all times to
volunteer the statement that she is " getting things out of
people's stomachs"—which is her definition of the telepathic
theory—would not offer that explanation here. The source
of her information she maintained was a spirit-boy, who had
220 [part
J. G. Piddington.
apparently dropped in as it were at a sitting, attracted thereto
by the presence of some one at whose house his " Sister
Dorothy " was staying.
A remarkable point, too, is Nelly's apparent holding over
of knowledge within her possession. Thus at my first sitting
the name Dorothy only is given. Yet, when three weeks
later I asked her to explain what had led to her mention of
Dorothy, her answer gives the impression that all along she
had known about Bobby, and that Dorothy was " only a kind of
servant," but had suppressed these details because she thought
they were of no interest.
Very curious also is the casual way in which knowledge
of Sister Dorothy's movements is indicated. On January 5th,
1900, Nelly says: "She has left that situation and gone
to another one. It is a place where there are four children."
The use of the term, " that situation," seems to imply that
she knew that she had already not only left my house but
also been to another house since, and left that as well. This
was really the case, though I did not know it. In the house
where Sister Dorothy was on January 5th, there were six,
not four, children. It was not till a week later that she
went to a house where there were four children. It is
conceivable that on January 5th Sister Dorothy knew, or
some one knew, that she was to go to a family where there
were four children ; but this point I have not been able
to clear up, as, just when I was about to make enquiries, the
nurse went out to South Africa in March, 1900, and I have
since lost sight of her.
Again, on January 23rd, 1900, Nelly said:—"She is now
at a house where someone is speaking French." If this is
taken to mean, as I think it fairly may be, that she had then
made still another move since January !",th, the fact was
true, though the statement about some one speaking French
has not been verified.
Altogether the incident is a most complicated and per
plexing one : hard to account for in my view by telepathy
alone. The way in which the details dribbled out suggests
the haphazard interchange of information between intelligences
like ourselves rather than the successful ferreting out of facts
by means of the purposeful exercise of a telepathic faculty.
XLVii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 221
(10) Nelly's Associations of Ideas.
An interesting feature of Mrs. Thompson's trance-phenomena
is the way in which proper names come out. Punning associa
tions of ideas seem to help Nelly on to the right track more than
anything else. Mrs. Verrall has given one instance of what 1
mean in her paper published in Proceedings, Part XLIV., p. 208.
I quote the passage:—
" Merrifield was said to be the name of a lady in my family.
The name was given at first thus : ' Merrifield, Merriman, Merry
thought, Merrifield.' . . . Later Nelly said :—' Mrs. Merry
thought, that's not quite right; it's like the name of a garden':
and after in vain trying to give me the name exactly, she said :—
' I will tell you how names come to us. It's like a picture ; I
see school children enjoying themselves. You can't say Merry-
mans, because that's not a name, nor Merrypeople.' Nelly, later
on, spoke of my mother as ' Mrs. Happyfield,' or ' Mrs. Merri
field,' with indifference."
The real name was Merrifield, and it should be noted that the
correct form of the name was given by Nelly at the very first
attempt, but that in spite of this she appears not to have been
aware of her success. She knew apparently that she had got
Bomewhere near the mark, but not that she had hit the bull's-
eye. A picture was presented to her which she recognised as
containing a correct clue to the general type of name, but she
was not confident that she had translated the symbolic picture
with precise accuracy.
The sittings with which I am dealing in this paper afford
several instances of a similar kind to the above, and in every
instance this mental trick is exhibited exclusively by Nelly,
and not at all by the other controls.
At a sitting held on February 1st, 1900, Nelly was trying to
get the name of the deceased lady called in the record of ' Mr.
Wilson's " sittings Miss Clegg. The real name was a rare one,
and Nelly never actually succeeded in getting it, though she
eventually got pretty near it. After making two attempts at
222 [part
J. G. Piddington.
the name, she remarked :—" Funny the way I get names. I get
an association with flowers or trees or places, or all kinds of
things."
G. P. :—" How do you know when it's right 1 "
Nelly :—" There's a feeling of satisfaction when the right asso
ciation is found, which tells me it's right."
As an explanation this is not very illuminating, but it is
interesting as exemplifying Nelly's ignorance of the processes
by which she acquires information. I am sure that this
ignorance is not assumed, as conceivably it might be in order
to avoid interrogatories about the mechanism of the trance-com
munications which it might tax the ingenuity of the trance-
personality to meet, and that whatever may be the pretensions
of the other controls to understand the laws underlying the
phenomena, Nelly at least does her work more or less blindly
and automatically. More than this, I believe she regards the
whole thing as a game or puzzle which it is good fuii to solve.
Nelly is no glum archangel ; she never displays any consciousness
of being engaged on a serious mission, nor indulges in prayer, pious
ejaculations, or sanctimonious discourse ; and is, in fact, a down
right, unsentimental, debonair being. She is prepared to play
the game under what she considers the proper rules ; but if these
are overstepped, as in the "screen sittings" (see p. 16.'!), she pro
tests and is inclined to sulk. But to return to the subject of
her associations of ideas.
At Dr. van Eeden's first sitting no attempt was made to give
his name. At the second sitting Nelly's first words were, "What
was 'Vam'?" Then later on she made several unsuccessful
attempts to pronounce the name, thus : " Was Vanden ! can't say
it. Vandenen ? Begins like van in the street ; then enden.
Begins with E—Endenen—not like Hendon, but Endenen."
Finally at the end of the sitting she gave the name clearly,
though with the English pronunciation :—" Do you know van
Eeden ? "
At the next sitting she seems pleased to have coined a little
pun, by means of which she can be sure of fixing the strange
name in her memory :—" I know your name is Air. Bosom—
Bostim. . . . You are Mr. Gardener Eden (or Garden of
Eden)."
It is possible that there was more in this pun than meets the
xlvji.] Phenomena in Mrs. Tfiompson's Trance. 223
eye, and that it was not simply an aid to memory, but was also
intended to convey a new fact. Bosom and Bostim were evident
attempts at Bus'sum, where Dr. van Eeden farms land ; and Nelly
may have meant that as Adam delved in the Garden of Eden, so
did Dr. van Eeden at Bussum ; or rather, perhaps, she had no
definite intention of suggesting this, but the facts came to her
in this allegorical fashion.
Dr. van Eeden's second sitting furnishes another very similar
instance. Mrs. Thompson was holding some hair that belonged
to a Dutch lady. Meanwhile Nelly, who had already given
several relevant facts in connection with it, said :—" Do you
know Linden ? I associate the hair with ' Unter den Linden '—
not with, the place, but with the name Linden." Van Lynden is
the surname of intimate friends of the husband of the lady to
whom the hair belonged, though this was unknown to Dr. van
Eeden at the time. But what I want to bring out now is not
the relevancy of the name, but the practical illustration here
furnished of Nelly's account of how she gets names by association
with trees or places.
A critic whose acquaintance with Mrs. Thompson's trance
phenomena was acquired solely through a perusal of the
records might perhaps think that this disconnected way of
shooting out names was more ingenious than ingenuous in that
it gave the medium more than one chance of hitting the
mark ; for instance, in the case of the name Linden, had it
not happened that the husband of the owner of the hair
had friends of that name, pertinency might still have been
claimed for it on the ground that the owner of the hair, or
one of her family, had recently been staying in Berlin, or
had some connection with one of the half-dozen places called
Linden, or had an ancestor who had fought at the battle of
Hohenlinden.
From the main contention that proper names, shot out at
random, have a better chance of applicability than when
connoted of some definite person or thing, no one would dis
sent; but if the records of the sittings should create the
impression that either Mrs. Thompson fraudulently or the
trance-personality deliberately throws out proper names discon
nectedly for the purpose of " fishing," then the written records,
as muBt often be the case, are misleading.
224 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Mrs. Benson, who had a series of sittings with Mrs.
Thompson, had her first sitting on December 18th, 1899.
The surname Benson was mentioned for the first time on
January 5th, 1900, in an entirely wrong connection, and
when the sitter was a lady unknown to and unassociated with
Mrs. Benson. On January 12th, 1900, when Dr. Tuckey
was the sitter, Nelly began to speak about Mrs. Benson, and
went on to say :—" There's a place in Birmingham where
Mother often goes : it's Bensons Limited."
Again, at the close of one of Mr. " Wilson's " sittings on
January 18th, 1900, when 1 asked if she had anything new
to tell about " Martin," who had been mentioned at Mrs.
Benson's first sitting, Nelly replied :—" The old lady like
Bensons Limited. It's where Mother goes to have dinner—
in Birmingham—in Cow Street—no, Bull Street. It's like
Slater's." She did not, however, on either occasion explain
that by means of that association of ideas she had either
got hold of the name or retained it in her memory ; nor
did she on the occasion of Mrs. Benson's second sitting on
January 2."!rd, 1900, when she apostrophised her in the
following terms :—" My darling Mrs. Benson, I don't call
you Limited." Here the mnemonic process is not drawn
attention to, but can be readily traced. But again, as in
the case of " Mr. Gardener Eden," the association of ideas
may have recommended itself as specially appropriate because
it put Nelly on the track of something besides the mere
name of the sitter. There was a very definite connection
between Mrs. Benson and Birmingham, for her husband, the
late Archbishop, was a native of that town.
But there is another point of interest in connection with
" Bensons Limited." Mrs. Benson's identity was supposed to
be unknown to Mrs. Thompson both before and after the
second sitting. On some date, however, between the second
sitting and February 6th, 1900, Mrs. Crackanthorpe hap
pened to mention to me quite casually, in the course of
conversation, that Mrs. Thompson had told her that Mrs.
Benson was having some sittings. So when I next saw
Mrs. Thompson on February 6th, 1900, I asked her before
trance if she remembered the name of the lady with white
hair who had sat with her twice recently. Mrs. Thompson
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 225
could not think of the name at once, but finally said " Mrs.
Benson." I then asked how she had thought of the name,
and she replied that she had recalled it by thinking of
Bensons Limited, a Birmingham restaurant. I deal elsewhere
(see pp. 271-3) with the question involved in Mrs. Thompson's
knowledge of the name of one of the sitters supposed to be
unknown to her, and now draw attention only to the
employment of exactly the same association of ideas by Mrs.
Thompson awake and Mrs. Thompson entranced. Bull Street,
it will be noticed, was first called Cow Street ; yet Slater's
apparently presented no difficulty.
On February 1st, 1900, nine days after Mrs. Benson's
second sitting, I had a sitting with Mrs. Thompson by
myself. Before the sitting began Mrs. Thompson showed me
an entry made in her diary under the date of January 31st,
1900, which ran as follows:—"Nelly says the lady with
white hair [i.e. Mrs. Benson] has an old gentleman, the one
with spectacles ; and Grandpapa Middleton went to school
with him." Then directly trance began Nelly said :—" You
mean Mr. Bishop : the gentleman with the spectacles. That's
why I told her to bring his spectacles. I traced that old
gentleman back to school, and I found him talking to
Grandpapa. He lived at (pause). You know Mrs. R 's
son. Mrs. R is Mother's next-door neighbour. Mrs.
B 's son has gone as physical science master to Marl
borough. I hear Mrs. R telling Mother that. Then
like that is the name of the place where Mr. Bishop lived.
A Church School, a very high ecclesiastical school. Then I
traced him to school. Grandfather Middleton was a smaller
boy than Mr. Bishop. . . . Have you got King Edward YI.'s
school ? "
The special point which I want to bring out here is the
reference to Marlborough. Nelly's " Mr. Bishop " is undoubtedly
meant for Archbishop Benson. Dr. Benson was not connected
with Marlborough, but he was Headmaster of Wellington :
and the association between the names of the two greatest
English soldiers is obvious, or at least it ought to be, though I
must admit I failed to seize it until it was pointed out to me.
Nelly did not say that the Archbishop lived at Marlborough,
but " like that is the name of the place where " he lived.
226 [part
./. G. Piddington.
The whole sequence of ideas in this passage is worth study.
Nelly's discovery that her Grandfather had been at the same
school as Mrs. Benson's husband starts her on the topic of
school generally. She finds that the Archbishop's connection
with school did not terminate with his school-days ; and that
he lived at another school. She can't quite get hold of the
name of this other school, but recognises that a school of
which she has heard, through her mother's next-door neighbour,
contains a clue to the name.
It is passages of this kind which I think as much as
anything else have convinced me of Mrs. Thompson's absolute
bona fides. Until some ev idence is forthcoming to show that
an admittedly fraudulent medium can successfully reproduce a
subtle mimicry of recognised subconscious processes, such as
I believe we here see exemplified in Mrs. Thompson's trance, 1
shall prefer to consider that such reproduction is impracticable.
One of the tasks winch our Society has before it is to try to
find another Davey who will mimic the trance-phenomena of
Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Thompson. I am inclined to think that
a large amount of success might be obtained by a clever
impostor, in so far as the giving of correct facts about the
sitter or the sitter's belongings was concerned, but what I
greatly question is whether, while the impostor's attention was
devoted to picking up hints from such indications as his sitter
might afford, and dramatising these in appropriate fashion, he
would not be too much preoccupied to introduce and maintain
a consistent and convincing travesty of these characteristic
traits of subconscious action.
At another of Mrs. Benson's sittings, on May 30th, 1900,
another type of association of ideas was displayed.
Early in the sitting General Buller was mentioned : though
the fact that he was known to Mrs. Benson was not actually
stated. Later on the name of Mrs. Benson's dead son, Martin,
which had already been frequently mentioned, was written :
then Nelly said :—" 1 seem to get Sir George White—White.''
She then wrote " White " after the " Martin " : or rather it
should be said that " White " was written, for Nelly asserts
that she is never responsible for any of the automatic writing
(see pp. 231-2, 243). The significance of this was that the
second name of Martin Benson was White.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 227
Then a little later Nelly added :—" You know Mr. "White—
military man—far more anxious to convert you." The only
apparent point in the allusion to " Mr. "White—military man,"
lies in the fact that the only member of the Benson family
who was ever connected with the army was Captain White
Benson, after whom the late Archbishop and his son, Martin
Benson, were named. It is true that this fact is stated in
the Archbishop's Life, which had been published some months
ljefore this sitting took place, but I am not quoting the state
ments made by Nelly as indicative of supernormal knowledge,
but as illustrations of the sequence of ideas characteristic of
the Nelly control.
An instance almost exactly analogous to " Merrifield Merry-
mans Happyfield " occurred in another series of sittings
attended by Mr. and Mrs. Percival. Their son was mentioned
at their first sitting, and reference made to his school-
life, and to the fact of the school being situated at Oxford,
but the actual name of the school was not mentioned. At
their third sitting Nelly said :—" I know where Springfield
is. I don't know what I'm saying. Yes, that's what I mean."
And then later :—" Springfield, Oxford. Or is it Highfield ?
It's either Highfield or Springfield College, Oxford. It's the
truth." The real name of the school was Summer Fields ; and
one can easily understand how a, so to speak, charade-picture,
symbolising Summer Fields, might be wrongly interpreted as
Springfield ; though, unless the picture presented to Nelly
were of a meadow on rising ground, it is not so easy to see
why the name Highfield should have been guessed.
At a sitting at which I alone was present on February
6th, 1900, I handed to the medium several objects belonging
to former sitters, and afterwards gave her some hair of my
mother's, though without, so far as I am aware, allowing
any indication to escape me that the object had any particular
interest for me personally ; all Mrs. Thompson could have
normally known about the lock of hair was that it had been
handed to her at a former sitting, and on that occasion too
it had been presented among other objects belonging to other
people ; and I may add that I had given Mrs. Thompson to
understand that I should not " sit " for communications my
self. After the hair I gave some illuminated script that had
228 [part
J. G. Piddington.
been painted by my mother, and while the medium was
handling this, Nelly said :—" You know Leo Myers. There's a
Leo belonging to this lady." The only Leo that could be
described as belonging to my mother is my own daughter,
who is called Leo. Mrs. Thompson may have known that
this was her name, though I doubt it, and it must be borne
in mind that, to the best of my belief, I gave her no hint
that I was personally interested in the illuminated script, while
the character of other facts given by Nelly in connection with
objects that had belonged to my mother must also be considered.
(See pp. 122-5, 149-154.) Not one single thing of those which
Mrs. Thompson could have got up about me, my family, and
belongings did Nelly say ; and what she did say I have not the
least hesitation in asserting she could not at such short
notice as the circumstances allowed,—or indeed, I firmly
believe, under any ordinarily conceivable circumstances,—have
learnt by normal methods of enquiry. But putting aside the
question of whether the mention of the name Leo is of evi
dential worth, the way in which the name is led up to, by
first of all mentioning another Leo known to Mrs. Thompson,
and, if one may put it in that way, known through her to
Nelly, is quite in keeping with what has been described
above.
The same sitting, that of February 6th, furnished another
instance of a like kind. Nelly said that a " Rev. John " had
been a great friend of my mother's, and had done her some
service for which she retained a grateful remembrance. I
did not, when this was said, recognise any meaning in it, and
I have not since been able to verify this statement ; but
hoping to get preciser details, I asked ;—" What was the Kev.
John's name ? "
Nelly :—" It was Harper."
G. P. :—" How did you get the name ? "
Nelly :—" It was like the picture of a man playing a harp,
and as you can't say Harpist I say Harper."
Just before the reference to the Rev. John, Nelly had
been speaking about a man whom she subsequently identified
as my mother's brother, my uncle. She began by saying :—
" About a relation of her's (i.e. of my mother's) that has been
ill in a foreign country."
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 229
J. G. P. :—" When ? "
Nelly :—" Some weeks before the snow came. A long way
off'—a gentleman not well—not very ill—not an ordinary
country. You know ' Maid of Athens ' : that sort of country,
not European, not on the Europe map ; where they ride
horses without saddles on. I don't mean just where the
gentleman is, but near about : not South Africa. ... It was
a colony, not a foreign country. . . . Has he got sheep all
round him ? It's summer time, not winter. His name was
Queensland."
My uncle does live in a colony, though the name of the
colony is not Queensland. ("His name is Queensland " clearly
meant that Queensland is the name of the place where he
lives.) He lives in the Island of Mauritius, where, to the best
of my information, it is not the custom to ride horses without
saddles on, nor do sheep form a distinctive or common
feature of the landscape. The order in which the various
detads about my uncle's alleged place of residence emerges is,
in view of what has been said above about Nelly's associa
tions of ideas, extremely suggestive ; and I believe it is pos
sible to trace the origin of the erroneous details. Three
intelligences are supposed to be engaged in the communi
cations : Nelly, Mrs. Cartwright, and my mother. When
I say " are supposed " I do not mean that it is directly
asserted, for the participation of Mrs. Cartwright and of my
mother is rather to be inferred from internal evidence and
by analogy with the " business " of the trance phenomena
generally ; but the impression created is that my mother is
contributing facts which Mrs. Cartwright conveys and, when
necessary, translates to Nelly.
Now, with regard to the statements about the country
where my uncle lives, the first fact given is that he is " in
a foreign country " ; the foreign country is next said to be
" a long way off," and " not an ordinary foreign country."
Then follow the words :—" ' Maid of Athens,' that sort of
country, not European, not on the Europe map " : which I
take to mean that, although Athens is in Europe, the country
is not European, but Oriental in character, like Greece.
At this point, according to my surmise, the trance-person
alities felt that it was desirable to arrive at a more precise
230 [part
0. Piddington.
definition of the foreign country, and 1 conjecture that Mrs.
Cartwright by means of a charade-picture tried to convey to
Nelly the notion of a colony. If for this purpose she, so to
speak, threw upon the screen a conventional picture of the
English colonist in a flannel shirt, and wealing a slouch hat,
and bestriding a bare-backed horse, the source of Nelly's next
phrase—" where they ride horses without saddles on "—can be
accounted for.
After these words come one or two sentences applicable to
my uncle, but without bearing on the country where he lives.
Then Nelly recurs to the subject again and says :—" It was a
colony—not a foreign country " ; again goes oft' to another
topic, and finally says :—" Has he got sheep all round him ?
It's summer time not winter. His name was Queensland."
I venture to suggest that what was true and what was false
in these statements was derived from one and the same source,
and that the error arose from misinterpretation of a symbolic
picture, and not because the sources of information on which
Nelly was drawing were unauthentic.
1 conceive that Mrs. Cartwright realised when Nelly had
said " where they ride horses without saddles on " that she
had failed to grasp the intention of the picture which had
been employed to represent a colonist, and had put too
special a construction on it. So another attempt was made
to convey to Nelly the notion of a colony : this time by some
pictorial representation of a land of the Queens beyond the
seas. The attempt proved successful, and Nelly was enabled
to give the correct information " It was a colony, not a
foreign country." Then afterwards Nelly, not feeling perfectly
satisfied with this, the correct interpretation, and combining
what I imagine were the two separate pictures by which
Mrs. Cartwright sought to impart the idea of the word
" colony," hazarded another guess, and thus hit on the notion
of Queensland and the sheep. The sheep may have been
dragged in by a natural association of ideas when once the
name Queensland was hit upon, or perhaps they were in
the original picture of which the typical colonial squatter
formed the prominent feature.
My language here has been particularly " anthropomorphic,''
but it must be understood that I describe what took place,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 231
or what I imagine took place, in the trance in these objective
terms merely as a matter of convenience and without pre
judice. My attempt to trace some of the processes underlying
the operations of the trance consciousness will no doubt appear
to many rather fantastical. At any rate I have not tried
to read preconceived theories into the facts ; it is the facts
themselves which have suggested to me the theories.
(11) The Automatic Writing.
At the first sitting which I had with Mrs. Thompson I saw
one word written during the trance ; it was not till more than
two years later that I witnessed any automatic writing again.
Then there was a good deal of it. One curious point about the
script is that Nelly will not accept any responsibility for it. She
has said so again and again, usually at the end of a sitting during
informal chats; but twice she has put in a disclaimer in the
regular course of a sitting.
Thus on January 3rd, 1901, the following occurred. Nelly
said :—" You don't think Mr. Myers is so ill ; he's much worse."
" Yes," I replied, " but you wrote to the contrary." " I don't
care what I've written," retorted Nelly ; " don't put it down to
me." I had as a matter of fact used a somewhat too strong
expression, for nothing had been written which actually contra
dicted Nelly's statement ; still that is not the point, but rather
Nelly's readiness to hold cheap, or at least to accept no responsi
bility for, what the medium's hand writes.
This comes out more clearly in the next quotation, which is
from the sitting of January 8th, 1901. "It's not me that
writes. It's always somebody else that's writing. Not me,
even if I tell you so." Nothing can be more definite than this ;
and the concluding words seem to suggest that Nelly herself is
not always clear about the source of the automatic script.
The one word written at my first sitting with Mrs. Thompson
was my own name, spelt backwards. During the whole of this
sitting there was no suggestion that any one but Nelly was com
municating. The name was written immediately after Nelly
Q
232 [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
had addressed me for the first time by my name. I had gone
under an assumed name, and when my real name was uttered
neither Mr. Feilding, who was present, nor myself gave any
indication that the name spoken was right. If Nelly was not,
as she pretends, responsible for the writing, what part of Mrs.
Thompson's consciousness, one may ask, was ? And why, unless
the phenomenon is genuine, should such a gratuitous complica
tion be introduced as the pretence that the Nelly control has
nothing to do with the automatic script ?
A proper name was on one other occasion given backwards,
though not written but spelt out. Nelly spelt it out, and when
I asked her how she got the letters, she said that they had been
given her by another spirit, who has occasionally controlled Mrs.
Thompson.
The control whom I have previously referred to as Mr. D.
wrote with great fluency, just as he spoke with great fluency.
But there was nothing characteristic about his script ; it was in
Mrs. Thompson's ordinary handwriting. The Percival control
also wrote ; and though his script was generally almost indis
tinguishable from Mrs. Thompson's ordinary hand, it here and
there showed traces of slight modifications—modifications which
suggest an approximation to a half-formed school-boy type of
hand. Yet there was no such similarity to the boy's own hand
writing as to strike his parents, neither of whom can be said to
err on the side of over-scepticism.
E. H. Fercival, in common with another occasional control,
signs his messages in a different hand from that in which the
body of the message is written. But in neither case does there
appear to be any definite and unmistakable resemblance to the
signatures of either, as either wrote it when living.
After the sitting of January 3rd, 1901, was over, and
when Mrs. Thompson had been awake for some time and had
been engaged in conversation with the sitter, Mrs. Percival, she
went suddenly to the writing table, seized a pencil, and wrote
very hurriedly a message which purported to come from the
Percival control. The message in itself was not in the least
evidential, but the writing differed from the previous Percival
script in that the school-boy hand predominated over Mrs.
Thompson's, and not vice vend, as in the script produced during
trance. But it cannot be said that Mrs. Thompson's automatic
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 233
script presents any specially interesting features as a general
rule. It is not the chief method of communication as in Mrs.
Piper's case. Still to this rule there is one exception, and that
;i most important one.
I have referred parenthetically in the course of this paper to
the existence of a control which purports to represent the late
Professor Henry Sidgwick, whom Mrs. Thompson had met several
times. This control communicated directly by the voice, but
also by means of writing. The matter in neither case is of much
evidential value ; the manner both of speech and of writing is.
however, of great interest.
I shall refer to the content of the communications only in so
far as such reference may be necessary to elucidate points which
will arise in connection with the script. It will doubtless be to
many a disappointment that better evidential matter is not to be
found in the communications of this control, from whom much
might have been expected. But, on the assumption that the
source of these communications is really what it is represented
to be in the trance-messages, I am by no means sure that we
ought to expect evidence of a specially effective character. A
little reflection will show that a new problem has arisen in
psychical research. A communicating spirit who has in life
been a prominent member of our Society must find it a more
difficult task to prove his identity through mediumistic utterance
or writing than a layman, using " layman " in the sense of an
individual who has not taken a conspicuous part in psychical or
Spiritualistic work.
Mediums, and for that matter all who take any interest
in our subjects, if they do not actually possess, must be
assumed to possess, knowledge of the careers of deceased
leaders of the psychical and spiritualistic movements. Since
Mr. Myers' death, for instance, a stream of communications,
which purport to emanate from him, has been pouring in
from various sources. With two exceptions, I know of
no series of messages which could not have been based
upon common knowledge or upon information contained in
obituary notices, or which could not be regarded as deduced
from such knowledge, or which did not repeat facts given
in his own writings or in the publications of the Society, or
facts which could easily have been derived through con
234 [part
J. G. Piddington.
versation with some member of his large circle of friends
or acquaintances.
Or again, if our President and Mrs. Verrall will forgive
the liberty which I am taking, I can illustrate the new
problem that we have to face in another way. Both Sir
Oliver Lodge and Mrs. Verrall have contributed to the
Society long papers on the phenomena of Mrs. Piper and
of Mrs. Thompson, which contain a large number of
details about their own personal affairs, about their family
life, and about their relations, and not only their immediate
relations, but also their remote or collateral kinsfolk. When
their time comes—and long may it be deferred—to com
municate from the other side, it is obvious that every message
purporting to come from either of them which merely repeats
facts already published in their own writings, or which can
be shown to be based on these facts, will have to be discarded
as evidentially worthless. And I say it in all seriousness—
though the dictum sounds rather comic—extra patience will
have to be accorded to the Psychical Researcher who is
attempting to prove his identity. One can well imagine the
annoyance and almost despair which might fall on such a
communicator should he, after having succeeded in getting
through a clear statement of fact, be met with the rejoinder
from this side that his effort is of no avail, because what he
has said has appeared, let us say, in the Proceedins/s.
Even during his lifetime a psychical researcher is not
entirely exempt from the disadvantages resulting from the
publication of his private affairs. Thus, for instance, Nelly
has more than once referred to members of Mrs. Verrall's
family, who have been mentioned in the Journal or Proceedings:
not, however, making any pretence to have learnt of their
existence in any supernormal way, but rather taking it for
granted that I, of course, knew that these people were mentioned
in our publications. In this way she spoke on several occa
sions of Mrs. Verrall's sister by her Christian name, tout
court, and I hadn't the least notion whom she meant, and
thought that the name was just thrown in hap-hazard. Many
months passed before I discovered who was meant, and,
when I mentioned my discovery to Nelly, her first anxiety
was to warn me against attaching any importance to her
XLvIL] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 235
knowledge of the name : " Every one knows who Flora is," she
remarked.
Recent phenomena obtained by Mrs. Verrall and others seem
to suggest that the difficulties in the way of giving good proofs
of identity are beginning to be recognised ' on the other side,'
and that an attempt is being made to furnish evidence of
intelligent discarnate action by the communication of concordant
messages through different living persons.
But to return to the subject of the Sidgwick script. It will
now be clear why I propose to devote myself exclusively to
a description of the automatic writing, without taking into
account the content of the script or of the spoken communi
cations.
Professor Sidgwick died in the summer of 1900. I was
to begin ti new series of sittings with Mrs. Thompson towards
the end of December, 1900. After consultation with Mr.
Myers I decided to invite Professor Sidgwick's sister, Mrs.
Benson, to a sitting with a view to attracting communications
from her brother. She accordingly attended the first sitting
of the new series on December 20th, 1900. This was also
the second sitting at which a screen was interposed between
the medium and the sitter, and the strangeness of the condi
tions was perhaps responsible for the poor results. Mrs.
Benson brought with her to the sitting a paper-knife that
had belonged to her brother, and two letters of his inside a
covering gummed envelope. Only the vaguest references were
made to the owner of these objects, and his identity was
not discovered.
Three more sittings were held after this one, and yet not
a word was said about Professor Sidgwick. At last, on
January 11th, 1901 (see also pp. 297-8), the first reference
was made quite unexpectedly at a sitting attended by Mr.
and Mrs. Percival. Before the sitters entered the seance
room, I asked Nelly to try to bring Edmund Gurney, as I
wanted to have a talk with this control, which has occasionally
manifested through Mrs. Thompson. Nelly said that I had
better wait until the sitters were gone. A good deal of script
was done at this sitting purporting to come from the Percival
control. Across this script and intermingled with it were
written in a different handwriting, though in a handwriting
236 [paut
J. G. Piddington.
showing no trace of resemblance to that of Professor Sidgwick,
the words " Trin y Henry Sidg." The first five letters
seem like an attempt at " Trinity," and suggest that a reference
was intended to Trinity College, Cambridge. On another page
of the sheet of foolscap paper on which the automatic writing
was being done, and underneath some of the Percival script,
and quite by itself and disconnected, was the word " paper-
cutter." This was written I should say in Mrs. Thompson's
natural hand, though it is a very scribbly sample of it. No
paper-cutter had been presented to the medium at this sitting,
and it is therefore fair to conclude that the appearance on
the same sheet of paper of an obvious attempt at the name
" Henry Sidgwick " and of the word " paper-cutter " was not
accidental.
In the course of the sitting I gave the medium a sealed
envelope prepared by Mrs. Percival ; whereupon Nelly said :—
" I don't want any Henry Sidgwicks, because he said he
wants to tell about it." And then in reply to a question
from me :—" What made me say Henry Sidgwick is because
he's nearer to me than Mr. Gurney."
(Curiously enough, the very next moment the Percival
control reappeared, and in his third sentence said :—" It was
Mr. Gurney who took charge of me " ; meaning, I have no
doubt, that Mr. Gurney had helped him to come to ' com
municate. Cf. pp. 300-1.)
When the sitters had left I asked Nelly if Mr. Gurney
was present. Nelly made the cryptic answer :—" About the
trio." " Who are the trio ? " I asked. " Henry Sidgwick,
Edmund Gurney, and Mr. Myers," replied Nelly. " Henry
Sidgwick is here." The Sidgwick control then made its first
appearance, and, though the words spoken were few, the voice,
manner and style of utterance were extraordinarily lifelike :
so much so indeed that, had I been ignorant of Professor
Sidgwick's death and had happened to hear the voice without
being able to tell whence it was issuing, I think I should
have unhesitatingly ascribed it to him.
The next sitting was on January 21st, 1901, and directly
trance came on and before the sitters entered the room,
Nelly began :—" Where's Henry Sidgwick ? He's coming to
talk after the sitting." As soon as the sitters left the
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompsons Trance. 237
Sidgwick control made an ineffectual effort to speak. Nelly
then came to the rescue and gave the following message :—
" Mr. Piddington, he can't talk. He wants to write himself,
when you're not thinking of him. . . . She will write it at
4.30." "Who," I asked, "will write it? The medium?"
" Yes," said Nelly. The Sidgwick control then took Nelly's
place; and again the impersonation was most extraordinarily
lifelike. The only two occasions on which I have been
imotionni, or have experienced the slightest feeling of uncan-
niness during a spiritualistic seance, or have felt myself in
danger of being carried away, was during these two mani
festations of the Sidgwick control. I felt that I was indeed
speaking with, and hearing the voice of, the man I had
known ; and the vividness of the original impression has not
faded with time.
After Nelly had explained that her mother was to be
prepared to receive an automatically-written message the same
afternoon at 4.30, the Sidgwick control spoke as follows:—
" He's not with me." (The " He " undoubtedly meant Mr.
Myers. This sentence and the next were spoken with great
emotion.)
J. G. P. :—" Is he resting ? "
H. S. :—" He's not within range at all. . . . Alice will
know that it's me [sic] that's written it. She'll recognise it.
■She'll know it's my writing. Tell her to compare it with
the others."
" Didn't Frederic Myers leave it to the Society ? The
books—not those for you—I will write it. You always
thought me old and shabby, but I'm shabbier now."
The final sentence was apparently got out with immense
effort, and then the personation stopped with a snap. It was
just like the swift and unexpected withdrawal of a magic-
lantern slide.
While these words were being spoken the script marked
(A) was being written, the pencil being held by the medium,
iis I noted at the time, between her first and second fingers.
1 read this script thus:—
" I don't think Myers is here, or (?) we (?) should see
him before the 8th. As E. G. told me [Mr. D.] was waiting (?)
for him."
238 J. 0. Piddington. [part
The last four words are plainly in Mrs. Thompson's natural
handwriting. As to the rest of the writing Miss Alice Johnson,
who (as Mrs. Thompson knew) had been Mrs. Sidgwick's private
secretary for many years, and therefore had every opportunity
of becoming thoroughly familiar with Professor Sidgwick's
handwriting, and whose cautious and critical temperament is
known to members of the Society, reports as follows :—
" ' I don't think Myers is here ' is very like, especially
'Myers is.' Then it tails off."
It will be seen that the hand and the voice are in part
expressing the same thought, though in slightly different
language. The voice says, " He's not with me," while the
hand is writing, " I don't think Myers is here." Another
instance of this automatism within an automatism occurred in
the next sitting.
In order to make the allusions in the spoken and written
communications intelligible, it should be explained (1) that
the sitting of January 21st, 1901, took place a few days
after Mr. Myers' death, and (2) that "Alice" is no doubt
intended to refer to Miss Alice Johnson. The interpretation
of the remainder of the message is open to discussion. The
words " You always thought me old and shabby, but I'm shabbier
now," may conceivably be an attempt to give the contents of
a sealed envelope.
With the evidential side of the question, however, I am
not here concerned ; what I want to draw attention to is
first, that this short specimen of the script was written under
my eyes in an ordinary manner (except that the pencil was
held in an unusual and one would have thought uncomfortable
fashion), not deliberately nor with studied effort ; and secondly,
that the trance-personality is confident of having produced a
successful imitation of the handwriting of Professor Sidgwick.
The morning after I received the script marked (B) from
Mrs. Thompson, accompanied by the following note :—
" I am ashamed to say that I was not at home till 5 p.m.,
but I promptly sat down and lost consciousness after a few
minutes and wrote enclosed. It is rather a strange writing.
I have never seen Prof. Sidgwick's, but I think it would be
very interesting (though perhaps not evidential) to compare it."
When the trance was over in the morning of January 21st,
(Script C.)
5 i~
1* ^
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 239
1901, I communicated to Mrs. Thompson the intention of the
Sidgwick control to write through her hand when she was
alone at home.
The script (marked B) reads as follows:—
" Late—late-—late hour. Tell me why. Late—late hour.
Late—late—late hour.
Myers is elsewhere, I think. Should I find him here, I
will turn up the Thursday afternoon, and therefore you had
better agree to meet, as I may have [undecipherable word]
only I think you probably find I have. Will you do for H. S.
I go for must go till Thursday 31, £ to 5. H. S. Certainly
I go for F. W. H. Myers, and may [?] tell you about me.
Trevelyan's transferred."
Then followed in Mrs. Thompson's ordinary handwriting:—
"Yes, yes. I want to know what Fred told you to remember."
The last sentence I am disposed to attribute not to the
Sidgwick control, but to the control called in this paper
" Mr. D."
With regard to this script Miss Johnson comments:—
"As to the writing done after the sitting by Mrs. Thompson
alone : I think there can be no doubt that the resemblance
is not accidental . . . and the words that are most like his
[i.e. Professor Sidgwick's] writing are more like it than any
in [script A]. The first ' Thursday,' ' had better agree,'
' probably,' ' H. S.,' ' certainly ' and ' Trevelyan,' seem to me
almost exactly as he would have written them. Almost the
whole from ' Myers is elsewhere ' to ' Trevelyan's transferred '
is wonderfully like."
The next sitting was on January 29th, 1901. I had gone
out of the room for a few minutes in order to tell the
sitters to go away, as Mrs. Thompson thought she would not
go into trance a second time. On my return 1 found her
entranced, and on the point of completing the following
sentences (v. script marked C) :—
" I am sure I can give if they find my diary. Fred
knows and helps. H. S. Yes, but why did you H. Sidgwick
tell Myers he isn't here. I read his letter to the Council."
I have given the words as they appear in the script, but judg
ing from the variations in the pencilling the signature " H.
Sidgwick " really came after " my diary." " Why did you tell
240 [pakt
J. G. Piddington.
Myers he isn't here ?" obviously means "Why did you say Myers
isn't here ? ", Nelly having several times declared her conviction
that Mr. Myers was not really dead.
On the completion of the automatic writing Nelly said :—
" Mr. Sidgwick has been writing. He was talking to me and
writing at the same time, and said, ' Why did you keep on say
ing Myers isn't here ? ' and he couldn't help writing it. [For
a somewhat similar phenomenon, v. Proceedings, XXXIII.,
pp. 420-1.] Then he said, ' I read the letter to the Council,
and everybody thought " Good " (or " Great ") Heavens ! Myers
writing and Sidgwick reading . . .' (Here I failed to catch the
remainder of the sentence, and suggested a paraphrase, which,
however, Nelly did not accept.) No. He sort of said, ' Humph !
but I read the letter straight off to the Council.' He said it was
a letter from the abroad country, and my mother was abroad too,
so she couldn't know about it. How many struggled to read it
first ? Then he read it quite well. He wants to tell you it's
outside the possibility of Mother knowing. . . ."
The incident here referred to really took place as described,
but I have to repeat that this is not the occasion to discuss the
evidential value of the communications. The point to notice
is, first, this the second instance of an automatism within an
automatism, " But why did you tell Myers he isn't here ? "
and, secondly, Nelly's amplification, and correct amplification,
of the episode only outlined in the script, namely, the reading
of the letter at the Council (cf. p. 246).
On January 30th, 1901, the day after this sitting, Mrs.
Thompson was at home engaged in writing a letter to a friend.
But I had better quote her own account contained in a letter
addressed to me the same day :—
" I sat down to write a letter to a friend. The table was
strewn with papers, etc., and I suppose I went into trance. Any
way I was alone, and as the writing is muddled up with the
letter, I thought it would be best to send you my letter just as
I found it when I awoke."
The letter which Mrs. Thompson enclosed broke off in the
middle of the second page in the middle of a sentence. Then
came a scrawl in ink, and below the scrawl the word "Pencil "
written in ink. The script proper written in pencil then begins,
and runs as follows (see script D.):—
y
r/
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 241
"May I come? Trevelyan's Trevelyl^ans [sic], 1.30, May 7th
[or perhaps "the"], /75 H.S. S. [or J.] [?] change letter [or
" better "] to Miss J.
" Myers North must be here again on Thursday."
[Here was a line drawn from page two to page three of the
sheet of note-paper, as if to show the sequence in which the
remaining part of the writing was to be read.]
" He will not now change, may be opening, am inclined to
say so."
Then came two signatures. The first that of H. Sidgwick (?),
the second that of F. W. H. Myers.
In the first signature the initial letters H. S. aie clearly and
boldly formed, but they are followed by a cramped and un
decipherable scribble. This scribble may possibly be an unsuc
cessful attempt to write the last seven letters of the name
Sidgwick, but I think they represent an attempt at the initials
" F. W. H. M.," and that the Sidgwick signature is confined, as
in some other instances in the script, to the initials H. S. The
second signature, " F. W. H. Myers," appears underneath the first
and right in the extreme right-hand corner of the paper in an
entirely different handwriting. It is badly and weakly written,
and would not, I imagine, be considered a good imitation of Mr.
Myers' ordinary signature ; but it is extraordinarily like some
specimens of Mr. Myers' signatures as he wrote them in the last
few weeks of his life. I have unfortunately destroyed the letters
which I received from Mr. Myers during the period of his last
illness, but I have a most clear and vivid recollection of the
increasing deterioration in his handwriting, and particularly in
the signature.
Above the sentence beginning " He will not now change " was
written the following :—
" Myers says certainly go Myers says better go go out of
town not now not now the day not here."
This ends the Sidgwick script. Mrs. Verrall had a sitting
the day after this last specimen was written, but though
Nelly gave messages from Professor Sidgwick and conveyed
explanations from him about the last piece of automatic script,
he neither directly spoke nor wrote.
Miss Alice Johnson's estimate of the resemblance of the
script to Professor Sidgwick's handwriting has already been
-242 [part
J. G. Piddington.
quoted. Mrs. Sidgwick, in a letter addressed to Sir Oliver
Lodge, speaks of " the unmistakable likeness of the hand
writing " ; and Mrs. Benson in a letter addressed to me after
examining the various sheets containing the script, says of
them :—" The more I look at them, the more I am struck
with the likeness."
I showed specimens of the script to one or two people who
were well acquainted with Professor Sidgwick's handwriting,
without of course giving any hint of what answer I was ex
pecting, and asked them to cast just a cursory glance at
them, and then say whose handwriting it was. In each case
the answer came without hesitation, to the effect that it was
Professor Sidgwick's writing. I give reproductions of specimens
of his pencil writing (taken from a book of rough notes on
many different subjects, and marked 1, 2, 3, 4), also some
reproductions of his signature, taken from letters, in order
that the reader may compare the automatic script with
them. As evidence for identity the script, remarkable
though it is, seems to me worth little or nothing. I am
not much of a dreamer, and at best am not a vivid one,
and I am about as poor a visualiser as could be found, yet
in my dreams I have more than once dreamt that I
have received letters from a friend or acquaintance, and in
the dream-letter the characteristic handwriting of my dream-
correspondent has been depicted to the life. If so poor
a visualiser as myself can in sleep summon up so clear a
picture of another's handwriting, it is reasonable to suppose
that Mrs. Thompson in trance enjoys at least an equal
capacity, and there seems to me to lie but a small step between
such capacity for visualisation and the power of making a
graphic reproduction of the visual image.
It is true that Mrs. Thompson says that she has never
seen Professor Sidgwick's handwriting ; and I entirely accept
that statement if it is taken to mean (and Mrs. Thompson.
I should say, meant no more than this by it) that she has
no conscious recollection of having seen it. But it is possible
that either at Mr. Myers' house, or at some other house at
Cambridge, some specimen may have come within her range
of vision.
Nelly said to Mrs. Verrall on January .",lst, 1901 :—
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 24#
" Mother looked on his photograph (i.e. a signed photograph
of Mr. Sidgwick) to see if the signature were the same, and
did not think the ' Sidgwick,' written full, like. She's not
got any writing of his."
The possibility of forgery must suggest itself to every
mind ; but only in my opinion to be instantly dismissed
after a careful study of the documents, after consideration of
the fact of at least some portion of the script having been
produced currente calamo before a witness, and then with the
pencil held in an unusual fashion, and also on general grounds.
Sitting of June 2nd, 1900.
In spite of Nelly's denial of responsibility for any of the
automatic script, there is one instance where it is extremely
difficult to suppose that she was not the author of it.
At this sitting a lady had entered the seance-room towards
the end of the trance ; and after Nelly had made one or
two slight references to her, the following sentences were
written :—" Don't ask me any more questions. I hate the
blue blouse." The lady in question was wearing a blue
blouse. Now, throughout this sitting there was not the
slightest indication that any control other than Nelly was
concerned in the communications ; and, even apart from that
fact, the context indisputably shows that the " I " must refer
to Nelly. The phraseology, too, is characteristic of her, and
not at all of the other controls. Nor could this exception
be explained away as an automatism in accord with other
automatisms displayed elsewhere in the course of these
phenomena, for, where it has sometimes happened that a
control has unconsciously resorted to automatic writing, the
writing has been produced simultaneously with the expression
by means of direct speech of similar sentiments. The
simplest explanation of the exception here to the general rule
laid down by Nelly is that she wrote, instead of spoke, her
feelings in order to avoid giving offence. Still the fact
remains that this instance invalidates Nelly's definite pro
nouncement :—" It's not me that writes. It's always somebody
else that's writing. Not me, even if I tell you so."
244 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Sitting of January 1st, 1901.
Miss Bates was the sitter on this occasion, and, directly
she entered the room, Nelly implied that the Geoffrey Scott
control was waiting and anxious to communicate. Now,
although Miss Bates did not come to the sitting with the
intention of getting communications from or about the Scott
control, still it is not inconceivable that there was a certain
significance in his appearance on the scene, for she had not
long before been staying with Mrs. Scott, and had, I believe,
talked over with her the communications purporting to come
from this control. Not that I am inclined to attach any
weight to the coincidence, such as it is, for it was a defect,
in my opinion, of a large number of the sittings with
Thompson that the sitters were chosen from far too circum
scribed a circle : so circumscribed that statements about one
individual family or set of people had a good chance of
proving to have some applicability, more or less remote, to
more than one sitter. Still the coincidence existed, and it is
therefore only fair to mention it. I had handed to the
medium a silk muffler belonging to a brother of Miss Bates;
whereupon Nelly said :—" Haven't you got the book ? a little
wet book belonging to this ? a little book that has been wet?"
This book had already been mentioned before in connection
with the Geoffrey Scott control, and consequently I under
stood to whom Nelly's next remark was meant to refer :—
" Never mind. Give him a pencil and let him write. /
■can tell you the things, and he wants to write himself."
J. G. P.:—"Who is he?"
Nelly :—" The young man belonging to this (i.e. the muffler).
It doesn't seem a stranger. It seems as if he wants to
write. He wants to write, and / want to talk."
The medium then began to write a message evidently
intended to proceed from the Scott control. Nelly did not
on this occasion speak while the writing was being done, but
waited until it was completed.
Then the Scott control spoke directly : to be followed
immediately by Nelly again, who appeared to be rather cross
at his intrusion. After the Scott control had used the direct
voice, Nelly recognised who he was : though it will be
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mm. Thompson's Trance. 245
observed that before the completion of the script she seemed
to be unaware of who the spirit was.
If one is justified in holding that Nelly represents her
own experiences as they represent themselves to her, that is,
if the alleged phenomena of the trance are genuine and not
pretence, one must conclude that a spirit is " near " enough
to employ both direct writing and direct speech as a method
of communication, and yet not near enough for another and
presumably simultaneously controlling spirit to recognise ; or, if
these controls are no more than secondary personalities, that
of two separate personalities in simultaneous or almost simul
taneous activity, personality A. can be aware of the activity
of personality £., while yet unable or unwilling to recognise
the identity of its fellow-personality. If the whole thing is
humbug, what stupid humbug it is !
Sitting of January '3rd, 190L
•" If the last episode might strike a sceptic as stupid humbug,
one which is to be found in this sitting would on the contrary
have to be rated as decidedly ingenious, and as a happy
imitation of authentic automatism. The Percival control had
written a sentence or two, and had also used the direct voice.
Nelly also had been speaking. I was engaged in taking
some objects out of a case which had belonged to Edward
Horace Percival before presenting it to the medium, when
Nelly broke in with :
" Take his photo, out too. I know what he's like. He
has been here writing. (In this case Nelly was able to
recognise a spirit who had been writing.) Take your secrets
with you. He was writing because Mr. Stainton Moses
said:—'Write, lad, and I'll help thee.'"
J. G. P.:—"He spoke also."
Nelly :—" I didn't know he spoke."
The medium then wrote :—" Kog Percy (or Perciv) Aun my
mot."
J. 6. P.:—"What is written?"
Nelly : " He wrote and said : ' My mother has my photo
graph.' P'raps that's nothing."
It will be seen that the words, " My mother has my
246 [PART
J. G. Piddington.
photograph," had not been written, only "My mot," and
Nelly apparently completed the sentence (cf. p. 240). The
letters " Aun " probably were the first three letters of the
word Aunt. E. H. Percival's aunt was present at the sitting, and
before the sitters had entered the room the following had been
written :—" Aunt and my mother want to come together."
It is altogether a very complex phenomenon, for Nelly knows
that the control has been writing, while ignorant of his having
also spoken, and states that he has written a sentence of
which, as a matter of fact, only one word and a half actually
was completed.
According to my notes Nelly is made to use the abbreviation
" photo.", whereas she is made to report the Percival control
as using the word " photograph." I cannot absolutely guarantee
the exactitude of my record on this point, but I feel fairly
confident that the full word was employed on one occasion,
and the abbreviated form on the other. If this really was
so, it is but another illustration of the consistent and apparently
undesigned maintenance of characteristic shades of difference
in the speech of the various controls.
(12) Prophecies.
Nelly, like the controls of most mediums, revels in pre
dictions. A statement put in the form of a prediction has
this great advantage over statements which are referred to
the present or past that, unless the prophet is indiscreet
enough to define the period within which fulfilment is to take
place, there is, if not all eternity ahead, at least many years
in which to await verification.
The dominant note of a large proportion of Nelly's pro
phecies is their gloom, their appalling gloom. I have noted
in all 25 predictions in the series of sittings under discussion,
and out of these eleven are of a lugubrious character. Some
are neither cheerful nor the reverse ; the most inspiriting one
that I can find is to this effect, namely, that some one
xlvh.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 247
who is dead would have been better off (i.e. would have
come in for money) had he lived. Nelly takes the most
dismal views of people's health. On several occasions she
has shown anxiety to number my days ; not that I've ever
allowed her to get so far, because happily I have foreseen
what was coining (I have learnt to recognise the sympathetic
voice and manner with which she prophesies evil things),
and stopped her in time. I will show a similar consideration for
those whose unhappy future Nelly has presaged by refraining
from quoting their names ; but I will cite the predictions in
full for fear of being thought to have overstated the case.
Of A. she said on January 10th, 1900, and she had
already said the same thing before :■—■" I don't think [A] will
be better at all. He will have to go away from [his present
place of residence]. ... He went to Brighton, and won't
be better when he comes back."
So far I am glad to say A. is better.
Of B. Nelly said on January 16th, 1900:—"Something
is going to happen to her. Somebody belonging to her is
going to be seriously ill, a lady, an elderly lady."
B. has no elderly lady in her immediate surroundings, and
so no elderly lady belonging to her has been seriously ill.
For the sister of a lady from whom communications pur
ported to come death by accident was predicted. " This lady
has a sister alive, and she will die just the same way. Her
leg was bleeding so, like internal exhaustion." This was given
on February 6th, 1900, and the lady's sister has escaped
her fate so far.
Of C, to whom Nelly frequently alluded in desponding terms,
she said on December 20th, 1900:—"You know [O] says
he's cured. He isn't, it's all nonsense ; he'll break out worse
than ever." Since this prediction, with, I believe, the excep
tion of one slight and short relapse, O.'s health, which Mrs.
Thompson knew to be very bad at the time, has maintained
a steady improvement, and he has not broken out worse than
ever.
On October 28th, 1899, Nelly predicted of D. that she
was " going to be very ill : a downright prostration ; ill
enough not to be able to do anything or take any interest
in anything." Nothing of the kind happened.
R
24$ [PART
J. G. Piddington.
Some months before D. had been ill, and the illness
resulted in a certain amount of prostration ; but apart from
the fact that Nelly's words, if applied to D.'s past state of
health, would be too strong, the cause of D.'s illness was a
specific disease, and not merely general ill-health. Had Nelly
predicted that D. would suffer from this specific disease, one
might have been justified in supposing that, in spite of the
wrong time-relation, this was an instance of supernormally
acquired knowledge.
But this was not the end of poor D.'s troubles. Not only
was she to be ill, but her illness was to be caused by a domestic
trouble :—" I think she will have a shock in the near future—
by Christmas—caused by something to happen in her family:
not a death or monetary loss, but some family matter. The
shock will quite prostrate her, but the illness will not !«
dangerous. There is an M.P. who belongs to her family, and
some one between her and the M.P. will be the object of the
shock. Cecil is the name, or anyhow some name beginning
with a C."
D. experienced no shock by Christmas, nor after it. She
was not prostrated, and no member of her family is a M.P.
In the course of one of Mrs. Benson's sittings on Decem-
ber 18th, 1899, E., between whom and Mrs. Benson there
is no connection, was favoured with a gloomy forecast, shot
out in the most casual and abrupt manner.
" A great shock," exclaimed Nelly, " coming to E.," and no
more was said about E. at that sitting.
Some months before this sitting E. had received what might
undoubtedly be termed " a great shock " from seeing a
friend killed before his eyes, as the result of a terrible acci
dent. Eighteen months after the prediction E.'s mother died,
after a short illness, but as E.'s mother was in her 68th
year when she died, it is a debatable point whether her
death, though preceded by only a short illness, could be
regarded as a great shock. And in any case the words used
by Nelly are too vague, and shocks great and small too
frequent in this transitory life to allow of any success being
claimed for the prediction.
At the same sitting Nelly said to F. :—" Have you got a lot
of cotton-wool ? like rolls of cotton-wool. Perhaps it's coming.
xi.vii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 249
Packets of cotton-wool. Going to be used for some one who
is ill in hed."
F.'s wife had some six months previously undergone a
slight operation, for which large quantities of cotton-wool had
been employed.
Nelly, it will be noticed, does not refer this event with
certainty to the future, and so, if her statement is referred
to the past, it has some significance ; but operations are >
undergone by a not inconsiderable proportion of the popula
tion, and cotton-wool is employed, I suppose, in many of
them, and as the patient was not indicated, such coincidence
as there is is worth next to nothing.
No sooner were the words about rolls of cotton-wool out
of her mouth than there was borne in upon Nelly's boding
mind some vague presentiment of black fate brooding over
Mrs. Thompson's head.
" You'll see, something dreadful is going to happen to
Mother. I see black all round her head. As long as it's not
Victor, it doesn't matter. Something to come after Christmas."
Mrs. Thompson must be acquitted of having taken steps
to bring about a fulfilment of this prophecy, for to the best
of my knowledge nothing dreadful happened to her. Her son
Victor had chicken-pox about January 12th, but the attack
was not dangerous, and so his illness could not have been
described as " something dreadful."
About G., whom Mrs. Thompson knew to be seriously ill,
Nelly uttered the following prophecy on January 12th,
1900:—"Do you think G. is going to have a fit? Looking
blue : he seems to be put on a leather sofa—not in a
station—dark American leather—very dark—shiny. I can't
hear any trains, I can't see any familiar faces."
The ascription of this event to the future is somewhat
hesitating, and had G. had a fit under the circumstances
described, and could the fact have been shown to have been
outside Mrs. Thompson's cognisance, some weight might have
been accorded to Nelly's statement. But to the best of my
belief G. had no experience either before or after January
12th, 1900, which in any way tallied with Nelly's impression.
On April 19th, 1900, H. was told that he "is going to
have a terrible disappointment. He won't get something he
250 [PART
J. G. Piddingtov.
has set his heart upon." More than three years have passed
since April 1900, hut so far the prophecy remains unfulfilled.
On January 18th, 1900, the following cheering statement
was addressed by Nelly to Mr. " Wilson," who had recently
been in great trouble :—" You mustn't be sad in your heart.
You've got a much greater trouble ahead of you than you
think." This may, of course, prove true, but so far it has
not.
This ends my list of Nelly's gloomy forebodings, and so
far for not one of them can success be claimed. One is almost
tempted to deduce from them a law (" Nelly's law "), that if
anything unpleasant is foretold it is sure not to come off.
I may be accused of treating this part of the subject with
undue flippancy. If my flippancy will only induce a flippant
attitude in the victims of pessimistic prophecies, its object
will have been attained.
Record predictions with the utmost care, date them, and
get them countersigned by responsible persons; place the
record in a sealed envelope, and deposit it in a bank ; do
anything with them you like, except allow yourself to be
influenced by them. The bad effects that predictions can pro
duce on nervous people are too obvious to need insisting on.
A man sound in body and mind might listen unmoved to a
prediction of the date and cause of his own death, mock at
it, and disregard it. But illness comes and upsets the healthy
bodily and mental balance, and what then 1 The prediction
which sounded so absurd a few months back has now become
rather disturbing, until at last it grips the man's imagination
and thus may well secure its fulfilment.
Or, another possibility, X. is told that he will be involved
in a bad carriage accident. Some time after he is out
driving, the horses are frightened by a passing motor-car,
the prediction suddenly flashes across X.'s mind, his nerve
is momentarily shaken by the recollection, he loses his head
for an instant, and an accident results, which, but for the
paralysing effects of the prediction, would have never occurred.
The danger may not now appear very serious ; but we can
already note how gravely Spiritualists and others who believe
in the reality of psychic phenomena treat previsions ; and as
time goes on, and as credence in telepathy and in other
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 251
similar matters grows, the utterances of mediums will be
more highly prized, and no matter whether better evidence
is forthcoming or not for previsions, prevision-stocks will
improve in sympathy with the general tone of the market.
Had I now under my eyes the most abundant arid posi
tive proof of the existence of a precognitive faculty, I should
not tone down my caution by a word ; for proof of the
possibility of prevision could not alter the fact that it is
only a stray prophecy here and there that " comes off " out
of Heaven knows how vast a total.
But to pass on to Nelly's other predictions:—
On November 29th, 1899, Nelly said to Dr. van Eeden:—
" This gentleman thinks he is going back on a certain day ;
but there will be some commotion, which will make him
change the date of departure—either one day earlier or
later."
The date of Dr. van Eeden's departure was not fixed at
the time of this sitting, but he left England several days
later than he had intended originally. Thus the main point
of the prediction was fulfilled, but, as usual, the details lacked
fulfilment; for there was no commotion, and the departure
was neither delayed nor advanced by one day, but delayed
by several days.
A somewhat similar prediction was uttered on February
tith, 1900, concerning Mr. Myers, who was then abroad
" Mr. Myers," said Nelly, " won't come home before the
second week in April."
Mr. Myers' note on this is as follow :—" I then felt certain
of returning March 31st, or April 2nd at latest. My wife's
illness delayed me till April 17th." Nelly's actual words
could apply correctly to April 17th; but their more natural
meaning is that Mr. Myers would return in the course of
the second week in April : which he did not do.
But whatever interpretation is put upon the words, neither
this prediction, nor that about Dr. van Eeden's return home,
strikes me as at all remarkable. Travellers' plans are so often
upset, and the dates of departures and returns so frequently
modified that it would be a safe shot to make in a large
proportion of cases, especially where people are travelling for
pleasure or health, and are not bound down by the restric
252 [part
J. G. Piddington.
tions of return tickets of short validity, that the return home
would not take place quite so soon as was expected.
A definite date is assigned in another prediction which
followed close on the heels of the last. Towards the close of
the sitting of February 6th, 1900, the last, as Mrs. Thompson
knew, which she would be able to give for some time, Nelly said
to me:—"I shall see you on the 4th of April." (See p. 202.)
But the next sitting which I had with Mrs. Thompson was
on April 19th. Mrs. Thompson was at home on April 4th,
and, " that the prophecy might be fulfilled which was spoken
by the mouth of " Nelly, could have offered me a sitting on
that day, which I, having forgotten all about the prediction,
should have guilelessly accepted. As a matter of fact, having,
as I said, forgotten the prophecy entirely, I went on April 5th
to Hampstead on the chance of finding Mrs. Thompson at
home. I met her in the street on her way to keep an
engagement, and there was no sitting. I am glad that I
did not go on April 4th, or my subliminal would have been
accused of having by an unworthy underhand trick attempted
to score a success for Nelly.
As it was, the subliminal behaviour of Mrs. Thompson and
myself was beyond reproach.
Another prediction of Nelly's Mrs. Thompson could have
fulfilled had she wished to, instead of which she prevented
its fulfilment. The prediction concerned a particular dress
which was to be worn by Mrs. Thompson's daughter. Mrs.
Thompson gave away the dress and so her daughter never
wore it.
On December 18th, 1899, Nelly said in the course of
one of Mrs. Benson's sittings which was held at my house :—
" What has Mrs. Finch to do with this room ? There is
something which muddles up Mrs. Finch with this room"
./. O. P. :—" I mentioned to your mother that Mrs. Finch
was coming."
Nelly :—" No, not that. It's like a feeling of Mrs. Finch
with a cloak on with fur inside."
Later Nelly referred again to the same subject, this time
putting her statement into the form of a prediction.
" Mrs. Finch will come here with a fur cloak. Mother
hasn't got one. Bed colour outside."
xlvii.] Pfienomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 253
On the occasion of her second visit to my house Mrs.
Finch wore a fur cloak, but the colour outside was not red,
but brown. In any case, even had the prediction been verified,
it would have been worth little or nothing, because as Mrs.
Thompson was acquainted with Mrs. Finch, she might have
known that she possessed a fur cloak of the kind described,
and also because fur cloaks are worn by many people in the
winter, and I suppose a good many are red outside. But
Nelly's statement goes some way to show that Mrs. Thompson
does not devise prophetic utterances from facts within her
conscious knowledge. Indeed, I think this is sufficiently
clear already from the gloomy anticipations which Nelly ex
pressed about the health of two persons known to Mrs.
Thompson. They were both in a bad state of health, as
Mrs. Thompson knew quite well, but, so far as I can form
an opinion, there does not appear to me to have been any
reason to regard their condition despondently, nor do I believe
that Mrs. Thompson was in possession of any special information
which would have led her to form a less hopeful view of
their prospects of recovery than I for instance did. Mrs.
Thompson often spoke to me in a perfectly open and natural
way about the two invalids, and never, so far as I remember,
did she express opinions about their state of health which
coincided with those expressed by the trance-personality. To
the approaching dissolution of another individual known to
myself and also to Mrs. Thompson Nelly often alludes. This
individual is in average good health, and not " at all old, is
if anything in an improved state of health now, and I cannot
imagine why Nelly looks forward to his approaching end with
so much apparent certitude. It may be that this tendency
to kill off people is a " note " of automatic romance. I think
I have noticed in my own dream-fancyings a tendency to
kill off my friends and acquaintances with an indelicate pre
cipitancy quite unwarranted by their actual physical condition.
Though, as I have said, Mrs. Thompson in trance does not
as a rule devise prophetic utterances from facts normally
known to her, there are two apparent exceptions : though
even of these one only came true.
Both referred to the Psychological Congress held at Paris in
1900, which Mrs. Thompson attended, and at the time the
254 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
predictions were given, I think she knew she either was
going to attend it or was likely to. The two sitters concerned
were Dr. van Eeden and Dr. Max Dessoir; and although I
see no reason for supposing that Mrs. Thompson was aware
of the identity of either, yet before trance began she must
have recognised by their accent that both were foreigners,
and it would be a natural enough assumption that any foreign
gentleman who came to have a sitting with her would very
likely be, if not one of our corresponding members, at least
some one with an interest in psychology, and as such likely
to attend the Congress in Paris.
To Dr. van Eeden Nelly said on December 1st, 1899:—"You
are going to see my mother in Paris next year. You will be
wearing a lighter-coloured felt hat at Paris than you are wearing
now. But if you remember this prophecy, you must not go and
buy one on purpose." Dr. van Eeden did meet Mrs. Thompson
at the Congress the next year, but he followed Nelly's wise
advice, and did not go and buy a lighter-coloured hat.
To Dr. Max Dessoir Nelly said on April 19th, 1900 —
" When he sees me the next time he won't recognise me. I
shall see him at Professor Richet's. Flnno—and Professor
Richet will be altogether. Professor Richet, Mr. Myers, and
you (i.e. Dr. Dessoir), and ' Whiskers,' and Flumeroy.
J. G. P.:—"Flournoy?"
Nelly :—" No, not Flournoy.'
J. G. P. :—" Flammarion ? "
Nelly :—" Not Flammarion—will be at Richet's."
As a matter of fact Dr. Dessoir was not at the Paris Congress
and even if he had been, and had Mrs. Thompson met him there
at Professor Richet's house in the company of Mr. Myers, the
prediction would, of course, have been worth nothing.
I cannot attach much greater importance to another prediction
of Nelly's which did indeed come true, and which at first sight
is rather striking. A very effective prediction I should term it
but a little reflection, together with some mauvaise volonti
depreciates its charms. It has already been recorded in Pro
ceedings, Part XLIV., p. 95. Nelly said to Dr. van Eeden at
the close of his second sitting:—"Don't have any of that red
sauce with fish at Cambridge. It won't suit you."
At the time Mrs. Thompson knew that she was going to meet
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 255
Dr. van Eeden at Cambridge in the course of a day or two at
Mrs. Verrall's. It is a natural assumption that fish will form
one of the courses at dinner, and fish sauces are usually either
red, white, yellow, or green, and of the four, white and red, I
should say, are the commoner. When Mrs. Thompson and Dr.
van Eeden dined at Mrs. Verrall's the fish sauce was red. Nelly
rather cunningly remarked at a sitting held after the dinner :—
" It is funny you had red sauce with white fish. At Mother's
house you would have had white sauce."
When Dr. van Eeden asked Nelly why she had advised him
not to take the sauce, she replied :—" Well, don't you feel
thirsty ? " Dr. van Eeden denied the suggestion, and then
Nelly at once asked :—" Are you a vegetable man ( " Dr. van
Eeden is a vegetarian, and this was no doubt what Nelly wished
to convey. Dr. van Eeden considers that the likeliest explana
tion of the apparently irrelevant juxtaposition of the references
to the unsuitability of the red fish-sauce and to his vegetarianism
is to be found in the fact of the sauce having been coloured with
cochineal, a process repugnant to strict vegetarian principles.
But if sauce coloured with cochineal is an unsuitable diet for
a vegetarian, a fortiori the fish would be too. Dr. van Eeden's
exegesis appears to me too subtle, and it is easier, I think, to
suppose that the original reference to the fish-sauce and its
unsuitability was only Nelly's roundabout way of saying:—
" You're a vegetarian, and you're going to stay at a house where
you won't get a vegetarian diet ; " in other words, the red fish-
sauce was used symbolically. The actual words used should be
noted. They were :—" That red sauce with fish." The accent
seems to be on the sauce, but it would be quite in keeping with
Nelly's phraseology to take the words to mean no more than
"fish with red sauce."
My conclusion, then, is that Nelly's warning to Dr. van Eeden
need not, and indeed should not, be treated as precognitive, but
.simply as a specimen of the dramatic utilisation of knowledge
.supernormally acquired from the sitter.
Three more unsuccessful prophecies remain to be recorded.
On January ">th, 1900, Nelly said to Mrs. X.:—"It seems
to me you will go abroad in the spring. I don't know what it
would be for you would go abroad."
Mrs. X.:—" Far abroad ? "
256 [part
J. G. Piddington.
Nelly :—" Yes, it would be just the Continent."
Many people go abroad to the Continent in the spring and at
other seasons of the year ; so, even had the prediction come true,
it would not have been remarkable ; but Mrs. X. was disobliging
enough not to do so, nor at the time of the sitting did she think
there was any likelihood of her doing so, so Nelly's remark could
not be put down to her having read some project latent in Mrs.
X.'s mind. Her husband was fighting in South Africa at the
time, and if she were to take a journey abroad at all she may
well have fancied that her destination would be South Africa.
Hence, I imagine, the question, " Far abroad ? " : to which Nelly
ought of course to have replied if she had any respect for pro
fessional precedent :—" Oh, yes ; far, far abroad ; I see you on a
big ship, etc., etc."
The next prophecy was given in what seemed to be the
most gratuitous manner. On January 10th, 1900, Nelly said
casually :—" You know so and so (naming a well-known per
sonage). They call her F. in private. I'm going to talk to
her one of these days. She isn't hard in her heart." And
then almost directly afterwards :—" What I saw was [the great
personage's] photo.—then the letter F."
The medium was holding a letter signed F. which had been
given her at the previous sitting, and given in such a way that
she could have seen the signature. The personage's name
also began with F., and this appears to have been the only
foundation, not only for the association of ideas, but also for
the prediction, which, though it may of course come true one
of these days, has not come true so far, and is not, I think,
ever likely to.
Then again on April 19th, 1900, Dr. Max Dessoir was
told that " he will have cause for rushing up against van
Renterghem, both in body and opinions." Nelly had intro
duced the subject by saying, " I want to say that name
van Renterghem. I don't want to call this gentleman (i.e.
Dr. Dessoir) by that name." This prediction is similar in
character to two predictions already mentioned, in which
Nelly told first Dr. van Eeden and later Dr. Dessoir that
they would meet her or her mother at the Paris Congress
of Psychology, and a similar explanation of the train of
reasoning which gave rise to these two predictions can be
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 257
applied here. Dr. van Renterghem, a well-known physician
at Amsterdam, who both practises and has written about
hypnotism, had been associated by Nelly with Dr. van Eeden,
and rightly so. Before associating Dr. Dessoir with Dr. van
Eenterghem, Nelly had recognised Dr. Dessoir as a hypnotist.
Mindful, it may be, of the frequency of controversy between
brothers of the same craft, Nelly hazards the not unlikely
guess that two fellow hypnotists would " rush up against one
another both in body and opinions," a forceful expression
not entirely unsuitable to many a fray where doctors
disagree. Happily, in this case, our two distinguished
foreign members have hitherto failed to live up to the pre
diction.
On December 20th, 1900, Nelly predicted who would be
the sitter at the next sitting. " I'm going to see you with that
spectacled gentleman the next time. I don't know who it is.
Put it down for the truth."
I put it down for the truth, and took no measures either
to help or to impede the truth coming true.
Unhappily, instead of a spectacled gentleman, the next sitter
was a lady wearing pince-nez. Nelly pointed out the failure
herself :—" The gentleman with the spectacles—I told you he
was coming. You see it isn't a gentleman with spectacles
on." She was not in the least disconcerted, ( nor did she try
to explain away the non-success of her prediction. In fact the
failure of her predictions does not seem to worry her ; I
suppose she has the good sense to set no great store by them.
And yet, as my last two instances will show, some of her
prophecies are veridical.
Thus on February 1st, 1900, Nelly remarked en por,ss««£ :—
" Why's Colin Campbell written on your head ? He's coming.
I've got to talk to him one of these days."
Mr. Myers, when he saw the record of this sitting, wrote
the following comment : " I have a friend of that name whom
I have since independently thought of asking to a seance." By
the words " since independently " Mr. Myers evidently meant
" since the prediction was given, and before I saw the record."
It is true that Colin Campbell is connected by Nelly with
me, and not with Mr. Myers; but if Mr. Myers' friend had
had a sitting with Mrs. Thompson about this time, it is pro
258 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
bable that I should have been present as recorder. I cannot
prove, of course, that Airs. Thompson did not know that Mr.
Myers knew Mr. Colin Campbell. She may have known it
and done no more than make a lucky guess. Xor must
we assume that, because Mr. Myers did not consciously
remember having thought of Mr. Colin Campbell as a
possible sitter until after Nelly's statement had been made,
subconsciously he hail not already contemplated asking him
to come to a sitting. iStill, if we regard the incident as
indicative of supernormal faculty of some kind, we cannot
anyhow class it as a case of true prevision, for Mr. Colin
Campbell never did attend a sitting, and, so far as I am aware,
he was not even invited.
But whatever doubts I have about this case, I have no
hesitation in dismissing guess-work or normal processes of
obtaining information as inadequate to explain the final
instance on my list. Towards the end of a sitting held on
January 3rd, 1901, nothing having occurred to suggest the
remark, Nelly said :—
" Will you give my love to her—Mr. Ernest Bennett—you
know who I mean. I'm talking to you (i.e. J. G. P.)—not
about the book. He's going to tell you a lot of things.
(This was repeated.)
" What made me think of it (this in answer to a question
asked by J. G. P.) was 1 saw a lot of people dressed up like
ghosts, and then I could hear you and Mr. Bennett laughing—
and then—and then you seem to have indigestion after."
J. G. P.:—"Is it future or past?"
Nelly:—"After; it's what you've got to come to."
Now the facts which seem to me to correspond with
Nelly's words too closely to be explained by chance coinci
dence were these.
The sitting ended about 5 p.m., and after it 1 went
straight home. Being overtired, and as a consequence of the
over-fatigue suffering from indigestion, I lay down on my
bed in order to rest. I had been resting some twenty
minutes or so when Mr. Ernest Bennett called to see me. I
had no idea, he was going to call, nor did I know any par
ticular reason why he should. I asked him to come and talk
to me in my bedroom, so that I might remain lying down.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 25?)
I mention this detail in order to show that the attack of
indigestion was of a sufficiently definite character to make
me receive a caller in my bedroom. Of course, as soon as
I was told that Mr. Bennett had called, Nelly's prediction
caiue into my mind ; but I was careful to avoid leading the
conversation in any way which might bring about a fulfil
ment. Mr. Bennett at once explained the object of his visit,
which was to tell me of his experiences at a haunted house
in the West of England. I had been investigating the case,
and I knew that Mr. Bennett was also interested in it, and
that he proposed to go and stay in the haunted house on the
first convenient opportunity. I could not at the time
remember with certainty whether I had known that he had
visited, or was shortly going to visit the house : my impression
was that I was unaware of his having actually carried out his
projected visit. I am inclined to think that this impression
was correct, because, when Mr. Bennett called at my house,
I had not any notion what he could be coming to talk about :
and also when Nelly spoke about Mr. Bennett and people
dressing up as ghosts it suggested nothing to my mind.
A good many different phenomena were said to have taken
place at the haunted house in question. I was inclined at the
time to set down the tales of haunting to hallucinations pro
duced by fright on young people of highly nervous tempera
ments, and had not thought of attributing them to practical
joking. Mr. Bennett, in the course of narrating his experi
ences, expressed the opinion that one of the alleged phenomena
was due to a servant's practical joke.
It is true that we had a good laugh over this and other
matters : but I think Mrs. Thompson either knew or knew of
Mr. Ernest Bennett, and if so, I cannot attach much importance
to Nelly having said : " Then 1 could hear you and Mr.
Bennett laughing." Mr. Bennett will, I hope, forgive me, if
I say that, as a rule, where he is, there too is laughter, and
often " laughter holding both her sides."
So, too, it may not have needed any supernormal faculty to
surmise that I should suffer from indigestion within an hour
or so of the sitting ; but it was not said that Mr. Bennett would
" tell me a lot of things " within the next hour or two, and
our conversation and my fit of indigestion were foretold as
2G0 [part
J. G. Piddington.
nearly contemporaneous events, to happen at some quite
undefined future time.
Again, Mr. Bennett and myself being both psychical re
searchers, it may be urged that there was nothing extra
ordinary in prophesying that at some future time he
would " tell me a lot of things," and that among the lot of
things ghosts and practical joking would be referred to. Or
again, it may be objected that Nelly did not categorically say
that Mr. Bennett would talk about people dressing up as
ghosts, and that all she said was :—" I saw a lot of people
dressed up like ghosts, and then I could hear you and Mr.
Bennett laughing." That is true enough, but though each
separate statement made by Nelly can be whittled away in
some such fashion, we have not to consider only each com
ponent statement separately, but also the whole compound
statement. And here, for my own part, I feel compelled
to have recourse to an explanation involving some form of
supernormal faculty.
The manner in which the message emerged rather suggests
that the source of Nelly's knowledge was telepathic. First
she seems to be in communication with Mr. Bennett. She
discovers that he is going to " tell me a lot of things," and
that the subject of his communication is ghosts, and that it
is provocative of mirth. All these three facts were almost
certainly in Mr. Bennett's thoughts at the time of the sitting.
" And then you seem to have indigestion." Here she appears
to enlarge her survey of the eventuality by drawing on my own
knowledge of my physical condition, or perhaps by her own
perception of it. The words, " and then "—repeated—may
perhaps indicate a fresh source of information. A telepathic
■explanation will suffice ; but I own that I felt at the time
that Nelly was not by any complicated process deducing the
future from present knowledge, but really watching and
describing an event in the future as it presented itself dc
toute pidce before her eyes.
XLvil.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 261
(13) A Pet Subject of Nelly's.
There is one string on which Nelly harps with such per
sistency that I grew to listen for the familiar twang at each
sitting. Babies—babies who died at, or before, or soon after
birth, are a subject of irresistible attraction to Nelly. What
one may ask can be the reason of this cliche' ? It can hardly
be for the sake of scoring an easy hit, for Nelly has a very
clear notion of what is evidentially telling, and more than once,
after making some obvious statement, she has pulled herself up
and spontaneously deprecated any value being allowed to it.
Nor does it seem probable that this tendency to saddle sitters
with dead little brothers or sisters or children is a method of
" fishing," for even if the sitter owns to the fact, how can
the admission afford any further clue likely to be of assistance,
or what pregnant inference can be drawn from it ?
It may be that the explanation must be looked for in the
particular circumstances of the life-history of the real Nelly,
Mrs. Thompson's daughter Nelly died when only a few months
old, and her own brief span of earth-life may perhaps account
for her interest in "the fate of the unbaptised." This hypothesis
will hold good whichever view is taken of the nature of the
Nelly control: for if Nelly be no more than the heroine of a
work of trance-fiction, she is a life-like creation, and to invent
for her this sympathetic interest in those who had suffered a like
fate to that of her own prototype would be a faithful touch no
whit, I suppose, beyond the powers of secondary personality.
Or, again, it may be a " note " of trance-communications ; for
though I cannot pretend to have analysed the Piper records
ad hoc, 1 think I am justified in saying that with Phinuit, too,
infantum animae are a favourite topic, though, by the way,
he and Nelly are far from representing them as Jlcntes in limine
prima.
Whatever be the true explanation, considering the very
large proportion of families which must number among their
dead some member whose lease of life lapsed after a few short
262 J. 0. Piddington.
hours or weeks, the references made by Nelly to deaths in
babyhood met with relatively only small success.
Sir Oliver Lodge (see Proceedings, Vol. VI., p. 450) has
noticed that Phinuit " seems to be under some compulsion not
to be silent," and he thinks that a good deal of his conversation
is introduced as a stop-gap. Possibly under this head should
fall many of Phinuit's references to dead babies. Nelly, so far
as my observation goes, does not exhibit any signs of being under
any compulsion to talk ; at the end of a sitting when the serious
work is over she will chatter like a magpie, but during the
serious business of the seance she does not appear to be under
any necessity to speak without intermission. .Sometimes she
will go away for a few minutes ; at others, maintain silence
for a minute or two. So I do not fancy that Nelly inter
polates statements about babies in order to mark time.
Throughout spiritualistic trance-communications may be
observed a uniformly latitudinarian strain : an emphatic pro
test against theological bigotry and dogmatism of all kinds
irrespective of any particular creed or sect. I suppose that
nothing has been more abhorrent to the modern conscience
than certain eschatological teachings about the fate of unbaptised
children : and it is conceivable that the insistence both of
Phinuit and of Nelly upon the presence of babies in the same
spheres of existence which the adult dead inhabit should be
traced to a common desire to protest against this damnable
dogma.
Sitting of November 29th, 1899.
This was Dr. van Eeden's first sitting, but the trance-utter
ances were not entirely confined to his affairs : references being
also made to Professor William James, and to a former sitter
called by Nelly " Paymond's mother." Raymond was the dead
son, and about him Nelly had at former sittings given many
correct details. On this occasion she added a few more, one
of which ultimately proved to be true, although the mother
was not able to verify it at the time, and in fact had never
known it. In the course of the additional statements about
Kaymond the following occurred :—" Paymond said there was
a little baby belonging to ' them ' that wasn't grown up, and
it has not got a name at all."
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 263
With regard to this point Kaymond's mother wrote to me
on Februaiy 11th, 1900:—"This is very puzzling, and I can
only think of the fact that my mother died in premature child
birth more than 20 years ago. Nelly has each time claimed
my mother's care as being given to my little boy."
But obviously so indirect a correspondence as this cannot
possibly count.
Sitting of December 1st, 1899.
Dr. van Eeden had handed to the medium a box containing
the hair of a dead gentleman. The box had been in the
possession of his widow for several years. Several correct
statements were made about both the husband and the wife,
though there was a certain amount of confusion, facts being
predicated of the man which would have been true of the
woman and vice versd. There was a break in the trance, and
the second part of the sitting Nelly opened with these words :—
" What was that dead baby associated with the hair-lady ? It
was not properly born." Dr. van Eeden said :—" I don't know " ;
and for the moment Nelly dropped the subject. But a few
minutes later she reverted to it saying to Dr. van Eeden :—" I
wish you would think about the dead baby. The hair-lady
has the entire management of the dead baby."
The "hair-lady" was not dead, and so could not have the
management of a dead baby, even had there been a dead baby
to manage, and, so far as Dr. van Eeden could discover, there
was no dead baby which could be said to be associated with
either the lady or her husband.
The first reference to the baby formed the introductory words
of the second part of the sitting, so in this instance there was
no need for "gagging," for, if Nelly ever does "gag" in the
Phinuit manner, she would hardly do so immediately on
resuming after a recuperative interval, but by way of pulling
herself together for a fresh effort : bavarder pour mieux parler.
Siiting of January 5th, 1900.
Four persons were present at the beginning of this sitting,
but the principal sitter was a lady whom I call Miss Gordon.
In the course of it Nelly said to Miss Gordon :—" This all
s
264 [part
J. G. Piddington.
comes through a little girl who died long ago—your sister.
She is now grown up."
Miss Gordon never had a baby sister, or a sister who died
young. A brother died two hours after birth.
Sitting of January 18th, 1900.
Mr. " Wilson " was the sitter on this occasion. Early in the
sitting Nelly gave a personal description of a girl, which Mr.
Wilson regarded as " a very good description " of a girl cousin
of a dead lady to whom had belonged a stocking which he
had just presented to the medium. This identification is sup
ported by the fact that throughout Mr. Wilson's sittings many
other references were made which can be aptly applied to the
cousin. Following directly on the personal description came
these words :—" She seems to be taking charge of a little boy,
a tiny brother or baby who died a long time ago." " The
baby looks up to her not as a mother, but as to an elder
sister."
Now the " she " would at first sight seem to refer to the
cousin whose personal appearance had just before been sketched,
but, although Nelly had not up to this point mentioned the
lady called in the published report of these sittings Miss Clegg,
both Mr. Wilson and myself understood the " she " to refer to
a new character ; and anyhow it was clear from what was
said later that the dead baby was not associated in Nelly's
mind with the cousin, but with Miss Clegg. This second re
ference made just before a break in the trance ran as follows :—
" She (i.e. Miss Clegg) has got a dead baby with her. I've got
one of Mother's dead babies at our house. Mother doesn't
think it was a little live boy, but it was." And later she
added :—" You wouldn't mind me saying that there is a dead
baby in connection with the stocking." It will be noticed that
the " little boy, a tiny brother or baby " has become a mere
" dead baby " of undefined sex. In reality a sister of Miss
Clegg's had died in babyhood.
Sitting of January 25th, 1900.
This was Mr. Wilson's second sitting. No further reference
was made to the baby associated with Miss Clegg, but Nelly
ilvil] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 265
said :—" I couldn't find the lady {i.e. Miss Clegg) anywhere. I
could only find a brother of this gentleman {i.e. Mr. Wilson1)
who died when he was quite a tiny microbe baby." A
brother of Mr. Wilson's had died within a few hours after its
birth.
Sitting of May 30th, 1900.
In the course of this sitting Nelly said to Mrs. Benson :
" When I died, a little baby—little baby boy died belonging to
you. He died when he was a tiny boy. He loves you just
the same."
This statement is not correct.
Sitting of June 2nd, 1900.
Towards the end of this, Dr. van Eeden's fifth sitting, a lady
staying in the house where the seance was held entered the
room, coming in from behind the medium. According to her
own assertion Mrs. Thompson had not previously met her
about the house. Before coming into what would appear to be
the medium's range of vision Nelly said :—" I can see her : she
has a light drab-coloured skirt. She has a brother in our
house. (Here the lady signified her dissent.) I am quite
sure about it. He has died perhaps as a baby."
This, I must admit, is in the true Phinuitesque manner.
Sitting of June 1th, 1900.
At this, Dr. van Eeden's sixth sitting, he asked Nelly for
more information about this lady's little brother, and the
answer came again in the typical Phinuit style :—" It was a
grown up man saying ' This is my sister.' "
(14) Nelly on Physical Phenomena.
Mrs. Piper has never, I believe, claimed to produce
physical phenomena: and among a certain school of psychical
researchers this failure to sound " toute la lyre " of mediumship
2Gb' [PAKT
J. G. Piddington.
has been counted unto her for righteousness. Having a
sneaking affection for physical phenomena, I am glad that
Nelly has the courage of her opinions and boldly proclaims
their feasibility, and further lays claim to having produced
such things herself.
So in this matter too we note a distinction between the
phenomena of Mrs. Piper and those of Mrs. Thompson ; and
it is a distinction which Mrs. Thompson, were she an im
postor, and well acquainted as she is with the attitude of
many members of this Society towards physical phenomena,
would have taken good care not to have invented, and certainly
not to have emphasised.
Sitting of November 29th, 1899.
Nelly :—" That gentleman [i.e. Dr. van Eeden] has been to a
materialising seance."
Dr. van Eeden :—" When ? "
Nelly :—" A short time ago. There is a strong influence of
somebody cheating all the time : taking off clothes and so on :
fraudulent throughout."
This statement was not applicable to Dr. van Eeden ;
though it would have been to myself, the recorder.
I then asked Nelly to tell me what she thought about
materialisations : were they occasionally genuine ? In reply
she gave this message from Mrs. Cartwright :—" Whenever a
spirit materialises it is quite a spontaneous thing."
Nelly proceeded to explain this by saying :—" It can't be
done to order once a week " ; and added, " Mrs. Cartwright
dictated that bit " (meaning the dictum about materialisation
being a spontaneous thing), "and also about Alice James"
(referring to a previous incident in the sitting).
Very soon after this Dr. van Eeden asks Nelly if she can
appear to people in dreams, and gets the reply :—" I never
tried except with Mother. I'm going to materialise one day
for Father to show him the colour of my hair : black curly
hair, not light like Mother's."
" Mr. Thurstan's sister came and talked at Mother's house.
She was materialised." (This was quoted as an instance of
a non-fraudulent materialisation.)
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 267
" Mrs. Corner once was properly materialised—about three
years ago—at a lady's house."
Sitting of January 11th, 1901.
" Mr. Gurney went and talked to Miss Rawson. He
doesn't even mind knocking a table for her."
Unfortunately I have not had access to all the records of
Miss Rawson's trances, which, moreover, have not, I believe,
been very methodically kept, and I cannot therefore speak
with complete certainty, but from the best information that
I have been able to obtain it appears that a soi-disant Edmund
Gurney does play some part in Miss Rawson's trance-phenomena,
though it is not certain that this control has ever purported
to communicate by means of raps in her case. For a fuller
discussion see pp. 301-2.
Sitting of January 12th, 1900.
A propos of Mrs. Benson Nelly said :—" There's a place in
Birmingham where Mother often goes : it's ' Bensons Limited.'
I knocked and shook a table in that shop before I knew Mr.
Myers."
(15) The "Susanna Parkes " Case.
I offer no apology for including in this report another incident
which cannot be treated as evidential, because my main aim
throughout has been not so much to bring forward ' evidential '
facts as by applying the test of classification to see how far
the phenomena present a consistent character, such as we
should expect to result from an examination of genuine, and
not from an examination of spurious phenomena.
The incident in question belongs to a class which lends
itself readily to the ridicule of the man who prides himself
upon his common-sense. I have a good deal of sympathy
268 [part
J. 0. Piddington.
with that type of person, perhaps more because he is such
a refreshing contrast to the man who seems to pride himself
upon the want of it than from any deep admiration for his
intellectual penetration. There is a certain danger, too, in
allowing weight to a type of phenomenon which can not only
be aped by the dishonest with the greatest ease, but which can
also be used to explain away many a suspicious circumstance.
Yet, if the objections of the common-sense man had always
been listened to, there would have been no psychical research.
I venture therefore to proceed, after warning the man of
common common-sense off this section.
The facts of the case were reported in writing to Mr.
Myers by Mr. Thompson as long ago as November 2 7 th,
1899: a point of some importance; for, had nothing been
heard of the matter before the publication of Dr. Hodgson's
report on his six sittings with Mrs. Thompson, or before, at
any rate, it was known that he was not satisfied of her bona
fides, it would have been a reasonable suggestion that the
following story had been concocted for the purpose of throw
ing a favourable light on those circumstances of Mrs. Barker's
sittings which aroused Ur. Hodgson's suspicions.
I append Mr. Thompson's report, which is dated November
27th, 1899:—
Re Control Susanna Parkrs.
On Monday, 26th June, 1899, Mrs. Thompson was suddenly con
trolled by what purported to be an old lady. Certainly Mrs.
Thompson's face was very drawn, and she looked quite different
whilst influenced to speak to any time previously. I quite felt at
the time it was an old person speaking : her voice and manner
were just those of an old-fashioned country person. I put the
following questions :—
1. Who are you?
With great difficulty the control said : " Susanna Parkes."
2. Where did you live when on earth ?
" Birmingham."
3. How old were you when you died ?
" Sixty-nine."
4. What ailment caused your death ?
" Great sufferer, great sufferer."
(I could not get any other reply than this.)
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 269
5. Are you any relation of our old friend Miss Parkes ? I cannot
think of any one else of that name.
"Yes, I am her mother. She is my only child Mary."
6. Have you any message for Mary? though I fear now, through
age, she would not understand a message, if you sent one to her.
She has lost her memory.
"I have no message. I was buried at All Saints' Church."
Directly she had finished saying this Mrs. Thompson awoke. I
told her what had taken place, read my notes aloud, and asked
her if she knew these facts : the very old lad}', Miss Parkes, being
more a friend of Mrs. Thompson's than of mine.
She replied:— "I do not know anything of Miss Parkes' rela
tives, except that she had a blind father. I only knew Miss
Parkes in 1886, and she was nearly seventy then. I know she
was an only child, and that she had no living relatives ; that when
her parents were alive they lived in Birmingham ; but I never
remember her speaking of the place where her mother was buried
or of her age."
Miss Parkes lives still in Birmingham, but is too old to be
questioned, so we let the matter drop until one day in September,
1899, Mrs. Thompson found a very old diary of 1855 in a play-
closet amongst the children's toys, etc. She found out it had been
given in December, 1888, to one of the children by Miss Parkes:
the child having visited the old lady, it had been given him to
play with. Mrs. Thompson opened the diary, and the first thing
she saw was an entry of Miss Parkes' mother's death.
You will notice the old lady who controlled Mrs. Thompson
gave no details except what was written down.
Mrs. Thompson says she is positive she had never seen or known
of the existence of that diary ; it being folded up in a case similar
to a Banker's pass book, in darkish red leather, and was certainly
not an ordinary every-day looking thing.
Mrs. Thompson and myself were the only people who knew of
the Susanna Parkes incident, but Mrs. Thompson wishes me to write
out these details as being of interest with regard to the question :
" Are names and facts which have been written easier for a spirit
to see than when they only exist in one's memory?"
I am rather inclined to think they are. Of course this does not
alter the fact that the controls or spirits very often give accounts of
things neither written or in one's memory : prophecies of the future,
for instance.
270 [part
J. G. Piddington.
With this report Mr. Thompson sent the leaf from the
almanack containing the entry of the death. The date of the
almanack is 1855, and the entry made under the date of
February 13th, runs as follows:—
"Friday, 13th, 1857. My Mother died at 1 in the morning after
9 months' suffering and was hurried [sic] at All Saints' Church the
15, aged 69. Susanna Parkes."
It will he seen that Mr. Thompson was not quite right in
stating that the control gave no details except such as were
written in the almanack. In the trance the name of Susanna
Parkes' daughter was given as Mary, the latter was said to be an
only daughter, and the place where the former lived was
given as Birmingham. But these details, which were not con
tained in the entry in the almanack, were probably all known
to Mrs. Thompson, or if not known, could have been guessed.
Mrs. Thompson knew that Miss Parkes was an only child,
and that her parents lived in Birmingham, and it is safe
to assume that she knew Miss Parkes' Christian name to be
Mary.
Whatever view is taken of the character of the control in
this case, it would be difficult to deny that the subject-matter
of the communication was drawn from, or based on, or sug
gested by, the entry in the almanack.
I asked Nelly about this incident at the sitting of Novem
ber 29th, 1899, and Nelly gave the following explanation:
—that " Auntie Parkes was really controlling her mother ;
that the spirits did not get at the information contained in
the almanack, but Susanna Parkes was led to give the same
information as in the almanack ' by association.' "
This comment is not illuminating, and it in some degree
clashes with a remark made by Mrs. Cartwright in the course
of Mrs. Barker's second sitting (see Proceedings, Part XLIV.,
p. 151): "The worst is we read the contents of a letter with
out getting the message of the spirit."
Yet this case is not entirely unparalleled : the familiar ex
perience of thinking of a person while a letter from this
person is lying in your letter-box has some points in common
with it ; and sometimes under these circumstances even the
contents of the unopened letter appear to enter the mind of
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 271
the addressee. For instances of this—instances, however, so far
very rare—see Human Personality, Vol. I., sections 42 1H and
J, and 656B of the Appendices.
If there is such a faculty as clairvoyance, and by clairvoy
ance I mean supernormal acquisition of knowledge under
circumstances where telepathy from the mind of a living or
dead being is excluded, belief in such a phenomenon as the
one under consideration does not present so great difficulty
as it must if telepathy is the only process by which a mind
can receive impressions otherwise than through the organs of
sense. Unfortunately the evidence for clairvoyance is weak,
and so it seems the wiser course to content ourselves with
recording cases of this kind, and to wait patiently in the hope
of fresh evidence pointing in the same direction.
Yet the mere contiguity of a thing—of a material thing—
does appear to facilitate the reception of (presumably) telepathic
messages ; for otherwise why is it the almost universal, or at
least the favourite, custom of mediums to hold an object con
nected with the person, whether living or dead, about whom
communications are sought for ? And the psychometrist too
seems unable to get to work at all without handling a material
■object.
In the case of an entranced medium, or of a clairvoyant
or psychometrist, it is possible to suppose that the handling
of an object has a subjective effect on the imagination of
the sensitive, and in this way helps towards a successful
result; but such an explanation would hardly hold water in
this case, since Mrs. Thompson was unaware of the existence
of the almanack. If the almanack had anything to do with
the trance-utterance (and it is well-nigh impossible to imagine
that it had not) the effect produced by it must be put
down to its contiguity, or perhaps one should say to the fact
of the medium having been in its vicinity.
(16) "Suspicious Circumstances."
I have already mentioned (see p. 224) that Mrs. Thompson
once displayed knowledge of the name of one of her sitters, Mrs.
Benson, who at the time was supposed to be unknown to her.
272 [part
J. G. Piddington.
At Mrs. Benson's first sitting, on December 18th, 1899, her
name was not mentioned ; but by the time that her second
sitting (January 23rd, 1900) was held Nelly had talked about
her by name frequently. In the first few days of February,
1900, I happened to be calling on Mrs. Crackanthorpe, a lady
whom Mrs. Thompson knows well. She mentioned to me quite
casually in the course of conversation that Mrs. Thompson had
told her that she had teen giving sittings to a Mrs. Benson.
So on the earliest opportunity I asked Mrs. Thompson if she
remembered the name of the lady with white hair who had had
two sittings with her lately. Mrs. Thompson could not recall
the name at once, but finally said " Mrs. Benson," and when I
further asked her how she had succeeded in recalling the name,
she said she had done so by thinking of " Bensons Limited," a
restaurant in Birmingham (see p. 225). In reply to my further
questions she went on to explain that she had learnt the name
through Mr. Thompson, who had been told it by Nelly. Mr.
Thompson had asked Nelly for communications on his own
account, and on Nelly excusing herself on the plea of having a
lot of work to do for other sitters, he had playfully taunted her
with being too much taken up with " all these grand people "
and refusing to take any trouble for her own father. To this
Nelly had replied :—" Oh ! it's only Mrs. Benson : she isn't a
grand person ; she's only an old lady with grey hair."
After the trance Mr. Thompson had given an account to his
wife of what Nelly had said.
Now, it is quite evident that, if Nelly knows either the name
of or any other fact about a sitter, there is nothing to prevent
her from communicating her information to Mrs. Thompson,
either directly in some clairvoyant manner, or by using Mr.
Thompson as an intermediary. As a matter of fact I do not
believe that this is a general practice of Nelly's, but if she
acted in this way once she may do it always. I have quoted
various instances of Mrs. Thompson acquiring information from
Nelly when at home about things that have occurred at sittings;
and these instances show that Mrs. Thompson's explanation of
her knowledge of Mrs. Benson's name involved the dragging in
of no new type of psychical experience, and that it was no
hastily vamped up excuse invented on the spur of the moment
to cover a slip on her part. I may add that her whole manner
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 273
during our conversation was perfectly easy and natural, and not
in the least that of a person who has been cornered. Nor did
she pretend for one moment that she did not know Mrs. Benson's
name ; it was clear that she knew she knew it, and that her only
hesitation was caused by a momentary inability to recall the
actual name. But, it may be asked, why did not Mrs. Thompson
herself spontaneously tell me that she had learnt the name, as on
other occasions she had told me of information imparted to her
by Nelly ?
Apart from the question of whether it would have seemed to
Mrs. Thompson a matter of importance to let me know that she
knew that Nelly had said that a sitter's name was so and so, I
doubt if I gave her much opportunity for avowing her knowledge,
for I questioned her on the subject on the first occasion that I
saw her after I had seen Mrs. Crackanthorpe, that is on February
6th, 1900, and I put my questions before trance began, and as
soon as we had both settled down to prepare for the oncoming of
the trance after the ordinary greetings were over.
If Mrs. Thompson had learnt of the identity of her sitter in
some underhand way, it would stand to reason that she would
take care to conceal her knowledge. Yet what do we actually
find her doing ? Letting out the fact that she knows a name
which she would be supposed not to have known, and letting it
out, not to some one who would be safe not to come in contact
with her investigators, but to a lady whom she knew I knew, a
lady, too, who was a member of our Society, and the wife of a
member of our Council.
There were other circumstances connected with Mrs. Benson's
sittings which I propose to deal with here under the head
of " suspicious circumstances," though the term is inept, or at
least must, to have any aptitude at all, be understood in a Pick
wickian sense, for the circumstances do not really, or ought not
to, cast suspicion on Mrs. Thompson. I am by no means sure
that they ought not rather to be discussed under a heading
entitled " Stupidities of Investigators," and followed by com
ments by Mrs. Thompson herself. The circumstances were these.
The first object handed to Mrs. Thompson at Mrs. Benson's
first sitting was a ring, and this ring, I greatly regret to say,
I failed to observe was inscribed inside with the full names
of a dead son of Mrs. Benson : Martin White Benson.
274 [part
J. G. Piddington.
After this it is perhaps almost superfluous to add the
following :—On the occasion of the second sitting (January
23rd, 1900) Mrs. Benson and I were talking in my dining-
room, where the seance was to be held, before the arrival of
Mrs. Thompson. The dining-room opens into the hall, and
the door of the dining-room happened to be slightly ajar.
Neither Mrs. Benson nor I heard the bell ring or the front
door open, and at the moment when the servant was opening
the door in order to show Mrs. Thompson into the room, I
addressed Mrs. Benson by name. A few seconds, however,
elapsed before Mrs. Thompson entered the room. I do not
think that she could have normally heard me utter the name,
but hyperiesthetic audition cannot, of course, be excluded.
My carelessness having thus twice provided Mrs. Thompson
with a possible clue to the identity of her sitter, and that
sitter happening to be the widow of the late Archbishop of
Canterbury, and herself a well-known woman, and also Mr.
Arthur Benson's Lift of the Archbishop having appeared before
the first sitting took place, I need scarcely say that it is
practically impossible to treat any statements made by the
medium in trance relating to the past history of Mrs. Benson
and her family as evidence for supernormal faculty. Yet I
cannot regret that these sittings were continued, for not only
did they furnish some points of great psychological interest,
referred to in previous sections, but also some exceptionally good
evidence for supernormal faculty. This latter I propose to
give in detail, not only for its intrinsic interest, but also in
order to forestall what might under the peculiar circumstances
be a natural conclusion, namely, that normal causes would
suffice to explain all the phenomena of Mrs. Benson's sittings.
I fully appreciate how vexatious it must be to mediums
" when," as Mrs. Thompson has herself expressed it, (see the
Journal, S.P.R. for November, 1901) "statements made
by them in trance have been deprived of their proper evidential
value through laxity in the conditions."
Yet at the same time I would add in self-defence that I
doubt if any one can realise without prolonged experience how
difficult a matter it is to guard against each and every pos
sible kind of laxity in the conditions of a seance, and how
easy it may be for an experimenter or observer while fully
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 275
on the alert for the less obvious sources of error to overlook
the most obvious. Our insistence on the great allowance to
be made for malobservation has, more than anything else,
brought on us the remonstrances of Spiritualists ; but such
remonstrances would, I think, have been less vigorously ex
pressed if they had but realised that it is our own personal
and sad experiences which have largely contributed to our
recognition of the untrustworthiness of human observation.
Such attention as the work of the S.P.R. has met with from
critical minds is perhaps due to a large extent to our frank
recognition of our own fallibility.
Extract from Mrs. Benson's second sitting held on
January 2'6rd, 1900.
(A sealed packet handed to the medium. Mrs. Benson writes in
reference to this incident as follows :—" I gave the sealed packet,
sealed by my daughter ill at the time at home, to the medium.
At her wish I broke the seal and gave it her back. She unwrapped
it, and as her fingers touched the tissue paper in which the brooch
was, she exclaimed, 'The person who wrapped this up was ill.'
" My daughter had taken the brooch out of a red silk-lined dressing
case, and wrapped it up. When I saw it unwrapped in the medium's
hand I mistook it for another brooch which I myself possess, which
was not in a rosewood box.
"The brooch belongs to my daughter. It was put together by
the nurse of the whole family while she was living with my mother
before I married. It contains the hair of my mother and my three
brothers and myself, as well as that of a brother and sister who
died as children.")
Nelly: —"Mother's brooch. This was her brooch, and belonged to
more than one generation—a lady—two children died—her own
hair and two dead children's hair made into a brooch.
" The lady seems to be the third generation—grandmother, mother,
grand-children. Mrs. Cartwright said, ' Mother's brooch.' Some one
telling me to say it was her mother's. [R.]
" The person who wrapped it up was not well when they wrapped
it up. [R.] Inanition. [Great point of treatment of the invalid
who wrapped up the package was to take as much nourishment as
possible, unusually much for fever.] Delicate, not well at all, wants
nourishment. Mrs. Cartwright used the word. I don't know."
276 [part
J. G. Piddington.
[Nelly probably meant the word "inanition," and wished to explain
her use of such a long word.]
"I feel rather sick. She must have felt rather sick. [R.]
"It was packed up at a very windy place. Ask the lady" [Notice
the correct progression: "the person," "she," "the lady,"] "if
something was banging the night before she packed it up. She
was disturbed by the wind. A windy town, not London."
[Mrs. Benson comments : " The wind was so high the night before
my daughter packed it up that for the first time during a fortnight's
illness the shutters were barred all the night. N.B.—I did not
know this at the time of seance. It was not a town."]
"The lady that has this brooch was next generation. There was
a work-box—rosewood work-box—little silk places where you keep
silks and ribbons."
[Mrs. Benson writes : " Rosewood dressing case from which brooch
was taken belonged to my daughter's sister's godmother. After a
hunt for brooch, it was found in a drawer in the dressing case,
the only one which was lined in red silk."]
"She's not ill, but just—inside her inside she's got a collection
that she ought to spit away." [Lungs clearing after congestion.]
Extract from Mrs. Benson's third sitting held on
May 1st, 1900.
(A sealed packet, the contents of which had been selected and
packed up by Miss Benson, was then given to medium.)
Nelly :—" Do you understand what I mean by the brooch-lady !
Mr. Myers, you can talk. Very delicate, thin lady. Seems like
mother's hair; but there's a youth about that lady—younger. She
never seemed to have any strength at all, like a green-house plant.
All needed careful tending." (Medium undoes the packet.)
[Comments from this point by Miss Benson.]
[I had previously sent a brooch to be handed to Mrs. Thompson,
which she had described as " Mother's brooch." I am delicate,
but not thin ; the rest true. The sealed packet contained a bangle
and a ring; bangle had belonged to Agues Tait, who had worn
it, and given it to me.]
" A sort of sister Edith belonging to it, and a lot more trinkets
besides this. This lady only had a few." [Agues Tait had sister
Edith, and has many " more trinkets." I have " only a few."]
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 277
"There are two things here. One has been worn by the lady
who sent it. [R. The bangle.] The other she hasn't worn, as
if it had been lying by." [I only wore the ring once; it has been
lying by.]
" Delicate, nervous ; even now she isn't so strong as she ought
to be. [R.] Got no appetite." [Not directly true, but I am always
advised by doctors to eat as much as possible.] " Languid sort of
feeling. Bracing wants to be for her. [R.] She has black and
white silk in front of her dress (touching her chest)." [Black and
white chiffon, not silk, on yoke.] "Brown hand lady like one that's
dead." [True both of my sister and me.] " Has she got any tendency
to hip disease ? which lying down is a cure for. She doesn't want
to be limp ; ought not to be an invalid, but take sufficient rest to
do her good." [Not hip disease, but have to lie down and rest.]
"Very devoted to Margaret. I'm not talking about Maggie, but
Margaret. I am very devoted to Margaret. It is the dead lady
which was the beginning of ring." [My name is Margaret. I am
called Maggie. I don't know the previous history of the ring.]
"Bob. They all know Bob in that family. Don't like feel of it.
Don't feel comfortable." [Reference to Bob unrecognised.]
Extract from, Mrs. Benson's fourth sitting held on
May 30th, 1900.
Nelly :—" I made mother tell you at twelve minutes past two. I
was anxious to impress mother with some little detail that was
going on." [When I arrived Mrs. Thompson was there, and said
she knew I had to leave at 4.30. I was surprised, as I had no
engagement till five ; but it happened that a lady with whom I
had lunched had said at the end of the lunch, "Do come back to
tea. Do you leave Mrs. Thompson at 4.30 ? " So I then asked
Mrs. T. when she had this conviction, and she said at 2.12, when
she had looked at the clock that she might be in time ; so the
times corresponded. Note by Mrs. Benson.]
..." Mrs Benson darling, will you come every time, every week,
every day 1 Never mind what Mr. Myers says. Will you come
and see Mother 1 " [This very curious, as Mr. flyers and I had
talked at Cambridge the day before on the point that it would
not be right to the Society for me to go on having seances with
Mrs. Thompson unless their results were useful. I quite agreed
with this view. Note by Mrs. Benson.]
278 [part
/. G. Piddington.
As the details of these various incidents are rather difficult
to follow, I append Mrs. Benson's own account of and com
mentary on them :—
. . . The condition of my daughter's health is characteristically
described in very unmedical language. At the time of my second
sitting, January 23rd, 1900, my daughter was recovering from an
attack of pneumonia, which Mrs Thompson described, speaking of
the patient as my daughter. Later on, on being given a packet
sealed up by my daughter, she went on describing symptoms,
touching on the point that food was of much importance, and added
that it was windy the night before the packet was sealed. I had
not remembered this, though I must have known it; and my
daughter corroborated it by the fact that her shutters were barred
for the first time during a fortnight's illness. At the sitting on
May 1st, 1900, in connection with another sealed packet from mj-
daughter, she described the general state of her health, and after
speaking of her as being delicate, nervous, and obliged to lie down,
added she " doesn't want to be limp : ought not to be an invalid,
but take sufficient rest to do her good " : all of which were char
acteristic, as well as true, touches about my daughter's general
health. She also made one or two fairly accurate statements about
my daughter's dress, etc.
There are further facts, some known to me, others not known
or forgotten, which still more evidently the medium could not have
received through normal channels : e.g. that one emerald of my
engagement ring had once come out ; that we had kept an unneces
sarily large number of old books. Two other incidents of this kind
are of special interest. On May 30th, when I arrived, Mrs.
Thompson told me that she had been careful to be punctual, as
she knew 1 had to leave at 4.30. I asked her when she knew
this, and she said at 2.12. I had, previously to coming up to
London, had no engagement till 5 o'clock, but a lady with whom
I was lunching said at the end of lunch, "Do come back to tea—
do you leave Mrs. Thompson at 4.30 1 " " Nelly " alluded to this
during the sitting. . . .
But the things of most evidential value are those concerned with
matters which I myself did not know.
(1) One is the point about the shop where we got our potatoes
at Winchester. I do not suppose I ever knew it, but Mrs. Thomp
son described it as double-fronted and served by one man and two
women, adding other details unverified. I found, however, on
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 279
asking a servant who had been with us at Winchester that it
stood at a corner with a window each way, and was served by
one man and two women.
(2) My daughter sent up twice a sealed packet, putting in each
packet things which she did not show me. I undid each packet
and handed the things, wrapped up, to the medium, but did not
myself see them, and should not have recognised them.
Each time Mrs. Thompson described (see above) with considerable
accuracy my daughter's condition, adding the first time the details
about the windy night. She then stated (making very few incorrect
statements at the same time) that the brooch belonged to more than
one generation, that my daughter was the third, that it contained
the hair of a lady and of two of her children who had died ;
that " there was a workbox—rosewood workbox—little silk places
where you keep silks and ribbons " ; the truth being that the
brooch contained the hair of my mother and my brothers and
sister, two of whom had died as children; that it had been given
to my daughter by her old nurse, who had also been our nurse ;
that it came out of an old rosewood box, half workbox, half
dressing-case, lined with red silk, which had been given to my
elder daughter by her god-mother. The brooch had never been
worn; the box had passed straight to my second daughter; I could
not have seen either of these things for years and had forgotten
their existence.
('■I) The second sealed packet contained a garnet ring and a silver
bangle, given to my daughter by a friend who had a sister Edith.
My daughter had worn the bangle often, though some years ago.
Again I did not recognise the things, but Mrs. Thompson stated,
"A sort of sister Edith belonging to it, and a lot more trinkets
besides this. This lady had only a few. There are two things
here : one has been worn by the lady who sent it, the other she
hasn't worn—as if it had been lying by." All these points are
true, except that my daughter had worn the ring once.
(4) A still more curious point is that at the sitting of May 30th,
1900, Mrs. Thompson suddenly said, "Your daughter is thinking
about giving a wedding present to somebody. She seems to be
very careful with her money. (A little laugh.) Oh, I can see her
looking at her money and thinking about the wedding present."
On returning home I found my daughter had been going very
carefully over her accounts ; she did not understand the allusion
to the wedding present until she remembered having considered a
T
280 [part
J. G. Piddington.
memorandum of a wedding present already given jointly with me,
her share in which she had not yet paid.
Mrs. Benson further remarks that the facts of which she
herself had no knowledge, and which the medium could not
have known in any normal manner, " were perhaps more clearly
given than any other, and more free from confused and in
accurate detail."
A large number of the statements about Mrs. Benson's
family which it is possible to assume Mrs. Thompson could
have known or learnt in a normal way were given with much
confusion. We are accordingly faced with the problem : How
is it that the facts which, it would appear, could not have
been learnt normally, were given more clearly than the facts
which were normally ascertainable ? A solution is not rendered
easier when we take into account that the most telling of the
former class—namely, the statements made when the medium
was handed the two sealed packets—were given definitely in
connection with certain objects, and were particularly relevant
to the past history of the objects themselves, or to their past
or present owners ; whereas the latter class of facts, as often
as not, were not given in connection with any particular
objects, but were scattered over ten sittings, at six of which
Mrs. Benson herself was not present, and when no object
connected with her was in the room.
Mrs. Benson has expressed, in a letter addressed to Sir
Oliver Lodge, the effect produced on her by her sittings with
Mrs. Thompson. I am glad to be able to reproduce this letter
here, because it embodies the opinion of a keen observer, and
also because it gives expression to a view of Mrs. Thompson
upon which in my opinion too much emphasis cannot be
placed : namely, her abnormal power of normal observation, if
I may so express it. Mrs. Benson seems to limit this ex
aggerated perceptive faculty to Mrs. Thompson's trance-state,
but that may be due to a concise style of writing. Anyhow
I would put no such limitation on Mrs. Thompson's powers
of observation. " A snapper-up of unconsidered trifles," " sharp
as a needle," " 'cute as nails," " see through a brick wall " :
all such proverbialisms I would apply without hesitation to
Mrs. Thompson in her normal state, and with a few ex
ceptions, where Nelly has not accepted the broadest of hints,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 281
to her trance-state. Women are proverbially swift at seizing
what the duller man would treat as impalpable indications ;
but after making every allowance for her sex, I still think
that Mrs. Thompson displays this perceptive faculty in a
superlative degree. At the same time I do not think however
highly developed her normal powers of observation and
inference may be that they will explain all her phenomena.
I most emphatically disclaim any such assertion, but I do
maintain that a very large discount must be made before any
of her phenomena are attributed to supernormal faculty.
I cannot help wondering whether this peculiarity of Mrs.
Thompson may not be typical of mediums in general. It has
not been noted, and is, I believe, markedly absent in the
case of Mrs. Piper ; but that does not necessarily negative
my suggestion. This heightened power of normal observation,
which Mrs. Thompson displays both in and out of trance,
may in Mrs. Piper's case be confined to her entranced state ;
and if this is the case, it would be only one more indication
of the complete disseverance of the normal from the trance
consciousness of Mrs. Piper, and of the lack of any such
hard and fast cleavage in the case of Mrs. Thompson. Yet
fundamentally the mental process in either case may be
identical, although the occasion of its display may not be.
Mrs. Benson, writing privately to Sir Oliver Lodge in answer
to some questions, says :—
"October 28<A [1903].
"... I should like to explain a little my position toward Mrs.
Thompson. I enjoyed the sittings with her extremely, and certainly
had some very interesting experiences—especially one of clairvoy
ance at the last sitting. But nothing occurred which tended to
alter the view with which I began the sittings—that the phenomena
did not need to be accounted for by an external intelligence.
"I told Mr. Myers this from the first, and it almost seemed to
me towards the end of the sittings that Mrs. Thompson herself tended
to drop the 'Nelly' theory.1 As you say, we had many interesting
1 1 understand that Mrs. Benson's meaning is not that Mrs. Thompson in
her normal state was disposed to drop the ' Nelly ' theory, but that in the later
sittings Nelly retreated more or more into the background, and the medium
tended to act as her own spokesman without a go-between. I myself have
observed no such tendency ; though Nelly is ready enough at any time to
suggest or admit that her information may have been derived from her
2S2 [part
J. G. Piddington.
things ; but none of them were accompanied by any of the fine
shades and nuances of which you speak—nothing occurred which led
me to feel that vivid touch of personality which is the touch of all
recognition—wherever she strayed beyond my ken, it was always
wildly inappropriate. Her power seemed to me to lie in telepathic
grasp—with me, and also with my daughter whom she had never
seen, and whom I had never called by that name.
" I always thought she was in good faith, as far as her will and
consciousness were concerned, but more and more I felt that the
psychical part of her was so much more developed than any other
that she perceived indications almost as a highly-trained animal
does, far beyond and outside the regions I had access to—and in
this subliminal consciousness a certain amount of acting might go
on, for which one could not hold her responsible, but which required
to be met by extreme carefulness. Therefore the fact of having sup
plied her most unfortunately at the very beginning with a consider
able clue which her subliminal could follow out with extraordinary
cleverness, seems to me to nullify the trustworthiness of her
abnormal powers to a very great degree.
" I should value more than I can say some more sittings with
her, because I should like to try some safeguards that I had in my
mind after the last sitting. I know that this is extremely impro
bable, but I only say it to show you how far removed I am from
doubting her supraliminal good faith."
The second ease involving " suspicious circumstances " is rather
complicated, and as I am compelled to conceal the identity of
mother's brain. The normal Mrs. Thompson has au equally open miiul
with regard to the source of her trance-utterances, and holds no passionate
conviction as to the nature of the Nelly control. When Mrs. Piper ex
pressed an opinion about her own phenomena it was generally agreed that
she was one of the last persons qualified to form an estimate of her
own case. I would not go as far as tins in the case of Mrs. Thompson,
for not only has she a clear grasp of some of the problems involved, but in
view of the fact that complete amnesia does not always follow her trance, and
that she has psychical experiences of an apparently supernormal kind without
lapsing from ordinary consciousness, her subjective feelings ought not to be
entirely disregarded. Yet I find that Mrs. Thompson's opinion about her
familiar control fluctuates ; at one time she seems overborne by a conviction
of the separate existence of Nelly, and at another half disposed to think that
Nelly is no more than her own subliminal : a state of indecision faithfully
reflected in my own mind, though I sometimes incline towards a third alter
native : namely, that Nelly is " a bit of both."
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 283
the persons concerned by adopting pseudonyms, and by sub
stituting fictitious though analogous details for the real ones,
the difficulty of clear exposition is rendered all the harder.
In making these necessary changes I have been most careful
to avoid selecting analogies which might allow a more favour
able construction to be placed on the incident than the original
record warrants, and in one instance from inability to hit
upon a completely representative parallel I have adopted one
which does not give Mrs. Thompson the benefit of the doubt.
I was aware that Mrs. Thompson was well acquainted with
the relations and history of a certain individual whom I shall
call Mr. Wilfred Strong. It accordingly occurred to me that
an interesting experiment would be to bring as a sitter to
Mrs. Thompson some intimate friend of the dead man, if one
could be found who, as far as could be ascertained after careful
enquiry, should be entirely unknown to the medium ; the object
of the experiment being to see whether appropriate communica
tions would be given, and, if so, how such knowledge of Mr.
Strong as might be shown by Mrs. Thompson in trance would
compare with knowledge which I knew, or had reason to
suppose that Mrs. Thompson normally possessed about him.
I knew at the time that under no circumstances would it
be possible to publish for evidential purposes whatever might
be the results of the sitting, and I tried it solely for my
own edification.
It may seem in now citing the results of this sitting
under the heading ' suspicious circumstances ' to lay myself
open to a charge of taking a mean advantage of a lady who
was deserving of considerate and fair dealing. As a matter
of fact I had at the time of the seance no insidious inten
tions. It must be understood that the carelessness of the
conditions which obtained at this sitting is not typical of the
conditions of the other sittings where evidential phenomena
were sought. The laxity was not precisely intentional, but
the stance was allowed to become rather a ' go as you
please ' affair, as unless Mr. Strong's identity was discovered
by the medium the chief object of the experiment would
not have been attained.
So far as I could then ascertain—and nothing has occurred
since to modify my opinion—the sitter whom I selected, and
284 [part
J. G. Piddington.
whom I shall call Miss Gordon, satisfied in every respect the
requirements of the case.
To the sitting Miss Gordon brought three objects connected
with Mr. Strong : (a) A single sheet of uotepaper, on which
were eleven words in Mr. Strong's handwriting. No proper
name was on the sheet of paper. The words were these :—
" From the conductor to his little fairy god-sister. September
189—."
(b) A letter written by Mr. Strong to Miss Gordon, and
covering four sides of notepaper. It was handed open to tbe
medium, but folded in two : the fourth (last) page being outer
most. On the lower half of the last page were the words :
" off the grass, and when in doubt ask a policeman. Always
your devoted brother F. Edinburgh, October 1."
(c) A half length photograph of Mr. Strong. There was no
signature on the pbotograph, but on the back was the name
and address of the photographer, " Tomlin, London and Scar
borough." It was handed to the medium in a large open
envelope.
In connection with object (a), which was the first to be
handed to the medium, five statements were made ; two of
which were right, one probably right, and two probably wrong.
The two right statements might have been inferred from the
writing and the words on the paper. The one statement
which was probably right was not very distinctive.
After making the five statements referred to above in con
nection with (a) Nelly asked to be given another letter " from
the same brother." Mr. Strong was in reality a brother-in-
law of Miss Gordon's. On the single sheet of paper (a)
occurred the words, " to his little fairy god-sister." If the
medium read these words' she may have inferred from them
that the writer was a brother of the sitter ; but I think it
will be admitted that such an inference is not the natural
one, and that the natural inference would rather be that the
term was a playful one, and that accordingly the writer and
the sitter were not related.
In connection with object (b) the following statements were
made, though interspersed among them were remarks addressed
to other persons who were present during the early part of
the seance :—
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 285
" Who was Frank ? not quite Frank. ... It wasn't
Frank : more Francis : but that's not quite right. I'm talk
ing of the lady's brother."
[The letter was signed " brother F." Mr. Strong's name
was Wilfred ; but he was usually called and signed himself
Fred. The Frank and Francis are apparently guesses suggested
by the letter F.]
" It says something about ' tell a policeman.' I can see
' policeman ' written there. No, you have got to ' ask a
policeman ' : that is what he says when he writes."
[The words " off the grass, and when in doubt ask a
policeman " were on the fourth page, and it is impossible to
assert that they were not within the medium's range of vision.]
A break in the trance took place at this point. During
the interval the letter was hidden. On resuming the seance
Nelly said :—
" I want something to hold belonging to brother Ferdy."
[Ferdy is apparently another attempt to interpret the
initial F. Though Nelly seems to be making shots, the fact
of her making several shots suggests that she was not satis
fied with any one. I do not think that any indication was
given from which the medium could have gathered that the
shots were incorrect.]
In connection with object (c) twenty statements in all
were made. Of these twenty statements six were right, two
were probably right, and of the rest nine were wrong, one
probably wrong, and two doubtful. Of the right statements
two were of facts certainiy known to Mrs. Thompson ; one
of a fact almost certainly known ; one very possibly known ;
and two could have been, and in my opinion were, derived
from the photograph handed to the medium.
Of the two statements which were probably right, one was
possibly known and the other very possibly known to the
medium.
Of the nine wrong statements five would have been cer
tainly known to be wrong by the normal Mrs. Thompson.
The remaining four the normal Mrs. Thompson may or may
not have known to be wrong, and the same remark applies
to the one probably wrong statement, and also to the two
doubtful statements.
286 [part
J. G. Piddington.
After ten statements out of the twenty had been made in
connection with the photograph, Nelly asked me to go out of
the room. In my absence she made only two statements that
seem to be meant to apply to the photograph : one of these
two was a wrong statement, and a statement which the
normal Mrs. Thompson would have known to be wrong of Mr.
Strong ; and the other was to this effect : " I seem to get the
name of Benson."
There was no connection whatever between Mrs. Benson
and Miss Gordon. Mrs. Benson's first sitting had taken place
two or three weeks before Miss Gordon's sitting, but this was
the first mention of her name. During my absence from the
room Miss Gordon thinks that Mrs. Thompson had ample
opportunity for looking at the photograph while she was taking
notes, and I agree with her, for after my return Nelly gave
a perfectly accurate description of Mr. Strong's personal ap
pearance, and gave the name and address of the photographer.
The personal description and the name and address of the
photographer I have included in the list of right statements,
counting them as two.
Just as Mrs. Cartwright did in the case of Mrs. Barker's
sitting of August 8th, 1900 (see Proceedings, Part XLIV., p. 154),
and just as the medium herself did in the case of one of Mrs.
Pereival's sittings (see above, pp. 177-8), so here Nelly drew
attention in what it is possible to regard either as an ingenuous or
as a disingenuous way to the source of her information. Thus
with reference to Mr. Strong's photograph, she remarked, before
giving his personal description and the name and address of
the photographer:—
" The photograph seems to help me more than the letter,
but I will get it all distinct." ..." Did I look at that
photograph ? Because I see it distinctly. No, it's the gentle
man himself that I see."
It is absolutely certain that the normal Mrs. Thompson
would have recognised the photograph as a portrait of Mr.
Strong at the first glimpse. At the time of the sitting I
thought it probable that his handwriting would equally have
been known to her, but I have since had reason to alter my
opinion, and I now consider that she probably had no normal
means of recognising the identity of the writer of the letters
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 287
presented to her until the photograph came within her range
of vision.
If therefore we suppose that Mrs. Thompson was not in
trance at all, and deliberately looked at the portrait, it follows
that she purposely introduced a relatively large proportion of
what she knew to be incorrect statements about Mr. Strong.
This course, one must imagine, recommended itself to her as
one likely to divert suspicion, and one must also suppose that
she suspected that a trap had been laid for her. But not only
are the correct statements outnumbered by the incorrect, but
excepting the personal description of Mr. Strong and the name
and address of the photographer, the incorrect facts also out
weigh the correct oues in detiniteness. Again, if on this occasion
Mrs. Thompson was shamming trance, I can only say that there
was no perceptible difference between this trance and her other
trances, and unless one supposes that her trance is always
assumed and that consequently various observers, such as Mr.
Myers, Dr. van Eeden, Mrs. Verrall, Mr. " Wilson " and others,
have been misled into thinking that Mrs. Thompson in trance
displays knowledge that she could not normally have possessed,
it must follow that Mrs. Thompson can imitate knowingly and
consciously her genuine unconscious trance.
At the time I regarded this sitting of Miss Gordon's as
suspicious, but I was even then inclined, and I am now, to
return a verdict of " Not proven." There is absolutely no
proof of fraud ; that is the one positive statement that can
be made with confidence about the matter. My own belief
now is that Mrs. Thompson was in trance, and that the
trance-personality saw the words written on the paper which
was first handed to the medium, saw the lower half of the
fourth page of the letter, and saw the photograph. Mrs.
Thompson uses her normal faculties during trance : she can
get her handkerchief out of her skirt pocket (a sufficiently
complicated business requiring skill and concentration, if one
may judge from the manoeuvres which this act demands in
the case of other ladies) ; I have seen her get up in the middle
of a trance and open the door when some one knocked ; I have
seen her search about for a pencil with which to write, and
generally behave like a person with most of his faculties about
him. 1 therefore find nothing incongruous in her using her eye
2S8 [part
J. G. Piddington.
sight to read writing and to look at a photograph. The whole
question resolves itself into this : Does Mrs. Thompson, in
addition to exercising her normal senses, display such know
ledge as to compel belief in her possession of supernormal
faculty ? The problem is not : Does Mrs. Thompson ever
exercise her normal faculties when in trance 1
There is one small point which goes in favour of the trance
having been genuine on this occasion.
The paper first handed to the medium contained the words :—
" From the conductor." After the photograph had been in
the medium's hands a long time Nelly speaking of the one
man with whom she connected all three objects said :—
" The young gentleman was very musical. I want to play
the piano and compose as I go on ; because he would rather
do that than play other people's music." Mr. Strong was not
musical, did not play the piano, and consequently did not
improvise. Nelly seems to have inferred from the word " con
ductor " that Mr. Strong was a musician : an inference quite
in keeping with Nelly's style. As a matter of fact the word
conductor had no musical significance. I believe that Mrs.
Thompson would almost certainly have known if Mr. Strong
had had musical abilities.
As has already been remarked, Nelly's utterances were not
confined to Miss Gordon, but she addressed remarks to two
other people who were present at the beginning of the
sitting, and she also described one of her " peregrination^."
The peregrination in question was not one of the most strik
ing : yet it has a certain value as forming one of a series in
which none were entirely unsuccessful. Nor are the remarks
addressed to the two other sitters particularly striking, yet one
of them is rather good, and if it is not to be explained as
due to normal knowledge or to chance, it introduces a further
obstacle against believing that the trance was fraudulently
assumed ; for it is almost impossible to suppose that Mrs.
Thompson goes hopping into and out of trance, and is at one
moment genuine and the next not.
To one of the sitters, Mrs. Z., Nelly said :—
" What is this old Theodore doing ? He wants to help
you. You're very sorry in your heart about something I won't
say before all these people.
xlvii.] Phenomena . in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 289
Mrs. Z. :—" Yes, you may."
Nelly :—" Old Theodore wants to help : not young Theodore.
You want to go somewhere. He says you are to go."
Mrs. Z.:—"Who was old Theodore?"
Nelhj :—" He was an old gentleman, when you were young.
I think he was a doctor. He was very much mixed up in
bringing you up."
With regard to this statement Mrs. Z. wrote :—" About two
years ago I knew a " young Theodore." His father who had
been dead some little time I had never known. He was a
doctor of letters and master of a well-known college. This is
interesting to me, though there is a wrong statement here and
there."
Recently Mrs. Z. wrote me as follows :—" I think—as
much as one can be certain of anything where human minds
are concerned—I can safely say positively that Mrs. Thompson
could not have discovered by normal means the incident of
' Theodore.' ' Theodore's ' father's name was also ' Theodore.' "
At this point in the sitting Nelly was speaking so rapidly,
and changing the subject so frequently, that I was unable to
record all she said. Mrs. Z. thinks that another correct state
ment was made about "young Theodore," which has not been
noted.
In the sittings under review, and in Mrs. VerraU's sittings,
the name Theodore has only twice been mentioned by Nelly,
and so far as I am aware it has not been mentioned in other
sittings. Nelly rightly connected a Theodore with Mrs. Verrall,
and here she rightly connects two Theodores—a father and
a son—with Mrs. Z. Three times, then, the uncommon Chris
tian name of Theodore is given by Nelly, and each time hits
the mark. Mrs. VerraU's Theodore is not the same person as
either of Mrs. Z.'s Theodores, nor a member of . the same
family
A few days after this sitting I again handed the letter (6)
to Mrs. Thompson when in trance. Mrs. Sidgwick and my
wife were present. I placed the open letter in a plain envelope
under a thick cloak which Mrs. Sidgwick held tightly over
Mrs. Thompson's lap. The medium was allowed to finger the
letter, but it was quite impossible for her to have read a
single word of it. Nelly at once recognised the letter, a feat
200 [part
J. G. Piddington.
demanding no great aeuteness. I think anybody could, under
the circumstances, have recognised it by the shape, size, folding
and feel of the paper.
Nelly then said :—" It has been in a good many hands, 1
believe. Have you got the photo belonging to this ? I had
this once before. Put ' policeman ' down. ' When you're in
doubt ask a policeman.' "
An apparent reference is then made to Mr. Stroug's death,
and after going off on another tack suggested, it would seem,
by the initial " F," with which the letter was signed, Nelly
said :—" Fred. I shan't say it till I'm obliged. [This was
the first time that Mr. Strong's nickname was correctly given.]
Something makes me say Derby, not the town, but there's a
Derby association with this letter, rather like a peer, but not
quite that." Then followed a statement which, if referred to
Mr. Strong, was sufficiently, though not absolutely accurate,
and it was said that " belonging to ' Fred's ' relations was a
Walter—Walter Stanley, or Stanley Walter."
Now with regard to these statements, there are three points
to notice which, though I do not pretend that they tell
strongly yet, tell somewhat in favour of the genuineness of
the phenomena.
( 1 ) " When you're in doubt ask a policeman." At the
former sitting when the letter was within the range of vision
of the medium, these words were given as : " tell a police
man."
. . . No, you have got to " ask a policeman." At this sitting
when the letter was not within the medium's range of vision,
the original phrase as it occurred in the letter—" when in doubt
ask a policeman "—is given with the addition of the word
" you're." One might have expected that the full phrase
would have been quoted when the letter could have been seen
by the medium, and that when she had to rely on her
memory only the shorter form would have been given.
(2) There was a "Derby association" with the letter, for
the envelope that had originally contained it, but which had
not been within Mrs. Thompson's range of vision at either
sitting, bore an address in which the word Derby occurred,
not as the name of the town, but as the name of the Terrace
in which Miss Gordon had at one time resided.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 291
(3) Neither Walter Stanley nor Stanley Walter was a rela
tion of Mr. Strong, but he had had a great friend of the surname
Stanley, though the Christian name was not Walter. The
family name of the Earl of Derby is Stanley, and Nelly
would seem to have been put on the track of this fact by
means of this association of ideas.
(17) Marked Failures in the case of Sitters with whom
Mrs. Thompson was personally acquainted.
In- five cases I was completely and beyond all possible
manner of doubt satisfied that the medium could not by
normal means have been acquainted with the identity of the
sitters. In two of these cases—those of " Mr. Wilson " and
Dr. van Eeden—the sittings were successful. In the three
other cases the results were very poor : but in two out of
these three there were circumstances which may, in my
opinion, have been unfavourable to success, and possibly also
in the third.
I must not be understood to imply that in other cases I
think that Mrs. Thompson knew who her sitters were, but
only that I do not feel the same absolute assurance to the
contrary.
But one of the most remarkable facts about the medium-
ship of Mrs. Thompson, so far as it has come under my
observation, is her failure to give successful sittings to people
about whom she must have known a good deal, and about
whom she could have worked up more, and about whom her
enlarged consciousness ought to have been able to tell even
more still.
In the first place there were my own sittings. With cer
tain exceptions, dealt with on pp. 116-119, hardly one single fact
which Mrs. Thompson did know, or could have been supposed
to know about me and my belongings, was given in the trance :
and the true facts which were given related almost entirely to
my mother, who died twenty years before I met Mrs. Thomp
2!)2 [part
J. G. Piddington.
son ; and of these facts she could not, 1 believe, have got up
by enquiry a single one ; and some of them she could not
have learnt from myself, as I did not know them. And
further, the communications were connected with a period of
my mother's life about which I had only vague knowledge, and
generally with matters which were not occupying my conscious
thoughts, until my mind was by reason of the trance-utterances
naturally directed thereto. The things which I consciously
was thinking about were not even touched on.
It is rather Irish to class Mrs. Thompson's success in my
ease under the head of failures, but I do so in order to direct
attention to her avoidance of topics which were within her
normal range of knowledge.
My wife, who shared a sitting with Mrs. Sidgwick, was told
hardly one single relevant fact; indeed, I am not sure that
there was one. Naturally it would have been perfectly easy
for Mrs. Thompson to have got up plenty of information about
my wife. Instead of there being the very slightest trace of
her having done so, there was not even any reproduction of
what was normally known to her.
Just the same occurred with Mrs. Sidgwick, except that
there was one reference to a relation of hers whom Mrs.
Thompson has met.
In the joint sitting at which Mrs. Sidgwick and my wife
were present, there is not a single statement which can with
confidence be said to be right, and such as had possibly some
significance are the sort of things which would be likely to
have some significance for nine people out of ten. Nelly
opened the trance with the remark : " I'm not going to be
good to-day. Mother's body doesn't feel clear and clean " ; and
she certainly fulfilled that prediction.
Dr. Tuckey also had a bad sitting, though not quite so
bad as the one just mentioned, for one fact was mentioned
by Nelly in the course of it which Dr. Tuckey ultimately found
was true, though at the time he stated that it was wrong :
and one other fact was stated of a relation of his which
though marked by himself as incorrect, I have from personal
■observation subsequently discovered to be true.
Only one fact was asserted of Dr. Tuckey himself, and that
•was to the effect that he had " drawing cords in his inside " :
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 293
whatever that may mean ; and when Nelly said that a clergy
man was associated with Dr. Tuckey's father (from whom the
communications purported to come), she was careful to add
that though she had mentioned the clergyman it was not because
before the trance Dr. Tuckey had spoken about a brother of
his who is in Holy Orders : in other words, she drew attention
to the fact that the allusion to a clergyman must not be
considered evidential.
The fact noted as wrong at the time which was verified
three months later was this :
Nelly :—" I want to say a lot of things. Something about
chloroform, not giving it but taking it. . . . It was a sen
sation of the gentleman associated with this (i.e. a wooden
stethoscope that had belonged to Dr. Tuckey's father) having
chloroform himself."
More than three months after the sitting Dr. Tuckey wrote
to me to say that he had recollected that at one time his father
was in the habit of taking a drachm of chloroform to induce
sleep, and that his sister remembered that her father discon
tinued the habit at her " earnest solicitation."
The other statement which Dr. Tuckey dismissed as wrong,
and which I afterwards verified as correct, was to this effect :—
" Somebody belonging to the old gentleman (i.e. Dr. Tuckey's
father) who has a nervous twitch in the left eye : now and
then, not always."
I do not of course maintain that two such hits as these
are beyond chance, especially as they were isolated hits
among a good many misses : but either on the hypothesis of
fraud or of what I would term the seleetive-contesserative-
telepathy theory, it is hard to explain why something better
than this was not produced.
And the same remarks would apply to the sitting of
December 20th, 1900, to which Mrs. Benson brought objects
that had belonged to her dead brother, Professor Sidgwick.
294 [part
J. G. Piddington.
(18) Cross-Correspondences between the Trance-Utterances
and Script of Mrs. Thompson and those of other Mediums.
Under the " Peregrinations of Nelly," reference has been
made to two instances where Nelly has claimed to have
influenced the phenomena of two other mediums : Mrs. Piper
and " Miss Rawson." In one case the claim was not sub
stantiated, in the other there was an undoubted correspondence.
These incidents were treated as peregrinations because Nelly
professed to have visited and directly controlled the mediums ;
but there are a few other instances of apparent concordance
between the trance-utterances of Mrs. Thompson and those of
Miss Rawson and the automatic writing of the lady whom I
call Mrs. Scott, of which the prima facie explanation is either
that Mrs. Thompson in trance becomes aware of the content of
their automatic speech or script, or that one and the same
control has conveyed similar communications through two
different mediums. No " psychical excursion " on the part of
Nelly seems involved. So far was I (except in one case)
from suspecting that these correspondences had occurred, that
it was more or less by accident that I discovered them in the
summer and autumn of 1903.
Of Miss Kawson's trance-utterances no adequate record has
unfortunately been kept. Miss Rawson is not a professional
medium, nor has she consented, like Mrs. Thompson, to submit
her phenomena to any strict investigation. She sits only with
a small circle of relations and intimate friends, and as the
members of this circle have long been convinced of the extra-
mundane source of her communications, the records of her
utterances have been made more for edification than for a
scientific purpose ; and as the seances were held in the dark,
still further allowance must be made for the deficiencies of
the records.
Mrs. Scott is a member of the Society who has for some
years past done a good deal of automatic writing, and between
her script and Mrs. Yerrall's there have been some interesting
and fairly numerous correspondences. I am very glad to say
that she is now keeuing a careful record of what she writes,
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 295
but at the time that the correspondences occurred between
her script and Nelly's utterances she was not sufficiently con
fident of her powers, nor sufficiently alive to the value of her
phenomena to trouble about noting them systematically.
I give first some similar trance-utterances by Miss Rawson,
who was then in the south of France, and Mrs. Thompson.
Miss Rawson.
(1) Dec. 22, 1900.
A control speaking for and of
H. Sidgwkk :
" He knows his wife is pre
paring memorials."
Jan. 11, 1901.
(H. S. controlling directly.)
"Tell my friend Myers to tell
my wife not to put in the whole
of the last chapters of the book
she is finishing. She will know
the passages she feels doubtful
about. Tell him it is really I
who am here."
(2) Jan. 23, 1901.
H. S. controlling directly :
"I have not seen my dear
friend Myers yet, but I am
more thankful than I can say
that he has come here. The
circle above has been waiting
for him, and will with great joy
welcome him."
MrsJ Thompson.
(1) Jan. 11, 1901.
Mr. D. control speaking of H.
Sidgttfick :
" He says : ' Eleanor might re
member, because she.' ... He
. . . Eleanor's writing his Life.
He doesn't want her to make
him ' a glorious personage.'
You're to give her that message.
He said : ' Eleanor has gone
abroad to prepare my Life.' "
Before the Mr. D. control spoke, a
control that purported to be
Henry Sidgwick had appeared
for the, first time.
(2) Jan. 21, 1901.
H. S. controlling directly :
"He's (i.e. F. W. H. Myers)
not with me. He's not within
range at all."
Written during siance : H. S. script :
" I don't think Myers is here,
or we should see him before the
8th, as E. G. told me [Mr. D.]
was waiting for him."
Written by Mrs. Thompson the same
day some hours after the
siance : (H. S. script) :
"Myers is elsewhere, I think.
Should I find him here, I will
turn up on the Thursday after
noon."
296 [part
J. G. Piddinrjton.
- (3) Jan. 29, 1901.
H. S. script written during siance :
"Fred knows and helps. H. S.
Yes, but why did you tell Myers
H. Sidgwick he isn't here."
Nelly :—" I haven't seen Mr.
Myers. I haven't, really. Pro
fessor Sidgwick says he has seen
him : but I haven't."
H. S. sciipt, written Jan. 30,
1901 :
" Myers North must be here
again on Thursday. He will not
now change may be opening am
inclined to say so. Myers says
certainly go. Myers says better
go, go out of town. Not now,
not now, the day not here."
H. S. [scrawl].
F. W. H. Myers.
Two points should be borne in mind in comparing these
extracts : the first that the three sittings of January 1 1 th,
21st, and 29th, 1901, from which the extracts have been
taken, were the only sittings given by Mrs. Thompson during
the period of eighteen days covered by these dates, and those
of January 11th, 23rd, and 26th, 1901, were the only sittings
of Miss Eawson between January 11th and 29th. In other
words, these sittings have not been selected from two series of
a dozen or more sittings.
The second point is that the extracts from the scanty
records of Miss Rawson's sittings do not represent, as might
be thought, an infinitesimal portion of a large number of utter
ances purporting to come from the late Professor Sidgwick. The
records, as I say, are scanty, and more may have been said
by the Sidgwick control, and by other controls about him,
than has been preserved ; but the extracts quoted above
represent a considerable proportion of the total record.
Thus the passage quoted from Miss Rawson's trance-utterances
of January 11th constitutes the whole record of this sitting,
with the exception of two lines, which state that a regular
(3) Jan. 26, 1901.
A control speaking of F. W. H.
Myers :
" He has sent a message to
the other side (Mrs. T.) but
came here himself."
[The notes of the sitting give
the words, " Mrs. T.," meaning
Mrs. Thompson, in brackets : in
explanation, as the recorder in
formed me, of the phrase, " the
other side."
Before these words were
spoken, a soidisant Myers con
trol had communicated.]
XLVli.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 297
control of Miss Kawson's introduced the Sidgwick control with
these words :—" The spirit of an elderly man is here, very
anxious to speak." Again, the passage quoted from the sitting
of January 23rd, constitutes all the record of Miss Rawson's
trance-utterances on this date, except seven lines, in which in
reply to a question from the sitters, the Sidgwick control
explains what the functions of the " circle above " are.
Miss Rawson's seance on January 26th, began with direct
speech from a Myers control, which consisted entirely of non-
evidential matter, and then followed a few words from
another control, who spoke about Mr. Myers. Nothing in
the utterance of either control contains any verifiable state
ment, except the part which I have quoted.
I cannot state with confidence whether the sitting of
December 22nd, 1900, contained the first reference in Miss
Rawson's trance-utterances to Professor Sidgwick, but I am
informed by the recorder (a member of the Society well
known to me, whose name I do not reveal, only because in
so doing I should disclose the identity of Miss Rawson to
many people) that January 11th, 1901, was the occasion of
the first appearance of a direct Sidgwick control : a control,
he tells me, extraordinary life-like.
It will be remembered that Mrs. Benson had been invited
to a sitting with Mrs. Thompson on December 20th, 1900,
with a view to attracting communications from or about Mr.
Sidgwick ; but his name was not even mentioned, and practi
cally not a single statement was made in connection with
objects that had belonged to him which can be unhesitatingly
set down as relevant. On any theory of the phenomena this
silence seems strange, nor was the silence broken, so far as
Mrs. Thompson's trance-utterances are concerned, until January
11th, 1901 (although there had been sittings on January 1st,
3rd, and 8th), except that at sittings previous to December
20th, 1900, at which Mr. Myers was present, a few passing
references to Mr. Sidgwick of an unverifiable nature had been
made by one of the controls to the effect, for example, that
he was quick at learning the " language of the other side,"
and that he soon would be able to communicate. Even if we
suppose that the delay in the appearance of the control was
due to Mrs. Thompson's secondary self not feeling confident of
298 [PAUT
J. G. Piddington.
having worked up a sufficiently plausible personation, and that
the reference to Mr. Sidgwick by Miss Rawson in trance on
December 22nd, was due to Mr. Myers having told her of what
had been said about him at Mrs. Thompson's sittings, there yet
remains to explain not only the coincidence between the state
ments of the two mediums on January 11th, 1901, but also the
fact that a Sidgwick control manifested itself on the same day,
January 11th, 1901, during the trance of Mrs. Thompson in
London and during the trance of Miss Rawson in the South
of France, and that up to a given point of time, namely
January 11th, 1901, messages only purported to come from Mr.
Sidgwick, to be followed by the simultaneous development of
a direct Sidgwick control through both mediums. There does
not appear to be much significance in the content of the
messages. The fact of Mrs. Sidgwick having gone abroad was
probably known to both ladies. She was not, however, then
engaged on a Life of her husband, but was getting ready for
publication some of his posthumous works. Still, she had had
under consideration the eventual preparation of a Life. More
over, though the references to the writing of the Life are
not in themselves evidential, the independent reference to the
same subject in the trance-utterance of two mediums on the
same day is not without interest. In Miss Rawson's case it
appears to have been, if not the only, at any rate the chief
subject of the trance-utterance. In the case of Mrs. Thompson
the utterance of the direct Sidgwick control was confined to
answering questions put by myself ; but Mr. D., who followed
the Sidgwick control, conveyed two messages which he gave
me to understand were volunteered by the soi-disant Henry
Sidgwick ; namely the one quoted above about " Eleanor's
writing his Life!' and another to this effect : " He wants to
know if Robin has gone with Eleanor—his wife, you know " ;
" gone " meaning obviously " gone abroad." Of the two volun
teered messages, therefore, one was directly and the other
indirectly concerned with the same subject as was the only
recorded utterance of the Sidgwick control through Miss
Rawson. If the utterances of these two mediums are only
the outcome of self-suggestion, I find it difficult to understand
what prompted them both to hit on this particular topic, a
topic which, so far as I cau judge, was not very likely to
xlvii.] Phenomena- in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 299
commend itself to either, whether from an evidential, an
emotional, or a dramatic point of view.
The coincidence between the extracts from the sittings of
January 21st and of January 23rd is plain. As Miss Kawson's
sitting on January 23rd was the first after Mrs. Thompson's on
January 21st, it will be seen that the same spirit takes the
earliest opportunity to repeat through a second medium a
statement very similar to that already made through a first.
In my transcript of the Sidgwick script I have put a query
against the word " waiting " : but I may remark that I had
thus deciphered the word more than three years before I saw
or knew of the existence of the notes of Miss Rawson's sittings.
Such coincidence then as there may be I have not manu
factured ; nor has the recorder of Miss Rawson's utterances,
for he had not seen my record until I saw his. The
expression " the circle above " strikes one as odd ; but Mr.
Myers used to refer to Mr. 1)., Mr. Gurney, and others as
" the governing group " in Mrs. Thompson's case, and in this
group Mr. I), played a prominent rdle ; so if we take " the
circle above " as an equivalent to " the governing group," there
is a correspondence between the two statements : " The circle
above has been waiting for him " and " Mr. D. was waiting for
him." But I do not really think that between these two
phrases there is a real agreement. The natural meaning of
the " circle above has been waiting for him, and will with
great joy welcome him " is that " the circle above, of which
I, Henry Sidgwick, am one, has been and still is waiting to
greet Myers " ; whereas " Mr. D. was waiting for him " implies
that Mr. D, is no longer waiting because he has now met him.
With regard to the correspondence between the utterances
and script of January 26 th, 1901, and those of January 29 th
and 30th, 1901, I would observe: that, though the statement
made by the Sidgwick control through Miss Eawson, " He
(i.e. Myers) has sent a message to the other side (i.e. Mrs.
Thompson) " is not strictly borne out by the facts, it can be
reconciled with the facts in a natural way.
Thus, one of Miss Eawson's controls on January 26th, says
that Mr. Myers " has sent a message to Mrs. Thompson." No
message purporting to come from Mr. Myers was, however, given
through Mrs. Thompson till January 29th; but be it observed
300 [part
J. G. Piddington.
January 29th was the first occasion after January 21st (and
therefore also after January 26th) on which Mrs. Thompson
went into trance. Mr. Sidgwick may therefore he supposed to
have seized on January 29th the first opportunity to deliver
a message given him by Mr. Myers before January 26th; the
control of Miss Rawson, in speaking of the message as having
been sent, may be supposed either to have meant only that
Mr. Myers had then on January 26th entrusted a message to
Mr. Sidgwick for future delivery and not to have meant to
state positively that it had been delivered : or this control
may, unaware of no opportunity having occurred for the
delivery of the message through Mrs. Thompson, be supposed
to have taken the will for the deed and concluded that the
message had already been delivered.
The utterances most closely resembling one another are
those given on January 11th. Besides this it is difficult to see
what common train of phantasy could have led two mediums
to agree in confining their references to one spirit (Mr.
Sidgwick) to messages about and from him from other spirits
for more than four months after his death, and then to agree in
representing this spirit as directly controlling them on one and
the same day ; whereas they let a post-mortem interval of but
9 days in one case and 13 days in another elapse before
another spirit (Mr. Myers) communicates directly : (for the
signature F. W. H. Myers in Mrs. Thompson's script of January
^,0th must be regarded as intended to imply the direct
personal operation of Mr. Myers).
Or, again, what led both to agree in representing that up to a
certain date a spirit A. has not met a spirit B. in the spirit
world, and after that led one medium (Miss Rawson) to repre
sent B. as directly speaking, and the other (Mrs. Thompson) to
state that A. has met B. and to represent B. as writing directly ?
The words " Myers North, etc.," followed by the signature
F. W. H. Myers, involve a contradiction, for they were un
doubtedly intended to convey that Mr. Myers' consciousness
was pre-occupied elsewhere (i.e. in the north of England), and
that therefore he could not manifest then through Mrs. Thomp
son, and yet the next minute the signature of the absent spirit
is written. Superficially, at least, there is a confusion here, yet
the case is not unparalleled, and not inconsistent with similar
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 301
(see pp. 164-5, 244-5 ; and cf. p. 236) incongruities observable
elsewhere in Mrs. Thompson's trance-drama—e.g. in the case of
Nelly and Geoffrey Scott. But if I am right in my interpreta
tion of the order in which the script of January 30th should be
read, it would appear that when once the Myers' signature has
been written the Sidgwick control is aware of his presence.
Sitting of January 11th, 1901.
Nelly :—" Mr. Gurney went and talked to Miss Kawson. He
doesn't even mind knocking a table for her."
So far as I can discover only two references occur about
this time to Edmund Gurney in the records of Miss Eawson's
trance-phenomena. On December 23rd, 1900, i.e. nearly
3 weeks before Nelly's statement was made, one of Miss
Rawson's controls said : " Gurney is here," and " Edmund
Gurney is here now ; he is too high to speak." On February
7th, 1901, nearly four weeks after Nelly's statement, Miss
Rawson in trance saw the form of Edmund Gurney, who
cenversed with her by waving his hand as she repeated the
letters of the alphabet, and afterwards directly controlled her.
Obviously the value of such coincidence as there is depends
upon whether Mrs. Thompson knew that a Gurney control
occasionally manifested through Miss Rawson.
A letter which I received from Miss Rawson, dated
October 20th, 1903, which was written in answer to my
request for information on the points involved, makes it clear
that it would not have been by any means a safe statement
to make at random that a Gurney control had been mani
festing through Miss Rawson, and incidentally it also makes it
practically certain that Mrs. Thompson did not know that
Mr. Myers had had some sittings with Miss Rawson in
December, 1900 (see pp. 207-8).
Miss Rawson's letter is as follows :—
As far as I can remember, Edmund Gurney has been to us several
times for many years, but only ever when Mr. Myers was "sitting"
with us, and no notes were taken, as Mr. Myers considered every
thing said to him by Mr. Gurney as most confidential, and asked us
never to speak about it to any one ; but I know that Mr. Myers
himself was absolutely satisfied. I believe ■ the last tiicn we ever had
302 [part
J. G. Piddington.
anything from Mr. Gurney was in December 1900, [This is not the
case, as I have seen records of sittings with Miss Rawson, in which
a Gurney control appeared on two occasions, in February 1901 ; but
it is noticeable that on each of these two occasions his utterances
were confined to speaking about Mr. Myers.—J. G. P.] but I am quite
unable to say when the other messages were sent. It may be we
had three or four within the last ten years, but I could not be
certain.
We did not know Mv. Myers would be at Valescure, as we went
out there quite suddenly. . . .
I cannot remember if Edmund Gurney ever tilted the table, but.
1 almost think so.
Standing by itself this incident would be worth little or
nothing ; but it must not be considered apart from the other
correspondences described above and in the section on Nelly's
peregrinations, and especially not apart from other coincidental
statements made about Mr. Gurney at the sitting of January
11th, 1901, which I now proceed to quote.
Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Scott.
Sitting of January 8th, 1901. Present: Mrs. Scott.
The following was spoken by Nelly after the removal of the
screen which had previously concealed the sitter.
" Geoffrey says he wrote through his mother's hand, and said
he'd rather not come when you're here, Mr. Piddington. Mrs.
Scott wouldn't tell you that ; she wouldn't like to. (To Mrs.
Scott) Mr. Piddington will excuse you."
At the close of the sitting the following was written through
Mrs. Thompson by the Geoffrey Scott control :—" Yes, I was in
the little room yesterday when you wrote."
These quotations show that, no matter whether the normal
Airs. Thompson knew at this time that Mrs. Scott wrote auto
matically, the trance-personality knew.
Sitting of January 11th, 1901. Sitters: Mr. and Mrs. Percival.
"Mr. Gurney did write a long message. Mrs. Scott received a
long message for you from Mr. Gurney. Geoffrey did write and
explain to his. mother after she went home the reason why he was
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Thompson's Trance. 303
so vexed. . . . Mr. Gurney went and talked to Miss Rawson. He
doesn't even mind knocking a table for her."
J. G. P.-.—(To Mr. D. control) "Tell Edmund Gurney I wish he'd
come and give messages about people who are not sitting at the
time."
Mr. D. :—"He's helping the s, you see. . . ."
/. G. P. :—" Does E. G. know about the screen 1 "
Mr. D.\—"He doesn't understand; but I'll tell him, and he'll
write."
" Mr. Gurney did write a long message. Mrs. Scott received
a long message for you from Mr. Gurney. Geoffrey did write
and explain to his mother after she went home the reason why
he was so vexed."
On January 12th, 1901, I sent a copy of these words to
Mrs. Scott, and her reply, dated January 12th [1901], was as
follows :—
As you ask me, I send you a message I received purporting to
come from Mr. Gurney. I had written it, of course, before your
letter came ; but I do not as a rule like speaking of any messages
received in this way, as they can be of little use as evidence. Some
time ago I had a very urgent message from both Mr. Gurney and
my son, telling me the latter could not "sit" [i.e. control at a sitting]
with you ; but I felt it best to disregard it. I am glad I did, for
it is interesting that it should have been verified in this way.
Mrs. Scott wrote to me on July 17th, 1903, as follows:
I am sorry to say that I do not keep a journal, and I have no
record of the script you speak of. I wish it had more evidential
value. I remember at the time thinking the message too valueless
to be worth sending you, and I left it in the book I was reading until
your letter came asking for it. I have only my own recollections to
give you now, which, of course, are worth little ; but I give them as
you may have my letter written at the time [i.e. the letter, quoted
above, of January 12th, 1901] to compare them with. I had been in
London a few days before. I think you came to see me, and we
had a sitting with Mrs. Thompson together—an unsuccessful one
comparatively. [Mrs. Scott's recollections I can confirm.—J. G. P.]
On the day I received the message I went out hunting, starting
304 [PAliT
J. G. Piddington.
early, probably about 9 a.m., and returning about 3.45.1 I changed
my habit and came down rather tired to the drawing-room, where
I sat down by the fire with a book to wait for tea. I had a strong
impulse to write almost directly, and I took a scrap of paper and
tried the experiment without leaving my chair. The result was the
message I sent you. Seeing that there was nothing " evidential " in
it, and feeling great repugnance to sending you any suggestions about
work which you must feel were an impertinence unless they were
attested as coming from a source beyond myself, I slipped the paper
between the pages of the book I was reading, and meant to take
no further notice of it. Besides the message it was scribbled over,
as almost all my script is, with half messages and words, purporting
to come from my son ; and was destroyed when the copy was
made.
This happened before tea : which fixes the time as before 4.30 p.m.
At 9 p.m. your letter came with the coffee after dinner. I did not
date the copy, I suppose because I give its history in the letter I
wrote enclosing it. I feel sure I must have written, because the in
cident impressed me. I knew the first quiet moment had been taken
advantage of, and it seemed to me even more interesting than if the
time had corresponded to Mrs. Thompson's trance : which it obviously
did not do.
I do not know if Mrs. Thompson knew normally of my writing
purporting to come from E. G. I do not know what Mr. Myers
may have told her about me. But in one of my sittings with her
she gave me in trance a long message purporting to be from E. G.;
indeed she was " controlled " by him.
. . . The chief fact about the message which impressed me was
that a message had purported to be for you (which was a new ex
perience), and that " Nelly " had told you before it came that there
would be one. ["Mr. Gurney did" (not will) "write a message"
were Nelly's actual words.] Also this was a solitary experience to
the best of my belief. I have not had any other message sent direct
to you ; and I had no reason to expect one.
I am leaving out of account Nelly's statement that " Geoffrey
did write and explain to his mother after she went home the
reason why he was so vexed," because though it appears to
I I venture to direct the attention of a certain Continental school of psycho-
physiologists to the fact that we produce here in England a fox-hunting type
of automatic writer. Fox-hunting must in future, I suppose, be added to their
lengthy list of "notes" of degeneracy.
xlvii.] Phenomena in Mrs. Tlwmpson's Trance. 305
be true, it might easily be explained away as a guess on the
part of Nelly. The sitting was bad, and the Geoffrey Scott
control appeared to be vexed, and as Nelly was apparently
aware that Mrs. Scott received automatic messages from her
son, she might readily have surmised that he would explain
the cause of his vexation to his mother.
But I cannot regard Nelly's statement, " Mr. Gurney did
write a long message. Mrs. Scott received a long message
for you from Mr. Gurney " as due to a lucky guess. It is true
that at the time that Nelly spoke, and spoke in the past
tense, the message had not been written by Mrs. Scott ; but,
as I have suggested in the foregoing instance, Nelly may have
taken the intention for the deed, or the message may have
been already " delivered," and have been lying latent in Mrs.
Scott's subconsciousness until a favourable opportunity occurred
for it to emerge.
Or again ; it will be noticed that after Nelly had said that
Mr. Gurney had sent a message to me through Mrs. Scott, I
asked the Mr. D. control if Edmund Gurney knew about the
screening of the sitter from the medium, and got the reply :
" He doesn't understand ; but I'll tell him and he'll write."
(I should explain here that Nelly's statement that Mr.
Gurney had written me a message through Mrs. Scott did
not suggest the question that I put to Mr. D. I much
doubt if when I asked the question I remembered anything
about Nelly's statement. At the very beginning of the sit
ting I had asked Nelly to fetch Edmund Gurney. I had
never seen this control, and the only reason why I wanted it
to appear was in order to give a message to it entrusted to
me by another person.)
Now the message written by Mrs. Scott, which purported
to come from Edmund Gurney for me, began in this way :—
" I wish you to tell Piddington that I see his point ; but
there is danger of losing the light."
Tins reads like an answer to my question addressed to Mr.
D : " Does Edmund Gurney know about the screen ? ", and
unless it was an answer to this question about the screen,
the words have no significance for me, as I had not submitted
any other point to the Gurney control. Mrs. Scott knew
nothing of my having put this question, nor of my having
30(5 [l\YltT
J. G. Piddington.
gone on to explain to Mr. D. my views about concealing the
sitter from the medium, as I sent her, after the sitting of
January 11th, 1901, only Nelly's words about Mr. Gumey
and her son having written messages. Even now Mrs. Scott
does not know about my question and Mr. D.'s reply.
At first sight, if the opening words of Mrs. Scott's message
are taken to refer to what passed between Mr. D. and
myself at the sitting of January 11th, it seems inconsistent
with the view that Nelly's words can also be referred to the
same message, and also to the hypothesis that Nelly may
have been justified in speaking of the Gurney message in
the past tense ; but I think it conceivable that the script
written by Mrs. Scott on January 12th, the day after the
sitting, may represent an amalgam of a message received by
her subconsciousness some time before Nelly's statement was
made, and remaining latent, with a second message impressed on
her mind after Mr. 1). had said that he would tell Edmund
Gurney about the screen, and that he (E. G.) would write.
I knew that Mrs. Scott did automatic writing, but I did
not know that some of it was supposed to come from the
late Mr. Gurney. I had never seen any of her script, and
nothing was further from my thoughts than that she should
send me a message purporting to come from Edmund Gurney,
or any one else, for that matter.
Since January 12th, 1901, up to the present date (October
16th, 1903), Mrs. Scott has not written, or at least has not sent
me, any other message addressed to me either by Edmund
Gurney or any other control. The message written by Mrs. Scott
on January 12th, 1901, consisted of 16o words, and, judging
from the average length of Mrs. Scott's and others' automatic
script, it was perhaps correctly described as a " long " message.
I have now recorded every instance 1 that has occurred in
1 The E. H. Percival control claimed to have tried to send a message (auto
matically written) through his aunt, but as he at the same time said that he
was aware of having failed, I have not thought it necessary to include this
instance. It was true, anil I believe unknown to Mrs. Thompson, that the
aunt writes automatic script which purports to come from her nephew. On
one other occasion Nelly arranged a test experiment ! She wrote down a mes
sage and told me to keep it hidden, and said that on a certain day E. H. Percival
would write the same message through his aunt. The aunt obtained a few
words, but they did not tally with what Nelly had written.
xlvii ] Phenomena in Mrs. Tfiompson's Trance. 307
the series of sittings under consideration where acquain
tance has been claimed with phenomena occurring through
mediums other than Mrs. Thompson, and in only one case—
Nelly and Elsie's visit to Mrs. Piper—is there no corre
spondence.
The resemblances quoted above are far from complete ;
they are suggestive rather than indicative of supernormal
agency ; yet I cannot ascribe them to chance. If they are
not supernormal, I would attribute them to the minds of
both automatists having developed from similar data in their
common possession similar fantasies, accordant with the general
trend of ideas that runs through spiritistic manifestations.
But at least I claim for them serious study, for could we be
fortunate enough (and I am rather sanguine that we may . be)
to multiply analogous and more clinching instances of the
same phenomenon, it would open up one of the most promis
ing lines for observation, and even perhaps for experimentation.
308 [part
John Honeyman.
II.
ON CERTAIN UNUSUAL PSYCHOLOGICAL
PHENOMENA.
By John Honeyman, R.S.A.
The following account of certain hallucinations or illusions
will be valuable to many psychologists, both because the
appearances themselves were characterised by several unusual
features, and also because the subject affected was free from
any physiological or morbid condition likely to affect his
natural powers of observation or his intellectual equilibrium.
He was thus able to recognise the nature of the appearances
and calmly to note the various points of interest in the
appearances themselves and the circumstances connected with
them.
The subject, whom we shall call Mr. A., was a gentleman
nearly 70 years of age, whose left eye, destroyed by glaucoma
about thirty years previously, was excised about three years and a
half ago and whose right eye, slightly myopic, was defective.
It would be interesting to know in connection with what is
to follow what was the exact nature of the defect in the right
eye, but various oculists of eminence, who had been consulted,
differed in their opinion, and we may therefore take it that
the case was somewhat complicated. The media of the eye
remained perfectly clear, the extent of the field of vision was
normal and remained unrestricted. The eye was defective, chiefly
in the visual axis, where, within an area defined by an angle
of about 30°, the sight was obscured as if by a thick mist
(relative scotoma), while outside this limit the obscuration was
not nearly so dense. We may add that the tension of the eye
xlvIi.] 309
On Certain Psychological Phenomena.
(about 2T) was successfully kept in check and about normal
by the use of eserine.
In April, 1900, Mr. A., walking on a country road, saw on
his left a new rubble wall brightly illuminated by the sun,
and to his amazement he saw it perfectly distinctly. He could
see every separate stone and the mortar joints surrounding it,
the smooth faces of the water-worn boulders, and the texture
of stones broken to form a face. In particular he was struck
with the frequent recurrence of broken granite stones, in which
he could distinctly see the hornblend, the felspar, and the
quartz and mica reflecting the sun's rays. Indeed, he thought
he had never been able to see a wall so minutely before while
passing it. He did seem to be passing it quite in a natural
way, but presently coming to a part of the road where he
knew there was no wall, but only an iron railing on a low
parapet, and finding the wall still there and no railing visible,
it occurred to him that he might see this wall just as well if
he shut his eyes altogether, and on doing so he found this to
be the case : the wall was still there, with the sun shining
on it as brightly as ever.
Finding that his available sight was greatly interfered with
by the intrusion of this subjective sight, he had to give up his
intention of going further and return home. The wall shortly
afterwards disappeared, but a great variety of other images
appeared at frequent intervals throughout the day. These all
showed two characteristics, brightness (amounting almost to
luminosity), and distinctness—not the slightest trace of the
haze affecting the natural sight being observable. The image
most frequently recurring (though with infinite variations) was
a surface decorated with groups of flowers. Sometimes these
flowers were painted, sometimes embroidered, but in every case
the minutest details were distinctly seen, even to the stitches
of the embroidery. Minor changes were constantly occurring ;
for example, the different groups were sometimes connected
with one another by cords of various designs ; at first of silk,
a cord would gradually change to plush, with all the colours
of the rainbow shining brightly on it ; then it would be trans
formed to gold or silver and assume the form of a serpent
covered with gold scales. Then suddenly dozens of these
serpents would be seen, with heads erect and jewels flashing
310 [part
John Muneyman.
from their eyes. They were standing out in relief, perhaps for
about a third of their length, but gradually the mouth opened
wide and the eye cavity became empty, and the whole thing
was seen to be merely a thin skin of metal.
In such cases the drawing of the empty head was, like
everything else, perfect, and so was the perspective of the
protruding coils. Sometimes these serpents were pure white
with round red spots all over them at regular intervals, and
at other times white with black spots, but they were never
coloured " proper." Occasionally a human head gradually
emerged from a flower and developed to life size, and then
the rest of the picture vanished. In that case the head was
perfectly natural in colour and in every other respect—it was
simply impossible to distinguish it from an actual living
head ; it had every appearance of being substantial and
tangible. After a brief interval it gradually changed ; at first
a perfectly proportioned and beautiful head, sometimes male
and sometimes female—" never the head of any one Mr. A.
had ever seen "—it began to get withered and contorted and
wrinkled, and finally, as a rule, disappeared as if smothered
in the innumerable frills of a cap, which kindly hid it from
view.
Such appearances continued at intervals for several days,
and did not recur, except on one or two isolated occasions,
till June, 1901, when Mr. A. was again visited by experiences
similar to those of the previous year, extending over several
consecutive days. The appearances were generally similar to
those already described, only the designs were frequently
more elaborate and elegant, and the harmonious combinations
of brilliant colours more remarkable. There was one new
type of image, however, which must be noted, namely, the
complete human form, which appeared repeatedly under the
following circumstances.
On the first occasion, when hurrying along a quiet street
towards a railway station, Mr. A. suddenly checked his pace
and said to his companion, " Don't keep me so close to her,
rather get in front. I was nearly on her skirt." He was
told that there was no one in front of him and no woman
visible at the time on the same pavement. What Mr. A.
saw as distinctly as anything he had ever seen in his life
XLviii] On Certain Psychological Phenomena. HI!
(if not more so) was the figure of a female walking closely
in front of him, so that he could hardly step out without
treading on her skirt. The skirt was of red cloth with
groups of white lines (a broad line with two very thin lines
on each side of it) crossing each other at frequent intervals,
as in a tartan, and over this was a black silk jacket or short
cloak. The dress was beautifully illuminated with sunlight
and moved naturally in response to the motion of the figure,
while the light silk jacket was occasionally lifted as if by the
breeze. Mr. A. made a motion of putting the skirt out of
his way with his umbrella, but of course, as he knew, there
was nothing there. Having occasion to cross to the shady
side of the street, Mr. A. lost sight of the figure for a few
moments, but it soon reappeared right in front of him, with
the sun still shining on it ; but this time she had changed
her skirt and wore a rich silk tartan, the prevailing colour
of which was green. She was seen not very distinctly in the
booking-office, and finally disappeared for the day when the
platform was reached. This kind of apparition, with differences
in detail, chiefly in the colour and texture of the clothing,
hut sometimes also in the fashion of her garments, was seen
several times.
Subsequently, in November, 1902, on a return of this type
of hallucination, Mr. A. noticed that the size, which was
less than natural when the eye was turned towards the
ground, increased as the eye was directed upwards. On this
occasion the appearance of the female figure was very similar
in attire, as far as the form was concerned, hut entirely
different in colour and texture from what it was on the first
occasion ; besides, when first observed, there was not one
figure, as before, but three, and all of them were apparently
clothed in very rich and lustrous red silk, without any white
lines upon it, the tone of colour of the figure on the right
lw?ing several shades darker than those on the left, and it
may be milled that, although the day was cloudy, the figures
were lighted up by brilliant sunshine, as before. In a few
minutes after observing the vision, the figure on the extreme
left vanished, leaving two only, and for a time these two
remained, and a change occurred on the dresses, each of them
being divided perpendicularly by a difference in the tone of
x
312 [PAKT
John Honeyman.
the colour, one half—the half on Uie left—being considerably
lighter than the half on the right. Shortly afterwards the
colour of the dress of the figure on the left changed to a
bluish-purple, and very shortly' after that, that figure also
vanished and there remained only one figure. After a brief
interval the dress of that figure also changed somewhat, and
was crossed by lines of white, dividing it into squares of
about two inches each way. On that occasion, on entering
the house, the other variety of images appeared with very
much the same character as those already described, the
groundwork of the images being apparently a very delicately-
tinted purplish silk texture with a trellis-work of white lines,
on which hung the groups of flowers of rich and varied
colouring, and occasionally both the serpent forms with rubies
for eyes, and the human heads, which, however, seemed
more evanescent, changing rapidly and generally ending in
grotesques.
A circumstance connected with the two kinds of hallucina
tion exhibited in this case must be noted as very remarkable,
namely, the limitation of both varieties within what can only
be described as the visual field of the left eye. Hut this
difference between the two manifestations was noticeable.
In the case of the first variety, the whole visual area was
occupied by the illuminated trellis-work, which had the
appearance of being fixed as on a wall. In this respect the
hallucinations exactly resembled images of external objects
occupying the right visual field, in that they appeared
stationary when the position of the field was altered. For
example, if the head was turned on its axis from left to
light or vice versa, the central subjective image would retain
its position, and those to the left of it also retaining their position
were successively lost as the field moved round, while to
the right fresh images appeared, precisely as in ordinary
circumstances objects of a similar description do, as, for
example, if we look at an iron railing. In the case of the
second variety, the figure always moved along with what
should have been the eye. This difference—the apparent
stability of the one set of subjective images and the mobility
of the other—leads up quite naturally to the extraordinary
phenomenon that while the mobile figure always kept out
xlvii.] On Certain Psychological Phenomena. 313
of A.'s reach, the apparently stationary images-—-the fields
and fences and walls and trees in a landscape seen by A.
as he travelled either slowly on foot or rapidly in a train—
invariably maintained their proper relationship and per
spective, changing their relative positions as the objects in
a landscape appear to do. The extraordinary and apparently
inexplicable thing here is that the images so acting in
obedience to the laws of perspective had, in fact, no existence,
except within the brain or mind of the observer. We have
thus one hallucination based on another, the second being
much the more wonderful of the two, as where thfs pheno
menon was observed, there were neither green fields, walls,
nor trees. Perhaps the most remarkable thing in the above
connection is that, although both kinds of hallucinations were
entirely independent of external things, and therefore unre
stricted by any obstruction calculated to produce the usual
limitation of the field, that limitation was still scrupulously
respected. The one field overlapped the other, but only to
the usual extent.
The first observation which the foregoing narrative suggests
is that the sympathetic action of the two eyes through their
innumerable nerves is not so intimate as is generally supposed ;
for here we have at the same instant one eye helplessly subject
to hallucination and the other proof against it, and constantly
retaining its objective vision. The fact that there is actually no
eye in Mr. A.'s case but only the nervous mechanism of what was
once an eye, seems to make it all the more likely that the
sympathetic influence of the existing eye should prevail, but
in effect we find that while the physiological conditions affect
the sensory nerves on the right side, they have no influence
on the left, either sympathetic or otherwise If we are to
assume with Professor James, that no visualisation is possible
without the excitation of sensory centres in the cortex, we
must, to explain the phenomena exhibited in this case, believe
that there exists in connection with the eye a centre of
hallucination ; but no such centre has been localised by any
of those who have devoted most attention to this special
subject, and if it had been, it is difficult to imagine how any
stimulus could be conveyed to it through the physical mechanism
of an organ which had no existence. It is quite evident that
X2 ' i ..-
314 [part
John Honeyman.
if we suppose and get to believe in the existence of such a
centre, where hallucinations of all kinds in all their complicated
details are manufactured and ready for use, whenever certain
conditions come into play, we get rid of an immense difficulty,
which, notwithstanding the patient researches of the past half
century, still remains and must do so for ever—or at least
till the mystery of Life is solved. In this case, even had
such a hallucinatory centre existed, it is to be observed that
the subjective and objective centres were entirely dissociated.
The hallucination could not possibly be suggested by anything
within sight of Mr. A., or even by the memory of anything
he had ever seen. What he could see at the time was only
an occasional lamp-post, and a muddy street in the dull light
of a rainy day. But what he saw at the same moment
consisted of the delicately tinted silken robes of a female
flashing in brightest sunshine.
The truth seems to be that subjective visualisation is quite
independent of physical mechanism, while still in some degree
affected by physical conditions. The mind cannot possibly
present to itself images of things which have no existence,
through the medium of the senses. Attempts to demonstrate
the contrary have failed and must inevitably fail. Such
manifestations are entirely spontaneous : they are the creation
of the mind, and hardly a trace of suggestion is to be found.
It may here be observed in passing that this would reasonably
lead to the inference that hallucinations and dreams have the
same ultimate cause, and are indeed practically identical
phenomena, any difference being due to the interference with
the ordinary evolution of perception by a state of dream
consciousness.
It thus appears that not only do we find nothing in the
circumstances related to suggest the existence of a hallucinatory
centre, but the fact that the hallucinations observed occupying
the left visual field were much more distinct than the objective
images in the right field seems rather to favour the view that,
whereas the form and colour of objective images are conveyed
to the mind most distinctly where the brain processes are in
full development and vigour, the subjective inventions of the
mind are most distinctly seen where the physical conditions
are quite the opposite, where the brain processes are completely
xlvii.] On Certain Psychological Phenomena. 315
inactive. And hence we may legitimately infer that if the
mind were entirely freed from its corporeal environment, it
would be in the highest degree fitted for the enjoyment of
hallucinations.
The most elaborate systems of nervous distribution and
cerebral receptivity can never produce sight. The living mind
alone can do so, using the exquisite physical mechanism at its
disposal to modify or define the appearance of external objects,
not intuitively but by progressive experience.
But it is quite evident that for visions of its own creation,
such physical aids are not required, for without the visualisation
the subjective image has no existence, and the creation and
simultaneous visualisation are absolutely independent of physical
apparatus, while still in a manner inexplicable, and yet
influenced by physiological or pathological conditions.
This view is quite consistent with Parish's theory of dis
sociated consciousness so far as illusions regarding external
objects are concerned, but no further. For we can quite well
conceive that a current of energy, diverted from its normal
course into an unusual group of distributing nerves, must lead
to totally unexpected and abnormal results. This is due
to the mind being misled by the abnormal action of the
material apparatus, on whose fidelity it has been accustomed
to rely, but in the case of hallucinations it is not a mere
distortion of some object transmitted by the retina to the
mind diverted from its proper course, as Parish suggests, but
a distinct image visualised apparently without the . aid of any
physical mechanism whatever. In fact we may say that
the intensity of the visuality in a case of hallucination increases
just as the energy of supposed material agencies decreases in
power; thus we have the dreams in ordinary sleep, and in
the complete hypnotic state visions more remarkable.
Even the case before us seems to favour this, for the
reason why the subjective images seen in daylight are so
remarkably distinct and bright probably is that the organ
of vision is entirely absent.
If as Parish admits {Hallucinations and Illusions ; by Edmund
Parish : English translation, London, Walter Scott, Ltd., p. 148)
a perception is possible without an objective basis, the fact
greatly strengthens the view that in the case of pure hal
316 [part
John Homyman.
lucinatioiis the mind takes the initiative and acts and visualises
its subjective images without the intervention of the sensory
system at all.1
Further, if it be granted that the elaborate researches of
Binet and others, who have specially devoted themselves to
the study of the mechanism of the brain, have established
the fact that there exist cerebral centres communicating directly
with the organs of sight, hearing, etc., by countless nerves
adapted to the purpose and even that there are separate
centres for the retention of every different kind of sensation,
it must after all be left to the imagination to discover how
the complex mechanism can be made to serve the ordinary
purposes of the human intellect by any combination of physical
means ; for example, to enable the mind to perceive an
external object, by transmitting through the retina a correct
image. It could not be recognised unless the visual centre
were put into immediate communication with the visual
memory centre and so on.
And even if we grant that the perfect working of this
physical mechanism is possible, it can hardly be so if it is
in any measure thrown out of gear. In view of the infinite
complexity of the nerve system suggested here, Hoppe's theory
that visuality is produced by a physical substance being pro
jected from the retina through the nerve tracks to the
sensory centres of the cortex seems hardly worthy of con
sideration and in fact is disproved by the condition in Mr. A.'s
case.
Hoppe's words are:—
" This hallucination matter, which is either hallucina
tion itself or the raw material of hallucination, must,
as it is something physical, occupy some place and
this place is assigned to it in the retina itself." (See
Hallucinations and Mv&ions, by Edmund Parish, Eng. trans,
p. 172.)
Now in A.'s case no retina existed, and if Hoppe's localisa
tion be correct, no such physical substance existed either. On
1 For discussions of this point, see the chapter on ' ' Hallucinations " in
Phantasms of the Living, (Vol. I., Chap. X.,) and the section on the " Physiology
of Hallucinations " in the " Report on the Census of Hallucinations " (Proceeding*
S.P.R. Vol. X., pp. 134-148).—Ed.
xlvil] 317
On Certain Psychological Phenomena.
the other hand, the more intelligible theory of Parish—the
theory of dissociation—as to the cause of hallucinations appears
to be inadequate and indeed inconsistent with observed facts,
for if dissociation occurs through the haphazard increase or
diminution of tension in certain groups of elements, the
result would be, not the production of a recognisable image,
but an inextricable confusion of images, and the hypothetical
theory could not possibly account for the phenomena referred
to towards the beginning of the narrative (p. 313 ante) where
one hallucination apparently is superimposed on another with
perfect and invariable consistency.
I have used the term hypothetical, as it seems to be
appropriate in this case : and hence another reason for re
jecting Parish's theory of dissociation, for stimulus cannot
exist without a cause and in this case no physical cause
can be found. Under normal conditions, the existing cause
of visual sensations is from without, through the medium of
the retina ; but in this case where there is no retina the
stimulus, if such exists, must obviously come from within.
The theory of sight through physical agencies is intelligible,
but it must be remembered that the proper use of that
agency has to be learned : it is not intuitive. But the
acquisition of the power correctly to visualise a hallucination
requires no such education : it is therefore intuitive—if we
can use such a term, and if its use be ever legitimate it
seems to be in a case such as this, because it is evident
that in the case of hallucination, conception, visualisation and
perception occur simultaneously. This is a distinction of
considerable importance in any attempt to trace its origin.
As we have already seen, there is no evidence of any
sympathetic co-operation between the right eye and the
remaining nerve connections of the left. This complete
absence of any evidence of sympathetic action (in connection
with vision at least) must be regarded as one of the most
interesting peculiarities of the case.
It is as if we had two entirely independent sides in the
same individual—the visual field on the left side, when
occupied at all, invariably filled with images purely sub
jective, while that on the right is simultaneously and invariably
filled with objective images, except when under the influence
318 [part
John Honcyman.
of sleep. There is one phenomenon which could not be
observed except in such a case as this, where we may
regard the two fields as entirely separate from each other,
and that is the struggle for supremacy where the two fields
overlap. Here the right side, even though abnormally dim,
has invariably the best of it ; external objects are seen,
though faintly, through the more luminous and perfect repre
sentation of the subjective images. On no occasion has
hallucination occupied the right visual field, except to the
point already indicated, where it is overlapped, but not
obliterated, by a part of the hallucination of the left side.
It has always been possible to see external objects through
the hallucination even at that point. This is another signi
ficant indication that these independent sensations spring from
two totally distinct sources.
Our case undoubtedly exhibits two kinds of perception,
essentially different, never showing the least tendency to com
bine, but each maintaining its prerogative within its own
natural province, even within the limited area where the
boundaries overlap. But whereas any opaque substance, such
as a thin sheet of metal, held in front of the right eye
put an end to the vision there, such obstruction on the left
side made no difference whatever, and the vision was as bright
when both eyes were shut as when open. Or, again, if the
obstruction were placed in front of and with its edge on
the centre of the nose, it at once cut off the images on the
left section of the right visual field, but it had no effect
whatever on the corresponding right section of the field ;
images there remained as distinct as ever, as might have been
expected.
The intuitive perception of what never existed cannot be
produced by any physiological process. It may possibly in
some measure be modified by individual idiosyncrasies or
pathological conditions, but it is a purely psychical phenomenon.
Even James seems to admit that hallucinations are beyond
the hitherto recognised limits of mental science ; when quoting
the dictum of Locke, he says :
" Locke's main doctrine remains eternally true, however
hazy some of his language may have been, that, though
there may be a great number of considerations wherein
xlvIi.] 319
On Certain Psychological Phenomena.
things may be compared one with another, and so a
multitude of relations, yet they all terminate in, and
are concerned about, those simple ideas either of sensa
tion or reflection, which I think to be the whole
materials of all our knowledge. The simple ideas we
receive from sensation and reflection are the boundaries
of our thoughts, beyond which the mind, whatever efforts
it would make, is not able to advance one jot; nor
can it make any discoveries when it would pry into the
nature and hidden causes of those ideas." (See Principle
of Psychology, by William James, Vol. II., p. 6.)
It does not however follow that because mental science
with Locke's limitations cannot fathom the mystery of halluci
nations, the mind itself is unable to do so, or even that it
cannot create what it is unable to explain. The pure, spon
taneous invention would, we should think, be an easier
achievement than the successful manipulation of the compli
cated physical machinery slightly out of gear, which Parish
supposes to be at its disposal for the purpose. But as we
have seen, Parish himself admits the possibility of perception
without physical basis, and the experience of Mr. A. seems
strongly to confirm this view.
It may here be noticed that during tiie existence of
hallucination the will appears to be entirely inoperative, for
as Mr. A. pursued his way along the lonely street with his
phantom female before him, he wished with all his strength
of will that she would get behind him or vanish, but she did
neither till she thought proper herself and then without any
conscious wish on his part. This would seem to indicate
that while objective vision is subject to physical conditions,
subjective vision is not only independent of these, but is also
independent of at least one important element of mind,
namely, the will, which was exercised in vain, either to stop
hallucination or to modify it to the extent that the images
seen, and especially the visages seen, should bear some
resemblance to others which Mr. A. had seen before. In no
instance was the wish gratified or the will otherwise able
to assert itself throughout the whole series of hallucinations.
Of course one instance will not establish a fact any more
than one witness, but these circumstances seem well worthy
320 [PART
John ffoneyman.
of notice, as the opportunities for making such observations
are of rare occurrence.
It may perhaps be thought that the state of matters dis
closed in this case tends to confirm Professor James' theory of
the duality of the mind, but a still greater than James has
said that a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways :
and in view of the interdependence and necessary co-operation
of the mind's various constituents—irrespective of sight—in
the production of even one conception, even a modern psycho
logist may be prepared to admit that it would be impossible
always to prevent conflict along the frontier line of the two
provinces, and that you could not anticipate as a result an
evenly balanced mind. But why stop at duality ? All
analogy and the whole organisation of things animate and
inanimate should lead us to anticipate that the constitution
of the mind should lie exceedingly complex, with a variety
and subtlety of detail which must for ever defy analysis and
remain, like the omnipresent source of all, for ever
unsearchable.
No doubt the fact that the mind, by an effort of the will
and the aid of memory, can recall perceptions with such
exactness that the hand may accurately portray them, although
the mind remains unable to visualise them, seems rather to
favour Parish's view that certain physiological conditions are
necessary to account for visualisation. But on the other
hand, if the mind aided by these forces cannot visualise
perceptions founded on actual sensations transmitted by the
ordinary channels of communication with external things, how
much less can it achieve this result—the excitation of the
hypothetical stimulus of the sensory nerves—without the aid
of either memory or the will (which at least in some cases of
hallucination appears to be dormant) ! The supposition that it
does, brings us face to face with the alternative that instead of
the mind creating hallucinations, they are created by only
one element of mind, viz., the imagination, capable of inde
pendent action and localised in a certain set of nerve
centres. In short, that what we designate mind is not a
distinct entity, but a complex confederation, the component
parts of which, though closely related, have each, not merely
a separate function, but also a separate habitat within the
XLVM.] 321
On Certain Psyehological Phenomena.
brain's periphery. But even if we were to go this length,
the impenetrable mystery of how the imagination gets hold
of its various subjective images and applies the corresponding
stimulus to the particular nerve track, shunting it oft' at
the proper switch to a process of irradiation, capable of pro
ducing the desired effect, although not the course intended
by the imagination ;—all this, we say, would remain a mystery,
unsolved and insoluble.
The most important conclusion to which the narrative
related above points, appears to be that the sources from
which objective vision and hallucinatory vision spring are
•essentially different and independent. The first is initiated
by external stimuli, acting on the sensory mechanism of the
brain, resulting in a definite sensation which the individual
perceives, and which we call sight, while the second cannot
J,e called a sensation, as the sensory physical apparatus cannot
be influenced by what has no existence, and there appears
to be no chance of the intervention of the ordinary processes
of sensation, as the hallucination is not only perceived but
conceived at the same instant, while the machinery of sensa
tion is simultaneously fully occupied by objective excitations,
and where there is no energy there can be no physical
action. The source of hallucinatory vision therefore must
be within, and must be regarded as a purely spiritual
process.
Note.
[The following note on Mr. A.'s case has kindly been
contributed by a Member of our Society and well-known oculist,
Mr. J. Mackenzie Davidson, M.B., CM., (Aberd).]
Mr. John Honeyman's communication on certain unusual
Psychological Phenomena is very interesting, the more so since
the observations are so accurately recorded. The salient point
that strikes one is that while the phenomena are purely
subjective, yet in certain respects, eg. in the change of size of
the images seen, they varied as if the visual impressions had
been produced by external objects.
It must he remembered that what is seen, in the sense of
the mind forming a conception of the size, shape, and colour
?>22 John Homyman.
of objects, is due to a variety of impulses co-ordinated to produce
the final mental impression. To illustrate this there is no-
better way than to produce on the eyes a good after-image,
—say of the incandescent filament of an electric lamp,
viewed at a distance of a foot : and if then the after-image is
reproduced on a screen held a foot from the eyes, the apparent
size of the after-image will be exactly the same size as the
original object (the filament) which produced it. But if the
screen be gradually taken further away, the after-image will
increase in size, and if one looks at the sky or any distant
object, the image will have increased enormously, lit this way
the after-image can be made to appear J inch long or 20 feet
long according to the position of the eyeballs. In this case
the impression produced on the retinae is of a fixed size and
unalterable, and the impression on the centre for vision of
the retinae must also be unalterable ; but, and this is the
point of importance, the mental conception of the actual size
by the higher visual centre is modified by the position of the
axes of the eyeballs, whether they are convergent or parallel.
It is therefore conceivable that the phenomena recorded in
Mr. Honeyman's paper may be partly explained by the position
of the eyes and head, etc., for it is recorded " Mr. A. noticed
that the size, which was less than natural when the eye was
turned towards the ground, increased as the eye was directed
upwards." This is exactly what would happen with an after
image.
.Ias. Mackknzik Davidson.
EDITORIAL NOTE.
It was intended to include in this Part of the Proceedings a
review of Dr. Bramwell's recent book on Hypnotism, but the
review which was prepared was unfortunately lost in the post.
It has therefore been necessary to postpone its appearance till
the next Part.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART XLVIII.
March, 1904.
ADDRESS BY THE PRESIDENT.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
January 29th, 1904.
My first duty is to thank you most heartily for the honour
you have conferred upon me to-day. When I recall the names
of the illustrious men who have preceded me in this chair, I
can only ask your indulgence for the deficiencies of which I am
very conscious and express the hope that our Society may not
suffer from having chosen as its President one from a remote
distance, and who can lay no claim to the eminence of his
predecessors.
It has not been the custom formally to move a vote of
thanks to our out-going President, but I am sure you would
desire me to voice the grateful appreciation, which we all
sincerely feel, of the great services which Sir Oliver Lodge has
rendered to the Society during his three years' tenure of office.
In his presence I cannot express all I would like to say, but
this much perhaps he will permit, that during his Presidency,
his influence and high position in the ranks of science have
been of inestimable value to the Society, whilst his simple and
unaffected courage has been a noble stimulus to us all.
Y
324 [part
Address by the President,
Here too, perhaps, you will allow me to say how much we
owe to the ungrudging and arduous labour of our Hon. Sec. Mr.
Piddington, and to the skill and care with which our Hon.
Treasurer Mr. H. A. Smith has, almost from the foundation of
the Society, conducted its finances, and to the legal advice and
assistance, in the incorporation of the Society and other matters,
which Mr. Smith and Mr. S. C. Scott have freely given to us.
Though I am quite sure they would deprecate any allusion to
their services, yet I know you will join with me in expressing
our most grateful and cordial thanks to each and all of these
gentlemen.
This month we enter upon the 23rd year of our existence, and
in spite of the irreparable losses we have suffered in the past
through the removal from this life of those who seemed to be
the very pillars on which the Society rested,—Gurney, Sidgwick,
Myers,—losses which naturally gave rise to many gloomy fore
bodings—nevertheless we have no reason for despondency, on
the contrary the present flourishing condition of our Society far
exceeds that which even I, the most sanguine of its founders,
could have anticipated. Both numerically and financially we
are stronger than we have at any time been; the number of
our Members and Associates throughout the United Kingdom,
after eliminating all losses through death, etc., is 832 ; in
addition we have 530 Members and Associates in the American
Branch, and on the Continent kindred societies are springing up.
As you will see by the printed statement of accounts, our
financial condition is also satisfactory, and we have in addition,
thanks to a generous legacy, a considerable reserve fund, which
we hope the liberality of our members will increase. The
Council have placed this reserve fund in the hands of Trustees
and have determined to appropriate the interest of it, when
it reaches the sum of £8000, to the purpose of experimental
research in such subjects as fall within the scope of our Society.
It is true that no original research of any value can ever
be made to order. The progress of knowledge in psychical
science, as elsewhere, must in the end rest upon the self-
sacrificing and intelligent work of those in whom a keen interest
for a particular branch of enquiry has been excited, and whose
enthusiasm is not stimulated by, nor can it be repaid in, coin
xlviii.] Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. 325
of the realm. But the investigator has to live, and to enable
him to do so whilst he is conducting any hopeful enquiry,
sanctioned by the Council, a modest sum will be appropriated
to him as a grant in aid.
We hope to receive from time to time applications from
competent enquirers of either sex who will undertake special
lines of investigation. It might also be desirable, though here
I speak my own opinion only, to follow the examples of the
older scientific societies and award medals or premiums for any
good piece of original work. There is an immense field for
investigation ; psychical research is almost virgin ground as far
as strict scientific enquiry is concerned, and though the worker
is not likely in this generation to meet with much encouragement
from the world at large, and still less any benefit to himself,
he may be sure his toil will not be in vain. I would therefore
earnestly appeal to any members or friends of our Society to
give us what help they can ; if personal assistance is not possible,
their contributions to the completion of our research fund will
be gratefully welcomed.1
And this brings me to a point to which for a moment it
is desirable to refer. The work of the Society has hitherto
been in comparatively few hands, and the centre of gravity
of the Society inevitably falls in that place (such as Cambridge)
where the most active workers are or have been found. This
has led some of our members to feel perhaps a little aggrieved
that the centre is not within their own precincts, that they
are not more in touch with the work of the Society, and that
matters of great interest may be occupying attention at head
quarters and yet no information may reach them. If this
represents any general feeling, is not the remedy to be found
in wider and more earnest co-operation in our work on the
part of the members generally ? The Journal of the Society
was established to encourage this and to be an organ of com
munication between the members. I should be glad to see
it more freely used for this purpose, and for the speedy publica
tion of any first-hand evidence that our members may possess ;
1 In consequence of this appeal two members of the Society wrote to me that
they would contribute £50 each if eighteen others would do the same so as to
make up £1000 in the present year ; £113 3s. has since been received, and perhaps
some readers may feel moved to contribute towards the completion of the sum.
826 Address by Uie President,
and also for the prompt communication of information from
headquarters which would be of interest to members generally.
I hope, therefore, without any departure from the caution and
reserve, which are so necessary in dealing with the phenomena
that engage our attention, we may be able to have a more
frequent interchange of thought and opinion between the Council
and the body of our members, and I shall be glad if I can be
of any service in promoting this.
As regards wider co-operation in our work, I would venture
to suggest local group* should be formed, meeting weekly or
monthly for investigation or discussion.1 If you ask me what
work can be done by these local groups, a beginning might be
made in the determination of two problems, which though
they may be simple and dull, are nevertheless of considerable
importance, and which can only be settled by wide-spread
assistance.
One of these problems may be stated thus :
(1) Assuming the existence of telepathy, is the transference
of thought from one person to another independently of the
recognised channels of sensation, a faculty in some slight
degree possessed by all, or is it confined only to a few ? Prof.
Richet and others have made experiments on this question, but
it is still an open one. It is very easy to devise methods of
experiments between two persons, choosing the simplest form,
such as tossing a coin, and noting whether the right guesses
in, say every 100 trials, somewhat exceed the number which
chance alone would indicate. But patience is necessary in all
investigations to make the result of any value, and also pre
cautions with which no doubt you are familiar, such as the
avoidance of facial or other indications. There are other ques
tions in connection with telepathy which need elucidation to
which I will refer presently.
The other problem is :
(2) To what extent is motor-automatism common among
mankind ? By motor automatism is meant the purposive
movement of one's voluntary muscles without any intention or
conscious effort on our part. The simplest and most sensitive
1 No member of the Society has done more in this direction than Colonel
Taylor, U.K., and I hope his example and admirable method of investigation
will be widely followed.
xlvIIi.] Professor W. F. Barrett, F.K.S.
test is to hold a forked twig in your hand after the manner
of a dowser, and see if the twig curls up of its own accord
when you walk round your garden, or go in search of some
hidden object. Some one or more members of your investi
gating circle will probably succeed, in spite of their incredulity.
Now it is important to know (1st) the percentage of success
among all our friends, and (2nd) whether other phenomena of
motor automatism occur with the same individual, such as the
movement of the pendule explorateur, automatic writing, etc.,
and (3rd) whether these movements are merely fortuitous, or
whether they are veridical, that is to say, do they give us
truth-telling information of something the individual could not
have ascertained by the use of his ordinary perceptive powers ?
Now these problems require the willing co-operation of a
number of intelligent investigators, but they do not require
costly apparatus nor any particular training beyond that of
careful observation ; nor are these experiments in the least
injurious to the operator, nor likely to excite any opposition
even from a hyper-sensitive conscience. It is true they may seem
trivial and tiresome: if any person think so, I am afraid they
would think the details of all scientific investigation trivial
and tiresome. The work of a bricklayer or a hodman in
building a house would seem to be very monotonous, if we
did not regard the end in view.
I am sometimes asked what our Society has already achieved,
what has it done to justify its existence ? The reply to this
is found in the eighteen closely printed volumes of our
Proceedings, and the eleven volumes of our Journal, containing
an immense mass of evidence, the record of carefully sifted
observations or of stringent experiments. These form a store
house of material which we have every reason to believe will
become increasingly valuable to students both of psychology
and philosophy in the not distant future. Unquestionably a
change of opinion is gradually coming about through the work
of our Society. The widespread and unreasoning prejudice
which 25 years ago existed against all psychical enquiry is
breaking down. This is seen in the list of distinguished men
who have become members of our society, and here I desire to
328 [part
Address by the President,
welcome one of our great English savants, a man of European
reputation, who has recently joined our ranks, and this coinci-
dently with his election to the high position of joint Hon.
Secretary to the Royal Society.
But although there is a more open mind on the part of
science towards psychical research, it must be confessed it is still
looked at somewhat askance by the leaders and organs of official
science. It is worth a moment's attention to consider why this
should be. No one asserts that the knowledge we are seeking
to obtain is unimportant, for as the learned Dr. Glanville said
200 years ago about similar subjects to those we are studying,
" These things relate to our biggest interests ; if established
they secure some of the outworks of religion." Nor, so far as
I know, does any one assert we are hasty and incautious, or
unscientific in our method of investigation. No doubt one
reason for the present attitude of official science towards us
has been the prevalence and paralysing influence of a material
istic philosophy, which denies the possibility of mind without
a material brain, or of any means of access from other minds
to our mind except through the recognised channels of
sensation. Both these propositions are of course denied by
our religious teachers, who assert that a spiritual world does
exist, and that the inspired writings were given supersensuously
to man. Nevertheless as a body, though with some
notable exceptions, even they do not welcome us with open
arms. The common ground and official view of both science and
religion is that all extension to our existing knowledge in their
respective departments can only come through the channels
recognised by each ; in the one case the channel is bounded
by the five senses, and in the other case it is that sanctioned
by authority. We must all admit that even unconsciously
authority has a large share in moulding our convictions and
determining our conduct, in fact we cannot emancipate our
selves from its subtle influence. As a rule this is beneficial,
unless it can be shown that authority is untrustworthy; but
the attempt to prove that it is so is sure to be an un
gracious and difficult task, and almost certain to bring odium
to bear upon those who, if they eventually prove to be right,
are in a subsequent generation hailed as benefactors of the race.
Some years ago that most learned man, the late Prof, von
XLvIIi.] 329
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Helmholtz, visited Dublin. I had then recently published a
paper giving for the first time ■prima facie evidence of some
thing new to science, called thought-transference, now known
as telepathy. Helmholtz, who was a great physiologist as well
as physicist, had some conversation with me on the subject,
and he ended by saying : " I cannot believe it. Neither the
testimony of all the Fellows of the Royal Society, nor even the
evidence of my own senses, would lead me to believe in the
transmission of thought from one person to another independently
of the recognised channels of sensation. It is clearly im
possible." The respect that is due to so great a man renders it
necessary to show in a few words why this statement (one that
used to be common enough) is wholly indefensible. First, the
phenomena in question, and all the phenomena within the scope
of our Society, are not contradictions, but merely extensions of
our existing knowledge ; they may be strange and inexplicable,
but that merely indicates that the evidence in support of the
new facts must be recognised as adequate. As Laplace long
ago said in his Theory of Probabilities : " We are so far
from knowing all the agents of nature, and their various
modes of action, that it would not be philosophical to deny
any phenomena merely because in the actual state of our
knowledge they are inexplicable. This only ought we to do
—in proportion to the difficulty there seems to be in ad
mitting the facts should be the scrupulous attention we bestow
on their examination."1 That this is the true spirit may be
seen from the recent discoveries in connection with Radium.
These facts appeared even to contradict some of our previous
knowledge. We always thought of an atom, as Lucretius did,
"strong in solid singleness," as the most immutable and im
mortal thing in the physical universe. Now it appears to be
capable of disintegration and transmutation, and the views of the
alchemists are beginning to revive : soon we may be looking
for the " philosopher's stone "—the substance that by its
presence enables the transmutation of other heavy atoms to
come about. Thus does the whirligig of time bring its revenges.
But to return. There is another fallacy in the scientific view
expressed by Helmholtz. He said, as many do, that nothing
could make him believe in such phenomena. But belief is not
1 Laplace, Thioric Analytiqvz (Its Probability, Introd., p. 43.
330 [part
Address by the President,
a voluntary act of the mind, it cannot be given or withheld
at pleasure ; it is, obviously, an involuntary state, which follows
if our judgment considers the evidence adduced both adequate
and conclusive. We can, of course, as many do, refuse to listen
to the evidence ; and it is worth noticing that in all our minds
there is a tendency to repel the intrusion of any ideas unrelated
to our usual habits of thought, and which therefore involve an
uncomfortable dislocation of our mind : so that attention to
evidence of this character is a difficult act of self-conquest.
Hence every new departure in thought has to encounter great
mental inertia, and wisely so, as preventing hasty and foolish
aberrations of mind. But when attention is given, and the
evidence considered adequate, it is sheer nonsense to say you
won't believe it.
Is there then any other ground why science should uot
ungrudgingly recognise the evidence so amply given in our
Proceedings ? I have recently made enquiries among some of
my scientific friends who stand aloof from us, to know what
is their reason for so doing. Of course life is short, the claim
of each particular branch of scientific investigation becomes
increasingly exacting, and but few have time to consider the
evidence. That is obvious, but why do they shrug their
shoulders when you mention, say, telepathy, or the faculty of
dowsing ? Their attitude reminds me of an anecdote told by
that remarkable woman, Miss Caroline Fox, and which I think
is mentioned in the memorials of her life. The charming
residence of Miss Fox in Cornwall was the meeting ground of
many famous men of the last generation. On one occasion that
great Irishman, Sir W. Rowan Hamilton, there met Sir G.
Airy, the then Astronomer-Royal. Hamilton had just pub
lished his famous mathematical discovery of quaternions, and
was, I believe, explaining it to Airy. After a short time
Airy said, " I cannot see it at all." Hamilton replied, " I have
been investigating the matter closely for many months, and I
am certain of its truth." " Oh," rejoined Airy, " I have been
thinking over it for the last two or three minutes, and there
is nothing in it." This is why some of our scientific friends
shrug their shoulders at our researches. They feel competent,
after a few minutes' consideration, to reject conclusions which
may have cost us years of investigation.
XLv1II.] 331
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
In fact, nine-tenths of the positive opinions we are accus
tomed to hear about psychical research are given judicially.
That is, the objector speaks of his conclusions as positively as
if it were his office to know the truth, and implies that any
opposition is a thing for him to judge of. " He is annihilated,"
as Professor De Morgan pointed out some time ago, " by being
reduced, no matter how courteously, from judge to counsel.
But this is what must be done. The jurisdiction must be
denied. The great art is not to pull him off the bench without
ceremony, but to pull the bench from under him, without his
exactly seeing how he came to tumble, and without proceeding
to sit upon it yourself."
Enquiry among my scientific friends has shown me that the
root of much, perhaps most, of the scientific scepticism towards
our work is not because the phenomena are startling or inex
plicable, but because they cannot be repeated at pleasure ; hence
so very few scientific men have the opportunity of verifying
the observations some of us have made. They do not doubt
our good faith, but they think we may have been mistaken in
our conclusions, and until we can reproduce the phenomena
before them, they feel justified in distrusting our results. This
might well give ground for suspense of judgment, but surely
not for any hostile attitude. It is, of course, most desirable
to be able to repeat our experiments at pleasure, but the very
nature of our enquiry precludes this. We do not refuse to
believe in the fall of meteoric stones unless we can see one
falling. We may require a good deal of well-attested evidence
for their fall, but, once the fact is established, the stringency
of the evidence demanded immediately relaxes. Now, unques
tionably there are at present more capable witnesses who can
speak from personal and careful enquiry as to the fact of
telepathy, or of what is called spiritualistic phenomena, than
there are persons living who can testify to having seen the
actual fall from space of meteoric stones.
The fact is, our scientific friends do not realise the profound
difference that exists between the conditions of a physical and
of a psychical experiment. We know what conditions are
requisite in the former case, we do not know what they are in
332 [part
Address by Vie President,
the latter, and hence the difficulty of all psychical investigation
and the uncertainty of the reproduction of any given phenomenon.
A moment's consideration shows that the demand made upon
us by science for the demonstration at any moment of a par
ticular psychical phenomenon is inconsistent with the very
object of our enquiry. Psychical experiments depend on the
mental state of the subject ; you may tell a person to do
something, but whether he does it or not depends on the
person addressed. Physical experiments are independent of our
volition ; a magnet attracts iron, or sets itself in the magnetic
meridian, irrespective of our mental condition. This obvious
difference between the two sets of phenomena is constantly
overlooked. Physical science excludes from its survey the
element of personality, with which we have to deal and
over which we have little or no control. It regards all phe
nomena as strictly impersonal, and finds abundant field for
investigation within the narrow limits it has marked out for
itself: these things it regards as real, the rest as shadowy.
The truth is, of course, exactly the reverse. The reality of
which we are conscious is our self, our personality. It is the
phenomena of external nature which are shadowy ; shadows cast
by some reality of which our senses tell us absolutely nothing.
There is, however, no reason why the methods so successfully
pursued by science should not also be pursued in the study of
the complex and shifting phenomena of human personality.
Now this is precisely the object of our Society—the accurate
investigation of that wide range of obscure but wonderful powers
included within the mysterious thing we call ourself. Albeit
we are but at the beginning of a task so vast that it may, in
time to come, make all the discoveries of physical science seem
trivial, all its labours seem insignificant in comparison with
the stupendous problems that are before us.
We need, therefore, much more experimental evidence in every
department of our work. So long ago as 1876, in a paper
read before the British Association in that year, I stated that
before science could attack with any hope of success the in
vestigation of alleged spiritualistic phenomena, we must know
whether definite ideas can unconsciously be communicated from
one person to another: whether such a thing as thought-
transference does really exist. Evidence was adduced in favour
XLvIIi.] 333
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
of this hypothesis. We have done much since then, but much
remains to be done before telepathy can take its place as an
accepted axiom of scientific knowledge.
I referred at the beginning of my address to some problems
in connection with telepathy that await solution. Permit me
for a few moments to return to this.
There is one question in regard to telepathy and similar
psychical phenomena, which is likely to remain an outstand
ing difficulty. By what process can one mind affect another
at a distance ? Physical science teaches us that there is
no such thing as "action at a distance." Energy at a distance
reaches us either by the translation of matter through space,
like a flying bullet, which carries the energy ; or by the
intermediary action of some medium, like the transmission of
sound-bearing waves through the air, or of luminiferous waves
through the ether, the energy being handed on from wave
to wave. We may talk of brain waves, but that is only
unscientific talk, we know of nothing of the kind. Neither
do we know how gravitation acts across space : by what means
such tremendous forces as bind the solar system together are
either exerted or transmitted we know absolutely nothing.
We don't talk of gravitation waves, we wait for further know
ledge on this mysterious problem ; and in like manner we
must patiently wait for more light on the mode of transmission
of thought through space. It may well be that thought tran
scends both matter and space, and has no relation to either.
That mass, space, and time, may only be but the mental
symbols we form of our present material system, and have
no ultimate reality in themselves.
^.nother question is as follows : May not the uncertainty
and difficulty of our experiments in thought-transference partly
arise from the fact that we are not going to work the right
way ? We try to obtain evidence of the transmission of a
word or idea through some conscious and voluntary act on
the part of the percipient. We wait for a verbal or written
response. Is not this a mistake ? Ought we not rather to
seek for evidence of thought-transference in the region of the
sub-conscious life ? I believe in the case of both the agent
334 [part
Address by the President,
and percipient the conscious will plays only a secondary part.
This is also true I think in all cases of suggestion, and of
the therapeutic effect of suggestion. It is notably seen in
the cures wrought by what is known as Christian Science.
I happen to have had occasion to study these somewhat
carefully of late, and undoubtedly remarkable cures are effected,
it may be by suggestion, but without the usual suggestive treat
ment ; the only formula is the " Allness of God," and the
" non-existence of disease." But the healing processes are set
going by a purely sub-conscious act. And so in telepathy,
we need to hand over the whole matter to the subliminal
activities. The difficulty is how to do this. Hypnosis is
one way. And in the ordinary waking state, the agent, who
makes the suggestion, or transmits the idea, would I believe
do so more effectively if, after the intention had soaked into
his mind, he left it alone, so far as any conscious effort was
concerned. And the percipient should be as passive as
possible, make no effort to guess the word, but allow the
perception to reveal itself through some involuntary action.
Automatic writing would be the most effective, but that is
not very common ; the twisting of the forked dowsing twig
might be utilised, indicating the letters of the alphabet by
its motion ; or in other ways. In the historical researches I
have made on the so-called divining rod, I found it was used
in this very manner two centuries ago. In fact what we
need to learn is the language of the subliminal life, how it
speaks to us, how we can speak to it. The voluntary action
of the muscles in speech or gesture is the language of our
conscious life ; the involuntary action of our muscles, and
emotional disturbance, appear to be the language of the sub
conscious life.
Then another point should be noticed, the frequent lagging
of the impression in the percipient. 1 observed this again
and again in my first experiments in thought-transference 25
years ago. The correct reply to a previous experiment would
sometimes come in answer to a later and different experi
ment. I have noticed the same thing also in dowsing, with
some dowsers the motion of the twig lags behind the moment
of the impression ; it turns after the dowser has passed a
little beyond the right spot. We have precisely similar phe
xlviii.] Professor W. F. Barrett, F.E.S.
nomena in physical science. The magnetic state of iron lags
a little behind the magnetising force it is subjected to ; this
is known as hysteresis, from a Greek word signifying to lag
behind. So I believe there is a psychical as well as a physical
hysteresis, and if so, it should be reckoned with in our experi
ments. It is improbable that any psychical action, even of
telepathy, occurs without some preceding change in the nerve
tissues ; in technical phraseology neurosis must always precede
psychosis ; and then this change must rise till it is of suffi
cient magnitude to create the reflex that moves the muscles.
And all this involves time, which may be greater or less,
and so account for the occasional lag we observe.
Other questions suggest themselves. Is it the idea or the
word, the emotion or the expression of the emotion, that is
transmitted in telepathy ? Probably the idea. If so it affords
a hint towards the interchange of thought amongst the race
in spite of differences of language. Language is but a clumsy
instrument of thought, and quite incommensurate to it ; its
arbitrary signs show it to be but the rudiments of a system
which the evolutionary progress of the race may lead us to
hope will be more perfect in the future. How much more
accurately should we be able to transmit complex ideas and
subtle emotions if thought could evoke thought without the
mechanism of speech. This may now be the case in the
state of life in the unseen. The sanctity and privacy of our
minds will, however, require to be protected from unwelcome
intrusion, and this, so far as our conscious life is concerned,
will doubtless be within our own power to effect, so long
as we retain control over our self-hood, our true personality.1
Then, again, may not animals share with man this telepathic
power ? They have in some directions keener perceptive facul
ties than man, and there is evidence that they are strongly
affected by what we call apparitions. It may be that animals,
and insects like the ant and the bee, do communicate with
each other by some process analogous to telepathy. It is worth
trying to find out whether say, a favourite dog can respond
to a telepathic impact from his master. In centuries to come
1In that remarkable book published some 70 years ago, Isaac Taylor's
Physical Theory of Another Life, Chap, viii., will be found a prevision of
telepathy and of some of the ideas contained in the foregoing paragraph.
336 [part
Address by the President,
it is just possible that through some such interchange of feelings
we may get into closer communion with all sentient things.
There is one argument in favour of the existence of some
thing analogous to thought-transference, which—so far as I
know—has not been used, and it is, I think, a legitimate
argument, for it is based upon the underlying unity that
exists throughout Nature. The theory of gravitation teaches
us that every grain of sand on every seashore in this world,
every particle of salt in every salt cellar, is for ever pulling
every grain of sand or salt, not only on this earth, but
on every planet, or star, in the whole Universe. And vice
versa, for there is a reciprocal influence ever going on between
these myriads of remote things. Nay, more, such is the
solidarity of the Universe that an interchange of radiation,
as well of attraction, is ever taking place between things on
this earth, and also between our planet and every member
of the solar system. No fact in physical science is more
certain than this. May not this " theory of exchanges,"
this mobile equilibrium, extend to the psychical as well as
the physical universe ? Tennyson, with poetic prescience, asks
in Aylmer's Field :
" Star to star vibrates light, may soul to soul
Strike thro' a finer element of her own?"
Certainly it seems very probable that every centre of conscious
ness is likely to react telepathically upon every other centre.1
1 Since this address was delivered my attention has been drawn to Mrs.
Browning's striking sonnet on " Life," wherein the same idea is elaborated ;
poets are certainly wonderful pioneers of thought ; before telepathy was
thought of Mrs. Browning wrote :
" Each creature holds an insular point in space ;
Yet what man stirs a finger, breathes a sound,
But all the multitudinous beings round
In all the countless worlds, with time and place
For their conditions, down to the central base,
Thrill, haply, in vibration and rebound,
Life answering life across the vast profound,
In full antiphony, by a common grace ?
I think this sudden joyaunce which illumes
A child's mouth sleeping, unaware may run
From some soul newly loosened from earth's tombs :
I think this passionate sigh, which half begun
I stifle back, may reach and stir the plumes
Of God's calm angel standing in the sun."
xlvIIi.] 337
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.M.S.
It is hard to believe that the play of vital forces should be
more restricted than that of the physical forces; that radio
activities should be confined to inanimate matter. If this
unconscious radiation and reaction is going on between mind
and mind, then observed cases of telepathy would simply mean
the awakening of consciousness to the fact in certain minds.
Why some and not all minds, and why so fitfully the conscious
perception should be aroused, are problems we must leave to the
future, they are quite consistent with what we find everywhere
in nature. For my own part, I am disposed to think this inter
change is common to the race, and is the chief reason why
all men are insensibly moulded by their environment. Only,
as I said just now, I believe the telepathic exchange emanates
from and affects the sub-conscious part of our personality. It
is potentially conscious, and may, and probably will eventually
become an integral part of our self-consciousness.
We know as a matter of fact that a vast number of im
pressions are constantly being made upon us, of which we take
no heed ; they do not interest us, or they are not strong enough
to arouse consciousness. But the impressions are there, they
leave a mark upon us though we are not aware of it, and
they may float to the surface, or be evoked at some future time.
One of the most certain and striking results of the investigations
made by our Society is that the content of our sub-conscious
life is far greater than that of our conscious life. Our minds
are like a photographic plate, sensitive to all sorts of im-
' pressions, but our ego develops only a few of these impressions,
these are our conscious perceptions, the rest are latent, awaiting
development, which may come in sleep, hypnosis, or trance, or
by the shock of death, or after death.
But even here and now this sub-conscious radio-activity of
thought may already play some part in the growing sense of
sympathy and humanity we find in the race. And what a
change would be wrought if it were suddenly to become an
element of consciousness among mankind. To realise the brother
hood of the race would not then be a pious aspiration or a
strenuous effort, but the reality of all others most vividly before
us ; involuntarily sharers in one another's pleasures and pains,
the welfare of our fellow-men would be the factor in our lives
which would dominate all our conduct. What would be the
338 [part
Address by the President,
use of a luxurious club and Parisian cooks if the privation and
suffering of the destitute were telepathically part and parcel
of our lives ? Slowly the race does seem to be awakening to
the sense of a larger self, which embraces the many in the One,
to
"A heart that beats
In all ita pulses with the common heart
Of humankind, which the same things make glad,
The same make sorry."
The instinct of true religion, like the insight of the true poet,
arrives at some great verity without the process of reasoning or
the need of proof. Thus it has been with the belief in prayer
and in the efficacy of prayer. Scepticism scoffs at a mystery
which involves the direct action of mind on mind and the still
greater mystery of the movement of the Infinite by the finite,—
but faith remains unshaken. For us wayfaring men, however,
reason needs some help in climbing the steeps attained by faith.
And is not this help afforded by the steps slowly being cut
in the upward path by means of psychical research ? What
is telepathy but the proof of the reasonableness of prayer ?
No longer need our reason rest content with the plausible ex
planation that prayer can do no more than evoke a subjective
response in the suppliant, that it is inconceivable how the Infinite
and the finite mind, the One manifest in the many, can have
any community of thought. On the contrary, if telepathy be
indisputable, if our creaturely minds can, without voice or sensa
tion, impress each other, the Infinite mind is likely thus to have
revealed itself in all ages to responsive human hearts. Some may
have the spiritual ear, the open vision, but to all of us there
comes at times the echo of that larger Life which is slowly
expressing itself in humanity as the ages gradually unfold. In
fact the teaching of science has ever been that we are not
isolated in, or from, the great Cosmos ; the light of suns and
stars reaches us, the mysterious force of gravitation binds the
whole material universe into an organic whole, the minutest
molecule and the most distant orb are bathed in one and the self
same medium. But surely beyond and above all these material
links is the solidarity of Mind. As the essential significance
and unity of a honeycomb is not in the cells of wax, but in
the common life and purpose of the builders of those cells, so the
XLvIIi.] 339
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.B.S.
true significance of nature is not in the material world but in
the Mind that gives to it a meaning, and that underlies and
unites, that transcends and creates, the phenomenal world through
which for a moment each of us is passing. " The things which
are seen are temporal, but the things which are unseen are
eternal."
I will now turn for a few minutes to another branch of our
researches, which has special interest for me as it was this
subject that first aroused my interest in experimental psycho
logy and to which I gave many months of experiment long
before our Society was founded. I refer to Hypnotism.
There are no doubt many present who remember the outcry
that was once raised against the investigation of hypnotism, then
called mesmerism. Constant attacks were made by the medical
and scientific world on the one hand, and by the religious world
on the other, upon the early workers at this subject. They were
denounced as impostors, shunned as pariahs, and unceremoniously
pitched out of the synagogues both of science and religion ; and
this within my own memory. Physiological and medical science
can only hang its head in shame when it looks back upon that
period. What do we find to-day—the subject of hypnotism and
its therapeutic value recognised ! It has now become an integral
part of scientific teaching and investigation in several medical
schools, more especially on the Continent. I think our Society
may fairly lay claim to have contributed to this change of view,
and the work of our members, Edmund Gurney, and Doctors
Arthur Myers, Milne Bramwell and Lloyd Tuckey, has added
much to the knowledge of a subject the importance of which it
is difficult to overrate. It is also worthy of note how the former
neglect of this subject by science relegated it to the ignorant
and the charlatan, and its practice to mysterious and often
mischievous public amusements. These are now less common ;
and though the public apprehension of the dangerous abuse of
hypnotism is grossly exaggerated, for it is less open to abuse
than chloroform, I, for one, am strongly of opinion that we,
as a Society, should discourage, and (as in many Continental
countries) get the legislature to forbid the practice of hypnotism
except under proper medical supervision.
z
340 [part
Address by the President,
Now I think it is the duty of our Society to cherish the
memory of these courageous seekers after truth, who were the
pioneers in this and other branches of psychical research. The
splendid and self-sacrificing labours of those distinguished
physicians, Doctors Elliotson and Esdaile, in the fields of
hypnotic therapeutics and painless surgery under hypnosis should
never be forgotten, any more than the later work of Dr. Braid
of Manchester. Dr. Elliotson, though at the head of his pro
fession, sacrificed everything for the advancement of this branch
of knowledge. The mesmeric hospital in London, and the
similar hospital founded in Calcutta by an enlightened Governor-
General and placed under the care of Dr. Esdaile, did remarkable
work, too little known at the present day. I am therefore glad
to see in Dr. Milne Bramwell's inagmim opus on hypnotism
that he draws special attention to the labours of Elliotson,
Esdaile and Braid. And it is to be regretted how completely
these pioneers are ignored in the works on suggestive thera
peutics by Dr. Bernheim, Dr. Liebeault, Dr. Schofield, and some
others.
Leaving this part of our subject, now within the purview of
science, let us pass to the extreme or advanced wing of
psychical research ; to that part of our work on which con
siderable differences of opinion exist even within our Society.
I refer to spiritualistic phenomena. With regard to these we
must all agree that indiscriminate condemnation on the one
hand, and ignorant credulity on the other, are the two most
mischievous elements with which we are confronted in connec
tion with this subject. It is because we, as a Society, feel
that in the fearless pursuit of truth it is the paramount duty
of science to lead the way, that the scornful attitude of the
scientific world towards even the investigation of these phe
nomena is so much to be deprecated. Hence, as in the case
of those who were the pioneers in the study of hypnotism, we
ought not to forget the small band of investigators who
before our time had the courage, after patient enquiry, to
announce their belief in what, for want of any better theory,
they called spiritualistic phenomena. No doubt we can pick
holes in their method of investigation, but they were just as
XLvIIi.] 341
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
honest, just as earnest seekers after truth, as we claim to be,
and they deserve more credit than we can lay claim to, for
they had to encounter greater opposition and vituperation.
The superior person then, as now, smiled at the credulity of
those better informed than himself. I suppose we are all apt
to fancy our own power of discernment and of sound judgment
to be somewhat better than our neighbours'. But after all is
it not the common-sense, the care, the patience, and the
amount of uninterrupted attention we bestow upon any
psychical phenomena we are investigating, that gives value to
the opinion at which we arrive, and not the particular clever
ness or scepticism of the observer ? The lesson we all need to
learn is that what even the humblest of men affirm from their
own experience, is always worth listening to, but what even
the cleverest of men, in their ignorance, deny is never worth a
moment's attention.
The acute and powerful intellect of Professor De Morgan,
the great exposer of scientific humbug, long ago said, and he
had the courage publicly to state, that however much the
Spiritualists might be ridiculed, they were undoubtedly on the
track that has led to all advancement in knowledge, for they
had the spirit and method of the old times, when paths had to
be cut through the uncleared forests in which we can now
easily walk.1 Their spirit was that of universal examination
unchecked by the fear of being detected in the investigation
of nonsense. This was the spirit that animated the Floren
tine Academicians and the first Fellows of the Koyal Society
250 years ago; they set to work to prove all things that they
might hold fast to that which was good. And their method
was that of all scientific research, viz., to start a theory and
see how it worked. Without a theory " facts are a mob, not an
army." Meteorology at the present moment is buried under a
vast mob of observations for want of ingenuity in devising
theories ; any working hypothesis is better than none at all.
And so I agree with De Morgan that the most sane and
scientific method in psychical research is not to be afraid of pro
pounding a theory because it may seem extraordinary, but
have courage to do so and see if it works. The theory of
thought-transference led to the accumulation of evidence which
1 See Preface of From Mailer to Spirit, p. xviii.
7.2
342 [part
Address by the President,
bids fair, sooner or later, to place telepathy among the estab
lished truths of science.
The amusing feature in the progress of knowledge is that,
usually, critics who resist as long as they can a new theory are
apt afterwards, when the theory becomes widely accepted, to use
it indiscriminately, as if it covered all obscure phenomena ; and
so it becomes a kind of fetish in their thoughts. We are all
familiar with the imposture theory, with the coincidence theory,
and with the telepathic theory ; each excellent in their way,
but most foolish and unscientific if we allow any one of them
to obscure our vision or paralyse our investigation. What is
to be reprobated, as De Morgan said, " is not the wariness
which widens and lengthens enquiry, but the assumption which
prevents and narrows it."
Instances are well known of the most acute and careful
enquirers, trained psychical detectives we might call them, who
having begun with a priori reasoning and resolute scepticism,
when they have thrown aside their preconceived assumptions,
and given the necessary time and patience to the investigation
of one particular case, have gone over to the spiritualistic camp.
They may be right or wrong in their present opinion, but we
must all admit they have far better reasons for forming a
judgment than any of us can have. If they are right it
follows that the particular case they have investigated is not
likely to be a solitary one, but typical of similar cases with us
as well as with them.
Pray do not suppose I hold a brief on behalf of spiritualism
either as a practice or a religion. On the contrary, to my
mind few things are more dismal than the common run
of spiritualistic stances. Sometimes they revolt one's feelings,
and always they are a weariness to the flesh. Perhaps
the manifold experiences I have had have been unfortu
nate, and I freely admit my remarks apply more particularly
to sittings with professional mediums, where what are called
physical manifestations take place, which always seem to be on
a lower plane, even where the possibility of fraud has been
carefully excluded. Nevertheless, if we can get at truth, what
does it matter whether we draw it from a well or drag it
from a bog ?
It is impossible, however, not to feel some sympathy with
xlvIIi.] 343
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
the common objection of the doubter that the phenomena are of
so paltry a character. But we cannot prescribe to nature, we
cannot get rid of the leprosy of doubt by choosing rivers of
our own to wash in. And so we must be content with what
we find. After all, from a scientific point of view, nothing can
be paltry or mean that manfests life.
Bacteriologists spend their days searching for evidence of the
lowest forms of life. And surely any evidence of personality that
gives us the faintest, rudest sign that life still persists though
the clothing of the body be gone, is worth infinite trouble to
attain. Though it may be
"Only a signal shown and a voice from out of the darkness,"
it is not paltry. In fine, it is this natural human longing
that renders a dispassionate consideration of the facts, a calm
and critical weighing of the evidence, so difficult and yet so
imperative.
We must, however, bear in mind, as was pointed out by the
present Prime Minister in the remarkable address he delivered
from this chair, that if science had first attempted to include
in its survey not only physical but psychical phenomena it
might for centuries have lost itself in dark and difficult
regions, and the work of science to-day would then have been
less, not more complete.1 This is very true, the foundations of
our faith in the undeviating order of nature had to be laid
by the investigation of the laws of matter and motion and by
the discovery of the orderly evolution of life. What science
has now established is that the universe is a cosmos, not a
chaos, that amidst the mutability of all things there is no
capriciousness, no disorder ; that in the interpretation of nature,
however entangled or obscure the phenomena may be, we shall
never be put to intellectual confusion.
Now, if instead of investigating the normal phenomena of
the world in which we live, science had first grappled with
supernormal phenomena, it would not have reached so soon
its present assured belief in a reign of law. We believe that
fuller knowledge of the obscure phenomena we are investigat
ing will in time come to us, as it has in other branches of
1 Proceedings S.P.R., vol. x., p. 5.
344 [l'AUT
Address by the President,
science, but the appearances are so elusive, the causes so
complex, the results of work sometimes so disheartening, that
we need the steadying influence of the habit of thought
engendered by science to enable us patiently and hopefully to
pursue our way.
Possibly historical research amongst the most ancient records
may give us fragments of unsuspected information ; for it is very
probable that many, if not all the psychical phenomena we
are now investigating were known, and the knowledge jealously
guarded, in ages long past. The very high civilisation which
is now known to have existed thousands of years before Christ
in the earliest Egyptian dynasties, makes it almost inconceiv
able to imagine that subjects of such transcendent interest to
mankind were not then part of the learning of the few, part
of " the wisdom of Egypt." The seizure of this knowledge by
the priestly caste and its restriction to themselves, with
penalties to all intruders, was the natural sequence of the
lower civilisation that followed. Thus psychical phenomena
became veiled in mystery, and ultimately degraded to a mis
chievous superstition. Mystic rites were added to impress the
multitude ; finally divination, enchantment, augury, and necro
mancy became methods of wielding a mysterious power held
by the few. But such practices " wearied the people's intellect,
destroyed their enterprise and distorted their conscience." 1 The
industry and politics of the people became paralysed by giving
heed to an oracle, or to gibbering spirits, rather than to
reason and strenuous endeavour. The great Hebrew prophets,
the statesmen of their day, saw this clearly and had the
courage to denounce such practices in unmistakable terms ;
warning the people that by using these things as an infallible
guide, or as a religion, they were being misled, and reason
was being dethroned from her seat. And so the burden of
their speech was, " Thy spells and enchantments with which
thou hast wearied thyself have led thee astray."2 Hence these
practices were prohibited, as a careful study of the whole
subject shows, because they enervated the nation, and tended
to obscure the Divine idea; to weaken the supreme faith in,
and reverent worship of, the one omnipotent Being the Hebrew
1 Prof. G. A. Smith in his brilliant and scholarly work on Isaiah, vol. 2., p. 199.
2Cf. latter half of Isaiah, 47 ch.
xlvIIi.] 345
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.B.S.
nation was set apart to proclaim. With no assured know
ledge of the great world-order we now possess, these elusive
occult phenomena confused both the intellectual and moral
sense, and so they were wisely thrust aside. But the danger
at the present day is very different. Instead of a universe
peopled with unseen personalities, the science of to-day has
gone to the other extreme, and as Mr. Myers once eloquently
said, we are now taught to believe " the Universe to be a
soulless interaction of atoms, and life a paltry misery closed
in the grave." Were the Hebrew prophets now amongst us,
surely their voice would not be raised in condemnation of
the attempts we are making to show that the order of
Nature contains an even vaster procession of phenomena than
are now embraced within the limits of recognised science,
and that behind the appearances with which science deals
there are more enduring and transcendent realities.
I have ventured upon this digression in the hope that I
may remove the misgivings with which a part of our work
is regarded by some leaders of religious opinion, who from
time to time have been in communication with me. Perhaps
I may also alid that the aversion which some feel towards
any enquiry into spiritualistic phenomena arises I think from
a misapprehension. With what is spiritual, with religion,
these phenomena have nothing in common. They may afford
us a rational belief in the existence of life without a visible
body, of thought without material protoplasm, and so become
the handmaid of faith. But they belong to a wholly different
order from that of religious faith. Our concern is solely with
the evidence for certain phenomena ; and as Professor Karl
Pearson has said, " Wherever there is the slightest possibility
for the mind of men to know, there is a legitimate problem
for science." Hence all appearances, whether of microbes or
of men, are legitimate subjects of investigation. Because they
happen to be fitful, or phenomena occurring in an unseen
environment, does not render the investigation improper or
unscientific, though it makes it considerably more difficult.
Now the investigations we have published undeniably
establish the fact, that human personality embraces a far larger
346 [part
Address by the President,
scope than science has hitherto recognised. That it partakes
of a two-fold life, on one side a self-consciousness which is
awakened by, and related to time and space, to sense and
outward things ; on the other side a deeper, slumbering, but
potential consciousness, the record of every unheeded past
impression, possessing higher receptive and perceptive powers
than our normal self-consciousness, a self that, I believe,
links our individual life to the ocean of life, and to the
Source of all life. It is a remarkable fact that long ago
the philosopher Kant instinctively stated the same truth.
He says : " [It is possible that] the human soul even in
this life stands in indissoluble community with all im
material natures of the spirit world, it mutually acts upon
them and receives from them impressions, of which, how
ever, as man, it is unconscious as long as all goes well." 1
This, of course, was Swedenborg's view. He frequently tells
us, " Man is so constituted that he is at the same lime in the
spiritual world and in the natural world." Plotinus, who lived in
the third century, held a similar belief, this was in fact the view
of the Neo-Platonists and of the later mystics generally.2 In
connection with this subject may I commend to you the
perusal of Dr. Du Prel's Philosophy of Mysticism, which has been
translated with loving labour by one of the earliest and best
friends of our Society, Mr. C. C. Massey : perhaps the most
valuable part of the work being the suggestive introduction
which Mr. Massey has himself added.3
1 " Es wird kiinftig, ich weiss nicht wo oder wann, nocb bewiesen werden, dass
die menschliche Seele auch in diesen Leben in eincr unaufloslich verknilpften
Gemeinschaft mit alien immateriellen Naturen der Geisterwelt stehe, dass sie
wechselweise in diese wirke und von ihnen Eindriicke empfange, deren sie sich
als Mensch nicht bewusst ist, so lange alles wohl steht." (Kant's Sammlliche
Werke, Hartenstein's Edition, 1867, vol. ii., p. 341.)
2 Vaughan's "Hours with the Mystics," vol. i., contains an excellent sum
mary of the views of the Neo-Platonists. Philo Judreus writing from Alexandria
a few years B.C. says, "This alliance with an upper world, of which we are
conscious, would be impossible, were not the soul of man an indivisible portion
of the divine and blessed spirit." See also Thomas Taylor's translation of some
of the works of Plotinus.
3 Here perhaps I may add one line expressive of my own indebtedness to
and affectionate regard for my dear friend C. C. Massey, whose knowledge of
all that relates to the higher problems before our Society is more profound
than that of any one I know.
xlvIIi.] 347
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
There is one interesting point in connection with spiritualistic
phenomena which is worth a little attention. As we are all
aware, the production of these phenomena appears to be in
separably connected with some special person whom we call
" mediumistic." This fact affords perennial amusement to the
man in the street. But from a purely scientific standpoint
there is nothing remarkable in this. Kecent discoveries have
revealed the fact that a comparatively few substances possess
what is called radio-active power. Unlike ordinary forms of
matter, these radio-active bodies possess an inherent and peculiar
structure of their own. There is therefore nothing absurd in sup
posing that there may be a comparatively few persons who have
a peculiar and remarkable mental structure differing from the
rest of mankind. Moreover, the pathologist or alienist does not
refuse to investigate epilepsy or monomania because restricted
to a limited number of human beings.
Furthermore, physical science gives us abundant analogies of
the necessity of some intermediary between the unseen and the
seen. Waves in the luminiferous ether require a material
medium to absorb them before they can be perceived by our
senses. The intermediary may be a photographic plate, a
fluorescent screen, the retina, a black surface, or an electric
resonator, according to the length of those waves. But some
medium formed of ponderable matter is absolutely necessary
to render the actinic, luminous, thermal, or electrical effects of
these waves perceptible to our senses. And the more or less
perfect rendering of the invisible waves depends on the more
or less perfect synchronism between the unseen motions of the
ether and the response of the material medium that absorbs and
manifests them.
Thus we find certain definite physical media are necessary
to enable operations to become perceptible which otherwise
remain imperceptible. Through these media energy traversing
the unseen is thereby arrested, and, passing through ponderable
matter, is able to affect our senses and arouse consciousness.
Now, the nexus between the seen and the unseen may be
physical or psychical, but it is always a specialised substance,
or living organism. In some cases the receiver is a body in
a state of unstable equilibrium, a sensitive material—like one
of Sir Oliver Lodge's receivers for wireless telegraphy—and in
348 [pakt
Address by the President,
that case its behaviour and idiosyncrasies need to be studied
beforehand. It is doubtless a peculiar psychical state, of the
nature of which we know nothing, that enables certain persons
whom we call mediums to act as receivers, or resonators, through
which an unseen intelligence can manifest itself to us. And
this receptive state is probably a sensitive condition easily
affected by its mental environment.
We should not go to a photographer who took no trouble
to protect his plates from careless exposure before putting them
in the camera. And I do not know why we should expect
anything but a confused result from a so-called medium (or
automatist, as Myers suggested they should be called) if the
mental state of those present reacts unfavourably upon the
sensitive. Infinite patience and laborious care in observation
we must have (as in all difficult investigation), but what good
results from any scientific research could we expect if we started
with the presumption that there was nothing to investigate but
imposture ?
In connection with this subject of mediumship, it seems to
me very probable that a medium, an intermediary of some sort,
is not only required on our side in the seen, but is also required
on the other side in the unseen. In all communication of
thought from one person to another a double translation is
necessary. Thought, in some inscrutable way, acts upon the
medium of our brain, and becomes expressed in written or
spoken words. These words, after passing through space, have
again to be translated back to thought through the medium of
another brain. That is to say, there is a descent from thought
to gross matter on one side, a transmission through space, and
an ascent from gross matter to thought on the other side.
Now, the so-called medium, or automatist, acts as our brain,
translating for us the impressions made upon it and which it
receives across space from the unseen. But there must be a
corresponding descent of thought on the other side to such a
telepathic form that it can act upon the material particles of
the brain of our medium. It may be even more difficult to
find a spirit medium there than here. No doubt wisely so, for
the invasion of our consciousness here might otherwise be so
frequent and troublesome as to paralyse the conduct of our
life. It is possible therefore that much of the difficulty and
XLvIIi.] 349
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
confusion of the manifestations which are recorded in our Pro
ceedings, and in the very valuable contribution which Mr.
Piddington has just given us of sittings with Mrs. Thompson, are
due to inevitable difficulties in translation on both sides ? 1
Furthermore, if my view be correct, that the self-conscious
part of our personality plays but a subordinate part in any
telepathic transmission, whether from incarnate or discarnate
minds, we shall realise how enormously complex the problem
becomes. So that the real person whom we knew on earth
may find the difficulty of self-manifestion too great to over
come, and only a fitful fragment of their thoughts can thus
reach us.
There is, however, another view of the matter which to me
seems very probable. The transition from this life to the next
may in some respects resemble our ordinary awakening from
sleep. The discarnate soul not improbably regards the circum
stances of his past life " in this dream-world of ours," as we
now regard a dream upon awakening. If, even immediately
upon awakening, we try to recall all the incidents of a
more or less vivid dream, we find how difficult it is to
do so, how fragmentary the whole appears ; and yet in
some way we are conscious the dream was a far more
coherent and real thing than we can express in our waking
moments. Is it not a frequent and provoking experience that
whilst some trivial features recur to us, the dream as a whole
is elusive, and as time passes on even the most vivid dream
is gone beyond recall ? May it not be that something analogous
to this awaits us when we find ourselves amid the transcendent
realities of the unseen universe ? The deep impress of the
present life will doubtless be left on our personality, but its
details may be difficult to bring into consciousness, and we may
1 Miss Jane Barlow, who has made a close study of these communications,
writes to me on this point: "The almost unimaginable difficulty in com
municating may account for many of the failures, mistakes, and absurdities
we notice. I think we are apt to lay too much stress on the want of memory.
Apart from purely evidential considerations, there seems a tendency to regard
it as a larger and more essential element of Personality than it really is. In
my own case, for instance, any trivial cause—a headache, a cold, or a little
flurry—scatters my memory for proper names. I can easily imagine myself
forgetting my own name without suffering from any serious confusion of intellect
in other respects, or the least decay of personality."
350 Address by tlu: President.
find them fading from us as we wake to the dawn of the
eternal day.
Whatever view we take, the records of these manifestations
in our Proceedings give us the impression of a truncated per
sonality, " the dwindling remnant of a life," rather than of a
fuller, larger life. Hence, whilst in my opinion psychical
research does show us that intelligence can exist in the unseen,
and personality can survive the shock of death, we must not
confuse mere, and perhaps temporary, survival after death with
that higher and more expanded life which we desire and mean
by immortality, and the attainment of which, whatever may be
our creed, is only to be won through the " process of the
Cross." For it is by self-surrender, the surrender, that is, of
all that fetters " What we feel within ourselves is highest,"
that we enter the pathway of self-realisation. Or as
Tennyson expresses it :—
"Thro' loss of Self
The gain of such large life as inatch'd with ours
Were Sun to spark—unshadowable in words,
Themselves but shadows of a shadow-world." 1
1 So also Goethe :
" Und mo lang tlu daw nicht hast
Dieses : ' stirli und werdt* ' !
BUt du nur ein triiber gast
Auf der dunken Erde."
which a friend has rendered as follows :
"Whoso heeds not this behest
'Die to win new birth.'
Lives but as a hapless guest
On a darkening earth."
*
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART XLIX.
OCTOBER, 1904.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 122nd General Meeting of the Society was held in the Hall,
at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Friday, January 29th,
1904, at 8.30 p.m.; Sir Oliver Lodge in the Chair.
Professor W. F. Barrett delivered a Presidential Address,
which has since appeared in Proceedings, Part xlviii.
The 123rd General Meeting was held in the same place on
Monday, March 21st, 1904, at 8.30 p.m.; the President,
Professor Barrett, in the Chair.
Dr. Albert Wilson read part of the paper on "A Case of
Multiple Personality," which is printed below.
2a
352 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
I.
A CASE OF MULTIPLE PERSONALITY.
By Albert Wilson, M.D.
TABLE OF CONTENTS.
Paoi
Introduction, 352
History of the Case, 355
Theory of Cerebral Changes connected with Changes of Personality, 380
Appendix L :
Writings of the different personalities, 387
Comments on the Writings and Drawings of the Secondary
Personalities. By Alice Johnson, 393
Diary of appearances of different personalities, - - - 398
Diary of appearances of the normal state, .... 400
Description of illustrations, 402
Appendix II. :
Letter from Mr. Piddington to Dr. Wilson, - 405
Comments by Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey, 412
Comments by Dr. Robert Jones, 413
Introduction.
Before giving an account of this remarkable and almost unique
case of Multiple Personality, I propose to call attention to a
few details of the mechanism of the Nervous System, some
understanding of which is essential for a clear grasp of the
main object which I have in view.
My object is to demonstrate that the mind or personality
which we call the " Ego," the grand sum total of our character
and individuality, is capable of disintegration into minor
personalities, good and bad, dependent on the condition of the
body that sustains them.
It follows, therefore, that temporary or permanent brain
conditions may have an important bearing on the great question
of individual responsibility.
XLIX.] 353
A Case of Multiple Personality.
We have within us three Nervous Systems. The lowest is
the Sympathetic system. It consists of two chains of ganglia
inside the body, in front of the spine : also three principal
ganglion masses, one for the heart, another for the digestive
organs, and a third lower down. The sympathetic nervous
system controls all our inner organs, but it specially governs
the circulation of the blood, down to the smallest blood-vessel,
and so controls the supply of nutriment to each organ. It
resembles the Commissariat Department of an Army.
The second nervous system consists of the spinal nerves,
which are concerned with the movements of the body and
limbs. This represents the Combatant Force of the Army.
The sensory nerves are like Scouts, while the motor nerves
and muscles represent the Fighting Battalions.
The third nervous system is the Brain, which reaches its
highest development in man, after rising in gradations from
the fish and amphibian types through the reptiles and birds
up to the mammals. It is the Cerebrum, or upper brain,
that we may take to represent the Intelligence Department,
with the General and his Staff, in a large Army Corps. Just
as these higher Officers depend for their existence on the
Commissariat, so the Brain depends for its healthy action on
the Sympathetic nervous system. It is this system in disorder
which I describe here.
So closely are these Nervous systems interwoven that each
depends on the other, and any disunion or want of harmony
between them upsets the whole organism.
The surface of the Brain has been mapped out by Ferrier
and others into areas for the various functions of sight, touch,
taste, smell, hearing, and motion. This outer surface, called
the Cortex, for the depth of about an eighth to a quarter of
an inch is of a grey colour, and contains the nerve cells
which form the organic basis of Mind. Under the microscope
there are seen five distinct layers of nerve cells in the cortex
both of man and of other mammals. These develop gradually
from within outwards, from which one would infer that the
inner or deeper layers are related to the voluntary protective
instincts of the lower animal life. Such is actually the case,
and it has been shown by Dr. G. A. Watson that in lower
animals, such as the rabbit and hedgehog, the more superficial
354 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
layers are much less developed proportionately than the
deeper ones. Dr. Watson also showed that in the lower
animals the superficial layer (which from the peculiar shape
of the cells in it is called the Pyramidal layer) becomes
thicker as the animal rises in intelligence ; and in man, where
intellect prevails over instinct, the Pyramidal layer is highly
developed, and considerably thicker than in any of the lower
animals. The extensive researches of Dr. J. S. Bolton have
further shown that in man the thicknesB or depth of this
pyramidal layer bears a distinct relationship to intelligence.
He found that in idiots, who from birth never enjoyed reason,
this layer was relatively very shallow ; while in the demented
there is a decay or dissolution of the pyramidal layer.
Now, healthy brain action, or Mentation, can only occur if
the brain receives a proper supply of blood, both in quantity
and quality. The quantity is, as I have said, regulated by
the Sympathetic nerves. But the quality may be bad, as in
poisoning by gout, alcohol, morphia, impure air, or mal
nutrition.
Those whose functions are judicial ought fully to estimate
these statements as facts, not theories. The brain, if poisoned
by excessive alcoholism, is damaged, and such damage prevents
the proper functioning of the individual's original Ego, and
leads to the formation of a new personality, associated with
damaged structure and of lower type, more nearly approaching
the brute creation. Our daily observations are thus scientifically
explained.
The Brain is nourished by the Blood, and receives its
supply chiefly from the carotid arteries in front, but also
from the vertebral arteries behind. These large arteries
divide and subdivide into smaller branches and twigs (as an
oak tree divides into branches and twigs), penetrating into
the brain. The finest arteries or capillaries in the brain will
only allow the blood corpuscles to pass along in single file,
since they are only about ao1oo of an inch in diameter; but
doubtless there is a still finer circulation which our microscopes
have not yet been able to reveal.
Bearing in mind this simile of the branches and twigs of
a tree, one can easily imagine how paralysis or loss of function
of any particular brain area may occur if the branch or artery
XLIX.] 355
A Case of Multiple Personality.
supplying that area is blocked from any cause. Thus we
find in disease that a clot may shut off the area of speech,
or the area of movement of a leg or arm, or both. These are
instances of permanent destruction or paralysis.
The Sympathetic nerves are vaso-motor, and have the power
of either contracting or dilating the arteries. Thus in blushing,
the capillaries dilate. We may also notice in some nervous
people peculiar flushes or blotches come and go, usually about
the neck or face. Dilatation of the arteries of the brain pro
duces headache and throbbing ; or if it occurs in the psychic
area, delirium or mania. A very common, I might say popular,
disease is sick headache or megrim. Here the carotid or other
large arteries are in a state of spasm or . contraction, partly
shutting off the blood supply to the brain, perhaps for hours.
The face then becomes cold and pale, and temporary blindness
and nausea also occur.
In other disturbances of the sympathetic nerves we have
" dead fingers," chilblains, and frost bites from arterial spasm.
There is a disease, called after Reynaud, in which by the
contraction of the arteries the fingers become blue or purple,
and if it continues, gangrene may result from arrest of the
circulation.
If then we can trace the effects of the vaso-motor action
of the Sympathetic nervous system in coarse structures like
the skin,—when it occurs in a delicate organ like the brain,
and in its most highly developed and sensitive part, we must
expect a great variety of mental symptoms.
HlSTOKY OF THE CASE.
The patient, Mary Barnes, who is the subject of this
paper, was, when I first saw her, aged 12£ years, having
been born in October, 1882. She always appeared healthy
in mind and body, and was a well-developed child. Her
mother is a remarkably healthy woman : her father also is
healthy and well built : the other three children are in
every way fine specimens.
In April, 1895, she caught a chill and developed influenza,
356 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
and was in bed for ten days. She then went out, for the
first time after her illness, on Easter Monday ; but the
weather was cold and a relapse ensued, and she had to return
to her bed the next day. On the Saturday she complained
of extreme headache, which, though at first relieved by pressure,
became worse, until she screamed with the pain, and as the
symptoms were aggravated by light and sound, she had to be
kept in a dark room. She became very weak, was feverish,
and had " tache c^r^brale." In the second week there was
less pain, and the attacks became intermittent, and " shaking
fits," not rigors, occurred. During the second week she grew
so weak that she had to be fed with a spoon, and often was
unable to swallow. For two days she was supposed to be
dying; and once she was thought to be dead, and a woman
was sent for to lay her out. This death-like collapse, which
occurred again on two more occasions, would seem to have
been a phase of one of the abnormal personalities.
In the light of subsequent events, and knowing what we
do of similar cases of trance, we may suppose that she really
was near to dying.
In the third week the paiu ceased, but she was still
sensitive to light, and therefore kept in the dark. In addition,
she appeared to be blind, and at times was able to recognise
her parents only by their voices, or by touch, feeling their
faces or even their ears.
(i) During this third week delirium developed, lasting about
a fortnight. As explained below, I call this condition Bl.
The chief characteristic was intense fear of every one,
including her parents ; she called people " snakes," and
said she felt them biting her. Her facial expression was
terrible. In her ravings she knew no one, and often hid her
face in the pillow when any one approached. It was not an
imaginative delirium of the delusional type, nor were there
hallucinations (erroneous mental impressions without external
cause), but illusions (misinterpretation of external objects).
Thus, if she saw a fold in the sheet, or touched a hand, she
at once screamed out " snakes," and tried to get away from it.
She showed extraordinary strength in these attacks, which
was in curious contrast to her dying condition of a few days
previous. She also developed jerking or choreic movements
XLIX.] 357
A Case of Multiple Personality.
of the legs and arms, and at times general rigidity with
opisthotonos,1 accompanied by lividity, and even coma. She
might have ten to twenty attacks a day. The marvel was
how her strength lasted out. This mania, we afterwards dis
covered, was characteristic of the abnormal personality, BI.
(ii) In the fifth week all these symptoms subsided, but her
manner changed into that which I afterwards called B2.
Her intelligence was good and all headache had disappeared,
so that she was thought to be recovering. She was still in
bed, as she could not stand, but otherwise had full use
and control of her muscles. She now, however, took to
nicknaming all her friends.
She called her father—Tom.
her mother—Mary Ann.
her sister F.—The gigger (supposed to be giggler).
the nurse—Susan Jane.
her sister A.—Sally.
her brother F.—George.
Dr. H.—The Jim.
Dr. T.—The Sam.
This curious stage was led up to in the first instance by
the following incident :—One day whilst reading, or playing
with dolls, she began shaking, then, pushing everything away
from her so as to clear a space, said, "It is coming," and
after turning a somersault on the bed, sat up and called out
"Hullo!" while those around her noticed an altered facial
expression. She would address her family and others by the
above nicknames, and talked in a babyish manner, clipping
her words. She also had a childish, simple, almost silly
manner, giggling when spoken to.
It was quite apparent that this babyish mood marked the
emergence of a new personality, for her memory of past events
was completely obliterated, nor did she know the names of
ordinary objects. The " fit " passed off in about half an hour.
Her expression would alter, and she frowned and seemed
very angry. There would also be sighing and difficult
respiration for about a minute, when suddenly she would look
1 Opisthotonos occurs in lockjaw and some convulsive seizures. The muscular
rigidity is so great that the patient rests on the heels and the back of the head,
the body being arched.
358 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson,
up with her own natural facial expression and go on as if
nothing had happened. These fits recurred several times a
day with increasing frequency, and lasted from ten minutes to
an hour. There were no premonitory symptoms beyond those
described. As days and weeks wore on, the normal state was
of shorter duration ; and indeed so prolonged was the
abnormal, that I visited her almost daily for ten weeks before
I saw her in her normal condition.
For the sake of simplicity I will here give further particulars
of this abnormal phase. The patient became childish, clipped
her words, and had no knowledge of ordinary names, nor of
her ordinary surroundings. Thus she did not know the
meaning of the word "legs," and if you explained, she would
say, " Legs, what legs ? What dat mean ? Dese sings ? Dese
long sings?" and so on. When I said, "I want you to walk,"
she replied, " Walk ? What dat, what walk mean ? " I said,
" Get on your feet," pointing to them. " Get on them things ?
Those feet ? What feet ? Walk, mean get on those things ?
Can't do it !" So I lifted her on to her feet, but she could
not stand. Her feet gave way, turning outwards. But some
things she appeared to know ; thus, she would call a drawing
slate " a jawing skate," and yet if I touched her nose and
asked what it was called, she either might not know or would
call it her ear. But if I said it was the nose, she would
argue before she understood. Similarly she called her mouth
her nose, and her chin her mouth, and her ears were her
eyes. This habit of misnaming things disappeared in a month
or two ; probably she heard the right names from those about
her, for in this abnormal condition she would be quite lively
and bright, though restless. She would turn over books,
looking for N's and O's. P she called H, and E, B. She
also reversed colours, seeing the complementary colour. Black
she called white, green red, and vice versa. She wrote her
words backwards, beginning at the tail of each word, and
writing it from right to left, but to the right of the word
preceding it, so that she had to calculate what space would
be wanted for each word, which she did with very fair correct
ness, as may be seen from the specimen reproduced (Plate I.).
This writing was done with ease and ordinary rapidity, and
the total effect of it does not differ from ordinary writing.
XLIX.] 359
A Case of Multiple Personality.
She also wrote figures backwards. She could not at first
write to dictation nor originate a word, behaving as if the
word-centre in the brain were switched off from the writing-
centre. She could only tcopy,—the writing-centre communi
cating with the word-visual-centre.
But as weeks rolled on and as her education improved, she
acquired the power of writing from her own ideas or to
dictation. This may suggest that in the abnormal state her
store-house of word-memories was not empty, but that she lacked
the power of association of names with objects. At the same
time as this new personality appeared, that is in the fifth
week of her illness, catalepsy occurred. The cataleptic fits
came on no matter whether she was in the normal or
abnormal mental condition.
As the abnormal personality B2 was a psychic condition,
while the catalepsy was a condition of the muscles, the two
conditions are clearly not to be regarded as identical. Any
excitement, such as a knock at the door, or even the noise of
my carriage entering the street, would provoke a cataleptic
attack. The feet and legs first became rigid, usually extended,
seldom flexed. Or it might be first one leg and then an arm.
The rigidity usually travelled to all the muscles of the body,
except the face and neck. Sometimes she would be fixed up
like a ball, so that she could be lifted all of a piece by one
limb. Or an arm might become fixed in the attitude of
feeding when such an act was in process. I have seen both
arms and hands fixed, holding the cup and spoon, which
could not be released. She called the attacks " brackets," and
they were evidently painful and frightened her, and during
them she dreaded being touched. In five to ten minutes
the muscles relaxed spontaneously, and then she was much
exhausted. These cataleptic fits were very constant for about
six weeks to two months, and then became less frequent, so
that weeks might pass without an attack. Finally after two
years they disappeared.
It was not until July 20th, 1895, that I saw her in the
normal condition. Her father had brought her to my house
in a bath chair, as she could not stand. She seemed com
pletely lost, and understood nothing. These vacant periods
were very common, and may have been either phases in the
360 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
conditions just described, or forerunners of another abnormal
sub-stage, in which she was quite an idiot. I now incline to
the latter view.
During her visit to my house she suddenly returned to the
normal. Her appearance then was that of a modest, pleasant-
faced girl. She said " Good morning, sir," and talked quietly
and rationally for about five minutes. She told me she knew
nothing of the attacks or of what she said or saw in them.
She said she had only seen me once before (this was one day
when she was passing from the normal to the abnormal as I
entered her bed-room), though she knew from the others that
I went to see her. Then just as suddenly her expression
and manner changed. She looked angry and frowned, pouting
and wearing a much annoyed expression. After that her
features relaxed ; she smiled and again assumed the vacant
childish look, and began talking baby talk. She said Mary
Barnes (giving her proper name) had gone, and she hated
Mary Barnes, because people liked Mary Barnes better than
herself. While normal she had risen from her seat and stood
in an ordinary way ; but as soon as the new personality came
on she lost the support of her ankles, and her father had to
prevent her falling to the ground.
Let me now review the first three months of her illness.
I propose to call her normal state (Mary Barnes) A. The
abnormal condition I call B. But there were ten abnormal
states, more or less different from one another. These I will
call B1, B2, to B10.
The illness began with influenza, essentially an acute nerve
disease : it passed on to meningitis. The highest brain cells
we may assume were damaged, perhaps from the toxin, perhaps
in their nutrition, or from both causes. My first impulse was
to call it a case of Hystero-epilepsy, which loose term covers
a great variety of conditions, but affords no explanation of
any of them.
A medical confrere suggested that she had at some time been
hypnotised, but this was not the case, and, as I shall show later,
attempts to hypnotise her entirely failed. Yet her condition
resembled that of somnambulism or hypnosis ; for her normal
state A knows nothing of the abnormal B, while the abnormal
B has a faint glimmer of the existence of A and of what she
XLIX.] 361
A Case of Multiple Personality.
does. I observed later that though at first no abnormal stage
knew anything of any other abnormal stage, yet after a time,
probably through hearing conversations, one sub-stage would
learn a little of another sub-stage (see, e.g. in Appendix I.,
p. 392, a letter written by B9 on November 22nd, 1896, re
ferring to an incident that had . happened to B2).
Yet, in spite of the failure of the attempts to hypnotise
her, her father could often by suggestion bring her from the
abnormal to the normal. By caressing her and addressing her
by name in a coaxing manner, he would bring her to her normal
self, though she always relapsed quickly, perhaps in ten minutes
or perhaps in three minutes. As months rolled on, it became
more difficult and finally impossible to effect these brief re
coveries.
B1 was a condition of acute mania, accompanied by intense
fear, amounting to terror, with illusions of snakes, psychical
blindness, and great thirst and craving for oranges and lemonade.
These symptoms enabled us to diagnose it, not as ordinary
mania, but, from its sudden recurrence and disappearance, as
a distinct phase of alternating personality.1
B2 was a stage in which she became a simple child,
requiring education in every-day details, and also reversing
ideas or conditions, as in writing, perceiving colours, etc.
When addressed by her proper name, she said it was not
her name, nor could we find a name to please her ; she said
she had no name —she was " a thing." So we called her
in this stage " a thing," or " good thing," and she always
responded to it.2
1 In acute mania there is overactivity of the pyramidal layer, with con
gestion of the capillaries.
2 In this condition spasm of the anterior cerebral artery would deprive the
prefrontal area of nourishment ; also the motor area of the foot, which was
always paralysed. The prefrontal, as the highest psychic and association area,
might thus misinterpret all external impressions. Some might explain it as a
derangement of the mind, reversing objects and misapplying names. The
memory of words and names existed, but, if I may so put it, the labels had
got mixed. Perhaps the inaction of the prefrontal area would account for
all the phenomena. Another explanation might be that the more recently
educated pyramidal cells were shut off by deprivation of blood supply and
the deeper layers which had been educated up to the age of four or five
left intact, for she now resembled a young child in every way.
362 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
(iii) On July 24th, 1895, she passed out of B2 into
a third abnormal stage B3, which her parents named " Old
Nick," because she was very passionate and bit her clothes.
After the anger passed off she was very sorry and would say
it is " a naughty man," and that he only comes for a minute
and would not bite " them things," touching her face and hands.
B3 differed from "a thing" or B2 in being more educated, for
" Nick " could read and write and had better physical health
than the other personalities. B3 was a frequent visitor, staying
for several weeks at a time, and I will later give a more complete
account of her doings in this stage.
(iv.) In the B4 substage, which occurred first in August,
1895, she was a deaf mute. During the attacks she took no
notice of loud noises close to her ear: and communicated by
talking on her fingers, which method she understood slightly
in the normal state. This B4 state came on after a prolonged
catalepsy, but passed off quite suddenly, changing to B2. But
in September she was again deaf and dumb for a fortnight.1
She changed back from B4 to B2, " a thing."
One Sunday in October, 1895, when she was rolling on the
floor as B2, crying with toothache, I resolved to extract the
tooth under chloroform. The late Dr. Althaus had come out
to see her. After I had extracted the molar, she was
pleased to be relieved of the pain. Her father now brought
her round to the normal A. She was greatly surprised at
the blood and gap in her jaw and asked how it was, as she
never as Mary Barnes had felt any toothache and knew
nothing of the chloroform or extraction.
So A was unconscious of B's physical suffering.
(v) The Bo substage appeared only on one occasion, Novem
ber 2 6th, 1 8 9 5, and lasted until December 2 0th. In this condition
she had attacks of paralysis in the legs, became deaf and dumb for
about an hour at a time, and lost all memory of events which
had occurred more than three days before. She said she had
" only been here three days " and was " only three days old."
As I had not seen her for three days, she consequently did
not know me. She also reversed things. She called the flame
of the fire or gas black, black white, and a fat pug thin. She
1 The spasm of branches of the middle cerebral artery would shut off the blood
supply to the centres of speech and hearing.
xlix.] A Case of Multiple Personality. 363
spelt backwards but wrote forwards. Otherwise she understood
everything in the house and gave no trouble. She complained
of pain in the left temple, which suggests spasm of the middle
cerebral artery.
On December 20th her condition changed very suddenly.
Though just previously paralysed in the legs, she jumped up
and ran upstairs to her bed. Here she commenced turning
quickly round and round on her back and shoulders with her
legs in the air. She also had a peculiar way of resting on
her head and trying to walk up the wall. She executed all
these movements on her bed, and so peculiar and rapid were
they that they resembled an acrobatic performance. Then
came the fear of snakes and thirst and we recognised the sub-
stage B1. This was its first appearance since the meningitis
in May, 1895. This BI substage of mania lasted three weeks,
till January 13th, 1896. There was an exact repetition of
the May symptoms, and she remembered exactly all the events
of May when she had the fever and influenza, while she knew
nothing of subsequent events. She also complained of headache,
and asked for the cold water coil which she had had then.
In her extreme thirst she would eat any number of oranges in
a ravenous fashion, one after the other, though at no other
period has she cared to eat oranges. She also asked for the
nurse who attended her in her first illness and whom she had
not seen since. After about a fortnight these symptoms passed
off and she was able to go out in a bath chair, but her mind
was still a blank as far as the events of the past seven months
were concerned.
One curious phenomenon occurred on the evening of January
12th, 1896. Her memory went back to April, 1895, to the
early stage of the influenza, when she had pains in her head,
but not the severe symptoms. She said she was Mary
Barnes—for in mid-April the dual personality had not been
recognised. It was an exact repetition of the symptoms, for
when she was ill in April she did not show the normal
intelligence of Mary Barnes. At 3 a.m. on the following
morning she became normal for about an hour, all symptoms
of influenza disappearing, and again between 8 and 9 a.m.,
after which she changed to B2, and, except for a few
normal intervals, remained so for three weeks until February
364 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
7th, 1896. On January 28th, 1896, she wrote as B2 a letter
to her father (see Appendix I,, p. 387). The letter was
childish and the words were spelt phonetically. It is how
ever written forwards, for as the result of education B2 now
wrote forwards usually. On January 22nd, 1896, she was
shown to the Clinical Society and seen by Drs. Jones, Savill,
Mickle, Bramwell, Althaus, Lloyd Tuckey, and Mr. Barrett. She
was then B2, but her father twice brought her to the normal.
Great efforts were made to hypnotise her, even with the help of
chloroform, but all efforts failed and she became much exhausted,
sighing deeply and flushing, as in hysteria. On March 6th,
1896, she had an attack of mania—substage B1. It came on
very suddenly, when she was in the B2 condition. About 8 p.m.
she had said to her father that she felt very ill and wanted
to go upstairs, and although she then occupied the front bedroom,
she ran into the back room which she had occupied in May.
1895, when she had the first attack of delirium.
I saw the whole attack. She was jumping on her hands
and knees on the bed, calling out " snakes," " nakes," and was
greatly terrified. The pupils were widely dilated, the face flushed,
the pulse very ,rapid and feeble, together with breathlessness and
constantly great exhaustion. She would bury her head in the
pillow as if to avoid the snakes ; or at other times, kneel and
say her prayers. If we touched her, she called us " great big
nakes." I tried to fix her gaze, but it frightened her and
she put her hand over my eyes saying, " take them away."
She devoured oranges like an animal, biting off the peel and
throwing it away. The fruit she swallowed greedily in lumps,
calling out " more, more." Suddenly the excitement ceased and
she sat on the bed, placed on the pillow in front of her a small
box, and on the box a book and an orange. She imagined
herself a fisherwoman, for she called out " Fish ! fish ! fish ■
Shrimps £d. each," and putting the pillow with its load on her
head, called out " Who'll buy my fish ? " Then she threw down
" the fish " and tried to walk up the wall, resting first on her
back, then on her shoulders and finally on her head.
I tried to rouse her by making as much noise as I could
close to her head with a large key and a tin tray. It frightened
her and she grabbed the key and threw it away. Next I
shouted to her to wake up : she said she was awake, but took
xlix.] A Case . of Multiple Personality. 365
very little notice of anything going on about her. Another
sudden change and she looked round the room with an air
of curiosity and said " This is not my room," and as she could
not walk, crawled on her hands and knees into the front bed
room and climbed on to the bed. As soon as she got on
the bed in the front room she changed to the B2 of June,
1895. She lost the wild maniacal look for the simple childish
face. She saw me looking round the door and said " Hullo,
there is the new gentleman," which was my appellation in
June, 1895, nine months earlier. She said she had seen me
that morning for the first time. She, however, had not
seen me that morning, and was probably referring to some
remote memory of one of my visits in June, 1895, for
she said I then had on a black waistcoat with green spots.
In reality that June I had on a white waistcoat with red spots,
the complementary colours of what she imagined. She was
very amiable and asked for a pencil and paper and began
writing backwards, as in June, 1895. She called her mouth,
eyes, and her nose, eyes. She said she had no mouth. Though
very much exhausted during the B1 state of mania, she seemed
quite fresh after she changed to the B2 personality. The next
morning she knew nothing of the mania and continued in the
B2 stage. On April 4th she had a violent epileptic convulsion,
which was followed by one or two slighter fits at long intervals.
(vi) On May 6th the sixth personality appeared. "We called
her " pretty dear " or " good creature " in this stage, as she
was a very sweet amiable child, though very ignorant. She had
to be taught to spell, read and write. She denied ever having
seen me before. She was rather like B2 (" a thing "), but more
tractable. B2 sometimes showed a mischievous disposition, e.g.,.
breaking window panes or putting mustard in her younger
sister's eye. B6 on the contrary is very kind. Another point
of distinction was shown later on in that B6 learned a little
French from her father, while neither B2 nor A could learn
French.
B6 was rather an important personality, for now the normal
A became a very rare visitor, putting in an appearance perhaps
only once a week, while B6 became more permanent, until
finally after two years it remained constant and all other per
sonalities disappeared. Usually B6 has no motor paralysis,
36G [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
and is domesticated and helps her mother. B6 is rather a
subdivided personality, for as " good creature " she can walk,
but as " pretty dear " she cannot. " Pretty dear " occasionally
loses the use of her hands.
(vii) In another six days, on May 12th, the 7th 'personality
appeared. She called herself " Adjuice Uneza." She only came
once and lasted ten days to a fortnight, meanwhile alternating
with B2 and gradually fading. The special features of B7
were that she had a clear memory of small events of her early
childhood, while all memory of and since her illness was obliter
ated. Thus she spoke of going on a tram to the London Hospital
to see her father, a thing which she really had done in April,
1885, when two and a half years old, and remembered her
mother being ill with diphtheria when she was under two. She
also remembered the first part of the influenza and also a visit
to L , but nothing of the relapse or meningitis which
followed in April and May, 1895. B7 could not stand
or walk.1
On May 31st her father brought her to my house as B2 :
an hour later B7 appeared suddenly and was unable to walk.
Her father brought her back to my house in a bath chair, and
on her second visit she had no memory of having been in my
house an hour before. When B7 appeared her mind was quite
a blank as to recent events. Thus she did not remember me
for some time.
(viii) On June 20th another severe fit of convulsions occurred,
in which she never bit her tongue, though violent during them
and much dazed on recovery. The following morning, June
21st, she woke up greatly confused and knew no one. She
said she was only born last night and so how could she know
anything ? However, she knew her father as " Tom," and her
mother as " Mary Ann." She was very like B5 (which appeared
on November 26th, 1895), but could not be the same, as there
was an entire absence of associated memories. This state lasted
for about three days and never appeared again. It may have
1 We know that in some cases of senile decay the memory of early childhood
stands out clearly. Does not the substage B7 somewhat correspond to this ? I
would suggest that from arterial spasm the more superficial cortical layers are
weakened or paralysed, while the deeper layers with earlier memories are
stimulated.
xlix.J A Case of Multiple Personality. 367
been no more than a post-epileptic confusion or it may have
been another personality, B8. •
A prolonged observation of the case has led me to feel sure
that A or Mary Barnes, the normal child, knows nothing of
what happens in any of the abnormal states. Whereas in
some of the abnormal states, as in B2, there is a faint
glimmer of knowledge of the normal A. This knowledge of
the normal does not begin at once after the transition,
but develops later. June, 1896, was a trying month, for
she constantly shifted about from one personality to another,
perhaps three or four times a day, once manifesting three per
sonalities in five minutes. They also seemed modified at times.
On July 8th, B3 or " Nick " returned quite suddenly ; she could
then as B3 walk or read or write. It was the first time
she had been able to walk properly since May 31st. "Nick"'
was healthier than any other sub-stage. The normal A, Mary
Barnes, only came momentarily to the surface ; " Nick " stayed
ten weeks and showed very interesting phases. As " Nick "
she went in July, 1896, to the seaside and stayed there about
five weeks, getting much stronger on her legs, though this
temporary improvement was followed by motor paralysis for
five or six weeks. " Nick " said that she had never seen the
sea before this visit, although, as a child, Mary Barnes had
stayed at the seaside.
On August 14th, when at the seaside, her mother was ill
in bed. Her father cuddled her and called her by name, and
thus brought her back to the normal state, when she ex
pressed surprise at seeing her mother in bed, and exclaimed,
" What ! dear mother ; not out of bed yet ' " This is a striking
fact, for in the abnormal B3 stage, as " Nick," she had been
nursing her mother very attentively, and also had showed great
distress at her mother's illness. The next day she returned
home, being still " Nick " on the journey. When home her
father brought her to the normal A : Mary Barnes was greatly
surprised to find herself at home, having been unconscious of
the journey. Also whilst normal she remembered the normal
stage of the previous day and seeing her mother in bed. She
returned to the seaside in a week, and it was noticed that the
normal A, now so rare a visitor, began to come more frequently,
and that when going down a particular road. So her parents
2 b
368 . Dr. Albert Wilson. [part
began to suggest to " Nick " that Mary Barnes should come as
soon as they reached this road. This " Nick " resented, and
looking cross would walk on so as not to hear ; but in two or
three minutes she would run back with her arms out to embrace
her father, so .pleased to be back again in the normal state,
clothed and in her right mind. In August, 1896, she bathed
in the sea. As a child she had done so before : but now as
" Nick " she bathed for the first time.
Sub-stage B3 or " Nick " continued from July 8th to Sep
tember 20th. On Sunday, September 20th, "Nick" left at
2 p.m. during her dinner. The new state was a variation of B6
and was called " Tom's Darling," Tom being her father's nick
name in nearly all, if not all, abnormal stages : this being about
the only common link, in fact, between the many sub-stages.
In this new state as I saw her on the 21st, she had no name;
everything was upside down, she could not read or write or
walk. She was very ignorant of ordinary things and did not
remember her visit to the seaside. It often happened when a
new sub-stage appeared that the mind was an absolute blank
at first. On the 23rd she called herself, in answer to ques
tions, "Tom's Darling." On September 26th "Nick" returned
for half an hour and got her mother's tea ready. A few days
after, when " Tom's Darling," B6, she described to me the
incident of September 20th; she said "in the middle of dinner
on Sunday ' Old Nit ' went away and ' Tom's Darling ' came.
' Nick ' was very kind and left me half the dinner." " Nick "
ate a very good dinner until the change ; but the new person
ality would not finish the dinner, being dazed and mentally
blank with altered facial expression ; she also lost the use of
her feet, after having been able to walk for two months. " Tom's
Darling" said the fire was in the bedroom before, so the Tom's
darling personality evidently must have appeared at some previous
time, and we believe she was a modification of B6, " Good
thing " or " Good creature." It appeared that two or three
sub-personalities sometimes merged into one, as in this instance.
(ix) On October 10th "Tom's Darling " gradually left and a new
personality arrived, B9. The transition seemed to occupy the
whole day and was not, as usual, accompanied by any sudden
physical disturbance. She had, however, fits of temper, chasing
her younger sister about, and trying to beat her with a stick.
xlix.] A Case, of Multiple Personality. 369:
She talked like a baby, could not walk properly and ' could
only manoeuvre about with a chair. She also tried to hit
every one with a strap, watching her opportunity, and
attempted to lock herself into the room. She spoke of things
which had happened in her illness of April, 1895: so she
must have been here before, and as her • parents remember
similar incidents lasting off and on for some days, it is clear
that this was not the first development of B9. Her mind
was a blank. She said she had no name and did not know
me. She wrote and spelt backwards like B2. This state
lasted in 1896 for about a week.
Knowing how they worried " Tom Uodd " (her father), she
tried to give up her naughty ways. She could speak a little
French, but did not know how she had learnt it. It so happens
that only B6 and not even A, Mary Barnes, knew French. She
talked of when she was here before, and said she was in
bed and that "Jim." as she called a particular doctor, used
to come and see her, thus recalling events which had happened
in April, 1895. We evidently had not recognised this person
ality in the early mental tumult. Another doctor, whom she
called "Sam," and whom she very much disliked, also came to
her memory. She happened at this time to see him in the
street and in temper shook her fist at him, which at once
brought on an attack of catalepsy. She knew nothing of any
events in her life previous to October 10th, 1896, except
such as had happened in April, 1895, during her acute
meningitis (?)
She at first would read backwards from right to left, making
nonsense ; but her father soon taught her to read in the proper
way. Although she regained at times the power of walking,
she might be temporarily attacked by paralysis, not only of
the legs but of the arms.
A new feature occurred—a tendency to kleptomania, which
she defended on the principles of common and modern socialism ;
" if people don't give you things, why, nick it ; quite right
too ! " One day when in the village she took an apple at
a shop door, but seeing a policeman she went back and re
placed it. She was always threatening to steal, but after a
time, on being told it was wrong, was sorry. During this sub-
stage B9, "Nick," or B3, appeared for a day in October 16th.
370 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
After " Nick " left, though confused, she seemed to know that
she had been in a different condition. This might be aided
by the free amount of talking around her. The same evening
she walked up to my house as B3 or " Nick." She wished
to show me a present, a toy wigwam, which had been given
her an hour before. Suddenly B9, the retrograde state, arrived.
Her face altered, and she would have fallen from the chair
but for help, as she had lost the power in her legs. The
toy fell from her hands, and when the first dazed condition
had passed off, I picked it up and tried to interest her in it,
but she did not care for it, and said she had never seen it
before. When the former state B3 returned, she again was
interested in the toy. The next day she was B9, and so
remained for another fortnight. If asked her name she said
she had no name. She was frightened by thunderstorms, and
after one had an attack of catalepsy. Yet B3, "Nick," likes
thunderstorms.
On October 31st she awoke in the B1 or maniacal state. She
was dazed and knew no one. She had intense headache, beating
her head and screaming with the pain. She jumped about the
bed, and was violent, even breaking things. There was also
catalepsy. In one severe attack the feet and legs were drawn
up behind over the back, and the arms over the shoulders, so
that she caught hold of her toes with her fingers. She screamed
with the pain, but we could not loosen her. Strange to say
she slept well. One peculiar feature was the approximation
of Bl to B9. The numbering of the sub-stages is not correct
according to their appearance in time. We had not recognised
B9 till autumn, 1896 ; but it had in reality existed in April,
1895, just before Bl appeared in the same month. So the
sequence was like the repetition of a cycle, yet not an orderly
successive repetition. From B1 she changed to B2, and in
the B2 state she had toothache, and for the second time I
gave her chloroform and drew the offending molar. Previously
as B2 she took chloroform well, but this time there was
respiratory spasm and collapse, requiring artificial respiration.
There was some discharge excited from the motor centres as
•evinced by muscular spasms and general rigidity and opistho
tonos, the patient rising on her heels when we tried to hold
her on the couch. The great effort produced collapse, when
XLIX.] 371
A Case of Multiple Personality.
she fell back livid and respiration ceased. She soon recovered
with the help of artificial respiration and was quickly
conscious.
As confirming the theory of the repetition of former cycles,
she passed gradually from B1 to B2 during November 19th
or 20th. She called herself "A thing," and had the same
childish way as previously described, and also the same
memories. For the space of about a fortnight she was very
ill and unsettled, changing without apparent rhyme or reason
from B1 to B2 or B9, occasionally becoming cataleptic and
adopting all sorts of attitudes and manifesting cutaneous
hyperesthesia, the slightest tickling causing pain. The normal
A appeared occasionally for about five minutes at a time, and
then disappeared. When calm, the patient could now walk
or sit for two or three hours at needlework, drawing, reading
or writing. She talked baby talk like B2, and called herself
" nothing " like B2. Then the destructive fits would come
on (B9) and she called herself " the dreadful wicked creature."
Apparently she regretted doing wrong, but could not help it,
though she knew at the time the evil thereof. Are we not
all built on the same lines ? As " wicked creature," B9, she
would hit any one near her, or push them aside if in her
way. She was also destructive, especially putting articles
like slippers in the fire. At a later period when in this con
dition she tried to put her little sister on the fire, and
would have succeeded if her mother had not entered the
room. Does not this show how mental lapses may remove
consciousness of surroundings and responsibility ? From
November 1st to December 10th, 1896, she was generally
B2, "good thing," or B9 ; from December 10th to 29th, she
was B6.
(x) In the evening of December 29th, 1896, she gradually
changed. She sat on the hearth-rug, was cross and stupid,
and finally her mind became a blank. This condition,
which I have called sub-stage B10, developed in the course
of the next two or three days till she became a blind
imbecile. There was now no excitement, only apathy. She
sat quiet by the hour, absolutely blind, with a vacant,
stupid expression. She understood nothing, and at times
appeared to be deaf. Her speech was incoherent, and she
372 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
used very few words. She called out : " Mutter," " Tom " (her
father), and also " Picters." There seemed to be paralysis of
the ocular muscles, as the eyes protruded and stared, and the
pupils were widely dilated. She was guided only by touch
and sound. If I handed her a piece of paper the rustle
guided her, and she grabbed at it. Sometimes she would
sit for hours rolling beads on a tray.
On January 3rd, 1897, about 2 p.m., she was observed
to be drawing with a pencil. As she was drawing correctly,
it was thought that sight had returned. But it was not so.
It is remarkable that while Mary Barnes, the normal A,
never could draw at all, this blind personality, B10, could
draw perfectly. Was this a hereditary ancestral faculty
suddenly called into exercise, or an unknown latent power ?
She used to draw the fashion plates or pictures which one
sees in the illustrated papers. They were very well done,
even to small details of laces and patterns, etc. At a
later stage she began colour-drawing with crayons. She
was absolutely blind, as was proved by placing books
between her eyes and the paper, which made no difference
either to the rapidity or accuracy of her performance. We
also proved that she was guided by touch. If the drawing
was pulled away, she would put out her left finger and ask
for it to be placed on the part she had been drawing by
calling out the name, say the veil or nose. Then if her
finger was so placed, she would resume. Later she became
so sensitive that she could herself detect by touch where
the pencil marks were, and if the paper was shifted could
begin again correctly.1
In fact, ten weeks after the blindness came on she was able
to copy by touch. Her general intelligence was then improved,
though the blindness continued. If one drew a pencil line
i Anatomically we must divide sight into two elements, sensory and psychic.
In this stage, BIO, the area of sensory vision was quite paralysed. Extreme
action of the sympathetic would cause dilatation of the pupil, and if it also con
stricted the circulation in the area supplied by the posterior cerebral artery, it
would shut off the corpora quadrigemina and the lower part of the occipital lobe
and calcarine areas, .which are connected with sensory vision. Whereas, since
she could draw, she must have been guided in so doing by her psychic visual
centre, which is situated in the occipital area, this being supplied by the middle
cerebral artery. (See Plate IX.)
xlix.] A Case of Multiple Personality. 373
across her picture, she would detect it by touch and rub it
out. It was very strange to see her feeling the copy with
the left fingers and drawing with the right. She copied
writing in the same way. She could feel the red ink lines
ruled on foolscap. Sometimes we thought she could see, for
in drawing in colours she would hold the crayons so close to
the eye that they would sometimes touch the cornea, which
at this stage was completely insensitive.
She would also write verses and names from memory, as if
the word memory centre was restored to her. Yet she had no
memory of past events or of spelling. One day when she
seemed brighter and I said to her write " L-A-U-Y, Lady,"
she wrote " Lady," and said, " It is not L-A-D-Y, it is Lady."
She could write her name in a block, but mentally did not
disconnect or isolate the letters. In other words, she could
not spell. One day in January she completely and suddenly
regained her sight for about two minutes. She called to her
sister, "I can see you." Her sister said, "What am I doing?"
she replied correctly, " You are combing your hair." Her
intelligence with regard to her surroundings improved, but she
was practically an idiot. If I called to her loudly " Wake
up," she laughed vacantly and replied, "Is awake." If I
said, " You are asleep," she replied with apparent indifference,
" Not sleep." She, however, did not know what hands and
feet were.
On January 16th, 1897, the normal A appeared three or
four times for about two minutes at a time. She could see,
but could not walk, though normal. Once she said she felt so
well and comfortable. Is that not incomprehensible ? Another
time she told her mother she felt " sometimes to be dying
and to go right away." This was said in an abnormal state,
and appeared to refer to the changing period, either from
normal to abnormal, or vice versa.
She has always called me " the voice " when in this
" imbecile " state : perhaps because I shouted at her. She
wrote me several letters signed C Tom's Lamb." On January
25th, when she was unable to stand, I commanded her very
firmly and persistently to do so, and with success. After
this the power gradually returned after an absence of three
to four weeks. '....'..,, . .
374 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
Towards the end of January, 1897, after four weeks' blind
ness, she began to improve, not only in intelligence, but also
in sight. She was very short-sighted, but could see colours
and pictures at a distance of three inches. She could not
see about a room, and had to feel where she was going. This
we proved by several games at hide and seek, which did not
please her when she was tricked. She was sufficiently blind
to walk against the wall. Ophthalmoscopically the eye is and
was normal. Mr. Tweedy kindly examined her eyes, and
wrote the following report of them :
Feb. 8th, [1897].
I have examined Miss [Barnes's] eyes. The media are clear, the
discs and fundus healthy ; the refraction of the eyes is also prac
tically normal, there being merely a slight degree of myopia in the
left eye. The eye-lids were widely open and seemed spasmodically
retracted, as in cases of ex-ophthalmic goitre. The child seemed
unable to see anything at more than 2 feet away, but she could
read words of the smallest print (No. 1 Jaeger) at about 3 inches
from the eye. There is, however, nothing in the eye to explain
the peculiar nature of her sight.
J. Tweedy.
When using the ophthalmoscope, if the light appeared to
focus on the yellow spot, the normal A, Mary Barnes, returned,
but only momentarily. " A " still came occasionally, and saw
and walked quite well. B10 was still very ignorant,—for
instance, not knowing what a horse or dog was. Nor was she
anxious to learn, usually answering " nothink " to any question.
She knew the parts of her face, but not her legs or arms.
She was, however, very amiable, and had a good memory for
things happening daily. In February she was able to go about
the house, though supervision was necessary. B10 differed
from all other sub-stages, in that she did not know her way
about the house. This is a special point which distinguishes
B10 from the other personalities. She had to learn not only
the position of the rooms, but also the position of the
furniture. Before she learned this she was once stopped from
walking down the cellar stairs, which she thought were on
level ground.
Her method of counting was unique. Her numerals were
limited to 1-2, 1-2, 1-2. She counted in pennies, which she
called " brownies," up to a shilling, or a shilling and so many
XLIX.] 375
A Case of Multiple Personality.
" brownies." I asked her how much is twice six. She worked
it out on paper thus:
and then said a shilling. If I asked her how much is twice
eight, she would work out the answer as a shilling and four
" brownies." It was a little complicated.
Once when I asked her very quickly to count her fingers,
she, automatically touching each finger, said 1, 2, 3, 4, 5; but
quickly corrected herself and said, "No, that's wrong; 1, 2;
1, 2; 1, 2." Seeing that it did not fit, she began again,
" 1, 2," then a pause, repeating "3," adding, "three, what's
that?" then she added "four," and, surprised at herself, said
"five." Apparently the automatic sub -consciousness was
aroused. But if one gave her four biscuits, she would count
them " 1, 2, 1, 2."
A curious link with her past memory occurred in the fol
lowing incident : She was very constipated, and asked that
" the voice " (that is, myself) would give her something, but
not salts. As B10 she had no knowledge of salts, but she
had had salts about a year earlier, I cannot say in what
personality. I hoped to show her in this state to the
Clinical Society, but she had altered to B6 or B2, it was
not quite clear which. This was on February 26th, 1897.
But in the middle of March she returned to the imbecile
state B10, and was even worse than before ; for she
was paralysed, blind, deaf and dumb. She kept on mut
tering " do, do, do." The only way to feed her was to
touch her with a tray ; she would then feel for and
pick up the food : sometimes she would feel for her mouth
and guide it in. At other times she would miss her mouth
and get the food over her shoulder, which made her very cross.
We find the same feature in disseminated sclerosis, where
there in an interrupted communication between the nerve
roots in the bulb and the motor centres which ought to act
in harmony. In such cases vision plays an important pare.
Here such aid was absent. The parents used to place her
left hand to the mouth, and with the right she would feel the
way along her fore arm. In three or four days she began
1 . 2
1 . 2
1 . 2
1 . 2
376 [part
Br. Albert Wilson.
drawing again, her touch for guiding and copying being more
acute than before (see Plates IV., V., and VI. for reproduc
tions of drawings made during this period). On March 25th
she left off drawing and took to sewing, working till she
was exhausted. She then altered during the next days. For
two days her jaws were tightly closed ; then she became limp,
and had no power in any part. In whatever pose any limb
was placed, so it remained. Often she could not swallow, and
sometimes she was comatose. This resembled her state during
the second week of the influenza, when she was laid out as
dead. When she was in one of these exhausted conditions
on April 4th, the nurse was in the next room and heard her
call out, " What am I in bed for ? " Nurse ran to her, and
the patient said again, " What am I in bed for ? Don't you
know I am Nick ? "
Nick had left six and a half months before, on September
20th, 1896, at 2 P.M., in the middle of the family dinner
downstairs. It was now about two in the afternoon, and also
Sunday, and the family were at dinner downstairs. She smelt
the dinner, and thought it was the same dinner she had left on
September 20th. It was a curious coincidence that both days
happened to be Sundays, and the hour the same. She wanted
to go down to finish her dinner, and said to her parents,
" You have been quick in getting my nightgown on. What
am I in bed for ? I am quite well." She had been so criti
cally ill, half an hour before that, though she was very hungry,
they only gave her very little food. In the afternoon she got
up, dressed, and walked about, but was weak, not having been
able to stand for three weeks (since March 14th).
Two or three features in this incident are very striking.
Thus in one personality, B10, she is exhausted and collapsed,
with no appetite, hardly able to swallow, and unable to stand.
The instant that the new personality B3 is switched on, the
exhaustion disappears : she is very hungry, and can walk.
Again, whereas B10 could draw beautifully, B3 as "Nick" did
not possess the art, and could only make ugly scrawls, and
even these were rather forced from her (see Plate VII., Fig. 1).
We always found that the memory of one personality con
tinued from the last appearance of that same personality.
There was thus a continuity of the same personality ; but
XLIX.] 377
A Case of Multiple Personality.
each one was ignorant of every other one. To test this, her
father brought out the wigwam toy when she became " Nick."
She at once recognised it. It will be remembered that she
had it at my house on October 16th, 1896, and changed her
personality while playing with it, at the same time throwing
it down. She now said, " Oh yes, I remember now ; I have
been here once since I went to sleep on the Sunday, and I
went to sleep again at Dr. Wilson's." The former date was
Sunday, September 20th, and the return (at my house) was on
October 16th, 1896.
On May 13th, 1897, she changed from "Nick "or B3, to
B6 or "good creature." She remembered meeting me in the
street on her way from church, and gave the details. It re
ferred to my meeting her on December 27th, 1896, when she
was B6. She said now, that to-day was Monday and that yester
day she went to church alone and met me as she came home.
Evidently that was the last time she had been B6 or "good
creature." I thought there was a mistake on her part, as
Sunday was December' 29th ; but there was no mistake, and the
incident as she described it was correct. We found that she
remembered nothing after Sunday evening, December 29th,
when she had been put to bed early, as she was poorly. A
change in personality was developing. This personality could
only draw imperfectly, and could not equal the performance of
the blind stage (see Plate VII., Fig. 2). After she had drawn a
picture we brought her to the normal A, when she expressed
surprise, and said she never knew she could draw. " Nick "
would not try to draw, except once or twice.
As B6, the "good creature," she went to the Jubilee Proces
sion in June, 1897, and took an intelligent interest in it.
One of my assistants, Dr. Taylor, of Perth, who knew her well
during the first year, before B6 appeared, saw her there, but
she never remembered having seen him before.
, Though the date was June 27th, she maintained that it
was only about a month since Christmas, the reason being
that it was Christmas time when she was last in this B6
personality, and she had now been about five weeks in the
same personality. This shows again how each sub-stage is con
tinuous with the same and ignores the intervening events.
She also said that she could not understand there being Mowers
378 [part
Dr. Albert Wihon.
in January, so near Christmas, and why people would say it
was June ; that she had never seen the sea, but had heard
about it, and would like to go there. She never had been B6
at the seaside. She deeply resented an effort made at this
time to get her into a hospital for observation, and as a con
sequence became very ill and changed to a state of dementia.
She declared she was quite well, and resented the idea of the
hospital.
Four days later (on June 30th) she changed to "Nick" or
B3, about tea time. She at once asked why the lamps were
not lit, because when "Nick" left on May 13th it was 9.30
p.m., and the lamps were lit. She also said that her father
called Mary Barnes, and so she went to sleep (on May 13th),
and woke up to-day (June 30 th). She seemed usually to have
the idea, when one personality left, that she had gone to sleep :
but when she went to sleep on May 13th it was 9.30 p.m.,
and her father was having his supper. She said when she
woke up there was a different tea on the table, and Tom
(her father) was gone.
She continued as B3 or " Nick " through August, and went
to the same seaside resort as before. She was the same per
sonality as when at the sea the year before, and now learned
to swim.
On August 22nd she changed without any physical disturb
ance to the normal A, and then to " good creature," or B6.
She then referred to having seen me with my assistant, Dr.
Taylor, and spoke as if this had occurred the previous night,
whereas in reality it was on June 25th, on which date B6
had been in evidence. But the memory of her visit to the sea
side this month was entirely obliterated. She said that she
had never bathed for fear of being drowned.
She argued that she was only two years old (about the
length of time B6 had been present), and could not under
stand people saying she was 15. She only remembered two
Christmas days.
In November she had another attack of mania (B1) which
lasted a fortnight. Then she became " good creature " again,
and remained so until March 24th, 1898, when she altered to
the demented state B9. B9 lasted three or four weeks, when
she again became B6 or " good creature." We could not now
XLIX.] 379
A Case of Multiple Personality.
induce A to return. If her father tried she became uncon
scious and fell down : so we feel we have said good-bye to the
normal " A " or Mary Barnes, and ever since she has been
" good creature "or B6. She is intelligent, and has learned
typewriting, and is making her own way.
Summing up the relationship of the different stages to one
another, we may say that B2 represents a rough child, almost
a waif, of 3 or 4 years old. B6 seems like the same child,
more advanced in intelligence and refinement, though young
for her age. B4 and B8 are like first cousins. B5 and B7
also seem closely related, but complementary to one another,
as B7 remembers very remote incidents and Bo only very
recent ones. B9 is, I think, an offshoot of Bl. B3 and
B10 stand by themselves.
About 1900 I met Mary Barnes with her father. Her
manner was childish, like that of B6. When I asked her if
her name was Mary Barnes, she said she supposed so, as her
father said that was her name, and at the present time
(February, 1904) she continues to say that she is Mary
Barnes.
She is now to all appearances a healthy normal young woman.
She is quite intelligent, and all her ideas are refined ; but on
examination one finds her memory is very bad, and though she
remembers as far back as 1898, nearly all her previous life
is a blank, including the years before her illness. I tested her
memory as to various events which happened in the abnormal
stages other than B6, and she had apparently no recollection
of them ; whereas events which happened in the B6 stage
she now remembers. Thus she clearly remembers having seen
Dr. Tuckey when she was B6 : but she does not remember
Dr. R. Jones, or Dr. Savill, Dr. Mickle, Dr. Bramwell, Mr.
Barrett, Mr. Tweedy, Dr. (now Sir) T. Barlow, who saw her
when she was B2, and B3, and B9. Also she knows a
little French, which is as it should be, since B6 was the only
personality besides B9 who knew any French. She does not
remember the acute illness which started the alternations of
personality ; nor does she remember her childhood before then.
Her father said in 1900 that she did not know her old
schoolfellows, and her memory of school was a confused
3S0 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
blank: Of course, many impressions of her childhood have
now been revived by intercourse and associations since she
became B6 ; but this, after all, only serves to make her
memory of the past even more confused.
Theory of Cerebral Changes connected with
Changes of Personality.
Whilst many theories have been suggested to explain the
psychical aspect of multiple personality, I am anxious to put
forward some evidence of a pathological disturbance of the
Sympathetic nervous system, which may throw some light on
its physical aspect. To comprehend this subject we must
consider some of the facts of brain evolution and development.
The most recent and reliable data we have are due to the
researches of Dr. Bolton and Dr. G. A. Watson. Some of their
work is at present unpublished, but I have permission to use
their results for this paper.
I must first explain that a typical section through the cortex
of the brain shows us five distinct layers of different kinds of
cells, as indicated in Plate VIII. These layers are only
from I to \ of an inch thick. So they literally resemble
the rind or bark of a tree, hence the term " cortex." Under
the microscope one sees in them cells of varying shapes giving
off fibres. At one time these cells used to be compared to
electric batteries, where an impulse passes to a cell by a
wire, and the cell discharges force through another wire.
The simile remains sufficiently good for purposes of popular
demonstration.
It has been shown that the general evolution of the
cortex is from within outwards, the inner or deeper layers
being the first to be developed, both in the vertebrates
as a whole, and also in the individual. Dr. Watson, who
has especially studied mammals in this respect, finds that
in them the deepest, i.e., the polymorph, layer is highly developed.
The higher pyramidal layer (so called from the shape of its
cells), which relates to intellect, is comparatively undeveloped ;
it contains few cells ; they are irregularly distributed, and many
xlix.] A Case, of Multiple Personality. 381
of them are of the embryonic type, suggesting possibilities not
yet achieved^ In the Rabbit, the layer is specially poor; in
Caraivora, it is more highly evolved, and in monkeys still
more so (see diagram of sections through the cortex of man
and of the rabbit, Plate VIII.). i
In Man the polymorph layer is much the same as in the
lower animals, showing that we are no better equipped than,
they for a merely animal existence,—this layer being concerned
with the instincts for self-preservation, and so on. In extreme
dements, who had lost all their normal instincts, Dr. Bolton
found that the polymorph layer was in process of decay.
On the other hand, in passing from the lower animals to
man, Dr. Watson found a progressive evolution in the pyramidal
layer, which is related to intellectual development. Dr. Bolton
found this layer very thin and shallow in imbeciles and the
first to decay in dements. It represents the higher intellectual
control over the lower strata, which are devoted to the instincts
and the senses. But in the human brain, on the more superficial
or outer part of this layer, as if suggesting future evolution,
there are many rudimentary or half-developed cells of what
is called the embryonic type. Dr. Watson considers that this
indicates that the human brain has not yet reached its highest
development, and is capable of higher evolution, the longer
the human race persists. To his opinion I would add the
clause : provided our social and educational conditions are
improved, especially by putting a check on the drinking habits
so prevalent now in all classes, and so potent a cause of nerve
degeneration. But whilst offering possibilities of higher educa
tion or development, these embryonic cells are likewise the first
to decay, being more or less unstable.
Now if we suppose the same general principle of growth
that governs the whole cortex to apply also to the pyramidal
layer, it will contain, say, 10 strata of cells, of which Nos. 1^
2, and 3 (counting from within outwards or below upwards)
are more ancestral or ancient than Nos. 8, 9, and 10, and
therefore more stable. Against this, some will argue that at
birth all strata are laid down simultaneously. But functionally
8, 9, and 10 are delayed, for they contain many of these
embryonic cells, which are not apparent in Nos. 1, 2, and 3,
and which in some people continue embryonic in type, per
382 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
manently. Also in incipient dementia and in an alcoholic
case which I examined, where brain power was failing, it was
the top layers, 10, 9, and 8, which were disappearing. In the
alcoholic case, these external cells of the pyramidal layer had
been destroyed. At the same time the patient had become
depraved. Her higher mental ideation or true Ego had dis
appeared. She had stepped down from her original personality
to a much lower grade.
This is an extreme case, but it suggests a physical explanation
of mental deterioration and altered personality, with loss of
responsibility.
Applying these facts to the case of the B6 personality, then,
I would consider that the influenza toxin or the meningitis
had damaged the extreme surface or top of the pyramidal layer,
and so prevented the higher mental development which occurs
between puberty and adolescence. The case now resembles one
of neurasthenia. The patient complains of bodily weakness ;
she soon gets tired ; there is loss of memory ; brain fag ;
exhaustion after mental effort, and want of power of application ;
yet her intelligence and moral faculties are unimpaired. Does
not this case throw some light on the condition of neurasthenia,
for we know that the latter often occurs through derangement
of internal organs which are controlled by the sympathetic
nerves ? Just as the finger tips in neurasthenic people are
benumbed by arrested circulation, so the sympathetic disturbance
in the brain circulation may arrest the functional activity of
what we may provisionally term the " brain tips," or most
distant and external parts of the brain.
The chief features of scientific interest in this case are:
(1) That the normal A was absolutely ignorant of the
abnormal B, and, on the whole, vice versa, although the ab
normal B sometimes showed a glimmer of knowledge of the
normal A.
(2) Among the many abnormal sub-stages, each sub-stage
was a separate personality, continuous with itself throughout
its different appearances, and originally ignorant of every other
sub-stage, though sometimes learning a little about the incidents
of other stages, probably through hearing conversations.
(3) These personalities were switched on and off without
any apparent rhyme or reason. During the process of change
xlIX.] 383
A Case of Multiple Personality.
there was generally some physical disturbance, such as shock,
pallor or flushing, and alteration of facial expression.
Some would call this a case of somnambulism, and would
maintain that the normal A is now merely asleep. This is
not my view. I hold that each of the sub-stages is as much
an individual or character as the normal A, each of them
being merely a fraction of the complete personality or Ego.
From this point of view, it seems to me that the case throws
new light on the mechanism of the brain, and its relation to
mind and personality.
It is generally known that the brain is mapped out into
functional areas, viz., Sensory areas receiving impressions of
smell, sight, taste, touch, and hearing ; also Motor areas to
direct the movement of different parts of the body.
There are besides three areas called association centres :
the frontal, the temporal, and the parieto-occipital area behind.
As the name indicates, these associate or bring into harmonious
co-operation the other active nerve groups (see Plate IX.,
rig. i).
The association areas represent the higher intellectual or
mental grades, and Dr. Bolton considers that they are the first
to decay. These higher centres contain a large proportion of
embryonic or rudimentary cells, showing that they are still in
process of evolution. Dr. Watson has shown that the cortex
of the human and the rabbit's brain are about equal in depth,
except in the association areas, which in the rabbit are only
half the depth or thickness of similar parts in man.
My hypothesis assumes that the pyramidal layer of the
brain may be divided as a whole or in part into " districts."
Diagrammatically we may conceive of these districts as
being different levels in the cortex, especially in the asso
ciation areas, the deeper inner ones representing more
developed stages than the upper levels, because they are
functionally older. Thus we may suppose there is a low
level or district corresponding to the age of three or four ;
higher up would be the district coming into play at the
age of twenty ; a still higher one would become active at
thirty, and so on ; each in turn superseding and taking
command of the lower districts. In senile decay we see
the reverse process occurring ; the upper layers decaying
2c
384 [PART
Dr. Albert Wilson.
or falling out of use, and the lower ones coming into play
again.
Now these different districts may be supposed to correspond
to different personalities. As a rule there is no apparent
break in character as the individual grows up, because the
change from each district to the next is gradual and con
tinuous. But morbid conditions in the brain may throw back
the individual to earlier stages, from which he may suddenly
revert to others, or the later stages may be prevented by
morbid causes from developing.
In the case of Mary Barnes, B1, the stage of mania, might
be caused by congestion of the smaller blood-vessels, giving
rise to an over-stimulation of the cortex.
In B2 spasm of the anterior cerebral arteries would shut
off the frontal association centre, and paralyse the foot
(see diagram of arterial blood-supply, Plate IX., Fig. 2).
Intellectually B2 was a child of three or four. Though she
had a storehouse of words, she could not use them or associate
them with their proper meanings.
B4, the deaf-mute stage, might be caused by spasm of the
middle cerebral arteries, supplying the centres for hearing and
speech—perhaps only on the left or active side.
B7 resembled a state of senile decay. If the recently educated
layers were paralysed, the lower cells with their early
memories might become active.
B10 is easily explained by the shutting off of the blood
supply to the sensory visual apparatus, the psychic visual
centre, which has a different blood supply, being undisturbed.
Hence she could originate the remarkable pictures described
above. B10 gives strong support to my vascular theory.
In B9, where the lower animal instincts prevailed, there
was probably uncontrolled activity of the deeper layers of the
cortex with temporary paralysis of the upper layers. The
theory would support the view that all our bad impulses are
relics of our earliest ancestral development ; or, in other
words, the power of animal instincts and passions over intellect.
On the other hand, the present stage of B6, which seems,
intellectually at least, to be in some respects more highly
developed than the original normal stage A, may only be
the normal increase of brain activity during the last three or
XLIX.] 385
A Case of MvMiple Personality.
four years. We must also remember that B6 is an arrested
development. Now in 1904 Mary Barnes is actually 21
years of age, but she is intellectually only about 16 years
old. In theory one would expect that the outer, less stable
cortical cells, which are also embryonic and poorly developed,
have not arrived at their full and normal activity. Vascular
changes in the sympathetic might retard their development.
The whole conception is consistent with Mr. Myers's theory
of the constitution of the Ego, according to which only a
portion of it is manifest to us in our present life. While the
whole Ego remains intact, one portion or another may become
manifest according to different physical conditions and the
environment of the individual, so presenting the appearance
of a truncated personality or shifting series of personalities.
What has to be attempted, then, in our present life is to
facilitate the manifestation of the best personality of each Ego.
If so be that the mind comprises so many personalities,
good, bad, and indifferent, does it not shed light on the duties
of those who have the training of the young?
This case having led us to the belief that the varying
personalities may to some extent be explained by a fuller
knowledge of the structure of the brain cortex, also throws
new light on the psychical question of habit.
The more recent ideas on habit are that it represents the
path of least resistance along nerve channels. It is thought
that constant use overcomes nerve resistance both in the fibres
and at the junctions or synapses of the different neurones.
This theory is based on the knowledge that sensory tracts
leading to the brain do not become active or insulated (myelin
ated) until stimulated from without. It is, however, contrary to
the laws of conductivity and resistance in copper and other metals.
But if we consider habits involving skill, such as writing
or piano playing or carving, are we to suppose that the optic
nerves conduct better after two or more years' practice ? Is
it not rather that the visuo-psychic areas are more educated ?
Do the nerves from the cortical motor areas really conduct to
the hand and fingers with more facility after years of practice ?
Or are not the motor cells more educated, and does not their
increased functional activity direct and originate the more
complex movements?
386 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
If my view be correct, habit is of the same nature as a
personality. Habit may be regarded, then, as belonging to a
brain area or district, or as a personality which is specially
educated at some period of life. When the higher Ego is
feeble or inactive, habits of lower type and absence of skill
obtain. It is only by close attention or the influence of the
highest intellect that good and skilled habits develop, which
place the personality in a higher sphere of life.
This subject merits the attention of those who have to
educate the young, and aid them in the formation of char
acter, which is perhaps but a personality.
In science we speak of the mind possessing the power of
inhibition. In popular language we call it self-control, or the
power to resist immediate gratification for the sake of future
good. But do we resist evil ? or do we not rather flee from it
and turn our backs on it ? An evil . personality may be tend
ing to get the upper hand. Should we allow it to remain
and fight it ? or should not the process rather be that of
striving to pass to another and nobler personality ? Bather
than a mere negative inhibition, is it not a power of switch
ing off the vital current from the bad district or personality,
and turning it into a more desirable channel ?
If we go among the masses we find adverse circumstances
working terrible havoc among the children, such as bad air,
malnutrition, sickness from improper exposure, brain attacks,
or meningitis, fits, and above all, bad heredity due to drunken
parents. The children that survive are liable to become
abnormal, even degenerate and criminal. But we cannot
regard them as fully responsible for their actions and ten
dencies. We have to remember that they have never had
a fair chance of developing their normal personality or their
highest Ego. Circumstances over which they have no control
have switched them on to a wrong path physically at the
beginning of their lives, and prevented them from acquiring
the self-control of the properly civilised man.
The case I have described illustrates the dependency of the
mind on the body. From this we may infer the impossibility
of overcoming adverse physical conditions after they have
reached a certain point and with this fact before us, it
follows that our first duty to the race is to attempt to
XLIX.] A Case of Multiple Personality. 387
ameliorate those social conditions which now so largely
handicap it.
APPENDIX I.
Writings of the Different Personalities.1
The following is a selection from some of the letters written
by the different personalities :
(1)
[To her father: written forwards by B2, January 28th, 1896.]
My own dear farser,
ou is de versy best darlint in all de weald dere is no vone
in de weald like you ou is doing to have a bath /vitch I hope
ou vill enjoy ve did go to see de dear doctor Vilson and lady
Vilson but dey was jist doing out so I could oney just peak to
dem Goodbye my dardint
/ou's oving ittle
daughter Good Shrine.
(2)
[To Dr. Wilson; written backwards by B2, March 18th, 1896.]
the nice doctor
if you is coming to see me to night i wull be good if you do not
hit a fing on me you was a bit naugthy when you did that you
know old jim did not do that, the dear tom and mary ann say
you is a nice man and i say you is and every body else
(3)
[To Dr. Wilson, to whom she now applied the name she had
before given to a doctor who had attended her during the
influenza; written backwards by B2, November 1st, 1896, during
the mania state.]
My dear old jim
you may expect a good old blowing up for not
coming to see me today i was going to give you a grape but I
wont now because you are a very wicked boy not to come and see
me
good thing
1 For reproductions of some of the writings and drawings see Plates I.-VII.
388 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
(4)
[To Dr. Wilson ; written forwards by B2, probably
in February, 1897.]
For the new jim or rather the gentleman who says he is a jim
and who says he is jims brother but he is not because he has not
got a gammy leg and my jim was only a lean short man and this
one is a big tall man
good thing to Jim
(5)
[Postcard written by B3, addressed to her father,
from M , August 7th, 1896.]
My Pet
I wish you would bring those oil skins down with you as
we have spoken to a boatman about them and he knows how to
cure them and will be glad of them Mr. Hanley our boatman
Goodbye dear I shall soon see my darling God bless him
Old Nick
(6)
[To Dr. Wilson ; written by B3, August 26th, 1896.]
M , Essex.
Dear Sir,
Just a line to tell you I am not in L but at M
with my dear old Tom.
I am very sorry I did not write you the Post card you asked
me to but I went away on the Saturday and quite forgot all
about it but I know you will forgive me and I hope this will do
as well.
The dear doctor Wilson I am enjoying myself lovely with boat
ing bathing and paddling going on.
The dear old Tom and me are just going out to get the dinner
so I have not any more time to say any more but I remain
Your ever loving
Old Nick.
in Haste.
xlix.] A Case of Multiple Personality. 389
(?)
[Written by B3. Received April 6th, 1897; see above, p. 376.]
In Bed
3 hours after I woke up
My dear Dr. Wilson
I am writing you a few lines to let you know Poor
old Nick has woke up I will tell you all about it I woke up
all at once at about J to 2 o'clock & found myself in bed with
the room all dark & with my night dress on & with Bottles on
the drawers & all kinds of things that people would have if they
were ill. I was all by myself & the place dreadfully quiet so
I called out "Why have you put me in bed" then I really
had to laugh till the tears ran down my cheeks because it was
so strange and funny. Then Tom & Munger & Giggler came
in all looking dazed & Frightened & I was so surprised that we
did not know what to say for quite a little while. Do you know
I felt so strange because I went to sleep in September & now
they tell me it is April 1897 instead of September 1896. I
cant make it out I dont know that I can believe but that it
is the same day as when I went to sleep because you know I
went to sleep on Sunday at the same time as I woke up. I went
to sleep you know when we were having dinner one Sunday &,
1 woke up on Sunday when they were having the same dinner
you know Mutton & Potatoes & greens all the very same except
Fruit Pudding it seems so funny to go to sleep such a very
long time Every thing was the same except I was in bed all
cuddled up in wraps & Hot water bottle at my feet & every
think so funny. I feels quite strong & cannot make out why I
am in bed. But I am going to get up tomorrow I feel so very
disapointed you are away but I hope very much you are enjoy
ing your self & that you will soon behome because I have gallons
of news to tell you.
I have done you a drawing and I am sending it to you with
2 of the others that another critter tom Tells me did for you
while 1 have been asleep I will tell you thati there are a whole
Pile of Drawings here that she has done for you & there are 2
beautiful Pictures here that she has done for you Proper Pictures
I mean with ladies & Birds & Trees & Fence all colored in too
you know [see Plate IV. for reproduction of picture referred to].
390 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
I have a little more to tell you & that is that came for a
few minutes almost directly after I woke up. I think I can tell
you no more until you come home
I remain your Loving little Friend
Poor old Nick
(8)
[Written by B3.]
Aug. 12th, 1897.
Dear Dr. Wilson,
I daresay you will be surprised to hear that I am in
M and am enjoying myself exceedingly. You told me you
kept the other letters I sent you so I thought I would send you
another as I want to tell you how I can swim and float and
dive. I go in the water nearly every day for I like being in
the water very much indeed. Dear Dr. Wilson last time I saw
you, you were in your carriage, and you had Mrs. Wilson with
you and she had some thing on her eye and I want to know if
she has hurt it very much and if it is better I do hope so. We
have been in M nearly a fortnight now and we have got
to go home at the end of next week.
Hoping you are quite well
Your sincere little friend
Old Nick.
(9)
[Written by B6.]
2nd June, [1898].
Dear Dr. Wilson
I am writing you a letter to tell you how I am enjoying
myself in M . It is such a glorious place I have never been
to such a lovely place before. [see B3's letters of Aug. 26th, 189G,
and Aug. 12th, 1897, written from M ]
We are having such dreadfully bad weather here, we have hardly-
had a fine day yet, and it is that bitterly cold here, that I have
not been able to bathe.
Tomadod said that if I went in perhaps I should have a very
great breckart and then get drowned so that he could never see
me any more. I have not given up all hopes of going in the
water yet as Munger says that if a very very warm fine day was to
XL1X.] 391
A Case of Multiple Personality.
come she would let me go in I should so love to go in because I
believe I can swim and yet cannot be quite sure until I have tried.
Dear Dr. Wilson I have enjoyed myself so much this Whitsun for
on Monday we went out all day to a beautiful place called Mill
Beach and on Tuesday we went for a drive but it came on to rain
in the afternoon very badly I think this is all I have to say so
Goodbye your ever loving little friend
Critter Barnes.
[Correct surname given in original.]
(10)
[Written by B6 October 9th, 1898.]
Dear Dr. Wilson
I daresay you will be very much surprised to hear that
I am staying in Suffolk for another Holiday I daresay this will
be the last this summer so I am going to stay for a fortnight
or a little over. I am enjoying myself immensly and I went
blackberrying this morning and I daresay I gathered two or three
lbs. I am staying with one of Mother's friends she is such a nice
lady and she keeps a farm house there are plenty of Horses Ducks
Chickins Pigs Bullocks Etc and I am feeling Al and I am
getting quite a country girl I shall soon know how to feed chickens
and all kinds of things. I think this is all at present so Goodbye
Hoping you are quite well
I remain yours Truly
M. Barnes.
[Correct initials and surname given in original]
(11)
[To her father; written backwards by B9, October 12th, 1896.]
the dear tomadod just a line to you to tell you how much I
wish you was here. I hope there is something in your pocket
to night I remain yours truly
I dont know who I am so I cant Put my name
(12)
[Another letter written backwards on the same day, October 12th,
1896, was as follows:]
My dear tom
I have just got up. I hope you are not worried. I
shall be glad when you come home so you can give me some
browns.
392 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
(13)
[Letter addressed by B9 on November 22nd, 1896, to Dr. Wil
son, to whom the name " .Jim " had been transferred at this
stage. It refers to the incident of B2 having a tooth
extracted early in the same month. This letter was written
forwards.]
The dear Jim
I thought I would write you just a line to let you know
I really do begin to like you very much, after what you did to
me three Tuesdays ago. You know what I mean when you brought
that other naughty wicked man in your beautiful carriage. I can
assure you I wish he was here now so that I could fight him like
he fighted me.
I remain Your little friend
The Dreadful Wicked Creature.
The Jim.
[To Dr. Wilson ; written by B10.]
Februgesy the fourteenth
18 ninty seven
Sunday
The dear voice I am writting a letter to tell you lots of things
you come to see me last night and I was so jedfulls pleased and I
did like the doctor Cross, when I went out this morning I was
listening all the time to see if I could hear you but I couldnt and
I shall like to go there to London soon because I like to ride quick
goodby dear voice I hope I shall soon see you I am the Toms lamb
and I have nearly made that sock what I showed you Goodbye
dear voice Toms Lamb
Febugesy
(15)
[Written by B6 in March, 1904.]
Dear Dr. Wilson,
I am writing to say that I shall be able to keep ap
pointment for next Monday, if you will write me full particulars.
Thanking you very much for all your kindness,
Believe me yours sincerely,
xlix.] A Case- of Multiple Personality. 393
Comments on the Writings and Drawings of the
Secondary Personalities.
By Alice Johnson.
The letters and drawings of the different personalities of
Mary Barnes show in many respects curious analogies with
the trance or automatic performances of mediums. It often
happens with mediums who write automatically that the
handwriting differs from their ordinary hand and varies
greatly at different times, and often the different handwritings
are associated with different supposed " controls." Sometimes,
even, the handwriting resembles more or less closely that
of some deceased person who is thought to be controlling
{e.g. in the case of Mile. Helene Smith, who wrote signa
tures resembling those found in some old documents, as
recorded by Prof. Flournoy in Dcs Indes a la Planete Mars,
p. 409 ; and in a case occurring among the trance pheno
mena of Mrs. Thompson described in the Proceedings, Part
XLVII., pp. 235-243). I need not here discuss the question
—which must obviously depend on the circumstances of each
particular case—whether such resemblance affords evidence of
the agency of the deceased person ; but the fact of the
variety of handwriting being found in a case of secondary
personality shows that for this feature, at least, we need not
seek for a cause outside the individuality of the writer. 1%
affords, in fact, another link between the phenomena of trance
and of secondary personality.
For this reason it seems worth while to analyse the
writings of Mary Barnes in some detail, and in order that
the reader may follow the description, several specimens taken
from the letters quoted above in full are here reproduced.
Several distinct styles of handwriting are shown which,
however, are not consistent in their connection with the
different personalities. The principal styles are as follows :—
(1) The backwards writing in which, while the whole runs
from left to right, each word is written from right to left.
Both B2 and B9 at first wrote in this way (see repro
ductions in Plate I. and Plate III., Fig. 1). Indications of the
394 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
way the writing was done may be seen in three cases in
which the last letter or letters of a word were first written
and then crossed out, and followed by the whole word (see
"gt" for "night" in Plate I., and "n" for "in" and "ur"
for "your" in Plate III., Fig. 1). The backwards writing of
B2 was closely similar to that of B9, but when they wrote
forwards in the ordinary manner, their writings were quite
different. The forwards writing of B2 in letter (4) is very
much like her backwards writing, but more regular ; in letter
(1) her writing is like that of B7, to be next described.
(2) Writing of B7. This is a fully formed but uneducated-
looking hand, characterised by superfluous tags at the beginnings
and superfluous flourishes at the ends of words ; also by the indi
vidual letters being compressed from side to side, while the
strokes joining them are disproportionately drawn out. The same
characteristics are found in much of the writing of the blind B10.
(3) Writing of B3. There are several different specimens
of this, the earliest being the postcard addressed to her
father on August 7th, 1896, and quoted above. In this the
style is much more childish than that of B7, but contains
slight traces both of the flourishes and of the compression of
the letters found in the latter style. The writing is very
careless and irregular. The next specimen was the letter
written to Dr. Wilson soon after, on August 26th, 1896,
evidently written with much more care. B9's letter (No. 13),
written forwards on November 22nd, 1896, is very similar
to the third specimen of Bo, which was written on April
4th, 1897, and part of which is reproduced in Plate II.,
Fig I. This is a clear round childish writing, containing a
rather peculiar form of the letter " k " which does not occur
in any other of the writings. The latest specimen of B3 is
dated August 12th, 1897. It retains the round childish
character, each letter being formed with care and correctness,
but the capital " D's " take on the form of those of B6 (see
Plate II., Fig. 2) in that the return upward stroke stops
short of the initial downward stroke. The whole writing of
B3, in fact, is similar to the early writings of B6, as may be
seen by comparing (1) and (2) on Plate II. Later B6 writes
more flowingly and the letters become less correctly formed,
the style developing into that shown in Plate III., Fig. 2.
xux.] 395
A Case of Multiple Personality.
(4) Writing of B10. This varies a good deal. The earliest
specimens are dated January 3rd, 1897 (the B10 personality
having first appeared on December 29th, 1896); some of
these resemble planchette writing, being large and sprawling
and characterless ; other parts are like the writing of B7,
already described ; in others again the letters are long and
sloping, like the writing reproduced in Plate II., Fig. 3, which
was done a few weeks later, on February 14th, when she
could see a very little, whereas at the beginning of January
she was quite blind.
With regard to the contents of these writings a few points
may be noted :
B2's first letter to her father (No. 1 above) dated January
28th, 1896, shows an excessively—not to say artificially—
childish style of phonetic spelling ; it is noteworthy that in two
cases a word is begun with the right spelling and then the
correct initial letter is crossed out, and the word finally
spelt wrong ;—she begins to spell " which " with a " w," then
crosses it out and writes " vitch " ; and later on begins
'• your " with a " y," then crosses it out and writes " ou's."
The whole performance suggests not so much a child as an
elder person imagining herself to be a child ; as if the normal
consciousness were deliberately, and not quite successfully,
trying to suppress itself to give full play to the dramatic
instincts of the subliminal. So little, indeed, in this case was
the normal consciousness submerged that it cropped up spon
taneously and required no external suggestion or artifice to
elicit it, such as was used in the incident of the correct
counting to which Mr. Piddington has drawn attention (see
below, p. 411) when B10 could only count 1, 2, 1, 2; but
was suddenly surprised into counting up to 5.
In a piece of writing by B7 there are indications of the
opposite extreme, explicit knowledge being shown of a fact
which the normal Mary Barnes had probably forgotten, or
perhaps never consciously known. B7 wrote :
March 16th, 1895.
The dear old Dada and Mother. The dear old Doctor H .
The dear old doctor G . The dear doctor Wilson. The dear
old nurse who came from the Union to nurse mama when she had
diptheiria. Miss Mlarian Bearnet.
306 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
The date given at the top of this writing was incorrect ;
it was really written on May 13th, 1896, on the back of a
ticket for a public meeting at the Mansion House on May
12th, 1896. March 16th, 1895, was before the illness
which started the series of varying personalities, and the
mention of this date is perhaps another indication of the fact
that the memory of B7 included incidents in the life of the
normal personality A. This extended memory is shown in the
interesting reference to her mother's illness which occurred
when Mary Barnes was under two years old ; in the reference
to her parents as such, instead of as Tom and Mary Ann ;
in the use of the correct names of the doctors ; and again in
the signature " Miss Mlarian Bearnet," 1 an obvious variant
of the real name.
It may be remembered that Ansel Bourne adopted during
his secondary personality a similar variant of his real name,
calling himself A. J. Brown.
At a later stage, B6 signed herself " Critter Barnes," but
only after she had been taught what her real surname was.
Finally she dropped the " Critter," and used her proper signa
ture, after having been taught it.
The drawings illustrate the development of faculties latent
in the normal personality, and it is curious, though (as Mr.
Piddington points out, p. 408) not without parallel, that they
began in the blind stage, B10.
B10 having first appeared on December 29th, 1896,
began to draw on January 3rd, 1897, when completely blind,
and a large number of drawings were executed on that day.
The first ones represent faces, drawn on a large scale and in
bold outlines. Dr. Wilson notes that to produce these she
felt her own face, and then drew her pictures by touch. The
first of all is drawn in profile, the length of the face being
about 5 inches. There are also four large full-face drawings,
closely resembling one another, the faces being from 8 to 9
inches long. Next comes a half-length figure—apparently of
a man—and another large profile face, with very elaborate
head gear. After this, the fashion-plate type shown in Plate
V. predominates, and there are about half-a-dozen half or full
1The signature actually written was as much like the real name as "Mlarian
Bearnet" is like "Mary Barnes."
xlix.] A Case of Multiple Personality. 397
length figures of elaborately-dressed ladies—one, marked " Bride,"
with a veil, others with elaborate coiffures, and one with a
hat and veil. In this last case, the veil is described as added
after the rest of the figure was drawn. A note on it states
that, as she could not see, she asked for her forefinger to be
placed on the neck of the figure, and then drew a veil in
the correct position. On one of the other drawings, it is
noted that her father moved the paper as she was in the
middle of drawing, so that the skirt was drawn at a con
siderable distance from the upper part of the figure. Dr.
Wilson states that later on her sense of touch became much
more acute, so that, if the paper was moved while she was in
the middle of drawing, she could find out for herself, by feeling
it, where to continue the lines.
These early drawings are mixed up with a good deal of
writing, either mere lists of names and words, or apparently
casual remarks,—possibly referring to conversations going on
around her,—or fragmentary reminiscences of music-hall songs,
such as the following:
Dear Father
I want some pudding Toms Lamb
She was a dear little dickey Bird
Chip, Chip, Chip she went
Sweetly she sang to me till all my money was spent
She went of song we parted on fighting terms
For she was one of the eary birds and I was one of the worms.
We will retire to the other- room for a short interval to discuss
nessessary matters Old Sam.
The writing, both in form and contents, strongly resembles
the elementary stages of automatic writing with which psychi
cal researchers are familiar.
A series of pictures executed about a month later are much
better drawn ; the faces are more correct, and have a certain
variety of expression, though fundamentally similar and all
in profile. The figures, again, are of the fashion-plate type.
They are drawn in pencil and coloured with chalks. At this
time B10 had begun to recover her sight, but was extremely
short-sighted, not being able to see anything clearly more
than about three inches from her eyes (see Dr. Tvveedy's report).
398 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
Her habit of occasionally holding up the crayons to her eye,
so close that they sometimes touched the cornea, suggested,
however, that for practical purposes she could not see at all,
and Dr. Wilson thought that these drawings, too, were
really executed by touch. It was a significant feature of
this condition that the cornea was completely insensitive, as
sometimes occurs with subjects in a deep state of trance.
Later in February, as described in Dr. Wilson's account,
the B6 or B2 personality appeared again ; but in the middle
of March the imbecile state, B10, returned, and was even
worse than before, being paralysed, blind, deaf, and dumb.
Her sense of touch in guiding the pencil and copying was
now even more acute than before, and the drawings were
still better executed. It is to this period that the two draw
ings reproduced on Plates V. and VI. belong. The one given
on Plate IV. belongs to a slightly earlier period, March 7th
to 14th, when B10 was alternating with B2, and it shows
more imagination and power of composition than any of the
other specimens.
Diary of Appearances of Different Personalities.
A = Normal state.
B = Abnormal state, of which
there were ten varieties, as
follows :
Bl—Mania of 3rd and 4th weeks
of the acute illness.
Bla—Coma cephalgia of the 2nd
and 3rd weeks of illness in
1895.
B2—Childish ; "a thing," "good
thing."
B3—"Nick."
B4—Deaf and dumb.
B5—-Thinks herself only 3 days
old.
B6—" Pretty dear," " good crea
ture," or " Tom's darling."
B7—" Adjuice Uneza."
B8—Thinks she was only born
last night.
B9—Various degeneracies,
"dreadful wicked creature."
B10—Blind, and draws; "Tom's
Lamb."
In the following table, the first appearance of each personality is
indicated by the black type. When no date is given, the personality
is continued from the last date mentioned. Details of A are given
separately below.
1895.
Easter,
Ap. 21-May 5,
May 6-19, .
. Influenza.
Relapse.
Bla.
Bl.
May 20-26, .
May and June \
to July 20, )
July 20-23, .
July 24-Aug. 8,
B2.
B2.
B2.
B3.
XLIX.] 399
A Case of Multiple Personality.
Aug. 8, . . B4.
Aug. and Sept. . B4 and B2.
Oct. and Nov. . B4 for 14 days
and B2.
Oct. 27, . 1st tooth extrac
tion. B2.
to Nov. 26, . . B2.
Nov. 26 to Dec. 20 B5.
Dec. 20 to Jan. . Bl.
1896.
Jan. 12
Jan. 14-
Jan. 22,
Feb. 7,
Feb. 9-2
Feb. 26,
Mar. 1,
Mar. 1-4,
Mar. 6,
Mar. 7,
Mar. 7-18,
Mar. 18-27,
to Apr. 4,
Apr. 18-23,
Apr. 23,
May 5,
May 6,
May 7,
May 11,
May 12,
May 17-30,
Feb. 7,
Bl, Bl".
B2.
May 31,
June 7-13,
June 14-20,
June 20,
June 21-24,
June 24-30,
July 3,
July 6,
July 8,
Shown at Clinical
Society. B2.
. Bl and Bl".
. B2. Seen by
Dr. Savill.
Seen by Drs. Jones,
Meikle, Bramwell,
Barrett as B2.
B2 changing to Bl
. Bl and B2.
. Bl,finally B2.
. B2.
. B2, Bl" for
half hour.
. B2, Bl" for
half hour.
B2, convulsions.
. B3.
. B2.
. Bl".
. B6.
. B2.
. Bl".
. B6 and B7-
. B7 leaving,
B2 coming.
. B2 and B7.
. B7-B6-B2.
. B4-B6.
Convulsions, B6.
. B8.
. B7 and B9.
B6. Dr. Tuckey's visit.
B6-B2.
B3.
to Aug. 1, . . B3.
July 18and|Blforfewminutes
Aug. 8, /
Aug. 1-Sept. 20, . B3.
Sept. 20, . . B6.
Sept. 26, . . B3 and B6.
Oct. 10, . . B6, B7, B9.
Oct. 10-16, . . B9.
Oct. 16, B9, B3 for half hour.
Oct. 17, „
Oct. 18-30, . . B9.
Oct. 31, . . Bl. .
Nov. 1-20, . B2. 2nd tooth
extraction.
Nov. 20-Dec. 10, . B9 and B2.
Dec. 10, . . B6.
Dec. 29, . . B6-B9.
Dec. 29, . B10.
1897.
Jan. 31, by Dr.
Feb. 13,
Feb. 26,
B10. Seen
Enraght.
B10. Seen by Dr.
Cross.
Gradually B6 or B2.
Shown at Clinical Society.
March 14, . . B10.
Mar. 25-Apr. 4, B10 with coma.
April 4, . . B3.
May 3, B3. Seen byDr. Cross.
May 12, . . B3.
May 13-June 26, . B6.
June 26-30, Bl. Seen by
Dr. Barlow.
. B3.
. B6.
. B6.
. Bl".
. B6.
. B6.
like B9 and Bl".
(Paralysed in legs from May
31 to July 8.)
June 30,
Aug. 22,
Nov. 9,
Nov. 9-19,
Nov. 20,
1898.
to March 24,
March 24-31 \
to Apr. 10, J
April 7-10, . Changing to B6.
From this date, viz. three
years after the illness began,
B6 continued for the next six
years, up to the present date,
1904, and seems now to have
become permanent.
2 I>
400 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
Diary of Appearances of the Normal State A.
1895.
May 20. . . . B2 arrives. A comes for 2 to 6 or 7 hours.
July 6. . .A less frequent and shorter, appears only 3 or 4
times, and lasts 5 minutes to 2 hours.
Aug. 8. . .A comes more often, but not for longer periods.
Oct. 27. . . .A less frequent ; may be absent for 2 or 3 days.
Father can call A back.
Dec. 20 . . .A very irregular. Perhaps once a day or
misses 3 or 4 days, and only comes for a few-
minutes at a time.
1896.
Jan. 13. . . .A came back at 3 a.m., and twice at 8 and
9 A.M.
Jan. 18. . . .A came lately many times, but for a few
minutes only.
Jan. 26 to Feb. 1. .A came only once, and for 10 minutes.
Feb. 2 to Feb. 8. . A came only once, and for 2 minutes.
Feb. 9 to Feb. 15. .A did not come once.
Feb. 16 to Feb. 22. . A came only twice, for a minute.
Feb. 28. . .A came four or five times, once for half an hour.
Mar. 7. . .A came several times, once for twenty minutes.
Mar. 8 to 14. . . Frequently normal. Her father brings A back
by cuddling.
Mar. 20 to 21. . . Frequently A.
Mar. 27. . . . Seldom A.
Mar. 29 to Apr. 4. . Seldom A.
Apr. 5 to 11. . . Not once A.
Apr. 12 to Apr. 18. . Not once A.
Apr. 19 to 25. . . Not once A.
May 1. . . . A for 1 hour.
May 2 to 9. . . Not once A.
May 17 to 30. . Very seldom A.
June 7 to 13. . .A comes often ; may be able to walk or may be
paralysed.
June 13. . . . A for 2 hours.
XLTX.] 401
A Case of Multiple Personality.
July 3. . .A came for half an hour. Has been absent
many days.
July 7. . .A came for 1 minute.
July 19 to Aug. 1. .A comes only for a moment, and is brought by
caressing.
Aug. 18. . . . A is only brought by caressing.
Aug. 23 to Sep. . A comes frequently for about 2 minutes in a
particular road at .
Sep. 4 and 5. . .A comes often after bathing, often for 10
minutes, once for an hour and a half.
Sep. 6 to 19. .A not often.
Oct. and Nov. . . A is very rare, and can only be brought by
caressing.
Dec 27. . . .A comes nearly every day since 11th for 3 or 4
minutes, sometimes spontaneously, sometimes
brought by caressing.
1897.
Jan. 14. . . .A came for 4 minutes during the blind stage.
Jan. 16 and 23. . A came 3 or 4 times for a few minutes; and
momentarily on several other days towards
the end of January.
Jan. 31. . . .A came when blind, being induced by use of
the ophthalmoscope.
Feb. and Mar. . . A almost entirely absent.
May 3. . .A will not come now, not even in place where
she used to come in a certain road. Resists
her father's calling.
May 13. . . .A came after B3, and was succeeded by B6.
June, July, and Aug." A almost always absent now. The patient
was at , but A came very seldom.
Aug. 22. . . .A came once for 4 minutes.
Oct, 30. . . .1 tried to photograph A, but failed.
1898.
Mar. 24. . . .A practically gone. If A is called, the patient
resists and strikes out.
May 24. . . . When father calls A, the patient falls down
unconscious.
402 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
Description of Illustrations.
Plates I.-III. Reproductions of handwritings of the different
personalities.
Plate I.
Writing by B2. In the original each word was written back
wards, i.e. from right to left.
Plate II.
(1) Writing by B3, (2) by B6, (3) by B10.
Plate III.
(1) Writing by B9 (in the original each word was written back
wards), (2) writing by B6, in March, 1904.
Plates IV.-VI. Reproductions of drawings by the different
personalities.
Plate IV.
Drawing by the blind personality, B10, during the week March
7th to 14th, 1897 ; reduced from the original, which is 17 ins.
by 11| ins.
Plate V.
Drawing by the blind personality, BI0, on March 18th, 1897 ;
reduced from the original, which is about 6 ins. by 10 ins.
Plate VI.
Drawing by B10 on March 22nd, 1897, reduced from the
original, which is about 6 ins. by 10 ins.; intended to represent the
nurse who attended her in that stage, but not at all like her.
The nurse said she would like to be drawn holding a bottle in
her hand; so B10 asked to be allowed to feel the bottle, and
then drew it. She made five other drawings on the same day.
Plate VII., Fig. 1.
Drawing by B3 or "Nick." This took two days to do—April
11th and 12th, 1897.
XLIX.] 403
A Case of Multiple Personality.
Plate VII., Fig. 2.
Drawing by B6, or "Good Creature," on May 13th, 1897. When
she drew this, she burst out laughing at the picture "Nick" had
drawn on April 11th and 12th.
Plate VIII.
Diagram of sections through the cortex of the human and the
rabbit's brain, reproduced by the courtesy of Dr. G. A. Watson.
The cortex in both is divided into five layers (marked here
I, II, III, Iv, v) which develop from below upwards. At birth all
layers are already formed. The deepest layer (v) is called the poly
morphic from the varying shapes of its cells. It is the first to develop,
and with layer iv appears about the sixth month of foetal life. The
pyramidal (ii) and other layers appear about the 7th to 8th month of
foetal life. They are then about three-quarters of their depth in the
adult. At birth the polymorphic and layer iv are not quite their final
thickness, while the granular layer (in) is only three-quarters of its
final thickness, and the pyramidal layer only one half. These details
illustrate the fact that the course of development is from below
upwards or from within outwards. We can, therefore, safely infer
that the functional activity of the layers comes into play in the same
order.
The polymorphic layer is as large or thick in animals as in man.
In this diagram it is seen to be even thicker in the rabbit than in man.
For the rabbit has but little intelligence, and therefore has to rely on
well-developed instincts.
The granular layer (ill) does not demand special notice here. It
receives impressions from the sensory organs.
The pyramidal layer (ii) is the most important one for us to
consider here. It is the last to develop, and the first to go in
dementia. It also decays first on the outer surface, for in this part
many of the cells have not reached perfection, being of the type
called embryonic.
Compare the depth of this layer in the normal human brain as
shown in the diagram (-86 mm.) with its depth in the rabbit
(*14 mm.). It is thus six times as thick in the human as in the
rabbit's brain, which alone indicates an enormous difference in
intellectual power.
404 Dr. Albert Wilson.
Plate IX. Fig. 1.
Bight side of the brain, showing the association and sensori motor
areas of the certex. M is the motor area. The foot centre is at
the top, and the lips and speech centres at the bottom ; other centres
intervene. H points to the centre of hearing ; V to the sensori-visual
centre, that is, the centre where the images of objects seen and focussed
by the eye acting as a photographic camera are, so to speak, finally
developed or perceived. In the blind imbecile the pyramidal layer
is here undeveloped and thin (according to Bolton).
The clear spaces P, OT and F represent the association areas,
which associate the impressions received in the sensory areas for
purposes of higher mentation.
Drs. G. A. Watson and J. S. Bolton regard the visuo-sensory area
(V) as of relatively little psychic value, comparing its development
in the human and other "seeing" animals with the much larger
visual psychic or association area (P) which surrounds the visuo-sensory.
In this visuo-psychic area all sight impressions are stored and analysed.
In copying or drawing from a copy or painting from nature, the image
of the object is focussed by the eye, which is like a camera, with the
retina as a screen. From the eye the image is impressed on the visuo-
sensory area (V) and thence it is analysed and stored in the association
centre P. From the visuo-psychic area (P) messages for guidance as to
the form and colour of the drawing are sent to the hand centre in M.
Plate IX., Fig. 2.
Eight side of the brain, showing the arterial blood supply. There
are three areas, marked PC, MC and AC, supplied by three arteries.
Posteriorly (PC) the blood supply comes from the posterior cerebral, a
branch of the vertebral artery. Anteriorly, and along the top of the
brain (including the foot centre) in the region marked AC, the blood
supply comes from the anterior cerebral artery. In the middle region
marked MC, which includes the large motor area, and also the hearing
and taste centres, the blood supply is from the middle cerebral artery.
The two last are both branches of the carotid artery. But all these
arteries intermingle in the capillaries. The anterior association centre,
which is the highest psychic centre, is supplied by the anterior cerebral
artery. The posterior association or visuo-psychic centre is supplied by
the posterior cerebral artery. The middle cerebral artery divides up into
many arteries supplying several different centres. Thus speech and
hearing may be shut off by one large branch being narrowed ; the optic
mechanism by another, the hands by another, and the legs by another.
xlix.] A Case- of Multiple Personality. 405
APPENDIX II.
Letter from Mr. Piddington to Dr. Wilson.
Since reading your paper, I have noted a few resemblances,
and also one or two differences, between the case of Mary
Barnes and other cases of dual or multiple personality.
Some years ago I read at one of the meetings of the S.P.R.
Dr. Morton Prince's preliminary report on the " Beauchamp "
case ; and I well remember how, at the close of the meeting, a
lady member of our Society asked me what I thought of the
paper ; and how, after, I suppose, I had made some banal reply
such as : " It's very interesting," she retorted : " Well, I don't
believe a word of it ! "
Now, although I do not imagine that many of your audience
the other night, or that many of your future readers will share
this lady's scepticism, and although your case is not such a
" tall " one as Dr. Morton Prince's, still some amount of incre
dulity is not unnatural when people learn ot these things for
the first time and are unacquainted with the literature of the
subject. Nor do I imagine that scepticism in the matter would
be entirely confined to the lay reader, but might be found
even in the ranks of your own profession.
If, then, some undesigned coincidences can be shown to
exist between your case and other recorded cases of a similar
type, they might serve as an " aid to faith " ; and in any case
the comparison may have some little interest even for those
who readily accept the facts.
I think I am justified in speaking of the coincidences as
undesigned for two reasons. In the first place because, as I
think any fair-minded critic will allow, it is ridiculous to
suppose that a girl of the age, station in life, and education of
Mary Barnes could or would have read up the subject of
multiple personality, and on the strength of her acquired
knowledge have maintained a plausible and wearisome imita
tion of this form of mental instability during several years.
40G [PAET
Dr. Albert Wilson.
In the second place, because the appearance of the coinci
dental symptoms cannot be ascribed to your suggestion ; and
this for the very good reason that, although you were, of course,
aware of the alleged existence of cases of dual personality, you
were not, as I know from your own assurance, acquainted
with the details—nor, for that matter, even with the broad
outlines—of the classical cases of alternating personality.
And it is to coincidences in little details and not to the
salient points of resemblance, such for instance as the epilepti
form attacks, or the mutually exclusive memories of the
various personalities, that I refer.
The coincidences are not many ; but then I do not pretend
to have made an exhaustive list, for my collation has been
little better than cursorily made; and, moreover, the recorded
cases of dual and multiple personality are not numerous, and
but two have been described with anything approaching even
tolerable adequacy. Not that I imagine that such cases are
really so very rare; but that their apparent rarity is due to
the rarity of intelligent observers. This infrequency of recorded
cases, however, helps my argument ; for it leaves only a narrow
field for chance coincidence to disport itself in, and if the re
semblances cannot be assigned to chance or design, then it is
reasonable to attribute them to some common spontaneous
cause which is at work in all the cases ; or, in other words,
they tell against the view that the phenomena are spurious.
This is a very long overture to a very small body of facts,
but I want to explain the object which I have in view in
comparing the case of Mary Barnes with others.
The case may be compared :
(1) With that of Mary Reynolds:
In her secondary state Mary Reynolds did not recognise her
parents, brothers, sisters, or friends ; and " she was very slow to
learn, and indeed never did learn, or, at least, never would
acknowledge the ties of consanguinity, or scarcely those of
friendship." These words might not apply with absolute exact
ness to Mary Barnes ; yet I take it that her nicknaming of
her father, mother, family, and of yourself and other doctors who
visited her implies a loss of memory, not perhaps so complete,
but similar in tendency.
Mary Reynolds and Mary Barnes both had to be re-taught
XLIX.] 407
A Case of Multiple Personality.
reading and writing ; and both acquired, or rather re-acquired
these arts within a far shorter period than is needed in the
case of children learning them for the first time.
Mary Reynolds' was a case of dual personality only, and not
of multiple personality, and she did not therefore display the
multifarious changes that your patient did. Still, both finished
up by remaining permanently not m their normal, but in an
abnormal state ; for after alternating between her two states
for a period of 15 or 16 years, Mary Reynolds at the age of
36 settled down for good, namely, for the last 25 years of
her life, into her secondary condition. This secondary con
dition was undoubtedly superior to her original normal person
ality. This cannot, it is true, be said of Mary Barnes' present
and apparently permanent state, for I understand that B6 is
not superior to the original normal personality as it existed
before her illness; but at any rate B6 is vastly superior to
several of the other personalities.
(2) With that of Miss Beauchamp:
You narrate one instance in your paper where one of the
abnormal personalities recalled an incident which had hap
pened when Mary Barnes was only two years and a half old ;
and in conversation you told me that you thought that there
was some reason for supposing that her memory in one of her
stages went back even earlier than this. I know that you do
not attach much weight to this point, because you recognise
the enormous difficulties of excluding the possibility of such
memories of babyhood being really due to imagination, or to
the girl having heard her elders recount incidents belonging to
the time when she was a tiny child. Nevertheless, though of
course the same objections apply, it strikes me as rather re
markable that Dr. Morton Prince believed that the personality
whom he christened Sally remembered events of her babyhood,
such, for instance, as learning to walk ; and at any rate she
professed to remember all this long way back. That you and
Dr. Morton Prince, both in entire ignorance of each other's
case, should have been led to the same surmise about
two different subjects, lends some mutual confirmation to the
observations of both. There is, however, one point of differ
ence between these two cases. The otherwise omniscient, or
nearly omniscient, Sally did not know French or other foreign
408 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
languages with which the normal Miss Beauchamp was familiar ;
whereas while the normal Mary Barnes knew no French, and
would not learn it, and could not draw, B6 and B9 knew some
French, and B10 could draw.
(3) With that of Lurancy Vennum :
The phenomena were entirely of a spiritualistic type, the
various personalities, in this case styled " controls," purporting
to be the spirits of deceased persons. With the exception of
one " control," and that the most persistent, there does not
appear to be any evidence to show that these controls were
anything more than secondary personalities. Yet in spite of
the wide divergences between the symptoms recorded of Lurancy
Vennum and those of your patient, I note one little point in
common. When supposed to be controlled by the spirit of a
woman named Katrina Hogan, Lurancy Vennum called her
father " Old Black Dick," and her mother '' Old Granny " : much
as Mary Barnes nicknamed her parents and other members of
her family.
(4) With that of Miss Anna Winsor ("Old Stump"):
" Old Stump " (which was the name given by Miss Winsor
to what was really her right arm, though she refused to recognise
it as such) executed a series of drawings ; whereas Anna Winsor
in her normal state never learnt to draw, nor cared to try to
draw. A parallel is to be found in the performances of B10.
" Old Stump " wrote poetry, and it is stated that the hand
writing of the different pieces of poetry "differs greatly": another
point of contact, and that in a most interesting particular,
with one of the phenomena which you were fortunate enough
to witness in the case of Mary Barnes.
Again, it is recorded of Miss Winsor : " She became blind,
4th of January;" [1861: nearly six months, that is, after the
rirst manifestation of her peculiar symptoms] " is still blind,"
[" still " meaning two months later] " sees as well with eyes
closed as open ; keeps them closed much of the time. Reads
and draws with them closed. Draws in the dark as well as
in the light; is clairvoyant."
Leaving aside the clairvoyance, which Dr. Isa Barrows,
Miss Wiusor's medical attendant, so airily disposes of in a
couple of words, there are two points of resemblance to your
case : namely, the psychical blindness, and the drawing in the
XLIX.] 409
A Case of Multiple Personality.
dark or with the eyes closed. I do not kuow whether
Mary Barnes actually executed any of her drawings in the
dark ; but she was able to copy written words and to copy
fashion-plates under conditions which seem to have excluded
•dependence upon her sense of sight.
I remark, however, one point of difference in connection
with the blindness, or rather with the recovery of the sight.
Thus when Anna Winsor recovered her sight after eighteen
months of " erratic vision," she found the light painful to her
eyes, and in consequence the room in which she lived had
to be darkened. When Mary Barnes recovered her sight, she
seems to have experienced no painful sensations.
One point which you have recorded of " Nick " interested me
greatly, because a parallel to it can be found in a most
unexpected quarter.
Professor William James quotes in The Varieties of Religious
Experience the personal narratives of a certain number of
people who have undergone " religious conversion " ; and one
of the leading characteristics of the converted state, of the
" new man," as exemplified in these narratives, is not only a
magnified appreciation of nature, but a perfect tranquillity
in the presence of nature in her savage moods.
One convert writes :—" When a boy, I was standing under
a tree which was struck by lightning, and received a shock,
from the effects of which I never knew exemption until I
had dissolved partnership with worry. Since then lightning
and thunder have been encountered under conditions which
would formerly have caused great depression and discomfort,
without [my] experiencing a trace of either."
And another says :—" And scarce anything, among all the
works of nature, was so sweet to me as thunder and lightning;
formerly nothing had been so terrible to me. Before, I used
to be uncommonly terrified with thunder, and to be struck
with terror when I saw a thunderstorm arising ; but now, on
the contrary, it rejoices me."
This latter is the declaration of Jonathan Edwards : aud,
the phraseology apart, might have been made by "Nick";
except that, for all we know, " Nick " was unaware of Mary
Barnes' fear of thunderstorms and Mary Barnes of " Nick's "
•enjoyment of them.
410 [part
Dr. Alhert Wilson.
We may perhaps compare with this relief from physical
fear what is described of Mary Reynolds in her secondary
state :—" She knew no fear, and as bears and panthers were
numerous in the woods .... her friends told her of
the danger to which she exposed herself; but it produced
no other effect than to draw forth a contemptuous laugh, as
she said, ' I know you only want to frighten me and keep
me at home, but you miss it, for I often see your bears, and
I am perfectly convinced that they are nothing more than
black hogs.1 " One day she encountered a " black hog " when
riding ; the horse was frightened and refused to move ; so-
Mary Reynolds dismounted, and stick in hand went close up
to the bear, which " walked away, slowly and sullenly."
There may be, and indeed is, an important difference here
between the fearless behaviour of Mary Reynolds in the
presence of a bear and that of " Nick " during a thunder
storm ; for " Nick " did not mistake the thunderstorm for
anything less terrifying, while Mary Reynolds seems to have
owed her absence of fear to an opportune and protective
illusion. And as regards the feeling of security typical
of the religious convert and the fearlessness of " Nick " and
Mary Reynolds, the latter should perhaps be attributed to
what Myere, commenting on the case of Mary Reynolds, calls
" the childish insouciance of the secondary state," that is
to a lower stage of intellectual development; while the former
one is rather inclined to ascribe not to an intellectual
inability to recognise the risk of danger, but to a higher^
or at any rate altered, condition of the moral character, in
which the individual finds himself in perfect tune with alL
the manifestations of nature, and welcomes and enjoys them
as the workings of a loving God.
Still the interesting fact remains that, in these various cases
of altered personality of widely divergent origin, this sense of
fearlessness crops up often enough to warrant one in regarding
it almost as a typical symptom.
While on this topic I might add that the first oncoming of
Miss Beauchamp's changes of personality dated from a thunder
storm. An incident of a painful character was in progress,
and this alone may have been sufficient to have upset her
equilibrium; but the thunderstorm may also have played a.
XLIX.] 411
A Case of Multiple Personality.
part. " The surroundings, too," writes Dr. Morton Prince,
41 were dramatic. It was night, and pitch dark, but a storm
was coming up, and great peals of thunder and flashes of
lightning heightened the emotional effect. . . . From that
time 8he was changed."
I cannot find that Miss Beauchamp either before or after
this time is said to have shown fear of thunderstorms, though,
as she seems to have been of a timid disposition, it would not
be surprising if she had. Nor can I find it noted that in any
of her abnormal states she showed delight in them ; though it
would be quite consistent with the character of that saucy
young secondary personality Sally Beauchamp to snap her
fingers in the face of even Nature with a capital N. But I
am getting too fanciful, and will trouble you with only one
more observation.
I cannot help regretting that you have not in your paper
laid greater stress on one incident that you dismiss in a sen
tence or two. You record how on one occasion, when your patient
was in a particular phase in which she did not count beyond
two, you asked her " very quickly " (the " very quickly " is
the pith of the statement) how many fingers there were on
her hand, and although she was supposed at this time not to
count above two, she replied " five." It is true that she at
once corrected herself and started counting again on her " one,
two " system ; but the correction came too late, and I would
say that the romancing secondary personality had given itself
away. In other words, you surprised her momentarily into her
normal state. I wish that you had made other attempts to
catch her; not, of course, by direct questions, but by employ
ing artifice. I do not mean that I think that Mary Barnes
was shamming; I think nothing so foolish. But it does look
as if the normal personality is not really obliterated or entirely
unconscious during such times as the abnormal personalities
are active, but as if it is really there all the time, only sent to
Coventry by the usurping secondary personality. If this really
was the case, then the mental phenomena exhibited by your
patient would accord with what I cannot help believing is
really true of all hypnotised subjects : namely, that whatever the
subjects themselves may assert, or whatever conclusions their
observers may draw from their behaviour, the normal person
412 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
ality, although in abeyance and although difficult to get at,
is never really extinct. I should be inclined to say that by
your sudden question you provoked an automatism of the normal
consciousness. .
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
Comments by Dr. C. Lloyd Tuckey.
I saw " Mary Barnes " some years ago with Dr. Wilson.
She then called herself " Poor Thing," and had the manners-
and speech of a child of six or seven, though she was twice
that age. I tried to hypnotise her, but failed, and other
operators had also found her insusceptible. This was unfor
tunate, for hypnotism would probably have supplied a bridge
of memory, and enabled us to establish a connection between
the various personalities, as in the case of Ansel Bourne re
corded by Prof. William James and Dr. R. Hodgson,1 and in a
recent case of my own. The latter was that of a bank clerk,
and was investigated by Dr. Leaf, Miss Goodrich Freer, and
myself. The subject disappeared from the bank on a Friday about
mid-day and " woke up " late on Saturday night in a strange
hotel at Southampton. He could not give any account of how
he had passed the 36 intervening hours until he was thrown
into a deep hypnotic trance. He then answered questions,
and gave a complete history of his proceedings. Subsequent
investigation proved the truth of his story, and that his actions
in the " second state " were quite purposeful. The man was
neurotic and given to occasional alcoholic excess, and in two or
three of the other cases I have seen there was a history of
epilepsy or aggravated hysteria. The most recent case I have
come across was that of an Oxford undergraduate, who after a
period of overwork disappeared from his home without warning
and telegraphed ten days after from Malta for money to-
bring him back. It appeared that he " woke up " on board a
steamer at Tunis in the act of knocking a man down who-
had tried to steal his portmanteau. The excitement seems to-
1 In Proceediiujx, S.P.R., Vol. VII., p. 321.
XLIX.] 413
A Case of Multiple Personality.
have brought him round, perhaps by shifting the connection
of the neurones. He knew nothing of what had happened during
the ten days, but his actions had evidently been rational or
he would have been arrested. We hoped to obtain a key by
hypnosis, but unfortunately the young man, on the advice of
an eminent brain specialist, refused to be operated on, so we
may have lost an interesting story.
There is a good deal of literature on the subject since the
publication of Professor Azatn's exhaustive monograph 1 in
1887. The S.P.R. did much to elucidate this fascinating and
puzzling problem at a time when its importance was not
generally recognised. Alembers will recall papers by the late
Dr. A. T. Myers, and a recent one by Dr. Morton Prince.2
Now the subject is often referred to in the daily papers, and
cases of lapsed memory and dual consciousness are discussed
by the man in the street.
The physiological explanation put forward by Dr. Wilson
is a most valuable contribution towards the scientific under
standing of the subject. The case is one of the most striking
hitherto recorded, and it is most fortunate that it has been
under the notice of such a painstaking and accomplished
investigator.
Comments by Dr. Robekt Jones.
Dr. Wilson seems to me to have made an able and careful
summary of many observations in an almost unique case. It
had been suggested that " Mary Barnes' " different states might
be due to hypnotic conditions, but it is obvious that they
are rather to be looked upon as cataleptic or in some way
related to that post-epileptic trance condition described as post
epileptic automatism, and one which is familiar to those who
have the care of the insane. The stages may also remind us
of the imitative aptitudes of children, which cause them to
acquire ideas and ways of acting current in the community
to which 'they belong, and in | this case there was no stage
1 Hyjmotisme, Double Conscience el Alterations de la PersonnaliU, Paris, 1887.
a Proceedings, S.P.K., Vol. XV., p/466.
414 [part
Dr. Albert Wilson.
which was foreign to the natural experience of the ages through
which Mary Barnes had passed. As to the reality or unreality
of these personalities, when the attention is engrossed upon
one line of thought, there is generally a forgecfuluess of other
states, arising from the fulness of concentration. As is known,
in health the life-history of every individual consciousness embraces
many diverse and often incongruous states and tendencies, and
all self-consciousness implies a possibility of a division of the
total self, so that there is, so to speak, one self and many
selves. At any moment of time the attention may be fixed
upon one or other of these " selves," and only in so far as
they differ from each other and the present self do they seem
separate states or stages, and we regard them accordingly as
distinct selves ; for instance, the self of dreams is regarded as
quite distinct from the waking self, and the man sober can
reflect upon the man drunk and draw many lessons and resolu
tions from the revived disgrace and the remembered reproach.
After having been overcome by some sudden and exceptional
condition in. which he is impelled to act injuriously to the
interests of another, he may refuse to recognise the lower
self and explain it away under the excuse that he was not
master of his actions. Also in states of mental conflict
when moral principle struggles against temptation, two per
sonalities may be assumed, the one the higher self, the other
what appears to be a foreign and intrusive personality.
Cases of double personality are not to be confused with the
ordinary delusions of insanity ; for in the latter case there are
not two separate threads of memory, but the memory is con
tinuous in the intervals of the delusion. Thus I have at the
present time in the London Asylum, Claybury, one patient who
believes that he is taken out every night against his will, and
also against his will is compelled to work in an adjoining
brickfield. His tired sensations in the morning—possibly the
effect of rheumatism—confirm his delusions, and no reasoning
as to the absence of clay or the want of confirmation of his
story by others who slept in the next bed are of any avail.
Other characters are assumed by other persons : the prophet
Daniel, Napoleon Bonaparte, the King, and Miss Hickman—
all these figure as altered personalities. The present is with
these persons so persistent and over-powering and engrossing
PLATES I.—IX.
Plate II.
(i)
(2)
kb JOJX ^nAJ JLrur 5
(3)
^^^^^
Plate III.
(l)
Plate V.
Plate VI.
-5or
a „ - _£9
C Of
4;
1
a*' RABBIT
o °
i .
.JS
-4
r, «}
; «>.
»» = Si
' *
J» =
-a * " <? ~ v
\ ■ »< 0* 9 •
?;
H
i
H & >
N ■ >
n
o oi O
•O
ci
I. -» . f^l
CO
« » o -
« r>
» 0
CI J_ f
-*
•; - - - ^
^ ' *. —■=
. v«-
2
<
1
<- '? • • ! Z3
X
\
J * * ]
Platk VIII.
Plate IX.
Fig. 1.
OT
Fig. 2.
XLIX.] 415
A Case of Multiple Personality.
that the past is ignored ; but this is mere temporary forget-
fulness of the past, and does not involve the formation of
a completely separate chain of memories referring to the
delusional state alone, and carried on from one to the next
appearance of the state.
The organic sensations, i.e. the emotional tone, probably
has much to do with these cases of delusion.
Dr. Wilson's physiological explanation of the alternating
personalities seems to be a theory well worth considering.
■2e
416 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
THE ANSWERS TO THE AMERICAN BRANCH'S
QUESTIONNAIRE REGARDING HUMAN SENTIMENT
AS TO A FUTURE LIFE.1
By F. C. S. Schiller.
It is ray purpose in this paper to discuss the results of the
inquiry into the actual state of human sentiment, which Dr.
Richard Hodgson and the American Branch of our Society
undertook about three years ago, only in so far as these results
have a special bearing on the methods of the S.P.R. Although
the idea underlying this inquiry was novel, the material collected
by it has proved to be of great psychological interest and
immensely suggestive in a variety of ways ; but I intend to
discuss its psychological aspects in another, and I hope more
systematic, form. Even from the point of view of this
Report, however, I shall have to begin by explaining
the aim of what must doubtless have appeared to
many a particularly puzzling and unintelligible bit of
psychical research. I feel indeed that those who have
been good enough to help us by answering our questions and
by procuring answers from others, must have done so largely
from faith in a useful purpose they could not see. A demand
for such faith is always more or less involved in the question
naire method of investigation, because the point to be tested
must always be so concealed as not to arouse partisan spirit
for or against. It is better to run the risk of having the whole
affair regarded as pointless and insignificant than that of collect
ing answers modified to suit, or to thwart, a detected purpose.
1 The essential parts of this paper were read to a General Meeting of the
Society on November 14th, 1902.
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 417
The time however has come to justify the modicum of faith
accorded us by explaining the point of the inquiry, and I am
confident that its importance will then be recognised.
L
I must admit then, in the first place, that it is a very
belated inquiry. In strict logic it should have come twenty
years ago, at the very outset of the Society's career. For
regarded, not as a piece of general scientific work, i.e. as psycho
logical investigation, but in its special relation to the S.P.R's
work, it is essentially an attempt to test the social atmosphere
in which the Society must live and operate. By social
atmosphere I mean the attitude which people at large maintain
towards any subject and those interested in it. We are all
of us in all our pursuits influenced by such an atmosphere.
Its presence is always more or less felt ; it stifles or stimulates
every form of intellectual life, although its effects differ accord
ing as it is denser or rarer, favourable or the reverse. Moreover
some subjects are hardy enough to flourish in almost any climate.
But I know only of one case in which the social atmosphere
may be said not to act : we can think what we like, no matter
what others may think about what we think, provided that we
keep our thoughts strictly to ourselves, and do not act on them.
As soon as we begin to act on our thoughts, society begins
to guess at them ; as soon as we begin to express them, we have
to take into consideration what others will think of them.
And thus the social atmosphere will check, or promote, or direct,
our growth, and the place of Mrs. Grundy in scientific research
is just as real and as worthy of study as in matters of morals
and manners.
Now in Psychical Besearch we are as yet peculiarly sensitive
to the condition of the social atmosphere. It is still a new
subject, and a new subject always has a hard struggle to get
acclimatised, and probably demands a certain amount of readjust
ment in the atmospheric conditions. There is however an obvious
advantage in effecting this readjustment as gently as possible.
We want to raise a wind without provoking a storm ; to remove
the stagnant air which broods oppressively over the subjects
418 [part
F. G. S. Schiller.
society is content to leave untouched without invoking a cyclone.
The very formation of a Society for Psychical Research is in
a way a proof of this contention ; for it involves an attempt
to make a social atmosphere of a local kind which may be
favourable to the proper study of subjects which could not be
pursued by individuals in the open. But even then the
prosperity of the Society will depend on the attitude of the
larger society around it. If it is favourable to our work, it
can assist us in myriad ways ; it can supply us with money,
information, recruits ; in fact do everything for us except make
the scientific discoveries themselves. If it is indifferent, it can
indefinitely retard our progress. If it is actively against us,
it can thwart us in an infinity of ways, persecute us until
we desist, nay ultimately suppress us, and bury us and our
discoveries in oblivion.
Now the remarkable men who founded the S.P.R. seem to
me to have unconsciously made a very definite assumption with
respect to the social atmosphere. They knew, of course, that
they would have to deal inter alia with subjects reputed to
be of an interesting, nay of an exciting, character, with evidence
which seemed to deal with the post mortem fortunes of mankind.
And it was natural enough to assume that their enterprise
would be regarded with favour. Would not everybody welcome
an honest, scientific and dispassionate investigation of the dark
corners of human psychology, of an intelligent questioning of
the gibbering ghosts that had flitted so enigmatically before the
eyes of untold generations ? Was not everybody really anxious
for light upon the mystery of human fate, and really desirous
of the assurance that death was not the inexorable end of all, if
only that assurance could be made with scientific certainty ?
They were aware, of course, with what scorn materialists and
agnostics, seated many of them in the high places of the
intellectual world, looked down upon everything that savoured
of superstition, and with what nervous disapproval they regarded
any trafficking with the accursed thing. But they generously
attributed these hostile prejudices to a quixotically lofty devotion
to scientific truth, to a sternly stoic reluctance to yield to
the allurements of desire, to a profoundly reasoned, and so far
reasonable, conviction of the impossibility of discovering aught.
They might well hope therefore that by producing an abundance
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 419
of good work, prosecuted in a scientific temper and verified
by scientific methods, they would win pardon for their audacity
from the scientific opposition, and perhaps even gratitude
from a world eagerly desirous of relief from the agonies of
doubt.
If however there was any serious error in this estimate of
the condition of the social atmosphere, this whole policy was
foredoomed to more or less disappointment. What if there
were no widespread desire for a proof of a future life, or even
for a scientific investigation of the apparent evidence ? What
if, consequently, this aspect of the Society's undertaking were
socially unwelcome ? What if its scientific critics were inspired,
not by too jealous a regard for truth, but by personal dislike
of the Society's aims and a lurking fear lest it should reveal
truths which would involve a radical readjustment of inveterate
opinions and ingrained habits ? If such were predominant, or
even common, sentiments among men, the appeal to scientific
evidence would be bound to fail. For it would not meet
with the receptiveness and open-mindedness towards new truth
which all scientific discovery demands. No evidence can even
begin to produce logical conviction until there is psychological
willingness to receive it. This applies even to the abstract
truths of e.g. arithmetic ; it is impossible to prove even that
2 + 2 = 4 to one who is unwilling to add. Far more signally
does this hold good of inductive researches like ours, where
it would be childish to expect to prove anything beyond cavil
by a single effort, where proof must be gradual and cumulative,
and repose on the growing coherence of the new truth in a
mind disposed to admit it. A mind unwilling to believe, or
even undesirous to be instructed, our weightiest evidence must
ever fail to impress. It will insist on taking that evidence
in bits, and rejecting it item by item. The man therefore who
aunounces his intention of waiting until one single absolutely
conclusive bit of evidence turns up, is really a man not open to
conviction ; and if he is a logician, he knows it. For modern
logic has made it plain that single facts never can be " proved,"
except by their coherence in a system. But as all the facts
come singly, any one who dismisses them one by one is
destroying the conditions under which the conviction of new
truth could arise in his mind.
420 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
In other words, the discovery of truth presupposes, at least
and in the first place, a will to know. It becomes therefore
a vital question to what extent we may presuppose such a
will to know. It seemed impossible to take this for granted.
For the surface indications were ambiguous. On the one side
indeed there was an almost overwhelming tradition that the
problems of death and immortality were one of man's chief
preoccupations in all ages, climes, races and religions. But
on the other there were the facts that at all times and in
all places there had been an enormous gap between professions
and actions, that everywhere, in spite of the most divergent
beliefs, men have acted much in the same way, and have
shown much the same absorption in this world and its tri
vialities. And, what was still more puzzling, there was the
extraordinary fact that never yet throughout the ages had any
systematic attempt been made to investigate the problem. No
doubt this neglect was coexistent with a widely prevalent belief
that it was impossible to know ; but then this same pretext had
been made into an excuse for never attempting a real investiga
tion. Hence the question arose whether no one had tried,
because it was impossible, or whether it was thought impossible,
because no one had ever tried ?
Again, there were copious symptoms that the social atmosphere
neither was, nor ever had been, wholly favourable to such
attempts. A large number of people still seem to regard
psychical research much as their ancestors a few generations
back regarded witchcraft. It is not so very long ago that to
be suspected of psychic powers was considered sufficient proof
of an unholy alliance with the enemy of mankind, and that
the burning of witches was deemed an entertaining addition to
a popular holiday. The uniformity with which at all times, in
all countries and under every variety of religious belief, the
persons, whom for lack of a more definitely descriptive name
we now call psychics, were subjected to atrocious persecution is
one of the most remarkable features in social history. One
can only suppose that in some obscure way they always excited
dislike, that dislike led to persecution, and that the various
theoretical reasons alleged in justification of their treatment were
an afterthought, based on the principle of first giving a dog a
bad name when you mean to hang him. Now human nature
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 421
changes very slowly, and it seemed unlikely that an instinctive
antipathy of this sort would entirely die out in the course of
a couple of centuries. If, therefore, it still persisted, under
different forms and with different pretexts, now sheltering itself
perhaps under the cloak of science just as formerly under the
aegis of religion, it would still be potent to thwart, and if
unrecognised, perhaps to wreck, the arduous enterprise to which
we stood committed.
A priori speculation, then, left doubtful the real character
of the social atmosphere. But being professionally a speculative
philosopher myself, I was too well aware of the limits of its
value to content myself with unverified speculation. So I
ventured to suggest to the S.P.R that it should try to find
out what the facts really were. Fortunately Dr. Hodgson
saw the vital importance of the question, and the American
Branch undertook the enquiry.
My first point then is this. It is all-important for us to
know the condition of the social atmosphere, in order to know
what tactics we must adopt, and what we must do to alter
it. If e.g. we find that there exists a strong prejudice against
our investigations on sentimental and emotional grounds, we
shall have to postpone the idea of adducing convincing evidence.
It is a waste of time to bombard with facts minds firmly closed
against their admission, and determined to quibble about their
reception. We shall first have to strike deeper, at the roots of
the primitive prejudices which obstruct our way. If, again, we
can show that the social bias is not for us but rather against
us, we can make an appeal to the instinct of fair play. If we
can show that the survival of primitive superstitions is not
the real basis for Psychical Besearch, because the people who
cherish them have no desire to test them, if we can show
that the traditional " desire for immortality " is a very doubt
ful ally, because it craves not knowledge but assurance, and
resents the cautious advance of science, we can better claim
the support of that scientific curiosity which has done so much
for the advancement of knowledge, with a confidence we could
never have demanded so long as it seemed as though all the
forces of superstitious obscurantism were arrayed on our side.
And so finally it may come to be admitted that in this field
also the true obscurantists are those who declare a priori
422 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
that knowledge is impossible and all inquiry wicked and
futile, as much when they repose on the favteuils of the Koyal
Society, as when their indolence has taken shelter beneath the
altars of some spiritual organisation.
But, it may be said, even granting this point, were not
your questions absurd ? Is it not grotesque to institute a
plebiscite on questions of scientific fact ? Of what value can
the opinion of Tom, Dick, and Harry be on such a subject ?
And you did not even ask for their opinions, you asked for
their sentiments. You asked them what they wished, as if
you could supply them with spiritual refreshment according
to taste, as if at the table d'hdte of life we could order what
we wanted, and our wishes made any difference to the stereo
typed menu of what we got. Could you really suppose that
wishing could make us immortal, or that even the universality
of a wish would constitute a real argument for immortality ?
Has not common-sense long ago disposed of such vagaries of
human conceit by the proverbial : " If wishes were horses
then beggars would ride " ?
II.
I hope that I shall not seem to have understated this
indictment, and that I shall be permitted to explain how it
brings me to my second point. It must be confessed in the first
place that a great assumption underlay the form of our ques
tions. We assumed that men's sentiments were usually more
potent in swaying their action, more truly significant, than
their opinions. By that assumption hangs a whole philosophy,
which it is not the place here to justify. But whether or not
the voluniarist view of human nature is truer and deeper
than the intellectualist, I think sufficient independent reasons
may be given for asking for sentiments rather than opinions.
We realised, in the first place, that whatever we asked for,
we should inevitably get plenty of opinions as well. It is so
much easier to give opinions, which can be picked up any
where, than to analyse oneself and realise one's inner senti
ments. And secondly, opinions are so much cheaper and
better known and less interesting. Had we asked for opinions,
we should have got only the stereotyped formulas, taken
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 423
from books, sermons, aud newspapers, which shed so little
light on the motives that really actuate men. Thirdly, most
people's opinions are worthless on most subjects, and on
this particular subject it seemed that the people who had
done anything to entitle their opinions to scientific respect
might be counted on the fingers of one hand. Again, if, as
we assumed, it was typical of human nature for opinions
to be adopted under the propulsion of sentiment, it was
clear that in asking for the sentiment we were getting at
the real psychic force. And lastly, even in the cases where
people's opinions really produced their sentiments, it seemed
that they affected their actions through the latter, so that
the only case that might conceivably elude our inquiry was
that of people who feel one way and think another. But
this state of things is usually revealed in the answers to
Questions lie. and III., and appears to be rare.
These, then, were the reasons for preferring to ask for
sentiments rather than opinions, As for the bearing of our
wishes on our future, I should have thought that what is
called " the argument from universal consent " was suffici
ently well known to appear to give point to an inquiry into
the actual universality of that consensus. But this was
neither our whole, nor our real point. Our real point was
apparently too subtle to be perceived. It can, however, be
made plain. Let us examine " if wishes were horses then
beggars would ride " a little closer ; for like all proverbs it
probably requires more scrutiny than it will bear. In this
case it should strike us at once that even though beggars
do not yet prance about on horses, working men very
commonly ride bicycles. And the bicycle seems to be a
means of locomotion vastly superior to the antiquated quad
ruped which was the summit of man's ambition in this
respect when some forgotten sage devised the proverb, and
before a more progressive age had elaborated the railway,
the steamship, and the motor-car. I observe similarly that
flying, which was long a proverbial impossibility, has now
become a question of persevering experiment, and bids fair
to become a commercial success in our life-time. And when
I am asked how these observations should be interpreted, I
am forced to answer as follows. The world is so con
424 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
structed that though it yields nothing to idle wishing, it
will yield even what seemed most hopelessly impossible to
strenuous and intelligent efforts to realise the objects of our
desire. All our inventions, therefore, the whole fabric of
applied knowledge which renders civilised man master of the
earth, are the embodied realisations of human desires, wrought
out by the unremitting efforts of generations. Why then should
we not apply this principle to the matter in hand ?
May we not infer that this problem of a future life will
prove no exception to the rule of the efficacy of the right
sort of vsishing, that we can dissipate the clouds that seem
so impenetrably to shroud the facts, if only we desire to
find out, and will set to work with the same patient and
business-like persistence we have shown everywhere else ?
But—and this is our primary question—do we desire to find
out ? Is our professed desire genuine ? Is it extensive and
intense enough ?
Hence my second point : even though it were quite true
that our desires do not affect the facts, and if I were
discussing the subject exhaustively 1 I should have some
1When we regard the matter with any subtlety it is by no means self-evident
that our desires make no difference. On the contrary, it will seem probable
that our desires may make a great difference, alike whether we argue from
(1) the analogy of the present life, or (2) the assumption of a cosmic prin
ciple, more or less sympathising with us and our feelings. Under (1) consider
e.g. the fact that we can extinguish our life here, if we will. Might there
not be analogous possibilities in other worlds ! If so, repeated suicide
might achieve the extinction desired. Again, we find our conditions here
largely plastic ; we can largely mould ourselves as we will. We can will to
remember and to forget, to continue or to disavow our past, to reknit or to sever
our social ties. If then in our life here every mental activity is intimately bound
up with the character of our volition, is it not psychologically plausible to suppose
that this will continue to be the case, and that the question of the continuance or
evanescence of the mental life we have known may depend, wholly or in part,
on our own action ! If it is true that every function in life waxes and wanes
according as it is exercised, why should not this law hold of life itself as a
whole ? In short, so soon as we abstain from rashly committing ourselves to
the antiquated metaphysic which rendered the soul's existence dependent on
that of an immutable "substance," which was supposed to underlie its mani
festations, and conceive it as consisting essentially in the flow of its con
sciousness, it becomes almost undeniable that our consciousness (and therefore
our existence) must be affected, and may be controlled, by our own actions
to an indefinite extent. Seeing that the soul's flow to some extent directs
itself, may it not choose to flow either into arid regions in which the stream
XLIX.] 425
Human Sentiment as to a Future Life.
questions to raise on this subject, they are yet germane to
the facts. For it is certain that our desires vitally affect
our knowledge of the facts. With a desire not to know, the
discovery and communication of knowledge are absolutely
impossible ; with no desire, there is no probability of know
ledge ; with desire, there is no impossibility of knowledge, or
none, at least, that can be entertained before inquiry.
III.
^Having shown that the possibility of knowledge is con
ditioned by the desire for it, and that the desire is its
presupposition and a first step to knowledge, we may now
proceed to the inductive investigation of the desire and the
way in which the questions were intended to elicit its
character.
Question I.1 inquires broadly whether a desire for a future
life in general is felt.
Question II. gives an opportunity of stating more precisely
the conditions under which the desire flourishes.
of consciousness loses itself and is dried up, or into well-watered districts in
which it is swollen to many times its former volume by the accretion of
spiritual tributaries. These possibilities would become still stronger if we
entertained the thought of a deeper soul-current of which our phenomenal
consciousness formed, as it were, a surface-eddy. In that case the mundane
consciousness might or might not penetrate and perpetuate itself into a future
life, more or less recognisably, according to its action in cultivating its
memories, affections, spiritual value and so forth.
(2) Again, assuming the existence of a Deity capable of sympathetic
personal relations with us, it would seem to follow at once that our relations
must be affected by our wishes, prayers, and aspirations. According as we
behave we shall be treated. And if we prefer, or fit ourselves for, annihila
tion, there is nothing absurd in the supposition that means may exist for
giving us our deserts. Even in theology the thought has not infrequently
been expressed that we are not naturally or intrinsically immortal, but
become so through accepting salvation by Christ. It is evident both that
this doctrine is morally superior to that of the eternal damnation of the
reprobate, and also that it renders a future life so dependent on our own
action, that no one could have it inflicted on him against his wish. Of course
all these speculations must not be taken for more than they are worth,
but they suffice to show that we are not entitled to take it for granted a
priori that our wishes and our actions have nothing to do with the "facts"
which affect us.
1 The questionnaire is reprinted in full in the Appendix, see p. 450.
426 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
Question II. (a) " Bo you desire a future life whatever the
conditions might be?" is intended for a desire strong enough to
demand a future life under any conditions. The existence of this
desire has been treated as an absurdity, or at least as a logical
anomaly. How can any one really prefer hell to annihilation ?
Indeed a distinguished philosopher argued that all the answers
to the Questionnaire would be the same, because all rational
beings would prefer heaven to annihilation, and annihilation to
hell. Nevertheless our philosopher was wrong. He had not
made sufficient allowance for the ability of human psychology
to overcome difficulties which, as stated abstractly, seem to
logic sheer absurdities. And so it turns out that not only is
a real desire for the heaven of what used to be thought
orthodoxy decidedly rare, but that a good many actually have
so strong an objection to it that they assert that they would
prefer annihilation. Moreover 22 per cent.—739 out of 3321 —
of the answers agree with Huxley and Milton's Satan in
desiring a future life at all costs. Nor is there anything in
this preference which should be really unintelligible to a
sympathetic psychologist. When taken in its context it
usually appears to be due (1) to a strong feeling of repug
nance to annihilation ; or (2) to an instinctive love of life so-
intense as to carry with it an emotional assurance that its
possessor at least must survive death ; or (3) to a conviction
often expressed by spiritists, that they know the conditions of
the future life sufficiently to take all risks ; (4) to a general
confidence in one's ability to render the conditions tolerable
(which appears to have been the source of Huxley's preference) ;
(5) to the confidence sometimes expressed by liberal Christians
that the conditions may be left to a benevolent God who
" will not toss to hell the luckless pots he marred in making " ;
and lastly (6), in a few cases to the overwhelming impression
made by a recent bereavement. It appears, therefore, that
all these answers are interesting and intelligible, and that this
question was not asked in vain.
Question II. (b) " What would have to be the character of a
future life to make the prospect seem tolerable ? Would you, e.g.,
be content with a life more or less like your present life ? " was
so phrased in order to discover what are the least favourable
conditions which would appear tolerable. It contains an
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 427
invitation to compare the future life desired with the actuality
experienced. Do people want something like it or something
different ? Do they insist on something better, or would
they prefer a future life of the same sort to extinction ?
The answers are to some extent marred by a tendency to
state rather the maximum which is desired than the minimum
which would be accepted. Still it is clear that the answers
to this question throw some light on the state of feeling
with regard to the value of this life. Those who answer yes,
and they seem to be a large majority, take an optimistic
view of its value ; while those who say no may do so either
because they have very exalted notions of what the future
life should be, or a very low opinion of what the present
life is. Their other answers usually enable one to decide
this point.
Question II. (c) " Can you say what elements (if any) are
felt by you to call for the perpetuity of life" was added at
the suggestion of the great psychologist, William James. It
aims at discovering what reasons people give to themselves
for desiring a future life. But, unfortunately, it has not
worked very well, partly because it is too difficult to be
readily answered by people who have given very little thought
to the matter, partly because so many put down not so much
what they feel, but what they think they ought to feel. This
latter is of course a natural tendency of the human mind
against which all such inquiries have to struggle throughout:
it ordinarily requires considerable education and some practice
in introspection to distinguish between the two even in one's
own mind. And in this case the temptation to put down
what tended to edification was increased by an ambiguity in
the question, which might be understood to ask not for the
elements in life which made the answerer desire perpetuity,
but those which in his opinion rendered it objectively desirable
(a very different thing).
The answers therefore were very various, the incompleteness
of earthly life and the need of justice and reunion being
perhaps the most prominent grounds assigned by those who
answered affirmatively. The chief reasons assigned in the
negative answers (1) were the misery of this world, (2) the
inconceivableness of another. I have not had time to work
428 [part
F. C. 8. Schiller.
out the exact figures of the answers to this question, but
have been somewhat impressed with the comparative rarity
of the demand for selfish pleasure or even happiness : unless
those who answered were an unusually high-minded set of
people, it would seem that moralists must have libelled human
nature somewhat grossly in assuming the practical universality
of hedonistic motives.
Question III. " Can you state why you feel in this way as
regards Questions I. and II.?" The answers to this question
run very much into those to Question II. (c), and are not
worth discussing apart. The question itself was inserted
simply and solely to provide for those who thought that their
sentiments were determined by their religious or scientific
convictions, in order that they might state that in their case
sentiment and belief were not discordant. In spite, however,
of the emphasis on this point in the preamble, a good many
persons complained that they could not properly answer the
questions because their sentiments did agree with their con
victions, and some even made it into their excuse for declining
to answer altogether. One can only suppose that they either
did not read the preamble at all, or did not read it to the
end, for of course the section in the preamble asking for
sentiments as far as possible separated from convictions was
only intended (1) to enable people to avoid expressing their
convictions by asking only for the (less compromising) sentiments,
(2) to draw their attention to the fact that their sentiment
might not at all accord with their beliefs. Of course this
confession was frequently made in the answers, but on the
whole the question was a failure. A great many answered no,
and the answers were mostly much the same as those to
II. (c). Keligion was alleged as the ground of sentiment more
rarely than might have been expected, perhaps in consequence
of misunderstanding, but its influence upon sentiment appeared
to be much greater than that of science.
Question IV. " Bo you now feel the question of a future
life to be of urgent importance to your mental comfort t" brings
us to the cardinal point of the questionnaire. The answers to
the first question supplied an inadequate test of the desire for
a future life, in that everybody who had a preference, however
faint and occasional, for continuance would answer it affirma
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 429
tively, especially as the second question enabled him to name
his own conditions. Practically all except those who did not
want a future life at any price could answer the first two
questions by a more or less qualified affirmative. Hence
many who gravely doubted, or quite disbelieved, the possi
bility of a future life answered these questions in the affirma
tive. But such persons would not usually admit that the
question possessed urgency for their mental comfort. Accord
ingly we get here a considerable predominance of noes (1314
yes out of 3321), and these are often of a very decided
character, ' not at all,' ' not in the least,' ' never think about it,y
being common phrases.
A certain difficulty was caused by those who had never
entertained a doubt, or had trained themselves to regard a
future life as certain, and then dismissed the matter from
their minds. On the whole these had to be counted as yeses,
especially when it was expressly stated that though a future
life might not be often thought of, yet to lose this assurance'
would amount to a spiritual catastrophe. On the other hand,
some of those who attribute to themselves a faith so firm that
they ' never think about it,' seem to be making their ' faith '
an excuse for a practical neglect of such spiritual matters.
On the whole the answers to this question seem distinctly
unfavourable to the doctrine that the interest actually taken
in the matter of a future life is commensurate with its.
spiritual importance, or that the question looms as large on
our mental horizon as tradition had assumed. Nor is this-
psychologically at all surprising. We could not do our work
efficiently here if our concern about the future were to become
seriously distracting. But there are many ways (as we saw)
of preventing such concern from reaching a dangerous intensity.
Indeed it is rather the frequency of utter absorption in worldly
affairs that gives one a sort of aesthetic shock.
Question V., inquiring into the changes in people's feelings,
was something of a disappointment to me personally. Before
seeing the results, I had argued in the Fortnightly Review,
September, 1901 (p. 439),1 that the reason why the feeling of
the literature- producing minority as to the importance of the
future life had imposed itself on the masses was partly that the
1 In an essay reprinted in Humanism, p. 242,
430 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
latter were too indifferent to contradict them, partly that at one
time or other nearly every one did get stirred up about it, and
that the memory of this phase of opinion disposed to ready
acquiescence in the assertion of the immense importance of the
question. But it appears that a large proportion (probably more
than half) deny that their feelings have changed in any important
degree. It would seem, therefore, that even in questioning its
universality I still exaggerated the extent of the real interest in
the question when I supposed that nearly everybody must have
felt at least a temporary concern about it. I did not allow
sufficiently for the prevalence of sheer thoughtlessness and inertia,
nor for the number of those who have never cared to go into the
grounds of their belief.
It is possible, however, in this case to go behind the actual
returns, and to doubt whether on this point they fairly represent
the actual facts. There is a natural tendency to represent
oneself in memory as more consistent than contemporary docu
ments would quite warrant, and one cannot but suspect that
phrases like ' not materially,' 'only development? ' not change but
growth,' may really cover very substantial alterations of belief
and sentiment. Again, answers like, ' not that I can remember,'
' not as far as I know,' sound suspicious, and it seems not
improbable that in the course of years many considerable changes
may have been forgotten.
Still, I must admit that the returns show comparatively little
evidence of great spiritual revolutions, and still less of any con
siderable or lasting mental anaruish connected with them. The
apparent absence of any widespread spiritual distress is certainly
very striking and surprising, though here again this might per
haps have been inferred from the surface indications of general
placidity and contentment. It would seem that spiritual crises
and prolonged religious excitements are the prerogative of ex
ceptional temperaments ; ordinary persons seem to adjust them
selves easily and rapidly to their definitive attitude.1
Question VI., again, is very important, as inquiring directly
into the existence of a will to know. Indeed it is the compari
son of the answer to this question with that to Question IV.
1 This fact, if such it be, should evidently be borne in mind in reading studies
of the extremer forms of spiritual temperament, e.g. James's Varieties of Religiom
Experience.
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 431
which will usually determine the character of the answer. The
alternatives, " would you prefer to know for certain or to leave
it a matter of faith ? " are not of course exhaustive ; and they
may even be taken in a sense in which they are not exclusive.
Indeed, like all the words of ordinary language, the terms
' knowledge ' and ' faith ' are very ambiguous. This was not
infrequently pointed out in replies which held that ' faith ' was
practically ' knowledge,' or included ' knowledge,' or was higher
than ' knowledge,' and it was of course perfectly well known to
us. But we wanted to suggest to them a choice between the
two alternatives which we believed would at first sight most
readily present themselves.
At first sight the results may seem excellent from an S.P.R.
point of view, and be supposed to show the existence of a decided
preference for knowledge. For out of a total of about 3218 replies
a clear majority of 1706 seem to vote for 'knowledge,' as against
'faith,' 749; 'ignorance,' etc., 415; and 'indifference,' 107.
Of course, however, the question remains how far these figures
can be accepted as representative. But apart from this it is
evident that large deductions have, unfortunately, to be made
from the figures as they stand. It is morally certain, e.g. that
a large number of indifferents have put themselves down as
desiring to know and as possessing faith, and that to obtain
a trustworthy indication of the desire to know, we must try
to weed them out, in order to find out how many really desire
to know.
Of those who voted for ' knowledge ' we strike out there
fore (1) those who showed a negative or indifferent attitude
towards the first question and who, therefore, would like to
know only that there was no future life, and sometimes state
this expressly (225). We may dismiss (2) those who only want
to know on general grounds or use phrases indicating that
their preference for knowledge is very slight or doubtful (123).
We may eliminate (3) those who would like to know but
think knowledge impossible, and seem too contented with this
state of things to be credited with any but a conditional
desire to know (64). Deducting these, our majority disappears,
and our numbers are reduced to 1294. (4) We can hardly
rely without reservation on the desire to know of those who
stipulate that they want assurance only of the fact of a future
2f
432 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
life, or of its pleasantness, even though, if they really tried to
know, they might discover that to know the ' fact ' they needed
also to establish a great many of the details (102). (5) And
lastly, those (511) who would prefer knowledge after answering
Question IV. in the negative, can hardly in the vast majority
of cases be supposed to have a very keen desire for scientific
certainty on the subject. Answers of this type coming from
members of the S.P.R, or showing other internal evidence
of a genuine desire to know, have, however, been retained
in the list of those who desire to know. Nor (6) can we
appeal to those (178) who are already certain that there is
a future life to support a scientific investigation of its existence.
(7) On the other hand, we may add to the effective desire to
know the votes of the very few who, though personally satis
fied with faith, desire scientific proof for the sake of their
weaker brethren.
Making these alterations and throwing out some answers
(42), in which insufficient details are given to determine the
nature of the desire to know, we find that 681 out of 3218,
i.e. rather over 21 per cent., may be credited with a real
desire for scientific knowledge of the possibility of a future
life.1 That still seems fairly satisfactory, but I fear that even
so these figures enormously exaggerate the actual importance
of this desire. For they doubtless include the votes of many
whose desire to know, though real enough, is not very strong,
and would not impel them to inconvenience themselves in order
to satisfy it. And moreover, I shall have to admit that there
is a probability that the questionnaire has unduly selected those
who desire to know, so that about one out of five indicates
the maximum, but not the probable, strength of the desire.
IV.
Provisionally, however, and until better ones are attainable,
let us accept these figures, and proceed to ask, what do they
prove ? How far can they be trusted to give a true picture
of the state of human sentiment generally ?
The question needs careful consideration, because it is mainly
at this point that the value of our results will be impugned,
1 See Appendix for the detailed table of figures.
XLIX.] 433
Human Sentiment as to a Future Life.
especially by those who do not like the conclusions to which
they point.
Let us admit in the first place that the results are incom
plete. At best they represent the sentiment only of an infinit
esimal fraction even of English-speaking humanity. But I would
beg to point out that such incompleteness is inevitable, and
inseparable not merely from all such statistical, but also from
all inductive inquiry. All the great inductive generalisations
rest in the first instance on samples selected from a vastly
more extensive material. The geographer maps out the ocean
floor by taking soundings every ten miles, or infers its character
from little samples of the abysmal mud. The doctor describes
the symptoms of a disease from a few cases. The chemist
describes the properties of the rarer and more difficult chemicals
on the basis of a few experiments, repeated perhaps at intervals
of a generation. The psychologist in his generalisations about
human nature has hitherto rested on little but introspection of
himself, and even in the new experimental school he is making
inductions from a few dozen or hundred pupils whom he can
test in his laboratories. And so forth throughout the sciences.
The value of such reasonings depends entirely on the
question whether we have secured fair samples of a mate
rial which it is impossible to examine exhaustively. And thus
the only really relevant question as to our results is: Can
they be regarded as "fair samples " of human desire ?
(I.) I hope it will be admitted that the questions them
selves were fair, and gave no indication of any bias or
tendency. Not of course that they escaped criticism on this
account. But the criticisms about cancel each other. Some
thought that the answer yes was desired to the first question,
others the answer no, some that we were too scientific,
others that we were not scientific enough. Here e.g. are
the comments of a widow lady of mature experience : " I
can never sympathise with any Psychical Research Society
while it is conducted on the present highly emotional lines
that tend to hysterical illusions." I hope that this judg
ment will make a proper impression on our sceptics, and
induce them to abstain from pampering such illusions in
future !
The religious bearing of the questions has been variously
434 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
construed in much the same way. To scientific materialists
the mere fact that they emanated from Psychical Research
circles has seemed sufficient to condemn them ; over-anxious
believers have expressed their fears that their effect must be
anti-religious, that only infidels, agnostics, and heretics would
answer them, that no orthodox Christian would stand such
searching interrogation, and that reflection was sure to be
detrimental to faith. As I shall presently show how ground
less these apprehensions were, I shall now merely point out
that, whatever might be read into them, the questions them
selves were, and were intended to be, wholly impartial and
devoid of tendency either for or against any religious view.
And on the whole they were so understood and answered
freely by all sorts of men, including a considerable number
of clergymen of all denominations, without leading to any diffi
culties. Indeed, although we did not ask for it, we obtained
far more information as to our correspondents' religious opinions
than we had expected.
(II.) As to the distribution of circulars. Questionnaires
were sent to the members of the American Branch of the
S.P.R., of the American Psychological Association, and of the
Mind Association. Appeals were also inserted in the S.P.R's
Journal, the International Journal of Ethics and Mind. In
America a number of copies were sent also to the daily
press. In the September 1901 number of the Fortnightly
Review I sought to raise the question in an article entitled,
" Do men desire immortality ? " 1 This brought me in a large
amount of correspondence, and a certain amount of notice in
the press. Mr. B. J. Padshah reprinted the Questionnaire in
Bombay, and circulated it in India, especially among the Parsis;
Mr. Stanton Coit reprinted it in Ethics, and circulated it among
the members of Ethical Societies. We are greatly indebted
to both of these gentlemen for valuable and interesting batches
of answers, whose type differed materially from the rest, and
served the purpose of ' control ' experiments. The editor of
the Jewish Quarterly wrote an interesting discussion in his
October 1901 number and himself answered the questions, and
there were more or less complete translations, with more or less
■comment, in a considerable number of foreign papers (especially
1 Since then included in my Humanism (1903).
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 435
spiritistic) in most civilised countries, except Germany. On
the whole, however, it cannot be said that we succeeded in
arousing any considerable interest in the press, and it is
quite possible that the able editors who deemed the subject
unworthy even of a ' silly season ' discussion, correctly gauged
the extent of public interest in the matter. Meanwhile,
copies of the Questionnaire were freely issued to any one
who desired to answer, and was willing to collect answers
from others, and this method on the whole proved the
most satisfactory. Altogether about 10,000 copies were
circulated. It will be seen, however, that mainly owing to the
slenderness of our resources, the distribution must be pro
nounced to have been quite random and unsystematic.
Now, would this distribution be likely to induce a selection and
bias in the answers obtained ? I am afraid this question must
be answered in the affirmative. (1) The agency of the S.P.R
was undoubtedly prejudicial in scientific circles, in which both
bias and occupation would most dispose towards negative answers,
and de facto only a comparatively small number of answers
were returned thence. (2) A disproportionate number of
answers came from the Society's members, e.g. from 248, i.e.
about half, of the American Branch. And in them the desire
to know was very markedly greater than in the average
answers, and rose to over 50 per cent.1 (3) Probably the
spiritists were over-represented in the answers, not so much
because they were more disposed to answer, as because so
many spiritist papers reprinted the questionnaire. And they
were nearly always either ' certain ' or desirous of knowing.
It is clear, however, that the whole of this preferential
collection or bias would tend to increase the number of yeses
to Q. I., IV. and VI. (a). In other words, the desire to know
can hardly be stronger than is indicated by the returns : it
may be very much weaker. As far as the Society, therefore,
is concerned, the social situation cannot be more favourable,
and may be indefinitely less so.
(III.) As to the question of what sort of people answered.
Here, again, we were favoured with many forecasts, which, as
usually happens to such a priori efforts of the imagination^
1 Even so, as only about one half of the members answered, this would
not necessarily represent more than a quarter of the Branch.
43G [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
were on the whole mistaken. If I had to answer in a single
phrase I should have to say that all sorts of people answered ;
i.e. the answers exhibited an astounding variety of sentiment,
far greater than anything we had expected, prepared though
we were for a good deal. In reading them one could not
help wondering how persons, whose sentiments were so radi
cally different, yet managed to live together in the same
world, and felt assured that a real and literal uniformity of
belief, the idol to which bigots and fanatics have offered
such inhuman sacrifices, was rendered impossible by the
psychological constitution of human nature itself. For even
when two can be found to subscribe to the same intellectual
formulas, the spiritual atmosphere in which they are bathed
is different. Duo si dicunt (faciunt) idem non est idem.
Not that there could not be made out certain well-marked
types of sentiment, or that the different types were equally
disposed to answer. In some there was, of course, as we
expected, a good deal of reluctance. The questions were
bound to seem novel and unusual, unpractical, nay, useless.
Even to experts in introspection and self-examination they
presented considerable difficulty, which might lead to the
unpleasant discovery that one did not have the beliefs and
sentiments one would like to have, or supposed oneself to
have. And apart from the particular questions, one knew,
of course, that some are as immovably unwilling to answer
personal questions as others are eager to oblige the world
with their personal reactions. The subject of inquiry in such
cases is quite a secondary consideration. If you got up an
inquiry into what size of hats, or what shape of boots people
wore, persons of the first type would refuse on the ground
that the subject was " too sacred," while those of the second
would hasten to write, " You will be interested to know that
I wear 7/V hats, and abhor pointed toes." The great mass
of mankind, however, is intermediate between these extremes,
and while reluctant to put itself to any appreciable trouble
or expense for the sake of science, can be induced to answer,
if pressed, and in order to oblige a friend, and I should
judge that the great bulk of our answers came from people
'of this sort. At all events the opinions held do not seem
to have seriously hindered any one in answering, provided that
XLix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 437
anything else disposed him to do so. Answers came which
illustrated every conceivable variety of opinion, and some
which one would hardly have deemed conceivable. Hence
I am inclined to think that even types of sentiment, which
usually resulted only in refusals, were occasionally represented
in the answers of people who only just consented to answer.
Consider e.g. the following answers : I. Yes, if agreeable.
Ila. Certainly not. lib. Yes. 11c. Too complicated. 111. Too
lazy to think it out. IV. Not at all. V. Never thought about it.
VI. Now that attention is called- to it, would like to know.
Remarks: "A stupid and useless inquiry." This set of answers
seems to me to throw a flood of light on a state of mind
which is probably very common, but only rarely finds such
racy expression. Again, let us see what we can make of
the common sentiment that the subject is " too sacred " to
be talked about. As a rule people who feel in this way
will refuse to answer, but occasionally they analyse their
sentiment for us first. E.g. a collector reports the refusal of
a lady who said it was " too sacred," but immediately afterwards
she honestly added, " besides my feelings fluctuate too much ; when
I am ill or unhappy I long for annihilation, when I am stronger
and lutppier I would prefer to live after death." Here the
question evidently stimulated to the analysis of a sentiment,
which in the great majority of such cases would have been
accepted at its face value. Here is another analysis, not so
frank, though perhaps on a somewhat higher plane of feeling.
A literary man writes in answer to Q. VI. " Even a proof of
immortality, supposing that proof to take, let us say, the form
of a mathematical demonstration,1 would seem to me to have
something revolting about it, something that in an indefinable
way offends the finer feelings, something that, for lack of a
better term, I may call 'impious.' In attempting to answer
this question I feel myself somewhat in the state of mind
that, I fancy, moves many of those, to whom this set of
questions is submitted, to refuse to answer any of them."
It is clear that such types of sentiment though they may
be common enough, will occur but rarely in the answers.
1This notion, that complete proof would assume the form of mathematical
demonstration, occurs very commonly. It shows that modern logic has
not penetrated far beyond professional circles.
438 F, C. S. Schiller.
Again there are indications that negative answers to Question
I. were harder to poll than affirmative. This is natural enough,
seeing that
(1) Almost without exception, those who do not desire a
future life would be indifferent about it and do not care to
inquire into it.
(2) They would suspect a ' psychical research ' questionnaire.
(3) They might still be sufficiently impressed by the con
ventional belief to shrink from an avowal that their desire
conflicted with it. And
(4) in spite of the unreserved candour of many of the
negative answers, there were signs in others of attempts to
conceal their real tendency.
(5) It was quite in accordance with these indications that
the scattering answers volunteered from out of the way and
non-English speaking places in French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch,
Belgian, Russian, Polish, etc., were, with hardly an exception,
enthusiastically affirmative. People did not similarly write from
the ends of the earth to tell us that they did not want to
live after death.
As regards the religiously " orthodox," I think it probable
that they also did not poll their full vote, though there were
plenty of answers animated by various forms of Christian
sentiment. Here again there are intelligible reasons.
(1) Faith in its weaker forms seems hardly capable of
articulate expression, and indeed will hardly bear inspection
even by its possessor :
(2) It is often used as a sort of anodyne and excuse for
not troubling further about matters ' best left to God.'
(3) Possibly the robuster forms of religious faith, which
would be glad of an opportunity to bear witness to the truth,
are not now so common as one imagines they once were.
But even if the returns fail to give ' orthodox ' sentiment
its proper weight, the correction which must be made on this
score will only strengthen the argument. For inasmuch as
those who have it almost invariably prefer ' faith ' to ' know
ledge ' in answering Question VI., it is manifest that, like the
agnostics and indifferents, their answers would only have reduced
the percentage of those interested in finding out, more or less
scientifically, whether there is not a future life.
XLIX.] 439
Human Sentiment as to a Future Life.
v.
With regard to the tone of the answers there was a commend
able absence of jocosity. Whether it was that the subject was
too solemn even for the funny men or that they did not know
in what direction fun could be made of it, it is hard to say ;
I can only report the almost total absence of buffoonery and
even of deliberate flippancy. ' Crank ' effusions also were com
paratively rare, and easily detected by their inability to answer
the questions at all. In general the tone of the answers was
distinguished by a high degree of sincerity, frequently attaining
to extraordinary heights of frankness. In saying this I do
not of course mean to affirm that the psychological self-analysis
was always correct : I mean to say only that people generally
seemed to express as far as they were able what seemed to
them the truth about their feelings. Even therefore where the
analysis was probably wrong or incomplete, it yielded psycho
logical facts of a sort. For a man's estimate of himself is
an important fact about him and a factor in his actions.
On the whole we may draw this conclusion, that though
the answers may not reflect the actual distribution of the various
types of sentiment, they may yet be taken to be a fair sample
for the purpose of the main problem of this inquiry. Or
rather it is an unfair sample, in that it exaggerates the extent
of the desire for knowledge of a future life ; but in spite of
this unfairness, the returns show a hitherto hardly suspected
weakness of this desire, and thereby answer the question into
which it was necessary for the S.P.R. to inquire. This con
clusion may be regarded as fairly probable, if not as strictly
demonstrated : it is at all events more probable than any other,
and if any one desires to contest it, it is incumbent on him to
amass more numerous, exact and decisive data than those we
have been able to obtain. I can only wish him God speed
and joy of the labour. For the present the results of the
Questionnaire afford a definite basis of psychological fact for
arguing the question such as has not hitherto existed. And
further, we are, I think, henceforth entitled to put in a warning
and a protest against the fruitless discussion of such questions
on grounds of mere a priori probabilities, or literary traditions.
While admitting that these always afford a certain measure of
440 [part
F. G. S. Schiller.
truth, and while deeply impressed by the way in which a literary
tradition tends not only to perpetuate, but also to verify, itself,
I must contend that such grounds of argument are essentially
unsafe until supplemented and confirmed by a first hand in
vestigation of the actual facts, wherever this is possible.
And I may add that many other ethical and aesthetical
discussions appear to me to flounder in quagmires of this sort.
VI.
I shall only permit myself to discuss one more point in
this paper, viz. whether any practical corollary can be drawn
from these scientific results. And I may begin by admitting
that a very specious plea may be put in against proceeding to
any practical inferences. For why not let the matter rest
there ? Is not everything for the best in the best of all possible
worlds ? On your own showing all or nearly all seem admirably
adjusted to the present situation, and to have just that degree
of knowledge or lack of knowledge which suits them and which
they desire.
For consider : those who ' know ' that there is, or is not,
a future life are content with their inward conviction or scientific
reasoning. Those who ' have faith ' can feel that it is far higher
and holier and more meritorious than the vulgarities of scientific
knowledge ; and they too are satisfied. Those who delight in
uncertainty and the play of fancy, can indulge in these to their
heart's content. Those who are addicted to a priori demonstra
tions either way can construct them without stint or fear of
verification. The great army of the indifferent can afford to
remain neutral towards the inconclusive combats of the fanatics
on either side. The matter-of-fact and worldly-minded have a
right to ignore a future too uncertain to affect reasonable action.
Even those who desire to know are but rarely distracted by
a painful craving, and are usually easy to convince that so
perilous a knowledge is wisely withheld from them. Even those
who (unreasonably) fear lest knowledge should blast their hopes
are at least secured against the fore-knowledge of their vanity.
It is true that a few still exhibit a divergence between desire
and expectation, but experience shows that such discrepancies
are essentially temporary, and that the one or the other always
xlix.] Human Sentiment ak tb a Future Life. 441
adjusts the other into harmony with itself, by a process which is
usually rapid and painless and unaccompanied by any lasting
distress. In fact, amid all the various phenomena of human
psychology, distress due to uncertainty about one's fate after
death seems to be one of the rarest.
An optimistic defender of the status quo might proceed to
adorn his picture of the general satisfaction with loftier appeals
to philosophy and religion. He would doubtless improve the
occasion to enlarge on the limitations of human faculty and
the presumption of seeking to comprehend the unknowable.
Or again, he would castigate the impiety of desiring a know
ledge which the Divine Wisdom had withheld from us, and
urge that if God had intended us to know He would have
rendered the fact of immortality more evident to us, by reason,
revelation, or experience.
It will be seen, therefore, that a very strong case can be
made out against the scientific research to which we are pledged,
and I am quite sure that however strenuously we may impugn
the reasons advanced, we can do but little to mitigate the
prejudice from which they spring. The great forces which
impel men are not in their essence rational, but inasmuch as
it is only by reasoning that they are accessible, they must
be argued with as best we can.
I must remark, then, in the first place that a substantially
similar case might have been made out against any attempt
at advancing knowledge. For whatever our ignorance, there
always exists a certain contentment with it, a sort of social
equilibrium or adjustment, which it is inconvenient and distress
ing to disturb. And this mood of acquiescence in the actual
will always seek to appear respectable by appealing to higher
considerations. The classical example of this attitude towards
the restless progressiveness of scientific research is the famous
letter of the Cadi of Bagdad to Sir A. Layard in reply to
a request for statistics concerning the trade and population
of his province.1 Alike for exquisiteness of phrasing and piety
of sentiment I have not found anything to touch it in Occidental
literature or in the questionnaire answers. And certainly no other
document reveals so plainly and delightfully how many of these
ebullitions of piety really spring from the abysses of indolence,
1Quoted by William James, Principles of Psychology, Vol. II. p. 640.
442 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
and are inspired by aversion from what seems uninteresting
and unprofitable knowledge. Against the Cadi of Bagdad,
however, I should venture to quote the truer and nobler
doctrine of Xenophanes :
ov rot ajr' apx^5 ""avra Oeot Ovr^roU irapl8ti£av
aAAa fyjrovvTts i<ptvpl(TKOVfTiv aptivov.
" Surely the gods have not displayed all things to men from
the beginning, but they, in time, by seeking, find out a better
way." On its intrinsic merits of course this pseudo-religious
argument against research hardly deserves refutation. It is
essentially the argument of the Peculiar People against the
study and practice of medicine. Nor do I think that it is
much more plausible to argue that if God had intended us
to know He would have spared us the trouble and the discipline
of finding out, than to say that if God had meant us to wear
clothes we should have been born, like the angels, with becom
ing costumes.
With the plea of merely philosophic agnosticism it is possible
to make short work. It suffices to say that no one can know
where the limits of the possible are laid down until he has
tried. And in this case no one has tried in any rational or
persistent manner. No one, therefore, has a right to declare
this particular knowledge impossible a priori.
On the other hand, I should like to appeal for support to
the general desire for knowledge as such. But I fear it may
be too rare and faint a feeling to bear the burden of so great
an enterprise. Moreover, those who are capable of feeling it
are for the most part already absorbed in other subjects of
research, easier and more directly profitable, if less momentous,
than ours. Nevertheless, it should, I think, be borne in mind
that the success of this, as of other branches of the Society's
work, must continue to depend somewhat on the ' disinterested '
assistance of those who seek knowledge ' for its own sake.'
But I feel that their might is as nothing compared with that
of the ancient, and deep-seated distrust of knowledge, of the
social instinct which in the past has immolated on a thousand
pyres the psychics it had turned into ' witches ' and the men
of science it had decried as ' magicians.' Here as elsewhere
we should deprecate, now as ever, its subtle and nefarious
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 443
influence. Experience has always so far shown it to be
groundless. Instead of being a source of incalculable dangers,
knowledge has always issued in unexpected ameliorations of
human life. All analogy, therefore, would lead one to suppose
that a gradual and dearly-bought acquisition of progressive
knowledge of the laws regulating our post-mortem careers would
be predominantly good and useful, bracing and invigorating.
For real knowledge can only confirm, it cannot destroy, our
hopes. A disproof of a future life must, it seems, be a priori,
and on that breeding-ground of subtle fallacy, the a priori realm,
the most ingenious intellects may be defied to discover anything
really cogent. As soon as we consent to appeal to evidence,
on the other hand, a good deal will depend on the sort of
evidence to which we choose to appeal. Hitherto our
science has, by accident quite as much as by preference,
dwelt on the physical and physiological considerations
which render the notion of a future life for the individual
so remote and improbable as necessarily to drive it from
the foreground of consciousness. But an absolute disproof
of the doctrine by such methods seems to be logically in
conceivable, for reasons I have elsewhere developed at some
length.1 The effect of all psychic research, on the other hand,
must be to keep the mind open to possibilities of a very
different order. Psychical science, in so far as it leads to
results, can only confirm the belief in a future life. But
science is always gradual ; its advances are as slow, though
not as inevitable, as the mills of the gods. There is no fear
of our finding out all at once. To demonstrate immortality
by a single dramatic coup de Mdtre is impossible. Even if a
case could be produced so complete as to lack no element of
logical conclusiveness it would convince none but those who
came prepared to be convinced. For, as we have seen, a great
many, perhaps a majority, are not psychologically disposed to
be convinced. They have not cultivated a mind open for the
reception of such novelties. Their old prejudices must be
ploughed up before the new knowledge can take root in their
mind. And this is a long and difficult process. There is no
fear, therefore, that the millennium will come upon us in the
1 Humanism, p. 288 ; (Proceedings S.P.S., Vol. XV. p. 63), and Riddles of the
Sphinx, pp. 393-4.
444 [part
F. G. S, Schiller.
twinkling of an eye. There will always be scope for our hopes
to guide our researches, for our faith to outstrip our knowledge.
Our metaphysicians will still be able to skirmish in advance
of the serried ranks of our scientists, and indeed may con
ceivably be stimulated to more effective speculations by the
discovery of more copious and trustworthy data-
Nor do I think that an advance of psychical knowledge
such as we have contemplated would really detract from the
value of Faith. Those who now content themselves with
" faith," whether it takes the form of religious conviction or
of an immediate inner consciousness (which we may call
mystical, if we define as the essence of mysticism the power of
dispensing with reasoning processes in attaining certainty), appear
to reach a degree of certainty which seems quite to transcend
scientific knowledge and makes it look hopelessly humdrum and
superfluous. It seems a profanation to patch upon the radiant
robes of faith, upon the seamless splendour of a speckless
assurance, a sordid backing laboriously woven of the grey,
tenacious threads of scientific inference. Yet these glorious
fabrics of faith are not exempt from mortal weakness. Just in
proportion as they transcend the support of logic they become
exposed to incalculable dangers. They suffer from the vicissi
tudes of faith in the extra-logical realm in which they float.
The spiritual forces that generated them so unaccountably may
as unexpectedly destroy them. And, socially, they all exhibit
one fatal and fundamental flaw. They are individual and
incommunicable; their raptures and their restfulness cannot be
transferred to others. Nay, regarded in the cold cruel light
of a sceptical reason, their magic sheen appears to leave them.
They look rather like paltry gossamer, flimsy structures of a
futile imagination, and piteously unfit to clothe the human
spirit in a work-a-day world.
And so the science of the day writes down our various faiths
as curious, and mainly pathological, products of the imagination,
and passes sternly on, in silent condemnation. This utter
deprecation of their spiritual experiences, which is implied in
the methods, far more than it is expressed in the dogmas, of
positive science, is felt of course in various ways by the
possessors of these forms of faith. In some it produces
alienation from science and all its ways. Others content
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 445
themselves with their self-centred and subjective certainty.
Others more unselfishly declare that they would like knowledge
to be added to faith for the sake of less richly favoured
souls. Others again, and theirs is perhaps the most pathetic
case of all, experience in their own persons the precariousness
of what science so far will not treat as more than a subjective
phenomenon. The pressure of an unsympathising social atmo
sphere drives them into a critical attitude towards their own
' intuitions.' They feel them to be only subjective experiences ;
they begin to doubt whether they are not phantoms of their
imagination, indications merely of the intensity of their longing.
In one most interesting case this process of self-criticism went
to such lengths that a man who in the fervour of a Methodist
conversion-crisis had actually perceived a vision of his Saviour,
lapsed insensibly into agnosticism in a non-religious environ
ment, and was only brought back into touch with his religious
past by a study of the miracles of ' Theosophy.'
On the whole, therefore, it would seem that reliance upon
Faith alone is not free from serious drawbacks, and that it
would be impolitic to oppose Faith to Psychical Research. To
me it seems rather that each needs the other, and that together
they might transfigure the face of life.
I pass from the loftiest to the lowest form of opposition to
psychical exploration, that of those who think that one world
at a time is enough, and find their present business and amuse
ments too absorbing to bestow any attention, and still less any
favour, upon anything that might distract them from their
chosen pursuits. Now it will probably be agreed that this
objection of practical common-sense to our researches is most
formidable, and should if possible be mitigated, if it cannot
wholly be removed. It rests moreover on a sound instinct.
We naturally try to circumscribe the universe with which
man has to sustain relations, because happiness requires adapta
tion to environment, and the more extensive the environment,
the more various and complex must our activities become,
and the more difficult, ceteris paribus, the achievement of adapta
tion. But your practical man's objection to taking too wide and
visionary a view of life is apt to degenerate into a sentimental
repugnance to anything which threatens to expand his immediate
horizon. The intensity of this feeling is what has hardly
446 [part
F. C. 8. Schiller.
yet been realised. In its more flippant forms it issues in the
declaration that Mrs. Piper's mediumship has added a new
terror to death, in its more strenuous it rises to an utter
loathing of psychical research and hatred of psychical researchers.
Altogether it forms a mass of prejudice almost impervious to
argument, so that all I can urge against it will probably
be vain. I must point out, however—
(1) That if another world can be scientifically discovered,
the two worlds will become one and continuous to a greater
or less extent, and be included in the same natural universe.1
This will reduce the supposed antagonism between them to
that which always exists to some extent between the present
and the future.
(2) Looking ahead to the future is a characteristic which
has been more and more deeply impressed on the human mind
by the teachings of experience ; and forethought and fore
knowledge is in all other departments of knowledge eagerly
desired and conspicuously useful. In fact our mental power
and progress seem to be largely measurable by this capacity to
look ahead.2 The discovery of a future life, therefore, would
seem to contain the possibility of accomplishing the conscious
guidance of our present life in a completer and more perfect
way.
(3) Human sentiment would soon grow adjusted to the new
situation, even in those who now hate to look ahead aud
anticipate trouble. They would lie awake of nights, thinking
of what they should do a thousand years hence, as little as
now. Forethought would be tempered with the reflection that
" sufficient for the day is the evil thereof," into a working com
promise at least as conducive to efficiency as the present tacit
convention to think as little as may be of the fact that all
human undertakings must be cut short, and perhaps be rendered
futile, by death. And so the certainty of a future life would
impair our activities as little as the certainty of death does
now. At present our attitude towards death is the most
marvellous triumph of psychological necessity over logic.
Everybody admits it, but no one allows it to paralyse his
action. Whatever revelations, therefore, psychical science may
1Cp. Proceedings, S.P.R., Vol. XV. p. 50. Humanium, pp. 276-7.
aCp. Humanism, p. 257.
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 447
have in store for us, it is not credible that they would unnerve
us or impair our capacity to carry on the business of life. At
worst they might hold out the prospect of a distressing or
distasteful future. But we do not find that during the dark
ages, when men professed to believe that eternal torture was
the inevitable lot of the vast majority of their kind, the gaiety
of nations was eclipsed or their ferocious energy diminished.
At best we might gain cognizance of a light that would illumine
the rough places of this world and guide our stumbling foot
steps. But a miraculous transformation seems as unlikely as
a moral cataclysm. Human nature after all is the main factor
in our calculations. And plastic though it be, it changes very
slowly. It would be quixotic, therefore, to suppose that
Psychical Research will work a sudden revolution. Even if
in the next decades sufficient evidence should accumulate to
convince the most obdurate of the truth of spirit communica
tions, the ordinary business of life would go on much as before.
People would eat, drink, sleep, work, marry, and amuse them
selves as before. There would be no slump in Consols, nor
even any perceptible decline in fashionable frivolity. For it
is highly improbable that those who could not be broken of
the habit of living in and for the moment even by their
unquestioning acceptance of the prospect of eternal damnation
will cease to play about on the surface of things, whatever
evolutions may proceed down in the depths of thought.
VII.
But, after all, I do not know why we should display such
exclusive solicitude about the feelings of those who enjoy the
existing uncertainty. Some consideration surely is due also to
those who would sincerely like to know, and to whom the
lack of knowledge causes grave distress. I have admitted, and
even emphasised, that at any given time they form a minority,
it may be a small minority. But there is also evidence to
show that at some time or other in their lives a large majority
pass through a period when the mystery of existence oppresses
their spirit and torments them with fears and perplexities
which real knowledge would almost certainly show to be
groundless. It is true, no doubt, that such periods of anxiety
2g
448 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
seem usually to be short, and that after a few years people
find quite comfortable beliefs which at first had seemed un
bearable. In the aggregate, however, the amount of spiritual
distress, in periods of bereavement and mental development,
caused by the present state of affairs must be enormous. It
forms so needless a blot upon civilisation that it seems a
thousand pities that attempts at the recording and scientific
exploration of the fleeting clues that float into our view should
not be prosecuted with something like the ardour and per
sistency which mankind has displayed in dealing with the
other difficulties of human life.
The first and immediate step, however, must be to arouse
a will to know adequate to the success of this enterprise. We
need to arouse towards Psychical Research the feeling which
Francis Bacon aroused towards physical research. Whether
or not Bacon was secretly the greatest of poets, there can be
no doubt that he was not a greac man of science, nor himself
a discoverer of new truth. His services to science were
immense ; but they were those of a lawyer with a genius for
epigram. He was also a Lord Chancellor. In virtue of these
qualities, and in spite of these defects, he did for physical
science (in England at least) what no man of science could
have done. He drew general attention to its possibilities ;
he preached physical research with such eloquence and assiduity
that he actually changed the social atmosphere, and made men
desire the physical knowledge which they had until then
distrusted and despised.
Now the last point I wish to insist on in this paper is
that in all probability it was chiefly the absence of such
desire for knowledge which formed the ultimate reason for
the stagnation of science during the Middle Ages. It was
not, certainly, the obscurantism of the Christian Church, as is
currently alleged ; for Greek science had been languishing for
some centuries before the establishment of Christianity, which
itself was one of the results of a general movement away from
science and towards a certain type of religion. For nearly 2000
years few or none seem to have desired scientific knowledge,
and therefore scientific knowedge made no progress.
The only suggestion I can make in explanation of this
strange phenomenon is that scientific knowledge had ceased
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 449
to seem desirable. The immense authority of Aristotle had
bullied the world into the belief that pure science was
utterly useless, and much too lofty to concern itself with
the good for man.1 Naturally enough the average man
retaliated on the inhumanity of science by turning away
to intellectual inquiries which seemed to promise more
for his interests. Intellectual interest was transferred first
to the ethical, and subsequently to the religious, questions
debated among the Stoics, Epicureans, and Neoplatonist philo
sophers, and the adherents of the Judaic, Mithraic, and
Christian religions. Thus the social atmosphere became
unfavourable to scientific research, and stifled whatever
germs thereof sprang up in individual minds. A great
genius did indeed arise, before this process had gone far, who
did not scorn to apply scientific knowledge to practical needs.
But, unfortunately, Archimedes was butchered in the sack of
Syracuse by the Romans, and with him perished in all proba
bility all prospects of a school to undo the mischief wrought
by Aristotle's superstitious reverence for useless knowledge.
Else modern science might have leapt into existence, and
started on its beneficent career 2000 years ago.
As it was we had to wait for Bacon. Bacon succeeded
in transforming the social atmosphere. He proclaimed that
knowledge was power, and that physical science, systematically
studied, would give to each his heart's desire. And in spite
of the disgust of pedants and obscurantists, and the futile
quibbling of metaphysicians, men were glad to follow his
inspiring lead ; they were encouraged to set to work and to
obtain the sort of knowledge they desired. And we all know
how plentifully the slowly-ripening fruits of science have
rewarded their labours. But, after all, the dark cloud of
ignorant contentment was lifted only in part. To this day it
has brooded over another portion of the field of knowledge.
The desire for knowledge does not yet extend to the subjects of
psychical investigation. These are still regarded as uncanny,
, dangerous, unknowable, useless, and what not. They still
await the redeeming advent of a Bacon to bid men open their
ears and their eyes, and put forth their strength to sow and
reap a fresh and no less precious crop of knowledge.
1Cp. my essay on "Useless Knowledge" in Humanism, p. 18.
450 [part
F. C. S. Schiller.
Our first task thus becomes that of finding such a second
Bacon, such a " trumpeter of a new era " of research,1 who
can stir up, if not all sorts and conditions of men, at least
a sufficient number of competent and intelligent men to
those sustained and systematic efforts which deserve, aud
usually achieve, success. Shall we find him in our Society ?
I do not dare to prophesy, but when I look at the list of
our Council I do not despair. For it seems to me that
among our Presidents, past and present, we have men of the
requisite calibre. And the indifference of a Lord Chancellor
may be more than outweighed by the support of a Premier.
Appendix.
The questionnaire used in the inquiry was as follows :
INQUIRY INTO HUMAN SENTIMENT WITH REGARD
TO A FUTURE LIFE.
There is a widespread literary tradition that men naturally desire
a future life. From this assumed fact it has been variously argued
that (1) such a universal desire cannot be destined to disappoint
ment, and (2) it must vitiate convictions and engender illusory
evidence in its own support.
But there is some reason to suppose, both from the ordinary
conduct of men and from sporadic declarations of individuals, that
this tradition is very far from accurately representing the facts,
and that these are actually more various and complicated. More
over, it should not be forgotten that in India the literary tradition
seems to be exactly reversed, and it is assumed that men naturally
craye for extinction or absorption in the Absolute.
It becomes a question, therefore, what the actual sentiments of
men are, and what, consequently, is the actual bias with which
1 Buccinator novi ttmporis. It is a curious, but most welcome, coincidence
that Sir Oliver Lodge, though not present when this paper was read to the
Society and unaware of its arguments, should have arrived at a very similar view
of Bacon's epoch-making exhortations. See Procttdings S.P.R., Vol. XVIII.,
pp. 3-6.
xlix.] Human Sentiment as to a Future Life. 451
they are likely to receive the doctrines and the evidence that bear
on the subject.
Both these questions are capable of being determined with suffi
cient precision by instituting a statistical inquiry over a sufficiently
wide field—collecting answers until it becomes evident that the
percentages of the various types of answer have become constant.
To determine the nature of men's actual sentiments and actual
bias should be a matter of great interest, not only to the S.P.R.
and psychologists generally, but also to every religious organisation.
For both the scientific labours of the former and the moral exhorta
tions of the latter are likely to be in some degree, at least, ineffectual,
so long as they are conducted in ignorance, and so in disregard,
of what men really want. It is only when the facts have been
ascertained that they can be argued from for the various purposes
of the scientist, the philosopher and the theologian.
First of all, therefore, it is necessary to discover the nature of
human sentiment ; and to obtain it in its purity, it is desirable
to exclude, as far as possible, all extraneous influences, whether
of a religious or of a scientific kind. It is, of course, recognised
that these may and often do influence sentiment, that they may
engender or check it, as also that there may be a marked divergence
between conviction or belief and sentiment. But as it is primarily
the nature of the sentiment which has to be determined, these
other considerations should be excluded as far as possible.
Hence the subjoined questions should be understood as directly referring
only to the personal preferences, sentiments or desires of those who answer
them, quite irrespective of their religious faith or reasoned convictions, the
influence of which, where it exists, may be recorded in answer
to Question III.
Please return this questionnaire when answered to
Dr. RICHARD HODGSON,
5 Boylston Place,
Boston, Mass, U.S.A.
N.B.—All names will be regarded as strictly confidential.
QUESTIONS.
I. Would you prefer (a) to live after ' death ' or (b) not ?
II. (a) If I. (a), do you desire a future life whatever the conditions
might be ?
452 [part
F. 0. S. Schiller.
(6) If not) what would have to be its character to make the
prospect seem tolerable? Would you, e.g. be content
with a life more or less like your present life ?
(c) Can you say what elements in life (if any) are felt by you
to call for its perpetuity ?
III. Can you state why you feel in this way, as regards questions
L and II. t
IV. Do you NOW feel the question of a future life to be of urgent
importance to your mental comfort?
V. Have your feelings on questions I., II. and IV. undergone
change ? If so, when and in what ways ?
VI. (a) Would you like to know for certain about the future life,
or (b) would you prefer to leave it a matter of faith ?
HINTS FOR COLLECTORS.
1. Answers should be collected by preference from educated adults.
2. Collectors should fill up their own papers first, and get the
others answered independently.
3. Any answer, affirmative or negative, is valuable as a psycho
logical fact.
4. Even a refusal to answer is a valuable indication of feeling, which it
is important to record. In such case, the collector should, if
possible, ask the reason of the refusal, and should then fill up a
census paper with the name, etc., of the refuser, inserting the
reason given for refusing under the head of Remarks.
State :—Name
Address
Age Sex
Nationality
Profession
Date
XLIX.] 453
Human Sentiment as to a Future Life.
454 Andrew Lang. [part
III.
THE POLTERGEIST AT CIDEVILLE.
By Andrew Lang.
In the history of the Poltergeist, the case of the Presbytere
of Cideville (1850-1851) is best known through Mr. Dale
Owen's Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World (London,
1861, pp. 195-203). The author cited M. de Mirville's
Fragment d'un Ouvrage ln6dit, a pamphlet which I have failed
to procure. By the kindness of the Marquis d'Eguilles,—a
descendant of the French envoy who accompanied Prince
Charles from Edinburgh to Derby and Culloden,—the Society
has received an authenticated copy of the original documents
of what was practically a trial for witchcraft before the Juge
de Paix of Yerville in 1851. To the present Juge de Paix
we owe the privilege of having the records viewed and tran
scribed. It will be remarked that Mr. Dale Owen omitted
the negative evidence, and certain rulings of the court, un
favourable to the innocence of the alleged sorcerer, who appeared
as plaintiff' in a case of libel against M. Tinel, Cure* of Cideville.
Public judicial proceedings began on January 7th, 1851, before
M. Folloppe, Juge de Paix. Thorel, a shepherd swain, sum
moned M. Tinel for defamation of character. M. Tinel had
described various phenomena of the usual sort, invading his
house, and persecuting two boys, his pupils.1 They included a
1 "Thus, according to [M. Tinel], sharp and distinct raps would be heard
behind the wainscot of his apartments ; a voice, responding to the summons of two
young children, his pupils, would converse with them, make promises or threats,
and sing various airs, notably that of MaUre Corbeau. Now shovels and
tongs, having got tired of the hearth, would give themselves up to wild dauces,
afterwards returning quietly to resume their accustomed places ; now tables
and chairs would stamp and spin round, running all over his house as if they
were playing at prisoner's base or hide-and-seek, never ceasing from their
XLIX.] 455
The Poltergeist at Cideville.
black hand which slapped one of the boys. He accused Thorel
of producing these phenomena, declared that Thorel knelt and
begged his pardon, and he induced Pain, a sheep farmer, to
discharge Thorel. He also beat Thorel with a stick " to the
effusion of blood."
Tinel replied that he only charged Thorel with " arrogating
to himself the quality of sorcerer," and that he struck Thorel
in self-defence.
The judge adjourned the case to January 28th, 1851, for
evidence to be collected.
The first witness for the plaintiff, Be"zuel, spoke to much
hearsay matter. He had visited M. Tinel's house, in his
absence, M. Tinel inviting him to stay for a fortnight. He
did not, but visiting the place with M. Robert de Saint Victor
(brother of Paul de Saint Victor ?), he witnessed nothing
unusual.
Andrieu, the next witness, had heard of the affair from
Tinel, and other hearsay matter. He had, however, heard
raps produced at the order of the younger pupil, whom he
placed " in a position in which he could not produce any
noise by himself." He heard a M. Fontaine call from the
window (he himself being in the garden) that he had caught
the boy cheating. The boy bellowed that he had not cheated,
and offered to stand on the window sill, where he could
not touch a table which, according to Fontaine, he had moved
in a normal way.
Masson, a gendarme, was told that objects flew about and
broke the windows. He himself saw nothing occur during
an hour and a half of observation.
Bourrienne, also a gendarme, had the same negative
experience.
Stanislas Huet had only hearsay matter.
gambols until covered with perspiration and worn out with fatigue. Sometimes
knives lying on a table would be hurled by some occult and irresistible force,
and bury themselves deep in the walls. Sometimes penknives or inkstands
would be suddenly seized with a desire to frolic, and, dashing against the
windows of the presbytery, would break the panes, afterwards returning
ashamed to ask the forgiveness of their young ownerB. Sometimes, finally, a
distinctly visible hand belonging to some invisible body would indict the most
prodigious blows on the cheeks of the two young acolytes." (From the charge
brought by Thorel against Tinel. )
456 [part
Andrew Lang.
Gustave Lemonnier, the younger of M. Tinel's pupils, aged
twelve, told his story. Eaps began, when he was alone, on
November 26th, and continued. All sorts of objects flew
about. A black hand struck the witness. He was haunted
by a spectre in a blouse. A child's voice was heard by him.
He did not ask to be allowed to go home. Meeting Thorel,
when with Tinel, he recognised in Thorel the spectre in
the blouse. The boy spoke about the incident of Fontaine's
accusation of cheating.
Bunel, aged fourteen, the other pupil, corroborated Lemonnier,
who " lost consciousness " and " had a nervous attack " after
meeting Thorel. The witness showed a black eye, caused by
a stamping iron which flew at his face. He attested many
eccentric movements of objects.
Thorel then asked that nine questions, partly as to Fontaine,
might be put to witness.
The Judge disallowed them as " contrary to the dignity of
justice," and adjourned the court.
The next witness, M. de Bagneux, spoke to M. Tinel's anxiety
to have the affair investigated. He himself, alone with the
boy, heard " the noise " beat several tunes : he could not
" discover the cause."
Auguste Huet, the next witness, by his request had raps
struck under his fingers on a table. He was " convinced
that it was not the boy who did it, nor any of the people
of the house." The boy's arms were folded at the time. A
tune was rapped out by his request.
Maxime Henry, as to the phenomena, spoke only from
hearsay.
Cheval spoke to the scene in which Thorel knelt to Tinel,
and was beaten by him. He mentioned, on hearsay, that
Thorel had boasted of his sorceries, and, by way of an evidence,
had caused a person to fall down whenever he struck a blow
against his hut. He then said that he had not seen but
heard of the kneeling and beating incident. But he did see
the tongs and shovel at the house of M. Tinel " leave the
hearth and go into the middle of the room." They were put
back, and rushed out again. " My eyes were fixed on them
to see what moved them, but I saw nothing at all." (This
witness was a farmer, aged forty.) He saw "a stocking dart
XLIX.] 457
The Poltergeist at Cideville.
like a thunderbolt from beside the bed on which the children
were sleeping, to the opposite end of the room." Lying in
bed with the boys, his hands on their hands, and his feet on
their feet, he " saw the coverlet dart away from the bed."
Leroux, Cure of Saussay, aged thirty, said :
I have to add that when at the Presbytery of Cideville, I saw
things which I have been unable to explain to myself. I saw a
hammer, moved by some invisible force, leave the spot where it lay
and fall in the middle of the room without making more noise than
if a hand had gently laid it down ; a piece of bread lying on the
table darted under the table ; and we being placed as we were, it
was impossible that any of us could have thrown it in that way.
I also saw, after the Cure of Cideville and I had shaved, all the
things we had used for the purpose placed as if by hand on the
floor; the young pensionnaire of M. Tinel having called our attention
to this, M. Tinel and I went upstairs to assure ourselves of the fact.
Perhaps the child had had time to do this; but on coming away
again, we had scarcely descended six steps of the stairs when the
child told us that everything had been put back in its place. I
went back alone, and found everything was, in fact, in its place,
with the exception of the mirror, and I am certain that the child
could not have put everything back in its place in that way in so
short a time. It seems to me inexplicable. Since that I have heard
noises at the Presbytery at Cideville. I took every precaution in
listening to them, even placing myself under the table to make sure
that the children could do nothing, and yet I heard noises, which
seemed to me, however, to come more especially from the wainscot.
I said in connection with this that the noises seemed to me so
extraordinary that I would vouch for them with my blood. I noticed
that M. Tinel seemed to be somewhat exasperated at these noises
and at their persistence, especially on several nights during which
I slept with him, when he woke up frightened about it all.
The Judge disallowed a question to this witness, with the
usual formula. Much frivolous hearsay evidence followed, and
need not be repeated. Somebody had heard somebody say
that M. Tinel said that the two boys made the noises.
For the defence M. de Mirville, aged forty-eight, was called,
and said :
Last Wednesday I went to the Presbytery of Cideville and said
to the ' cause,' " When you wish to reply affirmatively rap once ;
4.58 [part
Andrew Lang.
when you wish to reply negatively rap twice." Immediately a
rap was heard. "Then you will be able to tell me how many
letters there are in my name ] " Eight raps were heard, the last
more distinct than the others, apparently to make one understand
that it was the last. " My baptismal name now 1 " Reply, five
raps. "And now my fore-name which figures on the register of
the Civil List, and which no one has hitherto called me by."
Immediately, seven raps; "and the names of my children, first the
eldest ? " Five raps,—quite correct, she is called Aline. " That
of the youngest?" Nine raps, a mistake, immediately rectified, for
seven raps were struck. She is called Blanche. "Now let us pass
to my age ; strike as many raps as I have years." Instantly the
raps succeeded each other with such rapidity that I was obliged
to stop them in order to count them, and I demanded more
slowness; forty-eight raps were then heard very distinctly, the forty-
eighth being more accentuated than the others. "That is not all.
How many months do you reckon between the first of January
of this year, and the moment I shall be forty-nine 1 " Three very
loud raps and one faint one followed. " What does the faint one
mean 1 probably half a month ? " One rap. " Good ! but it is not
finished. How many days now between that half month and my
birthday ? " Nine raps, the last being more accentuated. Perfectly
correct, I shall be forty-nine on the 24th of April of this year. . . .
" Let us pass on to the place of my abode. How many letters
are there in its name 1 " Eight raps ; " and in the name of my
Commune 1 Be careful not to make the usual mistake." Ten raps
were heard. Now I live in the Commune of Gomerville, the name
of which is often written with two m's, a mistake not made by
the ' cause.' It was demonstrated to me by this, that I had to
do with an old acquaintance—I hope not a friend. "Let us pass
to music ; you are said to be a musician, the other day you sang
the first part of Rossini's Stabat, they say; since you know the
first part you ought to know the second part, the bass part Pro
peccatis suae gentis; let me hear it." Instantly the mysterious
agent rapped the rhythm of the first two bars correctly enough,
but in the third committed an irregularity which slightly spoiled the
rhythm. On my remarking this, it began again, corrected the mis
take, and the passage was recognisable. Two or three popular
airs, such as, J'ai du bon Tabac, Mattre Corbeau, etc. . . . were
articulated rapidly and without any mistake. The other pieces
from the Italian repertoire which I demanded, were perfectly un
XLIX.] 459
The Poltergeist at Cideville.
known to it. "Come," I said to it, "you are a poor dilettante.
Now follow me if you can." I then hummed a waltz from Guillaume
Tell. It listened at first without doing anything ; then followed
me exactly while I sang it ; and several times during the morning,
when we were no longer thinking of it, it came back to the same piece
and tried to execute it alone. The pupils, while this was going on,
had not discontinued their work; I don't think the Cure came into
the room during the whole time, but I must admit I did not attach
much importance to this point I have said that I was not a wit
ness to material facts, but I must add that one of the children said
to me, "Look, Sir, look at this desk knocking against the other";
but as the child was in front of the desk I did not attach much
importance to this fact,—not that I believed him to be the cause of
it. My not mentioning this at first was because I wished to
observe the most scrupulous exactitude. [To the interpellation of
the defendant with a view to knowing whether the witness believed
the Cure of Cideville might be the author of these facts, he replied] :
I should be much surprised if any one within these walls could
seriously believe that. I do not believe it possible to produce these
phenomena by natural means, and the cause must be supernatural.
By supernatural causes I mean an intelligent force surpassing that
of man and of nature. [The witness being interpellated by the
plaintiff with a view to knowing if he thought these phenomena
could be produced by a poor shepherd unable to read or write,
replied], I do not think he could produce them by himself, but
he might with the assistance of an occult and supernatural cause.
I am the author of one work only, entitled, Les peuples et Us
Savants en matiire de religion. [The witness was interpellated as
to whether he had received a visit from the Curé of Cideville on
the 8th day of January last, when the hvtter was seen in company
with another priest at the landing stage of Nointot, 1*2 kilometres
(7i miles) from Gomerville. He replied], I never saw the Curd of
Cideville before Wednesday last, and I was completely ignorant of
the existence of a Commune of the name of Cideville.
Madame de Saint Victor, aged fifty-six, said :
Being at the Presbytery I heard some 'cause' which was unknown
to me make raps intelligently. The Angelus was ringing and I said
to the 'cause,' "Rap the tune of the Angelus," and the tune was
rapped. I also heard the tune of Maltre Corbeau rapped out and
that of Drinn Drinn, quite perfectly. I think it was on the 8th
4C0 [part
Andrew Lang.
December before mass at Cideville that I saw the child, who said
he had received a slap from an invisible hand. The same day after
Vespers, when I was at the Presbytery of Cideville standing quite
apart from the other people there, I felt an invisible force seize
me by the mantle and give me a vigorous shake. The same day
also I saw three persons sitting on a small table in the Presbytery
and it moved along the floor in spite of the efforts of two people
to hold it back. Several people were there, amongst others my
femme de chambre, but I cannot precisely say who the others were.
Another day I saw the child sitting on a chair with his feet off
the ground and his back not leaning on the chairback, yet the
chair rocked with a movement which the child could not have
given it, ending with the chair falling in one direction and the
boy in another. The child was much frightened at this. A week
ago when I was alone with the children I saw the two desks at
which they were working fall over and the table on the top of
them. The same day I took the children some St. Benoist medals
in which I had faith, and every time the medals were placed on
the desks not the least sound was produced there, the noise then
being heard behind me in the wall cupboard ; but as soon as
the medals were withdrawn from the desks the noise was heard
again in the desks. The same day the noise rapped out the tune
of Mattre Corbeau, and on my remarking, "Do you know nothing
but that, then?" it sang the air of Au clair de la lune, and that
of J'ai du bon Tabac. Yesterday, again, I saw a candlestick leave
the chimneypiece in the kitchen and go and hit the back of my
femme de chambre, and a key lying on the table struck the child's
ear. I must say that I cannot tell precisely where the key was,
as I did not see it start on its flight, but only saw it arrive. I
was not frightened, only surprised. My son was with me when
I heard the Angelus as well as the two children and the Cur6, but
during the other airs I was alone with the children. It was not
possible for the children to do these things ; I watched their feet
and their hands, and could see all their movements. I think the
shepherd Thorel could not have done them unless he had made
a compact with the devil ; for it seemed to me there was some
thing diabolical in it all.
M. Robert de St. Victor, aged twenty-three, said :
I was a witness at the Presbytery of Cideville of things I cannot
explain to myself. I heard a 'cause' unknown to me make raps,
XLIX.] 461
The Poltergeist at Cideville.
particularly rapping the tune Maitre Corleau, and the rhythm of
the Angelus. I asked this ' cause ' to rap Rossini's Stabat Matey- ;
the tune was exactly rendered. A week ago I went again to the
Presbytery, and was alone with the children and the old servant
maid ; I placed one of the children in each of the windows of the
room upstairs, I being outside, but in a position to observe all their
movements in the position they were placed in ; besides, they could
not have moved much without risk of falling, and I then heard raps
struck in the room, similar to those of a mallet. I went up to the
room and I saw one of the children's desks coming towards me, with
no visible force to push it ; however, I did not see it at the moment
of its starting. I am convinced that the children had nothing to do
with this, since they were still standing in the windows. Being one
day at the Presbytery with the Mayor, I heard several loud blows
such as the children could not have produced. I put my hand and
ear against the wainscot, and very distinctly felt the vibrations and
the place where the blows were struck. I was present several times
at the scenes at the Presbytery. It seems to me impossible that the
Cure could have produced them. Often he was not in the Presbytery,
and when he was there he was seated beside me. [The witness being
interpellated as to whether he thought it possible that the shepherd
was the author of these phenomena, replied], No, I do not even
know this shepherd.
The fourth witness, Bouffay, said :
Being at the Presbytery of Cideville, 1 saw M. Tinel put his hand
lightly on Thorel's shoulder, saying, " You have spoken very impru
dently ; I should not be surprised if you know something about
what is happening at the Presbytery," and the child then said, " I
know this man to be the one who has been following me about for
a fortnight." M. Tinel told Thorel to go on his knees and ask the
child's pardon. Thorel fell on his knees and begged pardon, saying,
"I don't know what for." While on his knees, Thorel put out his
hand as if with the intention of taking hold of the child's blouse in
diabolical mischief. I know nothing of the facts referred for proof,
that is, nothing personally, only from hearsay. I went several times
to the Presbytery at Cideville ; the first time the noise was continual
in those rooms only where the children were, both in the church
and at the Presbytery. The ' noise ' was intelligent and obedient
only on this first visit. The noise was sometimes so loud that once
when I was lying in the same room with the children I thought
462 [part
Andrew Lang.
the ceiling would come down. When day came the idea occurred
to us of knocking nails in the spot where there was rapping ; and
a very plaintive voice was heard, the sounds of which were unintelli
gible. I also saw, both upstairs and downstairs, the perfectly isolated
table move without any force that I could see to cause the movement.
On the second visit I scarcely saw anything. On the third visit I
saw pretty much the same things as on the first. I noticed that
the children were perfectly motionless when the sound was produced,
so could not have made it themselves. I heard it when the Cure
was absent from the Presbytery as well as in his presence. It was
impossible that either he or the children should have had anything
to do with the noise, because' it was too loud. I forgot to say that
when the child heard a voice begging his pardon, we all fell on our
knees and prayed God to forgive those who were persecuting us.
[Being interpellated by the plaintiff as to whether the witness
thought the shepherd could have produced these phenomena, he
replied that he did not know the shepherd's capabilities. Being
interpellated by the defendant, the witness said that when he returned
with M. Tinel and the children from the house of one of the in
habitants of the Commune, where they had slept on account of the
noises at the Presbytery, just as the children were going up to
their room to ascertain if all was at an end, he saw a phantom
like vapour go with great rapidity through the kitchen door towards
the room where the children were. When the shepherd Thorel
came to the Presbytery and threw himself on his knees to M. Tinel
he said he had come to fetch an organ.]
The sixth witness, Breard, said :
During December last I passed two nights at the Presbytery of
Cideville. On the first I heard an irritating noise during part of
the night which prevented my sleeping. The next morning at break
fast, being at table in company with M. Tinel and the Abb6 Bouffay,
I heard an alarming knock struck on the floor beneath the table.
I am certain that it was neither the children nor M. Tinel who
did this, any more than the shepherd, whom I do not know. When
I had returned to Rouen, I received a letter from M. Tinel asking
me to get M. Pressier, professor of physics, to come and look into
the phenomena which were being produced at the Presbytery of
Cideville. I saw M. Pressier, but he could not come.
I cite this witness to show that M. Tinel appealed to
science, and that he appealed in vain !
XLIX.J 403
The Poltergeist at Cideville.
Evidence to threats by Thorel against Tinel, in the menacing
style of the Drummer of Tedworth, was given by a hearer
of the same, Varin, aged thirty-seven, grocer ; by Le Tellier,
twenty-seven, farrier ; Grenet, aged fourteen ; Foulogne, aged
forty-eight ; du Forestel, a weaver, aged thirty-seven, and others.
Judgment was pronounced on February 15th, 1851, after
hearing counsel. The learned judge said, " The most clear result
of all the evidence is that the cause [i.e. of the extraordinary
events at the Presbytery of Cideville] remains unknown."
As the plaintiff had himself spread the report that he
caused the occurrences, and 'had shown contrition on two
occasions, the defendant had done him no technical wrong.
In thumping the plaintiff, who tried to handle him, the
defendant acted in legitimate self-defence. Thorel was non
suited, and had to pay about £6 in costs.
Dale Owen quotes de Mirville to the effect that the boys
were removed to another Presbytere, behaved well, and were
not attended by the Poltergeist, "as far as appears."
The experienced reader will see that, in the seventeenth
century, Thorel would have been burned, on the " spectral
evidence" of the appearances to the younger boy. The
sceptic will be sure that the boys caused all the trouble
because they were tired of staying with M. Tinel. The claim
of Fontaine to have caught the younger boy in the act of
cheating will be accepted, and all the affirmative evidence will
be dismissed in the usual way. The present writer cannot
form a conjecture as to how the things were done, or made
to appear to be done, but they are the ancient traditional
things, quae semper, quae ubique, quae ab omnibus. They are
attested on oath by persons of various ranks, ages, and educa
tion, and the evidence is not remote from the time of the
events. My one wish is that somebody would find a boy or
girl who will, at least, attempt to produce the phenomena in
the presence of a committee of the Society. If the things
■can be done so easily, will no young person do them ?
2H
464 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
SUPPLEMENT.
I.
THE HISTORY OF A HAUNTED HOUSE.
Reported by
Dk. J. GliASSET,
(Professeur de Clinique Mddicale a I'UniversiU de Montpellier)
in " Le Spinlisme dtvant la Science." (pp. 11-65).1
Translated and abridged by Vera Larminie.
The materia] for the following study was furnished by the case of
a patient who passed some weeks in our wards, a young girl
suffering from hysteria, and closely connected with the tragi-comic
history of this "haunted house." It is a curious story, and I am
justified in treating of it here, as it shows the interest of these
questions for medical men, since it is the physician who has
oftenest to confront the difficulties to which such facts give rise,
and to treat the maladies they engender or stimulate.
It will be seen, moreover, how such a story at once suggests and
brings into conflict the three great rival theories of fraud, spiritism,
and a magnetic fluid, all equally false in my view if one attempts
to apply them to all cases of the kind. These are the three prin
cipal theories, however, to which accounts of haunted houses and
various alleged supernatural manifestations are immediately-
referred, the sceptics maintaining that all are due to fraud
and trickery, the mystics invoking the agency of the dead, of
1 This translation is made by the kind permission of Dr. Grasset. The narrative
in Le Spiritisvie devant ta Science is reprinted from pp. 379-414 of Dr. J. Grasset'a
Lecons de Clinique Me'dicale fatten a I'Hopilal Saint-L'toi de Montpel/ier. Avril
1898 a Decembre 1902. 4eme Serie (Montpellier and Paris, 1903).
XLIX.] 465
History of a Haunted House.
angels or of demons, and the spiritists holding to the theory of
emanations of a magnetic fluid.
In the following account I shall endeavour to show that the
scientific truth does not lie in any one of these three theories ;
that the whole is not due to fraud, but that, without the interven
tion of either spirits or fluids, there remain certain facts as
to automatic movements both unconscious and involuntary, which
form a coherent chapter of science and physiology. The facts of
this case are taken from the very careful and detailed notes of my
colleague, Dr. Calmette, and must be given at some length to
make the account sufficiently precise and complete.
The scene of the disturbances is an unimportant town, which for
convenience we may call Daimonopolis, in the Grand Duchy of
Gerolstein. In a suburb of this town lives the family A ,
consisting of the father and mother, with their six children, and
the paternal grandfather.
The grandfather, a day labourer by occupation, is an honest man,
albeit a trifle superstitious. His son, the father of the family, is
an agricultural labourer, aged thirty-one, a man of mild and rather
nervous disposition and the second husband of his wife, who is
an intelligent woman of forty, southern, vivacious, and very
garrulous.
Of the six children, two, Jean and Jeanne, are by the first mar
riage; the former, aged twenty, is a day labourer, a quiet young
man, going out very little except during working hours, and of a
slightly childish disposition ; the latter, Jeanne, is the patient who
is being treated for hysteria in the Achard-Esperonnier ward up to
the present time. She is fifteen years of age, frank-looking and
intelligent, but with atrocious morals. We shall return to her
later on. The remaining four children are by the second marriage
and are aged respectively eight, six, four, and two years old.
The A.'s inhabit two small houses, separated from one another
by a garden. House No. 1 looks out on one side into the road
and on the other into the garden, and consists of a ground floor
only, comprising a suite of four rooms—the kitchen (A), a large
room (B) where Jean sleeps, a small room (C) occupied by the
grandfather, and a store-room (D), where a goat and some fowls
are kept. The three rooms A, B, and C communicate with each
other, but only one, the kitchen (A), has a door opening upon the
terrace, facing the garden, so that it is impossible to reach either
of the other two rooms without first passing through the kitchen.
466 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
Room B is lighted by a window overlooking the terrace, and the
grandfather's room (C) by a tiny dormer window. There is no
communication between any of the rooms and the road. The
garden surrounding the house is enclosed by a wall which has two
openings, one into the road and the other into the waste land on
which stands House No. 2.
This second house, like the first, has no upper storey, and con
tains four rooms, arranged as follows : A kitchen (E), facing House
No. 1 ; behind this two rooms divided by a partition, the dining-
room (F) and a bedroom (G), in which sleep M. and Mme. A ,
with the three youngest children ; and behind these again a fourth
room (H), shared by Jeanne and her eight-years-old sister. The
kitchen (E) has a large glass door, whence can be seen through the
opening in the boundary wall House No. 1 and its terrace opposite.
This room communicates both with rooms F and G-, and both the
latter open into room H.
The A.'s rent No. 2, but the owner of No. 1, pending the sale
or letting of this house, allows them to occupy it free of rent.
Some time ago its probable sale was talked of, which would have
entailed the departure of the A.'s, who thus saw before them the
prospect of having to leave. Shortly afterwards the phenomena
about to be described broke out.
The grandfather and the eldest son, Jean, go to their work
regularly every morning, taking their mid-day meal with them, and
only returning in the evening for supper.
On December 4th, 1901, Jeanne went into her grandfather's room
after he and her brother had gone out, to fetch some linen, when,
according to her own account, she noticed nothing unusual. When
Mme. A went in to make the bed in the afternoon, however,
she was astonished to find the bed upset, with the mattress rolled
up at the foot and the bed-clothes in disorder on the floor. She
asked Jeanne if it was she who had done this, but Jeanne denied
having touched the things. Her mother thereupon took her into
the room and showed her what had happened. Jeanne said that it
had not been in that state in the morning, and that it could not
be her grandfather's doing, as the bed had not been touched when
she went in earlier in the day. Notwithstanding this, when her
father-in-law came home that evening, Mme. A accused him of
having upset his bed by way of a joke. In great astonishment he
declared that he had not touched the bed after getting up, and
thought the phenomena must be of supernatural origin, probably
XLIX.] 467
History of a Haunted House.
caused by the spirits of his son and daughter returning to torment
him. (One of his sons had died in 1895, and his daughter in 1887.)
When Jean came home in his turn he was told of what had occurred,
and his grandfather repeated his theory of supernatural intervention,
and was anxious to have a Mass said for the souls of his children ;
but Jean merely laughed at this explanation, saying that, if none of
the household had touched the bed, it must be a practical joke on
the part of some one, as it could not have upset itself.
On the morning of December 5th, after the men had gone to
work, Mme. A called Jeanne, who was not yet up, to come
and see if the grandfather's bed had again been disturbed. They
crossed the garden together to the other house (No. 1), and going
into the grandfather's room found the bed-clothes in confusion in
the middle of the room. Jeanne said that her grandfather must
have done it for his own amusement; and Mme. A , being of
of the same opinion, in order to give him a lesson, did not remake
the bed, but left things as they were.
In the evening she reproached her father-in-law with some warmth,
saying that he should not have done it, as he might have frightened
the children. He, however, denied having done anything, and Jean
took up his defence, asserting that they had gone out together that
morning, and that when they left the bed had not been disturbed.
Upon this the grandfather reverted to his original hypothesis, and
reproached his daughter-in-law for not having had Masses said to
pacify the spirits, but Jean and his father laughed this idea to
scorn.
On the morning of the 6th, however, as Mme. A continued
to accuse him, the grandfather sent Jean to fetch her, so that she
might satisfy herself, before he went out to his work, as to the
state of his room. When Mme. A came over with Jeanne from
the other house (No. 2), everything was in order in the room (C),
and the grandfather himself was in the kitchen preparing the soup for
breakfast, but keeping an eye on his room through the open doors
of Jean's room (B). The latter was also working in the kitchen,
while Jeanne and her mother were washing clothes in the garden.
All at once, the grandfather on turning round saw the bed-clothes
and eiderdown quilt of his bed lying in the middle of his room. He
drew Jean's attention to the fact, and Mme. A was called, when
on going into the room (C) they found the bed upset, and the quilt,
etc., thrown into the middle of the room, as on the previous day.
Not knowing how to explain this phenomenon, Mme. A accused
468 [part
Dr. J. Orasset.
them both of amusing themselves at her expense; but Jean de
clared that his grandfather had not left the kitchen, where he was
making the soup, and that he himself had been at work in the
same room.
The things were then put in order again, and they went away to
their work. The father of the family was also working out of the
house, but started earlier, coming home as they did in the evening,
and Jeanne went daily to take him his dinner. On this particular
day she started with it as usual at a quarter to twelve. At noon
Mme. A dined with the other children in Jean's room,
and when she went into the grandfather's room afterwards every
thing was in its place. She then left the children to play in
the kitchen (A), and went to visit a neighbour.
In the course of their play, the two children of six and eight
years old went into the room B, where they were much astonished
to find the bed-clothes and a mattress on the floor, and ran to fetch
their mother. At this moment Jeanne returned ; Mme. A met
her at the garden-gate, and they entered the house together. Every
thing was in confusion in room C, and the bedding (mattress, eider
down quilt, etc.) had been carried thence into room B.
Jeanne said that her grandfather must be right after all, and that
they had better have a Mass said.;
Having put things once more in order, Mme. A left Jeanne
with the children in the kitchen (A), and went out again, but a few
minutes later they came to fetch her in a state of great alarm, as
the bed-clothes had been taken a second time into Jean's room (B),
where they now lay in complete confusion.
Mme. A put everything back in its place, and established
herself with her work in the kitchen (A) to watch the adjoining
room.
Nothing unusual then occurred. In the evening, when the
family were all together, it was decided henceforward to cook and
eat their meals in the other house (No. 2).
Towards six o'clock, having ascertained that all was in order,
Mme. A was herself the last to leave No. 1, when she shut the
door of the kitchen, but did not lock it, since the lock had been
out of order for a long time past.
The entire family were now established in house No. 2, with the
exception of M. A , who never came home until seven o'clock.
A little parsley being needed in the preparation of the supper,
Mme. A asked her father-in-law to fetch her some from the
XLIX.] 469
History of a Haunted Howe.
garden-plot near the terrace of the other house. It was dark, how
ever, and as he was afraid to go out alone so close to No. 1, she
finally went with him herself, and having cut the parsley, expressed
a desire to go in and see whether the bed had been disturbed. The
grandfather said that they could not expect it to have been touched
already, but Mme. A replied that, as it had been done three
times before that day, it might very well have been done a fourth
time. They went in accordingly, and were astounded to find all
the bed-clothes of Room C in Room B.
Much alarmed, the grandfather refused to sleep any longer in
this room, and asked to have a bed made up for him in the other
house, but to this Mme. A demurred, saying that if he really
were haunted by spirits he would bring them with him. Jean
brought the discussion to a satisfactory conclusion by proposing to
share his own bed with his grandfather, with the remark that it
would be a means of finding out whether it was against the latter
personally that the spirits bore a grudge, as in that case his bed
would now be disturbed. During the night of the 6th to the 7th
nothing unusual occurred in the grandfather's room, and on the
morning of December 7th, having left everything in order in the
house, they came to breakfast in the kitchen of No. 2.
Mme. A went in the meantime into No. 1, and found every
thing in confusion in Room C. She returned to tell her father-in-law
and Jean, and they went back together to No. 1, where they found
to their amazement that not only the grandfather's room, but also
Jean's bed had been disturbed, and the bed-clothes moved into the
middle of the room, much to Mme. A 's astonishment, as she said
that a moment before only the grandfather's bed had been touched.
They put everything in order again, and dispersed to their several
occupations, but when Mme. A went into the house at eleven
o'clock in the morning, she found the sheets, blankets, quilts, and
mattresses from the beds in both rooms (B and C) piled up in the
kitchen (A). She then gave up setting things in order, and returned
to the other house, where Jeanne was, and ten minutes later the
latter, looking in the direction of house No. 1, saw the bedding of
the two beds out on the terrace. She went hurriedly to tell her
mother, and came back with her; but on reaching the door of the
kitchen (E), which was within sight of the terrace, she uttered piercing
cries for help, and when Mme. A ran to her in great alarm to
know what the matter was, declared that she had seen a skeleton
stretched out on the mattress on the terrace.
470 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
Mme. A was as much terrified as her daughter, and not
daring to remain any longer even in house No. 2, she left every
thing and went with the children to a neighbour's house, while
Jeanne went to take her father his dinner.
The facts now soon got abroad ; the story spread through the
neighbourhood of the town, and caused a great deal of gossip, each
person interpreting the phenomena in his own way. Amongst them,
however, they somewhat reassured Mme. A , and she was accom
panied home, and helped to put things in order. Nothing further
occurred that day, but in the evening M. A decided to keep a
vigilant watch on the Sunday following, with several of his friends,
so that should the affair be a practical joke, they might be sure
of catching its perpetrators. That night, the grandfather again
slept with Jean.
On Sunday (December 8th), at seven o'clock in the morning, M.
A and two of his friends established their watch in the kitchen
of No. 1 . At eight o'clock, not having seen anything suspicious,
they went to breakfast in No. 2, without taking the precaution of
locking the doors behind them, and when they returned at about 8.30
the beds had been upset. They were re-made, and at noon M. A
and his friends locked the door between the grandfather's and Jean's
rooms, but were unable to lock the kitchen door, as the lock was
out of order. They then went to lunch. On their return they found
the inner door between rooms B and C broken open, the lock torn
off", and everything in confusion in the two rooms.
On Monday, the 9th, and Tuesday, the 10th, the same phenomena
occurred, and a priest who was called in to "exorcise the spell"
had no opinion to give as to the cause of the objects being
transported.
On Wednesday, the 11th,1 a neighbour, M. B , a Parisian,
and worker in ivory, advised them to set a trap in the two rooms
in which the phenomena occurred, with a view to ascertaining whether
they were or were not of supernatural origin. At his suggestion they
fastened the bed-clothes by means of threads to the bedsteads, affixed
seals in various places, and strewed the floor with sawdust. Both
the rooms (B and C) were prepared in this manner, and it was thought
that any one entering them would necessarily leave footmarks in
the sawdust, and would be obliged to break the seals, or cut the
threads in order to disturb the beds.
1[In the original, Wednesday is called the 12th, and the following days are
similarly incorrectly dated.—Translator.]
XLIX.] 471
History of a Haunted House.
The inhabitants of Daimonopolis grew more and more excited,
and came from all directions to see the "haunted house," while
Mme. A informed every one that they had set traps to catch
the culprits, for she now gave out that the whole thing was the
work of practical jokers.
When the evening came, the entire family slept in house No. 2.
Everything remained undisturbed in No. 1.
On Thursday, the 12th, and Friday, the 13th, nothing unusual
occurred, and on the Friday Mme. A cut the threads and
swept up the sawdust, and Jean and his grandfather slept each in
his own bed.
On Saturday, the 14th, nothing particular happened, but on Sun
day, the 15th, Mme. A found that the two rooms were again
upset. She remade the beds and put down fresh sawdust, and the
rest of the day passed without incident.
On Monday, the 16th, after making the beds, she was careful to
scatter sawdust on the floor, but during the morning, in spite of
these precautions, everything was again upset. No footprints were
to be seen, as the bed-clothes and mattresses had been dragged into
the kitchen, taking up in their passage the sawdust strewn on the
floor. On the same day a lock was put on the outer door of the
kitchen.
On Tuesday, the 17th, they shut the watch-dog into the house,
leaving the inner doors open, so that he might go about into all
three rooms ; the outer kitchen door was locked, and the key re
moved. The dog was an extremely savage one, and was usually kept
chained up, as he barked at the slightest sound, and did not always
recognise even his own masters. About an hour after he had been
shut up, Mme. A saw the dog reappear, and called out in as
tonishment to her father-in-law that some one must have let him
out. The grandfather hurried to the door, and found it locked.
When he opened it and went in, he saw that everything in the two
rooms had again been upset, while the dog had not barked at all,
or they would have heard him.
On the same day they put sawdust down again in the rooms, and
left the dog tied up in the garden ; later on he was found at liberty,
and the rooms had again been thrown into confusion.
In the course of the next few days a part of the arbour was
destroyed, shutters were torn off, and a washtub and various articles
of furniture were heaped up on the terrace, but no one ever wit
nessed the phenomena at the moment of their actual occurrence.
472 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
On Saturday, December 21st, toward half-past six in the morn
ing, after M. A had gone to work, Mme. A , while still in
bed, heard a knocking, and called out to Jeanne, who slept with
her sister in the next room, to ask if she heard it.
Jeanne said she did, and they heard the raps again several times,
but could not make out whether they were on the door or on
the window. The sounds alarmed them, and when they grew louder
Mme. A rose to go in to her daughter. She had hardly entered
the room when Jeanne began to cry, saying that her hair had just
been cut off ; in fact, she showed her mother the plait that had
been cut off, but could not explain how it had been done, as she
had felt nothing, and seen no one, nor had her little sister, aged
eight, who was sleeping in the same room, seen any one cutting off
her hair.
The plait was taken to a priest, to whom they told the story,
inquiring if this were not a manifestation of some supernatural
force. He, however, thought the proof of demoniacal agency in
sufficient, while it appears that Jean said laughingly on the follow
ing day that it was his mother who had cut off Jeanne's hair.
On the Saturday night all the family slept under the same roof,
and on the Sunday morning (the 22nd) a series of raps were heard
in different parts of the house, which ceased, however, as soon
as they got up, and no one was to be seen outside.
The raps came again on Monday morning (the 23rd), and when
M. and Mme. A set out to market, the little girl ran after
them with her father's purse which she had just found in the vine.
He was greatly astonished, as he had put the purse in his trousers-
pocket the evening before, and had not been out since. He could
not understand how it came to be in the vine ; moreover, the sum
of 4 fr. 50 c. which it had contained was missing.
On every one of the following days Jean's room and his grand
father's were upset ; plants were torn up in the garden, and Jeanne
and her small brother, aged six, saw a cupboard open and the linen
come out of its own accord. Mme. A also was very cleverly
robbed of her purse. She had gone to bed with it under her pillow,
and just as she was getting up ascertained that it was still there.
She got out of bed, looked for it under the pillow and found it
gone. Jeanne had been in the room a moment before. Mme.
A was very much annoyed, as the purse had contained 17 fr.
When she went out, the purse was lying in front of the door, but
with no money in it.
XLIX.] 473
History of a Haunted House.
About this time, M. C , a hairdresser, wrote to the principal
editor of a paper in Gerolstein, called the "Messager de I'occvite," to
ask for an explanation of these phenomena. His letter was dated
from Daimonopolis, Jan. 3rd, 1902, and contained an account of what
had taken place at the A 's house, adding that a trap had been
set by laying down sawdust, affixing seals, etc., and that while the
rooms were in this state the abnormal occurrences had ceased, but
had commenced directly the seals, etc., were removed. He stated
that the three children, aged respectively 15, 5, and 4 years old,
said they had seen a wardrobe open and its contents fall out at
their feet, and that they had seen the plants in the garden being
broken, but did not see any one doing it. Raps had been heard
at night on the walls and on the furniture, and he had himself
twice visited the house, and had seen, as had many other persons,
the bed-clothes in the garden, the furniture upset, and the plants
torn up.
The Editor replied in a letter, also published in the " Messager
de I'occulte," ascribing the phenomena to the presence of some medium,
mediums being, he asserted, a kind of human battery, generating a
species of electricity : hence the noises, breakages, and various
other phenomena. The letter concluded by advocating the piercing
of the air with some pointed steel object, on the theory that the
steel would act as a lightning conductor, and so put a stop to
the phenomena.
M. C. , in replying, said that the A 's already suspected
their daughter Jeanne to be in some way connected with the
phenomena, and he thought that her brother, aged six, must also
be a medium, as each ' of them, when alone, had seen the phenomena
taking place. He also recounted the incident of the glass of water
(see below), and stated that some days before a fork, spoon and
knife, and a nail, had been found in Jeanne's bed, and that the
girl herself was growing thin, and losing her appetite.
Jeanne was, in fact, beginning to look ill, and Dr. E (the
name is only withheld to avoid disclosing the name of the town
in which these events actually took place), who saw her casually,
advised her parents to send her to the hospital, adding that her
removal would enable them to judge of her influence on the
phenomena. After her admission to the hospital, an attempt
was made to hypnotise her, but she resisted, and in the evening
had an attack of hysteria, with hallucination, believing that she
saw a skeleton in front of her. During the night she crawled
474 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
about on all fours under the beds of the ward, eventually
returning to her own bed. ■
During her absence from home, nothing unusual occurred at
the A 's, but when on the eighth day she left the hospital
and came home, the original phenomena immediately began again.
She now suffered from frequent attacks of hysteria, and Mme.
A , in hopes of finding a cure, went to consult a somnambulist.
The somnambulist declared without hesitation that Jeanne was
persecuted by some one who had " bewitched " her, and said that
she would show the girl who this person was. Jeanne was taken to
see her, and the somnambulist gave her a glass of water on a white
plate, and told her to look at the bottom of the glass.
Jeanne did so, but saw nothing. On being told to look again,
she still saw only the white plate, but on a third trial, being
asked if she did not see a figure, she said she seemed to see a
head, and in answer to a further question, described it as that
of an old woman, wrinkled, with decayed teeth and a snub-nose.
and wearing a black bonnet. She was then asked if she would
recognise her if she met her, and said " yes."
Her mother was anxious to see the old woman for herself, but
when she looked, saw only the white plate. The somnambulist
told them to repeat the experiment at midnight, when Jeanne
would be able to describe the woman more clearly : at midnight,
accordingly, she was again given a glass of water, when she saw
the old woman very distinctly, and described her in detail, from
her dirty skirt and apron, and black bodice striped with red,
down to her rings, in one of which was a garnet.
After this there could no longer be any doubt but that they
were persecuted by an old woman who wished the family ill ;
it only remained to discover who was the woman described by
Jeanne, and this Mme. A was not long in doing. She re
called an old story which she had told her family more than
once, of how her mother had suffered for a long time before her
death, and how this prolonged agony, being thought unnatural by
those about her, was looked upon as the work of some one
desirous of revenge, who prevented the dying woman from draw
ing her last breath. A neighbour had told them that to discover
who this person was, they should burn two vine-shoots in the form
of a cross, with salt upon them, when she would shortly appear.
This was done, and soon afterwards a friend of the sick woman,
who had heard of her hopeless condition, came in to see her. But
XLIX.] 475
History of a Haunted House.
on her approaching the bed and crossing herself, the patient had
made a grimace, whereupon the family had seized the false friend
and driven her, not without some ill-treatment, out of the house.
The dying woman then immediately expired. Nothing further
had since been heard of this woman, but she was still alive, and
living in Daimonopolis, in the Rue de la Colline; might it not
therefore be she who was now taking her revenge by causing these
phenomena 1
In order to find out, it was decided to question the rapping
spirits. These raps were never heard in the daytime, nor during
the night, but always in the early morning when every one was
still in bed.
One morning, then, when the raps were heard on the partition
separating Jeanne's room from her parents', while the family were
all in bed, they entered into conversation with the spirit, and in
answer to questions were informed that the only person against
whom it bore a grudge was Jeanne, not on account of anything
she had done, but for vengeance on behalf of an old woman
living in the Rue de la Colline. They asked if by beating or
killing her the phenomena would be put an end to. The answer
to this was "no."
If they did nothing, would they cease ? " Yes."
Would the money and other articles which had disappeared be
returned ? " No."
Numerous other questions were put, the raps in reply to all of
which were struck close to the bed in which Jeanne slept.
Mme. A was now sure of their tormentor, but in order to
discover whether she was the woman seen by Jeanne in the glass
of water, she decided to show her to her daughter and see
whether the latter would recognise her.
Accordingly they went together one day to the Rue de la
Colline, where, amidst a group of women gossipping in the road,
she saw the supposed enemy of the family, and called Jeanne's
attention to the group.
The girl cried out in alarm that it was she, and on her mother's
feigning ignorance and asking, "Who?" said that it was the old
woman she had seen in the glass, and begged her to come away,
as she was frightened. This was conclusive, and it only remained
to discover what could be done against their tormentor.
New phenomena, in fact, were now added to the old ones.
The grandfather, on going into his room one evening, found all
476 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
the candles alight, and a crown and several crosses made of dried
grasses on his bed. A basket and various other articles dis
appeared, and some squares of flannel, with pins stuck through
them, which had been placed on the mantelpiece, were subsequently
found in holes in the garden-wall, but without the pins.
Jeanne, while sleeping with her mother, felt herself pricked in
different parts of the body, and Mme. A found among the sheets
pins, forks and nails, which nobody, she said, had put there.
It was now decided to put into practice the method suggested
by the editor of the Messager de I'occulte in his letter of Jan. 5th
(viz. the use of pointed steel to draw off the electric currents
generated by the medium), and this was done under the following
circumstances.
One morning, Mme. A , who was sleeping with Jeanne, felt
the bed shaking under her. She made Jeanne get up, and re
mained in it alone to defy the spirits. The bed began to tremble
more violently than before, and she accused the children of shak
ing it; they all denied it, however, and to make sure that no one
was touching it, she sent for her father-in-law and had the bed put
out in the middle of the room and surrounded by her family, while
the grandfather, armed with a sword-stick, stood ready to carry
out the editor's instructions.
As the bed now ceased to shake, Mme. A deemed herself
victorious, and began to defy and abuse the spirits in the most
vigorous language ; the bed was then violently agitated, and the
grandfather cut and thrust with his sword in all directions,
round and even under it.
He stopped at length, exhausted, and they anxiously awaited
the result, but the bed still shook, and Mme. A got up,
much discouraged by the failure of the experiment.
As all their troubles were occasioned by the old woman in the
Rue de la Colline, the best course now seemed to come to some
understanding with her; but as Mme. A was unwilling to
seek her in her own house, she consulted the somnambulist
as to the possibility of inducing her to come to theirs.
This, she was assured, was quite simple; they had only to
shut themselves up in the house and burn a cat alive on the hearth
towards eleven o'clock at night; but whatever happened, under
no pretext whatsoever was any one to leave the house, nor was it
necessary to leave a door open, as she knew perfectly well how
to come in without that.
XLIX.] 477
History of a Haunted Home.
When the evening came, M. A informed one of his friends,
and they shut themselves up, and towards eleven o'clock burned
the cat. At that moment a loud noise, like a clap of thunder, was
heard outside, but despite their astonishment they followed the
somnambulist's advice, and no one left the house. Loud knocks
were heard on the door and on the partition, and they were
awaiting the appearance of the old woman, when Jeanne, who was
in bed, uttered a loud cry. She had a feeling of strangulation,
screamed and struggled violently, and Was evidently suffering from
an attack of hysteria. Her parents, who saw her for the first
time in this state, were greatly alarmed and feared for her life.
The doctor who was called in advised their sending her to the
hospital at Montpellier, which they did, in spite of the distance,
and she was admitted on February 20th, 1902.
[A brief account of Jeanne's condition since her admission to the
hospital is here given, of which the following is the substance] :
Between February 20th and March 18th the patient had three
violent hysterical attacks. These attacks lasted from 10 to 20 minutes,
and were accompanied by a sensation of strangulation, when the
breathing was suspended, the face congested, and the eyes convulsed.
Clonic convulsions followed, with loud outcries, and at this stage
the patient became cataleptic, retained any attitude in which she
was put, and was completely insensible. The loss of consciousness
was absolute. She also had slighter attacks, accompanied by con
vulsive movements, but without loss of consciousness. She had
no hallucinations since entering the hospital. As regards the
sensory condition, there was conjunctival and pharyngeal anaesthesia,
and also variable and transitory anaesthesiae of many other parts of
the body; three different examinations all giving different results.
In each of the examinations the anaesthetic parts were insensible
to touch, to temperature and to pain ; but notwithstanding the
complete anaesthesia of the left hand, the patient was able to
distinguish the forms of objects, ,and to recognise them. With
her eyes closed she knows when her legs are stretched out or
brought near together, but if they are crossed one above the other
she invariably makes a mistake, and asserts without hesitation that
the left is over the right, when the right is over the left, or vice
versa; and if, when her eyes are closed and her legs crossed, one of
her feet is pricked, she localises the prick in the other foot.
With regard to sight, there was restriction of the visual field
of both eyes. For colours the sight of the left eye was normal,
478 [part
Dr. J. Grasset.
but there was dyachromatopsia of the right eye ; she saw red as
violet. Her hearing was normal; motility, normal except during
the crises; and reflexes, normal.
Her intelligence was normal ; her moral sense, very weak. She
stole money and various articles from her companions, and was
extremely untruthful, inventing all manner of scandalous stories
of which she herself was the heroine.
She amused herself at first by rapping on her table during the
night, to induce a belief in the presence of spirits, and asked the
nurse if she did not hear the raps.
She was put under a tonic regime, with treatment by electricity,
etc. At the present time she no longer has attacks, is much
improved in health, and her character has changed for the better.
The first impression produced by this long and curious story
is that there was obviously a mixture of fraud, hysteria, and
credulity.
The fraud, to begin with, is evident. We have seen the interest
which these good people naturally had in preventing the house
from being sold or let, and that no serious attempt was ever made
to guard against practical joking. There were either no locks on the
doors, or they were found torn off when the phenomena occurred.
A savage dog was shut into the house, and was found at large,
without his having barked. Evidently the door had been opened,
and that by one of the household. When the precaution of using
threads and seals was taken, nothing happened. When sawdust
was put down, the spirit swept it up with the mattresses so that
no footprints might be seen.
Granted the fraud, then, who were its authors ? It is hardly to
be supposed that the entire family were implicated; the younger
children probably were not, nor the grandfather.
It is clear that Jeanne was the principal figure in the affair.
Her morals were detestable, as was proved at the hospital by the
phenomena of rapping, purse-stealing, etc.; here, however, she was
obliged to confess to fraud.
Whether she had accomplices or not it is difficult to say.
Mme. A 's account is very clear, very detailed, and neither
dates nor facts are omitted, but this is not conclusive. Moreover,
it is sufficient for our purpose to have established the fact that
there icas fraud, and that Jeanne, with or without assistance, was
its chief perpetrator.
xlix.] History of a Haunted House. 479
But was the affair all fraud? Certainly not. Jeanne's hysteria
was undoubtedly genuine, the attacks, hysterogenetic zones, etc.,
were typical. One peculiarity of the tactile anaesthesia of both
hands may be noted, that while they were insensible to the sharpest
pricks, she was yet able to recognise, with her eyes closed, a brooch
put into her hand, and to fasten it very deftly into her bodice,
also to take down and put up her hair, etc.
The allochirical error which induced her to localise in the left
foot the sensations of the right when her legs are crossed, is even
more curious, and very characteristic of hysteria.
It is possible also that some of the raps and movements of
objects were not fraudulent, especially the raps which replied to
the questions about the old woman. Ochorowicz has said that
fraud is inseparable from mediumism as simulation is inseparable
from hypnotism, but that science ought to study both. Some of
Jeanne's seances may come under the head of unconscious fraud,
notably the one in which, after burning the cat, they awaited the
arrival of the old woman. They were all in a state of strained
expectation ; she rapped as the thunder rolled, and the scene ended
in loud cries and a violent attack of hysteria. The raps in this
case were probably produced involuntarily, and it is these uncon
scious frauds that stand out from the deliberate trickery and are
deserving of study.
The vision in the glass of water was also probably a genuine case
of crystal vision.
If we now come to consider the psychological environment of the
case, we find that the children of eight and six years old said that
they had seen the wardrobe open and the linen come out, the plants
torn up, etc. Now, it is a matter of common knowledge how little
childish testimony is to be trusted. No doubt they saw the clothes
on the ground and the devastation in the garden, and by dint of
constant discussion on the subject ended by thinking they had
actually seen the transport of the linen and other objects.
Next comes the grandfather, with his hypothesis of spirit-inter
vention ready to hand upon the first appearance of the phenomena,
and the pseudo-scientific barber, who reads the Messager de I'occulte
and knows that nowadays all these things are amenable to scientific
methods. He understands the theory of the sword-points, and knows
that it is a truly scientific remedy and not one of the old wives
fables that held currency in the earlier centuries.
Beyond all these there remains the crowd,—the credulous, sheep-like
2i
480 [past
Dr. J. Gra88et.
crowd,—brought together by curiosity, whose one idea is that there
must be an author of the mischief, and that he must be punished.
Well was it for the old woman they accused that the burning of
a cat sufficed them. Had the remedy been her own death, there
would have been five hundred arms ready in an instant to fling
her into the canal. Yet not one of these persons, left to his own
devices, would so much as have harmed a fly. It was the
gregarious instinct exciting them, and the gregarious spirit is both
puerile and brutal. Such is the psychology of the crowd
XLIX.] 481
Review.
II.
REVIEWS.
Hypnotism: its History, Practice, and Theory. By J. Milne Bram-
WELL, M.B., C.M. (London : Grant Richards. 1903. 8vo., pp. 478.
Price 18s. net.)
This is a remarkable book—remarkable not only for what it
says, but even more for what it abstains from saying. Dr. Bramwell
is best known perhaps as a distinguished practitioner, who has had
no small share in raising hypnotism to the recognised and almost
orthodox position which, after many decades of calumny, is now
accorded to it by the medical profession in Great Britain. This
alone would entitle him to our attention. But he is more than
this; he is an active and acute enquirer. He has made himself
the historian of hypnotism, and has been the first to bring fully to
light the splendid work of his countryman and predecessor, James
Braid ; work which had been too long ignored, and must now take
its place among the most original and illuminating contributions of
Great Britain to mental and medical science. And he is beside a
keen and trenchant psychologist—not merely a critic of the theories
of others, but the author of a remarkable series of experiments
which have done much to throw fresh light on the theory of his
craft. And yet, after many years of practice, of research, and
reflection, he ends with a confession of ignorance ; he leaves us face
to face with a mystery ; he has no theory to give us of the means
by which he attains his ends, or of the physiological or psychical
processes which they involve.
This attitude is at first sight perhaps rather disappointing ; but it is
no small gain that the question should at length, and perhaps for the
first time in its history, be removed from the heated atmosphere of
rash assertion, blind prejudice, and more than theological persecu
482 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf.
tion in which it has passed its stormy and none too healthy
infancy. It is one of the hardest of scientific lessons to learn to
state mere facts uncoloured by preconceived ideas, and it is at least
a proof of courage that Dr. Bramwell, in spite of all temptations,
should have held fast to this attitude of detachment. He practically
demolishes all previous theories, and allows us to start fresh with a
tabula rasa ; we can turn our backs on the errors of the past, and
cultivate that coolness which may help us to build something
more or less enduring.
Bramwell deals, as his title tells us, with the history, practice,
and theory of hypnotism. Of these three, the first is briefly treated
in a single chapter and an Appendix ; but these are of great interest,
both from the account they give of the "scientific," or rather pro
fessional, persecution to which Elliotson was subjected, and of the
later and little known researches of Braid. One would gladly let
the moral tortures of the medical " Holy Office," as administered to
Elliotson, and in some degree to Esdaile, fall into oblivion, were it
not that the spirit which prompted them is still notoriously in
existence. It would be a comfort to think that blind intolerance
and absolute refusal to investigate may be a necessary test for the
purging of false doctrine j but it is hard to believe that any help
was given to the cause of truth by Elliotson's professional ruin, or
that the delay of some forty years in the acceptance of so much of
his doctrines as has proved true can be a gain to science, outweighing
both the suffering which might have been saved to patients and
the undoubted moral harm done by a perverse refusal to face un
familiar facts. The action of the British Medical Association in
referring back the report of its own very strong Committee so
recently as 1892 shows that the spirit of professional obscurantism
dies hard, even in the temples of science. As for Braid, though he
was not tabooed as his two contemporaries were, he was ignored
till his discoveries were made over again across the Channel. How
ever, he may be content to share the fate of Newton, who, as we
now know from his unpublished papers, anticipated many conse
quences of his theories, which were loudly proclaimed as new and
brilliant discoveries by the Epigoni of mathematical astronomy.
Bramwell has shown that the most advanced theories of the famous
Nancy workers are often to be found not merely in embryo, but often
in a fuller and more satisfactory form, in Braid's latest work, some of
which remains still in MS.
About half of the book, pages 41 to 272, deals with practical
XLIX.] 483
Review.
hypnotism, with a series of successful cases, mostly from Bramwell's
own practice, illustrating the great therapeutic value of the method.
With these we need not here deal, as they are largely of a technical
character, and do not produce much novelty. Dr. Bramwell is, how
ever, particularly to be congratulated on the success with which he
has tackled nervous cases on the borderland, if not actually in the
domain, of insanity—cases which, from previous experience, might
have been supposed absolutely refractory. It will be found, too,
that there is no ground whatever for the idea which at one time
found supporters of a superior susceptibility of the Latin race to
suggestive treatment. Dr. Bramwell's figures on this head are most
interesting. Attention may particularly be called to the marked
difference he found between the susceptibility of the patients from
his general practice at Goole, where he failed to affect only two
out of 500 cases, and those which came to him as a consulting
specialist. Of the first 100 cases of the latter, no less than 22
proved refractory. This is, of course, due to the fact that this
latter group were almost always difficult nervous cases only brought
to him in advanced stages, where ordinary therapeutic means had
already failed.
But to Psychical Researchers it is Bramwell's long and important
chapter xii. which will have the most immediate interest, and with
this we now propose to deal. The two questions discussed in it are
vital ; what is the nature, the differentia, of the hypnotic state ?
And what is the mechanism by which this state can be artificially
induced 1
We can put aside at once the earlier transcendental answers, and
the rash theories of magnetic and odylic force ; a sufficient answer
to them has been long since found. The theories which have of
late years been current have mostly supposed that the hypnotic
state means an inhibition of normal faculties, produced either by
physical stimulation (Heidenhain) or by partial mental fatigue or
concentration. The typical state has been taken to be one of som
nolence, and it is on this assumption that the very name of
hypnotism was invented by Braid, though, as Bramwell shows, he
subsequently gave up both the assumption and the name, for which
he substituted Monoideism. Braid had, in fact, made the important
observation, which has only been slowly rediscovered, that somnol
ence is only an unessential and subsidiary symptom of what, for the
sake of convenience, we must still call the hypnotic condition. The
essential phenomena can in fact be produced without exception in a
484 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf,
state which is one of alertness, or at all events involves neither un
consciousness nor amnesia. Thus the problem of the difference
between hypnotic and ordinary sleep loses the importance which was
once attached to it, and becomes only part of a larger question.
What, then, in BramwelFs opinion is the nature of the " hypnotic "
state ? He gives no formal answer to this question. He speaks
indeed of the normal and hypnotic states as "practically identical"
(p. 333), though immediately correcting this by admitting the in
creased suggestibility of the hypnotic subject. But on the negative
side he brings all his arguments, and much fresh material, against
the idea of automatism. The subject is not the mere tool of the
operator. The willingness of the subject to accept and carry out
suggestion is limited (p. 337) by the important condition that the
suggestion must not be "criminal or improper." It would also
appear that it must not be disagreeable—a vague and further reach
ing word. It would seem, therefore, though I do not find any
absolute definition, that Bramwell regards the hypnotic state as one
of increased obedience to neutral suggestions, i.e. to those which in
the normal state would not be regarded as either disagreeable or
wrong. It might seem, indeed, that this hardly covers the obedience
which is shown, let us say, in public exhibitions. One would not
a priori have supposed that the ordinary undergraduate in his
normal state would consent to chew a tallow candle under the idea
that it was sugar candy, or nurse a handkerchief among the derisive
cheers of his friends when told that it was a baby. Bramwell
would, I gather, include such displays among those which afford us
the pleasure of "showing off our various gifts and attainments"
(p. 327), though the undergraduate, if proud of his capacity of feed
ing a handkerchief from an imaginary pap-bottle, would appear in
ordinary life laudably anxious to deny himself the public gratifica
tion of this particular vanity. In fact, I cannot help thinking that
Bramwell is inclined to minimise the increased suggestibility of
hypnosis. Even, however, if this be so, he makes it very clear that
the Nancy practitioners have on the other hand enormously ex
aggerated the possibilities of induced "automatism." We may well
admit on the one hand that the boundary of acts which the subject
regards as neutral can be shifted in the automatic state so as to
include many which in ordinary life would be considered disagree
able, without impairing the power of resistance to those which
involve an absolute offence to the moral nature. And by his
resolute insistence upon the retention of this power, Bramwell has
XLIX.] 485
Review.
rendered an immense service to students of the subject. He speaks
with the authority of enormous experience when he tells us that,
so far as he has seen, improper suggestions are invariably rejected ;
and he can justly appeal to the fact that, after all the years in
which hypnotism has been a matter of public marvel and ignorant
exaggeration, there has not been found a single proved case of
crime effected by means of it. This conclusion is one of the
most solid results of his book.
One word more on this question of suggestion. Bramwell hardly
treats with sufficient seriousness some of Bernheim's arguments,
notably the purely psychological theorem that "an idea has a tend
ency to generate its actuality." He argues that, on the contrary
(1) "A suggested idea has generally a tendency to generate noth
ing. (2) A suggested idea has frequently a tendency to generate
its opposite. (3) A suggested idea rarely tends to generate its
actuality." But the arguments he adduces in favour of this whole
sale negation are really hardly worthy of the book. For (1) he
only urges that "a very casual glance at the events of everyday
life would compel us to conclude that this class is the commonest
of the three. This is evident if we think of the numberless things
ineffectually suggested in the family circle to domestics, workmen,
tradespeople, friends, acquaintances, etc." (p. 331). This is, of
course, only chaff; but it hardly seems to be in place. It is
true that the butcher may bring a rump-steak when the cook has
"suggested" a mutton-chop; but it is only in her least scientific
moments that the housewife would venture to say that the order
to bring the chop produced "no result" in a majority of cases.
So, too, as an instance where suggestion produces a result opposite
to that intended, Bramwell instances the thief who only runs
away the faster when told to stop. But, of course, neither
Bernheim nor any one else has asserted that suggestion always pro
duces the effect intended, and it is illogical to argue that because
the effect has not been produced, there has been no tendency to
produce it. Obviously in the case of the thief the tendency is
counteracted by other motives; but if Bramwell were to say
"Stop" to 20 passers-by in Piccadilly, it is highly probable that 19
of them would give a momentary obedience. Indeed, no better wit
ness to the truth of the theorem impugned is needed than
Bramwell himself. He is accustomed to make to patients in the
normal state a particular suggestion, that of rest. He tells us that
in from 75 to 100 per cent of his cases the idea generates its
486 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf.
actuality, and (p. 333) that " the tendency must be in favour of
the results, which are numerically the greater of the two." In
fact, if he denies the fundamental proposition that an idea tends
to generate its actuality, it is hard to see what meaning is left
to the word " suggestion " at all, or why any one should ever take
the trouble to suggest anything, either in ordinary life or medical
practice.
But leaving persiflage aside, with this protest, we come to the
serious and solid conclusion, which may now be regarded as estab
lished, that so far as suggestibility is concerned there is no great
difference between the normal and hypnotic states ; that the differ
ence lies in the temporary removal of motives tending to counteract
the suggestion ; and finally, that this removal does not imply any
inhibition of faculty. Here Bramwell is really in serious conflict
with the Nancy observers ; he boldly asserts that there is not only
no inhibition, but an actual extension, or perhaps we should rather
say a liberation, of faculty. This is the position which constitutes
the second notable point in the book. It is, of course, not novel.
It means that Bramwell accepts, at least in large measure, Myers's
theory of the subliminal self. Though he does not regard this
theory as a complete explanation of the facts, he holds that it is
the nearest approach to one that has yet been made. This is the
more noteworthy because he is distinctly sceptical as to the exist
ence of any transcendental powers in the subliminal self. He has,
for instance, come to the conclusion that there is no sufficient
evidence for telepathy. It is hardly fair to enter into an argument
with him here on what is merely an obiter dictum, nor can we
admit that the experiments of Gurney and others can be dismissed
as founded on errors of observation. But it is just as well that we
should have the testimony of so impartial and sceptical an observer
to the importance of Myers's general theory, even when stripped of
that on which the theory is commonly supposed to rest entirely.
What Bramwell does hold is that the hypnotic state shows just
such extension of faculty as Myers postulates for the subliminal
self. Bramwell has himself added much to our knowledge of this
extended faculty by his remarkable series of experiments on time
appreciation, where orders were carried out at the expiration of
such periods as 20,290 minutes from the giving of the order—
periods which in her normal state his subject was incapable of
correctly calculating, and even in the hypnotic could reduce to days
and hours only with errors. Strange to say, even when she made
XLIX.] 487
Review.
an error in the former calculation, the order was none the less
carried out at the expiration of the correct period. From this
Bramwell draws the conclusion, inevitable as it would seem, that
below the stratum of consciousness brought to the surface by
hypnotism, there is a "sub-subliminal" stratum intellectually more
capable than either of the two above it. But he only admits this
with great reserve. He includes it among the theories which can
not be considered satisfactory (p. 418), and still maintains a purely
negative attitude with regard to any general explanation of hypnotic
phenomena. Of course such a suspension of judgment is from the
strictly scientific point of view unassailable ; but it has the dis
advantage of not giving any assistance in the further investigation,
and one cannot but be somewhat disappointed at it.
After a careful study of the book, I feel that it has produced more
definite conclusions in my own mind than in its author's. Perhaps
I may be permitted to sketch these. We will take the question on
p. 416 to which Bramwell says that "no reasonable answer has yet
been given." What is the connexion between hypnotic methods and the
production of hypnotic phenomena ? " Personally," says Bramwell, " I
can see no logical connexion between the acts of fixed gazing, of
concentration of attention, or of suggested ideas of drowsy states,
and the wide and varied phenomena of hypnosis." But all the
hypnotic methods have one thing in common, the diversion of attention
from the insistency of external surroundings ; and in Bramwell's own
belief—and I agree with him—the hypnotic state has one broad
characteristic, the working of a subliminal consciousness in directions
unusual in ordinary life. Surely there is a logical connexion between
the two; it is reasonable to suppose that the subliminal self may
require, with the help of the suggesting operator, to shake off the
urgent claims of conscious life, before it can devote itself to the
hidden processes of the unconscious.
Suggestion seems in fact to be throughout of the nature of good
advice which the unconscious self is very glad to take. The operator's
first advice, in whatever form it is given, comes to this, "Be
abstracted ; do not think of what is outside you." Then follow the
positive suggestions, "Think of your malady, and see if you cannot
make things work right," or whatever they may be. One effect of
abstraction, even when it is not the result of external suggestion, is
to produce indifference to some matters which in ordinary life seem
important, e.g. the fear of ridicule. The abstracted philosopher may
do things publicly as absurd as the undergraduate on the platform ;
488 [part
Dr. Walter Leaf.
and public exhibitions do not as a rule rise above the display of
this particular quality of abstraction. We are certainly not justified
by anything that we know in supposing that mere abstraction will
produce indifference to deeply seated feelings, such for instance as
a woman's modesty ; and in fact Bramwell brings very strong evidence
to show that it does not. All that suggestion does is to set the
unconscious but very rational self working on fresh lines. It is
capable of judging if the advice which the operator is giving is good
or otherwise, and of selecting the good. It has in fact a fresh
purview of life, part of which is for the conscious self only obscured
by the light of common day, and for that very reason when revealed
seems supernormal. Bramwell is no doubt right in objecting to
Braid's later term " Monoideism," on the ground that the hypnotised
subject has a wide range of ideas. A better and not much uglier
name would be Heteroideism. The mind is concentrated not on one
idea, but on a whole field of ideas which are not those of common
life. Braid, in fact, if he did not, as in so many things he did, quite
hit the mark, was very near it. All seems to point to the theory
that the mind has only a limited amount of attention to dispose of,
but has much freedom as to the direction of this attention. Hypnotism
means the direction of attention upon a region chosen by the mind
itself, under the influence of external suggestion. How the suggestion
acts is of course a master-problem, which we are not yet in a position
to answer ; how one mind can influence another at all is at least
as dark as the sister question how the mind can influence the body.
When we can answer it we "shall know what God and man is."
But Bramwell's contribution to the knowledge of Self seems to me
invaluable, mainly because it puts aside all the mechanical theories
which have hitherto held the field in fashionable science, and leaves
us no choice but to turn to a view which strengthens the moral
significance of the hidden workings of the mind, and deepens our
sense at once of individual responsibility and mutual influence.
The diversion of the attention of the self to the operations of the
subliminal region, though it does not explain the power of time-
appreciation, does something to render it less marvellous. I have
myself often noticed, during a long and monotonous tramp, how my
own sense of time was heightened, so that before taking out my
watch I have been able to tell almost to a minute where the hands
would be. As to the mechanism by which this was done, I have
not the least idea ; but it is obvious that the rhythmical pacing gives
an approximate standard of measurement which was entirely absent
XL1X.] 489
Review.
in the case of Dr. Bramwell's subject. The accuracy of her calculations
therefore still remains astounding, though only greater in degree
than our normal powers. It is noticeable that her ability seems to
have been capable of improvement by training, again offering an
analogy to the operations of conscious life. It is possible to train
oneself, as most photographers know, to a very fair appreciation of
short periods of time, say from 5 to 10 seconds. If I may again
refer to my own experience, I find that I can do this by repeating
monotonously the words "rickety dickety dick," which take exactly
one second for clear enunciation. The muscles, if rhythmically moved,
soon acquire the right pace, and will keep it up with reasonable
uniformity for a short time, if the attention is directed to them.
Another possible standard is that of the heart-beats; but it must
be confessed that there is a difficulty in imagining any subject so
steady of nerve and so uniform in health that these would serve
for a time-piece over periods of several days. In short, Bramwell's
time experiments seem likely to afford a puzzle which it will take
much more knowledge and experiment to solve, even roughly. Here
again he has made a solid and most suggestive contribution to
science.
Finally, one word may be added to what Bramwell has said about
the supposed dangers of hypnotism. While fully and gladly accepting
what he says about the impossibility of imposing criminal or dis
honourable actions upon an unwilling subject, I am inclined to think
that there is a more subtle risk which must not be quite left out
of sight. This arises from the way in which hypnotism has been
made the object of popular discussion. Few patients, probably, come
before a medical hypnotist without strong preconceived and wholly
erroneous ideas as to the nature of the process. A large number of
them will include among these the belief that there is something
uncanny in the method, and in particular that the operator gains
something in the nature of a mystical influence. If the prejudice
against the treatment is overcome, this belief is still very apt to
remain, and it is so closely analogous to the deeper instincts to which
we have already referred, that it is, as I have had occasion to observe,
extremely difficult to uproot, even with all the precautions taken by
Bramwell himself. And the belief, however unfounded, that such an
influence exists, is in itself the possible source, not perhaps of real
danger, but of a state of mind which is at least very undesirable in
a nervous patient. This is a serious obstacle in the way of all
hypnotic practice, and one hardly sees how it is to be entirely
490 [part
Br. Walter Leaf.
removed save by the slow and patient education of public opinion,
both professional and lay. The average medical man, no less than
the average patient, needs to have the whole subject stripped of the
supernatural and abnormal, and put before him in the driest light
of dispassionate science ; and perhaps, for the benefit of sufferers at
least, Bramwell's chief service is that he should so resolutely have
struck out of his book anything that has the least savour of the
uncanny or abnormal or sensational, and given us a treatise which
offers little for the paragraphist of the halfpenny press, but infinite
interest, not only to the scientific thinker, but to every one who
desires to know more of the workings of that extraordinary complex
which we call Self. Walter Leaf.
Les Plu'nomenes Psychiques: llecherches, Observations, MUhmies, Par le
Dr. J. Maxwell. Preface du Professeur Ch. Richet. (Félix Alcan.
Bibliotheque de Philosophic contemporaine. Paris, 1904. 1 vol.,
8vo. 5 fr.)
The chief obstacle to the establishment of any kind of recognised
scientific basis for the class of phenomena known as psychic is of
course to be found in the universal disinclination which exists to
accept, as of any cogency towards the formation of one's own opinion
regarding these phenomena, the experience of another observer, how
ever well accredited and competent. While we are probably all
personally conscious of this tendency, it is not very easy to account
for it. In other branches of science it is but necessary to announce
some new discovery for it to be accepted, without undue surprise,
by the uncritical public, however greatly it may transcend their
own personal experience ; and a failure to regard even the wildest
hypothesis concerning it as a possible contribution to truth is held
a mark of a very lamentable lack of intellectual elasticity. But in
psychic phenomena the observations of the very same individual
whose opinions in any other sphere would be received with universal
respect, are dismissed as unworthy of serious attention, and the only
emotion aroused is one of general regret that another good man
should have gone wrong. Against this attitude Professor Richet, in
his preface to the remarkable book before me, makes strong appeal.
" My advice to the reader," he says, " may be summed up in a few
words. This is a book to be approached without prejudices, fearing
neither that which is new nor that^ which is unforeseen. In other
words, while preserving the most scrupulous respect for the science
XLIX.] 491
Review.
of to-day, one should be thoroughly convinced that such science,
whatever measure of truth it may contain, is nevertheless terribly
incomplete. Those imprudent spirits who occupy themselves with
the 'occult' sciences are accused of overthrowing Science, and of
destroying the laborious edifice raised by thousands of toilers, at the
cost of immense labour, during the last three or four centuries. This
reproach seems to me quite unjust. No one is able to destroy a
scientific fact. ... If, as appears more and more likely, those facts
which are called occult come to be established, one need in no way
disturb oneself as to the fate of classical science. Unknown or new
facts, however strange, are not going to destroy the truth of old
ones. To take an example from M. Maxwell's work, suppose we admit
that the phenomenon of ' raps '—that is to say, audible vibrations in
wood or other substances—is a real phenomenon, and that in certain
cases there may be blows which no mechanical force known to us
can explain, would the science of physics be overthrown 1 It
would indeed be a new force exercised on matter, but the old forces
would none the less preserve their activity, and it is even likely that
the transmission of vibrations by means of this new force would
follow the same laws as other vibrations, and that temperature, pres
sure, and the density of the air or of the wood might continue to
exercise their usual influence. Is there a single man of science worthy
of the name who can affirm that there are no forces, hitherto un
known, at work in the world? Just in the same way that science
is unconquerable when it establishes facts, so is it miserably subject
to error when it seeks to establish negations. . . . Thus it becomes
a true scientist to be at once very modest and very bold; very
modest, for our science is but a little thing ; very bold, for the vast
regions of the worlds unknown lie open before him. Audacity and
prudence; these are indeed the two qualities, in no wise contra
dictory, of M. Maxwell's book. Whatever be the fate in store for
the ideas which he bases upon his facts, one may rest assured that
the facts, which have been well observed by him, will remain. I
conceive that in these are to be found, however inchoate as yet the
sketch may be, the lineaments of a new science."
Professor Richet is indeed an optimist if he means by these words
to express his belief that facts of this character, however temperately
stated, however carefully observed, will be accepted by the scientific
world, or by any considerable section of the public, in the spirit
of open-mindedness which he claims as their due. M. Maxwell
himself is under no delusions on the subject. He says (p. 293),
492 [part
Hon. Everard Feilding.
" My judgment will convince no one ; in such matters as this one
must see for oneself before one will be convinced." And yet if there
was a book which, by reason of the competency and general claim
to credibility of its author, his scientific status and his intellectual
capacity, should merit the attention of even the most prejudiced
critic, it is, I venture to think, the work under consideration.
M. Maxwell began his investigations wholly unbiassed in favour
of the phenomena which form the subject of them. "I had
always," he says (p. 14) "considered them as unworthy of any
examination," and it was apparently merely his wish to study the
reasons for the prevalence of the mystical movement in modern
times which at first directed his attention to the matter. Oppor
tunities for experiment soon offered themselves and, astonished at
the issue of certain of these experiments, he engaged in a series
extending over the last nine or ten years, the results of which he
now lays before the public. M. Maxwell early determined upon
the subjects most suitable for experimental observation, and the
conditions under which alone he would consider evidence as merit
ing serious attention. The phenomena open to research may be
divided into two classes, material and intellectual. Under 'material
and physical phenomena' are comprised (1) raps; (2) movements
of objects (a) without contact or (b) only with such contact as is insuf
ficient to effect the particular movement in question ; (3) apports,
i.e. the production of objects by some supernormal agency ; (4)
visual phenomena, i.e. the appearance of lights and of forms, lumi
nous or otherwise, including among the latter the class of alleged
phenomena known as materialisations ; and (5) phenomena leaving
some permanent trace, such as imprints or 'direct' writings or
drawings, etc. Under the class of ' intellectual phenomena ' may be
included such occurrences as automatic writing, table tilting, i.e
messages produced by the tilting of a table with contact, telepathy,
clairvoyance of past, distant, or future events, etc. This enumera
tion, I should perhaps say, does not strictly coincide with M.
Maxwell's, whose classification appears to me, I confess, somewhat
arbitrary. Although the first class of phenomena are of rarer
alleged occurrence than the second, M. Maxwell decided that they
were susceptible of more exact investigation, and to them accordingly
he has mainly directed his researches. As to conditions, he has
acted rigorously on the principle that no conditions can be regarded
as satisfactory where there is not sufficient light adequately to
control the experiments, and that no phenomena occurring in
XLIX.] 493
Review.
the absence of this primary requisite, no matter how perfect the
control may in other respects seem to be, ought to count towards
the formation of his judgment or be quoted in support of his con
clusions. Acting upon this rule, he has almost invariably insisted on
conducting the experiments in the light, sometimes broad daylight,
sometimes daylight tempered by Venetian blinds or otherwise,
and sometimes lamp-light. It is true that in the case of luminous
phenomena an exception had to be made, such phenomena being only
visible in the dark. Under these conditions, then, he has arrived at
certain definite conclusions, conclusions which he announces as being in
his own opinion absolutely beyond controversy. He states (p. 23) that
he has attested, in a manner which appears to him certain, the
phenomena of ' raps,' of the movement of objects both without any
form of contact whatever and with contact of a kind insufficient to
effect the particular movement, and also certain luminous phenomena.
In discussing the value of his conclusions, M. Maxwell says (p. 26),
"I have to defend myself against only two enemies, the fraud of
others and my own illusions. I am convinced that I have not been
the victim either of the one or the other. When, for example, I
have observed in broad daylight the moving of a piece of furniture
in a cafe, a restaurant, or railway refreshment room, I have certainly
the right to believe that I am not in the presence of an apparatus
got up for the purpose of producing such effects. When the un
foreseen character of the experiment excludes the hypothesis of
preparation, and when the absence of any contact between the
experimenters and the object moved is manifest both to sight
and touch, I have sufficient reason for excluding the hypothesis of
fraud. When I measure the distance between the objects, both
before and after the displacement, I have also sufficient reason for
excluding in its turn the hypothesis of the illusion of my senses.
If I am refused this right, I ask how indeed is it then possible to
observe any fact whatever ? No one is more convinced than myself
of the frailty of our impressions and the relativity of our perceptions ;
nevertheless, there must be some way of perceiving a phenomenon
in order to present it to impartial observation. The objection
which I have supposed cannot indeed be made in any universal
manner, for to admit its validity would be to remove any foundation
for our sciences. It can only be made to me in my particular
capacity, and I admit very willingly that it is impossible for me to
exculpate myself. I might vainly plead that I am persuaded of
the regularity of my perceptions, vainly assert that I discover in
494 [part
Hon. Everard Feilding.
myself no tendency to illusions, and my testimony will remain none
the less suspected. I have only one defence to make against those
who mistrust my qualifications as an observer, and that is to invite
them to take the trouble of experimenting on their own account,
and to employ the same method as myself. ... If I am unable
solemnly to affirm the reality of the phenomena observed by me,
I can at all events affirm my personal conviction of their existence.
Perhaps in thus affirming only my subjective conviction and in not
venturing to assert with a like energy the objective reality of the
things which I have attested, I am showing an exaggerated distrust
of myself. I hope at all events that no one will blame me for my
prudent reserve. Who is there among men who can assert that
he has not been deceived 1 But in any case I cannot admit the
right of any one to criticise my observations without his having put
himself in the conditions which have enabled me to make them.
Nothing could be more unreasonable than an attitude of this kind,
and I cannot recognise the competency of judges who will decide
without preliminary information. For the rest, I am not concerned
with converting any one to my views, and I remain indifferent—
respectfully indifferent if you will—to the judgment which may be
formed about me." I have quoted M. Maxwell thus at some length
in support of Professor Richet's claim that audacity joined with
prudence are the marks of his work.
I will now proceed to consider some of the actual occurrences
which have led M. Maxwell to his conclusions. Let me say here
that unquestionably in his manner of reporting them M. Maxwell
lays himself open to the criticism that in but few cases does he
give such details of the conditions as would be sufficient to enable
a reader to form his own judgment as to their adequacy. It is
true that in abstaining from furnishing a complete account of the
details in the form of a proces-verbal M. Maxwell says he acts advisedly,
on the ground that it is absolutely impossible in fact to give such an
exhaustive statement of the conditions as would suffice to bring con
viction to any non-observer, and he points out that, notwithstanding
the laboriously detailed reports of the Piper phenomena, they yet
have not resulted in convincing every reader, though in the opinion
of the author, Dr. Hodgson, they ought to furnish irrefragable proof
of spiritistic origin. However full the report, the imagination of a
subsequent critic will see in the omission to state some particular
precaution endless sources of error, which actual observers will never
theless know not to have been present. As a reviewer, I am indeed
XL1X.] 495
Review.
grateful to M. Maxwell for his abstention from any such portentous
undertaking, for his book might, as literature, have become absolutely
unreadable; as a critic, I cannot but express a regret that he has
not, in at least one or two cases, given us specimens of the exact
order and circumstances of his experiments. As he has not done
this, I am spared the task of attempting to criticise the experiments
themselves, in the manner in which Dr. Hodgson so laboriously
criticised Dr. Oliver Lodge's report of the Eusapia sittings at the
He Roubaud. The value of the experiments must depend wholly
on the estimate which each reader will form of the capacity of the
observer. It is, however, fair to ask objectors who will refuse even
to consider (I do not say be convinced by) evidence such as this,
what would be their attitude if confronted by a procis-verbal of such
elaborate completeness as to be found proof against even the most
ingenious criticism, a proces-verbal which, if true, must inevitably
establish the existence of some hitherto unrecognised force of a
supernatural character. I think that, if candid, 99 out of 100 such
critics would admit that they would say that the procte-verbal was
probably not true, while the remaining one would put it from his
mind and forget about it as soon as possible. M. Maxwell, there
fore, will probably not lose many converts by his failure to provide
a target for the shafts of his opponents. Let me pass, then, to a
few of the experiments themselves, and seek to give some account
of them in, as far as possible, the author's own words.
(1) Raps (p. 67 and seq.). "As a rule, raps appear to resound
on the top of a table, but this is not always the case. They are
often heard on the ground, on the sitters, or on the furniture, walls,
or ceiling. I have only heard authentic raps on the table, the
ground, the walls, and on furniture in the neighbourhood of the
medium ; and I have often heard them outside regular stances. . . .
I have heard them so frequently in the brightest light that I doubt
whether darkness is so favourable to their production as it is to
certain other phenomena. . . . Contact of the hands is not necessary
for their production. If one has succeeded in obtaining them with
contact, one of the surest ways of doing so without contact is to let
the hands rest for a certain time on the table, and then to raise
them very slowly, palms downwards, and the fingers loosely extended.
It is rare that under these conditions the raps do not continue to
be heard for at least a certain time. . . . With certain mediums
the energy liberated is great enough to act at a distance; and I
have heard raps sound on a table about two yards away from the
2k
49C [part
Hon. Everard Fetiding.
medium. With a certain [non-professional] medium I have obtained
raps in restaurants and in railway refreshment rooms, and it suffices
to have experienced the raps produced by this medium under the
conditions indicated to be convinced of their reality. The unusual
noise of the raps attracted the attention of persons present, and
greatly embarrassed us. The results surpassed our expectations,
and the more we were confused by the noise of our raps, the more
were the latter multiplied, as though they were being produced
by some teasing creature which was amusing itself at our ex
pense. . . . More rarely I have heard raps produced on stuffs,
either on the persons of the medium or of sitters, or else on
furniture. I have heard them on pieces of paper placed on
the seance table, or on books, the walls, tambourines, and small
wooden objects. . . . The variety in the character of the raps
is not less than that of the objects on which they sound, . . . and
their tonality varies according to the object. It is easy to distinguish
between raps sounding on wood, paper, and stuff. . . . The sound of
an ordinary rap, on a table, is rather like that of an electric spark,
. . . but the type varies greatly, . . . and the sound, instead of
being crisp and short, may be dull, and resemble the impact of some
soft body, or the noise made by a mouse, a saw, or the finger-nails
tapping on wood or scratching a piece of stuff." M. Maxwell explains
that the raps generally represent themselves by some alphabetical
code as proceeding from some particular intelligence or personification,
and each personification manifests itself by a special type of rap.
" Sometimes different raps will reply to one another, and one of the
most interesting experiences that one can have is to hear these raps,
clear, dull, dry, or soft, sounding simultaneously on the table and
the floor, and on the wood or stuff or furniture respectively."
M. Maxwell, as the result of a close study of this curious pheno
menon, hazards certain conclusions, of which he says the most certain
is the close connection of the raps with muscular movements on the
part of the sitters. Every muscular movement, even a slight one,
appears to be followed by a rap. Thus if, without any one neces
sarily touching the table, one of the sitters frees his hand from the
chain made round the table by the others, moves it about in a
circle over the surface of the table, then raises it in the centre and
brings it down towards the table, stopping suddenly within a few
inches of it, a rap will be produced on the table corresponding with
the sudden stoppage of the hand. Similarly, a rap will be produced
by a pressure of the foot on the floor, by speaking, by blowing
XLIX.] 497
Review.
slightly, or by touching the medium or one of the sitters. Raps
produced in this way by the sitters are often stronger than those
produced by the medium himself. M. Maxwell suggests as a working
hypothesis that there is a certain accumulated force, and that if its
equilibrium be suddenly disturbed by the addition of the excess of
energy required for the movement, a discharge takes place producing
the effect. I confess it produces a somewhat bizarre impression on
the mind to read M. Maxwell's precise instructions concerning phe
nomena the very existence of which is to most of us so obscure or
which, if described by any one less apparently well equipped than
the author for making accurate observations, one would dismiss with
the ruck of occult twaddle with which our experience is so abun
dantly blighted. Yet M. Maxwell writes with a full knowledge of
the fraud to be encountered, and describes in detail the various
methods by which the alleged phenomena may be imitated, many of
which have come under his own observation. And when he writes
that the facts for which he claims attention took place under conditions
when such methods were inapplicable, that it is impossible to imitate
exactly raps produced without contact on the table, that the raps are
easily localised and their vibrations perceptible by auscultation of the
table itself, it is not too much to ask that judgment may at least
be held suspended as to the validity of his conclusions.
(2) Movements of objects without contact, or with such contact
only as would be normally insufficient to produce the results
obtained. These again are to be numbered among the phenomena
as to the occurrence of which M. Maxwell claims to have reached
absolute conviction. And it is in his account of these, given for
the most part in merely general terms, that a reader, anxious for
material to enable him to form a standard of criticism with which
to test the value of the author's observations, will find chief cause
for disappointment. Here is a sample (p. 86) of the more than
airy way in which M. Maxwell relates the occurrence of these
portentous events. The case in question is one of a series of
experiments made with Eusapia Paladino. " It was about five
o'clock in the evening, and there was broad daylight in the
drawing-room at l'Aguélas. We were standing around the table.
Eusapia took the hand of one of our number and rested it on
the right-hand corner of the table. The table was raised to the
level of our foreheads, that is, the top reached a height of at least
4| feet from the floor. ... It was impossible for Eusapia to
have lifted the table by normal means. One has but to consider
498 [part
Hon. Everard Feilding.
that she touched only the corner of the table to realise what the
weight must have been had she accomplished the feat by muscular
effort. Further, she never had sufficient hold of it. It was clearly
impossible for her, under the conditions of the experiment, to have
used any of the means suggested by her critics, straps, or hooks
of some kind." I confess, I think M. Maxwell might advan
tageously have given such critics a little more opportunity of
appreciating exactly what these conditions amounted to. The effect,
therefore, of this portion of his book is mainly cumulative, and
independent of the importance to be attached to any one of the
reported occurrences. The author speaks of many instances of
movements of objects without any contact whatever occurring in
broad daylight, of curtains shaken, tables lifted, moving to and fro
along the floor at command, chairs sliding, etc. Perhaps one of
the most interesting cases is the following (p. 93). M. Maxwell
wished to repeat a particular experiment, the successful perform
ance of which elsewhere had been notified to him (see Annales des
Sciences PsycMques, 1896, p. 50). This consisted of the depression,
without contact, of the scale of a letter balance. M. Maxwell
purchased a letter balance and took it from its box just prior to
the experiment. There was sufficient light to enable him to read
the indistinctly marked divisions of the scale. " Before our eyes,
Eusapia repeatedly made it go down by raising and lowering her
hands, palms downwards. Her hands were from 10 to 15 cen
timetres [nearly 4 to 6 inches] from the plate of the letter
balance, and the movements were made without her relinquishing
the hands of her neighbours to right and left. It must be
noticed that we several times obtained the depression of the plate
of the machine while we varied the position of the medium's hands,
placing them in front of the machine so as to form a triangle, of
which the plate was the apex, and bringing the hands together so
that the angle at the apex became very acute. The object of
this procedure was to obviate the possibility of the medium pro
ducing the effect by means, for example, of a hair between her
hands. And in order to make my account complete, I must add
that a hair would have been visible. By reversing her hands,
so that the palms were upwards, the medium also raised the
plate, on which a pocket-book had been placed. We ascertained
by measuring the oscillation of the index needle, that the force
developed sent it sometimes to the limit of its run, and that it
was therefore greater than 90 grammes [3£ ounces]."
XLIX.] 499
Review.
It was through the mediumahip of Eusapia Paladino that M.
Maxwell obtained the majority of the phenomena of the kind
under consideration. He was a member of a committee which met
in 1896 to investigate this medium, immediately after the series
held in Cambridge under the auspices of this Society, the issue of
which, it will be remembered, was absolutely unfavourable to her
claims. The general results of the Cambridge seances were com
municated to the French Committee, who were therefore made
aware of the fraudulent devices which the Cambridge investigators
claimed to have ascertained. Their report will be found in the
Annales des Sciences Psychiques for 1896, and I recommend all who
believe that Dr. Hodgson and his Cambridge colleagues have had
the last word in the controversy concerning the genuineness of
Eusapia's mediumship to read it. The French investigators arrive
at conclusions in direct conflict with those of the English sitters.
They state that they had long been aware of the tricks 'dis
covered ' at Cambridge, and took adequate means to guard against
them, and M. Maxwell devotes a considerable portion of his book
to an indictment of the Cambridge method of controlling the
medium, which consisted, for part of the time at least, in affording
the medium opportunities to cheat with a view to ascertaining
whether she would avail herself of them,1 a complaisance of
which she took the fullest advantage. Against this method M.
Maxwell protests with much vigour. A medium, especially an un
educated medium, does not distinguish, with the scientific precision
of her investigators, between normal and abnormal methods of
producing some given phenomenon. The exercise of abnormal
power is always, ex hypothesi, harder or less certain than that of
normal power. Hence, supposing the problem set is to move a
table, and it is open to her to move it either by abnormal agency
or by means of her toe, she will inevitably choose the toe. The
use of the latter does not of itself demonstrate the non-existence
of the former. The true method of investigation is first to ascer
tain all possible normal agencies, and then to take steps to eliminate
them, pointing out frankly to the medium the while that they are
valueless. For my own part, I am not disposed to challenge the
soundness of M. Maxwell's contention, and trust that a further
opportunity may present itself to English investigators to check his
conclusions with regard to this medium on the lines he has indicated.
There is much else of interest in the book upon which I should
1See Editorial Note ou p. 501.
500 Hon. Everard Feilding. [part
have liked to touch, but I have already trespassed far beyond the
space allotted to me. One word, in conclusion, on M. Maxwell's
own attitude towards the phenomena of which he writes. It is
certain that while spiritists may congratulate themselves on his
testimony in support of the facts on the reality of which they
base their creed, they will find but little direct encouragement from
him for the theory of spiritistic agency by which they account for
these facts. "I believe," he says (p. 13) "in the reality of certain
phenomena, of which I have repeatedly been a witness. I do not
consider it necessary to attribute them to a supernatural inter
vention of any kind, but am disposed to think that they are
produced by some force existing within ourselves."
In the same way as certain psychical phenomena, such as auto
matic writing, trance " controls," crystal vision, and so forth, in
which an intelligence seems to be present independent of the
intelligence of the medium, can be shown beyond dispute to be
merely manifestations of his subliminal intelligence, frequently taking
the form of a dramatic personification ; so may the agency, revealing
itself in raps, movements of objects, and other phenomena of a
physical character, perhaps be traceable, not to any power external
to the medium and the sitters, but merely to a force latent within
themselves, and may be but an exteriorisation in a dynamic form,
in a way not yet ascertained, of their collective subliminal capacities.
Fanciful as this theory may seem to those who feel that
unconsciousness of such capacity is sufficient warrant of its non
existence, M. Maxwell (p. 100 et seq.) cites several observations
in its support. The apparent suggestibility of the personification
and the frequency with which the activity of the dynamic agency
may be determined by movements on the part of the assistants,
whether by an appropriate action of the hand, a contraction of some
muscle, a sudden exhalation, or perhaps a mere word,—these seem
to point to a closer connection between the operative force and the
personality of the sitters than would be expected were the agency
due to a source external to themselves. These observations are o
the highest interest, and though they have some of them been
made before, at least in the case of Eusapia Paladino—as where,
for example, it has been noticed that a movement, without apparent
contact, of a table has been accompanied by synchronous con
tortions of the medium—it has been merely with the view of
establishing fraud or the employment of some invisible contrivance
whereby the movement was effected. M. Maxwell is continuing
XLIX.] 501
Review.
his investigations : let us hope that in his account of them he
will furnish us with the means of determining which of the com
peting explanations is the true one. Meanwhile, his present
contribution is of much importance, and merits the closest atten
tion of all who are interested in the subject.
everard feilding.
Note.
M. Maxwell appears to be under a misapprehension as to the
methods of investigation adopted at the Cambridge sittings with
Eusapia Paladino. When she first came to Cambridge, a number
of plans were suggested for making the control of the experiments
as satisfactory as possible, e.g., the use of netting, either for con
fining the medium or separating her from objects which it was
hoped might be moved without contact ; various methods of tying
her; and, above all, sufficient light in the seance room. She
refused to submit to any of these conditions. The investigators,
however, long persevered in making the control in every case as
complete as she would allow it to be. They pressed her at each
sitting to allow some light in the room, and a very faint light was
generally permitted at the beginning ; but soon she would insist
on complete darkness, and the touches were never felt until after
the light was completely extinguished.
The only method of control then allowed was the holding of
the medium by the sitters, and they were accustomed to hold
her as firmly and continuously as possible. When she resisted this
every kind of persuasion short of actual physical force was em
ployed to induce her to submit to it. It was not until the sitters
were convinced of the constant fraud practised that their efforts
were relaxed, and she was allowed to take her own way without
remonstrance.1 Editor.
Humanism: Philosophical Essays. By F. C. S. Schiller. (London:
Macmillan and Co. 1903.)
A metaphysical discussion in these pages would be an offence
devoid alike of precedent and of justification. Unable here to join
issue with Mr. Schiller on the details of his invigorating manifesto,
I must content myself with drawing the reader's attention to the
main principles of the new empiricism which the eternal unfitness
1 See letter from Mr. Myers in the Journal S.P.R., November, 1895 (V'oL
VII., p. 164).
502 [part
F. iV. Hales.
of things has called into life in the very home and stronghold of
Absolutism. Oxford, which, in the heyday of John Mill's influence
and popularity, led the attack upon the Sensationalism of Locke
and Hume, appears to be reverting, with all the ebullient ardour
and combative enthusiasm characteristic of that ancient seat of
learning, to the very principles which Green and his more brilliant
successors flattered themselves they had for ever discredited. Yet
the new empiricism is by no means identical with the old. The
supposed "devotion of the philosopher to the memory of ancient
errors," prevents him at least from repeating obsolete mistakes
in discredited terms. Professor William James—the real author of
the new doctrine—has baptised it Pragmatism. Mr. Schiller prefers
to label it Humanism, as at once a more general and a more attractive
title.
Some months ago, a volume of essays by members of an Oxford
philosophical club opened the campaign against the prevalent Oxonian
philosophy of the Absolute. The enterprise, more novel at Oxford
than elsewhere, attracted and deserved the attention of the limited
public to which it appealed. Mr. Schiller, himself the contributor
of a noteworthy chapter on "Axioms as Postulates," formulated
(rather than proved) a thesis which, if capable of demonstration,
would revolutionise the Theory of Knowledge. In the present volume
he has brought together a number of essays, collected for the most
part from sources hardly accessible to the general public, which
explain and develop, for the benefit of the non-technical reader,
different aspects of his fundamental doctrine. Humanism is not a
connected treatise. The argument does not claim to be exhaustive.
There are gaps in the exposition which the critic would like to see
supplied, and which the author, as I understand, would gladly supply
if he could find the leisure. His Humanism aims to be humane ;
and in his sedulous avoidance of scholastic jargon, he has been tempted
to smoothe over difficulties none the less imperative for being scholastic.
The book must be regarded as a programme rather than as a proof.
But it is addressed to a popular audience, and as such it must be
judged. Vigorous in style, uncompromising in statement, it affords,
if not a vindication of the pragmatist's position, at least a lively
reflection of the true-born pragmatist's character.
All philosophies necessarily start from human experience, and
reconstruct it in various ways. Sensationalism overlooked pure
thought. A priorism has overlooked everything but pure thought.
The pragmatist's claim is that he accepts all features of experience
XLIX.] 503
Review.
without distorting any, and takes into account the whole of the
concrete nature of man. He recognises the reality and validity of
the thought-process which interprets and welds into a systematic
whole the data of sense, but he claims that the thought-process is
purposive in character and teleological in its methods. "Pure"
thought for him is a "non-existent and impossible process." Con
demning the aloofness of an "abstract, arid, abstruse, and
abhorrent philosophy" from the world of action, he reverts to the
old doctrine of Protagoras that "man is the measure of all things,"
and seeks to co-ordinate the plain man's practical beliefs. Logic has
indeed for him a perfectly valid function. A syllogistic chain is
none the less cogent because it appears to conflict with some vital
human interest. But the ultimate principles which form the basis
of all reasoning, according to Mr. Schiller's doctrine in his earlier
essay, are neither logically proved nor amenable to proof. They are
postulates ; they are matters of faith. In all knowledge faith and
reason are indivisibly implied : Faith in the postulates which underlie
all reasoning, and which we have chosen to believe without proof ;
Reason which moulds ideas into conformity with these postulates.
" In principle," says Mr. Schiller, " Pragmatism overcomes the old
antithesis between Faith and Reason." The whole of our thought,
according to Pragmatism, is controlled and inspired by practical
interests, although we may frequently " fail to detect the hidden
interest which incites the reason to be dispassionate." Instead, there
fore, of seeking to base Ethics upon Metaphysical results, regulating
practice in accordance with principles derived from the exercise of
pure thought, Pragmatism founds Metaphysics upon Ethics, thought
upon the practical needs which incite to action. To commence the
exposition of a system of philosophy, as Mr. Schiller does, with a
chapter on the Ethical Basis of Metaphysics may, in fact, prove to
be the intolerable paradox it seems. Yet it is a paradox by the
truth or falsity of which the whole pragmatist doctrine is bound to
stand or fall.
Into the examination of this doctrine on its general merits I do
not propose to enter. I • must confine myself to noticing some con
clusions Mr. Schiller, with most creditable consistency, is driven into
in the chapters which may be supposed to interest more particularly
readers of these Proceedings. Chapter XIII., on the Desire for
Immortality, is a reprint of the well-known article in which Mr.
Schiller questioned the assumed general desire for personal immor
tality, and initiated a very important enquiry, since then concluded,
504 [part
F. N. Hale*.
into the actual state of human sentiment with regard to a future
life. Of Chapter XV.,1 on Philosophy and the Scientific Investigation
of a Future Life, I need say little beyond reminding our readers of
the main points of the argument : that neither philosophy nor science
can effectually disprove the possibility of a future life, that its nature
can only be investigated by scientific methods ; that no investigation,
and consequently no definite knowledge about it whatever is possible,
unless the hypothetical future life happens to be in some sense con
tinuous with the present form of consciousness, and in important
respects akin to our present existence.
It is in Chapter XIY. that the fundamental paradox of Pragmatism
comes to light in a particularly glaring fashion, and challenges dis
cussion in these pages. Mr. Schiller argues first that Immortality is
an ethical postulate, and from the irresistibility of the postulate he
infers the reality of the thing postulated. I do not in the least wish
to question the first step in the argument, essentially open to question
though I believe it to be. If the first step in the argument is
illegitimate, the supposed proof of the conclusion vanishes into thin
air. But even if we grant the legitimacy of a doubtful postulate,
the argument is surely vitiated by a new form of a very ancient
fallacy. The plain man is painfully aware of the difference between
the 100 dollars he would like to have in his wallet and the actual
dollars which too often are not there. Admit that theoretical con
struction, the whole universe of organised knowledge, is controlled
through and through by practical needs, articulated by postulates
which we will to believe, and it may still be quite possible to co
ordinate at every moment the particulars of our present, our past,
and our future experience (to some extent), for our possible future
experience is in some sense predetermined by that which is present
and actual. But Pragmatism does not, on the one hand, seem to
afford any means of transcending actual experience, nor of setting
any limits to the variations in the postulates which we may find
it convenient to make ; and on the other hand it seems plain that
the hypothetical future life can no more enter into our actual experi
ence than Mr. Schiller's experience of the cogency of his argument
enters into my actual experience. F. N. Hales.
1First published in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XV., pp. 53-64.
XLIX.] 505
Officerh and Council for 1904.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.RS., 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidowick, 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A., - - - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., 1901-1903.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1904.
PRESIDENT.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.RS.
Sir William Crookes, F.RS.
Professor J. H. Hyslof, Ph.D.
Professor W. James, Harvard,
U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smith-
souian Institution, Washington,
U.S.A.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.So.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of
Riton.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, M.P.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
Montague Crackanthorpe, K.C.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
carres, K.T., F.R.S.
Hon. Everard Feilding.
F. N. Hales.
Richard Hodgson, LL.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Joses, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Uougall, M.Sc, M.B.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Frank Podmore.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir A. K. Stephenson, K.C.B.,
K.C.
Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Professor J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARIES.
J. G. Piddington,
Hon. Everard Feilding, 5 John St., Mayfair, London, W.
SECRETARY AND EDITOR.
Miss Alice Johnson, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
Michael Petrovo-Solovovo, 6 Quai Francais, St. Petersburg.
SECRETARY AND TREASURER OF THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
Dr. Richard Hodgson, 5 Boylston Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
506 [part
Member8 and Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
October, 1904.
President—Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 10 Downing Street, S.W.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Professor William James, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Professor S. P. Langley, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.A.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
Honorary Members.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
Alfred Russel Wallace, F.R.S., Corfe View, Parkstone, Dorset
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa, 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Josephine, Route d'Antibes, Cannes,
France.
Professor Bernheim, Hflpital Civil, Nancy, France.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Jamaica Plain, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6 Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 31 Goltz Strasse, Berlin, W.
XLIX.] 507
Members and Associates.
Dr. Fere\ 22 Avenue Bugeaud, XVI0. Arrt., Paris.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Eduard von Hartmann, Gross-Lichterfelde, Germany.
Professor Pierre Janet, Rue Barbet de Jouy, 21, Paris.
Professor J. Liegeois, Nancy, France.
Professor C. Lombroso, 43 Corso Oporto, Turin, Italy.
Newbold, Wm. Romaine, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Th. Ribot, Office of the Eevue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Professor N. Wagner, Imperial University, St. Petersburg.
Dr. Otto G. Wetterstrand, Stockholm.
Dr. G. C. Wittig, 22 Kornerstrasse, Leipzig.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bennett, E. T, The Rock, Port Isaac, N. Cornwall.
Coleman, William Emmette, Chief Quartermaster's Office, Phelan
Building, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
Falcomer, Professor M. T, Regio Instituto Tecnico, Alessandria.
Finzi, Dr. George, 11 Monte di Pieta, Milan.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 2 Newport Road, Cardiff.
Grubb, Edward, Devonshire Chambers, Bishopsgate Without,
London, E.C.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., 23 Rue Vladimir, Warsaw.
Robertson, Miss N., 31 Cissbury Road, Hove, Brighton.
Rogers, E. Dawson, Rose Villa, Church End, Finchley, London, N.
Sage, M., 33 Rue des Coulmiers, XIV*. Arrt., Paris.
Young, James F., Bryntesog Villa, New Rd., Llanelly, S. Wales.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is p-efixed to the names of Members.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Adair, Desmond, Bank of England, Plymouth.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. H., P.O. Box 241, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Alexander, Prof. S., The Owens College, Manchester.
508 [part
Members and Associates.
Allen, Mrs. M. S., Hereford House, Clifton Down, Bristol.
Allin, Rev. Thomas, Chelston Mount, Torquay, Devon.
Amery, W. C., 34a Corporation Street, Birmingham.
Anderson, Jos., jun., The Lodge, Clayton, Manchester.
Anesaki, M., Koishikawa Sasugaya 78, Tokyo, Japan.
Appleyard, Walter, Endcliffe Crescent, Sheffield.
Argles, Miss Edith M., Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
Argoutinsky-Dolgoroukoff, Prince Wladimir, 11 Millionaia, St.
Petersburg.
Armstrong, Miss C. M., 31 Hereford Square, London, S.W.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
Astley, Miss, 9 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
*Auden, Harold A., Westwood, Grassendale, Liverpool.
*Baggally, Wortley W., Beaumont House, 26 Grand Parade, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., Beaumont House, 26 Grand Parade, Brighton.
*Bagnell, Mrs., c/o Miss Spencer, 25 York Street, Portman Square,
London, W.
*Baker, Mrs. Charles, South Cliff Hotel, Southbourne-on-Sea, Christ-
church, Hants.
*Baker, Mrs. Duff, 4 Chesterfield Street, Mayfair, London, W.
'Balfour, The Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 10 Downing Street,
London, S.W.
*Balfour, The Right Hon. G. W., M.P., Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
*Balfour, Miss, 10 Downing Street, London, S.W.
Ballard, Rev. Frank, Crescent Road, Sharrow, Sheffield.
♦Barber, Mrs. Hugh, Grosvenor Crescent Club, Hyde Park Corner,
London, S.W.
Barclay, Rev. Chas. W., The Vicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
*Barclay, Edwyn, Urie Lodge, Ridgway, Wimbledon.
Barclay, Miss Marion F., Kylemore, Wimbledon.
Barkworth, Mrs., Nash Court, Marnhull, Dorset.
Barlow, Miss Jane, The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barlow, Rev. J. W., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barrington, Sir Eric, 02 Cadogan Place, London, S.W.
Barrow, Miss, Eureka, Up Park Camp, P.O., Jamaica.
*Barry, Major S. L., Oakdene, South Farnboro.
Baruch, Edgar, c/o American Beet Sugar Co., 123 California Street,
S. Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
Bates, Col. C. E., c/o London and County Bank, 1 Connaught
Street, London, W.
XLIX.] 509
Members and Associates.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring.
Baudains, Miss G. M., Parade House, Jersey.
Bayfield, Rev. Matthew A., Helmdon Rectory, Brackley, North
amptonshire.
Bean, Rev. Edwin, The School House, Brentwood.
Beck, Rev. John Henry, Chaplain H.M. Government of India,
Camp Ahmedabad, India.
Behrens, Noel Edward, Burlington Chambers, 180 Piccadilly,
London, W.
*Begbie, Harold, 9 Tanza Road, Hampstead, London, N.W.
*Bell, Miss A. E., 5 Gray's Inn Square, London, W.C.
Bell, Charles W., J.P., D.L., 13 Grosvenor Crescent, Hyde Park
Corner, London, S.W.
Bellasis, Major G. M., Young's Point, Ontario, Canada.
♦Bennett, Arthur G., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., St. Ann's Hill, Cork.
Bennett, Ernest N., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Miss Annette, M.D., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 65
Cornhill, London, E.C.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
*Berens, Rev. Randolph, 14 Princes Gardens, London, S.W.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Best, Robert, 146 Hamstead Road, Handsworth, Birmingham.
Bevan, Miss N. H., 9 Hans Mansions, London, S.W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, W.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
*Beveridge, Erskine, St. Leonards Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Beverley, Mrs., Nascot Lodge, Watford, Herts.
Bharda, K. B. Khursedji, 3 Slater Road, Bombay, India.
Bicknell, Rev. Clarence, Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
*Bidder, Mrs., 10 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge,
Biddulph, The Lady Elizabeth P., 19 Ennismore Gdns., London, S.W.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Richmond, Surrey.
Birrell, Mrs., 42 Gwydyr Mansions, Hove, Brighton.
Blackburn, E. M., 79 The Drive, Hove, Brighton.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
Bois, H. G., c/o J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bonazza, Carlo, Hotel Cavour, 5 Via Proconsolo, Florence, Italy.
*Bond, Frederick Bligh, 16 Brook Street, Bath.
510 [part
Members and Associates.
Booth, Miss Eva Gore, 83 Heald Place, Rusholme, Manchester.
Borwick, Lady, 16 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Bott, Mrs., Somersal, Derby.
Bowden, Ernest M., 35 Bedford Place, London, W.C.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst.
*Bower, Miss, 32 Halsey Street, Lennox Gardens, London, S.W.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Bowness, Wm. Wilson, 26 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W.
Box, Alfred Marshall, c/o Cooper, Box & Co., Ltd., 69 Alderman-
bury, London, E.C.
Bozzano, E., Piazza S. Anna, 74, Genoa, Italy.
Brabrook, Edward W., C.B., 178 Bedford Hill, Balham, London,
S.W.
Bradgate, Mrs., 123 Hamlet Gardens, Chiswick, London, W.
Bramston, Miss A. R., Witham's Close, Winchester.
Bramston, Miss M., St. Grimbald's, Winchester.
*Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., 33 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Brandreth, Henry S., Fairholme, Weybridge.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Bertram, Mostyndale, Merton Park, Wimbledon.
Brewster, Mrs. F., 21 Park Valley, Nottingham.
Brodrick, Mrs. Alan, 31 Green Heys Road, Liverpool (Oct.-Apr.)
and Western Holm, Hoylake (Apr.-Oct.).
Brooke, Miss Emma F., 10 Abingdon Mansions, Kensington,
London, W.
Brooke, Col. C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Brooke, Mrs., 33 Acomb Street, Greenheys, Manchester.
*Biookes-Smith, Mrs. E., Olrig House, St. Marychurch, Torquay.
Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., Moorcote, Eversley, Hants.
Brown, Miss May, 62 Carlisle Mansions, Westminster, London, S.W.
Browne, Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, Mrs. W. P., Bidston, 97 Gipsy Hill, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
Browning, Oscar, King's College, Cambridge.
' Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15 Campden Hill Square, London, W.
*Bubb, Henry, J.P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
Bulman, H. F., Barcus Close, Burnopfield R.S.O., Co. Durham.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W.
Bury, H., Esq., Mayfield House, Farnham.
XLIX.] 511
Members and Associates.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bushell, Rev. W. D., Harrow-on-the-Hill.
*Butt, Lady, 1 Via Pompeo Magno, Rome.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming.
Cade, F. J., Teighmore, Cheltenham.
*Cadman, Harold Carlier, M.B., Park Road, Barnoldswick, Yorks.
*Caillard, Sir Vincent, Wingfield House, near Trowbridge, Wilts.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintrave, Argyllshire, N.B.
Campbell, Charles A., 22 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Campbell, Colin E., 34 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W.
Campbell, Capt. N. D. H., Cavalry Club, Piccadilly, London, W.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., The City Temple, and Hill Lodge, Enfield,
London, N.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Prof. Brunton, LL.B., 48 West Regent
Street, Glasgow.
*Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road, London, E.
Capper, Thomas, Kingston, Jamaica, W.I.
*Carbutt, Lady, 19 Hyde Park Gardens, London, W. /
Carmichael, Rev. Canon, D.D., LL.D., 10 Sallymount Avenue,
Tesson Park, Dublin.
*Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Carnsew, Miss Rosamund, New Century Club, 13 Old Bond St.,
London, W.
Casey, The Hon. J. J., C.M.G., K.C., Ibricawe, Acland Street, St,
Kilda, Melbourne, Australia.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, N.B.
*Cave, Charles, J.P., Binsted, Cambridge.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham.
"Centeno, Mrs. A., 25 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 38 Victoria Road, Kensington Palace,
London, W.
Chattock, Prof. Arthur P., 24 Royal York Crescent, Clifton, Bristol.
Cheyne, C. A., Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Childers, Miss F. I., Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Chitty, Hubert, 5 Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Clapham, J. H., 13 Beechgrove Terrace, Leeds, Yorks.
*Clarke, Mrs. M. J., West Grange, Cambo R.S.O., Northumberland.
Clarke, Miss Isabel, 65 Holland Park Avenue, London, W.
Clarke, J. F. Howard, M.D., M.R.C.S., 99 Shaftesbury Avenue,
London, VV.
2L
512 [part
Member* and Associates.
Clark-Kennedy, The Rev. A. E., Ewhurst Rectory, Guildford,
Surrey.
*Clavering, Miss A. M. V., Callaly, Sunningdale, Berks.
Clayton, Charles E., 152 North Street, Brighton.
Clissold, Edward M., Ravensworth, Cheltenham.
*Clive, The Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Coghill, Col. Kendal, C.B., Castle Townshend, near Skibbereen,
Co. Cork.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collingwood, Miss A. M., 6 Powis Square, Bayswater, London, W-
Collins, Sir Robert H., K.C.B., Broom Hill, Claremont, Esher.
Collison, Mrs. Henry C., 13 Albemarle Street, London, W.
Collyns, Miss E., Oakhurst, Abbey Park Road, Great Grimsby.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., M.R.C.P., High Street, Dunedin, New
Zealand.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7 Balfour Place, London, W.
*Condenhove-Kalergi, Count Henry, LL.D., Ronsperg, Bohemia,
Austria.
Constable, F. C., Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Red House, Hornton St., Kensington, London, W.
Cooper, E. G., Courts Office, Savanna-la-Mar, Jamaica.
Cooper, Mrs. M. A., Woodville, London Road, Gloucester.
*Cooper, Sir W. E., CLE., Hume Towers, Bournemouth.
Copley, Alfred B., York Villa, Belvoir Drive, Old Aylestone,
Leicester.
Corrance, Henry C., 30 Wilbury Gardens, Hove, Brighton.
Corry, Miss Lucy, Rosenheim, Croydon, London, S.E.
Cort van der Linden, Dr. P. W. A., Ministre de Justice, Suriname
Street, The Hague, Holland.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W.
Coulthard, Rev. H. R., St. Aubyn's Vicarage, Devonport.
*Cowan, W. H, 11 Marlborough Road, Bournemouth.
Cowasjee, Bomanjee, 24 Merchant Street, Rangoon, Burmah.
*Cowper-Coles, S. 0., Artillery Mansions, Victoria Street, London, S.W.
Coxe, Henry R. H., Indian Civil Service, United Service Club,
Calcutta.
Coxeter, Harold, 1b Holland Park Road, Kensington, London, W.
*Crackanthorpe, Montague, K.C., 65 Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
*Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2 Cavendish
Square, London, W.
XL1X.] 513
Members and Associates.
Crawford, W..C., 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colington Rd., Edinburgh.
*Crichton-Browne, Sir James, M.D., LL.D., F.R.S., Crindau,
Dumfries, N.B.
Crickmay, Miss Ellen F. St. A., 6 St. James's Park, Croydon,
London, .S.W.
*Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
Currie, Mrs., 22 Ufer Strasse, Heidelberg, Germany.
■"Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 15 Barton Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Dahl, Miss F., 11 Worcester Terrace, Clifton, Bristol.
Dakyns, Henry Graham, Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dallas, Miss H. S. A., 116 King Henry's Road, South Hampstead,
London, N.W.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell, 12 Cadogan Mansions, London, S.W.
Dartnell, George E., Abbotsfield, Stratford Road, Salisbury.
Darton, Hugh, Beninghoe, Hertford.
*Davidson, J. Mackenzie, M.B., C.M., 76 Portland Place, London, W.
Davie, Miss, The Elms, Bishops Tawton, Nr. Barnstaple, Devon.
Davies, Benjamin, c/o Sir Oliver Lodge, The University, Birmingham.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S. (Ed.), 20 Great George Square, Liverpool.
Davis, Joseph T., Holly Bush, Snaresbrook, Essex.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Trelinda, St. Merryn, Padstow, Cornwall.
*Davison, Miss Annie.
Davison, Mrs. Munro, 57 Dora Road, Coventry Road,
Birmingham.
Davy, Mrs. E. M., 43 Clanricarde Gardens, London, W.
Dawson, Lt.-Col. Henry P., Hartlington, Burnsall, Skipton.
Deinhard, Ludwig, Georgenstrasse, 13/2, Munich, Germany.
Densham, William, 40 Grosvenor Road, Gunnersbury, London, W.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, N.B.
Dickinson, Miss, 10 Stanhope Place, Hyde Park, London, W.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., Greville House, 3 Greville Place, St. John's
Wood, London, N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dixon, Edward T., Racketts, Hythe, Hants.
Dixon, Hugh N., F.L.S., Wickham House, East Park Parade,
Northampton.
Dixon, Prof. W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 43 Norman Road,
Northfield, Birmingham.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler Place, Adelaide, South Australia.
514 [part
Members and Associates.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H., 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Donne, Miss A. G. M., 93 Via Babuino, Rome, Italy.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W.
Dougall, Miss Lily, East Undercliff, Exmouth.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., Tuxedo Park, New York, U.S.A.
'Douglas-Pennant, The Hon. Violet, Mortimer House, Halkin Street,
London, S.W.
Doveton, F. B., Karsfield, Torquay.
Dowson, Mrs., L.R.C.P.I., L.R.C.S.I., Merry Hall, Ashtead, Surrey.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Haslemere, Surrey.
*Drew, Professor Eric, Sullivan's Gardens, Madras, India.
Drewry, Mrs. George, Melrose, Buxton.
Dulley, Rev. B., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
*Duncan, Harold M., 171 Queen's Gate, Alexandra Court, London
S.W.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford.
*Dunham, Miss Helen, c/o Messrs. Baring Bros. & Co., London, EC.
Dyce, Captain Cecil, 69 Linden Gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
Dyson, Rev. W. H., Roseleigh, Egerton, Huddersfield.
Eagle, Frederick, Devonia, St. Andrew's Road, Henley-on-Thames.
Eardley, Lady, 4 Lancaster Street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Edelsten, John A., Norton Lodge, Halton, Cheshire.
Eeden, Frederik van, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Egerton, Miss Mary L., The Cliff, Torrington, York.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Cleveland Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M , Newnham College, Cambridge.
Elliot, Gilbert C., 10 Hanover Square, London, W.
Ellis, Mrs. Edward, Shadingfield Hall, Wangford R.S.O., Suffolk.
Emson, Charles W., Torrington, Ditton Hill, Surrey.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
Esterhazy, Count Michel, Rue Kossuth 5, Budapest IV., Hungary.
*Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
*Evans, Frank Gwynne, 33 St. Martin's, Stamford.
Evison, Mrs., Upward House, near Huntingdon.
Evreinoff, A., The Russian Embassy, Constantinople.
Fairbanks, Mrs. Kama, Wallot st. 8 pt., Grunewald, Berlin, Germany.
*Farrer, The Lady, 3 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
*Fawsett, Thomas, 97 Philbeach Gardens, Earl's Court, London, S.W.
Feilding, Hon. and Rev. Basil, D.D., Minerva Lane, Wolverhampton.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
XLIX.] 515
Members and Associates.
Feilding, The Lady Louisa, Broome Park, Betchworth, Surrey.
Fermaud, Seiior D. Julio, Polar incendios, Bilbao, Spain.
Field, Allan B., Hoath, Crowborough Cross, Sussex.
Finch, H. Wynne, The Manor House, Stokesby R.S.O., Yorks.
Fisher, Rev. J. Hartman, Nassau, N.P., Bahamas.
Fitzgerald, Desmond G., Stanhope Villa. Ashen Road, Clare, Suffolk.
*Fletcher, Mrs., 98 Harley Street, London, W.
*Fletcher, Rowland H., M.R.C.S., 25 Chichele Road, Cricklewood,
London, N.W.
*Florence, Ernest B., 5 Pump Court, The Temple, London, E.C.
Ford, Miss Emily S., 44 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Forrester, Mrs., Tullibody House, Cambus, by Stirling, N.B.
*Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
Fotheringham, W. B., 19 St. John's Rd., Southend-on-Sea, Essex.
Fraser, Col. A. T., R.E., Junior Athenaeum Club, Piccadilly,
London, W.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C., Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor Gardens,
London, S.W.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, Nr. St. Ives, Corn
wall.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fuller, A. G., Christ Church, Oxford.
Garcke, Emile, Ditton House, Near Maidenhead.
Gardiner, Mrs., c/o Charles Mote, Esq., 29 Queen St., London, E.C.
Garth, Dr., 4 Harrington Street, Calcutta, India.
*Geikie, Sir Archibald, D.C.L., F.R.S., 10 Chester Terrace, Regent's
Park, London, N.W.
George, William H., 57 Neville Street, Cardiff.
Ghosh, Rai Kali Prasanna, Dacca, Bengal, India.
Gibbon, I. G., 170 Leander Road, Brixton Hill, London, S.W.
Gilmour, R. W., St. Luke's Hospital, Old Street, London, E.C.
Gittermann, Rudolph C, Odessa, Russia.
Gomery, Percy, Eastern Township Bank, Montreal, Canada.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford.
Gordon, George H., 1 Clare Road, Bristol.
Gordon, Mrs., 19 Victoria Road, Upper Norwood, London, S.E.
*Gordon-March, G., Maclea House, Emsworth, Hants.
Gover, John M., LL.D., 5 New Sq., Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Govett, The Ven. Archdeacon, Gibraltar.
516 [PAKT
Memhe.rs and Associates.
Govett, F. Molyneux, Chalet Ketterer, Clarens, Switzerland.
Gower, Dr. John H., Northington, Sutton, Surrey.
Grablachoff, W., Kustendil, Bulgaria.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester
Green, Alan B., M.D., 31 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., 31 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Green, Miss Marian, St. Aidan's, Winchmore Hill, London, N.
Greg, Miss Mary S., 23 Kensington Gate, London, W.
Grenfell, Mrs., 62 Holywell, Oxford.
Gribble, Miss F. M., 32 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
*Grignon, Rev. W. S., 30 Blenheim Gardens, Willesden Green,
London, N.W.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 30 Blenheim Gardens, Willesden Green,
London, N.W.
*Grinsell, Mrs. T. B., Fernhill, St. Bernard's Rd., Olton, Birmingham.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. Richard, St. Cross Lodge, Winchester.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
Guinness, Miss, Tibradden, Rathfarnham, Dublin.
Gurney, Miss Sybella, The Weirs Cottage, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hackett, James T, 95 King William Street, Adelaide, Australia.
Haig, Mrs. C. E., Orchardwood, Ascot Heath, Berks.
Hales, Frank N., 5 Clement's Inn, Strand, London, W.C.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 24 Holland Street, Campden Hill,
London, W.
Hall, Wilfred, Dilston Hall, Corbridge-on-Tyne.
Hall, Mrs. W. C, 3 St. Alban's Road, Kensington, London, W.
Halls, Robert, 77 Queen's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 70 Princes Gate, London, S.W.
'Hamilton, W. Bernard, The Dale House, Hassocks, Sussex.
*Hamilton, W. H., Glenburnie, Werter Road, Putney, London,
S.W.
Hamilton, Col. G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, Co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, J. J., 70 Cecile Park, Crouch End, London, N.
*Hannah, Robert, 82 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W.
Hannay, Hugh B., Waterloo Villas, Wellington Road, Bromsgrove.
Hansford, Charles, 3 Alexandra Terrace, Dorchester.
*Harding, G. Palmer, Golfers' Club, Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
Hargreaves, Miss, Oakhurst, Waterloo Road, Birkdale, Lancashire.
XLIX.] 517
Member* and Associate*.
Harraden, Miss Beatrice, 3 Cantley Mansions, Fairhazel Gardens,
South Hampstead, London, N.W.
Harris, Alan Campbell, c/o J. S. Morgan & Co., 22 Old Broad
Street, London.
Harris, Capt. C. S., 90 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Harris, Henry B., 37 Kensington Square, London, W.
*Harris, Hon. J., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
*Hart, Colonel H. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co.,
Bombay, India.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C.
Hayes, Frederick W., 12 Westcroft Square, Ravenscourt Park,
London, W.
*Heard, George Henry, Norfolk Villa, Alma Road, Plymouth.
Hebert, P. Z., M.D., L.R.C.P., 16a Old Cavendish Street, Caven
dish Square, London, W.
Helm, W. E., Granville House, Granville Street, Shrewsbury.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Avenue House, West Drayton.
Hennell, Mrs., 125 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert, Hon. Auberon, Burley, Ringwood, Hants.
Hermon, Mrs., Doublebois, Liskeard, Cornwall.
Herschel, Col. John, Royal Engineers, Slough.
Hewitt, Mrs., Wollaston House, Hunstanton, Norfolk.
*Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hielle, Robert, xix/1 Karl Ludwig Street, 62, Vienna.
Hildyard, F. W., Sagamore, Ashtead, Surrey.
Hill, Frank, The Manor House, East Grinstead, Sussex.
Hill-Tout, Charles, Bucklands, Abbotsford, British Columbia.
Hoare, F. H., 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London, W.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu St., Portman Square, London, W.
Hocken, Thomas M., M.R.C.S., Moray PL, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Hodding, Miss, The Close, Salisbury.
Hogg, Sir Frederick Russell, Oriental Club, Hanover Sq., London, W.
*Hogg, Henry R., 6 Clanricarde Gardens, London,. W.
Holder, Lady, Pitmaston, Moor Green, Birmingham.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Holland, Otho, 1 Wharncliffe Villas, Wharncliffe Rd., Boscombe,
Hants.
Hollander, Bernard, L.R.C.P., 62 Queen Anne Street, Cavendish
Square, London, W.
518 [part
Members and Associates.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., Painswick, Stroud, Gloucestershire.
*Holland, John R., c/o Miss E. M. Every, 18 Montagu Street,
Portman Square, London, W.
Holmes, Edmond G. A., 6 Eslington Road, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Hornan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiana, Norway.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, Beaufort House, Montpelier, Cheltenham.
Hommel, P. A., c/o The Hidalgo Mining Co., Parral, Est. de Chih.,
Mexico.
Hood, Mrs., 115 St. George's Road, London, S.W.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 5 Radnor Place, Hyde Park, London, W.
*Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Hammam Chambers, 76 Jermyn St.,
London, S.W.
Howard, Hon. Hugh M.,
Huddleston, Mrs., Llwynderw, Welshpool, Montgomeryshire.
Hudson, Morris, The Hermitage, Guildford.
Hughes, Major H. M., F.R.G.S., Swiss Cottage, Birchington-on-Sea.
*Hume, Mrs. H. S., 5 The Cloisters, Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., The Pines, Worcester Park, Surrey.
Hunt, G. Angus, M.R.C.S., Stoneleigh House, Clissold Park,
London, N.
Huntingford, Miss, North End House, Winchester.
Husani, M. S., Municipal Office, Madras, S. India.
Hutchinson, F. "W. H., Brooklands Avenue, Cambridge.
Hyamson, Albert M., Secretary's Office, General Post Office,
London, E.C.
Infield, H. J., 130 North Street, Brighton.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingram, Hon. Mrs. Meynell, Temple Newsam, Leeds.
*Isitt, Frank S. N., Devonshire Club, St. James's, London, S.W.
Jackson, Wm. H., Pen Wartha, Weston-super-Mare.
'Jameson, Mrs. T. M., Colterbrooke Grange, Northampton.
Jaye, W'illiam R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, N.E.
*Jeakes, Rev. James, 4 Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N. W.
*Jebb, H. S. F., 17 Lexham Gardens, London, W., and Tullich
Lodge, Ballater, N.B.
*Jenkins, A. Stuart, Villa Maryland, Montreux, Switzerland.
Jevons, F. B., Litt.D., Hatfield Hall, Durham.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
*Johnson, G. Lindsay, M.D., F.R.C.S., Cortina, 24 Netherall
Gardens, South Hampstead, London, N.W.
XLIX.] 519
Members and A*nociates.
Johnston, Miss M. F., The Writers' Club, Hastings House, Norfolk
Street, Strand, London, W.C.
*Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Miss Lilian J., 120 Maida Vale, London, W.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Lady, Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jordan-Smith, Benjamin, A.R.C.S., 58 King's Road, Reading.
Kaindl, Alois, Graben No. 11, Linz a. Donau, Austria.
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishop of Meath, Navan, Co.
Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, 26 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
*Kelso, Commander, RN., Horkesley Park, Colchester.
Ker, Thomas R, Dougalston, Milngavie, N.B.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kingston, H. D. R., M.D., Macra, Eltham, Kent.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W.
Knox, Nathaniel, Adelaide Club, Adelaide, South Australia.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27 Mikealsgaten, Helsingfors, Finland.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford.
"*Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Lamarre, L. B. de, Hotel Cecil, London, W.C., and Beaulieu,
Trinidad, B.W.I.
Lambert, Miss Beatrice, The Empress Club, Dover Street, Picca
dilly, London, W.
*Lambert, E. W., F.R.G.S., 52 Abingdon Court, Kensington,
London, W.
Lamplugh, Rev. David, Rokeby Rectory, Barnard Castle.
*Lang, Andrew, 1 Marloes Road, London, W., and Alleyne House,
St. Andrews, Scotland.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Laver, John, Broken Hill Chambers, 375 Flinders Lane, Melbourne,
Australia.
Layard, Lady, 3 Saville Row, London, W.
Lazzaro, Cleon Page H., Salonica, Turkey in Europe.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Lee, Rev. A. H. E., 3 Cambrian Terrace, Holbeck Moor, Leeds.
Leedham, Isaac S., 1 The Cloisters, Temple, London, E.G.
520 [part
Members and Associates.
Lees-Milne, A. M., Crampton Hall, Shaw, Lancashire.
Lefebure, E., 94 Rue de Lyon, Alger-Mustapha, Algeria.
Leigh, VV. Austen, Hartfield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
*Leigh, Mrs. Gerard, Kidbrooke Park, Forest Row, Sussex
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 13 Cleveland Square, Hyde Park, London, W.
Leopold, Dr. H. M., 13 Bijde Put, Leeuwarden, Holland.
Levy, Mrs., 16 Campden House Road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Lewis, Francis B., Box 5, Maraisburg, Transvaal, South Africa.
Lewis, Miss, 33 Hans Place, London, S.W.
♦Leyeester, Mrs., 6 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Librarian (Hon) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland Ave.,
London, W.C.
Librarian, Grosvenor Library, c/o Mr. B. F. Stevens, 4 Trafalgar
Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, New York Library, c/o Mr. B. F. Stevens, 4 Trafalgar
Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Public Library, Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 28 Albemarle Street, London, W.
Librarian, University of Paris, per H. Welther, 4 Rue Bernard,
Palissy, Paris.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Sq., London, W.C.
Lindsay, R., L.R.C.S., M.B, The Oaks, Botley, Hants.
Lloyd, Colonel Francis, 22 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Lloyd, Thomas Edward, J. P., Coedmore, Cardigan.
*Lockhart, Lady, 187 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, LL.D., F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birming
ham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Loewenstein, E., 43a, Maria-Louisen Street, Hamburg, Germany.
Lomax, Arthur, Heilbron, Orange River Colony, S. Africa.
Lucas, Henry, Hilver, St. Agnes Road, Birmingham.
Lund, Percy, 43 Athol Road, Manningham, Bradford.
Lyall, Sir Alfred Comyns, F.R.S., 18 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Lyell, D., P.O. Box 5228, Johannesburg, South Africa.
Lyster, Mrs., A Quarters, Victoria Barracks, Sydney, New South
Wales, Australia.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
XLIX.] 521
Members and Associates.
Lyttelton, The Hon. Mrs. Arthur, Perrystone Court, Ross, Here
fordshire.
Macaura, Dr. Gerald J., Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Macmillan, Mrs. Alexander, c/o Madame Bougoiiin, 6 Tsukiji, Tokio,
Japan.
Macnaughtan, Miss, 61 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
*Macrau, Professor H. S., Trinity College, Dublin.
Madocks, Major H. J., 32 Eaton Place, London, S.W.
Maidlow, William Harvey, M.D., F.K.C.S., Ilminster, Somerset.
Mallet, Miss A. V., Anlaby House, 25 Highbury New Park, Lon
don, N.
Mallet, Louis, 215 King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Mann, Rev. Frederick, Temple Ewell Vicarage, Dover.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 6 Shalston Villas, Ewell Road, Surbiton Hill,
Surrey.
*March-Phillipps, Mrs., 2 Kilchberg Villas, St. Luke's, Cheltenham.
Marchant, Rev. James, Worcester House, West Hill Road, Bourne
mouth.
Markle, George B., Hazleton, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray's Inn Place, London, W.C.
Marshall, William Cecil, 28 Bedford Square, London, W.C.
*Marston, Lieut. G. N., R.N., United Service Club, Pall Mall, Lon
don, S.W.
*Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Marten, R. H., Allensmore, Swansea.
Martin, Miss A. E., 15 Thurloe Square, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Worcestershire.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Lahore, Punjab, India.
Maryon, Miss, Holly Lodge Studio, Seymour Place, Fulham Road,
London, S.W.
Maskell, Miss E. M., 32 Nightingale Square, Balham, London, S.W.
Mason, Miss M. H., Local Government Board, Whitehall, London, S.W.
*Massey, Charles C, 124 Victoria Street, London, S.W.
*Mathews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, London, W.
Matthews, F. H., 91 Hartfield Road, Wimbledon.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., M.P., 48 Belgrave Square, Lon
don, S.W. .
522 [part
Member* and Associate*.
Maxwell, Joseph, 37 Rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
Mayor, R. G., 22 Sussex Villas, Kensington, London, W.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D., 36 Weymouth Street, London, W.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Dougall, William, M.Sc, M.B., Foxcombe Hill, near Oxford.
M'Dougall, Isaac S., The Orchard, off Arthog Road, Hale, Cheshire.
M'Kewan, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W.
M'Laren, Lady, 43 Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
M'Lean, Mrs., Hyde Park Court, Albert Gate, London, S.W.
Meek, Maximilian von, Russian Legation, Cettigne, Montenegro.
Medeiros e Albuquerque, Jose de, Rua S. Christovam, 36, Rio
Janeiro, Brazil.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Mellone, Rev. Sydney Herbert, D.Sc, Hollywood, Co. Down.
Metcalf, Rev. F. W., Southborough, Tunbridge Wells.
Metzger, Daniel, 12 Boulevard des Franchees, Geneva, Switzerland.
Meyer, Rev. F. B., Christchurch, Westminster Bridge Road, Lon
don, S.W.
*Micklethwait, Richard K., Ardsey House, Barnsley.
♦Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
Milton, John Penn, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P, 13 North Parade, Penzance.
Mitchell, Mrs. C. W., Jesmond Towers, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
*Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett.
Monteagle, The Lcrd, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co. Limerick.
Montebello, La Marquise de, 44 Rue Copernie, Paris.
Montgomery, Mrs., 9 Hartley Road, Exmouth.
*Morell, Mrs. Waldo, Hall Bank, Manchester Road, Rochdale, Lanes.
Moreton, Lady Evelyn, 7 Barkston Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 4 Randolph Cliff, Edinburgh ; and Morison
House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morries, J. M., Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Moulton, Mrs. F. A., Credit Lyonnais, 19 Boulevard des Italiens,
Paris.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C., 11 Burstock Road, Putney, London, S.W.
Muirhead, Prof. John Henry, 1 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Musschenbrock, P. van, S. f. Soerawinangeen (Ploembon), Cheribon,
Java.
*Murray, Donald, 3 Lombard Court, London, E.G.
*Murray, Gilbert, LL.D., Barford, Churt, Farnham.
XLIX.] 523
Member8 and Atisociatex.
Murray, K. G. V., R.I.E.C., Cooper's Hill, Englefield Green,
Staines.
Murray, Oswald, 3 Compayne Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Murray, T. Douglas, Runnymede Park, Englefield Green, Staines.
Muschik, Dr. 0. E., 12 Marble Arch, London, W.
Musgrove, Geo. H., Clear Cottage, Grena Road, Richmond,
Surrey.
Myers, Dudley B., 6 Middleton Street, Calcutta, India.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Nascimento, Mario, 12 Gloucester PI., Portman Sq., London, W.
Nash, Joseph, Wheatcroft, Bradwell, Great Yarmouth.
Neate, P. J., F.G.S., Belsize, Watts Avenue, Rochester.
*Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newill, George E., 48 Wheeleys Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Newmann, Oscar P., 84 Newman Street, London, W.
Nichol, H. Ernest, 67 Park Avenue, Hull.
*Nicoll, Mrs. Delancy, Windymere, Southampton, Long Island, U.S.A.
Nicolls, Mrs., Nicosia, Cyprus.
Nicholson, Sir A., K.C.I.E., C.M.G., British Legation, Tangier,
Morocco.
*Nisbet, E. T., 4 Summerhill Grove, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
♦Noel-Cox, H. L., 29 Vicarage Road, Eastbourne.
*Norman, Mrs. H. G., 42 Chester Square, London, S.W.
*Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., The Laboratory, Yardley
Fields, Yardley, Birmingham.
Northcote, The Hon. Amyas Stafford, Thorns Barton, Great Berk-
hamsted.
*Nugent, Mrs. Arthur, 5 Temple Gardens, Brighton.
Nunn, Mrs. Lindley, Coddenham, Ipswich.
Odgers, Miss M. E., c/o Rev. A. D. Paterson, Bettencourt, Caminho,
Pilar, Funchal, Madeira.
O'Donnell, Elliott, Clifton House, St. Ives, Cornwall.
'Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, Esq., 5 Queen Street, Edin
burgh.
*Ogilvy, Mrs. N. Hamilton, Biel, Prestonkirk, East Lothian, N.B.
Oman, Charles W. C., 39 St. Giles', Oxford.
Opie, Edward A. D., J.P., Pirie Street, Adelaide, South Australia.
Ormrod, Miss Winifred, Pen-y-lan, Ruabon, North Wales.
*Orr, A. W., 15 Moorland Road, Didsbury, near Manchester.
*O'Toole, Edward, 152 Vauxhall Bridge Road, London, S.W.
524 [part
Members and Associates.
Pack Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagnalstown, Co. C'arlow.
Paetow, F. C, 24 Queen Anne's Grove, Bedford Park, London, W.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Palliser, Arthur, jun., Wharton Cottage, Ascot, Berks.
Parry, Mrs. C. M., 11 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
*Parsons, J. Denhara, 58 St. Oswald's Road, West Brompton,
London, S.W.
*Passingham, Mrs., 9 Cedric Road, Westgate-on-Sea, Thanet.
Patterson, C. B., 11 East 32nd Street, New York, U.S.A.
Patterson, John F., 74 Grand' Rue, Montreux, Switzerland.
*Pa3'ne, Ernest, Hatchlands, Cuckfield, Sussex.
Pedley, Charles Herbert, Ferney, Queen's Park, Chester.
Pegram, Henry A., 36 Marlborough Hill, London, N.W.
Pemberton, Miss Hilda, 6G Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Woodhurst, Shorne, Kent.
Percival, Mrs., 2 Southwick Place, London, W.
*Perdicaris, Ion, El Minzah, Tangier, Morocco.
*Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Isles.
Perkins, Mrs., 3 Eaton Place, Grange Road, Guernsey.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's
Hospital, London, S.E.
*Petrovo-Solovovo, Michael, 6 Quai Francais, St. Petersburg.
Pethybridge, Walter, 3 Rhodesia Road, Clapham Rise, London, S.W.
Phelips, H. V. M., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Phillimore, Mrs., Kendals, Elstree R.S.O., Herts.
Pickering, J. W., D.Sc, Sylvadene, Cumberland Road, Bromley,
Kent.
*Piddington, J. G.
Pidgeon, Mrs. D., 3 Pembroke Road, Kensington, London, W.
*Pilcher, Captain A. J., R.E., 62 The Common, Woolwich.
*Pilcher, Giles T., 29 Dawson Place, London, W.
*Ping, W. B., 2 Mayfield Avenue, Chiswick, London, W.
Pinsent, Mrs. Hume, Lordswood, Harborne, Birmingham.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 16 Middleton Road, New Wandsworth,
London, S.W.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, 48 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Podmore, Frank, 6 Holly Place, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs., 14 West Halkin Street, London, S.W.
Ponsonby, Miss, Rye Vale, Leixlip, Co. Kildare.
*Pontifex, Dudley, 73 Alleyne Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E.
xux] 525
Members and Associates.
Pope, George H., Merchant's Hall, Bristol.
Popoff, General James,
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Powell, Miss Constance M., 5 Campden Hill Square, London, W.
*Powles, Lewis Charles, 9 Queen's Gate Place, London, W.
Powys, Hon. Mrs. Fox, 23 Albion Street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Prager, Arnold, L.D.S., 8 Portman Square, London, W.
Pratt, Frederick, East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
Pratt, Herbert A., The Shrubbery, Tooting Graveney, London, S.W.
Pribitkoff, V., Redaction du Rebus, dom Michke, No. 8, Smolensky
Boulevard, Moscow, Russia.
Priestly, J. H., 72 Waverley Road, Redlands, Bristol.
Prosser, R. A. S., M.R.C.S., 20 Lozells Road, Birmingham.
Pullen, Miss, Milton View, Elsecar, Barnsley, Yorks.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Derwent Hill, Ebchester, Co. Durham.
Purdie, Mrs., 27 Palace Court, London, W.
Purgold, Thomas, 108 Princes Road, Liverpool.
Radnor, Countess of, 12 Upper Brook Street, London, W.
Raggett, Mrs., 70 Maida Vale, London, W.
Raikes, Mrs., The Leat House, Malton, Yorkshire.
*Raikes, His Honour Judge, K.C., The Leat House, Malton, Yorks.
Raines, Lady Julius, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Ramsden, Miss, Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Rao, U. R. Balaji, High Court Vakil, Singrachari Street, Triplicane,
Madras.
Raper, R. W., Trinity College, Oxford.
*Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, New College, Oxford.
Rathbone, John S., Mystic, Conn., U.S.A.
Raupert, J. G. F., 30 Belsize Square, London, N.W.
*Raworth, Edwin, 5 South Park Road, Harrogate.
Reade, Herbert V., 32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
*Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Charterhouse, Godalming, Surrey.
Renterghem, A. W. van, M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
Reynolds, Mrs., Millington House, Thelwall, near Warrington.
Richardson, Frederick W., Oak Lea, Menston-in-Wharfedale, Yorks.
*Ridley, Henry N., Singapore, Malay Peninsula.
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W.
Roberts, Bertrand, Kensington House, Kensington Court, London, W.
526 [part
Members and Associate*.
Roberts, Rev. W. W., 76 Kensington Gardens Square, Kensington,
London, W.
Robertson, George M., M.B., The Copse, Larbert, N.B.
Robertson, Mrs., Nether Seale Hall, Ashby de la Zouch.
'Robinson, H. Perry, 15 Tavistock Street, Covent Garden,
London, W.C.
Robinson, George R., 31 James Street, Liverpool.
*Rogors, Rev. E. H., Foxley Lodge, West Worthing, Sussex.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, 7 Saville Place, Clifton, Bristol.
•Rohde, Miss, 20 Delamere Street, Paddington, London, W.
Rolleston, T. W., 104 Pembroke Road, Dublin.
*Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5 Hamilton Place, London, W.
Riicker, Miss, 4 Vanbrugh Terrace, Blackheath, London, S.E.
*Kucker, Sir A. W., F.R.S., 19 Gladhow Gardens, London, S.W.
*Rumsey, Charles Almaric, 33 Hawke Road, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
Rushton, Charles H., 8 Billiter Square, London, E.C.
Russell, Rev. T. H., St. Martin's Vicarage, Gospel Oak, London,
N.W.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, 4 Bawtree Road, Uxbridge.
Ryves, Miss Miriam G. B., 4 Bawtree Road, Uxbridge.
Sadgrove, W. Arthur, The Knowle, Norraanton Road, South Croy
don, London, S.E.
Sampson, Col. Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sanders, Mrs., 33 Buckingham Palace Mansions, Grosvenor Gardens,
London, S.W.
*Sarawak, Ranee of, Grey Friars, Ascot, Berks.
*Savory, Mrs. Agnes R., 31 Bramham Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
*Schiller, F. C. S., Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schmidt, Julius, Cornwall Cottage, 582 Woolwich Road, Charlton,
London, S.E.
Schreiner, Miss Julia, 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Schultze, Dr. Otto, Markt 4, Merseburg, Germany.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenham House, Wimbledon.
Schwabe, Mrs. G. S., Lieut.-Governor's House, Chelsea Hospital,
London, S.W.
♦Scott, Sydney C., Hatherleigh, 28 The Avenue, Gipsy Hill, London,
S.E.
XLIX.] 527
Members and Associates.
Scull, Mrs., The Pines, 2 Langland Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Selous, Mrs., 15 Fitzgerald Avenue, Kensington, London, W.
*Sellin, Professor Carl W., Holsteinische Str. 30, Wilmersdorf,
Berlin, Germany.
Servante, Rev. C. W., Junior Conservative Club, Albemarle Street,
London, W.
Seymour, Admiral Sir E. H., G.C.B., 9 Ovington Square, London,
S.W.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodmin.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.
*Sharpe, J. W., WoodrofiFe, Portarlington Road, Bournemouth.
Shaw, Rev. Charles J. M., The Vicarage, Margate.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 25 St. Mark's Crescent, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Shuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore- Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
'Silver, Mrs., 142 Ebury Street, London, S.W.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sivudu, Rayasam Venkata, Rajah's College, Parlakimedi (Dt. Gan-
jam), Madras Presidency, India.
Skeffington, Joseph B., LL.D., Waterford, Ireland.
Slater, Leigh, Lillicroft, Disley, Cheshire.
*Sloane, George G., Cleeve Lodge, Earls Road, Bournemouth West.
Sloley, Aubrey L., Savanna la Mar, Jamaica, W.I.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
Smith, H. Babington, General Post Office, London.
Smith, D. R. Crawfurth, 1 Whitehall Place, London, S.W.
Smith, G. Albert, St. Ann's Well, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Scarborough.
Smith, Reginald A, 78 Cranwich Road, Amherst Park, London, N.
Smith, Rev. Sydney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
Smith, W. Johnson, Pengelly House, Beaulieu Road, Westbourne,
Bournemouth.
Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchen.(
Snape, Mrs., St. Bees, Beachy Head Road, Eastbourne.
2 m
528 [part
Member* and Associates.
*Snow, Chester A., 523 Ninth Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Sodemann, Carl, 47 Mark Lane, London, E.C.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
*Spencer, Cyril E., Nicosia, Cyprus.
Spencer, Miss Georgiana M., 25 York Street, Portman Square,
London, W.
Stackelberg, Baron Charles de, 3 Moschkow pereoulok, St. Peters
burg, Russia.
Stange, Miss, 16 Lauderdale Mansions, Maida Vale, London, W.
Stannard, Mrs. J., New County Club, 21 Hanover Square,
London, W.
Stansfeld, Miss, Artillery Mansions, Victoria Street, London,
S.W.
Stapleton, Mrs., 46 Montagu Square, London, W.
*Stapley, Richard, 33 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Stead, William T., Cambridge House, Wimbledon.
Steen, Miss Maud, Sharvagh, Bushmills, Co. Antrim.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Andrew, 16 Warrender Park Crescent, Edinburgh.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C.
Stratton, F. J. M., Raymead, 14 Harborne Road, Edgbaston,
Birmingham.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., St. Kilda East, Melbourne, Australia.
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Sumner, Mrs., 35 Palliser Road, West Kensington, London, W.
*Sutton, Mrs., 49 Lexham Gardens, London, W.
Sweeney, Hubert J. P., 4 Estelle Road, Gospel Oak, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
Sweetman, G. Drysdale, Windsor House, St. Thomas Street, Ryde,
I.W.
Swire, Commander H., R.N., Clifton Lodge, Grosvenor Road,
Weymouth.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, Bela Maria Joseph de,. Austro-Hungarian
Consulate, Cairo, Egypt.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Northsyde, High Street, Teddington.
XLIX.] 529
Members and Associates.
*Talbot, Lady Edmund, 1 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W.
Talbot, Major Frederick G., Rifle Brigade, Khartoum, Egypt.
Tate, T. B., Allerburn. Alnwick.
*Taylor, Rev. Charles J., Ashlawn, Blandford Rd., Reigate, Surrey.
Taylor, Thomas, Church Street, Boston Spa, Yorkshire.
*Taylor, Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M., 6 College Lawn, Cheltenham.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, nr. Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W., Ashley House, Shaftsbury Avenue, London,
W.C.
Tennant, Mrs. C. C., 5 Sloane Court, Lower Sloane Street,
London, S.W.
Thomas, Rev. C. D., 2 Maison Dieu Road, Dover.
♦Thomas, J. W., Overdale, Shortlands, Kent.
Thomas, Northcote W., 7 Coptic St., London, W.C.
*Thompson, Robert A., 2 Westleigh Road, Narboro Road, Leicester.
Thompson, Mrs. Edmond, 87 South Hill Park, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow, N.B.
Thomson, W. B., 22 Wallwood Road, Leytonstone, Essex.
Thornhill, Miss, The Hautboy Hotel, Ockham, Surrey.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thornton, W. M., D.Sc. (Vict.), Durham College of Science, New-
castle-on-Tyne.
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
Thurstan, F. W., Riverfield, Old Windsor.
'Torre, Mrs. E. F., 9 Cumberland Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de, 13 Albemarle Street, London, W.
Trevelec, Rev. Marquis de., F.R.G.S., Claygate, Surrey.
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88 Park Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.
Turnbull, Mrs., 11 Bentinck Street, Cavendish Square, London, W.
Turner, Sydney, Caius College, Cambridge.
*Tweedale, Mrs., Balquholly, Turriff, N.B.
Tyndall, Arthur M., 31 Redland Grove, Bristol.
Tyrone, Jorge O'Neill de, 59 Rua das Flores, Lisbon.
Unwin, Mrs., Avenue House, Aspley Guise R.S.O., Bedfordshire.
Van der Veer-Green, Mrs., 4k, Bickenhall Mansions, Gloucester
Place, London, W.
530 [part
Members and Associates.
Velsen, Dr. Prosper van, Godefroi de Bouillon, 61, Brussels,
Belgium.
Venables, Rev. Herbert A., 28 Viale Principe Amedeo, Florence.
Venning, Rev. C. H., 41 Estelle Road, Gospel Oak, London, N.W.
*Verrall, Mrs. A. W., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26 Gloucester Place, Brighton.
Vesme, Cesar Baudi de, 6 Rue Saulnier, Paris, France.
Vian-Williams, Rev. H., 3 Waterloo Place, North Shields.
Vickers, Mrs., 35 Park Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Villamarina, The Marchesa di, Palazza Reale, Quirinale, Rome.
*Vincent, W. James, M.B., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., South Yorkshire
Asylum, Wadsley, Sheffield.
Vogan, Randal, The Beeches, Guildown Road, Guildford.
Wakefield, Captain H. G. R., Prince of Wales Leinster Regiment,
Junior Naval and Military Club, Piccadilly, London, W.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Wall, Miss M. Mack, 17 Somerset Terrace, Duke's Road, London,
W.C.
'Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39 Harley Street, London, W.
Ward, The Hon. Kathleen, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
*Warndorfer, A., Muhlgasse 50, Baden, nr. Vienna, Austria.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 87 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Wassell, H. A., Addenbrook Villa, Old Swinford, Stourbridge.
Webb, Mrs., Chadmore, Cheltenham.
Webber, Mrs., 25 Tedworth Square, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wedd, N., King's College, Cambridge.
*Wells, E. P., The Limes, 94 Larkhall Rise, Clapham, London, S.W.
*Westcott, W. Wynn, M.B., D.P.H., 396 Camden Road, London, N.
*Westlake, Ernest, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
Westropp, A. S. A., East India United Service Club, 16 St.
James's Square, London, S.W.
Wetherall, George B., Severus Mount, Merriman's Hill, Worcester.
Whall, William B., 11 Linkfield, Musselburgh.
Whamond, J. Robbie, 15 Langland Gardens, Finchley Road,
London, N.W.
Wheatley, G., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 7 St. Stephen's Crescent, Bayswater,
London, W.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*White, Leedham, 16 Wetherby Gardens, London, S.W.
XLTX.] 531
Members and Associates.
White, Miss, 70 West Street, Brighton.
White, Mrs., 133 Lordship Road, Stoke Newington, London, N.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., The Grove, Newnham, Cambridge.
Whitehurst, The Rev. J. B. Howes, Farnborough Rectory, Wantage,
Berks.
*Whiting, J. Markby, 17 Copse Hill, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Wigan, Rev. Herbert, Dunsden Vicarage, Reading.
Wigan, W. L, Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone.
Wild, Ernest E., 1 Garden Court, Temple, London, E.C.
Wilkins, Mrs., 40 Harcourt Street, Dublin.
Willett, Mrs., Bedales, Lindfield, near Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 52 King William Street, London, E.C.
Williams, C. Hanbury, Windham's Club, St. James's Square,
London, S.W.
*Williams, Sir Hartley, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W.
*Williams, Colonel S. de la Grange, Broomie Close, Sutton Coldfield,
Birmingham.
Wilson, Miss C. M., 40 Westbourne Grove, Scarborough.
Wilson, Mrs. A. E., Little Welbourne, Pagham, near Bognor.
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Trematon, The Thicket, Southsea.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Wilson, Robert, 7 St. Andrews Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Winckworth, Mrs., 12 Kensington Mansions, Earl's Court, London,
S.W.
Winder, W. Gilgross, 12 Grange Road, Sharrow, Sheffield.
Wingate, D. C., Cornborough, Abbotsham, North Devon.
Wingfield, H. E., M.D., 25 St. Swithun Street, Winchester.
Wingfield, Miss K., 7 Barkston Gardens, S. Kensington, London,
S.W.
Witherby, Arthur George, 7 Essex Street, Strand, London, W.C.
Witt, Mrs. R. C., 8 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W.
Wolff, The Baroness Kitty, 7 Basseinaia, St. Petersburg, Russia.
Wood, Lionel, 4 Simonside Terrace, Heaton, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
*Wood, R. H., 2k Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Worcestershire.
*Woods, Miss Alice, 3 North Mansions, Burton Road, Kilburn,
London, N.W.
*Woods, John F., M.D., 29 Queen Anne Street, Cavendish Square,
London, W.
Woodward, Miss Mabel, 18 Harborne Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
532 [part
Members and Associates.
*Wooldridge, H. B., Oaklands, Hatfield Heath, Harlow, Essex.
Woollett, Major W. Charles, 13 Lansdowne Road, Aldershot.
Woolley, V. J., King's College, Cambridge.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Star P.G., Box 1014, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
*Wrey, Miss Florence, Falklands, Fleet R.S.O., Hants.
Wre}', Mrs., Tawstock Rectory, Barnstaple, N. Devon.
Wright, William, M.B., F.R.C.S., The University, Birmingham.
Wyld, George, M.D., 79 Mount Ephraim, Tunbridge Wells.
Wyld, Mrs., 3 Savile Row, London, W.
*Wyndham, Hon. Percy, 44 Belgrave Square, London, W.
Yaroschenko, Madame, c/o E. E. Berry, Esq., Banca et Agrenzia
Inglese, Bordighera, Italy.
Yegounoff, Mademoiselle Nina, Zverinskaia, 17a, Logement 37,
Peterburgskaia Storona, St. Petersburg, Russia.
*Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 10 Granville Place, London, W.
Young, Rev. Henry, 28 Moore Street, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Young, Prof. W. H., 883 East Main Street, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A
Zahn, G. P. H., Biltstraat 151, Utrecht, Holland.
Zagury, Leon, 12 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W.
XLIX.] 533
Members and. Associates.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES OF THE AMERICAN
BRANCH.
(October, 1904.)
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
All Addresses are " U.S.A." except where another country is named.
Adamowska, Madame S., 163 Walnut Street, Brookline, Mass.
Adams, George S., M.D., Insane Hospital, Westboro, Mass.
Agelasto, Michael A., Box 485, Norfolk, Va.
Albree, John, Junr., Swampscott, Mass.
Albree, Ralph, 187 Western Avenue, Allegheny, Pa.
Aldrich, W. F., Rajah Lodge, Aldrich, Alabama.
Allen, B. B., 125 South Spruce Street, Nashville, Tenn.
Allen, C. S., Rooms 114-115, Burr Block, Lincoln, Neb.
Ames, Miss Evelyn, 355 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Anderson, Prof. A. W., Macalester College, St. Paul, Minn.
Anderson, 0. W., 512 Masonic Temple, Minneapolis, Minn.
Arguelles, Don Pedro, Gobernador del Estado de Famaulipas,
C. Victoria, Mexico.
Arnold, Alfred, c/o Mrs. G. Tilbury, 24 Calle Mendoza, Quiapo,
Manila, P.I.
Arnold, Miss Fannie, 323 North 17th Street, Omaha, Neb.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y.
*Bailey, Joseph T, P.O. Box 266, Philadelphia, Pa.
Baker, Alfred L., 2641 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Baker, W. H , 341 Jersey Street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Baldwin, A. E., M.D., 1013 Venetian Building, 34 Washington Street,
Chicago, 111.
Ballantine, Mrs. Richard H., 48 Buckingham St., Cambridge, Mass.
Bancroft, Miss M., Haddonfield Training School, Haddonfield, N.J.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3914 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Barnum, Starr H., 20 Whitney Ave., New Haven, Conn.
Barrett, Harrison I)., Canaan, Maine.
.534 [part
Members and Associate*.
*Barrows, C. M., 386 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass.
*Bartlett, James W., 211 Central Avenue, Dover, N.H.
Bassett, Mrs. E. J., 1923 8th Avenue, : Brooklyn, N.Y.
Batcheller, Mrs. Francis, 270 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Bates, Delevan, Aurora, Neb.
Bates, Mrs. Katharine, 5 Locke Street, Andover, Mass.
Bayley, Mrs. Emily E., 1438 Poplar Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., S.E. cor. 15th and Poplar Streets,
Philadelphia, Pa.
Beam, Mrs. J. V., Jr., 80 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Beaver, Mrs. Mary Patterson, Conshohocken, Pa.
Beebe, C. E., 408 West 9th Street, Chattanooga, Tenn.
Beeson, Hannibal A., M.D., Leesburg, Ohio.
Belden, Mrs. Amanda W., Kenwood Hotel, Kenwood Avenue and
47th Street, Chicago, 111.
Bell, Clark (summer), Dundee, N.Y. ; (winter) Medico-Legal Journal,
39 Broadway, New York City.
Benjamin, Mrs. Charles A., 5419 Germantown Av., Philadelphia, Pa.
Benskin, Frederick G., 1410 Fulton Street, Canton, Ohio.
Bentley, Cyrus, 215 Dearborn Street, Chicago, 111.
Berg, Philip, Taylor, Wisconsin.
Berryhill, Mrs. James G., 1101 Pleasant Street, Des Moines, Iowa.
Bigley, M., 731 Joplin Street, Joplin, Mo.
Blaine, Mrs. Emmons, 5 The Raymond, Walton Place, Chicago, 111.
Blair, Mrs. C. J., c/o Monroe & Co., 7 Rue Scribe, Paris, France.
Block, Louis, 211 Main Street, Davenport, Iowa.
Blodgett, Mrs. C., 272 Walnut Street, Holyoke, Mass.
Blossom, Miss Mary C, 226 West 58th Street, New York City.
Boardman, Hon. W. F., Department of the Interior, Ottawa, Canada.
Borum, Miss Addie A., Rural Route 1, Attica, Indiana.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 150 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Bourne, Mrs. C. Griswold, 1 West 68th Street, New York City.
Bourns, Miss Florence, 4 Bronson Place, Toledo, Ohio.
*Bowditch, C. P., 28 State Street, Boston, Mass.
Bowen, Miss Anna C., 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass.
Bradley, Arthur C., Newport, New Hampshire.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama.
Brooks, Henry, 24 Milk Street, Room 902, Boston, Mass.
Broomell, Geo. D., 496 W. Monroe Street, Chicago, 111.
Brown, Alfred S.. 160 West 76th Street, New York City.
XLIX.] 535
Members and Associates.
Brown, Miss Ella, Canaan, (Conn.
Brown, Henry T., Hillcrest, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Mrs. H. T., Hillcreit, Winchester, Mass.
Brown, Bev. Howard N., P.O. Box 91, South Framingham, Mass.
*Brown, Mrs. Samuel B., 2501 Farnam Street, Omaha, Neb.
Brundage, J. M., Andover State Bank, Andover, N.Y.
Brush, W. Franklin, 16 East 37th Street, New York City.
Buffet, Edward P., 804 Bergen Avenue, Jersey City Heights, N.J.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Bulley, R. H., Canton, Ohio.
Bullock, Arthur R, P.O. Box 138, Cleveland, Ohio.
Bundy, Mrs. John C., 624 Sheridan Square, Evanston, 111.
Burgess, Dr. 0. 0., 373 Geary Street, San Francisco, Cal.
Butin, Dr. J. L., B. Street, Madera, Cal.
Capron, Mrs. Cynthia J., 340 S. Galena Avenue, Freeport, 111.
Card-Catlin, Mrs. Lovisa, 726 French Street, Erie, Pa.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 144 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carpenter, Prof. G. R., Columbia University, New York City.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass.
Carr, W. K., 1413 K. Street, N.W., Washington, D.G
Carrington, Hereward, 321 West 42nd Street, New York City.
Casey, Theodore B., 83 Equitable Building, Boston, Mass.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris, France.
Chapman, Hon. Geo. T., 290 Pearl Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Chard, Thomas S., 534 North State Street, Chicago, 111.
Chase, G. N., Neosho, Missouri.
Chase, Harvey S., 27 State Street, Boston, Mass.
Chase, Thorington C., College Gardens, Hongkong, China.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 126 Commonwealth Av., Boston, Mass.
Checey, W. T, Box 184, Rome, Ga.
Clarke, A. H., Room 27, St. Nicholas Bldg, Pittsburgh, Pa.
*Clarke, Mrs. Alice J., 506 North Seventh Street, Vincennes, Ind.
Clarke, Eugene M., 28 Union Avenue, Mount Vernon, N.Y.
Clarke, M. L., 150 Wellington Street, W., Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Clarke, Miss Rebecca S., Box 212, Norridgewock, Maine.
*Clawson, G. W., 206 North 3rd Street, St. Louis, Mo.
Cleaveland, Rev. Willis M., Winn., Me.
Closson, Dr. James H., 53 West Chelten Ave., Germantown, Pa.
Closson, Miss Olivia T, 1359 Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.
Clough, Albert L., Box 114, Manchester, N.H.
Coe, Miss M. A., 96 Chesnut Street, Boston, Mass.
536 [part
Members and Associates.
Coffin, Abraham B., Box 131, Winchester, Mass.
Cole, Mrs. E. E., 19 Grove Street, Concord, N.H.
Coleman, George E., 1726 West 23rd Street, Los Angeles, Cal.
Coleman, Dr. H. L., Box 29, Farragut, Iowa.
Collins, William G., 261 West 85th Street, New York City.
Cook, Rev. C. H., Ph.D., 1906 Pearl Street, Denver, Colo.
Coolidge, J. T., Junr., 114 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Cope, Porter F., 4806 Chester Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa.
Coryell, V. M., 151 Linden Avenue, Flatbush, N.Y.
Cox, J. Cromwell, 181 Waller Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Cox, Miss Jean W., The Lindens, Haddonfield, N.J.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J.
Cozens, J. C., Amsterdam, N.Y.
Craige, Wra. C., 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Crandall, W. S., 253 Broadway, New York City.
Crane, A. J., 218 Walnut Street, Montclair, N.J.
Crawford, Mrs. Andrew, 109 Pine Grove Ave., Lake View,
Chicago, 111.
Cross, Mrs. R. J., Bearfort House, Newfoundland, N.J.
Crothers, Dr T. D., Walnut Lodge, Hartford, Conn.
Crutcher, Ernest, M.D., Great Falls, Montana.
Currier, Mrs. Moody, Manchester, N.H.
*Curtis, W. E., 27 West 47th Street, New York City.
Cushman, Dr. Allerton 1751 N. Street, Washington, D.C.
Dailey, Judge A. H., 16 Court Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Dale, Allan, 110 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City.
Daugharty, Allan H., 5450 Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Davidson, H. A., 177 Montague Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Dawson, Miles M., 11 Broadway, New York City.
Delabarre, Prof. E. B., 9 Arlington Avenue, Providence, R.I.
Delgado, F. Cadenas, Caracas, Venezuela, South America.
Demming, Benj. W., Harrisburg, Pa.
Derby, Major George McC., Room 425, Custom House, Louisville, Ky.
Derby, Dr. Hasket, 182 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Devine, Andrew, 145 Broadway, New York City.
De Witt, Mrs. Harriet, Braadmoor, Colorado Springs, Colo.
Dickey, Calvin, Rooms 45-46 Lenox Building, 90 Washington
Street, Chicago, 111.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass.
Dodge, Mrs. J. T., 203 West Washington Avenue, Madison, Wis.
Donaldson, James W., Ellenville, N.Y.
XLIX.] 537
Members and Associates.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Dow, Alexander, 47 West 43rd Street, New York City.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., Auburndale, Mass.
*Draper, George Otis, Hopedale, Mass.
Duggin, Mrs. Chas., 25 East 38th Street, New York City.
Dutton, B. E., Lincoln, Neb.
Dyer, Walter H., South Portland, Maine.
Eager, George B., Auburndale, Mass.
Edmunds, Miss L., 5 Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
Egner, Frederic, Norfolk, Va.
Eldridge, Prof. E. H., Simmons College, 30 Huntington Avenue,
Boston, Mass.
Eldridge, John R., M.D., 1060 K. Street, Fresno, Cal.
Elinore, Miss Kate, c/o Elinore Sisters, 402 Sackett Street,
Brooklyn, N.Y.
Elliott, Miss Alma C.. 167 South Water Street, Chicago, 111.
Ely, Robert E., 23 West 44th Street, New York City.
Estj', Prof. Wm. C, Amherst College, Amherst, Mass.
Evans, Miss Ella K., 186 North Street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Evans, Mark G., 409 Mining Exchange Building, Denver, Colo.
Fay, Prof. Charles B., 53 Irvins; Place. New York Citv.
Feudner, J., Rushville, Indiana.
Fillebrown, Thos., M.D., D.M.D., 157 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.
Finnigan, John, 1207 M'Kinney Avenue, Houston, Texas,
Fisher, L. S., Sparta, Wisconsin.
Flower, Sydney, 30-31 The Auditorium, Chicago, 111.
Flower, Mrs. George W., 615 Fifth Avenue, New York City.
Folts, A. F., 20th and P. Streets, Lincoln, Neb.
Forbes, John M., Morristown, N.J.
*Forman, G. A., 824 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Frankland, Frederick W., Herston, Foxton, Manawater, New Zealand.
Franklin, Mrs. Anne B., 2015 Nebraska Ave., Tampa, Florida.
Freas, W. R., 1212 Sergeant Street, Phila., Pa.
Freeman, Mrs. W. H., Box 322, Hinsdale, 111.
Funk, Dr. I. K., 195 Washington Park, Brooklyn. N.Y.
Fyke, E. E., M.D., Centralia, 111.
*Gage, Hon. Lyman J., 45 Wall Street, New York City.
*Gale, Prof. Harlow S., University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
*Gardiner, Prof. J. Hays, 18 Gray's Hall, Harvard University, Cam
bridge, Mass.
Gardiner, Prof. H. N., 23 Crafts Avenue, Northampton, Mass.
538 [part
Member8 and Associates.
Garvin, M. T., Lancaster, Pa.
Gateley, Mrs. J. P., Hotel Lafayette Brevoort, 8th Street and 5th
Avenue, New York City.
Gehring, Albert, 109 Edgewater Street, Cleveland, Ohio.
Gehring, Dr. J. G., Bethel, Maine.
*Gerrish, Dr. F. H., 675 Congress Street, Portland, Maine.
Gibbs, Mrs. Ellen, 3001 Dwight Way, Berkeley, Cal.
Goddard, George A., 10 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
Goodnow, H. R., 95 Riverside Drive, New York City.
Gower, Dr. John H., Denver, Colo.
Gray, Henry G, 161 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Gray, Mrs. John C., 176 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Green, Ralph K., 310 Fernwell Building, Spokane, Wash.
Greene, Bertram, Central Aguirre, Porto Rico.
Gridley, J. N., Virginia, 111.
Griffing, Mrs. Jane R., 1729 Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.
*Grower, George G., Ansonia Brass & Copper Co., Ansonia, Conn.
Gunn, Franklin F., Glens Falls, N.Y.
Haines, Oliver S., M.D., 137 North 15th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hanna, Carl L., 102 N. Jefferson Street, Newcastle, Pa.
Hanson, H. P., Box 48, R. F. D., Route No. 2, Harlan, Iowa.
Hardaway, W. A., M.D., 2922 Locust Street, St. Louis, Mo.
Harman, J. M., Millville, Pa.
Harnly, H. J., A.M., Ph.D., M'Pherson, Kansas.
Harriman, T. G, B S., M.D., Hampton, Iowa.
Harris, F., 1303 North Garrison Avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
Harris, John S., Room 156, Pennsylvania Building, Butte, Montana.
Hart, The Very Rev. H. Martyn, The Deanery, Denver, Colo.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont.
Harts, H. B., 225J South 5th Street, Springfield, 111.
*Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Milton, Mass.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 239 Washington Street, Jersey City, N.J.
Haubens, Henry, 1547 North 20th Street, Omaha, Neb.
Haworth, Mrs. George I)., Decatur, 111.
Hayes, Rev. C. H., Gen. Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square,
New York City.
Haynes, Henry W., 239 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Hayward, Mrs. Alvinza, San Mateo, Cal.
Heath, Mrs. Caroline P., 348 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Hebard, Charles, M.D., Mondovi, Wis.
Heilner, Rev. S. A., D.D., 137 East Tabor Road, Philadelphia, Pa.
XLIX.] 539
Members and Associates.
*Hemenway, Augustus, Readville, Mass.
Henrioi, Jacob, 6126 Penn. Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
Henshaw, Mrs. Harriet A., 1760 N. Street, Washington, D.C.
Hess, David, Brook, Ind.
Heysinger, Dr. Isaac W.. 1521 Poplar Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Hicks, Benj. D., Old Westbury, Queen's Co., N.Y.
*Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa.
Hillman, Hugh H., Bank of Commerce Building, Oklahoma, O.T.
Hobson, A. E., International Silver Co., Factory A, Box 617,
Meriden, Conn.
Hodgson, Richard, LL.D., 5 Boylston Place, Boston, Mass.
Hodgson, Dr. Thomas, Gertrude Street, Melbourne, Australia.
Hoffman, Prof. F. S., Union College, Schenectady, N.Y.
Hoffman, Dr. J. C, 46 Van Buren Street, Chicago, 111.
Hogg, Andrew, 537 West 9th Street, Cincinnati, Ohio.
*Holbrook, Levi, P.O. Box 536, New York City.
Holdt, A. E., Box 551, Atlanta, Ga.
Holmes, Dr. H. P., 512 Second Avenue, Troy, N.Y.
Holmes, Prof. Jesse H., Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa.
*Holt, Mrs. A. Stewart, 224 West 132nd Street, New York City.
*Holt, Henry, 29 West 23rd Street, New York City.
Holt, Dr. L. E., 14 West 55th Street, New York City.
Hopkins, E. S., Jr., 241 West 24th Street, New York City.
Horgan, A. J., 124 West 71st Street, New York City.
Hornsby, W. G., 812 6th Avenue, Dayton, Ky.
Hubbell, G. G., 1101 State Street, Erie, Pa.
Huckel, Rev. Oliver, 1515 Linden Avenue, Baltimore, Md.
Huidekopee, Mrs. Arthur C., Meadville, Pa.
Hume, W. Hector H., 62 West 9th Street, New York City.
Hunt, Mrs. G. S., 165 State Street, Portland, Maine.
Huse, William, The Wayne Herald, Wayne, Neb.
Husted, A. D., M.D., 73 Allen Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
*Ireland, Gordon, Holyoke House 21, Cambridge, Mass.
*James, Dr. H. F., 331 N. Euclid Avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
*James, Professor William, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass.
Jamison, Dr. A. B., 43 West 45th Street, New York City.
*Jefferson, J., Buzzard's Bay, Mass.
*Jenks, Mrs. P. A., 290 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Johnson, Charles R., Box 492, 405 Main Street, Worcester, Mass.
Johnson, H. P., Ithaca, N.Y.
540 [part
Members and Associates.
Johnson, Prof. Roger B. C., Miami University, Oxford, Ohio.
Joline, Mrs. Adrian H., 1 West 72nd Street, New York City.
Jones, C. H., c/o J. P. Willis & Bro., Galveston, Texas.
Jones, Francis R., 84 State Street, Boston, Mass.
Jones, Mrs. Gilbert E., 222 Madison Avenue, New York City.
Joss, Rev. A. A., Bismark, N.D.
Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Kennedy, Harris, M.D., Readville, Mass.
Kilpatrick, Mrs. W. F., 340 West 85th Street, New York City.
*Kimball, Miss Hannah P., 317 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Kingsbury, Hon. B. B., Box 1107, Defiance, Ohio.
Kinraide, T. B., 38 Spring Park Avenue, Jamaica Plain, Mass.
Kirkwood, W. P., 1625 Wesley Avenue, St. Paul, Minn.
Kline, Wm. W., 725 North Fifth Street, Reading, Pa.
Knowles, Hon. Hiram, Butte, Montana.
Kohnstamm, Emil V., Hotel Endicott, Columbus Avenue and 81st
Street, New York City.
Kopta, Madame F. P., 129 Hyde Street, San Francisco, Cal.
Krebs, G. W. C., 404 Laurens Street, Baltimore, Md.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Greensburgh, Pa.
*Laflin, Louis E., 66 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, 111.
*Laflin, Mrs. Louis E., 66 Wabash Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Lamb, Miss Rose, 129 Mount Vernon Street, Boston, Mass.
Lanahan, Mrs. Charles, 1209 St. Paul Street, Baltimore, Md.
Langley, Prof. S. P., Smithsonian Institution, Washington, D.C.
Latshaw, Allen, 38 North 36th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
'Lawrence, A. E., 53 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass.
Lawton, Miss Elizabeth, 176 West 87th Street, New York City.
Lawton, Mrs. Ella Beckwith, 516 Abercorn Street, Savannah, Ga.
Layman, Alfred, M.D., 1630 North 18th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Leavitt, Dr. Sheldon, 4665 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y.
Lee, Blewett, 111. Central R.R. Co., 1 Park Row, Chicago, 111.
Leonard, Thomas, 628 North 22nd Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Colum
bus, Ohio.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Librae, Brunswick, Maine.
Librarian, Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass.
Librarian, Dover Public Library, N.H.
XLLX.] 541
Members and Associates.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library, of Baltimore City, Balti
more, Md.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich.
Librarian, Lowell City Library, Lowell, Mass.
Librarian (L. I). Carver), Maine State Library, Augusta, Maine.
Librarian, Maiden Public Library, Maiden, Mass.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo.
Librarian, Michigan State Library, Lansing, Mich.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian (Arthur H. Chase), New Hampshire State Library,
Concord, N.H.
Librarian (Galbreath), Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria. 111.
Librarian, Somerville Public Library, Somerville, Mass.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y.
Librarian, University of Maine, Orono, Maine.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn.
Librarian, University of Nebraska, Lincoln, Neb.
Lindsey, Judge Ben. B., 1343, Ogden Street, Denver, Colo.
Lindsley, Dr. De Courcey, 3894 Washington Boulevard, St. Louis, Mo.
Lindsley, J., c/o Milton, Mass.
*Logan, W. S., 27 William Street, New York City.
Lombardi, C., 735 Irving Street, Portland, Oregon.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J.
Long, W. E., 1107 Second Avenue, Sterling, 111.
Lovett, George 0., Madison, Kansas.
Lovett, Mrs. Watkins P., Mobley, Georgia.
Low, Clarence F., 14 Audubon Place, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Lukens, Dr. Anna, 485 Central Park West, New York City.
Lurton, Judge H. H., U.S. Court of Appeals, Nashville, Tenn.
Lyons, Edward Lane, Jr., 1716 North 25th Street, Phila., Pa.
Mackenzie, George, M.D., Somerton, 35th Ward, Philadelphia, Pa.
Madden, W. J., 220 Garfield Place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
Mallory, Dr. William J., Manila Civil Hospital, Manila, P.I.
Malusecki, Rev. Fr. Adalbert, 236 South 12th Street, Reading, Pa.
Manley, R. M., 554 Springfield Avenue, Summit, New Jersey.
Mann, Rev. Arthur S., 13 Vick Park B., Rochester, N.Y.
Marshall, Mrs. L. C., 49 West 71st Street, New York City.
Martin, Mrs. A. W., The Washington, Seattle, Wash.
Martin, Mrs. Emma H., 29 Lake View Park, Rochester, N.Y.
Mason, Amasa, 1 West 131st Street, New York City.
542 [part
Members and Associates.
Mason, Mrs. R. Osgood, 33 West 69th Street, New York City.
M'Beath, J. D., 176 Washington Street, Boston, Mass.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., 5336 Cornell Avenue, Chicago, 111.
M'Clung, W. E., Indianola, Neb.
M'Ewen, Alfred, 565 Dearborn Avenue, Chicago, 111.
M'Ewen, Mrs. D. C, 160 Stirling Place, Brooklyn, N.Y.
McGehee, L. P., Chapel Hill, N.C.
M'Intosh, Herbert, M.D., 9 Harvard Avenue, Allston, Mass.
M'Loughlin, Miss E. V., 640 North 32nd Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Mead, Theodore H., Elmdon, Tarrytown-on-Hudson, N.Y.
Means, Miss Evelyn B., Asheville, N.C.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 2928 P. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.
Meyer, J., 45 South 3rd Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Michael, Dr. Helen Abbott, 140 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Miller, John W., Snohomish, Wash.
Miller, C. A., 30 Genesee Street, Utica, N.Y.
Millet, Josiah B., 150 Charles Street, Boston, Mass.
Milliken, Dr. Geo. G., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Milliken, John T., 1150 Belt Avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
Mills, Rev. B. Fay, Oakland, California.
Moffett, F. L., 312 Chamber of Commerce, Minneapolis, Minn.
Montalvo, Madame de, c/o Miss Snyder, Lakewood, N.J.
Morgan, Charles C, 6 Manchester Street, Nashua, N.H.
Morgan, W. E., M.D., 2909 Groveland Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Morgenthau, M. L., 206 West 79th Street, New York City.
Morris, Charles, 2223 Spring Garden Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Morris, Edward L., 97 Summer Street, Boston, Mass.
Morris, Mrs. F., The Vendome, Boston, Mass.
Moses, E. J., Glenwood, Hongkong, China.
Murphy, Hon. Franklin, 1027 Broad Street, Newark, N.J.
Myrick, Mrs. Herbert, Stamford, Conn.
Narregang, S. W., Aberdeen, S.D.
Neeld, A. D., 1300 Locust Street, Allegheny, Pa.
Newberne, Dr. Robert E. L., Board of Health, Manila, P I.
Newell, Mrs. John E., West Mentor, Ohio.
Newhall, Charles L., 125 Main Street, Southbridge, Mass.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, D.D., East Hampton, N.Y.
Nims, F. A., Muskegon, Mich.
*Norbury, Mrs. J. F., Ellenville, Ulster Co., N.Y.
North, Mrs. C. A., 4815 Lake Avenue, Chicago, I1L
Norton, Mrs. F. L., Cazenovia, N.Y.
XLIX.] 543
Members and Associates.
*Nunn, Dr. Richard J., 5 East York Street, Savannah, Georgia.
Nye, Mrs. W. B., Chestnut Hill, Mass.
Oakes, L. W., 100 Main Street, Bradford, Pa.
Odeneal, E. P., M.D., Jackson, Miss.
Oliver, G. S. J., Box 23, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Olmstead, Prof. E. W., 730 University Avenue, Ithaca, N.Y.
*Osborn, General F. A., 43 Milk Street, Boston, Mass.
Ostby, Dr. 0. A., 815 16th Avenue, S., Minneapolis, Minn.
Pace, Prof. E. A., Catholic University of America, Washington,
DC.
Paddock, Frank S., 1 Paddock Building, Watertown, N.Y.
Palmer, Rev. Millie Renouf, 1208 Master Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Pardridge, C. W., 5242 Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Park, Dr. Roswell, 510 Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Parker, Edward \V., Little Rock, Ark.
Parsons, A. J., 1818 N Street Washington, D.C.
Parsons, Mrs, Frank N., Franklin, N.H.
Parsons, Herbert, Racquet and Tennis Club, 27 West 43rd Street,
New York City.
Parsons, John E., M.D., 3 Pleasant Street, Ayer, Mass.
Parsons, Dr. Ralph Lyman, Greenmont-on-Hudson, Ossining P.O.,
N.Y.
Pattison, Mrs. E. E., 2928 Kenmore Avenue, No. Edgewater,
Chicago, 111.
Patton, Mrs. Margaret, 929 North 6th Street. Philadelphia, Pa.
Paulding, J. K., 130 East 24th Street, New York City.
Pavey, Henry A., Hillsboro, Ohio,
Paxton, Miss Josephine E., 24 N. College Street, Carlisle, Pa.
*Peabody, Mrs. A. P., 47 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111.
Pellew, Mrs. H. E., 1637 Massachusetts Avenue, Washington, D.C.
Perkins, Albert S., 70 Lyndhurst Street, New Dorchester, Mass.
Perkins, Sydney B., 142 Meigs Street, Rochester, N.Y.
Perrin, Prof. Marshall L., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
Perry, Hon. A. A., 291 Broadway, Somerville, Mass.
Perry, John G., M.D., 48 East 34th Street, New York City.
Perry, Ralph Barton, Ph.D., Little's 18, Cambridge, Mass.
Perry, Thos. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 362 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Peterson, Mrs. Fred. H., Mutual Life Building, Seattle, Wash.
2n
544 Members and Associates.
Philipse, Miss Margaret Gouverneur, 27th East 22nd Street, New-
York City.
Phillips, Mrs. J. C., Junr., 299 Berkeley Street, Boston, Mass.
Pierce, Prof. Arthur H., 20 Franklin Street, Northampton, Mass.
Pinchot, Gifford, 1615 R.I. Avenue, Washington, D.C.
Pincoffs, P. A., 2 Stone Street, New York City.
Pitman, J. E., Andover, Mass.
Piatt, J. C, 333-335 Fourth Avenue, New York City.
Pope, Arthur U., 39 Hope College, Brown University, Providence, R.I.
Pope, Miss Theodate, Box 176, Farmington, Conn.
Porter, H. F. J., c/o Nernst Lamp Co., Pittsburgh,- Pa.
*Post, C. W., Battle Creek, Michigan.
Post, Mrs. Wm., Box 241, Buckhannon, W. Va.
Powers, Mrs. Ellen F., c/o Townsend, Mass.
*Pratt, Alfred E., 16 Almira Street, Bloomfield, N.J.
*Pray, E. E, 447 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J.
President, Board of Trustees, Free Public Library, Jersey City, N.J.
Preston, Dr. E. G., Waterville, Wash.
Prez, Eugene de, 1612a Semple Avenue, St. Louis, Mo.
Price, Mrs. H. E., P.O. Box 126, Woodside, Long Island, N.Y.
Prince, Dr. Morton, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Purington, W. A., Riverside, Cal.
Putnam, Miss Annie C., 63 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Dr. Charles P., 63 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, George, 90 Ames Building, Boston, Mass.
Putnam, Miss Irene, Bennington, Vt.
Putnam, Dr. James J., 106 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 331 West 28th Street, New York City.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass.
*Quincy, Josiah P., 82 Charles Street, Boston, Mass.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y.
Ransom, Frank H., 137 Main Street, Buffalo, N.Y.
Raynor, Charles, 5211 Catherine Street, W. Philadelphia, Pa.
Reece, Mrs. Marietta S., Rock Ledge, West Manchester, Mass.
Rees, Mrs, Janet E. Ruutz, 331 West 83rd Street, New York City.
Reiff, Josiah C., 247 5th Avenue, New York City.
Reyburn, Amedee V., Junr., 13 Hortense Place, St. Louis, Mo.
Reynolds, Mrs. James B., 29 Washington Square, New York City.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2 Wellington Terrace, Brookline, Mass.
Richardson, M. T., Box 236, Ridgewood, N.J.
Ridgon, Chas. Wm., c/o J. A. Ridgon, Hibernian Bank, Chicago, 111.
xlIX.] 545
Members and Associates.
*Robbins, Miss A. M., 91 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass.
Roberts, B. L., Canton, Miss.
Robinson, Mrs. C. B., Anchorage, Ky.
Robinson, Nelson L., 46 East 21st Street, New York City.
Roe, A. N., The Pines House, Branchville, N.J.
Rogers, Dr. Oscar H., 346 Broadway, New York City.
Rontey, A. M., 506 First Avenue, New York City.
Rose, Byron, North Attleborough, Mass.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa.
Royall, Miss Jennie, Goldsboro, N.C.
"*Royce, Professor Josiah, 103 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass.
Russell, Miss Marguerite J., College Gardens, Hongkong, China.
Rutherford, Wm. H. A., Loretto, Hennepin Co., Minn.
Salter, George R, 123 North 16th Street, E. Orange, N.J.
Samuels, Maurice V., The University, 106 and 108 West 47th Street,
New York City.
Saunders, W. E., B.S., E.M., Riovista, Torresdale, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Savage, Rev. Dr. M. J., Church of the Messiah Study, 34th Street
and Park Avenue, New York City.
Sawin, Luther R., S.B., Box 11, Katonah, N.Y.
Schlicht, Paul J., 149 Broadway, New York City.
Scott, Clinton C, Philippine Bureau of Education, Ilo-ilo, Panay, P.I.
Sears, Mrs. J. M., 12 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., Junr., 120 East 22nd St., New York City.
S. G., Miss, c/o Dr. R. Hodgson, 5 Boylston, Place, Boston, Mass.
Shackleford, Judge Thomas M., Tallahassee, Fla.
Shalders, C. G. S., Caixa 67, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
Sharp, Mrs. Kate, c/oDresdener Bank, Pragerstrasse, Dresden, Germany.
Shaw, Miss Emma G., 2 Dunreath Street, Roxbury, Mass.
Sheets, J. C., c/o Cincinnati Sanitarium, College Hill, Station K.,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Sherman, Mrs. B. W., Box 404, Riverside, Cook Co., 111.
Shuman, Frank, 3400 Disston Street, Tacony, Philadelphia, Pa.
*Siegel, Mrs. Henry, 26 East 82nd Street, New York City (Oct.-June;;
Marmaroneck, N.Y. (June-Oct.).
Slingerland, Mrs. Anna L., Kasson, Minn.
Smith, Miss Agnes, P.O. Box 340, Romeo, Michigan.
*Smith, Philip Sherwood, 264 Summer Street, Buffalo, NA*.
Smith, S. M., c/o Trust Co. of Dallas, Dallas, Texas.
Smith, Mrs. W. Hinckle, 2025 Locust Street, Philadelphia, Pa., and
Box 102, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
2N2
546 [part
Members and Associates.
Smith, W. Lincoln, Concord, Mass.
Snyder, D. Lafayette, M.A., M.D., 1635 Girard Avenue, Phila., Pa.
Sparhawk, Dr. Sam., Burlington, Vermont.
Spinello, Anthony, 730 Chapel Street, New Haven, Conn.
Sprague, E. W., 618 Newlarid Avenue, Jamestown, N.Y.
Sproull, Miss Kate C., Helena, Arkansas.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C., Clifton Springs, N.Y.
Stebbins, Mrs. John, Cazenovia, N.Y.
Steedman, J. G. W., M.D., 2803 Pine Street, St. Louis, Mo.
Stein, Dr. S. G., Muscatine, Iowa.
Stephenson, E. P., 117 West 58th Street, New York City.
Sterling, Mrs. E. C, Crescent Avenue, Redlands, Cal.
Stevens, Dr. J. F., Lincoln, Neb.
Stewart, J., P.O. Dept., Washington, D.C.
Stewart, Mrs. K. G., Hillsborough, 111.
Stickney, Mrs. Mary W., 338 Richmond Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Stockton, John P., 76 Montgomery Street, Jersey City, N.J.
*Stokes, J. N. P., 118 East 22nd Street, New York City.
*Stone, C. W., 86 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Stone, Mrs. Richard, 18 Chestnut Street, Boston, Mass.
Stranahan, J. J., Supt. U.S. Fish Commissioners, Bullockville, Ga.
Street, Miss Ida M., 62 Farwell Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis.
Strickler, 0. C., M.D., Post Office, New Ulm, Minn.
Strong, Mrs. W. W., 268 Park Place, Kenosha, Wis.
Sturgis, Chas. R., 63 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Swift, Wm. H., Wilmington, Del.
Symonds, Brandreth, M.D., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y.
Tappan, Miss M. A., 44 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.
Taylor, Richard Baker, Box 618, Norfolk, Virginia.
*Thaw, A. Blair, M.D., Montecito, Santa Barbara, Cal.
*Thaw, Mrs. A. Blair, Montecito, Santa Barbara, Cal.
Thompson, E. H., 10 Winthrop Street, Watertown, N.Y.
Thompson, Robert J., 1604 Wellington Avenue, Chicago, 111.
Thomson, Dr. W., 1426 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Thorndike, S. Lothrop, 62 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass.
Thorp, Rev. Willard Brown, 3977 Drexel Boulevard, Chicago, 111.
Tower, C. B., 28 Albion Street, Hyde Park, Mas?.
Tralles, Wm. A., 1189 West Avenue, Buffalo, N.Y.
Trimble, R. T., M.D., New Vienna, Ohio.
Tucker, James W., Cooperstown, N.Y.
Tuttle, James Horton, Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
XLIX.] 547
Members and Associates.
Tyler, Miss Amelia, Patent Office, Washington, D.C.
Tyler, Mrs. Moses Coit, Ambleside, Willard Avenue, Ithaca, N.Y.
Tyson, Mrs. George, 314 Dartmouth Street, Boston, Mass.
Ullman, Mrs. Mary B., Meza, Arizona.
Van Leer, Miss Mary T., East Downingtown, Chester Co., Pa.
*Van Norden, Rev. C, D.D., LL.D., 1003 K Street, Sacramento, Cal.
Varney, Rev. Charles E., Clinton, Illinois.
Veazey, I. Parker, Great Falls, Montana.
"Vermilye, Daniel B., 36 Waverley Place, Orange, N.J.
Vrooman, Carl S., c/o Rev. Hiram Vrooman, Roxbury, Mass.
Wadsworth, E. A., Grinnell, Iowa.
Wait, Marshall, 5144 Madison Avenue, Hyde Park, Chicago, 111.
Waite, Mrs. Florence B., 1809 Berks Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
Walker, John A., 260 Montgomery Street, Jersey City, N.J.
Wall, The Hon. Judge Joseph B., Tampa, Fla.
Wallace, Mrs. G. H., 627 West Woodruff Avenue, Toledo, Ohio.
Walsh, Correa M., Bellport, Long Island, N.Y.
Walsh, J. A. 1107 Commerce Street, Tacoma, Wash.
Ward, Mrs. L. A. Coonley, 620 Division Street, Chicago, 111.
Warren, Lyman Otis, 112 Academy Hill Road, Brighton, Mass.
Waters, John R., 46 Cedar Street, New York City.
Watson, Prof. Wm., 107 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Watts, H. M., "The Press," Philadelphia, Pa.
Way-Allen, Mrs. E., The Wayside, Walpole, Mass.
Webb, Mrs. W. G., 40 Avenue Henri Martin, Paris, France.
Weber, Mrs. Nita B., 735 Esplanade Street, New Orleans, La.
Weeks, Rufus W., Pocantico Hills, N.Y.
Wells, David W., M.D., The Westminster, Copley Square, Boston,
Mass.
Welsh, Mrs. Edward L., 1422 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
West, Redfield B., M.D., Fair Street, Guilford, Conn.
Wheeler, Wm., Concord, Mass.
Whipple, L. E., 14 East 60th Street, New York City.
White, Miss Catherine P., c/o Alonzo Brinkman, General Delivery,
Mobile, Ala.
White, H. Lawrence, 75 Genesee Street, Utica, N.Y.
*Whiting, Miss Lilian, The Brunswick, Back Bay, Boston, Mass.
Whitman, W. C, Atlanta Milling Co., Atlanta, Ga.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 287 Fourth Avenue, New York City.
Wilbur, Mrs. Benjamin F., P.O. Box 65, Little Compton, R.I.
Wilkins, A. H., 416 Main Street, Dallas, Texas.
548 [part xlix.]
Members and Associates.
Willard, Miss Susanna, 3 Berkeley Place, Cambridge, Mass.
Williams, C. R., Indianapolis News, Indianapolis, Ind.
Williams, E. B., 354 Hall Street, Portland, Oregon.
Williams, J. E., Plumb Opera House, Streator, 111.
Williams, Wm. G., M.D., Westside, Claibourne Co., Mississippi.
Williamson, Mrs. Elizabeth, 10 S. 10th Street, Richmond, Ind.
Willis, Grant B., 1313 Logan Avenue, Canton, Ohio.
*Wilmarth, Mrs. Mary H., The Auditorium Annex, Chicago, 111.
Wilson, Dr. Laura Jane, 306 Scioto Street, Urbana, Ohio.
*Wing, Isaac H., Bayfield, Wisconsin.
Winston, Frederick S., 576 North State Street, Chicago, 111.
*Wood, John B., Box 705, Riverside, Cal.
Wooding, Dr. B. F., 9 and 10 Brown Palace, Denver, Colo.
Woodward, Fred. E., Box 832, Washington, D.C.
Wyllys, Miss R, 18 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass.
Wyman, Walter, M.D., Stoneleigh Court, Washington, D.C.
Wynne, Mrs. M. Y., 63 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.
Yandell, Miss Maud, 1305 Third Street, Louisville, Ky.
Zimmerman, George P., 422 Woodward Building, Birmingham, Ala.
N.B.—Members and Associates of the American Branch are requested to
send notice of any change of address to the Secretary, 5 Boylston
Place, Boston, Mass.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XVIII
(PARTS XLVI-XLIX)
1903-1904.
A.
A., Mr., Account or Certain Unusual Phenomena, in the Case
of, by John Honeymau 308
Aksakoff, Alex. N., Legacy left by, to the Society for Psychical
Kesearch 8, .324.
Alternating Personality. See Personality.
American Branch of the Society for Psychical Research, List of Mem
bers and Associates 5.33
„ Questionnaire regarding Human Sentiment as to a Future
life, by F. C. S. Schiller 416
Appendix to 450-453
Animals, possibility of telepathically affecting, Prof. W. F. Barrett on 335
Articles brought to sittings to assist communications
118, 119, 128, 129, 141, 143, 148, 149, 160, 198, 199, 210, 213, 215, 223,
227, 235, 244, 245, 256, 263, 264, 273, 275, 278-80, 284, 289, 293.
Automatic Writing. See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson.
„ Facsimiles of Automatic Script 236-243
„ See also Personality, Problems of.
Azam, Prof., on Hypnotism and Multiple Personality ... 413
B.
Babinsky, Dr., On Hysteria 48
Bacon, Influence of, on the progress of Physical Science - 3, 4, 448-450
ii Index to Vol. XVIII.
Barlow, Miss Jane, Ou Mistakes and Confusion in Mediumistie
Messages 349
" Barnes, Mary," A Case of Multiple Personality, Dr. Albert Wilson on 352
„ History of the Case 355
„ Appendix I.
„ Johnson, Alice, On the Writings and Drawings of the
Secondary Personalities 393
„ Appendix II. 405, 412, 413
Barrett, Prof. W. F., Presidential Address 323, 351
Bates, Miss, Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 179, 244
" Beauchamp, the Misses," A Case of Multiple Personality—Analogies
between and that of Mary Barnes - - - 405,407,410,411
Bennett, E. N., Communication concerning. See Trance Phenomena
of Mrs. Thompson—Incidents.
Benson, Archbishop. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Benson, Martin White. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Benson, Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 129, 137, 141, 142, 155,
169, 201, 212, 214, 224, 225-27, 235, 272-82, 293, 297
" Bensons Limited." See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson—Incidents.
Bernheim, Dr., Hypnotic Researches of 48, 340, 4S5
Binet, Dr., On the Mechanism of the Brain 316
Bolton, Dr. J. S., Researches of, in Cerebral Physiology - - 354, 380
Bouffay, M., Evidence as to the Cideville Disturbances - - 461, 462
Braid, James, Hypnotic Researches of .... 340, 483, 488
Bramwell, J. Milne, Hypnotic Researches of - - 105, 322, 340, 481
"Hypuotism: its History aixl Practice"—by,
Review of 481
Breard, M., Evidence as to the Cideville Disturbances - - - 462
C.
Campbell, Colin, Communication concerning. See Trance Phenonema
of Mrs. Thompson—Incidents.
Carrington, Hereward—The Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper. Prof.
Hyslop's Reply to 79
Carruthers, James. See Communicators (Mrs. Piper).
Cartwright, Mrs. (Control). See Trance Personalities of Mrs.
Thompson.
Cheval, Evidence as to the Cideville Disturbances .... 45(5
Child Agents. See Poltergeist Phenomena.
" Christian Science," Alleged healing by 334
Cideville Disturbances, The 454
"Clegg, Miss." See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Coincidences, Cross Correspondences between the Trance Phenomena
of Mrs. Thompson aud those of other Mediums - ... . 294
Communications through a Tube, Prof. Hyslop's Experiments in - 81, 99
Index to Vol. XVIII. iii
Communicators, Chief references to.
(Through Mrs. IHperJ)
Carruthers, James - - - 81-84, 87
Cooper, J. & S. -. 85, 86
Hyslop, Annie, 79
„ Charles 84, 93, 97
Robert - 82, 83, 84, 92, 93
M'Clellan, James - - 86, 92
Pelham, George (G. P.) 57, 59, 60, 69
(Through Mrs. R. Mr. H. Wedgwood's Cases.)
Garwood, Col. 74, 75
(Through " Miss Ramon " and " Mrs. Scott." See below—Mrs.
Thompson's cases.)
(Through Mrs. Thompson.)
Benson, Archbishop - - - 138-142, 155, 169, 174, 224-26, 274
„ Martin White ... - 224, 226, 227, 273, 274
" Clegg, Miss " 136, 137, 221, 264, 265
Gurney, Edmund 235, 236, 267, 301-7
„ (Also through "Miss Rawion") - 300-307
„ ( „ " Mrs. Scott ") - - - - - 302-307
James, Alice - 127,128, 266
Merrifield, Mrs. 221, 227
Myers, F. W. H. 233, 241, 296-301
„ (Also through " Miss Raioson ") - - - 296-307
Parkes, -Susanna 267
Percival, G. H. 145-148, 156, 159, 160, 176,
177, 227, 232, 235, 245, 306, 307
Piddington, Mr. J. G, relations of 118, 122-26, 130, 131,
140, 141, 149-158, 160, 218, 228, 229, 291, 292
Samuel (Suicide Case) 144, 175
" Scott, Geoffrey " - - - 164,165,181,244,246,302,304,305
Sidgwick, Prof. 160, 177, 233, 235-243, 295-301
„ (Also through Miss Rawson) - - - - 296-298
" Strong, Wilfred " - - 283-91
Theodores, the Two 288-289
X.Y. 147, 148
Coopers, J. & S. See Communicators (Mrs. Piper).
Council and Officers of the Society for Psychical Research - - 505
Crookes, Sir William, A Theory of Telepathic Propagation - - 73, 76
Crystal Vision (Mediumistic) 113, 474,479
D.
*' D., Mr." (Control). See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson,
Personalities.
" Daiimonopolis," Disturbances at 464
iv Index to Vol. XVIII.
Davidson, J. Mackenzie, Note on "Certain Unusual Psychological
Phenomena," by John Honeyman ...... 321
Dessoir, Dr. Max, Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 120, 140, 213, 254, 256-257
Divining Rod Experiments, Prof. W. F. Barrett on - - - - 314
" Dorothy Incident," The. See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson.
Dowsing, Phenomena of. See Divining Rod.
Dreams and Hallucinations, Connection between - - - 314
E.
Editorial Notes 322, 501
„ On the Cambridge Expeiimenta with Eusapia
Paladino 501
Eeden, Dr. F. van, Sittings with Mrs. Thompson
129, 134-136, 144, 168. 175, 201-203,
211, 215, 216, 222, 223, 251, 254, 255, 262-266
Elliotson, Dr., Hypnotic Researches of 340, 482
Elsie (Control). See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson., Personalities.
Esdaile, Dr., Hypnotic Researches of 340, 482
F.
Faith and Mind Cures, alleged cases of ----- - 334
Feilding, The Hon. Everard—
Review of " Les Phenoinenes Psychiques," by Dr. J. Maxwell - 490
Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - 116,119
Flouruoy, Prof. Th., Review of Mr. F. W. H. Myers's " Human Peraon-
ality and its Survival of Bodily Death " - -... 42
Fontaine, M., Evidence on the Cideville Disturbances - - 455, 4<,3
Future Life, The American Branch of the S. P. R.'s Questionnaire
regarding Human Sentiment as to a - - 416
Apparent weakness of the Traditional Claim of a
desire for 418-422, 429, 430, 439, 440, 503, 504
„ Appendix to ....... 450-53
„ Consideration of the effects of a scientific proof of
440-450
„ Methods of distributing the Questionnaire - 434, 448
„ Review of Answers to - - - - - 425-438
,, „ Tabular Analysis ----- 453
„ Barrett, Prof. W. F., on 349, 350
„ F. W. H. Myers on the Survival of Human Personality.
Flournoy, Prof., on 42
Leaf, Dr. W., on 53
'G.
General Meetings, Proceedings of 103, 351
"Gordon, Miss," Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - - - 263,282-291
Index to Vol. XVII1. v
"Grey Lady," The, (Control). See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson.
Grasset, D. J., The History of a Haunted House, .... 464
Gurney, Edmund, Alleged Communications from. See Communicators
(" Miss Rawson," and " Mrs. Scott," and Mrs. Thompson).
Garwood. Col. See Communicators (Mrs. R.)
H.
Hales, F. N., Review of " Humanism : Philosophical Essays," by F.
C. S. Schiller 501
Hallucinations, Subjective—
An Account of, in a Normal Subject, by John Honey-
man 308
Limited to the Defective Eye 312
Non-Physical Basis of 315-319
Super-imposed on one another 313, 317
Harrison, Frederic,
Review of " Human Personality," by F. W. H. Myers,
Andrew Lang on 62
Hathaway Family. See M'CIellan, John.
Haunted House, History of a, from the French of Dr. J. Grasset - 464
Heidenhain, Dr., Hypnotic Researches of 483
Helmholtz, Prof, von, on Telepathy 328-329
Honeyman, John, On Certain Unusual Psychological Phenomena - 308
Hoppe, Theory of Hallucination 316
Hudson, Th. Jay, on " Psychic Phenomena " 34
" Humanism : Philosophical Essays," by F. C. S. Schiller, Review of - 501
Hypnagogic Illusions 308-321
Hypnotism : Prof. Barrett on the Present Position of - - 339-340
„ Curative Effects of 483
Extensions of Faculty iu 486, 488-9
Hypnotic State, Genesis and Nature of - • - 483-487
Legal and Moral Aspects of 484, 485, 488, 489
Suggestion and - - .... 484-487
Resistance, Subject's power of 484, 489
Time, Subliminal Appreciation of - - 486, 487, 488, 489
Hyslop Family, chief references to—
„ Frank 80
„ George 92
„ See also Communicators (Mrt. Piper.)
Hvslop, Prof. J. H.
„ Experiments in Identification - - - 60, 81, 99
„ Report on the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.
Reply to Mr. Podmore's Criticisms - - 78
„ Reply to Analysis of the Discussion of Statistical
Evidence 99-101
Hysteria, Poltergeist Disturbances connected with a Case of Acute - 464
vi Index to Vol, XVIII.
I.
Identification, Prof. Hyslop's Experiments in - - - 60, 80, 81, 99
Identity, Temporary Losses of Personal ----- 412-413
See alto the Case of Mary Barnes and Problems of Personality.
Incidents, Marked, in Trance Communications. See. Trance Pheno
mena of Mrs. Thompson.
Insanity, Conditions of Memory during 414-415
J.
Jamks, Alice. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
James, Prof. William, Experiments as to the Trance Condition of Mrs
Thompson 106
„ on Hallucinations, - - - 313, 318, 319, 320
„ „ Review of Mr. F. W. H. Myers's " Human Per
sonality and its Survival of Bodily Death " 22
„ „ The Scope of the Subliminal Consciousness
22-30, 32, 33, 64
„ „ " Varieties of Religious Experiences," by,
references to 409-430
Johnson, Alice, on the Writings and Drawings of the Secondary Per
sonalities in the Case of " Mary Barnes " - 393
„ „ Note on the Automatic Script of Mrs Thompson 238-239
Jones, Dr. Robert, Comments on the Case of "Mary Barnes " - - 413
K.
Kiel Incident, The. See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson.
L.
Lang, Andrew, "The Nineteenth Century" and Mr. Frederic Myers 62
„ The Poltergeist at Cideville 454
Larminie, Vera, Translation of the " History of a Haunted House,"
by Dr. J. Grasset 464
Leaf, Dr. Walter, Reviews by—
"Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily Death," by
F. W. H. Myers 53
„ Discussion of the Book as an Argument for a Future
Life 53-61
,, Theory of the Possible Survival of a Slowly Dis
integrating Personality after Death - - - 57-61
" Hypnotism, its History and Practice," by J. Milne
Bramwell, 481
Lemonnier, Gustave, and the Cideville Poltergeist Disturbances
456, 460, 461, 462, 463
Leroux, M., on the Cideville Disturbances 45V
Locke, on the Limitations of Thought ..... 318-319
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Presidential Address (1903) - - - - 1
Index to Vol. XVIII. vii
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Review of "Human Personality and its Survival of
Bodily Death," by F. W. H. Myers ... 34
General Survey and Estimate of —- - 34-41
Mallock, W. H.( on "Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily
Death," by F. W. H. Myers-
Andrew Lang's Reply to 34, 62
Maxwell, Dr. J., " Les Phenomenes Psychiques," by, Review of - - 490
„ Evidence as to the Mediumship of Eusapia Pala-
dino 495, 497-499
„ On the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper - - - 494
M'Clellan, James. See Communicators (Mrs. Piper).
„ John, chief references to 86, 92
Members, Associates, and Honorary Members of the Society for Psy
chical Research, List of 506
„ „ „ „ of the American Branch 533
Merrifield, Mrs. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Mirville, J. E. de, Evidence as to the Cideville Disturbances, 457-459, 463
Motor Automatism—
Suggested Experiments in 326, 327, 334
Moutonuier, Prof. C, Experiments with Mrs. Thompson - - 194-200
Multiple Personality. See Personality.
Myers, F. W. H., Alleged Communications from. See Communicators
(" Miss Itawson " and Mrs. Thompson).
„ „ Experiments with Mrs. Thompson
112, 113, 205-210, 213-251
„ „ "Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily
Death," by, Reviews of - - 22, 34, 42, 53, 62
., „ „ Bearing of the Book on the Question
of a Future Life - - 42-52, 53-61
„ „ On Subliminal Consciousness—
0, 22-30, 32-34, 36-38, 46-51, 54, 55, 64, 72-77
„ „ „ Hysteria, View of 47-48
„ „ „ Vital Faculty, Scheme of - - - 29, 40
N.
"Nineteenth Century," The, and Mr. Frederic Myers, by Andrew
Lang 34, 62
P.
Paladino, Eusapia, Alleged Mediumship of - 495, 497, 498, 499, 501
„ Editorial Note 501
„ Exposure of Fraudulent Methods (Cambridge Experi
ments) 499-501
Parish, Edmund, on Hallucinations 315-317. 320
Parkes, Susanna. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Percival, G. H. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
vin Index to Vol. XVIII.
Percival, Mr. and Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Thompson
145, 146, 176, 177, 227, 232, 235, 302
" Personality, Human, and its Survival of Bodily Death," by F. W.
H. Myers, Reviews of - - - - 22, 34, 42, 53, 62
„ Dr. Leaf on the Possible Survival after Death of a
Slowly Disintegrating - 57-61
„ Problems of, .... 57.6I, 352-404, 405-415
„ Education and 385, 386
„ Trance Phenomena and 393
See alto Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper and Mrs.
Thompson.
„ Multiple, a C!ase of, (Mary Barnes), by Dr. Albert
Wilson.
„ „ Appendices to - - - 393,405,412,413
„ „ Cataleptic Attacks - 35!>, 362, 369, 370, 371, 376
„ „ Cerebral Changes, Theory of, Connected with
Changes of Personality - - 380-387, 413, 415
„ „ Diary of Appearances of the Different Person
alities 398, 399
„ „ „ Of Emergencies of the Normal State - 400
„ „ Extensions of Faculty in 369, 372, 377, 398, 407-409
„ „ Hyperesthesia, Tactile
371, 372, 373, 376, 397, 398, 409
„ „ Hypnotism, Insensibility to - - 360,364,412
„ „ Identity, Apparent Complete Loss of the
Original 379, 383, 400
Illusions during - - 356, 361, 363, 364, 410
„ „ Illustrations of Writings and Drawings 402-404
„ „ Memory, Conditions of 357, 360-376, 377-380,
382, 395, 396, 406, 407, 411, 414
„ ,, „ Discontinuous between the Different
Personalities - - - 376, 377
„ „ Psychical Blindness
371-374, 376, 397, 398, 408, 409
., „ Secondary Personalities—
Mental and Moral Characteristics of - 356-390
„ ,, Writings and Drawings of
358, 359, 364, 372, 376, 387, 393, 394
"Phantasms of the Living," Discussion of Hallucinations given in - 316
Phinuit (Control). See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.
" Physical Phenomena." See Poltergeist Disturbances.
Piddington, J. G., On the Case of " Mary Barnes" ... - 405
„ Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - - - 116-293
„ Types of Phenomena Displayed in Mrs Thompson's
Trance 104, 105, 349
„ Table of Contents 104
Index to Vol. XVIII. ix
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of—
„ Flournoy, Prof. Th., on 5]
Hyalop, Prof. J. H., on 78
„ Lang, Andrew, on 63, 69, 74
„ Leaf, Dr. Walter, on ------- 57-61
„ Maxwell, Dr. J., on - - 494
„ Podmore, Frank, on ------- 78
See also Communicators, and Trance Phenomena.
Podmore, Frank, Criticism of Prof. Hyalop's Report on the Trance
Phenomena of Mrs. Piper.
„ Reply to, by Prof. J. H. Hyalop 78
Poltergeist, Andrew Lang on the, at Cideville 454
„ General Disturbances 454-463, 464-480
„ Hysteria, Acute, Connected with - - 464, 465, 477-480
„ Judicial Enquiry into 454-63
Predictions, Mediumistic. See Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Thompson.
„ Sir Oliver hoige on the Study of - - - - - 17, 18
Presidential Addresses—
By Prof. W. F. Barrett 323
By Sir Oliver Lodge 1
Prince, Dr. Morton, A Case of Multiple Personality (the " Misses
Beauchamp") 405,407,408,410,411
Psychical Research, and the Inquiry into Human Sentiment as to a
Future Life, F. C. S. Schiller on 416-450, 503, 504
„ Sir Oliver Lodge on Future of 1
„ Suggestions as to a Research Scholarship - - 8
Psychological, Phenomena, On Certain Unusual, by John Honeyman,
R.S.A. 308
R.
Raggett, Mr. and Mrs. G. F., Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - - 177
" Rawson, Miss," Automatic Script and Trance Phenomena of
205, 210, 267, 294-302
„ Cross-correspondences between and the Medium-
ship of Mrs. Thompson - 294, 302
Reeve, Norman, Case contributed by 107
Reviews 22, 34, 42, 53, 62, 481, 490, 501
Reynolds, Mary, A Case of Dual Personality, Analogies between the
Case of, and " Mary Barnes " ----- 406,407,410
Richet, Prof. Ch., On Psychic Phenomena 490, 491
S.
Saint Victor, M. R., and Madame de, Evidence as to the Cideville
Disturbances - - 459-461
"Samuel" (Suicide Case). See Communicators {Mrs. Thompson).
Index to Vol. XVIII.
Schiller, F. C. S.—
„ Answers to the American Branch's Questionnaire regarding
Human Sentiment as to a Future Life - - 416, 503
Analysis of the Answers .... 425-438, 453
Apparent Weakness of the Traditional Claim of a desire
for - - - - 418-422, 429, 430, 439, 440, 503, 504
Appendix to 450-53
Consideration of the Effects of a Scientific Proof of - 440-50
" Social Atmosphere," Effects of, in Scientific Inquiry
417-425, 448-450
„ "Humanism: Philosophical Essays," by Review of - 501
" Scott, Geoffrey." See Communicators {Mrs. Thompson).
Scott, Miss M. W., Case contributed by 72
" Scott, Mrs," Cross-correspondences between the Automatic Script of
and the Trance Phenomena of Mrs Thompson
294, 302-307
„ Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - 163-167
Self-Suggestion, Phenomena of—Insensibility to Pain - - 108, 110
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, Sittings with Mrs. Thompson ... 292
„ Prof. H., Alleged Communications from. See Communi
cators ("Miss liau-son" and "Mrs. Thompson").
" Smith, Heleue," Case of Characteristic Handwriting - - - 393
Society for Psychical Research, Endowment Fund for- - 8-11, 324, 32">
„ „ Present Position and Future Work of
1, 324, 327-350
„ „ Proposed Research Scholarship - - 8
" Spirit Identity," Indications of, by Characteristic Handwriting 236-243, 393
See oho Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper and Mrs.
Thompson.
Spiritualism, Prof. Barrett on ------- - 340
„ Dr. J. Maxwell on - - 490
„ Physical Phenomena of 490-501
" Strong, Wilfred." See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Subliminal Consciousness, Prof. Barrett on - 333-339
„ „ F. W. H. Myeis on
6, 22-38, 46, 51, 54, 55, 64, 72-77
„ „ Time, Consciousness of the lapse of - 486-489
„ „ <See also Hypnotism and Personality, Prob
lems of.
Suggestion, Bearing of, on the Study of Criminology - - - - 15
„ Dr. Milne Bramwell's Theory of 484-490
T.
Taylor, Isaac, Physical Theory of Another Life - - 335
" Taylor, Mrs.," Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - 163-167
Telepathy, Barrett, Prof. W. F., on 326, 333-335
Index to Vol. XVI11. xi
Telepathy, Crookes, Sir W., on - - - - - - - - 73, 76
„ Lodge, Sir Oliver, on - - - - - - - - 19, 20
„ Experimental, At Close Quarters 192-4
„ „ At a Distance - - 18, 19, 169, 170, 182-86
„ Suggested Experiments in 326
Theodores, The Two. .See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
Thomas, N. W., Case confirmed by 188
Thompson, Mrs., Case contributed by 109
„ Trance Phenomena of—Benson, Mrs., on - - 278-282
„ Piddington, J. G., on - 104, 349
, „ Verrall, Mrs., on - - 221
See also Trauce Phenomena.
Thorel, and the Poltergeist at Cideville — Judicial Enquiry
into 454
Time, Subliminal Consciousness of—Hypnotic - - -486, 487, 488, 489
„ „ Normal .... 488, 489
Tinel, M., Evidence on the Cideville Disturbances - 454, 455, 456, 457, 461
Trance Phenomena, Connection between and those of Multiple
Personality ------- 393
„ (Mrs. Piper).
„ Hyslop, Prof. J. H., on 78
„ Alleged Influence of the "Nelly " Control
201, 208, 294, 307
„ Differences between, and that of Mrs Thompson
180, 265, 266, 281
„ Dramatic Play of Personality - - - 59, 79, 100
Fraud, Question of - - - 81, 83, 85-87, 90-101
Identity, Criterions of - - - - 80, 81, 98
„ " Incidents," References to Chief (Prof. Hyslop's
Report) 84, 92, 93, 100
„ Mistakes and Confusions - 59, 60, 61, 78-80, 87, 88, 100
„ Personalities, Chief references to—
" G. P." 57, 59, 60, 69
" Imperator " 59
"Phinuit" - - - 58,59,79,261,262
"Rector" - - 59
Mental and Moral Characteristics of - - 58, 59
Spiritistic Hypothesis, Facts bearing on
78, 84, 87, 88, 92, 98, 99
„ Characteristic Phrases 84, 92, 98, 99, 101
Telepathic Hypothesis
57-60, 91, 92, 98, 101, 348, 349
Unconscious (Subliminal) Telepathy 60, 91, 92, 98
„ (Mrs. Thompson)—
Piddington, J. G., On the Types of Pheno
mena displayed in 104, 349-
xii Indrx to Vol. XVIIT.
Trance Phenomena (Mrs. Thompson)
„ Amplifications of Knowledge possessed by
Medium or Trance Personality ... U6
„ Anaesthesia, Indications of 106, 107
„ Automatic Writing - 231 -246, 294
„ Characteristic - 236-43
„ Specimens of - - - 236-43
„ Crystal Vision 113,116
„ Cross-Correspondences between—and that of
other Mediums 294-307
Differences between- and that of Mrs. Piper
180, 263, 266, 281
„ Dramatic Play of Personality
126, 148, 149, 157, 166, 167,
171, 173, 209, 210, 236, 237, 261, 268
,, Failures, Marked, with Sitters known to the
Medium 291
„ Fraud, Question of
105, 111, 112, 115, 178-180, 190, 191, 194,
210-215, 223, 226, 232, 243, 252, 253, 25C, 271-91
„ Ignorance of Trance Personality as to Matters
known to the Medium ... - 210
„ Incident illustrative of the gradual emergence
of Facts 214
„ Incidents—Chief References to—
Bennett, E. N. 258-260
" Bensous, Limited "- - 224,225, 271-273
Campbell, Colin 257
Dorothy 213-220
Kiel Incident, The - 186-189
" Trevelyan's Transferred " - 157,239,240
„ Inconclusive Character of the Hodgson-Barker
Sittings 105
„ Identity, Difficulties of proving - - 234, 235
„ Memory, Conditions of 157, 167, 210
Mistakes and Confusions - 284-291, 300, 301, 348, 349
„ Normal and Trance Consciousness, relations
between ------- 157
„ Personalities, Chief references to—
Mrs. Cartwright 126-134, 157, 159,
173, 174, 177, 212, 229, 230, 266
"Mr. D." 126,133,141,159,
171, 172, 177, 232, 237, 298, 303, 305
"Elsie" 201,307
"Grey Lady, The" .... 142,147
Nelly 113-124, 126-167, 170, 174,
200, 211, 212, 221, 261-265, 280-282, 292-307
Index to Vol. XVIII. xiii
Trance Phenomena, Personalities, Chief references to—
„ Nelly, Association of Ideas - 221
„ Peregrinations of 200
„ Pet Subject of - - - - - 261
„ On Physical Phenomena - - - 265
„ Mental and Moral Characteristics of
126-135, 157-159, 217, 221, 222, 243, 261
„ Prophecies 118, 246, 257-60
„ "Spirit Identity," Facts bearing on
131, 146, 148, 149-54, 160, 166,
171, 175-179, 196-200, 236-43, 292-307
„ Characteristic Hand-writing - 236-43
„ Supernormal Faculties when not Entranced
107-111, 182, 281, 282
„ " Susanna Parkes Case," The - 267
„ " Suspicious Circumstances " 271
„ Telepathy, Facts bearing on 122, 157, 169, 170,
182-186, 187, 188, 192-194, 200, 257-260, 275-282
„ Trance, Characteristics of the - 105-107,287,288
Tuckey, Dr. C. Lloyd, Comments on the Case of "Mary Barnes" - 412
„ Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - - - 2IJ2, 293
Tweedy, J., Report on the Case of " Mary Barnes " - - - 374, 397
V.
Venncm, Lurancy, Analogies between the Case of—and "Mary
Barnes" - - 408
Verrall, Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Thompson - 211, 212, 221, 234, 235, 241
W.
Walker, Dr. De Noe, Communications concerning {Mrs. Thompson)
112-119, 214
Watson, Dr. G. A., Researches in Cerebral Physiology - - 353, 380
Wilson, Albert, M.D.
A Case of Multiple Personality ("Mary Barnes") - - 351,352
„ Introduction- - 352
„ History of the Case - 355
„ Theory of Cerebral Changes 380
„ Appendix I. 387
„ Appendix II. 405
" Wilson, J. O.," Sittings with Mrs Thompson
136, 137, 163, 221, 224, 250, 264
Wiusor, Miss Anna, Analogies between the Case of—and "Mary
Barnes " 408
X.
X., Y. See Communicators (Mrs. Thompson).
X., Miss. See " Beauchamp, the Misses."
Z.
Z., Mrs., Sittings with Mrs. Thompson 288, 289
