{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1948__anonymous___world_centennial_celebration_of_modern_spiritualism_souvenir_book.pdf","mytitle":"World Centennial Celebration Of Modern Spiritualism Souvenir Book","mylang":"de"}
( i r a t t i i
# m u m t i r
H x t n k
Unrli) (Uwtnuual (Eplrhratimt
nf
iUntirnt &|rirituaHsm
FE D E R A T IO N O F S P IR IT U A L C H U R C H E S AND ASSOCIATIONS. INC
HeudfiunrtarN! 611 T ruvia Huildintr, Snn Antonio. Texit*
P rin te d in the United Stute* of Aim*rlcn
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Our International Shrine ......... .........................
Dedication, Editors, Sponsorship......................
Hall of Fame of Modern Spiritualism ............
Official Souvenir ................................................
Birthplace of Modern Spiritualism....................
Fox Memorial Society..... ........~........................
One Hundred Years of Modern Spiritualism
The “Rochester Rappings”................................
Historical Significance of Modern Spiritualism
World Spiritualism .............................................
Pillars of Federation........ ..................................
Living “Quotes"........................... „......................
Four Great Contests.... ........................................
Our Semi-Centennial Celebration......................
In Memoriam: Leah Fox Underhill..................
A Rose and a Poem.... ........................................
A Prayer .............................................................
A Good Fighter...................................................
Morris Pratt Institute.........................................
Socrates: Modern Spiritualist.............................
Tribute to Our Camps..........................................
Tribute to the American Indian.........................
These Spiritualists! ............................................
Value of Psychic Phenomena............................
Our Little Workers..............................................
My Conviction ....................................................
Spiritualism and Philanthropic Work..............
Picture Gallery of Modern Spiritualism...........
One Hundred Memorial Articles.......................
Our Honorary Representatives...........................
Memorials and Announcements...................... _.
3
... 4
— 5-10
.... 11
.... 12
.... 13
.... 14-16
.... 17-19
.... 20-22
.... 23-26
.... 27-31
.... 32
.... 33-42
.... 43-46
.... 47-48
__ 49
.... 50
..... 51
.... 52
.... 53
..... 54
..... 55
.... 56
..... 56
..... 57
..... 57
...... 58
..... 59-88
..... 89-189
..... 190
..... 191-200
SPIRIT BLESSINGS!
- - - - -
OUR
INTERNATIONAL
SHRINE
At Rochester, New York, U. S. A.
. "the Spiritual Capital oI the World"
The top picture is of The Inter­
national Shrine of Modern Spirit­
ualism at Rochester, New York,
said to be the largest Spiritualist
Church Edifice in the world.
Dr. B. F. Austin is presented in the center. He
stands as the most famous of the many noted
Workers of our Movement who served as
Pastor at the Shrine.
I -
The remaining print is that of the
International Shrine Memorial
which spires to the heavens from
the dooryard of the Church,
where it was unveiled on Decem­
ber 3, 1927. The monolithic obe­
lisk was erected through contri­
butions from Spiritualists the
world over, pennies from the
poor and many dollars from the
generous donor Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle. The enterprise was cham­
pioned by Mercy E. Cadwallader,
publisher of The Progressive
Thinker.
AbS52?4A
tlriHratimt
This GRAND SOUVENIR BOOK of the World Centennial Celebration
of Modern Spiritualism is dedicated to our Spiritualist Ambassadors
of Good-Will, of the past, present, and future, of this world and the
next.
E d itu r a
Rev. J. Bertran
Gerling:
Editor
0
Rev. Helene
Gerling:
Associate Editor
Rev. Vernon R
.
Cummins:
Honorary Editor
§ > p m tfin r sljip
The W orld Centennial C elebration o f M odern Spiritualism , with its
twenty-two days of sessions (July 4-25, 19-18), at Rochester, New
York; Toronto, Canada; Buffalo, New York; and its grand finale at
Lily Dale, the largest Spiritualist Camp in the world, stands spon­
sored by the FEDERATION OF SPIRITUAL CHURCHES AND ASSO­
CIATIONS.
•
1
HALL OF FAME
OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
The HALL OF FAME OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM, fashioned after
the Hall of Fame established for famous Americans at Columbia Uni­
versity in the City of New York, U.S.A., is . . .
. . . a Memorial Roll of Famous Spiritualist Workers who
have contributed greatly to the advancement of Modern
Spiritualism during its first century of World Enlightenment.
THE IDEA IS BORN . . .
“Artaban speaks!” a discarnate intelligence communicating under the
pseudonym of Artaban projected “from out of spirit” the idea of es­
tablishing a Memorial to the WORKERS of Modern Spiritualism.
Thus it evolved that a most propitious opportunity presented itself
for just such an enterprise—the W ORLD Centennial Celebration of
Modern Spiritualism. . . . Our Hall of Fam e was to be born!
FUNDAMENTALS . . .
A Hall of Fam e for the WORLD of Modern Spiritualism—it must
indeed be global in its representation. A Memorial Roll to be dedi­
cated in the Centennial Birth-year of Our Movement—it must indeed
begin with one hundred names. The task of building this Glorious
Tribute— it must be given, so far as humanly possible, the full benefit
of w idespread authority and unprejudiced know ledge— it must pre­
conclude any possible charge of bias or of expression lacking in true
world opinion sustained within the domain of Modern Spiritualism.
Noble must be the scope of its tolerance. These things were funda­
mental !
HOW ESTABLISHED . . .
The system to be followed was simple. The Memorial Roll was to be
compiled from Lists of Candidates submitted by members of a World
Board of Selection, consisting of present-day Leaders of Our Move­
ment. To fulfill this requirement, the President of every spiritualistic
Association and the Editor of every current psychic Publication, the
world over, which we were able to incorporate in our extensive files,
were requested to serve on this World Board and submit names of
their candidates to our WORLD Centennial Celebration Headquar­
ters. As a guide for this work, the following principles were given:
5
1. All Candidates to be individuals “in spirit.”
2. Selection of Candidates to be from the entire WORLD of
Modern Spiritualism.
3. Choice of Candidates to be based upon such individuals’ spec­
ific contributions to the advancement of Modern Spiritualism,
directly or indirectly, as Demonstrators, Researchers. Organ­
izers, Authors, and/or Propagandists.
Innumerable Lists of Candidates were thus received from places and
people separated by the far flung oceans of the globe : stretching from
Iceland to India, from New Zealand to the Scandinavian Countries.
From these several hundreds of names, most of which were many
times repeated, three Directors made the final compilation for the
Memorial Roll of the Spiritualist Hall of Fame.
These three Directors were:
DR. NANDOR FODOR: Psychical Researcher, Lecturer, Author,
whose greatest work is the E n c y c lo p a e d ia o f P sych ic Science.
WILLIAM ELLIOT HAMMOND: One of the most beloved and
well-versed Teachers and Inspirational Speakers in present-day
Spiritualism.
REV. J. BERTRAN GEKL1NG : Co-Founder, with his wife-com­
panion Helene, of U n iv e r sa l P sy c h ic S c ien ce , chairman of the
W O R L D C e n te n n ia l C e le b r a tio n o f M o d ern Spiritualism , and
President of the F o x M e m o r ia l S o c iety .
Final decisions were made with perspective to the elements of geog­
raphy and time, as well as to the extent and nature of service rendered
toward Modern Spiritualism as a W O R L D Movement. N o claim is
m a d e th a t th e M e m o r ia l R oll in c lu d e s o n ly th e g r e a te s t o f the vast
a r m y o f th o se w h o h a v e s e r v e d O u r C a u se in th e se p a st on e hundred
y e a r s. Indeed, several hundreds of illustrious names could be added to
the Roll—but selections had to be made, and were so made with in­
tegrity.
FOR THE FUTURE . . .
It is sincerely hoped that the HALL OF FAME OF MODERN SPIR­
ITUALISM will be sustained as a permanent institution of Our Move­
ment, that there will, in the near future, be published a worthy book
which will present the pictures and biographies of all upon the Me­
morial Roll. It is further suggested that the F e d e r a tio n o f Spiritual
C h u r c h e s a n d A s s o c ia tio n s appoint a Committee, once in each five
years, to select five additional names to the Memorial Roll, at the rate
of one addition each year, so long as Modern Spiritualism does live in
its Service to Mankind.
6
m e m o r ia l M o ll
ALEXANDER N AKSAKOF OPHELIA CORRALES
RUSSIA . . .Propagandist - Investigator -
Author
COSTA RICA . . Medium
CHARLES BAILEY DR. ALBERTO DE SOUSA COUTO
AUSTRALIA . . . Medium PORTUGAL . . Propagandist
SIR WILLIAM FLETCHER BARRETT WILLIAM J
. COLVILLE
IRELAND . . . Investigator - Author U.S.A. . . . Lecturer - Author - Teacher
MARTHE BERAUD MARGERY CRANDON
(Eva C — Mme. Waespe)
FRANCE . . Medium
U S A . Medium
ERNEST BOZZANO DR. W. J. CRAWFORD
ITALY . . . Investigator -Aufhor ERIN . . . Investigator
STANLEY DEBRATH SIR WILLIAM CROOKES
ENGLAND . . . Investigator ■Author ENGLAND . . . Investigator -Author
EMMA HARDINGE BRITTEN MRS. JOHN H. CURRAN
U S A . . .Inspirational Speaker -Medium U S.A . . M edium
PROF. J. RHODES BUCHANAN JUDGE LUDVIG DAHL
U S A . . investigator -Author N O RW AY . . Propagandist
DR. CHARLES ALBERT BURGESS ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS
U S A . . Spiritual Healer U S A Author -M edium -Teacher
WARREN CHASE MME. ELIZABETH D'ESPERANCE
U S A Minister ■
Author ENGLAND . . M edium
FRANCES ANN CONANT LECN DENNIS
U S A M edium FRANCE . . Propagandist -Teacher -Author
FLORENCE COOK WILLIAM DENTON
ENGLAND M edium U S A . . Investigator - Author
SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE
EXGLAND Propagandist - Author
BARON CARL DU PREL
GERMANY Investigator
JUDGE JOHN WORTH EDMONDS
U S A . Propagandist
WILLIAM EGLINTON
ENGLAND . Medium
REV JESSE BABCOCK FERGUSON
US A Minister - Propagandist
CAMILLE FLAMMARION
FRANCE. Investigator - Author -
Propagandist
PROF. T. FUKURAI
JAPAN . . . Investigator
DR GUSTAVE GELEY
FP.ANCE . Investigator - Author
KATHLEEN GOUGHER
(Lady G. Donaldson)
IRELAND . . . Medium
DAVID GOW
ENGLAND . .. Author
REV. THOMAS GRIMSHAW
USA. . . . Minister - Teacher - M edium
AGNES NICHOLS (Mrs. Samuel)
GUPPY
ENGLAND . . . M edium
JAN GUZYK
POLAND . . M edium
DR GLEN HAMILTON
CANADA . Investigator
PROF ROBERT HARE
U.S.A . . . Investigator
JANE "Mater' HARRIS-ROBERTS
NEW ZEALAND . Medium - Propagandist
BARON LAZARUS DE PACZOLAY
HELLENBACH
HUNGARY . . . Investigator - Author
DR. RICHARD HODGSON
ENGLAND . . . Investigator
DANIEL DOUGLAS HOME
ENGLAND . . . Medium
WILLIAM HOPE
ENGLAND . . . Medium
WILLIAM HOWITT
ENGLAND . . . Author
PROF. JAMES HERVEY HYSLOP
U.S.A. . . . Investigator - Author
MOSES HULL
U.S.A. . .. Teacher -Lecturer-Author
INDRIDE INDRIDASON
ICELAND . . . M edium
KATE FOX JENCKEN
U.S.A. . .. M edium
MARGARETTA FOX KANE
U S A . . , M edium
ALLAN KARDEC J J. MORSE
FRANCE . Medium ■Author -
Propagandist ENGLAND . Medium ■Lecturer
J. M. KEEN
NETHERLANDS . . Propagandist - Author
REV WILLIAM STAINTON MOSES
ENGLAND Minister - Medium - Teacher -
Author
FRANEK KLUSKI FREDERICK W H. MYERS
POLAND Medium ENGLAND . . Investigator - Author
JONATHAN KOONS DR. JOHN BALLOU NEWBROUGH
US A . Medium - Propagandist U.S A Medium -Author
SIR OLIVER LODGE DR. JULIEN OCHOROWITZ
ENGLAND . . . Author - Investigator -
Propagandist
POLAND . . . Investigator
CESAR LOMBROSO STEPHAN OSSOWIECKI
ITALY . .. Investigator POLAND . . . Medium
PROF. JAMES J. MAPES DR. EUGENE OSTY
U.S.A. . . . Investigator FRANCE . . . Investigator - Author
COSME MARINO REV. GEORGE VALE OWEN
ARGENTINA . . . Propagandist ENGLAND . . . Minister - Teacher - Author
DR. JOSEPH MAXWELL ROBERT DALE OWEN
FRANCE . . . Investigator • Author U.S A . . . Author ■Propagandist
JAMES HEWATT McKENZIE EUSAPIA PALADINO
ENGLAND . . . Investigator - Propagandist ITALY . . . M edium
JEAN MEYER DR. JAMES M. PEEBLES
FRANCE . . . Investigator US A . . . Minister - Teacher - Propagandist
CARLO MIRABELLI LEONORE E. PIPER
BRAZIL . . Medium U S A . . . Medium
9
PROF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN
ENGLAND Investigator ■Author
PROF CHARLES RICHET
FRANCE . . . investigator - Author
CORA L V. RICHMOND REV. LEROY SUNDERLAND
U SA " tHj^ aat‘Cnal SP ^ ker *Healer ■ U S A . . . A ulhor - Propagandist
COL. E. A. A DAIGLUN ROCHAS (MRS.) R
. THOMPSON
FRANCE . . . Investigator - Author ENGLAND . . . Medium
EPES SARGENT M
LLE. STANISLAWA TOM
CZYK
U SA . .. Investigator - Author POLAND.. . Medium
BARON A SCHRENCK-NOTZING
GERMANY . . . Investigator - Author
JESSE F. G. SHEPARD
U.S A . .. . Medium - Author
SH1SH1R KUMAR GHOSH
INDIA. . . Propagandist - Author
FRAU MARIA SILBERT
AUSTRIA . . . Medium
JOHN SLATER
US.A. .. . Medium
JOHN C. SLOAN
ENGLAND . . . Medium
MLLE. HELENE SMITH
SWITZERLAND . . . Medium
MINNIE MESERVE SOULE
U S A . . . . Medium
WILLIAM T. STEAD
ENGLAND . . . Propagandist ■A uthor -
Medium
HUDSON TUTTLE
U S A . . . Medium - Teacher - Author
LEAH FOX UNDERHILL
U S A . . . Medium
BARONESS ADELMA VAY
HUNGARY . . . Medium - Authoress
MRS. A. W. (Margaret) VERRALL
ENGLAND . . . Investigator - Medium
COUNT CESAR BAUDI DE VESME
ITALY . . Author - Investigator
DR. ALFRED RUSSEL WALLACE
ENGLAND . . . Investigator ■Propagandist
MARGARET (Maggie) WAITE
US.A. . . . M edium
ETTA WRIEDT
US.A. . . M edium
PROF. JOHANN C. F. ZOLLNER
GERMANY . . . Investigator - Author
OFFICIAL SOUVENIR
Mrs. Charles A.
Kidder
Pasadena, California
Through the guiding Inspiration of our Spirit Friends there was fashioned the Offi­
cial SOUVENIR of your WORLD Centennial Celebration of Modem Spiritualism.
So it is that the Two Worlds stand joined together in this lovely creation of remem­
brance and promise-yet-to-come: “SPIRIT BLESSINGS.”
From time immemorial, great events of human history have been commemorated
through medalation. Thus, the Glorious Ideal, the embodiment of the "spirit” of the
One Hundredth Birth-year Celebration of Our Movement is emblazoned in beauty and
dignity upon a genuine die-cut MEDAL. This memento is convenient as a “pocket
piece”—a keep-sake which you may have with you always—as a constant reminder
of your Loved Ones, gone but ever close. The size of a silver half-dollar, our SOU­
VENIR is fashioned of finest quality oreide in bright finish, skillfully designed as
pictured in the accompanying illustration.
(COPY)
C E R T IF IC A T E O F ISSU A N C E
Be It Known By These Presents:
THAT, the Special Gold Medal granted with this certificate is the first of­
ficial SOUVENIR to be issued by the
WORLD CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
existing under sponsorship of the Federation of Spiritual Churches and
Associations, Inc., and
THAT, said SOUVENIR is hereby bestowed upon
MRS. CHARLES A. KIDDER
in acknov/ledgment and appreciation of the generous patronage extended
by said party to the Centennial Celebration Committee thereof.
[SEAL]
Signed and sealed this 20th day of
March, in the year 1947 A. D
.
Rev. J. Bertran Gerling.
General Chairman
Rev. B. R. Hill.
“Federation" Secretary
11
BIRTHPLACE OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM
This is the world-famed FOX COTTAGE as it appeared a very short
time after the “raps that echoed round the world” were first mani­
fested upon its humble floors, walls, and ceilings. The sign over the
door reads:
S P I R I T U A L I S M
Originated March 31, 1848
I N THI S H O U S E
The Cottage was purchased by Benjamin F. Bartlett who had it moved
to Lily Dale Spiritualist Camp, where it is now properly preserved
and cared for.
Upon a lovely tablet mounted before the reconditioned cottage on its
present site is inscribed the following dedication:
"Memorial to The Fox Family who lived in this cottage at the time Margaret
and Katie Fox, aged 9 and 11 years, received the first proof ol the continuity
of life which was the beginning of Modern Spiritualism, March 31st, 1848.
This cottage was bought and moved from Hydesville, N. Y., its original site,
to Lily Dale. N. Y., in May 1916 by Beniamin F. Bartlett/'
For many years, during Camp Season, rapping phenomena similar to
those manifested through the mediumship of the famous Fox Sisters
are produced through the instrumentality of Flo Cottrell.
fo:
On
gin
uni
T1
(1
(2
(:
C
P
I
12
FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY
On January 24, 15)16, THE FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY had its be­
ginning— a spirit-inspired plan which holds within itself a seed of
unity which will strengthen our great cause of Spiritualism.
THE FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY plans include the following:
(1) Acquire and preserve relics of the Fox family, and establish a
Memorial Exhibit thereof.
(2) Acquire, maintain, and protect the Fox Site at Hydesville, New
York, now so badly neglected and desecrated, and erect and
perpetuate thereon a World Spiritualist Shrine.
(3) Contribute annually to the maintenance fund of the Fox Cottage,
now located at Lily Dale Spiritualist Camp.
OFFICERS:
Mrs. M ariam B. Pond, of Hudson, Ohio
Founder and Honorary President
Rev. J. Bertran G erling, of Rochester, New York ...................President
Mrs. Laura S. H icks, of Newark, New York..........First Vice-President
Mrs. Frances S. M acintosh, of Rochester, New York
Second Vice-President
Miss D eborah Sanford, of Hudson, Ohio.................................. Treasurer
Mr. C larence W ells, of Clifton Springs, New York.................Secretary
Rev. H elene G er lin g ......................................... Secretary to the President
Fox Cottage S ite — Ninety-ninth Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism
1
13
OHf. HUMMED YhAffS
OF
MfJDMS S P IR IW A im i
. , , krf FA h**i$n *
Mod+rr ittr.y't*
>t»m ‘i 100 yearn old It wm. dt nog trc r. yi,r of
9M UNI, that KiMk P<** aod Imt nfcster y.
*»/ v
, W
/rfc, established w/mmonkation v/jth a *pirfls*n\.*y whtti.
trying to •onvey a mranagtt from tee *p»r»t world
b d. fur.' ta fo a*. a beI*<f ,n nur/hal of the- Hpirii, and
hot. be*. «ew mot*hi and .mmortal eormetoo>.ne*». ready fo *nd+A w
'a- • jt-tr a* tee time of tee Crus:if Zion, about %
'/, A b, T re apo«tb>
.a ' v rwonted / it. ' • 47to (.muter, ver***. .1 and
follow -. “Aml the grave?. «<r*
r operaid; nrA many (nplrA) ood^
rtf bo- -a,r.t» which ■
■
'■
[/' arose and carr.e out. of tee grave* after if*,
resurrection. nrA went into the holy city, anA appeared unit? mat. /
. . . (The many, evidently mean* medium*). And tht* event wm ae-
tort,pax ,-d ft, the ma't'na.i/a\,ot. of 4
< . . ( : . a,'- , ^ - V
. M
*
M*gdatera, and to flm diVnplen and other r*.
Then for ZOO yean, the ‘-arty Christian* (4e ?tr. and Gentile*; ver-
•Spun* ia..*in, rneAwfg 1r. seance?. and receiving the rs ned,A.i//ti of tee
holy spirit .ntiI dogmatic religion look over, and the true spirit cote
?/iOi*oe** v/a* distorted Oy the religion of flesh and blood; aw.
brother began to fight, brother over treed*, and still fight* today. The
And couldn't differentiate between the materialization of
'he pints*Ady at H**urraction, arid the Weal, and blood oody whici
according to the Bible ear, never enter Heaven, the latter 00dy rating
only an earthly shell containing the spirit for the '.pan of morta; life
Holy Ommunion i*n't of mortal body, but rather nymbolize* the
energy f,f the spirit which Spiritualist* understand ■
*
, well, vpiriu
body when lowered to V.art.h Vfbr&tion*, re>.eu,r,.e ■
morti r, a* it can domateria,,z.e at will by r- allot
to iptrit fretpteney. It wa* thin Hpmtebody of Chriat that Ma May-
dalene ..aw. And by tin* tame law many Spirituali».U ha .
materialization?, ol loved one* and ml tea>h
< 1
krorn the year Win, up to lH4d .Spiritualiam played a mien*, par*,
hitdory, hemy obtcured f*e*:au»e the public aaar/mated it with th<- (). .
Teatarnent. haunting*, wttehen, ^feviln,, and black majfic of negative
entitle* Chrurtian dogma* would not accept the idea of n '.\trre< t.on
a* applying b> ordinary human being* a\way% aaaoeialing it or: >
with Chrlft because He wan divine—and believing the IteAurrection
applied it, |||.; fiifnb anti blood body and not to hin npint body only
14
Persecution
Therefore, mediums for fifteen centuries were persecuted, tortured,
and killed. Joan of Arc, a Spiritualist medium of high order was
burned at the stake by minds ignorant of spirit truth. But now she has
been sainted, an acknowledgment that mediumship is righteous. Saint
Bernadette, another great medium, was saved because she reported
her spirit guide as the Holy Mother. But whether it was the Holy
Mother or some other beautiful spirit, or even Bernadette’s own
grandmother, it was still Spiritualism. And years from now, the public-
will look back at many of the present day mediums, and give them
respect. It was no wonder mediums did not publicize their psychic-
gifts until the 19th Century. As late as the 18th Century right here in
America, a medium was executed in Massachusetts. Even the
grandmother of Katie Fox, had she in her youth revealed a psychic
gift, would have been killed for witchcraft.
Such were the minds of the orthodox of those days. While their dog­
mas would admit of the survival of the soul, there could be no con­
tact between the living and the dead. A certain number of Christians
believed that the dead were asleep until Judgment Day, when all
mortals would be resurrected in new flesh bodies. Others believed the
dead were in Purgatory or Heaven or Hell. Consequently, all spirit
entities had to be devils unless they appeared in holy places, and then
the.v were angels—never the spirits of mortals.
New Understanding
Thus, when the Hydesville phenomena presented the possibility- of an
ordinary- peddler’s spirit communicating with the Fox sisters by a
series of sound vibrations—the world responded with either belief or
scorn, depending upon the attitude of the individual.
Old newspapers contain thousands of items on the Fox sisters. Scores
of books have been written about them, the latest, entitled TIME IS
KIND. Horace Greeley, the most enlightened newspaperman of those
days, gave Spiritualism a break no modem newspaperman would
dare to duplicate. Then in 1904 the skeleton of the peddler was un­
earthed underneath the Fox cottage as predicted. It was in a sub­
cellar and not the main cellar as believed.
But Katie’s mediumship was stronger than her good judgment. The
resulting fame weakened her human resistance to temptation; and
she became the tool of those who were antagonistic to Spiritualism
and who urged her to denounce herself. But she couldn’t denounce
her real spirit friends who continued to manifest around her. Later
when she retracted her retraction, the newspapers would not cooper­
ate, preferring to let Spiritualism do its own convalescing.
is
A N ew F re e d o m
So it has been a long period of rehabilitation ; the very same numb?
of years it took early Christianity to prove itsel f to Rome. . . . And non
it is a healthy creature and ready to talk back to all those who hav?
taken advantage of its weakness in the past. It can defend itself any.
where at any time. All it asks is freedom of speech. Then shall Spirit,
ualisrn prove itself a safeguard against atomic warfare, because it jg
a kind of atomic energy of itself . . . the energy of everlasting ljfe
which dead dogma has failed to utilize for a world of peace.
“P-yrhir Reporter*’-
— E ditor: SP IRI T WORLD
the “ROCHESTER RAPPINGS’’
by Mariam Buckner Pond
“Rochester R a p p in g s.” A t th e end o f the year 1818 that term with its
mysterious im p lica tio n s h ad ec h o e d around th e world.
In a modest home in Rochester, a thriving metropolis of western New
York State, three young women, two of immature age, had become the
subjects of excited and controversial discussion. Ghostly demonstra­
tions were experienced nightly in their dwelling place: tremendous
raps and other terrifying sounds were said to be interpreted as de­
mands from the spirit world that the proof of survival after death be
given forth to all the world. The home was that of Leah Fox Fish, a
young matron who occupied the cottage with her daughter Elizabeth.
Mrs. Fish earned their living by teaching music. She was an accom­
plished piano player. In the decade she had resided in Rochester, she
had acquired a circle of close friends among very worthy people,
friends who were now to prove their true and deep loyalty.
The now-famous r a p p in g s had begun in the early months of the year
in Hydesville, New York, a rural settlement outside the canal town of
Newark, some thirty miles east of Rochester. There, in the temporary
home of John D. Fox, the unearthly sounds had first been heard and
had culminated in intelligible interpretation on the night of March
31. 1848. when the alleged spirit of a murdered peddler spoke through
the manifestation of sp irit r a p s and gave the story of his violent death
to a startled neighborhood.
Excitement rose high and the Fox family found itself the target of
ridicule and threatened violence. John Fox was an elderly blacksmith
who had settled in Wayne County to be near his only son and an elder­
ly daughter, the wife of a prosperous farmer. Ardent Methodists, none
of them felt any sympathy with the terrifying experience which had
come to them and had thrust them into such a defensive position. They
prayed for deliverance from what they felt was of evil origin: they
wept at the loss of their simple, contented existence. And finally, they
fled in terror to the nearby home of their son to pray unavailingly that
the curse be lifted from them.
Their two younger daughters, Margaretta and Catherine, aged four­
teen and twelve, were taken to the home of their eldest sister, Leah,
in Rochester, in a vain effort to break the spell of this unwelcome
demonstration. For in some way, unexplainable to them all, yet un­
deniably evident, the sounds were more forceful in the united pres­
ence of the two young girls. That fact had brought stern condemnation
upon them and called forth tearful protests fi’om the girls who soon
lost their youthful enjoyment of those strange phenomena which had
so disrupted their quiet lives. Unhappily, they denied the accusations
that they knew how the raps were produced, reminding their accusers
that neither of them had been present in the Hydesville cottage on the
night when the greatest demonstration had been heard by the crowd
assembled there.
Separating the family brought no hoped-for results: change of scene
did not bring relief. The weird unearthly sounds followed them. The
spirit demands were only strengthened : again and again came the
edict they so dreaded to hear— the Fox family had been chosen to
give the message of hope to a fear-ridden world.
As the news of the strange demonstrations spread, privacy became a
thing unknown to the unhappy F o x family. Disregarding the angry
protests of her husband, Margaret Fox joined her daughters in Leah’s
home. Her kindly presence brought comfort to that harassed house­
hold, but her ardent prayers went unanswered. Visitors and messages
came from remote parts of the country and after months of unavailing
resistance against their unseen tormentors, the sisters and their loyal
mother sadly accepted the burden which had been laid upon them.
Their own wills were broken. Stronger forces overruled them: resist­
ance yielded to resignation and sad acceptance of their lot.
Demands on their time and strength increased as rapidly growing
numbers of people clamored to hear and to test the strange pheno­
mena. In November, 18-19, acting upon the orders of the unseen
forces, the Fox sisters consented to give a public demonstration.
Corinthian Hall, Rochester’s largest public m eeting place, was chosen.
Leah and Margaretta were the representatives of the Fox family, for
their mother had returned tem porarily to her farm home and Cath­
erine had been sent to stay for a short tim e with friends in nearby
Auburn.
A small group of loyal Rochester friends, who dared to brave the ugly
threats which were increasing, accompanied Leah and her young sis­
ter throughout the ordeal of the public appearances and were their
unfailing supporters in the hard days which followed closely. More
meetings were held as general interest widened. Special committees
were chosen at these meetings from leading citizens who demanded
that the stigma of unwelcome notoriety be lifted from their city’s
name. Several tests were devised to disprove the claims of the Fox
sisters’ followers. The pulpit and the press were loud and eloquent in
the controversy which arose and spread rapidly throughout the nation.
Noted among their staunch supporters in Rochester were Isaac and
Amy Post and John Robinson, prominent Quakers. Isaac Post and his
associate, George Willets, were druggists in the city, respected busi­
ness men whose reputation of integrity was a bulwark of protection
to the terrified young women who found themselves attacked from
every side, assailed by accusations which ran the gamut from delib­
erate chicanery to actual witchcraft.
As the tests imposed upon the Fox sisters were met and the ugly ac­
cusations were disproved, their circle of firm supporters widened and
the nucleus of organized Modern Spiritualism had come to recogniz­
able being.
Driven from two homes as a result of the supernormal disturbances,
Leah had finally acquired a cottage on Troup street which was to be
their home until their departure for their residence in New York City.
Until the beginning of 1852 the Troup street home was hom e, a loved
and sheltered spot where the now-famous sisters and their patient
mother could return for rest from the strange new life which stretched
before them. Their field of activity had widened. Albany, Troy, New
York City, Buffalo, Cleveland, and Cincinnati called and welcomed
them. Believers in the New Faith multiplied by the hundreds: the Fox
Sisters were hailed as the founders of a Great Cause.
18
The staunch supporters of the Rochester Circle, as it was called,
begged the Fox Sisters to remain in their city, but the stronger pleas
of their followers in New York City prevailed and that metropolis,
with its thousands of believers in Modern Spiritualism, was chosen as
a permanent place of residence. They left their Rochester friends
tearfully, once more yielding to their directing forces.
Many years of accomplishment lay before them. Many thousands
were to find a new and comforting belief because of their ability to
be the channels through which a little-understood force could dem­
onstrate. Their friends were to number the great and the near-great.
But never were friends to mean more than those stalwart, fearless
souls who stood protectively, shoulder to shoulder, in those first ter­
rifying months of test and trial. Rochester was always called “home”;
contact with the dear friends there was never broken. The Rochester
Circle retained its identity for many years; a few of its first members
remained to celebrate the fiftieth anniversary of its formation and
had the joy of once again giving honor to the sisters who had made
their start with them and with their help.
It is fitting and not altogether strange that the vicinity where organ­
ized Modern Spiritualism struggled for its early life should have
a church building dedicated to the use of the Movement. The fine old
building at the corner of Plymouth Avenue and Troup Street has been
the meeting place for Spiritualists in that city and the surrounding
country for many years. The best Lecturers and Mediums in the Move­
ment have spoken from its pulpit. In its shaded dooryard stands the
fine obelisk which was bought by contributions from Spiritualists
throughout the world and whose dedication to the foundei-s of the
Movement in 1927 is a brilliant memory to those who were privileged
to be present.
Troup Street, a century ago, was a fashionable section of the city and
in its vicinity many of the aristocratic families of Old Rochester had
their residences. Two of these fine old mansions are preserved as
museums. To those sensitive to the aura of a place it is still a dignified
and peaceful spot. Something benign and calm lingers there and
marks it as a special place. The spirit of the past still hovers there
protectively, with blessings for those who come with understanding
and humility.•
• H istorical D irector and C onsultant of the WORLD CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM : Founder of the FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY: A uthor of TIME IS KIND.
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
by Alvin Boyd Kuhn, Ph D.
It i.«h privilege to contribute an expression of appreciation of the ni». ^
nificance of tin* Modern Spiritualist movement in the life and history 1
of mankind. But it is a privilege that overwhelms one with a sense of J
entire inability to measure up to the tremendous import of this <
]
upsurge of the spirit of man in an age of almost crushing materialism. J
No pen can portray the power of this mighty interest in its impact
upon the mass consciousness of the world. Whether it can be asserted
confidently that the Councils of Divine Providence, with an eye
watchful and solicitous of the spiritual welfare of the human family,
engineered the strange behavior of the Fox sisters in Ilydesville in
1818, may In
* a moot question. So far as one may judge of such
transcendental matters, it has the appearance of having been so engi­
neered || one were to seek the high design back of such a maneuver,
it could, without undue forcing of the point, be laid to the work of
the Spiritual Hierarchy of the world, for the motive of releasing at a
critical juncture in the soul life of mankind a force that would save
that life from being warped out of all true relation to verity and even
hopelessly crushed under the overall weight of deadening materialistic
ideology, that was captivating and enthralling the mind of Western
humanity.
The crisis was fearfully precarious for the future welfare of the race.
After some fifteen centuries of the enslavement of the Occidental
mind under the remorseless power of ecclesiastical religion, en­
trenched in sovereignty even over the civil power of states, the ad­
vance of science and the dawn of modern objective interest broke the
most severe of the chains of mental bondage and, in part at least,
opened the doors to freedom of thought. Leaping forth from age-long
restriction, the freed mind swept with full ardor and enthusiasm into
the realm of empirical and positivist science. The world of nature and
of life was made to yield up its laws and its secrets. Reaction of the
utmost violence swept the inquiring mind away from religious obses­
sion into the world of objective phenomena, where the very springs of
life itself were sought with increasing promise of success. Ideology
perforce swung away from spiritual levels and regions to the mechan­
istic side of life. The physical body of reality, so to say, became the
center of world interest, the soul falling farther and farther from the
central focus of vital concern. Spiritual science stood in grave danger
of being lost in the entrancing interests of material science. Philosophy
faced the imminent danger of being reformulated to see life as gov­
erned and motivated from the outside, under the pressure of new
knowledge of physical forces. Man stood in grim peril of being regu­
lated and dominated by things and machines and the false evaluation
of their place and function in life. The spiritual soul of the West was
close to the brink of being ousted from its rightful place of headship
in the life of the individual and the world. Mankind could lose its
inner guidance of the divine spirit. A century or two of such benight-
edness could wreak havoc in the happiness and progress of the race.
One can well believe that the Spiritual Guardians of humanity exerted
themselves to avert such a catastrophe. They broke through the in­
terval of vibration rate that separates human from celestial conscious-
20
ness with a message that would bring again to mortal man the certain
knowledge that the immortal spirit, the king of life, is not the evanes­
cent product of a material body to perish with its dissolution.
The full importance of this revelation for historical man has not been
seen in its solid significance or given its due weight in the counsels
of religion and philosophy. It is, and at all times must be. the keystone
of the structure of human culture. The uncertainty or failure of the
knowledge that a divine part of man survives the disintegration of the
mortal part is the greatest destroyer of culture in all the domain of
mental influence. Civilization depends upon the self-restraint of indi­
vidual action sufficient to stabilize orderly society. Self-di3cipline can
spring or rest on no other motive than the aims and desires of a con­
scious being to escape the penalties of past ignorant action and to reap
the happier fruits of past rectitude. Without the assured knowledge
or at least the firm conviction that life will endure into the future,
following bodily death, such aims and desires can never gain the
strength to enforce individual righteousness. Philosophy has sought,
but never found, any rational motive for self-control and moral con­
duct in lieu of the prospect or the inner intuition of the continued
existence of the spirit of man in another world. Indeed, morality can
only have the most tentative and wavering bases in the reasoning
mind if there is wanting entire certitude of the soul s survival. Were
death utterly to blot out life, the door is open wide for chaos to come
tumbling into the home of the mind. Bereft of assurance of further
existence, a mind becomes at once the prey to the logic of opportunism.
There is nothing in sight to controvert the instinctive argument that
one might as well give free rein to every whim and desire and take a
full fling at life's cruder satisfactions. Without future life in another
world, there can be no reckoning of earthly accounts. Immorality
promises a brighter primrose path, if death is the end. No competent
logic can be found to support the heavy demands of moral uprigh-
teousness if the soul is done with life when the body drops away.
Knowledge of the soul’s survival, then, is the rock foundation of all
social morality. It is the supreme moral force in human life. Religion
was from the start the growth of a cultus of the highest conceivable
spiritual values, springing from and based on this one fundamental
assurance. The high esoteric religions of old built up their ceremonial
practices in very definite relation to the possibility of keeping open
riie communication between the two worlds of the soul’s life, its con­
tacts with the world in body and out of body. Religions were inher­
ently spiritualistic in the days of their greatest power. Unquestionably
the great debate as to how God dictated the Sacred Scriptures to “holy
men of old” is resolvable only by the formula of spirit communica­
tion from highly evolved former humans, risen to divine status of
knowledge and wisdom, to sensitives of adequate receptivity. The
amazing revelation of highest cosmic truth and light transmitted
through the brain of the illiterate Andrew Jackson Davis, to mention
but one instance among many, is a fairly close modern approximation
of such divine dictation.
One Century of Spiritualism now closes: another opens. Peering into
the future, it is thrilling to speculate how far the movement will be
successful in storming the formidable ramparts of materialistic in-
terest and stolid ignorance. What will the second hundred years bring
forth ? To what degree of benignant service to the soul of man will the
exalting message of Spiritualism open the way With a hundred years’
start, the opportunity would seem to be limitless. The opportunity
carries a stem challenge to its proponents. Orthodox religion ha.
proved recalcitrant to Spiritualism and recreant to its own basic Spirit­
ualistic motivations. Spiritualism is regarded in orthodox circles as her­
esy. To put a volume in a few words, it now becomes necessary forthe
Spiritualist movement to reorient its own position in relation to ortho­
doxy. Spiritualism has remained too closely linked with fundamentalist
religionism, it has blindly continued to support a religion that is at
the same time hostile to it. It must hasten to disassociate itself from
this alliance and learn to stand on its own feet, which it can plant
solidly upon the fundamental of the ancient esoteric spiritual truth.
The light of revealing new scholarship is now at hand to enable it to
make a complete reinterpretation of the Scriptures, which will restore
Christianity to its original foundations. The second century may well
devote its efforts to this consummation.
WORLD SPIRITUALISM
Science, p u re science, lias attained world self­
hood : its true exponents labor for all: its bene­
fits are for humanity-at-large. Art, particularly
in music, literature, and color and line, has long
since overflowed the banners of nations to up­
lift the heart and intellect of man in harmonious
accord. Socially, modern transportation, radio,
and the cinema have made peoples of once dis­
tant places of the earth neighbors. Following a
second devastation of mighty conflict, leaders
among men again seek to build political and
economic co-operation throughout the world.
So it is that in nearly all phases of life save
religion, humanity has made definite and worthwhile strides towards
solidarity through unification. But here, in the religions of men, which
is the basic fibre of human culture as manifest in “the things of the
soul.” the pattern is one of chaos and discord, woven all too clearly
upon the loom of intolerance. Yet, even in this sphere of life, there
are the beginnings.
Growth of Modern Spiritualism
History records the efforts of some religious groups to spread the faith
through the power of the sword and the agencies of fear, and others
through missionary activities substantiated by political and economic
pressures. But down through the centuries little effort has been made
to propagate any one religion through service and understanding—
until the advent of Modern Spiritualism! In this relatively young
movement it is found that its one mighty core doctrine of demonstrat­
ed survival has traveled to the widely separated regions of the globe,
and is now supported by those of divergent religious backgrounds.
This it has accomplished not by power prestige, which it has neither
sought nor attained, but through the strength of its spiritual truth
which is fundamental to religion itself.
It is true that Modem Spiritualism is not a majority movement in any
one nation, ami in many countries it is yet in its infancy. Yet its seeds
have been spread and planted in the good soil of nearly all the na­
tions of men from Iceland to India and Australia, from America to
England and the Philippines. And these seeds are taking root: in their
slow, solid growth are seen “signs of the times.”
W orld-W ide Influence
In the signs made manifest by the widespread understanding and
ever-increasing support of Modern Spiritualism by groups expanding
throughout the civilized nations of the earth, there is revealed one
inevitable attainment, high and noble: WORLD SPIRITUALISM !Not
that Modern Spiritualism shall conquer; nay, it shall penetrate!
TRUTH MUST ATTAIN!
WORLD SPIRITUALISM? It moves not in the direction that Modern
Spiritualism is to dom inate the religion of man. Rather, its present
progress is toward a single WORLD-UNITED Spiritualist Organiza-
23
tion. With this development accomplished. Modern Spiritualism will
take its rightful place on Earth.
E v id e n c e o f G r o w in g U n ity
What are the specific signs which indicate the march of our move­
ment to an organized, unified W O R L D SPIRITUALISM ? The most
important of these indications is to be seen in the fact that individual
Spiritualists the world over are becoming more and more aware of
th< great international expanse of their Movement. They are entering
into the knowledge that Modern Spiritualism is truly important not
only because of the glory which it demonstrates, but by the very bulk
and weight of its ever-increasing development e v e r y w h e r e .
Not only is this increased influence a matter of larger numbers of
people directly affiliated with the Movement, but the undeniable effect
for g o o d of spiritualistic demonstrations and teachings upon the popu­
lace of the world ; the p s y c h ic e le m e n t is not only fast becoming of
common place acceptance, it is becoming an integral pail of orthodox
science and an expanding factor in the ails. These two elements are
evidenced in the studies of Extra Sensory Perception and allied sub­
jects in innumerable institutions of higher learning, as well as in the
scripts of radio, stage, screen, and press. In short, there is a very def­
inite s p ir itu a listic c o lo r in g that has become a pail of the thinking of
the great masses of humanity, in positions high and low, and this
c o lo r in g increases in every land as the light of civilization grows
brighter.
Oi greater and more definite import is that the s ig n s indicative of the
coming of WORLD SPIRITUALISM are evidenced within the cor­
poreal structure of the Movement itself. Take heed to what is going on,
as it were, in the present developm ent of the in te r n a tio n a l organiza­
tion of Modern Spiritualism.
F e d e r a tio n S p ir ite I n te r n a tio n a le
1
1
1 1911 the In te r n a tio n a l C o u n c il o f S p ir itu a lis ts was organized at
Geneva, but due to World W ar I the enterprise was short lived.
Following the cessation of belligerencies, a new attempt for an inter­
national organization of Modern Spiritualism was made in London.
Here the representatives of tw elve nations were present. In 1922 at
Liege, Belgium, the organization adopted a constitution and estab­
lished the permanent headquarters of the I n te r n a tio n a l Spiritualist
F e d e r a tio n in Paris, France. Tri-annual sessions or C o n g resses con­
vened at Paris, London, The Hague, Barcelona, and Glasgow. Strong
organizational headway was established, but again, this time because
of the second world catastrophe, activities were suspended.
Preliminaries for the re-establishment of the I n te r n a tio n a l Spiritualist
F e d e r a tio n were started in July of 1947 at Bournemouth. England.
These meetings, held under the auspices of the S p iritu alists' National
U nion, were attended by several internationally known Spiritualist
Leaders, among whom were: A. H. L. Vigurs, John Stewart. E. \Y.
Oaten, and Hannen Swaffer, of England; Rev. Mrs. Gaulton-Bishop
and Dr. McKeen Reid, of Canada; Mme. Saint Clair and M. Andre
Dumas, of France; Mme. Freund, of Austria; Mr. and Mrs. L. Lloyd,
of the Union of South Africa; and Mr. and Mrs. Rolf Carlson, of Swe-
24
don. September of 1918, the Centennial year of Modern Spiritualism,
marks another Congress Meeting in the persistent effort on part of the
International S p iritu alist F ed era tio n to build toward WORLD SPIRIT­
UALISM.
Concilium S a n ctu m M undi
Another very important organization working toward the develop­
ment of WORLD SPIRITUALISM is the W orld Spiritual C ongress. At
its meeting held in Brussels, August, 19 16, the C on gress adopted a
SPIRITUAL CHARTER OF HUMANITY, undoubtedly the first of its
kind in the world.
The C on gress is founded upon broad lines of spiritual culture, seeking
to build strength through UNITY with which to stem the devastating
flood of materialism and to place civilization upon a sure foundation
of spiritual truth. Thus it is the larger, the universal expanse of Mod­
ern Spiritualism that is emphasized by the C on gress which has not
closed its door upon other denominations sympathetic to its Cause. As
set forth in its constitution, the C on g ress consists of the “affiliation of
all churches, denominations, organizations, and institutions of learn­
ing. which have as their aim the study of the problems of Religion,
Philosophy, Science, Sociology, and the Ails, in their spiritual as­
pects.”
The international business sessions of the C on gress are held annually
under direction of its governing body, called the S u p rem e C ouncil. In
July of 19-17 the meeting convened in Paris, France. Among its of­
ficers are Mgr. John van Ryswyk, president; Maitre Fr. Wittemans,
general secretary; and M. Henri Regnault, director of the French
section.
C on fed eracion E spirita P a n -A m e r ic a n a
A great international organization laboring toward WORLD SPIRIT­
UALISM is the P a n -A m e r ic a n C o n fe d e r a tio n o f S piritualism , with its
headquarters now located in Buenos Aires, Argentina. With the
C on federation there is no one fixed place of headquarters, which
moves to the seat of the particular country wherein is held its
Triennial Congress. In 1949 this is to be in Brazil.
Though formed recently, the C o n fe d e r a tio n gives promise of a strong
and constructive body. It has well-established and powerful member
organizations in just about every country in South America, and in­
cludes others in Mexico and Puerto Rico. Thus the C o n fed eration
UNITES nearly all Spiritualist Societies throughout the length and
breadth of the Western Hemisphere south of the Rio Grande into one
mighty organization for mutual benefit each to the other, and all for
the advancement of Spiritualism-at-Large.
Of all the international Spiritualist organizations of the world, the
C onfederation alone has its official organ, a splendid twelve-page
printed magazine. Jose S. Fernandez is president and Luis Di Cristo-
foro Postligioni is secretary general.
Federation o f Spiritual C h u rch es and A ssociation s
In the United States of America and Canada there is a Spiritualist
Federation, the membership of which consists of some three hundred
25
individual legally established church societies, educational institu­
tions. healing groups, clubs, rest homes, publishing houses, and a-•/,.
ciations (parent-bodies). This Federation of Spiritual Churches and
Association* is in organization for the purpose of building UNITY:
unitj* for the protection of the members of the Spiritualist Ministry,
and unity for the protection of the Movement-at-Large.
In the matter of protecting members of the Spiritualist Ministry, th<
Federation guarantees the Certified Workers of all affiliated group?,
FREE legal counsel. This is provided thus: The Association by whom
the individual is certified contributes one half of legal costs in ca:-‘-
brought before the lower or municipal courts and Federation pay.str'
remaining half. Where appeal of the case is necessary or advisable.
Federation provides the entire cost of such appeal. To date. Federa­
tion has backed up several cases where members of the Spiritualist
Ministry were arrested and brought into court for practicing thei'
Religious Calling. EVERY SUCH CASE HAS BEEN WON, bringing
complete exoneration to each Worker so involved.
In the procedure of protecting our Movement-at-Large, Federation
fights all adverse propaganda such as unfair and vicious attacks made
against the Religion of Spiritualism in the public press as well as
derogatory comments and ridicule broadcast over the air waves.
Several such abuses and restrictions of Religious Liberty have been
successfully handled, resulting in apologetic promises “to offend no
more” coming from large publishers, radio broadcast companies and
program sponsors.
As a direct contribution to the stimulation of constructive propaganda.
F ed eration endeavors to build good-will not only within the Spiritual­
ist Movement p er se, but in the “public mind” as well. The WORLD
C entennial C eleb ration o f M o d e r n S p iritu a lism is sponsored to this
end.
The F ed eration , while only five years old, is one of the fastest growing
and most powerful of international Spiritualist organizations in the
entire Movement, building WORLD SPIRITUALISM. This body has
an annual business convention at which its governmental council of­
ficers are elected. Serving in 1947 are: Rev. V. R. Cummins, president:
Rev. Bert L. Welch, vice-president; and Rev. Mae A. Baxter, secre­
tary-general.
C onclusion
All of these “signs of the times” point to this inevitable eventuality:
one p o w e r fu l, unified o r g a n iz a tio n o f W O R L D S P IR IT U A L ISM . It
hooves all true Spiritualist Workers and Societies to labor hard an
sincerely in order to hasten the day of this attainment.
As the first one hundred years of Modem Spiritualism has spread th-
Cause of d e m o n str a te d su rvival to nearly all places on earth, great a:
small, and has given unto its followers and Ministry the strength t
demand and fight for the Rights of Religious Freedom, so the c
century of our Movement will witness the establishment of a trui>
glorious manifestation of UNITY in WORLD SPIRITL’AIJSM
PILLARS OF FEDERATION
All institutions rest upon the works of individuals. So it is that one
•{
’ten hears of the pillars o f the church, referring to those particular
Persons who earn.- the greater weight of labors and services made to
and by the institution itself, people who shoulder the responsibilities,
as it were, of the group and by whose special efforts the actual duties
of organizational existence and operation are executed.
FEDERATION, too, has its pillars. But let us not forget that the
strength of the F.S.C.. like that of all good and worthy institutions,
is builded not only upon the achievements of its executives, but upon
the works of the “rank and file” of its worthy laborers. Such support­
ers are legion, and though their names never be hailed in triumphant
praise, they are as “the salt of the earth" without which the real life
and vitality of FEDERATION would be assigned to death. Thus,
while here are penned glowing and sincere words of our F.S.C. offi­
cers and trustees, past and present, we also must have the vision to see
the unwritten words of tribute here dedicated to the non-official work­
ers. the sturdy foundation stones, by whom the pillars of FEDERA­
TION are truly supported, and so held upright.
REV. ANTHONY CAMARDO
“Tony” Camardo has many virtues, but
there is one high quality which he pos­
sesses that so overshadows all others that
the one word which is most apt to charac­
terize him is FRIENDLY. His great and
good work is a true embodiment of friend­
liness, which reaches out to folks and makes
them want to listen to the Voice of Spirit
that works through him. Rev. Anthony
Camardo was elected to the FEDERATION
Supreme Council at the Chicago Conven­
tion of 1946. The Illinois Unit of the F.S.C.
chose Brother Tony its President in 1947,
but he labors in unselfish sendee not only for the Unit and for FED­
ERATION, but for our entire Movement-at-Large.
Rev. Anthony Camardo is the President-Founder of the LIBERAL
PSYCHIC SCIENCE CENTRE Association.
REV. VERNON R. CUMMINS
Rev. Vernon R. Cummins, requested by Rev.
Welch of CHIMES, fashioned a plan for
the building of a federation of all U.S.A.
organizations promulgating the truth of In­
ter-World Communication. Result: FED­
ERATION was born at Bloomington. Illi­
nois, April, 1944. Our first Convention was
held at Joplin. Missouri, in October, 1944.
The original By-Laws, drawn up by Broth­
er Cummins, were adopted at this time and
FEDERATION’S Supreme Council was set
into immediate action. Rev. Cummins, one
of our “Three Fathers," became its first
27
President and he has more or less charted its great course from an in.
fant group to its present status as one of the largest, most powerful
and most active spiritualistic organizations in the world. The unquesl
tioned success of FEDERATION is, in large measure, a reflection of
our ASTUTE (the word!) Leader.
Rev. Vernon R. Cummins is life-President of the TEXAS SPIRITUAL
CHRISTIAN SYNOD and co-pastor (with his good companion. Eve.
Ivn) of the FIRST SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH OF SAN AN.
TONIO.
REV. LIONEL P. EVERMAN
The Spiritualists of Nebraska have much to
be proud of in the Leadership of Rev. Lio­
nel P. Everman. When this good gentleman
was arrested for the violation of the so-
called “fortune-telling law” he could have
pleaded guilty, paid a small fine, and gone
on his way in silence and without publicity,
as so many before him have done. But Rev.
Everman’s character and honor, as well as
his devotion to the Religion of Spirit, im­
pelled him to fight for Our Cause. Conse­
quently he appealed his case to the District
Court, where he was acquitted and com­
pletely exonerated in a very important precedent-establishing case
that will stand for all time as a sign-post along the legal highway to
Religious Freedom. Appointed to the F.S.C. Supreme Council by your
President to fill the unexpired term of the late Dr. Carl H. Pierce,
Brother Everman will go down in the history of Modern Spiritualism
and FEDERATION as a man who was not afraid to light for his Re­
ligion. C O U R A G E O U S is the word for Everman.
REV. J. BERTRAN GERL1NG
E L E C T R IC is the word for Rev. J. Bertran
Gerling, chairman of our WORLD CEN­
TENNIAL CELEBRATION OF MODERN
SPIRITUALISM. Calling New York his
“home,” Brother Gerling is such an adept
Spiritualist that he is “at home” anywhere
he may be. A Master of Psychology and a
Psychic Instrument of rare ability, Rev.
Gerling reflects with ideal credit the train­
ing of the MORRIS PRATT INSTITUTE.
Spiritualism’s Seminary at Whitewater,
Wisconsin, where he was an honor student.
Appointed at Chicago in 19-16 as chairman
of the Centennial Celebration Committee, Brother John manifested so
much real insight, drive, and ability that he reached our Supreme
Council in 1947 by the acclamation route. “By their fruits ye shall
know them.”
Rev. J. Bertran Gerling, president of the FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY,
and his wife-companion Helene are the co-founders of the UNIVER­
SAL PSYCHIC SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.
28
REV. ERNEST GLEASON
CONSTANT is the word for Rev. Ernest
Gleason of Michigan, who served a one
year term on the FEDERATION Supreme
Council. Always trying to promote clean
Spiritualism, constantly boosting inthought,
word, and deed all efforts towards Har­
mony and Progress in Our Movement, Rev.
Gleason stands as a glowing example to all
others who WISH TO DO THEIR PART.
Never missing a FEDERATION Meeting
since its inception. Erother Gleason was a
member of the essential EDUCATION
COMMITTEE. He was the first member of
the President’s Cabinet, an Honorary Advisor)- Council to the Presi­
dent which is composed of those who have served on the Supreme
Council.
REV. A. MAE BAXTER GRUNER
The distinction of being “the first lady” to
grace our FEDERATION Supreme Council
goes to the Rev. A. Mae Baxter Gruner of
Escondido, California. This honor was be­
stowed on Rev. “Mae” by the San Antonio
Convention in 1947 and later in the Su­
preme Council meeting she was elected
Secretary-Treasurer. Having had much and
varied successful experience in many im­
portant positions of trust in Our Move­
ment, such, for example, as President of
HARMONY GROVE SPIRITUALIST
CAMP, California, Sister Mae is best
summed up. as it were, in the one word CAPABLE!
REV. THORO HARRIS
Rev. Thoro Harris of Arkansas gave his
support and active thought to FEDERA­
TION from its very beginning. He drew a
one year term on our Supreme Council at
the Joplin Convention in 1944 and served
with fidelity and honor. Brother Harris, a
deep and clear thinker, mav best be de­
scribed as STUDIOUS!
Inspired by Higher Forces to compose mu­
sic, to fill churches with the sweetness and
harmony that lifts the hearts of his tried
and tired fellow men. Thoro Harris is a
gentleman of few spoken words, but his
spiritual glory is reflected in the many "words to music” in SONGS
OF THE SUMMERLAND.
29
REV. B. R. HILL
“I am a young Spiritualist minister and if l
can help unify Our Movement through
FEDERATION. I want to Ho so,” said Rev.
“Billy” Hill in 19 11. REAL is the word that
best describes this Missouri boy who brings
a powerful evangelical note to Modern Spir­
itualism and who has risen through sheer
genius to the positions of honor and acclaim
which he now holds. Brother Hill was on our
Supreme Council from 191 1 until 1917, dur­
ing which time he held the office of Secre-
tarv-Treasurer. He has for several years
been President of the WELLS SPIRITUAL
1ST CAMP (Kansas) and in April 1947 was appointed Leader of the
Missouri Unit of the F.S.C. As long as there is a “Billy” Hill, there will
be Spiritualism and FEDERATION.
REV. FLOYD HUMBLE
One of the original “Three Fathers” of
FEDERATION, Rev. Floyd Humble is char­
acterized by the word VITAL! Here is a
young man possessed of a most fertile brain
that is ever active and capable of enlighten­
ing inspiration and rapid decision. “I’ll go
anywhere for an organization meeting of
FEDERATION,” proclaimed Rev. Humble
before the F.S.C. was formed, and in this
same enlivened manner he has done just
about that, preaching and teaching Unity
under Our Banner. Brother Humble served
on our FEDERATION Supreme Council
from 1944 until 1947 and was Vice-President during that period.
Rev. Floyd Humble is the founder of the CHURCH OF THE SPIRIT­
UALIST Association.
REV. FRED JORDAN
There is much to be said of this Leader in
the Religion of Spirit. Rev. Fred Jordan,
who has given so many years in service to
his Country, recently retired as Lt. Cmdr.
of the United States Navy.
As President of the INTERNATIONAL
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF SPIRITUAL­
ISTS and pastor of two Churches in Vir­
ginia, he still covers a great deal of terri­
tory.
Having favored FEDERATION from the
moment its ideal was first presented to him.
Rev. Jordan was elected by acclamation to
our Supreme Council at the Chicago Convention of 1946. A former
Navy boxing champion and a fighter through the years for his Coun­
try, and for Spiritualism, Brother Jordan is best described by the
word STRONG!
30
DR. CARL H. PIERCE
Catching the FEDERATION "fever" im­
mediately the idea was suggested in the
fall of 1943, Dr. Carl H. Pierce (now passed
to the Next Life) became the "St. Paul" in
the unifying of Our Movement. Though his
home was at Mt. Vernon, New York, the
doctor traveled criss-cross over our great
nation, preaching, yea, exhorting to all the
absolute necessity of a united front for Our
Cause. As much at ease with the college
professor as with the man in the street.
Brother Pierce was fearless, tireless, and a
living example of “applied truth." He
served on the Supreme Council of FEDERATION from its inception
until his transition in February, 1947, and he held the indispensable
position of PUBLIC RELATIONS COUNSEL. For Dr. Pierce, the word
is STEADFAST! lie founded THE SPIRITUAL SCIENCE MOTHER
CHURCH (Association).
REV. BERT L. WELCH
Rev. Bert L. Welch of California is one of
the "Three Fathers” of FEDERATION. It
was because of his request that the plan for
FEDERATION was drawn up by Rev. Cum­
mins. This plan was first published in
CHIMES, a magazine published and edited
by Rev. Welch. Drawing a three-year Su­
preme Council term at Joplin in 1944.
Brother Welch was chosen Vice-President
at San Antonio in 1947. Because of his con­
stant drive, good spirit, and the spiritual
qualities of his splendid work, GRAND is
the word for Rev. Welch.
(Note: All trib u tes above expressed w ere w ritte n by our FEDERATION President, Rev. Vernon R.
Cummins, save his own, w hich w as con trib u ted by the editor.)
31
LIVING “QUOTES”
Here is World Spiritualism, 1948! . . . selected by Rev. Helen»
Gerling, Secretary.
USA . . . BISHOP HORTON PIERCE:
". . . the case of several mediums who had been attacked in Missouri,
one of them a medium in good standing in her community for 35 years!
She is over eighty years of age. FEDERATION is naturally defending
them all. whether of our member churches or not.”
CZECHOSLOVAKIA . . . B. ANTHONY :Editor PSYCHICKA REVUE
"Our ‘House de Spirites.’ the labor of many years, has been destroyed,
bombed out. . . . We are working as hard as ever. . .
UNION OF SOUTH AFRICA . . . ELIZABETH FORD
“. . . A few weeks ago I received a letter from the clerk of the Pres­
byterian Church berating me for the minister of the said Church for
not preaching the true Gospel, and requesting me to give up Spirit­
ualism. burn all books on the subject, and to cast away ‘Satan’ . .
URUGUAY . . . RICARDO LAV1CKA
"I am glad to inform you that public lectures will be performed for
the World Celebration in Montevideo.”
EGYPT . . . DR. ANWAR HANNA
“You of America and England have so much in Spiritualism, we of
Egypt so little, so very little. . .
MOMBASA . . . KAIKOBAD ARDESHIR
. . I do not care whether people laugh, scorn, or ridicule me, and
rest assured it is freely showered. . . .”
NETHERLANDS . . . K. A. van D. BURGH: NEDERLANDSCHE
FEDERAT1E VAN SPIR1TUALISTEN
"All our books disappeared in German hands for their funeral pyres.”
MOROCCO . . . CHARLES ALBERT ELAZAR
"I am the only Spiritualist still upstanding in Tangier. . . . Persecution
has been the lot of our brethren who are still in prisons or camps...
IN D IA . . . C. KAWASJEE: INDIAN SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY
“V. D. RISHI, B.A., LL.B., our founder, has published many books on
the subject of Modern Spiritualism in Marathi, Hindu, and English.”
A N W 1A S C O , WEST AFRICA . . . NYAMIKEH KOJOE
"I send you a thousand kisses of praise. Command me to my work in
Spiritualism, Honored Brother and Teacher, and with love in ray
heart, 1 obey.”
IC E L A N D . . . JON AUDUNS:
“. . . the National Church of Iceland, including about ninety percent
of the population, has long ago adopted a very friendly position to­
wards Spiritualism. . .
N IG E R IA . . . SILAS EZZE ONOH
“. . . I am spreading the news. . .
U S A . . . MARIAM POND: FOX MEMORIAL SOCIETY
"1 came from the convention appalled by the ignorance of the mem­
bers regarding the Fox Family."
32
FOUR
GREAT
SPIRITUALIST CONTESTS
Hymn • • •
Essay • • •
Motto
Poem • • •
The World Celebration of Modern Spiritualism sponsored Four G reat
Spiritualist C on tests throughout the entire world, seeking a fine and
fitting Hymn, Essay, Motto, and Poem for Our Cause.
Thousands of BULLETINS given entirely to the official announcement
of these Contests and containing the rules and regulations thereof were
mailed directly to nearly every Spiritualist organization on the face
of the earth. Also almost all of the outstanding popular Psychic
Publications throughout the world cooperated by advertising the
unusual event in their columns.
Capable and honest Judges were appointed to examine every single
entry and to select the one in each of the four categories which, in their
opinions, was held to be the finest and most fitting. In these Contests
there were no awards of monetary measure . . . each winner receiving
a Prize of International Acclaim as his/her entry appears upon the
pages of our GRAND SOUVENIR BOOK, where it will live not only
in the immortal Archives of Our Movement, but, it is believed, in the
hearts of all true Spiritualists forever.
Hundreds of entries were received. By far the great majority were
from the English speaking nations of the world. This was the natural
result of the rule which required that all entries be submitted in
English, a condition necessitated by the limited facilities for transla­
tion at the disposal of the Judges.
To all those individuals of true sportsmanship and good-will who
submitted their works in these Four Great Spiritualist Contests, the
officials, the members of the various committees of the World Cen­
tennial Celebration of Modern Spiritualism, as well as the Judges
of the Contests, extend their whole hearted appreciation . . . and to
the winners, HAPPY CONGRATULATIONS!
UPWARD. LOYAL WORKFR*,
Audrey Ann Far?
Winom
at
HYMN
CONTEST
Rev Tmouo Hamus
S m u rr Mikes
Ruth N tw tu .
A a' t wn>< S p r u A ito u n
Mim Audrey Am Farr of Hollywood. C alifornia, ui an active arti*:
of arreen. lU gv. and radio. She has been interested in both the study
and dem undntK N i of the phenom ena of Modern Spiritualism unct
childhood. H er paychic faculties are keenly developed and she give*
excellent promise to the future, not only as an artist, but as a Medium
as well.
14
V V w A K
I. () > A L W O R K E R S !
By Audrey Ann Farr
(To tho Music of '-Onward. Chnnrtan Soldi*"
t>y Sir Arthur Suitivrrn)
Up-ward, loyal wnrk-ers!
Climbing to the Light,
Kaise the Cause of Spirit,
Build-ing in the right.
Like a might-y bless-ing,
Sounds the voice of love:
For our dead are speaking,
Coming from a-bove.
Chorus:
Up-ward, loyal work-ers!
Climb-ing to the Light,
Raise the Cause of Spir-it,
Build-ing in the right.
2 On-ward, brother build-ers!
Time will not be long;
Lift your hearts from bond-age,
Singing Free-dom’s song:
Though by death di-vid-ed,
None are kept a-part;
Spiritual Communion
Mends the bro-ken heart.
Chorus: . . .
3 For-ward, Spirit Lead-ers!
Calling o’er Death’s door.
With the voice of knowl-ege
Speak-ing out before.
Truth, thy noble glo-ry,
Lifts a-bove the earth,
Teaching unto all men
Their immortal worth.
Chorus: . .
ENGLISH EDITOR HONORED
^WINNER IN ^SSAY CONTEST
Why Spiritualism WaS Born’ lVie Pbze
winning 'vas submilt<i" »,
NEST THOMPSON, editor of T \\0
WORLDS. the “Leading Spiritual
W eekly” * published at Manchester,
E n g l a n d . Brother Thompson is ,
a d v o c a t e o f Education for out
StaUU •• a fighter for clean Spirit
MmlStl>’ A a tireless propagandist fox
ualism, and a xu
Our Cause.
E
B
H
tST T
H
O
M
P
SO
N
Ju d ges
to r Essay C ontest
re v Fke& E C l*bK
Chairman
loStPH.»E « * • * S t'M
All o! R oches,e f- N o”
York
WHY MODERN SPIRITUALISM WAS BORN
Prize Winning Essay
. . . ERNEST THOMPSON
The study of history is not merely of academic or passing interest,
but of great impoilanee as a guide to leadership, and to the future
development of any movement or system of society. The reason for
this is that the past contains the future, just as the future must be
the outcome of the efforts of the past.
The events of the past tend to ci'eate trends in history which follow
well defined laws of development, which if intelligently interpreted
in a dialectical way will indicate to the student, the organizer or
leader, what trends and developments will naturally arise in the
future. In addition to this, as problems tend to repeat themselves,
the lessons of the past, both successes and failures, should be born
in mind. Such study, however, can never be final, for new and unfor-
seen elements are always arising and dii-ection of policy must con­
stantly be adjusted and changed in harmony with any new factors
which may arise from time to time.
HOW HISTORY UNFOLDS
What is the nature of these changes which occur in history and
what laws of development do they follow ? How can we interpret
them so that they will be of the utmost value in determining our
future activities? At any given time or period in the history of a move­
ment or society we find that a certain system, philosophy, or creed
dominates.
In the 19th Century the religious life of Britain was dominated by
Orthodox Christianity, which undoubtedly had an important and
beneficial influence over the people. But all things, including reli­
gions, are in a constant state of motion and change and unless the
prevailing leadership adapts itself to these changes, it will tend to
lag behind and be in a state of contradiction with the more advanced
forces of society.
In studying these changes, we note that all things are also inter­
dependent upon each other. The future of the church for instance
was bound up with economic developments, state policy, education,
and the biological researches of a gentleman called Charles Darwin.
When we examine any given historical situation more closely, we
also discover that there are always numerous contradictions which
create the dynamic of progress. For instance the idea of Darwin’s
“Evolution” was a serious contradiction to many of the orthodox
beliefs.
DECLIN E O F T H E C H U R C H
Again we note in history that as time passes, these contradictions
tend to develop into a struggle between the various groups holding
opposing points of view, the result of which brings about an entirely
new situation. This was true in the case of the great battles between
37
the protagonists of Evolution and Religion which resulted in the
ultimate triumph of Materialism.
Such fundamental changes usually take place in a relatively abrupt
manner. Wars are testing times in which weaknesses are revealed
and the process of change accelerated. The Great War of 1911-18
was a crisis which not only shook social institutions but also religion.
This was most marked in Russia where the church collapsed com­
pletely. In Britain the church lost its former spiritual leadership, but
a new relevation. Modern Spiritualism, increased its membership.
When we come to consider the History of Spiritualism, one question
naturally arises. Having regard to the fact that there have been
psychic manifestations throughout the whole of history, why is it
that Modern Spiritualism had to wait until the middle of the nine­
teenth century? The sudden development of Spiritualism in 1848 was
dependent upon many other social developments, but chiefly upon
certain gradual changes which had been taking place for some
time in the lives of the people.
THE DYNAMIC OF SPIRITUALISM
During the previous one hundred years, modern industry had been
slowly establishing itself, but labour had to be recruited from
agriculture. This labour was illiterate, and in order that workers
could understand the processes of manufacture, education was essen­
tial. In the nineteenth century, schools were built, scientific knowledge
rapidly developed, the “Age of Reason” had dawned but the search­
ing light of reason slowly disintegrated the fabric of creedalism as
the contradictions between orthodox doctrines and scientific knowl­
edge developed. Moreover, this new knowledge was something which
everyone could possess, and was therefore the basis of democracy.
The mental dictatorship of orthodoxy w as consequently threatened.
Religion based on authority, which up to this point in history had
been a very necessary and progressive spiritual influence, was now
doomed, as education revealed its contradictions with reality. With
the decline of orthodox leadership, a new situation arose in which
there was a great need for a new spiritual leadership. In order to
accommodate the spiritual needs of the rising generations it was
necessary that the new revelation should be essentially rational and
offer no contradictions to scientific facts.
Ghostly phenomena, the basis of all previous religions, were of
course not new, but a rational interpretation of them by ordinary
people was now possible for the first time in history. The intelligent
understanding of psychic phenomena now became the dynamic for
establishing the new spiritual revelation which society needed.
D E C L IN E , D E C A Y , R E A C T IO N A N D D E A T H
Meanwhile the orthodox church, instead of moving with the times
and following nature’s laws of adaptation, in order to survive, began
to experience the fate of all social movements ; decline, decay, reaction
and death. It opposed the new scientific knowledge upon which
Materialism flourished, and its influnce over the masses declined.
It had already the seeds of decay within, for it had in fact already
become entirely materialistic in practice, thus developing a critical
internal contradiction to its own spiritual theories. It had served
its day! Nature, however, always supplants the old with the new.
Psychical phenomena, as ancient as life itself, could NOW BE
GIVEN A NEW interpretation in the light of reason and science, and
new philosophical and religious implications could NOW be derived
from them, by the common people, and form the basis of a scientific
and democratic religion for a scientific and democratic people, and
not. as in the past, by a priestly monoply which had formed the basis
of orthodoxy’s religious and mental dictatorship.
As Spiritualism developed, orthodoxy became reactionary, and bitterly
opposed and attacked every attempt of the NEW MOVEMENT to
propagate its truths.
PSYCHICAL PHENOMENA INVESTIGATED
Within a few years, following the Hydesville incident in America
in 1848, psychical investigations were being conducted in all the
chief industrial countries in the civilized part of the world. Where-
ever the phenomena engaged the attention of intelligent people, codes
were invented, spirit messages were written down, analyzed and
studied; a procedure which had not been possible to ordinary work­
ing class people in the previous century.
Spiritualism did not start in the upper circles of society but in the
homes of working class people, and for that reason it became a
democratic religion.
Around the firesides of working men and women mediums were
discovered, communication with the spirit world established, and
proof of the survival of men beyond the grave became a reality and
no longer a belief.
Soon the profound religious implications became clear, and around
these mediums grew the Spiritualist Churches of the Twentieth
Century.
PRIZE WINNING MOTTO
. . . Irom C anada
DEMONSTRATED SURVIVAL-
this is Spiritualism !
Anonymous Winner
The M otto selected by the Committee of
Judges was subm itted by a person unknown.
A number of other entries were also sent
in by the sam e individual. The letter enclosed
with the entries stated that the writer wished
to remain “A nonym ous,” and was so signed.
The concellation postm ark on the envelope
read, “TORONTO, C A N A D A .”
Judges:
A lic e M. R ichards, Chairman
Hon. M ary M. Dreaver
James M cPherson
C. Rhodes
A ll oI A uckland, N ow Zealand
40
Alice M Richards
g iu m iiij
. by R. S. Corbett
Poetry Contest Winner
R. S. Corbett is founder and president of the
R aven sw ood Spiritualist Society, a splendid
progressive organization of Altrincham.
Cheshire, England. He stands as an outstand­
ing Worker of World Spiritualism and labors
unselfishly for the advancement and harmony
of the Movement-at-Large. The Society, estab­
lished in 1933, sets forth this organizational
principle: ‘‘R a v en sw o o d is not con d u cted for
the p erson al or private gain of in d ivid u als. I'-,
funds are devoted solely to the furtherance of
the truths of Spiritualism and the progress of
the Society.”
The strong, powerful poem which was selected from innumerable
entries was specially composed by Brother Corbett for the World
Centennial Celebration of Modem Spiritualism.
Judges:
Rev. G len Argoe, Chairman, Nev/ York City
Rev. Edward Lester Thorne, Nev/ York City
Rev. A lice Wellstood Tindall, Washington, D. C
DIVINITY
. . . by R. S. Corboll
ETERNAL life, love and pow er, G o d ’s spirit in m an,
A true pnrl of tlint Being, lives thus for a span,
Encased in flesh garment of w on drous d esign ,
Some great phase to express o f a plan th a t’s divine.
This divine essence of life, su p rem e— etern al,
Heart and soul of creation, its source su p ern al,
Each spark of Divine Life, each on e g rea ter than suns,
Must return to its source, sublim e im p lu se beckons.
God’s vast purpose of being im parted its fire
Animation to matter, God's all-w ise desire,
Mighty progress is forged, through trials self-crea ted ,
That God’s glory, spirit, be thus sublim ated .
Superstition and priest-craft m ust c ea se to exist,
God’s truth alw ays prevailing, its facts w ill persist,
Till wise reason dictates and guides our conclusions,
To ban soul enslavem ent, and m an -m ad e delusions.
Man knows well that wise spirits, now G od-like and great,
Progress as they assist him, to rise from this state,
Divine truth, wisdom, teaching, through spirit com m une,
Flood his life’s work with great light,-w ith G o d ’s will attune.
42
THE SEMI-CENTENNIAL
OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
1848-1898
The U. S. A. Celebration of the Semi-Centennial of Our Movement,
like The WORLD Centennial Celebration of Modern Spiritualism,
was centered at Rochester, New York. The “Flour City,” as Rochester
was then called, was chosen in both instances because it was the
metropolis nearest to the actual birthplace of scientific inter-world
communication which originated at the Fox Cottage at Hydesville
and because it was here, in old Corinthian Hall, that the Rochester
Rappings were heard at the first organized public demonsti'ation of
controlled Mediumship by the famous Fox Sisters. Today, Rochester
is known as the “Flower City,” because of its large number of
beautifully landscaped homes and thousands of acres of highly cul­
tivated parks . . . “all filled with flowers, so colorful and gay”.
Among the “over two hundred” p ilgrim s visiting Rochester for the
celebration services were the following Pioneer workers of Our Cause:
Dr. S. A. Armstrong . . . Wm. H. Bach and wife, Evilena . . . Mercy
E. Cadwallader . . . J. E. Davis . . . B. B. Hill and wife . . . Moses
Hull . . . Clara .Johnson . . . George Kates . . . Mrs. Z. B. Kates
. . . Dr. James M. Peebles . . . Josie Post . . . Willet Post . . . Mrs.
J. W. van Auken.
During the program which lasted several days Mercy E. Cadwallader,
publisher and editor of the PROGRESSIVE THINKER, dedicated a
special service to the Fox Sisters and their marvelous Mediumship.
presenting, as a memorial token, the lovely wreath of ferns and
flowers pictured above.
An important part of the historical event was an exhibit of hundreds
of various items such as sp irit pictures and writings on slates, photo­
graphs, ap p orts, and the like, presented by William H. Bach and
his wife, Evilena.
Another feature of this Semi-Centennial Celebration of the advent
of Modern Spiritualism was an ESSAY CONTEST, the winning entry
of which is reproduced here in abridged form.
43
First Prize Essay
AT OUR SEMI-CENTENNIAL ANNIVERSARY
THE EFFECT OF SPIRITUALIST TEACHINGS
. . . by G. F. GREEN*
If the influence of an idea upon Humanity were always commensurate
with its intrinsic importance and scope— in other words, if the Harvest
were always proportioned to the quality of the Seed sown— our task
in tracing the probable effect of Spiritualism in the world would be
an easier one.
But. as. in the material world, the goodness of the soil, light, and
moisture, are as essential as good Seed; so, in the moral world, the
preparation of men’s minds, and favoring outward influences, are
as essential as the intrinsic goodness of the Idea.
The idea of a Future Life has been in the world for centuries, but
the seed has fallen for the most part upon “stony ground”. Where
it has taken root it has undoubtedly brought forth some fruit but
the extent of the harvest cannot be ascertained for the tares which
a r e not w ith e r e d .
It may here be premised that we shall not seek to forcast the effects
of S p ir itu a lism beyond the proximate future. This is the only problem,
a solution of which can be either possible or profitable to finite beings.
If we took the ground that Truth is mighty and must prevail, it
would only be necessary to prove S p ir itu a lis m to be true, and imagine
an U to p ia in which it should flourish, and our task would then be
completed. .. . But the conditions being all imaginary, such an attempt
should rather be embodied in the form of poetry than prose.
The effect of S p ir itu a lis m upon M o r a lity and R e lig io n must depend
on the condition in which it finds them. If Utility be accepted as the
basis of morals, it is obvious that S p ir itu a lis m opens up a wider view
of it than taken by the disciples of the B e n t h a m it e school.
If, on the other hand, a correct code of morals can only be arrived
at by a special revelation. S p ir itu a lis m is the Science which recognizes,
expounds, and harmonizes all R e v e la tio n s . In either case it is of para­
mount importance in its relation to M o r a ls and R e lig io n .
Our religion includes a belief in both methods of arriving at knowl­
edge— R e v e la tio n a n d S c ie n c e . A truth is often apprehended before
it is comprehended. It is felt by a species of intuition, before it is
explained and pro%
r
ed by Science. We do not wish to exalt Intuition
F u r » co m p lete p rin tin g . • » PSY C H IC O B SER V ER . Ju ly 2S, 1»47
44
at the expense of Science. The one is our beacon light, the other our
compass and guide through the darkness.
Spiritualism recognizes Revelation: but it does not recognize an
infallible Revelation: for two reasons—the necessary fallibility of
the human medium, and the possible fallibility of the Revelator.
There are Christian Spiritualists, it is true, who believe in the Divine
character of the Scripture Revelation, as coming from an infallible
source through infallibly-inspired channels, but such is part of their
Christianity, and not of their Spiritualism.
The Science of Spiritualism by itself (and this cannot be too well
remembered) proves nothing but the sole doctrine of a Future Life.
Upon all other subjects the teachings of the Spirits are various and
often conflicting. We are left to sift the truth from the error in all
cases.
It needs but little reflection, we think, to show us that a complete
Revelation of God’s will to man is an impossibility: for it would pre­
suppose the capacity in man to comprehend it. And so also the revela­
tion of any higher truths than those we are accustomed to, must be
a gradual one; and it is a natural supposition in conformity with all
experience of Law, that to be intelligible to us they should come
through the medium of minds only a little in advance of our own.
From the foregoing it will be gathered that we do not look to Spirit­
ualism for any influence upon M orality or R eligion from the revela­
tion of any altogether new and startling truths. We look rather to
the gradual growth, and increased vitality, of the belief in a future
life—to the consequent widening and enlarging of our ideal of hap­
piness, which is undoubtedly the actual basis of all morality.
To sum up— the good effect of S p iritu alism upon M orality is all com­
prised in the additional incentive it offers us to seek out for our­
selves the true path. At first, no doubt, many will be led away by
the notion that advanced Spirits can supply us with a new and in­
fallible code, but bearing in mind the ascertained law of spirit-com­
munion that “ lik e se e k s lik e ,” that only those Spirits in sympathy with
us can hold direct intercourse we cannot reasonably encourage such
a hope.
The standard of morality can only advance with our knowledge of
God’s Laws. The idea of an infallible code of morals is rather
calculated to hinder than promote true progress in those who believe
it—for it precludes the exercise of charity.
Our perception of the best manner of living is, and ever will be, far
beyond our practice— but our perception can never attain to the
Absolute. Science, not dogma, is the great promoter of morality if
45
rightly understood, for it dlacovern and expound* Cod'* lav/*, hi><I
Morality i* the art of conforming our live* to them
What • ill b* th‘ influence of Spiritualism upon R e lig io n ? Religion
too apt to h»4 regarded a* the intellectual belief of certain dogma
about God*» nature and attribute*; or the knowledge of hi* denign*
and intention* toward hi creature*. A true belief in held to be the only
pass-word to salvation; or w'orks founded Upon a true belief.
Hut what if man. an erring and finite creature, j* unable to see
God'* menage in humanly transmitted dogma*?
What if th« report of his intention* seem* but a *y*tem of human
theories, and partial truth ?
I* all religion therefore impossible to him?
We answer— No! True religion demand* none of these thirty,% It.
demand* of every man that he should worship only hi* highest ideal—
that he should seek after Truth and practice C h arity. The condition*
of salvation ar<* nowhere distinctly laid down, for they are imperfectly
known even in the Spirit-world.
Like Christ's gospel, then. Spiritualism is good tiding*. The tidings
ar»* good whether they be accepted or rejected; but we will rejoice
in the belief that the time will never come w'hen it will exert any but
an indirect influence upon Religious creeds—
-or supplant conscience
— the true basis of Religion— by authority, th ou gh that authority were
supported by a host of A ngels.
IN MEMORIAM
LEAH FOX UNDERHILL
NOVEMBER 1, 1890
(A bridged Irom a booklet b y J Jay W atson—now in the col­
lection of Fox F am ily B elies in the possession of Mariam
B uckner Pond )
The recent transition of this world-renowned and noble woman to
a higher, holier, and happier state of existence is an event of more
than ordinary significance. She was the oldest of the famous Fox
sisters, through whose mediumship the marvelous manifestations of
Spirit return caused the most intense interest and inquiry, not only
in America, but throughout the civilized world. The simple announce­
ment of Mrs. Underhill’s death may well remind us all to pause and
reflect. Innumerable memories of the many bitter trials and sorrows
to which the Fox fam ily were subjected during the early period of
their strange and eventful experiences, came unbidden and must
strike a chord of sym pathy in the heart of every unprejudiced human
soul.
Under the honest but searching scrutiny . . . of hundreds of men
and women of that period, the Fox sisters passed through various
trying ordeals, abundantly proving their honesty of pui^pose, and
causing many of their learned and skeptical investigators to become
firm believers and defenders of the new light and the new dispensa­
tion.
From the P R A Y E R a t th e F u n e r a l O b s e q u ie s : *
0, our Father! while human hearts are grieving, while shadow, pain,
and soitow lie darkly upon so many assembled here tonight, yet
through all our night of sorrow the great bright stars are shining,
and there is a silvery radiance that glides through the darkness, and
rests where we are. We thank thee, that we know thou didst give a
little child to the earth. W e thank thee for the love that sustained
and sheltered her, for the love that nourished and developed her:
and thank thee for the maidenhood and womanhood ; for the love
in the wife and the mother; for the daughter; for the sister; for the
friend. And, O, our Father, now that this friend is gone from weari­
ness; gone from the storms of the world that lash every hill; gone
from the turbulent ocean of sorrow, whose murmuring was always
in her ears; now that she stands in the clear and cloudless light,
O Father! for the life and the liberty and the peace and the hap­
piness which she has found ; for the work she has done which briny-
the light of blessed truth to those who sat in darkness; for th*
beautiful dispensation of immortal life that she was strong to bring
and her steadfast unswerving to keep before the eyes of the world
for all this we thank thee, O Spirit of Truth! . , .
O God ! we thank thee that in those days, when the light which she
helped to bring was seen by multitudes instead of a few, that in thus*-
days when she stood firmly by this beautiful truth which she felt, and
kne-.< . ar.d lived, day by day— for this strength, for this loyalty, for
'r purity and honesty of purpose in the woman, in the medium, for
all this, O God of love and God of truth, we thank thee.
From the D ISC O U R S E :
Oh. Friends, between you and the beautiful home where the birds
are not asleep, between you and the beautiful Beyond where all the
flowers are in bloom, there is a curtain hanging; would that you
could d r a w it aside. You cannot, but angels’ fingers will do this for
you if you are only willing. And so, friend.s, shaLl we say Good-night?
No. let us change it; Good-night is the stem of the rose that pains our
Fingers as we hold it, but, lo, upon this stem uplifted is the rose, and
that rose is the Good-morning for our friend. . . . For the dear one*
who have made the light of the home . . . when the night of this
mourning seems deepest and darkest, we only say, look up and think
of her where she is at rest and at peace, and then say—“Death is
swallowed up in victory.”
Editor's Note: The cut accompanying thus article is of the famous book, "The Missing
Link of Modem Spiritualism”, written by "Leah Underhill, of the Fox Family”. The
book now long out of print, is regarded as of highest historical value and is beyor.c
doubt one of the most interesting and worthy contributions to the literature of Our
Movement.
W iftatnl hy- J. T, P-riafian
4 ROSE
and
A POEM
Cathie's fourteenth birthday.
St* was ^tiil an immature jgirl. qu.et and reserved. >
.
" apoiEt >f frailty. Her face. In repose, held someth .:.g of the a.r.e-v
: her father's face, having nothing of the rosy •. ac.t' of Lea-
e c •: Margaretta whose brown eyes spa - et as rr.err..; a» Kate'*
ieep grey ones looked seriously on the changing scene Kate i
race . gr.ted up at the sight of the gift* teapec about er p ace at
f - breakfast table on her birthday morning, and she thanked them
ihyiy. one by one. as the gifts were opened. A sir.g.e pink rose ay
t an envelope addressee in Maggies handwriting. Kate nmfcd a-
ae »pened it and read the sw eet message so carefully inscribed on
the lace-edged sheet of paper within.
"To my sister Kate:
I present thee a rose. Kate.
A rose I present unto thee.
I know it is sweet and 'tis pretty;
Then w ilt thou accep t it of m e?
Tis e.-.t from the stem where twas blooming
And filled all with nectar and dew.
Its fragrance, how sweet and perfuming.
Its blushes remind one of you.
From your sister.
Maggie
Cleveland, June 6. 1851”
Kates lovely eyes filled with tears. “Oh. thank you. dear Maggie.
That's my very nicest present!” She looked shyly at the others
r .eg at her. “I hope you don't mind my saying that. You are ail
very kind to me.”
*-• ?(m
kix stun u*n*m ?•»«»/
49
FROM THE SPIRIT W
ORLD
By "Walter"
NOVEMBER 13, 1926
A
PRAYER
Masoeht C hanson
Thou all powerful—Thou whom all nations call God— Divine power
of the Universe whose laws must be obeyed, reveal unto us the deep
and secret things. To Whom there is no darkness, lead us into light.
Give to our loved ones the power to be near us and watch over us.
Teach every man that he is divine and that his greatness shall not
perish. Teach us to be cheerful, to be kind. Humble our spirit. Teach
us that whosoever of you would be chiefest shall be servant of all.
Teach us real values that we may not enslave our spirit. Help us
and give us courage to record our visions and spiritual happenings
upon the tables, that we may leave behind us records of spiritual
value. Be with us in times of need, that, when death shall come to
us, may it be like the opening of a door. Let there be no shadow of
fear nor sense of mystery to daunt the spirit. Teach us how wonder­
ful is death and at that time when we gaze into the rays of the sun
which is setting, may the rising on the morrow be a certainty, an as­
surance—not a hope.
MARGERY CRANDON, famous Boston Medium, was the central
figure of the widely discussed and highly debated psychic investiga­
tions conducted by the Scientific A m erica n Committee in the twenties.
She stands as one of the most outstanding of modern-day Mediums
through whom innumerable types of p h y sical p h e n o m e n a were pro­
duced. The alleged spirit of Walter Stinson, Margery’s brother and
psychic collaborator, extended the above prayer from the Other Side
of Life.
THE
GOOD
FIGHTER
FLA3." TOM GHMSHAW
fer TSSK
M
J-SSO
H
m
r
“Modern Spirimaiism is pre-eminently an educational movement. We
have abandoned :ae .dea of being saved marionsly through the
merits and suffering of others.
“Nature has implanted —
ithin us Infinite Possibilities- an: laaachiBg
us out on the great sea of life, figuratively speaking, says: ‘Go out
into the world. Malce something of yourself r Ours is the privilege
either of meeting death as bankrupt souls, mental and spiritual
paupers, or as souls rich, in mental and spiritual attainments. Which
shall it oe? Spiritualism is a religion that consists of doing good
and acting ronestly towards one another; a religion, not of forms
ant ceremonies, nor of long prayers and longer faces, but a religion
of kindness, ;usttce. and good works; a religion that will make life
brighter and more livable, and will bring back smiles to the lips and
happiness to the souls of all who understand ant live up to its highest
teaching.”*
“Kis was the good fight!-* . . . for the EDUCATION of Our Workers.
Our Centennial Celebration pays high tribute to Rev. Thomas Grin-
shaw. who always preferred to be just plain Tom Grimshaw, a* being
truly representative of all our progressive "
‘old time workers”. The
contributions of these “Good Fighters” to Our Cause stands as im­
measurable in their real worth, and true nobility.
*F
r
-M
Btae
/KORRIS PRATT INSTITUTE: Noble Experiment
Modern Spiritualism in its centennial
year is a M ovement without an
Educational C entre w orthy to be called
such. This, in the studied opinions of
m any of our Leading W orkers, stands
as an indictm ent of the past and a
challenge to the future Until our
M ovem ent has a properly established
and sustained Seminary, or such in­
stitu te of learning by w hatever name,
w hereat its M inistry m ay receive an
adequate educational training prepara­
to ry to the public presentation of our
Science, Philosophy, and Religion, th ere can be little hope of a successful organiza­
tion or expansion of our W ork.
One of the noblest enterprises of M odem S p iritualism w as the foundation and opera­
tion of the M ORRIS PR A T T IN S T IT U T E a t W hitew ater. W isconsin. U. S. A The
following quotations are tak en from an M. P. I. B ooklet:
“M orris P ra tt In stitu te ow es its origin and p resen t existence to the munificence
of th e late M orris P ra tt. Guided by direction w hich cam e to him by invisible intel­
ligences. he believed, he accum ulated a sm all fortune, and as a m em ento of his
g ratitude, he erected the in stitu te building. . . .
“It w as M orris P r a tt’s conviction, g row ing o u t of experience, th a t there should be a
school under the auspices of S p iritualism , w hich should be free from the religious
prejudices and m isconceptions th a t dom inate th e p resen t in stitu tio n s of learning. To
m ake the ideal a reality, he deeded th e en tire building w ith th e land upon which it
stands, free from all incum brances, to seven w ell know n and reliable Spiritualists,
as tru stees of the property.
“As it now stands the en tire stru c tu re is h eated by steam , lighted by electricity, and
provided w ith hot and cold w ater, baths, and o th e r m odern improvements."
Room and board a t the In stitu te w ere av ailab le a t reasonable rates.
A Tw o-Y ear D iplom a C ourse w as provided. Som e of the su b jects included in the
curriculum w ere G ram m ar and C om position. A m erican and E nglish Literature.
O rato ry and L ecture B uilding. G eneral H istory. P a rlim e n ta ry Law, G eneral Science
and Philosophy. Psychology. P hilosophy of S p iritu alism . M edium ship: Its Laws and
D evelopm ent. The Seance W ork w as conducted in th e “little w hite cham ber" on the
third floor
R ecreation w as provided in the Social H all u n d er direction of th e M utual Benefit Club,
a student organization, providing dances, plays, p arties, and entertainm ents.
Sunday C hurch Services fo r th e public w ere conducted by the stu d en ts in the Main
A uditorium .
M any of S p iritu alism 's m ost o u tstan d in g p ersonalities served the M. P. I. as trustees
and in stru cto rs and som e of th e fin est w o rk ers in o u r field today cherish fond
m em ories of th eir A lm a M ater day s a t W h itew ater. B u t o u r M ovem ent stands guilty
of an o th er of its m any 'crim es of om ission’—th e failu re to su p p o rt the undertaking.
Now its doors are closed.
Today, th ere are m any C orrespondence and H om e-S tudy C ourses offered both to our
lay people and those p rep arin g fo r o u r M inistry. Those of honest endeavor and true
w orth should be supported by our M ovem ent, fo r they supply a very g reat need as
best they can. H ow ever, let us speed the d ay w hen M odern S piritualism shall have its
own efficient resident schools.!
Morris Pratt Institute
52
SnuuX'
SOCRATES: Modern Spiritualist
Although Socrates tread the pathways of Ancient
Greece nearly twenty-five centuries ago, he was a
M odern Spiritualist! . . . a M odern Spiritualist as a
Medium, a M odern Spiritualist in his teachings, a
M odern Spiritualist in his living and his dying.
It is not unwarranted that Modern Spiritualism claims
the Grand Athenian Philosopher as its own. The
words of him who Milton styled “well inspired, wisest
of men" speak for themselves.
After being condemned to the fatal hemlock, Socrates
spoke thus to his friends and students gathered at
his deathbed:
“ Is it not str a n g e , m y friends, that a fter all I have
said to c o n v in c e you th at I am goin g to the society of
th e h a p p y , you still think this b od y to be S ocrates?
W h e r e fo r e be o f good c h e e r about d ea th and know
o f a c e r ta in ty th at no evil can h a p p en to a good
m an , e ith e r in life or a fte r d e a th .”
The death scene of Socrates is one of the noblest of
humankind. “He passed away,” says Horace Leaf, noted English
Spiritualist, “with a calm that was denied even Jesus, and he showed
none of the fear that characterized Jesus in the Garden of Gethse-
mane.” And like the Master Medium of Nazareth, he held no rancor
in his heart toward those who had persecuted him. Yea, Socrates
passed to the Next Life in the sustained serenity of a true Spiritualist!
Speaking of his d a e m o n , or what in spiritualistic nomenclature is
termed a spirit g u id e or p s y c h ic c o -o p er a to r , the Philosopher-Teacher
explained :
“ . . . I am m o v ed b y a c e r ta in d iv in e a n d sp iritu al in flu e n c e . T h is b e g a n
with m e from c h ild h o o d , b e in g a k in d o f v o ice w h ic h , w h e n p resen t,
alw a y s d iv erts m e from w h a t I a m a b o u t to d o; but n e v e r u r g e s m e o n .”
Again, he referred to his d a e m o n as “ th e w o n te d p r o p h e tic v o ic e o f
my g u a rd ia n d e ity ” .
Intolerant mockery flourished in his time, even as today, for Socrates
stood ridiculed as a “ p u b lic n u is a n c e ”— the very charge to which
modern Mediums are subjected in the so-called free press and before
the courts of the land, which so often deny Religious Freedom to the
Spiritualist Minister.
Know
Thysell."
Socrates
470 B
. c. to
399 B. c.
RS
OUR CENTENNIAL TRIBUTE TO THE SPIRITUALIST CAMPS
Spiritu alist C a m p s bear the stamp “made in the U.S.A ”. Nonetheless,
our Workers and adherents of every nation pay high praise to the
grand service and great constructiveness of these noble institutions.
Indeed, their contributions to the Movement-at-Large stand immeasur­
able.
At our C am p s, large and small alike, down through the years, many,
so very many men and women have come really to know Spiritualism,
to be sustained by the Science of Spirit Communion, to expand in soul­
understanding through the guidance of the Philosophy of Life Ever-
Growing and the Religion of Life Ever-Continuing. These many Camps,
criss-crossing the country from coast to coast, provide strengthening
elements to the organizational structure of the M ovement itself. Our
Vineyard Workers are drawn together and through the exchange
of ideas grow in knowledge and abilities; they make contacts for
itinerant travels and thus expand their services; and what is more
important, they become more tolerant and build strong, lasting, and
co-operative friendships which are reflected in the solidarity and
growth of our Cause.
Some dozen or so years follow ing the “raps that were heard around
the world,” a few Pioneer W orkers, seeking refuge from the petty
torments and condemnations of their community neighbors, came
together in accord out in the open air of God’s Own Cathederal with
“their own kind,” with those who knew or were seeking the way.
Theirs was a spiritual strength m ade even stronger by the magic of
Spirit Communion in the Temple of the Towering Trees, at the Shrine
of the Silvery Stars. This, they called a G r o v e M e e t in g . More followed.
These developed into annual J u n e P ic n ic s . In 1877 their one-day meet­
ings became three-day sessions. W ith the appearance of tents, the
picnic grounds became known as C a m p s ! Programs lengthened into
weeks. Cottages were built, then year ’round homes. Stores, hotels,
cafeterias followed. Next a library and an auditorium. The develop­
ment continued. At the birth of the century', there stood the “City of
L ig h t”— now Lily D a le , the largest Spiritualist Camp in the world.
As with Lily D a le , so with most of the many existing C a m p s that have
kept apace with the expanse of the Nation. But these C a m p s DID NOT
“JUST GROW UP BY THEMSELVES” ! T h e ir d e v e lo p m e n t w a s pro­
ce sse d th ro u g h th e u n s e lfis h “ la b o r s o f lo v e ” g iv e n u n to th e m by our
P io n eer W o rk ers. The sweat of their brows still cleanse the sacred soil
of these hallowed places: today, “from across the w ay”, they inspire
and give courage to those who hold high the Torch of Truth to which
they gave Light. And their “SPIRIT BLESSINGS’’ are manifold.
•H o l e R e cen tly , tw o C am p h av e b een fo u n d e d in C a n a d a . W ith th e c o n tin u e d g ro w th o f o rg a n ­
ise d ftft*derti S w n tu a iia m an d im p ro v e m e n t o f w o rld e c o n o m ic s, o u r C am p* w ill a u rety sp re a d over
tiie face of th e e a r th . I t w ill h e g o o d .)
54 I
OUR CENTENNIAL TRIBUTE TO
THE AMERICAN INDIAN
“Man’s cruelty to man!" . . . The wanton
murder of almost an entire people marked the
spread of the white man over North America,
while agonizing tortures inflicted upon the
natives of the soil under the colonization of
Florida. Mexico, and South America stand as a
horrible indictment upon the pages of Christian
history. Justifiable? Nay, humanity has found
the American Indian to be of splendid culture,
inherently honest, friendly, and co-operative.
| Honorable amends are too late, for the Great
Nations of the Red Man are nigh to no more. Only regret and humility
are possible for the white man who drew their blood, plundered their
homelands, and destroyed their civilization.
Modern Spiritualism is particularly indebted to the Red Man: from
no other race has its Mediums drawn so many capable Spirit Co-
Operators as from these stalwart people of the great outdoors. Hardly
is there a Psychic Band without at least one American Indian serving
as Way Shower, Gate Keeper, Scout, Healer, or General Helper.
Indeed, few, other than Indians, are ready to play humble and difficult
roles, negating self-importance, standing close-by in constant aid and
unbending loyalty.
Why are American Indians so finely fitted to serve as Psychic Co-
Operators? The reason lies in their having lived “close to nature” and
in a broad and basic sense, having been true Spiritualists while living
on the Earth Plane. Having dwelled so intimately with the things
of material life, these people upon passing to the Etheric World remain
for some time close to the “boundaries of Earth” and thus possess
natural powers requisite for certain types of p sy ch ic contact. In their
primitive mode of earth life, the Indians recognized spirit life as dwel­
ling within all things, animate and inanimate : they believed that there
were spirits in every part and action of nature, in every body of water,
in the hills and valleys, in the skies, in the animals and all growing
things. Their g o d s were many, but the more enlightened Indians gave
highest worship to the V e r y G rea t M ed icin e M an A b o v e, the one
GREAT SPIR IT. To them, a fu tu re life, often demonstrated in their
dreams, was an accepted reality. In the S ecret R ites o f the T ep ee
their priests “made much medicine”. They not only worshipped the
Deity of the Sun, the Spirits of the Four Winds, and other lesser gods
of nature, but, as well, they held converse with the sh a d o w s of their
own Great Hunters and Wise Chiefs gone to the H a p p y H u n tin g
Grounds. Undeniably, such sacred services were in the nature of
seances, primitive, but nonetheless very much in evidence of true spirit
com m unication.
In its World Centennial Celebration. Modern Spiritualism pays deserv­
ing tribute to the noble service of our American Indians, loyal friends
both of the here-and-now and of the here-after.
I P ic tu re : R ev. L eo U L ittle E ag le, p a s to r o f th e F lra t C h u rch o f th e S a c re d C ircle. C h icag o , Illin o is.)
55
THESE SPIRITUALISTS
. . - COL. R O B E R T G. IN G ER SO LL*
I think Spiritualists have done good. They are social, cheerful, and
good natured. They are not the slaves of a book: their hands and
feet are not tied by passages of scriptures. They are not troubling
themselves about getting forgiveness and settling their debts for a
cent on the dollar.
Their belief does not make them mean or miserable. They do not
persecute their neighbors. They ask no one to have faith or to believe
w ithout evidence. Hundreds and thousands of well educated and in­
telligent people are satisfied with their evidence and firmly believe
in the existence of spirits. For all I know, they may be right.
They believ* in freedom of thought and freedom of speech: they are
w illing to listen to the other side . . . even willing to hear me. The
great thing about Spiritualists is that they believe in intellectual
honesty.
The Spiritualists appear to be happy in their belief. I have seldom
known a happy Orthodox Christian.
O r a t o r . M o*t F a m o u s F r* * th in k « r. T h e a b o v e w an ta k e n fro m th e Nevr York
S u n d a y J o u r n a l
THE VALUE OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA
. . . DR. HEREWARD CARRINGTON £
We live in a sceptical, materialistic age. The scientific man, particular­
ly, wants evidence. Before believing in a future life he wants evidence
of that too, and he says in effect, “Provide me the evidence and I will
believe
Now, it must be admitted that, aside from these ridiculed and despised
psychic and spiritual phenomena, th e r e is n o e v id e n c e . For centuries
theologians and philosophers have labored to show that some form of
future life exists, and the net result of their endeavors has been
(scientifically) nil. . . . The practical mind of today wants evidence in
support of any belief it may hold, and, lacking that evidence, refuses
to accept it. The only concrete evidence which can conceivably be
forthcoming is the proof of personal identity continuing to exist post
m o r te m — the proof that individual human consciousness can and does
continue to persist in the absence of a material brain. It is precisely
this evidence which psychic and spiritual phenomena seemingly fur­
nish, and, so far as we can judge, it can be obtained in no other manner.
P .y c h ir R M M rc H c r: A u th o r : S T O R Y OK P S Y C H IC S C IE N C E , r tc .
&
e
OUR LITTLE WORKERS
It is good and .just that Spiritualists praise and patronize their Big
Workers, their most gifted and highly developed Demonstrators, their
most capable Organizers, and their brilliant Propagandists. Such is
the accepted and proper procedure in all fields of human endeavor.
Yet, all progress is not due to Great Leadership alone. A Wise Man
once observed that this old world of ours moves forward not only
by the few tremendous shoves of its Great, but as well by the multitude
of tiny forward pushes of its Lesser Laborers.
So with the Spiritualist M ovement-at-Large. Its glory is not only bright
with the glow of its Great Lights, but as much so by the innumerable
Small Torches that burn steadfast under the care and guardianship
of our throng of Little W orkers. Neither loud acclaim nor material
reward is theirs, but they serve on down through the years in quiet
giving of their gifts, as is their to give. In the obscure byways over
which they tread, ridicule, contempt, and persecutions are often the
more merciless.
lf'on the morrow, by some sad plight, all of Spiritualism's Great
Leaders were to be no more, the Movement would go on, the Cause
would be carried forward, because our Little Workers would continue
on the hard way. which is their accepted lot.
After one hundred years, the time is overdue that Spiritualism re­
cognizes its debt to its Little W orkers and begins to make com­
mensurate payment by extending to them encouragement and ap­
preciation. They ask no more.
MY CONVICTION
by . . . MANUEL CAVACO*
At the Centennial Celebration of Modern Spiritualism. I would like,
as one of its most humble servants, to pay a worthy tribute to Our
Spiritual Cause.
I wish my testimony were sufficient proof so as to compare with the
consoling and redeeming character of Modern Spiritualism, th e t e a c h ­
ings of w h ic h I r e c o g n iz e a s b e in g o f p r im a r y im p o r t a n c e for th e
evolution o f M a n k in d .
Modern Spiritualism enlightens the conscience; it illuminates, without
casting shadows, the causes and effects which govern the “modus-
vivendi” of each individual; it gives to each one a clear conception of
spiritual life; it engenders and sustains within each one the hope for
a better future, and indicates that it is a certainty that the future of
each individual will be the result of his behavior. These qualities, by
themselves, are sufficient to demonstrate the consoling nature of
Modern Spiritualism.
Truthfully, Modern Spiritualism is the redeemer because it acts as
a stimulant on each individual to correct him self by overcoming and
dominating the evil sentiments and impulses which blacken the Spii’it,
since it fortifies our virtues and encourages us to exercise them with­
out any fault or pretense.
Those who conscientiously practice the dictates of Modern Spiritualism
find real consolation in life and truthfully redeem and exalt them­
selves.
• L*ad«-r: 8O C IE I1A U E P O R T U E N S E D E IN V E S T IO A C O E S P S 1Q U IC A S
57
SPIRITUALISM AND PHILANTHROPIC WORK
From an organizational point of view, Modern Hplri ton Inon falls very
slim I In ilm Philanthropic Work. II la i egref.tably Ino- that with hu'
two outstanding exceptions,* there l a little united ar lion upon the part
of Spiritualist* m Iitik*’ scale Social W elfare Work,
One of tin exceptions referred In ahovo is l.h«
* ( , r World
Chrialian Spirilualitl l.«*»guc, an international organization with lU
heaihpiaitern in London. Here the Spirit f Juide Zodiac has stressed the*
humanitarian principle ol caring for the wick and the poor, which the
l.^n|/u<* ha* put Into a< lion.
Winifred Moyr«, Medium and Founder of the U akuc'i Welfare Work,
explains: "In Iti.’K
J the flint Greater World Free Night Shelter for
Homeless Women wiim opened. Mere half-starved, ill clad women are
given hot, nourishing suppers; lielped to have wash downs, and
provided with warm nightdresses. They are put into clean beds with
white sheets, warm hlanketn, and hot-water bottles. Voluntary nurses
ml* their chentH and aching limbs and treat feet, suffering from blisters
and chilblains. Hut breakfasts are nerved. , . . Homeless women are
admitted irreniiective of color, race, or creed. . . . Many are highly
educated women who in their old age have fallen upon had timen,
Some have to he re clothed entirely, , . . Karh year the beds were used
r.i.non timen and 2H,000 nuppern and breakfasts were provided, . . . In
1!h'hr
» a niiniliai Free Shelter wan opened in Leeds, Yorkshire. And in
M
JJI7 a Free Convalescent Home for delicate and worn-out women
workers wan started at Leigh-on-Sea."
The other Spiritualist Organization actively en gaged in united Philan­
thropy in the Federnco Fnpiritn ItranileirM of South America.
A. Wnntuil dr Freit«», prenident, writes: "Today our Federation unites
many, many thousands through our great distribution of literature,
n whole network of ho»pitnlft, old-age homen, orphan anylums, and
school*. Especially in Spiritualint Philanthropy extennive in Brazil
through organized Spiritual Healing, where this particular phase of
Our Work is highly developed and w idely practiced."
Modern Spiritualinm, the world over, in interspersed with individual
Church Croups actively engaged m Philanthropic Work of one kind
or another. Ever no many have com m ittees for visiting nhut-inn and
hospitals; for the distribution of dothen, food, and coal to the less
fortunate; for Christmas and Easter parties for underprivileged chil­
dren; and for other worthy purposes. So, too, great are the numbers
of individual Workers of Modem Spiritualism, Ministers, Mediums,
and Healers, who give freely of their labors and resources in Welfare
Services. For these individual Croups and W orkers there is glory,
glory in abundance!
These existing agencies of Spiritualist Philanthropy point the way
to mightier and liner things to be expected in the future of Human
Welfare Work sponsored by the united effort* of our individual Wort
ers, Societies, and Associations. Hasten the day when Modern Spirit-
uslim will claim its full measure of FrAternnl Service in Action!
• m u f li» ntIn.• Imii>i mull, f'hllanltiroiiln nihIumvih* • u i l a l n i t l Im H|iliituall»l« In uram l «■
waniuMlInnal w
ffrtrtd
. Itul, If lh«r< ni», nu ntlnn n t « I» m i |i l m m « # l * liitv* not r«m liml tin ill........i
Ilia Wmlil (ivlilaniiinl II«mi| i| Him t • •m In Km ti«»l»l. KilHur
ns
PICTURE GALLERY
OF
MODERN SPIRITUALISM
A Centennial Memorial
"A single picture speaks a thousand words.”
Here is a pictorial p resen ta tio n dedicated to the One-Hundredth Birth-
year of Modern Spiritualism, highlighting its past and present, pro­
jecting a note of glory into its future.
To set forth a picture gallery of our entire Movement would require
many, many books the size of this little Souvenir Volume. Upon these
pages is shown not all of Modern Spiritualism in any of its aspects, but
a cross-cut or panoramic study of the global life and expanse of its
Science, Philosophy, and Religion.
This gallery is given mainly to people and places of general interest
to Spiritualists. The pictures are not of noble people and great places
alone, but are reflective of Modem Spiritualism in its plain truth, as
it has been and as it is. Lest we foi'get: Every little church pictured
upon these pages represents hundreds of its counterparts standing the
world over, built by the love and sacrifice of those who have labored
and worshipped there. And the people whose likenesses appear here,
they represent all, ALL Spiritualists.
Some of these pictures will be as Memory Lane, returning many to the
“good ole days’’ when the pulse of our Movement throbbed with the
lusty labors of sturdy pioneers— “old-timers gone on ahead, but never
to be forgotten”. Other pictures will prove the strength and might of a
WORLD SPIRITUALISM built through a century of progress, progress
against the bitter opposition and destructive elements of selfishness
and intolerance, progress still moving forward against the vandalism
of ignorance. Yea, hex-e is a “story told in pictures”, a stoiy filmed
along the Trail of Truth and at the Shrine of Sexwice.
Appreciation is extended to all who contributed pictures to this gallery,
with a special thank you for the generous support extended by
Psychic Observer, “Spiritualism's Pictorial Journal," published at Lily
Dale, New York, U. S. A. Editor
59
1- UNITY SPIRITUAL SCIENCE CHURCH: San Diego, California.
2 - CHAPEL. Services at SILVER BELLE SPIRITUALIST CAMP,
daily, during Season.
3 - AUDITORIUM: LILY DALE SPIRITUALIST CAMP, Inside view
at the time of the Semi-Centennial of Modern Spiritualism.
2
1— FOREST TEMPLE: Famous Cpen-Air Rostrum'. Used {or In­
struction, Inspiration, and Spirit Communion during LILYDALE
Season.
2— BROOKING MEMORIAL SPIRITUALIST CHURCH Buffalo. New
York; REV. FRED MITCHELL. Pastor.
3— The (OLD) LILY DALE AUDITORIUM v/hen the Camp' was
Cassadaga'.
_
I
I
1— ROBERT DALE OWEN: "Fearless Pioneer Fighter for Spiritual­
ism"; Author; Member of U.S.A. Congress—introduced the hill
organizing the Smithsonian Institute.
2— LUIS DI CRISTOFORO POSTIGLIONI: G en Sec. of the CON-
FEDERACION ESFIRITA PANAMERICANA, Argentina.
3— DR. CESAR LOMBROSO: Noted Italian psychiatrist, criminal
anthropologist, and psychical researcher who supported the
spiritualist hypothesis.
4— REV. HELENE GERLING: Medium; Teacher Co-Founder of
UNIVERSAL PSYCHIC SCIENCE Association . . . On Rostrum
of Centre Temple, Rochester, New York.
62
1
—ERNEST BOZZANO: '
Spiritualists”.
2—JOSE S. FERNANDEZ: President: CONFEDERACION ESPIRITA
PANAMERICANA.
3—SIR WILLIAM CROOKES: One of England's greatest physicists
and psychical researchers of the 19th century ... of particular
note is his experimental work with the materialized spirit”
known as Katie King.
4-MEMORIAL FOUNTAIN: at FREEVILLE SPIRITUALIST CAMP.
63
1— AUDITORIUM: SPRINGDALE SPIRITUALIST
CAMP of Canada.
2— REV. FRANK MICKLEY: Leader of the NA­
TIONAL FEDERATION OF SPIRITUAL
SCIENCE CHURCHES.
3— BARONESS LOTTE VON STRAHL (Frau
Lotte Plaat): Famous Dutch Psychometrist,
"the girl with the X-ray eyes", who was reg­
ularly employed by the German Police to
trace malefactors.
4— J. HUMBERTO ARAMAYO: Author, Spiritual­
ist Leader—Bolivia.
5—SPIRITUAL SCIENCE CHURCH OF AMER­
ICA: Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.
1— REV. ETHEL POST-PARRISH: Medium,
Lecturer; Founder of CAMP SILVER
BELLE.
2— TRAIL OF RELIGIONS: A Trail of Life-
Sized Busts of the Great Religious Pro­
phets of the World . . . exemplifying the
Universality of Modern Spiritualism; at
CHESTERFIELD SPIRITUALIST CAMP.
3— JANE "MATER'' HARRIS-ROBERTS:
Medium; Spiritualist Pioneer of NEW
ZEALAND, Worker for over a half cen­
tury
4— RCNALD COCKERSELL: Medium;
Founder of THE SOCIETY OF THE
ANKH—England.
5— SPIRITUALIST CHURCH OF THE BE­
LOVED; St. Petersburg, Florida. (Rev.
Ethel Post-Parrish, Pastor.)
W
65
1— REV. ETHEL POST-PARRISH: Medium;
Lecturer; Founder of CAMP SILVER
BELLE.
2— TRAIL OF RELIGIONS: A Trail of Life-
Sized Busts of the Great Religious Pro­
phets of the World . . . exemplifying the
Universality of Modem Spiritualism, at
CHESTERFIELD SPIRITUALIST CAMP.
3—JANE MATER" HARRIS-ROBERTS:
Medium; Spiritualist Pioneer of NEW
ZEALAND; Worker for over a half cen­
tury
4—RONALD COCKERSELL: Medium;
Founder of THE SOCIETY OF THE
A
.I7KH—England.
5— SPIRITUALIST CHURCH OF THE BE­
LOVED St. Petersburg, Florida. (Rev
Ethel Post-Parrish. Pastor.)
65
1— 'OKA MAHARAJ': Spirit Guide of the
INDIAN SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY;
Modeled through Psychic Art under
inspiration and direction of the sub­
ject himself.
2— MADAM RISHI: Leading Medium of
INDIAN SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY
Native of INDIA; Works and Travels
with her husband, president of the
Society.
3— DR. V. D. RISHI: President of the IN-
DAN SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY; Spir­
itualism's Great Teacher and Prop­
agandist of ‘Mother India'.
4— AUDITORIUM AND HEADQUAR­
TERS: PARKLAND HEIGHTS SPIR­
ITUALIST CAMP.
5— UNITY SPIRITUAL SCIENCE
CHURCH: East St. Louis, Illinois.
1
1 NATIONAL. SPIRITUALIST ALLIANCE
HEADQUARTERS at Lake Pleasant,
Massachusetts,
2 MARGARET (MAGGIE) WAITE One
ol America's Most Famous Platform
Test Mediums; Her homo was in Chi
cago, Illinois, and at LILY DALE
Camp where she served lor many
years.
3 CENTRAL SPIRITUALIST CHURCH.
Los Angeles, California, One ol the
(most Spiritualist Structures in Amer
ica.
4 ALEXANDER N AKSAKOF: Imperial
Councillor to the Czar; Pioneer Spir
itualist and first Psychic Investigator
of Russia; Author, Propagandist.
5 ANDREW JACKSON DAVIS ME
MORIAL LYCEUM: Classes are held
daily during Camp Season at LILY
DALE.
3—REV. JANET STINE WOLFORD: President-
Founder of THE CHURCH OF REVELATION
Association; Before her Rostrum at Hanford,
California.
2— REV. ALBERT KEMSLEY: Leader of THE
CHRISTIAN CORINTHIANS OF AMERICA.
3— "The LILLIES" (Mr. and Mrs.): Renowned
Workers of Yesteryear" at LILY DALE SPIR­
ITUALIST CAMP.
4— ASHLEY SPIRITUALIST CAMP: Ashley Park
and Auditorium.
5— GEORGE P. COLBY: American Medium Ex­
traordinary; "Spiritualist Globe Trotter":
Founder of SOUTHERN CASSADAGA SPIR­
ITUALIST CAMP.*
*
68
■wr
I
2-
3 -
c
5— C
tr
F(
TT
2
1— REV. KATHLEEN PHILPOTT: Acclaimed Me­
dium, Lecturer, and Psychic Artist of NEW
ZEALAND.
2— —CHARLOTTE SKEEL: Eastman Kodak Co. cf
Rochester In charge of Bureau of Photog­
raphy, WORLD CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
Or MODERN SPIRITUALISM.
3— JOZEF RULOF: Medium; Author; World-
Famed Psychic Artist of THE HAGUE,
Netherlands.
4— GEORGE DAISLEY: Premier Platform Me­
dium of LONDON, ENGLAND.
5 HOTEL at SURPRISE LAKE (EDGEWOOD)
SPIRITUALIST CAMP— where Gods trees
grow great".
4 5
69
S
2
1— ERNEST OATEN Brit-sh Author and
Lecturer; Outstanding Prcpagcnim
for Spiritualism, Servec many veers
as ed.'cr of TWO WORLDS.
2— DR. JAMES M. PhhB i Fameus
Spiritualist Teacher ar.d O rder A.M-
ERICAN "World Missionary - d -
Large ; "One of Spirilcai.sm,d Clear­
est".
3— BARON OTTO VON STRAHL: Lec­
turer; Authority on Brb.c-rh Sp.r.:-al-
ism'; Germ an Chancellor v.-ho ccr.ec
Hitler and Nazidom
4— DR. RICHARD HODGSON. English
Psychic Investigator of V/orld Fame
Associated v/ith the American So­
ciety for Psychical Research fer
m any years. Convinced of ’sp-rrt re­
turn' through the Mediumship c:
LEONORE PIPER.
]—REV. EVALYN CUMMINS: Medium;
Lecturer; Pastor of the FIRST CHRIS­
TIAN SPIRITUAL CHURCH at San
Antonio, Texas; Wife of Rev. V. R.
Cummins, FEDERATION President.
2— DR. CHARLES ALBERT BURGESS:
One of America's most acclaimed
Spiritual Healers; Official Healer at
LILY DALE for many years; Trus­
tee of the MORRIS PRATT INSTI­
TUTE.
3— SIR OLIVER LODGE: One of the
greatest Scientists in the history of
man; Lecturer; Author; Outstanding
Spiritualist Propagandist; ENG­
LAND'S "Champion of Survival"
4— WILLIAM J. COVILLE: Lecturer;
Teacher, Author, "Giant of America's
Spiritualist Lecture Platform".
4
71
1
—AN
DR
EW JAC
KSO
ND
A
1/ec -at “eocher A.. -.
AMERICAN : T*r.^ ^ ;/-J-
em Sp-.r *jot-mr Fc*und=- ^
the SPIRITUALIST LYCEUv
t.Te Sunder/ 3choc., of v>
Woresier.*
2— S7/AFFE?3PTT-
ISH Journo .r Iru.-rr ^
tOT Use V f _.se
3— MORRIS PRATT 2ISTTFjrr
PERSONALITIES Ten—:.'L-
SES HULL — a LGDEMA 3
7 /HAVER Lovrer — LCS3
HULL. FR C FI23C ? A 'L = 3 V
I WEAVER and MATTIE
HULL The r«ro couples v.e~
giorebed or. the Learners
?.c_ - use -v: rry: --
List:rule and vr ll long 2hre us
the hearts ana mbsus r: uses
students s r u us the arrr_-re=
o: Modem
3
j_BADGE: This badge com­
memorated the dedication of
the FOX MEMORIAL SPIRE
at the INTERNATIONAL
SHRINE OF MODERN SPIR­
ITUALISM, Rochester, New
York. Special Services were
held December 4-7, 1927,
which included a pilgrimage
to the original Fox Cottage
Site at Hydesville, New York,
a few miles from Rochester,
where a MARKER was placed
in honor of the FOX SISTERS.
2—The DOCK: Lincoln Park at
LILY DALE SPIRITUALIST
CAMP at the time of the
Semi-Centennial Celebration
of the Movement; These were
the "steam boat days" when
mighty little craft chugged
o'er the soft waters of the
three little lakes that still en­
close the camp.
1
—REV. JOHN BUNKER: Chairman of the SPIRITUALIST EPISCO­
PAL CHURCH Association and Outstanding Leader in the
US.A. Movement.
2—HENRY J. EDWARDS: Meritorious Lecturer and Teacher on
Spiritualism and Psychic Science; ENGLAND.
3— KATIE KING": The World-Famous 'materialized spirit' of the
SIR WILLIAM CROOKES history-making experiments. (Me­
dium: Florence Cook.)
4—MEMORIAL TEMPLE: The 'Open Air Auditorium' at inspiring
FREEVILLE SPIRITUALIST CAMP used for Message Demon­
strations, Lectures, and Prayer.
4
1 3
1— REV. MABLE RIFFLE: Secretary of CHESTERFIELD SPIRIT­
UALIST CAMP; the "Largest Phenomenal Camp in the World";
Medium; Lecturer; 'One of America's Foremost Spiritualist
Leaders'.
2—KAIKOBAD ARDESHIR, L. Sc.: Spiritualist Teacher and Leader
of MOMBASA. AFRICA.
3— REV. GEORGE CUTTER: Beloved Medium and Lecturer of Bos­
ton, U S.A.; Served at FREEVILLE SPIRITUALIST CAMP for
many Seasons; Traveled extensively for the Cause.
4—Group of SPRINGDALE SPIRITUALIST CHURCH Workers (To­
ronto, CANADA), REV. PARTRIDGE, left end, REV. POWELL,
right end.
75
2
1— MARIAM BUCKNER POND: Author
of TIME IS KIND. "The Authentic
Story of the Unfortunate Fox Fam­
ily"; Founder of THE FOX MEMO­
RIAL SOCIETY; Collector and Owner
of the FAMOUS FOX RELICS.
2— LYDIA EMERY: Authoress; One of
Spiritualism's Young People; " . . . a
promise to the future "; Hollywood
Actress.
3— JOHN SLATER: W orlds Greatest
Platform Test Medium; Chicago, Il­
linois, U.S.A.
4— REV. ARTHUR FORD. America's
present Premier Platform Medium
5— SPIRITUALIST CHURCH OF SOUTH
AFRICA: Troyeville, Union of South
Africa.
76
I
]_GERLING'S PSYCHIC STUDIO: At
lily dale spiritualist camp
REV. HELENE GERLING, Medium and
Teacher, in charge during Season.
2_DANIEL DOUGLAS HOME: "Great­
est Physical Medium of Modern Spir­
itualism"; English.
3— REV. ROBERT G. CHANEY: Medium;
Lecturer, Teacher; Editor of GOLDEN
RAYS, published by SPIRITUALIST
EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
4— ISABELA ACEVES: Outstanding Me­
dium and Spiritualist Healer of
MEXICO.
5— FIRST SPIRITUALIST CHURCH: Hou­
ston, Texas; REV. MYRTLE L. ROG­
ERS, Pastor.
1—GREAT AUDITORIUM: Leaving after Serv­
ices at CHESTERFIELD SPIRITUALIST CAMP
2—REV. BERTHA MANN: Founder-President
CHURCH OF HIGHER SPIRITUALISM Asso­
ciation; Medium; Leader of American
WORLD CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION Dele­
gation' to England.
3—NYAMIKEH KOJOE: Native Spiritualist Stu­
dent and Teacher of the GOLD COAST.
AFRICA, Known as "Sea Man'
4—Headquarters of THE CHRISTIAN CORINTH­
IANS OF AMERICA at DETROIT, MICHIGAN
78
L
1— UNITY SPIRITUAL SCIENCE CHURCH: New
Orleans, Louisiana.
2— The OLD MEADVILLE BAND: Regular ■fea­
ture1at LILY DALE SPIRITUALIST CAMP . . .
in front of the 'Grand Hotel', now the 'Ma­
plewood- . . . at the "turn of the century".
3— CORA L. V. RICHMOND: One of most gifted
Inspirational Lecturers of AMERICAN Spir­
itualism.
4— TEMPLE at ETNA SPIRITUALIST CAMP.
79
1— HEALING DEMONSTRA­
TION: Girl suffering In­
fantile Paralysis lor fif­
teen years is healed by
HARRY EDWARDS. Spir­
itualist Healer, at a Pub­
lic Demonstration, Lon­
don. (ILLUSTRATED Lon­
don Photo)
2—OPTIMISTIC SCIENCE
CHURCH: 1719 W. 50th
St.; Los Angeles, Califor­
nia.
3— FRATERNAL SPIRITUAL­
IST CHURCH: San Diego,
California.
4— AMERICAN SPIRITUAL­
IST CHURCH: Taylor,
Texas; REV. ALMA JOHN­
SON, Pastor.
2
■
80
1 RUTH WELCH: Secretary-
Treasurer of CHIMES. Spirit
ualist Magazine, Chairman,
WORLD CENTENNIAL HEAL­
ERS CONGRESS - Roches­
ter, New York, US A., July,
2—DR W. J. CRAWFORD:
World Famous Psychical In­
vestigator, of Erin, Propound­
er of the Ectoplasmic Canfi-
lever Theory ot Telekinesis.
3 FIRST SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH: Cameron. Texas;
REV EVALYN MUSE, pastor.
1— RUTH WELCH: Secretary-
Treasurer of CHIMES, Spirit­
ualist Magazine; Chairman,
WORLD CENTENNIAL HEAL­
ERS' CONGRESS—Roches­
ter, Mew York, U.S.A., July,
1948.
2— DR. V/. J. CRAWFORD:
World-Famous Psychical In­
vestigator, of Erin; Propound­
er of the Ectoplasmic Canti­
lever Theory ol Telekinesis.
3— FIRST SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH: Cameron, Texas;
REV. EVALYN MUSE, pastor
■
1
61
3
2
1—LORD HUGH DOWDING: Author; Lec­
turer; Spiritualist Propagandist of ENG­
LAND, Air Chief Marshal during the
Battle oI Britain.
2— BERNT ZEINOFF: Medium, Lecturer
Leader of LINKOPINGS SPIRITUALIST-
ISKA FORENING; Linkoping, SWE­
DEN.
3— LIGHT OF TRUTH SPIRITUALIST
CHURCH; Fort Worth, Texas; REV
MAUDE M. CONNER, pastor.
4— EVILENA BACH:Spiritualist Leader
at LILY DALE and CASSADAGA SPIR­
ITUALIST CAMPS for over a half cen­
tury; Original owner and operator of
the PAGODA (Novelty Shoppe) at the
Dale.
5—HARRY EDWARDS; Famous
Spiritualist Healer. ENG­
LAND.
5
♦
82
2
1—JOHANNESBURG SPIRITUALIST CHURCH:
Johannesburg, AFRICA; L. ROTHCHILD,
President.
2— KOMMINISTER MARTIN LILJEBALD: Spirit­
ualist Leader at Halsingborg. SWEDEN.
3— WILLIAM ELLIOT HAMMOND; Teacher;
Orator, Medium; Psychic Artist; "Billy" is one
of the most beloved and acclaimed Spirit­
ualist Leaders of the US A.; Director of the
SPIRITUALIST HALL OF FAME.
4— FREDERICK BUNIEL: Spiritualist Leader of
CHILE, South America.
-MARCUS BACH: Professor of Psychology
and Principal of the SCHOOL OF RELIGION,
UNIVERSITY OF IOWA, U.S.A., whereat
the study of Modern Spirit­
ualism is included in the cur­
riculum.
1— SWAMI VIRCHARD R. GANDHI: 01
the JAIN COMMUNITY, INDIA, He
was the first Hindu Teacher to bring
Oriental Thought to LILY DALE in
1894.
2— River Scene at SPRINGDALE SPIRIT­
UALIST CAMP, Canada.
3— REV. GEORGE JEWETTE: President
of the INDEPENDENT SPIRITUALIST
ASSOCIATION.
4—Inside view SPIRITUALIST CHURCH
OF NEW ZEALAND (Association
Headquarters): Auckland, New Zea­
land.
A .
1— WAY MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
Wheeling, West Virginia: In me-
monam of GEORGE WILLIAM
WAY
2—SWAMI SRI NITYANAMDA High
Seer and Spiritualist Teacher of
INDIA.
3—SIR ARTHUR CONAN DOYLE;
Author Lecturer: Investigator,
The St. Paul of Spiritualisin'',
ENGLAND'S Greatest Propagand­
ist of Our Cause.
4— Grove Meeting at Tvriliaht Hour":
CHESTERFIELD SPIRITUALIST
CAMP- JULIETTE EWING PRESS­
ING of PSYCHIC OBSERVER ad­
dressing the group.
4 3
85
1— GOLDEN RULE SPIRITUALIST
CHRISTIAN CHURCH: Beaumont.
Texas, REV. PEARL DAVIS-PRICE
pastor.
2— SPIRITUAL HEALING CENTRE: In­
teresting Letter-head of the famous
Spiritual Healing Centre of INDIA
3— BCDIN'S SOUVENIR PIN: Spiritual­
ist Emblem distributed by ED BODIN,
American Author, Lecturer and Prop­
agandist.
4— NANDOR FODOR, LL.D.: English
Psychical Researcher; Author; Com-
pilator and author of the ENCYCLO­
PEDIA OF PSYCHIC SCIENCE. Di­
rector of the SPIRITUALIST HALL
OF FAME.
5—THORNE'S SOUVENIR MEDALLION:
Distributed by the UNITED SPIRIT­
UALIST CHURCH; Inspired and De­
signed by REV. EDWARD LESTER
THORNE, pastor.
86
1
I
I
1— DR. JOHN BALLOU NEWBROUGH:
Medium; Automatist; Author of OAH-
SPE, the "New Bible".
2— MRS JAMES H. McKENZIE: Inves­
tigator; Author; Leader at the BRIT­
ISH COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC SCI­
ENCE. founded by her husband;
Chairman: INTERNATIONAL SPIR­
ITUALIST CONGRESS, 1937, Glas­
gow.
3— BEZERRA DE MENEZES: Investi­
gator, Propagandist; Great Spiritual­
ist Leader of BRAZIL.
4— ALLAN KARDEC (Hypolyte L. D
Rivail): Teacher; Medium; Propa­
gandist; The "Andrew Jackson Davis
of Europe"; The "Father of Spiritual­
ism in FRANCE"; prevailing influ­
ence throughout Latin-American Spir­
itualism.
5— COSME MARINO: Propagandist; In­
vestigator. Spiritualist Leader of AR­
GENTINA.
S 4
87
1
1 -SPIRITUALIST CHURCH OF NEW ZEALAND: National Head­
quarter:; at Auckland, NEW ZEALAND; ALICE M RICHARDS,
President
2 -INTERIOR OF THE FOX COTTAGE: At LILY DALE SPIRIT­
UALIST CAMP; Standing is FLO COTTRELL, the Rapping
Medium" v/ho dem onstrates a Psychic Phenomenon similar
to that m anifested by the FOX SISTERS, Seances are held
tv/ice each d ay during the Cam p Season.
ONE HUNDRED
MEMORIAL
ARTICLES
ONE H U N D R E D YEARS — ONE H U ND RE D ARTICLES
. . Contributed by outstanding Spiritualists ol the world over in
commemoration ol the WORLD Centennial Celebration ol Our Move­
ment.
. On these pages, WORLD SPIRITUALISM SPEAKS FOR ITSELF/
One Hundred Memorial Articles! These constitute a symposium of
“short-shorts” contributed by representative Spiritualist Workers
from all quarters of the world. As a Centennial Memorial, these
single-page writings were gathered with but one object: to present
a true word picture of Modern Spiritualism as a WORLD Movement,
as it actually is at the time of its One Hundredth Birth-year Celebra-
i tion.
The selection is neither “high brow" nor particularly “down to earth”.
Authors were chosen not from any one group or class of our Workers,
but from all the Laborers within our Spiritual Vineyard . . . Mediums,
Healers, Researchers, Lecturers, Authors, Publishers, Organizers,
and Propagandists.
Almost without exception, the choice of subject matter of these ar­
ticles was left entirely to the individual contributors.
Editorial changes in the various texts have been minimized. In fact,
very few alterations were advisable. While complete translations
had to be rendered of a large percentage of the manuscripts, every
precaution was taken in such cases so that the published articles
sustained the “spirit” of the writings, even though structural differ­
ences in composition and the like were quite necessary.
Thus, on the following pages, there is found an honest cross-section
view of Our Movement: here is embodied the written expression of
those who are really representative of Modern Spiritualism, from
far and near. The endeavor has been without prejudice, with no
particular “color” to emphasize. As far as it is known, this is the first
attempt of this kind ever undertaken in the field of Modern Spiritual­
ism. It is the sincere hope of your editor that all readers of our Grand
Souvenir Book will find this Memorial Symposium both interesting
and instructive.
8»
THE FUTURE OF SPIRITUALISM
ENGLAND . . . ERNEST TH O M PSON *
The development of Spiritualism during this last hundred years, as a new Science,
Philosophy. Religion, and Social Movement, has a far greater significance and
im portance for the entire future of M ankind than the m ajority of Spiritualists realize.
It was not an accident, th at Spiritualism w as inaugurated by the Fox sisters in 1848
when the Industrial Revolution w as in the process of changing our lives, when
Science was rising trium phantly, when the rule of Orthodox Christianity was shaken
to its foundations, and when M aterialism was rapidly gaining a great influence over
the outlook of Man. It w as obviously a period of crisis in M an's history.
NEW SPIRITU A L REVELATION N EED ED
The forces of M aterialism spread like a prairie fire, sw eeping away the errors and
superstitions of orthodoxy from the m inds of the people. Reason supplanted Belief.
Rationalism alone, however, failed to fill the spiritual void thus created, but gradually
the inherent spiritual desires of Man slowly reasserted them selves, and a conscious
need for new spiritual values gradually em erged.
As Religion has alw ays depended upon the conceptions of a future life and eternal
progress, a Revelation was needed which would satisfy the new scientific outlook of
Man by giving dem onstrable proof of these truths, and give back to life that purpose
for existence, which w as now com pletely lacking. The Rochester Rappings owe their
fam e entirely to the fact th a t they happened precisely a t a period when men were
already needing such an opportunity as this incident provided, to investigate the
reality of a future life. Spiritualism for this reason is of g reat significance to the
future of the world because of its g reat accom plishm ent in uniting Science and
Religion.
A NEW SPIR ITU A L AGE
Spiritualism is destined, as from its C entenary, to usher in a Spiritual Age. To me. our
C entenary has this historical significance. We have had a hundred years of Material­
ism. but the M aterialist Age is now rapidly com ing to its close, because it has fulfilled
its function of com pletely satisfying m an’s m aterial needs. The present rapid
transition to W orld Econom y and W orld S tate is a m anifestation of the fulfillment of
M aterialism .
A United W orld S tate will eventually require its citizens to labour only four hours
per day. a developm ent which will provide enorm ous scope for the spiritual unfold-
m ent of Man. W ithout spiritual leadership, however. Man will rapidly become
dissolute and decadent T h at S piritual L eadership will be provided, for by that time
Spiritualism will have become established as the U niversal Religion of this planet.
Such, as I see it, is the g re a t calling and destiny of our Movement, and which
consequently indicates the enorm ous responsibility of each one of us to work for
this g reat day.
A NEW COSMIC SOCIETY
The M aterialist Age will be supplanted by the S piritualist Age, and just as the
M aterialist Age has been a m eans of uplifting m an from the isolation of tribalism to
W orld Citizenship, so it will also be the function of the S piritualist Age to unite the
societies of this M aterial W orld w ith those of the S piritual World, into a new
form of Cosmic Society (C osm icism ). The problem s and joys, lives and destinies
of all spirits, incarnate and discam ate. will be shared interdependently. for the
m eans of com m unication between the two w orlds will have been so improved, that
all people on this earth will have facilities and associates in the Spirit World. This will
have been m ade possible by the discovery of a m echanical m eans of communication,
which will be entirely independent of hum an m edium ship. thus providing freedom of
access to a new and v aster world of experience and activity than has ever been
experienced by M ankind. Such is the g reat fu ture of Spiritualism ! Let Spiritualists
prepare, and be w orthy of their g reat calling: T H E SPIR IT U A L LEA D ERSH IP OF
ALL PEO PLES!
90
E d ito r: T H E T W O W O R LD S
MY SPIRITUALISM
GOLD COAST . . . NYAMIKEH KOJOE*
Most of the dwellers of the Gold Coast, both men and women, think that when people
depart from this world and enter the Land Beyond the Grave, they no longer live.
An English saying runs thus: "Life is a voyage, and death its port of arrival.” This
does not conclude that when a person dies he enters into a strange and unseen world
altogether, and cannot communicate or send messages to the earth-living when called
upon. In the Gold Coast, and as may be done in most parts of the world, when a
person dies, we continually weep and sometimes fast for days. Well, if one were to
know that there is some way through which he can communicate with the dead who
are NOT dead, he would not bother weeping or mourning upon the death of others.
Man is to study Spiritualism because one may have relatives or friends whom he may
love very great in his heart, and if such individuals depart in death, through Spirit
Messages he will be able to communicate with them in the Unseen World, and this
is a lovely thing.
Spirit Blessings are the best of blessings In the Holy Bible of the Christians, a
passage flows thus: "God is a Spirit, and all who mean to serve Him must do so
through Spirit.” We receive Spirit Blessings when we pray for the departed souls.
It is through Spirit Guides and Loved Ones gone out ahead that one is assisted very-
much while still on Mother E arth. Also, when one prays to the Almighty Creator of
Heaven and Earth, uttering Blessed Words, he receives Spirit Blessings from the
Divine Spirit within. It is also my belief that when one renders kindness to orphans,
(the sons and daughters of the dead), he receives Spirit Blessings from the departed
through God Power, either through dreams or some other way.
When once a person attains a knowledge of Spiritualism, a greater world of Spiritual
Understanding and Spiritual Growth is opened unto him. and in these things he \\ ill
more or less feel happy under Heaven. As one happens to be in contact with the souls
or spirits departed, he will know exactly what to do on Earth and what not to do
before his leaving to swell the number of the living dead in the Unseen World. When
one obtains a greater Spiritual Understanding through the Study of Spiritualism, he
is possessed of an extra benefit of immense goodness apart from things of the
Present World, things that are of his very spirit or soul and which will be with
him in all time of God’s World forever.
If all people were to be gifted by nature with Spiritual Understanding as is taught
in Spiritualism and by Spirit Guides. Peace and the Brotherhood of Man would
abide everywhere in the whole universe in which Man was and is to be the highest
of the things created by Jehovah, or Spirit-God-of-All. Man can converse or make
exchange of messages with the departed living in the Unknown World. This has
been proved by Spiritualists and Scientists everywhere. And when one has studied
carefully and mastered the teachings of Spiritualism, some sort of Love Link will
be discovered to exist among all men in this world and that of the departed spirits,
and the ever natural Peace of God will thus exist and remain in his heart as it
should be.
BROTHERS ALL OVER THE WORLD, LET US LABOR AND SACRIFICE FOR
THE SPIRITUAL AND WORLDLY PEACE AND TRUTH OF SPIRITUALISM!
£
tl
Spiritualist Teacher: Native o f the Gold C oast
A CENTURY OF CROSS AND CONQUEST
V S A. . . . DR. EDWARD A. LOHMAN*
At its very timely and significant birth. M odern Spiritualism w as not greeted amidst
fanfare nor loud public applause. On the contrary, this greatest of all human bene­
factors of modern tim es w as looked upon as a subtle insidious prank of the deviL
But the indomitable courage of those who could foresee the Light of a New Age
dawning led a steady forw ard inarch throughout these m any years.
When the little Fox sisters, who then lived at the now world-fam ous HvdesviUe
heard the spirit rapping? on the m em orable day in the early Spring of 1S48. little
d:d they their family or friends realize how far and wide those message-bearing
manifestation* would be heard. The years which followed these startling identifica­
tion; called for extrem e courage and long vision to stem the tide of prejudiced,
cr-i-tai mind?. In spite of a grow ing avalanche of stupid ridicule and contemptuous
cynicism progress was made. The advance in the beginning w as slow, and the
eras; was indeed heavy to bear. B ut a T ruth, bearing such world-wide significance,
could not be crushed by any arm y of falsely inform ed adversaries.
Modern Spiritualism Had been born, and born to stay. Since th a t m emorable day in
1%48, many millions of sad. disheartened souls have found joy and com fort while
listening to the voice, or seeing the presence of a departed loved one. No other
scientific nor religious discovery during the p ast century has m ade such a steady
advance nor given m ore peace of h eart and mind, than has this greatest of all
present benefactors of m ankind. These are not vain words uttered in selfish conceit—
r.ot at a ll Modern Spiritualism is based upon indisputable facts, scientifically proved,
venfieo by -eers. sages and investigators throughout the years.
That Modem Spiritualism w as “bom unto the need of the day” is evidenced by the
place and prestige it now so proudly holds w ithin the ran k and file of the ablest
leaders and thinkers in ail w alks of life. The m aterial, as well as m echanical strides
mar. has made during the past one hundred years, are apparently not sufficient to
solve the human problems of this day and age. Can it be th a t the words of the
M aster Medium Not by m ight, but by m y SPIR IT ", shall a t last be recognized and
accepted as the true criterion by which all m undane affairs will be judged and
directed'1 Verily, it has always been th a t when and w here hum an knowledge and
material methods have failed, assistance from the realm of S P IR IT has come forth
to heal and to bless
In the Be-ok of Books, from cover to cover, page upon page, is the story of spirit guid­
ance. protection, and inspiration plainly w ritten. The language, as well as the philoso­
phy and phenomena of M odem Spiritualism have become a very vital p art in the daily
life and living of num berless millions of honest, sincere truth-loving individuals
everywhere. This is because, basically, it 13 a definite Science as well as a Philosophy
of LIVING. EVER-EVOLVING. ETERN A LLY -EX ISTEN T UNIVERSE OF
SPIRIT AND SPIRITUAL SUBSTANCE. It is because M odem Spiritualism pro­
claim that the 'highest conception of m an and God is contained in the fact and
based upon the truth of the indestructibility and etem ality of both.” Upon these
venue- rests the security as well as the well-being of every living Soul.
Deprived of the n g h t to live, and live forever, and lacking the joy of revisitation and
the ecstasy of communication, existence here as well as hereafter becomes dull and
drab indeed- “aJl life doth lose its m eaning.”
Thus has the curtain been lifted: hence, not only do S piritualists everywhere, but
every mar, woman and child of w hatsoever race, creed or color—all. ALL owe an
enduring gratitude to the host of self-sacrificing, consecrated pioneers who have
blazed the way. carried the torch throughout this century of years. Once the barrier?
between this every-day world and the world of the Spirit have been removed, then
truly car. it be said: "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have they entered intc
the heart of mac. the things which God (Spirit! hath prepared for them that love
Him."
A J ib o r . TVfcdwr
SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA
IN D IA . . . K. T. RAMASWAMI, M.A., Ph.D.
India ntnnds nhrcasl of the truths of Spiritualism from time Immemorial, the
Tanir.it and Upanlahada nr*1 replete with Much teachings.
Tls-rc in it vast Mplrllunl literature In India. The Science of Tantrat, wrlth i, in
S>tii' U
rit. drain with Ilf*- nftri dralh and communication wllh lh<- denizen* of th<-
npirtt world. Therein varioua scientific methods for tli«- development of mediumshlp
for spirit communication and aplrlt healing are taught. The medium* so developed
are directed undei aplrlt enntrol of Tantrlc Teacher* and are attached to Temple:
III every village and town In India. They are like Clairvoyant*, Hooth-Sayers arid
Healern, under Hplrlt control, and Invoke family Hetties and Anceatral .Spirit* at
weekly and the great annual gathcringM, Here the roh' of Ih* medium In of a
hereditary nature and the "medlurnlstle farnille*" ar<- given reward* from the
community and Temple fund*. Their dame* with munlc and Trance addresses are
llnlened to with care and veneration. Each elan or tribe ha* It* own revered spirits,
as Mother Kail. Shasta and the like. Thin we may ela**lfy as Primitive Spiritualism
In India.
Modern Spiritualism began to apread among the educated public of India about 1805
Kor our own part, we contributed a meaHUre of teaching to the public through special
courses of Study and our Journal called Self Culture. This work was assisted greatly
by the pen of the American centenarian, L>r. James M. Peebles.
We have lew organized Temples, Churches, or Holy Shrine* In India dedicated to
Modern Spiritualism But in each Hindu home there Is a sacred shrine, a sanctum
ranctorum to which the house-holder attends, worshipping God and the Ministering
Angela (Ancestral Spirits) In the classical manner of Aryan rites. Then. too. each
Hindu performs ari annual Sraddha Ceremony throughout his entire life. This is
dedicated to his Anceatral Spirits and Is performed with the aid of the Hindu Spirit-
Priest. India, at present, has a number of educated and devout souls working for
the spread of Modern Spirit-propaganda.
A* an Intuitional Medium developed by Yogi Tantrik methods. I labor constantly for
the uplift of our Work. Our Academy has hundreds of student-followers studying the
•Spiritual Sciences. Our students are for the most part English educated youth and
we assist them through correspondence. Our present drawback is a lack of text
books and other literature.
In Western and Northern India, there Ih Brother V. D . Rlshl and his wife who
arc wonderful Spiritualist missionaries. They head the Indian Spiritualist Society and
engage In extensive tours, bringing consolation to the bereaved and knowledge to
all who are ready to receive.
In Calcutta, there an- the descendants of the late SeHhlr Kumar Chose who carry on
In his great Spiritualist line of propaganda. They publish a monthly magazine. Hindu
Spiritual Magazine, and their work is widespread.
There Is another centre in UJjaln, Central India, under direction and guidance of a
Brother Worker who labors In the field of Spiritual Healing. This Centre publishes
a vernacular Journal called Kalpa Vriksha.
I am told that there Is still another centre at Bangalore In the Mysore State. How­
ever. I know nothing of their undertaking.
1 read as muny publications In English as I am able to obtain. If your advanced
Organizations would send us some propaganda literature we would distribute it In
India and Eastern Africa thus planting seeds for the Modern Spiritualism of
Tomorrow.
Besides the Hindus, there are our many Moslem Brothers Interested in this field.
They have a good number of practitioners in each community. Invoking spirit.-* and
casting out spirits in the healing of spirit obsession. Their work is based upon their
own faith and teachings of their Koranic Gospels.
Lastly, there arc Parsees In the Bombay area who are spiritually educated and
appreciate the study of the literature of Modern Spiritualism. Their religion Is called
Zoroastrianism.
IV al.,si IN id A N Ai AI.)KM V OK HCIENCK
SCI
EDUCATION: SALVATION FOR OUR MOVEMENT
CANADA . . . REV. EDITH A. MAYELL
We are entering upon a New Century of Modern Spiritualism . . . and it is time
for much reflection and meditative thought.
Looking hack over the last one hundred years, we see many changes the world over
Not least among these changes is the Religious Outlook of Mankind. A great deal,
materially and spiritually, has been destroyed that had been looked upon as in­
destructible. WHY? Because the foundations which m ay at one tim e have been sound
had become corrupted and worm-eaten and to hide the decay, were glossed over with
a thin veneer, misleading those who were content to look only upon the surface of
things. As with the Physical, so with the Spiritual side of Life. Creeds and dogmas
which had been instigated for the benefit of hum anity, through m an's IGNORANCE
a expressed in envy and greed became likewise worm -eaten and rotten, and Anally
Instruments of spiritual destruction. So it is th at now the entire World is faced with
the problem of a titanic struggle for self-preservation
What Is the "cure"? As far as Spiritualism is concerned, there is but one cure:
Face facts as they are! We m ust realize and live in Our T ruth: th at Life is Con­
tinuous and the Bridge of Death has been spanned; th at as we sow, so shall we also
reap, that we are all one in the Brotherhood of Man, irrespective of race, creed, or
color; that we must NOT W AIT for opportunity to do good to come to us, but we
must GO OUT and SEEK IT.
How can Spiritualists best achieve this goal? BY EDUCATION! We must start
educating our children and young people in the T ruth of Spiritualism , by seeing that
Lyceums, as Spiritualist Sunday schools are called, are provided, if not in all
Churches, then in at least all districts where our Services are held. For the older
Spiritualists, there are Educational Courses sponsored by several w orthy and reliable
Organizations in Our Movement which may be had through Correspondence or Home-
Study Lessons. And, of course, Our Field is replete w ith excellent literature on Spirit­
ualism and Psychical Research.
Not only to our lay people, but to our W ORKERS comes the absolute necessity for
EDUCATION. Our Speakers and D em onstrators, throughout the World, must both
UNDERSTAND their W ork and be able to PR ESEN T it in an INTELLIGENT and
DIGNIFIED manner. This m ust be done else Our Movement will perish in IGNO­
RANCE! The time becomes shorter and shorter when the World will no longer accept
that which is not INTELLIGENTLY presented. O ur W orkers m ust study more and
more about the Truths of Spiritualism and prepare them selves in the A rt of Expres­
sion if our Rostrums are to survive Criticism and Ridicule. W ith the proper EDUCA­
TION OF OUR MINISTRY will come the legal and social recognition of Spiritualism
in its rightful place as a RELIGIOUS MOVEMENT and we shall thus be accorded
true Religious Freedom. We in British Columbia are proud of the fact that Spirit­
ualism enjoys all the legal rights of the so-called Orthodox Churches, including the
exercise of the M arriage Rites.
In conclusion, I should like to urge all Spiritualists, no m atter in w hat Country they
may reside, to live fearlessly up to Our Principles, particularly stressing the Father­
hood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, rem em bering to "accord to the other fellow
the same latitude which you take for yourself".
May this New Century for Our Cause be m arked by the spontaneous and genuine
outpouring of Spiritualist Comfort and Help of the Angel Friends to all humanity.
S'jjMTvinor: Wi'llIt*rri Cutiadu-K.N.U. KDUCATIONA I- SCHEM E
tM
EDUCATION: SALVATION FOR OUR MOVI (V
II NI
CANADA . . . REV. EDITH A. MAYII.I.
Hi me onli'illiu iipi lit it Now t'otilnry of Muilnrn H|ili II imllnni unit II I* Him
im mui li roflci ii'Mi mill timdlliiHvo ilmunM
I " >k«iiif,’ liiii H nvoc Hu1 lnil mu' hondrinl yi'iiiH \vi' mu' tunny •,Ii«mk,in Iho world nvm
Not Ifiim
I nmnnu ............ luingon In Hit' Mi'IImIuUi Oullnnk of Mankind A Ki'rnl ilmil
lim lrl'lnlly Mini nilll'ltlinlly, lum Imnll drnlrnyt'd llm l luiil lli't'll llinktnl l|IMm iti- III
11
. trim tilth' v\ II \ lint lUtm' I In I•111111 lii l|i in« v tlil'li lim y ni mm Hum Im vn fmon "muni
hrnl hi'inillt' Corrupted nlnl VVncimonli'h mill In hide III!' docity, Were H.l »rnm
>l oVet Mill)
ii iliin veneer, mlnit'iiillny thone wlm were iiu iim ii in InnU m ily niimt 1h»* niirfimo nr
(1
1
1
1
1k ■ As w It Ii Hi*' I'hyM i ill, nn w ith lim H p lrllim l nlilt' nl I .Iff <'iii'd n nml ilnKmim
which liml lift'll Inntlyiitcd Inc lim lim m iil n| hnum ulty Iliro u itIi ninii'n IH N O H A N i'IH
n t'xpivmiftl lii oiivy nml glced lim unit’ llkewlnn w orm I’Htmi nml it it I «>n, nml finally
iii';l i unit nl nl r |t|| II mi I deal nm l Ion Hn II In llm l imw lim milieu W orld Infin ml wll.lt
III!' pettillf III nf II 1
1
1ItII It nl Illgg It’ Ini nt'll |•I >-nl VItI lull
Wlilll In III!' "t'lict'"? A I fill im Hph It nullum In comi'llmd. Ilit I• In lull mm dirt
Knit fnrln im limy m i'’ VVr muni ci’iill/.u nml llv> in line 'I'ciilli llml I.Iff In i 'mi
11111111111 niltl lim llrldgc nl I ifii IIi lum Imtui »i|ilil'U
1
«
<
<I, llml nn W' nuw nn almll wi nlnu
it it|•. llml tv*' mi' nil mm In lim Itcnllmiltnml nl Mini, Ii irn|ni IIv• uf run ' im l <n
i nli•) llml We imi.it NOT WAIT fur tippuclunlly In ill) good In >
niim In lin, Iml wo
muni U«i OUT nml M
IOIOK IT
llmv flirt Hplrlllinllntn Imnl nchlrve Iliin grrnl? MY 101il ICATlON I Wo muni willcl
t dm itl lug mn rhllilcon nml yming pf«tp|t< in lim Tculli nl Hplclluullnnt, liy m-ring llml
l.yri'Ulnn if. Hplrllunllnt Hilliilny sillonln nrn ittIIt-tI, |»|f pcnvltlml, II lint In nil
t ’iiunlmn IItfit In ill li'iml nil tllMtrlt'lH wlmir mu Servlet 1 ul'i Imlil l''nc lim nltltti
Hplrltunllnln, limit- hic lOducutlunul t ’oiirtmit nponrtorod Ijy im wm l worthy ami roliuhle
<Icganl/.nllonit In • hie Muvt'iimnl whlrli limy In- luul IIIrough I'ncn npmult’imr m IImm-
Stuily l.cmunn And, uf cour*e, Our l''li'ld In replol.tt wllli t-xt fllonl lllfiitlu tf mi spirit
tinIliin nml I’nychlcal lli'nciiri'li
Not only t" our lay people, Iml In mir WOUKKIIH <onmit lim ul»"ilul< immunity foe
EDUCATION one Speaker* and l*emonalrittor«, Ihcmiulimit llu WncM muni holh
UNDICKHTAND IImlc Work nml Im able In I'lUiMMNT II In an INTKU.IUKNT anil
DION1KIKU iimnimr Thin muni Im <
Inno nine Our Movement will pminii in MJNo
KANt’IC! Tim llnif lift miit'M nhortoi nml nlim'lm- wlmn lim WmM will no longer am -pt
Hint which in mil INTlOLLIf IKNTI.Y prtumrili'il om W orker* niunl nludy imm and
morn about tho Truth* of Hplrltunllmn nml |in<pnci' llmnmolvi'n In Hu Ail nr 10*pm*
*lon If our lto*lrum* nm In *urvlvo f'rltlclwin nml in d h u h Willi tin proper li)|iU('A
TION ON OtJJt MIN IHTIt Y will t'oiiic lim Inga) nml mu InI n i up nil Inn of Hplcll onIlain
In lin rigid fill pliii-f iia n KKI.IOloWH MOVI'IMKNT nml Wi ahull Hma In- .........
tnm Itcllglou* ............... Wn In Hrltluh Columbia m e pcoml of llu find llml Hplcll
tin him enjoy* nil Hm legal right* of lim no enlleil Orlhmlun Ohunlmn, Im'hiding lim
cxcrcUc of tho Mnrrhigf It lien.
Iii t'oriflUNlnn, I nhoold like In urge nil HpIrllonllnlM, no m ullet In wlml Country llmv
may imlda, to llvo frnrlen*|y up lo Our Principle*, particularly ntienning Hm Kiillmr
hood of Ood iiitt] Hm Brothnrhood of Mum, rctnonihcrlnK lo "a< <ord In Hm othoi follow
llu- nnnio Intitudo which you tak f for youraetf’*
,
Muy thin Now tV nlury for O ur Cauae In- markud by lim npontnm-mia nml genuine
mil pouring of Hplrllunllnt Comfort nml llolp nl Hm Aiik«'I Krlemln in nil humanity
li'il'i I vl.1,1 W*..ifiii I'ininila *M.N. If I'll ti n ’A'ClfIN A I. Ml IHOMS
III
SPIRITUALISM IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA MARCHES ON
C Z E C H O S L O V A K I A . . . JAN ROZNER
On the occasion of the WORLD Centennial Celebration of Modern Spiritualism,
Czechoslovakia bids '•Hail and Success to Our World-Wide M ovement!" We recall
the first signals of Modern Spiritualism at Hydesville, so many miles from our home­
land, sounding out w ith the first precious weapons against m aterialism and the old
methods which had to be broken down in order to give way to the old Revelation of
Spirit made new, and reborn.
The last century has been favorable to the development of the New Religious Science.
We have proved th a t there is a link between the two worlds, through our Mediums
joining us w ith oui Friends gone on.
In our Country, Modern Spiritualism became known in 1880, but the first attem pts
had to be hidden because of all sorts of adversities. Towards the end of the Century,
some rem arkable intellectuals gave a noticeable support to the still feeble Move­
ment. M any a sacritice had to be m ade and it is quite natural th at the names of
the first devoted pioneers will alw ays be revered
As years passed on, a m ore liberal attitude of the authorities took place. The
moat favorable period for our grow th m ay be regarded as the one between the first
and second g reat wars.
Our Centre in Silesia w as the first to build its own House, or H eadquarters, with
a spacious hall and stage for m eetings, music, and theater performances. Also, there
are several adjoining rooms. Here the Association sponsors special groups and
circles, arranges for Cam ps and exhibitions a t home and abroad. We have many
drawings there too, on display. Also the editing of our paper and other duties are
accomplished in this building.
With the last w ar cam e destruction, prison, damages, and other sufferings. Spirit­
ualism gave us strength to w ork in secret during w ar times, and to support other
people who also loved freedom and peace in their hearts. It was one of the only hopes
left to us. E ut w ith the first dawn of Peace, we started to put aside the ruins and
to work openly for Spiritualism again.
M aterialism is still well equipped today, and its weapons are strong and sharp.
Regardless, we are looking forw ard to a better future. Our Movement has only to
achieve complete Unity and victory will be ours!•
• E d ito r: PSYCHICKA REVIEW
SPIRITUALISM STANDS STRONG IN BRAZIL
B H A . ' l l . . . A. WANTUIL DE FREITAS"
It whs not. ns m ight In* supposed, the books of A ndrew Jackson Davis that brought
New Spiritualism to B razil. R ather, it w as through the w ritten w orks of Allan KarrJec,
for In the past century French has been widely used as the cultural language in
Brazil.
O rganization work in New Spiritualism did not s ta rt in Brazil until 1884. at which
tunc the B razilian Federation of Spiritualism w as founded. The Reform er then became
the official organ of our Federation and continues to be so. Thus our New Spiritualist
M ovement hns grow n gradually to its present strength, which places it among the
most vigorous In the world. Today our Federation unites many, m any thousands
through its g reat distribution of literature, a whole netw ork of hospitals, old-age
homes, orphan asylum s, and schools.
The most rem arkable m edium ever to have appeared in our Country is Francisco
C andida X avier, now thirty-seven y ears old. From all over the land, the sick
pilgrim age to his home a t Pedro Leopoldo, In the S tate of M inas Geraes, to receive
spiritual healing and advice. H e has produced th irty m arvelous volumes, the sale
of which has reached several editions F ifty fam ous poets and authors have written
through his hand from the spirit world, producing, w ith supernorm al speed and
veridical style, m agnificent poems, rom antic stories, and scientific works. Since
the advent of this m edium . New S piritualism has progressed rapidly in Brazil, for
his books can in no w ay be understood w ithout the collaborating evidence of our
phenom ena anil philosophy. B razilian publications on N ew Spiritualism have always
preserved a high scientific and literary level, of w hich we are justly proud.
The m ost o u tstanding w orks on N ew S piritualism released in other languages
throughout the w orld are tran slated into Portugese, along w ith which a great
num ber of the w ritings of our own au th o rs are published. In B razil, there are only
four publishers of books on New S piritualism . The largest, w hich is our own Federa­
tion, has been operating for a half century and issues about ten volum es a year. Chief
am ong these books are the w orks of A llan K ardec. The m ost widely distributed of
these is The Gospels A ccording to S piritualism , w ith an annual sales exceeding fifteen
thousand. The fifty third edition is now in preparation.
U ntil 1937 our F ederation d istributed publications in New Spiritualism in Portugese
only; but since th at tim e, under decision of our E xecutive Board, we have been
em ploying E speranto as well. By using th is in ternational language we have obtained
m any m em bers to N ew S piritualism not only in B razil, but in other nations also. A
num ber of these publications have reached several editions.
G reat expanse in our publishing w ork has resulted in the outgrow ing of our present
p rinting plant and the increased volum e of production now necessitates new and
larg er facilities, w hich we are about to provide.
O utstanding personalities of our F ederation are P resident M arsala Raymundo
E w erton Q uandros, esteem ed scien tist; the prefect of Rio de Janeiro, a famous
physician. Dr. B ezerra de M enezes; and A dm iral P alm Pam plona. Among our
forem ost contem porary w rite rs are A ntono Luis Savao. B ittencourt Sam paio, and our
aforem entioned president.
T hanks to God. the progress of New S piritualism in B razil has become sufficiently
strong during the first cen tu ry of our M ovem ent to convince us of com plete trium ph
in the second hundred y ear m ark
T hrough the pages of this G rand Souvenir Book of the W orld C entennial Celebration
of New Spiritualism , we of B razil send to our co-w orkers throughout this world and
the next, a greu t and sincere w ish for progress and happiness in th eir Glorious Work.
P i. ti.l.'iu KEIIKKAI AO BSIM KITA HKASM.KIKA
96
THE PROGRESS OF SPIRITUALISM IN INDIA
I N D I A . . . V. D. RISHI, B.A., LL. B.*
The activities for the spread of knowledge regarding Life-after-Death have been
going on for several years in India, and the people are gradually, though slowly,
feeling interest in the Subject. Progress has started, but remains slow. Though there
is some awakening in the minds of the people, usually it is ephemeral and lasts
only as long as they yearn to have talks with their dear departed ones. In fact, as
is but natural and almost universal, it begins with some bereavement and lasts only
while the memory and love for the departed one is strong and the pain of separation
is fresh. There are very few who take sustained interest in the subject, and realize
its deep implications. The advancement of our work essentially depends upon the
co-operation of such keen seekers of knowledge who help the Cause in various ways.
The progress of the Spiritualist Movement depends almost entirely upon the services
of well-developed Mediums. In our country, we find many persons experimenting
through automatic writing and other methods of Spirit Communication. They claim
to have obtained excellent communications in their home-circles, but they hesitate to
help others in obtaining messages from their dear departed ones There are some
who spend their time in conversing with alleged High Spirits and do not care to
compare notes with others. Some, too, have suffered by overdoing and have thereby
harmed the Cause. There are a few who can get satisfactory communications from
their Spirit Friends, but they cannot, for want of sufficient Psychic Power, be
helpful to others in these experiments. Most of the people interested in the Subject
are aware of Mrs. Rishi's Mediumship which enables the sitters to get messages
from those whom they love on the Other Side of Life. The country needs Mediums
who can demonstrate the truth of Spirit-Return. In fact, the Mediumistic Faculty
is latent in very many persons and can be developed under proper guidance. It has
been well said that Mediums are like telescopes to Astronomers. The Movement in
foreign countries is progressing on account of the Mediums which they possess. Let
us hope for the day when India will have such Intermediaries to facilitate the spread
of this Knowledge. There are indeed many persons who are endowed with this
Psychic Faculty, but they need proper development.
Most persons in our Country are unaware of the Physical Phenomena of Medium-
ship as can be witnessed through the co-operation of some well-known Mediums in
Europe and America. It is news to them that we can hear the voice of spirits, see
them with our eyes, touch them with our fingers, and obtain spirit photographs as
well. We get personal experience of the Phenomena in our visits to Europe, and
testify to their genuiness. But this is not enough for others. It is highly desirable to
educate the people about such Phenomena so that they may easily understand this
Grand Truth. But it can only be done with the help of proper Mediums right here
in India.
The Knowledge is very slowly, though gradually permeating the masses. The
strength of the Movement is not to be judged by the number of public associations
alone, but by the great number of home-circles, which are being held all over the
Country I meet innumerable persons who have obtained true Communications in
such experiments. For various reasons, they do not wish to come into the limelight,
but all the same they are quite convinced of the Truth of Spirit-Return.
Above all. the need of many Public Mediums in India is great. When that need is met.
then and then alone can the splendor of Spiritualism be added to the basic spiritual
culture of Mother India.
97
P resident: INDIAN SPIRITUALIST SOCIETY
THE NEW REVELATION AND AN EVANGELISTIC LIFE
H U N G A R Y . . . LASZLO BODNAR •
The whole world reverberates in our time as a result of the spirit messages com­
municated through the mediation of the Fox sisters one hundred years ago.
The soul-awnkening and spirit-heightening revelation, the celestial flame of which
was lit In a humble Htable of that little Palestinian town, and the glow of which il­
luminated the entire earth, grew again bright in the hitherto relatively unimportant
town of Hydesvllle. the birthplace of Modern Spiritualism . Ju st as upon hearing the
mighty and liberating teachings of the divine Master, every heart that yearned for
salvation trembled, again with the New Revelation such hearts are filled with the
glad rejoicings that humanity, staggering under present-tim e m aterialistic fear of
death and the trials of life, is convinced th at there is no death and th at it is worth­
while to bear neglect, humiliation, and every torm ent, because the sufferings that
arc borne with indomitable faith arc especially suited to cure the sick soul, broadening
its perspective and developing its insight and strength.
When the New Revelation opens before those who are hungering for the knowledge
of heaven, so that they are enabled to rejoice in the understanding of the great cosmic
plan, it requires theni to fashion their lives along lines directed by the teachings of
Jesus. The truth is that the dem onstrations of modern spirit-science prove exactly
this, that the salvation of hum anity is not a m irage, but a most essential reality
guided by the cooperation of the H igher Spirit H ierarchy.
It is not enough, with a joy-filled soul, to announce to the world th at there is no
death, that we meet with our departed in another world, th at we can even now
directly communicate with them.
Rather we must also draw accurate conclusions from these evident facts. Otherwise
we shall fare as the official churches, which, it is true, have some respectable repre­
sentatives. but who on the whole, m isrepresent the spiritual heritage of true Chris­
tianity. He who changes even an iota of the revealed truths, and teaches accordingly,
has darkened them in their entirety.
Let us avoid empty disputations, since polemics dim the inner light. But. on the
other hand, we would be guilty of a serious transgression against the higher glory of
the New Revelation if we should keep silent for the sake of a false concept of peace.
We must evangelize, we m ust preach, we m ust teach th a t Jesus, love's most en­
lightened earthly representative, never spoke about eternal punishm ent; th at he gave
an example of inner christening and inner sacrifice, the essence and substance of
which is mostly Ignored by the dogm as of the churches; th at he taught, on several
occasions, the doctrine of reincarnation; that, of m ighty consequence, he held im­
portant the cultivation of communication w ith those of the Spirit World and that
he. himself, demonstrated this unconditionally on the M ount of Glorification, in the
presence of Peter, Jam es, and John.
This place is holy! Only with sandals removed is it proper to glance into the life of
the Spirit World. And he. to whom the Celestial Spheres have opened, has as his holy
obligation, to live a truly exem plary life and so to testify to his extraordinary gift of
grace. The follower of the New Revelation m ust not be satisfied m erely with the
recognition of the m anifestations of the Spirit World. He m ust spread the teachings.
This he must do broadly, yes. but it is of greater im port th a t he “spread the Gos­
pel." renewed, through the constant development of his personality and bring to
higher perfection his own inner or spiritual world.
In this manner the disciples of the New Revelation will not become as hypocritical
Pharisees, who only im itate saintliness, but will be truly flooded w ith the celestial
glow and by their lives exemplify that there is not a more joyful happiness than to
serve tirelessly and humbly in order to awaken within others the "eternal values" . . .
to evangelize the New Revelation!
C h u irm an : S'/.ERK-OTTHON JO T E K O N Y S A O I E O Y E S IIL E T
98
ASTRAL PROJECTION AS A PROOF OF SPIRITUALISM
U. S . A . . . . SYLVAN J. MULDOON
Modern Spiritualism is based upon two main tenets: that man survives the
death of the body, and that, having made the "transition." he is capable at
times of communicating with those still living upon the earth-plane, through the
instrumentality of certain peculiarly endowed individuals known as Mediums.
All this has been proved to the satisfaction of many, including a number of the
world's greatest scientists. But there is another method of obtaining this complete
conviction of the reality of a spiritual world, perhaps the most convincing of all
to one who has undergone the experience. I refer to astral projection
If you have once left your physical body, while retaining full consciousness, and
lived and functioned apart from it, looking back upon your physcial vehicle asleep
upon the bed. there can no longer be the slightest doubt in your mind that you are
immortal spirit, temporarily inhabiting another world, which you will permanently
inhabit after so-called death.
I have had this experience many hundreds of times, and I have collected the first­
hand testimony of scores of others who have undergone similar experiences. No
evidence in the world could be more conclusive than this, to one who has under­
gone a genuine astral projection.
That noted Italian Spiritualist and psychic investigator, Ernesto Bozzano, emphasized
in several of his books that, in his opinion, astral projection constitutes one of the
strongest proofs imaginable of the reality of a spirit world and spirit return. This,
because it is, in itself, a complete refutation of the present day materialistic
psychology: that "mind is a function of the brain". It shows us once and for all
that mind can and does exist quite apart from the physical brain, even in this
life. Why not, therefore, when the physical brain is no more?
I have discussed this question at considerable length in my book, The Projection
of the Astral Body, published in 1929, as well as giving minute instructions as to
how astral projection may be accomplished and successfully achieved. Projection
of the astral body proves to be of enormous value to Spiritualists, and to their
Cause, because it constitutes such a complete refutation of opposing arguments.
To the writer it has always seemed strange indeed that these facts should not be
more generally known and recognized by Spiritualists, and that astral projection
experiences should have figured so little (relatively speaking) in their literature. I
cannot but feel that the publication of my book constituted a turning-point in the
history of the subject, opening up new vistas which had hitherto been undreamed of.
Since its publication, a whole new literature has sprung-up dealing with this
subject, and many cases have been reported to me, some of which I have published
in my book, The Case for Astral Projection, while still further instances are to
appear in my forthcoming book, which will appear shortly. From all over the
world letters’ have come to me, telling me of out-of-the-body experiences. Their
number is surprisingly large.
I would advise Spiritualists to familiarize themselves with the literature of this
subject, and above all to endeavor to have such experiences themselves. Spiritualism
should receive a tremendous momentum, by the proof of astral projection, which
in itself constitutes absolute proof of the reality of another world. . . . I myself
have had this proof, and others can have it too—by means of astral projection!
Author: PROJECTION OF THE ASTRAL BODY. etc.
99
TRANSCENDENT VALUE OF HYDESVILLE PHENOMENA
A R G E N T I N A . . . JOSE S. FERNANDEZ*
When on the historic night of March 31. 1848. little Katie Fox took the happy oppor­
tunity to test whether the mysterious knocker of the Hydesville house was able to
answer her signals, she did not think of the fact that her innocent game would con­
tribute greatly to the lifting of the veil for the New Revelation which Providence
offered to man by means of the phenomena of Modern Spiritualism.
After the first communications had been accomplished in the family circle, little by
little, there spread the knowledge and practice of the phenomena, which appeared
under forms new and unusual and convincing even to the most incredulous mate­
rialists.
Great was the Transcendent Value of the Hydesville Phenomena. These manifesta­
tions. revelatory to the existence of a Spiritual World, provoked amazement and
violent reactions. As a result, the first mediums and experimenters were the object
of iniquitous persecutions.
There were sad times when Humanity, disoriented by the contradictions derived from
the dogmatic teaching of religions, and bewildered by the scientific conquests in the
domain of matter, was impelled day by day toward atheism under the influence of
positivist philosophy. Meanwhile, the western religions, absorbed in the practice of
rituals, emphasized the forms of worship without concerning themselves with the
fundamentals of their doctrinary content. For this reason, they were powerless to
check the wave of atheistic materialism, which was dragging men toward lack of
faith in God and hope for life hereafter.
Then it was that there appeared the new scientifically provable phenomena which
reveal the truth of the survival of the soul and the possibility of communication be­
tween the Spiritual and the Terrestrial Worlds.
Among the world’s great men of science who investigated the unknown field is Sir
William Crookes, who deserves the greatest gratitude of his fellows, for his probity,
his courage, and his valuable and indestructible proofs of established communica­
tion with the Next World. In the philosophic and moral field it was the French doctor
and educator Leon Hypolyte Denizard Rivail. better known as Allan Kardec. who
spread Spiritualist teachings, systematizing them in his famous works, which bear
evidence to the profound religious meaning contained in the communications from
the Beyond. From these works and others there rises, in all its greatnes.- Christian­
ity. revived in the purity which the Founder gave to it, and which is revealed in the
Holy Scripture interpreted with the meaning of Spiritualism.
Humanity, submerged in atheistic materialism to its scientific and technical advances,
needed the Light from the Beyond in order to understand its true position and to
awaken from the intoxication of sensuality and power into which it had fallen full
of pride.
The phenomena of Hydesville were as flashes of lightning in the dark and stormy
night, offering to man the opportunity of finding his way to the Road of Life. They
were the first sparks of the New Revelation which God offered to man. spreading it
everywhere by means of the Spiritualist Movement.
Now one hundred years have passed since the birth of Modern Spiritualism and the
struggle with incomprehension and m aterialistic blindness continues on Earth.
In their eagerness for dominance, and under the mirage of their scientific and tech­
nical powers, men have supported two cruel world w ars and threaten to begin a third
which would have an Apocalyptic character with the use of diabolical atomic wea­
pons. Only by the full comprehension of the phenomena of Hydesville and all their
transcendent significance as a proof of the Existence of God and of life continuous
after death of the physical body, will they be able to be saved from man-made in­
struction of the world.
P n » id tn t: CONFEDERACION ESPIR1TA P ANAM ERIC ANA
100
OUR AUSTRALIAN BLACKS ARE PSYCHIC!
A U S T R A L I A . . . MARY GUTHRIE*
People who have noticed our aborigines loitering about the townships of Australia,
clothed in the cast off garm ents of civilization, begging for "hand-outs," have formed
a very low opinion of them. But these are, or were, the degenerate descendants of a
splendid race. I say ‘•were,” for the pure-bred blacks are no longer wanderers at
will. The Government is caring for them in reservations, after the manner of the
Indians of North America, or on mission stations managed by the various Churches,
where the natives are taught to be self-supporting, and they have responded very
well to the training.
To see the Australian aboriginal at his best, one must go where they still roam in
fairly large numbers, in the Central and North-West of Australia. The crews of aero­
planes which had come to grief in those places were astonished to find themselves
surrounded by hunters and warriors of splendid physique, carrying primitive spears
and boomerangs.
The camera has shown us these fine people. Our aborigines have a telepathic sense.
Their religion, though devoid of ritual, recognizes a future life and communication
with the so-called dead. They are natural Spiritualists! Every morning on awaken­
ing, they raise an invocation to their dead. When the sun appears, it is the signal for
a long-drawn-out ululation. which is their greeting to their dead friends and relatives
Although every spring, w ater hole, tree, and creek, has its guardian spirit, they be­
lieve in one Supreme Spirit, whom they call Baime, a glorified super-hunter and
warrior. His spear they call Dhurramallam, just as King Arthur's sword was called
Excalibur.
When I lived in the Tar north of Queensland. I had many opportunities for studying
our true natives at close hand. One morning, at sunrise, we were awakened by the
sounds of their chanting to the dead. The margin of the lagoon was fringed with
their leaf huts called gunyahs. Later in the day. when all the able-bodied men had
gone hunting, I went down, and found the women and children on the eternal hunt
for food. But one of the old women, we called them gins or lubras, was resting in the
shade of a gunyah. Her only clothing was a grass girdle and her long grey hair. She
looked incredibly old.
We had a visitor with us at the time who had come up from Melbourne to spend the
genial North Queensland winter with us, and to lick his wounds after a domestic
upheaval which had ended in his wife running away from him. as he believed, with
another man. I got him to pay Old Kitty a visit. I had proved her psychic powers
several times, and we had dubbed her "The Witch of Plum Point". She had never
seen a cattle station, a ranch, nor a railway station, yet she described a cattle station
to him which he recognized as the girlhood home of his wife before her marriage to
him. She minutely described the girl's parents, and then, the girl herself, who. she
said, was nursing a baby boy . . . or. as she put it. a milla milla.
Ht had not known a baby was on the way. and this only confirmed his suspicions of
her infidelity. But Old Kitty said he was quite wrong, there was no other man, and
soon he would get a letter that would “fly through the air"—which was her way of
describing a radiogram.
A few days later the radiogram came. He took the first plane out. and lost no time
in reaching the far W est Australian cattle station, where he found his wife and his
small son. It ended in a joyful reconciliation.
This is only one instance, but I have met many native mediums and sensitives, and
have seen wonderful cures wrought by their witch doctors, who after all. were only
u‘ing the powers given them by their spirit friends. Indeed, our Austrian blacks are
psychic!
" W o rk e r for th e Cawwe'*
101
SPIRITUALISM IN DENMARK
D E N M A R K . . . EMIL BORKFELT
The first feeble signs of a spiritualistic dawn over Denmark takes us back to the
years 1886-1890 when some few persons, with little experience, met in small circles
in investigate the Phenomena of Spiritualism. This Is known to have been the ease In
the eapital of Copenhagen, as well as in the large provincial towns of Aarhus and
Renders. But, In the course of the nineties, a man, who may be called the first
founder of a spiritualistic community in Denmark came out in public. It was
Robert Jorgensen. Copenhagen, who with a very qualified medium for trance, Mrs.
Petrea Seidelin-Niclsen, instituted "The Spiritualistic Brotherhood" which very soon
grew and at 1905, ten years later, had 2000 members. In 1894 the beautiful house.
The Betsaida-Temple, Fllippavoj 2, Copenhagen, was built, and there the work
still is carried on.
Soon more spiritualistic communities were formed and we now count more than
fifty such in activity over the whole country. These are mostly affiliated in one
organization, Danske Spiritisters Klrkesamfund IDanish Spiritualists Church
Society), which practically all provincial communities have joined, but only about
a third part of the associations in Copenhagen.
The organization, generally known as "D.S.K.." is led by a council of nine members,
with A. C. Mortensen as president and travelling secretary, and issues a monthly
paper "Spiritistl.sk Tidende," now in Its 21st year, edited by Emil Borkfelt, Esbjerg.
The journal is 20 pages with a colored cover and is often illustrated.
The Danish spiritualistic associations generally meet once a week, and trance
addresses, mostly on religious lines, are held Also a great deal of so-called soul­
saving work is done to enlighten suffering spirits who often are not aware that
they have passed over. I should think we possess about fifty mediums for trance
and some of these are clairvoyants as well, so most meetings can be supplied with
clairvoyant descriptions.
1 suppose we have some half a score able speakers, the above mentioned travelling­
secretary, A. C. Mortensen, being the most active, giving all his time to this work.
There are a few mediums for telekinesis and materializations, but only one of special
form of this kind, Einer Nielsen, Copenhagen, who is excellent for direct voices
and trumpet.
A fairly extended branch of our work is healing through mediums. In this respect
I know' the conditions best in the seaport of Esbjerg, where my wife, Maria
Borkfelt, works for the Association CARITAS as medium for trance and healing.
Also in Copenhagen and Aarhus very good results are attained by this work.
We have an excellent book-store with spiritualistic and occult literature at Esbjerg.
Finally. I may mention that at present we are circulating a petition, that II)
Spiritualism be recognized in Denmark as a religion; (2) Admission to the Danish
state-radio for emission of enlightened addresses on Spiritualism. We expect to
reach the number of 10,000 names: we have already 6.000.
I should like to use this opportunity to send all brothers and sisters in our Cause,
all over the world, my greetings and invite all to visit our small but friendly and
smiling county—Denmark.
Editor: SPIR1T1STISK TIUENUE
102
SPIRITUALISM IN FRANCE
I' H A N C n . . . M. NICOLAS STRATI
First we milnl honor th<- memory of the Fox Sisters, wlvi, by their courage to face
great opposition, prepared th< way to the New Revelation concerning the survival
of the human peraonnllly. It Is t/> he noticed at the time those young girl* were
rhriNcn by the World of Spirits. Science wax making a great Htep forward in all
direction*, nnd no, men were belter able to understand the Science of the Soul.
Our Society LE8 f’HILADELPHEH was established In 1829 In order to spread
Spiritualism In the way rnoat of the Anglo-Saxon societies understand It: phenomena
always going aide by aide with religion. Many years spent in London enabled my
wife to study thoroughly the question and to realize how far ahead of the
Continent, the English were in the comprehension of Spiritualism. Led by the
Spirit World found the imperious necessity to emphasize the moral and
religious Hide of the question, and it is for this purpose we established a new
Society, authorized by the State, on the same regulations ruling the different
religions in France and in the old Colonies. Our Church is iri the denomination of
EGLISE CHRJSTIQUE PRIMITIVE. We operate exactly a-. in most of the Spiritual­
ist Churches of Great Britain, with the difference we emphasize on the teaehing of
the CHRIST and the NEW TESTAMENT. This we do In a way most of the
people in France have never understood, a spiritualistic presentation. After having
read a passage of the New Testament, we give a psychic message from a Guide.
We give a very great importance and care to healing the sick, and we have had
wonderful cures operated by prayers and the laying of hands as our Master has
taught us. We have about twenty affiliated Churches in Dahomey id if we could
give them more help the number could increase considerably.
Before th> war the SOCIETY LES PHILADELPHES did a good deal of philan­
thropic work along with experimentations in Psychic Phenomena. Our activities
were recorded In our magazine OLARTES NOUVELLES (Sliver Medal at the
Exposition of 1937).
During the occupation, our Society was closed, but our Church remained opened,
giving hope and persuasion of Victory to a great many people. Our work is increas­
ing continually; we are told by the Spirit Guides it will always increase, because
we serve God and contribute to the evolution of mankind.
God bless America, the cradle of Modern Spiritualism and the home of the Fox
Sisters, more alive than ever.
K-iundo: I.‘E C U S E < HIMSTICjUE PRIMITIVE
103
ff
“GREATER THINGS SHALL YE DO . . .
E N G L A N D . . . HARRY EDWARDS
This is a brief glimpse into one man's fight against disease, a man raised up by
spirit power to become in a short time the world's greatest psychic healer. His name
is Harry Edwards, and he lives near the old-world village of Shere. in Surrey
England.
Every week there pour in hundreds and hundreds of letters from people all over the
world, including many from the United States of America. South America. Canada
and indeed every country where the English word is understood. These letters ask
for healing of almost every human ill. Each one is personally answered by the
healer, and through his intercession with the Spirit Doctors cures take place, often
in the shortest of times, whatever the complaint may be. The overseas mail is all con­
ducted by airmail, and Edwards asks for weekly reports to enable him to watch
closely the healing progress. It is of great interest for these patients to see how
the healing has taken place, during the few days for the air-letters to reach them.
Applications for healing come from all parts of the globe by cable, too.
An instance of the widening of the knowledge of this worker’s "gift of healing” is
that the principals of eleven publishing houses in America alone have benefited (or
their people have) from his intercessions.
In England, through this healer, the miracles of the Newr Testament are seen in
mass healing demonstrations, where thousands of people gathei to watch the im­
mediate healings of so-called "incurable” physical diseases like paralysis, disseminated
schlerosis, arthritis, infantile paralysis, etc.
Doctors are co-operating with him (unofficially, for to do so openly would lay them
open to censure) for their patients and their own folk. Members of hospital staffs are
doing likewise for their patients.
Edwaid's chief pride lies in his "records of cures." in the original letters from
patients- there are thousands of them testifying to the curing of the "incurable''
They are filed under over one hundred broad disease headings and cover almost
every known human ailment. The largest files, relate to cancer and growths, hearing,
vision, nerve disorders, mental unbalance, skin diseases, tuberculosis, and blood
disorders. These cabinets may well be likened to the “ninth wonder of the world”.
Edwards never charges any fees as such, but is enabled to carry on his work through
the donations that are sent to him for his work for suffering humanity.
The percentage of cures is very appreciable; and of the remainder, eighty percent
report improvement. No single hospital in the world, with its staffs, laboratories, and
operating theatres, can compare with the healings effected through the ministry of
this one man.
Harry Edwards sends this message to his friends the world over on the
occasion of our Spiritualist Centenary Jubilee:
"The past Century of Spiritualism has accomplished much. The future happiness
and progression of mankind, the world over, must not rest on treaties and con­
ventions alone, but upon the spiritualization of man himself. This can only rest
upon the sure foundation of the knowledge of man's survival, the implications of
which are more than sufficient to provide a new code of ethical and economic
morals to outlaw the ignoble things of the past and lead to the real brotherhood
of man in the sight of God and humanity. May the near future of Our Movement
sec this take place, and may we share in its accomplishment."
101
Author. iuT tuitl, urul Spiritual Hauler
TURN TO THE SPIRIT
VO/VB A S A . . . KAIKOBAD ARDESHIR, L. Sc.
In the present age when science has revolutionised the world mechanism, the
outcome ot material research and progress has done very much for the upllftment
ami simultaneously, for the destruction of the properly of Divine Creation The
present age inhabitants of this earth, in all their so-called glory and selfish motives,
have been the stepping stone of the cruel and merciless warfares. In past centuries,
from the humble worker to the man of society, from the business magnate lo those
of the King's Court, all took a keen Interest in the spiritual sciences: not only that,
they looked upward to theii Creator for guidance and help. Whither is that period
now? The present generation far from its respect to the Supreme Creator, presumes
that the material gain is the only item needed for success.
In the midst of turmoil, hatred, and arrogance towards the creations of the
Almightly, a century ago the Truth of Spiritualism was again revived, and day by
day is taking a firm er hold on the population. On this planet, which numerous
tribes inhabit, religions strive to distinguish themselves one from the other, each
claiming its own superiority to the others. But Spiritualism has come forth bearing
the banner of truce and peace, with the message of good-will towards all fellow
human beings. And it came not through those on thrones in high places nor upon
pulpits of stone, but through the agency of two poor girls. So it was that when
those in power bestowed with the sacred gifts diverted them for selfish motives,
the humble folk brought the gifts of spirit to the light, where now they stand sur­
mounting all obstacles, out of reach for any power to destroy.
No religion teaches its followers to rob. cheat, or swindle their fellowmen. In fact,
all the teachings of the many Masters, who. after the lapse of years, have appeared
on the face of the earth, go hand in hand if studied minutely and without prejudice.
In religions we find different paths by which our fellowmen travel to the same
goal "To be one with the Master." Whether it be Jesus. Buddha, Krishna. Allah.
Zoroaster, or one of the other Prophets.
The Truth of Spiritualism teaches that every human being is endowed with the
spark of divinity—that every human being is a God within, in miniature, yet due
to lack of knowledge and character is swayed by the shallow pomp of the worldly
glories and runs after residue, casting away the essence . . . that every human
being, being a part with God. is immortal . . that every human being is endowed
with Spiritual Gifts which, if only the pain is taken and energy devoted, can
be uplifted for his use and the benefit to the humanity . . that every human being
may not be cut oft from the one he loves by death, but that he can hold com­
munication with the dead ones through the Spiritual Gifts.
Our so-called modern bishops and priests, who for generations have been swayed
by their contempt towards the only science of Spiritual Truth, have done their
best, or worst, to harm the spreading of Spiritualism. So what is the answer" Their
numerous empty pews and forsaken altars, where once so many reverently bowed,
prove that orthodox churches have been compelled to relinquish their hold on
humanity. And this because they have turned their faces from the living spirit. And
so too. the multitudes have turned to the things of the clay, forgetting Ihe spirit
within. For the ending of the w arfares and the building of the "Peace on Earth and
Good-will to All." we must TURN TO THE SPIRIT and Spiritualism lights the way
Spiritual Toucher anil P racticing Paycholotfiut
105
___
A WARNING FROM BEYOND. . .
E A S T P R U S S I A . . . CHARLOTTE KEYSER:
As we have in our Country at this time no Spiritualism worthy of mention in organ­
ized form, all having been stamped out by the forbidding ruthless ignorance and
barbarism of the war, I am sending for your book, the true story of a warning re­
ceived from the Beyond-World. The story is in God's own truth; 1 have no purpose
for deceiving in words.
In Konigsberg. several years ago. a seance took place. There were only three of us
at the sitting. We were grouped around a small table, sitting on chairs, our hands
closed down, touching, to form a chain on the table top. Soon we sensed a movement
of the table and after that we received the following messages, which were com­
pletely mystifying to us.
There manifested the alleged spirit of one, saying he was a young officer who had
passed away in World War Number One. communicating to us his name, date and
place of birth, the regiment to which he belonged, and the place and date of his earth
death. All was new and strange to us.
The alleged spirit addressed us with the following request: He gave us a name and
address, saying it to be that of his earth brother, who lived in Sensburg and who
was an officer in the water protection department, asking th at we communicate with
him and tell him that his dead brother had got into touch with us for the purpose of
warning him. The alleged spirit informed us that his brother had the intention to
participate in horse-racing which was to take place in two weeks’ time, in Konigs­
berg. The warning was that his brother was not to do so! To prove to his brother the
correctness of his presence, the alleged spirit said he had given us all the details
regarding his own person.
The seance over, we consulted what to do. Not knowing if such a person existed at
Sensburg, or anywhere for that matter, we took a chance and wrote a letter to the
place.
To the letter written we received a reply. The w riter explained to us that all we had
told him about a dead brother had been correct in all details and that it was right
that he. himself, had planned to participate in the racing at Konigsberg. He said
that in spite of the astonishment which our message had caused him. he. being an
enlightened human being of the twentieth century, could not trust such a warning
and would not therefore give up his entering into the coming race.
We were struck by consternation that the communication conveyed to us in our
little seance was so absolutely true and we became extremely worried to notice that
the man to whom the warning message had been directed had neglected it in so
careless a way.
Very soon, it was too late. The warning message had proved only too justified, be­
cause we read in the newspaper of the deadly accident of one of the race participants,
his name being that of the man to whom we had forwarded our letter. . . . He had
rejected the warning message with his own life!
Are we not. therefore, justified by scientific reasoning to conclude that the alleged
spirit was in truth what the manifestation claimed: a loving spirit giving guidance
to his flesh brother of earth?
One o f Spiritu&liKm*B million*
106
SPIRITUALISM IN MID-PACIFIC
THE PHILIPPINES . . . TIBURCIO RAMIREZ
In the late 90's. during the last days of the final revolt of the Filipinos against the
Spanish tyranny, when practically the whole Philippines was aflare at its highest
for the sacred cause of em ancipation, there were sporadic manifestations of Spirit­
ualism. even among certain groups of revolutionists. Such manifestations became
more apparent in the early days of the American rule in the Islands. Those manifes­
tations consisted of physical as well as mental phenomena, which were of such a
degree that a wide curiosity of various groups of people was attracted. Among them
were many intellectuals. These groups later became enthusiastic and organized
themselves to undertake deeper psychical investigations with far greater seriousness.
Among the groups were a good m any serious minded Americans and Europeans.
It was on F ebruary 19, 1905, when our organization was formally established and on
January 21, 1909, w as registered w ith the Government. A coordination of work in the
field of spiritualistic activities of the Association has since then been consistently
practised under the exclusive direction of our Spirit Protectors (Guiding Spirits of
the Bright Spheres), w ith M aster C hrist Jesus as our Infallible Supreme Head and
Authority,
Our work and teachings are based purely on spiritual and moral principles trans­
mitted by our Spirit P rotectors to the m em bers of the Association. The Christian
Bible constitutes the accepted Sacred Book of the Association. In coordination with
the Holy Scriptures, the m any w orks of Allan Kardec, the "Prince of Spiritualism,”
have been officially sanctioned by the Spirit Protectors. Our studies and researches
cover the science, philosophy, religion of Modern Spiritualism, and such other knowl­
edges governing ultraphysical life and existence in the invisible worlds of the uni­
verse.
Healing through spiritual m agnetism under the direct guidance and influence of
Spirit Protectors, through healing mediums, embodies one of the main practical and
charitable works of the Association. This constitutes a most effective propaganda
in spreading the teachings and m orals of the Modern Spiritualism.
Seances, conferences, and classes are held regularly, involving discussions on science,
morals, philosophy, and religion, as well as the nature and conditions of life exist­
ent in the hereafter, in w hich the spirit being (the real man) plays the most im­
portant role in the course of his infinite existence and progress. In all such activities
the guidance of Spirit Protectors is indispensable. A variety of mediumship is
manifest, clairvoyance being am ong the m ost im portant. Science as expounded by
the teachings of Spiritualism is not confined only within the physical bounds, but is
extended infinitely to ultraphysical and superspiritual conditions of life. Nor does
religion as upheld by Spiritualism in our Association have any sectarian or dogmatic
touch; it is the U niversal Religion, the Religion of Religions, that is being taught.
Our Association comprises 140 affiliated Centers (branches) scattered in different
parts of Luzon Island. The headquarters, called Center General, are located at
Manila. About 100,000 m em bers constitute the aggregate of its followers. The main
ideal and pursuit of the Association as its bounden duty to humanity is to contribute
toward the moral and spiritual uplift of m ankind by spreading the moral and spiritual
teachings of Spiritualism in a m anner th at is non-sectarian, non-racial, and non-dis­
criminating, having as its doctrine "W ITHOUT CHARITY THERE IS NO POS­
SIBLE SALVATION.”
S<!e.: UNION ESPIKIT1STA CRISTIANA H E FIL1P1NAS
WHY PERSECUTED . . .?
T R IN ID A D . . . LIONEL M. SAMUEL
Man 15 a citizen, as it were, of two worlds because he possesses faculties that tie him
to both the visible and invisible realms of life. However, the major part of our
humanity of today is seen to be far from realizing or understanding its spiritual
selfhood, neglecting the inner realities of life in its mad eagerness for the sensuality
of transient things ot material form. But man is not of flesh alone and he can feed
not on bread alone. Paul. In the New Testament, explained that man is of two bodies:
Ihi physical and the spiritual. Today. Modern Spiritualism proves it.
Even if man's senses be limited to the material universe, it is nonetheless his bounden
duty to search for higher revelations in the world of psychic reality and spiritual un­
derstanding There Is nothing worthwhile that is hidden which man’s search for true
wisdom cannot reveal.
The Bible is full throughout of stories of various psychic phenomena and communica­
tion! between the visible and invisible worlds. So, too, its pages are covered with
knowledge of spiritual principles which man needs to understand in order that his
soul be properly led into everlasting goodness.
We arc told of the Great Seance conducted by Jesus on the Mount of Transfiguration,
lit is regrettable, but true, if such a personage were to exist now-a-days and per­
formed such a demonstration he would find himself before a court of law! i Here he
took his three most trusted disciples, Peter, James, and John. And before their eyes
not only the physical body of Jesus was actually transfigured, but he was seen talking
with the materialized forms of Moses and Elias. If this is not "talking with the dead."
what is it ?
The story of the "Medium of Endor” tells freely and to the point of another remark­
able Seance: but it was no more remarkable than those made manifest through the
Psychic Powers of present time Mediums, Saul of flesh and body, in this Seance.
waV able to speak with Samuel who was "called up” from the realm of the invisible.
Ir this not communication between the two worlds of here and hereafter?
Such stories are many in the Bible and they all become plain and understandable in
the light of knowledge which Modem Spiritualism gives to humanity. So-called mir­
acle cease to be when all is known, for the Law’s of N ature are the Laws of God and
explain all things as being in accordance with the Divine Plan which is no respecter
of persons or of times.
The Bible also explains much that man needs for the development and progress of
hn soul, how he must undergo his unfoldment step by step, and be guided by the high
teachings and ethical pronouncements of Jesus. Are not all these great spiritual
truths given by Modern Spiritualism which teaches of the Fatherhood of God and
the Brotherhood of Man, of redemption never lost, of communion one with another
even beyond death, of the beatitudes, and of the commandment of Love? What then
holds the world of so-called Christians against this religion of Spiritualism?
Toucher: Hibliral Scholar: InveHtiirator
108
SPIRIT REALITY
toW R A U A . . . CANI.ILE FE R G U SO N
I'ltiaitU Iloti I'li Hpll'll Iti'RlIlyl
II Ilii< I ’IVitim till11 | «
i1
1 ii limit 1111111 1
1
1iiH
I lllilll'ri 1
1
1n !•' I ■
■
Iit Iii1111M 1
1
1 11
1
1 1
1 M
il*I Hi)
tVilti’lililtil l Vlrlit ill lull til Model’ll Hpll'll IIIII(M
ill Ilf pn**lhlc 1 • 'nillil tin mold ('•»i
I'tiitm 11mi' limit cmu'clvnhlc h av e rnintnned linin'* lepentcil lupin " front uplrlloul
tindei'ilitmlliiK Into IIn* darkne** nr m n lfi III111 IIIY Mill. Hplrll hrlnn tlmelcm
uml npnrclc**, nil llmllnt Iuiim a r e (1 ti in IIve, mill eternity III'' only rin*IIIV
The t<*ini "m odern'' in aptly United w lilt Ilit* ridchrtitlon of "H plflluylieni," which it,
(lint uml Imd, wplrll m m ilfcidnt Inn Hpll'll m i i i i i IIi ilitllun, II II lir mil nn old n» Hu
Imimiii wnrhl llm'li In mniel IicIchm very mm h older Ihim Mplrltuulimn I Indleve
lightly or wrongly, Hint only Whim Hiilcll Heiillly inirmihiK U inehy, man'* l«l»"tilIty
nh "n ripli'll," hln niuvlvnl a fte r mi culled ilcnlli, mill the ithllllv "I tin *n called ilfii'l
In communicate w ith llm e a rth living) In ii cum inutily rcrngnlKcd fm I will i ui i m
IIIOHIN In ii'KitIn hln hold mi IIPIAI. ItiilLH IK tN uml llm world Mli'OIN In inihapi ll»
i niinii Invvmiln IIm fhinlvf m tlhm him nl m en'* ilremiiM mm world, mm people
u n i t Hpll'll, Uml III I I I I II I
l'‘ttllh wll hunt win'll n In ■
Ii'll11 Thin In mmiircnl in Ih r I ’lnlnllmi Im ien lied) I 'h i i n h
IhitniKInml Hm world Imlny Hi im pirn mi earth. pm Imp*, In thin linin' Irim Hum In
llu'nc fm iiwii y domlnhiiiM of llm Itill Inh lOmpIro, w h e n minny hemlm* mid nporln
Invlli Ihi young to 11up:ft Il i f if In it Mnhhulh C h u rch mul In grow iivviiv from miy
iiiiuipl.ton ol "I'otnimiiiioti w ith llm milntu" mid llm Hplrll World lljven Hplilliiiillitm
■ii11in11 ^iiiii unti l' Ihln <'ouiiiiunloii Hill, clearly, II cun mid doe* ojinii Hm door lo it
lint it> ii mere form, oi mi mi article nl fit It It, bill nn ii I1
'A<'T **!•' 1,11' H
! If Mmlrin
Hpltll mil Imu dim- nothing unit i- Ihmi Ihln, ll in ii wonderful recovery ot Ifm I whh It
ivio Imil mid In now found ngiiln . HI'I K IT KlfiAldTY
It I* liicvllithlc Uml In if opening th f door to prni'llciil I'oiiiniutiloii with Ihone of llm
Hlfflu'i I.Iff, Modern Mplrlluallimi uhouhl IlhfWlmi open doom Ilit*I do not lend lo llm
iiiInI*i, hid, nn well, to Ihone foiintleNM lollllonn of hum an noillw, who nl denlh pained
If llm next nplm if while yet npll'ltunity Ignorant To npenk id nid h nolll* nn evil I*
w1
1
1
1
1
1• They were noil of lit nre unenlightened In nplrlllinl vulllen, lull It'd of ne< f tally
miilh mini The Irlvlnlltlo* Hint IntcroHl n* nllll Inlerenl them And Ulvlnl m nnrIon*
mipfith-htl or profound, earth ly or nnlnlly, nil nueh eontnet* npreuil honimi undi’i
utimilliijt oi Hurvlvnl . . . of H pli'lt-lteullty.
Mi'lnre men cun mieend lo the top of any I n d d e r , limy oiiuil trend Urn lower ninp >
ii nil If, In t h e m n rue o f t h f wide Held id Invent Igatlnii* mid Inquiry lliul m e lonmdy
Kroll] I mulct Ihe headin g id "Hplrltlio lh ni," noiiif hilt'll lllfh flnp.ein heeallne they
ilc mil Ui u i w In>w lu pio le cl I hehimhIvec, I* thill ii noiimJ reminii why Ihln refoveied
I,Thl "I Hplrll llenlll.v mIh mid he doliHed again hy the darliimmi <
if materlit 1loi11 7 N n !
it I lioiiMnnil IIiiion not
Today rum iigcnu* IhlnUer* of m any religion* de nom lniitlona m e breaking wll 1
1 tin
IriulltlniiH Hud have hound them in nplrii tin I Ignorance, and openly lln Home eiiwfi
with the iipprovnl of th eir C hurch NU|mrloi'H) nuppm Ung ntodv and reaenreh ol aplril
mmilferdiiUnn* an claMMlfted under "H plrltuull*m ." In the meiinllnie, elertm nh ex
perlmenlullNtii are g ettin g eloaer lo hnrmonlsrdng the vibration* of the "iw o
wurldH" In the perfection of u m echanical m ean* of I'om m unlentlon hot ween the living
mul llm no-called dead W ith (hi* will come (lie W orld Wide Church hull! upon the
IIihIi of Hplrll Henllly, and the HIOUINNINU ot Hm New W mlil and the New Ordei
uf the Brotherhood "I1 man. Until Hum, Ihl* I* only <
• well m eant dream , for men
do not. yet Itnow how.
I'lfdili'iii c u m i i . u Id K a iu 11 K i n 'l l .I V
“ FIRST THINGS FIRST”
U. S . A . . . . DR. G. NELSON WILLIAMS*
‘•First things first" . . . in Modern Spiritualism as in all things, let us consider
■first things first." And here. In our World Movement, the first thing is INTER-COM-
MUNION. There can he no denying but that inter-communication between the two
worlds, the earth world and that of the next life, is what makes Modern Spiritualism
the unique religion it is. the LIVING RELIGION of today.
Here are a few interesting facts concerning inter-communion:
The truth of inter-communion requires little argum entation for its proof. Churches
of inter-communion are open the world over for all to Investigate their claims.
Innumerable men of science in many nations, acclaimed for their accomplishments
in the laboratories and schools of the world, testify to the scientific proof of com­
munication between the mundane and spirit phases of m an’s existence.
Without inter-communion there would be no Bible today. God has always spoken to
His Prophets: He inspired and gave to His Prophets the truths contained in the Bible
from cover to cover. And God speaks to man today as He did to Moses, for God-Law
is the same today, tomorrow, and forever.
Without inter-communion, prayer would be of no benefit. It is only through this ave­
nue that the plea of prayer is heard and the fulfillment made possible.
A church of inter-communion was the first church in America to hold Wednesday-
Night Prayer Meetings.
A Spiritualist church was the first in the United States of America to officiate the
"laying on of hands" for the healing of the sick, as a regular part of its religious
services.
Our church was the first in the world to reestablish the Prophets within the Temple
(through Mediumship), from which they’ were held by an orthodoxy which denied
the truth of its own origin and foundation for sixteen centuries.
The church of inter-communion was the first to display the flag of our beloved land
at every regular service of worship.
By the power of God our truth is marching on to spiritual victory, to the first place
in the hearts of our fellowmen.
I'K-lilent: UNITY SPIRITUAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION
girded fo r t r iu m p h
BELGIUM . . . A C H I L L E B 1Q U E T
The celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the psychic phenomena which
pave rise to Modern Spiritualism is extremely Important because It marks a prog­
ressive step of humanity towards the enfranchisement from all dogmatism, towards
spiritual liberty, towards truth. Ever so many psychic experiments have been carried
out ami innumerable books dealing with the subject have been published during th«
last century. A very large percentage of these remarkable efforts have been made by
individuals of eminence and each constitutes a stone In the grandiose edifice dedi­
cated to the regeneration of the world through the spiritual sciences.
A comforting philosophy has been evolved from the scientific discoveries made In
the psychic domain. This is why Modern Spiritualism Is at once a science and phil­
osophy which makes possible a fusion of material and religious principles. In addi­
tion, the results of spiritualistic investigations have reafllrmed the actuality ol
psychic phenomena, both mental and physical, referred to in early scriptural writ­
ings and have brought them to the attention and study of official science.
Honor should be paid to all our courageous pioneers who dedicated their lives to the
search after truth in spite of the bitter criticism and unkind ridicule of which they
have been the object. Their efforts have not been in vain. Little hy little, Modern
Spiritualism is entrenching itself and is preparing for the spiritual rebirth of man­
kind which is beginning to show itself on the horizon. Our task is to carry on the
work which has been so well started. Therefore, let us Intensify our research pro­
gram; let us encourage experimentation and investigation in the seance chamber;
let us teach and initiate. In other words, let us follow the maxim of Jesus: "It is not
good to leave the light under the bushel." (Matt. V:15).
Let us bend all our forces against materialism. No other religion or philosophy has
so many ways to demolish the nihilistic doctrine. Let us multiply our efforts, for the
more facts we have, the stronger proof we shall have to combat this evil which is at
the base of all our social catastrophes.
Also, let us not forget in this era of positivism we ought to meet our adversaries on
their own ground. Modern Spiritualism has its field of action In all the world, from
the most weighty material matters to the most ethical subjects. We are marvelously
armed to fight triumphantly for the preservation und progress of spiritual realities,
for we are girded by both reason and the understanding heart.
S,, F E D E R A T IO N S P I R J T E L IE G E O IS E
r FRANCE . . . HENRI REGNAULT
GLORY TO OUR PIONEERS
The Fox sisters, in 1848. started the psychic dem onstrations out of which was born
the science, philosophy, and religion of Modern Spiritualism, furnishing a new in­
terpretation of the immortality of man and of the conditions of the Invisible World
and the inhabitants of that abode beyond death. From this event there have grown
mighty social and moral consequences.
In contribution to our one hundredth anniversary of Modern Spiritualism. I exalt
the work of three outstanding French pioneers of our w orthy Cause: Allan Kardec,
Leon Dennis, and Gabriel Delanne.
Allan Kardec was attracted to the phenomena of table-tipping through the study of
human magnetism. Thus started his interest in the science of Spiritualism. He was
p. doctor of medicine and a teacher, speaking six languages. Being more or less in
contact with mediums from all over the world, he studied the universal aspects of
psychic manifestations and form ulated the laws of meditimship and inter-world com­
munication. All his books are considered authoritative and set forth a complete
knowledge of the spiritual sciences. Today, Allan Kardec is regarded as the highest
teacher by innumerable Spiritualist Centers throughout the world, particularly in
France and Latin America. He stands as a veritable benefactor to all hum anity and
will certainly be glorified as such in time to come.
Leon Dennis, "the apostle of Spiritualism ," was contem porary w ith Kardec. At
eighteen years of age he read The Book of the Spirits by Kardec. Carried away by
the logic which perm eates this classical work, he studied our science and became a
propagandist by both mouth and pen. After Death w ritten by his hand should be
known to all who are interested in Spiritualism : it has been translated into many
languages and has consoled several millions of hum an beings by proving that life
continues after death. Between 1864 and 1927, Leon Dennis made the greatest of ef­
forts to propagandize Spiritualism . Both as a distinguished orator and talented
writer, he rendered invaluable service to our Cause.
Alexander Delanne and his wife, a rem arkable medium, frequently served Spiritualist
Societies founded by Allan Kardec. They raised their son Gabriel according to the
principles of our religion. While very young, he w as devoted to dem onstrating the
scientific side of Spiritualism . He grew to be a rem arkable investigator and experi­
menter and thus proved the FACTS of Spirit Communication. He was the author of
numerous books, the most im portant being M aterialized A pparitions of the Living
and the Dead. Delanne had m any conferences w ith world visitors in France and. like
Dennis, he assisted at the several International Spiritualist Congresses.
These three men m erit high honor at the occasion of our Centennial Celebration. By
the grace of their hands. Spiritualism has taken an im portant place; by the grace of
their visions uncounted thousands of human beings are today adopting a scientific
religion which expounds the reasons for their terrestrial existence and proves to them
that they are already im m ortal, th at the doorway between the two expressions of
life is open and love can pass through. . . . Let us pay w orthy tribute to these of
France and to ALL the pioneers of Modern Spiritualism , from the four corners of the
earth. Glory to their nobleness!
V ice-P res.: L U N IO N S P IR IT E FRANCAISE
I ! i :
1
the saints of hydesville
NOLAND . . . F. HARVEY METCALFE, F.C.I.S.; F.R.Econ.S.
At Hydesville in the S tate of New York tU. S. A.I. on the thirty-first day of March,
1S4S the power of Divine Spirit, through the medlumship of two little girls, gave
birth to the religion of Modern Spiritualism . Relatively few had previously discerned
spirits, now all were granted the benefits of spirit communion. The facts were put
b\ the "St. Paul of the N ineteenth Century," Elish W. Capron. at the first public
meeting of Modern Spiritualism on the fourteenth day of November, 1849. in Cor­
inthian Hall, at Rochester.
At the time of the historic C entennial Celebration of Our Movement, after the Spirit
World has bombarded us for a century with proof of human survival, a pertinent
question comes to mind: W hy has not mankind listened to the message of the angels
and outlawed war. m urder, vice, and exploitation ?
War lias caused intense suffering in Europe. Nations as well as individuals need the
stimulus of spiritual knowledge. There is evidence of spiritual poverty.
Today, in one of E ngland's largest prisons, I met two young men who were convicted
murderers. Both hail killed young women. I talked with the parents of one of them.
They were simple, kindly folk, just like my "mum and dad." 1 remembered how the
great American psychiatrist. Dr. Carl W ickland. told me of numerous cases of
"psychic obsession" am ong the certified insane. Were these two such types of cases ?
There is so much we know' so little about.
Jesus who lived two thousand years ago was the greatest specialist in psychological
medicine of all time. His w ork will live forever, and Spiritualists demonstrate similar
phenomena, short of raising the dead. I do not despise material riches. 1 have no
cause to, but the richest m an the world ever had w as not Carnegie or Ford, but this
same Jesus, who possessed only the clothes He stood up in. Even His grave was not
His own.
God moves in m ysterious w ays. The stable changed the world's religious history: the
wooden shack at H ydesville will do the same. The early pioneers of Spiritualism
handed the Power to us. This Pow'er will one day permeate the world. The Church
of England knows about it, for one of the leading Bishops said to me of a blind man
standing by his side. "This m an is the greatest man in England. He is n healer."
The Fox sisters and their m essage from a murdered peddler will not be forgotten.
As Spiritualists of the W orld m eet for the Centennial Celebration of the "break
through" of spirit power, m ay they rem em ber that the "Saints of Modern Spiritual­
ism" will guide us. and the object of all spiritual progress is to produce beings tit to
live with Deity, men w'ho are more than Christians, men who are Christs!
On the hallowed soil of the Fox Site at Hydesville let us then rcdedicate ourselves.
Say with me: "I (repeat your nam el in the Name and Presence of Almighty God on
this sacred spot w'here the Holy Spirit manifested through two children, rededicate
myself to His work, for the upliftm ent of humanity, the healing of the sick, and to
bring His kingdom upon earth, and so long as life shall last I will remain steadfast
and faithful to the m essage of Hydesville.”
So mote it be.
Minlhl.i: S P IR IT U A L IS T S N A T IO N A L UNION
CHARLES HITTER'S RETURN FROM THE DEAD
GERMANY . . . EL IZAB ET H BOH ME
Thin In regarding Spiritualism In G erm any. Ah perhaps the whole world known, nil
net lilt science and spiritist activities w ere unfortunately Htrlctly forbld<len by th<-
Nazi regim e by large penal tie*. Now. wo are beginning again and all has to be built
Up. II In true that the desire for nplrittinl guidance has never been g reater than at
our prcnent tim e of illnlren» and m isery which In bringing m any of the people back
to th eir nennen an If from a very bad dream . We notice again and again, every day
hrlngn g reater Intercut and activity for a revival In spiritism In our homeland. Of
eourne, spiritism as a religion In G erm any waa never very stro n g ; b u t an a science It
a ttra c te d some of our m ost distinguished m inds as Investigators who supported Its
tenets In the m ain. I tell you now of one of m any experiences w hich confirm spiritism.
First. I will explain, briefly, about the g re a t C harles H uter, of G erm any. He discov­
ered a kind of sensing energy called hclioda. E xistence of this em anating and radiant
power of light and life has alread y been proved to exist In the introsom ics of the cel­
lular w alls of the hum an body and responds to m ental activity. It Is by grace of this
radiant force th at we possess the pow er of telep ath y , and, If highly developed, the
pow er of clairvoyance, clutraudtence, am) so on.
On a sunny sp ringtim e day we w ere sittin g In our w inter garden, ch attin g . A son of
C harles H u ter and L otte P lant, the g re a t p sy ch o m ctrist who had ju st returned from
E ngland, w ere am ong o u r guests. Suddenly b reak in g into the tren d of conversation.
L otte asked, "Is th ere som ebody here called C h a rle s? ”
W e said, "N o." Then she spoke of q u ite different things, of h er storm y but humorous
crossing from E ngland. W e laughed.
"W hnt In the m a tte r w ith th is C h a rle s? " again L o tte Inquired. Then she looked at
young H uter. saying. “Now, I see C h arles; he stan d s beside you; his hand is on your
shoulder w hat a w onderful m an !" She then described In every detail the earth
ap p earan ce o f C harles H uter.
"It Is m y fath er," cam e from th e lips of th e young m an.
L otto's m other, who w as also a guest, w hispered to m e so ftly : “Since a y ear now.
L otte sees the dead."
"M other,’’ shouted L otte, "as you ju s t now said ‘th e dead,' the old m an shakes his
head and laughs. And now he show s m e pictu res, all so rts of p ictures of people."
C harles H u te r had also been a p o rtra it p ain ter. “ B ut he w an ts som ething else from
m e." L otte becam e restless.
"A nd now ," she continued, “ he show s m e a book, bound in a black cover; the paper is
som ew hat rough. T he pages in th is book have on top and below a black line and a
c h a p te r is d ealing w ith w ater." T hen she g av e a num ber, say in g it to be one of the
p ag es In the book. She talk ed on and g av e m uch personal advice to the youth, who
w as unable to speak, because o f his em otions.
F inally, L otte g o t up and w alk in g w ith p ecu liar step s and h er hands on her back,
said, "T his is his w alking m anner. A nd he had terrib le p ains in the kidneys”. She
then got very pale and w as bent ov er w ith pain, and cried out, "I c a n 't g et any air".
Young H uter, in a voice big and explosive, scream ed, "T h a t w as how m y father
died!”
The follow ing day Mr. H u te r confirm ed to us the ex istence o f the volum e referred to
by L o tte as being in the bookcase of his fath er, w ith all indications being correct.
Including a c h a p te r on w a te r th erap y !
WorkltiK fo r tin- ■'•birth of S|>lrltunlUm In (lirm n n y
COSMIC SCIENCE WILL BRING WORLD PEACE
URUGUAY . . . J. RICARDO LAVICKA
From childhood I have been eagerly interested in things called spiritualistic or
psychic. It started in 1909. I w as then six years old. My mother, my little sister, and 1
were in our bedroom; only sister w as asleep. The room was well illumined by moon­
light. the entire cham ber being clearly visible. My attention, as well as that of my
mother, was draw n to a very stran g e occurrence. Looking a t the courtyard door,
which was locked on the inside, we saw a w hitish and luminous cloud filtrating
through the door. G radually this becam e a definite form, th at of a man, as we knew
upon seeing his m oustache. The form advanced tow ard us, not walking, but gliding.
Although well definable, the figure w as translucent and through it several pieces of
furniture were visible.
On beholding the phenom enon, m y m other became very greatly afraid, while I, in
my innocence, thought it w as S an ta C laus w ith toys. (It was Christm as time.) The
form moved to my little siste r’s cradle, and as she was uncovered, he replaced the
blanket over her body very carefully. W hile this w as happening, his right hand was
very close to me. Profiting from this nearness. I took his hand with my own. He
looked at me w ith a smile, affectionately, and I did not feel any kind of fear. But his
hand was hard and cold and I w ithdrew m y hold of it. Then, looking at my mother,
he called her nam e several tim es. W hen she did not answer, he returned to the door
and disappeared as he had arrived. Only a t this m om ent was my m other able to
speak and she called loudly to m y fath er. To him she explained th at she had “seen"
her brother, an uncle whom I had not known in earth life. . . . Following this event,
we heard that this uncle had died in a d istan t country.
In 1917. my sister lay in her bed very sick. It w as one o'clock, a day of sunshine
without wind, w hen the suffering g irl called, “Come, mammie, I’m dying!” M other
and I drew near to the child’s bed, and as life w as ebbing from her physical body, a
translucent sphere of som e ten centim eters in size form ed above her forehead. A fter
a few minutes, this sphere m oved aw ay tow ard the closed window. Then we heard a
strong knock a t the window pane in such a m anner th a t we expected it to be broken.
The shutters opened as if by them selves and the thick stemmed flowers that grew
in the garden before th e window w ere bent down as if by a strong passing wind.
This was followed by a stran g e noise, sounding like hoof beats of galloping horses
in the distance, m oving from our hom e little by little.
These phenomena, as well as m any others th a t I have experienced, were a stim ulus
to my future w orks and investigations.
Who am I? . . . W here did I come from ? , . . W hy am I alive? . . . Where
am I going? . . . Such are the ponderous questions th at I have felt the necessity
of answering Up to this date I have devoted tw enty-eight years to diverse physical,
mental, and m etaphysical exercises and experim ents. As a result I have written my
book The Fourth Dimension of Consciousness. I have arrived at the conclusion that
all we name superphysical phenom ena, th a t is. Spiritualism and the like, have a truly
scientific basis and are governed by law s th a t constitute the real Cosmic Science
which explains the very m y stery of life in its broadest sense.
I am quite sure th a t it is not a very distan t future when Modern Spiritualism and its
allied studies and investigations will become integrated into this one Cosmic Science.
By means of the know ledge and true understanding thus attained and developed,
humanity will build an everlasting peace all over the World.
Lecturer: P re sid en t: LOGIA VIDYA SOCIEH A D TEOSOFICA
SPIRITUALISM IN THE “EMERALD ISLE”
I R E L A N D . . . (MRS.) E. M. GILMORE*
Modem Spiritualism \vas introduced into Northern Ireland by the determination of
one man In 1906 Mr. Samuel McCormack decided to push his investigations further,
and went to London, where he had some remarkable sittings with the Materialization
Medium, Cecil Husk.
He returned to Belfast and was asked to give a paper on the subject in the Methodist
Church He later gave a talk in a hall in the Shankill district, and there he met with
people who later became the prime movers in the organization of the Belfast Associa­
tion of Spiritualists. Notable amongst these early members were Mr. Jim Skelton,
who subsequently emigrated to Canada and became an energetic worker in the
movement there, and Mr. Joseph Irwin, who was later to become President of the
Association for fifteen years. Mr. McCormack himself was President for the first
twelve years.
The authentic "fairy godmother" appeared at the birth of the new movement, for a
lady called one day at Mr. McCormack's business premises and handed him an en­
velope containing two fifty pound notes. She also gave a further amount to start a
library.
Another great benefit to the Association accrued from their early contact with Mr.
Sandy Duncan, of Edinburgh, a splendid trance-speaker. Later there were visits by
other illustrious mediums, the Rev. Suzannah Harris. E tta W riedt, of Detroit (U.
S. A.I. A good deal of opposition from the orthodox churches was encountered, but
seemed to turn into a benefit by giving it publicity.
A number of Home Circles were started. One outstanding example was the Goligher
Circle which Dr. Crawford made world-famous in his two books-—‘‘The Reality of
Psychic Phenomena" and "Psychic Structures in the Goligher Circle”.
With the passage of time, another society sprang from the parent body, and took
the name of Belfast Spiritualist Alliance. Some years later the Association decided
that it would no longer carry on, so its assets and library were given over to the
Alliance.
In 1941 Hitler's incendiary bombs wiped out the entire m aterial possessions of the
Alliance, but all members and friends rallied together so th at Our W ork might be
started again. The war. indeed, affected it very strongly. Being the only Spiritualist
Church in Northern Ireland, it had always depended to a large extent on the visits
of mediums from England and Scotland. The ban on cross-channel travel made this
no longer possible. Again the unexpected happened—local people slowly developed
into quite good platform workers, and the interest in the Movement seemed to grow
rather than to diminish. Another benefit from the w ar was the Service men and
women who were stationed in Northern Ireland, and who were attracted to Our
Church. Many of these visitors discovered and developed their psychic gifts during
those years, and were valuable to us. They will long be remem bered in Belfast, and
doubtless will carry about the world with them pleasant memories of their connec­
tion with the Alliance.
Though without a “home" of its own. the Alliance is forging ahead: there are evi­
dences of the spread of Spiritualism to all parts of the country, and one hears of
Home Circles in most of the surrounding towns and villages.
As religious opinions are very’ strongly held by the inhabitants of this country,
whether Catholic or Protestant, it is uphill w ork to introduce any unorthodox thought,
and great moral courage is required. Nonetheless, the enthusiasm of members and
friends will in the end overcome all obstacles, and the “land of w akes” will become a
“land of seances.”
Hon See.: BELFAST SPIR ITU A LIST ALLIANCE
THE WAY OF SPIRITUALISM IS GOOD
■ M Y . . . S-RO K E N A T O D A M IA N I
Many on- the problem s which the Modern Spiritualism , In Its great range, endeavors
to study end And the solutions of: the profound problem of life, its purport end re­
lationship between the Individual and the cosmos; the essence of mnn and God; the
nature at the after-earth life of the spirit, and com m unication between the worlds of
the mortal and Im m ortal; the law s and processes of reincarnation; the nature of
future things revealed by prophecy; the ureal potential of the huntnn soul; and,
shove all. the understanding of the law s of ethics and m oral principles which pro­
vide for Its evolution and developm ent. These confounding problem s have been solved
b\ only a few sages, and these great spiritual leaders who raised the veil of m ystery
were able to com m unicate only a little of the fruits of their studies, of their specu-
Istlons of their m arvelous Intuitions and revelations, to their fellow men. This they
did mulct the veil o! obscure sym bols and brilliant parables, since a light too In­
tense blinds and It Is necessary to pass gradually through the different levels of the
penumbra to the center source of the light itself. It has been so with all the founders
and prophets ol the great religions of men from the rem otest of time.
In acute exam ination of the m ore outstanding religions of the world, the Chinese,
the Brahman, the Buddhist, the E gyptian, the Mosaic, and the Chrlstlun. we And In
all Ihe basic principle of one absolute God. Only the last two religions named above
do not make a m ystery of this God; all the others hide Deity behind a court of gods,
of forces, of idols, of fetishes, perhaps in order not to profane or soil the Pure One.
The Ideal of God as S piritualism now teaches is so easy to enter into the henrt of
him who possesses spontaneous faith, full and com plete, but at the sam e tim e so very
difficult to be accepted by him who w ishes to discuss, to weigh, to analyse, to argue,
to prove or disprove. Today it is still incom prehensible to the poor hum an mind led
astray by pseudo-scientiAc concepts th a t believe only in the m aterial elem ents of
creation. It is still necessary to proceed w ith g reat caution, on tiptoe, slowly and con­
siderately. despite the fact th a t hum an understanding has become much m ore ad­
vanced in this sense than ever before. So the teachings of Modern Spiritualism which
speak in so liberated and tru ly n atu ral references to God, the U niversal Spirit, which
reveal true spiritual com m union w ith the Im m ortals, and which deal w ith the other
mighty problems of eternal im port, m ust of necessity move forw ard gradually that
these tilings be accepted by the m asses. Here, also, too much light m ight blind the
vision that Is desired to be strengthened. G reat enlightenm ent Is not to grow sw iftly
like the soft m arsh wood trees, but slowly like the m ighty g ian ts of the red wood
timbers of America.
The conquests of m odern technology aid us to com prehend the com position and laws
of the Cosmos, particularly its unity. They supply us the proof that the microcosm
and the macrocosm com pare, th a t the law s which rule the atom are the sam e which
govern the solar system , the galaxies, the nebuli infinitely far aw ay and unim agin­
ably extensive. The advances of life are truly very rapid, but the w ay to be traveled
if so long thnt we are led to believe th a t the progress is slow. C om forting is the fact
that each day the official science rediscovers that which w as already known to the
spiritually initiated fifty centuries ago: the curative virtues of plants, of the sun. of
suggestion, of m agnetism , of the psychical pow ers of m an; of the unity of m atter
and the oneness of spirit; and of the indestructibility and eternal grow th of the
human soul. So the path of Spiritualism , though thought slow, is sure, Is good and
strong and its truths will gradually dissolve so much hate and destruction that exist
among men who see not th at its teachings will one day build hum an dignity and
liberty for all.
Founder: UNIVERSA1.E I)E 1. COV ER NO COSMO. ASTROSUKICO
117
AGE AND YOUTH IN BRITISH SPIRITUALISM
ENGLAND . . . GEORGE DA1SLEY'
As a movement seeking to intluence the religious thought of the world. Modern Spirit­
ualism. although 100 years old. is by comparison with other established religious
movements, a mere child . . . and perhaps "growing pains" common to this age
account for much that otherwise would be difficult to explain.
Experience and observation leave one without an impression of any substantial
progress if the eye looks below the mere surface of things. An inevitable result of
the war was to give Spiritualism a stimulus and it follows that more people now are
interested in our subject than ever before. Even our rudlo (which disclaims Spirit­
ualism as a religious movement) frequently broadcasts psychic plays or stories and
thus exploits this considerable interest, which a national Sunday paper has only to
feature Spiritualism for sales to soar to record heights.
Again, as a result of being thrown together during war. service young men and
women in great numbers found in survival a subject of important personal interest. In
many cases discussions were followed by individual or group experiments to test
their reactions as psychic instruments. Partly as a result of these experiments, a
number of potential young workers are in the making, but how far this promising
psychic stream will emerge as a broad river is a m atter of some doubt. I think our
greatest post-war problem Is to harness this new, unco-ordinated and often youthful
interest to the wagon of Spiritualism as a driving force.
Attendances at public meetings prove that many more young people arc concerning
themselves with Spiritualism than at any earlier date in our history. Before the war
the response was mainly from middle age and as a consequence most officials were
of that age when originally appointed to offices in which many of them have since
grown old.
The British mind and character emerge but slowly from very conservative traditions.
Age is apt to be Intolerant of change and does not take kindly to being hustled out
of its accustomed tempo.
On the other hand, youth is invariably fired with a missionary zeal, a desire to go
places and to get there quickly and is often iconoclastic as regards ancient customs.
As a result, young people frequently find themselves involved in a clash of tempera­
ments when up against these more conservative elements in established order. The
consequence is that young folk, full of zest, often experience a sense of frustration,
and enthusiasm becomes damped down through inability to express in action their
desire to forge ahead quickly.
Herein seems to be a danger signal to our future. Any movement must either prog­
ress or go back, and a forward urge demands virility which, in turn, can come only
from the energetic impulses of enthusiasm. No society can build its future upon old
generations, but must rely upon the younger generations for vitality. Unless, there­
fore. greater consideration is given to the flood of youthful endeavors now seeking to
make its current felt through the placid waters of British Spiritualism, it will prob­
ably burst its banks and much potential psychic power will How over adjoining fields
to be lost forever to our cause. The lack of cohesion between groups of organized
Spiritualism probably owes much to its negative attitude towards this vital problem
of youth.
British leadership is much too conservative and complacent. When it looks to the
future, it is apt to do so over the head of the present which from being merely un­
seen now may. in time, become also unfelt and in that event our aim to PROVE
survival may well become a struggle FOR survival as a powerful force in the world.
■ Medium
118
THE MARCH OF SPIRITUALISM
PORTUGAL . . . I S I D O R O D U A R T E S A N T O S '
The march of S p iritism o r M odern S p iritu alism , w hichever term you prefer, involves
very im portant problem s, n o t only o f a m oral and sp iritu al nature, but scientific as
well.
Before Hvdesville. m an looked a t th e n o rm al phenom ena of a psychic nature through
h&zv eyes, and w ith th is he h a z a rd e d m an y m etap h y sical speculations. He had intui­
tions of vast horizons beyond D eath , b u t he w as c ertain of nothing because no one
had yet undertaken c ritic a l in v e stig a tio n of th e S p iritu al D om inion. A fter Hydesville,
the world w as a g ita te d by th e N ew S p iritu a l R evelation. H undreds of researchers
began seriously to in v e stig a te th e psychic re a lity w hich sp ran g up destroying all
pnnciples and se n tim e n ts w h ich w ere ro o ted in th e m asses and m ocking the m illen­
ary laws w hich science e ith e r h a d to c o rre c t w ith n a tu ra l coherence o r to put aside
the strange and un ex p lain ed m a n ife sta tio n s w hich tran scen d ed o r seem ed transcen­
dent to the know ledge of th a t e ra. S u rv iv a l an d sp irit com m unication, w ith their con­
sequences of e x tra o rd in a ry reach , w e re a m a jo r problem in the cen tu ry so satu rated
with Encyclopedism and N e g a tiv ism , th a t th is ty p e of science w as bound to be as­
phyxiated in the n a rro w cell in w h ich it existed.
The irrefutable fa c ts of M odern S p iritu a lism lead scien tists to study the hum an soul
in a new light, and now e x p e rim e n ta l psych o lo g y m odifies and tran sfo rm s the con­
ceptions th at ap p eared to fit th e p rev io u s cen tu ries. It w as the dem olishm ent of an
old world: it w as th e th o u g h t o f u n fu rlin g d a rin g flights in a virgin field of specu­
lations. The w orld quivered, a s it in v ariab ly ' does in reactio n to g re a t new events,
and everywhere cap ab le m en su rg e d to stu d y an d in v estig ate. They w ere first con­
vinced that th e case w ould be a s a m ira g e to deceive th e naive, but soon they w ere
seized by the a sto n ish in g re a lity w h ich p resen ted itself in spite of the m ost rigorous
measures of an aly sis an d co n tro l. T h ese S c ie n tists abounded before and a fte r the
Kardec codification. E q u ip p ed fo r th e fig h t like good g lad iato rs, they abandoned the
arms which they c a rrie d an d en listed to ch am p io n th e N ew D octrine. . . . Their
names are know n!
Official Science and o rth o d o x P h ilo so p h y follow th e P a th of D eath to uncover the
Mystery' of the L iving. S u ch is th e m a jo r p arad o x o f m aterialism . N onetheless,
shielded by the in v e stig a tio n s o f th e m o st loy'al and contem poraneous thinkers. Mod­
ern Spiritualism m arch es fro m triu m p h to triu m p h as a palpable tru th , invading all
branches of science an d g iv in g to m an th e elem en ts of w ork, w ithout w hich m oral
progress would be reta rd e d . A s a re su lt, w e see th a t to d ay o u r M ovem ent has form ed
deep roots in th e b re a st o f y o u th an d h a s a u g m en ted m ore and m ore the expansion
of its postulates.
The magazine E studos P siquicos (p u b lish ed a t Lisbon, P o rtu g a ll. is m aking an effort
in this same direction th ro u g h its re g u la r co llab o rato rs and th rough tw elve w riter-
representatives sc a tte re d o v e r F ra n c e . B elgium , A rg en tin a. B razil. P ortugal. India.
Chile. Mexico, C uba, an d P u e rto R ico.
As President of th e C entro E sp iritu a lista Luz e A m or (L isbon! and director of its
publications, I feel honored to ex ten d th is sim ple collaboration and I am positive that
the Centennial C elebration o f M odern S p iritu a lism w ill be an eloquent affirm ation of
the vitality of the d o ctrin e an d fa ith in th e ideal th a t w e serve and help to postulate.
■ . . Glory be to th e p io n eers o f so u sefu l an d necessary a realization!
Pi#-lilrnt: C E N T R O E S P IR IT U A L IS T A L U Z E A M O R
THE GREATEST SERMON BY MAN
B R I T IS H W E S T I N D I E S . . . HUBERT O’MALLEY
In this past century Modern Spiritualism, which is based on the teachings and dem­
onstrations of the Christ. 'The Light of the World," by its phenomena has done more
to prove its philosophy than nny other religion. It is a religion expressing the One
Life of which we are all a part. "As above, so below." a truth well known to the
Spiritualist, has been proved by those wonderful men and women of our movement
who have lived in the past and who have been the pioneers of the greatest universal
truth that has come to earth. Even though antagonists enter into our ranks and try
to discredit all the truth that has been made manifest in our religion, so well was the
work of those beloved pioneers done that its acceptance has been only delayed, ami
the voice of the spirit can still be heard above the clamor of our opponents' worn out
dogmas. We have run the first lap of our race and we have won. We have established
the fact of continuous life and communication between the two worlds.
Important as this fact may be. it is but one small part of our teachings which free
men from the fear of that dreaded break in life which they term death. To appreciate
this freedom from fear one has only to stand in our church by the bier of a deceased
and observe the calm acceptance of death by the true Spiritualist.
The task that lies ahead of us is an enormous one and can be carried out successfully
only by men and women whose lives are dedicated to the cause of Spiritualism. We
must have a revaluation of the things that are spiritual. That evaluation can come
only from within, the discovery of one’s self as a living soul, as undying now as one
will ever be.
These principles are the foundation of our religion: there is but One God. One Life.
One Human Family; the Soul of man is Immortal; and there is Continuous Com­
munion between the world of the here-and-now and the hereafter.
In the future, our movement should require of our mediums that they be so well
versed in spiritual laws that they themselves can enter consciously into that other
world and gain knowledge from those enlightened spiritual beings who otherwise find
it difficult to contact those who are on earth. In other words, those of us who are
mediums should be able to enter into that ethereal Community of Minds and learn
from those Great Teachers over there truths that are enlightening and liberating, so
we may bring back to earth a clear philosophy of the oneness of both worlds and
the laws governing there as well as here.
Those who stand on our platforms and lecture are not the only preachers of our re­
ligion: each Spiritualist should remember that the greatest sermon a man will ever
preach is by his own mode of daily living. Let us watch ourselves every moment of
the hour, every hour of the day. and every day of the year so that by right living we
experience the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man. Let our religion and
our daily lives be a living example to all who know us. So to live is true religion.
True religion is effective living. These things all true Spiritualists know and stand by
' Spiritualist Minister
ONE OF SPIRITUALISM S FINEST
ENGLAND . . . H. F. BENDALL '
In IPiM three people, to their great surprise ns they were not Sptrltunlista, were asked
through automntte w riting to form a Circle at their home In S, W London, the
medium to he Winifred Moves. The communications received through her medlumship
were found to he of a very high order giving much Information regarding the World
of Spirit and the working out of Divine Law on earth These Messages, which Included
addresses anil personal advice to m any people, were mimeographed and circulated
oiu'h week to an ever increasing num ber of friends until over 600 were reading them,
and over the years hundreds of people attended the weekly Circle. On one occasion a
sitter asked the controlling Spirit who he was. He replied that he came or the House
of Abraham and was a teacher In the Temple at the time Our Lord was on earth.
Later. It was learned th at he was the scribe who asked Christ which was the first
commandment of all (St. Mark, chap. 12. verses 28-34). The name of the scribe was
not given In the New Testam ent, but as those on earth think a name Is necessary
he chose that of "Zodiac" to lift their thoughts above this m aterial plane. Today the
addresses given by Zodiac arc circulated through the world through the agency of
the weekly Journal THE GREATER WORLD, which was founded in 1928, Services
being hold throughout G reat Britain. Channel Islands, and also In Paris and The
Hague,
In 1938 Miss Moyes w ent to the United States and Canada for a three months' tour,
public meetings being organized by Churches out there and held In Inrge halls.
Every week-end throughout the last G reat War. Services were held in towns in the
British Isles, in spite of incessant air raids and trains being bombed on the lines.
Often Zodiac was speaking while a trem endous air raid w as In progress, but under
his influence quietness and calm prevailed am ong the large congregations.
Monthly editions of THE GREATER WORLD were published before the W ar in
French. German, and Dutch. The addresses given by Zodiac appeared also in Portu­
guese. Spanish, Italian, and Arabic. Hostilities brought the cessation of these foreign
editions, but since Peace w as declared the paper has been restarted in the N ether­
lands. A paper for Children is issued monthly’.
Behind Ihe Zodiac Mission stands the G reater World Christian Spiritualist League,
an International body w ith H eadquarters and Annex at 3 Lanadowne Road. London.
\\ 11 Mr. A. H Hillyard is the Hon. Secretary. The alms of the League are of a
missionary character for the spreading of the Christ teachings, based on the Bible
and on the interpretations of Divine T ruth by Zodiac.
Tlu League, founded in 1931, has now a membership of over 26,000 and many thou­
sands of people all over the world are seeking closer association with the Work. Hun­
dreds of Churches are affiliated to the League and nearly 300 Mediums hold the
Greater World Diploma.
Extensive philanthropic work is carried on by THE GREATER WORLD organiza­
tion In 1933 Miss Moyes opened a Free N ight Shelter for Homeless Women in Lon­
don. and in 1936 a sim ilar Shelter w as started at Leeds. At these Shelters, the un­
employed, the old, and the stek are given a com fortable bed, food, and clothing. When
these Shelters were opened there were a very large number of destitute women sleep­
ing in the open, under arches or in doorways, trying to get out of the wind and rain.
During the W ar they found refuge in air-raid shelters, but now the weak and the old
are In greater distress still, owing to the destruction of so much property. In 1937 a
Free Convalescent Home was opened a t Lelgh-on-Sea In Essex as It was found es­
sential that those in such a terrible state of health must have rest, good food and sea
air in order to reatore them.
in January. 1915, the London Shelter was damaged by an enemy rocket and the prem­
ises had to bo vacated. This year it is hoped to open another Shelter in London, and
suitable premises have been secured.
lint, I’. . . ilUKATKIt WOKI.I> C H R I S T I A N S I ’I KI T U A I . I S T U U l i U E
121
SUN OF THE SCIENCES
VENEZUELA . . . JULIUS CAESAR TINEDO *
S piritualist Science. Sun of all the Sciences, w as and still is inspired from the World
of Spirit, to the consciousness of earth embodied beings who are skilled in receiving
the precious torrent of knowledge from On High. A century of g re a t attainm ents,
achieved through one hundred years of real struggles and tireless scientific investiga­
tions. prove the driving pow er of the T ru th which this Science has dissem inated for
the W elfare of H um anity.
Spiritualism has succeeded in engraving its Good Deeds upon the P ages of Gold within
the M ighty Book of N ature. W ith w hat m asterly phrases can we adequately praise the
progressive grow th of O ur Science which w orks to renovate old m ethods and to build
into our beings the stren g th of understanding and the pow er to control hum an pas­
sions. chains which have held in their grip a m ankind lacking in self-m astery?
Now H um anity is beginning to g ath er the fru it of a labor which began yesterday (a
century ago). Now the w ay is open to all, but we m ust tread cautiously, because the
inexperienced traveller m ay grow w eary if he does not tak e the precautions pointed
out through the m ediations of the m ore em inent personalities who know the way,
having lived am ong us in m ultiple existences.
Through the w idespread influence of the Science of Spiritualism , our Modern Age is
progressing to gran d er heights: ignorance is dissolving like a shadow in the presence
of the sun; the world is grow ing broader and m ore tolerant; the tem ples of stone and
the m onum ents of idolatry are crum bling as fanaticism flees; light, liberty, and justice
are form ing unconquerable barriers to m aterialism . From pole to pole the earth plane
passes to the category of a regenerating w orld; the spirit of good will is beginning to
w ing like a bird over the surface of the planet; the Torch of Science is grow ing grad­
ually brighter; celestial w onders are resounding in harm onious m usic from the im­
m ensity of the spheres, and m an. now beginning to be sure of Spiritual Triumph, is
m arching courageously along the p aths which the height of his aspiration illumines
before him. Yet. how m any unknow n grandeurs still does our Science of Spiritualism
unfurl to the future! And.* on the other hand, how m any of hum anity there are who
have still the first steps to take!
G reat w as the cost of all our advancem ent, gigantic the price paid by our early pro­
ponents in sacrifices and anxieties, heavy the w eight of ridicule borne by those who
dared to give dignity to the trivial m anifestations from another world. One is forced
to believe th a t from sounds produced as by nothing, w as born the Science destined to
lead hum anity to the H ighest T ruth.
Spiritualism , like all the sciences, cam e into the world dressed in a vulgar or gross
garb, for in any other m anner it would never have been studied: and it w as necessary
for m an's crude curiosity to lead him by the hand to the P eak of Positive Reality.
M anifestations of spirit are as old as the world itself, but terrestrial man. bound by
the lim itations of flesh, found it impossible to understand them because of the state of
ignorance dom inant over the face of the earth throughout the preceding centuries. He
has now snatched from the universe the Divine Secret of know ing how to use this
Guiding Force which opens the Doors of the Beyond.
Let the deeds of the spirits be analysed in the L ight of Reason so th a t they m ay speak
for them selves. Now is the tim e for Spirit T ruths to be proclaim ed w ith the sam e elo­
quence which these noble deeds deserve. It is only w ith constant and determ ined study
th a t we escape the abyss of Ignorance.
The m oral ideal preached by Jesus is the outline of m en’s future progress: and it has
been reaw akened from the sleep of the centuries by the Science of Spiritualism , the
Sublime Science of the Soul, and it now blossoms forth from the lips of the Fulfillers
of the Law. our Spiritual W orkers, both of the E arth Plane and of the H igher Spheres
of Glory.
c
H
T
a
il
H
P
v
t
a
t
d
t
d
n
t
S'
c
t
S
ii
v
C
d
t
ii
I
V
r
I
!
(
K. i,.r-. r.tutiv.-: CENTRO ESTUIUOS PSIQU1COS "A L LA N KARDEC"
122
OUR GREAT LITTLE CIRCLE
HUNGARY . . . E L IZ A B E T H H O R B A R E K
Twenty years is not m uch tim e, com pared w ith etern ity . B ut in a m an's life, the
average duration of w hich is sixty to sev en ty years, it is considerable indeed. Usually
It is of decisive Im portance in th e developm ent of his m oral and cultural life. O ur
little Circle was form ed tw enty y e a rs ago.
So one was invited to our C ircle, really, only those w hom the light led to us affiliated
with our Work. Those w hose souls w ere ripe alread y for the reception of tru th s of
the highest order, those w ho w ere tired of the tria ls of life, of the thousand tortuous,
agonising problems to w hich n eith er th e religious consolations of the churches nor
the findings of science w ere able to give a satisfy in g answ er, cam e and found our
door open.
How happy we wore w hen the first sp irit voice sounded from the lips of M ediums
developed in our own Circle. A t first in th e form of frail little teachings, then ever
more beautiful, of a h igher order, on th e b asis of B iblical sayings, glorified spiritual
tcai-hlngs were received by us. S im u ltan eo u sly w ith our m eetings w as established a
self-forming, spontaneous group, w here we discussed the problem s raised by our
Spirit Brothers. W e exchanged o u r ideas and we w ere very helpful to each oth er in
the solution of m any problem s, for w h at w as c lear to one, w as d a rk to the other. We
strengthened each other, clarified each o th e r's th o u g h ts. L ater we kept silent hours,
in the form of m editation, co n cen tratio n , and finally, contem plation. In our Circle
were developed excellent M edium s an d L eaders.
Our little Circle teaches, am o n g o th e r things, th e doctrine of reincarnation. This
dortrine is like a g litterin g com et w hich illum ines th e d ark chaos of life. T hrough
this we understand the v a rie ty of h um an d estin y and the causes w hy the good suffer
and the so-called bad a p p aren tly lead a p leasan t life: it Is the so-called K arm a, th a t
is, the Law of C ausality.
In Hungarian S p iritist C ircles th e re a re few clear-eyed, clear-hearing, healing, in a
word, convincing or "te st" M edium s. On th e o th e r hand, th ere are m any M edium s
manifesting m oral teach in g of a high order.
For fifteen years we have given public lectures, w here outstan d in g , highly-trained
Spiritists illumine a g re a t v a rie ty of problem s w ith th e facts of our Spirit-science.
At present, the lew who have retu rn ed from the con cen tratio n cam ps and those left
alone as the unfortunates of th e w orld w ar. people com pletely d estitute, receive from
our little Circle consolation and alleviation from th e pain of th e ir aching h earts and
thus they gain stren g th and hope for th e fu rth e r stru g g le s of life.
Blessed be the A lm ighty w hich h as sen t th ro u g h M odern S p iritism the glad tidings
of the gospel, new and old. and th e consolation from those of the S p irit W orld to the
beggars and the sick of life. L et A m erica be blessed, the cherished hom e of L iberty
whence started our Beloved W ork. L et the F ox S isters be blessed. L et every lip be
blessed which preaches the N ew D ispensation, and let the hands be blessed, which
write, the eyes which see. and the e a rs w hich hear. On the C en ten ary of the R e-birth
of Spirit Communion, such is the w ish of a S p iritist Circle, w hose m em bers are sim ple
manual laborers, the stru g g lin g children o f a m u ch -stru g g lin g little country.
Minuter: BUDAPEST S P IR IT U A L IS T C IR C L E
CONTINUE EXPERIMENTING
BELGIUM . . . JOSE L’HOMME !
To our Brothers in Humanity gathered together at the Hydesville Centennial Cele­
bration. United States of America . . .
Salutations:
I have the very good fortune to extend to the Spiritualists of the entire World the
cordial greetings of the Spiritualist Union of Belgium, which comprises a federation
of the important centers of our country, on the grand occasion of the commemoration
of the birth of Modern Spiritualism. We, the Spiritualists of Belgium, are heartened
by your studies and investigations of the Two Worlds, and deeply regret that we are
unable to send to this outstanding celebration a national delegation from our Coun­
try, but this we cannot do because of the heavy burdens this would entail and because
of the particular conditions created as a result of the late World War. We trust that
your work will bear excellent fruit and that there will be a growing dissemination
of those teachings which are dear to us and for the greatest benefit to mankind.
Up to the present time our popular philosophical works have shown the importance
of our researches for the future benefit of humanity and have constituted a working
hypothesis of greatest value. I urge all of our investigators to concentrate upon the
scientific proof of the existence of the Spirit World through experiments to be con­
ducted simultaneously in the psychic laboratory and in the realm of spirit, the latter
being manifested through the former, so that the physical phenomena of Spiritualism
will be placed upon the same level with its mental phenomena and spiritual teachings.
Thus, Modern Spiritualism will fight a stagnation which would be like slow death to
the progressive movement of our ideals. With the discontinuance of experimentation,
our beautiful philosophical concepts will fall into dogmatism and will be of no value
in our times.
We salute with deference and brotherly respect the illustrious philosophers and
investigators of Modern Spiritualism who have felt themselves called to the high
task of increasing our knowledge of the Invisible World and to show us that we
here depend upon the assistance of those enlightened spiritual beings on the Other
Side and whose assistance we ought to merit through moral effort.
1'r. si.lrnt: L’UNION SPIRITS BELGE
THE UNKNOWN DICKENS
U S A , . . . NANDOR FODOR, LL. D
In view o( th e p o p u la r ity or hla w o r k s , to tnlk nr nn U n k n o w n D ickens soumls
eeocntrlc. Yet th e r e won n v e ry I m p o rta n t aide to Dickens' g enius to which his
biographers g iv e b u t v a g u e I n tim a tio n s .
It was his h ab it to rise v e ry early , a n d to p u t In a good d a y 's w ork before b reak ­
fast-time T h e stilln ess a n d s o litu d e a ffe c te d him profoundly. It w as in just such
an hour, III d a y lig h t a n d w h ile h e w a s still In bed, th a t he once saw the apparition
of his f a th e r He tolls th e a n e c d o te him self In the C h ristm a s n u m b er of All the
Year Round In 1851* a n d e n d s b y sa y in g . . . . "1 find the early m o rn in g to be my
ghostly tim e."
Some very in te r e s tin g te s tim o n y r e g a r d in g Dickens* tw ilig h t experiences Is con­
tained In th e p a g e s o f th e old F o r t n i g h t l y Review, w hen George H enry Lewes was
Its editor. L ew es tells h o w D ick en s once d eclared to him th at every word uttered
by his c h a r a c t e r s w u s d istin c tly h e a r d b y him.
To Ills friend, J a m e s Fields, D ic k e n s confessed t h a t w hen he w as w riting The Old
Curiosity Shop, th e c r e a t u r e s of his Im ag in atio n so hau n ted him th at they w add
allow him n e ith e r sleep n o r p eacefu l e a tin g No m a t t e r w here he might happen
to be. L ittle Nell w a s c o n s ta n tly at his elbow, calling his atten tio n and dem anding
hi- sy m p a th y . A nd w h e n he w a s w ritin g M artin Chuzzlcwlt. Mrs. G am p kept
him In su ch p a r o x y s m s of la u g h te r by w h isp e rin g to him In the m ost inopportune
places s o m e tim e s even in c h u r c h t h a t he w a s com pelled to fight her off by main
force w h en he did n o t w a n t h e r c o m p an y , an d th reaten ed to have nothing m ore
to do w ith h e r u n less sh e b eh av ed b e tte r an d ca m e only w hen she whs called.
On his visits a b ro a d , C h a rle s D ick en s continued to experience the sam e super­
normal a w a re n e s s. In d escrib in g a sc en e he w itnessed on Ills first sig h t of F errara, he
said: "If I h ad been m u rd e re d th e re In so m e fo rm e r life, I could not have seemed
to rem em b er the place m o re th o ro u g h ly , o r w ith m ore em phatic chilling of the blood:
and the real r e m e m b ra n c e of It a cq u ired In th a t m inute Is so strengthened by the
im aginary recollection th a t I h a rd ly th in k I could forget It."
And again, fro m L a u sa n n e , th e C h a rle s D ickens who was accustom ed to mingling
with crow ding h u m a n ity In populous th o ro u g h fares w ro te plaintively: "The absence
of any accessible s tr e e ts co n tin u es to w o rry me. . I should not walk In them In
the daytim e. I d a re sa y ; but a t night 1 w a n t them beyond description I don't seem
to get rid of m y sp e c tre s unless I c a n lose them In crowds."
Not long before he passed over. D ickens confided th at one night In W ashington, after
one of his fam o u s public readings, he d r e a m t he w as in a room where everyone was
dressed In scarlet. H e stu m b led a g a in s t a lady w ith her hack to w ard s him. As he
apologized she tu rn e d h e r head, an d said, quite unprovoked: "M y mime Is Napier."
The face w as p erfectly u n k n o w n to him : nor did he know anyone nam ed Napier.
Two day s after, he g av e a n o th e r read in g In W ashington; and before It began, a lad.v
friend cam e Into th e w aitin g room accom panied by an unknown lady in a scarlet
opera-cloak, "who." said his friend. "In very desirous of being Introduced” "Not
Miss N a p ie r ? " Dlekens Jokingly Inquired "Yes; Miss Napier."
This w as a prophetic dream , In the technical liingimge of Psychical Research a
monition of approach, tt Is fairly frequent In the waking state In the form of an
hallucination, there is no b etter word to describe It.
To fight shy of the word “psychic" Is quite unnecessary. All great artists of all
nations and of all tim es have been that. They saw with more than the mind's eye
and heard w ith m ore th a n the m o rtal ear. They saw and heard, “adown titanle
glooins of ehnsm ed fears,” the spiritual p attern of life, woven and Interwoven upon
the interna) Loom.
A u lh u i' IC N O Y C I.I(P A B I> |A I l f P S Y < n i l N t'IK N C K
Iaft
GLORY RETURNED
G R t 'E C : . . . Commander Court M. Meins, H.R.N. (Retired)
"The Glory that was Greece . .
She was dead. Yes. my wife was dead. So I thought, then. Thus my story of Spirit­
ualism begins.
In 1935. more than a year after I had burled my wife In M aterialism ’s Gloom. I re­
ceived a very splendid letter from an old English friend. In this letter she gave hints
on the survival of my wife in another "world". As 1 was agnostic, I answered that
my wife existed no more and that 1 looked forward to the same end for myself. She
then sent me Finlay's On the Edge of the Etheric and t was very impressed by
reading it I later wrote to Mr. Finlay asking if any other such books existed and he
kindly gave me valuable Information for future studies A fter having been convinced
that there was a very serious question as to the m ystery of Survival. I met a Pro­
fessor of the Athens' University and asked him if there were any Spiritualists in
Greece. He named several im portant personalities as such, but lie said they did not
avow their belief openly, for if they did so, they would lie treated as mad by the
ignorant.
My answer was that several times in my life I had been treated as mad . , . es­
pecially when I started the Boy Scout Movement in Greece and led my little troop
of youngsters out of town for encampment. But when the Boy Scouts developed into
a powerful organization, those who laughed at me recognized their own folly. I also
said that I felt we were dealing with a G reat T ruth in Spiritualism and that 1 did not
care who thought me to be mad. Furtherm ore. I explained that I held it to be a
shame that in the first Country to accept the Spiritualism of oltl and erect the mag­
nificent Temples at Delphi, Eleusis and Ionia at which Mediums (“Psychics") were
held to be instrum ents of the gods, one should fear to enter into serious and scientific
investigation of psychic manifestations. As a result of our conversation, the Hellenic
Society for Metaphysical Studies w as organized. The w ar came and our activities
were forbidden, but 1 continued secretly our Home Circle with excellent results.
Something which surely will interest Spiritualists of America is the following epi­
sode. When the w ar started in 1939, the United States had declared its policy to
remain neutral. An American friend of mine who w as wondering whether to leave
Greece as his government had advised all of Its constituents in our Country to do,
attended one of our Seances. Here he was advised by the Spirit of his predecessor
not to leave. All of a sudden the communication was interrupted by the Spirit of a
sister of mine who had also been a friend of the American gentlem an and who wrote
on the Ouija Board: "1 come to say his great Country will save the civilization of
the world." This then unbelievable prophecy Is still being fulfilled today.
Another prophecy was sent to me from England in March. 19-10 that my Country
would play an im portant role in the reorganization of the world. Today, Greece is
the focal point of the mighty struggle for the Democracy In which the United States
leads the world against the lowest m aterialism represented by our dark adversaries
We of understanding know that "as Greece goes, so goes the world". This is true far
more than in political ideology: it is true in the spiritual ways of life here on Earth
for many centuries yet to come. So it is of vast Im portance that last year the Athens
Spiritualist Alliance was founded to play its part for our great cause of truth and
freedom, in a humble way we feel that our Organization brings a m easure of return
of the "Glory that was Greece" to the land where that greatest of all Spiritualist
Teachers, Socrates, taught of the life continued and natural In the beyond even as
he heard his Daemon speak in the "loud silence" as Is heard by our Mediums this day
I'l•titld.nl! ATIIBN8 s i m r i t u a m s t a l u a n c k
THE TRUTH WILL SET YOU FREE
ARGENTINA . . . DR. LU IS Dl C R I S T O F O R O POSTIGLIONI
Spiritualism, as a science, philosophy, anil m oral religion Is the path of perfection.
It was horn with that providential purpose, a t the m om ent pro p er for It. Am a m ove­
ment of transcendent culture. S p iritu alism stan d s as the tru e builder of the new
humanity. It Is the an tid o te for ath eism , th a t dissolving force, w hatever form It.
may assume in order to a tte m p t to endure, w hich d eg rad es hum anity and annuls Its
highest alms by m eans of deleterio u s m oral consequences w hich lead into devious
paths nil reflective thinking, w hich send a s tra y the achievem ents of science, which
enthrone destroying pessim ism in th e w ay s of philosophy, and which poison with
dmpcrntlon all moral, m ental, and in tellectu al efforts,
If the .sense of life eternal Is lack in g in the h um an h eart, It Is useless to hope th at
nmn will ever rise to vindicate him self from the crim e of the atom ic bom b and all
Hint It represents, If, on the o th e r hand, the stre n g th of e tern al life, which is the
Immutable presence of the B eing g u id in g tow ard L ight, Is activ e w ithin the hum an
breast, nil things will follow In p ro p e r o rd e r th ro u g h n a tu ra l law. If one deplore the
decline of faith, the reason Is th a t fa ith h as not been properly established In tru th In
the past. If we grieve over the d eterio ratio n of m oral values to which the present
behavior of men bears w itness, It proves th a t the sense of social d uty has not been
properly revealed In Its m etap h y sical reality . If m an docs not feci In his soul the
apiirk of the Good, as In fra te rn a l service, It Is certain th a t the C h rlst-S p irlt w ithin
ha* not yet been released from its g lacial le th arg y .
The spiritual victory of m an w ill be born w hen he com prehends the tru e significance
of the evolutionary principle m an ifested In his p assag e from the Stone Age to the
Arc of Bronze, In his tran sitio n from E g y p tian C u ltu re to the H ellenistic E ra, In his
lucent from the Feudal A ge into th e R enaissance, w ith all th e religious and Intellec­
tual unfohlings made m anifest in each advance.
Spiritualism explains exactly th e hidden m ean in g of th e dogm as on which the o rg a n ­
ized religions are based; it binds to g e th e r th e d ifferent hum an tendencies as fulfilling,
almost without know ing It. a plan o f g en eral evolution, slow, graduul, and prog­
ressive. This evolution Is accom plished in cycles. C u ltu re In m an Is not a m ere p er­
sonal content. It Is not a question only of th e cap ab ility of m asterin g w h at Is e sta b ­
lished The same man, who stru g g le s and achieves the full triu m p h of postulating,
formulating, and com prehending, for exam ple, th e th eo ry of relativ ity , has been in-
iHpahlf of understanding th e p o stu latio n and form ation of a m oral thesis to revive
human dignity. Man loses ev ery th in g if, u n d erstan d in g relativ ity , he Is still unable
In feel God as the origin, know ledge as th e m eans, am i brotherhood as the purpose,
of Life, Outside of these ratio n al prem ises, no philosophy Is w orthy of survival at
this difficult moment for h u m anity. Indeed, te rrib le Is th e d ram a of m an, recognizing
scientifically the expansion of th e U niverse and denying Its real Divine substance.
Spiritualism. which now reaches its F irs t C en ten ary , has its roots In irrefu tab le facts
which establish its evolutionary philosophy and sound m oral doctrines. As u M ove­
ment. it becomes the Ideal R edeem er, reviving the ever new p o stu lates of the earliest
and purest Christianity. It Illum inates Life and D eath It Is the conquest of T ru th
und "the T ruth Will Set You F ree".
DEVELOPMENT OF OCCULT SCIENCE IN ITALY
ITALY . . . PROF. MENOTT! R ISE G A R P
It is to be noted that the doctrinary principles that constitute the diverse branches of
occult science were cultivated especially in Egypt, ami the G reeks and Romans were
their heirs. After the long period of obscurantism of the m edieval era. during which
continuous and tremendous persecutions against the practitioners of occult demon­
strations were instituted, it slowly returned to Italy in its experim ental practice.
Many persons dedicated themselves to Spiritualism especially after the first World
War! but these circles constituted a fam iliar ch aracter rath er than a scientific ap­
proach. The m ajor impetus w as and is given from the need of the com fort th at per­
sons struck by much m ourning as a result of the w ar. had hoped to find through
reunion with their loved ones.
In Italy the Metaphysical Society, w ith headquarters in Rome, seeks through truly
scientific methods to attain positive results in the field of occult phenomena. Its
members consist of a restricted num ber of truly elect persons who have g reat culture
and high social position, and whose contribution to the science is very revealing.
Hence, it was natural that a need w as felt to create a coordinating center of all the
small nuclei of the studious scattered in the various countries, and th a t the results
of their studies and experim ents should be gathered and evaluated in order to sep­
arate all of which might be the result of credulity and superstitious fear from genuine
supernormal phenomena.
Consequently, the coordinating center w as born. It is the Universal Academy of the
Government Cosmo-Astrosoficio which has its headquarters in Trieste, organized in
February. 19-16. with the approval of the Allied M ilitary G overnm ent. It can be af­
firmed that of all the cities in Italy, including Milan and Rome. T rieste is the one
that includes the greatest num ber of persons who. especially in recent times, have
dedicated themselves to the study of occult science, urged on above all by an inves­
tigating tem peram ent and a love of study th at is characteristic of its citizens. The
persons who belong or will belong to the A cadem y and will be coordinated by it are
such as will not fail to bring a good contribution to the understanding of the truth
upon the diverse branches of occult science, not to m ention a m ajor understanding
and affirmation of the moral ideals of brotherhood between people and an ever more
profound approach to God.
Concomitantly with the development of the occult phenom ena herein stated, it also
develops all the complex studies inherent in Spiritualism th a t tend to give greater
importance to the earthly life of the members, both m oral and ethical, to prevail over
the rationalistic m aterialism that has flooded the world, giving as a result ideolog­
ical beliefs based solely upon the trium ph of m atter and individual and collective
comfort.
To intelligent beings such as the Italians, the flooding by m aterialism m ust give birth
to the necessity to approach with scientific intentions the origins and phenomena of
the occult, so as to deduct from the experim ental phenom ena a positive theory which
will permit the entrance of Spiritualism into the circles of the natural sciences,
thereby affirming th at its scope is the well-being of hum anity, and w ith greater
credence in the existence of the divine spark th at is God. anim ator and regulator of
all the forces of the Universe.
s . r : UN1VKKSALA AKAl'KMIO HE LA KBCADO KOSMO-ASTROZOKIA
THE NEW PHILOSOPHY
ENGLAND . . . SIDNEY' ARNOLD*
The light has emerged and with it a New Spirit has been born. New pages ->
1 glory
will be inserted in the annals of human history, and the misshapen things of the past
will be replaced by new thoughts and deep feelings.
Out of suffering comes a renaissance of the Spirit of man that will excite the
imagination, and men and women will learn to speak a language that will be as
full of pathos as the sentim ents portrayed by Landseer.
The torment of the human soul of past years has stimulated human thoughts
which are destined to serve humanity that will be spiritual in essence. A fertility
of reason and a hearty common-sense are two principles which may form a basis
for the simple things in life, yet one knows that experiences must needs take their
place in the new sphere of influence.
It augurs well that great statesm en and men and women of vision look ahead, and.
like the great artists, their new compositions will be such as to prompt the world
to focus its attention upon scenes that will be lovely to behold. The range of
man's vision m ust be expanded spiritually and intellectually. Like the great poet
with a soul of spiritual radiance, the inherent grace which, perhaps, lay dormant
will express itself to fuller advantage.
Philosophy and science, literature and art will learn to justify their new functions
according to the new spirit that will dawn upon the world In the sphere of modern
education the artisan will and should be encouraged to understand life and its
responsibilities as a w orthy citizen capable of judging that which is good and re­
fined. People will also appreciate that modicum of the human mind which reaches
out beyond the boundaries of purely m aterial occurrences.
The human mind. soul, and spirit, as well as the human body, will be better under­
stood by the simple form ula that life has a spiritual purpose. Ethical conduct,
too, will be more clearly envisaged by the knowledge that kindliness is the result
of a consciousness th at is not isolated from the eternal Spirit.
A greater responsibility will present itself to mankind through the manifestation
of the truth that life is an eternal reality. This should awaken in men and women
a desire for a nobler objective in their social responsibilities as well as in their
attitudes toward their fellowr men. All such modes of mental and spiritual activity
must needs lead hum anity of the future towards a more sublime realization of
those values which concern the happiness of all civilized people.
Man can set his will to all things th at are necessary for the improvement of his
existence in this wrorld. It follows th at by the same token, one must needs endeavour
to acquire a m easure of knowledge that concerns life in a cosmic sense- the
Immortal Life.
The mind as well as the soul is an instrum ent of Divine creation. Those who are
inclined to seek knowledge th at concerns the eternity of the human Spirit will
find their wray to th at shrine.
One is inclined to think in term s of optimism w’ith regard to the future progress
of Man’s spiritual achievement.
Spiritualism of the future as a progressive entity, religious and philosophical,
promises to be of immense service to humanity. In the light of spiritual ideals.
Spiritualism as a new philosophy has a great work to complete.
Editor: "PSYCHIC TIMES"
129
THE FUTURE OF SPIRITUALISM
UNQLAND . . . JAMES LEIGH
I hr W mhl f ‘fiitmiMf'V cp. M ntlrrn Hplrll Mullein In a huiIiiIiIo nui'iuilon In ehnni.r fm iv
vlrWliik' Mill only Ihe pant in h lrv rm m ln hilt III** fu tu re poHMlbllltlen of Ihla va-t
m ovement
Thru* nn ninny who believe that althniiK h. In reoent yearn, H plrltuallnm loo* ma*lr
(jr•■ni ntiplrn In io IiIi'vIiik puhllc ro rogiiltion, o u r w ork ban boon im u r ronnerteil with
propnr alula mol Ila- art of pm iieututhiri Ilian w ith the irv rlo l Ion whirl* IIn* ninvrniriit
wan founilml to m iihr
One loohn bai l* mol h i alia wllli reap ert am i m ln ilratliin ouch prrnoiiulltle* an ICniiim
ll.irillnf'p Mrlltcii, (Viiii I. V T a |i|ia n U lilim m idi .luiltfu IlMmomln, am i other* anil
womlriM who a ir lalcliiK Hit'll pliii'an tm lay VVn tihoiihl rrio rio h ri IImt II la Ilia works*
nl |iri *
>
>
iia 1
1
1On nl thnlr ild y am i K aiionil lull llm l have kIvuii m u m ovem ent tin p n i.n t
Win U\ nlalun, ami nol Ih■ rnrit ilhllllnun w a Im vr iiuulr till lin g III*' Ia at ilot'tula or M
o
T i n ((linllty nl im"lhiiiiNh!n tim ing ilo final ftd y earn w an I'm hlghm Ilian llu* Splrl
hi.ill.il OMivniirnt ' mi flit tin Imlny I lim .w Ih Ia vlow will Is.' tiialleiiK etl tail il h
■liiirnly Inhl Nol only wan Ih r evhlaiii'o nt.ronger, I.ill limit* wan a at*iim* ol hurulnn
• onvlrlIon ami ail iiIiiionI aponlolh /.nil w ho I. in n a ln a m u Iv alln l In mu Hum
o n ly v.. nhouhl lake lliln ( 'r n lr n a r y nol only nn an ui'oiumIuii Iui rc lfln a tk in hut a*
i. riialm k i of (h r wm li lhal irm a in n lo h« iloim II ahoiiht Or no m i union, above nil,
loi III O.loiilO.li am i II ihallrO f;r lo llir H |||| Il uallnln of mil lllllr lo nnnril Illt'lon’Or-
.. a p |/|i nnlvely an llo-li fm ri iiim rrn illil a rriiliu y iih"
A fo Ih r f o h u t llir illlO ltU O n Willi II Will lit* l u l l ’ll Will IOi| t'Olllr frillll l u n l f l lallall*
tp iailrm lh* •' h av r lirrii la rg e ly n lle n m l T h ey w ill e m a n a te from nrmalifii
'l u l l >/h0 li in ' i pi lh* Irail) V of pny< llh p ow rin, ilo m.l i|iirn llo o llu* phehnimmn
I.nl i hallengt tin* hpli lloallnllo lo in p ir.la tlo o ll!l<|>r lllim fll n roiollu loti In AnmiO.m
1i.ivii It 0 o havt* tihown lh al Itirp o lliy la a fa il Mptl II uallnl n have grueleil 11)In it"
It '" I n ly Ool Ihr y nhollhl link Ilo ionrl Van If II i ra lly In no T h ere Will lie loam III
II" folim who Will, w hllr itoraptllig llir re a lity ol pnyrhO poWnin illapuh llu*
pottrihlllly of nplill it ililIIII11)It'd Iloll On mint' Ibuy will fool llm l llir hlliuiiu utllitl I*
■'* k IfI*•I <
tiifI nui lalnill pillti o n no |MiWoi Iill, llm l itllminl onvtllllitJ lhal mnllioo
hip ..H, p n fo im m ay In ' K plalnnl In payi liiilnp.lual lo iiu n II will In* mill lhal ill
I" /i Ini plmnnfonioi n n i y ho i i i lolllllm l I'm w llliulll in o o i n r lo Ilo nplill wm hl
I-'1 Hum. hr ini oi InIn I** a Itoo I II M m lonm tlilp "I llir nano ipoilllv on j|. ove mil
o .'.'O ito il IIn Iii at nop' Ion, am i li mli i olilp ol Ila* am o r ilom lm il o , ho. nook II
ii flilviop //hi 1
11 Imii will la Oi'Olltol ilm lop Ilia 10 "I IlMllilloil Voill * In IeOlll Ilo
i Oiillniijfi f/hoh lh* Moll it im n.tl will inivo lim n imw ipiM ilein I'lo1 nkl ami iiiok
I'iIiii- i,l o iolti lallnlO lio'/t lit i'll awtipl iinOli loll III Ilm m ol lio tlr nlllilh Hloollt
have (ak in Ihull p|a> • I•■lotnolo i lor Ilian Ilo in hlovo oirn l o ol Ilo plulUeln lei
1 ' lih’lllilul loOlil III luoti lo no III I III.loll Illil lllllv fm I* I' *0 111| Hill III*' po 0 hill >
"poi tin ihe lol oi t tu Iloo
K<lli PUH'M I UiM
THE FUTURE OF SPIRITUALISM
ENGLAND . . . JAMES LEIGH*
The World Centenary oi Modern Spiritualism is a suitable occasion to choose for re­
viewing: not only the past achievem ents but the future possibilities of this vast
movement.
There are many who believe that although, in recent years. Spiritualism has made
great strides in achieving public recognition, our w ork has been more connected with
propaganda and the art of presentation than w ith the revelation which the movement
was founded to make.
One looks back and recalls with respect and adm iration such personalities as Emma
Hardinge Britten, Cora L. V. Tappan-Richm ond, Judge Edm onds, and others, and
wonders who are taking their places today. We should rem em ber th at it is the works
of personalities of their day and generation th a t have given our m ovem ent its present
world status, and not the contributions we have m ade during the last decade or so.
The quality of mediumship during its first 50 years w as far higher than the Spiri­
tualist movement can claim today. I know this view will be challenged, but it is
sincerely held. Not only was the evidence stronger, but there w as a sense of burning
conviction and an alm ost apostolic zeal w hich rem ains unrivalled in our time.
Surely we should take this C entenary, not only as an occasion for celebration but as
a reminder of the work th at rem ains to be done. It should be an occasion, above all,
for rededication, and a challenge to the S piritualists of our tim e to assert themselves
as aggressively as their forerunners did a century ago.
As to the future, the criticism s which will be faced will not come from materialistic
quarters: these have been largely silenced. They will em anate from scientific
circles which accept the reality of psychic powers, do not question the phenomena,
but challenge the Spiritualistic interpretation. E xperim ents conducted in American
Universities have shown th at telepathy is a fact. S piritualists have greeted this as
a victory, but they should ask them selves if it really is so. There will be many in
the future who will, while accepting the reality of psychic powers, dispute the
possibility of spirit com m unication because they will feel th a t the human mind is
so gifted, and our latent gifts are so pow erful, th a t alm ost anything th at medium-
ship can perform may be explained in psychological term s. It will be said that all
psychic phenomena m ay be accounted for w ithout recourse to the spirit world.
Let there be no m istake about it: M edium ship of the sam e quality as gave our
movement its first impetus, and leadership of the sam e standard as has made it
a driving world force, will be needed during the next hundred years to rebut the
challenge which the Spiritualist will have from new quarters. The old and crude
forms of m aterialism have been sw ept aside but other and m ore subtle growths
have taken their place. Remembering, then, the achievem ents of the pioneers, let our
Centennial celebrations be an occasion, not only for rejoicing over the past, but a
spur for the future action.
Editor: PKEIJICTION
PSYCHOMETRY
UNIONOF SO. AFRICA . . . BARONESS LOTTE VON STRAHL
I am often asked in my life, “How can you explain your gift, called psychometry?"
1 will try.
Very long ago when I took into my hand a pencil, belonging to a person far
away and quite unknown to me, a strange sensation came over me. I could not
believe myself, that all of sudden as though I were dream ing wide awake, I saw
in front of me this person to whom the pencil belonged. Imagine you sit in a silent
movie theater and the whole story of a certain person’s life is flashed upon the
screen. That was like m y first experience!
Later, developing fu rther the pow er of psychometry under the able hands of
Scientists and Psychic R esearchers of m any countries, I also came to “see” with
my inner eye This “seeing" as outside and inside is of course clairvoyance, but most
always it is stim ulated by the holding of some article belonging to a person, and
the visions are about th a t person.
However, on experim ents w ith so-called “dead” m aterial (like bones of ancient
animals, stones from buildings, m inerals, and the like) there comes to my vision
a sort of kaleidoscope w ith one picture very quickly following another.
Also, during my psychom etric w ork, I hear clairaudiently a "voice," as if somebody
stands behind me. calling nam es, streets, places, dates, and the like into my ear.
For example, in finding out if a stone, let me say a sapphire, is genuine or not,
I hear "yes” or “no”. W hen contacting a so-called antique, as a picture or a
piece of furniture, the sam e "voice” so tells me it is genuine or not.
The minute I have an article in m y hand and there comes a "blackness” with it.
that means there is som ething crim inal or not faithful in it, and I feel that I have
to throw' it away from me. To w ork fu rth er w ith it is quite an effort.
Now, too. psychometry w ith me also developed into “diagnoses". When working
tt'ith medical doctors, I have often taken articles belonging to their patients and
have actually experienced the pains of these sick people and have "seen” into their
bodies, so locating the root of the evil disease. Still yet at such times I have "heard"
from a friend, a Doctor (m edica) who m ade the transition during World War I.
telling how to treat these patients, and the right care and diet is given. I am
happy that many have received such help from my gift.
I have tried to make it clear to you in some m easure how psychometry works with
‘‘The Girl with the X -ray E yes”, as Professors and Doctors from all over the world
call me. I believe there is no “subconscious m ind” or “telepathy” connected with
it. I say that I have tried to m ake it clear to you, and yet, neither I nor any of the
many great investigators who have tested my strange power have been able to
explain it, really. There is the point where all of us have to stop, where all
scientists in this work have to m ake a halt. We m ay call it "supernormal" or whatever
we want, it is where the divine elem ent comes in. And I. as one of the many
Workers in Spiritualism, who stands blessed with this divine gift, have to bow
my head deep and be thankful every day th at I may use this blessing to help
my fellow men, to give some light in their often so dark and suffering minds and
bodies.
World Famed P ityi'hom etrigt: LO TTE PLA A T
SPIRITUAL HEALING
U. S. A. . . . DR. CARL HORTON PIERCE*
Does it seem strange that after nearly 2,000 years of contemplation of the words
and works of Christ Jesus we should just now be entering on the threshold of the
things he commanded us to do? Does it seem odd that to Orthodox Christians these
words of the M aster.should yet be an unknown quantity?
The commands of the Great Teacher are so simple th at they seem to bring confusion
to the intellect. We are accustomed to roundabout intricacies that get nowhere. We
listen to sermons and discourses that produce no practical results Why can we not
realize that the TRUTH is simple, not complex? W hat is sim pler than: "BE THOU
HEALED.’’? What is more commanding than: "Arise, take up thy bed and walk."?
All through the M aster’s talks these simple rules are interspread. We pass them
by with a shrug. Some say: "Oh well. He was the Son of God." But are we not
all of us Sons of God? W hat keeps any Child of God from speaking the Word that
will heal? Absolutely nothing, and positively no one. The Word of God does the
work! Our Faith in th at Word is w hat m akes the W ord potent. "According to thy
Faith," said Jesus "be it unto you."
How does one acquire such F aith ? A recent message from spirit compares IT to
STEEL, saying. "Steel is always steel, but our F aith wavers. One moment it is
strong. The next moment it is less so. W hy? Simply through lack of practice!”
How is our Faith made like steel? Simply by practice. P ractice speaking the Word
of God with confidence. Declare when you see sickness: "GOD HEALS YOU." Is
there anything simpler than th at?
Maybe you are new at such declarations. Maybe you do not have sufficient Faith,
through lack of practice, to believe th at YOUR WORD is sufficient. That is where
the Revelation of Dr. W illiam James, delivered early in this century to humanity,
comes in He said, "Call Us In. Let Us In. We Need You. You Need Us. We can
supplement your word with our realization of PO W ER”. Ah! there is the New
Note in this Age: Co-operation from Spirits who are close to God.
How does this procedure differ from the ordinary Spiritualistic method of calling
on a deceased Indian or some other Spirit to heal the sick ? All the difference in the
world. By the latter method, the discarnate entity does the work, and you are an on­
looker. No soul development for you in th at process. By the other method, YOU
ESTABLISH THE BEAM OVER W HICH TH E HIGHER FORCES POUR THEIR
CO-OPERATIVE POWER. W hat does th at do for YOU? It does just this: It
develops your Soul-Power; It gives you Soul-Development; It m anifests Soul-Un-
foldment. Its resultant is FA ITH th at is like steel.
When your Faith is sufficiently steel-like, you will need no one to accentuate your
WORD, for. like Jesus, you will speak w ith AUTHORITY. You too will say: "Be
THOU HEALED,’’ and the sick will rise, and the lam e walk, and the deaf hear,
and the blind see. And as you continue to do this, there will come the day when the
Brothers of the Realms Above will open their arm s to you and will declare: "Thou
hast done the works th at He did, and g reater things have ye done because of your
acceptance of Spirit Co-operation. E nter thou unto the Joy of the Lord."
Founder: SPIR IT U A L SCIENCE MOTHER CHURCH
word*
• f l h « -
t h e s e
Union
WV
e not
HOU
k."?
them
' not
that
the
thy
r to
>
t Is
•I
?
ord
" Is
iith,
iero
ity,
can
lew
mg
the
on-
OU
:ir
It
Jn-
>ur
Be
ar.
the
tou
>ur
let us turn to science
ENGLAND . . . (Mrs.) A. M. ST. CLAIR-STOBART'
O
ur Centennial Celebration affords Spiritualists an opportunity of asking; "What,
If any progress have we made In the science of spirit communication since the re­
discovery by the Fox family of the fact that by means of "raps” and the use of the
alphabet, Intercourse with departed spirits could be established?" We use the word
"rediscovery,'' since the use of the alphabet had been well known as a means of spirit
communication nearly fifteen hundred years before the murdered peddler Ibless
him!) intervened. Howltt makes statement of this fac t In his History of the Super­
natural, Even earlier, Numa Pomplllus employed the “spirit-pendulum'' In augury,
hi*pendulum, consisting of a ring at the end of a thread, was suspended over a bowl
of water, around the rim of which were printed the letters of the alphabet. Upon
the pronouncement of a certain "charm," the ring would swing about and strike
upon the letters, thus spelling out "messages". The pendulum, of course, was of no
u
r
n
* without the action of the spirits "Invoked". So It was that In Rochester In the
year 1818. the combined Ingenuity of a murdered peddler and an intelligent American
family rediscovered spirit communication by means of using the alphabet.
W
hy la spirit communication denied by both the Churches and Science? We suggest
that the subject has been grossly mishandled. It got into the wrong hands. The basic
teaching of Spiritualism Is man's survival of physical death, as demonstrated through
communication with those who have survived the transition. Restricting ourselves
to the Christian Era. this subject of a future life has been the monopoly of the
Churches. The materialization of Jesus, after His Crucifixion, proved to the first
Christians the Survival of their Master, and gave them the basis for belief in the
survival of man So far, so good.
But the Churches then greedily made use of this belief in a future life as a means
of enforcing adherence to their own self-invented doctrines. If you believed this,
that, or the other thing, as told, you were a Christian, and your future life would
be one of happiness in Heaven. If you disbelieved these doctrines, you were to go.
after death, to a Hell of everlasting fire. Thus the subject of a Future Life has
become inextricably mixed up with what has been misnamed Religion. Desire for a
m
ore modern proof of Survival is regarded by the Churches as irreligious. It is
maintained that the demonstrated survival of Jesus, although due to a unique
"miracle,,' should be good enough for all Christians. Thus Religion has been made
a subject repugnant to reason and so sidetracked by Science.
W
e Spiritualists call our Meeting places churches, and thus suggest that we regard
the subject as a religion. Some identify it with Christianity and thus continue to
keep Scientists at bay. And in our Seance Chambers, we do little if anything to
prove that we regard the subject from a scientific point of view.
Spiritualism has been abundantly practiced throughout the Ages by many of
our noblest world citizens, and periods of Revival of Spiritualistic Practices have
been frequent. We suggest that while showing deep gratitude to the resourceful
peddler and his responsive collaborators, at Our Centennial, we take the opportunity
of disassociating our Movement from DOCTRINAL religion and take pains to estab­
lish it as a Science . . . the greatest of all possible sciences, the Science of Life—of
Life Eternal.
* M. ilium
WHAT SPIRITUALISM TEACHES
U. S. A. . . . REV. FLOYD HUMBLE*
SPIRITUALISM teaches three deep and profound truths, namely:
1. There is a Creative Force th at we call Spirit—which is the Creator of every­
thing real and eternal
2. Every human being that has ever been on this earth plane, has been created
by this Creative Force.
3. At the time of so-called death, each and everyone of us will continue to live
in a world of Spirit.
For untold centuries, we have reached out to a God and have tried to understand
a God. In different countries and among the different races, different concepts of
God have been given to the world. When we awaken and become enlightened to the
truth, that there is only ONE GOD, only ONE CREATIVE FORCE, of Infinite
Intelligence, then much of the m isunderstanding of the past will be wiped out. Then
we will all strive to worship ONE GOD and also strive to make this a better world
in which to worship this GOD.
SPIRITUALISM teaches that every human being on this earth plane is a spirit
encased in a m aterial body. Color, creed, or race has nothing to do with being a
spirit; underneath our color, creed, and race, we are all spirits. All human beings
want to know their true nature and their true relationship to GOD. This truth shows
the true nature of m an—SPIRIT. This truth when understood will tend to unite the
human race into a better understanding, will give creative enlightenment, tolerance,
and higher spiritual development. Is it not true th at these things have been the
ultim ate goal of all the Teachers of the past ?
Everyone knows he is alive. He also knows th at there is a day approaching when
a mysterious change will take place. SPIRITUALISM teaches us, when this change
comes—the change called death—th a t the spirit of the individual will slip out of
the m ortal body into a new life. This change will take place regardless of race,
color, creed, or station in life. SPIRITUALISM also teaches us that when this
change takes place, the individual will continue to live, move, and have his being.
SPIRITUALISM does w hat no other religion in the world has done—it proves that
THERE IS LIFE BEYOND THE GRAVE For untold centuries, people have believed
in creeds, doctrines, ideas, and tenets, and have practiced ceremonies and rituals,
w ith the thought of preparing for another life. If there is no direct, positive proof,
then no basis has been established to answ er the question—IS THERE A LIFE
BEYOND THE GRAVE? SPIRITUALISM is prepared to answer this question by
inter-world communication through Mediumship. As soon as humanity accepts this
truth, all human beings will strive for a better and richer life on this earth plane.
When positive proof is established th a t there is a God. that all humanity has been
created BY THE SAME GOD, th at ALL OF US ARE SPIRITS HERE AND NOW,
and that THERE IS NO DEATH—is it not reasonable to expect that at such a time
all human beings will strive to understand each other better, since fundamentally
we are all alike?
Founder: CHURCH OF T H E SPIRITUALIST
OUR LYCEUM
CANADA . . . ALBERT BATTEN
The future of Spiritualism depends entirely on the present younger generations
and those as yet unborn; it depends upon the training we, who declare that we have
the Movement of Spiritualism at heart, give to those children.
The Spiritualist Childrens’ Progressive Lyceum is the training ground of our future
workers, for it is there that the possibilities of the child mind are developed with the
greatest care and delicacy; the process of developing the very best in our children
is one that has been given the expert attention of leaders In both the Spirit and
Physical Worlds.
January 25th. 1863, is a memorable day in the hearts of all Lyceumists, for it was
on that date that a great American Clairvoyant, Doctor Andrew Jackson Davis, held
the first Lyceum Session, a replica of the method of training Spirit Children as
seen by that great pioneer during his many visits to the Spirit Realms.
This wonderful system of training does not exclude parents or other adult persons
from receiving its benefits; in fact, the presence of the older members of the
community is highly desirable. A child is the world's great imitator, and because
it endeavors to emulate its parents in all things, the finest citizens are those trained
with the parents and not because of them.
Questions may arise regarding the methods of training Lyceumists and the ages
permitted to attend a Lyceum. Let us understand first of all that Lyceum training
encompasses all ages from the cradle to the grave. Lyceumists of 80 to 90 years of
age are not uncommon in English and Canadian Lyceums, and proud they are to
participate in the Lyceum Sessions. As previously indicated, the system is progres­
sive; even the youngest children are encouraged to ask questions, read a verse of
a simple reading and to try to explain what the verse means The child is then
corrected in a kindly manner.
Adults also take part in the readings, exchanging views and explanations, developing
a keen interest with thought-provoking questions. In this manner, ALL Lyceumists,
irrespective of age, are encouraged to think for themselves and to be able to express
themselves without any fear of undue or destructive criticism. The readings are inter­
spersed with singing that stimulates and appeals to all present, as well as raising the
vibrations and holding the attention of the young.
The Group System of Spiritual Education is incorporated for the teaching of various
age groups the Philosophy and Science of our Religion, a very important factor in
the development of future workers. Each group is taught by a competent leader
such phases as are suitable to their understanding. The adults join in the Liberty
Group to discuss the deeper Philosophy and Phenomena.
Not only are the mental powers developed, but the physical makeup of the body is
also taken into consideration. Therefore a series of Calisthenics and Marching are
carried out to exercise the various muscles of the body, this is in keeping with the
Spirit teaching that a sound body leads to a healthy mind, a combination that makes
a happy and healthy Spirit
It will be seen that Lyceum training is not bound by creed or dogma. It is progressive
and will accept new thoughts. It in no way ridicules the simple thoughts of the
young, rather does it encourage the child to progress. It encourages various Guild
and Club activities, hobbies and sports, with the result that sound, reasoning, healthy
citizens are developed. Those of us who have had the privilege of Lyceum training
have cause to revere the memory of Doctor Andrew Jackson Davis, our great
benefactor.
Lyceum D irector: S P IR IT U A L IS T N A TIO N A L UNION OF CANADA
HINDU SCRIPTURES AND MODERN SPIRITUALISM
INDIA . . . K. S. D. AYER*
Death is a natural incident of life which all must face some day. It seems only prudent
that we should dispel the ignorant superstitions surrounding this most important
subject and learn as much of the truth about it as possible. Our Hindu Scriptures
prove to be very enlightening.
The notion that the soul ( J i v a ) upon death is transported to some distant world in
the stellar regions, those of meritorious deeds (Punja K a r m a ) going to Heaven
( S w a r g a ) by b e v a t h o o t a s or Angels and the wicked dragged to Hell (N a ra k a ) by
Y a m a d u t h a s is of course a misconception. The picturization is. in truth, allegorical.
Heaven and Hell, our Texts teach, are really within us, now and after transition.
The B r i h a d a r a n y a U p a n i s h a d describes the process of death in a very interesting and
allegorical way. (V l-tth; 1 to 4 . . Free translation) "When the A tm a n (Jiva) be­
comes weak in body and intellect, then the senses of perception and action iGnana
and Karma) are withdrawn into the A t m a n who remains seated in the Lotus of the
Heart with only internal consciousness. (That is, the senses cease to function.) When
the ruling deity of the sense of sight (the Sun ( leaves the eyes, then the power of sight
vanishes. The relatives who are watching the dying person then proclaim that he
is not able to see. It is similarly so with the other senses. Then the heart only will be
functioning, with the A t m a n in it who has withdrawn the subtle powers of all the
senses into himself. Finally the A t m a n , clothed in the L in g a S a r i r a departs from the
body. How does he leave the body? It all depends on the G n a n a and Karm a he
acquired in that incarnation.
"If the G n a n a and K a r m a were such as entitle him to go to the Solar Sphere, the
J i v a leaves the body through the eyes. If they are such as to entitle him to reach
B r a h m a L o k a the J i v a leaves through the K a p k l a , and so forth.
"Accompanying the A t m a n go the P r a n a s , just as a minister accompanies the King.
Then follow' the subtle senses, power of sight, hearing, etc., just as the attendants of
the King go behind the minister. (Note: This explains that in the spirit world the
J i v a retains the senses of perception in their subtle form.)
I
"Then in accordance with the V a s a n a s residing in his mind, sis the result of his
K a r m a , he gets a special knowledge ( V i s e s h a V i g n a n ) which will be helpful for his
future states.
"Just as a traveler takes with him on a journey the food w’hich he requires on the
way. the J i v a takes with him: (1 ) The knowledge which he acquired. (2) The Karma
w'hich he has woven. (3) The memory of the past or P u r v a P r a g n a ; all of which
determines the enjoyments or sufferings in the after-life.
"Just as a bird flies from one tree to another, so does the A tm a n fly from one body
to another. Just as a caterpillar (Thruna Jalookam) before relinquishing its hold
on a blade of grass spreads itself and catches another blade of grass, so also does the
A t m a n enter a new body on discarding the old one. (Note: The example of Thruna
J a l o o k a m has misled some into a belief that after death the spirit is attracted to a
new' body without any interval. This would pull down the whole structure of our
Hindu Philosophy about P i t r u L o k a and the life in the other spheres before taking
rebirth. This false notion has been cleared away by the very next M a n tra.)
"Just as a goldsmith, taking a small piece from a lump of gold, fashions it into
a new and strange ornament, so also the A t m a n taking portions from the Pancha
B h u t a m s builds for himself a fresh and wonderful body w’hich will be suitable for his
future enjoyments in Pitru L o k a , G h a n d a r v a L o k a , D ev a L o k a, P rajapatya, or
B r a h m a L o k a , as the case may be." (Note: The L o k a s named refer to the different
p l a n e s of the spirit world described by Andrew' Jackson Davis and our spirit
friends.)
From the above it will be seen that there is a great amount of correlation between
our Hindu Scriptures and the teachings of Modern Spiritualism.
■ _ — --------------- i i - , m 1 a . i i x w -
j :
136
• S x r r t a r y : SP IR IT U A L HEALING CEN TRE
PERSPECTIVE
U. S. A. . . . REV. EDWARD LESTER THORNE*
Thoughts of men often turn to Him Whom Spiritualists call the Greatest Medium
of all times. It is not necessary to enum erate the many phases of Mediumship the
Master dem onstrated: m aterialization., clairvoyance, clairaudience. healing, and
many others recorded and others probably not recorded. Spiritualists in their teach­
ings em phasize the continuity of all other lives, but most of them seem to forget
that Jesus C hrist lived on earth as a man, and lives on as do other men. though not
limited as others. We S piritualists understand that time and space are not limitations
to our spirit friends as they are to us. A guide can help a person in New York
and a person in San Francisco a t the sam e time, as time seems to us But He is so
far beyond our lim itations th a t tim e as we know it does not exist for Him. so He
can be present anyw here a t any tim e— and if He can be present everywhere, why
can He not be present w ith you ?
We do not forget to ask our wonderful guides for help! We all know how much
help they give us—or do w e? Sometimes we remember to thank them. But our
Supreme Guide also helps us w ithout fail, if we ask Him—but how many of us do?
Are we not inclined to forget His presence w ith us? . . . "Lo, I am with you always."
This lack of realization is evident in the way that old hymns referring to Him are
changed, too often w ithout reference to the rules of grammar, by the substitution of
"angels" or even nam es such as “Wild Oats" or some other Indian guide. This is
no real honor to the angels or to the guides, and lessens respect for Spiritualism in
the minds of C hristian people who are fam iliar with the hymns so distorted.
My next statem en t m ay cause a convulsion in the circles of Spiritualism, but here
it is just the sam e: Guides m ay be exalted, but they are not divine! Only Christ is
divine. I very often ask my guides to help me with my own problems or to help me
help others, but I do not pray to them .
Hymns are expressions of praise or of petition. Such expressions properly may be
expressed to our guides of course, but there is no excuse for taking a hymn originally
addressed to C hrist and substituting the name of "Little Effie” in place of His. for
the attitude w ith w hich we address Him must be always quite different from that
deserved by any' other guide, no m atter how high. For it must be understood and
remembered th a t guides, w hether they be Indian Chiefs. Oriental Teachers, or
“M asters" are not deities, and w hat is more, they never will be. I advocate by all
means thanking our w onderful guides for the splendid help they so unselfishly
give us, and I also advocate rem em bering them in our prayers. The very fact that
they so often th an k us for praying for their progression shows their own realization
of their lim itations. So, while we are to rem em ber them in our prayers, and petition
them to help us. as we would ask any good friend for help, and thank them for help
we have already received, as we would thank any good friend, we should not address
our prayers to them for no guide is Deity. There is only one God. who has interpreted
Himself to us through Jesus Christ, and to Him our hymns should be sung and our
prayers addressed.
Pnstor: UN ITEM S P IR IT U A L IS T CHURCH
THE LIGHT OF SPIRITUALISM
CZECHOSLOVAKIA . . . B. ANTHONY
Spiritualism is not only a Science which ought to be investigated, but the only remedy
for suffering m ankind all over the world.
Post-w ar tim es as well as the last years of pre-w ar tim es were in many a way
disastrous to the m oral level of common people. Misled by selfish men and women,
they left the path which hitherto their elders had taken for centuries, hoping a
m iraculous change would bring the fulfillm ent of the desires they were longing for.
Alas! . . . then cam e an unexpected disillusion. This ailing m ass of humanity re­
quires support and help of all kind to be brought back to God and His divine Laws
On the whole, confidence and faith in Churches have vanished; yet many a soul would
like to try another w ay to m eet Him and His Love, again.
Spiritualism in its purest form gives consolation and revives faith, hidden like a
springlet of w ater beneath the ruins of the m oral building which proved to have had
little strength against the storm ful w ar attacks. It will be the source of consolation
to all who have been robbed of their dear ones and are deeply afflicted. Once
persuaded th a t the so-called "dead” continue to live and there is hope to meet them
again, it would be an enorm ous com fort to them . Life w ith all the struggles would
be w orthy of living, m istrust in m an would vanish, because man has learned to
know his brethren, who shared his grief as well as his joy.
The desire to be one of the S piritualist Com m unity is not a surprise. And now begins
a new task: education. It has to be perform ed in a m ost delicate way, as though
unaw are.
Let w ork—Spiritualism ! L et w ork—the U nseen Friends! Let us help Our Cause
through Science, investigation and dem onstration, and invite all men and women of
good will to study w ith us. Spiritualism will have still more tasks to accomplish as
tim e passes on, and th a t is w hy we m ay not forget the well-known words: "As you
sow, so you will h arvest in E ternity!"
A m erica has been so fo rtu n ate to have the prim ate in this New Work. There is the
cradle of Spirit, and it should be the centre, a sort of Mecca to all Spiritualists. Out
of th at N ation cam e the generous help to the striving people of foreign countries,
which will be never forgotten. B ut still a g reater M erit will have America as the
Light of W orld Spiritualism !
The world is needful of Brotherhood.
Do support the W orld B rotherhood!
Take up and lift high the torch of L-I-G-H-T!
S e c re ta ry : PSYCHICKA RE V U E
INTERNATIONAL SPIRITUALISM
ENGLAND . . . SHAW DESMOND*
I have been lecturing a good deal lately a t O xford and C am bridge U niversities w here
in their Societies, scientific and theological, I have found, here and there, the
gradual surrender to th e “sp iritu a list” concept. In m y recent books on psychical
research, I quote num bers of leading scien tists of in ternational reputation, includ­
ing Dr. Alexis C arrel and P ro fesso r E ddington who slow ly but surely have come to
admit the follow ing as proved facts:
First, that w orlds of sp irit a re e x iste n t and th at, as A m erica's P rofessor Larkin of
Iowa U niversity has said, " th e ir in h ab itan ts are busy w orkers,'' and th a t we pass
generally to th e place o r w orld w e have p repared for ourselves by our earthly and
other sojourns.
Second, th a t it is sim ply u n scientific to declare th a t m a tte r is the only reality, in
these days w hen th e electron, proton, and now the phantasm al photon are passing
"into thin a ir” ! I som etim es c o n ta c t physicists, m any of whom, like N iels B ohr of
atom fame, are now follow ers of “s p irit”.
Although hitherto, th e orthodox C hurches have been and will be for som e tim e to
come the direct enem ies of S p iritu alism , th e ir heads here in B ritain, as elsewhere,
are being com pelled to consider seriously th e claim s of the educated Spiritualist. (I
say naught of the o th er ty p e of "sp iritu a list", actu ally S piritualism ’s enemy, who
haunts the seance room only and refu ses th e P hilosophy of Spiritualism which is as
Jesus taught.)
What is needed in S p iritu alism everyw here, is th e follow ing:
First the establishm ent of an In te rn a tio n a l C learing House for the “separation of
the wheat from th e chaff" of S p iritu alism , so th a t we m ay see exactly w hat we know
and w hat we don’t
Second, bodies of th e ty p e of th e In tern atio n al In stitu te for Psychical Research should
link up w ith sim ilar bodies acro ss th e oceans and build w h at I will call th e fram e­
work of IN T E R N A T IO N A L S P IR IT U A L IS M . B ut. literally for God’s sake and our
own. let us em ploy n o t only th e em otional but th e scientific approach as well. And
let us have decentralization ra th e r th a n th e kind of centralization w hich “kills the
spirit".
To me. a "Com ing W orld R eligion” is nonsense! S p iritu alists will be united only by
one central belief—to w it: T here is a “sp irit w orld” to w hich m ortals go upon
death, the existence of w hich is scientifically proved by com m unication therew ith.
Otherwise, they m ay d iffer in innum erable w ays. L et us recognize this once and
for all.
I have been presen t a t a m eetin g in London betw een the "Guides of the O ther
Worlds" and the P sychic L ead ers of th is W orld. W hen we clear our Movement of
cant and ignorance, let us reg u larly m eet w ith our S p irit Guides in “inter-w orld
council". The fu tu re is to u s!- to IN T E R N A T IO N A L SPIR ITU A LISM !
Author; F o u n d er: I N T E R N A T IO N A L I N S T I T U T E FOR P S Y C H IC RESEARCH
SPIRIT BLESSINGS
U. S. A. . . . REV. HELENE GERL1NG
The voice of the robed cleric rose and fell as he intoned the ancient ritualistic
blessing of the Church: "In the name of the Father, and of the Son. and of the Holy
Ghost, blessed be . . Down through the ages have such orthodox blessings been
expressed. Upon all nature of things has this practice been extended: individuals and
nations; missions of personal enterprise and those of warring armies; fields, homes,
crops, and animal life; articles of religious significance, as medals and scapulars,
pictures and crucifixes; items for healing, as oils, powders, and potions. And thus
the "blessing" was held to impart some miraculous power, as a supernatural
strength, protection, or benediction.
Does the phrase "Spirit Blessings” as used in Spiritualism connote a return to
remote sacerdotal rite and priestly cant as implied above? No—indeed not! The
meaning of this phrase is truly unblemished by religious superstition in either form
or essence. "Spirit Blessings" stands forth as a crystal clear summation of a sublime
truth: that mankind, through Spirit Communion, has been blessed in countless ways;
that the disembodied spirits of loved ones have brought goodness to man. and have
stimulated goodness in man through spiritual converse—and that they STILL CON­
TINUE TO DO SO!
How has Spirit Communication brought goodness to man? This may be seen in
the LIGHT that spirit entities have brought into the lives of humankind through
spirit messages. How many times in such greetings has the "philosophic content"
contained therein warmed the heart, uplifted the weary dirge of the mind, revitalized
the soul with the waters of courage and understanding! It is true, communication
of a name, a date, or a specific event may be scientific proof, but the soul has its
own kind of "bread” upon which to feed. And this LIGHT, too, has oftentimes shown
the higher way in the individual problem, thus by its very counsel bringing specific
help in every day life and living.
Another blessing which Spirit Loved Ones have brought into the lives of countless
individuals is COMFORT to the bereaved. Death, alas, means to many the empty
end; to others, it remains a fear until Death’s blow has fallen. The fact of "survival,"
so abundantly demonstrated through veridical evidence in spirit communication,
opens to the lonely sojourner left behind "the balm of eternal presence". Yea, times
beyond count, the walls of Death have been thus dissolved, and the delusion of separa­
tion made to fade away
The blessing of KNOWLEDGE stands as striking testimony of the goodness of
Spirit Communication. Specifically, understanding of the other world and a deepened
insight into the Divine Plan has flowed to many thousands through inspirational
addresses and trance lectures. This knowledge of the Beyond, that heavenly Summer-
land. has broadened the horizon of human comprehension: revealing a natural world,
peopled by individuals much like this realm—some good, some strong: some weak,
some fallen—replete with opportunities for further growth and service, and present­
ing problems of soul-expansion still to be worked out individually.
How have Spirit Loved Ones stimulated goodness in man? Through Spirit Com­
munication, man has learned that there is no "spiritual bargaining" at the last
minute of Death. He understands that he goes into the Next Life with exactly what
he has built into his character in this life. Since there is no form of spiritual jugglery,
the enlightened individual decides to earn a good harvest, the only way he can. by
sowing the good life here and now. Individual goodness is inspired in that spark-
of-God known as m a n through teaching him the spiritual law of compensation.
Oh. Spirit Blessings! The time has come that man should extol the benefits of Com­
munication with Angel Friends and honestly acknowledge them to all in clear and
simple speech. Yea . . . "Count thy S p irit B le s s in g s " is the injunction of Spiritual­
ism this day!
140
UNIVERSAL. PSYCHIC SCIENCE
BUILD SPIRITUALISM THROUGH ENTERTAINMENT WORLD
BOLIVIA . . . J. HUMBERTO ARAMAYO CAVERO'
I am glad to send these few words in commemoration of our World Celebration
of the birth of M odern Spiritualism one hundred years ago. It is here, at this
time, that we are really bringing one age to a close and beginning another. It
is not only the change of the centuries in Spiritualism; it is more than that Real
progress is not m easured by the clock of time, but by the turn of accomplishment
and growth in hum an and SPIR ITU A L values. So a New Age of the Future is with
us. at its beginning, which is now.
Let us look, as one m ight say, a t our future. From one point of view, this resolves
itself to our the S piritualists’—relationship to the rest of the people. We can
surely m ake Spiritualism bigger by creating some rare or unusual expression
of bur work to replace the old doctrine and ways of living. We could apply the
truth and teachings of Spiritualism to our social problems and to international
politics. This surely would be revolutionary and bring attention to Spiritualism.
How else can we m ake S piritualism grow ? There perhaps are several ways. But I
suggest one very excellent w ay to do this. There is the "New Industry” of Enter­
tainment. This is larg er now than ever before, because the people, in advanced
countries, w ork less and less in labor. And it continues to become greater and
greater as labor hours are continued to be lessened. So here in Radio and the
Theaters is a g re a t opportunity. And Television is coming to be more developed
and made to perfection. S piritualism should "capitalize.” so they say. on this big
factor of the future. Seances and Teachings can be broadcast into the homes.
Sound pictures, the “m ovies” as you call them, can show Spirit Manifestations to
the people. Soon, they can be bringing M aterializations, as of the departed or so-called
dead, by Television to all the people. W hat they hear and see for themselves they
cannot refuse to believe. And, of course, at this time, Moving Picture Stories should
be made to show S piritualism and the action of the Spirit World upon this, and
its people and th eir lives. I am told these stories are beginning, even now. Spirit­
ualism should m ake m ore of them . So, in the future, everybody gets to know of
Spiritualism . . . and we build our religion into the hearts of the people through the
joys and experiences of th eir world of entertainm ent.
Author: FOURTH D IM E N SIO N A L CONSCIOUSNESS
THERE IS SPIRIT
ENGLAND . . . HENRY H. MARKHAM, M.B., D.S., D.H.!
H erew ith I present some of my view s on the Study of Survival and w hat it means,
o r m ay mean to the peoples of the W orld.
It m atters not to w hat religious sect or group a m an m ay belong; it is essential that
he should realize th a t the "U niversal I AM" reproduces itself in the individuality and
personality of Man. This, I hold to be the true m eaning of the Bible statement-
“Man is m ade in the im age and likeness of God.” If you m ake this recognition the
center of your life, you will tap th e source of everlasting life.
T here is no doubt but th a t the people of all N ations are thinking how can a
repetition of the disaster w hich has lately afflicted the W orld in this last Global
Conflict be avoided and prevented from ever happening again. In the first place.
G eneral E ducation is helping the people to inquire intelligently as to the why and
w herefore of all m aterial events. A s a result, they are beginning to recognize that
behind all these happenings th ere is Spirit. I have no doubt but th a t we are entering
into a new phase of hum an evolution w herein M an will know m ore of the Power of
thought and how to use it constructively. The developm ent of telepathy, for example,
will bring about a quicker and clearer u n d erstan d in g betw een m an and man. As this
develops, m isunderstanding betw een nation and nation w ill be removed Even now
the seeds of In tern atio n al U nity are being sown.
It is our duty to help the younger g eneration to understand th a t behind all the
Law s of the U niverse th ere is S pirit, th a t th ere is a U niversal Intelligence working
through the hum an factor, th a t evolution in the personal plane comes quickly or
slowly as the individual p erm its him self to be guided by this Divine Power. It is
already evident th a t youth is seeking th e tru th reg ard in g Spiritual Phenomena, and
it is the duty of P sychical R esearch to place before our young people all that we have
found to be tru e in these m atters. If the whole subject is approached with a feeling
of Reverence for T ruth, th e resu lts received w ill be in accordance w ith that attitude.
In the N ew S piritual Age, w hich is now in the throes of birth, bridges of com­
m unication betw een E a rth and th e W orld of S p irit will become more permanent. As
tru e S piritual know ledge and conduct th u s increase am ong men, these bridges will
become w ider and w ider, p erm ittin g an exchange of S piritual values and inspirations
w hich will, day by day, y e a r by year, help hu m an ity tow ard a finer use of life whilst
upon this earth ly plane.
P re s id e n t: N E W C A S T L E P S Y C H IC R E S E A R C H IN S T IT U T E
A CALL FROM A YOUNG NATION
NIGERIA . . . SILAS EZZE ONOH
Spiritualism is a P h ilo so p h y o f L ife, o f life h e re a n d a fte r th e so-called d eath or
dissolution of th e p h y sic a l b o d y : it is a d o c trin e o f th e R e a lity of th e Soul,
scientifically d e m o n stra te d th ro u g h M ed iu m sh ip . S p iritu a lism th ro w s m ore an d m ore
light to the ex isten ce an d tr u e n a tu r e o f s p irit, to th e u n d e rs ta n d in g of th e individual
SOUL.
The C hurches h av e been tr y in g to g iv e u s so m e in sig h t in to th e u n d e rsta n d in g of
the Bible, and as m e m b e rs o f th e C h ris tia n C h u rch , m an y o f u s h e re in N ig e ria
are quite c o n v e rsa n t w ith th e L ife a n d T e a c h in g s of th e C h rist, Je su s. W e know and
understand all th is firs t o f a ll in th e o ry .
As time goes on, som e o f u s b e g in to w o n d e r how C h rist. Je su s, m ad e his presen ce
manifest before h is d isc ip le s w h e n T h o m a s w ish ed to see a n d feel w h erein th e n ails
pierced H is body. I t is th e s tu d y o f S p iritu a lis m th a t sh o w s u s th e p o ssib ility of
m aterializations ev en in th e s e d a y s. I feel t h a t S p iritu a lis m is th e tru e lig h t w h ich
should shine in th e m in d o f e v e ry m a n a n d w o m an , so th a t he o r sh e m ay becom e
free or em an cip ated fro m th e te rrib le f e a r o f so -called d e a th , w h ich w e k n o w to
be but a chan g e o r tr a n s itio n fro m o u r “lo w e r" w o rld to a h ig h e r p lan e o f ex isten ce.
I am glad to be a b le to a s s e r t t h a t in d iv id u a l m e m o ry is n o t lo st w hen d e p a rte d
souls give m essag es o f th e ir e a r th ly e x p e rie n c e s th ro u g h M edium s. R u t b efo re su ch
messages should be tru s te d , se v e re e x p e rim e n ta tio n s m u s t be u n d erg o n e. S p iritu a lists
must educate th e m se lv e s h ig h ly in th is b ra n c h o f o u r stu d y .
We S piritu alists hold t h a t d e a th m a k e s no c h a n g e in th e p e rso n a lity of th e individual.
This is n o t in c o m p a tib le w ith a n y tr u e re lig io n I t is o n ly h o stile to th o se creed s
which w ould co n fin e G od’s m e rc y to a p a r tic u la r se c t. G od is o f th e U n iverse, F a th e r
to us all. S p iritu a lism te a c h e s u s th a t th e g r e a te s t "p o ssessio n " one can h av e in
after-life is n o t a p a ir o f w in g s, b u t a g o o d c h a ra c te r! . . . n o t a h a rp o r crow n,
but m em ories th a t a re w o rth p re s e rv in g . I t h o ld s th a t p ro fe ssio n s o f fa ith a re o f no
value, but th a t se rv ic e to o n e a n o th e r c o n s titu te s th e h ig h e s t p a s s p o rt to h ap p in ess.
The religion of S p iritu a lis m h a s g a in e d v ery , v e ry little g ro u n d in o u r p a rt o f th e
globe. By th is I do n o t m e a n th a t o u r peo p le a re n o t firm b eliev ers in life a fte r
death, because p h a n ta s m s o f d e p a rte d so u ls o fte n a p p e a r to c e rta in in d iv id u als. B u t
no direct m essag es a re receiv ed , d u e to la c k o f ed u c a tio n in th is p a rtic u la r su b ject.
In fact, a belief in a " s o r t” o f S p iritu a lis m is r a m p a n t all o v e r o u r C o u n try , b u t no
guiding hand is h e re to d ire c t it to c o n s tru c tiv e a n d p ra c tic a l su ccess. M an y R eligious
Denom inations h av e s p e n t th e ir tim e , m o n ey , a n d e n e rg y to e sta b lish th e ir In stitu tio n s
all over our C o u n try , a n d th e y h a v e g a in e d g ro u n d in th e ir p u rsu its. I t is in te re stin g
to note th a t A m erican U n iv e rs itie s h a v e e sta b lish e d C e n tre s w h e re n e a r-h e lp less W est
African stu d en ts receiv e a lm o s t fre e e d u c a tio n . A m e ric a n s h av e ta k e n it upon th e m ­
selves to help e d u c a te o u r ra c e . I p ra y th a t th e ex te n sio n o f su c h help w ill one d ay
include S p iritu alism ! C ould n o t so m e o f y o u r m o re a d v a n c e d S p iritu a lis t O rg a n iz a ­
tions co n trib u te to th is e n d ? N ig e ria is y e t a y o u n g c o u n try , one o f G od’s ow n
creation, and needs h elp se rio u sly .
S p iritualist S t u d e n t a n d P r o p a g a n d i s t
SPIRITUALISM AND REINCARNATION
ALASKA . . . ROBERT L. ROBERTS
It may seem strange that a traveler of the arctic circle should be interested in the
soul culture of equatorial India: TRUTH TRAVELS FAR! I am not native-born of
this mighty north country wherein I have found the "peace that passeth all under­
standing”. I have spent two score years as a stone rolling over the immeasurable
expanse of our American continents. My interest in Spiritualism is a natural one.
if I may say so. as my mother was a close friend of the famous medium "Maggie"
Waite.
I have found little or no organized spiritualism in Alaska, but I have visited a few
mediums in this part of the world, one particularly splendid who was engaged as a
"tea leaf reader,” but she did not get her "m aterial" out of any tea cup!
The native Eskimos while primitive almost beyond words are truly psychic. They feel
their dead simply to be separated from them and that all are to join one day in a
lovely land of warm th and plenty! (Oh! Summerland!) Indeed, it is not altogether
unusual to learn in ways both direct and indirect that these primitive people often
embrace a belief in a kind of indefinite reincarnation, holding that their "shadows"
have a multiple existence here on earth. I have recently started ai study of these
people and their customs.
I hold th a t spiritualism and reincarnation are inseparable. Some spiritualist authori­
ties maintain that reincarnation is not substantiated by enough proof. Well, while we
spiritualists like to praise our scientific attitude, we ought to face the truth that our
proof is not too well accepted by the world a t large. I find an immense body of proof
for reincarnation.
As the New and Old Testam ents are replete with recordings of Spirit communication,
so the Bibles of the E ast are equally as positive on the point of multiple existence.
Is one more authoritative than the other?
Andrew Jackson Davis speaks of the “spheres” or “planes" of the next life, while
Allan Kardec is most em phatic in his teaching of reincarnation.
Many intelligent and trustw orthy individuals tell us that they remember previous
lives on earth. (Even as I.) Further, there are m any outstanding cases that offer
alm ost incontestible evidence of a veridical nature to this end.
Another point is this: Spiritualism gives evidence of another life, but certainly not
of an eternal life W hat follows individual life after that of the spirit world?
But the one great point that brings reincarnation into my belief, is the LOGIC it
offers. It extends a pattern th at is acceptable to REASON. This doctrine is in absolute
accord with the now scientifically accepted theory of cosmic evolution which gives
to life a progressive element. Of course, I do not speak of the polluted theory of
reincarnation fathered by a little truth and mothered by a great deal of ignorant
superstition, such as postulates human souls reborn into animal bodies!
Finally, the teachings of reincarnation m ake clear so many things in life that other­
wise remain incoherent and even unjust. It explains the differences in people and the
undeniable variabilities of opportunity presented to them. It opens wide a vision of
human life th at is reasonable, just, and beautiful beyond measure. Surely few people
will hold to the idea th at one life span of three-score-and-ten years is sufficient to
grasp all th at the school of earth has to offer its human visitants. This world is many
times revisited and a thousand such worlds are open to man in his eternal and infinite
march of progress!
.Student and S p iritu alist M issionary
A WORD TO MEDIUMS
U
. S. A. . . . REV. JOHN PASTOR*
The continuity of life, th e core d o ctrin e of M odern S piritualism , has been demonstrated
to mankind down th ro u g h th e C o rrid o r of Tim e BY M EDIUMS! We need only
tc turn the pages of th e S acred B ooks of all A ges, of all peoples, and there we find
the proof, the w ritten record o f S p irit C om m unication. Inspiration, and Guidance
as revealed by th e S ain ts an d th e S ages, by the P rophets and the Holy Men, by the
Seers and the M asters, yea, by th e M edium s of all history. The psychic demonstrations
of Jesus prove th a t He w as th e su p rem e exam ple of true M ediumship.
Today, as in old tim es, th e te s t of S p iritu alism is . . . "by its fru its”. Our Move­
ment is not a religion of creed o r do g m a: it is a science and philosophy established
by the proved p h en o m en a o f S p irit C om m unication, both m ental and physical,
through the g atew ay of M edium ship. T he w orld has been catching a glimpse of
the Glorious Im m o rtal L ife th ro u g h th e effo rts of departed souls th at have made
their identity know n beyond a doubt.
Mediumship. scien tifically an d sp iritu a lly developed, is the g reatest blessing to
mankind, it is the sacred G ift of God, it is a priceless jewel Med.urns: practice your
Mediumship! The w orld needs bo th m en tal and physical phases of Mediumship, each
has its part to play an d e x p resses th e h igh purpose of those in the Spirit W orld who
commune w ith you in th e re a lm o f y o u r consciousness.
It is well to rem em b er th e se w o rd s of P aul, "T ry the Spirit." Hold fast to the
good and true. P u rity of m ind w ill c re a te a cleanliness of both body and soul, which
will provide a clear ch an n el th ro u g h w hich you can dem onstrate your great Work.
In the Teachings of p a st creed s an d dogm as, m en have been taught to "fear God”.
But Spiritualism h as rev ersed th is, an d bids: “Love God”. We do not refer to a
personal God, but to th e A b solute, th e P erfect, the T ruth, which is God. Mediums of
today, you need have no fe a r if you sta n d firm upon the foundation of Truth.
"Be a Daniel!" L et y o u r p e rse c u to rs c a st you into the lion's den: your Heavenly
Angels will rescue you. Be tru e to y o u r H eavenly Visions. There are tim es when
your M ediumship sta n d s te ste d and sorely tried, but nonetheless, we Mediums
must be faithful to O u r C ause, b rin g in g co u rag e to the discouraged, healing to the
sick, and com fort to th o se th a t m o u rn th e "going aw ay ” of their loved ones.
Mediums, let us be t r u e S P IR IT U A L IS T S . . . and through our Mediumship reveal
tc humanity the g re a t b lessin g s o f o u r "calling".
Formei- P re s id e n t: L IL Y D A L E M E D I U M S - A S S O C IA T IO N
THE LIGHT
SCOTLAND . . . WALTER McCULLOCH*
The world of today seeks along channels of m an-m ade plans and schem es for an
uplifing of the conditions of life in which we live: to m any a yoke and burden, to
others an opportunity. These conditions of the m aterial world present a means
whereby some can further their own selfish purposes, th eir own im m ediate aims and
objectives in life. But in the finer sense of the g reat B rotherhood of God-and-Man,
there is a wonderful opportunity for all who believe in th e Divine Power of the
C reator and in the redeem ing Love of Spirit, and who listen to the w hispering Voices
of the Angelic Host.
There is a Golden Spirit th at brings Light unto those who are seeking an uplift of
the state of life in which they dwell, to those who are seeking a higher plane of
progress. They will find th at when m aterialism has failed, spiritual faith and under­
standing will be a Beacon Light which will guide them out of all these earthly trials
and cares into th a t state w here God’s will reigns suprem e.
To find this Light, men m ust first seek, through the channels of prayer, contact with
the g reat "I AM". The Divine Light will surround them . In the prayer-of-the-heart
under the leadership which will be g ran ted unto them , they w ill find the means
whereby they will be pointed to th a t W ay of Life which will enable them to labour
on for the furtherance of Spirit T ru th and th e sp reading of the K ingdom here on
Earth. This E ternal Kingdom will never pass aw ay. M an has created down through
the pages of history' m ighty em pires w hich have eventually crashed and fallen in
fragm ents at his feet; but from day to day. from m om ent to m om ent, the Eternal
Em pire of Spirit is builded to g re a te r stren g th and m ore beautiful perfection. All who
dwell within these P o rtals of S pirit find a P eace w hich th e m aterial world cannot
give, cannot take aw ay, the m eans w hereby they can bring about the upliftm ent of
the present spiritual state on earth. It is th e m eans w hereby M an can create for
himself here on E arth th a t sta te called P aradise. T his can be done in three ways:
first, through the Channel of P ra y e r: second, by m eans of F a ith in the Pow er Divine:
and third, by the G reat D esire w ithin th a t he shall becom e w orthy of the Light that
comes unto him. th a t he shall prove him self a w orthy M essenger of Spirit.
As you travel life's highw ay, do good, love your b ro th er as yourself. Listen unto
the Voice of Reason, the Voice of S p iritu al G uidance. W hen you have felt w ithin you
the C reative Pow er for Good here on E arth , then will you reap your rew ard in the
Kingdom of Heaven. The Golden Voice of S p irit will w elcom e you home. You will
not only be blessed for w hat you have done, but for w hat you have tried to do. You
will be given a Crown of V ictory and you will stand a t H is rig h t hand, and live with
Him eternally in the K ingdom of H eaven . . . in th e C hrist Light! And so too. by
your efforts here will Spiritualism m ove forw ard and upw ard, into the LIGHT.
P re sid en t: EXCELSIOR S P IR IT U A L IS T M ISSION
THE IMPERSONAL LIFE
MEXICO . . . LUCIANO GONZALEZ BURNS
In com m enoration o f th e W O R LD C entennial C elebration of M odern S piritualism .
I offer the following: m essag e fro m M exico to m y b ro th er S p iritu alists everyw here.
Spirit is the only re a lity th e re is!
Reality m ust be th a t w hich is u n ch an g eab le o r im m utable. T hus w hen one seeks
Reality, he shall n o t find it in th in g s o r conditions w hich a re changeable, o r m utable.
Once a thing, an y th in g , h as u n d erg o n e a change, an y change, it is im possible to say
which aspect of th a t th in g m ig h t be th e real one. H ad one tak en the first aspect as
real, as soon as th e firs t ch an g e h ad been m ade m anifest, he w ould have been
disappointed. A nd as it is n a tu ra l and unavoidable th a t all relativ e th in g s do change,
and every m u tab le a sp e c t ca n u n d erg o su b seq u en t changes, none of them can be
considered a s real, and th e re fo re no th in g is tru ly real, nor can it ev er be so. Thus
it m ust be concluded th a t in o u r search fo r R eality, w e m u st find it in som e
“essence" w hich is n o t su b je c t to ch an g es of an y kind w hatsoever.
As far as M an is concerned, w e can n o t ta k e th e body o r physical stru c tu re as real,
that is, as th e real m an, b ecause it is su b je c t to changes th a t a re evident. M an. as
man, is n o t only a p h y sical body a s m a te ria l science proclaim s, because in every
living th in g th e re a re th re e n e c e ssa ry c o n stitu e n t facto rs, to w it: m atter, m ind, and
Spirit: th a t is. m a tte r, su b stan ce, and E ssence. In tru th , every m an ifestatio n of
m aterial life is com posed o f m a tte r an d su b stan ce, and these tw o a re m anipulated, as
it were, by S P IR IT .
This is so. because m a tte r is n o t self-ex istin g , n o r self-producing, and because every
thing is a m orphological e ffe c t w h ich h as n ecessarily been conceived to fulfill som e
definite purpose in an in tellig en t, logical, o r m ath em atical w ay T he old axiom .
“There is no effect w ith o u t a c a u se ,” plus th e w isdom revealed in th e effects created,
prove beyond an y d o u b t th a t it is th e C A U S E th a t really ex ists—
-th a t “IT ” is an
Intelligent and W ise C au se w hich can n o t be o th e r th a n S pirit.
Spiritual E ssence, God, u ses th e h u m an person to express Itself, th ro u g h m ental
activities called " Id e a s” o r " T h o u g h ts” . T he physical m an. th a t is th e body, cannot
think. T hought is m an ifested th ro u g h th e brain , b u t N O T produced by it. T herefore
the hum an person is m erely an “in stru m e n t” fo r th e expression of S pirit. In fact,
the word "p erso n ” m ean s ju s t th a t— fro m L atin : “p e r” through, and "sonus” sound:
or th at th ro u g h w hich so m e th in g sounds.
Thus, if M an be n o t th e p h y sical body, and still he lives, and thinks, and feels, and
has his being, he m u st be S p irit. A nd as S p irit, o r E ssence, has no form , it follows
that "one” sp iritu a l bein g can n o t be d istin g u ish ed from "a n o th e r”. W e are led to
the conclusive assertio n th a t S p irit is O N E . A s th is S p iritu al U nity cannot be o th er
than God, M A N K IN D , th e re a lity of A L L th a t is hum anity, th e "I A M ” o f each and
every hum an being. M U ST B E T H E S P IR IT U A L B E IN G C A LLED GOD. T h at is
w hat Jesus knew an d ta u g h t, saying, “I and th e F a th e r a re O N E .”
There is but one conclusion: M A N . IN H IS IM PE R SO N A L L IF E . IS O F T H E
REALITY O F S P IR IT T H A T IS GOD!
May this realizatio n com e to each and all of hum anity.
• D irector: IN S T IT U C IO N M U N D I A L H E LA V ID A I M P E R S O N A L
WHAT IS THE MODERN SPIRITUALISM?
P O R T U G A L . . . COL. FAURE DA ROSA*
The Modern Spiritualism Is a doctrine founded In the existence. In the manifestation*,
and the instructions of the Spirits.
The propel doctrine that the Spirits teach now is not a new one. We find it In
fragments in most of the philosophies of India, Egypt, nnd Greece, anil all complete
in the teachings of Jesus, the Christ.
The modern Spiritualism came only to confirm with new testimonies, to demonstrate
by facts, verities unknown or not rightly understood, to reestablish the true tense
of those which had been badly Interpreted. It proves openly, irrefutably, the
existence of the soul; the survivance of the individuality after death; and the future
pains and recompenses of this life.
Tht- Modern Spiritualism dulcifies the roughness of life; calms the despair and
the trouble ol the soul; banishes the uncertainty or the terror of the future life;
restrains the thought to shorten the lire by suicide. Thus, the Spiritualism makes
happy those who study and apprehend it: this is the secret of Its great diffusion.
As regards religious tendency: the Modern Spirttualim Is founded in verities of
Religion itself; God, the soul, the immortality, the future pains nnd recompenses.
But is independent from any form of worship.
As moral, the Modern Spiritualism Is essentially Christian, because what the
Spiritualism teaches is not more than the development and the application of the
Christ's morality, the most pure of them all and whose superiority no one contests.
The Modern Spiritualism, being independent from any formal types of worship, does
not occupy itself with dogmas. It is not essentially religion in the old sense, because
it has not priests.
The Modem Spiritualism proves that the souls of the so-called defuncts are able
to communicate with the living. The defuncts do not think nor feel in the same
manner as we of earth. The most rudimental studies of biology and physiology
enlighten us about it. When we are present at manifestations of the invisible world,
those manifestations do not appear to us in natural conditions, in original purity. To
be perceptible to us, it is necessary for the manifesting spirits to take a "lent
dress’’ made with ponderable energies, which disguises their real "structure" or
existence. This "lent dress” is the Medium. And it is more or less well done.
The Spiritualist philosophy affirms that, underneath the personality, more false than
real, there is in everyone a deep and immortal individuality which resists to death.
This individuality is not alike to "psychologically dead" or to "unconscious memory".
These term s are contradictions with no sense at all. like "errant immovableness"
or "dry moisture”. This Philosophy refuses, too. the extinction of the ego as well as
its eventual inclusion in a "cosmical memory" or in a "universal consciousness": It
contends that every living creature possesses some irreducible "principle." a kind
of psychological pigmentation which distinguishes the real Individuality, with the
result that a person is always himself, and never another one.
The Modern Spiritualism believes in the true value of individuals, as well as in liberty
of action, and that an inexorable Law of Causality presides to our behaviors. No
arbitrary power is presiding over our destinies; we ourselves are preparing the future
determinisms which will became the arbitrators of our fates.
To be a Spiritualist is to believe, first of all. that the final reality of the Universe is
spirit and that down in our planet the highest manifestation from this spirit is Man,
who. searching for his path, gropes among the innumerable sinuosities of a labored
evolution.
1'i.M.l.nt: I-KDERACAO PORTUOUESA HE ESPIKITISMO
1-18
SCIENTIFIC SPIRITUALISM FLOURISHES . . .
Cr . . . ERNESTO MOOG
In our cv'Untiy it has net been possible to envisage the study nor tin- spreading
oi the concepts of Modern Spiritualism In the form of religion. as II is done in
the I’nited States aiul England nor like a new revelation that discloses Christianity
in all its fullness and purity as the works of Allan Knrdec which direct and unify
this work m Brasil, Argentina and other U lln countries of Europe and America
The sctentlAc and philosophic aspects of Modern Spiritualism are What have been
established In Chile, where churches do not exist, nor do public meet Inga take
place, nor is worship conducted, nor are Pastors oi Ministers maintained with
the duties of presenting Ihe teachings ami demonstrations obtained by medluiuUtlc
controls or guides
The psychology of the Chilean people, just as their general culture and the structure
of their society does not permit the emergence of Modern Spiritualism undei re
ligioiis. mystical, or Christian aspects. The masses of the people lack sufficient
education, struggle in very precarious economic conditions, and have a very low
standard of living, which make a persevering study of the doctrines and deeds of
Modern Spiritualism impossible for them: besides, their religious needs are com
pletely monopolised by the old Catholicism
The middle class of Chile, which is also facing a tightening economic situation,
is for the most part rather indifferent to religious Interests, and the political struggle
absorbs its attention; in this its intellectual restlessness Anils satisfaction.
On the highest social peaks, It Is a new Catholicism which Is ruling the Interest,
conscience, and will of this class, established In the belief that to be Cutholle is
fashionable and lends aristocratic prestige.
Modern Spiritualism nourishes in Chile, however. In Its scientific and philosophical
aspects since it has captured the attention of those cultivated, studious, and
dissatisfied people, intelligentsia and artists, who have achieved a certain spiritual
emancipation and who sense higher m etaphysical preoccupations, separated from
every religious aspect.
Thus it is that the Society of M etapsychical Studies of Chile draws together Jour­
nalists. men of letters, and scientists who try to assemble most modern knowledge
acquired In the science and philosophy of today, with the deeds and teachings
which are inferred from the practices of medlumology in Its several forms, try
ing to arrive at a scientific Spiritualism which, as it furnishes rational and con­
clusive evidence concerning the existence of the spirit, Its survival over death
and its evolution Into the spiritual world, perm its a philosophic comprehension
concerning the destiny of the inner Being and the profound enigmas of the
Universe. In these studies, preconceived systems, speculative doctrines, or "a
priori" teachings are not accepted. Rather, il is sought to obtain continuously a
progressive knowledge of the scientific and philosophical problems of Spiritualism
which may Imply an expansion of consciousness and an elevated comprehension
of moral values, to be applied practically In dully life.
The Society publishes quarterly its review named "Notebook of Metapsychical Stu
dies". In which it expounds the results of Its scientific experiments and displays Its
points of view concerning different questions of philosophy, ethics, and the like, con
sidered from the angle of scientific Spiritualism. This review has a circulation In all
the Spanish speaking countries and is well received We believe It to l>e the only
publication of its kind in America.
On the occasion of celebrating the first century of Modern Spiritualism. I am pleased
and very honored to greet In brotherhood all the workers, who In dllYercn! parts of
the world are dedicating their efforts and sacrifices to spread the great truth of
Modern Spiritualism In our times.
I*.... 1.1*., , t . -o i II- n \ l > UK KSTUIMOS M K T A I'S IQ U U OS | ik <1111.1-:
H i'
SPIRITUALISM: RELIGION OF ACHIEVEMENT
U. S . A . . . . REV. VERNON R. CUMMINS*
Spiritualists are happy people! This, undoubtedly, is the most vital accomplish­
ment of the first one hundred years of Modern Spiritualism. To be "happy" on
the earthplane of life requires more than just "good health", "good fortune",
and "good opportunity". To be truly happy requires the ability to live in harmony
and progress, and to hold the optimistic and progressive thought constantly even
if one is ill. broke, and apparently "in a rut". These things all true Spiritualists
have learned to do. Therefore, by and large. Spiritualists are happy people.
The Religion of Spirit is complete food for its adherents. Other faiths are noble
and inspiring and absolutely necessary to the advancement of mankind, but they
are not complete. This is easily proved by the simple fact that the Orthodox
member, the Catholic, the Jew, and even the Atheist and Heathen, together,
compromise seventy-five per cent of the congregation of every Spiritualist Church
and nine-tenths of all private reading clientele! These older faiths lor lack of
faith) can and do sustain their followers up to and including a certain point of
life, after which the full gospel is needed and the individual turns to the only
complete religion, the Religion of Spirit.
Only the egotist would assume th at the m ighty progress of the modern world
has been due entirely to the advent and rapid spread of Modern Spiritualism.
However, examining the few real progressive steps man has made in the past
century, it is quite noticeable th at every great step has been Spiritualist inspired
and backed by the religion of Modern Spiritualism. W hat are the great advances
of the past century? From the standpoint of the comfort of the human heart and
progress of the human family, I believe the infiltration of the realization of con­
tinued personal identity and communication after physical death is the greatest
of blessings.
In the social field, the only two really great advances in the past century were
the elimination of legalized hum an slavery and the recognition of Women's Rights.
Modern Spiritualism played its all-im portant role in these two great fundamental
changes in our social structure. Remember, the established church had enjoyed
an undisputed reign of alm ost nineteen hundred years and still men, women, and
children were bought and sold like anim als “in the land of the free” ! After only
seventeen years of Modern Spiritualism , this condition was ended . . . following
spirit intervention and assistance. Likewise, throughout these many centuries,
woman w as considered no m ore than chattel. A fter only seventy years of Modem
Spiritualism, woman gained legal parity with Brother Man and acquired the
right to vote, to own property, and to assert herself as a worthy half of the
human family.
W hat will the next great social accomplishments be? First, there will be the
elimination of all racial, religious, national, and sectional prejudice This will
autom atically lead to the second outstanding achievement: the final elimination
of w ar as man knows it today. Yea, and such are the very goals of Modern
Spiritualism for its second century of hum an enlightenment. And in accomplish­
ing these m ajor objectives, we shall see capital punishment abandoned, prison
reform accomplished (not m erely talked about), free trade through free fellow­
ship (not legislation) established, the stigm a of illegitimacy erased from genera­
tions yet unborn, and the gradual acceptance by all men and women, everywhere,
of the True Principles of the Christ-like Life, the continual spiritual life, and
the cooperative progress of souls both here on earth and in the heaven-world
beyond.
• Firm president and font-head of "FE D ER A TIO N ”
GOOD WILL
PORTUGAL . . . SILIVINO CUN HA*
The g re a t necessity of m odem tim es is th e advent of the reign of good will among
men W ithout th is, n o th in g can be accom plished in the spiritual evolution of the
world, w hich a t p re se n t is in a crucial and m orose stage. It is necessary and urgent
to rem edy th is situ atio n . Such is th e tru e w ork and ideal of Modern Spiritualism.
I feel such to be th e categ o rical and im perative need of our times. It puts once
more to te st th e p atien ce of th e strong, the courage and sincerity of the believers,
of all w ho in tim a te ly h a rb o r th e certain ty th a t nothing is able to overcome or
m ake them d ev iate from th e p a th of th e ir service, which is the service of the world
and th e service of all. W hoever says “good will” , says implicitly, peace and union,
fratern ity and lib erty , w hich a fte r all, are in the end the propellent levers of an
efficient p ro g ress and of a civilization th a t does not fail.
The idea is m agnificent, b u t it w ould be m ore beautiful and would bear better
fruits if th e sense an d value of its g ran d eu r should be recognized. W ith this ef­
fort, we asso ciate ourselves w illingly and wish to call the attention of many that
are disillusioned by th e u n c e rta in ty engendered by fear and dissatisfaction. In
striving fo r good w ill am ong m en, w e strive for the m ost sublime thing in the world,
builders of a social edifice on solid foundations, in whose shadow we can shelter
those who u n til now have not discovered the real sense and true value of life.
The w orld w ill never find peace if it does not find a common ground for understand­
ing, and th is u n d erstan d in g can only be originated from pure thoughts and an
oriented conscience in th e cu lt of good will, for everything and for everybody,
w ithout any discrim in atio n betw een races, nationalities, creeds, or parties.
Along th is p a th M odern S piritualism will m arch, certain of salvation, knowing
then, and only then, th e glory of m en upon earth. Thus the civilization so con­
structed w ill be able to proclaim as an indisputable fact that progress is not an
illusion, b u t a reality . T hose w ho firm ly and confidently consecrate their hearts
to the redem ptive w ork of the intellectual and spiritual liberty of mankind, face
an enorm ous ta sk . B u t th ey w ill b ear m uch happiness and great benefits not only
to others, b u t to them selves as well.
L ead er: C E N T R O E S P 1 R IT A D E BRAGA
GOD WRITES WITH LIVING MEN!
U S A . . . . WING ANDERSON
"As Jehovah, through His sod, pulled aside the veil of heaven, savin*
Let My angels forth; together shall converse the living anil the dead
So sanctified He the day when the angels of heaven were made known to mortals
(March St, 184*1"
OAHSPE. Book of Inspiration.
Chapter XVI. Page SOS.
On June 5th. 1828 there was born near Worcester. Ohio, a man destined to go down
in history as one of America’s greatest sons John Ballou Newhrough
After receiving an education in both medicine and dentistry, he travelled over
most of the world; America. Australia. India. China, and Europe to settle In
New York City where he practiced dentistry at 126 West ;t11h Street for some
twenty-five years. While living In New York City he became Interested In the
Spiritualism and spent thousands of dollars investigating the leading Mediums
of his day. Newhrough was trustee of the first society of Spiritualists m New
York City and in the year ISTl published ’’SP1RITAL1S. or Spirits Interviewed"
containing an account of his Investigations over seventeen years.
His investigations over many years led lo loss of Interest In communing with
average spirits. He wanted to contact the great spiritual men of history and to
discover the origin, purpose, and destiny of mankind. He craved Information
about heaven, its inhabitants, government, occupations divisions Knowing that
like attracts like on every plane of existence, he felt that he must become of the
highest spirituality to w arrant the attention of the type of ascended men with
whom he wished to communicate. For ten years Dr Newhrough guarded every
•nought and cleared his mind of every destructive emotion, Bodily purification
was obtained through a strict vegetarian diet. The result of a decade of discipline
was to open his spiritual faculties so that lie became both clairvoyant and olnir-
audient.
Dr. Newhrough was told by a spirit voice to purchase a typewriter. The old
blind, single front Remington has Just been placed on the market. At tlifs time
Dr Newhrough was living alone in a room at the top of his residence It was tu>
custom to arise an hour or so before dawn and devote Ills time until daylight to
his spiritual work. When he sut at his typew riter In the predawn hour, some powei
other than his own consciousness, would control his hands and type rapidly m
i
the machine. He would not know what had been written until he lifted the cat
riage and read the typing.
Tlie voice which had become Ills tutor and guide lolil him that lie was to write a
hook, but he was not to read It until the m anuscript was finished. Every inorning
for a period of fifty-tw o weeks, Mr. Newhrough typed during the predawn lumrs
bis hands under the control of Intelligence other than Ills own,
When the mnnuscript was finished, Dr. Newhrough was told to tend and publish
it. This: was OAHSPE. a New Bible given to us in the year 1SSI as a "spiritual
guide". O -AH-SPE means "Sky. E arth, and Spirit" and Is pronounced o. as in O'
clock. AH as In U tah: and SPE as In speak. The first edition was published m
1882. The complete O A H SPE la a book of Si»0 pages and many iUustratiims
If there exiata a book today containing more worthwhile, priceless informalc
than is contained in OAHSPE. It has yet to meet a publisher Man writes with
ink and pen; God writes with living men! . . and reveals Himself and HI* Creation*
to him who seeks and knocks.
Author . t'lotm llioi of Archives! KSSKNI*:.S ill1
’ KU8MON
LYCEUM EDUCATION
ENGLAND . . . ALBERT E. FRUIN ’
Although the Lyceum M ovem ent can claim only eighty-five years of service to
the S piritualist C ause, it sh ares by its co-operative w orking a prom inent place
in the C entenary of M odern S piritualism . In assessing its value to Spiritualism ,
let us first look back to its birth.
Andrew Jackson D avis, th e rem ark ab le S pirit Seer of A m erica, through his
visions and trav els into th e S p irit W orld, gained a w onderful intuition of child
life in the "S um m erland". He w itnessed the harm onious education of sp irit child­
ren who w ere assem bled in larg e and beautiful halls. The children w ere arranged
in groups, each group being un d er th e guidance of a leader, who not only im parted
knowledge to them , b u t also aided them in th eir self-expression. He also saw
children engaged in a series of in stru ctiv e m arches, each m ovem ent expressing
some special lesson in A stronom y. G eography, etc. This, to g eth er w ith m any other
phases of child life in S p irit, gave him th e inspiration to s ta rt a sim ilar system
on the E arth P lane. T h u s he in au g u rated th e first S piritu alist Lyceum a t D adsw orth
Hall. B roadw ay. N ew Y ork, on th e 25th of Jan u ary . 1863. T hus it can tru ly be
claimed th a t th e L yceum M ovem ent cam e into being by A ngelic birth.
W ithin three y e a rs th e L yceum S ystem sp read to E ngland, w here it still rem ains
a prom inent p a rt of S p iritu alism , a s it does in A m erica. C anada. A ustralia,
and other p a rts of th e w orld a re now giving m ore atten tio n to its value, and I
think we can look fo rw ard to its sp read in g to all nations w here S piritualism has
become know n as a religion.
Let me place before you tw o v ery im p o rtan t points for your consideration:
(11 The proved fa c t of th e co n tin u ity of child life in the S p irit W orld.
(2) The need for providing, as n e a r as we can. a sim ilar E ducational System ,
here on E arth .
Throughout th e h isto ry o f th e L yceum M ovem ent, its aim has been to provide educa­
tion by constructive Social an d P hysical, M ental and M oral. Psychical and S piritual
tuition The m ain o b ject is to aid th e L yceum m em bers in being able to think
for them selves, ra th e r th a n to becom e th e follow ers of som e personal, dom inating
views, w hich so o ften a re found to be erroneous.
"A child is the rep o sito ry of infinite possibilities”— therefore it is the duty of
every S p iritu alist P a re n t and L ead er to see th a t facilities are provided w ithin our
own C hurches, to assist th e children in th e ir g ro w th to m anhood and wom anhood,
along the lines given by th e A ngel W orld.
As we celebrate th e C en ten ary of M odern S piritualism , our m inds reflect on the
work of the M edium s, w ho have fo r these one hundred y ears been proving to
us the continuity of life. In so doing, th in k of the joy they have brought to
parents w hose little ones have been called to th e S um m erland in their early
years. W here a re th ese little ones to be found ? Surely in the C hildren's Sphere
of the Sum m erland. learn in g th e lessons w itnessed by A ndrew Jackson Davis.
In closing w e quote:
O pen th e door for th e children.
See. th ey a re com ing in throngs!
Bid them sit dow n to the banquet.
T each them yo u r b eautiful songs:
P ra y you the F a th e r to bless them .
P ra y you th a t g race m ay be given:
O pen th e door for the children.
T h eirs is the kingdom of Heaven.
..,1. r t ; H fU T lS H S P IR IT U A L IS T S ’ L Y C E U M UNION.
SPIRITUALISM IN DENMARK
DENMARK . . . E1NER NIELSEN*
S piritualism began in D enm ark in 1870, b u t it continued for about twenty-four
y ears before the M ovem ent g o t any v ital im portance. T he first Spiritualist As­
sociation w as th e S piritisk B roderskab. T he founder of th is A ssociation was an
o u tstanding business m an. M r. R obert Jorgensen, w ho sta rte d this W ork with
th e M edium (M rs.) Seidelin N ielsen.
B efore th a t tim e, th ere existed several p riv ate C ircles in th e C ity of Kobenhavn.
and the publication of a m onthly p ap er w as begun, b u t h a d to be abandoned. But
now under the guidance of M r. Jo rg en sen and M rs. N ielsen the M embership in­
creased rapidly, so th a t a fte r six y ears th e A ssociation w as able, not alone to
publish the m onthly S p iritu alisten , b u t to co n stru ct th e ir own Tem ple Betsaida,
a large building in G recian style.
U ntil 1911 the M ovem ent had been confined to th e C ap ital alone, but at that
tim e Mr. A lfred N ielsen founded th e S p iritisk M ission and extended the Work
to th e Provinces, w here several C ircles w ere form ed. N ow we have forty-two
O rganizations in D enm ark and tw o la rg e A ssociations, Kobenhavns Spiritist
Alliance and D anske S p iritister K irkesam fund W e have several good Mediums for
T rance and C lairvoyance, one M edium fo r M aterializatio n and one for Telekinesis.
Besides the already m entioned T em ple B etsaida, w e have an o th er Church situated
in th e C entral p a rt of the City.
O ur S piritu alist L ite ra tu re consists of eig h ty w orks, m ostly translations from
E nglish and F rench.
P re sid e n t: K O B E N H A V N S S P IR IT U A L IS T A L L IA N C E .
IMMORTALITY
I •
• A . . . HI V, .1ANI I' .M
IINI WOI IOUI)
Npll'ltllllllnm Is dll' Illy lii ■ Hill III llllnlll mill HIll| IIlint I.|«V liln Ilia Is eVi , VWlwti
Miniilimllmii In n ni l>t|iiv ii‘||y ion, mill h plillMnnpliv of l.lfn uml li»nlli II b imhi"
Hull dotlli In iml llin im.| i ii,i mui rninim iinly In |iliynli nI life I'lvniy Jniirniv h«i
Hi mu! W iimi i Iml 1111ii< i iiiin'n nun m u Innh Imlli ways lln In a••miIm
Mimi! "I Hi"
|*i”1 H‘ man ilimim n| lln. luliin
rin' (H>il Innh l» 111" Inn Iiiiiim! ntii' Wnmil' Inin llfii Inn ii ii a11n< I" lln Wmlil
bet Icl Inn linin' we Inn r Hvi'il In II '! W Imln small llilng ninlmInllulli «m • inn is wlimi
Innliml nl III Ill In Wavl Mi' Ilull In Imml among ynl) IIIIIV III' collided kiviiImi! In lln
kingdom nl H i l l ! rill'll' ii In ||||< I'lilinl I’lll'llvi "|)ll ItHitI I|II«IIIIll'•• which nlmill Hill Ilium
mi’ tin' iHli’ii tvhit'll linin' In mu inlinl nl lln "in! nl llin mini
rinni (here In Hi" Iin>
li linyimil (In' mill In Itni'nliain lull* nl Inil Inn nn nirtnniohlln
lllln llir 11111 1
1 I'lilliitiy I'lii' i iii Was ill Ivi•1
1 iin fni hi ll 1 1mIiI I" i uml llii'ii ||
Iiiiiii'iI rill" tviin lln' ending nl lln' mini I■
ii III" iilltniiintillr Iml mil fni In linn limn
II" 1 1III11>
•'•I nut mill pushed nil lllln III" lilinli Ami ||mi" ll" niltv llllliy 'Ill'll
ni'vi'i vvnUlil lint " Itni’ii revealed In liln nv" lunl Iin remained tvllli lln ■iii
That l» dm w ay tt Ill’ll ili'iilli I'linirn 'I'll# oUl “• ui'“ "iin gn lira farther M
u Hi" physk id
linilt In loll (trailIM
il mi wn ptmli nil llniv fuullnli nil" tt’nlllil lir In hIic. will, lln
nlil "niiii'dlMt wli"ii n new "iin hneknrw which will n|nni up mnlii iiinml of «cnrm»
mnl Vlarltittir.
So III" ending nl III" "ii "111 mini In III" beginning nl n imw lilgliwiiy mini Ini of II,r
liillnll" "li'riiul | iii IIin uf IM Ml )|{TA t ,ITV
1,11" limy It" Nvmlmllrti'il mi n day Tin t" In fi'riihimnn nf llm nrnmlng wlnn Hi" new
Imm linin' opens liln eves upon ii it rung" woi'lil Here Hi" Hi" mirly hours "on "*|nrud-
luy tvllli minli'm "in " mill ytnidl Tlmll lllnrn In III" high liuoll, tvllli II■ lint I uml
lullili*ltn t it iidtmlly til" llfn, nn III" ilny, slips on, uml rvimlng "ntiinn Tin- nun liigliut
In rilnll In dm Wnnl Myelitis droop, Timm comes dm in 1
1 nf nlnnp nml i"nl Thill In
lln vyi'ln nl hours tvn enll nlglil Iii dm cycle nf years tvn "nil ll ili’iilh
Till" ryinbollnin "Mtinol Im cnn'led through when death conics In Urn early anil nd'l'll"
t i ni n did wlmu II "nnmn III iidvilimnd age In utln tvlm linn lived wnll. enjoyed friend-
nlilpn and dm love of fellow men, death I'nmnn lln n Hilling yen nn n hninilifid
close In dnya well spent.
‘Tu my Kndmr'a houae nm m any mansions; If II were not nn, I would linvn told you."
IJohn 14-2.)
Im mortality lum nltvoyn been the "dream nf dm world". Our hopes and mnairam " nf
r*lii lot meet In Immortality. There are certain rpienUona which can only Ii" answered
by Immoi'tnllty. Ii the grave "min nil. then tlmm nir wrongs which rmv"r will In
righted mid uiiJiihI lonnen for which eompenaatlon will never lie niad" If Hi" grave
"in Ir, nil, progress Imconma a grim and iiintnll/.lng specter If IIt" "rnnn ami grave
"Miled everything fni- .leaua, wind n nml alory Christianity would nndin
One nf my grounds for believing in Spiritualism In Itud It halpa to snlv* Ilie great
pcnblcmn of life. Ululur lln touching dm! we rue Immortal, II In nanlnr In find answer*
in the problems nf suffering uml aorrow. Tills belief also hcciiis to nm to corn "|»nml
tn the evidence of o u r capacity nf growth Ami finally we find Immortality "in-
firmed, lu lln next step at least, by spirit communication between the two worlds.
Victor Hugo lu Ills sublime confession wrote. "I feel In inyaclf the future life, Wilder
In on my bend, but eternal aprlng is In my heart. The nearer I approach the cml, the
plainer I bear around me dm immortal symphonies nf the worlds which Invll" nm
When I gn down to the grave I can nay like no many others, I have finished mv
day's work,' but I cannot say, 'I have finished my life.' My day's work will begin
again dm next morning. Tim tomb Is mil a blind alley; It In a llioroughfariv II •'lies
ill twilight, to open up on dm dawn."
Ififi
I’n.ld ai'li GTlUItt'll i»K IIKVKLATKIN.
LOVE LIVES ON
N E T H E R L A N D S . . . FREDERIKA QUANJER
A century has passed since the rebirth of Spiritualism . And now, at the time of
our Centenary, it moves in the most rem arkable era of its existence. More and
more does it dem and the attention of man. We find th at even scientists, for a
long tim e averse, because unable to offer explanations, gradually come to swell
our ranks. Denial is no longer possible. In spite of all the learned talk about
powers for which laboratories cannot find adequate solutions, the world is roused
to find th at death does not end all. and th at our D ear Departed Ones have not
forever vanished from our perception.
G reat tru th s are slow to penetrate. There are m any difficulties to be overcame,
obstacles to be removed, fights to be made against prejudice and unbelief. The
word Spiritualism calls for ridicule. N ever mind. Ridicule stands for ignorance.
Often a w arning finger is raised, for it is forbidden to "call up” Spirits. Are we
then wise enough to declare em phatically th a t no one can do this, and that Spirits
do not come, unless of their own free will, and when perm itted to do so?
Many would believe, but they cannot accept w hat their senses do not observe.
They accept the wireless, for instance, but turn aw ay from the idea that sounds
from a world beyond th eir knowledge can enter their homes.
The m ost serious objections are probably raised by the clergy. We are bewildered
by the fact th a t they profess to believe in every letter of the Bible, and yet do
not realize th a t this book is full of Spiritualism , and th a t stripped of it, nothing
would rem ain but an em pty cover. If only they would read and inwardly digest
with an open mind, they would learn about all the things claim ed by us: visions
seen, voices heard, healings done, m aterializations, and dematerializations. The
only exception m ade is th a t of the "ex tras" on photographs, because the invention
of photography w as to come m any centuries after. They have probably never
studied I C orinthians: 12. never realized th a t our M aster's followers were clairvoy­
ants, or they could not have seen His Ascension; th at He materialized, or He
could not have been seen and touched on various occasions; th at He dematerialized.
because His sacred body w as not perm itted to deteriorate. How can healing be
the w ork of the Devil, w hilst the G reat H ealer told His disciples to follow in
His steps?
These are the things th a t astound us, but we m ust be careful lest harsh words
fall from our lips. All we can do is to hope and pray th at as time goes on
our H elpers on the O ther Side m ay m ore and m ore succeed in bringing to this
suffering world the joy, and the stren g th , and the light of Spiritualism. And
m ay we w ith dignity and love do w hat we can to help in m aking this Light shine
ever m ore and more, show ing to the w orld th a t for us death in itself can hold
no terror, th a t we know of a m erciful F ath er, who perm its us to tread the Road
of Life and Evolution. L et us go cheerfully onw ard, sustained by a Love that is
stronger than D eath, and continues even beyond the grave in holy communica­
tion between the Two W orlds.
Piv»idi<nt: INTEK N A T IO N At, S P IR IT U A L IS T HOME.
THE NEW WORLD FELLOWSHIP
ENGLAND . . . F. J. A T H E Y -P O L L A R D *
About fifteen y e a rs ago a g roup of young people in E ngland became interested
in Spiritualism and hoped to find it th e answ er to th eir prayers for guidance in
the search of T ru th . F rom th e beginning of their investigations, the Spiritualist
case im pressed each of th em w ith its logical aspect and their efforts were spent
more in locating tru e, sp iritu a l M edium s th an in proving th a t Life exists after
Dcnth and th a t sp irit com m unication is possible, which they already knew to
be true. They hoped to find in th is N ew R evelation a true religion.
By the unseen guidance of th e S p irit W orld, they w ere draw n together and began
tc elaborate th e ir in tu itiv e know ledge. T hey all agreed th a t in their search through­
out London and its n eig h b o u rin g counties, the S piritualist M ovement w as or­
ganized m ainly fo r P sy ch ic Science dem onstrations. Inspired addresses were being
given, but now here w as any real a tte m p t being m ade to dissem inate the Higher
Teachings of S p irit o r to em body those teach in g s in an effort to solve the many
problems of th e day.
From m ost ch u rch es cam e th e an sw er -"O u r job is to com fort the m ourners and
spread this new rev elatio n . W e can n o t m eddle w ith politics.”
"W h\ n o t?" w as th e cry of Y outh. “If all is S p irit and Life is one cjntinuous ex­
istence, then how can th e o rd erin g of th e m aterial portion of th at E ternal Life
be no concern of th e S p irit? * T h u s deliberating, they set about the form ation of
e. M ovement w hich w ould em body th e H ighest T eachings of Spirit in an effort
tc spread T ru th in its p u re st asp ect. A s the crying need of th at day w as for
Peace, the m ovem ent w a s called th e U niversal B rotherhood for Peace. N aturally,
the W ar cu rtailed th e activ itie s of th e group, but its H ealing and F irst Aid Sec­
tion. called th e W hite C ross Fellow ship, continued.
With the re tu rn of peace, th e g ro u p h as re-united, only to find another "U niversal
Brotherhood" in existence, w hich h as been form ed by the sam e type of inspira­
tion from S p irit, b u t a t th e m om ent, carry in g out large propaganda meetings
for the phenom enal a sp e c t of S p iritu alism . Still feeling the need of a body ex­
pressing only H ig h er T each in g s, w e now continue as the New World Fellowship.
Oui alm s are based on Love and Service and, through the inspiration of Spirit
Guides, both in H om e C ircles and from w ithin, we seek to serve the cause of
Truth. In the n a tu re of a fo rw ard group, we hope to give inspiration to the
Spiritualist M ovem ent to ta k e th e n ex t step forw ard.
A: an evidence of o u r w ork, up to 1936, w e produced a sm all m agazine called Pax,
then decided to risk all in a w eekly new spaper th a t would be open to all peace-
lovers. T h at p ap er w as Peace News, w hich w as eventually taken up by Rev.
"Dick” S heppard and h as been published w eekly ever since, even throughout the
War. O urs w as th e In sp iratio n , th e achievem ent of its success w as left to those
better fitted to do th e w ork.
We now are rep resen ted in m an y sph eres of Spiritualism . The editor of the "New
World Outpost” has been elected S ecretary of the London Lyceum District Council
and the S ecretary of th e N ew W orld Fellowship has organized a progressive
Federal Lyceum in H ove. T hus, e ffo rts are being m ade to foster the Lyceum
movement w hich w e look upon a s the fu tu re stren g th of Spiritualism .
Healing is an o th er g re a t d e p a rtm e n t of our activities, stressing, of course, the
usual S pirit H ealing. O ur h ealers undergo courses of instruction to become fit
instrum ents th ro u g h w hom any form of healing treatm en t m ay be given to suit
the case in hand.
Our ideals are high and we seek th rough Love and Service to keep the Spiritualist
Movement on a p ath of E te rn a l Progress.
157
l'ii i.itl.'iil: N E W W O R L D I 'K l.L O W S H tP .
OF SPIRITUAL GIFTS
UNION OF SO. AFRICA . . . GRAHAM MOFFAT*
"Now concerning sp iritu al gifts, b rethern, I w ould not have you Ignorant." (I
Cor. 12:1)
1 am in m y eighty-second year, but I have been a S p iritu alist only since 1026
W hat held me back from earlier investigation w as th a t, in m y innocence, I took
it for g ran ted th a t if m an 's survival of bodily d eath could be proved, the Christian
churches would have accepted the fact w ith open arm s. W hy? Because positive
evidences w ere needed to dispel doubt, to give faith a sure foundation, and to
bring back to the fold m illions o f agnostics, like me, w ho require a reasonable
religion.
W hen, a t long last, I w as led by sp irit to consider th e su b ject of Spiritualism it­
self. w hat im pressed m e m ost w as th e asto n ish in g sim ilarity betw een present-day
psychic phenom ena and those recorded in the N ew T estam ent. Thus, my first
direct-voice sittin g w as stro n g ly rem in iscen t of th e recorded m anifestations at
P entecost. T rue, th e psychic w ind I felt w as gentle, b u t I have known the “mighty
rushing" v ariety also. A s only one M edium w as present, th ere w as but one "tongue
of tire" in stead of tw elve. I t descended upon th e M edium 's head and immediately
he spoke, if not "w ith to n g u es" a t least w ith a foreign accent. In addition, I had
conversations w ith m y "d ead ” m o th e r and m y tw o "dead" brothers. To me
P entecost w as no lo n g er th e m y ste ry it had been.
My early experiences of m a te ria liz atio n s proved to m e th a t the first Gentile
C hurch o f C h rist ow ed its inception to a sp iritu a listic seance. Like the first non-
Jew ish C hristian, C ornelius, I h av e seen “a m an in w hite clothing", a spirit
m aterialized, b u t in m y case, th e m an w as m y ow n yo u n g er brother. Cornelius,
th e Italian , and his frien d s w en t into tra n c e , spoke w ith tongues and prophesied,
and ju st because th ey possessed th ese S p iritu a l G ifts, they w ere deemed fit to
becom e m em bers o f th e C h ristian C hurch. W ith o u t th ese g ifts, there m ight never
have been a non-Jew ish C h ristian C hurch. D oes it not seem stran g e that, today,
the possession of such g ifts is re g a rd e d a s m ak in g one unfit to become a member
of a C h ristian C h u rch ?
Je su s "c a st o u t devils", but o u r doctors, th o u g h C h ristian s, do not believe it. I have,
m yself, assisted a p riv a te M edium an d h is S p irit G uides in doing a sim ilar service
on behalf of an afflicted w om an, w ith th e re su lt th a t h er d o ctor becam e an ardent
S p iritu alist. T he possessing sp irit, how ever, w as no devil, but only a poor, ignorant
soul try in g to cling on to m a te ria l life.
A s to sp iritu al healing, it m ig h t w ell be claim ed, an d m ore especially w ith regard to
long-distance o r ab sen t h ealing, th a t th e prom ise. “G re a te r th in g s than these shall
ye do", is well on th e w ay to fulfillm ent in o u r ow n day.
S p iritu alism opened m y eyes to m a n y th in g s in th e N ew T estam en t th a t formerly I
could not un d erstan d , fa r less believe. F o r in stan ce, an excited conversation between
a fully m aterialized s p irit m o th e r w ho c a rrie d a child in h er arm s, and her sister
in th e flesh, w as suddenly bro k en off by an excess of em otion, th e spirits vanishing
in a cloud of ectoplasm . S im ilarly Je su s v an ished from th e sig h t of Cleopas and
an o th er disciple a t E m m au s (L u k e 24:31). T he sim ple explanation is that their
em otion w as so g re a t th a t th e sp irit could not re ta in th e ectoplasm draw n from the
sitters. It is easy to believe w h a t one h a s seen fo r o n e's ow n self.
Seeing th a t o u r p resen t-d ay sp iritu a listic phen o m en a a re so sim ilar to those in the
Bible, are we not justified in th in k in g th a t th ey com e from th e sam e source? Those
who m ake out th a t th a t source is S atan ic, a re a rg u in g w ith th e priests and pharisees
who ascribed th e m ig h ty w o rk s of Je su s to B eelzebub.
• C A P E T O W N P S Y C H IC C L U B .
A CENTURY OF TRUTH
CANADA . . . R E V . W . Y E N D L E Y B U R T O N
One hundred y e a rs o f S p iritu alism , ju s t a tick of the clock th a t carries the hands
of tim e, y et S p irit alw ay s w as an d alw ay s w ill be. W ithout S p irit there can be
no life, and all life m a n ife sts S p irit: for M an is not a physical being w ith a
Spiritual hope b u t a S p iritu a l being w ith an assured destiny. T his destiny no one
can w ithold from him an d he can only a tta in it in its fullest degree by his own
aspirations and desires.
The m aterial form of flesh an d blood are th e cru d est form of existence th a t Man
will inhabit, and th e only th in g s he can retain w hen m ak in g the change called
D eath are his in telligence an d h is a s tra l body. T h erefo re it is reasonable to con­
clude th a t th e S p irit o f M an w as im p lan ted into a physical body to learn how to
think and to acq u ire know ledge.
The best w ay to o b tain th e se re q u irem en ts a re found in th e teachings of S p iritu al­
ism. w herein th e seek er is n o t bound by ritu al o r creed nor influenced by ju d g ­
m ent or th o u g h t o f rew ard , b u t is guided by th e evidence w ith w hich he is con­
fronted from tim e to tim e.
This evidence fulfills a d ual pu rp o se: first it d em o n strates the fa c t th a t individual
intelligence lives beyond th e d e a th of th e physical body, and secondly th a t com ­
munion betw een th e tw o d isp en satio n s of life is a fact. T hus we are carried
beyond th e confines o f relig io n alone and becom e stu d en ts in th e Science of
Life. W e are n o t le ft alone a t th is sta g e of o u r grow th, for w aiting in the silver
shadows a re th o se w ho h av e passed th e w ay we now tread and are not only
desirous of help in g u s in th is th e m aterial life, b u t a re still m ore desirous of in­
form ing us of som e of th e conditions of th a t sta te of life they now inhabit. T here
is nothing su p e rn a tu ra l a b o u t such conditions, as n othing can be superior to the
Laws of N atu re, w hich a re th e law s o f th a t C reato r o r C reative Force th a t created
all. One cannot define th a t B ein g o r P o w er; th e p a rt cannot define th e whole, and
although M an h as a s p a rk of D ivinity w ithin him . in his p resent state he is finite,
and the finite can n o t define th e Infinite. Those w ho presum e to do so are in the
main im postors o r a re badly disillusioned.
Our contact w ith S p iritu a lism h as b ro u g h t our conception of the p u rsu its of life
to three governing p rin cip les:—
First. T here is only one law , th e law of C ause and E ffect: nothing happens by
chance w h eth er fo r good o r otherw ise. God does not punish anyone. If we are
the victim s of m isfo rtu n e o r sickness, then som ew here in the o rder of things the
Law has been "b ro k en ", an d w e inflict upon ourselves th e consequences. To accuse
God of such p u n ish m en t is n o th in g sh o rt of blasphem y.
Second. The Sin of Ig n orance. A s th e P urpose of Life is to obtain know ledge by
experience, we com m it a sin if we n eglect to seek th a t know ledge, and su ffer
accordingly.
Third. The C om m andm ent of Love. Love is n eith er sentim ent nor em otion but
an actual force th a t w e g e n e ra te w ithin ourselves; it plays an im portant p art
in our thoughts, evil th o u g h ts poison o u r blood stream and also repel our fellow-
men. w hilst th o u g h ts ch arg ed w ith Love bring Peace and H ealth w ithin and
will broadcast the sam e to all m ankind. T hus it is our duty to obey this com m and­
ment
P re s id e n t: S P IR IT U A L IS T N A T IO N A L U N IO N OK CANAOA
A SWAMI SPEAKS . . .
INDIA . . . SWAMI SRI NITYANANDA*
Great Souls live in every Arc. in every clime. Kervtng millions of their brethren,
suffering that others may be happy, experiencing the trials or life one and all alike
shedding their light and love to all. HUMANISM is their religion, a sympathetic
religion of mankind, a clarifying fusion of all confusions, a uni >n of all communions.
Like great worldly benefactors wishing to share their material fortunes with those
less fortunate. Great Spiritual Intelligences desire to share their powers to do good
by serving all mankind.
Benevolent N ature is ever ready to shower its blessings, awaiting Man to draw from
the Springs of Eternal Wisdom, In India, many of our Spiritualist Home Circles have
established their purposes and are expressing their usefulness. They are as beehives,
specimens of a m agnetic power-principle, gathering essences of honey from rare
flowers that blossom in life here and in the hereafter. We have learned that Great
Souls are living in O ther Worlds, in a variety of "planes" and "states", linked by a
network of Super Spirit Forces rooted in the Principles of N ature They are ever
alive, ever alert, eternally giving and taking from the Ever Present Spirit . . . ever
living amidst eternal changes in the Cycles of Time in the vast, limitless flow of
Creation. Preservation, and Destruction. These G reat Souls are the Teachers of
Humanity.
The fear of death has been completely effaced from our presence. The "Karmic"
Law has but one purpose: to share all powers according to capacity. Isolationism
is gone. Unity is on the dawn. One puts forth outside in the form of action what
one generally is. The aim of every Evolved Soul is to work for humanity. For such,
however, it is necessary to find individual life on a consciousness higher than that
of the present limited and ignorant level of the masses. The boundaries of mental
"norm ality” refuse to expand and thus the masses rem ain shut away and turn from
new vistas of Spiritual Glory.
Time is Change. Evolution is Change. This is a God-Controlled World. And Y-O-U '!
. . You should develop a God Sense through prayer. Drive out fear! And never fee)
that you are alone. Let identity with the Celestial Force dawn upon you, to protect
and keep you. to speak and listen with you. Be agile, alert, sensitive and com­
municative to all visible and invisible, audible and inaudible forms of expression and
impression. Develop the Intuitive Voice, the Voice that "speaks” within.
When an individual changes, his fam ily changes. Fam ily changes lead to Community
modifications. And so on. When N ations change to realize at heart the true strength
of union and the weakness of disunion, the ideal of HUMAN ONENESS will be bom,
or rather realized, throughout the world. The G reat Powers from Beyond, working
as they are in consonance w ith Time, give signal th at the trends and moods of the
human race are shaping "Peace on earth and Good Will towards men".
A New E ra is beginning for the World. Human history is not measured by time, but
by achievements and hum an evolution. For the last two thousand years human
history has remained as a civilization based on self cultured ideas, religion and
government which have made the selfishness of man the foundation of nearly all
institutions. Men have sought their self expansion through property, wealth, and
acquisitions. So have nations. These have led to conflicts, wars, and destructions.
But these ideas and ideals are now undergoing change. Today, as the Leaders of
the World realize that God must be served through serving OTHERS, the New Era
of Peace is dawning upon earth
So let us all vibrate PEACE:—PEACE from the very bottom of our hearts. Tnu-
we will become the embodiment of Love Universal . . . of Grace Divine . . of Bliss
Eternal.
When m an listens. God speaks;
When man obeys, God acts.
OM!
100
* itml ^pirltuftlial 'IViu hi r o f India
\ whole ui-m 'iat Ion Imx |M»xsetl JO yenix •‘In* «
• the |<\il<li .in .n ,»f I•i• ' <• ■
i
Janie* H Hy.slop's ri'i'oi t on th e D on* F liher C jm of M ulfiplr Prrano.yhty, when hi*
war head of the A m orloan Society for Psychical R rtoarch In the mennwhih' tie
work! i»l large cxcluslvi' of llu> mi’dloiil fratern ity hux brcnin* more frieraillv |n
psyehle rncla t»nd theories H ow ever, very few ox yef tenllre Ike Im iitailalng Impoit
of l>» H \slop's report It la the only apitiituple personality «o < n < i . m l .1 rot
ns I tun nwntv, and ll wox euretl, n ite r laying diagnosed ox Ineurnlile t»v three eminent
men In H arvard nntl o th er eenterx «'f au th o rity In the Iforls C n v , the lo \ to the . tire
wit' given h\ one ot her ow n g ro u p of' personal It lex who provetl to he Itet own
Invisible guide ntul pro tecto r.
N et every e a s e ot pxyehle Interferen ce itml ohxexaton Inix tlltli on able Utl tn tt«
own net up; hence ex tran eo u s psychle readings anti analyses have to he secured In
hundreds of eaxes such w ork luta bro u g h t to tight unsuspected cnusc'i of trouble otul
pointed tlie way to the p ro p er handling am i restoration of the patient Som etim es the
process Is gradual, ns In th e th irls C ase, som etim es ilranuitlcaily suiUleii. u» reported
tn I't Carl W lckland's volum e. T h irty Y ear* Among the Dead. I hove myxolf \ t .%
f. he,I
the progress of v ario u s psychically obsessed p atients under treatm ent by T itus
Bull, M iv, head of th e Ja m e s H. Myslop Foundation.
One physician, m em ber of th e S ta te B oard of G overnors of hospitals lor the insane
tn a W estern state, fra n k ly declared, som e y ears ago to A rthur Kurd, the well known
medium, that If th e m edical p ra c titio n e r w ere able to use the methods of diagnosis
and treatm ent m ade possible by psychic analysis, tw o thirds of the patients m lux
State’s overcrow ded asy lu m s could be cured and dism issed "They really don't heium
there, if we only knew w h at to do w ith them ," lie testified
Why Is m edicine so slow to recognize any tint m ental and physical iibxi-'Mon*" The
soui, the psyche, ts Ignored o r dented, a s a m a tte r of "scientific" attitude liy the
medical profession In g en eral.
In various healing o rg a n isa tio n s th e re a re m any practitio n ers who have some light
on the subject, but they a rc scorned and derided by m edical men and women,
A llMS U nited P re ss d isp a tc h follow s:
" D e n til t. it it« a a V p a r S la rji"
“Jidinmu-Mhiira! U n io n of S o u t h Vfalen. J u ly 17 \ t h irty 1 1
*1 > 1 1 0 «l>"iv u u lu m l to il>.
•Ilirltta of hi'i xwau'lha'lirl, a'lutt'il ha ileltth liulity fo r A n u s Nwituil'iu’l I hi' -l*i »n« to oki’it
unit nao’*, in I t r j l , w h e n th e S o u t h Vfili'im svuinnii ii'.utliuot I'uiim uui»........ Im .1 Ini. 1
ixiriml in m m , whiui * h r w a s ‘
.'u, sh e xulfi'isul a n sllu i'li ot liy«tei leal 1 itiiiU r . , „ lin , h u
imii'iitx o|i|iosvit h e r m a r r l a i t e t o a yoauaa; f a r m e r wliaa klllaut lilniarlf hi to . waist
This case, supposing th e acco u n t to he fairly accu rate, m anifestly tailed to yield to any
treatment th at m ay h av e Irled B ut had it psychic, trained for such work been called
In to analyze the cau ses at w ork, it m ight well have been that a good psy holog hit
or psychotherapist could h av e re sto re d th e patien t to y ears of m nnm l life and u-i
fulness.
Physical discoveries for physiological disorder: have saved untokl n llh u n g anti
enriched countless lives. W hy Ignore sttul rem edies tor soul disorders'* There are
millions of tra g ic lives a n d ho m es su fferin g from such psychic disease.
The answ er a p p e a rs to l'<* n com b in atio n of Ignorance, prejudice, nml superatltUm,
plus fear of criticism . W h en ev er alid such a reeking com pound enrich society air the
human r a c e '' T hose o f us w ho know w h a t's am iss share a grave rexp.inidhlltty tow ard
the future of uum kim l.
V
* '"lull u| liiM'tom J a m e s It Hyalite nntl Tltua Hull
llll
THE NATURE AND PURPOSE OF SPIRITUALISM
CANADA . . . REV. R. DAVID McQUEEN"
During the past ninety-nine years, since that fateful revelation at Hydesville.
New York, in 1848, many changes have taken place in the mode of communication
between the World of Spirit and ourselves. And in the years yet unborn many even
greater changes will take place. The efforts of those in the Angel World have
gone on unabated as the waves of the sea. Their constant research, experimenta­
tion, and organization seek to find ways and means whereby their communications
might not only be more valuable, but more readily accepted by thinking men
and women of this mundane plane. Every effort put forward by them is carefully
planned and organized.
But. have we. who have been so bountifully blessed by their ministry, grasped the
full significance and meaning behind it all? Or have we taken too much for
granted without thought as to w hat lies behind it? Instead of the beautiful thing
God and the Angel World intended Spiritualism to be. we have by means of
carelessness, spurious mediumship. and selfishness turned it into "fortune telling"
in its crudest form. It should be a Science, Philosophy, and Religion of the highest
order.
W hat is Spiritualism ? Angels proclaim three definitions: 1. The state of being
spiritual. 2. The opposite of M aterialism. 3. Communion between departed human
spirits and m ortals. Therefore, a real Spiritualist is one whose life is lived
spiritually; one who is fully conscious th at he is spirit in the here-and-now; that
the physical garm ent which he is w earing is but a tem porary expedient devised
by God for man in his path of E ternal Progress. A real Spiritualist does not
believe in spirit communion, he knows it to be a positive fact. Experience has
taught him that so-called death is not the end of life, but the beginning of a life
that is real and eternal. F urther, th at those who have gone before are not only
very much alive, but still continue to love and care for us, and reveal their presence
by and through the various form s of mediumistic phenomena devised and utilized
by them.
However, experience has taught the true Spiritualist that, wonderful and valuable
though these phenomena are, they are not an end in themselves, but only the
means to an end.
W hat is this end? Surely not to answ er asinine questions so often put to mediums:
questions regarding love affairs, property, finding of lost or stolen articles, and
many other sim ilar topics. W hy should we ask the Angel World to solve problems
which, if we used our God-given thinking powers, we could solve for ourselves
by prayer and effort. Or have we allowed others to do our thinking for us so
long that wre have become m entally muscle-bound, and can no longer think for
ourselves? We m ust help ourselves if we would be helped by others.
No! the end toward which these mediumistic phenomena are directed goes much
deeper, since they influence life in all its wide ramifications, whether spiritual or
material. Thoroughly studied and lived up to, they m ake better men and women,
better citizens of the world in which thev live. They teach two profound principles
of love: THE FATHERHOOD OF GOD, and the BROTHERHOOD OF MAN
They do this by proving th a t m an is spirit, and just as surely part of that Great
Spirit or Over-Soul of the Universe, which we call God for the w ant of a better
name, as a drop of w ater is p art of the great ocean. They prove that man is
personally responsible for his every thought and deed as well as for the hap­
piness or unhappiness of others.
Let us then live our Spiritualism, not just talk it. Let us make ourselves worthy
ambassadors of God and the Angel World.
• G eneral S e c r e ta r y : S P IR IT U A L I S T N A T IO N A L U N IO N O F CANA D A .
162
SPIRITUALISM AND THE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES
0. \ \ :> . . . REV. JON AUDUNS
onVtAtlng minister of the Cathedral of Reykjavik Iceland. and President of
the Society for Psychical Research, t am itrst hand Interested In the
altitude o! the l'hnstt«*n Churches townies Modern Spiritualism.
w .th deep regret I realtae how far the Christian Churches of today hsve slrsyeit
from primitive Christianity, amt in that fart I see one of the fundamental causes
why they tost hoht of the present-Jay man
V
- to the tact of resurrection amt survival this is exceedingly rtear All the
Churches claim the resurrection of Christ to he the foundation stone of Christianity
hut while the conviction of this central leaching in primitive Christianity «»•>
based upon proved and experienced facts, the modern preacher demand* faith,
and only faith, even from those who cannot believe This unmlstaKable fact, that
the primitive Christians demonstrated proved survival, supplied them with their
splendid power to conquer the nations Certainly It the churches are to regain
that power, once more they must be able to base their teachings upon fads
proved and experienced by men of today.
These facts Modern Spiritualism and Psychical Research offer to the theologians
and preachers of our age. and really It Is astounding how slow the religions
leaders of today are to realise this. It is certainly not to be denied, dial n eon*
saSeraWe amount 0 1 what Is called Modern Spiritualism 1ms been mixed up with
somewhat foolish statements and some dark sides have been exposed. This can, as
a matter of course, never be helped when a worldwide Movement Is concerned,
and the phenomena of Psychical Research and Modern Spiritualism Imve some
times been dealt with by quite incompetent people Rut all the same, the fact of
proved survival has been established by such outstanding authorities in the
science of our age as ill all branches of modern Intellectual life, M
ist certainly
here we have a foundation we can fearlessly trust la. a foundation that should
most heartily be welcomed by all those who earnestly are striving to make the
ev.mgelium of the resurrected, living Christ acceptable to our times I.el us never
forget that times have changed and the average modern man can only he convinced
hv proved facts.
When Spiritualists are fighting for their Cause. It Is often objected that they
make too great use of the outstanding names of the pioneers of Spiritualism ami
Psychical Research This only proves that our objectors feel It difficult to resist
the scientific fame of those great men who have established proved survival
The Church often holds an intolerant attitude towards the sceptically minded
man, and thus she makes herself Incompetent to save those she prlnm (aide Is
called to save. Let us never forget that not only to St. Thomas, hut as well to
all the rest of the disciples. It proved Impossible for them to believe In the ream
rectum of Jesus until they were confronted with the fact of established survival.
This Inestimable service of offering such facts. Modern Spiritualism Is rendering
In the Churches of today.
S|tlrltunll»t IrfMithT um l Pro|>niiumll«t.
WORLD’S end and b r ig h t f u t u r e
II S A. . . . REV. RICHARD ZENOR ‘
|r(l| centuries, 111<
>
|>
11
1
-1m of one kind nr another have predicted the mil of U
m
world N«»w at luM
t there mo imuiy of um who foul sure tin- end of the world i*
ill Iwirul, the end of the world as we hove known It.
T he Migua of Iho end of th e old w orld a re every duy m ure apparent, but while
sclent Im
Im and pu lllIi'Iiiiim nliowor tin w ith u freiw y Of w arn ing s ttint man may
co m p letely end IiIm m a te ria l w orld forevel by b om bing IdmMolf Into oblivion, the
MumIim T e a c h e rs id the Indi'Mtrui'tlhlo N|ilrlluul w orlda tell um that no such un-
n a tu r a l o a la m lty will he allow ed to occur.
liiMleiid, th ey |iriimlMe a glorious "G olden A ge" of m aterial pro#roan and spiritual
iidvauceiuenl S uch In th e brigh t fu tu re w hich th e T each ers paint Hut there la a
d a r k e r aide, a n d th a t iiNpccI In th e reason w hy tho«c who are celebrating the first
um- h u n d re d yen cm of M odern S p iritu a lism m ust be p rep ared for a leading place
In th e w orld of IrmiMltlnn. T h e y m u st lie p rep ared , by th eir understanding of the
co n tin u ity an d divinely o rd ered Im p o rta n c e of individualized life, not only to pro­
t e c t tlieniMcIvcM m a te ria lly and s p iritu a lly from the im p act of the turbulence
a ro u n d them , hut th e y m u st also be read y to help an d Inaplre others whose under­
sta n d in g an d p ercep tio n of the u ltim a te ly b rig h t fu tu re do not enable them to
aiijUMl caNlly to th e great chnngea.
\\’i» are now going through a period which the Teachers call the "black w
ave",
when evil (confusion, nilminderMlandlng, and disruptive clashes) seems to have
the upper band. It 1
ma time of great disasters, inan-nuide and nature-made, earth-
quakes. tires, Moods, famine, pestilence, tidal waves, explosions, wrecks, volcanic
activity, the sinking and rising of land all painfully symbolic of the convulsions
of the changing earth.
When can we expect to see signs of the Dawn? According to those Wise Beings
who observe the cycles of world unfoldment as wo observe the tides of the sea
lb*' time of crlscN Is here, and the time of the dawning Is within this century.
Within two to live years after the turn of the half-century, the climax of the era
ol troubles could be passed. Thereafter, more obvious progress of the w
orld
"coming of age" should be observable, until the time of the Great Dawn around
l»6ft.
Heyond that date, man's material and spiritual advancement, his understanding of
himself and of the universe, his mastery of his society and his environment an
d
his achievement of peaceful prosperity without sacrifice of his right to learn an
d
understand according to his Individual development, should promote a true m
easure
of "Heaven on Earth".
So say the Teachers of l.tght.
Naturally I am proud to be an Instrument for their message of promise and hope.
Since I was four years old, I have been a connecting link between this life and
the after-life world The materialistic approach to the problems of the world has
faded. V
V
c shall sec In the near future how the spiritual approach, the inspired
humanitarian approach, the true religious approach, will make itself universally
evident.
W atch Tor this sign, say the Teachers: The very young shall begin to ask pro-
found questions, amt many of the new generation shall be wise beyond then years
and beyond their elders, both In science and philosophy These young shall .c'k
sharp questions, hut they, too, shall give the answers, for they shall supplant the
Ignorant old ones The tired old ones will follow, and
AliASHA II MFI K Ol WISDOM
SPIRITUALISM “ DOWN UNDER”
A U S T R A L I A . . . CHARLES NEIL*
Australia. fhe (Country 'Mown un<l«*r", has a fiiHrhmllng record of psychic
phenomena Among: the most famous, probably, la that of "Fisher's Ghost". The
iielnal •dory runs thus: About fifty years ago, quite a number of people at Camden.
N.S.W reported having aeon sealed on a fence n ghost whom they recognized an
a person by the name of Fisher who had disappeared sometime before. When
approached, the apparition always led the way to a stream, where It vanished!
This happened so many times that eventually the police investigated. Thus they
found Fisher's body burled within the stream, with the result that Fisher's murderer
was traced and hanged. So It Is that the ghost was actually written Into the police
records of the day.
Australia Is the birthplace of possibly the greatest npport Medium of all time.
Charles Halley. He was born In Richmond, Victoria, on the twenty-first day of
August, 1857, and lived to be- over ninety, passing to spirit on April 19, 1947. It
in said that no Medium was ever subjected to more rigid tests He visited Europe
four times In demonstrations of his work, and In spite of attacks continued hiH
Mcdiumshlp until advanced age. The Stamford Seances, held for eight years In
Melbourne, made Spiritualist History. So did others conducted in Sydney.
There are hundreds of small Spiritualist Churches and Meeting Places in Australia,
the attendance of which vary from ten to fifty. However, an outstanding exception
Is the monthly meeting conducted In the Cinema at Roseville by Mr. H. B. Raines
where an average of about three hundred and fifty gather to hear his remarkable
trance addresses and spirit messages.
The great need of Australian Spiritualism today, as elsewhere, is UNITY. Mediums
who conduct small Churches or Meetings have little or no interest In any other
Group than their own. They fall to realize that "united we stand, divided we fall”.
Again, If we had UNITY, and worked together, we could have the Witchcraft
Act |based on English Law) abolished or constructively amended. In true UNITY,
we could organize the entire Spiritualist Movement of our Country from one
Centre, providing Hymn Books, Literature and the like for Churches needing such
help. Finally, UNITY could provide a central fund with which to finance traveling
expenses for Mediums to tour about the Country and stimulate greate*- public
Interest and growth for Our Cause. In their Indefatigable efforts to create UNITY,
there should be mentioned Mr, H. Osbourne of the Spiritualist Church in Banks-
town. N.S.W . and Mr. Edgar Tozer, for fifteen years president of the Victorian
Council of Spiritualist Churches. But so fur, their efforts have availed very little
in this particular respect.
Since efforts of UNITY have more or less completely fulled, the writer has taken
to other means of working for Spiritualism. Inspired to use PUBLICITY. I have
circulated, during the past twelve years, thousands of books, newspapers, and
magazines on Modern Spiritualism, including the HARBINGER OF LIGHT, pub­
lished in Australia for seventy-eight years. I have given these items to libraries,
Inquirers, and Mediums- Importing many books and such from London. The turn­
o v e r which started at one hundred pounds a year has grown to four hundred and
fifty pounds per annum. Valuable assistance In this work comes from the Marianne
Bailey Worthington Trust which Is managed by the London Spiritualist Alliance
and which sends books at my request. By this direct PUBLICITY work I have
proved that people are eager "to know about Modern Spiritualism, and I am richly
b lessed in helping them to this Glorious Knowledge.
Hi<„ P u b O ltt.fl A U S T R A L IA N S P I K I T U A U S T PRO PA G A N D A .
A MODERN STORY FROM THE AGELESS EAST
CHINA . . . LI CHING (HARRY) WONG'
This is the story of some of my hallucinations of spiritual beings of the death-world.
To the testimony of these things I place the memory of my glorified ancestors.
In services of my venerable grandparent of my father’s blood, the business of
visiting the magnificence of the city called San Francisco resulted in my presence
in the expensive U.S.A. household of his august Brother. For the first time, at
this visiting in the year 1934, it was told me that these pictures and sounding
hallucinations which followed me since my weak and struggling childhood were
in the truth communications of my departed ancestors and companions of the
death-world. At a Spiritualist Shrine of a very high U.S.A. friend, we beheld
these wonderful things: my honorable parent appearing from the floor and the
sound of his voices telling me of the unusual and secret incident of my birth . . .
I being, at birth, with the caul on my face. So also he explained to be my guide-
angel.
In ancient homeland place near Peking, on return, I found only very few given
to understanding the communication with those of the death-world, both male
and female.
At a later time I came to spirit seances in the prayer houses of illustrious and
enlightened friends. The spirits were not so magnificent as in the U.S A. W
ith
difficulty, “slow but sure", as you say it, I read in studious fashion the instruc­
tions and wise tales in the PROGRESSIVE THINKER as was now sent to me
from the U.S.A. uncle for a long time. Some books also and writings of the
AMERICAN SOCIETY (of Psychical Research?-editor). I read.
Much of everything was soon in war and I moved great distances with my humble
working with the great American Soldiers in their superior knowledge and strength
to save China. Just one could help me in my extreme hallucinations, to understand
them. He was Officer Lieutenant Albert Burton, by friendly name "AL". With
him he listened to what I had experienced in spirit hallucinations and so was
not blown to the death-world with many others. The voices from the dead mother
to him saved him not to have injury. In my life I had many of these things.
Since the illness of my body has come to me, I have not so many of these hal
lucinations. I grow older, too.
In the knowledge of Spiritualism, my study has made me to see the greatest
philosophy of ever and always growing life, which I hold in sacred regard. Also,
I remember how good you are in the U.S.A to each other. The good departed
spirits came to the U.S.A. first for one hundred years. You hold the high right
for a great glory in celebration, which please share with Old China which looks
to your most mighty strength of a young nation.
Student Sidrltunlixt
WHAT SPIRITUALISM MEANS TO US
U. S. A . . . . R E V . T H O R O H A R R I S *
The true value of a product is determined by its usefulness. In our Patent Office
at Washington many clever devices lie dormant. They fail to serve any useful
purpose.
Is Spiritualism of any real value? What advantages are possessed by the believer?
(1) Spiritualism PROVES the soul’s survival. With us the life to come is not
a matter of speculation or -of blind, unreasoning faith; it is a CERTAINTY, as
demonstrable as any m athem atical formula.
(2) Spiritualism teaches us the facts concerning conditions in the higher realms.
How do souls subsist in the hereafter? What are their employments? Their modes
of transit? Etc.
Our information along these lines is not guesswork. We have the testimony of
the spirits themselves.
(3) Spiritualism enlarges our knowledge even of matters which pertain to our
present existence. Those who lived here before and have now entered upon a wider
sphere, necessarily know more than we children of earth who have not as yet
migrated. Spirits supply helpful information which those who fail to contact them do
not receive.
True, even in the Beyond, none are infalliable; they may express opinions as do
men in the flesh But these opinions carry great weight.
(4) Spiritualism enlarges our acquaintance. In seances we see. hear, and
converse with the departed, many of whom we have never before known. Such
become abiding friends whom we are anxious to greet on the other side, and who,
we are sure, will not fail to welcome us into our new abodes.
(5) Spiritualism affords the immeasurable consolation of contact with our dear
ones who have passed on ahead of us. This communion affords comfort inestimable.
Have you heard the voice of angels from the higher sphere of life?
Have you caught their kindly whispers far beyond earth's din and strife?
As of yore God’s faithful heard it. “Peace divine to those we love.”
So today our friends are sending greetings from the world above.
Words of wisdom, tim ely warning, to the trusting they impart.
And this fellowship unbroken cheers the sad and fainting heart.
O these tender ministrations as they watch and fondly wait
Till they bear us o'er the river safe within the golden gate!
Come and join this sacred circle: You are welcome as our guest;
Enter now this sweet communion with the spirits of the blest.
John Ruskin has said that the most important things for a man to know, are the
world in which he is placed (geography), and the world to which he is en route.
The only definite knowledge on this latter subject is that which Spiritualism affords.
In this word Spiritualism is included, of course, the Truths which spirits of all ages
have imparted. Corroborating the resurrection and teachings of Jesus. Spiritualism
establishes the pure principles of human brotherhood.
This is what Spiritualism means to us.
• C o a i « » r r : P u b lish e r: SO N G S O F SU M M E K L A N D .
TELEPATHY PROVES SPIRIT ACTION
ENGLAND . . . H. BODDINGTON”
“He shall make thine enemies thy footstool” is emphatically true of the word
telepathy
When scientists could no longer ignore the evidences for Psychic Science, they
seized upon this word telepathy, thinking it suggested a purely physical basis. But
four universities in America and one in England now have endowments for the
purpose of investigating abnormal states of consciousness, as the direct result. The
further result being that trance states, clairvoyance, psychometry, and all mental
phenomena have become legitimate studies.
It speedily became obvious that many “hallucinations” had a provable origin
OUTSIDE the brains of the percipients. The word "hallucinations'' had to be
qualified. They became "veridical” if they possessed this basis. The stupidly con­
tradictory term of “veridical hallucination" is still used by many. An hallucination
is an illusion created by a physical brain but veridical means that it is not anythnig
of the sort.
When Eileen Garrett submitted herself to analysis while entranced, it was found
that each “split personality" claiming to be a disembodied spirit exhibited in­
dividuality and knowledge appropriate to their tribe or nation. Moreover, her pulse,
nerves, and lungs showed reactions entirely different while entranced, but were
always repeated when the same spirit claimed to be controlling. MacDougal's
Abnormal Psychology relates the story of Princess Semandini (a spirit control). She
claimed to have lived 600 years ago. She also gave the name of her prince: stated
the forts he built, named the town they lived in, explained their methods of warfare
and gave satisfactory answers to all ordinary questions. It was at first dismissed as
a specimen of mediumistic romancing. But research eventually unearthed ancient
writings which proved every statement correct. A term was invented to "explain
away" the spiritualistic flavour of the discovery: "rare consciousness"! In fact, it
could be any form of consciousness except that of a spirit memory. These types of
experiment may eventually help us to prove whether a medium is really entranced
by a spirit or not.
Professor Rhine at Duke University is now getting worried. Telepathy is no
longer telepathy: it is clairvoyance. He soon discovered that most good telepathists
are also clairvoyants. He is on the horns of a dilemma. Clairvoyants often see with
their eyes shut. Normal vision needs the action of light upon the retina of the eye.
If it is not “soul sight" with appropriate mechanism, what is it?
Dr. Hettinger obtained his degree at the Cambridge University in England by proving
mathematically that the ultra perceptive faculty cannot be explained by guess­
work or accident. His latest work, The Ultra Perceptive Faculty Explored, details
his experiments. His illustrations sometimes gave 100' ; correct readings of brains
20 miles away. His methods could be copied by' mediums everywhere. He arranged
with a friend to look at a picture casually selected from a pile and note his "impres­
sions". Watches were synchronized. At the selected moment, he handed to a
psychometrist an article collected from the friend. These are his conclusions: The
veridical cognition is not due to ordinary sensory' or intellectual process." . . . "T
o
perceive the exact picture at the exact moment the reader saw them, and despite
the myriad alternative guesses she might have made, and to mention the very
words the thinker would be thinking at that moment, makes all ideas of guesswork
ridiculous."
And so one hundred years after Doctors Buchanan and Denton had rationalized
psychometry. and the Fox Sisters had blazed the trail over which the angels could
come and go. the academies of the world are noting the facts and laying a scientific
foundation for a philosophical religion based upon indisputable psychic phenomena*
* A u th o r: P t y r h i r a l In vrutitf Mtor.
MY SPIRITUALISM— FOR YOU
FINLAND . . . H E L M I K R O H N *
Ever since my childhood, death has been familiar to me My mother passed over
when I was a tiny child, and when my father followed her twelve years later,
his passing: was a great grief to me. He meant everything that was beautiful,
good, and noble in life. His example was a sign which I tried to follow. When
he was taken from me, it was as if the ground had shaken under my feet But
before long I understood that my father could follow, help, and support me from
his side of life. He became so real to me that I often stopped before hLs picture
and talked to him. Nevertheless, Spiritualism at that time was unknown to me But
now I understand that the ground had to be prepared for something that was
to happen.
Although I had to suffer many disappointments. I always hoped that something
unexpected would alter my life. I hoped to experience a great passion; I longed
to succeed in my literary work; and I tried to study religious problems for getting
peace. At last this unexpected something happened. It came as a revelation which
opened a new world before my eyes: it banished my restlessness; it abolished my
vain expectations and hopes and granted me peace and happiness.
By mere chance— although in this world nothing really happens merely by chance- I
attended a Spiritualist Service in London on New Year's Day of 1928. The mes­
sage I got there appeared very familiar to me. but its effect was very powerful
“There is no death . . . Life continues uninterrupted after so-called death . . . Death
is the doorway which leads to a new everlasting life . . . The dead are alive and
communication with them is possible. They love us still, they help us and lead
us to God and our Master, and they meet us when our time is fulfilled.”
Never will 1 forget the deep impression which overwhelmed me on this New
Year’s Day. It signified to me the beginning of a New Year which has never
had an end. but is still going on in spite of the past twenty years. In the course
of time, my firm conviction of the truth of Spiritualism has only gained in clear­
ness. in deepness, and in realness. Everything else now seems so small and futile
in comparison to it.
Sometime before I became a convinced Spiritualist, even before 1 knew anything
about the spiritualistic movement. I had my first psychic vision. I was seriously
ill. One night, lying in a hospital, I awoke in great agony. I opened my eyes anil
saw an apparition in white at the foot of my bed. My mother whom I had lost
long ago, stood there smiling at me. She did not say anything, but a wonderful
peace was streaming from her to me. My agony disappeared and I fell asleep.
Later on I have several tim es attended seances for materialization and 1 have
seen my father and talked with him.
Such experiences brighten the whole of my life and give me strength to endure
even the most difficult trials. They give me strength in the Higher Power which
leads my life into the LIGHT. Spiritualism has given me a task by which I can
serve others. It has given me an inner richness and peace. It has shown me the
wav that leads to God and has made me understand the purpose of our earthlv
life,
These many wonderful things that have been given unto me. can be given to
all people, in every walk of life, in every nation on earth . . . through the Glory of
Spiritualism, the modern revelation of Life Immortal demonstrating true holy
communion between the Two Worlds.
I'r. -ulrtil . S U I I M K N S I*IIt IT U A 1.1S T IN KN S H U R A .
THE STAR IN THE NIGHT
U. S. A. . . . REV. ANTHONY CAMARDO"
At a time such as this, when the world is plunged into chaos, when the evil forces of
Darkness seem to hold sway, when selfishness, greed, malice, and hatred rule in the
hearts of most humans on this plane of expression, it is well that thru the heavy
shadows there is a bright Light shining to which all may turn for hope and guidance.
Spiritualism comes as a Star in the night! Yea, the Inspiration of Spirit comes to
lead us upward and onward to higher and finer expressions of life, here and here­
after. In Spiritualism, untrammeled by dogma or precept, the earnest seeker after
Truth gains that freedom denied by man-made denominations and learns that
Universal Law is based on the expression of Spirit.
It is necessary, therefore, that occasionally we take stock of ourselves lest we
become conceited and over-secure in the knowledge of our spiritual victories. For the
forces of negativity and evil are ever watchful for crevices in the armor of Truth,
and he who becomes satisfied with his progress or who is beginning to feel that
there is little more that life can teach him, has already started to retrogress and
to lose his momentum in the stream of progress. So we should remember the
humbleness of the M aster Jesus and to emulate his qualities of modesty and tolerance.
The bigot is quick to criticize, so satisfied is he with his own imagined superlative­
ness that he easily finds faults in others and hesitates not to advertise them.
To true Spiritualists, slander is one of the most base of attributes, for our Religion
teaches us to regard our fellow beings with love and understanding. We should be
reluctant to ascribe evil intentions or evil thoughts to others and quick to praise
and encourage. But observe how far from true Christian Principles the daily press
goes. Millions of copies of newspapers flood the country every day, feeding upon
the misfortunes of others, criticizing the conduct of men and their affairs, suggesting
unpleasant motives for everyday action, trying to find flaws in their intentions and
accomplishments. Slander in all of its insidious forms is demonstrated in multitudin­
ous ways around us. No worthy action, no great public service, no unobtrusive
private enterprise seems to be beyond range of its barbed arrows of poisonous
destruction.
It is. therefore, the duty of every Spiritualist to do what he or she can to alleviate
these evils. It may not be possible to change, in a short time, the conditions and the
desires of human beings, but each can govern and discipline his own reactions and
endeavor to seek the good in all things with which he comes in contact. Those who
have nobility of soul will condole with the unfortunate individual in his disasters,
and pity him for his folly and his misery. It is usually among those of small
accomplishment and little experience where the greatest egotism is found, for great
wisdom brings humbleness and much experience brings tolerance.
One w riter has said, "To be modest and unaffected with our superiors is duty; with
our equals, courtesy; with our inferiors, nobleness”.
If each individual could be mindful of the privilege of serving Truth and oblivious
to the faults of others, there would be no lack or limitation in the world, no starva­
tion, no distressing labor, no neglected illness, little striving and suffering, for
then would we be living well the fulfillment of the Philosophy of Modern Spiritualism.
P n-riricnt: LIBERAL PSYC HIC SCIENCE ASSOCIATION.
THEY FOUND GOLD
AUSTRAUA . . . E. S. MAYGER
Charles Grnvostnok came In Australia during Ihf Gold Kush In Inr»y I!«
• tun
had come lii search nf tho precious yellow nt**t<»l. hut Ills earlier attempt* at
prospecting pmvwl very disappointing. Then ii strange thing happened One
night lie dreamed ihut in- wnn Hwidnii gold with tlm aid *
*
f n forkwif stick. and
Unit hr Ihun unearthed one nf the richest deposit* III Mnllnrnt. Tin following
morning. almost In desperation, hi- experimented with thin method mill hln dream
wnn fillUllodI Whlln (In' majority <
>
r hln fallow prospectors pill the whale thing
down tn coincidence, n few decided tn texl hln power* mul II wnn discovered that
Gravcslock wnn iml only n I'nychio Diviner, hut also u milnml Medium That
In how Spiritualism ciinii' In Victoria
Tho iii'w
m nf thin now Gold Strike spread throughout Iho Country nml quite n
number ni Home Circle* woro formed.
In IH
70, nl ii private Circle conducted nl tho holin’ of I'nrtor W I. Illuhardsnii,
tin1 Guide* suggested In one of the sitters, Mi V
V II Ttwry. Ihnl he "n
Journul devoted In Zolstlc Science, Free Thought, Spiritualism, mill Tho M
ill'
mental Philosophy". They advised him nn In mclhoiln of financing lliln publication,
mul mi September I. 187(1, the Harbinger of Light wnn hnrn II In ntIII printed ii»
ii monthly digest under the able edltornhlp nf the Itev. .1 T. Hunton, N !>.
Dm month Inter, .still acting on the direction nf the Guidon, Mr. Terry and M
r.
Richardson organized the Victorian Association of Progrennlvo Spiritualists now
known nn tho Victorian Spiritualist Union.
One ol the earlier prealdenta nf thin Association w
iim the silver-tongued orator,
Alfred Menkln. He Inter became Premier nf Victoria, the llrst Commonwealth
Attorney General, and, In 1903-10, Prime Mlnlater of Australia.
W
. II. Terry was also n foundation memher nml onu-tlme preildont of tho Australian
TheoHophlenl Society, and hi* tolerance and breath of vision ntlll nerve na example
to the present-day members of the V. S. U.
One of the major nctlvltlen of the V S. U. today Is a Sunday Paychlr Forum
which has been designed for adult education In the Philosophy of Spiritiinllnm
Here the platform Is open to nny competent speaker on psychic matters. All view
points arc welcomed and open questions along with free discussions are encouraged
nl the conclusion of the regular addresses.
One of the most treasured possessions of our Australian Spiritualists Is the V
S U. collectInn of psychic water-colors produced by the unusual Mcdltimshlp of
Onegina Houghton. This consists of thirty-three paintings executed under trance
control during her most Inspired period, IH
it I 70. Their Intricate design and
inimitable coloring Is a constant source of nmn/.ement and admiration In the many
artists of repute who have visited the t’hurch In examine these unique works
of art.
The V. S. U, Library of over a thousand books on Spiritualism ami kindred
thought contains many rare works which have long been nut of print These
volumes provide Irrefutable documentary evidence ol Man's conquest over death,
arid are a constant reminder nf the many sclent Ideally testeil demnnstral Inns of
spirit return which have been granted to us during the past one hundred years
The Spiritualists of Victoria welcome this opportunity to semi Centennial Greet
Ings, best wishes, and a hearty Invitation to visit us. to fellow Spiritualists through
out the world. We deeply appreciate the honor of being permitIml to oontrlbute
these few words to lids GRAND HOUVIONIR HOOK which taler generations will
recognise as a worthy memorial to an event of universal Importance the Centenary
nl Modern Spiritualism.
I’m. , " lent Vli H U M A N S l ' l l t l T H A I . 1ST U N IO N
171
SPIRITUALISM IN SOUTH AFRICA
U N O F SO. A M I G A . . . L. LLOYD*
l'h.> SSpIrlIikitImI Movement tlrsl begun In nperiile ubniil IHItO and wn» carried ori
by Hu- pioneers until Iho opening nf Iho Houtli African w ar In 181M
I, In 11102, the
win concluded, Hu- W orkers resumed llndr activities. From Ilion unlll tho writer
took un uotlvo part In 101 -I, Spiritualist Churches and N oddles wore conducted
mainly nndor Iho direction nf I'rofesslonal Mediums. II w in loll at that tlmo that
llio Movement nf Spiritualism should ho raliiod In a high apirllual level such an
would com m and tho respect nl all thinking pouplo. whothor thoy ngrced with
mu I‘rlnolploa nr not. Tn thla end U wan agreed tho Limited Company In Johannes­
burg, then the main centre nf the Movement, should bo dissolved and a properly
eonatltiitcd Church fnrmoil. Thla waa dime, and alnoo then all tho work of the
('hiiri h, both prlvato and public, baa boon dnno by Ita own mcmbora without
m aterial rem unoratlnn. Thla la now tho general practice throughout South Africa.
Whilst tho purely psychic side of Spiritualism la most Important from the point
of evidence and the proving nl the continuity of life, It la realized that these
phenomena can never be an end In thomselvea Tho Scientific aide must bo studied
most carefully In order thnt wc may at least know something of the laws govern­
ing communication with the Spirit World and eliminate many of tho errors and
m isstatem ents which at the present tim e clutter up our Movement.
Tin only sure and llrm foundation on which we can build la tho Rellglo-Phllosoph-
teal aide of Spiritualism Which may form the Moral order of our lives. Thus
wo will ho enabled not just to talk about Spiritualism , but to LIVE It and thus
dem onstrate that there la no aspect of life, here or hereafter, In which our Truth
la gained and lived which Is not of Inestimable value.
Reviewing world conditions today, we iind that our two greatest enemies are SEL­
FISH N ESS and FEAR. These destructive forces have and still are playing a
most Im portant and obvious part In the lives of all Individuals and nations. The
Great Wat bound us together from FEAR of destruction to tight a greater force
of SELFISH N ESS. This FEA R is now most obvious In all of our "Peace" and
"Economic” Conferences, and the root cause Is SELFISHNESS on the part of
Individuals and nations, each of which Is trying to ohtuin an economic or ter­
ritorial advantage over the other.
It is natural for us to make investm ents that we might receive a good return
lor same. But why confine our investm ents to purely monetary things? Why not
make investm ents In hum an happiness? This we can do by bringing happiness
Inti the lives of others. We should not ju st carry the "pack" for others, but help
them to help themselves. Give a word of cheer and encouragement and. if neces­
sary. a little m aterial help (secretly given) but above all, give by the example
of your own life!
Spiritualism teaches us that God, in His Infinite Wisdom, has endowed each per­
son with certain powers and potentialities which each should strive to DEVELOP.
Personally, we should ask ourselves dally, "Am I cultivating my spiritual gifts,
the qualities of my soul, to the best of my ability, to the best of the opportunities
which life places before m e?” Muke no excuses for yourself, but let the search­
light of tru th reveal all the shortcom ings that you may have, so that you may
better fulfill your task while there is yet time and not have to pass to the next
Sphere of Lite com plaining of lost opportunities and tilled with remorse for “things
left undone".
!*■• -i,b .n t: .SPIRITUALIST UNION O F SOUTH AFRICA.
UPON THE SCROLL OF THE FUTURE
U S A . . . R E V . B E R T L. W E L C H
The C entennial o f M o d ern S p iritu a lis m o p e n s to p re se n t-d a y th in k e rs a v ista of
progress and fu tu re g r e a tn e s s so v a s t th a t it fills o n e 's m ind w ith aw e an d a
deepening sen se o f tr u e h u m ility . E sp e c ia lly is th is tru e w hen w e realize o u r
past lim itatio n s, a n d th e e x p a n d in g o p p o rtu n itie s w h ich lie b efo re us.
Yesterday o u r le a d e rs w e re s o m e w h a t b ew ild ered b u t n e v e r th e less in trig u e d by
psychic m a n ife sta tio n s, m a n y o f w h ic h w e re e n tire ly p h y sic a l in n a tu re . T h ese first
physical m a n ife s ta tio n s w e re o f g r e a t im p o rta n c e b e c a u se th e y p iqued th e in te re st
of thinking m en a n d w o m en , s c ie n tis ts a n d e d u c a to rs, an d h a v e sin ce p la y e d an
im portant role in b u ild in g th e fo u n d a tio n o f o u r m o d e rn P h ilo so p h y .
Today people a re a le r t to th e d e e p e r a n d m o re s p iritu a l p h a se s o f o u r P hilo so p h y ,
particularly to th e n e e d fo r. a n d u se o f d iv in e h ea lin g . T h is p ra c tic e w a s fo r a
time o v ershadow ed a n d v e ry n e a rly lo s t to o u r C au se, by th e m o re s p e c ta c u la r
phase of p h en o m en a. F o rtu n a te ly , h o w e v e r, h e a lin g is now f a s t beco m in g one of
our m ost im p o rta n t a c tiv itie s . I t s v a lu e is reco g n ized m o re an d m ore, b o th by
the laym an an d th e sc ie n tis t. B e c a u s e o f a p ro g re ssiv e in n e r s p iritu a l g ro w th , w e
are today m ore a w a re o f o u r o b lig a tio n to o ffe r to th e w o rld a Philosophy’ w hich
will assist in so lv in g to d a y ’s p ro b le m s o f liv in g , r a th e r th a n to c o n te n t o u rselv es
with a te a c h in g o r a p ro m is e o f t h a t w h ic h is to com e.
Tomorrow' s ta r ts a new ' day', a n e w c e n tu ry , a new ' e ra — a p erio d in w h ich m u ch
can and m u st be a c c o m p lish e d . A s w’e in d iv id u a lly re a liz e m o re p e rfe c tly o u r re ­
lationship to th e A ll F a th e r . In f in ite In te llig e n c e , w’e becom e m o re a c u te ly aw 'are
of our tru e re la tio n s h ip to o u r fe llo w m a n . m o re tra n sfo rm in g ly ’ conscious o f th a t
state called U n iv e rsa l B ro th e rh o o d .
Spiritual aw’a re n e ss is th e h ig h e s t p h a s e o f d ev e lo p m e n t o f w h ich th e h u m an
mind is capable. S in c e re s tu d e n ts , a s w ell a s p ro g re ssiv e le a d e rs o f S p iritu a lism ,
are b etter fitte d to d e m o n s tra te th is aw’a re n e s s th a n o th e rs, b ecau se o f th e ir a t-
tunem ent to th e d w e lle rs o f th e h ig h e r p la n e s, p a rtic u la rly th o se p la n e s n o t visible
to the physical ey e o r th e c o n sc io u sn e ss o f th e u n in fo rm e d . O u r o p p o rtu n itie s a re
limited only by o u r p e rs o n a l w illin g n e ss to re c o g n iz e a n d g ra s p th em . T he p re se n t
world is sorely in n eed o f a s p ir itu a l aw 'a k e n in g . T h is aw’a k e n in g can com e only
to the h e a rts an d so u ls o f in d iv id u a ls. N o m a s s co n v e rsio n s o r g re a t w o rld w ide
revivals can be e x p ected , b u t a S p iritu a l R e n a is s a n c e can ta k e p lace a s individual
souls becom e a w a re o f th e n eed to v isio n a n d w o rk to w a rd U n iv e rsa l B ro th e r­
hood, In te rn a tio n a l P e a c e , a n d U n se lfish S erv ice.
The teach in g s o f th e M a s te r o f G a lile e o ffe r a p e rm a n e n t fo u n d atio n upon w hich
to build o u r te n e ts, a n d w ith th e h e lp o f th e h e a v e n ly h o sts W
’ho once w’ere of
like m ind as w e, a n d w h o c o n sc io u sly a n d lo v in g ly com e b ack to e a rth to assist,
inspire, and lead , th e new ' c e n tu ry sh o u ld show ’ g r e a te r harm ony’ o f living, an d a
more profound s p iritu a l u n fo ld m e n t.
Let us pledge o u rse lv e s to jo in h a n d , h e a rt, a n d m in d in a u n ite d effort to b rin g
ourselves and o u r fellow ' la b o re rs to th e h ig h e st in s p iritu a l aw aren ess, w ith
the entire elim in atio n o f p e ttin e s s , c h ild ish w h im s, an d sen seless jealo u sies . . .
to the end th a t w'e m a y be p ro u d to h a v e o u r n a m e s em b lazo n ed upon th e Scroll
of the F u tu re , w hen M o d ern S p iritu a lis m sh all a g a in c e le b ra te a n o th e r h undred
years of p ro g ress.
E d ito r: C H IM E S .
■
VALUE OF MODERN SPIRITUALISM
INDIA . . . KHAN BAHADUR ABDUL KARIM
Here. I shall record a few points regarding Modern Spiritualism and its effects
upon me, as an individual.
In regard to the mode of communication: My first introduction was through the
Ouija Board. Then followed auto-w riting and inspirational medlumship. There
was nothing secret, though sitters were protected by spirit guardians on the other
side. All drew their own conclusions on the spot, without existing hostility. Usually
we included the study of religious subjects and great surprises there often were.
I took up and introduced the m atter to friendly groups, wholly new to the
phenomena. It was a success. To us this became the birth of an independent source
of interest, even of knowledge, unhampered by doctrine or so-called authority. The
communications received were always full of revealing experiences: amazing
wisdom and helpful suggestions purported to come from proved relatives of the
sitters or highly regarded personages. We learned that in carelessly conducted
Circles the phenomena are associated with dangerous possibilities, such as pos­
session, false personation, and such. But w hat useful study is there without its risk?
Spirit communication has opened wonderful vistas of knowledge and greatly
helps by inspiration in advancing scientific research.
Secondly, it was by Spiritualism th at my life-long search for first hand informa­
tion concerning those who had quitted life, met with success. Having exchanged
thoughts with my departed dear ones and great Intelligences on the other side
of the veil, I know now that there is such a thing as the survival of personality
and, also, that a happier time than known on earth awaits us on death.
The next point is this: The existence of God and His Angels, although recognized
in happy moments as possible and even necessary, had often remained an un­
realizable fact to me. When the Divine presence was most urgently in demand in
moments of stress, it seemed the least felt. I have now begun to realize that a
momentary thought can draw my great ancestor or late companion to my side
in the fullness of love and understanding. And though still in invisible form (our
earnest prayers to God and His agents certainly do not go in vain!) their presence,
here and now, is to me a reality.
The last and most vital point of spirit communication is this: the direct impulse
it gives to human oneness! W hat, in fact, stands in the way of brotherhood?
The ordinary Muslim, Christian, or Jew believes that men are thrown together
in this world only for a very tem porary purpose, to conduct business and carry
on life's avocations without mishap. This m ust involve a certain degree of for­
bearance, in the political and social sense. He, however, certainly does not think
of lasting equality or perm anent friendship with the followers of other religions
infidels or pagans with whom he can have nothing in common after death, and
whose destiny is eternal fire. Where, then, is the place of Universal Brotherhood?
Spirit communication, first-hand and as I have known it, gives a knockout blow
to the prevailing but mischievous notion of hell reserved for unbelievers, In the
point of followers of certain so-called "true faiths". Actually we find in the life
beyond, erstwhile followers of Islam, Buddhism, Hinduism, and Christianity happily
fraternizing with each other, grouping themselves according to temperament, In­
clination, and level of understanding and not by religion, race, or even color.
We learn that our ignorance and vanity, our emotional and mental narrowness,
our wrong propensities (that they are exposed and unconcealable in the next life)
cause our own hell. When I behold my 'dead' ancestor referring to a Hindu Spirit
as our "beloved S” ; my late wife having a Sikh lady for her constant friend; and
a Christian having a Hindu guide in the world beyond, to me It seems absurd
to segregate ourselves in intolerant communities here in contravention of the fact
of unity and in opposition to the will of the Universal Father.............. "We are all
in One and He is One in all."
171
l"r. lO. t.t: SPIRITUAL HKAI-INIJ CENTRE,
the sc ie n t ific s id e o f s p ir it u a l is m
HOLLAND . . . D R . F E L I X O R T T
As a young en g in eer, tra in e d in n a tu ra l science and b ro u g h t up in orthodox
Christian su rro u n d in g s. I le a rn e d to look upon S p iritu a lism as a su p erstitio n , u n ­
worthy o f a serio u s, in te lle c tu a lly tra in e d h u m an being. B u t if w e a re to fight
a form of su p e rstitio n , w e sh o u ld k n o w its stro n g e st points, an d so I began to
study th e w o rk s w ritte n by A . R. W allace. S ir W illiam C rookes, C. F . V arley.
and later th o se by P ro f. H y slo p an d sev eral o th e r w ell-know n scholars. T he
argum ents in fa v o r o f S p iritu a lis m p ro v ed to be irre fu ta b le . N o question ab o u t
deceit or su p e rstitio n .
Later, I g o t in to u c h w ith a n o th e r tre n d o f c ritic ism o r sou rce of doubt, viz. w ith
the advocates o f a n a n im is tic e x p la n a tio n o f th e p h en o m en a w hich S p iritu a lists
bring forw ard. I h a p p e n e d to co m e a c ro ss T hom son J a y Ju d so n ’s “T he L aw of
Psychic P h e n o m e n a ’’, T h is bo o k is e x c e p tio n a lly clear, an d w as w ritte n w ith a
great know ledge o f fa c ts , a n d w ith p e rsu a sio n . I t g o t such a hold upon m e th a t
I translated th is A m e ric a n w o rk . H u d so n a sc rib e s all so-called o ccu lt phenom ena,
including th o se o f S p iritu a lis m , to th e p ro p e rtie s an d a ctio n o f o u r so-called “sub­
conscious m in d ” , w h ich h e c a lls th e “ su b je c tiv e m in d ” . B u t in sp ite o f his p e r­
suasion and sa g a c ity , h e a p p e a re d to m e not to be able to ex p lain from th e su b ­
jective m ind o f p eo p le still a liv e a ll th e p h e n o m e n a th a t pointed to th e influence
of the su rv iv in g p e rso n a l c o n sc io u sn e ss o f p e rso n s th a t had fo rm erly lived on
this earth plane.
To me the tru th o f th e s u rv iv a l o f o u r self-co n scio u sn ess a fte r ph y sical d e a th h as
been proved a s c e rta in ly a s a n y th e s is in n a tu ra l science, such a s th e electronic
theory, o r M endel’s la w c o n c e rn in g h e re d ity , w h ich no scien tifically tra in e d person
doubts any lo n g er.
But here is a p e c u lia r th in g : h a v in g g ro w n o ld er an d in erad ieab ly convinced of
the tru th o f S p iritu a lism , I a m n o w v iew in g su ch evidence from a d iffe re n t angle.
I still see it a s b e in g o f v e ry g r e a t im p o rta n c e , it is tru e , fo r those w ho se e k and
doubt: but fo r th o se w h o h a v e fo u n d co n v ictio n , it occupies a seco n d ary place.
1 still do feel th e full v a lu e o f a scien tific w ay o f lo o k in g a t S p iritu alism , to g e th e r
with its sp iritu a lly c o n s tru c tiv e te n d e n c y , w h ich a f te r all h a s th e g re a te r value.
For m an can on ly g ro w h a p p y th ro u g h en n o b lem en t, an d w hen striv in g fo r it
he will find th a t th e re lig io u s a n d e th ic a l tr u th s of S p iritu a lism a re m o st helpful.
But a scientific m ode o f v ie w in g h a s th e g re a t u sefu ln ess of g iv in g lig h t on so
many questions a ris in g w ith in u s c o n c e rn in g life h e re a fte r: ab o u t th e conditions in
which th e S p irit m a y th e n find its e lf ; a b o u t th e p o ssib ilities of evolution h e re a fte r:
about th e c a p a c itie s o f th e su rv iv in g s p irit: a b o u t th e re la tio n s betw een those
that have passed , a n d th o se s till on th is e a rth ; ab o u t th e n u m ero u s questions
which occupy o u r th o u g h ts m o re a n d m ore, a s w e o u rselv es d ra w n e a re r to th e
transition. In re g a rd to a ll th e s e q u e stio n s th e re a re m a n y conceptions, m uch
confusion of th o u g h ts, w h ile a n e rro n e o u s e x p la n a tio n o f th e phenom ena o f th e
seance-room an d th e c o m m u n ic a tio n s received, m a y in crease th a t confusion. A nd
now I th in k th a t a calm , sc ie n tific in te rp re ta tio n o f th is e n tire co n fusing m ass of
inform ation m a y g re a tly c o n trib u te to e n h a n c in g th e blessin g w hich S p iritu alism
has b rought to m an k in d .
If kind S p irits on th e O th e r S ide ta k e th e tro u b le to b rin g com fort, enco u rag em en t,
and sp iritu al u p liftm e n t to th o se still on th e e a rth plane, it is a d u ty of g ra titu d e
for us to do all w e ca n to e lu c id a te all th is fo r th e sa k e o f those w ho receive
them. T his seem s to m e to be a g lo rio u s ta s k o f th e scientific p ractice of S p iritu a l­
ism.
E tliiu r-in -rh ie f: S P I R I T I S C H E B L A D E N .
“ IN UNITY THERE IS STRENGTH”
U. S. A. . . . DR. CLARA BAR NETT-SMITH
In the Psychic H ealers’ Association of America we find a grand material ami
m etaphysical dem onstration of the age-old adage “In Unity There Is Strength"
A group of Spiritual and Divine H ealing Practitioners of Detroit. Michigan, realizing
the g reat m utual benefits th a t are to be derived through Unity, set forth on May 30,
1932, to establish an O rganization to raise the standards of their Healing Profession,
Thus our Association w as founded.
Every opportunity was taken to keep our Association and its name constantly
before the people, to show the strength of our num ber and th at of our friends, for in­
deed at th a t tim e opposition from other Professions, the Law, and the Press was very
hostile. E ach year our B anquets and other Social Activities were looked forward to,
and attendance ran into hundreds. So it began th at “the powers that be" started to
respect us, and to seek invitation to our M eetings. We now have good reason to
believe th a t in the not too distant future we shall be the instrum ent in having passed
by Legislation an A ct th a t will g ran t our M embers a Drug-less Physician’s License.
It is true a t this tim e, we cannot prevent a M ember's nam e being turned into the
County P rosecutor’s Office unfavorably. B ut we have found that office to be very
fair, and w illing to co-operate in every w ay w ith us by giving opportunity for fair
investigation. We are proud to say th a t not one of our M embers has been prosecuted.
In 1943 there cam e a call for help. This tim e the need was to assist in providing a
“decent" burial to some of our S piritualist W orkers who had spent their lives in the
service of O ur Cause. A s a result, our association formed a Benevolent Auxiliary for
C haritable and Social purposes which is now conducted as any other Fraternal
O rganization, having its own Initiation Ritual. B urial Ceremony, and the like. This
A uxiliary has functioned for nearly five years, has a Membership of over five
hundred, has paid fifteen death claim s of one hundred dollars each, continues to
grow, and enjoys a large treasu ry balance.
A t this tim e we also have a goodly fund w ith which to either buy or build a Temple
in which various S piritualist G roups m ay be proud to hold their Services and other
functions.
In 1944 our Association felt th a t it w as lim ited as to its possibilities as to growth
In num bers, as only P racticing H ealers could become Members. Thus we established
an H onorary-M em bership Club for Social and Educational purposes, to which all
m ight be adm itted. M eetings of this Club are now held once each month, headed by
Speakers of note, and any subject appertaining to our field m ay be discussed. These
M eetings are well attended and g reat interest is shown.
O ur undertaking has been no easy task, but the aim and attainm ent have been
well w orth the efforts of our m any w orkers and friends W hat our Association has
done, others can do . . . through Purpose. Harm ony. Understanding, and UNITY.
We close, w ishing every success in the upliftm ent of Spiritualism.
P re sid e n t: PSYCHIC H E A L E R S ' ASSOCIATION O F AMERICA.
“ LAND OF THE NILE” NEEDS MEDIUMS
EGYPT . . . DR. A N W A R H A N N A
In the “land o f th e N ile, m id st th e ageless shadow s of the G reat P y ram id s and
the Silent S phinx", w h ere th e rich S p iritu al C u ltu re of y estery ear seem s to
have disappeared w ithin th e sh iftin g san d s . . . M odern S piritualism is know n
to very few. T he fa c t is, u n fo rtu n a te and w rong though it m ay be, m ost of
those who know even a little o f th e subject, confuse it w ith B lack M agic. Ah.
yes, the D ark A rt is still v ery real to th e people of E g y p t! O thers, w h eth er so-
called C hristians o r M oham m edans, hold it co n tra ry to Religion to com m une w ith
the departed of e a rth . A few o th e rs w ho have read about O ur M ovem ent o r attended
a few Seances, a re lim ited in in te re st and u n d erstan d in g to S p irit Phenom ena
ONLY. The real b eau ty an d significance of S p irit T eachings and th e application
of these principles to d aily p ra c tic e a re know n to very, very few indeed. To say
the least, M odern S p iritu a lism in E g y p t is still in its infancy.
There are several serio u s o b stacles th a t p rev en t th e sp read in g of M odern S p iritu al­
ism here in th e land of A n cien t W isdom , now so dead. F irst, the m asses know
neither how to read nor w rite. Second, a s from th e above, m ost are dependent upon
more or less co m m ercial d e m o n stra tio n s w ith th e ir obvious lim itations. And.
of course, w ith illiteracy , th e re is th e su p erstitio n of ignorance— as th a t ra m p a n t
in the B lack A rt re fe rre d to. T h ird , th e re is a necessity of books on th e subject,
written in A rabic. F o u rth , a n d m o st im p o rta n t, th e re is a lack of capable, con­
structive M edium s.
How can our C ause be sp re a d th ro u g h o u t E g y p t? I th in k the an sw er lies m ostly
in correcting th is la s t re fe rre d to condition: o u r lack of capable, co n stru ctiv e
Mediums. W ith this, all o th e r of o u r sh o rtco m in g s w ill be corrected.
With the rig h t ty p es o f M edium s in E g y p t, consolation can be bro u g h t to those
who suffer th e d eath -lo ss o f a d e a r beloved one. E vidence of survival a t such
times brings not only p erso n al com fort, b u t a d eterm in atio n to bring th e N ew
Revelation to o th ers. T h u s real w o rk e rs fo r O ur C ause can be rallied to g eth er
With this, the re a l an d tru e M edium s w ill find fertile soil in w hich th e seeds o f
higher S p irit T each in g s w ill ta k e ro o t and m ultiply. T he logic, practicab ility , and
glory of the g u id an ce o f th e S p irit W orld will then grow , and th e M asters in
the Beyond will, by th e ir S p iritu a l T ouch, be able to soften h e a rts hardened by
religious, racial, an d creed al fa n a tic ism w hich a re so m any here in E gypt. T hus
m an-made b a rrie rs betw een th e B ro th e rs of E a rth m ay be rem oved and our people
be brought into th e sp iritu a l consciousness and tru e realization th a t all a re child­
ren of O ur L oving F a th e r an d th a t one is b e tte r th an o th ers not because of his
creed, race, o r social position, b u t only because he is p u rer in h eart, m ore loving,
more kindly, and m ore v alu ab le to o th ers.
Gifted M edium s a re th e re fo re of p rim e im p o rtan ce, for they sow th e good seeds
of the Religion of S ervice, o f S P IR IT U A L IS M . T herefore. I su g g est and im plore
the organizing of an I N T E R N A T I O N A L S P I R I T U A L I S T M I S S I O N A R Y C E N T E R
from which could be se n t o u r T o rch B earers, b rin g in g th e Illum ination of S p irit
to C ountries w here th e New' L ig h t is m ost needed to shine.
Physician. S u rg e o n . a n d S p iritu a lis t I n v e s t i g a t o r .
MY BEAUTIFUL RELIGION OF SPIRIT
U. S. A. . . . REV. BILLY R. HILL
We celebrate our C entennial w ith thanksgiving' to God and the S pirit World for
all the blessings the earth-plane has received. A fter these one hundred years, we
look back and see g reat progress since th a t m em orable night at Hydesville. I re­
call words like these, "A child shall lead them .” T ruly, a child did lead those
seekers to the T ruth of Life and D eath in 1818. anil today we see youth still
leading those who sincerely seek the W ay of Life.
Yes. we do honor our beloved pioneers who have given of life itself so we of today
m ight see the B etter Life. And. as well, we honor the young men and women
who have taken the B anner of S piritualism and c arry it on. as one after the
other of the Old W orkers pass on to th eir H eavenly Home.
“There is no death! There are no dead!” T hroughout our C hristian Bible this
T ruth is proved by the m any w onderful D em onstrations of S pirit recorded upon
its pages, and today these sam e w onderful D em onstrations are re-visiting our
world.
The world of today is a th inking world. People are no longer w illing to be kept
in spiritual darkness. Ye m inisters of th e C hurch, your flocks cry out, “Where
are the so-called d ead ?” . . . W e know th a t the G reat W ar has opened the eyes
of thousands and thousands to the com forting tru th s of S p irit Life, and that
innum erable hom es are being "visited" by o u r w a r dead. My friends, the Religion of
Spirit is NOT dead! It is the one religion th a t h as the answ ers, the one religion that
goes beyond the grave. R em em ber. C h rist Jesu s w as not received by the masses. Yet.
he arose to prove life everlasting. And are these n o t H is w ords? . . . "Even greater
things shall ye do also.”
W e indeed are gratefu l th a t the doors of our S p iritu alist C hurches and Homes
are not closed to any hum an soul in need of help: rich, poor, sick, distressed alike
find peace w ithin our w alls th a t few o th er places have to offer. Yet. we m ust watch
and be alert, for it is stated th a t “m any false w itnesses are am ong you". And
so it is th a t today m any u*ho are false hide behind th e T ru th of O ur Religion to
perform their misdeeds. B u t tim e ro u ts them o u t and O ur T ru th continues to stand.
We Spiritualist L aborers in the V ineyard of God’s W onderful Plan should indeed
be thankful for religious freedom , and for th e F ederation of S p iritu al Churches
and Associations. I personally feel if th is O rganization had been active these
last one hundred years. O ur M ovem ent w ould be progressed fa r g reater than it
is today. So it is th a t I look fo rw ard to the n e x t one hundred years with our
United F ront and its high prom ise. I know o u r H arv est shall be GREAT!
I close w ith a poem by R alph S. C entem an:
A P R E A C H E R 'S P R A Y E R
I do not ask
That crowds so throng the tem ple
T hat standing be a t a price;
I only ask th a t as I voice the m essage
They m ay see C hrist.
I do not ask
F or church pomp or p ageant
Or music th a t w ealth alone can buy;
I only pray as I voice the m essage
He m ay be nigh.
I do not ask
That men m ay sound my praises
Or head-lines spread my nam e abroad;
1 only pray th at as I voice the m essage
H earts m ay find God.
Sinritu»lihl Minii,lf r ; A P rim e W o rk e r fo r F E D E K A T IO N
178
“ ARISE, COME FORTH”
U S A . . . . R E V . E R N E S T G L E A S O N
I tak e m y pen in hand to w rite a few lines to the Glory of the G reat Cause we
call S piritualism . I am not only a firm believer, but a fte r delving into the works
of our fo refath ers and read in g of the w onderful m anifestations and dem onstrations
given to them by th e S p irit, I stan d a s a staunch advocator of this G reat Truth.
As the A ngel o f th e L ord rolled aw ay the stone from the tom b of Jesus and bid
him arise and com e fo rth , ju s t so a fte r m any centuries of lying dorm ant, being
placed th ere by th e law s of m an, the A ngel of the Lord again rolled aw ay the
stone of ignorance and said. “S p irit of T ru th E ternal, arise, come forth." So the
sm ouldering em bers of S P IR IT U A L IS M b u rst forth in flam e of m ajestic m ag­
nitude, rek in d lin g th e L ig h t o f L ife everlasting, the L ight of Revelation ever en­
during.
The noble p ro g ress th a t has been m ade by the m ighty m ovem ent called MODERN
SPIR IT U A L ISM h as m ade fo r itself a new e ra in the history of m ankind. It has
brought glorious and ab id in g L ig h t into th e lives of all men and women who have
become in terested in th e p rogression and advancem ent of its Teachings. Above all
else, it has tak en aw ay th e “stin g of d eath " as it has proved the continuity of
life and the pow er of sp irit re tu rn . T hus it has solved the one question th at has
been in the m ind of m an since th e days of Job, “If a m an die, shall he live a g ain ?”
Standing to d ay a s a body rep resen tin g th is w onderful T ru th and realizing the
progress th a t it h as m ade in th e la st one hundred years, our Movement calls
attention to th e bidding of th e M aster: “Go ye therefore into the world and preach
the Gospel unto all people." So let o u r w orkers arise to the g reat call w ith a
much g ra n d e r and s tro n g e r d eterm in atio n for th e success of SPIRITU A LISM in
the com ing y ears. L et it be th a t w e of today shall be a source of courage and
inspiration to those w ho shall a rise on th e m orrow . Thus m ay MODERN SPIR ITU A L­
ISM be the leading religion of th e w orld. Can there be a g reater mission in
the land th an sav in g souls, and sp read in g L ight in the pathw ay of hum anity?
Let us realize th a t w e w ere created for a purpose, to fulfill a mission in the name
of T ruth. So be it th a t w e shall begin the second century of the Religion of
SPIR IT U A L ISM w ith zealous u n d ertak in g and exercise of stronger effort in
our T eachings and D em o n stratio n s, so th a t through us men and women in all
w alks of life m any enjoy th e P riceless Jew el th a t we call MODERN SPIR ITU A L­
ISM.
In closing, m ay th e A ngel W orld bless each and every one of you and m ay the Sun­
light of T ru th D ivine be th e G uiding L ight on your P athw ays of Life.
F E D E R A T IO N W o r k e r .
THE STAR WE ONCE HAVE SEEN
U. S. A. . . . LYDIA EMERY*
Spiritualism, long a belief that human identity is retained after the change called
death and communication with the living through the agency of a medium, has
at last become a recognized fact. The science of mind, the proof of survival,
has reached its glorious 100th Anniversary.
A survival of ancient cultures, Spiritualism w as for years believed to be closely
related to ideas of ghosts, demonology, and necromancy. Earlier regarded as a
supernatural condition, the names of William Stainton Moses, Mrs. Leonore Piper,
Andrew Jackson Davis, Daniel Douglas Home and countless others became fam­
iliar to newspaper and m agazine readers during the first World War when death
was prevalent and the demand for Spirit contact became greater. The phenomena
presented by the renowned “M argery” in the early 1920's was followed by the
famous Houdini Controversy which began in 1927 and has continued for over
two decades, in which the Rev. A rthur Ford played the leading role.
The Society for Psychical Research, founded in 1882 in London, an organized
investigation of all the various phenomena, aided greatly in disproving the theory
of psychic research as developing supernorm al faculties in human personality;
supernorm al was defined as lying outside the scope of recognized scientific laws.
Such phenomena include the trance, telepathy, clairvoyance, apparitions, automatic
writing, levitation, ectoplasm, poltergeist activities, etc.
Hypnotism was once removed by the Society for Psychical Research from the field
of debatable phenomena to the field of science. The American Society, founded
in 1884. also did much work of value, especially in connection with telepathy.
A dherents of Spiritualism no longer face words or action designed to bring the
subject into contempt. An enlarged psychology, physiology, and even physics ac­
count for the various m anifestations form erly believed as belonging to the occult
Three g reat authors. Jam es H ervey Hyslop, American psychologist and psychical
investigator, a pioneer member of the American Society, whose works include.
SCIENCE AND A FUTURE LIFE, ENIGMAS OF PS'YCHICAL RESEARCH,
and SURVIVAL; A. E. Tanner, STUDIES IN SPIRITISM : and R. O. Mason.
MODERN SPIRITUALISM ; contributed to the growth of the movement begun
by the im m ortal Fox Sisters. M argaret, Leah, and Katherine (Katie), in 1848.
Too much cannot be said in praise of the sisters whose manifestations of Spirit
knockings startled the world a century ago. Those pioneers opened wide the
door of their cottage and of tru th to mankind. A careful perusal of the Fox-Tavlor
Record, consisting of 1,211 pages of sustained and continuous seances, speaks
beyond words of the purity of the mediumship of Katie Fox, whose teachings
were shunned by the universe at large, yet lived to be accepted by such persons
as England's Sir A rthur Conan Doyle and Sir Oliver Lodge. American screen
stars M ary Pickford, Jean Harlow, and Mae West, playwright Margaret Mayo,
and numerous others.
The suspicions surrounding psychic science are being undermined by truth. There
is in doubt and suspicion th at senseless fear of God. The general nature of man
is to observe only when things strike, and not when they miss; to commit to
memory the one, to forget the other. Caesar gave no testimony against Claudius,
nor did he affirm any injury done to his bed. He only said that he had divorced
Pompeia because the wife of Caesar ought not only to be clear of such a crime,
but the very suspicion of it.
Those of Spiritualism alone know the LEGEND OF PROVENCE. It is "the living
word of God". It is the star in the E ast whose trail we have seen emblazoned once and
may follow in countless lives. The knowledge of many lives after death which is
ours today will someday belong to every earthly inhabitant, whether in this or
some future reincarnation throughout the centuries.
"No star is ever lost we once have seen,
We may yet be what we might have been."
'A u t h o r ; Artn-nn; Oiu of Splrltuollam'ii "you rut people".
180
ALL SHOULD BE SPIRITUALISTS
SWEDEN . . . REV. M A R T IN LILJEBLAD
AU people should be S p iritu alists because such is the desire of God. It is through
Mediumship th a t bridges are built betw een E arth and the Heaven World. In all tim es
and to all peoples. God has revealed H im self through Mediums. All religious prophets
were M ediums possessed of clairvoyant and clairaudient powers.
For our good, we should all be S piritualists, because by this road we learn of the
living God, the F a th e r of Jesus, the C hrist. The greatest evidence of God's existence
is th at our friends from the O ther Side tell us th a t they know for sure of God's ab­
solute reality.
In Spiritualism we find know ledge of life a fte r death, for thousands of spirits return
and are recognized by th e ir friends and relatives. Thus all doubt of a continued life
beyond the grave is rem oved. W e do not need to believe; we know.
For S piritualists, the Bible is a living book and to them the so-called m iracles
recorded therein a re not difficult to com prehend. They see in the Bible the m ighty
revelations of God and, as well, its hum an side giving expression to the thoughts
of m any people.
Spiritualists hold Jesu s to be the m ost illustrious spirit ever to come to E arth. They
believe th a t th e M aster realized th a t before He w as on E arth He had been in His
F ather's glorious hom e to w hich He w as to return upon physical death. W ith this
explanation, they have the key of understanding of Jesus’ birth and resurrection.
Death for m ost people is looked on in fear. B ut for Spiritualists, it is but a n atu ral
process, p a rt of God’s g re a t plan of love tow ard m ankind. They can face death with
quiet subm ission, as a pleasure, for they realize they are to live forever.
Since through th eir studies and experiences, S piritualists possess a knowledge of
the N ext W orld, they w ill feel a t hom e upon th eir arrival there. They know that it
is more p leasant th ere th a n on E a rth , th a t they will then live in harm ony with God
with them selves, and w ith o th er spiritu al individuals.
Orthodox C h ristian s a re hazy ab o u t the H eaven W orld, for they lack real under­
standing and are given no evidence of the N ext Life. Heaven is as real as the other
planets, but it m ust be held in m ind th a t it is of a different substance. It cannot be
tound by astronom ers' telescopes. But. perhaps, som etim e instrum ents will be con­
structed so th a t the S p irit W orld can be "seen”.
Many individuals feel th a t life on E a rth is w ithout m eaning: but not so with
Spiritualists, who have an u n d erstanding of the universal plan. They perceive that
God has given tru e significance to every person, here and hereafter, and that
spiritual education is the real purpose of life on E arth. In the Next World individuals
never question the ju stice of life’s events; they knowr there is a reason for every­
thing. We of E a rth should aim for such an attitu d e too; then life would be easier.
At least four people I know of have been saved from suicide by our Spiritualist
books. Indeed, how very m any doubts has Spiritualism removed from the minds of
people! It has been m y pleasure, through the Teachings of Spiritualism , to help
many both in m y Scandinavian countries and in America.
For these and oth er reasons I honestly believe th at all people should be Spiritualists.
As such, their lives on E a rth wdll be clearer and brighter, death will be happiness,
and they will look forw ard to the New Life where they will find the true enjoym ent
of joining again the com pany of friends and loved ones.
Even now I enjoy the pleasure of m y w ife’s company, despite her transition in
f'ebruary of last year. I have talked w ith her four times through trum pet mani-
estations and have received m any other m essages from her. It is a goodness th a t
is open to all people.
Komminlatri-: H AUSINUBOUC S P 1 R IT U A U S T CROUP
181
OUR HEARTS BURN WITHIN US
U. S A. . . . REV. LIONEL P. EVERMAN*
1 am rem inded upon this very special occasion of the Centennial of Modern Spirit­
ualism of the m eaningful words of the disciples: “ Did not our hearts burn within
u s ? ” And I am im pressed with the fact th at continuously since the Memorable
R appings of 1818. the vitalizing Pow er of Spirit has indeed burned deep within the
hearts of the true and tireless w orkers in our Movement.
One has to look only very lightly below the surface to detect the fact that the road
to M ediumship is not a pathw ay of rose petals. The thorns are many, and ever
present. From a m aterial angle, very few of our Leaders and Mediums are wealthy
w ith this w orld's goods; fewer yet have derived their income from this source.
Sacrifices m ade have been innum erable. The sneers and ridicule of the world have
been their lot. P restige and social position have been put aside, all for the
privilege of becoming a p art of this G reat Crusade for Truth.
There are those of our W orkers who have been called upon to defend Our Cause
before the “courts of the land”. Still, under all attendant difficulties and conditions,
they rem ained steadfast and true, even as one word of denial would have relieved
them of all their heavy burden.
The leaders and founders of our g reat FED ERA TIO N , inspired by Spirit, stood long
alone, "a voice calling in the wilderness" against the complacency and smugness
of those who would m ake of our G reat Movement yet another stagnated and life­
less O rganization.
One could continue indefinitely to enum erate countless acts of heroism and sacrifice
w hich have characterized so m any brave Spiritualists throughout the past century.
In the face of these facts, can anyone doubt the divinity and power of our calling?
O r can there be any question but w hat we have indeed "gathered together, with one
accord, until we be endowed w ith pow er from on high” even as we stand in the
m idst of a v ast ecclesiastical system which has lost the very keynote of its power,
w herein the "gifts of the spirit" have become as deadwood?
W e S piritualists have been called “of the spirit" to re-echo the Clarion Call for
Service. Can anyone in this disturbed and distracted m aterial world of ours fail
to hear the Call ? And m ost of all, to those who have come into the knowledge of our
G reat T ru th and are “resting on their oars”--can they not. at this time, respond to
the M acedonian Call to Service? Shall not their hearts also "burn within them” as
they visualize the V ineyards of the Lord and the spiritual grain to be harvested?
Truly, H eavenly H osts and Legions of A ngels are inspiring our Workers today, and
the "heavenly fire" th a t has been kindled deep within the hearts of all true Spirit­
ualists shall not be darkened until the tru th of continued life and communication be-
ween the two worlds has m ade the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man
R EA L IT IE S upon earth.
* S p iritu alist M inister: Lincoln. N eb rask a.
SPIRITUALISM IN NEW ZEALAND
NEW ZEALAND . . . ALICE M. RICHARDS
A review of Spiritualism in New Zealand reveal* thut the movement ha* never
been spectacular in progress or dem onstration, but a knowledge of the truth of
survival seems to have perm eated the public consciousness to quite an ii"t»nl*hii>c
degree. H alf a century ago. interest became very Intense as the result of visit*
of many outstanding m edium s from overseas
About 1907. at the suggestion of the late Mr. W. McLean of Wellington, existing
Spiritualist Churches w ere form ed into the National Association of Spiritualist*.
In the year 1924, through the earnest endeavour of the executive members of
the Association, and the sym pathetic endeavour of several members of Parliam ent,
a Bill was passed establishing the S piritualist Church of New Zealand.
In Auckland, W ellington, C hristchurch, Dunedin, and N apier there are branches
of the S.C.N.Z. T here are still a sm all num ber of Spiritualist Churches which do
not come under the C onstitution of the registered Church, preferring to work
along independently.
In 1939 the W ellington Psychic Research Society and a sisti-i society in Christ
church, in the South Island, w ere form ed. Mrs. Sinclair Burns was the founder
and first president of both.
Auckland had for several y ears the Quest Club and Psychic Institute, founded
and fostered by Mr. and M rs. S. Oldfield with g reat zeal and loyalty.
The Bycroft Psychic L ibrary in C hristchurch, founded by Mr G Lovcll-Smith
has about l.r>00 volum es and has done untold educational work all over the ‘ountry
for many years.
It is impossible to gauge the num ber of home circles, but it is very considerable
and to-day it is becom ing quite rare to find a person of m ature years who ia
not acquainted w ith the subject.
We had one extrem ely o u tstan d in g direct voice medium of recent years, Mis.*
Pearl Judd of Dunedin, in whose presence, w ith the assistance of sound vibration-
such as from a piano, psychic voices w ere heard with force, clarity, and identifica­
tion. The medium rem ained perfectly norm al and working in sunlight or bright
artificial light. Mr. L ancelot B rice of C hristchurch has for the past twenty years
demonstrated etheric voices at his weekly trum pet seances.
There are other voice m edium s who w ork privately. Trance mediumship is fairly
common and m uch on a p a r w ith th a t in other countries.
Quite a num ber of psychic a rtists in draw ing and modelling dem onstrate super­
normal capacity, the w ork of M rs. B erta Sinclair Burns having been hung by
the New Zealand A cadem y of Fine A rts on three occasions. Mrs. Burns works
in any medium, fine pencil, charcoal, or oils, at great speed and with very de­
finitely supernorm al draughtsm anship. In her m any years of the practice <>r this
gift no eraser has ever been used and not a single w rong line has ever been made
Another gifted a rtist is M rs. K athleen Phllpott of Auckland. Outstanding also
Is the psychic sculpture of Mrs. Buick of C hristchurch. The late Donald McLean
of Christchurch w as a psychic carver.
For many years the late Mr N ation edited his Message of Life. A fter his death.
Mrs. Sinclair B urns published A quarius. U nfortunately the Global War finishd
this fine effort and today N ew Zealand still has no regularly published psychic
journal.
Mention m ust also be m ade of the native Maori race, surely the finest of the
dark-skinned races, of its g re a t oratory, statesm anship, and soldiery. Maori* are
great lovers of N ature, w ith a w ealth of tribal mythology of their own and also
with a great store of psychic knowledge and practice, the story of which would
make a saga of occult knowledge.
Hot, O n Secret a r y : SPIR IT U A LIST C H U R C H O F NEW ZEALAND
183
MAKING LIVING A THING OF BEAUTY FOREVER
V S A . . . . WARREN CHANDLER
Like the lovely crimson of holy windows, Spiritualism adds a sublimely beautiful
touch to life. Spiritualism teaches the continuity of all existence. Whatever you do
today will nfTect your life not only tomorrow but a thousand years from tomorrow
Beautiful ways lead to beautiful days!
At: you begin to allow this sublime truth to shine through everything you think or
sav or do, your daily existence will acquire new depths of enduring beauty, while
everything about you will reveal that smooth and glowing elegance which is the
indelible stam p of all progressive people.
Along our upward way most of us are searching. None of us is sufficient unto him­
self Great souls in all ages have acknowledged the mystic power of spiritual help.
Throughout the centuries deep thinking wise men have spoken often of our Guardian
Angels. Across the sea in that distant land of temple bells and fragrant incense an
inspired nobleman-of-spirit once said: "G reat Heaven is intelligent, clear seeing, and
is with you in all your goings and comings. Accept it. Bless it. Make it your loving
companion."
When dear ones have gone on before and only sacred memories remain, when the
road of life is very lonely and the future Is shrouded in darkness, silent, invisible
help is with you always. You are never alone in your struggles, however difficult
they may be. Never allow yourself to feel that you are. Nothing brings failure more
quickly.
To keep more closely in touch with those Higher Forces in the Invisible Realms of
Spirit, we all need a sacred hour in which to commune with them. It was Senacour
who said, "Let us keep up our silent sanctuaries: in them the eternal perspectives
are preserved."
In your sacred hour at home surround yourself with stately candles and rare incense,
beautiful music and soft lights, lovely flowers of rich colors, whatever will help
you most in reaching that deeper consciousness of the eternal things in life.
Go often to your favorite church for spiritual comfort. Your Guardian Angels will
be there. If more of us realized the invisible help we receive when we pray in the
silence of God’s House, countless more millions would be numbered among the
devout. . . . In the inspiring stillness of His-Hallowed-Home we always reach
new depths of spiritual power. Beneath those vaulted shadows in that fragrant
prayer-blest-air we gain new strength and new courage. . . . Before the angel-
guarded altar we always find a more helpful viewpoint of our troubles. Silent
meditation and the sun-stained glory of holy windows gives us a bird's eye view
of life's most baffling problems.
Turn often to your Bible. That most distinguished gentleman, Dr. Watts, once said:
"W hatsoever your circum stances may be in the world, still value your Bible as your
best treasures; and whatsoever be your employment here, still look upon your religion
»• your best business. Your Bible contains eternal life in it, and all the riches of
the upper world; and religion is the only way to become a possessor of them.”
Aided by your faith and your prayers your Bible can become the foundation on
which you build all things you desire. From the sublime wisdom of its pages, you will
gain true and lasting help.
At Buckingham Palace, Victoria once gave a handsome Bible to an African prince
with these words, "This is the foundation of England’s greatness.” Throughout the
centuries the noble truths you find in your Bible have been giving light and hope to
seeking souls by the million.
Shakespeare in speaking of the Bible said:
"Not marble, nor the gilded monuments
Of Princes, shall outlast this powerful rhyme."
181
(
1
i
I
i
i
I
t
<
i
i
t
!
(
r
-
f
i
g
i
C
•I
y
s
S
e
C
h
ti
S
L
t i
re
O
y*
Si
R
dc
hi
L«
G1
v
"Th». linilfiMtitit'lliitf Krlstid"
THE EVOLUTION OF SPIRITUALISM
CANADA . . . REV. WILLIAM PARTRIDGE
Spiritualism did not evolve from C hristianity. Our Movement is the result of man's
ageless search for som ething g reater than himself.
Man. in some form , has been evolving on this earth plane for the past million years:
first the Ape m an. then the Heidelberg, the Dawn man, and the Neanderthal pre­
vious to Homo Sapiens. The earliest direct ancestor of present man is placed at
about 150.000 years B. C. R em ains of this age, upon investigation, prove to us that
this half-man had true religious experiences, and crude though they may have been,
there was a vague belief in “life beyond the grave". Thus Spiritualism, in its broad­
est aspect, should be regarded as the oldest of all religions.
As man’s physical form evolved, so also did his mental attributes, until some 5,000
years ago Spirit Com m union w as accepted by a still very illiterate humankind.
Before this, the stru ctu res and elem ents of nature were commonly venerated: the
hills, rocks, lightning, thunder, sun. moon, stars, and even animals were considered
sacred. There w ere spirits behind the elements: there were gods that ruled them.
Spiritualism, as a science, becam e a necessity. The knocks at Hydesville demon­
strated, crudely perhaps, the presence of unseen discarnate intelligence. Previous to
that time, the E pw orth K nockings a t the home of the Wesleys were recorded.
Andrew Jackson Davis, in the trance state, described spirit life of the next world
Swedenborg, the forerunner of M odern Spiritualism, in his writings, revolutionized
preconceived ideas of heaven and hell. Going back further into the dark ages. Joan
of Arc heard Spirit Voices and through their guidance led France to victory. She
was burnt as a w itch, in common w ith innumerable other Mediums in various ages,
for acknowledging S pirit Com m unication. Jesus of Nazareth demonstrated his
Mediumship (John 4:29) by picking up the jug of the woman at the well and through
psychometry caused her to cry: "Come, see a Man which told me all things that ever
I did." And so. too, w ith His m any other miracles.
Since the tim e th a t paganism became the predominant factor in Christianity, or
perhaps orthodoxy is a better term , (let us beware of Orthodoxy in the guise of
Christianity!) it has repudiated the Mediumship of Jesus and the Apostles and their
demonstrations of Spiritual Gifts. This power and knowledge which, until recent
years had to be practiced secretly, has been passed on to us. We Spiritualists are
still fighting for full religious rights.
Scientific thought is a contributing factor to our phenomena. Para-psychology is
ever increasing as a study in our institutions of higher learning. Religious Science,
Occult Teachings, and New Thought present truths in their own way. They are
helping people to grasp the Science of Life which may be said to find its full realiza­
tion in the glories which cannot be truthfully expressed by any other name than
Spiritualism.
Let us keep Spiritualism pure and undefiled. To make faster progress let us refuse
to accept unproven theories. In the Bible of Spiritualism let us not assimilate other
religions that have been tried and found wanting.
Other sects and m ovem ents have been born out of Spiritualism in the past hundred
years, but Spiritualism has not suffered. We are still PROGRESSING.
Spiritualism has the m aster key which we must never repudiate: Spiritual Gifts!
Rightly used by sincere students and workers of our religion, they will lock the
door on ignorance and open the doorway to a more enlightened era of the world’s
history.
Let us keep our religion EVOLUTIONARY, not static, and in time Spiritualism will
GROW to be the religion of the world
p r .- HrM : SP RlN Cil>AL E S P I R I T U A L I S T CA M P
185
D i'N MARK . . . J O H A N F O R I.A N D
At tins One Hundredth Anniversary of Modern Spiritualism. dedicated to the pio­
neers id our Movement throughout the world, we extend our hands m fraternal
greetings from the Spiritualist Mission of Denmark to all thinking Spiritualists
everywhere.
The purpose of our Spiritualist Mission Is to propagate our Glorious Teaching* for
as many people as possible. We organized In Juno 1. 1911, under the marvelous
Leadership ol Alfred Nielsen and through Ills guidance we have beeume u grenl.
constructive intluenee throughout all Denmark. Today, in Ids seventy-fourth year,
this great gentleman Is still our Director. We are following his same successful plan
today that we used when we started, to wit:
ill Presenting Mediums well versed In the religious, philosophic, and scientific
aspects of Spiritualism.
121 Demanding that our Spiritual Lenders be sufficiently educated so that people
have confidence in them.
(31 Insisting that our Spiritualist Workers have a complete understanding of the
Bible.
i ll Requiring that our Spiritualist Teachers have dear views of what they are
intended to teach others.
|5) Building respect and tolerance toward the religion of others.
16 > Sponsoring service in close contact with the poor and sick.
Wo have many Workers at our meetings, which open and close with prayer and
song. In our Church we have services for marriage, baptism, confirmation, and
funeral rites.
Our Spiritualist Mission conducts weekly meetings. On the first Wednesday of each
month we have trance work for our own members only. The third Wednesday is also
given to trance work, but is open to members of all Spiritualist Churches. It Is
insisted that no one attend our trance presentation who is not fully familiar with
the fundamentals of Spiritualism. Such meetings therefore are a real pleasure, as
there exists an enthusiasm born of the common understanding and appreciation of
what is presented. The second and fourth Wednesdays are open to the public, pre­
senting explanatory lectures on Spiritualism. These are followed by clairvoyant
demonstrations.
Saturday evenings are given to Healing Services for the sick. Here the Leaders of
the congregation give magnetic treatm ents and in many, many cases miraculous
cures are effected.
For old and weak people who are shut-ins, we have a large circulating library ol
Spiritualist literature. Thus they can obtain an understanding of our work.
Our Daniel Church at Copenhagen is centrally located. It Is owned by the Church
Fund and operated by free-will collections. The building next door Is also owned by
the Fund. While the outside of the Church is not pretentious, the inside has a very
beautiful hall decorated in light blue and rose and which scats two hundred and
fifty people. We have an organ and pulpit upon the rostrum. There Is also an altar
placed before a very big and beautiful picture of the Master’s Ascension, surrounded
by angels and symbols.
Alfred Nielsen has represented Spiritualism In Denmark for fifty years, li is dif­
ficult to believe that this one man has accomplished so much. He has travelled over
the entire country, organizing new Churches for Spiritualism, As a marvelous
orutor and author he is known by every Spiritualist In Denmark. In HHti he was
one of the founders of a new organization, the Copenhagen Spiritualist Alliance
which unites all local Churches. We have our own Journal, the purpose of which is to
unite all Spiritualist Groups in the entire Country, over forty In all. The ideal is
eventually to unite all of our Organizations throughout the Scandinavian Countries
Finland, and Iceland.
Brother Nielsen’s medium is his own wife, a grand individual of outstanding abil­
ities. When he speaks, she works with him on the platform and demonstrates many
phases of medlumshtp. especially clairaudlencv. Also, through her organs of speech
are manifested such words and articulations as to enable (hose in the hall to recog­
nise the spirits talking through her.
May God Bless S p irit uultsm and its Churches all over the world, especially la (In
United Slates of America at the Centennial Celebration, and may you. In true
brotherhood, build a bridge Joining all nations together.
S*. SI-1R I T U A L I S T MISSION O F l>KNM AUK
IM
ti
HOW OUR CENTRE WAS STARTED
>A\OV \ . . . L1BORIO LOA1ZA BKRNAL
I ooiitrilmlc rather sketchily jumii’ I'nyohic event* rrom my ruuntry
My awakening to the ttawn i >i Spiritualism cnnye through AHwn Kitrde. unit k
hy the light ot his lump, I took my hint effectivo .stop toward the heights The start
.•i my life on the White Hoad to the t.igiit wits begun liy th r fervor unit Impulse to
understand 11\«* tm o purpum' of life m nil of Its mnnlfestiiUotts. 1 found love I.cl us
always seek the sublimating spread of brotherhood trying to till Iho abyss within
those who abandon the spirit for ihe empty habits of the llesh. praying tlial they
return from thro vagrant ways to thr paths of gonditc.s. of UihI
Brothel Headers, memorable phenomena occurred In th r vory pilin' where our "Head
to thr t.lght" Center win foumlnl nmt still rem ains Perm it mo to rrtnto briefly
thru' thing*.
In September ot It'll it large group of proplr canto out of curiontty amt to consider
strange tilings reported in a house on 38tli Stivrt, Highway 17, In their expectant
mood they siin-rrilril In hearing nolao* amt blow* an if matte hy stones that felt
violently, making the house trem ble so that they !enroll the walls would full Kvery
one rushed out of the building. One of the large number of spectators is nil act of
daring then approached as far as the patio, defying the fear of the others, railing
jokingly into the home Suddenly she fell and, unconselims was earned home hy
firr a s s o c i a t e s The doctor diagnosed symptoms ot nervous disorder When the
patient, recovered her eonselOVianess, she erted to those at her bedside to take away
shadow that was coming toward tier. At the same lime the parties ptcsrid saw
h e r body rise hon/outnlly three m eters toward the ceding and return slowly to hei
tied.
Kor three months many strange m anifestations continued disturbing Miss Nmiedii
\rias T r u j i l l o the person so afflicted. During this time, she wits visited hy K.>s|
c r u c ia n s , who said that they held powers over beings of Spare and of Knrth hut
thrlr efforts were useless, After Ibis a priest came, declaring that these things weir
ue to wind Wit- p.'piilnilY called the Devil. Itowevel with Ibis and eveiythtng else
tried, the patient remained the same latter, a woman named Krnnrlacti arrived and
pronounced a lew words In the attitude of prayer She continued her efforts and at
the end of live days the state of mind In the puttent was dcltnttcly reslored and eon-
tinned so to this date.
Interested ill what had happened In the Anns faintly I was hy the young lady
mother minutely Informed concerning the ntory After reporting the elreumstanees
of the ease to my Spiritualist acquaintances, we decided to Investigate the ease of
the conditions manifested We ascertained at the very tlrst seance that the patient
had heelt o b s e s s e d by the spirit of Salamon Alias father of the young lady and
husband ot Mrs Vtrgtltn Trujillo de Arias He had ceased to exist on this plane
eighteen years before
tty virtue of all this we decided to found OUI' Spiritualist Center This we did on a
Sunday in .Inly IlH'-’ o u r llrst memhets were Mrs Vlrgllla Trujillo de Aria ., het
daughters Ksiieda and Marina Alias. Julio Tovar, and the wrltei
Anot liei event happened to Mrs Vlrgllla de Vilas some days after the founding of
mu Center To her great surprise the vision of a tail, rohusl man with cinnamon
colored sliln. anil with a gentle gone, appeared to her and said "Do not he ufrnlil I
was a loenl ehleltilln I I I a place Inr away My name Is l''allon Dual and you can call
upon m e for I am ready I n serve for the welfare of aulTerlng humanity'
U rotheis Since th is very m ag n lftee n l re v elatio n , th r o u g h th is g ie n l ip lril. " to
i d .i V lrglllu possos-.i". Ii'.tonlshlug niedtllllltalh p o w e rs III h a v e I I I out pc-
session u g r e a t iium hei o f tlo e u m e n ls w h ic h h e a r t e d t m o n v to th e s e tilings
n i . i i i o n i l . . i t i n i i . n i i i o i d ' i u i n s r v i i i . y N i o i \ m i n o \ i t i t '
1*7
ALPINE SPIRITUALISM
S W I T Z E R L A N D . . . DR. KARL E. MULLER*
Switzerland has only four million Inhabitants and. divided into four different official
languages, is no fertile ground for Spiritualism.
The German speaking part, some 74^ . has no Spiritualist Organization of any im­
portance. There are private Circles and individual efforts, hut no churches no out­
standing mediums except some psychic artists who use their talents for entertain­
ment only. One such artist demonstrates hypnotism on a high level, sometimes
combined with "television" as an experiment, which means the subject is supposed
to travel to a distant place and tell what he has seen. Another artist demonstrates
"telepathy" in an outstanding way. which in fact is clairvoyance. Occasionally we
have visiting mediums from abroad. In this respect I should like to mention the
effort of The Greater World Association in London for spreading the truth of Chris­
tian Spiritualism through mediums and periodicals in various languages.
The most renowned Spiritualist of Zurich, the largest city, was Georg Sulzer (1844-
1929) who was a judge in the highest court. He studied with all mediums he could
find and became very experienced. He sat with Anna Rothe. a medium for material­
ization of flowers, and being convinced, he travelled to Berlin in 1903. Here she was
accused of fraud and he testified in her favor as a witness The jury declared her
guilty, not because the fraud has been proved, but because two "scientific experts"
declared practically, that such things just could not happen. Sulzer relates the trial
in detail in his book about his experiences with mediums. His opponents in Zurich
attacked him on his belief and he retired to devote all his time to Spiritualism,
though he probably would have been reelected. He wrote several books and I well
remember his telling about the many letters he had received from all quarters of
German speaking Europe, reporting spirit incidences that happened during World
W ar I and after.
Another well known w riter was Dr. Maximilian Perty (1804-1884). a German of
H ungarian descent, professor of zoology from 1834 to 1875 at the University of
Berne, the Swiss capital. His book: “Die mystischen Erscheinungen" (Mystical
Phenomenae. 1861) is a compilation of cases and was widely read also in Germany
and Austria. He had little experience of his own. He knew Baron Guldenstubbe who
brought Modern Spiritualism to France. In his later book. "Die sichtbare und die
unsichtbare W elt" (The Visible and the Invisible World, 1881) he also gave a short
history of Modern Spiritualism and its literature.
The French speaking part of Switzerland, though comprising but 21% of the popu­
lation, has two Societies for Psychic Research, one in Geneva, the other in Lausanne.
The form er was founded in 1894 on the basis of an existing society of spiritists, but
its membership came down to 125 during the last war. For some 15 years it has been
ably directed by Dr. Raoul Montandon. author of various books, among them, "La
Mort, Cette Inconnue" (Death, the Unknown, 1945). With a library of 1500 volumes
and a small capital as the nucleus, the members are offered lectures, courses, ex­
perimental evenings and home circles; they also have reunions for meditation and
prayer meetings for the sick. The Society at Lausanne has some 200 members and
a library of 2500 volumes; it is conducted on sim ilar lines by Dr. Edouard Bertholet,
M.D., who writes about the medical aspects of Spiritualism. His latest book is en­
titled: "Le Christ et la Guerison des Maladies” (Christ and the Healing of Diseases,
1945). Both gentlemen and their many coworkers are to be commended on their
untiring efforts.
Modern Spiritualism has fought a valiant battle against the high tide of material­
ism. Though science has had to revise its m aterialistic foundation, victory will
require more fighting, specially so in Europe.
Sp ir i tu u lU t luvHKtiKator
THE JOY OF SPIRITUALISM
V S A . . . . ALBERT E. VAUGHN STRODE
It Ik one of the g reatest joys in this expression of life to know, of a certainty,
that life is EVERLA STIN G , and th a t in Spiritualism one has the definite, and
positive proof loved oneB live beyond th a t which m an calls death. Nothing in
m ortal life can equal the know ledge th a t one m ay continue to learn, to study,
and to advance, even a fte r one has passed beyond the m ortal expression of life
W hat a wonderful thrill it is to enter the seance room, or the silence, and there
come directly en rap p o rt w ith those whom one had loved in the days th at have
passed, and there to converse w ith them , and to receive proof positive th at they
live, th at they are progressing, and th a t they are happy in their new expression
of the life celestial.
One of the g reatest m essages which S piritualists have to carry to the world in
this post-w ar period is th a t all m ay know of life everlasting, and th at in Spiritual­
ism and in M edium ship a new door opens to all who will look for the light of
understanding through the open door of inspiration. All m ay live today, looking
tow ard tom orrow , and know th a t each tom orrow will bring a g reater happiness,
and th a t each soul m ay bring a m ore beautiful understanding of life beyond to
those who m ay be seeking this knowledge.
Today is the M edium 's day of opportunity, and tom orrow , and tom orrow even greater
opportunities will com e for all M edium s to spread the glorious m essage th a t life
IS everlasting.
* M edium, L ectu rer. T e a c h e r
Your Spiritual Organization
Is Invited To
JOIN . . . .
THE SPIRITUALIST FEDERATION
Information:
Federation of Spiritual Churches and Associations
611 Travis Building — San Antonio, Texas
189
OUR HONORARY REPRESENTATIVES
■ . . the World Over
In their unselfish love and labor for Our Cause, from “the four cor­
ners of the earth”, they have served toward the success of the WORLD
Centennial Celebration of Modern Spiritualism—BUILDING Good
W ill for our entire Movement-at-Large.
Balint Aladar
Rev Ida B. Alkire
Rev. Maude Allen
Kaikobad Ardeshir
Georgia Armstrong
May Armstrong
Rev Pearl B. Ashbrook
Rev Mollie Bauer
Rev Anna M. Bearden
Liborio Loaiza Bernal
Rev. Emma Binz
Edward Bothman
Rose Breitield
Rev. Grace W Brown
Lloyd L. Brown
Rev Vemie Brown
Daisy Gibson Buettner
Rev Pearl Bums
Lilian Cahan
Rev. Bertie Lilly Candler
Dr. I J. CarToll
Rev Nelle G. Carter
H Hector Centron
Anna Charleau
Rev. Frances E. Cooper
Rev. Lawrence Crookall
Rev. Evalyn Cummins
Rev. Clarence B. Cunningham
Rev Hazel B. Damra
Charles Albert Elazar
Rev Loe F Elmore
Rev Beulah Englund
Evan Shea
Rev Leota Little Eagle
Dr Ernest C Evans
Dt Kate Fairchild
Mrs. Uklis Ferenc
lose S Fernandez
Rev. B. J. Fitzgerald
Elizabeth Ford
Rev B C Fowler
Rev Emil H. Funk
Salvador Gatto
Glennie Gay. D D.
Martha Gee-Kelly
George 1 Gerling
Russell A. Gerling
Palmer F. Gibson
Rev. C. E. Goodale
Rev Helen G. Gould
Helen Grahme
Rev. Henrietta Gurskell
Aschmer Gyorgy
Dr. Anwar Hanna
Rev. Katherine Hazelwood
Alberto Hernandez
Rev. Alma P Hill
Rev. Mable Holcroft
Rev. Mervin Hollinger
Rev Hattie May Hughes
Rev. Fred Ide
Mark Istvan
Rev. William H. Jackson
Mrs W alter Kellerby
Rev. Albert Kemsley
Rev. George J. Kerpenstein
Rev Emma E. Kingham
Nyamikeh Kojoe
Helmi Krohn
Rev. Joseph La Barr
Rev. Ruth La Barr
Ricardo Lavicka
Rev. Martin Liljeblad
Rev. Rose Lo Castro
Rev Maud Maddox
Rev. Bertha Mann
Katy Marsh
Rev. Leota Maxwell
Rev. Earle K Mayes
Dr. H. Robert Moore
Violet Moran
Evangie Lee Morgan
Allred Nielsen
Rev Pearl O'Kelley
Silas Ezze Onoh
Rev J. Onsu-Stephens
Rev. Jeannette Osborne
Rev William C Partridge
Gertrude Pastor
Rev. Edna L. Patterson
Gertrude Piesker
Rev. Myrtle Pierce
Rev. Irene H. Pike
Rev. Alma B. Poczatko
Luis Di Cristoloro Postiglioni
Tiburcio Ramirez
Prof. Menotti Risegari
Madam V. R. Rishi
Arnerico Rodrigues
Rev. Johanna Ruhnau
Rev. Mayme Ruhnke
Rev. Jas Sabin
Lionel M. Samuel
Mrs. Mate Sandor
Isidore Duarte Santos
Rev. Johannah Schmidt
Rev. Ella Shaltuck
Rev. Charles L. Sharp
Rev. Anna Doemer Simms
Thomas Sparks
Rev. Ethel Stage
Rev Marietta Stanley
Rev. Leonard E. Sterner
M Nicholas Strati
Rev. Marie Strazzantoelli
Rev. Rubis R. Swisher
Anna Teeter
Rev. N. S. Themelis
Rev Hazel Thirkield
Rev. Helen A Thury
Rev Bessie A, Trostman
Rev Frances Maude Tucker
Rev. Maude Vantassell
Shibban Lai Varma
Oduvaldo Vianna
Baron Otto von Strahl
P. Westra
Dr Albert Wheeler
Dr. Florence S. Wheeler
Dr. Flora G Williams
Dr G Nelson Williams
Rev. Lena Williams
Rev Clara Winnie
Rev lanet Stine Wolford
Rev Mary R Wood
190
To the Memory of the Fox Sisters
Leah, M argaretta, and Kate
who established recognized communication v/ith
those of the Next Life, and to their mother
and other members of their family who sustained
them throughout their long careers devoted
to the
Great Cause
of
Modern Spiritualism
1 - — - ■■—
Lovingly dedicated by
Mariam Buckned Pond
191
In Living Memory
of our
"INVISIBLE DEFENDERS"
Loved Ones and Co-Operators
"over there''
. . . . the Gerlings
In Constant Memory
of
MRS. ADA MORTON
Arisen Member of the Board of Trustees
of
THE TEXAS SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN SYNOD
In Memoriam
Milburn and Harold Burns
Our sons come in hours of joy and happiness,
Also when the w orld holds its clouds so low;
Singing praises of joy when life is mastered,
A nd teach us the w a y to go.
Rev. Pearl Burns, Pastor
Coldwater Spiritualist Church
Coldwater, Michigan
In Loving Memory of
My Mother
MRS. ISABELLA THOMPSON
Of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Great Britain
Passed to the Higher Life
23, November, 1925
MIZPAH
From her Son, Ernest Thompson,
Editor: "Two Worlds"
In Affectionate Memory Of
My Dear Husband
JAMES WILLIAM CAREY, JR.
(1894-1945)
who served his Country with
Courage and Honor
In World War I & 11
with Love . . . .
Mrs. Leta Frey Carey
San Antonio, Texas
CENTENNIAL GREETINGS TO THE WORLD FROM THE
MEMBER CHURCHES OF THE TEXAS SPIRITUAL
CHRISTIAN SYNOD.
GOLDEN RULE SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH
1006 Magnolia Avenue, Beaumont, Texas, riev Pearl M Davis. Pastor
SOUTH PARK SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH
795*/2 Main Street (W O. W. Hall) Beaumont, Texas. Mm. Katy Marsh. Leader
OPEN DOOR SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CENTER
4430 Montana Street, El Paso. Texas, Mrs Bula F Hailey. Leader
FIRST SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH
Hotel Texas (Alamo Room) Fort Worth, Texas, Mrs Elnora Nellis, Leader
BETHLEHEM SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH
1004 South St, Marys Street, San Antonio. Texas, Rev L C Yates. Pastor
FIRST SPIRITUAL CHRISTIAN CHURCH
503 Trenton Avenue, San Antonio. Texas, Rev and Mrs. V R. Cummins, Co-Pa3tor:
UNIVERSAL PSYCHIC SCIENCE
THE TORCH OF TRUTH
— Official Symbol—
UPS TORCH RITUAL
In Holy Dedication of Our Service, the Symbol of Our
Religion—the Torch of Truth, wherein burns the Living
Flame of Fraternal Service—is revealed unto all Mankind
lnquirits Invited
Rev Helene Gerling, Sec
67 E dinburgh Street, Rochester 8, New York—U S A
193
10th A n n iv e r s a r y
of
S p i r i t u a l i s m ’s
P icto rial
J o u r n a l
(he (P sychic O b server.
1938
1948
Dale News was incorporated Septem ber, 1937, at Lily Dale, N. Y., by Juliette
Ewing Pressing (U pper Left) and Ralph G. Pressing (U pper Right). The first issue
of Psychic Observer was published by Dale News, Inc., August 25th, 1938. A "TRADE
MARK” certificate. No. *119605 was issued a t the United States Patent Office, W ash­
ington, D. C., Feb ru ary 26th, 1946.
Descriptions by num ber of pictures above:
1. The Psychic Observer Ford Delivery a t entrance of Lily Dale Assembly grounds.
This is said to be the only truck in the world used exclusively to deliver Spiritualist
newspapers and propaganda.
2. Juliette Ewing Pressing, secretary and treasu rer of Dale News, Inc., and editor
of Psychic Observer, a t her desk.
3. Phychic Observer being printed at The Pri-Ad Corporation, R. G. Pressing
(right) reading final proof.
4. H eadquarters of Psychic Observer and home of the editors, No. 5 Melrose
Park, Lily Dale, C hautauqua County, New York State.
5. Psychic Observer Book S hop— specializing exclusively in literature pertaining
to Spiritualism , Psychic Science, Occultism and allied subjects. The Editors checknig
over incoming orders.
6. H ead q u arters ol Pri-Ad Corporation, 4th and Clinton Sts., Jamestown. 1
Staff of corporation assembled a t entrance. Psychic Observer Delivery truck (right).
7. Editorial Offices of Psychic Observer at Lily Dale and editors at work.
194
The lastest grow ing Spiritualist Paper in the W orld
B ERT W E L C H
BREA
CALIFORNIA
E d ito rs an d P u b lish ers R U T H W E LC H
Pictures . . . Personalities
Church Activities
Inspirational and Instructive
Articles by Modern Thinkers
S E N D FOR YOUR F R E E S A M P L E
Let CHIMES F ill Your Book Needs
N E W OR USED
T housands of Psychic - Metaphysical and Occult Titles
195
