{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__white___with_folded_wings.pdf","mytitle":"With Folded Wings","mylang":"de"}
WITH
FOLDED WINGS
BY
STEWART EDWARD WHITE
Walk through your days as a crea-
ture with folded wings, conscious
of the possession of another ele-
ment and your ability to enter it,
INVISIBLE
E. P. DUTTON & CO., INC.
PUBLISHERS 1947 NEWYORK
COPYRIGHT, ip47
BY E. P. BUTTON 6- CO., INC.
All rights reserved
PRINTED IN THE USA.
FIRST EDITION
No part of this book may be reproduced
in any form without permission in writing
from the publisher, except by a remewer
who wishes to quote brief passages in con-
nection with a review written for inclusion in
magazine or newspaper or radio broadcast.
'-'Caterpillar on the eiid of a tivig; and he^s eaten all the leaves^
arid got to the e?id of the tivig; arid he's crying^ because all the
food in the world is eaten up, and the race of caterpillars is
going to die! Besides, he's pushing out into the air in every
direction, and he says he's found out everything; no place else
to go. It's only a little twig, too. And he thinks that if he dies
there aren't going to be any more caterpillars! . . . Wait a
minute, the caterpillar is saying something: that he doesn't
know what's going to happen to the work of the Creator.
Creator isn't going to have anything more to do; He's finished;
because he (the caterpillar) was the Crowning Work^ and
when he's gone, . . .
''Never saw a caterpillar cry before—it's funny. Well, it's a
ti'agedy. All the work of the Creator is coming to an end in
the highest possible thing—and he's going to die! He says
there'll be nobody to pass on his enormous experience to! He's
goijig to make a Tnurmny case, a^id crawl into it—no matter
how the Creator feels about it. He'll do it to spite Him. He
doesn't know he's going to be a butterfly. He's crying because
he's sorry for himself; he really believes he's sorry for God-
all His wonderful creative work going to end! That's a sad
picture!'"*
"Well," said the Invisible, ''that's the way most of your sad
pictures look from this side."
"There he goes, into his imnnrny case. He's shutting the door
and saying: 'That's that! I'll bet God'll be sorry that He fixed
it so there's nowhere else for me to go—and nothing more for
me to find outP . . . Bing! There's the door shut. And a little
squeaky voice coining out says: ^A-a-ll over!'
''Damfoolf He doesn't know how funny he is."
''No damfool ever knows how jumiy he is," observed the
Invisible.
^'Crying because he doesn't know he's going to be a
butterfly"
''No, he wouldn't want to be a butterfly," concluded the
Invisible, ^''because he's never been one!"
PUBLISHER'S NOTE
The completed manuscript of With Folded Wings
came to the Pubhsher from the late Stewart Edward White
only a few days before his death.
As a general thing, Mr. White made a few corrections
and emendations in the text of the work while it was going
through the press and it is reasonable to suppose that he
might have done so in the present instance, but the sud-
denly fatal termination of his illness rendered this im-
possible.
The text of With Folded Wings here presented is,
therefore, with the exception of the correction of type-
errors, exactly that of the copy received from Mr. White,
without either editing or revision.
INTRODUCTION
The material for this book is drawn from some 2,500 single-
typed pages of verbatim records. The latter are made up of
communications from discarnate entities we called the In-
visibles, mainly through the mediumship of one of us known
as Betty. The latter had become a station for this sort of
transmission only by dint of a rigorous twenty years of train-
ing. This training, according to the Invisibles, was intended
not so much for development in mediumship as a means toward
expansion of consciousness. The resulting psychic powers were
an accompaniment, a by-product. In themselves they were not
the aim. The real aim, it now seems to me, was—and is—
demonstration in attainment of what Bucke named Cosmic
Consciousness. But with this important advancement. The
examples Bucke cites* experienced Cosmic Consciousness as
an illumination, sudden and brief. He adds that it is probable
that this state, touched only momentarily and by illumination,
is the state of consciousness toward which evolution 'is de-
veloping.
The aim of Betty's training, and the experience she en-
countered in the course of it, might seem to imply that she
was demonstrating a step in that evolution. She was exemplify-
ing, in her own person, what is to be the process by which the
human soul will gain permanently Cosmic Consciousness. She
herself entered it again and again, but only in her trance state.
She reported back, and her reports have the same quality and
* Cosmic Consciousness, by Richard M. Bucke (New York: E. P. Button
& Co., Inc.).
ix
X INTRODUCTION
contact that Bucke describes as the "illuminated moment" in
the examples he cites. Furthermore, at the very last of her life
here she won to that insight, that condition of soul, in her
waking state. This laboratory demonstration of our soul's
future has a profound significance.
But incidental to this, we set down the aforementioned
records and communications, which dealt with Betty's training
—expositions on technique, helpful comment on how to live,
enunciation of principles. From them, over several years, we
have compiled, generally under the further direction of the
Invisibles, several books.* Subsequent to Betty's death, in 1939,
she reversed the process, and through the mediumship of a
friend whom we named Joan, she produced that amazing
"divulgence," The Unobstructed Universe. In addition, two
other books whose contents were not so directly quoted from
the records nevertheless fitted in as part of the whole effort.f
That would seem to cover the field. But a rereading of those
2,500 pages convinced me that the present volume was also
part of the pattern. The remaining material was too richly
significant to ignore. Furthermore, it covered aspects of this
expansion of consciousness business not dealt with in the other
books.
Nonetheless in a very few instances the logical sequence
demanded a brief repeat of a paragraph or so that had already
been used. This is due warning that such is the case. So if
some reader recognizes a passage here and there, he will under-
stand that it is an intentional inclusion. This being once and
for all understood, I have felt justified in omitting footnote
references that would merely clutter up the page.
• The Betty Book, Across the Unknown, The Road I Know (New York:
E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc.)
\ Anchors to Windward, The Stars Are Still There (New York: E. P.
Dutton & Co., Inc.).
INTRODUCTION XI
There remains but one further explanation. Most of this is
form or through Betty, and is so labelled. A few others, which
are ascribed simply to "the Station," came through two people
who developed their mediumship with Betty and did nearly
all of their work in either her presence or mine. We have
been given to understand that the communications are an
essential part of the complete picture.
CONTENTS
rNTRODUcnoN ix
I. THE AIM 3
n. EDUCATION TO
m. FUNCTIONING 32
IV. THE POSITIVE INGREDIENT 46
V. NEGATIVES 53
VI. CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 63
VII. CONTACT 80
VIII. MEASURE FOR MEASURE 9
IX. MEDITATION I GO
X. PRAYER 1 1
XI. HARMONY 122
XII. THE POINT OF REFERENCE I30
XIII. MANIFESTATION 1 36
XIV. OUR PART IN CREATION 1 45
XV. INTENTION 1 56
XVT. HEALING 1
67
XVII. THE AREA OF ACCOMPLISHMENT 1 8
XVIII. THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT 1 88
XIX. LAW
XX. DE SENECTUTE
199
209
XXI. THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 2 1
INDEX
xiii
233
WITH FOLDED WINGS
I don't want to preach at anybody; I just want to share some-
thing beautiful. The true teacher brings his own iris of
beauty to you without proselyting, without thrusting things
at you. He makes you remind yourself of the deep blue sky
and the fluttering gold of autumn, or the thrill of fern
fronds and the sweet stirring earth of spring. A man like
that who stimulates living is his own sermon.
BETTY
I. THE AIM
Since we are not ourselves ultimates, we cannot
know ultimate Purpose. The present purpose seems to be
evolution by means of functioning. The objective of evolu-
tion is twofold. On the one hand it is the development of
the independent individual. On the other it is the coordina-
tion of the individuals so developed into a functioning
Unity.
This dual objective is the Aim with which we must be
concerned. It is the rod by which we must measure our
ambitions, activities and deeds. Are they in furtherance of
this Universal Aim? Provincial divergences of ethics must
yield to this simple criterion. So the development of our-
selves as individuals in evolution becomes our first obhga-
tion.
When this doctrine of self-development was first offered
us by the Invisibles we shied away. In common with most
of our generation we had been brought up on an ethic of
"doing for others," of "unselfishness," of "service." We
had not lived up to that ideal. As children we had often
endured the finger of scorn and the epithet "Selfish!" And
as grown-ups we had more than once had an uncomfortable
3
WITH FOLDED WINGS
feeling we were not "doing our duty" by others. The idea
that maybe we had been at least partly right all along
looked too much like wishful thinking.
But the Invisibles persisted. A Httle here, a little there,
they infiltrated their subject. Finally they treated it to a
full-length discourse.
''You must," said they, "learn to understand what neces-
sary over-emphasis has obscured. This is that the word
*selfish' has also an obverse, a meaning of usefulness, even a
meaning of necessity. Like all ingredients of life, it has its
necessary proportion.
"Your first duty in development, not only for your own
sake but for the sake of the greater whole, is the establish-
ment of a homogeneous, close-knit, invulnerable core of
yourself as an individual. Until you have so established a
center or nucleus, no matter how small, in which your con-
viction is absolute that it is the germ center of yourself as a
separate eternal entity in cosmos, any venturing outside
your boundaries is unwarranted and will inevitably prove
more or less disastrous. Even the natural instinctive eager-
ness of outfling must be withheld until that sure core of
integration is assured.
"This primary central establishment is the first indis-
pensable step in the creation of the eternal self. Whether it
takes a decade, a half-century, a whole lifetime, or the re-
peated incarnations of a number of phases, no forivard
move^nent can safely, effectively or constructively be at-
tempted until this is accomplished. Outside engagements
can succeed only after this fact. Thenceforward this central
self becomes a citadel for withdrawal from mistaken or
premature outgoings. Such outgoings, before the complete
and homogeneous occupation of this center, leave a tenuos-
ity behind your back permeable by usurping forces which
THE AIM 5
a firmer establishment would have automatically excluded.
Therefore, stop at this point of development until the as-
surance is gained, no matter what implication even to your-
self such a course may seem to have of selfishness, self-
centeredness, lack of outside response and responsibility, or
any of the other reproachful concepts of which this use is
the constructive obverse.
"Here is a truth so profound and yet so simply stated that
I would have it in a separate paragraph:
^'Outgiving is never constructively effective unless it is cm
overflow,
'*You may out-give by pumping up, generally with the
suction of what is expected, or the proper thing, or the duty,
or the obligation to the world or humanity, general or
specific. But pumping up always means depletion; deple-
tion means vacuum; and vacuum is a vortex of attraction
for the destructive. Overflow, on the other hand, is a super-
abundance that leaves no lack behind it, but still the filled
reservoir of accomplishment. When you rush forth to give,
driven by your natural instincts of sympathy, of desire to
reconstruct, of sensitivity to conditions, pause to consider
whether you are leaving your territory unoccupied, open
to an invasion that ultimately is going to make you inef-
fective. Your responsibility as a component part of the
greater whole is primarily yourself, and only secondarily
that which you accomplish outside yourself. That the
secondary may be important is acknowledged, but h is im-
possible that it should be aught but ephemeral if the primary
is not a soHd reality. In this sense it is your business to be sel-
fish, in the shining aspect of that word. And the great para-
dox is that the shining use of selfishness enables you to be
effectively, and without disintegration, what the world calls
'unselfish.'
"
WITH FOLDED WINGS
As a rule the Invisibles waited for us to practice what they
preached before they gave explanations. The idea seemed to
be that only in this way could we accomplish anything
permanent. Otherwise it would not be ourselves who ac-
compUshed. It would be merely the acceptance of someone
else's accomplishment. And that is never permanent.
It was just this way in the present case. But eventually
they gave us more insight into how this self-development
thing worked.
"The individual man," said they, "is a member of not
one narrow group only, such as the family. He is also a
member of a succession of ever more inclusive groups, until
he is to be considered eventually a member of that which
comprises the sum total of earthly incarnations. Each of
these groups has its own type of problems, good and evil, to
be worked out. And all of these problems have the same
characteristic of being beyond the scope and power of in-
dividual solution. They have also the characteristic in com-
mon that they are the individual problem and responsibility.
"From this it follows that if an individual works out his
own development, he automatically also works out, as far
as the individual can, the group problem. And conse-
quently, if the group problem is by so much carried out,
there is so much less of it to weigh upon the other members
of the group. In that thought you may glimpse the in-
terrelations of effort, and the value to others of whatever
real progress you make for yourself. You may also, perhaps,
glimpse the reverse, and perceive how imposing additional
limitations on yourself through inertia and indifference does
likewise to others. This is for the automatic relationships.
"There enters also a semi-automatic relationship, as one
THE AIM 7
might say. If the individual works out within himself his
own portion of the group impetus, he will in the process, by
a universal law, have produced something which manifests
that bit of development in the external world. It may be a
concrete thing, or a bit of practical knowledge, or merely
an externalized spiritual attitude. But whatever its form, it
is there existent in an appropriatable shape for those who
can reach out for it and utilize it. And whenever such an
appropriation is made by another, not only does the utiliza-
tion aid further in the solving of that group problem, but
also in repercussion it renders stable the advancement of the
one first attaining."
"Then," commented one of us, "it really is legitimate to
pursue personal ambitions!
"Surely!" was the reply. "One should build one's self the
best possible. The trouble often is that that becomes both
sufficient and inviolable. One forgets that the building of
one's self is but for the purpose of contributing one's self
contributing one's self completely. That may sound out of
reach, impractical, even undesirable. And maybe it is—for
the present. Nevertheless it is an eventuality to be faced, for
the things we hold back are what keep us from participation
in the greater Whole."
4
So indispensable to the longer view of evolution is this im-
perative of self-development that to it we may ascribe the
urgency of one of mankind's deepest instincts. Like other
basic instincts, at this stage of human development it is more
often perverted than not. But the handicap of present per-
version is a lesser price to pay for the later perfected func-
tion. I refer here to the acquisitional sense.
This instinct expresses itself in a thousand forms. It is a
8 WITH FOLDED WINGS
fruitful cause of injustice, greed, wars, all the less pretty
manifestations. Yet we could not exist, much less advance
in evolution, without it. It has also its higher manifestations,
and they are worth waiting for and paying for. In order
that our level of abundance may rise to the point of
overflow.
"Like everything else," said the Invisibles, "the acquisi-
tional sense can be transposed from the gathering together
of things—often a necessary and valuable pursuit—to in-
tangible and more valuable purposes. Also we can acquire
by drawing entirely to ourselves and keeping what we gain,
or we can acquire what is necessary for a forthgomg plan.
This second form of acquisitiveness is manifested in count-
less ways, from the hungers of the body, which are hungers
of purpose beyond the mere possession of the immediate
object, to the farthest reaches of man's serving of his
destiny. Viewed thus from a height, this impulse we inade-
quately call the acquisitive sense is but the ambition of an
artist seeking finer and still finer materials for his creative
purposes. Break the health of this function and you destroy
man's reason for being."
Betty was introduced to this higher acquisitiveness in
one of her symbolic experiences with the Invisibles.
"It is hard to tell you of this," she said, "because I know
so little about it, but it rests on firm sane laws. It is hidden
under the surface glint of materially desirable things. Those
who never possess these sometimes find the secret of posses-
sion of all life; and those who have satiated themselves come
painfully to starvation on golden platters: and some in
between acquire the balance which directs them to the
secret of possession.
"I cannot grow in a moment to where I can describe this
vivid contrast in the methods of ownership: ownership
THE AIM 9
after the manner of man, and ownership by way of the
law. I can only just sense it by looking at my associates
here. Because today I am in the company of those who
have completely abandoned self for the heritage of par-
ticipating in the whole. They are absolutely dispossessed of
things. They've grown into enormous, almost unlimited
power by the strength of their aims. I don't understand it. I
only know their power is a kind of selfless power which
makes their position unrelated to any of the products we
call possessions.
(long pause)
"I was experimentally broadcasting myself to participa-
tion in the great elements of life, and I said: Why do I not
come to dissolution of my individuality this way? And then
I dimly sensed the use of that other gathering-in, collecting
instinct in its unpen^ erted state. I sensed its ability to con-
centrate power collected to be utilized for the intelligent
purposes of cooperation. But I'm too feeble and stupid to
tell you much that is useful. . . .
"Here are two great forces. I must leave them there."
I WANT just to swing on a gate and look at things go by and
think how nice the world is and how something exciting
might happen.
BETTT
II. EDUCATION
Self-development, then, is our firct aim in life.
I place it first, in time if not in importance, because no co-
ordination of individuals is possible until said individuals
are first established. Another priority: before we can do a
thing well we have to learn how. And learning how is edu-
cation.
So it will be profitable to examine what the Invisibles had
to say to us, at different times, on this subject. On this sub-
ject in general, I hasten to add; for the particular details of
our own individual training have been elsewhere set down.
What broad principles could the Invisibles suggest to us?
"We will not consider education in any narrow or re-
stricted sense of the word," they once told us. "We en-
deavor to tell you of the process by which personality
comes into being out of the totality of existence; how it
gains self-consciousness and vision of its purpose which is
its only excuse for being. The cosmic task is to gain self-
knowledge and self-control. Individually we need go no
further than that our task also is to acquire self-knowledge
and self-control, in order that through the exercise of free
will we may assemble conditions for the satisfaction of our
creative instinct.
"Education, then, in the largrest sense, is the assembling of
such conditions as will facilitate making habits of right
choice, actuated by the creative instinct, and inspired by the:
10
EDUCATION II
disciplined imagination which senses the glory of the Pat-
tern.
"Therefore, the teacher—which includes parents of both
sexes—^is under obligation to assemble those conditions in
which the self-preservative instincts—^to state it in its lowest
terms—^shall find it advantageous to acquire habits that will
be of the most practical use to the individual as such, and at
the same time the most socially effective.
''Or perhaps," they continued laying this cosmic founda-
tion, "we might define education as the process of gradually
changing the emphasis of the underlying instincts from the
egocentric to the altruistic.
"And remember," they concluded, "that the Httle child
is the type; both of the task and of those who must perform
it. For you and we, viewed from the eminence of that
Cosmic Purpose, are only little children feeling our way."
In the light of that statement, the methods of parent-
teacher with children become of vital significance in hinting
a clue for the most effective way to go about our own adult
self-education. The best insight we were given into the
child's own reactions came from one of Betty's symboHc
experiences in which she seemed actually to become the
person she described. In this case a small boy enduring too
common grown-up ideas of training.
"How absurd!" she began. "What a ridiculous game! I
don't reduce very well, do I? I can't stay long enough in
it—like a rubber band springing back.
"I am in a tall and incorrigibly rigid world. There are
many fascinating things; but they are all guarded by drag-
ons of fierce and painful penalties. How stupid to make so
amusing a world so difficult! It is a child's near-sighted
12 WITH FOLDED WINGS
world; and all these horrid grown-ups have such far-sighted
penalties!
(laughs)
"Fm so amused at myself: this lilliputian game is so ab-
surd!
"The world could be quite nice; but it's like a nightmare
of scene-shifters, always thrusting forward obstructions to
shut out the wide world. One could make one's way along
very comfortably, taking things as they come, if it weren't
for those obstructions that they are always running across
one's path. It stiffens and spoils everything, makes a cross
feeling.
"Don't you see? That sort of thing immediately makes
you fighting obstinate to see the other side, to get beyond
the obstruction. It is maddening to be always thwarted that
way, just as you get started. That's what makes him so wild
later, this constant confusing and thwarting of contrary
purposes around him. This is the chief warping of him. That
makes the obstinate streak, the dogged, bUnd, pig-headed-
ness being bred in him. That's the flaw: going right along
increasing.
"He's a nice, cheerful, likeable boy, when you don't
touch this particular sore spot. Nice boy; not too thick-
skinned, but certainly not very sensitive; capable of average
modehng—perhaps a little above the average."
(pause)
"Terribly oppressive, the contact with grown-ups, isn't
it? So deadening. They have no understanding of what you
are talking about. And they tell you stuff you can't grasp
and that just puzzles you. Pretty soon you shut down and
don't try.
"He wishes he could be a newsboy, like the one who
comes with the paper. Such a devilish kind of a person! He
EDUCATION 13
hurls in the paper all folded up tight; and lops away on his
bicycle, first on one side and then on the other, and he gen-
erally tries to be funny. Anyway, he has a great hfe!
"What a nuisance thinking is, isn't it? It is so much
pleasanter just rhythmically to repeat gestures or words
without having to tie them down to anything. It is the
pinning-down-of-things that grown-ups do that's so hard.
It is so much pleasanter not to think. You just start the
hammock going and get the swing of it. . . ,
(pause)
"See? The child is coming out of that rhythm, and the
fixation of things is a tremendous struggle. We forget how
much of a struggle it is. . . . See how the rhythm is slowing
down? It's slowing down; it's getting fixed. It's like putting
pins in some fluttering wings. . . . No: it's a natural develop-
ment; it's not painful, like pinning wings. It's a natural
process. It slows down naturally. That transition is what
makes contact with the experiences of life. It should be
carefully handled. Jars are what do the damage, the clumsy
handling of well-meaning grown-ups. It is very important
that it should be done, though.
"Isn't it curious, the proportion of life that is spent in
directing the plastic little mind toward the proprieties and
what is spent toward the principles of living? The pro-
prieties are all right, but they are not nine-tenths. They are
only the door-men for the principles."
3
Next day Betty continued with her symbolic experience.
Once more she explored the point of view of the harassed
small boy.
"You've seen a bumble-fly go around the ceiling," she
said, "bumping and bumping in circles, trying to find a way
14 WITH FOLDED WINGS
out. It's like that, the way a child is always restlessly pick-
ing and breaking, trying to find its way out. You cannot
understand how the bulk of your assimilated experience
looks to a child who has not digested it. And we give so
niggardly of it! 'What's that thing for?' *Oh, that? That's
just a ding-bat.'
"All you know of its history and use denied to the child.
He has no contact of interest with it. Everything is kept
away up in grown-up G.
"Even the well-meaning grown-ups will not reduce their
material. They insist on giving it whole, instead of in as-
similable little bits patiently administered. How stupid we
are; and how contented they are in many ways! It's lucky
they are, or we'd all mold them on our mistakes. . .
(pause)
"There's that poor sullen boy again. He's not sullen as
much as thwarted some way, undeveloped. Poor little stif-
fening mind! They are working so much with that organ
they're stiffening it, and it is exceedingly uncomfortable. It
is something like a valve that normally should be open, but
by too-constant pressure, more than it can stand, it acquires
a spastic way of closing. A fatal habit! It is not his strongest
faculty anyway, mental effort; and by hectoring they've
spoiled the natural resihency of that open valve. They've
caused this nervous hysterical action of closing instantly
when approached; a kind of self-protection against too
great strain. The boy didn't have the calibre for it.
"Now I will stay still and see if I can get the contrasting
opposite. That little valve would have stayed open if it had
been left alone until it had matured. Seems not to have been
particularly backward; but too early, too vigorously, too
unwisely tampered with. Should have had little bits of food
daily. It is a most precious thing, his keeping open that valve
EDUCATION 15
in the mind, that desire for knowledge, that ability to listen,
that confidence in approaching subjects, instead of a shut-
down antagonistic attitude. . . .
'It is very difficult for me to keep down here, to keep to
this level. I begin to get interested, and at once I over-age
myself in my point of view. I have got to stay down here
as well as I can without trying any grown-up interpreta-
tions. . .
."
(pause)
"Well, it*s springtime; very exciting. My, the outside-
the-windows feels nice when you lean out! How much
nicer the world is outside the windows than in! More un-
derstandable. Everything is so soft and velvety; kind of
warm-damp feehng. For some reason it's a particularly ex-
citing day. . . . Only he doesn't think about it; just feels."
At this point an Invisible took over to interpolate: "This
response of the human plant to growing impulses would be
the same in his 'indoor' environment, if it were properly
adjusted to his expansion. The trouble is we always try to
drag children out of their simple little childhood gardens
into our formal landscaped ones. They shcndd absorb their
experience of Hving naturally and eagerly. Therefore the
open pores of the mind—what she calls a valve—^should be
the first consideration. In some children it is dominant
enough to stand rough handling; with others it takes more
restraint and care to develop more slowly, fed by mere bits
of natural proclivities. This particular boy should have had
more freedom of mind, should have been let alone in the
spaces of childhood. They crowded his childhood spaces."
"As near as I can see it," said Betty, "the only practical
method is bit-by-bit acquisition—even for us grown-ups.
What a blessed thing it is that the Great Plan is concealed
from us! We couldn't stand it. That's what's the matter
l6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
with the child: they thrust the grown-up plan on him,
instead of keeping him in ignorance of it and letting him
take it bit by bit in daily doses. It's the way they have
taught us, our Invisibles."
This is a most significant statement. After a moment she
resumed the narrative of her experience.
"Now Fve got to be that newsboy for a while. . .
"He has a moderate neglect that is very satisfactory from
his point of view. He is flopping along through the spring
morning, keenly open-pored, and very puppy-energied. He
is in good condition for most any experience that comes
along, but there is no one to direct his growth, no helping
hand to point the way to education. He hasn't been dam-
aged, but neither has he been cultivated. He's just a nice
brave weed."
"The triumph of civilization is when the undamaged
plant is assisted naturally to acquire the experiences which
develop," the Invisible took it up. "These two boys should
be utilized as foils; neither extolling the virtuous poor, nor
condemning the strictures of the rich; but visualizing nat-
ural growth regardless of material circumstances as the
all-important.
"If parents could hold that ideal, how rapidly the race
would move. These little plant-minds in the garden of
childhood are as precious and as easily damaged as wind-
flowers, yet see how steadily they grow in natural condi-
tions. The successful educator must enter that garden of
childhood, if his wisdom will let him. Sometimes that wis-
dom gets so bulky that he can't get through until he obtains
a finer kind. Then he can present his wisdom, quite humbly,
and see what the child picks out. That's the only way to
begin. Only the child knows what he can see. The educator
continues offering it, supplying it, but not forcing it."
EDUCATION 17
"There is so much of this child's stuff," said Betty, "but I
think I can get enough of it in one more time."
Some days later Betty concluded childhood experience.
"I don't know what's happening," she began. "I can't
think and I can't talk. Curious state!"
Ensued a long pause, necessary, it would seem, to reenter
her former state.
"Now I'm in the child's world again. . . . Funny little
unthinking automatic animal: I'm reduced to that state
now. . .
"I am lying on my back and kicking at that dangling
rope, over and over and over again, first with one foot, then
with the other, without variation, perfectly content. There
is the feel of the sun and the breeze. Vacancy of mind.
"I'm trying to make out why this thing is so important,
why this state of fallowness is so important to the child's
growth. It is what keeps him from closing up, tightening up.
A rest period, strengthening his developing faculties. He
needs so much of it: it's like feeding him.
"My, what nice relaxation and replenishment! Every
hour of the day, nearly, is planned for. He doesn't often get
this kind of a chance to straighten out. Nature just grabs it,
clutches it in dire need. There's not a thought in his poor
little slow brain, except a delicious numbness. You wouldn't
think lying on your back and kicking at a dangling rope
with your feet could be so altogether satisfactory!
"My, but the sun feels good! Guess I'll roll over on my
stomach and feel how warm these boards are. Wow! That
sensation of warmth and happiness is all through me.
"Mother Nature has reclaimed her baby. She is teaching
quietly and silently the part of him that is being left unedu-
l8 WITH FOLDED WINGS
cated. The little shy spirit is creeping out to investigate the
universe outside its body-prison. Poor little house mate, it
has to live like a slavey below the level of the daily con-
sciousness. Now it has come timidly out and is reviving
itself. It is growing in companionship of other things of the
spirit. That valve is open. Happiness, comfort, confidence
are reestablished by the magic adjustors. If left unstrained
and uncontracted now, the energy acquisition of life ex-
perience would assert itself: the boy would be whole and
normal again.
"Fm so puzzled at these day dreams; how they are con-
verted into energy, and how they go wrong when you
dream too much. . . .
"There are some very wise and tender grown-ups, and
they are tiptoeing into this child-land world. Why, you can
come in and out, and bring almost anything in, if you do it
carefully. They are not pussy-footing around either; they
are just handling things with firm but tender and flexible
touch. It is very nice to walk in that land when you can
adjust yourself to it and do it helpfully. . . .
"Now I am to understand that the only successful model-
lers of childhood are the ones who can enter this plastic
state of mind, and see the strange persistent determination
of young growth. It has a wise will; it knows valiantly
which way it ought to go, before this directing sense is
atrophied. Restriction and perversion come through too
harsh handling, too much cramping into a narrow mold. . .
."
(pause)
"That was a very nice excursion! I Hked that. I feel as
though I had been in fairyland. You see, that explains things
to me. I knew you couldn't just abcmdon 2 child to Mother
Nature. But now I see how you should adapt knowledge to
childhood. It is almost reducing it to a fluid of easily ab-
EDUCATION 19
sorbed knowledge. We don't work over our kind of
knowledge to digest it for them. We try to ram it down
them in the form we eat it. They take it readily enough if
you prepare it.
"I can see very clearly now that rebellion of childhood.
It's a kind of self-preservation."
5
This was an inside view, so to speak. On another occasion
we were given the same sort of thing, but in reverse. The
Station is now observing from the outside. The technique
is a back and forth dialogue with an Invisible.
"He's working on a kind of picture-puzzle,"* reported
the Station, "all sorts of queer-shaped pieces. He's just play-
ing with the picture-puzzle. You'd better keep an eye on
him, or he'll get hold of some of these ding-bats and bust
something and hurt himself."
"Well, he might," conceded the Invisible, "but that^s the
way he's got to learn—playing with things that might hurt
him. We've got to watch and see that he doesn't hurt him-
self, and yet learns."
"Doesn't seem to me quite fair to have this big gang of
rubber-necks just watching a Httle kid play."
"That's the trouble with them: they never saw a child
play before. He doesn't know he's playing; he's doing busi-
ness, very important business. He doesn't even know he's
learning; he's just got to put these together. He doesn't care
whether it's important or not; it's just what he wants to do.
He doesn't know there's anything else in the world except
putting these together. He doesn't see you, nor the place^
nor the people; he's just putting it together."
* This is one of the examples of communication independent of Betty
described in the Introduction.
20 WITH FOLDED WINGS
*'Don't you see that won't fit? Let me show you."
"Get away from him: let him alone."
"But it's just a little thing to show him."
"Let him alone."
"But he's going to waste a lot of time trying to get that
big thing in a little hole. It delays the picture."
"Let him alone."
"Now that woman over there: she's most crazy. She's got
to show him.
"That's all right. If she moves, I'm going to make her sit
down again. The rule is: let 'em alone. That's all the rule
there is in this game."
(pause)
"Anyway, he's found that out. Looks as if he knew that.
Can't make a square thing fit a round hole."
"Well, wasn't that worth finding out?"
"Why didn't he know that?"
"Well, we never get used to seeing you fellows try to fit
square things in round holes."
"Look at him grin! He lit up the whole place with that
smile. He found out that a round hole has to have a round
thing."
"Yes, and if he was writing a book he'd probably say he'd
discovered a new law of nature, (scornfully) New law!
Why, that was a law before there was any Adam! That's
the way man does. He stumbles over something that was al-
ways so, and he thinks he invented it."
"Say! Say kid, don't you see you've got to have a little
thin thing in there? It almost fits, but it's got to have a little
thin thing."
"Let him alone: don't crab the game. How is he going to
learn, if you keep telling him?"
"He'll believe me."
EDUCATION 21
*
'What of it? What if he does? If he does it because you
tell him, you'll be doing it. If he finds out for liimself, he will
be able to do it when you are not watching. Let him alone.
It's the motto of this game."
"But supposing one of those sharp things should stick
into him and cut him?
"It would only cut him once or twice. Then he'd learn
that sharp things stick into him, wouldn't he? Well! What
is more important: that he shouldn't cut himself, or that he
should learn that sharp things stick into him? Are you going
to hang around him as long as he lives, and holler to him
every time a sharp thing comes along?"
(pause)
"That woman's going to have a fit!"
"Well, let her have a fit. It is more desirable that she
should have a fit than that she should interfere with that
child. Let 'em alone!"
"What makes him look so puzzled?"
"To save time I'll tell you. He is just beginning to get a
little faint notion about the picture. He is just beginning to
realize that he is doing something besides amusing himself
or merely putting queer-shaped things together. There is
something else going on that he does not know about. It is
just beginning to dawn on him a Httle that if he puts them
together right, something is going to happen that he did
not suspect. He is just beginning to realize an intention that
is bigger than his own."
"I suppose you're going to tell me that's the beginning of
religion."
"Well, that's the first glimmer of human inteUigence
you've exhibited. You see, you're putting together a pic-
ture-puzzle too. And you can't get the picture unless every
piece is in its place."
22 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"I see. Then that wiggly one over there, that is so proudly
wiggly, is holding out on the picture."
"Sure. And if you'll watch you'll see that he's got to have
other wiggly ones joined up with him in a square, and he
doesn't like squares. He isn't interested in the picture—not
yet. He's only interested in being the only wiggly one like
that."
(pause)
"Now, perhaps, you see why chlorine and sodium are put
together, with all their diversity of shape and function—dif-
ferent kinds of wiggly ones put together right. It makes a
different shaped kind of wiggly one, or maybe a square one,
but it all fits in the picture."
"I can't make out whether this is an experiment in chemis-
try or philosophy or physics or carpentry or art or educa-
tion or psychology or religion."
"Neither does anyone else; because they're all the same
thing, and each one is all the others."
"That's what I call a very disorderly method of educa-
tion. First thing you know, you won't be able to tell
whether a fellow's an artist, or a chemist, or a preacher."
"It doesn't make any difference, does it, as long as the
little fellow learns about placing the round things in the
round places, and the wiggly things in the wiggly places?
He is making a picture."
"Then the picture is the great thing?"
"You might say so; but I prefer to say that the little fellow
is the great thing. The important thing that is going on is
going on inside him. Don't you see, every time you inter-
fere with him, you are interfering with both things."
"Well, can't I help him at all?"
"Sure! Give him every possible chance to learn that
round things go in round holes, and that sharp things will
EDUCATION 23
cut, and so on. He will see the picture of his own accord as
soon as it is a picture, if you give him a chance to learn how
to see things by giving him things to see. If he didn't have
things to see, his eyes would go dead on him. Give him
practice in seeing things—but let him alone!"
Apparently this finished that aspect. But the Invisibles
were not quite satisfied. Days later they suddenly returned
to the dialogue as though it had never been broken off.
"She had to do that, didn't she? I thought you were going
to keep her out of it," began the Station.
*'I am letting her do it so you can see something."
*'Agh! She thought she had to get that picture finished.
She's so much smarter than he is—she thinks!"
(pause)
"He doesn't seem to be much interested in what she's
doing. She keeps yanking him back to look at her doing it.
He was absorbed in it until she butted in. . . . What's she
doing that for? Why doesn't she mind her own business?"
"Don't you see; she's a school ma'am and she has two
reasons. She doesn't know what her reasons are; she thinks
she's educating the child—that's what she says to herself.
Her real reason is that she wants him to take that finished
picture home and tell his mother and father that he did it,
and then they'll be pleased because they'll think he is a very
smart child. But she won't care so much what they think
about that, as that they will think she's a very smart teacher.
She's thinking not so much of the child as of herself and her
job. If she were thinking about the child she would see that
she is only teaching the child to lie to his father and mother
in pretending that he is something he is not.
"Oh yes, he's smart enough; only she is robbing the child
of his chance to acquire experience and memory, which is
the indispensable attribute of personality. She kids herself
24 WITH FOLDED WINGS
with the idea that she is teaching the child. She isn't; she
is robbing him for her own benefit. The joke is that by just
so much as she is cheating him, she is also robbing herself. I
told you that, you remember, we are not allowed to 'help'
anybody when it means robbing him of his opportunity to
acquire personality. It is a Law.
"You see, that kid doesn't give a hoot for what she's
doing. She thinks he's there sitting beside her, because she's
big enough to keep him there physically. As a matter of
fact he went away some time ago and is out in the garden
looking at the birds. But she doesn't know it.
"It's a very big principle. If you once get it into your
head that the laws of nature operate only under the direc-
tion of InteUigence all the laws—then the making of in-
telligence is the big thing. And the only way to acquire
intelligence is through experience and the memory of it. It
is possible to assimilate the experience of other people, but
it is real assimilation only when you contribute an actuahty
of your own."
The last statement resulted in a side excursion into the
question of the vicarious and its value or lack of value.
"Consider novels, movies, all that sort of thing," said the
Invisible. "In a measure, if the novels are real and skilfully
done, and the movies are wisely conceived, something does
get across that is genuine experience in a way. But the ma-
jority are cheating themselves by a make-believe process.
They are getting their experience cheap, just by looking at
an imitation of it! They wish they could be brave and
loyal and so on, so they go and look at somebody being
brave and loyal, or they read about it in a book, and they
get a kind of little tinkle of it—but it doesn't co^ them
EDUCATION 25
anything. Or they go see things done in the way of ex-
perience or gratification that they haven't the guts to
do. The potential thief gets all the temporary mistaken zest
of stealing vicariously without having to go to jail. The
picture goes to jail. And don't you see, by just so much as a
picture or novel deals with primitive debased instincts and
gratifications, it piles up the effects of low and mean ex-
periences and memory, and builds up a personality on the
wrong side; because a man is in a very big sense the sum
total of his experience and memory. And if he confines him-
self to low and mean experience and memory—his own or
another's—he can't help being low and mean.
"There's another side to it too. When he thrills himself
with second hand bravery or other fine qualities, it takes an
increasing dose always to get the thrill again—when he
doesn't do it himself—and after a while it doesn't act on him
any more: he has to get something stronger and ranker.
Then two things happen: he doesn't react to the fine things,
and he has to get rawer and ranker and more debased things
to tickle his palate. So he gets what the preachers call gospel-
hardened—it doesn't ring his bell any more.
"I don't mean to knock novels and movies and such in any
indiscriminate way. Exhibits of constructive forces in
operation are good—provided they inspire to self-activity.
Bravery and loyalty and all that sort of thing are no good to
you as long as you just look at them: you've got to be them.
"On the other hand, it's easier to slide down than to climb
up. Construction takes work. That's the reason why habit-
ually looking at destructive and debasing things does you
more harm than habitually merely looking at examples of
constructive things does you good.
"So you must surround this little kid, not with things that
will emphasize his disintegrating tendencies, but with things
26 WITH FOLDED WINGS
that will inspire the best that is in him. Don't you see what
a terrific responsibility this lays upon everyone who can
control environment, however slightly? Never forget that
you yourself, in your interplay between your own soul and
its physical manifestation, are part of the environment that
you are creating for that kid. Anybody who makes any-
thing, or writes or paints or sings or behaves—anything—is
making an environment for the kids, for the souls coming
along; for the little hands reaching up.
"So the fellow who writes has a big job, not only to de-
pict brave things and loyal people—for the drug-fiends of
emotion to amuse themselves with, and to distract them
from their own business; but to raise hell with his readers
so that they will have to do it. The fellow who does his art
so that it will actually inspire up and retard doavn is some
artist!"
7
At this point they swung back to the original discussion.
"Now that little child isn't getting anything out of the
teacher's work because he isn't doing it himself. The busi-
ness of education is to bring out what a child has inside; and
the only way it can come out, generally speaking, is by tak-
ing the outside pressure off so it can come out. Then it will
come out along the line of least resistance. But if you clamp
him in, it not only does not come out, but it either goes
dead on him or raises some kind of hell inside. First thinor
you know that kid is going to bust, and likely they'll call it
mischief and spank him as a bad boy. They may even get
him to thinking he is a bad boy, and he is likely to do what
he thinks is expected of him. I think you quite reahze that
the energy that is used in badness—as it is called—is pre-
cisely the same energy that is used by the same fellow in
EDUCATION
what you call goodness. Keep your pipe loaded with that:
there's only one kind of energy.
"Now education consists in supervising with the least
possible interference the process of trial and error. The
wise teacher helps—yes, he tells things; he gives little facts;
he knows how to give little ready-made lumps of racial ex-
perience and the things he has found out himself. But he
does it in such a way that it isn't a substitute for the child's
own experience. His relations with the child are such that
he can smuggle in sometimes a pretty good sized gob of
ready-made stuff, but there's got to be a large measure of
sympathy.
"Look at that word a minute. We all have enough Greek
to see what it is made out of. First, syn—together. Second,
pathos—feeling. Well, don't you see, the ready-made stuff
doesn't get across without the syn-pathos—together feel-
ing.
"There's mathematics. Mathematics is a tool, and a good
one. But children get scared of it because the teacher thinks
she should put on a sour face when she says mathematics,
instead of smiling about it. You can teach a child anything
with a smile syn-pathos,
"But no amount of syn-pathos can take the place of ex-
perience and memory—the little kid's experience and
memory. He's got to learn to use his equipment: he's got to
learn to open and see through those five doors of the senses
hijmelf. The only way he can learn is by reaching up to the
handle and trying the knob and seeing how the hinges work
and making his little fat legs reach up to the step on one
side and down the step on the other. You can put a little
stool under his feet so he can reach, and you can have your
hand ready to keep him from stumbling when he might
break his neck. But it is a lot more important for experience
28 WITH FOLDED WINGS
and memory that he should learn to balance himself than
that he should keep from bumping himself.
"There's a good saying that the parents—yes, and teach-
ers (by which I mean everybody who has anything to do
with him) —need only give the child tools and show him
how to use them. But even that isn't true, really. He's got
the tools, and you don't exactly show him how to use them.
The only thing you can do, when you come down to brass
tacks, is to give him opportunity where he can't be happy
unless he uses them all. Any kind of purpose or project that
interests him offers opportunity for using all of them. See
that he uses all of them. Don't let him get so occupied with
seeing that he doesn't give a square deal to hearing, and
smelling, and tasting and touching.
"You understand that the use of these tools isn't for his
ovm sake alone. It is in order that impressions and ex-
periences sorted out and remembered, both consciously
and unconsciously, shall not only build up a body of ex-
perience and memory—which together make personality
—but that that totality, that increasingly efficient totahty,
shall become self-conscious, self-directing, self-controlled
intelligence, with the power and the right to assemble con-
ditions for the purposes of creation."
8
"It looks," said the Invisible, "as though we had left out
parental authority.
"You have been shown as in a vision a little child about
the business of self-education, self-mastery, absorbed in a
task the meaning of which he only dimly sensed, and per-
haps sensed not at all. You have been adjured not to inter-
fere unintelligently with the process. Now a narrowed
view of this situation might lead you to suppose that it
EDUCATION 29
would be sufficient and desirable to leave the child to his
own devices. Well, if I were compelled to choose between
too much freedom and too much interference and superim-
posed authority, I think there is no doubt that too much
freedom is the preferable alternative. But we are not driven
to any such extreme. True, the task of education is not to
drive or compel or circumscribe. But you too—as the
teacher—have the duty and the privilege of exercising free
will and right choice, of assembling conditions appropriate
for individual development. It is for you to help make the
channels through which, in the person of this developing
intelligence, the power resident therein shall be directed to
the fulfillment of the Pattern.
"Parental authority is a real and valuable thing, and just
because it has been abused and overextended is no reason
why it should be discarded entirely.
"You must remember the child is an immature thing in
every way. You would not allow him to strain or injure
himself by exceeding his physical powers; you would re-
strain him from jumping off the porch, or lifting too heavy
a weight, or eating green apples or too much ice cream or
cake. In doing so you are definitely exerting arbitrary
parental authority in a sane, sensible and needed manner.
Since the same laws work in all substances, similarly you
would expect to find—and you will find—the same princi-
ple in the mental and spiritual aspects as well. There needs
only wise definition of the extent and the kind of apphca-
tion of authority.
"All this let-him-alone advice is literally good and true.
The offering of complete opportunity for self-education
is the basis of all teaching. Restriction or prohibition is
legitimate only when, as in the physical phase, the child is
attempting to go so far beyond his powers as to injure him-
30 WITH FOLDED WINGS
self or others. That does not mean he is to be inhibited when
by the mere experience of defeat or disappointment he has
an opportunity of extending his self-knowledge.
"In final analysis, therefore, the imposition of parental
authority must depend on the wisdom of the parent. That
wisdom must consist of a careful analysis, by both intellect
and heart, of whether the prohibition is for the sole and
only purpose of preventing an effort of one sort or another
beyond the child's present strength. Just as no parent
would allow the child to attempt to lift a weight beyond its
muscular power, so he should not permit the child to ex-
ercise its judgment beyond its mental or spiritual power.
"I cannot point out how this is specifically to be done,
for that of course depends on the individual case, and is in
itself a measure of the parent's wisdom and capacity. But I
do wish to call attention to the exact parallel with the
merely physical training. Also I feel that some counter-
balancing consideration should be introduced to prevent
superficial reductio ad absurdum brains from conceiving
that, because we advise against herding the child too
closely, we therefore advise that he should run wild."
9
Much later, after we ourselves as
*
'children of eternity" had
been at least exposed to education as the Invisibles see it,
they made the adult application more directly. Their
method probably is too delicate and personal for us to make
more than a small beginning at its use. It is, perhaps, more
in the nature of an Ultimate. Nevertheless it points a way
—one that we could do well to study.
"Run your mind back," said they, "over the method
employed in giving you these teachings. What was it? It
was a motif with a refrain; it was a number of concepts re-
EDUCATION
peated in alternation. The teachings were presented first
with an experience, a parable, a symbol which entered your
mind in a rather novel way, perhaps through the window
instead of the front door, bringing a certain amused interest,
a glimpse of something that seemed worth your intellectual
attention for the moment. It escaped you very quickly, but
the crack was there, the informal entrance had been made,
the preparation for the second return to the subject. Next
time you were a little bit more ready to receive it, more in-
tellectually indulgent. Something obvious, perhaps, had
been said, but it might possibly have value because of a
telling phrase or fresh way of statement. You listened, in
other words, with feeling, receptivity of heart. Germina-
tion had begun; accretions followed. The concept grew to
a respectable status, worthy of your lordly mental con-
descension."
Progress is the pursuit of things for which we pay the price
of ourselves.
BETTY
III. FUNCTIONING
As WE HAVE seen, in the personal case the aim is
self-development. This is essentially an individual process.
Therefore, it cannot be blueprinted. Nobody can give
exact directions, as for the care and use of a washing ma-
chine. That is the mistake made by many systems of teach-
ing and of religion.
"IndividuaKty," said the Invisible, "is the end of evolu-
tion. And the higher the evolution, the more individual
becomes the entity. Therefore the more individual must
become its treatment."
However, it is quite possible to examine the general
procedure intelligently and supply conditions that will en-
courage growth. We do that with plants. We have
determined pretty well what happens chemically and bi-
ologically; and we supply proper soil, fertilizer, cHmate,
water. So likewise we have a certain knowledge of the
method by which we expand in consciousness. We are
beginning to learn what we can supply to accelerate and
foster that expansion.
The basic ingredients of evolution, even away dovni the
scale, said the Invisibles, are experience and memory.
"Memory," they defined, "is a faculty which gathers or
acquires certain phases from the All for the building up of
that which possesses the memory. It is by the utilized
32
FUNCTIONING 33
memory of experience that the body of any segregated
thing is expanded."
The important word here is ''utiUzed." How do we
utilize the memory of experience?
"The body of memory," said the Invisible, "acquired
through the automatic awareness-responses of any entity
builds up the content, not of the particular entity, but of
the species to which it belongs. In that way, one might
fancifully say, dogs in general learn how to be dogs in in-
creasing sufficiency. Only when an experience results from
an exercise of free will does it become a part of the memory
of the individual. The human physical structure, to take a
simple example, is daily imdergoing a great multitude of
experiences having to do with the sensational and instinc-
tive, and therefore automatic aspect of awareness—^such
things as the ordinary bodily functions. None of these ex-
periences, so far as the individual is concerned, has any
place in his final structure. But every experience which is a
manner of action by free will, however slight, is drawn
from that part of the cosmos which comprises the Not-
done, and transferred into that part of the cosmos which
comprises the Thing-done. The latter is, in the realest sense
possible, a portion of the individual entity, and will forever
remain so. The course of personal development, then, is a
constant transferal from that which is outside in experience,
permanently to that which is—not inside, but ourselves?''
Another time one of us asked: "Is all evolution achieved
by a process of assimilating experience? And is this assimila-
tion an intellectual process?"
"Evolution," said the Invisible, "must, in the final analysis
and in one way or another and at one time or another,
pivot on an exercise of free will. Free will implies a decision,
a choice between one thing, one course of action, one re-
34 WITH FOLDED WINGS
jection or acceptance, and another. The mere experience
and the mere translation into conscious possession are only
the materials furnishing forth the opportunity for this ex-
ercise of free will. That which is absorbed but not intel-
lectualized, and that which is intellectualized but not
absorbed, are ahke in that they are powerful in possibility
but barren of result when viewed from the standpoint of
personal evolution. In this regard they become significant
only when they, or such portion of them as is appropriate
to the moment, are utilized in decision or the exercise of
free will."
Another time a little more detail was given us on the
evolutionary process. On this occasion a friend who was a
teacher was in a dilemma. He had been lectured by the
Invisibles on the importance of balancing intake and outgo.
How did this fit into the free-will-and-decision picture?
"The evolutionary process," said the Invisible, "for the
teacher as for all others, is threefold—indivisibly threefold.
Without adequate, balanced and complete working of all
three aspects, futility results. First, that which is to be given
out is received, either through the spiritual senses or
through unconscious experience of life. Next, it is under-
stood intellectually by the focussed mind—it is rationalized.
This intellectualization can come about from within by
constructive thought, or through recognition by means of
something read or taught from outside. And third, the sub-
ject matter gains its dynamics.
"Now often the third element, that of obtaining dynam-
ics, is omitted. As soon as the thing is intellectualized it is
given out. That is the method of most teachers and preach-
ers, polemic writers and reformers of the world. And
because of the omission of the third essential, the effort is
with little or no result.
FUNCTIONING 35
"Dynamics are obtained only through the immersion of
the concept in the substance of which your earth hfe is
composed. That means it must be appHed in the ordinary
way of Hving to actual and constructive life. Only thus
does it obtain a body of substance which will make it ef-
fective. The thing you learn and understand and become
enthusiastic over and immediately give out as a teacher
falls flat, because it is made, not of flesh and blood, but of
an alien substance. The preacher who fills his church is the
preacher who lives what he says outside his church. The
teacher of influence is he who has bathed his ideas in life.
And note the following: it is most important: this process of
bathing in life is not a laboratory process; it is not a con-
scious bringing forth of doctrine for dipping in a solution
prepared for the purpose; it is a taking the doctrine as part
of yourself with you where you move among earth affairs.
There are no preachers, there are no teachers, who are
teachers and preachers only—not in the true sense of those
terms. They are practitioners of life who bring from their
daily uses their well-worn tools for explanation. He who
learns must expand his practical earth life in equal measure
to his learning, for his learning will in the long run equal
his expansion."
3
We grow in consciousness, then, by making decisions. And
the immediate product is individualized experience and
memory.
Now one cannot make decisions that will result in ex-
perience without overt action. The action may be either
mental or material, of course; though ordinarily the latter.
But it must be action, functioning. The wholly inert never
progresses. So important and basic is this principle that for
36 WITH FOLDED WINGS
a long time our Invisibles hammered it at us, in its simplest
form, over and over again. Only after the crude raw idea
was integral to our thinking did they concede that the kind
of functioning had importance.
"It doesn't make the least difference what you do, which
part of the world you choose to function in; it's the func-
tioning itself that counts."
"What he means," another Invisible commented on this
idea, "is, never mind whether or not you think your job is
a fool job, if you know it's your job. But have no doubt as
to that."
Or again:
"You can't find out anything by simply wondering. You
have to get busy and do something. Just what you do does
not really matter; it's the intention that counts. Perhaps you
don't get that. I'll explain. You set about doing something.
It goes flat. You try again. You quit. After a while you try
again. Perhaps you never succeed, but the mere act of try-
ing is sufficient to give you a sort of boost. Not a boost as
respects that particular thing, but in a definite direction. On
the other hand, if you lie down, you come to a dead stop.
You have no momentum."
"Action is all of development," stated another Invisible.
"Of course I do not necessarily mean physical action. The
very first slight wee crawly movement on the part of the
most microscopical creatures you can discern is not merely
to insure the means of existence, though apparently that is
the sole reason. The basic real reason is development-action.
Any new thing must be acquired by action, by experience,
before it can be told, either by you to yourself, or to you by
somebody else. You can be told no new thing. You can be
given the words, but you will not understand them. That's
why there is so much vagueness and groping and dissatisfac-
FUNCTIONING 37
tion in the approach to anything new. You must first con-
front it, become aware that it exists. It is something; just
something. You cannot understand it because you have no
experience. Then you must act, and from the act, and its
result, you get knowledge."
*'But how about spiritual contact.^" we asked. "You have
been emphasizing how important that is, and the filling up
at the Source. Now you seem to be trying to turn us back
to the mere mechanism of daily life!"
"With the average man," observed the Invisible quaintly,
"the building of a water wheel arouses an ambition to
supply some water for it. He is proud of it and he wants to
see it go."
As a corollary to this main theme, the Invisibles drew a fine
distinction. It is only in functioning, they pointed out, that
we experience reality at all. Things merely in relation one
to the other are symbols of reahty. In activity, in function,
they become the embodiment of reality.
"As symbols," said our Invisible, "they merely stand for
something behind them as a note on a page stands for a
musical tone. A man in a world of physical objects, but
static of emotions, actions, thoughts, is but surrounded by
a multitude of suggestive symbols that stand for, but do not
embody a reality remote from him. Through the symbols,
and his imagination, he may surmise the existence of the
reality. He may thus, to a certain extent, perhaps even
manage a critical or appreciative understanding of it, but it
will touch him only as a shadow touches the wall, leaving
no impress. From it he obtains no experience of solid fact,
but lives in a world of insubstantial poetry whose quality is
that of dreams and whose endurance is as fleeting. If he is
38 WITH FOLDED WINGS
of mystic quality he is perpetually in anticipation of some
remote time or state of existence when he shall break
through the veil of illusion, as he calls it, to an undefined
and rather vague reality of an unguessed form which he
imagines to lie behind. He does not realize that in the nature
of the universe, and under proper conditions, the reality
enters into and informs with life the symbol itself—that the
veil of illusion is itself illusion, and that, had he the secret,
he could, with the fingers of his very own spirit, touch the
living naked essence to which he longs so often in vain.
*'To himself, each man is a reality; to himself he symbol-
izes nothing. He is, and in the mere fact of that being he
touches an underlying fundamental essence of the real. This
is simply and solely because the life that is in him functions.
His appetites, his emotions, his passions, his imaginations,
the coursing of his blood through his veins, the registration
of light through his eyes, his movements and his every ac-
tivity are not to him symbols, but are expressions of that
which is his inner self, seeking outlet in a world of move-
ment. The living intangibles flow through their respective
mechanisms within him to produce, as far as his conscious-
ness is concerned, a portion, limited though it may be, of
absolute reality.
"But in the outer world, if he deprives himself, or is de-
prived, of acquired or natural-functioning correspondence
with things about him, all things remain to him symbolical
except himself, and he is surrounded by a dream world."
However, the argument can be turned inside out. Since
the lack of function makes for the merely symbolic, the
activity of function makes for reality.
"To the extent that man succeeds in functioning through
that external world, he removes it from the category of
symbols suggesting truth into the category of things coip-
FUNCTIONING 39
ducting truth. Man's education and development on all
planes of life and lives consists in his fashioning tools, skills,
understandings and abilities actually to function in a wider
and wider inclusion of his environment.
"Now the penalty for the fashioning of a tool is that it
must be employed or it will rust. The obligation, then, of
having developed correspondences, aptitudes, talents, skills,
technics, abilities to function, is their employment.
Through them one translates the symbohcal to the real;
but, once the transmutation has taken place, a neglect to
continue actually blunts the perceptions in that direction.
In time, therefore, that particular thing will cease, not only
to be a conductor of truth, but even to symbolize the truth,
and so will end at last in something lifeless, useless. And
dead things must be painfully carried away.
"So," the Invisible summed up, "a man should examine
himself to see what he has learned to do, for what he has
learned to do cries out for its fulfillment. In calling to life
a need for the fulfillment of reahty, he has to an extent
chosen a road which he must tread out. Or if not a road,
then certainly a direction. He has made himself tools that
are his obligation of equipment. Possibly he may not use
them in the way he intended when he fashioned them, but
use them he must—^if he is to continue in the realm of
reahty."
To test our grasp of the principle the Invisible asked that
one of us repeat back the gist as we understood it. One of
us did so.
' "If an ability has been called into being as a transmuting
and expressing channel for some form of reality, the in-
dividual is subsequently obligated to continue and fulfill the
obligation so undertaken, or its complete equivalent in some
other form."
4© WITH FOLDED WINGS
"Yes," agreed the Invisible, "but I would state it a bit
differently. The fashioning of a tool by means of which
one functions in a symbol to transmute it to '*
reality, im-
poses an obligation to continue that transmutation in one
for?n or another. It is permissible to discard that tool only
when by means of some other tool the same transmutation
is continued. Now beware," he warned, "lest too-close
inspection of a very large and general law gets you to
splitting hairs of literal interpretation. There is, of course,
room for experiment and room for expanding in new in-
terests."
The teaching just given does not mean that one must
stick to a thing merely because he has begun it. That would
be perilously close to a philosophy of drudgery. And if
there is one thing these Invisibles of ours had no use for at
all, it is drudgery.
"If you find you have made a mistaken choice in some
specific activity," said they, "remember it is not a fatal and
divorceless marriage. But," they added emphatically, "it
will be necessary to determine what reality has been trans-
muted, and the old task must not be abandoned until an
equal transmutation is assured in another direction. Be it
noted," they pointed out, "genuine mistakes rarely result
in a very high order of transmutation anyway. What we are
warning about is abandonment without sufficient cause,
from whim."
5
One of our group had an idea. How about functions that
had been carried through to their full perfection? Does
there then remain, as far as the individual is concerned, an
obligation to continue to employ them? Or are they then
outgrown, as is the vermiform appendix? "Is there," he
FUNCTIONING 4I
expressed it, "anything to the oriental notion that we out-
grow any function by perfecting and rounding out its
manifestation?"
"Cart before the horse," answered the Invisible. "You
do not use a function in order to perfect it; you perfect a
function in order to use it. Its best use begins when it has
been perfected—that would be a silly time to discard it.
Your generalization is as though you were to recommend a
violinist to work until thoroughly satisfied with his tech-
nique—and then to consider his job done and smash his
violin! Functions are indeed occasionally to be discarded,
but as a rule only because you have perfected a better tool;
or because you are actually, though perhaps not evidently,
otherwise doing the same activity."
"It seems to me," suggested the inquirer, "you might
sometimes grow into different needs, and hence require
different mechanisms to fulfill the new needs."
"And perhaps discard the old one which has fulfilled its
need," supplemented the Invisible. "In your earth, how-
ever," he added, "it is a rare thing thus to discard a func-
tion. Its seeming disappearance merely means that it has
been refined to correspond to a higher and finer-grain
aspect of the same activity."
"A transmutation of energy to a higher form by the dis-
integration of a lower form," came a further suggestion
from us.
"Transformation, not disintegration," corrected the In-
visible, "a sublimation."
The last word led to a passing consideration of the with-
drawal-into-monasteries idea which was one of the ideals
of the Middle Ages. The Invisible was against it—at least,
for us.
"Every person should recognize the necessity for living
42 WITH FOLDED WINGS
a normal active life, and not be longing for the next world.
Now, have you ever understood why, if all this we have
told you be true, it has not been sooner revealed and more
widely understood—and why, even today, so few people
really comprehend? Because it is too strong meat for most.
Because it is liable to take your mind away from the job
that belongs to you. That's why. But you can take it intel-
lectually and not emotionally, and that is the very way you
should take it. You must know the reality of the continuity
of the entity, and in understanding that you must under-
stand that you are given a span on earth in which to Hve on
earth, worthily, so you may take on immortality in the
hereafter. Every man is an individual entity. He is responsi-
ble for that. You have been given free will, the greatest gift
in the entire universe. Now you live up to it! And how can
you do it by gazing off and not doing the job?"
*'How about the ancient saints?" asked one of us. "They
seemed to have what might be called subjective function-
ing, without apparent objective correspondences. Was this
abnormal?"
"That depends. To the extent to which they consciously
functioned according to their own stage of development
they were normal. To the extent to which they were seek-
ing their soul's salvation, or their own ecstasy, they were
not. Only such rare entities as the few who have lived
earth life possessed of nearly complete earthly development
can successfully or usefully attempt a purely subjective life
on the earth plane. With others it smacks somewhat of both
conceit and arrogance, for it is an assumption either that
they have already completed the earth job, or that they
know enough and are privileged enough to step aside from
the ordered scheme. The only road to the subjective life, as
you call it, is by the steps of accomplishment in the environ-
FUNCTIONING 43
ment in which you are placed. That is why you are placed
there rather than somewhere else.
*'Do not misunderstand. In ordinary spiritual contact
there may be a feeling that you describe as ecstasy. I use
the term in its mystic sense of tingling high pleasure, as in
the communion of the nuns and monks and that type. He
who carries this ecstasy eventually through the formulation
period into manifestation of one sort or another, is func-
tioning in the normal course. It might be so that one can
receive from universal consciousness direct, but he cannot
render back to universal consciousness by any other way
than external manifestation. He cannot effectively face
upstream and barrenly return towards the source merely
an emotion, however elevating and satisfactory that may
seem.
"Anything normally functioning produces an emotion
of pleasure; the pleasure is oft of a type and intensity com-
mensurate with the breadth and depth and cosmic signifi-
cance of the function. The highest emotional content must
be in the perfect functioning. The pleasure is legitimately
enjoyed to its thrill of rapture so long as it is a concomitant
©f function and does not become an end in itself. The
proper action of any major function implies the propor-
tionate functioning of any subordinate function. Can you
not see, then, that a neglect of one or more lesser functions,
because you get pleasure in a larger function, immediately
implies the pursuit of the pleasure for itself? It therefore
becomes a perversion, as sometimes in the case of the
monastic ecstasy before mentioned."
"I am warned to go no further in this, as it can but give a
false impression. The very word ^function' is itself too
heavy-footed to follow the subtle, flexible and delicate
reality. *As a man thinks, so he does' is true, but a better
44 WITH FOLDED WINGS
saying is 'as a man does, so will he eventually think/ when
leaden-footed thought has overtaken."
Function, then, is the very basis of all evolution. And the
key to ijidividual evolution is decision. So don't get the
habit of letting others make your decisions for you.
"Individual development," said the Invisible, "is a
matter of decision. Even a mistaken decision may result in
considerable advancement. You move by making your mis-
taken decisions or your happy choices, as the case may be."
"Decision," another agreed, "is the vital principle of in-
dividual progress, and cannot be taken out of the indi-
vidual's hands without a far-reaching harm.
"By making a person's decision for him you have de-
prived him of a certain opportunity and therefore a certain
property. You have robbed him, even with the best inten-
tions in the world. He may thereby gain certain easements
unearned, but at the same time he has been forced to
forego a chance for certain self-building which the process
of earning would have accomplished for him."
The Invisibles were constantly recurring to the point;
it was of supreme importance. To a visitor who asked for
specific advice, they had this to say:
"I would not steal from you. You are in a world with
just so many opportunities of choice, of right choice and
wrong choice, just so many unique opportunities for learn-
ing from the results of your choices. Therefore, we have
called it a selective world in which you are placed ulti-
mately to determine what is worth and what is not worth
the choosing. In this one particular respect your earth life
is more richly endowed than any other phase of existence
you will probably be called upon to pass through. Each
FUNCTIONING 45
time you allow another to determine for you what is within
your own choice, you have allowed that man to dip his
hand into your pocket and take from you a bit of property
you cannot replace. You would think hardly of a friend
who took from you gold pieces. I am your friend, and I
would not take from you what is more precious than gold.
So I shall not answer those questions."
And similarly, to a similar request on another occasion:
"Would you thank anyone who was to take from you an
opportunity to make money? Why should you thank us for
taking from you a legimate and never-repeatabte oppor-
tunity for progress? It will not come again. If that moment
is taken away from you, you are that much poorer for all
eternity. You may steal a man's purse, and you can make
restitution. But if you steal a man's opportunity for making
a decision, you take that which you can never return to
him. Each decision made is a step in your development, a
moment in your eternity. Once passeci, it is gone forever."
I CAN just suggest the truth by the fragrance of it.
IV. THE POSITIVE INGREDIENT
Functioning means more than mere activity.
For complete fulfillment it must have one certain positive
content. Otherwise it is at best a purposeless stirring about,
and at worst deadeninsr drudeerv. There is nothingr intrinsic
to any form of activity that makes it one thing or the other.
Any business whatever with which we may concern our-
selves may be either constructive functioning or drudger)^
That depends not at all on what the thing is in itself. I once
knew a man who was enthusiastic as a garbage collector,
and had a half-dozen srood reasons. Indeed anythinsr can
be transformed from drudgery to real functioning. The
change needs only one ingredient.
Drudgery is something which must be done, and we
seem to be the ones to do it, so we do it. But it exhausts us.
Why? Because we are not interested. Interest is the missing
ingredient; what Betty called eagerness, zest.
That is all very well to say, but how can one pump up
zest for a repeated daily routine intrinsically not only un-
interesting, but a deadly bore? Like washing the dishes; or
slugging away on a production line? It is silly and hypo-
critical and posey and a pretense to pump up any artificial
enthusiasm for that kind of a job.*
"True," the Invisibles acknowledged. "Of course you
cannot go around zesting things priggishly. What we must
get into this is naturalness, not priggishness."
Cannot be done? The Invisibles deny that.
• See Anchors to Windward for a fuller exposition of this idea.
46
THE POSITIVE INGREDIENT 47
"Nothing," they stated emphatically, "is too small to
work on with the tools of spiritual values. Take the smallest
things, little hourly experiences or situations of a common-
place day; you can, by your concentration of desire, trans-
fer them into a spiritual significance akin to a poem. You
can even take a nap with a spark of interest, instead of just a
dead exhausted faUing aw^ay!"
"The joke of it is," interposed Betty, "there is a trick
about doing it; and the trick is to enjoy the doing. You
haven't found the real secret, unless you've found that. I
know this isn't new; but it's going to be said over and over
and over again, until it acquires the same importance in
life as eating tomorrow's dinner. We are sure to feed our-
selves that way!"
A clue to accomplishing this w^as given us later in the dis-
tinction between two t)^pes of impelling force. They called
them will-power and desire-power. Will-powder they here
used in the narrower sense of driving forward against re-
luctance or inerda; something dragging or even disagree-
able. There is of course a wider sense to the word, but that
was aside from their present purpose.
"There is," said they, "ahvays a contracted and expanded
form to everything. W^ill-power is the contracted form of
this higher thing. You can step into it from will-power
without contracting, if you think of it as desire-power.
Will-power is in spite of your preference, doubhng the
pressure. Will-power is a faculty of holding yourself up.
This other is a power of outreaching yourself by desire."
"It is the great secret of pow'er," commented Betty. "I
can see it w^ork over and over again. It's a process of making
pleasurable your will-power. The minute you make it
48 WITH FOLDED WINGS
pleasurable it starts working, like a chemical affinity, pump-
ing warmer vitality into your object, making it work itself
naturally. What a nice secret! It's a process of work. It
doesn't matter what it is
—playing tennis or growing into
life."
"I want you," said the Invisible, "to substitute for the
stiff words 'will-power' the same idea in a natural exuber-
ance of appropriating life."
And on another occasion:
"Consider the directing power of one's self. Do not
stiff^en the idea with the rigidity of the words *will-power.'
Do not leave out the warm fostering condition of heartily
and enthusiastically desiring to accomplish. That contains
the secret of success, the diagnosis of failure. One should
bring to bear on it the same simple attitude of mind with
which one approaches one's vacation days, one's hobby,
one's favorite interest, either of work or of play. People
often work so hard at play. Lightness in living—^that's play,
isn't it? Don't let living be heavy. Reorganize it and keep it
%ht."
"We must get the whole of this force," said Betty, "not
merely the detached bits we recognize in the words *will-
power.' Lifting-power is what I am trying for. What is that
big thing? Oh, we haven't scratched the surface with
words! We've dimly sensed the urge in a snail-like thing
we call evolution, the lowest speed, dragging gait of prog-
ress. That isn't the way it's meant to be: this other thing
is the way it's meant to be. In evolution the power is barely
great enougli to drag us along. This way we go with it.
"All we seem to realize is that will-power accomplishes
certain results of self-propulsion. But look how hard you
run in tennis, or walk in fishing or doing something you
like. That's another sort of self-propulsion: easier because
THE POSITIVE INGREDIENT 49
you are in harmony loith nvhat you are doing. That isn't
generally recognized as part of the lifting force. And it gets
so stiff and painful when you do it from the will-power
side. This whole fabric of lifting-power is quite new to me.
It's so definitely divorced from the mind: will-power is
centered in the mind. Mind is the planning organ. But that
which carries out the plans of the mind is the real executive.
This force is to will-power what will-power is to the mind.
I don't know what that real executive of you is called.
There's a lift to happiness and harmony which is so much
easier a way than this painful will-power business. It makes
the leaping flame instead of just a smoulder. One is done
with your united being; and the other in spite of your
divided being."
Much later Betty out of her experience of the moment
coined a significant phrase.
"Had a nice coTnbtistion of happiness,^^
said she. "It re-
vealed something to me. There's a great big principle there.
This morning in my shower, when I turned it from warm
to cold, I thought, Ha! here comes the cold! I'll grapple
with it and exercise myself against it! You old cold, you;
I'll show you! Ha! And that element of pleasure in meeting
it enthusiastically, and outdistancing it, as it were, was a
discovery. I enjoyed it, and was warm under it without
feeling bitten by it. ... I can't tell it. Anyhow, I know
there's a dynamo in enthusiastic comhustion^^
3
Later on the Invisibles defined the positive ingredient more
clearly. Then we understood why they had stepped around
it so carefully. It calls for a word which has become, as
Betty said, a "skiddy word." This one certainly needs re-
treading, for there is no substitute that carries the whole
50 WITH FOLDED WINGS
meaning. The word is love. It is a pity we cannot discard
its sickly sentimental connotations and use it in its fresh and
simple meaning.
"The word," said the Invisibles, "has become a palimpsest
overlaid with the scribblings of many interpreters until the
original simple writing has been obscured. But this is true:
whatever is done, whether in the physical world, in human
relations, in the substance of thought, or spiritual contact
whatever is done with love endures. All else is consumed
in the eventual transformation. I do not mean necessarily
and completely 'sentimental' love. If I were to attempt, in
a few words, to define what I mean, I'd say 'things done
heartily''—these alone have a complete and ultimate in-
fluence in the accretion and the fashioning of the spirit
entity.
"Love comprises all that is of a positive character. It is
understanding as well as sentiment. But it has many in-
gredients, and all must be equally developed before perfect
love is attained. Any effort, any outward-looking thing that
constructs is an ingredient of love. The man who builds
conscientiously a brick wall is manifesting one of the in-
gredients of love. It is of course a small ingredient as com-
pared to what is manifested when a man sacrifices his life
for another."
4
How—or where—can one acquire more of this "love"?
If it is the foundation of all individual progress, and if we
happen to be deficient in it, we are in a bad way. The
answer, technically, is complex, as will appear later in these
pages. But we can get a glimpse from a talk we had with
Betty, long after, when she was in the unobstructed uni-
verse.
IHE POSITIVE INGREDIENT Jl
"There are," said she, "in your obstructed universe, three
kinds of love: sacrificial love; demanding love; and the
third—I'm troubled for my adjective. It's the combination
of the other two: it enfolds."
"Interfusing love?" one of us proposed.
"It's more than that."
"Describe its action. That may suggest something."
"Well," said Betty, "demanding love includes the need
of expressions of love. Limited-universe marriage is part
that. Also work—a man's love for his work. Ambition, too.
It's laudable.
"Sacrificial love—true mother's love is frequently just
that. Patriotism. Self-denial. Wide charity.
"All love is good, but the third love is above, higher
edits the other two. It encompasses; it knows. It knows how
far sacrifice should go, how far demands should go. The
source—they who have this love in your universe have
tapped the source. It is inclusive; it contains the other two,
and their expressions. It radiates above and beyond the
emotion of human relationships, yet it includes them. It
enfolds and comprehends, though sometimes without in-
dividual understanding on your plane of the universe. That
is the love that Christ talked about, and it includes all the
gradations, glories, and beauties of the other two."
"Could be called the state of love?" one of us queried.
"Yes. The reason for this rather academic discussion of
love is that I want to create in your consciousness the
reality of the entity of love. One of the miscomprehended
statements of BibHcal literature is this: God is love.
"Now that *state of love' is the third kind. It is one of
the most important facts of the unobstructed universe.
Love, if I can use an analogy, is so actual here with us that
it needs no more factual assurance than the air you breathe.
52 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Love with me is so real that I can permeate you with it.
I enfold you. I make you conscious of it—or rather if you
accept it you will be conscious of it. You don't need to ask
for it, you don't need to demand it, because it is always
there. You just have it. Now all individuality has to have
a focus, a peg on which to hang itself. I am your peg. But
you can so love me that this love permeates all of your own
universe and carries over to ours—bridges."
"Could not too exclusive a focus on the peg be detri-
mental to the wide aspect?" I asked.
"If it is only the demanding love."
And here is another side-glimpse from another Invisible
at another time.
"All love, from the love of a flower or a bit doggie or
even a skyline by a hill, to the love between two human
beings, is nought whatever but an unrecognized realization,
not merely of kinship, but of actual identity. It is a frag-
ment, not yet intellectualized, of what will be in the course
of development a universal, and not a fragmentary thing.
Love may be defined in terms of identity, just as, in dealing
with particulars, identity may be defined in the terms of
love. They are interchangeable terms."
The ultimate aim, in the highest utilization of any material
environment such as your earth, is the fullest expression of
spirit in the completest manifestation of matter.
INVISIBLE
Strain will never accomplish anything but defeat If radiance
were anything but illumination in rapture, it would not be
radiance.
invisible
V. NEGATIVES
We have touched on the positive side of func-
tion. There is also to be examined the negative side, the
reverse of eagerness. And that is fairly well expressed by
what the Invisibles called "drab-colored words"—drudgery
and duty.
Now here, the Invisibles acknowledge, might be
preached what could readily be made into dangerous doc-
trine. That is, if it is taken as sanction to license or avoid-
ance. It is neither, as you will see when you have finished
this chapter, nor is it in any manner relief from responsi-
bility.
Even though that is understood, the two proposals are
startling enough at first glance.
Never be content to pursue a course of action merely
because it is your "duty."
Never "give up" things for the sake of your soul.
Over the years these two admonitions were given us many
times without great elaboration. But when the Invisibles
finally tackled the subject in detail they began with general
principles.
53
54 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"The more fully," said they, "you can live outwardly
and inwardly expressed, and develop the thing that is in-
dividually and personally and uniquely you, the more com-
pletely are you fulfiUing function. But the deep-set currents
of your being are not always easy to recognize. Do not
mistake the ghostly pressures of habit, of environment, of
the power of old-time thought. They are strong in con-
viction. Naked duty is easy to mark as the flint-faced hag
she is. But clothed in tradition and the expectation of ap-
proval or reward she often hides her identity. Always re-
member that a thing done merely because it is a conven-
tional duty, unbacked by the essence of self, is sterile and
unproductive. There is no duty to others that is not also
a duty to one's self.
"It is for this reason we have so often deprecated the
value of plain and gray duty. It is even seriously to be
doubted whether one should ever be content merely to *do
his duty.' If it appears to him as a duty, with a capital D,
then he is regarding that event too superficially. He must
lay aside that particular aspect which shows itself as a duty,
and go back and back of it until he finds something wider
and more inclusive, which he can perform heartily. For ex-
ample, one is a wee lad and he looks with considerable dis-
favor on a long wet tramp through the brae to bring home-
ward the kine, and he goes forth for the performance of that
task only because he feels it to be his duty. If this lad is a
Scot, and hence philosophically inclined, he might conceiv-
ably be able to abandon the thought of the task as a duty and
obtain a necessary enthusiasm to make of it a formative
thing—and these little things are formative as well as the
big things—by reflecting on the real pleasure it will give his
widowed mother to see him taking responsibiUty. Thus he
has centered his force of motivation not in the detail of the
NEGATIVES S5
thing to be done, but in a wider underlying principle. This
is a crude childish illustration, but I purposely take the very
simplest example to make clear v^hat I mean. No man
should ever merely 'do his duty'; but in recognizing a duty
as such, he should examine back and back of it to find it is
only one detail of a larger principle which is his pleasure.
If he cannot do that he must not do his duty. I speak here,
of course, as you understand, in a rather exaggerated hyper-
bole. It is sometimes desirable to do certain drudgeries
which cannot be avoided, pending the discovery of the
leaven which will make them palatable.
"Indeed, such performances are often valuable, as calis-
thenic exercises are valuable, in strengthening spiritual
muscles. But it must not be thought for a moment that one
is thereby attaining grace, as so many worth-while people
imagine. The disagreeable, merely as such, is never con-
structive in the direct sense. The disagreeable, however, is
often a challenge to our spiritual perceptions. Unless the
thing presented for our performance is evil or out of
harmony, there exists in it somewhere—if our natures are
developed enough to find it—an aspect or an inclusion
which will fit into our world of things done heartily. All
life is a challenge to our spiritual perception of harmony
there is nothing but what fits if only we can find out how."
3
This brings us to the question of sacrifice, and especially
self-sacrifice. In popular esteem, sacrifice is meritorious. We
admire it, though we may not do it. And we tend to look on
it as a moral duty. There is that "duty" again. But the In-
visibles had other ideas.
"Self sacrifice," said they, "in the popular conception
of giving up your own to another almost indiscriminately
56 WITH FOLDED WINGS
and without reference to the conditions, is often bad. It may
indicate merely laziness or a vain self-righteousness. Self-
sacrifice, so called, is true and constructive only when it
has its inception in the field of complete inner conviction.
And then it is merely a recognition, conscious or intuitive,
of the fact that the harmonious need of the moment is for
relinquishment. And since this is a natural process, it is in
final analysis a joyous process, as is any harmonious func-
tioning.
"A man should not give up an object of desire because
of some rigid intellectual idea of duty, or some weak
sentiment or emotion, or some' mistaken conception of
stripping himself to give to others as a meritorious thing in
itself. He should relinquish only because he senses that the
occasion demands, for the harmony of which he is a part,
a foregoing rather than an insistence. In this understanding,
what the world calls self-sacrifice is no sacrifice at all, in the
sense that it involves much pain or ultimate regret.
"Indeed, if pain is felt in arriving at the point of re-
linquishment, he can always apply a sure test. This test is
whether, through the decision at which he has arrived, he
experiences a completely unregretful satisfaction and a
sense of having done the totally harmonious thing. If srill
there lingers a strong sense of mere duty, that in itself in-
dicates that he has not functioned entirely within his field
of complete understanding.
"Sometimes his decision, from an abstract point of view,
may be intrinsically correct, and he *should' make the sacri-
fice. Nevertheless, from his personal point of view the
struggle to be made is not in the direction of this especial
relinquishment. It is within himself, to extend his under-
standing so that it will include the pressure which has
forced him to the decision of mere duty.
NEGATIVES $7
"Or, again, it may be that his duty decision is intrinsically
wrong, though he may not know it. To give up what he
should defend may throw confusion into the harmony of
the General Plan. Knowingly to abandon to others that
which is not their right may only deprive him of that which
he should rightfully have. At the same time it may also fill
unhealthily a gap whose completion by effort should have
developed certain qualities in the others.
"You must not forget that in such decisions all your
powers—^intellectual, emotional, intuitional—must be ac-
corded full play. If a man comes to such a decision without
calhng upon himself fully, he may permit surface desirabili-
ties too great an importance. He may penetrate so little
beyond his mere liking as never to allow other influences
access to him. Perhaps, when he goes deeper into himself,
he may discover that in these particular circumstances he
may not hke these things at all! —however desirable they
may be in other and perhaps more ordinary circumstances.
Then his feet are on the ground."
Most of us think of asceticism as the supreme example of
self-sacrifice. Likewise most of us harbor a sneaking suspi-
cion that there may be some sort of good in it. The In-
visibles would have none of this.
"It is a mistaken idea," said they, "that conscientious and
ritualistic giving up of things has merit. Giving up things,
per se, has no merit at all. The moment any philosophy, any
system of thought denies or avoids, you may know that it is
wrong. Perhaps you may have to search for meanings and
adjustments and proportions before your life will work
smoothly, but you cannot cut off part of it and have any-
thing left but a monstrosity. That is the trouble with all
58 WITH FOLDED WINGS
asceticisms. The idea is not to divest yourself but to utilize
yourself; to express the whole of yourself and not just a
part. Welcome and accept all human instincts, all savoring
of life. No matter how commonplace, how humble or
capable of being used solely for material purposes certain
functions may be—nevertheless, properly viewed, properly
utilized, each may express some aspect of spirit that other-
wise could not be as adequately expressed."
Objection to this doctrine occurred to us. For a good
many centuries, we pointed out, the school of monasticism,
withdrawal, abstinence, denial has had great authority and
unassailable standing as the way to spiritual life. As one of
us phrased it, "the oriental retirement from the trivialities
of ordinary life in order to concentrate on spiritual
growth."
"The product of that system," said the Invisible, "is not
without value. Nevertheless, it does not fulfill the ideal of
its functioning. It is too thoroughly an individualistic
achievement. It lacks the contagious quality which should
make it avail in the common earth life. Whatever its reach-
ings, its powers and its appeals, they are primarily adapted
to other planes than that of physical earth, and may only,
by art and knowledge, be secondarily applied to the earth
plane.
"I must repeat: no physical aspect of life, no matter how
unlikely it may seem at first glance, but has a spiritual com-
plement which its use, or indulgence, can release. The task
of the world is to find and to grow into these correspond-
ences. The long spiritual striving of the East fell into
negations and avoidances. So it has attenuated itself into
what might be called a sterile and solitary functioning,
mostly on a plane not intended in the original plan. It is
necessary, then, to start anew in the richness of the soil."
NEGATIVES 59
The idea of aceticism, the Invisibles hastened to add, is
by no means pecuHar to the East. Indeed the West, espe-
cially in the Dark Ages, carried it to the extreme of fanati-
cism with only a minimum of the wider spiritual connota-
tions.
"Christianity likewise fell into negation," said the In-
visible, "and in a manner even more fatal than in the case
of the Eastern beliefs. The negations of the latter were at
least motivated by the theory that they were an integral
element of higher growth. The negations of the West,
however, came to their authority merely through a con-
stricting fear, so that in their final form they implied that
aught of earth that gave pleasure must, by that very fact,
be deterrent. This peculiar doctrine took its inception from
an eager instinct for concentration, and a mistaken exten-
sion of the primitive rite of sacrificial offering. It was a
sublimation, in a way, of the old savage superstition that
the sacrifice of that which the suppliant holds dear is a
propitiation for ultimate favor. In primitive society the
sacrifice of a bullock was made to win immediate privilege
from a personal god. In the larger later development the
sacrifice was of those things that made life pleasurable, in
order to purchase a remote and future 'heaven.' So sub-
limated, there increasingly became attached to it a body
of inhibition which, in aggregate, made indeed of earth
existence a Vale of tears,' supportable only as a price of
future, and otherwise unearned, bliss.
"Unfortunately this attitude is still very common. It
varies widely in degree and gets startlingly diverse results.
To it are due a great list of prohibitions, ranging from the
imposed celibate orders to the keeping of the Sabbath holy
by reducing its activities to the smallest trickle that could
sustain life. All this diversity could, however, be comprised
6o WITH FOLDED WINGS
again in that single, dry-rotting word, negation. In place
of transforming ever more and more of the functions of
material life into their proper expression of the comple-
mentary spiritual values, the process tends rather to wither
more and more even of the significances already in exist-
ence. As a consequence this Western philosophy, like the
Eastern, has become a dead-end product, without further
growth. Both will continue to function, each in its own
way, but in the future their contribution must be rather
that of the tributary than that of the main current.
"The task of your evolution is not to deny, for all nega-
tion is either deterrent or destructive. The real task is to
utilize and educate, so that your action may not only fully
and pleasurably express all its earthly capabihties, but also
act as a conduit to its appropriate spiritual counterpart.
There is no thing, no function, no pleasure, no gratification
but can in development not only express its first and obvious
earthly content, but also be made to release its complemen-
tary spiritual content. Your part is to live in full, as far as
you may, all correspondences that your material earth
presents to you; to do so without negation; but so to accept
and use each and every one of them that you may eventu-
ally discern and attract its spiritual meaning. This is not
only a satisfying, but an immensely thrilling pursuit. You
exercise in it the instinct and ingenuity, not of your mind
but of your heart. And when that spiritual complement is
finally uncovered by you, sometimes in the most unex-
pected and unlikely aspects, you will experience the excite-
ment and satisfaction of one who at once discovers and
enriches. That use and that meaning are in every natural
aspect of your earth life. The future of the general spiritual
advance of your race is dependent upon this process of
discovery. As an individual you contribute your quota of
NEGATIVES 6l
your personal research, for that research is synonymous
with growth. In this plowing and fallow time, when it
seems the race Hves in a muck of materialism, that is the
harrowing you may contribute. It is in the muck because it
begins a fresh and, we hope, more glorious attempt."
Still we were not satisfied.
"How about the so-called Masters of the Far East," we
wanted to know. "If they attained to their advanced powers
by withdrawing to the Himalayas and doing Yogi exercises,
then why shouldn't we?"
"You have the thing wrong end to," repHed the Invisible.
"John Jones could not withdraw to the Himalayas and do
the things in the certain way you speak of and become an
adept. It is only an adept who can do it. It is not by con-
scious taking of thought, and withdrawing from hfe for the
purpose of pursuing spirituahty like an elusive and rather
solitary fox, that one attains—unless the withdrawal seems,
not a question, but the most natural thing in the world. An
effort to renounce is not the effort which is the price of all
growth. The effort must be always to expand, to reach out,
to gain more contacts, to live everyday hfe with a leaven
of sympathy, and to walk on the highest plane of which one
is capable. If these things are done naturally and simply and
eagerly and with a will, spirituality, as you call it, will flood
in, bringing with it all its gifts of intuirion, of spiritual
wisdom, of cosmic contact. But that is a thing which must
be left to take care of itself. All the other is yours to do,
and to its doing you bring all that you can of that which
comes to you on the flood."
5
These pronouncements, I reahze, will strike many as radical
and iconoclastic. But not many of the younger generation.
62 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Outgrowing things is their specialty. Nevertheless, there
are two sides to the picture.
"The younger generation's overturning of our lifeless
idols of duty and sacrifice," said the Invisible, "is in reahty
a very healthy rebellion. The farther reaches of psychology
have showed the damaging impress of these older concepts.
Now, what the younger generation have not discovered yet
—life will surely teach them—is the seeing the scheme of
responsibility whole. They must realize their importance in
the creative scheme of things, so that the unquestioned
giving of themselves to doing their part is as healthy an out-
going of self as a good football tackle. The seeing of their
responsibilities whole will finally reveal duty and sacrifice,
in their essential structure, as full-blooded essentials of
conquest rather than old dried mummies of dogma.
"These young rebels are the creative ones of the next
generation. But they will find they can't work successfully
without a technique of association. And they haven't gone
far enough yet to build themselves a better and healthier
one than the old.
"What they'll find in time is that the job can't be done,
however improved their new tools may be, without the
essentials of duty and sacrifice. But they must get them in
their own terms, and the result won't be the old thing at
all. Enthusiasm will be its life blood."
It is hard for us to foresee here what will be the results of
this more general belief and how much we dare reveal. The
teachers are all very cautious, for reaction must be carefully
reckoned before knowledge can be given out. There is so
much danger in the present situation that it is one of the
first things we are cautioned about, when we are allowed to
give communications: that is to be very watchful and not go
too far, to move slowly and cautiously for the present. We
have to note results carefully. It is the most intensive and
comprehensive campaign that has ever been arranged over
here, they say. It will be the most far-reaching and we are
all tremendously excited about it. You see, we are under
strict orders and have to evade sometimes the way they do
on a witness stand, because we are not quite sure how much
we dare tell. Also there is great care taken lest any con-
flicting information gets out. It is a wonderfully well-
planned campaign. There is great consultation here all the
time and we have to report results of our work. ... I am
aching to tell you lots more state secrets, but I cannot. Don't
forget one thing, will you? and that is that a wonderful age
of stimulated creation is ahead, the result of the war suffer-
ing. We are all watching so eagerly the growth of the big
things.
INVISIBLE
Don't you imagine that, if a seed could think, it might look
on you as spirits with the wisdom of God, because you made
it grow by cultivation and the understanding of law? Well,
suppose yourselves seeds underground, and think of us as
ordinary people who have a higher comprehension of law.
and who help you germinate.
INVISIBLE
VI. CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT
We proceed in evolution by expansion of con-
sciousness. This takes place through function by the natural
processes of growth. But when the time is ripe for the in-
dividual, he may greatly foster—not force—the natural
process by taking conscious charge. Before that ripe
63
64 WITH FOLDED WINGS
moment he is more or less insulated from spiritual aware-
ness, ordinarily, by indifference or open scepticism. That
is why revelation—any revelation, great or small—gen-
erally receives limited acceptance. That is why pressure
methods and proselyting have so little permanent value. Per
contra, when the moment of ripeness does arrive the oppor-
tunity is always there. Whether it comes in one form or
another does not matter. There are many forms, and as
many approaches.
The moment of ripeness comes to races as well as in-
dividuals. Then we find especial effort on the part of the
invisible powers. There is a surge of interest and effort and
belief. Sometimes this is expressed in material or economic
or political terms; sometimes in what is known as "psy-
chics," or intellect, or reUgion.
Apparently the present is one of those moments. The
plowing and harrowing of war and social disturbances have
prepared both general conditions and the individual for a
fresh sowing. And through suffering the fields of human
thinking have been made receptive.
"This," said the Invisibles, "is the most marvelously
plastic time we shall have for aeons. For that reason it is
vitally important to utilize it. We are all of us making a
mold. Youth feels it most; feels the healthy intuition to go
as far as possible in freedom, to outrun the greatest possible
distance from the old shackles, now^ while it is possible, be-
fore the stiffening process begins again.
"Whispered counsels, too low to be heard by the world
of ruder comprehension, have kept alive the mere trace of
spiritual consciousness which exists today. Now the effort
is to the fostering of development of this nearly lost po-
tentiahty. You can see for yourself, when you contemplate
the historical picture, how necessary it has been to bring to
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 6^
earth the scientific strength, control and rationale of phy-
sical law. But, now that it bids fair to topple over its own
structure by limiting satisfactions to its own achievements.
It must regain impetus by directing its explorations to new
fields, illuminating hitherto unseen possibilities/*
"It looks," observed Betty, "like the last lap of a period
in time which is ripening a movement. There is a confident
feeling that we need only wait so long—it is not very long
—before a new epoch comes in. I am delighted with the
looks of it. What a comfort it will be to have everybody
hang their own responsibilities on thermelves through their
own standards of belief! It can only be done by waiting for
the maturity of this idea, this level of belief they are grow-
ing. There are a few here and there who stand out above
the others, but it must be an accepted thing by the majority
before it can do the race much good. . . .
"I wonder what that nice new shining idea is? It has so
much vitahty. I can see it springing out of laboratories, out
of books, leaping and bounding into life. . .
"Nothing is as important for this particular age. He says
that distinctly. No inventions or peerless presentations of
any form of human conceptions are as important as per-
sonal demonstration of the harmonious living which comes
of spiritual consciousness. It is a great message, to those who
are prepared, to go forth into the world as lawgivers of life,
healers and harmonizers, inspirers and gift bringers from
the wider, freer, bolder life. They called me to say it, but
Fm not good enough to translate. That's too bad. But per-
haps even in dusty fragments the message may have some
beauty, though it hardly seems possible. There's nothing
anybody can do so important as to gain the consciousness
of hourly spiritual influence."
66 WITH FOLDED WINGS
The time is ripe, then, for many of us to take conscious
charge of our development. It hardly needs saying that
conscious contribution has the potentiality of being many
times more effective than any bhnd offering—for good or
for ill. But how do we go about this taking over? In the
telling, the answer is deceptively simple: by conscious co-
operation with spiritual forces. Even in the dawnings of
understanding, mankind had a dim appreciation of this. We
call that appreciation by the general term "religion." Crude
as it originally was, adulterated as it always has been by
selfish and material ends, nevertheless it had in it always an
element of true spiritual cooperation. And in certain his-
torical instances it became almost pure spirit offering itself
up in service of the All.
Meantime the work of the world had to be done. So in-
sistent is that necessity that it is probably a good thing the
average man still does not see clearly what it is all about.
The job has to be done. We can take no chances that it
may be dropped in favor of a mistaken pursuit of Higher
Powers.
Here we must return once more to our aim. All along we
have seen that our basic obligation is self-development. But
before we pursue that obligation into spiritual realms it be-
hooves us to ask ourselves a question. For what purpose do
we seek to further ourselves in evolution? What is our
private aim in this seeking? Is it ourselves as ourselves? Or
have we a more inclusive purpose?
In this connection let us examine the other aspect of the
twofold objective of evolution. You will recall this as the
coordination of individuals in a functioning Unity. Later, in
defining education, this was expressed differently as "the
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 67
process of changing the emphasis from the egocentric to
the altruistic." Including this aspect, then, our own basic
aim is to make of otirselves agents better equipped to aid m
the advance of the ivhole.
In the larger sense that which subserves the universal
Aim is good—whatever it is. That which does not subserve
it is evil—whatever it is. In judging, therefore, whether our
reaching out for spiritual forces is Right or Wrong, we may
ignore the bewilderments of detailed method, provided we
are wholeheartedly honest in our basic aim—to make of
ourselves agents better equipped to aid in the advance of
the whole. In this, as in all enterprise, we can rely absolutely
on the sure protection that, if our aim is single and pure, we
are safe. If it is diluted with self-seeking—in the narrower
sense—or with pride, then we are in danger. The matter is
as simple as that. Above all with pride. The moment we
begin to look upon our efforts toward spiritual cooperation
as placing us above others in an "especially selected" cate-
gory, then we enter a blind alley. Apropos, it would be well
to re-examine the beatitudes through retranslation from the
Aramaic. The same symbol that indicates "spirit" in that
language means also "pride." "Blessed are the poor in spirit"
is rather too humble; "blessed are the poor in pride" really
means something.
How are we to judge whether or not our aim is pure?
Is there any compass we can steer by? The answer is yes.
It is the results of our efforts as reflected in our lives. What
direction do our actions take, naturally and without strain?
At this point we must use another word that needs re-
treading. All down the years mankind has used it to mark
an ultimate goal. As with all such fundamental terms, it has
become overlaid with the partial and the sentimental and the
false. I refer to the word "service." This has been so abused
68 WITH FOLDED WINGS
that to many it has become a cause for levity or cynicism.
When it was offered to Betty she did not like it. But it
caused her to find another, of an aUied nature. One we shall
return to later in these pages.
"Service is a cold word," she objected; "this is a warm,
living—a sort of spontaneous creation, a curiously spread-
ing, outgoing thing. It is more like production through the
desire to produce. I can't see much of this strain and duty
and uninspired effort, heaviness of work which I, and every-
one else, go through to accomplish things. There is some-
thing one-sided when it's that way. This other is like the
hard work you do in play, only it's a consuming, quicken-
ing, life-begetting thing. It is glowing, pulsing, sweeping
you along. We weren't meant to work with heaviness; it's a
discordant condition. Work is just fun. What a pity that
the tradition of work has become so painful. Work! Pro-
duction. Work is painful: production is better. Service has
a sterile taint. What can I get that is self-acting? Creation is
the nearest to it. That is a cleaner, brighter word. People do
not create under a lash."
Creativeness, then, is the test we are looking for. If our
lives are creative, in the inclusive sense of contributing
something real to humanity, then we are on the right track.
3
There are a thousand methods of cooperating consciously
with spiritual forces, ranging from performing the most
humdrum tasks with a full content of spiritual understand-
ing to the most profound philosophical or religious under-
takings—and everything in between. It is a mistake to
suppose that spiritual growth must be technical. That our
own approach happened to be the psychic means nothing as
a prescription. It is a road for specialists, and is one of the
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 69
more dangerous ways unless skilfully and continuously
safeguarded. The safeguard is, again, the aim. For what
reason is one doing it? For development of psychic stunts
and powers? For material benefit? For personal pride or
prestige? Out of curiosity? Or for the single purpose of
becoming a better tool?
At the risk of tiresome repetition I must reiterate that
there is in everything, in every activity, this potential
duality of purpose. The most clearly defined illustrations
can be cited in the professions. A young man ''expands his
consciousness" in medical school to acquire skill to heal. His
primary ambition may be to bring ease to suffering, or it
may be a fashionable practice and lots of money. Another
may write a book for the purpose of expressing an insight
into life, or he may all the time have his eye on markets and
sales. He may study art that he may bring more beauty into
the world, or his sole idea may be to acquire the skill to do
pot boilers. He may seek to be a well-paid shyster or a
seeker for justice. In all cases the activities are the same; the
outcomes differ. The difference is in the aim.
This was put up to us clearly when the Invisibles took us
in charge.
"Your success will depend on your attitude," they told
us. "One attitude you may take is the desire to expand the
consciousness and understanding for the sake only of the
joyous inclusion and comprehension of more and more of
the spiritual quahty; as one expands one's lungs to breathe
deeper of the freshness of the morning. The other attitude
—differing so slightly from it that it is even difficult to ex-
press the difference clearly—seeks spiritual quahty as an in-
gredient of persoTial spiritual growth. The difference is, as I
have said, very subtle; but the one is safe and wholesome;
the other is beset with danger, and leads into a confusion
yo WITH FOLDED WINGS
unimaginable. The latter seeks primarily development,
which, when consciously primary as a motive, is a trait of
self-centeredness. The other seeks only a capacity for
greater inclusion."
The immediate object, they made it equally clear, was a
better and more effective technique of living—again for
the ultimate purpose of greater usefulness. Nothing, they
emphasized, is any good at all unless it is usable in every-
day life. If that were not so, there would be no particular
object in our being on earth. This is true even of the most
abstract and apparently detached strivings and speculations.
They must have an umbilical cord to human life or they
have no life of their own. The Invisibles called this necessity
the principle of "Make-it-so." But, they added as corollary,
while actual overt action, visible application and function-
ing are the usual, inner action and functioning may also be
an ingredient of growth. They called this type of action
radiation. The emphasis of radiation was one of their ob-
jectives.
"A developed person,'' they explained, "even a develop-
ing one, who has come to some recognition of the vital
spirit expanding within him, has the opportunity of utiliz-
ing that power over the most commonplace episodes of
daily life. It is more exactly like water let loose on parched
ground than any other figure I can find. Not too great a
volume of water at first; but the life-giving spirit of it
creeping and seeping, arousing and expanding the paralysis
of aridity, everywhere supplying the quickening element
that releases the fertility stored in the dusty brown earth.
It is just this gentle distribution around you of the spiritual
heart force as you feel its expansion within you that will
teach you the actuality of spiritual faculties. It is not a di-
rected irrigation like the so-called mental treatment; it is
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 7I
more the rising stream finding its spirit level in opened
places among natural encouragements and resistances.
"In other words, the steadiness of the original life-giving
impetus is what fosters the best area of growth. Therefore
the person who is, who maintains the heart area, the at-
mosphere, the climate of the spiritual mind—he is the
eminent citizen of eternity, the life-educated one, soundly,
progressively self-made, permanently cooperative."
There are many methods, as I have said, of consciously co-
operating with spiritual forces. And each method has its
individual approach, appropriate to itself. Since our own
approach was the psychic, most of the early training was
largely occupied with the development of the psychic
faculties, especially that of communication with the invisi-
ble. But here also the means were carefully distinguished
from the end. From the very beginning our Invisibles
vigorously rejected "psychic power" as an objective.
"The purpose of this exploration," said they, "is not
immediately to broaden communication between the ob-
structed and the unobstructed universes. One of the causes
for the instabiUty you note in peoples, individuals, society,
thought, is the ultra and sudden ease of communication in
time and in space. The radio and the auto are not stabilized.
They are too rapid for the assimilation of society in general.
Knowing these things probably even better than you, it
could not therefore be our purpose to do more at this time
than re-establish on the basis of your present knowledge
and the demands of your present knowledge—the faith in
the divinity of self that is tottering."
This purpose became evident to us after a while, but at
the outset it was natural that our first curiosities and won-
72 WITH FOLDED WINGS
ders should be concerned with the psychic processes them-
selves. Nevertheless, the Invisibles steadfastly held before
us the ultimate objective: that they had for us a "divulg-
ence"—^provided they could develop a channel through
which to express it.
"It is not," they disclaimed against our uneasiness," a
fuzzy, fetishy thing. It's a square-cornered block of facts;
and we are going to hurl them right at the world, square
and strong. Can't you see what a tough nut that is to crack?
Can't you see it's a wedge of spiritual substance, hard-
driven into the toughest fibre of the world? It's a good
strong blow in an effort to penetrate the
—" they hesitated.
" ^Hopeless tenuosity of our consciousness,' they say,"
the Station helped out. "That's funny: we always think of
them as tenuous, and here we are just foggy! I don't wonder
we can't take hold of anything: and here they are
all square-cornered and wedges and things like that,
(chuckled) I thought you said we are a tough-fibred
world!
"It's a tremendous job because, you see, we are not very
intelligent about it. This is a carry-through proposition.
They are depending on us for concerted action in planning
the demonstration of what is given. That part is for us to
manipulate. They plan for it to permeate print and pulpit
and pictures and pastimes, (chuckled) I bet you ran out
of p's."
"It is planned for the moments of relaxation," the In-
visible explained, "the most susceptible of moments. Let this
thing grow in your collective consciousness, but remember
it must be administered popularly. It is like the little thin
life-saving line they shoot over to pull over the big one
afterwards. It is a small effort now, but it prepares the
pubHc mind for the big wedge of demonstration through
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 73
scientific discovery. Later it will be linked to the slow
process of evolution in collective intelligence."
"What the world needs," said they on another occasion,
"is a chemical demonstration of spirituality. You see what
the substance of spirituality does to individuals; why not
also to the race through standardized education? What an
immense breaking down of barriers, if something more than
the mere verbal philosophy could be given! If it could be
demonstrated! Humanity stepping over the line, humanity
released from complete physical consciousness. Superstition
vanished under education. If the awe of superstition could
be lost. Awe is an active agent, both good and evil. Half-
education has developed contempt, arrogance, unleashed
egotism—banished the awe. Real education must proceed
to the point of redeveloping the awe, but enlightened, rein-
forced. Wipe out the superstition of physical limitations to
the human soul. That is where the blow is to fall; the effort
to prove.
"Men sickened and died by thousands, ^through the
visitation of heaven,' it was piously said, piously believed
except by a rebellious few. And the rebellious few strove to
wipe out this deep-rooted superstition, just as we are trying
to get you to strive now to wipe out the superstition of
heaven (i.e., the conventional heaven), which keeps men's
souls at best restricted, and at worst sickened by thou-
sands."
5
As for our own personal share in all this, though the
basic Aim was as above set down, the Invisibles might be
said to have entertained hopeful intentions rather than an
aim. Our job was more in the way of ground breaking than
actual construction.
74 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"Push ahead gently," said they. "Each step will be shown
to you. You are getting pictures of our thought, pictures of
our life—by that I mean our life and yours on the spiritual
plane—pictures that will make people think of the spiritual
side of life in everyday practical terms of living. Your work
is twofold. It is a great personal struggle in the line of ex-
ploration and treasure seeking; and then the minting of that
treasure, when found, into popular coin. YouVe got to
distract attention from the old things of damaged popu-
larity, and establish something bright and shining and lov-
able, humorous and beautiful, as a balanced ration of life.
Before plunging into the tremendous effort necessary to put
this over, it is well to cooperate on an objective, under-
standing clearly the united effort necessary if the purpose is
to be achieved."
"So that is it!" commented Betty. "These records are to
be the basis. Through them an eJffort will be made to pro-
duce molds of words to contain this in practical form. It
will be done painstakingly, bit by bit."
"When this development does come before the world,"
continued the Invisible, "when it really comes, it will be
like a big new invention popped out. And you will have
prepared a sort of background for it. What we give you is
to be a firmer foundation for people to stand on. The
scientific development of this isn't ready yet. It takes time
to round out and perfect things. Please note you will not
get such scientific explanation as you expect. You will get
the reality as we can manage to give it. You can deduce as
theory later. We have to work in realities. We mold you
to the thing itself. We cannot tell you in words."
"Nevertheless," I pointed out, "words are what we must
deal with in conveying ideas."
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 75
"That," said the Invisible, "will be your part after the
perception is yours. You can reckon on statements as near
as we are capable of making them, but only as an accom-
paniment to the acquisition of the thing itself. Without
that, explanations would be sterile. Have patience with our
methods; they are more far-seeing in result than you
imagine."
My objection that words would be necessary was even-
tually sustained. But in these early stages there was much
discussion among the Invisibles themselves, and some dif-
ferences of opinion, as to the best procedures.
"At present," urged one school of thought, "it is better
not to crystallize it into words which only restrict the con-
ception of it. It can only be comprehended by each person's
private practice in spiritual being, in play of heart as it
were, unaffectedly following one's intuitive enthusiasms as
a healthy animal acquires its experience and coordinations."
"There seems to be somebody impatient for radical de-
partures in other departments of knowledge," said Betty.
The argument against it seems to be that it doesn't fit con-
secutively with what has been given. There's too much of
a gap."
"The alternative," said the Invisible, "is to get the reality.
I
After all it has no verbal recording. The first requirement
is spiritual development. That is the actual requirement, re-
gardless of whether you can say it or not. If you do not
1
choose it, the material will stay at a dead level, no matter
how beautifully it is placed on paper. Personally, of course,
^
you prefer the precise statement."
"/ like things that feel," said Betty. "That is why we are
successfully adjusted to each other. . . .
"This is a kind of consultation," she went on. "They
•j6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
each one of them have a kind of private hope. They're
making a balanced ration of it, working together and giving
as mucii of the development as possible at a given time, and
interposing as logical a statement of the process as is possi-
ble, and dashing off on an occasional tangent as to possibili-
ties ahead transcending our present knowledge of law."
"Great hope is felt," said the Invisible, "that you will un-
derstand the necessarily intangible quaUt>^ of the develop-
ment—intangible ivhile in process. Although the beginnings
must be somewhat galling and annoyingly mystic to you,
definite results will in time become apparent—a histolysis of
creation. If you will kindly keep this in mind it will facili-
tate the process enormously, especially as the future holds
much that is unrecognizable intellectually, or at least unre-
corded popularly. The farther afield you go, naturally the
more nebulous the beginnings must appear. Do not impose
restrictions, intellectual shackles, while the exercise is in
progress. Be content to formulate it in one department,
master it, possess it, control it, in confidence that you will
later translate it.
"The ultimate question before us is how to establish this
communication on a common ground of procedure, so that
all barriers will be swept away, all arguments and doubts.
There is a vast amount of material that has been gathered
on this side that would be of the greatest help to you. Here-
tofore we have not been able to put it to your use except as
it has been accepted by you as originating in your own
consciousness. In that way a great deal of inspiration is
given from this side, but it would be much more valuable if
you knew whence it came. You would then open your
minds more fully and accept with a certain amount of in-
telligent gratitude the accumulated treasure of ages."
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 77
In the beginning our Invisibles painted a rosy picture of the
purpose we were to fulfill. They spared no pains, no
urgency, no legitimate spur. This was doubtless necessary
to keep us going. But later on they redrew the picture in
proper proportions.
"It is perhaps desirable," said they, "in order to maintain
the pressure of enthusiasm, to permit at least the beginnings
of such work as yours to harbor a hope that is somewhat
illusory. On attaining any new state of consciousness, one
first of all forgets that it is not necessarily a new thing. One
cannot at first gather that others have by multitudes at-
tained the same stage, and even passed beyond it. One feels
that one has made a new discovery, and that all that is
necessary is to show it to others at once to obtain recogni-
tion and acceptance. One dreams of swinging in a body the
whole of mankind into the circle of illumination. In the
thought one forgets that revelation is merely a measure of
development, a yardstick of growth. One forgets that one
must attain, not only intellectual conviction, but also
emotional conviction: one must attain, not only the satisfied
equation, but also the cosmic satisfaction which has nothing
to do with the pure mathematics of the intellect. One for-
gets further that emotional satisfaction of any sort can, by
its nature, come only through a personal experience."
There is a lot more to a thing than merely understanding
it, they pointed out.
"Intellectual conviction gained through study, through
the reading of books, through the experimental examination
of evidence, has one function and one function only: it
moves the center of interest into the path in which personal
78 WITH FOLDED WINGS
experience is most like to be encountered. That is an ex-
tremely valuable function. It accelerates what might other-
wise be a much delayed recognition, through conscious
manifestation, of what is actually prepared.
"The measure of recognition accorded to such statements
as may be sent out by book, by demonstration, or by the
spoken word, is merely a means of evaluating the degree to
which spiritual consciousness has advanced. It is like one
drop of a chemical which, by turning to visible color the
contents of a vessel, makes evident how much of another
chemical is there already in suspension. If a second vessel
be so treated, but containing none of the chemical, no effect
will be produced. And remember, to continue the figure,
if no drop of the first chemical be employed, the color will
also lack its visibility. That is at once the limitation and the
indispensability of such work as you have been chosen to
do on the line of influencing spiritual recognition in a pubUc
at large.
"I tell you these things now because you no longer need
the stim.ulus of a false expectation, but are content to rise
and fall, cradled on the waves of the universal rhythm of
all things. You no longer need a straight line. Straight lines
are not beautiful!
"Our object will not be to convince the world of any-
thing except the need for continued conscious spiritual
growth. The conviction of one thing or another—or an-
other, will come naturally and easily and inevitably to each
individual when he rises by his own specific gravity to that
point. It will come to the world generally only when the
common consciousness, by its own specific gravity, has
also risen to that point."
Thus warned and chastened against undue pride and
CONSCIOUS DEVELOPMENT 79
expectation, we were finally comforted against discourage-
ment.
"Take one step at a time. Say to yourselves: the little
group of us here have waked up a little sooner than the rest
of them, can see the danger a little clearer, are passionately
convinced of the thing to be done. Then we're the ones to
do it. It's only the conviction that we are the ones to do it
that is going to accomplish it. If you practice that uncom-
fortable thought a while, you'll get a little action without
fussing about it."
"My!" cried Betty. "I feel like the fire department called
out, and I don't know where the fire is."
"You see," the Invisible continued, "the trouble is you
only halfway realize how we work. That's the trouble. If
you work in big passionate directions, the superiority of the
force finds its way.
"Please don't say you understand this, because you doiitl
You don't; you don't; you don't! until you've thought
about it no end. It's a lack of passionate direction to life
that fails of accomplishment in any direction.
The main thing at present is germinating this thing in
yourself; the force behind you at the moment; the fact that
it is your business. If that takes complete possession of you,
. we're off; but until it does we are only planning and wait-
,
ing for some big thing that may come some day. I tell you
I
the big thing is here. It is an opportunity such as the world
;
has not known for centuries. Each cycle works to a
'
moment of completion and metamorphosis. This is the
moment of the coming cycle. The whole health and vitahty
of that coming cycle depends on the direction of its
f moment of conception."
Tender tinted clouds ride from world to world. There is
absolution and magic in morning radiance, a hovering secret
of eternity.
BETTY
Until there is worship in the heart, a development of intense
p>erccption of something \'^stly superior to the sovereignty of
the brain, the recognition of our spiritual sun—until that is
actuating, all else is but an intellectual concept.
INVISIBLE
VIL CONTACT
All created things are constantly in contact
with spiritual forces of some kind. Otherwise they would
not exist at all. But for most, even of mankind, this contact
is largely automatic and unconscious. We may experience
hunches or intuitions or flashes of "inspiration." Generally,
however, we do not think of even these as "contact with
spiritual forces." They are just obscure workings of our
minds, only a little more mysterious than any other of our
mental processes.
But when we reach that point of experience which we
have described, when we seek to take conscious charge of
our own development, a change must come about in this
relationship. This is in the nature of things, for taking
charge, as we have seen, implies conscious cooperation with
spiritual forces. And how can we accomplish that without
consciously contacting them?
This, very briefly, is the elementary significance of the
term "contact" as used in our records.
Heretofore these pages have dealt with principles that
are generally applicable. Therefore they could also be
stated in general terms. Now, however, we step over into
the particular and the personal, and therefore deal with
80
CONTACT 8l
principles that defy formulation. A man's contact with the
spiritual forces is a thing individual to himself. Since men
are as unHke as their own thumbprints, it is obvious that
the method that works perfectly for me would work illy
for you. And that phrasing which gives one man a clear
conception will draw blank with another. In deahng with
this subject, then, about the only thing we can do is to
abandon logical arrangement and set down from the
records, almost at random, what was offered us by the
Invisibles. The field of selection is the more limited in that
the material nearest suited to the personal approach has
been used in other books. Much of Betty's first training, it
will be remembered, was centered upon contact and the
conditions necessary for it. What follows is, with a few
repetitions for the sake of a reasonable continuity, some of
the material left over.
"When you are conscious of a thing," pointed out an In-
visible, "you naturally Hve in it. When you expand with
your heart, or think horizontally, or whatever you want to
call it, you've got to come in contact with spiritual sub-
stance, for the reason that then you expand beyond your
world of senses. You ??mst enter it, if you go beyond your
boundaries.
"It is," he acknowledged, "difficult to draw far enough
aside from the countiess little deposits in which we live to
get into a substance which has not all these subdivisions, but
is one flexible vitahty. It is not all made up into clothes and
houses and bird cages and things. Those concrete things
should be wiped out and conditions substituted like en-
thusiasm, admiration, love—anything that is not made up
into articles. That is your real substance, as near as I can
82 WITH FOLDED WINGS
get it. You work with them, instead of tools, to create.
It is better than knick-knacks as a substance to live with."
On another occasion.
"Oh my beautiful aggression of living!" cried Betty as
though in discovery. "That*s what it is!"
"It is built entirely of the heart and perceptions," said the
Invisible. "The brain is just the steering gear. Listen; it's
not a matter of a restless feeling of perpetual motion so
much as a feeling of warm existence like quiet but very
active rays. It is hke the sun growing things."
"This spiritual intelligence, and harmony with law, and
contact, and all that collection of words is just one simple
natural thing," contributed Betty. "It is a state of health,
like a perfection of plant growth or any other vigorous
organism, taking in enthusiastically what is bountifully sup-
plied. It is better to look at it that way because ^spiritual
contact' sounds a little mystical to some. It is a condition,
not an end."
"Holding yourself at this higher pitch is natural," this
from the Invisibles. "It is just a matter of pleasurable prac-
tice. It is like blending with the sun instead of merely being
aware of the sun."
"When I turn to the source of my being," said Betty, "I
am as a cell of an harmonious body illuminated beyond my
comprehension. My only reaction is one of security and
glowing content, a state of rarefied happiness."
"It is," she described on another occasion, "more nearly
akin to being aware of a breath-taking and gorgeous Doing
and eagerly seeking a minute part in it, allowing the vast
Doing itself to flow through and model you to its purposes.
You are, however, not passive at all; you are eagerly active,
as a child is active."
And here is another which has already been printed, but
CONTACT 83
vs/hich cannot be omitted if we are even to attempt an
adequate glimpse. It is Betty speaking.
"Supposing," said she, "you had always been of the
general buoyancy of a flatiron, and suddenly someone
showed you how, by continuously opening yourself up,
you became more like a balloon. Very httle difference, you
see, between you and the air. You are simply an envelope
for it, taking the certain amount of it which differentiates
you. Now substitute for that substance contained inside
the balloon—which also supports it outside—the universal
vital quality of life. You feel it everywhere, in the woods
and the waters, the endless manifestations of vitality,
pulsing and vibrating in contrast to the inanimate things
we handle so constantly. Get that first conception of life,
life, life. Try to see what life is, try to grasp it, compare it
in every way you know. It takes a long, long time of train-
ing yourself just merely to conceive of that life power,
what it actually seems like in essence, and not merely in its
varied forms. Then by degrees, if you can associate your-
self enough with it consciously to rest in it, depend upon
it, then the great secret of these teachings is yours. The rest
is the power of appropriation; how strong and free you can
become partaking of it, and how rhythmically you can
partake of its cyclic movement."
"Feels sort of Uke a blind person walking along," was her
attempt on another occasion, "I feel when I get in a sunspot
of power, and I try to keep in it, and when I stray out of it
I try to get back. I know it's there, and I just have to make
my senses so acute that I can keep in it or get back to it if
I stray. Each person must play his own mental game in this
J
thing.';
"It is not"—this is from an Invisible
—"a reaching for
j
anything; it is absolutely the contrary. It is a secure em-
84 WITH FOLDED WINGS
bryonic , Stirring, happily stretching into one's own par-
ticular universe, basking in growth sensations, until one
establishes one's self in permanent strength from the center
of the heart of hfe, acquiring very gradually and sustain-
edly the consciousness of the similar process going on in
every living thing. This gives inward significance and the
possession of inward companionship with the spiritual
nature of that and all other particularized manifestations of
universal life. Never allow strain or any affectation of mind
to enter into the practice of one's individual heart expansion
or spiritual flame feeding. Let the flame lick up life as it
instinctively will, remembering that it spreads its radiations
as one recognizes and feeds it properly."
And another time:
"Willingness to receive is alone not sufficient to establish
contact," the Invisible pointed out. "The mere wilhngness
is not motivating; in fact, it has a great difficulty to be over-
come in what might be called a suctional quality, a greed
without the contribution of the ardor of soul which main-
tains the higher intelligence without depletion in its own
degree. The mere willingness to receive, or what we have
called the suctional state of mind, precipitates the force
above it; reduces it to a lower manifestation, in which it no
longer functions as a quickening inspirational force. It be-
comes an intellectual 'record,' not a gift of growth silently
available through you to others of your degree."
Again Betty contributes her own individual definitions.
*'I ease my body into pleasant memories. I lull it to com-
fort. I think of the wind in the pines; or feel the sun's
warmth—perfect physical peace and enjoyment; entirely
concerned with my own body. Life surrounding me is non-
existent. I know that each side of my spinal column, placed
in comfort, lie strong, life-sustaining muscles. I will retire
CONTACT 85
all my strength and consciousness into that fastness. It is as
if a trap door were closed. I am within myself: content.
"Slowly, in that content, there forms an interest, a desire
to expand. I do not define any more: I feel. I feel that there
is a secret exit; something awaiting exploration; something
highly desirable and exciting. It lies in a different direction
from that by which I entered, and closed. On one side I can
dissolve all separateness. Something can flow into me, and
I can flow out to it with the same comfort with which I
relaxed the body; only within the comfort is desire and
latent strength, release into a well-being which I cannot
define in words. It is an essence of hfe, not to be put down
in lesser terms. Roughly and poorly I have attempted to
define the word contact."
"Can you," said the Invisible, attempting a definition of
the sensation, "make yourself conscious for a moment of
nothing but the blood which flows through your veins? It's
life, life, life, life! Now hold that idea as often as you can.
It is the great permanent sensation of existence, whether
you express it through your body, or I express it this
moment through my body, or on and on indefinitely. It is
the control of this sensation that makes you a master in
equilibrium, able to cooperate, we will say; for it is not
control exactly, nor manipulation, but cooperation with all
other forms through which the vitality passes. However,
this may be acknowledged in various philosophic or scien-
tific forms, it's the imaginative use of it, the actual physical
effect it has on your body and whole combined make-up
that people don't realize.
"It is savoring your oxygen," he groped further. "It is
like bolting your food if you just go on breathing without
any particular feeling that each breath is a great kinship.
You can take celestial breaths. That savors your oxygen."
86 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"It is," contributed Betty, "the instant of its passing
through you that is your moment of divinity, absolute;
unity. Thus individual life is fed. Everything I get is the
sum of these moments of unity."
Never mind whether you understand fully or not.
"There are," observed Betty apropos of this, "so many
things in this kind of companionship that are delicious; so
many things I share, participate in without understanding.
Something hke being a dog. His associations with his higher
beings are very satisfactory and intensely desirable, but he
doesn't altogether comprehend them. He just enjoys them."
Nevertheless, though we may not "altogether compre-
hend," there is no reason at all why we should not become
fully aware. Plenty of things exist in our environment, im-
palpable and unknown, which need only intelligent action
on our part to become visible. Radio, for a simple example.
The room is full of it, but we are unaffected until we take
measures to bring it to audibility.
"How do you set about trapping radio waves?" chal-
lenged the Invisible. "A human being can be, according to
his own desire, unaware of life forces passing through him,
in which he is immersed, but he can also voluntarily in-
corporate himself with them. In order to do this, some faint
idea of process, some symbol helping in the adjustment,
must be given for those who are starting from this par-
ticular angle.
"Supposing you localize a region of the body to become
an awareness-mechanism, a receiving station, a sensitized
hospitable region where Hfe force is welcomed and ac-
knowledged, we'll say. You know it is all around you, but
you've got to admit it to yourself sornehow. So you take the
poetic region of the heart. Without intellectual effort or
CONTACT 87
reason you childlikely center your perceprive faculties, all
the emotional warmth of which you are capable, in this
open channel of the heart. You must have some symbol of
entrance into the physical being in order to work in these
new terms, to comprehend these especial laws.
"Now this is a great life force, undifferentiated or in-
tentioned or specialized. It is as if one strung one*s self,
like a bead, through an aperture of the heart, on this great
life chain connected with all other created beings.
"Now if you will follow this simplest exposition of law
in truly childlike fashion, step by step, you will actually
create for yourself the sensation of the entrance into your
being of the universal creative life force. Let it continually
flow through you, and as often as possible clear moments
in your life to circulate it through your being, stimulating
mind and body and every part. Nourished by it, let your
mental faculties plan its utilization.
"This can be successful only after deep and powerful
realization of the sensation of the great spiritual blood
stream. Here comes the almost insurmountable difficulty of
translation. The sensation of being in this spiritual blood
stream pouring on earth conditions is not to be contained
in words. I long intensely to work out for you some con-
cept of the spiritual blood stream. It has always been in-
adequately screened by the word God."*
3
Many hints were given as to the use of contact in our days
and hours. The best of these have been presented in the
* It may help formulation if the reader will also look up in The Betty
Book, pages 40-43; 46; 48-49; 52-53; 180-181. Also Across the Unknown,
Chapter XI; pages 59-60; 188-192. And finally The Road I Know, pages
182-187; 192-193; 202-205.
88 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Other books, but a few should be quoted here for complete-
ness.
"The first business of each day," said the Invisibles, "is a
recognition of the sun of your life: unquestioning and eager
heart-lifting acknowledgment of the warm, loving, positive
creative force of the universe beyond our knowledge. Al-
ways give time to purify and clothe fittingly your spirit to
contemplate the unknown great Causal Force operating
through each living thing. Unless you make a conscious ex-
ercise of this, conscious power is not yours throughout the
day. Use your analytical faculties to sense just how matter-
of-fact and ardent and unquestioning is your acceptance
and expectancy of this association. It comes to you; ic
operates in the minutiae of your affairs; your only concern
is to convince yourself of it. It should be the one thing you
are completely, absolutely sure of, and trust in face of all
obscurations. The living belief is your part. The more
established and ardent the conviction, the greater your
calibre.
"At intervals during the day, stop for a moment and rate
the percentages of attention and ardor you are preparing to
put into your various affairs. Examine these percentages as
if they were allotments of finances in a business budget.
Then step aside from them a moment, return to the concept
of your business of eternal purposes, and compare the two.
Which ones of your ordinary activities can you vitalize to
the point where they help you unite with other lives in
greater inclusion of the consciousness which we are striving
to make for you an everyday affair?
"Again we are attacking the interpenetration of spiritual
force with earth inertia. In time its importance will be so
evident you will wonder you could have endured the chill
of self-containment. Once you get the feel of it, the pleasure
CONTACT 89
of its warm expansiveness will be sufficient pursuit in it-
self."
"Where," wondered Betty, "did all the dullness and
apathy of the world come from? How did it accumulate?
How did we cut ourselves off? How did we become so
spiritually paralyzed? Where in our history did we stop
acknowledging the inflowing creative substance of us and
think we could accomplish in living apart from conscious
acknowledgment of it? We cut off the flow to our souls,
and try to force it into such strange channels!
Another time she herself attempted a restatement of the
process.
"It is a simple technique. The very first thing always is
the tuning of yourself, your leap or levitation of heart to
your Source—the absolute tuning of yourself. You are
then imbedded in something so much more potent than
yourself, so incomprehensibly secure, that all you can do is
to sense the comfort, lend yourself rapturously to it.
"Next, while you are completely comfortable, composed
and warmed and reassured of your divinity—^while you are
there, before any tensions can start, while power is upon
you—decide what you are going to do when you are
farther away from it; when you have changed your focus.
Then proceed wholeheartedly to use your ordinary facul-
ties in clean-cut application to the thing in hand.
"What I am trying to say is: don't mix up your regions
of consciousness. When occupied with something practical,
don't keep wondering if you are working in a spiritual way.
The Source will not desert you until you lose your surety
and strangle yourself with tensions. Then you cut it off;
you chill yourself.
"The important thing is the sensing how long you can
work masterfully without renewing yourself. Each person
90 WITH FOLDED WINGS
must decide for himself when he is depleted and recharge
himself for mastery. It is your individual rhythm that de-
termines this. There is nothing difficult about it. Just do
not go on working when you feel that depreciation has set
in. Then a momentary return to attunement is all that is
necessary; provided you have made a strong and accus-
tomed home of it. But while working in our present limited
earth consciousness, it is best to be clean-cut in whole-
hearted application to the thing in hand. It is not necessary
to be continually hurrying back to reassure yourself of the
spiritual quahty. It will not desert you until you yourself
deliberately shut it out.
"The two outstanding points are: to spend always plenty
of time tuning yourself in comfort at your Source; plenty
of time to have it well estabhshed; and then never to doubt
that it follows you when your mhid is completely freed
from it in the minutiae of work."
As SOON as you begin to live in the truth that you hold all
power within you, new worlds will open up Id all directions
like magic
mVISIBLE
VIII. MEASURE FOR MEASURE
The first great laws in human functioning we
have dealt with as The Law of Overflow and The Law of
the Positive Ingredient. They are interdependent. We
found that we obtained the dynamics of our forward evo-
lution from the Positive Ingredient, whose great reservoir
is the Invisible World; and that it is perfectly possible to
make conscious contact with that reservoir.
But now we encounter a third great law, and this we may
call The Law of Complement. It, too, can be simply stated.
Help can come to us from the Invisible, but only in com-
plement to our own effort.
It is difficult to grasp the full implication of this statement.
Or at least we ourselves were slow in getting to it. The
Invisibles told it to us often enough, and in a sufficient va-
riety of forms. We took their urgings to "make the dead
lift," to "make it so," to work hard if we expected them,
the Invisibles, to do anything for us, only as spurs to action.
The implication to us was that the Invisibles would give or
withhold their help according as we were good and deserv-
ing children. It did not dawn on us that the giving or with-
holding was not in their choice. Yet time after time they
plainly said so, in so many words. Here is how some of it
reads, as it came to us scattered over the years.
91
92 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"We are not permitted to carry the growth itself. That
is in your hands."
"The force we bring into the world comes from a com-
bination of conditions created by the person himself. We
can only take advantage of that combination. Once a per-
son of his own force establishes it, we can act on it. The
initial step is your work. This force is, roughly speaking,
emanations from you which meet complementary forces
from this side."
"The energy with which you demand of us will be the
measure of what you will get. It is not so nmch the energy
of dermnd as the shoiving of a force that calls its co777ple-
iTient. It is the energy of measure for measure, given and
received."
And many more, similar, that pointed so exactly to what
was meant that I now marvel how I was so stupid as to miss
it. Some of the references were not so direct but were still
sufficiently pertinent. Talking specifically of raising vibra-
tion, the Invisible said:
"It is best to remind you that this control, this acquisition
of raised vibration—whatever you choose to call it—^is
absolutely within the desire of the individual. It is a thing
one builds or does not build, according to his calibre. There
is no use craving what you do not put out the energy to
take."
What misled us was the fact that we were then being
given the technique, so we confined the application of what
was being said to that particular job.
"There is," said the Invisible, "a curious reciprocity
about this. We can only take advantage of effort, and you
have to supply the effort. You happen to be at a friend's
house tipping a table. There is our chance. But we might
shout at you ten years.
MEASURE FOR MEASURE 93
"We cannot do your end of it. Make a start, no matter
how gropingly or blunderingly. The initiative of your ob-
jective efforts is vitally necessary for the complement of
our directive efforts. We cannot direct nothing,
"Let us call it inspirational force for the sake of giving it
a name. It comes from a combination of conditions created
by the person himself. We only take advantage of the con-
dition. It is very difficult to do much toward creating that
condition. Once a person of his own force estabhshes it,
we can act on it. The initial step is your work. We gather
naturally around those who permit us to. It is something
like digging a well to earth, only we work with peculiar
forces of attraction. We hesitate to use words like soul
yearnings, for instance, because in your mind they have
other significances from ours. The idea is that we cannot
in any satisfactory degree work on an unreceptive person.
"By that brute force you accomplish the first dead lift.
It is just determination and faith that helps that first sheer
lift. That manifestation with yourself you Tnust get before
you get any response. That is what people do not reahze.
They don't put any strength into it, and when it won't
work at once, they go the other way. You must get the
strength yourself."
But, had we noticed it, the same principle was many
times appUed to other of our activities than the mere
technique of the teaching. For instance, one day inspiration
was the subject under consideration.
"Inspiration," said they, "is purely a complementary
force. That means that it is only placed as a decorative
capital on a column you have already built. That is abso-
lutely so. Inspiration comes only in attraction to some
definite output, some definite production. It cannot come
unless it has a container. Inspiration fills only what is pre-
94 WITH FOLDED WINGS
pared for it. It is like electricity, it has to be brought into
a mechanism made ready for it.
"Yom* progress is in your own hands. We can do little
but watch you gain necessary strength before we can help
you further. That is the law. We can act only as the com-
plement to the actr
3
Now in that last statement is one word on which the real
understanding of the law of complement depends. It is the
word can.
Note what the Invisible says: "We can act only as the
complement to the act." Not "we will act" or "we shall
act." "We can act." "That is the law." The phrasing means
exactly what it says. What we loosely call the spiritual
forces are unable, under the law, to act directly on the
obstructed universe. They must have something to comple-
ment, something to spark them, to set them in motion.
So when we fail to get the response, or the help, or the
communion we desire, either from the Invisibles or the
higher spiritual forces, the refusal is not whim, or an ar-
bitrary judgment of our deserts. And yet at times it seems
just that. The Invisibles are able to help us, for again and
again they have done so, at times almost "miraculously" it
seems. But at other times, in predicaments when it would
seem that the most misanthropic would in sheer charity
lend a hand, they pay us no attention at all. There is no
sense to it—if they are indeed our friends and wish us well.
We do not like to think them that kind of people.
However, if we accept this Law as binding, we can un-
derstand. The Invisibles are always there, always ready.
But they can act only when we ourselves offer something
MEASURE FOR AJEASURE 95
Strong and worthy of complement. They are ever eager to
give and to help, but they are constrained by the law to
"measure for measure, given and received."
Like all general laws, this one acts universally, depending
for its effects on the medium in which it operates. It ex-
plains many things. For instance, the usual experience of
*'sitters for communication" or psychic phenomena. Some-
times they get good results, sometimes very poor results,
sometimes utterly misleading results, or none at all. They
use great ingenuity in explaining these discrepancies. Some-
times the explanations become almost fantastic. As a matter
of fact, under this law of complement, a "good" sitting
results when the sitters have enough sincerity, honesty and,
above all, selfless purpose or aim to bring to the seance suf-
ficient material for the Invisible operators to work with. A
"poor" sitting is of course the reverse. And when, as often
happens, the Invisibles terminate any session of any kind
with the statement that "power wanes" or "the juice is
giving out," that does not mean, though we usually inter-
pret it so, that they, the Invisibles, have come to the meet-
ing on a certain tankful of gas, but rather that we, the
sitters, have come to the end of our contribution for the
occasion.
The same principle carries into the more spiritual content
of prayer. The subject will be later treated, but it is enough
to say that if we get response it must be in supplement to
that which we offer from our hearts. And without that of-
fering there shall be only silence.
A wider appUcation is evident in the processes of evolu-
tion. If hxmian consciousness itself, mankind as a whole, gets
g6 WITH, FOLDED WINGS
its power to advance only in complement to its own con-
structive contribution, then we can understand why the
first stages of evolution were so slow, and why at present
the pace accelerates. Primeval conditions were torpid.
Primeval man had a pretty meagre equipment of either
insight or what we call the moral forces. He was, perforce,
immersed in the seething egoism necessary for mere sur-
vival. He had not the slightest idea of benefiting anybody
but himself. His purpose was to save his skin or make his
pleasure and comfort. Only occasionally, but neither
largely nor often, did self-interest extend into wider con-
struction. The aggregate positive contribution of the whole
earth make-up, physical and human, was very shght. Evo-
lution had to do the best it could in complement. With this
scant seeding to plant and reap and plant again, how could
progress be anything but slow? But in the long sequence of
harvests, each more abundant than the last, is it not evident
why in the latter days of our evolution in consciousness we
seem to be fairly bursting forth into the clear of under-
standing—though we have still a long way to go!
For the first time the process is groping its way out of the
automatic. In all ages a few of the illuminated have under-
stood what it is all about, but they have been so very few
that we have set them in a class apart—saints, holy men,
saviors. Now men as a race are fairly on the verge of
taking conscious and personal charge. In the not-too-re-
mote future no longer will they act only from that native
instinct for creative inventive building which distinguishes
mankind from the purely instinctive animal. Nor will the
motive be preponderantly self-interest. Then, it is reason-
able to infer, as the opportunity for complement is more
abundantly offered, the pace of evolution will correspond-
ingly hasten.
MEASURE FOR MEASURE 97
Fortunately the automatic has a wider meaning, or we
might still be back with the cave men. As, for instance,
what an Invisible pointed out to us in the course of a talk
on esthetics.
"Each honest and vital effort, whether conscious or un-
conscious, toward beauty or that overflow that makes for
beauty, is a constructive power. And the sum total of those
efforts, whether in a humble crocheted lamp mat, or in an
attempt at stage effects in the theatre, or in an honest
though pathetic attempt at decorating a hotel lobby, or a
flower over the flower girl's ear—all make in the aggregate
a formidable onward-pushing construction which, even
though scattered and comparatively unmarked, goes far to
overbalance the spectacular, disheartening destructions that
get in the newspaper headUnes and worry everybody with
the idea that the country is going to the dogs. It's the
aggregate. The Recording Angel idea is not far off—with
his debits and credits."
Nor, the Invisible rather ironically observed, need we too
seriously indulge our egoistic complex that we are, as the
saying goes, the only pebbles on the beach. Evolution could
get along without us! In the larger view of evolution as a
whole we must not overlook the fact that the very proc-
esses of nature, as far as they are harmonious, add their
quota to that which may be complemented.
There is no occasion, the Invisible underscored this point,
to deny its spiritual complement to the bird song at dawn,
or the smooth, exact, beautiful interplay of the natural
forces that keep the rhythm of the tides or the rains. Pos-
sibly, in the very torpid beginnings of evolution, that may
have been the only tiny power that, by ever so little, tipped
98 WITH FOLDED WINGS
the wheel off center! Volitional action had its innings only
eons later! Certainly man's consciousness was not then
involved: man was not there.
In a manner of speaking he is still "not there." But he is
getting there, and like all other evolution the pace is ac-
celerating. One further step and he will have arrived at
least at the point of taking charge consciously. He must
come fully to realize that, by this law, each act of his life,
no miatter how trivial, does offer a force to meet its com-
plement. He already appreciates that action has conse-
quence in the physical world, and therefore he puts thought
and will into his efforts. Only now is he beginning dimly to
sense that there are also other effects, in the invisible or
spiritual. When he does so fully, he will direct just as
much conscious thought to bringing about these effects as
he does to the obvious of the physical. He will realize that
in planting a seed, or tightening a nut on the assembly line,
raking up the leaves, or washing the dishes, he is not only
producing a flower or a part of a motqr car or a tidy house-
hold, but he is offering a chance for spiritual complement.
The satisfaction he gets from the material accomplishment
must thereby be enhanced. And the sense of drudgery must
dissolve in the perception that what he must do releases the
possibility of a higher accomplishment.
No matter what our estate, great or small, or how straitly
we seem to be bound by triviahty, if consciously we realize
—give thought—that here in our hands is the choice, to
offer or to withhold a chance for particularization and
complement of that which comes from the Source, then
will the occasion overflow.
So there is the act, and the realization we put into it. The
latter is what gives it its ultimate value; not the mere ex-
ternal result. Therefrom comes our sense of its importance,
MEASURE FOR MEASURE 99
and its meaning and pleasure and satisfaction. If we have
to the full that feeling of ccmtribiition, we shall savor one
of the greater meanings of the words in the Bible:
"Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find;
knock and it shall be opened to you."
But note that you must ask, seek, knock before you will
be given or will find or have it opened. They are the com-
plements to your own act—and impossible without it.
Never reach out for this world with concentration of mind,
but with what I might call inflation of spirit.
IX. MEDITATION
Contact, as I have said, is a matter of individual
experience and definition. It is hoped that the books and the
previous pages have at least given the reader a basis for his
own impression. It does not matter how diverse—and di-
vergent—these impressions may be. Their value is in pic-
turing to each an objective in which he can have faith. Now
it is possible to be less vague. Granted an objective, how are
we to go about reaching it? How are we to achieve this
Contact?
For this purpose there are really two positive exercises,
so to speak. Or perhaps it would be better to say two aspects
of the same exercise. We name them meditation and prayer.
These are so much alike that to the inexperienced they
might appear to be one and the same. Nevertheless there is
a useful distinction.
Meditation might be defined as a consciously entered
state of attunement with the Source of all being; a con-
scious, purposeful offering of ourselves as a channel for the
flow-through from the Source; and finally, a conscious di-
recting or intentioning of the flow toward some desirable
purpose.* Its nature is essentially active, autonomous.
Prayer as a state of consciousness is also an attunement,
but rather in the purpose of communion with, or submis-
sion to, a Higher Power than of overt activity. Its action is
more passive and receptive. Except for these slight distinc-
• The details of this subject are so thoroughly discussed in Anchors to
Windward, pages 108-132, that they need not be repeated here.
100
MEDITATION lOI
tions the terms meditation and prayer can be considered,
for practical purposes, as nearly enough synonymous.*
As to a technique of meditation we received quite a volume
of exact directions. I say ct technique, for this method might
not be adapted to everyone alike. Nevertheless it is v^orth
presentation, somewhat condensed, if only for the reason
that any kind of blueprint in these matters is almost unique
in its precision.
"This series of exercises I want you to do," began the In-
visible, without preliminary.
"i. Lie down on the floor, comfortable, relaxed; the way
a dog does. Then imagine yourself above your body; im-
agine yourself as a bird flying; or an airplane flying; or
yourself in an airplane.
"2. Then think of a river in connection with the blood
stream in your body; as flowing all through; a constant-
vital flow easily but securely, as water falls down hill, not
fast, but in the rhythm of a river.
"3. Think of beautiful groves of fruit, vineyards, the
coming harvest of which you are to partake that is going
to build up the channel through which the river is to flow
—the body.
"4. Think of the air as something delicious and sweet, as
something you want very much. You are to take the air
consciously in your lungs. Think of it as full of life, as the
sunshine is full of life.
"5. Think of your body as a piece of machinery that you
must operate and take care of, keep oiled and clean, like
* They, too, have been elsewhere discussed more in detail. See The
Betty Book, Chapter XVI; Anchors to Windward, Chapter XVI; and
references under Prayer in the index of The Stars Are Still There.
I02 WITH FOLDED WINGS
that of your boat or car. You must consciously—remem-
bering the first exercise—try to feel the flow of the blood,
the ease of the machinery.
"6. Think that God created man in His own image; that
you are God, a part of the great Whole which creates it-
self, and which is going to help you recreate its own ma-
chinery."
Those were the simple rules laid down for one just
starting his first formal meditation periods. Of course the
ultimate "nice intermingling," as Betty called it, is some-
thing grown into by much more inclusive techniques, but
here is one way to begin. We soon could see and acknowl-
edge the unwisdom of telling exactly what to expect from
continued meditation. Such detail was much too likely to
substitute anticipation for simply doing the present job.
And also there would be temptation to kid one's self into
the idea that the result described has been reached long be-
fore such is the fact. The value is in the process without
reference to results.
Referring to Exercise No. i, in the above schedule, the
Invisible gave these further hints. You are not to "make
your mind blank," said he; that is impossible.
"In the first exercise you not only rise above your body;
but also above your brain-mind. You do not empty out
extraneous thoughts from the latter: you leave them there,
just as you leave your body there. You do not live down
among them, following them about; any more than you live
down among your body sensations, following them about.
Ordinarily when a spider gets on your body, for instance,
your whole attenrion rushes to the spot. But when you are
absorbed in some interest—or are asleep—^you detach just
enough of your mind to remove it, "mechanically," you
say. So with impingements on the brain-mind, either by
MEDITATION IO3
Stray or extraneous thoughts, or by small bodily sensations
that demand some measure of adjustment. Thus they do
not force you to abandon your present purposes.
"It is easier to avoid being diverted from these exercises
by the tendency of the conscious mind to lure you down
its own free associations, if you remember that the con-
scious mind is a creature of time. Left to itself, it tends to
deal with the past—what you have done, memory; or with
the future—what you are going to do; speculation. It but
rarely, and then only in intensive concentration on some-
thing specific, stops exclusively in the exact present. Refuse
to budge from the moment of Now. Let the conscious mind
escape you to the right hand or the left—the past or the
future—if it will, but do not accompany it. Thus the you-
yourself can poise in its necessary elevation above the body,
above the brain-mind, in the superconscious that touches the
fringe of the timelessness of a Now that contains all the
rest. This statement has little value or meaning as a mere
statement, but has great value as a hand-up to actual ex-
perience.
"When you have realized this as an experience, you can
train the conscious mind not to pluck at you unreasonably
and unmannerly and improperly."
Obviously this is a single and simple exercise of the im-
aginative principle, designed to shift the balance of atten-
tion. To some the foregoing directions will suffice, but the
Invisibles had a further refinement to focus upon if captur-
ing the sensation proved difficult.
"After rising above your body in general, until that has
(become more or less automatic, concentrate on rising above
your head. As soon as you have the impression that the
breath through your nostrils is below (in space) your mind,
instead of above it, you will have gained this.
I04 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"The mental attitude at present," they further suggested,
"is of observation, not of doing. You are using imagination,
but it is not the imagination of the brain-mind; it is imagina-
tion of the body. The imagination of the body, as
distinguished from the imagination of the mind, is that it is
imagination of construction through sensation. That of the
mind is imagination of construction through idea.^^
So much for Exercise No. i, the getting away from
awareness of the body. As for Exercise No. 2, the con-
sciousness of flow-through, the Invisible warned against
strain and self-consciousness.
"You do not think the process of the vital flow by any
applied effort of the imaginative will. You simply note the
fact. The fact is facilitated by your attention, but is not
inaugurated by it."
Or, putting it in another way:
"When you think of the vital flow in your body you are
not initiating anything. This stream is already flowing
through your body. If it did not, you would not be alive at
all. You are coming into observation of an already existent
and continuous fact."
Once we recognize the sensation, they continued the in-
struction, we should try consciously to establish it as a
condition that is to continue throughout the twenty-four
hours, or until the next meditation period. We instruct it to
"go on working." "Then," said they, "we must pause
deliberately from time to time and for a second or two take
notice that it still is going on. That does not mean an effort
to 'recapture' the feel of the flow-through, but to bring to
awareness that it is going on. The final step is to be able to
give full attention as usual to all the necessities and details
of daily life and work, and still to remain aware all the
time—underneath those activities—of the feel of the flow.
MEDITATION IO5
A sort of double attention, as it were, but without diminish-
ing either attention. This may be facilitated by dehberate
practice during meditation. Select some small topic of daily
life and think about it, but see if you can do so and still keep
full awareness and encouragement of the process of induc-
ing the flow-through."
It is well not to tackle this "double attention" experiment
too soon.
That is all we are supposed to do, as beginners in tech-
nique. But ultimately, the Invisibles pointed out, as an an-
ticipatory parenthesis, the job will be to develop better
conditions in ourselves for the flow.
"What you are creating is the channel for the flow. The
strength of the flow is automatically determined by the
strength of the channel. Your building is to strengthen the
channel in order to permit, to deserve, so to speak, a more
vital flow."
For the purpose of this building we must next attend to
the gathering of the materials therefor, which is the real
significance back of the very imaginative third and fourth
exercises. Later, from her vantage of the unobstructed,
Betty impressed on us that she now works in essences; and
that, in a way, is exactly what we are called upon to do
here. From the "beautiful groves of fruit, vineyards, the
coming harvest," and all the rest of which we are advised to
think, what we really draw is the essence of abundance,
vitality, hfe which they embody, a distillation of those
qualities. We are not sufficiently advanced, as yet, effec-
tively to take the pure thing, from the source itself, so we
must allow ourselves—^in meditation—to be drawn in
thought to that imaginative image which most nearly ex-
presses the particular "abundance" we most need.
"The srnse-of-abundance exercise," said the Invisible,
Io6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"is to be done as though you are feeding into the stream the
necessary ingredients for ahment and construction from an
abundance at your disposal and in which you dwell."
There is no profit in specific examples. Each will find his
own symbol according to the shape of his head. But, said
the Invisible, "it should be noted that there are two sorts of
abundance to be taken in—that of ]orce or power for con-
struction, and that of material of which the construction
may be built. Simple examples of the two are the sun andi
the field of grain. The sun is abundance in its purest form/
It is the origin and source of all the physical abundances.
"But," warned the Invisible, "it is too pure an essence for
sole diet. It must be transformed into variation—as it is
transformed into the plants and animals and minerals which
make up the expression of the life force." ,
A more assimilable image to conjure up for the pure
force side of the intake, they suggested, might be a water-
fall, i
"It is a force of abundance compounded of many sorts of
forces. Its plunge is the combination of the force that lifted
the vapor from the sea, the various forces that made the
winds to move, the air to cool, the vapor to condense, the
resultant stream to flow downhill, until at the brink of the
plunge is a great and mighty and resistless abundance of
actual power that may be breathed in as a single thing, an
element of refreshment and vitality. This is a good example
of what we meant by a distillation of abundance. It is thus
prepared for ingestion, as the varied elements comprised
in physical food are concentrated by natural processes in
the grain of wheat."
Whatever the "distillation" from whatever imagined
objects or conditions, we must not, in this earlier medita-
tion, try to direct the force to any specific purpose of our
MEDITATION IO7
own. Right now we are merely attracting the material for
construction, for growth.
"You dump it into the vital stream you have thought of
as flowing through you in the second exercise. You do not
think of using it in any specific way. That use is an auto-
matic process of your mechanics of life. It is analogous to
die use made of the denser material you put at the disposal
of your bodily processes by the ingestion of food. You
supply the food: the automatic mechanics of your life
processes distribute its uses. Neither the physical nor the
spiritual uses are as yet your conscious affair. This distilla-
tion is as material as food, but in the subtler realm of the
Beta body. It is not a mere idea.
"In the world of abundance, of which you think imagi-
natively, and from which you draw the constructive aU-
ment, the distillation is various, and not homogeneous. The
aliment should not be a mere hash or soup of everything.
Your diet should be various and discriminating. It is like
your physical diet, selective. We showed you, in shallow
and ripple and crossing and pool, one of your Alaska rivers;
and you were a bit impatient with yourself because you
thought your *mind was wandering.' But that, for the
moment, and as a specific example, was a specific distilla-
tion of a specific form of abundance, which at that time
you were ingesting by means of the breathing-in symbol.
It would, however, be a mistake to will your imagination
toward any specific form of abundance. Your attention
must be permitted to saunter. It will then be attracted
toward the need of the moment. There is a distinction,
however, between this and idle wandering, which can be
understood only through the actual experience: a certain
basic alertness of spiritual appetite. The breathing-in is
merely a connecting symbol through which you approach
I08 WITH FOLDED WINGS
a contact. The contact is determined by your spiritual
instinct, and not through your intellectual interests or ap-
praisements."
It is not now our job—it must be emphasized—to insist
on the exact application of whatever force we are inducing.
"Holding the thought" for the purpose of "demonstrating"
a mink coat or a new situation or what we think to be wise
in the way of specific aid is out. That will come later, if at
all, when we do become wise.
"The specific utilization of the balanced ration in the
construction of your channel is not your affair; any more
than is the varied use of the constituents of your blood
stream in the construction of your body. Only the judicious
and intelligent direction of your diet. Nor is it your business
to attempt with the brain-mind to emphasize either the
force aspect or the material aspects of its constituents; nor
to strive, with whatever good intentions, to influence con-
struction toward the 'more spiritual,' or the *more ma-
terially robust.' That is equivalent to reanalyzing ingested
food. Accept results happily and unsearchingly. Their
quality is appropriate to your own, and dependent on it.
Your quality is your stature, to which you cannot add
merely by taking thought. Distinguish between growth and
construction."
And on another occasion, and by another Invisible:
"The main thing to watch is the intrusion unbeknownst
of small desires. You must brush from the integrity of this
meditation all trace of personal inclinations." Not that ar-
riving at decision in the specific instance may not happen
through meditation; but it will be, in that case, without the
conscious use of the intellect. The problem may be formu-
lated; set on the back of the stove, so to speak, and dismissed
from the mind.
MEDITATION IO9
And, finally, there should be no strain in the attention to
intake.
"When," said the Invisible, "you have imaginatively
pictured any one of these numerous abundances, so that you
have come to the visualization of breathing in its distillation,
then it is not necessary, during that period, to continue to
hold it continuously and persistently in mind. The channel
is connected, and the flow-in will continue in that period
of doing the exercise."
These exercises, and others which may occur to us as prac-
tical, should be concentrated upon one at a time until their
control is effected. But whatever their number, they are
really integral.
"They are of course," said the Invisible, "actually one
thing; or, rather, by means of them you attain to one thing.
Eventually they blend together, so that if you touch any
one of them, enter by any one of them, the others are auto-
matically entered also. Any one implies all the others.
"So," the Invisible followed out the logic of this, "the
next step after acquiring a fair facility at these exercises, is
to try to discard the imaginative symbols and to enter
directly into the pure sensation. Thus in the first exercise
forget the idea of the airplane, or the bird, or whatever
device you have used to get the idea of rising above your
body. Forget the idea of being above your body. See if
you cannot enter directly the sensation you experience
when you have succeeded in doing so. Confine yourself to
the first exercise until you have caught the knack."
When these two things have been grown into—the direct
entrance into the essence, the sensation of whatever sym-
bols have been useful; and the blending of all the separate
no WITH FOLDED WINGS
components into one direct action—^then we are ready for
the next step forward.
"That accomplishment," said the Invisible, "comes only
with practice of each separately, and in their due order.
Like a golf swing. You cannot think of them all at once;
you can think of but one thing at a time. But you can,
ultimately, enter the benefit of their blend, when practice
has synthesized them into a state of being that functions
like any being—as a whole.
"The establishment of this state of being, as a whole
thing, is best made consciously at the beginning of the day.
It is best entered by the door of the abundances. You will
allow your sauntering instinct to select its day's ration
through the imaginative contemplation—which is also ap-
propriation—of the form of abundance, both of force and
material, which attracts its appetite. This abundance is
then there present for the day's needs. On it you will draw
for sustenance and refreshment momentarily, from time to
time, without necessity of the elaborate devices of specific
'exercises.' You will do so by the simple device of rising to
it, bringing with you for its automatic utilization the or-
derly and interdependent mechanisms which the exercises
have constructed, controlled and operated by the orderly
subconscious you have trained."
4
"I have a great plea to make," said the Invisible; "I want you
to come with me, all of you who are ready. There is only
one way to do it. Part of your time, when you are not at
your work, I want you to lay aside all effort at understand-
ing and interpretation, and come out into the wide outside
and bask. Just say to yourselves: 'I will lay aside the sym-
bols for the reality. I will be a mere responsive plant to un-
MEDITATION II
wordable influences. My busy, near-sighted little self is
quieted, set aside for the purpose of expanding a great and
dormant power within me. It is weak; it barely records
impressions as yet; but through it surges all that is enduring.'
"You must periodically withdraw yourself from your
work and your world, if you would keep your vitality in
it. It's a great secret law that must be obeyed if you would
give forth life and create. Don't wither your good growth;
take the sustenance it needs to preserve the spirit through
its lower forms of manifestation. The spirit is vast outside.
Think always of your work as the mere letting of the sun
through windows. Do not use up the atmosphere in the
rooms of your mind. Keep firmly in mind the hygiene of
the spirit. It is absolutely necessary for its persistence in
deteriorating surroundings. What you are doing looms
large in importance, but always be possessed and directed
by the conviction that it is a mere crystallization of an un-
derlying spiritual reahty. This reality must be continually
associated with for refreshment. Therefore bask in it as it
suits your temperaments."
Tell him every time he is tempted to light his little fire in
order to see better in the dark places, to lie down and rest.
The sun will give you better light.
INVISIBI.K
PRAYER
There is a slight distinction, as we have seen,
between the terms prayer and meditation. Meditation can
well take the direction of prayer; and prayer, in turn, from
one point of view, is the highest form of meditation. One
thing they have in common: the induction of conscious
contact with our Source. The main difference is that medi-
tation is for the purpose of directed intake and use, and
prayer for the purpose of a more acquiesce?it communion.
That is a rough distinction, but sufficient for present pur-
poses.
The point was brought up by a question.
"Is prayer," asked one of us, "simply a mechanical means
of getting in touch with a source of assistance, or is it es-
sentially a realization process?''
"If you mean the fonnal thing called prayer," replied
the Invisible, "its value is solely that it implies a certain ef-
fort and desire to come into contact with what you dif-
ferentiate as spiritual forces. If you mean the actual feeling
of communion or harmony or mystic contact which many
people describe as the state of prayer, it is a realization.
"It is a realization—but do not minimize the sincere
formal prayer, because that sort of effort and desire is
necessary from your end, before what we have called our
end can operate."
"A formal prayer may also be a state of prayer?"
"A formal prayer may very successfully induce a state
112
PRAYER 113
of prayer," amended the Invisible, "but it is not the words
of the formal prayer that bring realization. It is only that
the words form an easy route."
"It is not necessary that what you call a formal prayer be
stated in words, is it?"
"It is an effort and a desire," said the Invisible.
Prayer, then, is essentially a communion. But also it has
certain results, certain definite by-products. One of these
is a uniquely peaceful and harmonious state of mind. And
this, in turn, makes for clarity of insight.
"Don't you see how it works?" asked Betty. "Suppose
you are in that awful maze of discordant elements that is
our world of limited sight, where you can't understand
values and get confused over issues. You can't distinguish
the right thing to do. So you go aside and throw your heart
and soul into spiritual association. You lift up your capacity
to receive. The union of strength makes a shaft of power
and light, and you turn it on your problem. Thus you see
clearly."
"You not only do that," added the Invisible, "but you
gain strength to walk in that path, and to pursue it to the
very end of your vista."
Another by-product, if it can be considered that, is a
much more profound experience.
"You can," said Betty, speaking of this, "conceive a
spiritual being by the strength of your desire for contact.
You do it just by calling for spiritual companionship and
association. But this amounts to very Httle unless something
arises within you to enlarge your capacity to receive it and
blend with it.
"Something within you must rise continually to meet the
spiritual association," she repeated. "You don't just wait for
114 WITH FOLDED WINGS
it to come to you. Weak prayer does not fulfill its part be-
cause it just calls down, instead of rising to meet."
"Prayer," put in the Invisible, "is the projection of your
spiritual being, heart and soul. It is the conscious assembling
of your higher self. In offering up the spirit, you lay bare
your own soul. It is the only way you can recognize your
own spiritual proportions; you then face the sum total of
yourself. It pierces all your coverings and trappings as an
X-ray pierces the body. There is a terrible reality to it.
"This is its ultimate action, this compulsion to face your
naked soul.
"From dread of this, people use only the surface of
prayer. But there is no discouragement with this facing; no
discouragement. Even mortification is submerged in eager-
ness to reconstruct and harmonize. This is the big feeling
prayer gives you. You must plumb the depths of prayer
down to your timid soul in order to gain impetus.
"Under the inspiration of prayer each one of us recog-
nizes the nifhole^iess necessary to spiritual harmony. In
proportion as he lacks is the urge to acquire the wholeness
he perceives."*
In view of this description one of us asked if, then, the
element of supplication in prayer is erroneous.
"Prayer," repHed the Invisible, "is in essence a complete
conscious unfoldment of self for the reception of the vivi-
fying, healing and developing influence of spirit. Conscious
unfoldment means necessarily a clear-eyed, honest, im-
personal understanding of one's self. The conscious fact of
• Once again, as in the Chapter on Meditation, all these quotations
must be taken in supplement to the discussion of the subject in the other
books. See The Betty Book, pages 133-141; Anchors to Windward, pages
no, 143, 158, 161; The Stars Are Still There, pages 102, 105, 121-2, 145,
154-5. »57-
PRAYER 115
this understanding acts as though it removed a barrier
against the germinating waters. Until such acknowledg-
ment, those waters are prevented by that barrier from their
nourishment office. In that conception there is no room
for a demand for specific favors beyond the demand made
by acknowledgment of a lack in yourself."
"I am wondering," one of us speculated, "about the wis-
dom of using the word 'prayer' at all. It has become so
overlaid with narrower meanings."
"I think," said Betty, "that most people understand, at
least dimly, what prayer is."
"Fm not so sure," insisted the other. "In most minds it
means an attempt to influence a power beyond you in your
behalf. Usually it is just a petition directed to a god, some-
thing with a magic power to answer. It seems to me we
need some different word to express the kind of contact you
describe."
"The majority of people," said the Invisible, "cannot as-
pire to such contact; their evolution is not high enough.
Nevertheless, the formulation of a need into a thought, a
petition, with the sure submerging of self that comes with
prayer to what is higher and greater than self, is beneficent
to the individual."
One traditional point of difficulty about prayer is the con-
fusion between the ideas of going to the Source directly
I
or through an intermediary. It is a fundamental divergence,
for example, between the Catholic and the Protestant sys-
tems. But may not both views be correct? And need the
approach be invariable? Might it not be one or the other
'
according to conditions? And is a hard and fast decision
Il6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
really important? The Invisibles did not seem to think so.
"First we go to our Source, of course. That is the first
step. The intermediary aspect is the second step. One can
dispense with it, but only if he is master enough to supply,
all by himself, sufficient human warmth and love for his
fellow beings so that a channel is made for the flow of
spiritual force. Without that channel there is a gap between
the sensing of the power and the utilizing of the power in
affairs.
"This is badly expressed," the Invisible admitted. "Our
urge is to take the impersonal chill out of what is called
spirituaHty. It is ordinarily set apart for rarefied moments.
We would make it a warm pulsing spiritual blood stream
that will keep us healthy; that will warm us, and flush us
with quick responses."
Another time they laid more emphasis on the inter-
mediary aspect and explained more fully its importance in
the scheme of things.
"The contribution," said they, "of any individual to any
occasion is his transmutation into assimilable form of his
intake of power from the Source. That is the function of
the individual as respects his environment. If any one is to
help by the power he receives, it must be by transmutation
of that power in terms of his own genius. This you have al-
ready understood.
"But these things you have not considered: that those
on whom you thus bestow receive also themselves from the
Source; and that what they receive from you is not the
pure power from the Source, but your transmutation of it;
and that your contribution is in the nature of a supplement
to their own degree of direct intake.
"Also you have not considered this: that in relation to
PRAYER 117
those who can bestow upon you^ you stand in the same
place as those upon whom you bestow.
"Therefore, in reaching for emergency assistance, you
must not only open your channel to its widest and freest
intake from the Source. You would do well also to call
specifically for help upon those whose transmutations fit
that necessity.
"To be sure, many of us have remained without name,
but you know well how to distinguish us. And if you should
bethink you, you can call in recollection hosts of those who
have preceded you, and who are warm to you and eager to
bring help if called upon. But that eagerness cannot avail
without the definite and personal appeal. We cannot answer
needs, only desires. Elach of us is capable of help in his own
way, so that if you bethink you of John, who had gaiety,
and ask him personally—as one would ask any friend for his
help—he will bring you gladly the sustainment of the light
heart. And so, cast you in your mind to all those you know
with us here, and call to them, saying, *I am in need of
I
sustainment. Come you, my dear friend, to my aid.' Then
'
the way is opened, and you are rejoicingly surrounded.
"I mean this literally. Call you the roll, dwelling on each
with a personal call, and hold him in the reviving warmth
of recollection, so that the color of each will glow in your
i
heart. This little ceremony is an enablement, lacking which
! they must yearn mute without the barrier.
||
"In this you see, perhaps, a justification of those who
"I talk of the intercession of the saints; nor in kind does it
differ, for saints are those made known to all for some
quality of transmuting for common use. Sainthood is not a
peculiar and exalted state. It is merely a designation by
f
human authority of certain ones considered strong enough
Il8 WITH FOLDED WINGS
in development to answer a general call. As to sainty^fp,
you stand yourself in that state when, on rare occasion, you
are privileged to stoop and bless."
The Invisible here added a corollary to the law of com-
plement.
"That help of this personal sort may not always respond,
is part of wisdom. If your child calls for your sustaining
hand upon the wide pleasances of a lawn, he meets your
denial; because then, even if he stumble, he will learn to
walk alone. But if he must cross the thronged highway, he
may reach to you in confidence of response.
"In like manner, when you come to a highway which you
must cross, many hands are reached in eagerness, waiting
but that you raise your arm. So content you not alone with
reaching toward the pure power from the Source, but per-
mit to gather around you the eagerly proffered bucklers of
your own people. And weary not in your calling, for the
humblest companion of your past has some small gift of
strength or joyousness which he alone can fashion, and
which itself alone can fulfill. Nor is there in all cosmos one
whom you think too great for your summoning. We here
are overburdened with gifts we would bestow. When you
call upon us, even the greatest, you are bestowing upon
us a privilege; for on your earth, though needs are as the
sands of the shore, the opportunities of our meeting them
are rare as cries in a great wilderness."
3
The following are a few of the formulated prayers given us
from time to time by the Invisibles:
PRAYER FOR ABUNDANCE
" 'To him who hath given so much we make supplication.
PRAYER 119
Pour upon us thy strength that we may receive our allot-
ment, and give us in thy name of thy abundance. Let us
walk with thee in spirit, partaking of thy divine mind. For
knowledge and wisdom and growth in harmony with thy
laws we this day do make our demand. As we are fit to re-
ceive give of thy abundance. Father of all.'
"Next time," concluded the Invisible, "you walk alone in
darkness use this prayer to dispel the shadows. Keep it as a
magic to give you power to fight your way up into the
light again."
PRAYER FOR THE FULNESS OF LIFE
This was offered by Betty, perhaps more an aim, a wish,
than a prayer.
"Give me all of life before I leave, all! I don't want a
niche. Aren't there plenty of people to fill niches? Of
course they are happier in the peace of limited struggle. I
want most tremendously and vehemently the highest pos-
sible comprehension. I want to take the suffering and all;
I don't care if it tears me to bits; I want it! I've made my
choice: I don't care if it is hard. Besides, it isn't all that. The
intensification of living, alone, is worth it."
And again, later, another expression of the same desire:
"I want to get nearer, nearer to the source of all striving
life. I want to smell the wet earth and feel the cool drip of
rocks. I want to sway with the presence of the wind. That
is all life, life. What gives us that quality? I want to keep
close, close, close as I can get to that. I want to sniff it, taste
it, drink it, bathe in it. That's where I want to be. I don't
like the dead things. Some people hke intellectual conquest,
mechanical things, making automatons; but I don't like it.
I crave the live things; things endowed with self-structure.
I20 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"I want to get near enough so I can partake of the same
great vitality. Throw open all hatches; it's stale. I want to
go out in the wind and the hght and the air. I don't know
what you call that current of vitality. . . . Never mind its
name; Fm going to get close to it."
"Here," said the Invisible, meeting this desire, "is a
prayer:
"I am the heir of eternal expansion and clothed in my
right to partake of it. I am expanding to participate in the
gorgeous fulness of it. There is no possible expression for
the fulness and rhythm. Oh do not let me ever again be
poor-spirited or faded or gnarled in form. I want the richly
patterned life. I want to be gorgeous-spirited. I want the
ceremonial beauty and fragrance of the spirit. I want the
freedom of its force. I want the quiet whispering of its
wisdom. I want the simplicity of its love. Oh give me, help
me to the fulness of life. Oh keep me from starving my-
self. Give me liberty to be a quickener to others. Do not let
me sink in inertia. I pray now for the fulness of life with an
undivided heart, so that I may rest absorbed in strength, not
emptying myself of life!"
A PRAYER FOR HELP IN HEALING
"Melt; blend; receive without effort, but with the grate-
fulness earth offers to the rain." The Invisibles were speak-
ing of the contact.
"This mantra you may say silently within yourself when
by meditation you have entered into power:
" 'God is comfort. I call on him who is most in comfort
to bring comfort to this one.
" *God is pity. I call on him who is most in pitifulness to
bestow pity on this one.
PRAYER 12 1
" 'God is Strength. I call on him who is most in strength
to bring strength to this one.
" 'God is healing. I call on him who is most in healing to
bring healing to this one.
"Tor myself. To that degree to which I have purely
come to use of God, use me for these purposes/
"
As SOON as you begin to live in the truth that you hold all
power within you, new worlds will open up in all directions
like magic.
INVISIBLE
XI. HARMONY
In the communion implied by meditation, and
especially prayer, we are entering a state of being wherein
some of the solidly material correspondences of everyday
life yield more or less to certain imponderables. We cease to
deal with the body and its concerns; we associate and work
with what we have called the distillations, the essences.
These essences are the raw material, it seems, with which
one deals in the unobstructed aspect of the universe,
ivhether we are here or there.
Betty early recognized this truth and expressed it, though
the rest of us did not fully grasp the implications until she
herself had gone to the unobstructed universe, and reported
back that trilogy of essences which has so engaged the
thinking scientific world.
"You see," said she, while she was still here, "I must begin
to collect some materials for myself. If I am to work in
essences this way—between the pure spiritual conception
and its manifestation—I must get the tools of my craft. So
I must collect myself essences: the time-achievement of the
tree; the energy of my waterfalls; the stability in my rock.
The sweet chemistry of earth is endless. All I have to do is
to walk in my garden collecting and releasing essences,
never hoarding in the cloistered-garden sense. Essences are
everywhere to work with. It needs only the sensitive heart
to utilize them."
Only after she left us were we given the basic hypothesis.
122
HARMONY 123
It is too complicated to lay out fully here. I must refer you
to the book.* Perhaps its essence can be well enough ex-
pressed by quotation from the record.
"The constant of consciousness is a trilogia consisting of
absolute motion, absolute space, absolute time. The greatest
of these is time. Now each has a primary property, or
essence.
"The essence of absolute motion is frequency. The es-
sence of absolute space is conductivity. The essence of ab-
solute time is receptivity.
"All operate in the absolute of their constant aspects in
orthos.
"We give you this new term orthos (as in orthodoxy^
orthochromatic, etc), which is the Greek word for true.
Now the term orthos simply means the true, constant
characteristic of the reality, consciousness. Your empirical
knowledge has taught you that in the obstructed universe
there are three dimensions. We have told you that there is
an orthic trilogia—in other words, three characteristics of
consciousness that always obtain. These three are orthic
time, orthic space, and orthic motion. They are the three
greatest familiars of your obstructed universe; and also of
the entire universe.
"Now we have chosen the word 'essence' as a term in.
this new exposition, to be used in its basic meaning. The
essence of orthic time is receptivity; the essence of sidereal
time is receptivity. The essence of orthic space is con-
ductivity; the essence of sidereal space is conductivity. The
essence of orthic motion is frequency; the essence of
sidereal motion is frequency.
"The new thought that has been growing in your con-
sciousness is the fact that the three essences of the orthic
* The Unobstructed Universe.
124 WITH FOLDED WINGS
trilogia—receptivity, conductivity and frequency—have
been manifested in the obstructed universe as time, space
and motion, precisely as consciousness itself has manifested
in the obstructed universe as man, nature and matter."
These "essences" of the things with which we are already
famihar here in our earth life, Betty assures us from her
present vantage in the unobstructed, are the everyday ma-
terial for activity in the invisible life.
"I told you once that over here I worked in essences,"
said she, "I spoke of Agoing around my garden collecting
essences.* You will find it in one of the books and in the
records. That is how I ivork now—in essences. But I live^
as always, in an actual world. Now:
"The essences of Time plus Space plus Motion equals
created matter of some kind, depending on their propor-
tions, etc. Thus we have the constituents of a world
yours or mine, or other worlds beyond ours.
"The essences of Time plus Space equals duration." (If
you inject Space into pure Time you get the extension of
time to duration.)
"The essences of Space plus Time equals distance." (If
you inject into space the "slowness" of getting there, you
have distance.)
"The essences of Motion plus Space equals pure com-
munication." (There is in radio a slight injection of time,
of course; but that comes nearest to "pure communication"
with us.)
"The essences of Motion plus Time equals pure Being."
She went on to explain her manipulations in dealing with
her kind of space and time, but that aspect of the subject is
complicated and beside our purpose. The point is that she
can manipulate them according to their nature and her own
skill. What affects our present argument is her conclusion.
HARMONY 125
"Less completely, within my capability of dealing with
the pure essence, I can approach the state of pure Being.
Impossible to do so perfectly. That is an ultimate. Matter
of growth and development. Principle only."
What is this pure Being of which Betty speaks? According
to her statement it awaits us at the end of the road. An
ultimate. As such it must concern our proposed self-
development. The Invisibles agreed this was true. But also
they wanted to know what we meant by "self."
"Self," one of us ventured, "is my inward feeling of
being, as distinct from any feeling of awareness at all."
"Yes," the Invisible approved, "this feeling of being is
the essence of self. Now this self that can take cognizance
of an inside and outside world we might define as Being.
What is its importance?
"The simplest form in which the sum total can be put
is tliis: the pure sensation of what we have called Being is
the fundamental essence of eternal life; you must accustom
your emotional nature to accept and practice and deeply
groove your habits to indulge the strength of this Being;
only so will you acquire the functioning higher conscious-
ness awaiting you, the true spiritual body, as gratifying
material as the one you now occupy."
"In all ways possible," said Betty, "I am going to attack
this deliberate acquisition of higher consciousness. Its nega-
tive side is recognized as acquisition of power. But pure
Being is not a sum to be added up. It is a continuous out-
going thing, Hke radio-active force. The withholding of the
laws of this force has been necessitated through its misap-
prehension in terms of acquisition of power. It is so
perilously easy to sUde into your world terms, your visible
126 WITH FOLDED WINGS
tangible terms of acquisition of power, in dealing with these
intangible higher potentialities. It has retarded the race in
past centuries."
"The practice of this sensation of Being," continued the
Invisible, "is of such importance that, regardless of the
absurdities of inept language incapable of containing the
concept, we will repeatedly struggle to introduce it as a
functioning reahty. It is the great magnetic element with-
out which you are not aware of the availability of the
creative process of the universe."
This sensation of timeless Being, existing solely in the sen-
sation of Now, was touched upon in the chapter on
Meditation. It is, we were told, akin to pure Feeling; though
at first Betty felt she must defend the term as too full of
emotional connotations.
"Some day I'm going to take pure Feeling and cleanse it
of the taint of transient emotion, weak sentiment, because
pure Feehng is the divine spark. It is the intelligence of the
heart, the secret of creative magic. Pure Feeling is a warrior
quality. It is made of the stuff that endures. Strong and
true it engages with earth passions and hatreds and comes
through them unscathed. It is somewhat as an adult feels
protectingly toward a kicking, screaming child rescued
from adventuring on the dangerous road. I despair of set-
ting down pure Feeling, or finding words to contain it.
"Pure Feeling alone can guide you safely. That is the
highest desirability of life
—pure Feehng. The race has al-
ways touched it in its great moments. Conscious under-
standing of it has lacked. It is the combination, the perfect
blend, of spiritual inflow with earth embodiment and func-
tion. It triumphs over all physical tensions. You have but to
HARMONY 127
feel deeply and happily to perceive this for yourself. It is
as if the solids of you became as a radiating intangible sub-
stance.
"You can cultivate pure Feeling by welcoming its en-
trance into your heart region. Experiment, and see how it
softens all the cruel rigidities of life, how it escapes all
chains and shackles of maladjustments. This inner flame is
one of the most silently apparent of possessions. It makes its
way without words or exhibition. It travels from heart to
heart in its own channels of expression and exchange. It is
a reciprocal thing. We sense it, even if we do not acknowl-
edge it with anything better than mental sophistication, as
toward something simple folk and peasants have. Too great
development on the mental side does not admit the need
of pure Feeling. It is looked on as dangerous to logic. Could
pure Feeling be allowed natural development to the point
where it would nourish what we recognize as intellect, then
we would have man as he is intended to be, as he is now in
moments of devotion to ideals."
Pure Being and pure Feeling stand high on our list of im-
portances. Perhaps at the very top. But also, avowedly, they
are ultimates, and as such can be of little immediate value
to us. If we are to put them to practical use, we must have
some sort of handhold with which to grasp them. The In-
visibles recognized this.
"Any human experience," they explained, "no matter
what its nature, no matter what its inception, no matter
what its guiding influence, may be analyzed into two ele-
ments. They are a reality which is its core and substance;
and its interpretation, which may be deed or thought. The
core of reahty must always exist, for if a thing is in this
128 WITH FOLDED WINGS
orderly universe, it must have back of it an indubitable real
essence. The interpretation varies according to circum-
stance. In the most harmonious adjustment it may approach
a comparative correspondence, and in any case will en-
compass what may be called a working correspondence.
In circumstances involving maladjustment, or activities
mistaken, the core of truth may be so overlaid with un-
corresponding interpretations as to suffer almost complete
falsification. In the simplest direct working of an accom-
plished evolution the interpretation may bear to the reality
almost an equalizlig ratio."
Such a core of reality, by definition, is pure Being. Our
job, then, is to find a satisfactory interpretation into ordi-
nary everyday terms. Betty had a suggestion or uvo to
point the way.
"Examples of pure Being," said she, ''are such things as
light and heat and energy, which are first, and manifest
second. Love; humor; interested creation of the kind one
does pleasurably; all the unobstructed channels of everyday
life endowed with ease and richness of output—these are
aspects of pure Being."
Another time the Invisibles gave us a more complete in-
sight. The word '"harmony," they explained, is the best
clue to a practical interpretation of pure Being.
"Harmony," they defined, "is not an attitude of action
toward externals. It is a state of being.
"You can recognize it as such if you will recall some
fragment of life divested of all but simplicities—not that a
state of harmony depends upon such a divestment: but
merely to get an understanding of the pure quality. Hark
back within your experience to some time when, for a
greater or lesser period—a month, a week, a day, even an
hour—life has seemed so simplified as to flow forward with-
HARMONY 129
out the necessity of impulse, and without the constrainment
of taking thought; with no time appointments to meet, with
no dutiful calls to answer, and yet not devoid of the activi-
ties natural and appropriate to that spiritual spaciousness.
At such times has it not seemed to you, perhaps, that you
experienced a certain overflow beyond the boundaries of
your workaday tight personality, to include a kinship with
those things about you that are pacing with you in like
rhythm? So that, whatever happens, you move toward and
through events with a certain satisfied inevitability, with
no apprehension, and equally with no externalized apprecia-
tion, accepting their occurrence as you accept your in-
drawn breath?
"You must divorce this simple, pure state of Being from
whatever ecstasy or mentally acknowledged happiness or
intellectually considered appreciation you may experience.
These may, indeed, sometimes be off-shoots or concomi-
tants of the state of Being, but are not of its prime substance.
And, of course, we are assuming for the purpose, I am
reminding you, a space of time at which the sharp-toothed
demands of life have not gnawed.
*'This picture is presented so that you may perhaps
recognize in its uttermost simplicity the state of Being
which we call harmony. It is a flowing, not a static con-
tentment. That is the underlying structure of a life attuned,
in whatever degree. Overlaid is the substance of life itself."
Conditions can seldom be ideal. Make them at least con-
querable.
XII. THE POINT OF REFERENCE
We have talked a lot about reality; but do we
know what it is?
''Consciousnessy''
said the Invisibles, "/V the one and only
reality r Whether or not we apprehend the full truth of
the statement, we feel it by instinct—the instinct for ex-
pansion of awareness which underlies all human effort. The
longing for reality is why we undertake the efforts and
exercises outlined in the preceding pages. A fundamental
necessity is first of all to establish a core of it in ourselves,
an "inner fortress" as Betty said, impregnably our own.
So basic is this instinct, so impelling the urge for reality,
that certain errors of thought have arisen and solidified. We
can be satisfied with nothing less than reality, the argu-
ment goes. Analysis shows us that externals are merely
manifestations, interpretations. Therefore, if we are to
come to reality, we must get rid of externals.
This is an over-simplification of course, but it is the
reasoning back of the Oriental systems that emphasize nega-
tion for the riddance of "illusion"; of the Occidental sys-
tems that refuse ugly facts of life on the general principle
that God is good and therefore the ugliness and evil have
no genuine existence. In either case the first steps toward
merit must be to rid ourselves of deception. To do so we
must deny the reality of things in the world in order to
reach the reality of consciouness. Since there exists in
humankind an equally strong instinct of afiinity for our
enjoyable material surroundings, we have a conflict.
130
THE POINT OF REFERENCE I3I
As is often the case, the difficuhy is largely one of termi-
nology. We are trying t6 use the same word for two dif-
ferent concepts. We must learn to distinguish; to stop
saying reality when what we mean is actuality. Conscious-
ness is the one and only reality, all-containing, all-inclusive,
the origin and core of all there is. Reality we contain in
degree according to our capacity—which is sometimes
pretty small. But we are composed of and surrounded by
what we should call acttcalities. They, too, share in the
qualities of all-consciousness, each according to its capacity
of the vtOTnent. So they are not intrinsically real, no matter
how actual they are to us. But that does not mean they are
illusion, "maya." They contain the quality of reality, or not,
according to our point of reference to them.
That is obscure in thought; and not too easy to clarify.
Perhaps the best approach would be to remind ourselves
that Science postulates exactly the same thing!
There is no reality to the world about you, says the
Eastern type of mysticism. All is illusion, rmtya, and if you
would set foot on the path you must first of all rid yourself
of illusion by denial and "mortification of the flesh." Only
thus can you gain spiritual integrity.
There is no reality in the world about you, says Science.
What you call the real things analyze down through atom,
molecule, proton, neutron, electron to pure force. You are
simply fooled by the senses; and you'd better revise your
idea that things are solid if you value your intellectual in-
tegrity.
Both the mystic and the scientist in one respect stand on
the same platform; illusion is to them synonymous with
futility, ergo^ if you want to amount to anything, the
132 WITH FOLDED WINGS
sooner you deny any reality to the things about you, the
more quickly you will touch ukirnate truth.
The argument looks to be watertight until we examine
another word. This appears to be largely an affair of
semantics. In this case the word is ultimMe.
Who ever had the nerve to start the idea that we can deal
with ultimates—of truth or anything else? We can en-
visage intellectually some ultimates, but we cannot live
them. Why? Because we are not ourselves ultmates. Pos-
sibly the aim of evolution is toward that, but right now is
the immediate, and we ourselves are immediates, siu--
rounded by immediates with which we have tx> deal. They
are actual—not illusory at our point of reference to theni.
Here is a chair in which I am sitting. As an ultimate
philosophical or scientific—it can be said to have no actual-
ity; it is either a nexus of pure force or it is an idea in con-
sciousness. Nevertheless, it supports me. No amount of
argument can disprove to me that it is "real" enough to hold
me up. It is only when I choose to consider the chair as a
phenomenon of physics, rather than a device of utility, that
my point of reference to it shifts, and its "reality" drains
from it.
So we come tentatively to a principle, do we not? Ac-
tuality is not an affair of the thing-itself; it is a relationship.
And it is a shifting relationship. Quite genuinely a thing
may be "real" or a delusion according to the observer's or
the user's point of reference to it. Or to put it another way,
more pictorially, actuality is a quality of universal con-
sciousness which can fill any container—or depart from it
—according to conditions. So it is entirely possible for the
chair to be for me "real" because my point of reference to
it is as a support, and to be for the physicist an illusion be-
THE POINT OF REFERENCE 133
cause at the moment his point of reference to it is in the
laboratory.
Obviously, if we accept that as a provisional hypothesis,
we must admit that the point of reference is more or less
movable. The physicist can sit down in the chair and find
it solid. It is indubitable that he has a selective power that
can place its actuality where it will, within his limitations
of course. All of us possess that privilege. It is part of our
heritage of free-will. The width of field through which we
can shift our point of reference depends on the width of
our understanding. We can establish no point of reference
with a thing that is unknown to us, and no effective point
of reference with a thing we do not comprehend. We can
acknowledge that such a thing has actuality; but that is
merely an intellectual acknowledgment of belief in some
authority who does understand. It makes for us no solid
actuality. A Southern Cracker wholly ignorant of physics
could establish no actuality, no point of reference, with the
neutron-proton-electron constitution of matter, though he
may admit '*it is so if you say so." He fails to do so simply
because he has no understanding of what it is all about.
Since, thus, the power of selecting our points of reference
widens as we grow, the higher our degree of development,
the more "real" are we capable of making things, the more
inclusive will be our understanding, the farther out or along
are we capable of establishing points of reference.
3
So we all, to a degree, have a choice as to where, at the
moment, we want a riling to be actual, or "real." To con-
tinue with our physicist, he can elect to refer himself to
the chair as something to sit on, in which case it is to him
134 WITH FOLDED WINGS
an actual chair; or he may prefer to refer himself to it as a
laboratory matter, in which case it ceases to exist for hiin
as a chair, and the actuality moves into his fresh point of
reference. Sometimes the shift possible is a wide one. That,
as we have said, depends on a man's education and develop-
ment. But while this wide shift exists for him, nonetheless
he has an average point of reference to things, which de-
termines for him the actuality of his world. And that, in a
fashion, results in a variety of worlds. The average point of
reference of the astronomer, for instance, is far removed
from the average point of reference of the fellow whose
business it is to build concrete dams or bridges. Note the
word "average." The astronomer is quite capable of a point
of reference to dams and bridges that will bring them into
reality to him—when he wants to cross them. The builder
can focus on the atoms and the stars on suitable occasion.
But in his normal occupation, construction work simply
does not exist for one; nor stars in the daytime for the other.
And note this: in a normal and balanced life any man's
level of his habitual point of reference is that level which is
the most effective functioning of that man. If he habitually
finds his actualities—his points of reference—above or be-
low the level of his normal life, he becomes more or less
futile. And certainly unadjusted and hence unhappy. And
if his actualities are far enough removed from that average
level, he is tucked away in an asylum. Not that the insane
man has no genuine actualities in his life—as is the com-
mon belief—but that they are too remote. What might be
called the basic realities of living are with him shifted
outside the common human environment. Life cannot func-
tion effectively; and there you have, from the practical
standpoint, "delusion and futility."
The displacement of this man, like others who talk more
THE POINT OF REFERENCE I35
sanely of ultimate truth, is an example of trying to deal
with ultimates before becoming ultimate. We deal with
immediates, simply because we are ourselves immediate.
With them we establish our points of reference; and at
once, when we do so, they are "real."
Parenthetically, if accepting a point of reference can be-
stow actuality on its object, so deliberate denying a point of
reference can relegate it to nullity. And that could be very
useful.
Finite manifestation is, in conception, an idea. An idea, in
rounded wholeness, is an harmonious arrangement. An har-
monious arrangement is a product of creative imagination.
Creative imagination is an attribute of iuteiligence.
INVISIBLE
XIII. MANIFESTATION
We have examined funcrioning, its incentives, its
ingredients, the necessity for it if the individual is to develop
in his evolution. We have not stopped to observe that
identically the same processes and necessities that obtain
with the individual consciousness govern also Consciousness
as manifested in the finite universe. It, too, is in evolution,
for though in the finite the all-inclusive perfection of
All Consciousness obtains—as it must—all-inclusiveness in
that aspect is merely of potential that must be brought out
and developed to become to us actuality. Exactly as with
the individual, this can be done only by functioning. In this
case, clearly, functioning means creation. In the individual,
though not so clearly, the same is true. We will take that
up later. Meantime we will only note that both in the
cosmic and in the individual, one basic, inborn, irresistible
urge is the instinct for creation.
Let us examine the creative process as it goes on in the
finite universe we know. Possibly this will help us to under-
stand better our own personal effort.
We are concerned now merely with method. For the mo-
ment the philosophical and metaphysical aspects are ir-
relevant. The ultimate Purpose of it all is not a matter for
our speculation. We interest ourselves only with what is
136
MANIFESTATION I37
actually going on. A brief outline will do for a starter.
We begin, then, with the all-embracing power that is the
All-Consciousness, our one and only reality. In the finite
which is all we can deal with—^it is pure force, undifferen-
tiated. Its urge is toward differentiation, for which another
word is manifestation. Manifestation of pure undifferen-
tiated force of any kind is possible only by the interposition
of resistance.
Let us pause for a moment to consider that last statement.
It is not as unfamiliar as it sounds. This room is all the time
full of the pure force of radio broadcast, which becomes
manifest only when I interpose the mechanism of my radio
set. Electricity remains undisclosed until it becomes light
or power or heat according to the kind of resistance thrown
across its flow. And so on. It will be found to be a general
law.
The only way, originally, that resistance can be inter-
posed is by intelligence. I use the word "originally" because
otherwise someone would be sure to object that in later
processes the checking by resistance may be purely a
mechanical intervention of laws. But in the beginning the
laws themselves must be seen to be a product of intelligence.
3
That is the statement m a nutshell. The Invisibles presented
it more in detail, and from many different angles of ap-
proach. On one such occasion we had been discussing a
curious phenomenon with our friend Margaret Cameron.*
She had discovered that she could induce between her
hands, apparently at will, what seemed to be a current of
force. This she had used for certain types of healing, and
in the process had noted an interesting thing. The current
* Author of The Seven Purposes.
138 WITH FOLDED WINGS
was not always the same. In fact, it varied considerably.
Sometimes it felt hot, sometimes cold, sometimes prickly.
It was this variation we had been discussing. Were these,
we wondered, actually different forces?
"It is all one force," declared the Invisible. "It is a
diiferendarion for especial purposes of the one stream of
vitality which flows ceaselessly through all cosmos. This is
evident only when arrested, or rather slowed up, when it
becomes either visible or palpable or effective, through the
efforts of its dynamics to free itself and proceed upon its
way. Arrested by an idea it becomes a creature or a thing,
dependent for its form and its attributes upon the nature of
the idea, what we have called the quality of consciousness.
Slowed up by a purpose, rather than an idea, it becomes a
vehicle oPdiflerentiated force, dependent for its nature and
its effect upon the nature of the purpose.
"The origin of the idea that results in the created thing
is an intelUgence of higher development than your own or
my own. Such intelligence as ours, however, can construct
a purpose which may be effective. The handling and origi-
nating of these purposes is the essential of the technique of
utilizing these currents of force."
As to the nature of this primary "force," this flow of
vitality, another Invisible had to say:
"Now let's see. This force. Its nature is to dissipate, un-
less it meets some force that helps its particularization. But
the force nrcrnts to be assisted, so to speak. It comes for the
purpose of obtaining complementary force. I don't want to
speak didactically, but I must build a little fence of words
around the conception. So remember that: remember there
is a waiting undifferentiated thing that wants to be differ-
enriated."
What results from this differentiation—^which is a check-
MANIFESTATION I39
ing by an intention, to use an inclusive term, originating in
intelligence—is a creation of some sort. What that creation
is depends on the intention, or plan. No thing can possibly
exist in the material except after it has existed in plan. That
is true of original creation; it is also true of even our simplest
fabrication. If we are going to build a chair, we must first
plan its details in our minds. We have been told that the
"plans," or prototypes, in the invisible of the various species
of earth may be called qualities of Consciousness. That bit
of Consciousness which is manifested as a tree does so be-
cause it has treeness as its quality. The dog is a dog because
he is an embodiment of the dog quahty of Consciousness.
So likewise with the human and the reptile and the mineral
and all that is. Each represents its own quality of Con-
sciousness. And, to return to the starting point, that quality
is what it is because the flow of primal force has been
checked, or slowed, or arrested by that intention.
"The very grass you walk on supports the argument.
Grass is the effect of force, the current of Life differen-
tiated and purposed in the direction of grass—checked into
manifestation, but defined as the intention of grass. By the
same process and for the same reason, you are you. The
thing that is you is an arrestment of motion, the essence of
which is frequency. Your frequency is what you are, just
as an arrestment of another frequency makes the tree."
"By arrestment I do not mean stoppage. Take the sup-
position that matter is a rate of vibration. There is a rate of
movement that represents matter. Since there is only one
Reality, and as matter is one thing and you another, you
must have different rates of vibration. The essence of both
you and matter is consciousness. The difference between
you and matter is the rate of vibration, the freqiie?icy. But
the nature of frequency is motion. Therefore, everything
140 WITH FOLDED WINGS
is in motion. That is why consciousness and the universe are
in evolution."
This precipitated a question which plunged us into a
discussion of the essences of our finite time, space and
^
motion: which were defined, it will be recalled, as recep-
tivity, conductivity and frequency.*
"About the arresting of frequencies," said one of us,
"what does the arresting—mechanically, I mean?"
"The juxtaposition of frequencies in time and space.
You could perhaps illustrate it by algebra. X plus Y plus Z
equals a stone. X plus 2Y plus Z equals a weed. 2X plus Y
plus Z equals a flower. And so on. X is a frequency; Y is a
conductivity; Z is a receptivity."
"That describes a process," objected the questioner, "but
does not say what does the arresting. And anyway I don't
like the word 'arrest.' That means stop short. A frequency's
got to wiggle a Httle."
"The potentiality of evolution is still in the arrested fre-
quency. It is held in suspension," was the reply to this.
"Nevertheless, what arrests the frequency?" we per-
sisted.
"Here is a line coming down on a slant this way; call it
receptivity. Here's a hne coming down on a slant this way;
call that conductivity. And here's a line slanting in still an-
other way; and we'll call that frequency. Now all three are
in evolution. If the lines of frequency and conductivity
strike receptivity together in one place, one manifestation
occurs. If you move the angle the first two make so they
strike the third in even the slightest deviation from the
former position, then you get another manifestation. But
• For a discussion of the constitution of matter, see The Unobstructed
Universe, from which some of this is quoted.
MANIFESTATION I4I
always all three must come together at a single point. They
are variable, malleable and in evolution."
"Frequencies coming into time and space are arrested by
the very nature of that situation?" we asked further.
*'No. It occurs because there is a stress point created by
the juxtaposition of the three. Varying angles of incidence;
various stress points."
These general principles seemed to us clear enough. The
Invisibles evidently considered that sufficient had been
given to warrant an epitome.
"I will make an attempt, now that all the evidence has
been stated piecemeal, to sketch a picture of the whole
process of creative fashioning.
"The infinite universe is a flow of unbroken and un-
manifested harmony. Creation is an arrestment or checking
of the flow of this universal harmony, its difl^erentiation,
and its rearrangement into a new form of particularization.
"The amount and the quality of this first segregation is
dependent on the interposition of an individual entity by
which it is checked and through which it is filtered.
"The rearrangement depends upon the innate creative
imagination possessed by that entity.
"The endurance of the result is dependent on the dynam-
ics with which the creative intelligence works. These
dynamics in turn depend upon the degree of spiritual de-
velopment and aspiration to which their originator has
attained.
"The reality of the creation—reality in its broadest sense
—is closely related to the fact that both the fashioning and
the embodiment are carried out through a finite medium. I
use the word ^finite' in place of 'material,' though in the
broad sense the two terms are interchangeable. However,
142 WITH FOLDED WINGS
common acceptance has given the word ^materiaF a nar-
rower connotation.
"These are all the elements, collected together and stated,
of the creative act."
We have considered the general principles of creation.
There remains to examine the particularized manifesta-
tions—all the milUon and one physical constituents of the
universe. Each is as it is because of its individual and unique
frequency. That unique frequency represents a specific
quality of that Consciousness which is the one reahty. Its
manifestation on earth is the product of intelligence. That
is as far as we have gone.
But admitting this, why, since Consciousness is actually
all of its qualities, does it manifest, at this moment or this
place, one of them rather than another? Is that, too, on the
judgment and choice of guiding intelligence? Or is it part
of some more or less mechanical process of evolution?
This problem was called to our attention in the midst of
an Invisible discourse on Qualities.
"The stream of life, or quality, or spirit," the Invisible
was saying, "might be said to flow by continuously. In
every drop of that current is everything there is—not only
every quality, but every element of every quality. From
these qualities every individual thing that comes into ex-
istence is bom.
"Now it is likely that you may have formed in your
minds an image of qualities as separate pools or reservoirs.
This is not unnatural, when you consider the almost infinite
multiplicity of qualities of Consciousness that must lie back
of their innumerable manifestations. But this is a miscon-
ception.
MANIFESTATION I43
"To be sure, the qualities of Consciousness are distinct—
each in itself a complete whole, containing all the elements
comprising itself. But with full appreciation of that fact,
you must accustom yourself to the idea of these quahties as
so interfused throughout all cosmos that we may hterally
say each pin point of space contains in itself all elements of
all qualities of Consciousness'^
While we were discussing this point one of our group
had a dismaying idea. She did not express it, but the In-
visible caught the idea, and chuckled.
*'i\lrs. L.," he explained to the rest of us, "is disturbed by
the statement that all quality is everywhere present un-
segregated. She sees no reason why we should not then have
bullfrogs everywhere. I would tell her this:
'TThe law of manifestation is in no way different from
any other law. It acts only when the conditions are assem-
bled, of the right kind and in proper proportion. The reason
that tree quahty, say, manifests itself at any given point in
space, is not because the tree quality is especially more
present there than elsewhere. It is because the conditions
for the manifestation of tree quality are there present more
strongly than are the conditions for any other quahty.
"This being the case, it is natural to ask why one condi-
tion, or set of conditions, obtains at one particular place
rather than another. To answer that question we must first
of all examine the method of the working of any law what-
ever.
"No man ever causes a law to act. He merely assembles in
proper juxtaposition and proportion the necessary condi-
tions. Having done so, he cannot prevent the law from
acting. You think you light the fire. As a matter of fact, you
pile your wood; you place your kindling; you insert the
paper. You then supply the chemical, under those condi-
144 WITH FOLDED WINGS
tions of motion and abrasion, to the oxygenation of those
materials. The law steps in.
"Who or what gathers together in like manner the condi-
tions necessary to the production or manifestation of your
tree quality or whatever quahty? The same thing in essence
which has gathered together the fire material—Intelligence.
"There is no working of any law unless the conditions
for that law are arranged. And that arrangement comes
through Intelligence. You may—if you would quibble
point to the gathering of certain conditions by the action of
certain laws, but that is only pushing the subject back. In
the final analysis you will still discover—Intelligence."
And in final summing up:
"All this that we have said appUes to all the created work
in the finite universe, as it has evolved to its present state of
development, from the simplest of material elements to the
highest response-mechanisms of the All Conscious in finite
embodiment. These things have been created by intelli-
gence, self-evolved. Anything that intelligence makes is
fashioned by these methods. One of the most important and
responsible objects of your own creative powers is yourself.
That method, in that task also, you employ. You employ it
in every moment that is actually creative. That method, and
that method alone, is your tool for the fashioning of your
whole life as well, now and forever after, until, in the
mysterious rounding to a conclusion of whatever the Great
Purpose may be, your handiwork will be fitted into the
finite Completion. Therefore, study it well; for its applica-
tion, and the comfortableness of its assurance, is fitting to
all occasion.
"Now we have finished."
Every true spark you strike from out your own soul is a light
that has not shone before and that shall never be extin-
guished.
INVISIBLE
So-called malevolent and evil creations are but extreme
examples of incompleteness. They are ugly because they are
partial. Completed, they will be seen as the lesser curves of a
beautiful whole.
INVISIBLE
XIV. OUR PART IN CREATION
Agreed that self-development is our primary
creative function, plainly it is not our one and only. Too
many other instances throng forward when we examine our
lives. For example, when we do so simple a thing as to plant
a nasturtium seed, we have afforded the life force an op-
portunity it would not otherwise have had to express itself
in manifestation. It is within our power to bestow or with-
hold that one chance.
That is one of our simplest roles in creation. Likewise we
can in various ways interpose resistances across the undif-
ferentiated flow of the vital force which will check it to
tangibility. Many of these are purely mechanical and im-
personal, as in the case of the safety match and the electric
generator. But there is also the realm of the thinker and the
artist and the inventor—and even more intimately, the
worker in pure spiritual substance. A man's ability in this
field is limited only by his capacity to receive and conduct
the vital force from the Source, and to particularize it for
a purpose. For that is the creative process, whether he uses
it instinctively and blindly and blunderingly—as is most
often the case—or with the knowledge and intelligence to
which he is slowly evolving.
145
146 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Our true importance to the scheme of things in this con-
nection is not apparent to the casual eye. The Invisibles un-
derscored this apropos of someone's request for direct
advice.
'^Precipitation on the physical plane," said they, "must
come from those endowed with physical faculties. It must
be a living human being—living in your sense—^who per-
forms. No others but the great creative intelligences are
able by the checking quahty of their ideas actually to create
on the physical plane. If we would effect an actual mani-
festation or clothing of any portion of reality in your
sphere, we must not only work through the intermediation
of one of yourselves, but we must do it indirectly, so to
speak, by arousing you to make your own effort. We can
direct you straightaway to do a certain thing, simply by
telling you to do it; and you will do it and will apparently
gain to a certain effect. But in the result will be no iota of
the substance of reality, nor permanence; and in the in-
evitable readjustments it will be as if it had never been.
Of what avail then to lead you on by direct advice? One
blows down the wind! What you want, what the flow of
progress wants, what we want, is rather the single grain
of sand than the oceans of drifting fog.
"And I must repeat that the only mechanism we know to
place this clothed reality in your world is the camate human
wiU."
This subject of the individuaPs part in creation was con-
sidered important enough for repeated discussion. On one
occasion they devoted a whole evening to it.
"We will this night," they began, "consider the function
of the individual. It is twofold: first as a channel, and second
OUR PART IN CREATION I47
as an expression of the Universal. The first deals purely
with his Being; the second, with his activities. It is of the
first I would talk this evening.
"A channel, to be of the greatest use, must be as unob-
structed as possible, as wide as possible and as strong as
possible. Usefulness gauges on all these three. Without a
free channel the flow is slowed and moiled. With a con-
stricted channel the flow becomes betrickled. Without
strength of channel the capacity must be reduced; for
capacity is not mere containment, but the force of the flow
that its walls will resist. The degree of use, therefore, de-
pends directly upon the degree to which these three quali-
ties are developed. By them is measured the calibre of the
individual.
"A certain degree of them is natively inherent; but suf-
ficient only for the mere preservation of personal spiritual
life. A wider usefulness than that is then only incidental to
almost accidental harmonies, or to harmonious manipulation
from without. Only as coTtscious acquisition and affirmance
establish these qualities, can the use of them be consciously
bestowed. So the beginning of all our education is in em-
phasis upon personal unfoldment. Charity not only begins
at home; it 7?mst begin at home!
"The importance of this matter resides in the basic fact
that the only possible impingement of the spirit upon earth
affairs must take place through earth creations. To adopt a
figure of speech that is sufficiently awkward, but adequate
for a picture: conceive your earth surrounded by an in-
sulation impervious save through the perforations of these
individual channels. Without them our essences of harmony
would have no ingress; and only through them are we able
to bring to human affairs those influences we would bestow.
Once entered, they may spread to their appointments; but
148 WITH FOLDED WINGS
enter they may not save through these channels, knowl-
edgedly and toilfully prepared.
"The responsibility of the individual as a channel is self-
evident. That particular responsibility is the keeping of his
own integrity. That he has other responsibilities goes with-
out saying, but we do not treat of them now. His duty in
this connection is to keep his channel clear and free by the
constant uprush of his spirit toward its Source. He must
grow it wide. He must guard and keep its fabric whole and
strong.
"What threatens that strength, and why is its integrity
important? Because, just as the power of harmony and con-
struction flows into its upper reachings, so may the powers
of destruction and disharmony enter into it, but only
through weaknesses or ruptures of its walls. It is as though,
to continue our awkward figure, the channel from the
Universal, before reaching earth, passed through a muck;
and this, entering through crack or fissure, fogged and
muddied and moiled and made dark and heavy the original
purity. Were we to conceive all channels hard and intact,
then only the clear purities would water the earth.
"The unclarified sediment that presses to enter we have
various names for—such as hatred, avarice, egoistic power,
cruelty and the like. These are active corrosives eating into
the insulation, natural or consciously constructed, that
guards the purity of the flow. Their eating through to the
softening of danger has for each its recognizable comple-
ment in your consciousness. These also we name, but with-
out clear, conscious pairing with its corrosive. Thus you say
you feel irritated, angry, impatient, resentful, envious,
fearful, without reflecting that these are really subjective
symptoms of warnings reflexed from outside. They are to
be attended as such; and taken as signals, like the ache of a
OUR PART IN CREATION I49
tooth, that surfaces must be strengthened or breaches re-
paired. The apparent proximate cause is unimportant, nor
must the apparent insignificance of mere vexation purchase
indifference or condonings. A small softness, yielding, may
expand to an inrush that can be stopped only by an effort
robbed from usefulness. It is easy to dismiss, as of trivial
importance, the habit, for example, of small moments of
irritation. But each is a soft spot to which the irritation
would call your attention of repair. One does not wrestle
with the irritation itself, to subdue it saintly, for one wres-
tles to no purpose with an abstract thing. But one sounds
the wall in search of the thinning that permitted the enemy
tapping to reach and abrade yoiu- senses. This real cause is
important, whether the symptom seems to be or not. He of
superior intelligence heeds the whisper, where the lout must
be aroused by shoutings. And since serenity is also a symp-
tom, and not a primary, one does not strive to ^recapture
his serenity,' but to establish that state whose atmosphere
serenity is.*
"Naturally, perfection in this process cannot obtain
short of full and universal individual development. But the
degree of the integrity of his channel is each man's task and
responsibility. Construction of the self, viewed in this func-
tioning, is the average man's foremost task in this stage of
evolution. The arousing of awareness of the fact that this
task faces them is the next step forward of the lower ma-
jority. The guarding of the complete wholeness of one's
integrity in excluding the forces of disharmony is a not-to-
be-forgotten importance for those who have accomplished
conscious control.
* This concept oi the "soft spot" is more fully treated in Anchors to
Windward.
150 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"Clear: expand: strengthen: guard. That is the epitome
of man as a channel of the divine."
In returning to this subject another time, the Invisibles
warned of misinterpretation if we took their phrasing too
literally.
"In what I say I must use figures of speech, and I would
warn you to remember that they are not over-rigid con-
tainers of fact, but flexible illustrations of condition. You
must never permit a figure of speech to harden.
"The conduit, from the Source through the individual
to his environment, is composed of the spiritual integrity of
the individual. In ideal it is strong enough and impervious
enough to exclude completely deterrence or destruction; for
the only entrance possible to them is through the walls of
the channel, as it passes through these forces from the
Source to transmuted application. I have told you the im-
portance of small, what I call soft spots, as possible points
of enlarging ingress for inharmonious forces. I have told
you that these soft spots are products of corrosion from
within incepted by the individual's own reactions. Now, it
is obvious that such things as the larger hatreds, avarices, re-
sentments, self-centerednesses and the like are dangerous
weaknesses. But it is not so obvious that the small irritations
may, if permitted to recur, often and unchecked, make pin
points of perforation susceptible of perilous enlargement by
pressure of forces inrushing toward the spot of yielding.
That we have expressed before in other words.
"It may not, however, be so well understood that other
attitudes of mind, especially if allowed to become habitual,
may exercise a similar corrosive action on the channel's in-
OUR PART IN CREATION I5I
tegrity. In everything with which we come in contact, in
our incomplete stage of evolution, there is a minglement of
perfection, of incompletion, and of the inharmonious. We
may even fasten on one to the total exclusion of the others.
There again is a matter of our choice. If we exclude the
harmonious reaction, and concentrate on the incomplete
and disharmonious aspect, we thereby distill as powerful a
corrosive as would the undiluted destructiveness of pure
maleficence. But, if we will focus on the harmonious ele-
ment, however small in quantitative minority; and wiU
ignore the rest, refusing to it a natural emotional reaction;
we thereby become possessed of strengthening, instead of
corrosive, material. Therefore, the habit of mind should be
consciously and continuously cultivated, of selecting for
reaction within one's self the constructive encouragement
of the pleasant and agreeable element; and of refusing any
reaction whatever, save the intellectual attention necessary
to manage, to the fragmentary, the disagreeable and the
angering."
So much for our job as "channels of the divine." Later on
the Invisibles—and Betty—took up our "other aspect as
active expressions of the divine." It is not enough for us
just to build ourselves as channels—if such a thing were
possible. Pleasurable fulfillment of function demands also
that we do something about use of what we have built.
"We have talked of channels," observed Betty, "but we
have not attempted to put the flow through them. We just
constructed the idea of making ourselves channels, without
any particular responsibility for filling those channels. That
was supposed to come automatically, while we remained
152 WITH FOLDED WINGS
passive and merely kept the channel open. But now we
must induce a flow."
Later on, when she had made further progress, she had
this to say:
"I see myself as I used to be, convinced of the essential
tuning process, without which we are nothing; doing it
more or less regularly; luxuriating in it, even. But now that
picture is repellent to me: it has no joyous dynamics. The
prospect ahead is ever so much more satisfactory. Where
before the picture was Uke a lake, now it is a flowing river.
It would be impossible after this for me to return to the
apathetic stage—except periodically for rest, or if I became
conscious of nervous tensions, or for healing if ill. Now that
I feel the stupendous stir of making a current by opening
my outlets, no longer could I abide the self-containment of
the still-pond-no-more-moving days!"
"It is the greatest of all sensations," agreed the Invisible,
"this alignment with what might be called the Great Doing
—this alignment of one's self with it, not merely to feel,
passively, the flow, but to try out one's allotment of it, ac-
tively and enthusiastically.
"In fact, what is enthusiasm but this? What is energy but
this? What is love itself but this? —this removal of barriers,
enabling force to flow forward and back as necessity dic-
tates: forward to accomplishment of law forms in matter;
backward to recharge and refresh in the primal force."
5
This flow-through, to repeat, is our most important func-
tion in the scheme of things. Its conscious development
must be our next great advance in evolution. But also we
must be content to begin slowly and proceed carefully.
OUR PART IN CREATION I53
Betty's experience showed this. In the beginning it dealt
mostly with large generalities.
"I want to tell you," said she one time, "how you go
about it when you are in contact with primal force out of
which you are to make something—^when you are in the
reahty of things, and not merely their completed detailed
manifestations. The way / go about it is this:
'1 know the life force we have been talking about is all
that youVe got to begin your work with. All you have is
the amount you can take and arrange. I take stock of
myself; sense how much current is around me which keeps
at bay, as it were, what would be an all-engulfing substance
if Vd let it. But Fm not going to let it: I'm going to act on
it. That is as near as I can get to the sensation, the first
primitive sensation of creative force which I manufacture
and maintain.
"It is the growth of this sensation of greater and greater
radius of superior force acting on the primal substance
which will make it possible for me to establish my ideal,
what I actually am capable of, what my species is in the
universal plan. I said species because my ideal, my little
atomic arrangement I am capable of making and arranging,
establishes my species in the universe. And I am capable of
changing it continually.
"This makes one's share in the whole universe dependent
on the amount of the life force one is capable of generating
and utilizing. One's individual participation in the abound-
ing beauty of the whole Plan is dependent on the responsi-
bility and coherence of one's own efforts."
"The point is," said the Invisible, "there exists in yoa,
indefinitely developable, an engine of power capable of
molding and impressing your material world according as
154 WITH FOLDED WINGS
you can give out from your inner being this creative force.
This is not primarily the mentally creative force, which you
understand perfectly. It is the higher sense of that mentally
creative force, the vital principle of life. This I must touch
on before I leave it: I must try to get it into words. The
mentally creative principle is a mere ground plan. It has,
by laborious process, to have its vital principle supplied.
The true creative force, this godhead creative force, carries
its vital principle with it. It comes not from the agent of
the soul, the intellect; it comes from the very plexus of life,
which contains everything in potentiality."
For most of us anything resembling the perfection of the
creative process is hard even to imagine. We are told, but
the words cannot register. Betty herself, when she first
realized its possibilities, was wonder-struck.
"Such a big step!" she exclaimed. "Never to work alone.
A deliberate hookup before every action: the accomplish-
ment of that is the end and purpose of one's whole life. It
is so simple and yet so tremendous—just like an electrical
hookup.
"Before I start anything I must drop my consciousness
into place as a hnk between the Purpose I do not under-
stand, and the little act of which I am master. It is the defi-
nite awareness of this hookup and the practice of it that
makes it work, lets in the power. It is just a workaday nat-
ural action—my two hands directed by my spirit. If that
were an accomplished habit, there would be no necessity
for wrong or puzzlement. I would just say to Unknown
Purpose: 'I am ready when you are,' and keep a steady con-
fidence in the purpose at hand; and in ripeness it would be
done better than I could plan it."
OUR PART IN CREATION I55
"The entire secret," explained the Invisible, "is to make
your hookup every time, before you get into action in
minutiae and routines. There is nothing really new in this.
The only clarification is the simple yet amazing thought
that the law of empowerment depends on utilizing this
hookup ]or every separate actP
Everything you see or touch or measure, or can become
cognizant of by any imaginable means, is always the external
manifestation of Intention.
INVISIBLE
It's like a big pool of water: it's all there, but you have to
dip out some of it in your own cup and use it—make it yours.
Everybody is in this saturated pool of knowledge or power
or whatever you want to call it, but it isn't any good to him
unless he takes some of it out and intentions it.
INMSIBLE
XV. INTENTION
The positive element we, individually, con-
sciously, are able to contribute to the creative process can
best be understood by the word imentioning. The current
of life is passing through us, in quantity and pressure ac-
cording to our capacity to receive and conduct. It is an un-
differentiated force. What specific form it is to take in
manifestation depends entirely on our purpose and inten-
tion.
Our own imderstanding of the idea was begun by the
discussion of Margaret^s "currents" mentioned in Chapter
XIII. She had discovered, you will recall, that she could
induce between her hands what seemed to be various cur-
rents of force. The remarks by the Invisible here need re-
statement in part.
"It is all one force. It is a differentiation for especial pur-
poses of the one stream of vitality. ... It is evident only
when arrested. . . . Arrested by an idea it becomes a creature
or thing. . . . Slowed by a purpose it becomes a vehicle for
differentiated force, dependent for its nature and effect
on—the purpose."
"I have a friend," said Margaret at this point, "who seems
156
INTENTION 157
to be able to perform cures at a distance. How do you ex-
plain that?"
"All results of this kind are gained by a slowing down of
the universal vital current by intentioning. The use of the
hands is not essential to this intentioning. Your hands are
of help to you just as a broom is of help in cleaning—one
can also blow down the dust. There are various methods of
applying the force. Try them out."
"That would need some thought," said Margaret. "I am
at a loss as to just how I should apply my eiBForts in expand-
ing my work. Perhaps you could indicate the lines I should
follow up."
"We do not know that exactly ourselves," confessed the
Invisible. "The ways spread out like a fan before you, and
yourself must to a great extent decide which to take. Re-
member all this is experiment for us as well. This is a pioneer
work, and we cannot know the future in detail."
"Perhaps if you could give the differences between the
three kinds of current it would be helpful," suggested some-
one.
"It is all the same force. Only the intentioning varies,"
repeated the Invisible.
"Is this intentioning done on your side?" asked Margaret.
"Some of it is done by us, but more and more is being
done by you," was the answer. "I would suggest that in
experimenting you note on paper the result of each cur-
rent. By the gradual accumulation of facts in this way you
will eventually come to see the underlying plan."
"What is the purpose of the cold current—or must I
grow into that knowledge, too?" asked Margaret.
"Sometimes we use it merely to indicate our presence.
Often its purpose—this again is a symbol, and not to be
taken as a literal statement of fact—is to clear the path for
158 WITH FOLDED WINGS
the other currents: a cleaning of the conduits, so to speak."
"Will it prove valuable to work with doctors on the sub-
ject?" asked another of us.
"Try. If they prove to be donkeys, we will turn them
out to graze," replied the Invisible drily.
"Do you consider it necessary to prove a spiritistic con-
nection with the currents?" came our next question.
"That is not important. What theories people have about
it does not matter. They must simply be made to realize
that this great vital principle is here to be used by anybody.
The rest will develop later."
He indicated that he would like to try an experiment.
"Sit in an easy chair, Margaret." She obeyed. "Are you
comfortable? Now let go; sink down. Deep down. And
while you are deep down you will feel this current from
above you, from where you were."
"On the contrary," objected Margaret after a few
moments, "I seem myself to be about three feet above."
The Invisible chuckled. "It's a matter of definition," said
he. "What is it that you call yourselfF Leave your old self
down. The current will then pass through you. It is the
same current you pass to others. It is the healing current."
"I get the current all right. It's cool."
"Imagine to yourself," continued the Invisible, "that you
continue to let it flow, but that you focus a part of it;
through your hands, for instance. Simply deflect for a
purpose a portion out through your hands."
"I feel it coming in, but it seems different when it goes
out," said Margaret.
"You have done by yourself what ive have done before,"
the Invisible congratulated. "This is the first lesson. We
helped you only at the beginning by putting you in the
INTENTION 159
current. The rest you did yourself. It is very good. This is
only the first lesson."
A little later the Invisible continued:
"This is for Margaret, and is just a hint as to her partici-
pation in what she is doing. She must realize once again the
importance of the substance of thought, and that the
fashioning tool at her command is constructive imagination.
I want very emphatically to get this conception out of the
figurative and into the hteral. It is an actual modelling tool
on an actual, definite substance.
"Now no matter how imperfectly, how haltingly, or how
intermittently she may succeed in fashioning the idea, al-
ways on applying these currents of hers she must go
through this definite effort. Tonight we have partly disen-
gaged her in order to assure for demonstration purposes a
permeabiHty to the greater current, greater than is possible
at present and unassisted when she is in her normal con-
sciousness. We expect her to use these currents in her
normal consciousness; at first almost entirely by our own
manipulation, later with lessening assistance, and finally, we
hope, in practical independence.
"Whenever you apply this power, try to remember, and
as far as possible duplicate, your impression of the greater
current coming into you from above, sweeping through
you as a fresh breeze blows. Imagine that picture. Always
conceive of it. It will be difficult at first to gain any sense of
reaUty, but not too difficult to obtain a fancy. One must
begin small. Always do that. It fashions the conditions we
desire in the substance of thought.
"Then try once more to imagine deflecting a certain por-
tion of this current to pass our^\^ard in focussed form—not
merely permitting the broad sweep, but focussing, as of
water in a pipe."
l6o WITH FOLDED WINGS
After which, of course, the next step is detemiining ex-
actly what kind of a focussed current one is to produce;
and that in turn is a matter of intentioning it. In this present
case for heaUng.
In discussion it developed that a further distinction must be
made between the intentioning of the general kind of cur-
rent desired—as for healing—and the detailed application
of it. The latter is also something to be determined and al-
ways by intelligence. On some occasions that intelligence
can be our owti conscious mind; on others we have not suf-
ficient knowledge to understand what is good for the situa-
tion. Part of growing is the finding out which is which.
To take, again, the example of healing. We can intention
the flow-through to become a healing current; but then we
should turn over the job to other intelligence than our
brain-mind. If we try to direct the healing process con-
sciously and in detail, we may cause the patient more harm
than good. In the next chapter we will take this up more
fully. Meanwhile, the important thing is the general prin-
ciple. The most we can safely deinmd is that the current
intentioned for heahng may be used for the best good of the
one we would help. The question of what is his best good
we must leave, in faith, to higher inteUigence than our own
reasoning faculties.
This need for caution seems to apply even to so general
a beneficence as inspiration. One of us asked whether we
should intention along the line of one's main purpose*
whatever inspiration one may receive from the Source. The
Invisible who was then talking to us rephed that he did not
believe in this sort of specialization; that putting things into
See The Sei/en Purposes for an explanation of this term.
INTENTION l6l
separate compartments is always unwise; that so to inten-
tion might defeat the nourishment of subordinate purpose;
that no one is wholly of one purpose, but is compacted of
all the purposes; that ordinarily one functions most in the
purpose to which one's temperament leads him; but con-
sciously and intellectually to force one's intention to that
purpose is apt to make one lopsided.
All this would seem to take things pretty much out of our
hands. If we are to be safe, apparently, we must confine
ourselves to large fuzzy Intentions with no comers on them.
Everything else must be left to Higher InteUigence.
But such is not always the case. There are many fields in
which we can intention to our hearts' content with little
danger of stepping too hard on anyone's toes. One of the
best of these includes all kinds of artistic creation. Here we
can study how intentioning really works,
"Any manifestation whatever," said the Invisible, "is an
effort of creative intelligence of one kind or another. The
outward expression follows upon the inward creative fash-
ioning. That inward creative fashioning, wherever exerted,
in whatever form manifested, is always the same sort of
thing: a tuning into the universal power, and a stepping
down of that power into a degree that will manifest.
"It is this principle which lies back of the creative power
of thought—though that is to some extent a misnomer. The
creative power of fashioning imagination would be better.
Whatever is so fashioned must clothe itself—somewhere
and somehow, now or later—in outward manifestation;
simply because it has been given form and exists now where
it did not exist before, like a mold, capacious to be filled
when conditions supply the materials for that filling. In this
l62 WITH FOLDED WINGS
sense, therefore, no genuine creative effort is ever lost. It
has produced a phase of harmony which has not existed in
exactly that form before. It has added to the harmonious
differentiation of the universe detailed bits that have here-
tofore had no existence."
A definite and productive creation, then, has actually
been accomplished even before the physical comes into
visibility. The clearly formed Intention is a kind of inter-
mediate step between original potentiality and objective
manifestation.
*'This fashioning dynamic creation," continued the In-
visible, "of the opportunities for manifestation of poten-
tiality is one function of the finite universe, and also of the
slowly climbing intelligences which it originates and of
which it is composed. As we see it now, the circle in what-
ever is the inunderstandable Purpose will be rounded out
only when all potentiahty is brought forth consciously and
made evident. Furthermore, even the potentiahty itself is
the intelligent creative act of the Great Originator.
"There are rvvo aspects to note in the wee corollary
which each human will apply to himself. First, attention
should be called to the fact that intelligence does not create
harmony, but comes into attunement with harmony, which
it can utilize only according to the power of its will to
achieve. The second aspect is that no genuine creation is
without result. A mold may be placed upon the shelf await-
ing in due time the molten. But the shape exists in the uni-
verse, where existence it had not before. Nor will its eternal
quality be limited by any small manifestations of form
which may at one time or another be made by its means.
The mold remains intact for the uses of harmony at its need.
"I would say one other word, on behalf of the unrecog-
nized. Creative genius is composed of two actions. These
INTENTION 163
may conceivably be combined in one individual; or each
may find its embodiment in a different individual. The con-
ception of a thing must first be made in the substance of
thought, and then precipitated in manifestation on your
physical plane. This, as I say, may be combined in one in-
dividual, so that a man conceives his vision and embodies it.
"But not infrequently you have the spectacle of one who
struggles frustrated throughout his life, M^ithout arrival at
the world's success. You have on the other hand the specta-
cle of one producing abundantly and beautifully, almost as
it were by instinct, without labor, almost without taking
thought, a child of good fortune. One is contemned as a
failure; the other is almost revered in his success. Neverthe-
less, often the first, the failure, has made true his vision; and
the other, the genius, has done no more than possess the
open eye wherewith to see, and the hand wherewith, un-
knowing to his own soul, to pass on.
"The measure of progress is not always the work of the
hand, but is often the inner fashioning."
Another time the Invisible strengthened the lines of this
picture of Intention.
"You have had enunciated to you the principle that the
precipitation or manifestation in the physical world, of any
specific quality of consciousness at any one point in space,
is because at that point have been gathered the conditions
for that manifestation. The gathering of these conditions is
intelligent, but works out through the orderUness of law.
Man creates by assembling conditions for the working of
the law. When conditions are assembled, the law must
work. This is all old material, as you will recognize.
"It is possible for any given thing to be bom into physical
164 WITH FOLDED WINGS
matter only when the Idea of that thing has been intelli-
gently formulated. If a man would build a chair, he has first
conceived of it in his mind. He has, next, consciousness of
the different steps of the process of manufacture in his
mind. He has worked out his chair complete in the sub-
stance of thought, so that an Intention exists, complete in
all its details, into the mold of which, so to speak, a precipi-
tation may take place.
"This is increasingly striking as one ascends into the
creation of hitherto unknown forms of imaginative art. The
creative imagination of the artist actually forms a mold for
physical manifestation which has not heretofore existed.
But more: he assembles conditions heretofore unassembled,
so that always hereafter that particular mold is in existence
and at the command of whoever in the future shall reattune
himself to it in the substance of thought—which you call
race memory, cosmic memory or universal memory
where nothing is lost. Thus it does not greatly matter if the
product of his hands be destroyed. It yet remains in cosmos
as a fulfilled potentiality which has not been fulfilled before.
It exists in the substance of thought, and may at some future
time be reprecipitated by one whose receptivity or sensi-
tiveness attunes him thereto.
"Go fartkcr. Consider the man who, from ineptness of
mechanical aptitude, or from the frustration of ill luck or
fate, or from the confinement of opportunity, fails in the
production of that which his vision has seen and his imagi-
nation has molded. He has what you call failed. The work
of his hands crumbles, the sound of his voice dies against a
void of emptiness. He is alone, and frustrated and dis-
countenanced and perhaps derided. Nevertheless, in the
reality which I have called the substance of thought, he has
had the genius and imagination to have made a pattern of
INTENTION 165
gathered conditions heretofore non-existent. That thing he
has visioned is in actual being. The notes of his music are.
imprisoned in a crystal stillness which needs but the touch
for their releasement. The accomplishment of his spirit is
in the cosmic Intention, awaiting embodiment, as definitely
as are the cosmic Intentions of such old-established things
as a tree or a dog or a flower or an ant or whatever. That
Intention of his is rounded and whole, needing for physical
expression merely the gathering of the appropriate condi-
tions, as fire awaits but the knowledged placing of fuel and
chemical action.
"I say this so you may know that any real or sincere crea-
tive effort is never lost. It is builded into the structure of
the evolving universe. It carries onward into the way of
progressing complexity as certainly as has the evolution of
the bird from the repnle in the primordial slime. There are
no failures, save those to carry forward wholeheartedly
one's work and one's destiny as they reveal themselves.
"You have spoken this evening of one you described as
in advance of his time—one who has called himself a
failure. These things are incompatible one with another,
for the man in advance of his time is not a failure. Nor can
he write himself down as such, until the impetus of his
vision and his desire has expended itself, and it has been
borne in upon him that he has builded his vision in the card-
board of selfish desire rather than in the eternal substance of
true aspiration. If the former, his effort will crumble unful-
filled. If the latter, its fulfillment—somehow, or through
somebody is eventually certain.
"It is in this thought that I would leave you, for it is a
thought applicable to all endeavor. In it is the safeguard for
all adventure. If one desires to build anew for the sake of
visioning that which has not existed before; without
l66 WITH FOLDED WINGS
thought of self-aggrandizement beyond what is a proper
pride in function fulfilled; then one cannot go astray. A{>-
proach all work with a spirit of joyous fashioning, content
to offer it upon the altar of the great Unseen, there to rest
or to be handed back for employment as greater powers
than yourselves deem wise."
Pain, suffering, all earth experiences are like the coloring
used on the slides of a microscope to make you conscious of
invisible things.
INVISIBLE
XVI. HEALING
The word "healing" really should be used here in
a wider sense than the mere righting of bodily derange-
ments. It should be made to mean also any effort toward
restoration of harmony wherever harmony has been dis-
turbed. However the technique of that restoration so
closely follows, or parallels, the principles of bodily healing
that first of all it will pay us to review what the Invisibles
had to say to us on that.
In the first place, it seems all methods of healing, whether
the sheer mental at one extreme and the allopathic drug
system at the other, work basically on the same principle.
"Sickness in your limited universe existence," said the In-
visible, "is nothing but a maladjustment of frequency. Each
entity has its own degree frequency." Treatment is the
application of frequencies which will restore the normal
adjustment. In mental heahng, spiritual healing, some sorts
of therapy such as the electrical, this is obvious when one
stops to think of it, for frequencies are their obvious basis.
But, said the Invisibles, drugs are merely another and in-
direct way of supplying the same thing. They set up in the
body a chemical action which releases frequencies that
stimulate frequency in higher degrees of consciousness.
"Since all consciousness has the frequency of its own de-
gree; and since each and every organ of the body has its
individual frequency which makes it what it is, any method
167
l68 WITH FOLDED WINGS
of such Stimulation works in the same way and with the
same results."
The method most appropriate to any specific case de-
pends on the factors of that case—all the factors, mental,
spiritual and physical. No man can say without knowing
these factors which school of heahng is going to work. Any
of them may work provided they have basically the power
to administer frequencies that will "take," so to speak. The
purely mental and faith treatments will have no effecr
whatever on the sceptic; they will help greatly the one open
to such frequencies.
Sometimes—indeed I am inclined to think most times
the matter is not so open and shut. In the future, people may
not be so dogmatic and exclusive about their therapeutic
behefs. The medical doctor will not snort so loudly, nor
the Christian Scientist recoil from occasional dosage with
such horror. And the allopathic lion and the homeopathic
lamb may lie down together.
The child of one of our friends had pneumonia. The
parent was in a turmoil of anxiety whether he ought to
depend on what were then his "faith heahng" beliefs, or
follow the allopathic or the homeopathic urgings of his
various advisors. Betty reported back her consultation with
a doctor in the Invisible. "He says to render unto Caesar
the things that are Caesar's. He says that very gradually
people are coming to realize that, especially in a somewhat
developed personahty, the body and the thing it clothes
are more interdependent and homogeneous than is the case
with those of less development. The latter may be treated
entirely through the body for an illness of the body. With
the former class, however, a combination is essential. One
must render to the Body, Caesar, the best that is known in
the treatment of the body. At the same time there should be
HEai^ING 169
corresponding treatment in the higher planes. He empha-
sizes that neither is properly effective without the other.
The reason is the homogeneity."
But the parent tried to insist upon a decision.
"What does he think about light rays and homeopathy?"
he asked Betty.
The Invisible doctor took over directly. He reiterated
that the value depends on the circumstance. "But on purely
theoretical grounds homeopathy overemphasizes what
might be called astral effects and underemphasizes material
effects. Unintelligently applied allopathic medicine does
the reverse. Whatever his expressed theory, the homeopath
is depending more on the 'astral' chemistry than on the
effect of his Httle pills. As to the lights: they are a physical
thing. Properly administered they are a therapeutic thing.
The use solely of the spiritual currents is open to the same
objection, in lesser degree, as homeopathy—as I first
pointed out. In a person of wholly undeveloped homo-
geneity—if such were conceivable—your spiritual currents
would act only indirectly and dilutedly. In a more de-
veloped homogeneity the effect would be more direct.
However, supplemented by their physical counterparts that
effect would be more easily and completely attained. That
is self-evident, is it not? Though you might be capable of
swimming ashore, why not use an available boat?
"It is an equally absurd negation, of course, to concen-
trate upon the purely physical chemical reaction in the case
of a highly organized individual."
"I cannot see, then," said our friend, "why there should
be a conflict between the two medical schools."
"Allopathy is as near an absolute as your present
knowledge can produce on the physical plane; whereas
homeopathy is far from an absolute of what could be ac-
lyo WITH FOLDED WINGS
complished on the astral plane by other and more intelligent
methods. Homeopathy imagines it is acting on the physical
plane, but is a dabbler in both. It is a mixtm*e. Study to com-
bine the methods most effective in each. Why use only one
crutch when you have two?"
As for complete reliance in all circumstances on the
power of mind or faith, one of us finally summed up the
discussion this way:
"These people have gone off on a tangent. Their lack is
that they do not recognize the lower degrees of frequency
that are designed to affect the frequencies of the human
frame. Actually, there are drugs, also, adapted to change
crossed frequencies and reduced frequencies. You should
use both mental and physical treatment. It is just as foolish
to deny one as the other. There is such a thing as tapping
the Source, and the Christian Scientist has put all the weight
there. But he denies all the physical things put in the world
to be used for healing, in addition to tapping the Source.
After all, the modem healer—whether a medical doctor or
not—is utilizing light and heat and electricity and all sorts
of frequencies, in addition to his drugs. A while ago they
depended entirely on drugs.**
And recurring to the same topic on another and much
later occasion, the Invisible had this to say, apropos of a
specific case:
*'With your present concept and understanding of fre-
quency and its relation to absolute time and space, I think
you could, after a few times, open your mind to the inflow
for restoring the depleted frequency of your body. You
should use your mind. That is one of the truths that has
made Christian Science live. The difficulty there is that,
having added the unlimited universe healing properties to
the earth concept, they immediately eliminated the degree-
HEALING 171
frequencies of drugs. Now both should be used. If a tool is
at hand, why disdain it, if it can aid you? What is needed
in this particular case is a very fine nerve healing, and there
just happens to be no immediate drug that will do the trick.
You say, *Time will do it.' Well, what does that mean?
Nothing but an accumulation period for the sick nerve;
because the only thing the matter with the nerve is its own
depleted frequency. When you understand illness and pain
from this angle, you can see why the Christian Scientist's
healer, not through the laying on of hands, but through the
dehberate opening of the mind, does get results."
"The Christian Science faith has a great deal of truth
in it,"—this was Betty, from the unobstructed
—"as you
know, it is a great glimpse."
We must not get the false impression that any of these
schools of healing or of medicine were mentioned by the
Invisibles in any but an illustrative way—certainly in no
critical spirit. Rather the effort seemed to be to establish a
denominator common to all of them, and at the same time
to show that no one of them is complete in itself. Two
things are basic, no matter what the system.
(a) There is an observable effect on the physical body.
(b) The application requires especial knowledge and
training.
Those propositions are self-evident in medical science.
Drugs and surgery do things to our bodies; and most cer-
tainly it is reasonable to trust their administration only to a
quahfied physician.
The self-evidence also obtains as respects the effects of
mind, or spirit, or faith on the body, but not to the same
degree. We are likely to be more vague as to that. Every-
172 WITH FOLDED WINGS
body knows that when we are ashamed, or angry, we turn
red; when we are frightened, we turn pale; when we are
swept by any too-violent emotion, our stomachs go back
on us. Shame, anger, emotion are purely mental and sub-
jective; the flush or draining of blood in the cheeks, and the
gastric spasms are purely physical. These are phenomena
so common that we give them no thought. Their signifi-
cance was impressed on me when, nearly fifty years ago, in
Paris, I saw Charcot hypnotize a woman, inform her that
he was about to drop sulphuric acid on her hand, and then
in fact did use water from his laboratory tap. The water
could have had no such drastic effect as the acid. Neverthe-
less, in a few moments dull red spots appeared!
Now there was a definite physical effect induced by a
mental image. It did not differ from the flush on the cheek;
but it was certainly more striking. And if pure unaided
idea can bring blood to the face or form stigmata on the
hands, it is reasonable that properly directed and strong
enough ideas are capable of doing things to the body that
might be of some use. No one could mend broken bones
diat way, but one can help bruised flesh. Try it next rime
you drop anything heavy and painful on your foot. What
do we usually do when that happens to us? We raise the
foot off the floor, and scrooch up all our toes, and con-
centrate our enraged feelings into a tension of the whole
member. The result is a violent contracrion, which blocks
every blood passage in the afflicted part, denying entrance
to the very fluid which alone is capable of both carrying
away damaged tissues and bringing fresh material for re-
pair. As an experiment, try consciously to do the opposite.
Relax the foot, allowing it to "spread out," devoid of all
tension, as flat on the floor as possible. Instead of thinking
how much it hurts, and so inducing the contraction that
HEALING 173
accompanies pain, concentrate your mind on a picture of
the injured member opened, so to speak, by this conscious
relaxation to an accelerated flow of blood through it; and
focus attention on an image of this accelerated flow. What
you are after is a sort of consciously self-induced blush to
the foot, if that does not sound too fantastic. You will be
surprised at two things. In the first place there will be no-
where near so much pain, and in the second place there will
not be nearly as severe a bruise. There is nothing obscure or
occult about it. You have merely given nature a chance to
get in where the trouble is; instead of blocking her out by
nerve-contracted muscles until it is too late. It works: Fve
done it many times.
All this is simple and elementary, and will seem too much
so to many. But we are supposed to go on from there. Our
job is to extend the appHcarion of the principle. We do not
have to "let nature take its course." Often we can do some-
thing about it.
"Let us assume a simple illustration that you can readily
understand," said the Invisible. "To laugh and to cry are
physical acts. Do you know that when the emotions are
not so deep as to be beyond control, under ordinary cir-
cumstances when you start to cry, if you screw your face
muscles into the physical formation of laughter, you can
laugh? It is also possible to apply the power of will control-
ling the physical acts to readjust mental states. Take, for
an example, the ordinary emotion of fear. Many a man who
has been afraid has eventually overcome his cowardice by
a physical simulation of bravery. This may be carried to
the TZth power and can be made to control even more deli-
cate and less imderstandable emotions."
174 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Another time the Invisible applied the principle to actual
self-treatment for illness.
*'Now take the case of a person/' said he, "who feels
himself threatened by a common cold. The misapprehen-
sion of the principle I would elucidate advises in one breath
a denial of the existence of the cold, and in the next breath
a positive assertion that the individual is perfectly all right
and that nothing whatever is the matter. Sometimes these
are used in conjunction; sometimes they represent quite
different schools of therapeutics. Both are an affront to
common sense. The cold does exist, and the individual is
?wt in a perfectly normal condition. No matter how ve-
hemently this point may be asseverated by the conscious
will, it must arouse a reverberation of denial from that sub-
conscious element which is in touch with truth. This denial
is in itself a suggestion stronger and more effective than the
original voluntarily pumped-up assertion. Therefore, the
latter end of this experiment is complete failure. Instead of
bearing aid to the threatened boundaries, you have acted the
part of a clamant pacifist remaining safely at home in an
illusory security.
"The first process of healing from the psycho centers
must consist in an acknowledgment, definitely formulated,
of the state of affairs. You say to the body politic of your
complicated physical structure: 'Yes, you are invaded.
Germs have obtained a foothold in our territory. It is neces-
sary to assemble the fighting units of the white corpuscles
to overcome and eject the intruders in the usual and proper
manner.' This is a statement of simple, acceptable fact, and
arouses no harmful suggestion of denial. The cells and
processes in question receive no wrong impulse which will
confuse them in what is actually their accustomed and
proper work.
HEALING 175
"In many cases, unaided, they might be able to accom-
plish the task, but you must do more. Still looking upon
yourself as the center, the animating over-source, through
whom vitality must filter from even a higher source to the
cells, you must project to them a confidence that they will
be able to do the job: 'To be sure we are invaded, but we
will down them, put them out—that is foregone.' Thus you
have established in your capitol a party of serene con-
fidence, in place of the usual panic-stricken defeatists. Do
not you see that in the one case you have a pressure
outwards, and in the other case you have a vacuum which
sucks in?
"That feeling of confidence and outward serenity is
often again sufficient, but it is not the whole. To continue
our figure, you must further say: 'Something is wrong; we
must fight; I know you can do it; I have confidence—but I
will also send you aid. I will not merely stand aside from
the great flow of vital consciousness that fills and makes all
cosmos; I will consciously attract to myself a greater al-
lowance than customary to flow through me in assistance
at this emergency.' You purpose this, and that purpose
in itself a real thing in the substance of thought, mind you
—slows down, checks, offers a resistance to, and differen-
tiates into a certain kind, a portion of the universal flow of
vitality, and sends it through you in the direction appointed.
"Then, having done this, without tension, without strain,
easily, naturally, you go about your business and forget it."
\ The last statement was later explained to refer to one's
ordinary mental processes. It did not mean to go about
physical occupations regardless. One's place might well be
in bed. The main thing is not to brood on one's condition.
"If," continued the Invisible, "you hold the thought of
cold constantly in your mind, some Httle devil will pass it
176 WITH FOLDED WINGS
through your lines in spite of your good soldiers. Only
when you feel a scrape of the throat, a wee bit sneeze, some
httle shiver—then you know your soldiers send you a
message: 'We are beleaguered. Brace up!' But if you do
not get such a message, forget it.
''This is much pother about a common cold, is it not? I
use such care because it is the simplest possible example of
the working of the law."
"How about cancer and smallpox and such virulent dis-
eases?" we asked. "Can they too be cured by this method?"
"Sometimes, of course," acknowledged the Invisible,
"your soldiers are overcome by a superior force, and then
you will have a devastated area, so to speak. Yet if you use
this method you will have a lighter smallpox."
"I understand the idea," said one of us doubtfully, "but
I am pretty unsuccessful at putting it into practice."
"The probabihty is," said the Invisible, "that you make
too particular an application. I gave an example of self-
healing method with a common cold. The moment a par-
ticularized attention attempts to direct heahng po^^'er
toward a specific thing, you may help—or you may ener-
gize the ailment. You may be furnishing vitahty to the dis-
ease. The thing that takes, appropriates, is not under your
command. You must leave to your physical headquarters
the use of what you supply, according to its own wisdom.
It is the direct application that is harmful. You can never
apply power direct, either to yourself, to your friend, or to
the world.
"While remembering this, however, do not forget that
still you must direct the abundance you take for yourself
deliver it, so to speak, at the door of your physical head-
quarters, and not just leave it scattered about."
HEALING 177
"Couldn't one give help to someone about to be operated
on by directing this sort of 'general help' toward the sur-
geon—not in specific detail, but in aiding to steadiness, or
sharpening his skill, and so on?"
It sounded hke a good suggestion, but the Invisible was
doubtful.
"You cannot tell, in impinging on a human being like a
surgeon, what cross currents you are introducing into a
situation already balanced. You may safely offer a situation
all the harmony you can produce, because if a situation is
balanced, all its component parts must be.
"That is why this whole subject has been held in abey-
ance, because too often harm comes not only to the patient,
but to those attempting to help. We do not encourage the
uninstructed to experiment in this dangerous field."
"How about the very aged?" persisted our questioner.
"Cannot you send help either to preserve fife or to help in
passing? Isn't that desirable?"
"Desirable, perhaps, but not with the specific intention
to bring about either life or passing. Your wish is to send
him, of your abundance, that thing which he needs,
whether that be hfe, or death, or increased vitality, or the
subduing of his forces to ease the launching. That is legit-
imate. It is the specific intentioning that bums and destroys
when you would help."
4
On another occasion a different Invisible summed up our
present status as regards the attempting of detailed ministra-
tion.
"It is an immensely complex subject; and in it are grave
dangers of harming the very one you want to help. A mis-
178 WITH FOLDED WINGS
placed intensity of the limited mind is so easily substituted
for intensity of the heart, which knows the higher laws.
Then you particularize merely your own desires and
limited perceptions, and so restrict the very person you
wish to free. It becomes an impertinence, a spiritual im-
pertinence, as is any restriction of freedom.
"A fostering by sending forth harmonious influences
from the heart batteries is quite another thing. That reaches
corresponding life principles in the patient and unfolds
them naturally for him. The use of projective mentaUty to
help him by means of your own selection of positives and
negatives is always a risk; but it can be attempted with
reasonable safety when projected in the vehicle of affection.
It then has no sustained power to restrict.
"This subject is tremendous. Only through years of ex-
periment and practice can its laws be proved. It is the entire
next grade of life—^the technique of the spiritual func-
tions."*
5
There remains but one aspect to discuss, that of "nerves."
What can we do about that?
"So-called ^control of nerves' is an important item,"
acknowledged the Invisible, "for the mere sake of personal
comfort, if nothing else. You do not, however, control your
nerves. They act—and they report—on stimulus. If the
stimulus is physical, you call it real. Example: the physical
commotion of an indigestible green apple. If the stimulus is
emotional, you speak of nervous reflex. Example: the total
inhibition of digestion by a shock of grief or fear. The
• This whole principle has been pointed up even more sharply in what
we came to call the "Tommy-tonsillitis" case. It is set down in Anchors to
Windward, pages 86-88.
HEALING 179
Stimulus may also be habit or memory—^yes, nerves have
memory. Example: discomfort without any assignable
cause at the moment. All these stimuH impinge first on your
subconscious, as that part of you directly in charge of auto-
matic bodily function, and are then by it brought to your
conscious mind for attention.
"You 'control' the first two—^the physical stimuli—by re-
moval of the cause, if that is possible. Otherwise you pay
the price of indiscretion or accident, applying whatever of
palliative or remedy is at your command. But you cannot
prevent the reports coming in to you as long as there is
reason for them. The same may be said for the second class
of stimulus.
"The third are different. You cannot get the better of
them merely by ignoring them. The reports may be based
on unreality, but those reports themselves are real. How-
ever, you can, and should, prevent those reports from
reaching your conscious mind. You can do so by imposing
on the subconscious a duty of discrimination. The sub-
conscious should be made to feel, by your attitude toward
it, that part of its business is to sift out the actual and to
inhibit the small baseless panics; to understand that you are
not going to tolerate its running to you with its unsifted un-
importances. Just as you would frown upon a child's always
running to you with every little problem. It is the province
of the subconscious to superintend the memory-habits of
the physical nerves, which are its direct charge. This dis-
crimination is within the power of the subconscious, and it
can be trained to exercise it.
"Of course, in the larger sense, the subconscious is not
actually a separate entity, though we are apparently treat-
ing it as such. But for the purpose of function it can be
made so, yust as '^ou are a separate entity for the jrmctiomng
l8o WITH FOLDED WINGS
purpose of the Whole, with which nevertheless you are
actually integral,
"It is a mistake to 'control your nerves' directly through
your conscious mind, ignoring the mechanism in whose
charge they are."
Disharmony is nothing eternal, for the reason that it is
merely incompletion. And incompletion cannot exist for a
longer time than it takes for some creative intelligence to
tune in upon, and bring to manifestation, the complementing
vibration.
INVISIBLE
The whole universe is a mutual back-and-forth helping and
building, each assisting the other's completion, but at the
same time completing as well as he can his own.
INVISIBLE
XVII. THE AREA OF ACCOMPLISHMENT
The material in the preceding chapter was only
incidentally intended to instruct us in healing ourselves or
others. Rather it was so directed merely because such heal-
ing most clearly exemplifies the basic principles underlying
help to others of whatever kind. The Invisibles themselves
stated this specifically.
"We deal not so much with the narrow aspect of healing
as with the technique of helping," said they.
"The basic principle is that one can most effectively help
another, and with concomitant benefit to one's self, only in
one way: that is through the bestoioal of abundancey trans-
muted by personality into individual contribution. That
compact sentence should be well studied, for it contains the
whole matter.
"The first step, then, is to assure an intake of abundance
to be passed through the personality for transmutation. As
the occasion may be assumed to be one of emergency be-
yond the normal, it follows that, if possible, the flow
through the personality may be with advantage accelerated
beyond the usual. That is because, naturally, outgiving can-
not exceed intaking—except for a brief period—without
181
l82 WITH FOLDED WINGS
ending in depletion. Funherniore, as accelerated flow can
be maintained only by continuous attention, the major
effort must contiime to be concentrated on that assurance
of abundance for one's self. Whatever there is of minor
technique—^in intentioning, directing and applying—must
be subordinate, and done with the left of the eye, so to
speak."
There, once more, is the "charity begins at home" in-
sistence.
"That statement," continued the Invisible, "deals with
only one phase—abundance."
Abundance of what? The life force, the flow from the
Source? Not exactly. The basic principle quoted above adds
a significant modifier: "transmuted by personality into in-
dividual contribution." If we are really to help anyone, in
healing or otherwise, there ?mist be a transmutation.
"It is," warned the Invisible, "harmful to attempt a short
cut, to try to invoke, inundate your subject with, pure
power from the Source. That cannot be your contribution.
So understand these two things: that your contribution
must be from your oivn abundance; and that you cannot
meddle with your subject's own functioning in pure power,
force, vitality, life, spiritual abundance."
Now the final consideration, which ties us into the
principles of healing: here, also, we should give only a geri-
eral directive to the overflow of abundance we contribute.
"The idea is," said the Invisible, "that it is unwise to focus
application on the details of a specific trouble. In trying to
help someone, all you should do is to determine in intention
that you desire your abundance be accepted by the one you
would help. The seat of his trouble may not be where you
think, and the proper application of your abundance may
well be elsewhere. Perhaps, also, its best influence on the
THE AREA OF ACCOMPLISHMENT 183
trouble may be indirect, through a further transformation
by the subject himself. You have not the wisdom to de-
termine that. Even w^hen the difficulty appears to be as
sharply defined as a belly-ache from unripened fruit, you
should be chary of applying a spiritual posset to the af-
fected part. Be assured that, if you turn your force in the
proper direction, and allo'w it—not force it—to seek its
application, you have done your part. An attempt to focus
it into a beam may burn too deep."
Not, admitted the Invisible, that such a method may not
sometimes work. It does. In many instances. "But if so, it
is in spite of."
"Is it," asked one of us, "a good idea to try to help
people in this way, if they need it, whether they ask for it
or know about it or not?"
The Invisible did not care to commit hin^elf categori-
cally as to that. Too many modifying circumstances. How-
ever:
"One may state broadly that a psychic intrusion is as
discourteous as a physical intrusion. Speaking very gen-
erally it is not a desirable procedure. There are exceptions.
This is not a dogma."
One discourse by the Invisibles on the subject of psychic
help is so revealing that I will quote it verbatim. First,
however, I will epitomize to break trail.
Every man—so runs the treatise—^has a certain spiritual
calibre which determines three things:
His obfigation to attempt spiritual help. How far it ex-
tends.
His safety in doing so. How far he can go without dan-
ger.
184 WITH FOLDED WINGS
The field he can work in with reasonable expectation of
results.
These three, according to the Invisible, represent a cer-
tain area of responsibility wherein he can move with con-
fidence that he is not overstepping his privilege or his
powers. Any job he is to tackle he must draw into this safe
area. If the job is not meant for him, he will not be able to
do so. Then, if he is to meddle with it at all, he will be
forced to go outside his area—and there hes danger and
futility. As in everything else, however, a policy of isola-
tionism is not the idea. There is sometimes justification for
exploration, or even for the sortie of a forlorn hope.
All of which is admittedly in the region of what the In-
visibles called the "ultra violet of inspiration," and so out of
our workaday vision. But it is also what the Invisibles called
a "fructifying glimpse," which in due time bears its harvest
in our consciousness if we attend it seriously. As to practice,
however—here, now, today—it is a bit vague. We must
have something definite to do. Just exactly honv are we to
draw a given job to us?
The secret is again in the word "love." If we feel that
toward the job—and just to the extent that we do feel it
the job is brought into our area of accomplishment. The
way to increase this ingredient, as we have seen, is to
establish contact with the Source. Once we have freed our
channel in this way, the normal reaction is an eagerness
to use it for service. That is, of course, right and proper,
but it exposes us to two dangers.
One is the temptation, once the flow is estabhshed, to
hurry it through the channel to its apphcation. Such a
procedure forgets the charity-begins-at-home aspect we
have so often had emphasized—the nourishment of the
person himself.
THE AREA OF ACCOMPLISHMENT 185
The second danger is that the eagerness for service may-
tempt beyond one's proper area of accomplishment. Ambi-
tion for service, however, is not dampened when one dis-
covers that the capacity of his area is not determined by its
extent, but by his power of attraction through love.
There we have the essentials. Now we will let the In-
visible take over.
"The flow of vital and spiritual force received by the
individual from the Source is according to the capacity of
his attainment. It passes through him, as it were, and spreads
about him in an area corresponding to his conductivity. In
one of low development this area extends but little beyond
his own shadow. As he evolves, it becomes larger. But at any
stage it defines at once his area of responsibility; his area
of possible safety; and his area of possible comfortable and
efficient accomplishment. It is, as it were, the radiation of
his spiritual transforming.
"Those things which he draws into this area are his for
manipulation. In his bestowal of his transmutations of the
spiritual, his method is not to cast out beyond the luminous
area of his own radiation, but to attract within it the objects
or the persons of his concern. That he may venture beyond,
in service or hope of service, is acknowledged. And in
emergency at times it may even be justified. But such ven-
turing is with grave danger of disaster, defeat, or at least
failure.
"As an example of proper function: if one desires to
bring help or health to a friend, he does not project out to
that friend, but brings the friend into his own assured at-
tainment. If he would contemplate the accomplishment of
a labor, he does not decide whether it is possible to reach out
to its doing, but whether it is possible completely to trans-
port that task into his area or radiation.
l86 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"This drawing inward cannot be done by taking thought.
The only force for this transportation is that of an interest
so wholehearted and sympathetic that it will generate a
magnetism of attraction. One draws inward to one's self,
and therefore into one's beneficent influence, by means of
one power only; that of loving to the point of appropria-
tion. This is a statement in reverse of what has been told
you: that one should give only from overflow. It is another
way of saying that spiritually, as well as otherwise, one
must work within his capacity, comfortably, without
strain. This, viewed from the spiritual side, is normally the
sure, effective, and safe way for the individual to function.
"Emergency may require a temporary increase of pres-
sure beyond normal capacity. It may require outward
venturing from the radiance into darkness. But the emer-
gency must always be declared by the heart and not the
head; and that call should be listened for in silence, and
with the perceptions opened toward the Source.
"Eagerness for service, once the channel to the Source is
freed, too often leads to two neglects. The one hurries
through the stream of vital spirit without permitting it to
perform its first and necessary nourishment of the person
himself. That must always be first attended to, for without
it the channel becomes brittle and will break. If no more
flows in than suffices for this, then for this it should be em-
ployed. Only when the spiritual tissues are moistened and
made flexible may that which remains, and that which shall
come, be released to its natural seepage outward.
"The second neglect is in not restraining one's desire to
one's own proper area of accomplishment. Ambition for
service is not thereby abridged, when one discovers that the
containing capacity of that area is not limited by its extent,
but only by one's power of loving attraction. In the least
THE AREA OF ACCOMPLISHMENT 187
accomplishment may be room for a universe, if the heart be
large enough.
*'So I give you, in simplest form, stripped of many modi-
fying details, the outline plan of ideal individual action on
things outside your own constitution. This plan will be
found beneath all modifications. The mind-directed action,
by which purpose is actively manifested in deeds and
fashionings, is a matter to do with the brain after the heart
has laid the deep foundations."
The first thing for you to do is to stop looking at things too
closely with your mental vision. The secx)nd is to put all your
energy into looking at them as wide landscapes. Then, third,
you must put in the foreground of the little things of your
world the friends and the passing of cheerful days. The
instruction will come if you ^llow this plan, and will come
when you are furthest away from trying to make it all out.
We can only instruct when you have a relaxed mind, and not
one full of your own puzzles. This is so tremendously im-
portant with you that I am tempted to say it over and over.
I can reach you best when you are not trying so hard to
understand it all, but are simply occupied with some com-
monplace thing. How can I bring to your conscious mind,
your controlling motor force, the knowledge and wisdom you
want? If you could once get into your head the conviction
that you keep deliberately shutting the door in my face when
you tie yourself all up in hard thinking knots!
INVISIBLE
XVIII. THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT
The last sentence of the preceding chapter points
the way to the next problem in the creative process: the
proper use of the intellect in shaping the final product. This
subject has been so completely explored in the other books
that further treatment here would be redundant. Never-
theless, its importance is such at this stage of our present
argument that it must be briefly restated.
One of the great modem difficulties in the way of human
advancement, the Invisibles maintained, is the premature use
of the intellect in fields to which it is unadapted, and for
purposes for which it is not intended. It is a valuable tool,
they acknowledged, but it is only a tool.
"Heaven forbid," cried one of them, "that I should decry
the human brain, but it should be proportioned. The eternal
self must be develooed as a fit controlling power. In trying
188
THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT 189
to act directly on the highest—call it organ—possessed by
man, his eternal spirit, we are constantly interfered with
by the more developed side of him, which clamors, insists
on translating every instinct into its own language, and
limiting it to his own experience and comprehension."*
In The Road I Know, my own comment on the In-
visibles' attitude I expressed as follows:
"For a long time they seemed to have almost a contempt
for the intellect. That proved not to be really so. Merely,
for the moment, the intellect was not the appropriate tool.
. . . The whole thing boiled down to one simple statement:
the brain is the executive, not the originating branch of our
personal govemment."t
We nevertheless have so long depended principally on our
"reasoning powers" as the only solid basis for actions, that
we have raised it on a pedestal as the boss, whereas it is
merely a useful subordinate. The testimony of many—and
of my own personal experience for that matter—^is to the
effect that final solutions to problems, first clues to inven-
tions, most of the highest ideas we later elaborate, are not
logically built structures but flashes of insight. The pride of
intellect has confused us as to its actual placement in our
personal cosmos.
The distinction was most clearly brought out for us in
connection with a narrower subject. We were discussing
Joan's method of communication; asking Betty how she, in
the unobstructed, went about it.
* From The Betty Book. This whole interview, pages 65-69, is worth
reading.
f Again I recommend reading the whole argument as set down in The
Road I Know, Chapter X.
190 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"Well," said she to Darby, "suppose you tell me what
you do when you want to say a sentence, and get it to
Stewart."
"Why," said Darby, "I suppose I set up a frequency
of sound—^which impinges itself on Stewart's mechanism,
and he— perhaps unconsciously—transforms it to an im-
pression on his mind. I suppose you work in an analogous
way, only you don't use sound."
"Go back further," said Betty.
"Can't," objected Darby. "I don't know what my mind
is, only certain results from it. I produce certain effects,
but I don't know how I do it."
"Well," proposed Betty, "let's take it backwards. You
said that a spoken sentence by you is carried by Stewart's
auditory nerves to his brain. The auditory nerves of the ear
carry to the auditory centers of his brain the impingement
of your spoken sentence, picked up from your mind and
translated to your consciousness. Thus we have got this
sentence into Stewart's mind, by way of his brain. It has
been a successive impingement of varying frequencies.
Now the method of communication I use is such a succes-
sion. There is first my desire to communicate with you.
That is my I-am wish. The desire sets my mind in motion. I
start it working with this idea. You have a mechanism of
vocal cords and such equipment, an entity of frequency
which you control and operate, somewhat subconsciously.
I have in parallel all the essential organs. So I must have
something that resembles your brain."
"Go on!" jeered Darby. "You are utterly brainless!"
Betty usually rose to this sort of thing with relish. But
now she remained serious.
"All right," she rejoined with dignity, "call it energized
THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT 191
will then. Communication through this station approxi-
mates the operation by which you got your idea to Stewart.
It is the voluntary submergence of the station's I-am, and
then the impingement by me on this mind of my energized
will. But then it has to go through her bram^ and that is
when you get your coloring."
*'In other words," Darby pursued the argument, "that
brain acts as a transformer. All frequencies are of a piece,
though differing in degree. What the brain does is to pick
up the auditory sensation and transform that frequency
into another type of frequency, which ultimately spells my
idea to his mind. That, then, is Joan's brain fimction? Her
brain is able to transform the type of frequency you manip-
ulate just as mine does the frequency of the vocal cords.
Is that it?"
Here is where Betty underscored the distinction.
"I do not manipulate her brain. I impinge on her mind.
That is my point: I want you to distinguish between them."
When we consider that the intellect, in its operation, is
actually a brain-child, the significance of the distinction
will be plain. Betty was here really trying to explain com-
munication. Skipping for the moment the specifically
technical, Betty had this further to offer on the present
interest.
^'Suppose I were to say that the mind is the operative
faculty of the brain. ... So I intensify my own frequency
to control the frequency of Joan's mind, and she translates
that over to her brain."
Betty here used a term which needs explaining: "form
attribute." The external, material body—of whatever
variety of consciousness—is the form attribute of that con-
sciousness. My body is the form attribute of the habitual
192 WITH FOLDED WINGS
consciousness which is myself. The tree we have in our
front yard is the form attribute of that quaUty of conscious-
ness which represents "treeness".
"Never forget," said Betty, "the universal importance of
trilogy. In this case it is I-am, mind, brain. The brain is the
actual material, dissectible, form attribute: the mind you
have not yet drawn pictures of. Or the I-am either—only its
form attribute. The body in the obstructed universe is the
form attribute of the individual I-am. The brain in the
obstructed universe is the form attribute of the individual
I-am mind. Think about that."
3
The following passage is worth quoting—aside from the
beauty of its style—as throwing quite good indirect lighting
on the subject. It was from an Invisible who, as was usual,
refused to name himself. Betty called him Tangent because
of his indirect darting method of attacking a subject. He
sometimes referred to himself as the Teller of Tales.
"Words as you know them," he began, "are always fol-
lowing hmpingly behind the winged thing they would ex-
press and which they can never overtake. They can but
fix glimpses, shadows. The thing they can sit down to
examine is already a shell from which life has all but flown.
That is why an expression in words is always lacking in the
vital principle; why it fixes merely a thing that has ceased
to move. An idea that is living always moves, and can itself
be embodied only in a thing that is similarly fluid.
"The language one must speak in teUing of the higher
and spiritual essentials is made up, not of words, but of those
moving, ever-changing things known as actions. We have
often told you in one way or another that the mere intel-
lectual formulation is nothing. It expresses nothing, and in
THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT 193
final analysis it conveys nothing of value to the only true
auditor of the deeper human life which is man's real speech.
It is because of this truth that we have in times past,
bunglingly and m petto, urged you to *make it so/ and have
urged you to act more on impulse. Impulsive action is the
instantaneous and directest expression of that which, when
imperverted by false habit, comes to you from primal
sources. It is then undiluted by passage through the fixed
and stationary medium of words by which reflective wis-
dom formulates. One might almost say that the language
we who are advanced into a more liberated spiritual
medium hear from your side is the language, not of this
reflective deliberation, but of your actions.
"Action is the language we speak and understand; a
fluid, flowing language, ever-changing, ever moving in
company with that which it expresses. That is why we look,
not to formulated belief for our encouragement of prog-
ress, but to the moving force within, which causes a man to
do or to refrain from that which comes to his hands. The
one is an arrestation, a fixing perhaps of a dead thing, while
the living thing wings its way out of sight; the other is an ex-
pression of what that man perceives, though he may not
intellectually know. In the ultimate freeing from a mecha-
nism temporarily useful there comes a time when this
language of action is the natural method of expression and
communication between entities; when one does not say
*I love,' but loves; when movement follows rhythm beauti-
fully; when the construction of thought—which, you must
remember, is a reality—^is a joyous fashioning."
He paused. Then after a few moments went on:
"But I am warned to go no further in this, as it can but
give a fragmentary and false impression. The very word
*action' is itself too heavy-footed to follow this subtle.
194 WITH FOLDED WINGS
flexible and delicate reality. 'As a man thinks, so he does' is
not so true as that as he does, so will he eventually think,
when leaden-footed thought has overtaken."
However, in spite of that disclaimer, Tangent did pick up
the subject again at a later session.
"There are," he began unexpectedly, "two examples
under your eyes of instant translation into action of direct
impulse: a flock of birds in evolution, and a school of fish.
You have often seen a dense mass of such birds as sand-
pipers or pigeons wheeling, turning, changing direction in
close formation, with all the speed and precision of a per-
fect drill. The hesitation of a tenth of a second by any
single member must inevitably throw the whole into jos-
tling confusion. There is manifestly no room for the com-
munication of an idea through any medium of expression,
no matter how simple or instantaneous, through a mecha-
nism such as a brain. The expression must of itself be the
action. It is not a question of receiving an impulse and de-
ciding to act on it; nor of receiving an impulse and divert-
ing it into the groove of even long-established habit. It is,
to repeat, necessarily the accompanying external manifesta-
tion, in direct expression, of the impulse.
"What the impulse signifies in bird life is not the ques-
tion here. It is sufficient to say that it is not without its
meaning; that the apparently aimless rapid twinklings
through space are, not too fancifully, phrases of the directer
language of which we lately spoke. The illustration is
mentioned, not as an important thesis, but as an enriching
corollary to our former talk.
"Impulsive action in the case of the human entity in
THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT I95
earth life must not be confused with the following of whim.
Whim is merely the product of capricious desire. It should
not be too difficult to distinguish that which wells up
spontaneously out of the inner being, from that which
merely flashes across the surface, illuminating perhaps a
desirable possibility.
'*At fij^t it may be almost impossible to obtain that
flexibility of spirit which will receive accurately and un-
distorted the real impulse from the depths of being—the
impulse which will translate itself into the sure action that
is its expression. One stammers and hesitates and uses wrong
words and awkward phrases in attempting any new or little-
accustomed language. One who tries blindly to follow im-
pulse in action will make many blunders and mistakes. This
will occur for t\^'o reasons: first, because of the distortion
or perversion of habit of thought or doubt of experience;
and, second, because the first and pure impulse is not
brought to conscious attention before it has been diluted.
1 Thought, for all its mechanical nature, is extraordinarily
swift, and fairly before the flash of perception has reached
1 the consciousness it may unconsciously interpose a hundred
j considerations that modify it. What we think is the pure
impulse has thus become a hybrid before it reaches its ex-
pression in action. Only with practice and with mistake can
fluency and accuracy in this language, as in all others, be
obtained. But this should not discourage the attempt.
"Let this consideration hearten you: If you will review
the decisions, and the results of those decisions, to which
you have come by painful intellectual process, and which
you have weighed and measured and balanced and con-
sidered; you will—if you are honest—^be forced to admit
that the proportion of mistakes has been as great and as
196 WITH FOLDED WINGS
disastrous and as little shot through with success, as could
possibly attend even the blind following of all you might
suspect to be impulse."
Possibly Tangent felt he might have been overenthusi-
astic, for his next words were a warning.
"But do not lose sight of the fact that the intellect is in-
deed a useful tool. With it, in its analytical aspect, you are
enabled after the fact to analyze and parse the construction,
so to ^eak, of the expression you have made in the directer
language. Not to question its wisdom or unwisdom, but to
search back unflinchingly to the original naked impulse
which you have clothed in the expression of action. De-
termine, if you can, whether that expression has been a
true one, whether you have actually followed the real first
impulse, or a perversion or dilution; and try to see if in
actual fact an accurate following in action of the real first
impulse would not have placed you in the path of wisdom.
By this means, little by little your command both of your
perception and your ability in accurate expression will
grow.
"It is almost impossible to introduce through this in-
flexible medium all the modifying and explanatory qualities
necessary to a satisfactorily complete exposition. I must call
your attention briefly to the fact that the intellect has its
undisputed field of activity in that which concerns it. It is
a physical thing, and it is created to deal with physical
things. It would be absurd to 'act on impulse' in the com-
mon acceptation of the term when dealing with the cor-
relations and vagaries of physical crises. Experience plus
reason must guide you through conscious intellectual
thinking. Solve the difliculty with the tool that is adapted
to it. But in dealing with afl'airs that you may loosely
designate as moral or spiritual, which includes your rela-
THE PLACE OF THE INTELLECT I97
tions with yourself, with your fellow beings and with the
greater unities, then the tool you must use, the language you
must speak, in order to be understood where you must be
understood, is the direct expression of which we have told.
"This is very fragmentary, open to many doubts and
questionings. It is necessarily so because of the fact that it
is translated from that identical flexible closely correspond-
ing language into an alien tongue. As one should turn
Shakespeare into Chinook. But the central idea is there; and
being entertained, even if not completely understood, must
force its own expression in its own proper tongue."
Still another Invisible, on still another occasion, summed it
all up.
"Machinery lying idle rusts. Only use keeps it efficient.
Machinery does not move without the application of power
which is not integral with itself. Knowledge is machinery;
wisdom is power. Power is not generated by machinery.
Wisdom is not generated by knowledge. Power is not de-
pendent on machinery. The usefulness of machinery is
wholly dependent on power. Power's directed appHcation
is dependent on machinery. The understanding of the ma-
chine, intellectually and consciously, always does take
place at some time or another. This time may be before the
period of the machine's greatest usefulness; it may be at the
time; or it may be after the machine has practically sub-
served its purpose. In the first case it produces instinctive
action; in the second, purely reasoned action; and in the
third, provides a basis for action of another sort in a step
forward in development. In all three cases the *make it so'
element is fully carried out. As to which type is used in any
one case depends either on the individual's temperament or
198 WITH FOLDED WINGS
make-up, or on the kind of action, or on the function in
development that action is to fulfill.
"This, in itself—what I have described—is a mechanism.
Therefore, whether it also is to act through intellect, in-
stinctively or intuitively, depends on those elements."
Self-managed individuality; self-directed intention; freedom
through obedience; liberty through fellowship: of such is the
Law.
INVISIBLE
Remember always that the Law smiles for those who sit serene
in the midst of it; for it is their Friend.
INVISIBLE
XIX. LAW
We decided at the very start that ultimate Pur-
pose was beyond our grasp, but that a twofold immediate
objective could be recognized. One aspect, that of in-
dividual self-development, we then traced through the
more or less automatic stage of blind instinctive progress,
to the threshold of conscious spiritual participation. From
there we set out on an investigation of the methods and
techniques suited to this new field.
During these explorations we have repeatedly crossed
the trail of the second aspect of the universal Aim: the
evolution of a functioning Unity. In fact, once we had
arrived at conscious spiritual contact, we found this aim
implied in practically every move we were called upon to
make. Contact itself is an aspect of unity, and the purposes
to which it can legitimately be put are of the same nature:
communion, creation, healing, "help" in general.
All law, of whatever kind, is another aspect of unity.
Those subject to the same laws are thereby and to that ex-
tent unified, whether they realize it or not. And this is true
of man-made and natural laws alike. The former are a
powerful binder for groups: cities, states, nations. The latter
constitute a bond which ties all created things. And this
bond carries over even into the invisible world.
199
200 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Many years ago, through Joan in Our Unseen Guest,
"Stephen" stressed what he then called parallel laws. By
that he meant simply that every law we have here govern-
ing the processes of our earth is found in parallel in the in-
visible. This concept was sufficient for the purpose he then
had in hand, and expressed truth, but the expression was
only partial.
The definition sufficed until comparatively recently,
when Betty, from the unobstructed, carried it further. It is
not that there are parallel laws in the two aspects of the uni-
verse, said she. There is but one law. The reason its mani-
festation on earth may differ radically from its action in the
invisible—when it does—is that the same law is working in
different media.
The idea should not be wholly strange to us, for we can
see the same thing even in our own physical environment.
Electricity's laws, for instance, remain unaltered whether
the result is heat, Hght or power. The difference is not in the
laws but in the mechanism or medium through which they
express themselves.
"Speaking of parallel law," said Betty—from the un-
obstructed, remember—"it's actually an extension of your
law, that's all. If we are going to use the word parallel, we
must make it clear that it is not two laws. Our laws, which
we have termed parallels, are in reality an extension from
the obstructed universe to the unobstructed universe of the
same law. Or rather vice versa. What you call natural
law is a reflection back of the absolute law governing my
unlimited universe—and the entire universe. However,
there are many laws operating in the entire universe that
LAW 20I
you have not yet discovered. When they are all discovered,
it will indeed be all one universe. I can't tell you about
them, for there are no words yet. There is a whole field
still to be developed.
"Much as I dislike mathematics, yet the fact is these
things are all mathematical and could be best explained by
mathematics. The deeper we go into the thing, the simpler
it becomes, because, as I told you, there is only one law.
All you need do is to take your limited law and project it
out into an unlimited operation. What understanding of
limited law I brought with me has made it possible for me
to adjust myself quickly and project myself into the under-
standing of, and cooperation with, the unhmited aspect of
the same law. You must stress extension. Reach out along
the limited laws you best understand, to meet me."
In the discussion which followed, the subject came up of
positive and negative laws, constructive and destructive.
Another Invisible had this to say:
"The Law is neutral; the Law acts. And it matters not
whether it acts through the destruction of a great typhoon,
or whether the same law blesses the fields of grain. Law
is Law. Intelligence offers the conditions through which the
Law must work. The Law works good or evil according as
the intention of the Intelligence is good or evil. The Law
is in itself a duality, based upon its inherent unity. It will
work one way with positive conditions, and diametrically
the opposite way with negative conditions; so that ordi-
narily you say you have two laws. . . . There is but one."
More discussion followed, during which one of us ob-
jected to the word "law."
"I think," he observed, "that the use of the word 'law*
should be guarded. Our tendency is to regard law as an
202 WITH FOLDED WINGS
imposition from without, and the laws of consciousness are
not imposed from without, but are inherent. I suggest the
word ^principle'."
"I am glad you brought that up," said Betty, *'but to me,
and those working with me here, it seems that 'law' is
properly chosen because it connotes a strength and com-
pactness that 'principle' does not."
"I think there should be at least one clear statement ex-
plaining that laws, in this sense, are not impositions," per-
sisted our objector.
"Yes," Betty agreed. "They are the invariables of con-
sciousness. No man can change them; and he who breaks
the law retards himself; and consciousness as a whole. But
first himself; then his degree; then consciousness as a
whole."
3
The end of this discussion was interesting because it under-
scored a conclusion arrived at nearly thirty years before,
while Betty was still here.
"How do you distinguish," we were then asking, "be-
tween what you might call the laws of nature and the law-
ordinances of a city? Seems to me they are quite different
things."
"Let's look at them a minute," said the Invisible. "You've
been told very clearly that nothing can happen except in
accordance with law. That is true; keep that as your strong
point. How would this do for a definition of law: Law is
the fundamental design of things?
"I don't exactly like that word design," objected our
questioner, "because that means something preconceived."
"You can't get away from that, even when you can't
understand the ultimate design," the Invisible assured him.
LAW 203
"You have to assume something that can rightly be called
design, ultimate intention. Perhaps it will suit your mind
better to substitute the words ultimate intention.
"Now let us go very carefully, because this isn't quite
clear to you yet. Let us start with this tentative definition.
"Mathematics is the basic description of the inevitable
interplay of anything. As somebody said to you, mathe-
matics is the science of inevitable consequences. That is the
bottom thing. Next, I should think, logic is the name that
is given by men to the mathematics of the interplay of
thinking. It is the science that has to do with the way the
entity's substance you call thought—units of it—^influence
each other: it is the science of the interplay of thought.
Chemistry is the science of the interplay of ultimate units
of the substance you call matter. You can't make any real
distinction any more between chemistry and physics, be-
cause the subject matter as you see it has become virtually
the same; but you can make a distinction for practical
purposes, because the units with which physics deals as a
whole are, for your point of view, larger. Astronomy is
only an extension of chemistry and physics. Chemistry deals
with what you can discover standing in the midst of physics
looking in; and astronomy is what you can discover stand-
ing in the midst of physics looking ozct. This is an arbitrary
distinction, however; quite temporary, I assure you. Bi-
ology is the science that has to do with the units that have
acquired what you arbitrarily call life, within which you
have made a distinction, also arbitrary, between vegetable
and animal. And so on. I think you can fit philosophy and
religion and art and music and literature into their places in
this arrangement by the application of mathematics.
"Go back to our original definition of law, as the state-
ment of the Ultimate Intention. It is given to Intelligence, in
204 WITH FOLDED WINGS
any stage, to arrange the conditions under which the law
will operate. The sequence of events, the interplay due to
the arrangement, will take place automatically. Remember
that, for it is the whole business.
"Now, out of his experience and memory of the way in
which that-which-is-not-himself affects him, the individual
entity adjusts his customs—his laws. But at times he at-
tempts to do things that are not really in accordance with
his experience and memory—he gets unduly exuberant. He
can't disobey the Law—it can't be done—so he gets what
he orders. To put it in theological terminology: God
doesn't condemn him to hell; he orders hell—arranges the
conditions for what you call hell. The process that follows
is automatic; and you might even say that God himself
couldn't prevent a fellow from getting hell, if that is what
he orders.
"That's the basic fact of Justice. Things are equal or un-
equal; and if an equation is not satisfied, there is a vacuum
which is the one thing the Ultimate Intelligence can't stand
for. Then the thing happens that's got to happen. That's
Justice. You can take any definition of Justice you can find,
and if you take the cover off you'll see that it's just Cosmic
Satisfaction; things hooked up right; the equation satisfied.
"This sense of the word, and understanding of the thing,
is universal; and it is what has come to be called everywhere
by the various kinds of names that mean Law. It's the
bottom thing on which you stand, and have got to stand.
"Now men of all sorts and stages of development keep
trying to adjust themselves to this. They build up customs,
which in the last analysis are their ways of getting along
comfortably with the Rest-of-Things; and the Rest-of-
Things, mind you, includes each other. These customs
sometimes temporary, in temporary situations or relation-
LAW 205
ships, and sometimes what they call permanent—get writ-
ten down or handed on: they are what you call *laws.' But
whether they are big or little, they are all attempts to ar-
range conditions so that the Law, the Ultimate Intention,
shall work comfortably for them. Sometimes these laws are
very loftly and unselfish in their conceptions, and represent
a great wisdom—which is only another name for tried ex-
perience. Sometimes a litde knot will succeed by one means
or another in enforcing a set of conditions—or 'laws'—in
which the Law will contribute temporarily to their comfort
at the expense of wisdom. But either way, man-made laws
are all measures for the arrangement of conditions in a
search for the way to get along comfortably with the Rest-
of-things. Calling a statement of this sort of thing a 'Law'
doesn't make it either cosmically right or wise, but at the
bottom it is the same attempt. Sometimes, of course, this
attempt is premature."
"What about the obligation to observe these laws if we
think they are 'premature'?" asked our practical member.
"Why, you can answer that yourself. You have to do
what you think is right; just fix your mind on that. If you
have the shghtest compunction about wearing a red necktie,
and still wear it, you have offended against your own sense
of right. It doesn't make any difference what anybody else
may think about red neckties, or how red neckties may
measure up against the Ultimate Intention, so far as others
are concerned—you think it's wrong. And even if that
thought lasts only a minute, if you then wear a red necktie
you have by the exercise of your free will made a bad
choice.
"As to evasion, or attempts at evasion, of the least of the
laws, it all depends on you. If you think it's wrong, it's
wrong for you, and you mustn't do it. You shut out Cosmic
2o6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
Satisfaction from your own self by just that much. This
thing works in minute fractions of an ampere. It doesn't
make any difference whether your mathematics errs by a
hair's breadth or a mile. It is a very nice business—^this thing
of Justice.
^'Happiness is Cosmic Satisfaction, and Cosmic Satisfac-
tion is happiness. The greatest joy you ever had, to the top
of your capacity, was no greater in quality than the joy of
the tack that popped over to a magnet. When anything
happens right, that's joy; joy is the emotion that goes with
that.
"So 'the test always comes in whether a law—a statute-
made law—^is inside of yourself. If in the light of the best
wisdom you've got, you obey a law unwise in itself, you
have the same effects within yourself that you would have
gotten from obeying a good one.
"Of course there will often arise the necessity for a
compromised attitude. In addition to your responsibility
to yourself, there is the social group to be considered. The
man who runs amuck with his own idea may be quite right
in reference to himself, but all wrong in the Light of the
group. There is a sense in which obedience to a law you
think not wise or right may contribute to a larger spirit of
cooperation. So you can sometimes afford to abide by a
bad decision on the part of others, if you do it saying,
*What's the odds? These are good fellows and they mean
all right.'
4
The following day another Invisible seemed to feel that
something should be added. We had been having a dis-
cussion as to the merit of doing disagreeable things "for the
greater good."
LAW 207
"There is something more about the Law," said the In-
visible. "The baby's confidence that the floor will hold him
is no accident. All this thought about the Law must be on
the foundation of utter confidence in the Stability of
Things. It is all right—the baby knows that with a knowl-
edge that nothing could disturb. Even as the Law moves
serenely on, or stands serenely founded—whichever way
you want to put it—so the soul may stand serene amid the
illusion of turmoil, sure that all is well.
"What we have told you in many ways, and on ap-
parently diverse subjects, all has this for its foundation.
Things cannot go wrong. The only wrongness, or sense of
turmoil, is within yourself. The only thing the Law cannot
do is deprive you of your authority to command your own
life; and by the same token, of your responsibihty for your
choice. More than that, with the same sureness each choice
conditions in some measure the choice beyond. Somehow
get for yourself, and give to those upon whom you may
have any influence, something of this serenity. I would say
go to your contacts of any kind with joy, and try to make
joyful those to which you are compelled, as it seems; though
the fact that you are compelled to a joyless contact may
well be your indication that the contact is not good, ^or
you,
"I have in mind your discussion about doing things and
taking attitudes apparently unloving, with intent to do some
greater good. I cannot suggest any way by which you can
evade the duty of choice at such points of contact, but I
can warn you that the ground is boggy there. See to it that
your choice is an honest one. There is always a great
temptation to camouflage one's real motive, even to himself,
in the guise of ^greater good.' Each time, from hour to
hour, the choice must be your own and for your own
208 WITH FOLDED WINGS
good. Really, I think one may say that there is never any
real doubt about what to do Right Now. The doubt is
almost always about what you will do tomorrow. But no
one ever has to decide tomorrow. The decisions are all
made Now. There is no such thing as tomorrow. The serene
confidence in the Law belongs to Now.
"So, the Law is not an abstraction that one may evade.
The Law—any law, even a pohce regulation—exists only in
the decision that you are making at any Now. And the
judgment has to be your own. For at the base of Ultimate
intention is self-determination."
I THINK the end of some people's lives is so pathetic, the
period when they store their furniture and sit in an empty
house.
BETTY
XX. DE SENECTUTE
One of the amazing phenomena of life is that
years succeed one another inexorably, and that in due time
enough of them have gone by so that, unreaKzing, we reach
what is called "old age." Another amazement is that old age
is not in the least like our preconceptions nor what we have
been told about it. The preconceptions have been drawn
from our mere observation of the aUen class of human we
called our elders. What we have been told about it is merely
preconception of others, from no different a viewpoint
than our own. We imagine, and we are told, what old age
ought to be like, considering its outside circumstances.
And from our present, and younger, vantage point it does
not look attractive.
The only difficulty is that all this is ex parte. Those who
have actually entered the later years do not bother to talk
about them. It is not worth while to buck strong precon-
ceptions. And anyway the matter is not important.
But this thing they do know, that the mere accumulation
of years brings one into no different class of human,
whether named as elders or otherwise. For no one ever
feels old. He may feel handicapped by bodily restrictions,
but he himself, the fellow inside him, does not recognize he
is any different.
How one takes this somewhat dismaying contradiction
depends on what he has learned in life. Not much of course
—nobody seems to learn very much—^but whether he has
209
210 WITH FOLDED WINGS
discovered something useful in orientations. For instance,
the graceful and normal shift of importances. He who
clings tenaciously to the importances of active years des-
pairs when the physical equipment is not up to it. He who
comes to realize after all that his body merely carries his
intelligence to where he wishes to apply it, and that if it is
adequate for that it will do, is in the way of useful con-
tentment. As to the application of the intelligence, there too
he is to apply a necessary shift of importance according to
the wisdom life has brought him. He does not deny to the
old significance its necessity. It is a mistake to think that.
The accomplishment is still just as important as ever in and
for its own sake. But not for his sake personally. In that
balance he finds he can retain his former zests and his old
interests in them, but without the pressure of urgency. His
legs will no longer take him to the mountain top, but that
does not matter because he has quite sufficiently been to
many mountain tops, and he is not interested in more repeti-
tions.
To some people the successive abandonments of what
have been real and valued interests are appalling evidence of
deprivation. We youngsters pity that state of mind. That is
because we judge by our own present standards—how
would we feel right now, if we were in that fix? There
are some oldsters who feel that way, too! I think, ho\^'-
ever, that the normal majority ripen into new activities and
standards and importances that bring satisfaction. They
rarely say anything about it. In the first place they do not
hope to be understood. In the second place it is not de-
sirable that they be understood by those yet in journey.
Any more than you youngsters are understanding me
now.
DE SENECTUTE 21
I am led to that last remark because I know by our own
experience that it is true. Many many years ago, when I was
still climbing Alaskan mountains whistling, and scrambling
up Alaskan rivers, and blithely penetrating remotenesses in
Central Africa, the Invisibles told us things about "old age."
They were sensible things, and we accepted them as grace-
ful and picturesque statements of a charming thesis. Only
latterly, now that I am embarked on my seventy-fourth
year, do I find that the Invisibles meant them, literally, and
that they work. I am now going to set down those things,
merely to put them on record, to be discerned in rounded
reality only when one gets to them. So they will be recog-
nized when one does get to them. Together with my own
endorsement that I find them genuine.
A certain repetition of what has been already published
in some of the other books will be necessary.
First of all, the Invisibles refused to take seriously what
we dread as drab and decrepit old age. We look on it that
way because, said they, we insist on upholding a tradirioa,
and allowing our attention to be deflected from the new
territory we shall enter.
"You must never let your outer self, the physical de-
terioration, attract your attention. That is the trouble. As
you grow older, you stop lookmg at things. That is old
age."
And Betty herself, later, repeated the same thought.
"Old age!" she scorned. "But why old age at all? Old age
is when you stop looking at things."
Or, if we do look, we look backward to our former ca-
pacities. There is no question that they have diminished.
212 WITH FOLDED WINGS
But how about our new capacities? It rarely occurs to us to
look for them.
"We have come a long way from primitive man—^in
some respects. But not in others. Many of the old cave-days
standards linger as sort of vestigial remains. Without realiz-
ing it, many of us pay disproportionate tribute to the ca-
pacities of the body. We are holding fast to the idea of
physical energy as a symbol of the pinnacle of life. In a
kind of arrested development we stick at the same point
as the Neanderthal man, glorying in his belly exuberances.
. . . One of our illuminadons at this time (i.e., the later
years) is the recognition of the youth cult as a Neanderthal
superstition."
For those beyond the half-way mark who have felt this
drag of the backward glance, the Invisibles had a certain
gentle derision.
"Imagine," said they, "an acorn just devastated with
grief because it had cracked its shell in putting forth its
first sprout toward being an oak tree! Its onward-pressing
conviction, maintaining the movement of life, leaves no
regret for the fulfilled natural processes. Likewise with
yourselves, mere accustomedness and sentiment must not
retard and weaken the force of continuity. Youth welcomes
every change; so should age! Age with imagination, age
with freedom to forevision, unhampered by the metamor-
phosis of a completing cycle!
"Such an outlook is not too difficult, provided you use a
little understanding. Consider the bright ardor of living, the
fervid desires that you have in youth. They are possible
principally because of the flexibihty of the physical mech-
anism. The secret of this golden age is the freedom from
bodily restraints. The leap of the flame is the natural
process. In later years you strive to recapture this faculty.
DE SENECTUTE 213
But, though the ideals you envision have now more sub-
stance than ever before, you cannot levitate and vitaHze
them. Every effort to do so merely stiffens and exhausts
the body machine.
"The trouble is that you are trying to translate the ardor
and fervor of the intangible substance of thought into terms
of bodily tensions. That is a very great mistake. If you are
going to face a great and shining future, you must use a
new and bright apparatus with which to express your
greater capacities. You can't think bright and shining
thoughts with a tired old brain. So step aside from it, ad-
mitting that it is perhaps a little of everything you say.
Why shouldn't it be, and what of it? It is only a protective
covering now for the thing that counts, which is what
generates your bright and shining thoughts—the new con-
sciousness bom within you.
*'It is a sort of replacement idea. Once you grasp it
clearly you will find you have within you a fountain of
eternal youth. But it must be done hcm^stly. You cannot
come into possession of it if you hang onto old crowbait
ideas of leaning on a stick and being weighty. The instant
you find yourself leaning heavily on the waning powers of
the body, snatch yourself away from it. Actually, it is a
clumsy, moldy, wasteful idea; and the replacement idea is
the truth. After all, why saturate your whole being with a
sensation that has to do with only a smaller part of it? Even
when the body is tired, there is no longer any need for you
to live in its tiredness. Just take the sensible measures apn
propriate to a tired body, and then withdraw into your
higher serenities.
"Of course, it would be silly to deny that you have lost
what the college boys possess. But it would be equally silly
for you to think in terms of this merely physical desira-
2 14 WITH FOLDED WINGS
bility, for you are engaged in growing something younger
and better than they have. This thing you are ripening
toward is the fruit of your life. It will make you bright
inside, no matter what you are outside. It is a shining thing."
"We must teach ourselves to recognize it," Betty con-
tributed. "It is there, awaiting our recognition, for our en-
joyment and development. It is the fruit of consciousness
which the college boys haven't got. As soon as we let drop
from it the tired flesh-thoughts, we'll see how beautiful and
buoyant and wonderful it is. But as long as we allow those
old flesh-thoughts to sit around like old black crows, just
spoiling the party, we'll never be able to believe in the fruit
of our hfe. It will be obscured by the age of our arteries,
denied by the stiffness of our muscles and every other old
kill-joy in our bodies. . .
."
"The gift of illumination of the moment," resumed the
Invisibles, "is how to substitute for bodily functions the
higher intelhgence and vital intensities of the enduring
being within you. Age, in a sense, is self-inflicted, a legacy
from past generations. But within each there is something
that is superior to age. Once you fully realize this, there
will be no tradition of age to uphold. It will exist only as a
physical cycle, quite apart from the real center of being.
"And with this realization will come another: that you
are not on the down slope toward bankruptcy of youth's
quahties when youth itself is over—that there is something
even better to look forward to: something with increasing
instead of diminishing interest, and not merely Hmited to
itself, but with vistas far into the future."
In the same line of thought, conversing with one of her
Invisible friends, Betty reported this:
"It's hard for me to understand what she says. It's about
the ripening of life. She says the fruition of life is tre-
DE SENECTUTE 215
mendously beautiful if only it is understood and looked at.
She is showing me so many things with that idea in it, but
nobody is helping me with words.
"It is, roughly speaking, about what we miss by keeping
the greenness of youth as a standard instead of the natural
fulfillment of life which matures like a seed pod and renews
itself. The seed-renewal idea is really younger than the
greenness of youth, if it is merely the vitahty of newness
we want."
"It is very important," said the Invisible, "to keep your
mind fastened to this; to the youth and health and strength
of your inner self. That is your opportunity here and now,
in spite of your handicaps and scars. You have within you a
perfect new-bom thing always to work on. You can begin
yourself all over under the protection of your old shell. It
is like a rebirth, here and now, of yourself. You cannot help
the old bodily rubbish—^which you may, or may not, have
spoiled—but you can take the best of it, and by walking
surefootedly with all the strength you have, and giving as
bountifully and as healthfully and eagerly, you will have a
new self under your control. Always think of it as ab-
solutely beautiful and young. Anything is possible to it. It
is a new-bom thing to live in and work on and enjoy. Don't
be afraid to play with it."
You see, was the further gist, this procession of years is
. toward a ripening of something in us, just as the procession
of days across spring and summer is a ripening. So why
should we carry the idea in dread as a burden?
"This thing you are ripening toward, this fruit of your
life, is something you do not rest heavily on in thinking
about. It is rather something buoyant. You must teach your-
self to recognize that. It is there awaiting your recognition,
for your enjoyment and development.
2l6 WITH FOLDED WINGS
"No amount of mere philosophizing will do it. It must
be a lifting spirit, the thing itself. Happiness consists in lift-
ing one's sell up. Go back in thought to youth. Go back to
where you began to drop it and let it sag and sag. Now pick
it up and put it on your head with a swing, and start out
again with it balanced—and your thoughts ahead, not on it.
Your head must stay up and your shoulders must stay back
to balance it. Now!
"Don't you ever think about the weight of years. It's all
balanced: now go ahead!
"Blood is meant to circulate. An abundance of big
forward ideas makes it circulate and tingle as reciprocally
as exercise clears the brain. Go straight back to youth and
pick it up where you dropped it. Go straight back to those
incidents of life when you were in equilibrium, and live
them over until you've freed yourself. That's the ripening
of youth. It is in control. Rightly distributed, years cannot
weigh, unless admitted to sensation. This admittance may
be refused; must be. No exceptions, no treachery of mind
secretly making concessions to the weight. It must be
wholeheartedly, irrevocably established. Watch out for
your own treachery. The explorations of the years supply
the elements which compose ripening. It is too terrible to
see people dragging their years, like refugees from hfe. Got
to go away back, away back to where you put them down.
"You see what a pity it is not to make age as attractive
as the ripening of youth? Such a pity to make age ugly!"
"Old age, or middle age," the Invisible amplified at an-
other time, "is a too-heavy sensing of discipline, an accept-
ing of its limitations as a wall and not as a channel in which
we can run as vigorously as ever. When we are slowed
down or headed off in our former directions, we should
just concentrate ourselves on the direction we can go in,
DE SENECTUTE 217
with a greater outlook and insight. Successful maturity is a
conservation of youth; the not spending of it profligately
and recklessly as we used to, but a conserving and surety of
use of it."
It is not easy, we never said it was, admitted the Invisible.
"The trouble is," said he, "this higher education is a
progressive education, and since we and our forebears have
not been trained to it we do not think that way. And I want
to tell you right now, it is a very stupid thing not to try to
get it. It makes you bright inside, no matter what you are
outside."
The outside, he acknowledged, is going to deteriorate
and become less useful as a machine. But, said he, "it would
be silly not to accept one's age processes in a lightly held,
humorous fashion. They are so unimportant if you can hve
youthfully in the psychic processes."
Being still ourselves comparatively young when the sub-
ject was first talked about, we had some reservations. The
Invisible was just a little impatient.
"Now there's no question about it," he rejoined. "There's
no use your saying it can't be done, because it can! Age is
self-inflicted; self-inflicted by generations. There is some-
thing within each that is superior to age. If continuity of
life is established there will be no etiquette—^no tradition of
age to uphold. It will exist only as a physical cycle apart
from the real center of being."
As for the body itself, that takes some management. It is
an entity with its expectations and habits built from its ex-
perience of the kind of existence it has known.
"You have a new way of working, a dependence on
mental and spiritual vigor, rather than physical, which is
not possible in physical youth. It is a period of rare enjoy-
ment—once you manage to overleap the largely magnified
2l8 WITH FOLDED WINGS
physical dictates; once you learn how wisely to manage the
body; once you learn not to arouse its combative simula-
tions, but to give it ease and consideration. Even to pamper
it excessively in order to gain its cooperation. See if you
cannot transfer the vigor and abandon of youth, its en-
thusiasm for adventure, into the mental and spiritual in-
tegration you have acquired. In extreme cases invalids have
acquired this technique and had exceptional adventures.
Paradoxically, deference to the body is now the only way
to overcome it! Thus cajoled it will serve you efficiently to
the end."
There is nothing supernatural about it—just advanced
naturaL
INVISIBLE
The dogged heaviness of the person who has no beliefs and
who acts solely from distaste for disintegration.
BETTV
XXL THE GENTLE ART OF DYING
Our customary attitude toward what is told us
about old age is, as outlined in the last chapter, one of in-
tellectual approval but subconscious distrust. Only when
we ourselves actually get there may we discover that it was
not pretty rhetoric or pious conformity. We are able to
find that out, if we live long enough and do not indulge
in a deUberate arrested development.
It seems reasonable that the same might be said as to
death. From all sorts of sources, in church and out of it, we
are assured that there is really nothing to it; that there is
nothing to dread; that we shall like it when we get to it. In
my early childhood I had a nursemaid who tried to persuade
me to spinach or castor oil or reasonable facsimiles thereof
by solemnly assuring me that they would "taste just hke ice
cream." This I beUeved up to an actual experiment. There-
after I looked upon her as a liar by the clock, and all her
subsequent suggestions as suspect. The average human,
deep down inside himself—nothing to do with his formal
"beliefs"—has an inherited racial instinct that distrusts any
and all things that taste just like ice cream. He would like to
see somebody else try it first. The only difficulty in this
particular case is that when somebody else does try it, he
goes away permanently without stopping to make a re-
port on whether it does or does not taste like ice cream.
219
220 WITH FOLDED WINGS
We are dealing here with the mill-run of mankind. The
testimony of the small minority who have actually received,
or believe they have received, such reports makes little im-
pression on the racial instinct of scepticism. Nevertheless,
the news sent back is that, in general, what has been told to
us turns out to be true. Like old age, no matter how for-
bidding it looks from a distance, or how undesirable in
logic considered from where we sit right now, it will turn
out to be as fehcitous as any other phase of existence, once
we actually get there. Below the racial instinct of scep-
ticism there is, I think, a still deeper rock-bottom percep-
tion that this is so. For, if one analyzes it down, men do
not dread death. What they dread is the dying.
This can be proved any day by a glance at the news-
papers—that men do not fear death itself, I mean. From war
to the simplest wayside rescue, men—not heroes, just plain
ordinary men—unhesitatingly make what is known as the
"supreme sacrifice." That is to say, they do so if the case is
open and shut and they have no time to think of the possible
maiming, pain, hospitals, crippUng that may lie in wait on
the way out. So as to the more usual procedure in merely
growing old and passing out, we dread the approach of the
close or life, not because it is the close, but because we fear
it will be preceded by the disabilities and helplessness of
senility. I think, if we could dig down to the secret thoughts
of those on the threshold of those final years we would find
there a sense of congratulation, perhaps of envy, whenever
a contemporary is taken suddenly, without warning.
That the black-looking barrier across old age is not as
formidable as it appears from a distance we have discussed
in the chapter before this. We have had the testimony of
certain of those who should know about it, the dwellers
themselves of those later years. But the general feeling is
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 221
that we have no such first-hand information as to death.
Nobody, says the average man, has ever come back to tell
us about it. And, he would add, if someone did I wouldn't
believe it.
Well, of course, the latter part of that statement cannot be
argued. But the first part is debatable. There have been re-
ported and attested many experiences where men have died
physically, according to the best medical tests, and have re-
vived to tell about it. The interesting part of that is that
they all say much the same things. As to one matter they
are unanimous. The process is painless, comfortable, pleas-
urable. This testimony is unvarying whether the returned
one "died" from disease or accident. These witnesses are
here. One can talk to them face to face. And nobody can
deny that it is they who are talking nor that they are the
ones who apparently "died." The doctor can corroborate
that.
There are other witnesses who say the same thing, with the
elaborations of wider and further experience in the subject.
They are the ones who did not revive back into our kind of
life. We call them the Invisibles. What have these people
to report? Quite a bit; both in theory and in practice, as
one might say.
Perhaps it might be a good start if I were to set dovni the
verbatim accounts of the very few who, for one reason or
another, have seen fit to tell us how it seemed to them to die.
Ordinarily the Invisibles appear not to bother with that
type of curiosity. Once in a while, if we ui^ed our interest
strongly enough, someone might oblige. Occasionally a
222 WITH FOLDED WINGS
newcomer seemed to be so full of wonder over the unex-
pectedness that he would talk. These latter had the value of
fresh impressions. Anyway, here are a few.
The first was a young fellow, a great friend of ours,
killed in an automobile accident.
"It was all a breathless crash of a hurry with a long-
drawn quavery kind of bewilderment. There isn't much
joy and rapture at first when you come so hurriedly and
have no one eager for you. You know how it is in learning
any new stunt: it seldom seems as good as the old ones you
can do; but there was such a tremendous impulse in me to
try to understand that I soon won out; and now it is so
much more wonderful and interesting all the time, I would
go through anything to get here. I long to spill over telling
you about it. In the first place, it is the real intellectual
freedom I always dreamed of, mixed with something else
that inspires and satisfies and expands as intellectual pursuits
never actually do, when you line them up alongside a man
building a fence, for instance. That is the difference here I
note the most, the proportion to everything, nothing lop-
sided or unbalanced."
"Who first met you there?" we asked
"I don't know exactly myself. So much just seemed to
seep into me, as if I had sprung a leak somewhere. I didn't
have any one person taking me gently by the hand. All I
can say is, in the Bible term, I was just plain ministered
unto."
The next was a woman of middle age who brushed aside
as unimportant die actual fact of dying to talk of her reac-
tion to her new estate.
"In the first place we are just as interested in the novelty
of our surroundings as you were when you first found
yourself in Africa. I have a keen delight in everything and
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 223
am as full of questions as a child. Think of the most alive
and intensely exciting moment of your life and make it a
whole day or a week and you will know how I feel over
here."
By way of variety here is a man, a great friend of ours,
who had never given a moment's thought, as far as we
knew, to any of these matters. His death took place only
after a painful illness. It is to that he refers in the first two
sentences.
"I didn't like it much. It was darned uncomfortable, for
I suffered a lot and could not be sure of myself for some
time. Now I cannot imagine why I did not understand
what was going on and why I made such a fuss about it. I
came to without any pain and did not believe it; but that
was enough for me just at first. I wanted to keep still and
feel well. Then I got so full of pep I ran around in circles.
My body didn't interest me much. I did not hang around it,
for I think I passed out and went to sleep at first. I saw a
man I used to know in the old days. He hung around to be
sociable and it helped, for at best you feel like a cat in a
strange garret except that it's all so exciting."
Now for a simple soul, a colored woman, one of those
lifelong retainers in Betty's family, loved by them all.
"The first person I saw," she answered Betty's question,
*'was my dear lady, Mrs. Calvert, and my brothers and
several others. I was so pleased to see them I was just tickled
to death. I thought I was dreaming and would not believe
them when they told me. I think I rested some time, for I
did not feel a bit tired or sick in my head any more. I am
having a grand time, and everybody is so good to me, show-
ing me around and explaining things."
And the last I shall quote from these new immigrants,
rather than old inhabitants, of the new land, was an artist.
224 WITH FOLDED WINGS
He had died only a short time before, perhaps too recently
to permit of direct communication, and it was Betty report-
ing.
"A beautiful pattern of transition," said she. "There is
nothing to dying. Just a tickly sensation; that's all. So na-
tural; so real. I am with F., but there is no desire to talk yet.
He tells me there's absolutely nothing to it—a delightful
experience. He says that the moment he could he came to
share the experience with us. It is hke sunrise when you're
camping out; the coming of color and illumination to
widened spaces that were darkened. An enlarging and de-
fining of the pattern of your own life. He could go on and
on, but it's not the time to talk of it."
4
That is what newcomers to the land have had to say. In
addition we had a considerable body of report from Betty,
while she was still here with us, but venturing across as a
tourist, so to speak. Experimental dying, the Invisibles
called it. Most of that has been fully set down already. I
shall not repeat here, but shall refer those enough interested
to The Betty Book, Across the Unknown, and The Road I
Know.
Still further, we had a certain amount of incidental com-
ment by the old-timers in the invisible. The ideas of most
importance to the present discussion seemed to be that (a)
we cross over just as we are now, (b) there is no sudden
illumination of knowledge, (c) our status is determined by
what sort of an "outfit for eternity" we have gathered for
ourselves here on earth.
"The thing to emphasize," the Invisible told us, "is con-
tinuity here, not hereafter. No sudden jump will transform
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 225
you. You take over what you are, which is the real con-
tinuity. It is not the continuity of going over to something
easier and adapted to all your peculiarities. It is a smooth
transition. You might just as well accept it. YouVe got to
do away with the superstition that your handicaps here will
be instantly eliminated there. Get adapted here and you will
enter without conditions. You might just as well get to
work here. It is a smooth beautiful thing, this continuity.
The division between the lives is an imaginary Hne, like
the equator."
And another time:
"Take a recognized experience, like dying. Supposing it
had come to you, and you stood the other side of bodily
death. What a turmoil of readjustment in values there
would be! You are there dependent on your bodily life
for almost all your occupations and interests and the very
content of your daily consciousness. Therefore, all those
remain with your body when you leave it. Now, standing
on the other side, what have you as the result of those daily
occupations and interests? Many dim things; but unde-
veloped, and undirected. In face of the big unusual issues
one feels very empty-handed and empty-hearted, hope-
lessly ineffectual.
"You remember the experimental dying, and how you set
up housekeeping with the few things you had brought
along of realities—voUtion, parience, perseverance, loving-
kindness, whatever you had of enduring quaUties—and by
the exercise of them created your new environment? Well,
you don't have to go so far imaginatively as that. You can
imagine yourself, as happens to many, suddenly trans-
planted, an emigrant, a refugee, any example of a suddenly
uprooted being hustled into a radically changed environ-
226 WITH FOLDED WINGS
nient. Place yourself in imagination in Smyrna or Palestine
or Timbuctu or any other part of the world—without
luggage!
"Adjustment comes about in many ways. The action is
entirely dependent on the mental and spiritual capital you
have brought with you. Examples might help.
"Let us consider someone from the lower grades, for in-
stance, who is without firmly established supporting con-
victions previously developed through having constructed
his own firm conditions of maintenance anywhere; without
the eternal verity of equilibrium; without the surrounding
stability of confidence in his own power of summoning to
himself the same replacement conditions anywhere. He will
begin at once to disintegrate and throw into confusion his
whole creative mechanism by tearing it up into little worry-
bits as to food and every detail of present and future need
and his lack of possession of them at the moment. His panic
over his mechanism of reconstructing his life puts him at
once into the conditions he fears.
"Then there is a certain type of oversane, overcautious,
unintentioned people who have never sensed intangible
verities, who prefer to occupy themselves exclusively with
the more limited ponderables; just as there are the unfor-
tunates who have never sensed the rapture of a perfume or
the ecstasy of a color harmony or who are deaf to sound
reactions. Let us accept them in friendly understanding.
They are useful people in keeping ponderable stabihty.
But they will have to begin slowly over here."
One of the advantages of our instruction with the In-
visibles was supposed to be the elimination of much of the
confusion of readjustment.
"You see," the Invisible explained this, "little by little, bit
by bit, we are giving you life in its extension into the next
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 227
phase, and how to go about creating your future conditions,
just as you create them there for ordinary Hving. Do not be
abashed by your own ponderable mind, any more than you
are abashed by the ponderable people. Escape frequently
from its limitations and capture a small boy's enjoyment in,
constructing yourself a tree house, a habitation after your
own heart above your ordinary dwelling place. Some day
you may inhabit that ideal structure; but at any rate you
vvill return to the misfit with fresh energy and strength for
reconstructing it more in keeping with the ideal one.
"I did not touch on the positive side of the emigration to
Smyrna, or Palestine or Timbuctu, how the developed per-
son would go about it, because it is totally impossible to
convince anybody who has not attained the creative power,
that it will work."
As for death itself, as a phenomenon, the Invisibles ac-
tually seemed to be little interested. The one we call the
Doctor once said that there is nothing to be wondered at in
death, but that the fact of birth is indeed wonderful.
"Why can't you teach about it in a commonplace fash-
ion?" complained another Invisible. "Why not say as to
death that the life of each species is imprisoned in its fruit?
Each fruit, the flesh, is the bearer of the seed. Why not
think of your own seed of life within your flesh in the same
way? The flesh is only the bearer of the seed to further
development. It is healthy and normal to lie down to die
as a seed plants itself. The healthier and stronger you get in
spirit, the more beautiful all these things look to you."
"What," asked one of our visitors, "does death do to
personality?"
"It gives you greater and simpler opportunities for de-
velopment," was the reply. "The mechanism, the apparatus
you carry from your life for that purpose is that mecha-
228 WITH FOLDED WINGS
nism, and only that mechanism, that you have built by your
constructive work. If you have not accomplished much
constructive work, you approach those future opportunities
crippled. But unlike earth cripples, you will have the abihty,
if you will use it, to heal yourself by appropriate effort.
But the start you will make, and the breadth of opportunity
you will enjoy will depend solely and entirely upon what
you have done now."
*'How about violent death, and its shock and pain?"
"The normal end of earth hfe is a ripening, by which the
forces are withdrawn into the seed easily and naturally, to
be divorced, in due time, from their rootings in the soil.
But the strange interwoven pattern of existence does not
always permit of this easy and graceful consummation.
Many are cut off by accident and untoward chance before
the sap of earth has ceased to flow. Such an accident, from
the point of view of ordered progression, is to be regretted,
but is in result little more than a check. The orientation of
the entity is toward the forward trend of progression. The
groping of his hands is toward the direction of progress;
and so may be seized by those awaiting, and eased from the
stumble into a resumption."
He made one exception to this comforting statement of
aid. The Suicide.
*nrhose, however, who deliberately, and not by submis-
sion to accident beyond their control, take into their own
hands the termination of prescribed experience are in a dif-
ferent class. The very renunciation of responsibilities exerts
a magnetic attraction which reorients the psyche back
toward those responsibilities. So that, in place of the impulse
forward toward onward progress, the soul is bound, by an
urge which it cannot overcome, to the backward view. Do
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 229
not confuse this with the conventional picture of the 'earth-
bound' spirit. The longing of regret for opportunities now
seen to have been thrown away—the opportunities for cer-
tain fulfillments—^blinds the entity to the possibility of
those same fulfillments, with greater labor and lesser op-
portunity to be sure, in another state of being. Until that
fixation is resolved, the entity is static and impervious to the
helpful influences that so quickly heal the victims of a
purely accidental passing.
"To that extent, and to that extent only, is he cut off from
those who would help him on this side. His help Tjnist come
from that toward which his attention is thus drawn. Di-
lutedly, painfully, at second hand, he must make good his
abandoned deficiencies, not from the abundance close about
him, but from the meagreness he has deserted. This is not
'justice'; it is the law."
But as to the normal process of dying, even in the case of
violent death, even violent death with anticipation, as in a
falling airplane, the Invisible was emphatic.
"There is no suffering," he insisted, "except possibly in
the interim of falhng. It is not always realized that, as far
as this side is concerned, the shock of an untimely violent
death furnishes its own anaesthetic. The process of death is
never painful, nor to be dreaded in any way. Don't worry
about dying; you'll enjoy it!"
5
I shall close this chapter and this book with one more quota-
tion from The Teller of Tales—a passage whose magic
lends to all experience, of life or death, the mantle of
Eternity.
"Vibrations are life, and waves are progress in life. The
230 WITH FOLDED WINGS
thing that is made by vibrations moves within the limits of
its being, and also carries forward—through itself and its
contacts—the wave.
"Waves lift and fall, as well as move forward. And the
particles that comprise them are also elevated and depressed,
as well as carrying through themselves the forward move-
ment. The rise and fall is in itself rhythmic and harmonious.
Without it no forward movement is possible. This is a
universal law—applying to the mighty and on-sweeping
tide of cosmic evolution, and alike to the little ripples in the
tiny pools that make up individual affairs. The sea gull that
exults upward on the shoulder of the rising wave, too often,
instead of falhng in glory of grandeur into the trough,
plunges from its height, darkened with despair; because it
has not the vision to see nor the perception to feel the
mighty, slow-gathering force that will lift it again to an-
other moment of high-tossing, sun-glinted height.
"THIS IS A UNIVERSAL LAW.
"Know that. Understand that. Accept the recession into
the quiet hollow, into the slow sucking trough, as part of
the great rhythm—without which there would be stagna-
tion. Learn to take it as the repose period, the gathering
period, the period in which the mighty forces that hft the
wave upward, are quietly, powerfully coming in. If you
could only once feel this, visualize it, never again could you
be uneasy, depressed, low-spirited, discouraged, merely be-
cause of the natural, inevitable, necessary ebb after the
flow. Never again would you worry because in this or that
your powers of today are not your powers of yesterday,
that your wings are folded, that a darkness seems to have
closed you about. Accept the quietude, accept the ebb;
enjoy it, as all harmonious things should be enjoyed. Rest
in confidence, with your folded wings, knowing that it is
THE GENTLE ART OF DYING 23
the Law; that soon beneath your breast the stir of gathering
forces must be felt. Sure that in the progress that the law
ordains you must once more be swept upward to the gUtter-
ing crest, whence all horizons are far, and the whistling
winds of eternity tempt again your outspread wings.
"As I said, this is a universal law. By it you can measure
your smallest moods. By it you can measure your greatest
griefs and despairs. Carry it always with you. For its fitting
is to all occasion."
INDEX
Abundance, 105-107, no, 117,
176-177
Accomplishment, 176-182
Acquisitiveness, 5, 62
Action, 21-22, 29, 46, 53-54
automatic, 89-90, 92, 106-107,
188-190
instinctive, 191
reasoned, 191
Actuality, 17, 136, 160
Advice, 151-152
Aged, the, see Old Age
Agents, 27
Aim, the, 3-9. 32-52
Allopathy, 169
Ambition, 30-31
Apathy, 82
Arrestment, 138-141, 156
Asceticism, 64-68, 73-76
Attention, 107
Attitudes, 32
Attunement, see Source
Authority, 29-30
Avoidances, 68
Balance, 71-73
"Being," 120-123, 126-128
Biology, 197-198
Bountifulness, 59-75
Brain, 183-185
"Bumble-fly," see Education
Capacities, 104
Channel, see Source
Chemical, 48
171, Chemistry, 203
Childhood spaces, 8
Children, see Small Boy
knowledge for, 11
Child's world, 10-12
122, Choices, 53, 91
Christian Science, 170-171
Circulation, 75
Colds, see Healing
Coloring, see Communication
Communication, 183-186
Complement, law of, 85-89, 91-92,
94
Conductivity, 124, 139
Conscious mind, 103
Consciousness, 130, 136, 142-143
expansion of, 28, 32, 41
qualities of, 139, 142
spiritual, 30
Contact, see Source
Contribution, 91-92
Conviction, 41
Corrosives, 148-150
Creation, 59, 140, 144, 145, 160-162
Creative forces, 154-155
Currents, 156-160
Dead-lift, 91
Death, see Dying
Decisions, 45, 52-53, 108, 190, 201
Denial, 68-69, 1^> 169-170
Desire-power, 56
Development, 33, 43, 46
emotional, 40
process of, 43
psychic, 39
233
234 INDEX
Developmen i—Continued
qualitative, 50
quantitative, 50
Differentiation, 137-138, 140, 156,
160, 171
Drudgery, 54, 62
Duty, 59, 63, 72, 76-77
Dying, 219-231
adjustment after, 220
continuity after, 219
description of, 215-218, 221, 223
dread of, 213-214
experimental, 219
personality after, 221
revival after, 214
suicide, 222
violent, 222-223
Dynamics, 35
Eagerness, 53-58, 63, 70, 92
Earth-life
direction to, 42
purpose of, 32, 34-36, 65
East, the, 69
Ecstasy, 51
Education, 10-31
"bumble-fly," 13
definition of, 11
incubator, 16
method of, 14
newsboy, 16
plant-minds, 16
plant-nurses, 16
puppy, 10
purpose of, 20
small boy, 4-7, 17-19
valve, 12-14, 20
what to teach, 25
Effort, 89-90
Enthusiasm, 72, 77
Environment, 22-23
Essences, 105, 122-126
Evil, 65
Evolution, 33, 89-91, 136, 160
Experience, 17-19, 21
Fear, 68, 169
Feeling, 120-123
Finite, the, 140
"Flow-through, the," see Source
Fluidity, 73-74
Form-attributes, 185-186
Free-will, 51, 132-133
Frequency, 124, 138-140, 142, 163,
165. 183-186, 221
Functioning, 32-45, 146
Game, the, 75-76
Grown-ui>s, 10-11
Happiness, 57-58
Harmony, 29-30, 63-64. 93, 112-1 ly,
122-129, 140, 145, 150-151, i6o-
161, 163
Head-substance, 123
Healing, see also Prayer arid Cur-
rents, 167-180
colds, 174-176
faith, 171-176
intentioning in, 176, 178
nature of, 173-175
relaxation in, 169
subconscious in, 170-171
technique of, 169-173
Heart-substance, 123
Help, warning against, 13, 17-18, 20
"Holding the thought," 108
Homeopathy, 169-170
Homogeneity, 169
Hypnotism, 172
Idea, 136, 138, 145, 156
Illusion, 46, 48-49, 131-132
Imagination, 22, 103, 145, 157, 159
205
"Immcdiates," 134-135
Importances, 202-203
Impulse, 189, 191
"Inner fortress," 130
Insanity, 134-135
Inspiration, 39, 87, 159
Instability, 36
Intellect, the, 39-41, 64, 108, 122,
161, 182-187
Intelligence, 136-137, 141, 143-144,
145, 158, 161
acquisition of, 17
heart-, 73
spiritual, 93
Intentioning, see also Healing, 155,
158-161, 176-177, 194. 197
Interest, 54
Interference, 13, 16
Invisibles, the
intention of, 31-40
methods of, 40-45
Job, the, 36, 66
Joy, see also Happiness, 51, 201
Justice, 199, 201
Knowledge, 192
Law, the, see also Complement, 12,
19-20, 193-195
absolute, 195
action of, 143
confidence in, 200
definition of, 196-198
mathematics in, 195
natural, 195
neutrality of, 194
obeying, 199-200
parallel, 193-196
Laziness, 63
Light-heartedness, 72-74
Light-rays, 164
Love, 76, 79, 80-81, 179
Machinery, 192
"Makc-it-so," 70, 192
INDEX 235
Manifestation, 136-144, 146, 163,
165
Mathematics, 25, 27, 195
Maya, 131
Meditation, 100-111, 138, 144
definition of, 100
exercises for, 102-103
morning ritual, 109-111
technique of, 101-103
Mind, the, 185
Mold, 28-29
Motion, 124-125, 138
Movies, 18
Negation, 67-68, 69-71, 130
Nerves, control of, 174-175
Obstructions, 4
Old age, 176, 202-211
acceptance of, 209
definition of, 204
physical aspect of, 202-203, 205-
206, 209
replacement idea, 202
Orthic trilogia, see Trilogy
Orthos, 123
Parents, 28-29
"Peg." 79
Perception, 48
Physics, 197
Picture-puzzle, 12-24
Play, 12-16, 58
Pleasure, see Happiness
Point of reference, 130-135
Prayer, 112-121, 125-126
and intellect, 113-114
as supplication, 113
for abundance, 118
for fullness of life, 119-120
for healing, 120
nature of, 112-113, 116
technique of, 113
Pride, 27, 39
236 INDEX
Protection, 27, 32
"Pumping up," 60
Purpose, 136, 155-162
Quality, 34, 50
Quantity, 50
Radiation, 32
Realities, 38, 46-48, 110, 126-128,
Realization, 112
Receptivity, 124, 139
Recognition, 41
Relaxation, 168
Religion, 15
Replacement, see Old Age
Replenishment, 10
Resistance, 45, 55, 136, 145, 162
Response, 88
Responsibilities, 29, 71
Rhythm, 6, 13
"Ripeness," 28, 208-209
Ritual, 191
Sacrifice, 62-65, 70-71
Saints, 51, 66
Satisfaction, 199-200
School ma'am, see Teacher
Self, 120
Selfishness, 61, 72
Sensation, 109
Service, 59, 62
Sincerity, 79
Small boy, see Education
"Soft spot," 149
Solemnity, 72
avoidance of, 74
danger of, 75
Source, the, see also Channel, 80
attuncment with, 81-84
flow-through from, 100, 104-105.
106, 116, 158, 162, 165-166, 176-
178, 181
Space, 124-126
Spiritual blood stream, 99-100
Spirituality, 35
Strain, 52-59, 95, 108. 127, 179
Subconscious, the, see Healing
Sublimation, 50, 70
Suicide, see Dying
Superstition, 36
Symbols, 38, 46-48
heart, 98-99, 110-111
Syn-pathos, 27
Taking conscious charge, 89-90, 91-
92
"Tangent," 186, 190, 192, 194
Teacher, 11, 17-18, 19, 24
Teaching, 44
Thought, 159-160
Time, 124
Tools, 20-21, 22, 25, 27, 47, 55, 98,
123-124, 144, 157, 161, 182, 190-
Transmutation, 48-50
Trials, 29
Trilogy, 124, 185, 197
Ultimates, 132
Unity, 20, 97
Unselfishness, 61
Vitality, 72-75
Waterfall, 106
West, philosophy of, 70
Will-power, 56-58
Wisdom, 192
Withdrawal, 50, 66, 68, no
Words, 38, 186. 189
Work, 59
Worship, 83
Writer, 22
Youth, 71-72
Zest, 54. 75
