{"name":"A Key To Physic And The Occult Sciences","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1795__sibly___a_key_to_physic_and_the_occult_sciences.pdf","mytitle":"A Key To Physic And The Occult Sciences","mylang":"de"}
A
K E Y to PHYSIC,
AND THE
OCCULT SCIENCES.
OPENING TO MENTAL VIEW,
The SYSTEM and ORDER of the Interior and Exterior HEAVENS;
The Analogy betwixt ANGELS, and SPIRITS of MEN;
,A N D THE
Sympathy between CELESTIAL and TERRESTRIAL BODIES.
FROM WHENCE IS DEDUCED,
An obvious Difcrimination of Future Events, in the Motions and Pofitions of the Luminaries,
Planets, and Stars; the univerfal Spirit and Economy of Nature, in the Produdion of all
Things ; the Principles of etherial, and atmofpherical Influx, in conftituting the proper Recipi -
ent of Life ; the adive and paflive Tindures requifite in the Generation of Men and Brutes ;
and the Foundation and Neceflity of that invifible Agitation of Matter, which ftimulates and
impels every living Creature to the Ad of begetting its like; the Properties of Vegetable,
Mineral, and ANIMAL MAGNETISM : the fundamental Caufes. and Qualities, vifible or
occult, of all DISEASES, both of Mind and Body, and the Ample Modes prefctibed by Na-
ture for their Prevention and Cure.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED,
LUNAR TABLES, calculated from Sidereal Motion ;
exhibiting upon the mod fimple, yet unerring Con-
Itruftion, the adual Moment of the CRISIS of every Difeafe, and the confequent Termination thereof, whe-
ther for LIFE or DEATH.
THE WHOLE FORMING
An interefting Supplement to CULPEPER’S FAMILY PHYSICIAN, and Difplay of the OCCULT SCIENCES;
publifhed for the good of all who fearch after Truth and Wifdom ;
to pveferve to all the Blethngs of Health and
Life ;
and to give to all the Knowledge of Primitive Phyfic, and the Art of Healing.
By E. S I B L Y, M. D. F. R. H. S.
Illuftrated with elegant COPPER PLATE'S.
Learn diligently the Myjlcries of God and his Works ; for God loveth none but him that dwelleth in Wifdom. —Sol. vii. viii.
LONDON:
PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR, AND SOLD BY CHAMPANTE AND WHITROW, JEWRY-
STREET, ALDGATE; AND AT THE BRITISH DIRECTORY-OFFICE, AVE-MARIA LANE.
f*
v>
6 4 / 5 0 9
../.'jiT?.-:
:
;
TY
U3R.’,;/:
- •:
_
DEDICATION,
TO THE NUMEROUS
SUBSCRIBERS to my FORMER WORKS.
HpHE Liberality, Attention, and Confidence, I
have received from YOU, demand the earlieft
fulfilment oi my Promife, in publifhing the following
Sheets. Not confcious of having deviated from the
line of REASON or of TRUTH, not challenged by
Critics, nor accufed by the Faculty, of leading you
aftray, I feel more than common Gratification in fub-
mitting myfelf once more to your Patronage ;
and no
longer than I can render myfelf ufeful to SOCIETY,
and worthy of YOUR Protedlion, do I wifh to retain
the Power of fubfcribing myfelf
Your much honoured Brother,
Friend, and Servant,
No, i, Upper Titcbfield-ftreet)
Cavendift-Squart*
E. SIBLY.
A
KEY to PHYSIC,
WISDOM is the light of Reafon, and the bond of Peace. It aflimilates
Man to God, and elevates his mind above unworthy purfuits. It is the
principal excellence which diftinguilhes him from brutes, and the chief
ornament that dignifies his character. Whatever is founded in Wifdom’s laws, de-
fies the mouldering hand of time, and ranks with immortality. Hence it is that a
thirft after knowledge is natural to man ; and if the cares and follies of this world
could be eftranged from his concerns, his defire of information would be inlepara-
ble from his exiftence. Ignorance and fuperftition may be confidered as the curfe
of God, which chains its votaries to unworthy objeCts; whilft, on the contrary, wif-
dom and underflanding provide us with wings, whereby to foar above the earth;
to contemplate the works of creation—to difeern the myfteries of divinity, and con-
verfe with angels.
The beautiful defeription given by Solomon of his acquirements in wifdom, is
highly deierving the attention of all men ; but particularly of thofe who profefs the
fcience of phyfic, and the cure of fouls. “ I prayed, fays Solomon, and under-
ftanding was given me; I called upon God, and the fpirit of Wifdom came to
me. All good things came with her, and innumerable riches in her hand.” What
greater reward could any one defire ? And though the intellectual faculties of all
men are not alike ftrong and apt for occult fpeculations *, yet it is manifeft that all
No. i. B perfons
AND THE
O C C SCIENCES.
2 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
perfons are capable of deriving great improvements from reading ; and, that it is
not fo much the want of natural ability, as of induftry and application, that fo ma-
ny men difgrace the image of the Deity, and degrade the venerable profeffions of
Divinity, Phyfic, and Lav/.
Ir rarely happens that the want of intellect, or natural endowments of the mind,
are the rocks on which men fplit in their profeffional character. Indocile and unapt
indeed mull that man be, whom education, experience, obfervation, reading, or en-
quiry, will not fet generally right in his progrels through life. Yet, without indufi-
try, and an anxious defire of knowledge and improvement, neither education, nor
all the advantages of natural ability, can fave us from the wreck of error, or the dif-
grace of ignorance. Obftinate men, though of the firft capacity in the world, are
a forlorn hope, and often irrecoverably loft, by unadvifedly purfuing the phantom
of their own brain ; whilft others, enriched by dignity of fenfe, and qualified by
depth of underftanding, to form the brighteft characters amongft fociety, furrender
up their talents for difcernment and enquiry, and content themfelves with taking
upon truft whatever they fee or hear ;
particularly in the praCtice of phyfic •, in the
law •, and in the church. The mifchiefs attendant on this general conduCt of man-
kind, are great and many ; for by thus implicitly fubfcribing to the vague notions,
and falle doCtrines of others ; by fhutting their eyes againft the light of reafon and
enquiry, and refuting to receive the conviction of their own fenfes, they transfer er-
ror from one generation to another, until the unlettered multitude, dazzled by the
fplendid ignorance of the learned few, become difciples to their miftakes, and make
error and enthufiafm an hereditary difeafe.
Hence, then, we fee the necefiity of confulting our own reafon, and employing
our own underftanding, in the difcrimination of all our temporal and eternal affairs
•and of aCling and judging for ourfelves on all occafions which immediately regard
our health, our happinefs, or our life; and under all thofe afflictions and misfor-
tunes wherewith we ftruggle in this world, in our pafiage to a better ; to one more
glorious and permanent; the ultimate end and reward of all our labours! Our
fenfes, on thefe occafions, are ever ready to fupport our endeavours, and perform
their office; and it is unqueftionably the duty of all men to exercife, to improve,
and employ them. Yet it is aftonifhing in general to fee how diftruftful we are of
thofe very faculties Nature has given us for our guide, and how fondly we fubmit
to the opinions of others, whofe nerves cannot feel for us, and whofe judgment is
often founded upon erroneous principles, and fometimes on no principles at all.
This, however, is a conducl; by no means fitted to the dignity and office affigned
to man ; who being placed at the head of all God’s works upon earth, walking in
his
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 3
his image, and exercifing dominion over his creatures, is bound to improve that in-
tellect of reafon and underftanding, whereby he is to govern and diredt them, ac-
cording to the dictates of truth, of juftice, and of mercy. For this purpofe he ought,
like Solomon, to ftudy the occult properties and qualities of all things : “from the
cedar tree that is in Lebanon, even unto the hyffop that fpringeth out of the wall
with whatever relates to a proper knowledge of himfelf, “ and of beafts, and of
fowls, and of creeping things, and of filhes”-— not toworffiip the fun, nor the moon,
nor the ftars, nor any of the hoft of heaven ;
but to confider, to admire, and to in-
veftigate their characters, fixed by the hand of God for figns, for feafons, and for
days, and years. They, in faCt, contain no more than what every man ought to be
acquainted with, to the belt of his abilities ; becaufe they lead to a comprehenfive
idea of thofe occult caufes and effeCts, which aCt the molt, though they are the lead
feen ; and whereby the human underftanding is enlightened and improved, and the
mind enriched with thofe divine precepts, which lead to a manifeftation of that
FIRST and omnipotent CAUSE, to whole power all lecond caufes are fubfervient,
and operate but as the agents of his Will ; and under whofe provident care and fuf-
ferance we fee, feel, move, fpeak, and have our being ! The ten thoufand blefiings
which refult from this ftudy, are found in our enquiries after truth, and the myfte-
ries which furround us; of the aftonifhingfympathy and antipathy betwixt heavenly
and earthly fubftances ; of the wonderful harmony and conftruCtion of the celeftial
bodies; of the nature and qualities of our own exiftence, and the propagation of
our fpecies •, of the occult properties implanted in all created beings ; and the end
for which they are and were created I
To fuch enquiries all men are alike competent, and may boafl the fame preten-
fions, unlefs obflinacy, or indolence, are fubftituted to prevent them. There is cer-
tainly implanted in the human mind, a power which perceives truth, and commands
belief, in all the occult properties of nature, not by the force of argument, nor learn-
ing, norfcience; but by an inflantaneous, inftindlive, and irrefiftible impulfe, de-
rived neither from education, nor from habit •, but from the peculiar gift of Provi-
dence, adting independently of our will, whenever thefe objedts are prefented
bearing evidence of their reality, even when the pride of our external deportment,
and our very words, affedt to deny them. This is an intelledlual fenfation, which I
will venture to affirm, is felt more or lefs by all mankind ; and I know the hearts of
all my readers, if not their tongues, will admit thefadf. It is therefore evident that
the humble cottager, the claffical curate ; the regular phyfician, and the village doc-
tor, ftand on the fame level in this refpedl. The ftudy of Nature’s laws, of the oc-
cult properties in medicine, and in the frame and temperature of our bodies, is no
2 lets
Ci
4 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
lefs firnple, than important to our welfare ; and without knowing thefe, we know
nothing that can place us beyond the fagacity of the brute creation. We can nei-
ther forefee danger, nor fhun it when it is near—we are fubjetft to mifguided treat-
ment, and miftake, in our medical applications, and advice-— we receive intuitive
figns and tokens of misfortune or advantage, without knowing how to benefit by
the admonition-— In fhort, without this ftudy, our enquiries are vain— -our percep-
tions are clouded-—our views limited, and all our purfuits are vanity, vexation, and
difappointment. The weaknefs of our reafon, and the avocations arifing from the
infirmities and neceflities of our fituations, require the moll powerful inftrudtions,
and the cleareft perceptions of heavenly and earthly things, for the prefervation of
our fouls and bodies, and for the illumination of our minds ; advantages that can
in no wife be more completely obtained than by an intimate acquaintance with the
Occult Sciences, or, in other words, by a contemplation of
GOD, AND NATURE.
THOUGH God has given us no innate ideas of himfelf, yet having furniftied us
with thofe faculties our minds are endowed wkh, he hath not left himfelf without a
witnefs; fince we have fenfe, perception, ancf reafon, and cannot want a clear proof
ofhim, as long as we carry any thought of ourfelves about us. To (hew, therefore,
that we are capable of knowing, that is, being certain that there is a God ;
and how
we may come by this certainty, I think weJReed go no farther than ourfelves, and
that undoubted knowledge we have of o#r own exiftence. I think it is beyond
queftion, that man has a clear perception of his own being : he knows certainly that
he exifts, and that he is fomething. In the next place, man knows, by an intuitive
certainty, that bare nothing can no more produce any real being, than it can be equal
to two right angles. If, therefore, we know there is fome real being, it is an evi-
dent demonftration, that from eternity there has been fomething ; fince what was
not from eternity, had a beginning ; and what had a beginning, muft be produced
by fomething elfe. Next it is evident, that what has its being from another, muft
alfo have all that which is in and belongs to its being from another too ;
all the
powers it has, muft be owing to, and received from, the fame fource. This eternal
fource of all being, muft be alfo the fource and original of all power ; and fo this
eternal being muft be alfo the moft powerful.
Again, man finds in himfelf perception and knowledge : we are certain then that
there is not only fome being, but fome knowing intelligent being in the world?
There was a time when there was no knowing being, or elfe there has been a know-
ing
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 5
ing being from eternity. If it be laid, there was a time -when that eternal being
had no knowledge ; I reply, that then it is impoffible there fhould have ever been
any knowledge : it being as impoffible that things wholly void of knowledge, and
operating blindly, and without any perception, fhould produce a knowing being, as
it is impoffible that a triangle fhould make itfelf three angles bigger than two right
ones. Thus, from the confiderationof ourfelves, and what we infallibly find in our
own conftitutions, our reafon leads us to the knowledge of this certain and evident-
truth, that there is an eternal, moft powerful, and knowing being, which whether
any one will call God, it matters not. The thing is evident ;
and from this idea,
duly confidered, will eafily be deduced all thofe other attributes we ought to afcribe
to this eternal Being.
From what has been faid, it is plain that we have a more certain knowledge of the
exiftence of a God, than of any thing our fenfes have not immediately difcovered to
us. Nay, I prefume I may fay, that we more certainly know that there is a God,
than that there is any thing elfe without us. When I fay, we know, I mean, there is
fuch a knowledge within our reach, which we cannot mifs, if we will but apply our
minds to that, as we do to other inquiries.
It being then unavoidable for all rational creatures to conclude, that fomething
has exifted from eternity, let us next fee what kind of thing that muft be. There
are but two forts of beings in-the world, that man knows or conceives ; fuch as are
purely material, without fenfe or perception ; and fenfible perceiving beings, fuch
as we find ourfelves to be. Thefe two forts we fhall call cogitative and incogita-
tive beings •, which, to our prefent purpofe, are better than material and immaterial.
If then there muft be fomething eternal, it is very obvious to reafon, that it muft
neceffarily be a cogitative being *, becaufe it is as impoffible to conceive that bare
incogitative matter fhould ever produce a thinking intelligent being, as that nothing
of itfelf fhould produce matter. Let us fuppoie any parcel of matter eternal, we
fhall find it in itfelf unable to produce any thing. Let us fuppofe its parts firmly at
reft together-, if there were no other being in the world, muft it not eternally re-
main fo, a dead unatftive lump ? is it poffible to conceive that it can add motion to
itfelf, or produce any thing? Matter then, by its own ftrength, cannot produce in
itfelf fo much as motion. The motion it has, muft alfo be from eternity, or elfe ad-
ded to matterby fome other being, more powerful than matter. But let us fuppofe
motion eternal too ; yet matter, incogitative matter, and motion, could never
produce thought. Knowledge will ftili be as far beyond the power of nothing
to produce. Divide matter into as minute parts as you will, vary its figure and
motion as much as you pleafe, it will operate no otherwife upon other bodies.
No. i, C of
6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of proportionable bulk, than it did before this divifion. The minuted: particles of
matter, knock, repel, and refill one another, juft as the greater do, and that is all
they can do : fo that if we fuppofe nothing eternal, matter can never begin to be :
if we fuppofe bare matter without motion eternal, motion can never begin to be : if
we fuppofe only matter and motion eternal, thought can never begin to be: for it is
impofiible to conceive, that matter, either with or without motion, could have origi-
nally in and from itfelf, fenfe, perception, and knowledge, as is evident from hence,
that then fenfe, perception, and knowledge, mull be a property eternally infeparable
from matter, and every particle of it. Since, therefore, whatfoever is the firft eternal
being, mull neceflhrily be cogitative ; and whatfoever is firft of all things, mull ne-
cefiarily contain in it, and actually have at leaft all the perfections that can ever
after exift ; it necefiarily follows, that the firft eternal being cannot be matter. If,
therefore, it be evident, that fomething muft necefifarily exift from eternity, it is
alfo as evident, that that fomethingmuftbeacogitativebeing. For it is as impofiible
that incogitative matter fhould produce a cogitative being, as that nothing, or the
negation of all being, fhould produce a pofitive being, or matter.
This difcovery of the necefifary exiftence of an eternal mind, fufficiently leads us to
the knowledge of God ; for it will hence follow, that all other knowing beings that
have a beginning, muft depend on him, and have no other ways of knowledge or ex-
tent of power, than what he gives them; and therefore if he made thofe, he made
alfo the lefs excellent pieces of this univerfe, all inanimate bodies, whereby his om-
nifcience, power, and providence, will be eftablilhed ; and from thence all his other
attributes necefifarily follow.
Thus, a manifeftation of the Deity is vifible in all his works. There is not the
fmalleft partof that immenfe fpace our eyes behold, or our imaginations conceive, that
is not filled with His prefence. Theworlds which revolve with fo much order, beau-
ty, and harmony, through the immenfity of fpace, the fun, moon, liars, and planets,
are upheld by the light of his countenance ; but for which they would drop from
their orbs, and, plunged into the vail abyfs, would return to their primitive chaos.
To the mercy of God we owe all the blefilngs of this life, as the reward of good and
virtuous aftions. To his anger, we juft] y attribute all violent concufilons of the
elements, famine, plague, pellilence, &c. brought on a wicked and abandoned peo-
ple, like the ftorm of fire and brimftone on Sodom and Gomorrah. The vengeance
of the Deity cannot be more awfully defcribed, than by David in his Pfalms, which
fhould aCt as a timely warning to thofe atheifts and unbelievers, and to thofe wick-
ed, idolatrous, and polluted countries, againft whofe deteftable crimes thefe terrible
icourges have been fo often fent. The lhaking of the earth ; the trembling of the
2 hills
and OCCULT SCIENCES, 7
hills and mountains; the flames of devouring fire darting through the firmament*,,
the heavens bending down with forked thunderbolts; their riding on the clouds,
and flying on the wings of a whirlwind ; the burfting of the lightnings from the hor-
rid darknefs ; the tremendous peals of thunder; theftorms of fiery hail ; the melting
of the heavens, and diflfolving into floods of tempeftuous rains ; the earth opening
and fwallowing up her inhabitants ; the rocks and mountains cleaving afunder, and
difclofing their fubterraneous channels, their torrents of water, and bituminous fire,
at the very breath of the noftrils of the Almighty, are all of them circumftances
which fill the guilty mind with horror and difmay, and admirably exprefs the pow-
er, the prefence, and omnifcience of God
!
To what has been ftated above, I would earneftly recommend an attentive peru-
falof what I have written in the firfl: volume of my complete Illufbration of the Oc-
cult Sciences, from page 7 1 to 80 ; whence it will be manifeft to the full conviction,
of the molt obftinate atheift, (if fuch a thing can really exifi:,) that there is a God,
all powerful and intelligent ; fupremely perfedt ; eternal and infinite ; omnipotent
and omnifeient ; who endures from eternity to eternity, and is prefent from infinity to
infinity
!
But though, from the nature and perfections of the Deity, he is invifibly prefent
in all places, and nothing happens without his knowledge and permifilon ;
yet it is
exprefsly revealed in Scripture, and admitted by all wife and intelligent authors, that
he is vifibly prefent with the angels and fpirits, and blefied fouls of the departed, in
thofe manfions of blifs called Heaven. There he is pleafed to afford a nearer and
more immediate view of himfelf, and a more fenfible manifeftation of his glory, and
a more adequate perception of his attributes, than can be leen or felt in any other
parts of the univerfe ; which place, for the fake of pre-eminent diftindtion, and as be-
ing the feat, and centre, from whence all things flow, and have their beginning, life,
light, power, and motion, is called the interior, or empyrean,
heaven.
The pofition and order of this interior heaven, or center of the Divinity, has been
variouflydeferibed, and its locality fomewhat difputed amongft the learned ; but all
agree as to the certainty of its exiftence. Hermes Trilmegiftus defines heaven to be
an intellectual fphere, whofe center is every where, and circumference no where; but
by this he meant no more than to affirm, what we have done above, that God is.
prefent every where, and at all times, from infinity to infinity, that is to fay, without
limitation, bounds, or circumference. Plato fpeaks of this internal heaven in terms
which bear fo ftriCt a refemblance with the books of Revelation, and in to elevated
and magnificent a flile, thatitis apparent the heathen philofophers, notwithftanding
their worfhipping demi or falfe gods, poffeifed an unfhaken confidence in one om-
nipotent.
'*
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
•nipotent, fupreme, over-ruling Power, whofe throne was the center of all things,
and the abode ofangels and bleffed fpirits.
To defcribe this interior heaven, in terms adequate to its magnificence and glory,
is utterly impoffible. The utmoft we can do, is to colled from theinfpired writers,
and from the words of Revelation, affifted by occult philofophy, and a due know-
ledge of the celeftial fpheres, that order and pofition of it, which reafon, and the di-
vine lights we have, bring nearelt to the truth. That God muit be ftridly and lite-
rally the center, from whence all ideas of the Divine Mind flow, as rays in every di-
redion, through all fpheres, and through all bodies, cannot admit of adoubt. That
the inner circumference of this center is furrounded, filled, or formed, by arrange-
ments of the three hierarchies of angels, is alfo confonant to reafon and Scripture,
and form, what may be termed, the entrance or inner gate of the empyrean heaven,
through which no fpirit can pafs without their knowledge and permiffion •, and with-
in which we mull fuppofe the vaft expanfe or manfions of the Godhead, and glory
of the Trinity, to be. This is ftridly conformable to the idea of all the prophets
and evangelical writers. From this primary circle, or gate of heaven, Lucifer, the
grand Apoftate, as Milton finely defcribes it, was hurled into the bottomlefs abyfs
whofe office, as one of the higheft order of angels, having placed him near the eternal
throne, he became competitor for dominion and power, with God himfelf ! But,
Him the Almighty Power
Hurl’d headlong flaming from the ethereal fky.
With hideous ruin andcombuftion, down
To bottomlefs perdition, there to dwell
In adamantine chains and penal fire !
Milton, Parad. LoJl> b. i. 1 . 44, &c.
The circles next furrounding the hierarchies, are compofed of the miniftering an-
gels and fpirits, and meffengers of the Deity. In pofitions anfwering to the ideas of
the holy Trinity, and interfering all orders of angels, are feated, in fulnefs of glo-
ry and fplendor, thofe fuperior angels or intelligent Spirits, who anfwer to the divine
attributes of God, and are the pure efiences cr ftream through which the Will or
Fiat of the Godhead is communicated to the angels and fpirits, and inftantaneoufly
conducted to the Anima Mundi. Round the whole, as an atmofphere round a pla-
net, the Anima Mundi,
or univerfal Spirit of Nature, is placed ;
which receiving the
impreffions or ideas of the Divine Mind, conduds them onward, tQ the remoteft
parts of the univerfe •, to infinity itfelf ; to, and upon, and through all bodies, and to
all God’s works. This Anima Mundi is therefore what we underftand of Nature, of
Providence,
Jtzc&twt4
; p7L
cm/2t
/
r/w/n
TW ilmlVlovt Vh.cX«or<i IViy £o<i t* vWi a\\ \\xy Vic?vrl N»yn\li all l\ty
*9opI & wtlK all \\\y l/yyclYi all lYiy mmdLvf W\y wexo^ChoT? r as
^LyiYWv.s vs ccmprx.s cdt 'VHc’wYio Ic oi'mau )
9
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
Providence, of the prefenee of God, and the fountain or feat of all fecond caufes
;
bein'5', as it were, the Eye of God, or medium between God and all created things.
Next to the Anima Mundi,\s that vaft region or expanfe, called the etherial heaven,
or firmament, wherein the fixed ftars, planets, and comets, are difpofed ; and where-
in the celeftial bodies, and the comets, move freely in all dire&ions, and towards all
parts of the heavens.
To illuftrate what has been ftated above, I have fubjoined a plate of the interior
heaven, with the different orders of the Spirits and Eflences of the Divine Mind,
diftinguifhed by their proper names and charaders, in the original Hebrew text, as
pointed out in holy writ, and in the manufcripts of ancient and learned philofo-
phers ; but as thefe names and charaders are printed at length, and fully explained
in the firft volume of my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences, p. 79, 80, and 81, it
is unnecefiary to repeat the fame here ; but for a more perfed explanation of what
is there written, the annexed plate is abfolutely necefiary, to aflift the inquifitive rea-
der in forming a competent underftanding of the fubjed. It will alfo appear from
this plate, in what manner the rays or beams of Divine Providence pal's from the
center or feat of the Godhead, through all the different orders of angels and fpirits,
to the Anima Mundi,
and from thence to all the celeftial bodies, planets, and ftars
;
to our earth, and to the remoteft parts of infinite fpace, conftituting what is termed
celeftial influx, or that faculty in nature by which the quality and temperature of one
body is communicated to another.
Of NATURE.
No one expreflion, ufed by authors, or fpoken amongft men, is in general more va-
rioufly applied, or fo little underftood, as the word Nature. When fpeakingof the
nature of a thing, we moft commonly mean its effence ; that is, the attributes or
caufe which makes it what it is, whether the thing be corporeal or not ; as when we
attempt to define the nature of a fluid, of a triangle, &c. oftentimes we confound
that which a man has by nature, with what accrues to him by birth ; as when we
fay, that fuch a man is noble by nature. Sometimes we take nature for an internal
principle of motion ; as when we fay, that a flone by nature falls to the ground.
Sometimes we underftand by nature, the eftablifhed courfe and order of things.
Sometimes we take nature for an aggregate of powers belonging to the fame body,
efpecially a living one; in which fenfe phyficians fay, that nature is ftrong, weak,
or fpent ; or that, in fuch and fuch difeafes, nature left to herfelf will perform the
cure. Sometimes we ufe the term nature for the univerfe, or whole fyflem of the
corporeal works of God, as when it is faid of a phoenix, or any imaginary being,
No. 1. D that
10 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
that there is no fuch thing in nature. Sometimes too, and that not unfrequently,
we exprefs by the word nature a kind of femi-deity, or fupernatural fpirit prefiding
over all things.
This general abufe of the word nature, is by no means peculiar to the Englilh
people or language ; it prevails more or lefs in all countries, and amongft all feels;
and feems to have been copied from the fabulous ideas of the ancients. Ariftotle
has written a whole chapter, exprefsly to enumerate the various acceptations of the
Greek word <pv<n*rendered in Englilh, nature ; and, among Latin writers, there are
not lels than fifteen or fixteen different acceptations of the fame word, with ad-
vocates out of number, for their interpretation. The bulk of them infifl, that the
word nature radically means the fyftem of the world ; the machine of the univerfe ;
or the affemblage of all created beings ; in which fenfe they fpeak of the Author of
nature; and call the fun the eye of nature, becaufe he illuminates the univerfe-
and father of nature, becaufe he warms the earth, and makes it fruitful.
Others, underftanding the word in a more confined fenfe, apply it to each of the
feveral kinds of beings, created and uncreated; fpiritual and corporeal ; thus they
fay, divine nature, angelical nature, and human nature, meaning all men together
who poffefs the fame fpiritual, reafonable foul. In this fenfe the fchoolmen and
divines fay, natura naturans,
and natura naturata, fpeak ing of God, who is the
natura naturans,
as giving being and nature to all others ; in oppofition or diftindtion
to the creatures, who are the natura naturata,
as receiving their nature from the
bands of another.
Nature, in a dill more limited fenfe, is ufed for the effence of a thing ; accord-
ing to which the Cartefians fay, it is the nature of the foul to think ; and that the
nature of matter confids in extenfion. Others more properly ufe the word Nature,
for the eftablilhed order and courfe of material things ; the feries of fecond caufes ;
or the laws which God has impofed on every part of the creation ; in which fenfe
it is they lay, nature makes the night fucceed the day ; nature has rendered refpiration
necefifary to life, &c. According to which, St. Thomas fpeaks of nature as a kind
of divine art, communicated to beings, which diredl and carry them to the ends they
were intended for ; in which fenfe nature can be neither more nor lefs than a conca-
tenation of caufes and effedls, or that order and oeconomy which God has eftablilh-
ed in all parts of his creation. Others dill more dridlly confider nature as the
adtion of Providence, and the principle of all things ; or that fpiritual power or
being, which is diffufed throughout the creation, and moves and adts in all bodies,
and gives them peculiar properties, and produces peculiar effedts. In this fenfe
cur modern philofopher Mr. Boyle confiders nature as nothing elfe but God,
2 adling
*'pkc.svs YuWra
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. it
acting himfelf, according to certain laws he himfelf has fixed. This correfponds
very much with the opinion of a fedt of ancient philofophers, who made Nature
the god of the univerfe. To n«>/, whom they conceived to prefide over, and govern
all things; but this they acknowledged to be only an imaginary being; and that
nature meant no more than the qualifies, or virtues, which God implanted in his
creatures, but which their poets and orators had figuratively perfonified as a god.
Hence F. Malebranche was aggravated to fay, “ that the nature fo much fpoken
of in the fchools, is only fit to lead us back to pagan idolatry ; fince it taught us to
underftand fomething, which without being God, adts continually throughout the
univerfe,” according to which, he fuppofes nature would be adored as an idol, con-
ceived to poflefs an adtual principle, which, in concurrence with God, was the next
and immediate caufe of all the changes which befal matter.
Ariftotle, with a view of concentrating thefe ideas of nature into one point, as beft
adapted to the works of an infinitely perfedt and all-powerful Being, defines nature,
frincipium et caufa motus et ejus in quo ejiprimo per _/f, et non per accidens f which de-
finition being miftaken by the Peripatetics and Stoics, they from hence con-
ceived the principle of nature to be a certain fpirit or virtue diffufed throughout
the univerfe, which gave every thing its motion by the invariable order of an ine-
vitable neceflity, without liberty or knowledge. This induced the idea of a plaftic
nature,
which feveral learned modern writers have defcribed to be an incorporeal
created fubftance, indued with a vegetative life, but not with fenfation or thought,
penetrating the whole created univerfe, being co-txtended with it, and under God,
moving matter fo as to produce the phenomena, which cannot be folved by me-
chanical laws ; active for ends unknown to itfeif, not being confcious of its *wn
actions, and yet having an obfcure idea of the adlion to be entered upon. In lup-
port of this plaftic nature,
Dr. Cudworth argues thus: “ fince neither all things are
produced fortuitoufly, or by the unguided mechanifm of matter, nor God himfelf
may reafonably bethought to do all things immediately and miraculoufly, it may
well be concluded, that there is a plaftic, or formative nature under him, which as
an interior and fubordinate inftrument, executes that part of his providence, which
confifts in the regular motion of matter ;
yet fo as that there is alfo, befides this, a
higher providence to be acknowledged, which, prefiding over it, doth often fuppiy
the defeats of it, and fometimes over-rule it, for as much as this plaftic nature can-
not a£t eledtively, nor with difcretion.” This dodtrine, he conceives, had the fur-
frageof the beft philosophers of all ages, Ariftotle, Plato, Empedocles, Heraclitus,
Hippocrates, Zeno, and the Stoics, and the latter Platonifts and Peripatetics, as
well as thechemifts and ParacelfianSjand feveral modern writers,
•f* 7
tCo •
7an TKc. , i n 0 W
caweofhwVianH of WtaVtixWKvcH ftrjl CXtih? WjfrflUt
rtsc^s/not-fTcma.ny ttccwfttil:.
12 A KEY TO PHYSIC
Now lam clearly of opinion, that notwithftanding thefe great authors have fo
obftinately contended for the definition of the word, and for the principles and
conftrudlion of Nature, yet they all in reality meant one and the fame thing, only
giving different explanations of the fame ideas ; and if their arguments are clofely
purfued, and compared with each other, they will all tend to fhew that the anima
tnundi, or foul of the univerfe, was what they meant by Nature.
This anima mundi,
as we have before feen, is a medium invefling the whole inte-
rior heavens, and con fi (Is of a pure ethereal fubftance or fpirit; which, as it more
immediately refides in the celeftial regions, is the fecond or next caufe under God,
that moves and governs the heavens, and heavenly bodies, liars, and planets ; which
bodies having received their firft exiftence from the fecundity of the fame fpirit, in
the act of creation, are by an influx of fympathetic rays, and by light, heat, gravi-
ty, and motion, nourifhed and fuftained, upheld and continued, in the fame regu-
lar courfe^and in the beautiful order we fee them. From the celeftial regions, the
fame influx of pure etherial fpirit defcends into every part of the immeafurable
fpace, and is diffufed through the mafs of this world, informing, adluating, and
uniting the different parts thereof into various fubftances ; and being the primary
fource of life, every where breathing a fpirit like itfelf, it pervades all elementary
bodies, and intimately mixing with all the minute atoms thereof, conftitutes the
power or inftrument we call Nature, forming, fafhioning, and propagating all
things, conformable to the ideas or will of the Divine mind, in the firft adt of crea-
tion. -—And fo the poet :
Spiritus intus alit, totofque infufa per artus
Mens agitat molem,
et magnofe corpore mifcet. =*-
The only thing that has been objedted to the notion of an anima mundi, is, that it
mingles the Deity too much with his creatures*, confounds, in fome meafure, the
workman with his work, making this, as it were, a part of that, and the feveral
portions of the univerfe fo many parts of the Godhead.—Yet is the fame principle
afferted by Seneca, Epift. 92, “Toturn hoc quo continemur, et mum <?/?, et Deus. Etfocii
ejus fumus,
et memlra. t M. du Hamel thinks, that thofe who deny it, objedt with-
out a reafon ; of which every one will be fenfible, who reads the defcription above
given, fince it in no refpedt confounds our comprehenfion of an infinitely wife and
Supreme Being, with that of the anima mundi ; but on the contrary proves it to be
as diftincl from the Deity, as are the angels and fpirits in heaven. And we may
further obferve, from what is above premifed, that thofe who deny the ani-
ma mundi on one hand, generally admit it on the other. Thus the Peripatetics
have
^ TliritiSKarSL 5yvrtVucvyifti&J d
-mjafs &/con(o«*iniL5 itself wtfK sl A-y
f TW-wkole.m'jilMilj we- n-fe c c nbtxneoLvi; cne'ttuwfljVtfiieG . /4n^.wc.
c a.'nvw'n.s tnASYvbevj • —
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. yj
have recourfe to celeftial influxes, which is partly the fame thing, in order to account
for the origin of forms, and the occult power of bodies. The Cartefians have
their fubtle matter, which anfwers to the active fpirit of the anima mundi. Others
fuppofe an actuating fpirit to flow from the fun, and the other heavenly bodies,
which is diffufed over all parts of the world, and is the fource or principle of life,
motion, &c. which is ftill the fame thing. Some philofophers, in the place of thefe,
have fubftituted the idea of fire, or an etherial elaftic fpirit, diffufed through all
parts of fpace, as the medium by which elementary bodies are nourifhed and fuf-
tained *, which nearly comes to the fame thing. Even thofe who have contended
for a plaftic nature, fall in with every principle of the anima mundi ;
only they infifl
that the formative power is lodged in the earth *, whereas the truth is, that it dwells
in the heavens, and is conveyed to the earth, to the elements, and into all matter,
by the medium I have defcribed.
I fhall conclude this definition of Nature, with remarking, agreeable to the
opinion of the ingenious Mr. Boyle, that in order to regulate our conceptions of
the word in common, and to render the application of it lefs ambiguous, we fhould
diftinguifh between the univerfal, and the particular nature of things. Univerfal
nature we fhould confider to be the aggregate of all the bodies that make up the
world, under the anima mundi, confidered as a principle by virtue whereof they ad:
and fuffer, according to the laws originally prefcribed by the author of all things.
And this makes way for the other fubordinate notion ; fince the particular nature of
an individual confifls in the general nature, but only applied to that diftind part or
portion of the univerfe j or, which is the fame thing, it is a particular afiemblage of
the mechanical properties of matter, motion, &c. of that fubjed which immediately
engages our attention.
Of the VISIBLE and OCCULT Properties of NATURE.
HAVING thus far explained the foregoing fubjed, we come next to an inveftiga-
tion of Caufes, and their Effedis, or the means whereby Nature ads in the frudifica-
tion of the univerfe. We derive the idea of caufes and effeds from our obfervations
of the viciffitudes of things, while we perceive fome qualities or fubftances be-
gin to exift, and that they receive their exiftence from the due application and oper-
ation of other beings; in all which circumftances that which produces, is the
Caufe, and that which is produced, is the EfFed. There is fuch a relation and con-
nedion between the caufe and the effed, that we cannot have a true notion of the
one, unlefs at the fame time we have a conception of the other. So in general we
No. 2. E fay
H A I&EY TO PHYSIC,
fay that a caufe is nothing elfe but that which gives being to another thing, which
is the effed of it, which way foever it happens, according to the various caufes.
The Firfi Caufe, which ads of itfelf, and of its own fupreme power and will, is
God. This is a truth fo evident, and fo confpicuous, that it cannot be denied.
The exiftence of a Firft Caufe, may be deduced from the certainty of our own ex-
iftence ; for that we exifb in the world, is a felf-evident truth ; but that we came into
it of ourfelves, or by cafualty, neceflity, or chance, is abfolutely impoflible. The
fource of our exiftence muft therefore be derived from fome being, who as the au-
thor, muft alfo be the free principle of that efTence, or life, we poffefs. To fay that
we ourfelves were the caufe of our being, would be ridiculous ; becaufe from thence
it would follow that weexifted before we had a being ; that we gave ourfelves that
which we were not in the poffeflion of; and that the caufe and the effed were one
and the fame thing ; which is likewife impolfible. It is no lefs an error to affirm
that we are in the world by neceflity ; for if fuch were the cafe our exiftence would
have never had a beginning, and we fhould have been immutable, and independent,
and infinite in every kind of perfedion ; but as thefe qualities are only applicable to
a firft caufe, it follows that fuch caufe muft be Almighty.
Thofe who are convinced of the exiftence of a firft caufe, muft neceffarily attri-
bute to it all the perfedions which are or can be in the world; that it is not only
moft perfed, and moft noble, but alfo, that all the effeds which it hath produced
or is capable of producing, are contained within itfelf, in the utmoft perfedion ; and
that every one of them is infinite, in the unity of its being; for it is neceffary it
fhould poflefs the perfedions of thofe beings it hath, or can produce, other wife it
would be laid to communicate that which it neither hath, nor can have. The firft
caufe would not be abfolutely perfed, if it was not Eternal ; for fo it would have
had a beginning, and might have an end ; and then it could not have been the firft
caufe, in fo much that it derives its exiftence from that which was pre-exiftent to it,
and by confequence this caufe, which we fuppofe to be the firft, would be a fecond
caufe, limited in its being and perfedions, as in its duration ; and it would feem to
have a dependence upon another; whereas when we fuppofe it to be the firft, all
others muft depend upon, and be fubordinate to it. Whence it follows that thefe
qualities muft be infeparable from it, independence, eternity, infinity, and fupreme
authority ; and that we cannot conceive any firft caufe, but at the fame time we
muft acknowledge the exiftence of God.
This firft caufe, which is God, muft neceffarily have that perfect unity, which ad-
mits no multiplication either of nature or perfedions. Certainly if God was not
one in his being, but had feveral natures, the number of them ought to be infinite,
2 and
15
and occult sciences.
and yet none of thefe beings in particular would be infinite, becaufe when the per.
fedion of one cannot be theperfedion of another, there will not be one to be round
but will ftand in need of the other, that is, in whom there would noc be requrfite that
perfedion which the other beings poffefs. Therefore we may add, that all thefe
fuppofed beings would beoppofite, independent, and all fupreme, which isimpofii-
ble; or that all would be fubjed to one or other of them, which is ridiculous;
whence it follows that there is but one only God, who is one in his exiftence, incap-
able ofany multiplication, and who is the primary and univerfal caufe of all things.
The great number, or rather the infinity of perfedions which we apprehend to be
in the firft caufe, is not repugnant to the Trinity, becaufe that does not divide the
being ;
and thefe perfedions are but one and the fame thing, though we give them
feveral names, and confider them under feveral ideas, which we are forced to cor-
red ;
fince without that unity there would be neceffariiy a compofition of parts,
which would be the materials of the whole compound, and would precede its exift-
ence ;
therefore could not be the ingredients of that compofition, without fomething
elfe intervening. They may alfo be divided and feparated ; fo that by the diffolu-
tion of the parts, the compound would ceafe-, which is plainly inconfiftent with that
idea we have of God, who is fimple in his nature, independent in his will, and eve-
ry way incorruptible. The firft caufe is not only one, and without its like in its
effence, but alfo one foie, and without a fecond, in that adion by which this world
was produced ; and for this reafon the adion is called creation,
fuppofing nothing
but mere nothing, out of which all things were made, by the only power of God,
without the help of any other, having either the quality of an agent or a fubjed.
The world being produced by this firft caufe, remains fubjed to the will and plea-
fure of it ; and in the fame manner as it was produced by the foie ad of this firft
caufe, fo it is preferved in the fame ftate, by the foie influence of the fame caufe ;
who as it did not want any help in the creation of the univerfe, fo neither doth it
ftand in need of any aftiftance in the confervation of it. If the firft caufe was free in
the creation of the world, thence it follows that all things were made by diredion
ofreafonand underftanding,and by confequence according to a certain idea and rule:
and fince the firft caufeoperates after an independent manner, it could not have the type
of its produdion any where elfe but from itfelf ; neither could it ad by a rule dif-
tind from its own being ; fo that in truth God is not only the firft, but the exempla-
ry caufe of all things. For the fame reafon it may be faid, that the firft caufe, which
is God, is the final caufe of all things ; for when he, as an intelligent and free being,
produced this world, he propofed to hirnfelf an end anfwerable to his dignity, that
is, to hirnfelf, and his own proper glory. So that the firft caufe is neceffariiy, the
ultimate
16 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ultimate end of all its effefts. This is a nice fubjeft, wherein all preachers and
writers feem at a loi's ;
but the cafe is clear and beautiful to thofe who purfue the
leffonsof wifdom and fcience.
Second Caufes are thofe which derive the power orfaculty of afting, from the influ-
ence of the firfb caufe. Hence the anitna mundi, is the feat of all fecond caufes, which
are alfo termed natural caufes, becaufe they have implanted in them by the firft
caufe, the occult power of diffufing through all fpace, and of communicating to all
bodies, that univerfal foul, or etherial fpirit, whereby every particle of matter is
moved, and made to aft upon one another, fo as to produce the various phenomena
in nature, in the animal, vegetable, and mineral worlds ; in the elements, and in the
firmament of heaven. This univerfal fpirit or caufe, afts univerfally with particu-
lar caufes ; but after a manner agreeing with the nature of every particular thing,
and according to the power which was given it when it was created ; which neither
alters the quality of the caufes, nor the neceflity or liberty of their aftions. This
power of afting, wffiich is communicated by fecond caufes, is not a quality different
from thofe things impowered to aft ; whence the power which the atoms have of
moving in all directions doth not differ from the atoms themfelves*, the power of
burning or heating doth not differ from the fire to which it is inherent, unlefs it be
in the manner of our conceiving things, or of fpeaking of them according to our
conceptions. So it is of an aftion which terminates from the caufe to the effeft,
and which is nothing elfe than a certain relation, or an aftual fubordination which
is always found betwixt the caufe and the effeft. Hence we perceive that fecond
caufes are what all philofophers, ancient and modern, have contended for under dif-
ferent forms ; and are neither more nor lefs than that univerfal fpirit, or inherent
law, implanted in nature at the creation, whereby all God’s works are regulated and
preferved, and the ends and purpofes of that creation condufted to God’s glory and
manifeftation, and to the good of all his creatures, the ftudy of which opens our eyes
to the bright beams of true wifdom*, to the mutual harmony and dependence one
thing has upon another j to thefympathy and antipathy of material bodies ; to the
perceptions of fenfe, reafon, and intellectual vifion *, to the nice faculties and exqui-
fite connexion of foul and body; and ultimately to the knowledge of ourfelves, of
our progrefs through this world ; of our fublunary fate and fortune ; and of the
things calculated to preferve life, or to deftroy it.
Efficient Caufes are all thofe aftions of bodies or things, which are the agents or
direft means whereby any effefts are produced. Thus a painter, painting a pifture,
is an efficient caufe ; and the pifture itfelf, when finiffied, is the effeft thereof.
Efficient caufes comprehend a number of compound or fubordinate caufes, which
alio
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 17
alfo contribute towards the produdion of their effed. If the efficient caufe ads
by a power proper to itfelf, then it is called the principal caufe; but if only by the
force and ftrength of another, then it is termed the inftrumental caufe. So we dif-
tinguiffi between the painter, and the pencil, though both contribute to the pro-
dudion of the pidure. Again, the fubjed whereon the agent works, or whereof
the thing is formed, is called the material caufe ; thus the marble out of which a
flatue is carved, is called the material caufe ; as is likewife the paint and canvas of
a pidure, as being the matter, or materials of which they are made; the fculptofr
and painter being the efficient caufes. There is alfo an efficient caufe in the fun,
moon, flars, and elements, whereby they ad upon fublunary matter, and produce a
variety of effeds in the frudification and phenomena of this world. From theie
arife neceffary and free caufes, the firft of which ad neceffarily and without choice y*
as fire, the fun, and all created beings, except angels and men ; for they ad by a free
will, wherein confifts the effence of liberty. The efficient caufe is likewife either
phyfical, or moral •, tht phyficalxs that which produces a fenfible corporeal effed,
and ads obvioufly and immediately *, thus fire is the phyfical caufe of burning, and
the fun the phyfical caufe of heat. The moral caufe alfo produces a real effed, but
in things immaterial ; thus, repentance is the moral caufe of forgivenefs. Again,
we define a phyfical caufe to be that which produces its effed by a phyfical virtue;
and a moral caufe, that which determines the phyfical caufe, though not nece/farily , to
produce the effed ; thus, the funis the phyfical caufe of light; a (tone, that falls
from an eminence, and fradures thefkull, is a phyfical caufe of death ; and thus'
the advice, intreaty, commands, or menaces, which determines us, though not ne-
cejjarily , to do, or not to do, any thing, are moral caufes. In this fenfe it is obvious
a moral caufe is only applicable to a free intelligent agent-*, and it is this notion of a
moral and phyfical caufe that is the molt juft, clear, and diftind.
Whenever the efficient caufe applies to a free intelligent being, and ads from
knowledge, all the fubordinate caufes concur to the produdion of one and the fame
effed ;
as for example, the painter drawing his pidure is the principal caufe ; the pen-
cil the inftrumental ; the end propofed by the painter is the final caufe; the idea di-
reding the performance is the exemplary caufe ; the form and difpofition of its parts
is the formal caufe ; the colours and the canvas are the material caufe, as being the
conftituent matter of the work ; and if theartift, by any accidental touch, improves
his pidure, like Agillaus, who labouring many days to draw a foaming horfe, and
could not, in a paffion flung his brufh at the painting, and the thing he wanted was
thus accompliflied when it was not intended ; it is termed an accidental caufe.
So that we fee all fubordinate caufes are in effed under the efficient caufe; and are
fubfervient to its when applied by reafon, and di reded by fkill.
No. 2. F
V? A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Form, and formal caufe, is one and the fame thing •, and when we fay there are two
forts of forms, that is only according to our manner of conceiving things; fo we
fay there are two forts of formal caufes, the fubftantial, and accidental. But all
forms are imaginary ; neither do true philofophers acknowledge any other fubftance
to be in natural compounds, than matter, except only in man ; nor any other form
than the difpofition of the parts, becaufe all thefe forms are altogether ufelefs.
Moreover, the exemplary caufe may be referred to the formal ; becaufe it is the idea
end inward form of that which we frame in our fpirit ; fo the formal caufe of a
pifture is the dilpofition of its parts, according to the difpofition and ordination
whichjt then had in the mind of the painter. The fame may be faid of all rational
agents which are endued with underftanding.
There is no difference betwixt matter and a material caufe; and there are two
forts of material caufes, as well as of matter. That is the firft matter out of which
all bodies are compofed, and into which, by an univerfal divifion, they may be re-
duced ; the fecond is nothing elfe, but bodies made of the firft, and upon which the
efficient caufes exercife their adtion. Therefore it is apparent, that there is nothing
in the world but what is a compound, and that there is no compound without mat-
ter. It isalfo certain that there is nothing made without an efficient caufe, which
adts upon compounds, and deftroys them, that ofthem others may be made ; becaufe
the matter of the firft ferves for the compofition of the fecond ; the matter which
goes to the compofition of the firft and fecond, is the firft matter, or material caufe
of the compound ; and that matter which ferves the efficient caufe for a fubjedt and
patient, is called the fecond matter. Both of them may be an efficient caufe; for
compounds adt upon one another like the elements, which drive one another back-
wards and forwards. That which drives another is called the agent, as that which
is driven is called the patient ; and if there be any thing which refifts it, and drives
back another, this regrefs of the motion is called re-adtion. So that one and the
fame thing, may be the fubjedt and caufe of motion ; and that to give and receive
being the principle of agent and patient, both may happen at the fame time, but in
divers refpedts.
Efficient caufes, in folid and fluid bodies, we often fee adt in a moft wonderful
manner ; and if they were not vifible to our eyes, we fliould fcarcely believe any of
thefe occult properties exifted in them. Thus, the adtion ofoil, in flopping the vi-
olent ebullition of various fubftances, is truly furprifing. It is well known that if a
mixture of fugar, honey, or the like, be boiling on the fire, and in danger of rifing
over the fides of the veflfel, the pouring in a little oil immediately makes it fubfide.
In many cafes the marking a circle round the infide of a veflfel, in which a liquor of
this
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 19
this kind is to be boiled, with a piece of hard foap, Ihall, like a magic ring, conFne
the ebullition to that height, and not fuffer it to ftir any farther. This is wholly
owing to the oil, or fat, contained in the foap : but there is, befid.es thefe, another very
important ufe of oil, on a like occafion, which is the pouring a little of it on any me-
tallic folution, while making ; this reftrains the afcent of the noxious vapours*, pre-
ferves the operator from danger •, and, at the fame time, by keeping down the evapo-
rating matter, gives redoubled ftrength to the menftruum. Pliny has mentioned an
extraordinary effedt of oil, in (tilling the furface of water when it is agitated with
waves, and the ufe made of it, by the divers, for this purpofe. Omne,
fays he, oleo
tranquillari*&cc. lib. ii. cap. 103. and Plutarch, in Qugeft. Natur. afks, Cur mare oleo
conjperfum perlucidumfit et tranquillum ? t Pliny’s account feems to have been either
difcredited or difregarded by our writers on experimental philofophy, till it was con-
firmed by leveral curious experiments of Dr. Franklin, which were publifhed in the
year 1774. The property of oil above mentioned has, however, been well known to
modern divers and dredgers for oyfters, at Gibraltar, and elfewhere. The divers in
the Mediterranean, in particular, defcend, as in Pliny’s time, with a little oil in their
mouths, which they now and then let out; and which, on rifingto the furface of the
fea, immediately renders it fmooth, fo as to permit the light to pafs through the wa-
ter, undifturbed by various and irregular refraftions. The Bermudans are enabled
to fee and ftrike fifh, which would be concealed from their view, through the
roughnefs of the fea, by pouring a little oil upon it. And the Lifbon fifhermen ef-
fect a fafe paffage over the bar of the Tagus, by emptying a bottle or two of oil in-
to the fea, when the furf is fo great as to endanger its filling their boats. Our failors
have alfo obferved, that the water is always much fmoother in the wake of a (hip that
hath been newly tallowed than it is in one that is foul. Dr. Franklin was led, by
an accidental obfervation made at fea, in 1757, to attend particularly to Pliny’s ac-
count *, and the various informations which he afterwards received relating to it in-
duced him to try fome experiments on the fubjedt. Standing on the windward fide
of a large pond, the furface of which was rendered very rough with the wind, he
poured a tea-fpoonful ofoil on the water. This fmall quantity produced an inftant
calm over a fpace of feveral yards iquare, which fpread amazingly, and extended it-
felf gradually, till it reached the lee fide, making all that quarter of the pond, per-
haps half an acre, as fmooth as a looking-glafs. On repeating this experiment,
which conftantly fucceeded, one circumftance ftruck him with particular furprife ;
this was the fudden, wide, and forcible fpreading of a drop of oil on the face of the
water, which, he adds, “ I do not know that any body has confidered.” When a
drop of oil is put on a looking-glafs, or polifiied marble, it fpreads very little ^ but
2 on
^ ^ l*! CeVCXlC ^ vaiTtifto r z f d
^
t
^7cii 4' r-/ ^ £
t Wliy* xs fli<? Sai madcrtry by <nl in^otF ?
to A KEY TO PHYSIC,
on water Ft inftantly expands into a circle extending feveral feet in diameter, becom-
ing fo thin as to produce the prifmatic colours, for a confiderable fpace, and beyond
them fomuch thinner as to be invifible, except in its effedts of fmoothing the waves
at a much greater diftance. It feems, fays Dr. Franklin, as if a mutual repulfion
between its particles took place as foon as it touched the water, and a repulfion fo
ftrong as to adl on other bodies fwi.mming on the furface, as draws, leaves, &c.
forcing them to recede every way from the drop, as from a center, leaving a large
clear fpace. In endeavouring to account for the fingular effedts of oil. Dr. Frank-
lin obierves, that there feems to be no natural repulfion between water and air, fuch
as to keep them from coming into contadt with each other.—Therefore air, in mo-
tion, which is wind, in paffing over the fmooth furface of water, may rub, as it were,
on that furface, and raifeit into wrinkles, which if the wind continues, are the ele-
ments of future waves. The fmal left wave does not immediately fubfide, but in
fubfiding raifes nearly as much of the water next to it. A fmall power, continually
operating, will produce a great adtion : fo that the firft-raifed waves, being continu-
ally adted upon by the wind, are, though the wind does not increafe in ftrength,
continually increafed in magnitude, rifing higher and extending their bafes, fo as to
include a vaft mafs of water in each wave, which, in its motion, adts with great vio-
lence. But if there be a mutual repulfion between the particles of oil, and no at-
tradtion between oil and water, oil dropt on water will not be held together by ad-
hefion to the fpoton which it falls ; it will not be imbibed by the water ; but be at
liberty to expand itfelf and fpread on a furface, that prevents, perhaps, by repelling
the oil, all immediate contadt > the expanfion will continue till the mutual repulfion
between the particles of oil is weakened, and reduced to nothing by their diftance.
Dr. Franklin imagines, that the wind, blowing over water, thus covered with
a film of oil, cannot eafily catch upon it, fo as to raife the firft wrinkles, but Aides
over it, and leaves it fmooth as it finds it. It moves a little the oil, indeed, which
being between it and the water, ferves it to Aide with, and prevents fridtion : hence
the oil, dropt on the windward fide of the pond, proceeds gradually to leeward, as
may be feen by the fmoothnefs it carries with it quite to the oppofite fide : for the
wind, being thus prevented from raifing the firft wrinkles, which he calls the ele-
ments of waves, cannot produce waves, which are to be made by continually adting
upon and enlarging thofe elements, and thus the whole pond is calmed. Upon the
whole, there is great room to fuppofe fnotwithftanding the partial failure of an ex-
periment made at Portfmouth, by Dr, Frankl'n, and others), that feafaring people
may derive advantages from ufingoil on particular occafions, in order to moderate
the violence of the waves, or to leffen the furf which fometimes renders the landing
on
si
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
on a lee-fhore dangerous or impracticable. To this purpofe we are informed, that
the captain of a Dutch Eaft India fhip, being overtaken by a ftorm, found himfelf
obliged, for greater fafety in wearing the fhip, to pour oil into the fca, to prevent
the waves breaking over her, which had an excellent effedt, and fucceeded in prefer-
ving her. Phil. Tranf. vol. Ixiv. part 2. p. 445, dec. It is alfo obfervable, no
thecoaft of Sutherland, when the lump-fifh abounds in fpring, and are devoured by
the feals, that it may be known by thefmoothnefs of the water above thefpot ; the oil
ferving to Hill the agitation of the waves.
OccafiGwl caufe^
is applied to the foul and body of man, and are only the occafwnst
not the diredt caufes,
of their effedts. The foul is not able to adt on the body ; nor
the body reciprocally on the foul : to keep up an intercourfe between them, God,
onoccafion of a motion of the body, impreflesa fenfation on the foul-, and, onocca-
fion of a fentiment of the foul, imprefies a motion on the body : the motions therefore
of the foul and body, are only occafional caufes of what pafies in the one, or the
other. Thus, we fay, the ftroke, or percuffion, is only the occafional caufe of the
motion produced in the body ftruck ; it is God is the diredt efficient caufe. And
thus the adtion of objedts on our organs is not the efficient caufe of our ideas and
perceptions, but merely the occafional caufe, which determines God to adt on the
mind, according to the laws of the union of foul and body.
In a medicalfenfe, whatever produces a difeafe, is called the caufe thereof. This
operates, either by inducing a new ftate of the folids and fluids, or by taking away
fomething which is abfolutely requilite to the exercife of forae function. If a cauie
pre-exifted in fome meafure in the body before the effedt produced, it is called an
internal caufe but if it exifeed out of the body, and by its application to it produced
the difeafe, it is called external.
Internal caufes generally injure, firft the humours, and then the folid parts
;
whereas the external caufes affcdl the folids, and9
in conlequence of that, the hu-
mours 5 and this holds univerfally, unlefs perhaps in fome few aifeafes produced by
poifon or contagion. The immediate caufe is that which taken altogether immedi-
ately conftitutes the prefent difeafe *, this is always adequate, and Efficient to the
formation of the difeafe, whether Ample or complicated. The prefence of this con-
ftitutes and continues the difeafe: and theabfence of it removes the diforder, being-
very little different from the difeafe itfelf. Theinveftigation therefore of this is ex-
tremely ufeful and very necefiary. The remote caufe is that which changes the body
in fuch a manner, as to difpofe it for the reception of a difeafe upon the acceffion of
another caufe; but it is never adequate or Efficient to produce a difeafe alone; nor
would that other caufe, the acceffion of which is necefiary, be of itfelf Efficient for
No. 2. G
e2 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the produdtion of the difeafe ; but both muft concur. The bufinefs of phyfic there-
fore, is to eradicate both together, which in conjunction conftitute the proximate
or immediate caufe. The remote caufe inherent in the body, is called predifponent,
antecedent, and by the Greeks itQO'ij^ov[Aivri ? and confifts principally in temperaments,
plethora, and cacochymy. The caufe whofe accefllon to the remote caufe excites,
and in conjunction with it forms the difeafe, is called the procatardtic caufe, or the
#?
opa<nf,fbr occafion of the difeafe. It is fometimes internal, fometimes external.
Thefe Boerhaave reduces to four clafles. Firft, the ingefta, or things entering the
body ; fuch as the air, aliments, drink, medicines, poifons, luch things as enter
by the pores of the Hein and noftrils ; by the feveral paffages of the mouth, lungs,
cefophagus, ftomach, inteftines, and pudenda of women, while in a vifible or in-
vifible manner-, whether by fleam, draught, deglutition, clyfter, or injedlion.
Secondly, th egejla, or things adted, as motion of the whole or any part of the body,
affedtions of the mind, reft, both of the body and mind, fleeping and watching.
Thirdly, things retained, or excreted, whether falubrious, fecrementious, or mor-
bid. Fourthly, things applied to the body ; as air, vapours, fomentations, cloths,
liniments, ointments, plafters, together with whatever wounds, contufes, or corrodes 5
all which circumftances fhould be well conftdered by medical men.
Of the FIRST MATTER.
ALL philofophers agree that there is a firft matter, which was produced from the
beginning; and, though it can never undergo any change, yet it is to be feen in all
the generations and corruptions which are in nature. Hence it appears, that the
firft matter exifted before the generation of the compounds wherein it is found, and
that it ftill remains and furvives the corruption of it ; as for inftance in fire which is
made of chips; the matter of the fire was in the chips, and is found partly in the
fire, partly in the fmoke, and partly alfo in the afhes. It is agreed by all, that no-
thing produces nothing, and that there is not any thing in nature that can be redu-
ced into nothing, but that the firft principles remain in all revolutions which can
happen; therefore, in refpedl of matter, wemayjuftly fay, that there is nothing
new in the world fince the creation, and that this matter in its nature is incorrupti-
ble -, fo that to explain theeflenceof this firft matter is the only difficulty.-—Ariftotle
makes it the fubjedt of all forms, and nothing but a pafiive power or a mere capacity
of producing them. He fays alfo, that matter in itfelf hath neither qualitynor quan-
tity, nor any effence befide that which it received from that form which perfected it
but this explication gives us no clear idea of matter, neither doth it teach us any
.’thing of the nature of it. Thofe were nearer the truth who faid that the firft matter
was
J>v<jecliOP3menC(
prectdtnf
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 23
was nothing elfe but the fir ft elements into which compounds by a total diflolution
are reduced •, alfo that thefe elements ought to be fimple and indivifible, for other-
wife the firft elements are not fuch as we fuppofe them to be. It follows, from this
dodtrine, that neither water, air, earth, nor fire, are firft elements, becaufe they are
compounds, therefore we muft look for other elements which are fimple and indivi-
fible. Now it is obvious, that fimple and indivifible atoms are the only firft matter,
and the principle and elements whereof bodies arecompofed : out of thefe atoms are
corpufcles made, out of thefe corpufclesfmall mafles, out of mafTes greater parts, and
of thefe parts greater bodies whereof the univerfe itfelf confifts. And vice verfa, going
backward analytically, the world is divided intogreat bodies, thofe bodies are redu-
ced by mortality and time into parts, parts into fmall mafles, mafles into corpufcles,
and laftly, corpufcles into atoms.
Of ATOMS, and their NATURE.
TO demonftrate the exiftence of atoms,
we muft fuppofe that every compound
may be divided into fo many parts as they are which make the compound ; and di-
vifion muft neceflarily ceafe when there is a failure of parts to be divided. On
the other hand, there is no end of divifion as long as there are particles to be di-
vided •, one of the two we muft allow, that is either that a body cannot be fo exa&ly
divided but that there always remain divifible parts in infinitum, or that there are
parts after a certain number ofdivifions which will not admit any further divifions.
Ariftotle holds the former, but Gaflendus and the ancient philofophers defend the
latter •, and, according to this laft doctrine, after all the divifions are made, nothin^
can remain befides atoms, that is, indivifible beings, which are the firft elements of
natural bodies.
I confefs it is hard to imagine a corporeal thing to be indivifible, becaufe we fee no-
thing in this world which is not divifible; but this makes nothing agafnft atoms which
are corporeal becaufe they compofe bodies, and are indivifible, becaufe they are the
firft and molt fimple elements of bodies. Hence arifes another difficulty, becaufe it
cannot be eafily explained after what manner a thing that is divifible is compofed of
parts which are indivifible. Impartial minds do not find fo much difficulty in concei-
ving this matter, as thofe do who follow the prejudices they have received ; fome
people do not confider, firft, that there are many things which efcape our fenfes, and
yet are moft real •, fecondly, that that which compofes a body is not a compound, as
we fee that unity makes number, though itfelf be not a number ; letters, whereof
nouns and words are framed, yet are neither one or the other ; the drops of water,
whereof rivers confift, are not rivers : fo atoms, though they are invifible and indi-
•
vifible*
$4 A K E ¥ TO P IT Y S I C,
vifible, yet they cotnpofe bodies which are viftble and divifible, They are alfo im-
mutable, in order to the world
s
s continuing in the fame (late, and bodies being of
the fame nature now as formerly.
The PROPERTIES, MAGNITUDE, FIGURE, WEIGHT, and MO-
TION, o? ATOMS.
AN atom is a corporeal being, fimple, invifible, and indivifible* folidity confti-
tutes its effenceor effential property, which diftinguilhes itfromfpirit and vacuity,
which hath no power of refilling, Atoms neceffarily avoid all our fenfes, becaufe
they are compofed of many di(lin£l and grofs parts, whofe objedl ought to be com-
pered ere it can be perceived by the external organ *, this however does not deftroy
the truth and reality of atoms, becaufe fmall corpufcles efcapeourlenfes ; as weob-
ferve in dull, which (licks to our cloaths v in the corpufcles of a (lone which is made
hollow by the drops of water ; in divers occult parts in a mite, which cannot befeen
without the help of a migrofcope j and, laftly, in fmall corpufcles which are feen to
move in a chamber by the fun- beams : we may omit many others that are fmaller,
w hich without doubt we could fee if our fight was more acute.
Though atoms are mod fubde and imperceptible, yet they have their particular
extenfion, magnitude, and figure, from whence their differences arife : for the figure
of fome of them is round, as the atoms of water, oil, and quickfilver •, others have
cubicular figures, fuch as the atoms of fea-water j and others are pyramidal, as thofe
whereof nitre confifts i there are fame which have (harp points like needles, as thofe
of fire ;
whence we have to fuppofethere are others varioufiy figured. This difference
is neceffary to diftinguifti compounds; and as thefe atoms, as to their folidity or in-
vifibilky and indivifibility (which are their infeparabie properties), are alike ; fo
alfo, if they did not differ in their figure and thicknefs, all bodies would be alike.
Weight is the principle of the faid natural motion, in as much as it doth refid a
violent motion. I mention this that we -may know whether motion of atoms hath
an internal or external principle, or whether weight be determined only to one motion
or that it be indifferently inclined to many •, and whether the motion of atoms doth
tend to fome center and whether it be continuant or interrupted ; and, laftly
whether it be perpendicular or horizontal, parallel or declined, right or parabolical
or circular.
In order to folvethis difficulty, I fuppofe that atoms may be confidered in a double
(late ; the firft ft ate is before the compofition of the bodies which are made of them
and may be called the (late of liberty ; the other is that which they have in the bodies
which confiftof them, which may .be termed the (late of obligation or fervitude.
If
AND OCCULT SCIENCES, at
If atoms beconfidered in their firflflate, their motion is perpetual , fo that an atom
that is loofe and freed from any compofition, is effentially in motion, which ought
not in the leaf: to be wondered at ; for motion in refpedt of a free atom is the lame
that underftanding is in refpedl of an angel, which is never without knowing, un-
lefs his intellect be bound and clouded.
From this principle it is evident, that atoms are in continual motion, unlels
they are hindered, or that they meet with fome obflrudion, or that there are other
atoms refilling or repelling them, or that they find fuch as will flick to them, or that
they infinua r
e themfelves into the atoms of certain bodies, or that they enter into
fome compofition whereby their motion is flopped. Neverthelefs, atoms in com-
pounds are not altogether void of motion, becaufe they are not fo flraightly imbodi-
ed together but that they have fome motion, like vibrations and palpitations, ac-
cording to the liberty which is granted them by the diffeminated vacuities ; nay,
fome of them do fometimes attempt their efcape, efpecially in porous bodies, which
therefore fooner corrupt and perifh, than other bodies, which are more folid
and more clofe. It is yet more evident in living bodies, out of which the animal
Spirits, which are but the bodies of atoms, and molt fubtle corpufcles, are diflipated
by tranfpiration, whence aliments are neceffarily requifite to fupply the fpirits of the
•whole body which are diflipated by motion and agitation. This motion of atoms
or the leaft corpufcles in living bodies, may bedefervedly accounted the image of
their firfl liberty, and, though they do but feldom enjoy their full liberty, yet they
are apt to raife the greatefl commotions in order to be freed and to gain their liber-
ty, this istheorigin of many diftempers •, as, in acute fevers, the atoms or corpuf-
cles of the boiling blood, or obflrudted choler, are carried and driven into the brain,
where they produce watchfulnefs, deliriums, and phrenfies. According to this prin-
ciple, that which we faid before may be concluded, That many diftempers arife from
minute corpufcles and emancipated atoms for thefe, being driven forwards by other
atoms, and forced back, run into the membranes, perioftium,
meninges, or intef-
tines, and caufe the cholic, headach, gout, and rheumatifm; fo that this folution
of corpufcles and emancipation of atoms in our bodies are much to be dreaded ; and
to prevent their danger, all motions of the body which are too violent muft be
avoided •,
for thefe are the external caufe of the confufion of the fpirits and the
emancipation of the atoms.
The emancipation of the atoms, and alfo of the fmall corpufcles which are corn-
pofedof thole atoms, are to be feen no lefs in the great world, than in the little ;
forthe winds are nothing elfe than emancipated atoms, which, by their impetuoh-
ty, being driven backwards and forwards, force all bodies that Hand in their way ;
No. 2. H Jt
*
2 6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
it is thefe atoms which agitate the air, and overturn all things which refill their mo-
tion ; therefore the motion of atoms is not equal, nor every where alike, but varies
according to the diverfity of bodies whereby they are driven, or as the figures of
them are more or lefs fitted for motion, or otherwife, according to the proportion
of vacuities which are difperfed in bodies ; fo that fome atoms are moved quicker,
and others flower, not becaufe fome are heavier than others, but becaufe they are
driven backwards or forwards, or are flopped, by others, which happen to fix
them with greater or lefs violence.
An atom is not a body according to the notion we have, that it is a compound
being; but a fimple being, and alfo corporeal ; that is, fimple, becaufe it is indivifi-
ble ; and corporeal, becaufe it hath a certain extenfion, and makes up the compofi-
tion of bodies, which in the total divifion of them are reduced again into atoms.
Two other difficulties arife from the former opinion : for, if an atom be indivifi-
ble, after what manner can we propofe to ourfelves that it hath extenfion, or how
can it be an ingredient in thecompofition of divifible bodies ? To this we anfwer,
in few words, that extenfion is according to the nature of the thing extended •, for,
if the thing extended be divifible, in the fame manner is the extenfion; and fo, on
the other fide, it is of the rational foul, which is pofTefled of the whole body, and ex-
erciies its operations in all the parts of it; neverthelefs, it is, like an atom, indivisi-
ble; and, though it be divifible in refpeftof the fpace it occupies, yet it hath an in-
ternal extenfion which is indivifible ; it is the fame thing which divines are forced to
fay of angels, and fome philofophers about their phyfical tumid points. But fome
will fay, that atoms are neither like fouls, angels, nor phyfical points, becaufe they
have parts, and thefe have none-, and fince that which confifls of parts is divifible, it
follows alfo that an atom is divifible. To this difficulty I anfwer, with the divines,
that angels and our fouls, which are Spirits—and alfo, with philofophers, that phy-
fical points which are material— have no real but only potential parts ; that is, an
angel and rational foul in refpedt of the operations which they exercifeand the fpace
which they occupy ; and the tumid points in refpedt of the fpace which they fill up.
Indeed an angel and the foul have two powers whereof the one is the intellect, the
other the will, which, being only an indivifible fubftance, capable of underftanding
and willing, yet no man will deny but they, notwithflanding their indivisibility
(which at lead is equal to the indivisibility of an atom), do fill up a divifible fpace ;
as no man can doubt but that an angel can be at the fame time in the four corners
of the room and in the middle of it, and that it hath a four-fquare figure by com-
munication of the four angles or corners, and that it can quit this and affume another
figure at its pleafure ;
which cannot be faid of tumid points and atoms, which are
deftitute
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 27
deftituteof underftanding and will. The rational foul being equally indivisible
with an atom, angel, or point, doth wholly pofiefs a great body, no lefs than it did
when the body was little; therefore it dilates itfelf without being divided, becaufe
in its nature it is fimple and indivifible, and is without diftinft parts. This is the
opinion of Ariftotle, and indeed it is the mod common opinion. But if the foul
were not by its own fubftance extended through the whole body, and had its feat on-
ly in the heart, as Empedocles would have it; or in the fpleen and the ftomach, as
Van Helmont places it ; or in the glandula pinealis of the brain, according to Cartefi-
us ;
or in the Jlriate bodies of the brain where the common fenfe is, or the fenfe it-
felf, as it is called by way of excellency ; and in the callous parts, becaufe there it
forms the ideas of things and judges of them ; and in the cineritious part of the
brain, becaufethere it performs the funftions of the memory, according to the opin-
ion of Duncane ; it is certain that all thefe parts, which are taken to be the feat of
the foul, are divifible, and that they have diftinft parts and figures fo the foul,
as it is indivifible, occupies a fpaceor place which is divifible ; whence I conclude
that indivifibility does not hinder but that a fubftance may have a certain indivi-
fible extenfion, but divifible as to theplace which it poflfefies, or that it may have an-
gles and figure in refpeftof place, though its fubftance eflentially remain one, fim-
ple, and indivifible.
Hence it follows that there is one catholic or univerfal matter, called corpuf-
cles or atoms, filling all fpace, which is an extended, impenetrable, and divifible
fubftance, common to all bodies, and capable of all forms ; infinitely harder than any
of the fenfible porous bodies compounded of them ; even fo hard, as never to wear,
or break in pieces ; no other power being able to divide what God made one in the
firft creation. While thefe corpufcles remain entire, they may compofe bodies of
one and the fame nature and texture in all ages ; but fhould they wear away, or
break in pieces, the nature of things depending on them would be changed. Wa-
ter and earth, compofed of old worn particles, and fragments of particles, would not
be of the fame nature and texture now, with water and earth compofed of entire par-
ticles at the beginning ; and therefore, that nature may be lafting, the changes of
corporeal things are only to be placed in the various reparations and new afibciations
of thefe permanent corpufcles. That in order to form the vaft variety of natural
bodies, this matter muft have motion in all its affignable parts, and aft in all man-
ner of direftions and tendencies. Thefe corpufcles have therefore not only a vis
inertie,
accompanied with fuch pafiive laws of motion as naturally refult from that
force; but alfo are moved by certain aftive principles, fuch as that of gravity, and
that which caufes fermentation, and the cohefion and fympathy of bodies. That
this
2$ A KEY TO PHYSIC,
this matter muft alfo be actually divided into parts, and each of thefe primitive par-
ticles, fragments, or atoms of matter, mufc have their proper magnitude, figure,
.and fhape *, and muft have different orders, poficions, fituations, and poftures,
from whence all the varieties of compound bodies arife. This view of the firft prin-
ciples of matter, accounts for an infinity of phenomena, otherwife inexplicable, and
points out all the occult operations in nature, by fympathy, antipathy, fafcination,
eohefion, coagulation, diffolution, &c. for fince thefe corpufcles are every where
and at ail times in motion, ifluing from and cohering to all bodies that fall in their
way-, and fince they are operated upon and diverfly altered by the four elements
proper to this world ; and thefe elements again by rays of light, heat, and influx of
the anima mundi, and celeftial bodies, all the viciffitudes of nature are deduced
from them ; and, according to the qualities and temperature of the matter fo-formed,
and of thofe they come in contadt with, are the affedtions of the mind, the fundtions
of the body, the paffion of love, and a thoufand inexplicable circumftances attendant
on human affairs, regulated and governed ; as we fhall now proceed tofhew.
Of SYMPATHY and ANTIPATHY in NATURAL BODIES.
THE wonderful effedts we lee in nature, whofe true and efficient caufes are not
cafily found out, obliged philofophers heretofore to have recourfe to occult caufes,
and to attribute all thofe effedts to natural fimpathy and antipathy, which happen
amongft the feveral bodies whereof the world is compounded.
That we may the better underftand what may be faid upon a fubjedt fo nice and
delicate, and give a reafon for thofe wonderful effedts which are attributed to fympa-
thy and antipathy, in the firft place we muft iuppofe that the difficulty which oc-
curs in explaining an effect of this nature, is becaufe the mind is not able to know
the truth of things but by the fenfes, which are^he gates through which the objedts
enter and form their ideas in our undemanding ; but, becauie there are an abun-
dance of things that efcape our fenfes, it is no wonder that it is fo hard to give a
reafon for thofe caufes which are fo remote from our view : as for example, iron
moves itfelf, and that by way of local motion, and joins itfelf to the loadftone we
do not fee that which draws the iron to it, though we fee itattradfed j and therefore,
that we may give a folid reafon for this and other phenonema of the like nature, we
declare according to our philofophy, that there are no bodies but what continually
emit certain fubtle particles and imperceptible corpufcles which are difperfed through
the air, and are at fome times carried to a great diftance, unlefs.they arefurroundedby
other bodies in their way. By this principle we find the reafon why a dog follows
2 the
JVH3
:y
y H
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 29
the footflep of the hare, or from a heap of a thoufand ftones he readily knows the
{lone his matter threw, and picks it out, and by his command brings it to him ;
from this difperfion of corpufcles, we find the reafon how the contagion of the plague,
either from the perfon infeded, or from the wind blowing from that region, is carried
a great way off ; by this appears the reafon why wounds may be cured at a hundred
miles diftance by means of the fympathetic powder, the aftonifhing properties of
which arefully defcribed in my llluftration of the Occult Sciences ; fo likewife of the
fermentation of Canary wine brought into England, which ferments here at the fame
time of the vintage there.
We mutt; fuppofe, farther, that thefe fmall corpufcles differ in figure and magni-
tude, and are not equally received by this or that body •, fo one man is infected by
the plague in the fame place where many others efcape ; for the fame reafon the
beams of the fun melt wax, and not lead ; unlefs they are collected and united by
the help of a burning lens, or the like ; and the heat of fire melts metals in a very
different manner.
Again, the palm-tree of the male kind is barren unlefs the female be planted near
it ; and, if feparated by a river, they lean to each other as if they would embrace •,
if you tlrike the firing of a lute in one corner of a room, it fhall caufe the firing of
another lute, tuned to the fame height, and placed in an oppofite corner, to give
a found ;
the cock always crows and claps his wings in the fame moment the fun
afcends the horizon. All effeds which we fee from fympathy, afford us matter
of admiration but the loadflone demonftrates the affinity of corpufcles more palpa-
bly to our fenfesthan moft other experiments. The loadflone is found in iron mines,
and is not much different from the nature of iron •, wherefore the particles which
proceed from the loadflone have a kind of agreement with the pores of iron; and
thefefmall corpufcles, going out of the loadflone, and meeting with the iron in the way,
rufh into the pores of it ;
but, becaufe all cannot enter at once, a great many remain
without, and thefe are as flrongly beaten back by the particles of the iron which they
meet with, as if they were of the numberof thofe corpufcles, which, beingat liberty,
return of their own accord, and at length fend thefe by a refledive motion to the
loadflone, from whence they firfl came. Hence it is that the iron is drawn towards
the loadflone, principally by the agitation of thofe minute magnetic corpufcles moved
in the concavities of the iron ; and being ffiaken together by the fundry motion of
thofe corpufcles which are twilled one within another, thofe corpufcles which return
by refledion are complicated and annexed to thofe which are m the pores of the
iron, and cannot be returned or moved towards the loadflone, unlefs they draw along ;
with them thofe corpufcles to which they are annexed, and which cannot follow.
No. 3. I unlefs
jo A KEY TO PHYSIC,
%
unlefs by their motion the iron be carried with them ; fo the iron follows and is mo-
ved toward the loadftone, except the iron be bigger than the loadftone; for then
thecorpufcles which proceed from the loadftone are not fo many, nor by confequence
fo powerful, as to draw the iron. The reafon the loadftone draws no other body but
iron, is becaufe other bodies do not return the atoms, neither are their pores well
fitted for thofe magnetic corpufcles. By the fame reafon it appears that the load-
ftone does not approach to the iron, but the iron to the loadftone. It may be
faid that hard and folid bodies, fuch as iron, cannot emit fuch a great number of cor-
pufcles as other bodies, which, like the loadftone, are lefs folid and more porous.
There may be a reafon given alfo why the loadftone, being rubbed with garlic or oil,
does not fo eafdy draw iron to it, which is, that thefe ftrange corpufcles, by their
oilinefs, hinder the emifiion of the corpufcles out of the loadftone, and alfo their en-
trance into thl? pores of the iron, and thus break their elaftic force.
We may obferve many other effects of the loadftone : as for example, that iron put
upon a table is moved by the virtue of this ftone placed under the table ; for it is
certain that the corpufcles of the loadftone which moves the iron penetrate through
the vacuity or pores of the table, as if by fmall and invifible threads it had been
tied to the loadftone. It is the fame thing if the table be of marble or glafs, provided
it be not greafy nor too thick, which proves the porofity of bodies. Another effed
of the loadftone is feen in a needle, which, being touched by it, always turns towards
the north pole; the reafon is, becaufe there are mountains ofloadftones under the poles,
difperfing their attractive fpirits through the univerfe, fpirits which are entangled
with thofe which adhere to the magnetical needle, whofe force is leffened as the
fpirits of it are diffipated ; efpecially if thecompafs be fet in a place where there are
pieces of iron to which the fpirits ftick, and leave the needle, which had taken no
greater quantity of them than what was requifite according to its capacity. But the
moil wonderful property in this ftone is, that it draws iron on one fide, and rejeds it
on the other, fo thatit appears in every loadftone that there are two polesof the world,
the north pole attrads iron, the fouth pole repels it ;
becaufe the fpirit of the north
pole enters in at the pores of the iron, but the fouthern cannot, for it ftrikes againft the
iron, and drives back too much its elaftic particles. This explication prefuppofes the
being of fpirits and atoms, and their figures and motions, as alfo fmall occult vacui-
ties, which are difperfed through all bodies.
There are obferved to be many effeds for which no reafon can be given, without
the help of the word antipathy. We will inftance fome few : and, firft, of the ba-
filifk, who kills all whom he fees, which is by the antipathy fubfifting betwixt it
and other animals ; but this is rather done by the emiffion of certain venomous fpirits,
which
(
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 3 ,
which penetrate the eyes of thofe feen by the bafilifk ; the nature of this poifon
cannot be explained, unlefs we know the occult property of poifon, becaufe poifon
killsonly by a contrariety betwixt us and it; whence we difcover the principle of this
contrariety of the bafilifk, that the fpirits. iffuing out of the pores of its eyes kill thofe
animals which they meet with, becaufe the fpirits penetrate them by their fubtilty,
orfharp figure, like needles piercing the heart. The poifon of vipers, and fuch like,
is not fo acute nor fo deadly, nor fo ready in its effects, as that of the bafilifk. In
reference to this matter, there are many things that are worth confidering. In the
firfl place, it is certain that the bafilifk is not engendered but in moift, deep, and dry
places, as in the bottom of pits where there is nothing but muddy, thick, (link-
ing, water. In the fecond place, it is to be obferved, that, if you take a glafs, and
hold it againfl the bafilifk’s eyes, thofe fpirits which ififue from his eyes reflecting up-
on the glafs are lent back from whence they came, and will kill the bafilisk : now
it cannot be faid that the bafilifk hates itfelf; but that the venomous fpirits, re-
flecting from the glafs, receive a more violent motion, and forcibly drive back the
other fpirits which are iffuing from his eyes, fo that they penetrate his brain and
heart, and thence occafion his death ; in the fa me manner as vapours often arife
with fo great violence from the hypocondria, the mefentery, and the ftomach, into
the head, that they caufe an apoplexy, epileptic dizzinefs, or lethargy ; and fome-
times they are carried with fuch fubtilty and violence into the heart, that the perfons
fo affliCled die fuddenly.
Aflrange antipathy fubfifts in fome vegetables, as between the colewort and the
vine, which, if planted near together, will infenfibly give back and lean fideways,
as if they really hated one another. This effeCl cannot be afcribed to any thing but
the emifflon of the corpufcles and material fpirits of both of them, which rufh up-
on one another, and mutually repel, by the irregularity of their figures. This is ap-
parent in the juice of coleworts, which if taken by a man when he is drunk, he pre-
fently comes to himfelfand is fober j becaufe the corpufcles of the juice of coleworts
blunt the corpufcles of the juice of the vine. In the fame manner, we find by expe-
rience, that fpirit of opium or laudanum cures the cholic, head-ach, tooth-ach, and
other kinds of pains it alfo cures the phrenfy, and procures deep. But there is
need of the greatefl care in ufing thefe narcotic medicines, becaufe it often happens
that the vital fpirits are fo flupified by them, that they are deprived of their motion,
which caufes a deadly fleep. The colewort and the vine have not fo powerful an
effe6l on each other, as narcotic medicines have on the animal fpirits ; for neither the
vine nor the colewort will lean fideways if there be cloth or paper fet betwixt them,
becaufe the corpufcles flowing from each are then flopped in their way.
A third
$2 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
A third effeit, which is afcribed to antipathy, is obferved in the ufe of medicines,
as well internal as external •, the external, of which we now fpeak, are thole we carry
about us, which by their quality take away the malign air, and prefcrve us from the
plague and other contagions, as prepared quickfilver, or a toad dried and fhut up
in a box ; this phenomenon is afcribed to the peftiferous fpirits or corpufcles, which,
approaching towards us, find fubjeils more apt for their reception, and fix in them,
but not in us, at leaft in fuch a quantity as to hurt us; which molt evidently ap-
pears in this, that the prepared quickfilver, or the toad, being once filled with
thefe contagious atoms, become ufeleis, and ought to be changed and renewed ; and
I know by experience that quickfilver, prepared white and fhining like an adamant,
or polifhed filver, being carried about a perfon who is frequently with fick people,
in time becomes black, fo that afterwards it ufelefs to him who carries it, becaule
there are nofmall vacuities left to retain the airy poifons ; but it may be renewed by
another preparation, whereby it may be made as white, tranfparent, and ufeful, as
before. Quickfilver turns black more or lefs, fooner or later, according to the
proportion of the greater or lefs malignity in the air, where the perfon goes, who
carries it about him •, and thefe antidotes can never hurt, nay, if rightly prepared ,
they not only withftand the contagious air, when they hinder its nearer approach
towards us, but alfo fupprefs inward vapours, which, alcending into the head,
occafion many diftempers. Thefe confequences, properly lpeaking, are the joint
effcils of fympathy and antipathy ailing together!-, for the animal effluvia or corpuf-
cles ififuing from our bodies, repel as much as poffible the malignity of the ambient
matter, by antipathy ; whilfl bodies compofed of poilonous or noxious particles,
draw to themfelves, by fympathy, the foul or poifonous atoms which furround them,
juft the fame as the loadftone draws iron. In this we fee, and fhall hereafter prove,
that amulets or charms, worn about the body; that eledlricity, animal magnetifm,
and other occult properties, ailing upon our bodies, though attributed to witch-
craft, or fome inexplicable caufe, are nothing more than the natural effcils of
fympathy and antipathy, pre-ordained at the beginning of all things. Aromatic
herbs, and fweet fuelling flowers, ufed againft infectious air, ait by repulfion, or
antipathy ; whereas nightlhade, hemlock, and all poifonous herbs ail by fympathy,
drawing into their pores the infeilious atoms, juft the fame as horle-raddifh draws
in vinegar ; and hence it follows that both thefe claflfes of plants are ufeful in pre-
ferving the animal juices from infeilion.
I now proceed to effects internal. Rhubarb, and the leaves of fenna, purge
melancholy ; jalap and diagridium, phlegm and wateriffl humours. It is a conftant
and certain truththat every purgative medicine comprehends in it certain fpirits
2 or
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 33
or corpufcles which are venomous, that is, acute, pungent, and biting ; fo that,
nature being ftirred up by them, and thereby the internal parts and membranes be-
ing touched and agitated, the animal fpirits rufh together in order to affift the part
affected, and draw with them the foreign humours which are lefs fixed ; and then
nature, by the help of thefe fpirits, expels them by their proper paffages : fo that af-
ter a purgation by rhubarb, the urine is yellow, but, after fenna or caffia, it is dark
and high coloured.
Thus fympathy and antipathy exift in all fubftances, whether animal, vegetable,
or mineral-, and things of one clafs have affinity or correfpondence with things of
another clafs, or contrariwife, according to the nature and quality of the atoms or
corpufcles whereof they are formed. Hence it is that fo ftrong a fympathy exifts be-
tween rue and the fig-tree ; and that the elm rejoiceth to cohabit with the vine; and
hence it is likewife that ferpents preferve their fight by fennel; and that the hind
draws out the piercing dart with dittany, or garden ginger. Hence :lfo by antipathy
water and oil, and wine and the juice of hemlock, repel each other ; as does the
vine and brafic plants, for the vine, which ufually entwines round everything it is
near, ffuns and inclines another way from thefe. Rue, and the afh-tree, are fo
inimical to ferpents, that they cannot exift under their branches ; and the herb poly-
pody is fo obnoxious to crabs, that if they are covered over with its leaves, they will
in a ihort time caft off their fhell and claws.
From an'inveftigation of thefe properties in nature, medicine, and the art of hea-
ling, was fir ft difcovered. All things temperate in quality, concord fympathetical-
ly with our bodies, as fweet marjoram and nutmeg to the head, and wormwood to
the belly. Thofe wdiich exceed this medium in their temperaments, are noxious
and hurtful ; and are the more dangerous or deadly, in proportion as they recede
from the temperate quality, which we perceive in opium, arfenic, and the like.
From this caufe we likewife find that fympathy and fimiJitude are fynonimous, and
that all fubftances which have refemblance by fignature, have fympathy and agree-
ment by nature, and lerve for the conlervation of each other. Thus fiilphur is found
to preferve wine, which hath great analogy with our blood ; and if wood, or cables,
or any thing whofe ufe is in the water, be done over with a preparation of the oil
of fulphur, they will be preferved, in a molt fingular and remarkable manner,
from injury or decay. From hence Paraceifus concludes, that the particles of ful-
phur are of themfelves a balfam, fufficient to prevent wine, or any inanimate fub-
ftance from putrefadion ; and fo confer ves the body, that no adverfe qualities can
prejudice or affed it. Querintius in his Pharmacy, affures us, that fulphur rightly
prepared is the true balfam of the lungs, and the principal ingredient ufed by the
No. 3. K ancient
34
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ancient Egyptians to embalm their mammies, or bodies of their deceafed nobles,
whereby they are preferved even to this day from putrefaction, as maybe feen in the
Bfitifh Mufeum, at Rackftrow’s, and in mcft other magazins of curiofities. Sul-
phur is certainly the efficient cauie of all mineral fprings ; of all cryftallizations, Hones,
pebbles, Sec. by which they concrete, and are held together, as is evident from lin-
king them again it Heel, the fparks of fire produced being the fulphurous or inflam-
mable part. All volcanos, burningmountains, and fubterraneous fires, are occafioned
by fulphur ; as are likewife earthquakes, thunder and lightning, meteors, &c. The
active properties of fulphur are indeed wonderful ; and were I to inltance many that
I have difeovered in the various chemical preparations I have made of it, few of my
readers would be difpofed to give me credit. For ten fucceffive years I applied my-
ielf to the daily toil of making chemical experiments ; and there is fcarcely an herb,
or a mineral fubftance to be found, that I have not pafifed through the retort, or the
crucible, in order to afeertain their native qualities, and power of adtion, previous to
the invention of my Solar and Lunar Tindtures ; and I muftconfefs that the occult
properties of fulphur coft me more labour to fix, to inveftigate, and to afartain,
than all things elfe together, except mercury. And I do in confequence affirm, that
there are no mineral fubftances in the bowels of the earth, whofe virtues are not
communicated to plants and herbs, growing on the earth’s furface •, and that the
correfpondent virtues found in thefe herbs, are infinitely more pure, innocent, bal-
famic, nutritive, and better adapted to medicine, than any grofs or earthy particles
whatever. Even from the common herb borage, we can extradt nitre, fea fait,
tartarum vitriolatum, and the common fixed alkali ; and it is no trivial informa-
tion to the medical world, to know, that the three mineral acids are all to be found
in one humblepiant. Indeed vegetables appear tobethe medium contrivedby an all-
wife and omnipotent Creator, for feledting, concodting, and combining, the me-
dical and occult virtues of the different fubftances found in the bowels of the earth,
and for adapting their virtues by an eafy and natural concodtion to the alleviation of
human infirmities; according to that paffage in fenpture which fays, that the Lord
hath caufed medicine to grow out of the earth,
and he that is wife will not abhor them, for
withfuch doth he heal men,
and taketh away their pains. Eccl. xxxviii. 4, 7. Whence
I conclude, that all diforders, incident to mankind, are to be cured, preferably,
and more elegantly, more fafely, and certainly, by preparations from medical plants
and herbs, than from any mineral fubftances whatever ; and that mercury, for the
lues venerea, for the fcrophula, and impurities of the blood, ought to be wholly ex-
punged from our pradtice. Its baneful effedts are every day more or lefs experien-
ced, in the rotten bones, and ruined conftitucions of thofe, who have habitually
taken
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 35
taken it in advertifed noftrums, for a certain complaint, until it has fixed itfelf,
and the difeafe likewife, fo ftrongly in the habit, as to be almoft beyond the reach
of a proper remedy, which in reality and truth can only be found in the vegetable
world.
Vegetables bear relation to the feven planets, and have form and affinity with the
microcofm, or parts of man-, and conftitute the original aliment intended by the
Creator for the fuftenance of our bodies. And whatever fignature or fimilitude a
plant has with any member or part of our body, it will promote a cure in that
part, and tends fympathetically to its comfort and prefervation. For example, thofe
herbs which in any refpeft refemble the form of the eyes, are falubrious and heal-
ing to the eyes, as eyebright, fcabius, marigold, chamelion, fempervivum, nar-
dum, and ftar-wort. So plants which refemble the head, are cephalic, and help the
diforders and infirmities thereof ;
the walnut refembles the brain : fo that if the oil
or fpirit of the nut be applied to the head, it (Lengthens the fibres, and comforts the
brain. Maiden hair and the mofs of quinces have the figure of the hair of our head^
and a decoftion of thefe herbs, in reftoring hair loft by the lues venerea, is wonderful-
ly efficacious. So plants, which in root, leaves, or fruit, refemble the figure of the
heart, have a power of comforting and fuftaining the heart -,
as the citron-apple,
fuller’s-thiftle, fpikenard, mint, balm, white-beet, trefoil, and mother-wort. Herbs
which refemble the lungs, promote refpiration, and (Lengthen the lungs, as hounds-
tongue, lung-wort, fage, camphorey, wall-wort, &c. Plants which refemble the
ears, conduce much to the relief of all diforders of the ears, as fools-foot, or wild
fpikenard, which are a fpecific for deafnefs and fo an oil, extracted from the
(hell of fea-fnails, which refembles the ear, has been found of wonderful efficacy in
reftoring the faculty of hearing, even after feveral years deafnefs. The lenfe of
fmelling is greatly promoted by the application of thofe herbs which refemble the
nofe, as water-mint, &c. So plants that bear refemblance with the womb, conduce
much to (Lengthen and comfort the fame, to purge the uterus, and promote fecun-
dity, as the round birth-wort, briony, ladies-feal, heart- wort, fatyrium, and man-
drakes, which hath round and hollow roots. Plants which bear fimilitude with the
gall and bladder, contribute to the benefit of thofe parts, by breaking the (lone,
(Lengthening the urinary paffages, and bringing away the gravel ; as particularly
pointed out in my edition of Culpeper’s Herbal. So likewife herbs and roots
which bear affinity with the generative parts, contribute much to their virility,
(Length, and vigour ; as truffles, potatoes, and the capfula of the cafhew-tree,
which having fimilitude with the tefticles, wonderfully ftir up and promote the fe-
men ; as does the parfnip, the root of rag-wort, and the mangel-wurzel,
or root of
fcarcity.
s6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fcarcity, contribute much to ftimulate the virile member. Herbs having forma-
tion like the milt, nourifh and preferve the fame, fuch as fpleen-worr, milt-wort,
lupines, and ivy. Plants which in leaves or roots bear fignature with the liver, do
wonderfully concur to promote a good digeftion and concaftion of the blood, to
prevent the liver from decay, and to heal and cure all infirmities thereof ; fuch vir-
tue has the herb trinity, agaric, liver-wort, fumitory, lent-figs, &c. Plerbs and
feeds refembling the teeth, confer much to the good and prefer vation of them ; as
tooth-wort, the pine- kernel, and feeds of hemlock. Thole plants which have re-
fembTance with the knuckles and joints of the body, are wonderfully efficacious
again ft the gout, white-fwelling, and all pains whatfoever in thejoints, fuch as ga-
lingal, and knotty odoriferous ruffies, &c. Plants and herbs expreffing a natural
fatnefs or oilinefs, encreafe corpulency, or fatnefs of the body, as all pulfe, almonds,
and kernels of every kind •, and, by the fame rule, thofe vegetables which have a
lean and fpare defignation, macerate and reduce the body, fuch as farfaparilla, long,
leafed rofa-folis, &c. Plants nervofus fupple and fortify the nerves and finews, as
fennel, flax, hemp, the nettle, the herb neuras, and the root of mallows. Vegeta-
bles pofiTeffing a milky j uice, propagate milk in all female animals ; and thofe pof-
feffing a ferous quality, purge the noxious humours between the fleffi and fkin, as
fpurrage, fcammony, and the like. ' Plants that are hollow, as the ftalks of corn,
reeds, leeks, mallows, hollyocks, garlic, and buglofs, are Angularly good to purge,
open, and comfort the porous and hollow organs of the body. St. John’s-wort, ha-
ving its leaves perforated, is fanative to wounds ; and palma Chrifti, having in its
root a flrong refemblance of the hands and fingers, is remarkably healing to all cuts,
burns, fcalds, and injuries thereof.
There is another fimilitude found between fome vegetables, and the brute fpecies,
which diretfl us to a very curious occult virtue, in curing hurts or injuries received
from thofe creatures they bear affinity with. Thus, the herb dragon, which in form
refembles a fnake, and the bramble called Chrifl’s-thorn, having its thorns fet like
the teeth of ferpents, are an abfolute cure for the bite of thofe animals. Ragwort,
which is like a bee, is the beft cure for the fling of bees. Fleabane, which grows
as if covered with vermin, caufeth all fleas to avoid the room. Scorpion-grafs,
dart-wort, and the flowers of turnfoil, having fimilitude with the tail of a fcorpion,
have furprifing efficacy in curing hurts by all venomous creatures.
The properties and virtues of plants are alfo known by the analogy oftheir form ;
thofe of the fame or like figure having the fame or like virtues and ufes. Thus the
umbelliferous tribe have all a carminative tafle and fmell, and confequently pow-
erful expellers of wind , and good in all flatulent diforders. The galeate or verticil-
late
3?
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
late kind are all of them a degree warmer, and more potent, and therefore may be
reputed aromatic, and proper for nervous diforders. The tetrapetalous kind are
hot and biting, and exert their power by means of a diuretic volatile fait, with
which they abound, and are therefore good in chronical difeafes, obftrudtions, ca-
cochymias, &c.
The colour of plants and herbs likewife bear fimilitude or fympathy, and du
redt us to a knowledge of their temperature and ufe ; thofe of a light colour, fuch
as briony and water-lily, are profitable for the cure of phlegmatic difeafes. Thofe
of a yellow afpedt, purge choler, and remove obftrudions occafioned thereby, as
is the effedt of rhubarb, celandine. Sec. Thofe of a fanguine hue, purify the
blood and juices, and contribute greatly to a good complexion, as the root of
fernbrake, agrimony, germander, and forrel. And this rule is to be obferved
with refped to plants in general, that fo many diftind colours as it hath com-
mixed, lo many virtues will it poflefs-, and whatever difeafe it bears analogy or
fympathy with, that difeafe it will cure. The flower of the water-lily, bearing
the fignature of a drop of water, is a prefervative againft the apoplexy. The
root of fafifafras, and the {tones of cherries, are good againft the {tone and gravel
in the bladder and kidneys. The feeds of marigolds, have refemblance with the
canker, and are a certain cure for that complaint. All plants of a glutinous na-
ture, having their {talks fignated with cuts and ftabs, are fanative to cuts, fears,
and wounds. The root of galengal growing in marfhy grounds, and taken up
in May or June, and worn as an amulet againft the belly, will perform moft
aftonifhing cures in the dyfentery and flux •, it has a ftrong refemblance of the na-
tural excrements, both in figure and colour. All the excrefcences of trees
arifing above the branches, are good againft excrefcences of the arteries. The
ftrawberry, very much refembles puftules of the leprofy ; and the diftilled water
of ftrawberries is a moft admirable cure for that complaint, as well as for red and
pimpled faces.
We may further remark, that the more fignatures or fimilitudes are found
cohering in a plant to one and the fame fignification, fo much the more powerful
and efficacious will its operation be, in any of the purpofes for which it is applied ;
for the fpirit is in quality the fame in all bodies, but different in quantity, which
conftitutes that variety or difference rerceivable by our fenfes. In fome bodies,
this fpirit is more copious and adtive •, in others, more fparing and debilitated-, fo
that, by how much the more the fame fpirit produces a convenient form and figure,
in divers things or fubjedts under the fame climate, by fo much the more the fame
fubjefts are enabled to fympathize with, and affift, each other. For fympathy is
No. 3. L by
3 S A KEY TO PHYSIC,
by the fpirit ; and fimilitude points out the things that adt by fympathy. Hence
it is that fimilitude of affedtion encreafes ftrength, and the contrary, hatred. So
it is that plants whofe parts referable the fcorpion, as libards-bane, hellebore, and
aconitum, will cure the bite of that reptile •, and that the flowers of plants, having
the refemblance of butterflies, conduce to fruitfulnefs and virility, as gandergoofe,
the flower of beans, woodbine, and rag-wort. Plants fpotted like ferpents, as cow-
garlic, wake-robin, dragons-wort, fea-dragon, &c. are fanative againft the bite cf
ferpents •, and plants, which refemble the head of fuch animals, are alfo good againft
their poifon ; as the flowers of wild buglofs, which refemble the head of a viper,
Diofcorides affirms to be a certain cure.
The virtues of plants and herbs, are however, variable, and liable to be injur-
ed by change of climate, which will alter or deftroy them, as we fee in many of the
medical plants of other countries, brought into England •, which, though they feem
to fiourifh with us, never poffefs their virtues in the fame excellent degree as in
their own climate, which is the reafon that Culpeper recommends Engliffi herbs
for an Englifh conftitution. The bodies of different animals alfo render the effedt
of the fame plant different ; the tithymals or fpurges, being all very violent cathar-
tics when taken by us •, but yet, they are eaten by goats, and feveral other animals,
without any purgative effedt, and feem to give them a particular fhare of vigour
and fpirits. Fifties, on the contrary, are more ftrongly affedted by them, than we
are •, for the juice of fpurge, made into a pafte with flower and honey, will fo much
intoxicate them, that they may betaken out of the water with one’s hand. Again,
bitter almonds are of no ill confequence to us, yet they kill all forts of birds that
touch them.
The foregoing notions may be ridiculed, from their extreme fimplicity ; yet where
is the man, at all converfant with natural philofophy and phyftc, and poffeffed of
an impartial mind, that will dare to controvert thefe fadts ? Every wayfaring man
knows fomething of the herbs I have mentioned, and is capable ofjudging of their
fimilitude and fympathy. Let him apply them for the purpofes I have pointed out,
and their occult properties will foon be vifible to his fenfes. The track of nature
is a plain and obvious road, abounding with molt pleafing profpedts, and the fureft
guides. God, in the plenitude of his omnifcience and mercy, feems to have fet a
mark on the minuteft particles of his creation, for man’s information and benefit
in the contemplation of which, our happinefs, as well as our health, will invaria-
bly be found.
Of
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 39
Of the OCCULT PROPERTIES of GENERATION
in PLANTS and PI E R B S.
ALL plants are produced from feeds, as all animals are produced from eggs,
and the procefs of nature is very fimilar in both kinds of generation. The fmalleft
vegetables have feeds, though often not difcoverable by the naked eye. Miftletoe is
alfo known to be produced from feed-, and the fefiile a.^d Hat fungufes, which
fome confider as morbid excrefcences, are true fpecies of thofe agarics, which are
furnifhed with caps and ftems, and grow on the ground, whofe feeds falling on a
moift tree, produce, as it were, half caps without ftems. Beftdes, that feeds are
the eggs of plants, appears from hence, that as every egg produces an offspring
fimilar to the parent, fo do alfo the feeds of vegetables, and, therefore, 'they alfo
are eggs. A feed refembles the egg of an hen as this, as well as the egg, has a
(hell, external membrane or film, a membrane including the yolk, the yolk itfelf,
and the fear or point of life. In feeds, the white is wanting, becaufe the moifture
of the earth fupplics its place, and nourifhes the embryo of the plant. When the
flower is going off, the feed begins to fwell, and on the outfide there is feen a ve-
ficle, which is the amnion, furnifhed with an umbilical chord or navel-firing,
which is introduced through the chorion to the oppofite fide of the egg. While
with the egg, the amnion increafeth, on its top is obferved another fmall body,
which likewife increafeth continually, till it has filled the whole chorion and egg-,
and the amnion and chorion are turned into the external fhell or coat of the feed.
Thus, as the fame changes are brought about on the feed as in the egg, the feeds
mu ft be the eggs of plants. Farther, that plants fpring from eggs, is plain from
the lobes, which, when we fpeak of cows and fimilar quadrupeds, are nothing
elfe than feveral fecundines, always adhering to the foetus, drawing their fupply
of fluids from the matrix, which fluids they prepare for the nourifhment of the
tender foetus. That moft plants have feminal leaves or lobes is very well known.
Thefe feminal leaves once conftituted the whole feed, except the hilum, or littie
heart, in which is the point of life -, and thefe lobes prepare the nourifhment for
the very tender plant, until it be able to ftrike root in the earth ; in the fame
manner as the yolk in an egg, becoming the placenta, prepares the nourifhment,
and fends it by the navel-ftring to the chick after which they drop off. Hence
it appears, that the feminal leaves are the lobes; but fince all lobes proceed from
the egg or feed, we may fairly conclude that plants are produced from eggs. But,
as no egg can produce an animal till it be impregnated or fecundated by the male,,
it will be neceflary to inveftigate the fituation of the genital organs deftined by na-
ture for this purpofe in plants.
It
4© A KEY TO PHYSIC,
It is plain, that the genital organs of plants muff be ficuated where the feeds
are produced, but the feeds are produced where the flower and fruit are ; therefore
in the flower and fruit are the genital organs of plants. And as there was never a
clear and evident example produced of any plant which wanted flowers and fruit,
though they might not be diftindily known on account of their exceeding minute-
nefs, we may jufcly fay, that the eflence of plants confifts in their fructification.
Moreover, as generation precedes the birth in animals, the flower in plants
always precedes the fruit; and, therefore, we are neceffarily led to afcribe fecun-
dation to the flower, and the birth or exclufion of the feed to the ripe fruit. The
flower may, confequently, be defined to be the genital organs of a plant, ferving
for fecundation, and the fruit to be the genital organs ferving for the birth or
maturation of the feed. And, fince we know that there are many plants, iome
of which want the calyx, others the corolla, others the filaments of the ftamina,
and others the ftyle ; but that all flowers, the moflfes only excepted, are furnifhed
with the antherae,- or ftigmata, or both together-, thefe parts muff conftitute the
eflence of the flower. If we find a flower with antherae, but no ftigmata, we may alfo
afluredly find another flower either in the fame, or a different plant of the fame fpe-
cies, which has ftigmata with the antherae, or without them. The a<ft of fecundation
is performed in the flower, and, therefore, the genital organs of both fexes rnuft be
prefent in the flower -, not, indeed, always in one and the fame flower, but it is
fufficient that thofe of the male be in one flower, and thofe of the female in ano-
ther ;
and thefe genital organs are the antherae and ftigmata. The antherae, or
male organs of generation in flow'ers, are nothing elfe but the bodies which pre-
pare and contain the male fperm therefore thefe antherae are the tefticles toge-
ther with the feminal veficles, and their duft the genuine male fperm of plants,
anfwering to thofe particles which are called animalcules in the male fperm of
animals. This propofition may be evinced by the following arguments : the
antherae and the duft always come before the fruit-, and, when they fhed their
duft, which they do before the flower has attained its full vigour, they have per-
formed their office, and then drop and become ufelefs. Beftdes, the antherae are
fo fituated in the flower, that their duft, which is the male fperm, may reach the
piftil or female organs ; for the ftamina either furround the piftil, as in moft
flowers, or if the piftil incline to the upper fide of the flower, the ftamina do the
fame-, ct if the piftil nods, the ftamina afcend.
Farther, the antherae and ftigmata are in full vigour at the fame time, both
when they are in the fame flower, and when they are in feparate flowers. More-
over, if we cut afunder the anthers before they have fhed their duft, their
ftru&ure will be found altogether as wonderful and curious as that of the feed-
veflels
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 4 *
veffels themfelves •, for within, they confift of one, two, three, or four, cells
;
and they open either longitudinally, or at the bale, feparating into pieces or
valves, or from the top, or at the two points or horns. And, if we cut off the
anther® of any plant which bears but one flower, taking care at the fame time
that no other plant of the lame lpecies is near it, the fruit proves abortive, or at
lead produces feeds which will not vegetate. Finally, the figure of the fertilizing
dull will clearly convince any one, that this fine powder is not accumulated by
chance, or from the drynefs of the anther®.
The powder of the anther®, in point of fecundation, anfwers to the animalcules
in the male fperm ; and the ftigma which receives this duft is always moiftilh,
that the duff may inftantly adhere or flick to it. That the ftigmata, which are
the other effential parts of the flower, are the female organ of generation, may be
proved by the following confiderations : the parts of the piftiilum are the ger-
men, the ftyle, and the ftigma ; the germen, or feed-bud, while the plant is in
flower, is always imperfeeft and immature, being only the rudiment of the future
foetus ; the ftyle is no effential part, for it is wanting in many fpecies of plants
;
but the germen can never bring the fruit to maturity, except it be within the
flower along with the ftigma. Hence it follows, that the ftigma is that part of
the flower which receives the impregnating duft. This will farther appear, if we
confider, that the ftigma is always fo fituated, that the anther®, or their impregnating
duft, can reach it: moreover, it has always a figure peculiar to itfelf, fo that in
moft (though not all) plants it is double when the fruit confifts of two cells ; triple
when the leed-veffel has three cells •, quadruple when it has four cells, &c. Again,
the ftigmata are always in full vigour at the fame time with the anther® : befides,
the ftigmata in moft plants, when they have difeharged their office, drop off in
the fame manner as the anther® do *, which proves, that the ftigmata contribute
nothing to the ripening of the fruit, but ferve only for the purpofe of genera-
tion. If the ftigmata be cut off before they have received the impregnating duft
of the anther®, the plant is caftrated as to the female organs, and the fruit
perilhes. The ftigma of the flower has, befides, two other Angular properties „•
viz. that it is always diverted of the cuticle or film, nor has it any bark as the
other parts have, and then it is always bedewed with a moifture. Upon the
whole it appears, that the generation of plants is accompliftied by the anther® ffied-
ding their duft on the ftigmata. In the generation of animals, we are certain, tfrat
the male fperm muft come in contact with the female organ, if there be any irrw
pregnation. In the vegetable kingdom the genital duft is carried by tlje air to the
moift ftigmata, where the particles burft and difeharge their exceeding fine or
No. 3. M ,
'
foluble
4
42 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
foluble contents, which impregnate the ovary. This will appear if it be confi-
dered, that when a plant is in flower, and the dull of the anthers flying about,
part of this duft vifibly lights upon and clings to the ftigma; the ftamina and
piftillum are generally of the fame height, that the male duft may more eafily
come at the ftigma, and in thofe plants where this is not the cafe, a Angular pro-
cefs of fecundation may be obferved ; thus in the African tree crane’s-bill, or
geranium inquinans, where the piftillum is fhorter than the ftamina, the flowers before
they blow are pendulous, but upon their opening they ftand upright, that the
powder may fall upon the ftigma ; after which they again nod till the fruit is ripe,
and then ftand upright a fecond time, that their feeds may be more eafily fcattered
about. In forne of the pinks, the piftilla, which are longer than the ftamina, are
bent back like rams horns towards the anthers.
Again, the ftamina for the moft part furround the piftillum, fo that forne of
the duft is always blown by the wind on the ftigma. Moreover, the ftamina and
piftillum come at the fame time, not only in one and the fame flower, but alfo
where forne are male and others female, on the fame plant, very few excepted.
Farther, in almoft all forts of flowers we fee how they expand or open by the
heat of the fun, but in the evening and a moift ftate of the air, they clofe or
contract their flowers, left the moifture getting to the duft of the anthers fhould
coagulate the fame, and render it incapable of being blown on the ftigma > but
when once the fecundation is over, the flowers neither contradl in the evening, nor
yet againft rain. The wind on many occafions ferves as a vehicle for bringing the
farina of the males to the females. M. Geoffroy cites a ftory from Jovius Pon-
tanus, who relates, that in his time there were two palm-trees, the one male,
cultivated at Brindifi, the other female, in the wood of Otranto, fifteen leagues
apart ; that this latter was feveral years without bearing any fruit ; till at length,
rifing above the other trees of the foreft, fo as it might fee (fays the poet) the
male palm-tree at Brindifi, it then began to bear fruit in abundance. M. GeofFroy
makes no doubt but that the tree then only began to bear fruit, becaufe, it was
in a condition to catch on its branches the farin a of the male brought thither by
the wind. In the male and females of the piftachia-nut-tree they obferve the fame
method as in thofe of the date-tree. We may obferve farther, that fince the male
duft is generally of greater fpecific gravity than the air, in moft plants that have
the piftillum longer than the ftamina, the all-wife Creator has made the flowers
nodding, that the powder may more eafily reach the ftigma. With refpedt to
thofe plants, whofe ftems grow under water, the flowers, a little before they
blow, emerge or rife above the furface of the water j and thofe, all whofe parts
grow
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 43
grow under water, about the time of flowering, raife their genital items above
the water, which items fink again as foon as the time of generating is over. A
fimilar conclufion may be farther eitablifhed from the confideration oi all forts of
flowers ;
but enough has been faid to prove, that the generation of plants is per-
formed by the genital duftof the antherae falling on the moiit itigma or female
organ, which duit, by the help of the moifture, adheres and burits, difcharging
its contents, the fubtile particles of which are abforbed by the ftyle, into the ova-
rium, germen, or feed- bud. However, the duft of the antherae does not penetrate
through the ftyle to the germen and rudiments of the feed, as fome writers have
fuppofed : the contrary appears to be cafe from opening a flower of the oriental
rough poppy, with a large flower, cutting its piftillum perpendicularly down-
wards •, and the lamellae or folds, the placentae and the fmall feeds fticking to
them will be found of a pure white colour, though at the fame time the ftyle and
all the ftigma are wholly tinged with a purple hue from the duft of the antherae.
Hence we may conclude, that not one grain or particle of the farina enters the folds
of the receptacle or feeds themfelves.
We may clofe this account with obferving upon the whole, that the calyx is
the marriage-bed, in which the ftamina and piftilla, the male and female organs,
celebrate the nuptials of plants, and where they are cherifhed and defended from
external injuries : the corolla or petals are the curtains, clofely furrounding the
genital organs, in order to keep off ftorm, rain, or cold ; but, when the fun
fhines bright, they freely expand, both to give accefs to the fun’s rays, and the
fecundating duft: the filaments are the fpermatic veflfels by which the juice, fe-
creted from the plant, is carried to the antherte ; the antherae are the tefticles, and
may not improperly be compared to the foft roe or milt of fifties : the duft of the
antherae anfwers to the fperm and feminal animalcules ; for, though it is dry, that
it may be the more eafily conveyed by the wind, yet it gets moifture upon touch-
ing the ftigma : the ftigma is that external part of the female organ, which re-
ceives the male duft, and on which the male duft adts : the ftyle is the vagina or
tube, through which the effluvia of the male duft pafs to the germen or feed- bud :
the germen is the ovary, for it contains the unimpregnated or unfertilized feeds
:
the pericarpium or feed-veflel, anfwers to the impregnated ovary, and in fadt is
the fame with the germen or feed-bud, only increafed in bulk and loaded with
fertile feeds •, the feeds are the eggs. Moreover, the calyx is a production of the
external bark of the plant •, the corolla of the inner bark ; the ftamina of the al-
burnum or white fap ; the pericarpium or feed-veflel of the woody fubftance j
and the feeds of the pith of the tree -
3 for in this manner they are placed, and in
this
>
4* A KEY TO PHYSIC,
this they are alfo unfolded •, fo that in the flower we find all the internal parts of a
plant unfolded.
The ftomach of plants is the earth, from which they receive their nourifhment,
and the fineft and moft fubtile parts of its foil is their chyle : the root, which car-
ries the chyle from the •ftomach to the body of the plant is analogous to the lafteals
or chyliferous vefiels of animals : the trunk, which fupports and gives fcrength to
the whole plant, is analogous to the bones : the leaves, by which plants tranlpire,
are inflead of lungs, and they may be alfo compared to the mufcles of animals, for
by their agitation with the wind the plant is put in motion ; on which account
herbs furnifhed with leaves cannot thrive, except they have air* but fucculent
plants which have no leaves, though {hut up in green-houfes and quite deprived of
the external air, thrive very well : heat is to plants analogous to the heart in animals,
for they have no heart nor have they occafion for any ; becaufe they live like po-
lypes in the animal kingdom •, their juices mixed with air being propelled through
their vefiels, but not circulated back again by returning vefiels. Plants have ge-
nerally their genital organs placed at their ramifications, as animals have theirs at
the ramification of the iliac vefiels, with this difference, that the ramifications of
plants afcend, whereas thofe of animals go downwards or backwards j whence the
ancients called a plant an inverted animal. Pliny obferves, that there is in plants
a natural inftimft to generation, and that the males by a certain blafi, and fubtle
powder, do confummate their nuptials <?n the females. For the manner wherein the
farina fecundifies, M. Geoffroy advances two opinions i. That the farina being
always found of a fulphureous compofition, and full of fubtile penetrating parts (as
appears from its fprightly odour), falling on the pifbils of the flowers, there refolves,
and the fubtilefi; of its parts, penetrating the fubftance of the piftil and the young
fruit, excite a fermentation fufficient to open and unfold the young plant, inclofed
in the embryo of the feed. In this hypothefis the feed is fuppofed to contain the
plant in miniature, and only to want a proper juice to unfold its parts, and make
them grow. The fecond opinion is, that the farina of the flower is the firft germ
or bud of the new plant, and needs nothing to unfold it, and enable it to grow, but
the juice it finds prepared in the embryos of the feed. Thefe two theories of veget-
able generation, the reader will obferve, bear a ftrift analogy to thofe two of animal
generation •, viz. either that the young animal is in the femen mafculinum, and only
needs the juice of the matrix to cherifli and bring it forth *, or that the animal is
contained in the female ovum, and needs only the male feed to excite a fermenta-
tion, &c. M. Geoffrey rather takes the proper feed to be in the farina j inafmuch
as the beft microfcopes do not difeover the lead: appearance of any bud in the little
* embryos
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 45
embryos of the grains, when examined before the apices have flied their duft. In
leguminous plants, if the leaves and ftamina be removed, and the piftil, or that
part which becomes the pod, be viewed with the microfcope, before the flower
be opened ; the little green tranfparent veficulae, which are to become the grains,
will appear in their natural order; but ftill fhewing nothing elfe but the mere coat
or (kin of the grain. If the obfervation be continued for feveral days fucceffively,
in othef flowers, as they advance, the veficulae will be found to fwell, and by degrees
to become replete with a limpid liquor ; wherein, when the farina comes to be fhed,
and the leaves of the flower to fall, we obferve a little greenifh fpeck, or globule, float-
ing about at large. At firft there is not any appearance of organization in this little
body ; but in time, as it grows, we begin to diftinguifh two little leaves like two
horns. The liquor diminifhes infenfibly, as the little body grows, till at length
the grain becomes quite opake ; when, upon opening it, we find its cavity filled
with a young plant in miniature j confifting Of a little germ or plunnda, a little root,
and the lobes of the bean, or pea, &c.
The manner wherein this germ of the apex enters the veficula of the feed, is not
very difficult to determine. For, befides that the cavity of the piftil reaches from
the top to the embryos of the grains, thofe grains or veficulae have a little aperture
correfponding to the extremity of the cavity of the piftil, fo that the fmall duft, or
farina, may eafily fall through the aperture into the mouth of the veficulae, which
is the embryo of the grain* This cavity, or cicatricula, is much the fame in moft
grains, and it is eafily obferved in peas, beans, &c. without the microfcope. The
root of the little germ is juft againft this aperture, and through this it pafies out
when the little grain comes to germinate.
From what has been faid, it becomes evident, that unlefs the female plant is im-
pregnated by the male, it can bring forth no fruit, nor feed, that will grow. This
holds good throughout the whole fyftem of vegetation. But as trees and plants are
immovably fixed, and cannot like animals rove about in fearch of a mate, the all-
wife Creator has compenfated this, by means of little infefts, the bee, and the winds,
which doubtlefs carry the pollen, or fecundating matter of the male, to the piftilla
of the female, whereby impregnation and generation follows. But as this, in the
production offruits, is rather a fortuitous event, which fometimes happens in profu-
fioft, artdat others but fparingly, thofe who cultivate fruits have been led by art,
to affift nature, in this necefiary contaft of the fexes. While in Arabia, I was taken
to feethiscurious Operation performed on the date-tree, by which the Arab’s always
fecuretothemfelves a plentiful harveft of that fruit, which is of fo much importance
to their traffic, and araongft whom this art appears to have been known long before
‘
' No. 4. N any
46 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
any botanift dreamed of the difference of fexes in vegetables. Of this the gardener
informed me, but was furprifed to find I knew the cireumftance before ;
for, fays
he, all who come from Europe to this country, have regarded this operation as a
fable. When they obferve a tree where the fpadix has female flowers, they fearch
on a tree that has male flowers, (which they know by cuftom and experience) for a
male fpadix, which has not yet burfl: out of its fpatha or hufk •, this they open,
take out the fpadix, and cut it lengthwife infeveral pieces, taking care not to hurt
the flowers. Thefe pieces of fpadix with male flowers, they put lengthwife between
the fmall branches of the fpadix which hath female flowers, and then cover them
over with a palm leaf ; in this fituation the piftilla of the female flower becomes im-
pregnated by the male, which foon after withers and dies ; and unlefs the natives
thus wed and fecundate the female date-tree, it bears no fruit. Or even if they
permit the fpadix of the male flower to burfl, or come out, before it is taken, it is
ufelefs for fecundation ; it mufl for this purpofe have its maidenhead, as the Arabs
term it, or it will not do j and this is loft the fame moment the bloffoms burfl out
of their cafe. From this curious procefs of nature in the generation of vegetables,
and from a contemplation of the apparatus fhe has contrived for that purpofe, ma-
ny ufeful hints may be derived how to alter, improve, enrich, and vary the tafte,
form, and quality, of fruits, &c. by impregnating the flower of one with the farina
of another of the fame clafs ; and to this artificial coupling and mixing it is, that
the numberlefs varieties of new fruits, flowers, &c. produced every year by our
nurferymen and gardeners, with many other phenomena in the vegetable kingdom,
are to be attributed.
In the cultivation of many of our home plants, we fometimes meet with circum-
ftances not unfimilar to thofe of the date-tree, which become barren when deprived
of the males. Thus if the flowers of the male hemp are pulled off before thofe of
the female are fully expanded, the females do not produce fertile feeds. But as a
male flower is fometimes found upon a female plant, this may be the reafon why fer-
tile feeds are fometimes produced even after this precaution has been obferved. The
tulip affords another experiment to the fame purpofe.—Cut off all the antherae of a
red tulip before the pollen is emitted ; then take the ripe antherse of a white tulip,
and throw the pollen of the white one upon the ftigma of the red ; the feeds of the
red tulip being thus impregnated by one of a different complexion, will next feafon
produce fome red, fame white, but moftly variegated flowers.
In the year i744,Linnteus publilhed a defcription of a new genus, which he called
peloria, on the fuppofition of its being a hybrid or mule plant, i. e. a plant produced
by an unnatural commixture of tyvo different genera. The root, leaves, caulis, &c.
of
47
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
of this plant are exceedingly fimilartothofe of the antirrhinum linaria ; but the flow-
er and other parts of the fru&ification are totally different. On account of its fimi-
larity to the linaria in every part but the flower, Linnaeus imagined it to have been
produced by a fortuitous commixture of the linaria with fome other plant •, and
from this dodtrine he fuppofes that only two fpecies of each genus of plants exifted ab
engine, and that all the variety of fpecies which now appear have been produced by un-
natural embraces betwixt fpecies of different genera. Under this head he defends the
cafe of Richard Baal, gardener at Brentford. This Baal fold a large quantity of the
feeds of the braflica florida to leveral gardeners in the fuburbs of London. Thefe
gardeners, after fowing their feeds in the ufual manner, were furpriled to find them
turn out to be plants of a different fpecies, from that which Baal made them believe
they had purchafed j for, inftead of the braflica florida, the plants turned out to be
the braflica longifolia. The gardeners, upon making this difeovery, commenced a
profecution of fraud againft Baal in Wcftminfter-hall. The court found Baal guil-
ty of fraud, and decerned him not only to reftore the price of the feeds, but like-
wife to pay the gardeners for their loft time, and the ufe of their ground. “ Had
thefe judges (fays Linnaeus) been acquainted with the fexual generation of plants,
they would not have found Baal guilty of any crime, but would have aferibed the
accident to the fortuitous impregnation of the braflica florida by the pollen of the
braflica longifolia.”
With refpeft to the nourifhment of plants, we need only recur to the analogy that
is known to fubfift between plants and animals. It is highly probable that the ra-
dical fibres of plants take up their nourifhment from the earth, in the fame manner
that the ladteal veffels abforb the nutriment from the inteftines ; and, as the oily
and watery parts of our food are perfeftly united into a milky liquor, by means of
the fpittle, pancreatic juice, and bile, before they enter the latfteals, we have all
the reafon imaginable to keep up the analogy, and fuppofe that the oleaginous and
watery parts of the foil are alfo incorporated, previous to their being taken up by
the abforbing veffels of the plant. To form a perfect judgment of this, we muft
reflect that every foil, in a ftate of nature, has in itfelf a quantity of abforbent
earth, fufficient to incorporate its inherent oil and water ; but when we load it with
fat manures, it becomes effentially neceffary to beftow upon it, at the fame time,
fomething to aflimilate the parts. Lime, foap-afhes, kelp, marl, and all the al-
kaline fubftances, perform that office. In order to render this operation vifible to
the fenfes, diffolve one drachm of Ruffia pot-afh in four ounces of water ; then add
one fpoonful of oil •, ffiake the mixture, and it will inftantly become an uniform
mafs of a whitiffi colour, adapted to all the purpofes of vegetation. This eafy and
familiar
43 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
familiar experiment is a juft reprefentation of what happens after the operation of
burn-baking, and, confequently, may be confidered as a confirmation of the hy-
pothefis advanced. In this procefs, the fward being reduced to afhes, a fixed al-
kaline fait is produced ; the moifture of the atmofphere foon reduces that fait into
a fluid ftate, which, mixing with the foil, brings about an union of the oily and
watery parts, in the manner demonftrated in the experiment. When the under-
ftratum confifts of a rich vegetable mould, the effects of burn-baking will be lad-
ing •, but when the foil happens to be thin and poor, the firft crop frequently
fuffers before it arrives at maturity. The farmer, therefore, who is at the expence
of parring and burning a thin foil, Ihould beftow upon it a portion of rotten dung,
or fhambles manure, before the allies are fpread, in order to fupply the deficiency
of oily particles: in this way the crop will be fupported during its growth, and
the land will be preferved in health and vigour. But plants not only receive nou-
rilhment by their roots, but alfo by their leaves. Vegetables that have a fucculent
leaf, fuch as vetches, peas, beans, and buck-wheat, draw a great part of their nou-
rifhment from the air, and on that account impoverilh the foil lefs than wheat, oats,
barley, or rye, the leaves of which are of a firmer texture. Rape and hemp are
oil-bearing plants, and, confequently, impoverilhers of the foil ; but the former lefs
fo than the latter, on account of the greater fucculency of its leaf. The leaves of
all kinds of grain are fucculent for a time, during which period the plants take little
from the earth •, but as foon as the ear begins to be formed, they lofe their foftnefs,
and diminilh in their attractive power. The radical fibres are then more vigoroufly
employed in extracting the oily particles of the earth for the nourifhment of the
feed. The leaves of plants ferve, not only as excretory duCts to feparate and carry
off the redundant watery fluid, which, by being long detained in the plants, would
turn rancid and prejudicial to them, but likewife to imbibe the dew, and rain, which
contain fait, fulphur, &c. and to be of the fame ufe to plants, that the lungs are to
animals. But as plants have not a dilating and contracting thorax, their infpirations
and expirations will not be fo frequent as thofeof animals, but depend wholly on
the alternate changes from hot to cold for infpiration, and vice verfa for expiration.
But the greater part of their nourifhment is derived from the roots. Thefe, there-
fore, are found to bear a confiderable proportion to the body of the plant above
ground the fuperficies of the former being above four-tenths of that of the latter.
Hence appears theneceffity of cutting off many branches from a tranfplanted tree;
becaufe in digging it up, a great part of their roots is cut off.
It is a curious occult faCt, with refpeCt to vegetables, that they thrive beft from
putrefaction, and flourifh moft in putrid air. Manure, though it hath ftench almoft
i fufficient
AND GCCULT SCIENCES. 49
fufficientto infe&the blood, yet if placed round plants and herbs, will make them
grow furprifingly ; and we every day fee how luxuriantly they will thrive upon a
dunghill. Yet it is as true, that though thefe vegetables eagerly fuck in and imbibe
fo foul a moifture, and thrive in air fo ftrongly tainted with putrefafticn, even
in fuch as would prove fatal' to human life, yet thofe very plants exhale a di red
oppofite effluvia, tending to refrefh and fweeten the atmofphere, and to render
it wholefome, when it is become noxious in conlequence of epidemical complaints,
or of animals dying and putrifying in it ; whence it follows that vegetables draw in
the foul orinfeded corpufcles, as favourable to their fuftenance, which being con-
coded, altered, and changed in thebody of the plant, it again emits them purified and
fweet. This I have proved by the following experiment. A quantity of air was
made thoroughly noxious, by fome mice breathing and dying in it. This I divided
into two parts, in glafs receivers. Into one Iput a moufewitha fprig of mint, which
lived very well, and the mint alfo flourifhed ; but in the other, where there was no
mint, the moufe died almoft immediately. This experiment I have many times re-
peated with d’fferent kinds and portions of infeded air, and have always found the
refult nearly the fame •, wherefore this plain reafoning follows j that as vegetables
draw in by their leaves and roots the putrid effluvium of the air, fo their emifflonof
purified corpufcles contributes to make the remaining air more fit and wholefome
for refpiration ; and from this circumftance I recommend all perfons who vifit the
fick, or have putrid diforders in their families, to uie as many frefii vegetables as
poffible, and never to be without fome fprigs of mint about them.
Of SYMPATHY, ANTIPATHY, SAGACITY,
and OCCULT INSTINCT, in BRUTES.
BRUTE, is a general name given to all animals, except man •, and an animal
muft be an organized living body, endowed with fenfe ;
for minerals are laid to
grow and increafe, plants to grow and live; but animals alone are endowed with
fenfation. It is this property of fenfation alone, that conftitutes theefiential charac-
teriftic of an animal ; and by which the animal and vegetable kingdoms ieem to be
fo materially feparated. Thofe naturalifts, who have fuppofed the diftindtion between
animals and vegetables to confifl in any thing elfe than the gift of fenfation, have
found themfclves greatly embarraffed ; and have generally agreed, that it was ex-
tremely difficult, if not impoffible, to fettle the boundaries between the animal and
vegetable kingdoms. But this difficulty will be eafily feen to arife from their tak-
ing the charafteriftic marks of the animal kingdom, from fomething that was evi-
dently common to both. Thus Boerhaave attempted to diftinguifh an animal from
No. 4. O a veget-
50 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
a vegetable, by the former having a mouth, which the latter has not : but here, as
the mouth of an animal is only the inftrument by which nouriihment is conveyed to
its body, it is evident that this can be no effential diftindtion, becaufe vegetables, as
we have above demonftrated, require nouriihment, and have inftruments proper for
conveying it into their bodies ; and where the end is the fame, a difference in the
means can never be effential. The fixing the difference in an animal’s having a gula,
ftomach, and inteftines, as is done by Dr. Tyfon, is as little to the purpofe.
The power of moving from one place to another, hath by many been thought to
conftitute their effential difference ; and indeed, in mofl cafes, it is the obvious mark
by which we diftinguifh an animal from a vegetable : but Lord Karnes hath giv-
en us feveral very curious inftances of the locomotive power of plants; fome of
which, would doubtlefs do honour to an animal.—Upon the flighteft touch, the
fenfitive plant * fhrinks back, and folds up its leaves, fimilar to a fnail ; which on
the flighteft touch retires within its fhell. If a fly perch upon one of its flower-leaves,
it clofes inftantly, and crufhes the infedt to death. There is not an article in botany
more admirable than a contrivance, viftble in many plants, to take advantage of
good weather, and to proteft themfelves againft bad. They open and dole their
flowers and leaves in different circumftances ; fome clofe before funfet, fome after :
fome open to receive rain, fome dole to avoid it. The petals of many flowers ex-
pand in the fun ; but contract at night, or on the approach of rain. After the feeds
are fecundated, the petals no longer contradt. All the trefoils may ferve as a baro-
meter to the hufbandman ;
they always contradt their leaves on an impending florm.
Some plants follow the fun, others turn from it. Many plants, on the fun’s recefs,
vary the pofition of their leaves, which is ftyled the fleep of plants. A Angular
plant was lately difcovered in Bengal. Its leaves are in continual motion all day
long : but when night approaches, they fall down from an eredt pofture to reft.
A plant has a power of diredting its roots for procuring food. The red whortle-
berry, a low ever-green plant, grows naturally on the tops of our higheft hills,
among ftones and gravel. This flirub was planted in an edging to a rich border,
under a fruit wall. In two or three years, it over-ran the adjoining deep-laid gra-
vel-walk ; and feemed to fly from the border, which was not congenial to its nature,
and in which not a Angle runner appeared. An effort to come at food in a bad fltu-
ation, is extremely remarkable in the following inftance. Among the ruins of
Newabbey, formerly amonaftery in Galloway, there grows on the top of a wall a
plane-tree about 20 feet high. Straitened for nourifhment in that barren fituation,
it feveral years ago diredled roots down the fide of the wall, till they reached the
* See a particular defcription of the fenfitive plant, in the Appendix to this work.
» ground
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 5 l
ground ten feet below ;
and now the nourifhment it afforded to thofe roots during
the time of their defcending, is amply repaid, having every year fince that time
made vigorous fhoots. From the top of the wall to the furface of the earth, thefe
roots have not thrown out a Tingle fibre ; but are now united in a fingle root.
Plants, when forced from their natural pofition, are endowed with a power to
reftore themfelves. A hop-plant, twilling round a Hick, directs its courfe from
fouth to weft, as the fun does. Untwift it, and tie it in the oppofite direction ; it
dies. Leave it loofe in the wrong direction, it recovers its natural direction in a fingle
night. Twill a branch of a tree fo as to invert its leaves, and fix it in that pofition ;
if left in any degree loofe, it untwifts itfelf gradually, till the leaves be reftored to
their natural pofition. What better can an animal do for its welfare ? A root of a
tree meeting with a ditch in its progrefs, is laid open to the air. What follows ? It
alters its courfe like a rational being •, dips into the ground, undermines the ditch,
rifes on the oppofite fide to its wonted diftance from the furface, and then proceeds
in its original direction. Lay a wet fponge near a root laid open to the air; the root
will direct its courfe to the fponge. Change the place of the fponge ; the root varies its
direction. Put a pole into the ground .at a moderate diftancefrom a fcandent plant:
the plant diredts its courfe to the pole, lays hold of it, and rifes on it to its natural
height. A honeyfuckle proceeds in its courfe, till it be too long for fupporting its
weight; and then {Lengthens itfelf by {hooting into a fpiral. If it meet with another
plant of the fame kind, they coalefce for mutual fupport ; the one fcrewing to the
right, the other to the left. If a honeyfuckle twig meets with a dead branch, it
fcrews from the right to the left. The clafpers of briony fhoot into a fpiral, and lay
hold of whatever comes in their way for fupport. If, after completing a fpiral of
three rounds, they meet with nothing, they then try again for further fupport, by
altering their courfe.
By comparing thefe and other inflances of feeming voluntary motion in plants,
with that fhare of life wherewith fome of the inferior kinds of animals are endowed,
we can fcarce hefitate at afcribing the fuperiority to the former ; that is, putting
fenfation out of the queftion. Mufcles, for inftance, are fixed to one place, as
much as plants are ; nor have they any power of motion, befides that of opening
and [hutting their fhells ; and in this refpedt they have no fuperiority over the mo-
tion of the fenfitive plant ; nor doth their adtion difcover more fagacity, or even fo
much, as the roots of the plane-tree, or the action of other vegetables.
M. Buffon, who feems to be defirous of confounding the animal and vegetable
kingdoms, denies fenfation to be any effential diftindtion. “ Senfation (fays he)
more effentially diftinguifhes animals from vegetables : but fenfation is a complex
ideaj
52 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
idea, and requires fome explication. For if fenfation implied no more than mo-
tion confequent upon a ftroke or an impulfe, the fenfitive plant enjoys this power.
But if, by fenfation, we mean the faculty of perceiving a'nd comparing ideas, it is
uncertain whether brute animals are endowed with it. If it ffiould be allowed to
dogs, elephants, &c. whole adions feem to proceed from motives fimilar to thofe by
which men are aduated, it mu ft be denied to many fpecies of animals, particularly
to thofe which appear not to poffefs the faculty of progreffive motion. If the fenfa-
tion of an oyfter, for example, differed only in degree from that of a dog ; why do
we not afcribe the fame fenfaiion to vegetables, though in a degree ftill inferior ?
This diftindion, therefore, between the animal and vegetable, is neither fufficient-
ly general nor determined. Hence we are led to conclude, there is no a'bfoiute and
elfential diftindion between the animal and vegetable kingdoms ;
but that nature
proceeds, by imperceptible degrees, from the mod perfed to the mod impeded
animal, and ftom that to the vegetables ; and the frefh-water polypus may be regard-
ed as the lad of animals and the fird of plants.”
It were to be wifhed, that philofophers would on fome occafions condder, that
a fubjed may be dark as well on account of their inability to fee, as when it really
affords no light. This great author boldly concludes, that there is no ehential dif-
ference between a plant and an animal, becaufe we afcribe fenfation to an o> der, and
none to the fenfitive plant •, but we ought to remember, that though we cannot
perceive a didindion, it may neverthelefs exid. Before M. Buffon, therefore,
had concluded in this manner, he ought to have proved that fome vegetables were
endowed with fenfation.
It is no doubt, however, as much incumbent on thofe who take the contrary fide
of the quedion, to prove that vegetables are not endowed with fenfation, as it was
incumbent on M. Buffon to prove that they are. But a little attention will (how
us, that the difficulty here, proceeds entirely from our inability to fee the principle
of fenfation. We perceive this principle in ourfelves, but no man can perceive it
in another. Why then does every individual of mankind conclude, that his neigh-
bour has the fame fenfations with himfelf ? It can only be from analogy. Every man
perceives his neighbour formed in a manner fimilar to himfelf ; he ads in a fimilar
manner on fimilar occafions, &c. Jud fo it is with brute animals. It is no more
doubtful that they have fenfations, than that we have them ourfelves. If a man is
wounded with a knife, for indance, he expreffes a fenfe of pain, and endeavours to
avoid a repetition of the injury. Wound a dog in the fame manner, he will alfo
exprefs a fenfe of pain ; and, if you offer to drike him again, will endeavour to
efcape,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 53
efcape, before he feels the droke. To conclude here, that the action of the dog pro-
ceeded from a principle different from that of the man, would be abfurd and unphi-
lofophical to the laft degree.
We muff farther take notice, that there are fenfations effentially didindt from one
another-, and in proportion as an animal is endowed with more or fewer of thefe
different fpecies, it is more or lefs perfedt as an animal : but, as long as only one of
them remains, it makes not the lead approach to the vegetable kingdom ; and,
when they are all taken away, is fo far from becoming a vegetable, that it is only
a mafs of dead matter. The fenfes of a perfect animal, for inftance, are live in
number. Take away one of them, fuppofe fight, he becomes then a lefs perfedt
animal ; but is as unlike a vegetable as before. Suppofe him next deprived of hear-
ing, his refemblance to a vegetable would be as little as before; becaufe a vegeta-
ble can neither feel, tade, nor fmell ; and we fuppofe him dill to enjoy thefe three
fenfes. Let us, ladl'y, fuppofe him endowed only with the fenfe of feeling, which,
however, feems to include that of tade, and he is no more a vegetable than for-
merly, but only an imperfedt animal. If this fenfe is then taken away, we connedt
him not with the vegetable kingdom, but with what M. Buffon calls brute-matter.
It is to this kingdom, and not to the vegetable, that animals plainly approximate
as they defcend. Indeed, to fuppofe an approximation between the vegetable and
animal kingdoms, is very abfurd ; for, at that rate, the mod imperfedt animal
ought to be the mod perfedt plant : but we obferve no fuch thing. All animals,
from the highed to the lowed, are poffeffed of vegetable life ;
and that, as far as
we can perceive, in an equal degree, whether the animal life is perfedt or imperfedt :
nor doth there feem to be the fmalled connedtion between the highed degree of ve-
getation and the lowed degree of fenfation. Though all animals are poffeffed of
vegetable life, thefe two feem to be as perfedtly didindt and incommenfurate to one
another, as any two things we can poliibly imagine.
The power of vegetation, for indance, is as perfedt in an onion or leek, as in a
dog, an elephant, or a man : and yet, though you threaten a leek or an onion ever
fo much, it pays no regard to your words, as a dog would do ; nor, though you
wound it, does it avoid a fecond droke. It is this principle of felf-prelervation in
animals, which, being the mod powerful one in their nature, is generally taken,
and with very good reafon, as the true charadteridic of animal life. This principle
is undoubtedly a confequence of fenfation; and, as it is never obferved to take
place in vegetables, we have a right to fay that the foundation of it, namely, fen-
fation, belongs not to them. There is no animal, which makes any motion in con-
fequence of external impulfe where danger is threatened, but what puts itfelf in a
No. 4. P podure
£4 A KEY TO PHYSIC.
poflure of defence; but no vegetable whatever does fo. A mufcle, when it is
touched, immediately fhuts its {hell; and, as this a ft ion puts it in a (late of de-
fence, we conclude that it proceeded from the principle of felf-prefervation. When
the fenfitive plant contrafts from a touch, it is no more in a flate of defence than
before ; for whatever v/ould have deflroyed it in its expanded (late, will alfo do it
in its contrafted flate. The motion of the fenfitive plant, proceeds only from a cer-
tain property called irritability •, and which, though our bodies pofifefs it in an
eminent degree, is a charafteriflic neither of animal nor vegetable life, but belongs
to us in common with brute-matter. It is certain, that an electrified filk-thread
fhows a much greater variety of motions than any fenfitive plant. If a bit of filk-
thread is dropt on an eleftrified metal-plate, it immediately erefts itfelf ; Spreads
out the fmall fibres like arms •, and, if not detained, will fly off. If a finger is
brought near it, the thread feems greedily to catch at it. If a candle approaches,
it clafps clofe to the plate as if afraid of if. Why do we not conclude that the
thread in this cafe is really afraid of the candle ? For this plain reafon, that its
feeming flight is not to get away from the candle, but to get towards the eleftrified
metal ;
and, if allowed to remain there, will fuffer itfelf to be burnt without offer-
ing toftir. The fenfitive plant, in like manner, after it has contrafted, will fuffer
itfelf to be cut in pieces, without making the leafl effort to efcape. The cafe is not
fo with the meaneft animal. An hedge-hog, when alarmed, draws its body toge-
ther, and expands its prickles, thereby putting itfelf in a poflure of defence.
Throw it into water, and the fame principle of felf-prefervation prompts it to ex-
pand its body and fwim. A fnail, when touched, withdraws itfelf into its fhell
but if a little quicklime is fprinkled upon it, fo that its fhell is no longer a place of
fafety, it is thrown into agonies, and endeavours to avail itfelf of its locomotive pow-
er in order to efcape the danger. In mufcles and oyflers, indeed, we cannot obferve
this principle of felf-prefervation fo ftrongly, as nature has deprived them of the
power of progreffive motion : but, as we obferve them conflantly to ufe the means
which nature has given them for felf-prefervation, we can have no reafon to think
that they are deftituteof that principle upon which it is founded.
But there is no need of arguments drawn from the inferior creation. We our-
felves are pofTefTed both of the animal and vegetable life, and certainly mufl know
whether there is any conneftion between vegetation and fenfation or not. We are
confcious that we exift ; that we hear, fee, &c. but of our vegetation we are abso-
lutely inconfcious. We feel a pleafure, for inflance, in gratifying the calls of hun-
ger and thirft ; but of the procefs by which our aliment improves our growth and
vigour, we are altogether ignorant. If we, then, who are more perfeft than other
vege-
and occult sciences. 55
vegetables, are utterly infenfible of our own vegetable life, why fhould we imagine
that the lefs perfect vegetables are fenfibleof it ?
To illuftrate our reafoning here by an example. The direction of the roots of the
plane-tree mentioned above, fhows as much fagacity, if we are to look only to the
outward aClion, as can be obferved in any motion of the mold perfect animal what-
ever; neverthelefs, we have not the lead fufpicion, either that the tree faw the
ground at a diftance, or that it was informed of its being there by the reft of its roots.
If a wound is made in the body of a man,- and a lofs of fuhftance is to be repaired,
the fame fagacity will be obferved in the arrangement of the fibres, not only as if
they were animated, but they will difpofe of themfelves feemingly with a degree of
wifdom far fuperior to what we have any idea of ;
yet this is done without our hav-
ing the leaft knowledge either how it is done, or of its being done at all. We have
therefore in ourfelves a demonftration, that vegetable life acts without our knowing
what it does : and if vegetables are ignorant of their moft fagacious actions, why
fhould we fufpeCt that they have a fenfation, let it be ever fo obfcure, of any of their
inferior ones, fuch as contracting from a touch, turning towards the fun, or ad-
vancing to meet a pole ? Thus we may eafily give M. Buffon a reafon why we
afcribe fenfation to an oyfter, and none to a vegetable; -namely, becaufe we per-
ceive the vegetable do nothing but what is alfo performed in our own bodies, with-
out our having the leaft fenfation of it ; whereas an oyfter puts itfelf in a defend re
pofture on the approach of danger; and this being an adtion fi mi 1 i a r to our own
upon a like occafion, we conclude that it proceeds from the fame principle of fen-
fation. Elere it may alfo be obferved, that though the inferior animals are deficient
in the number, they are by no means fo in the acutenefs of their fenfations ; on the
contrary, though a mufcle or an oyfter is probably endowed with no other fenle than
that of feeling, yet this lenfe is fo exquifite, that it will contract upon the flighted:
touch, fuch as we fhould altogether be infenfible of.
As to that power of contractility, or irritability, which is obferved in fome plants ;
our folids have it, when deprived both of vegetable and animal life ; for the human
heart, or a mufcle, cut out of an animal body, will continue to. contract, if it is
irritated by pricking it, after it has neither fenfation nor vegetation.
A very good moral reafon may alfo be adduced, why vegetables are not endowed
with fenfation. Had they been fo, we muft fuppofe them to fuffer pain when they
are cut or deftroyed ; and if fo, what an unhappy ftate muft they be in, who have
not the leaft power to avoid the injuries daily offered them ? In faft, the goodnefs
of the Deity is very confpicuous in not giving to vegetables the fame fenfations as
to animals; and, as he hath given them no means of defence, though we had not
been
56 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
been told it by himfelf, we might have known that he gave them for food to ani-
mals; and, in this cafe, to have endowed them with fenfation would have been
cruelty. Though animals without number prey upon one another, yet all of them
have fome means of defence ; from whence we j uftly conclude, that their mutual de-
ftru&ion was not an original appointment of the Creator, but what followed from
the fall of Adam, and what he forefaw would happen in a courfe of time, and which
he therefore gave every one of them fome means of guarding againft. It may no
doubt be here objected, that the giving fome means of felfdefence to every animal
cannot be reckoned a fufficient proof that it was not the original defign of the Creator
that they fhould be deftroyed, feeing thefe means are not always effectual for their
prefervation. This objection, however, cannot be completely obviated without a
folution of the queftion concerning the origin of evil among the works of a per-
fectly good Being. But whatever difficulty there may be in folving this queftion,
it is certain, that, as fome means of felf-defence is given to every animal, it has
been the original defign of the Creator, that in all cafes one fpecies of animals fliould
not be deftroyed at the pleafure or will of any other fpecies ; and, as no means of
felf-defence is given to any vegetable, it is plain that they have been deftined for a
prey to every fpecies of animals that had accefs to them. Philofophers have infilled
much on the neceffity of one animal’s devouring another, that there might be room
fufficient for all ; but this, fo far from being a fyftem worthy of the divine wifdom,
feems to be a reflection upon it, as if the Author of nature could not have found
means to preferve the life of one part of his creatures, without the deftruCtion and
mifery of the reft. The facred writings leave us at no lofs to fee how this carnivo-
rous difpofttion came in ; and in the next world, this piece of perfection (as the
fanguinary philofophers abovementioned would have it to be) feems to be left out
for there, it is faid, “ They (hall not hurt nor deftroy •, the lion ihall eat ftraw like
the ox, and there ffiall be no more pain.”
Of ANIMAL FLOWERS.
THE grand argument for animal life in vegetables, was inferred from the curious
conftruCtion of the frefh- water polypus, and the aftinia genus, called animal flowers,
fea-anemone, fea-fun-flower, &c. which having indeed the external form and figure
of vegetables, with fcarcely any progreffive motion, might eafily deceive fuperficial
obfervers ; but, when more minutely examined, the polypus, and all the affinia
clafs, turn out to be abfolute animals, of the viviparous kind, and feed on fiffi ;
the heads, or mouths of which, when open, referable a full-blown flower, whence
they
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 57
they are called flower-fifh. There is one fpecies of them, which the pured white,
carmine, and ultramarine, are fcarce fufficient to exprefs their brilliancy. The
bodies of fome of them are hemifpherical, of others cylindrical, and of others fhap-
ed like a fig. Their fubftance likewife differs j fome are ftiff and gelatinous, others
fleffiy and mufcular ; but all of them are capable of altering their figure when they
extend their bodies and claws in fearch of food. They are found on many of the
rocky coafts of the Weft India iftands, and on fome parts of the coaft of England.
They have only one opening, which is in the centre of the uppermoft part of the
animal ;
round this are placed rows of flelhy claws ; this opening is the mouth of
the animal, and is capable of great extenfton. The animals themfelves, though
exceedingly voracious, will bear long fading. They may be preferved alive a whole
year, or perhaps longer, in a vefiel of fea water, without any vifible food ; but,
when food is prefented, one of them will fuccefiively devour two mufcles in their
fhells, or even fwallow a whole crab as large as a hen’s egg. In a day or two the
crab-fhell is voided at the mouth, perfectly cleared of all the meat. The mulcle-
fhells are likewife difcharged whole, with the fhells joined together, but entirely
empty, fo that not the lead particle of fifh is to be perceived on opening them. An
anemone of one fpecies will even fwallow an individual of another fpecies ; but, af-
ter retaining it ten or twelve hours, will throw it up alive and uninjured. Through
this opening alfo it produces its young ones alive, already furnifhed with little
claws, which, as foon as they fix themfelves, they begin to extend in fearch of
food. One of the extremities of the fea-anemone exactly refembles the outward
leaves of that flower ; while its limbs are not unlike the fhag or inner part of it.
By the other extremity it fixes itfelf, as by a fucker, to the rocks or ftones lying in
the fand •, but it is not totally deprived of the power of progreflive motion, as it can
fhift its fituation, though very (lowly.
A particular fpecies of animal-flowers, called the cindered animal-flower, has
been found in fome of the iflands ceded to Britain at the lad treaty of peace with
France; and an account of them was publifhed in the Philofophical Tranfadtions,
* vol. 57, by Mr. Ellis, in a letter to Lord Hillfborough. This compound animal,
which is of a tender flelhy fubftance, confifts of many tubular bodies, fwelling
gently towards the upper part, and ending like a bulb or very fmall onion ; on the
top of each is its mouth, furrounded by one or two rows of tentacles, or claws,
which when contracted look like circles of beads. The lower part of all thefe bo-
dies have a communication with a firm flefhy wrinkled tube, which dicks fad to
the rocks, and fends forth other flefhy tubes, which creep along them in various
No. 4. Q_ direc-
A KEY TO PHYSIC.
sS
directions. Thefe are full of different fizes of thefe remarkable animals, which
rife up irregularly in groups near to one another. This adhering tube, that fee ures
them fail to the rock, or fbelly bottom, is worthy of our notice. The knobs are
formed into feveral parts of it by its infinuating itfelf into the inequalities of the
coral rock, or by grafping pieces of [hells, part of which [till remain in it, with
the flefhy fubftance grown over them. This fhows us the in(tin6t of nature, that
direCts thefe animals to preferve themfelves from the violence of the waves, not
unlike the anchoring of mufcles, by their fine filken filaments that end in fuckers ;
or rather like the fhelly bafis of the ferpula, or worm-fhell, the tree-oyfler, and
the flipper-barnacle, &c. whofe bafes conform to the fhape of whatever fubftance
they fix themfelves to, grafping it faft with their teftaceous claws, to withftand the
fury of a ftorm. When we view the infide of this animal diffedted lengthwife, we
find a little tube leading from the mouth to the ftomach, from whence there rife
eight wrinkled fmall guts, in a circular order, with a yellowifli foft fubftance in
them ; thefe bend over in the form of arches towards the lower part of the bulb,
from whence they may be traced downwards, to the narrow part of the upright
tube, till they come to the flefliy adhering tube, where fome of them may be per-
ceived entering into the papilla, or the beginning of an animal of the like kind, moft
probably to convey it nourifhment till it is provided with claws; the remaining
part of thefe [lender guts are continued on in the flefliy tube, without doubt for
the purpofe of producing and fupporting more young from the fame common parent.
The Abbe Dicquemarre, by many curious, though cruel, experiments, related
in the Phil. Tranf. for 1773, ^ as ^own that thefe animals pofifefs, in a moft extra-
ordinary degree, the power of reproduction ; fo that fcarce any thing more is necef-
fary to produce as many fea-anemones as vfe pleafe, than to cut a Angle one into as
many pieces. A fea-anemone being cut in two by a feClion through the body, that
part, where the limbs and mouth are placed, ate a piece of a mufcle offered to it
foon after the operation, and continued to feed and grow daily for three months af-
ter. The food fometimes palled through the animal ; but was generally thrown up
again, confiderably changed, as in the perfect fea-anemone. In about two months, **
two rows of limbs and a mouth were perceived growing out of the part where the
incifion was made. On offering food to this new mouth, it was laid hold of and
eaten ; and the limbs continually increafing, the animal gradually became as perfeCl
as thofe which had never been cut. In fome in#ances, however, when one of thefe
creatures was cut through, new limbs would be produced from the cut place, thofe
at the mouth remaining as before •, fo that a monftrous animal was the confequence,
having two mouths, and feeding at both ends.
Under
f
AND OCCULT SCI ENCES. 59
Under a large hollow cliff, in the ifland of Barbadoes, in the Weft Indies, where
the fea flows up, and forms a bafon, there is a fixed (tone, or piece of rock in the
middle, which is always under water. Round its fides, at different depths, fel-
doin exceeding eighteen inches, are feen, at all times of the year, iffuing out
of little holes, certain l'ubftances that have the appearance of fine radiated flowers,
of a pale yellow, or a bright flraw colour, (lightly tinged with green, having a cir-
cular border of thick-fet petals, about the fize of, and much refembling, thofe of
a fingle garden-marigold, except that the whole of this feeming flower is narrower
at the difcus, or fetting on of the leaves, than any flower of that kind. 1 have at-
tempted to pluck one of thefe from the rock, to which they are fixed ; but never
could effeCt it : for as foon as my fingers came within two or three inches of it, ic
would immediately contract together its yellow border, and Ihrink back into the
hole of the rock ; but if left undifturbed for about four minutes, it would come gra-
dually in fight, expanding, though at firft very cautioufly, its feeming leaves, till
at laft it appeared in its former bloom. However, it would again recoil, with a
furprifing quicknefs, when my hand came within a fmall diftance of it. Having
tried the fame experiment by attempting to touch it with my cane, and a fmall (len-
der rod, the effect was the fame. But, though I could not by any means contrive
to take or pluck one of thefe animals entire, yet I cut off (with a knife which I had
held for a long time out of fight, near the mouth of an hole out of which one of
thefe animals appeared) two of thefe feeming leaves. Thefe, when out of the water,
retain their (hape and colour ; but, being compofed of a membrane -like fubftance,
furprifingly thin, they foon fhrivelled up, and decayed.
The reproductive power of the Barbadoes animal-flower is prodigious. Many
people coming to fee thefe ftrange creatures, and occafioning (bme inconvenience
to a perfon through whole grounds they were obliged to pals, he refolved to deftroy
the objeCts of their curiofity ; and, that he might do fo effectually, caufed all the
holes out of which they appeared, to be carefully bored and drilled with an iron in-
Itrument, fo that we cannot fuppofe but their bodies mud have been entirely crufh-
ed to a pulp : neverthelefs, they again appeared in a few weeks in ftill greater
abundance, from the very fame places.
Thefea-carnation, or animal-flower, found in the rocks at Haftingsin Suflfex, is
very fimilar to the animal flower of Barbadoes. This animal adheres by its tail, or
fucker, to the under part of the projecting rocks oppofite the town j and, when
the tide is out, has the appearance of a long white fig j this is the form of it when
put into a glafs of fea- water.
Or
6o A KEY T O PHYSIC,
Of the POLYPUS.
I HE Polype, or Polypus, which fo long divided naturalifts in opinion, whether
itwasof vegetable, oranimal conformation, isa frelh water in fed, of thehydra genus,
in the clafs of worms, and order of zoophytes,
in the Linnaean fyltem. It is of a
cylindric figure, but variable, with very long tentacula, or claws. There is fcarce
an animal in the world more difficult to defcribe, than this furprifing infed ; it va-
ries its whole figure at pleafure, and is frequently found befet with young in fuch a
manner, as to appear ramofe and divaricated j thefe young ones adhering to it in
fuch a manner as to appear parts of its body.
When fimple and in a moderate date as to contradion or dilation, it is oblong,
{lender, pellucid, and of a pale-reddiffi colour : its body is fomewhat fmaller to-
wards the tail, by which it affixes itfelf to fome folid body ; and larger towards the
other extremity, where it has a large opening, called its mouth, around which are
the tentacula, or claws, which are eight in number, and are ufually extended to about
half the length of its body. By means of thefe tentacula, or arms, as they are com-
monly called, expanded into a circle of more than half a foot diameter, the creature
feels every thing that can ferve it for food ; and, feizing the prey with one of them,
calls in the affiftanceof the others, if neceffary, tocondud it to its mouth.
The produdion of its young is different from the common courfe of nature in
other animals ; for the young one iffues from the fide of its parent in the form of a
fmall pimple, which, lengthening every hour, becomes, in about two days, a perfed
animal, and drops from off its parent to ffiift for itfelf : but, before it does this, it
has often another growing from its fide ; and fometimes a third from it, even before
the firft is feparated from its parent ; and what is very extraordinary is, that there has
never yet been difcovered among them any diftindion of fex, or appearance of co-
pulation ; every individual of the whole fpecies being prolific, and that as much if
kept feparate, as if fuffered to live among others ; but what is even {till more fur-
prifing, is the reprodudion of its feveral parts when cut off; for, when cut into a
number of feparate pieces, it becomes in a day or two fo many diftind and feparate
animals ; each piece having the property of producing a head and tail, and the
other organs neceffary for life, and all the animal fundions.
There is no diftinguiffied place in the body of the polypus, from whence the
young are brought forth ; for they fpring out like (hoots or branches of a tree, from
all the exterior parts of their bodies. M. Trembley, who had heard much of this
creature, and being determined to convince himfelf, by real experiments, whether
it was a vegetable, or an animal, cut one in the middle, when, to his utter amaze-
ment,
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 6
1
* m t
•
1
jfcNy
ment, he found that in two days, each of thofe pieces was become a perfeft animal,
the head part having (hot forth a tail, and the tail a head. Numerous trials of a
fimilar nature have been made in my own laboratory, and I have always found that
it is of no confequence how often you cut them, for they fill! put out new members,
and become fomany diflindl polypes.
They are always to be found in clear allowly running waters, adhering by the tail
to flicks, flones, and water-plants, and live on fmall infedls. They are eafily kept
alive a long time in glaffes, often changing the water, keeping the glades clean,
and feeding them with a fmall red worm, common in the mud of the Thames, or
with other fmall infedls. The creature has its name from the Greek many,
and a foot, fignifying an animal with many feet •, but a more appofiteone might
eafily have been invented, fince it has in reality no feet at all. What were originally
taken for feet, are what have fince been called its horns, and of late more properly
its arms, their office being to catch its prey. With thefe little arms, which are
capable of great extenfion, it feizes minute worms, and various kinds of water in-
fers, and brings them to its mouth-, and, like the fea-anemone, often fwallows
bodies larger than itfelf ;
having a furprifing property of extending its mouth wider,
in proportion, than any other animal. After its food is digefled in its flomach, it
returns the remains of the animals upon which it feeds through its mouth again,
having no other obfervable emundlory. In a few days there appear fmall knobs or
papilla on its fides : as thefe increafe in length, little fibres are feen rifing out of
the circumference of their heads, as in the parent animal ; which fibres they foon
begin to ufe for the purpofe of procuring nourifhment, &c. When thefe are ar-
rived at mature fize, they fend out other young ones on their fides in the fame man-
ner -,
fo that the animal branches out into a numerous offspring, growing out of
one common parent, and united together and difpofed in the manner reprefcnted in
the annexed plate. Each of thefe provides nourifnment not only for itfelf, but for the
whole fociety ; an increafe of the bulk of one polype by its feeding, tending to an
increafe in the reft. Thus a polype of the freffi- water kind becomes like a plant
branched out, or compofed of many bodies, each of which has this fingular cha-
radleriflic, that if one of them be cut in two in the middle, the feparated part be-
comes a complete animal, and foon adhering to fome fixed bafe, like the parent
from which it was feparated, produces a circle of arms ; a mouth is formed in the
centre-, it increafes in bulk, emits a numerous progeny, and is foon, in every refpedl,
as perfedt an animal as that from which it was fevered. The feveral flrange pro-
perties recorded of the polypes and animal-flowers, though very furprifing, are nor,
however, peculiar to them alone. The Surinam toad is well known to produce its
No- 5- R vouncr
62 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
young not in the ordinary way, but in cells upon its back. And, as to the moft
amazing of their properties, the reproduction of their parts, we know the crab and
lobfter, if a leg be broken off, can always produce a new one.
I have annexed a copper- plate of fome excellent drawings of thefe curious phe-
nomenons in nature, in which No. i. reprefents the frefh-water polype, with its ten-
tacula or arms extended upwards. No. 2. reprefents the fame animal, with its young
branching from ir, and putting out their claws for food, which howfoever taken,
goes to the common fupport of the whole family. No. 3. fhews the animal-carna-
tion-flower of the rocks near Haftings in Sufiex, with its tenticles extended in
fearch of food. No. 4. is an exadl reprefentation of the fea-anemone, above defcrib-
ed. No. 5. fhews the head of the animal-flower of Barbadoes. No. 6. is a brilliant
difplay of the fea fun-flower animal, with its innumerable tenticles expanded to
catch its prey, which being allured to it by its elegant appearance, they clofe in-
ilantly upon ir, and convey it to the interior concavity or mouth. No. 7. reprefents
a clufter of the animal-flower defcribed by Mr. Ellis, in the iflands ceded by France,
in which a fhews one of the animals ftretching out its tenticles in fearch of food.
No. 8. is a perpendicular difledfion of one of the fame animals, in order to fhew the
gullet, inteftines, ftomach, and fibres or tendons, that move the claws.
Of ANIMALCULES.
THE next raoft furpriflng part of animal nature, is that of animalcules, which
are an innumerable tribe of living beings, that are wholly invifible to the naked eye,
and cannot even be perceived to exift, but by the afliftance of microicopes. The
fmallelf living creatures our inftruments can fhow, are thole that inhabit the waters ;
for though poflibly animalcules equally minute, or perhaps more fo, may fly in the
air, or creep upon the earth, it isfcarce poflible to bring fuch under our examina-
tion ; but water being tranfparent, and confining the creatures in it, we are able,
by applying a drop of it to our glafles, to difcover, to a certain degree of fmallnefs,
all that it contains.—Some of the moft curious of thefe animalcules, which have
been defcribed by microfcopical obfervers, are as follow.
1. The Hair-like Infeft. This is fo called on account of its fhape ; being extremely
(lender, and frequently an hundred and fifty times as long as broad. The body or
middle part, which is nearly ftraight, appears, in fome, compofed of fuch rings as
the windpipe of land-animals, but in others, feems rather fcaled, or made up of
rings that obliquely crofs one another. Its two ends are hooked or bent, pretty
nearly in the fame degree, but in adireftion opposite to one another j and as no eyes
can
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 63
-can be difcerned, it is difficult to judge which is 'the head or tail. Its progreffive
motion is very lingular, being performed by turning upon one end as a centre, and
defcribing almoft a quarter of a circle with the other ; its ffiape and form may be
feen in the following curious plate of animalcules, No r. Its motions are very
flow, and require much patience and attention in the obferver. Thefe creatures
are fo fmall, that millions of millions of them might be contained in the circle. No.
2. When viewed fingly, they are exceedingly tranfparent, and of a beautiful green
colour; but when numbers of them are brought together, they become opaque,
lofe their green colour, and grow entirely black. The hair-like infedt was fir ft
difcovered in a ditch at Norwich, one end of which communicates with the river
there, and the other end with a fecond ditch, into which feveral kennels empty
themfelves. The length of this ditch, v/as at leaf!; ioo yards, and its breadth nine.
The bottom, for more than a foot thick, was covered with a blackifh green fub-
ftance, in appearance like mud, made up for the in oft part of thefe infedts ; but,
fuppofing only an half or a quarter part of it to be compofed of them, according to
the above dimenfions, their numbers mull exceed ail imagination.
2. Eels inpajle,
&c. When pafte is allowed to Hand till it becomes four, it is
then found to be the habitation of numberlefs animalcules, which may be difcerned
by the naked eye ; and though their form cannot be perfectly diftinguiffied, their
motion is very perceptible, and the whole pafte will feem to be animated. No. g.
reprefents one of thefe anguillse magnified. The moft remarkable property of thefe
inlefts is, that they are viviparous. If one of them is cut through near the middle,
feveral oval bodies, of different fizes, will be feen to iffue forth. Thefe are young
anguillae, each of them coiled up and inclofed in its proper membrane, which is lo
exquifitely fine, as fcarce to bedifcernible by thegreateft magnifier, while it inclo-
fes the embryo animal. The largeft and moft forward immediately break through this
covering, unfold themfelves, and wriggle about in the water nimbly; others get
cut, uncoil, and move themfelves about more (lowly; and the leaft mature continue
entirely without motion. The uterus,
or veffel that contains all thefe oval bodies,
is compofed of many ringlets, not unlike the afpera arteria of land-animals, and
fee ms to be confiderably elaftic; for as foon as the animalcule is cut in two, the
oval bodies are thruftout with fome degree of violence,- from the fpringing back or
attion or thisjaowel. An hundred and upwards of the young ones have been feen
to iffue from the body of one Angle eel, whereby the prodigious increafe of them
may be accounted for ; as probably feveral fuch numerous generations-are produced
in a fhort time. Animalcules of a fimilar kind are likewife found in vinegar; and,
like thole already defcribed, are found to be viviparous. But it is not only in acid
matters that fuch appearances are obferved. In fome fields of wheat, many grains
may
64 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
may beobferved, that appear blackifh outwardly, as iffcorched ; but when opened,
are found to contain a foft white fubftance, which, attentively confidered, appears
to be nothing elfe than a congeries of threads or fibres lying ciofe to each other in a
parallel direbtion, much refembling the unripe down of fome thirties on cutting
open the flower-heads before they begin to blow. This fibrous matter difcovers
not the leaft fign of life or motion, unlefs water is applied : but immediately on
wetting, provided the grains of wheat have been newly gathered, the fuppofed
fibres feparate, and appear to be living creatures. Their motions at firft are very-
languid *
s but gradually become more active and vigorous, twilling and wriggling
themfelves fomewhat in the manner of the eels in parte, but always flower and with
lefs regularity.
3. The Proteus, fo called on account of its affuming a great number of different
fbapes, fo as fcarce to be known as the fame animal in its various transformations
and indeed, unlefs it be carefully watched while parting from one fhape to another,
it will often become fuddenly invifible. When water, wherein any fort of vegetable
has been infufed, or animals prefe^ved, has flood quietly for fome days, or weeks,
in any glafs or other veffel, a (limy fubftance will be collected about the fides : fome
of which being taken up with the point of a pen- knife, placed on a flip of glafs in a
drop of water, and looked at through the microfcope, will be found to harbour fe-
veral kinds of little animals that are feldom found fwimming about at large ; among
which the proteus is one. Its fhape is better underftood from the following plate, than
from any defcription that could be given. Its fubftance and colour leem to refemble
that of a fnail ;
and its whole fhape feems to bear a confiderable refemblance to that,
of a fwan. It fwims to and fro with great vivacity : but will now and then flop for
a minute or two •, during which time its long neck is ufually employed as far as it
can reach, forwards, and on every fide, with a fomewhat flow, but equable motion,
like that of a fnake, frequently extending thrice the length of its body, and feeming-
ly in fearch of food. There are no eyes, nor any opening in the head like a mouth,
to be difcerned : but its abtions plainly prove it to be an animal that can fee: for
though multitudes of different animalcules fwim about in the fame water, and its
own progreflive motion is very fwift, it never ftrikes againft any of them, but direbls
its courfe between them with a dexterity wholly unaccountable, fhould we fuppofe it
deftitute of fight. When it is alarmed, it fuddenly draws in its neck, reprefented in the
plate, at No. 4. and 5. transforming itfelfintothe fhape reprefented at No. 6. when it
becomes more opaque, and moves about very flowly, with the large end foremoft.
When it has continued fome time in this pofture, it will often, inftead of the head
and neck it had formerly, put forth a new one, with a kind of wheel-machinery,
reprefented
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. %
reprefented at No. 7. the motions of which draw a current of water to it from a con-
fiderable diftance. Having often pulled in and thruft out this fhort head, fometimes
with and fometimes without the wheel-work, the creature, as if weary, will remain
motionlefs for a while •, then its head and long neck will be very (lowly protruded,
as in No. 8. and it foon refumes its former agility. Sometimes it difpofesof its neck
and head, as reprefented in the plate, at No. 9.
4, The Wheel-animal, or Vorticella. This wonderful animalcule is found in rain-
water that has ftood fome days in leaden gutters, or in hollows of lead on the tops
ofhoufesj or in the (lime or fediment left by fuch water-, and perhaps may al(o be
found in other places : but if the water Handing in gutters of lead, or the fediment
left behind it, has any thing of a red colour in it, one may be almoft certain of
finding them therein. Though it difcovers no figns of life except when in the wa-
ter, yet it is capable of continuing alive for many months after it is taken out of
the water, and kept in a ftate as dry as duft.- In this Hate it is of a globular (hape,
exceeds not the bignefs of a grain of fand, and no figns of life appear but, being
put into water, in the fpace of half an hour a languid motion begins, the globule
turns itfelf about, lengthens itfelf by (low degrees, affumes the form of a lively
maggot, and moft commonly in a few minutes afterwards puts out its wheels ;
fwimming vigoroufiy through the water, as if in fearch of food or elfe, fixing
itfelf by the tail, works the wheels in fuch a manner as to bring its food to it. No.
10, 11, 12, and 13, fhew the different appearances of its wheels ; and No. 14, and 15,
Ihew its globular form. The moft remarkable part of this animalcule is its wheel-
work. This confifts of a couple of femicircular inftruments, round the edges of
which many little fibrillas move themfelves very brifkly, fometimes with a kind of
rotation, and fometimes in a trembling or vibrating manner. When in this ftate,
it fometimes unfaftens its tail, and fwims along with a great deal of fwiftnefs, feem-
ingly in purfuit of its prey. Sometimes the wheels feem to be entire circles, armed
with fmall teeth, like thofe of the balance-wheel of a watch, appearing projected
forwards beyond the head, and extending Tideways fomewhat wider than its diame-
ter. The teeth or cogs of thefe wheels feem to ftand very regularly at equal diftances ;
but the figure of them varies according to their pofition, the degree of their protru-
fion, and perhaps the will of the animal itfelf. All the adtions of this creature feem
to imply fagacity and quicknefs of fenfation. At the leaft touch or motion in the
water, they inftantly draw in their wheels -, and their eyes feem to be lodged iome-
where about the wheels becaufe, while in the maggot ftate, its motions are (low
and blundering ; but, after the wheels are protruded, they are performed with great
regularity, fwiftnefs, and fteadinefs.
No. 5. S BeTides
66 A KEY TO PHYSIC.
Befides the above, there are found in our waters feveral other fpecies of animals
furnifhed wich wheels, lome of which appear to have a rotatory, and others a vi-
bratory, motion. No. 16. reprefents a kind found in the ditch at Norwich, where
the hair-like in led is produced. They differ from the loregoing only in having
very long tails. No. 17, 18, and 19, reprefent a lpecies of wheel-animals, which are
alio covered with fhells. The body of this fpecies conlifts of three parts, in like
manner as the other •, only the thorax and abdomen, in this, are not feparated by
any gut, or intermediate vefifel, but arc joined immediately together. The heart is
plainly perceived, having a regular fyftole and diaftole, at a a a, as in the former fpe-
cies. Thefe creatures occafionally draw themielves entirely within their Ihells ; and
the Ihell then appears terminated by fix Ihort fpikes on one fide and two on the
other. The young ones of this fpecies are carried in oval facculi, or integuments,
fattened externally to the lower part of their fhells fomewhere about the tail. When
a young one is about to burft its integuments, the parent aflifts it greatly, by
wagging its tail, and ftriking the oval bag, lo that the young one’s head becomes
as it were forced into the water, though the tail cannot be lo loon difengaged. In
this condition the young one fets its wheel a going, and exerts all its endeavours to
free itfelf from its confinement. When it has got clear, it fv/ims away, wagging
its tail as the old one does, and leaving the integument adhering to the fhell of the
parent. Thefe wheel-animals are great tormentors of the water-flea, of which a
figure is given in the following plate •, No. 20. fhows it magnified, with fome of the
wheel-animals adhering to it. No. 21. fhows the natural fize of the flea. Thefe
infedts are often found in great numbers in the lame water j and when that is the
ca!e, it is not uncommon to difcover live or fix of thefe cruttaceous wheel-animals
fattened by their tail to the fhell or horns of the flea : caufing it, feemingly, a vaft
deal of uneafinefs y nor can they be driven away, or fhaken off, by all the efforts the
flea can ufefor that purpofe.
5. The Bell-flower Animal,
or Plumed Polype. Thefe animalcules dwell in colonies
together, from ten to fifteen, (feldom falling fhort of the former number, or ex-
ceeding the latter,) in a flimy kind of mucilaginous or gelatinous cafe ; which,
out of the water, has no determined form, appearing like a little lump of flime ;
but, when expanded therein, has fome refemblance to the figure of a bell with its
mouth upwards; and is ufually about half an incn long, and a quarter of an inch in
diameter. Thefe bells, or colonies, are to be found adhering to the large leaves of
duckweed, and other aquatic plants. They may be moft ealily dilcovered by let-
ting a quantity of water, with duckweed in it, ftand quietly for three or four hours
in glafs vefiels in a window, or other place where a ftrong light comes : for then,
if
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 67
if any are about the duckweed, they will be found, on careful infpeClion, extending
themfelves out of their cafes, and making an elegant appearance. Befides the par-
ticular and feparate mot;
on which each of thefe creatu es is able to exert within its
own cafe, and independent of the reft ^ the whole colony together has a power of
altering the pofition of the bell, or even of removing it from one place to another
;
and hence this bell is fometimes found (landing perfectly upright, as in No. 22. and
fometimes bending the upper part downwards. As thefe animalcules feem not to
choofe to (lay together in fociecies whofe number exceeds fifteen, when the colony
happens to increafe in number, the bell may be obferved to fplit gradually, begin-
ning from about the middle of the upper or anterior extremity, and proceeding
downwards towards the bottom, as in No. 23. till they at lad feparate entirely, and
become two complete colonies independent of each other, one of which fometimes
removes to another part of the veflel. The arms of each individual of this colony
are let round the head, to the number of forty, having each the figure of an Italic f,
one of whofe hooked ends is fattened to the head ; and all together, when expand-
ed, compofe a figure (haped fomewhat like a horfe’s flioe, convex on one fide next
the body, but gradually opening and turning outwards, fo as to leave a confidera-
ble area within the outer extremities of the arms. When the arms are thus extend-
ed, the creature, by giving them a vibrating motion, can produce a current in the
water, which brings the animalcules, or whatever other minute bodies are within
the fphere of its aCtion, with great velocity to its mouth, fituated between the arms j
where they are taken in if liked, or driven away by a contrary motion. Though
their eyes cannot be discovered, yet they have perception of the light : for when
kept in the dark, they always remain contracted •, but on being expofed to the light
of the fun or of a candle, they conftantly extend their arms, and (how evident figns
of being pleafed.
6. The Globe-animal. This animalcule, reprefented at No. 24. feems exaClly glo-
bular, having no appearance of either head, tail, or fins. It moves in ail directions,,
forwardsor backwards, up or down, either rolling over and overlikea bowl, (pin-
ning horizontally like a top, or gliding along fmoothly without turning itfelf at all.
Sometimes its motions ate (low, at other times very fwift ; and, when it pleafes,
it can turn round, as it were upon an axis, very nimbly, without removing out of
its place. The whole body is tranfparent, except where the circular black fpots
are fhown in the figure. Some of t
u
e animals have no fpots, and others from one
to feven. The furface of the whoie body appears, in fome, as if all over-dotted
with points -, in others, as if granulated like fhagrten : but their more general ap-
pearange is, as if befet thinly round with fhort moveable hairs or bridles, which
probably
6 * A KEY TO PHYSIC,
probably are the inftruments by which the’ motions are performed. Thefe ani-
malcules may be feen by the naked eye, but pear c.dy like moving points.
7. The Pipe-animal, i hefe creatures are found on the coaft of Norfolk, living in
Imall tubes or cafes offandy matter, in fuch multitudes as to compofe a mafsfome-
times of three feet in length. No. 25. fhows a piece or fuch a congeries broke off,
where aaaa reprefent the mouths or openings of the pipes wherein the little ani-
mals make their abode. No. 26. fhows one fingle pipe, with its inhabitant, iepa-
rated from the reft, and magnified nine or ten times in diameter. The pipe or cafe
h is made of fand, intermixed here and there with minute fhells, and all cemented
together by a glutinous fiime, probably iffuing from the animal’s own body c,
which is compofed of mufcular ringlets like thofe of a worm, capable of great ex-
tenfion or contraction. The anterior end or head, d, is exceedingly beautiful, hav-
ing round it a double row of little arms difpofed in a very regular order, and proba-
bly capable of extenfion, in order to catch its food, and bring it to its mouth.
Some of thefe tubes are found petrified, and conftitute one fpecies of fyringoides.
8. An lnjeft with net-like arms. The properties and fhape of this little animal are
very extraordinary. It is found only in cafcades, where the water runs very fwift.
There thefe infeCts are found in clufters, (landing ereCt on their tails ; and refem-
bling, when all together, the combs of bees at the time they are filled with their
aurelire. On being taken out of the water, they fpin threads, by which they hang
exadtly in the fame manner as the garden-fpider. No. 27. (hows one of thefe infeCts
magnified. Its body appears curioufly turned as on a lathe; and at the tail are
three fharp fpines, on which it raifes itfelf, and (lands upright in the water : but,
the moft curious apparatus is about its head, where it is furnifhed with two inftru-
ments like fans or nets, which ferve to provide its food. Thefe it frequently fpreads
out and draws in again •, and when drawn up they are folded together with the ut-
moft nicety and exadtnefs, fo as to be indifcernible when brought clofe to the body.
At the bottom of thefe fans a couple of claws are faftened to the lower part of the
head, which, every time the nets are drawn in, condudl to the mouth of the ani-
mal whatever is taken in them. Some of thefe creatures being kept with water
in a vial, moft of them died in two days •, and the reft, having fpun themfelves
tranfparent cafes, (which were faftened either to the fides of the glafs, or to pieces
of grafs put into it,) feemed to be changed into a kind of chryfalis. None of them
lived above three days 5 and, though frefh water was given them two or three
times a day, yet in a few hours it would (link to a degree fcarce conceivable, and
that too at feveral yards diftance, though in proportion to the water, all the in-
cluded infe&s were not more than as one to one million one hundred and fifty thou-
fand.
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 69
fand. This makes it probable, that it is neceffary for them to live in a rapid dream,
left they (hould be poifoned by the effluvia ifluing from their own bodies, as no
doubt they were in the phial.
9. A curious aquatic worm. This animalcule is fhown, magnified, at No. 28. It
is found in ditch-water ; and is of various fizes, from one fortieth to half an -inch in
length. About the head it has fomewhat of a yeilowilh colour j but all the reft of
the body is perfectly colourlefs and tranfparent, except the inteftines, which are con-
fiderably opaque, and difpofed as in the figure. Along its fides are fcveral papillae,
with long hairs growing from them : it has two black eyes, and is very nimble. But
the moft remarkable thing in this creature is a long horn or probofcis •, which, in
the large ones, may be feen with the naked eye, if the water is clear, and is fome-
times one tenth of an inch in length ;
this it waves to and fro as it moves in the wa-
ter, or creeps up the fide of the glafs-, but it is not known whether it is hollow,
or of what ufe it is to the creature itfelf.
10. Spermatic Animals,
and Animalcula Infuforia. The difcovery of living animal-
cules in the femen of moft animals, is claimed by Mr. Lewenhoek. According to
this naturalift, thele animalcules are found in the male feed of every kind of animal
;
but their general appearance is very much the fame, nor doth their fize differ in
•o roportion to the bulk of the animal to which they belong. The bodies of all of
them feem to be of an oblong oval form, with long tapering (lender tails ifluing
from them •, and, as by this (hape they refemble tadpoles, they have been frequent-
ly called by that name ; though the tails of them, in proportion to their bodies, are
much longer than the tails of tadpoles are : and it is obfervable, that the animal-
cules in the feed of fifties have tails much longer and more (lender than the tails of
thofe in other animals ; infomuch, that the extremity of them is not to be difcern-
ed without the beft glaffes, and the utmoft attention. No. 29. a, £, c,
d, reprefent
the fpermatic animalcula of the rabbit ; and No. 30. e,f, g, h, thofe found in the feed
of a dog. The numbers of thefe animalcula are inconceivable. On viewing with
a microfcope the milt or feed of a male cod-fifii, innumerable multitudes of animal-
cules are found therein, of fuch a diminutive fize, that at leaft ten thoufand of
them are capable of being contained in the bulk of a grain of fand ; whence it is
concluded, that the milt of this fingle fifh con ained more living animalcules than
there are to be found people living in the whole world. To find the comparative
fize of thefe animalcules, Mr. Lewenhoek placed an hair of his head near them ;
which hair, through his microfcope, appeared an inch in breadth ; and he was
iatisfied, that at leaft fixty fuch animalcules could eafily lie within that diameter 3
whence their bodies being fpherical, it follows, that two hundred and fixteen thou-
No' 5- T &nd
70 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
fand of them are but equal to a globe wbofe diameter is the breadth of a hair. He
obferved, that when the water wherewith he had diluted the feed of a cod-filh was
exhaled, the little bodies of the animalcules burft in pieces ; which did not happen
to thole in the feed of a ram : and this is imputed to the greater firmnefs and con-
fiftency of the latter, as the flefti of a land-animal is more compabl than filh. Thefe
animalcules appear to be very vigorous, and tenacious of life *, for they may be ob-
ferved to move long after the animal from which they are taken is dead. They have
this peculiarity alfo, that they are continually in motion, without the leaf: reft or in-
termiflion, provided there is fluid fufticient for them to fwim about in. Thefe
animalcula are only peculiar to the feed ; nothing that has the leaft token of life
being difcoverable, by the beft glafles, either in the blood, fpittle, urine, gall, or
chyle. Great numbers, however, are to be found in the whitifh matter that fticks
between our teeth ; fome of which are of an oval figure, and others refemble eels.
The Animalcula Infuforia, take their name from their being found in all kinds
either of vegetable or animal infufions. Indeed, there is fcarce any kind of water,
unlefs impregnated with fome mineral fubftance, but what will difcover living
creatures. Mr. Lewenhoek fays, that at firft he could difcern no living creatures
in rain-water ; but after Handing fome days, he difcovered innumerable animal-
cules, many thoufands of times lefs than a grain of fand, and in proportion to a
mite as a bee is to a horfe. In other rain-water, which had likewife flood fome
time, he found the fmalleft fort he had ever feen ;
and, in a few days more, met
with others eight times as big as thefe, and almoft round. In another quantity of
rain-water, that had been expofed like the former, he difcovered a kind of ani-
malcules with two little horns in continual motion. The fpace between the horns
was flat, though the body was roundifh, but tapering a little towards the end
where a tail appeared, four times as long as the body, and the thicknefs of a fpi-
der’s web. He obferved feveral hundreds of thefe within the fpace a grain of fand
would occupy. If they happened on the leaft filament or firing, they were entan-
gled in it; and then would extend their bodies into an oblong round, and ftruggle
hard to difengage their tails. He obferved a fecond fort of an oval figure, and
imagined the head to ftand at the fharpeft end. The body was flat, with feveral
fma'll feet moving exceeding quick, but not difcernible without a great deal of at-
tention. Sometimes they changed their fhape into a perfebl round, efpecially when
the water began to dry away. He met alfo with a third fort, twice as long as broad,
and eight times fmaller than the firft : yet in thefe he difcerned little feet, whereby
they moved very nimbly. He perceived likewife a fourth fort, a thouland times
fmaller than a loufe’s eye, and which exceeded all the reft in brifknefs : he found
thefe
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. yi
thefe turning themfelves round, as it were upon a point, with the celerity of a top.
And he fays, there were feveral other forts. The production of animalcula infuforia
is very furprifing. In four hours time, an infufion of cantharides has produced
animalcula lefs than even the tails of thefpermatic animals we have already defcrib-
ed. Neither do they feem to be fubjeCl to the fate of other animals ; but, feveral
kinds of them at lead, by dividing themfelves in two, to enjoy a fort of immortality.
Nor do the common methods by which other animals are dedroyed, feem to be
effectual for dedroying their vital principle. Hot mutton-gravy, fecured in a
phial with a cork, and afterwards fet among hot alhes to dedroy as effectually as
pofiible every living creature that could be fuppofed to exid in it, has neverthelefs
been found fwarming with animalcules after (landing a few days. In the Philofo-
phical Tranfadions, vol. lix. we have a very curious account, given us by Mr.
Ellis, of animalcules produced from an infufion of potatoes and of hempfeed.
“ On the 25th of May, 1768, Fahrenheit’s thermometer feventy degrees, I boil-
ed a potatoe in the New River water till it was reduced to a mealy confidence.
1 put part of it, with an equal proportion of the boiling liquor, into a cylindri-
cal glafs-veffel that held fomething lefs than half a wine-pint, and covered it clofe
immediately with a glafs cover. At the fame time, I diced an unboiled potatoe:
and, as near as I could judge, put the fame quantity into 'a glafs-veffel of the
fame kind •, with the fame proportion of New River water not boiled ; and co-
vered it with a glafs cover ; and placed both veffels clofe to each other. On
the twenty-fixth of May, twenty-four hours afterwards, I examined a (mall
drop of each, by the fird magnifier of Wilfon’s microfcope, whofe focal didance
is reckoned at the fiftieth part of an inch ; and, to my amazement, they
were both full of animalcula of a linear fhape, very didinguifhable, moving
to and fro with great celerity ; fo that there appeared to be more particles of animal
than vegetable life in each drop. This experiment I have repeatedly tried, and al-
ways found it to fucceed in proportion to the heat of the circum-ambient air ;
fo that
even in winter, if the liquors are kept properly warm, at lead in two or three days
the experiment will fucceed. What I haveobferved are infinitely fmaller than fper-
matic animals, and of a very different fhape : the truth of which every accurate ob-
ferver will loon be convinced of, whofe curiofity may lead him to compare them ^
and I am perfuaded he will find they are no way akin. At prefent I fhall pafs over
many other curious obfervations, which I have made on two years experiments, in
order to proceed to the explaining a hint which I received lad January from M. de
Sauffure of Geneva, when he was here ;
which is, that he found one kind of thefe
animalcula infuforia that increafe by dividing acrofs into nearly two equal parts. I
had
, A KEY TOP II Y S I C,
had often feen this appearance in various fpecies a year or two ago, as I found upon
looking over the minutes I had taken when I made any new obfervation •, but always
fuppofed the animal, when in this hate, to be in coition. Not hearing, till after
M. de Sau fibre left this kingdom, from what infufion he had made his obfervation,
his friend Dr. de la Roche of Geneva informed me the latter end of February laft,
that it was from hempfeed. I immediately procured h: mpfeed from different feeds-
men in diftant parts of the town. Some of it I put into New River water, fome in-
to diftilled water, and fome I put into very hard pump water. The refult was,
that in proportion to the heat of the weather, or the warmth in which they were
kept, there was an appearance of millions of minute animalcula in all the infufions
and, fome time after, fome oval ones made their appearance. Thefe were much
larger than the firft, which ftill continued ;
thefe wriggled to and fro in an undu-
latory motion, turning themfelves round very quick all the time that they moved
forwards. Nothing more plainly fhows thefe animals to be zoophytes than this cir-
cumftance, that when, by accident, the extremity of their bodies has been fliri vei-
led for want of a fupply of frefh water, the applying more frefii water has given
motion to the part of the animal that was ftill alive-, by which means, this fhapelefs
figure has continued to live and fwim to and fro all the time it was fupplied with
frefn water.” Thus we have given as full an account as our limits would admit, of
the moft curious kinds of animalcules that have hitherto been obferved. We can-
not, however, difmifs this fubjedt, without taking notice of the animalcules found
in the feed of man.
Before the invention of microfcopes, the dodtrine of equivocal generation, both
with regard to animals and plants of fome kinds, was univerfally received : but
this inftrument foon convinced every intelligent perfon, that thofe plants which
formerly were fuppofed to be produced by equivocal generation arofe from feeds
and the animals, in like manner, from a male and female. But, as the microfcope
threw light upon one part of nature, it left another involved in darknefs : for the
origin of the animalcula infuforia, or of the fpermatic animals already mentioned
remains as much unknown, as that of many other kinds was, when the dodtrine
of equivocal generation reigned in full force.
The difcovery of fpermatic animalcules was thought to throw fome light on the
myfterious affair of generation itfelf, and thefe minute creatures were imagined to
be each of them individuals of the fame fpecies with the parent. Here the infinite
number of thefe animalcules was an objedtion, and the difficulty remained as great
as befoie; for, as every one of thefe animalcules behoved to be produced from a
male and female, to explain their origin by animalcular generation in the fame
manner.
n
and occult sciences.
manner, was only explaining generation by itfelf. This hypothecs, therefore, ha-
ving proved unfatisfadtory, others have been invented, but which are likewife in-
volved in doubt. M. Buffon, however, fo far as concerns human generation, has
given fuch a particular account of the animalcules in the feed of man, that we ihall
ftate it here, for the information of the curious.
"
Havin'* procured the private parts of a man who died a violent death, he extrac-
ted all the feed from them while they were Hill warm: and having examined a drop
of it with a double microfcope, it had the appearance, as in the plate, at No. 31.
Large filaments appeared, which in fome places fpread out into branches, and in
others intermingled with one another. Thefe filaments clearly appeared to be agita-
ted by an internal undulatory motion, like hollow tubes, which contained fome
moving fubftance. He faw diftindtly this appearance changed for that at No. 32.
Two of thefe filaments, which were joined longitudinally, gradually feparated from
each other in the middle, alternately approaching and receding, like two tenfe cords
fixed by the ends, and drawn afunder in the middle. Thefe filaments were compo-
fed of globules that touched one another, and refembled a chaplet of beads. After
this, he obferved the filaments fwelled in feveral places, and perceived fmall globu-
lar bodies ifiue from the fwelled parts, which had a vibratory motion like a pendu-
lum. Thefe fmall bodies v/ere attached to the filaments by fmall threads, which
gradually lengthened as the bodies moved. At laft, the fmall bodies detached them-
felves entirely from the filaments, drawing after them the fmall thread, which
looked like a tail. When a drop of the feminal liquor was diluted, thefe fmall bodies
moved in all diredtions very brifkly. The feminal matter was at firft too thick, but
gradually became more fluid ; and, in proportion as its fluidity increafed, the fila-
ments difappeared, but the fmall bodies became exceedingly numerous. Each of
them had a long thread or tail attached to it, from which it evidently endeavoured to
get free. Their progreffive motion was extremely flow, during which they vibrated
to the right and left, and at each vibration they had a rolling unfteady motion in a
vertical diredtion.
At the end of two or three hours, the feminal matter becoming ftill more fluid, a
greater number of thefe moving bodies appeared. They were then mQre free of
incumbrances •, their tails were ihorter •, their progreffive motion was more diredf,
and their horizontal motion greatly diminiflied. In five or fix hours, the feed had
acquired almoft all the fluidity it could acquire, without being decompofed. Moft:
of the fmall bodies were now difengaged from their threads ; their figure was oval.
They moved forward with confiderable quicknefs, and, by their irregular motions
backward and forward, they had now more than ever the appearance of animals.
No. 5. U Thefe
74 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Thofe that had tails adhering to them, feemed to have lefs vivacity than the others
and of thofe that had no tails, fome altered both their figure and their fize. In twelve
"hours, the feed had depofited at the bottom of the vial a kind of afh-coloured ge-
latinous fubftance, and the fluid at top was almoh as tranfparent as water. The little
bodies, being now entirely freed from their threads, moved with great agility, and
fome of them turned round their centres. They alfo often changed their figures,
from oval becoming round, and often breaking into fmaller ones. Their activity
always increafed as their fize diminiftied. In twenty-four hours, the feed had depo-
fited a greater quantity of gelatinous matter, which, being with fome difficulty dilu-
ted in water, exhibited an appearance fomewhat refembling lace. In the clear feed it-
felf only a few fmall bodies were now feen moving ; next day, thefe were ftill farther
diminiffied ; and after this nothing was to be feen but globules, without the leait ap-
pearance of motion. All the above-mentioned appearances in the feed' of man, are
Ihown in the plate, at No. 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, and 38. No. 39 and 40 reprefent an
appearance of the globules in another experiment, in which they arranged them-
felves in troops, and paffed very quickly over the field of the microfcope. In this
experiment they were found to proceed from a fmall quantity of gelatinous mucilage,
depofited by the feed.
An objection has however been made to the exigence of animalcules in the feed,
or in any other part of animal bodies, from the total exclufion of air, which is found
fo neceffary to the life of larger animals. Many inhances, however, have been ob-
ferved of large animals being found in fuch fituations as they could not poffibly have
enjoyed the leaft benefit from the air for a great number of years ; and in this hate
have not only lived, but lived much longer than they would otherwife have done.
In Toulon harbour and the road, are found folid hard hones, and perfeffly entire,
containing, in different cells, fecluded from all communication with the air, feverai
living ffiell-fifn, of an exquifite tafte, called DaElyli, i. e. Dates ; to come at thefe
fifh, the hones are broken with mauls. Alfo, along the coah of Anconia, in the
Adriatic, are hones ufually weighing about fifty pounds, and fometimes even more ^
the outfide rugged, and eafily broken, but the infide fo hard, as to require a hrong
arm and an iron maul to break them ; within them, and in feparate niches, are found
fmall hiell-fifh, quite alive, and very palatable, called Solenes,
or Cappe lunghe.
Thefe faffs are attehed by Gaffendi, Blondel, Mayol, the learned biffiop of Sultu-
rara, and more particularly by Aldrovandi, a pnyfician of Bologna. The two lat-
ter fpeak of it as a common faff which they themfelves faw.
In the volume for the year S7iga of the Academy of Sciences at Paris, is the
following paffage t *
75
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
In the foot of an dm, of the bignefs of a pretty corpulent man, three or four
feet above the root, and exa&ly in the centre, has been found a live toad, rniddle-
fized, but lean, and filling up the whole vacant fpace : no fooner was a paftage
opened, by fplittingthe wood, than it fcuttled away very haftily : a more firm and
found elm never grew ; fo that the toad cannot be fuppofed to have got into it.
The egg or lpawn whence it was formed, muft, by fome very fingular accident, have
been lodged in the tree at its firft growth. There the creature had lived without air,
feeding on the fubftance of the tree, and growing only as the tree grew. This is
attefted by Mr. Hubert, profeffbr of philofophy at Caen.”
The volume for the year 1731 has a fimilar obfervation, exprefled in thefe words
:
—“ In 1719, we gave an account of a fad, which, though improbable, was well
attefted ; that a toad had been found living and growing in the ftem of a middling
elm, without any way for the creature to come out or to have got in. M. Seigne,
of Nantes, lays before the academy a fad juft of the very fame nature, except that,
inftead of an elm, it was an oak, and larger than the elm, which ftill heightens the
wonder. He judges, by the time requifite for the growth of the oak, that the toad
muft havefubfifted in it, without air, or any adventitious aliment, during eighty or
one hundred years. M. Seigne feems to have known nothing of the fad in 1719.”
With the two foregoing may be clafled a narrative of Am'orofe Pare, chief fur-
geon to Plenty III. King of France, who, being a very fenfible writer, relates the
following fad, of which he was an eye-witnefs ;
“ Being (fays he) at my feat, near the village ofMeudon, and over-looking a
quarry-man whom I had fet to break fome very large and hard ftones ; in the middle
of one we found a huge toad, full of life, and without any vifible aperture by which
it could get there. I began to wonder how it received birth, had grown and lived j.
but the labourer told me, it was not the firft time he had met with a toad, and the
like creatures, within huge blocks of ftone, and no vifible opening or ft flu re.”
Obfervations of living toads, found in very hard and entire ftones, occur in feve-
ral authors, particularly Baptift Fulgofa doge of Genoa, the farpous phyficians
Agricola and Horftius, and lord Verulam ; others give very fpecious accounts of
fnakes, frogs, crabs, and lobfters, being found alive, inclofed within blocks of
marble, rocks, and large ftones.
An inftance fimilar to thefe, of the truth of which we have no reafon to doubt,
was obferved in this country in the year 1773, where a large toad was found in the
middle of a piece of coal, having not the leaft vifible crack or fiffure.
Upon the whole, though philofophers are not yet able to difcover how thefe mi-
nute creatures are produced; yet, that there really are animals much fmaller than
what
76 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
what we can difcern with our naked eye, feems to be indifputable. And the fubje<ft
evidently requires the utmofl attention of philofophers, as well as further improve-
ments in the conftruftion of microfcopes, fully to invefligate and explain it.—
Molt naturalifls fuppofe another fpecies or order of invifible animalcules, fuch as
efcape the cognizance even of the belt microfcopes, and give many probable conjec-
tures in relation to them. Reafon and analogy give fome fupport to the exigence of
infinite imperceptible animalcules. The naked eye takes in from the elephant to
the mite ; but there commences a new order, referved only for the microfcope,
which comprehends all thefe from the mite to thofe twenty feven millions of times
fmaller ;
and this order cannot be yet faid to be exhaufted, if the microfcope be not
arrived at its laft and higheft perfection.
Animalcula are the caufe of various diforders. The itch, from feveral experi-
ments, is a diforder arifing from the irritations of a fpecies of animalcula found in
the puftules of that diforder; whence the communication of it by contaCt from one
to another is eafily conceived, as alfo the reafon of the cure being effected by ex-
ternal applications. Many other cutaneous eruptions, often fuppofed to originate'
in the blood, are nothing more than fettlements made by colonies of thefe invifible
beings. A fwarm of them light upon the fkin, and, finding in its pores a comforta-
ble habitation foon produce a punCture, with fcabs and irritation. But this is not
the worft. Obfervation has long convinced me that a variety of internal complaints
in the flomach, pancreas, lungs, liver, and inteftines, are brought on by fwallow-
ing myriads of thefe, and other imperceptible living creatures, which inhabit raw
vegetables, and foul water; and finding the heat and food of the flomach congenial
to their growth, they become a new fpecies, of an alarming fize, and prey upon the
vital parts, to the great detriment of the patient’s -health, and oftentimes at the ex-
pence of his life, before the malady can be known, or even fufpeCted.
A patient of mine, a young man near eighteen years of age, had been a confider-
able time in a confumptive habit, and difordered in the flomach ; and notwithfland-
ing he had the advice of feveral eminent phyficians, and had taken a variety of
medicines, he never found the fmallefl alleviation of his pain. Upon enquiring
into the nature of his food for fome time before, he told me he came from a village
near Bridport in Dorfetfhire, which abounds with water-crefles, and on thefe he had
fed almofl daily -for fome months previous to his coming to London. I gave him
three emetics fucceffively, with a view to cleanfe the flomach from all flime, phlegm,
and undigefted food ; and immediately after the laft had operated, he took a flrong
dofe, undiluted, of my Solar Tinfture. In lefs than ten minutes it brought up an
animal of the molt hideous form, which at firft appeared incapable of motion, be-
e ing
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 77
ing overcome by the ftrength of the medicine •, but on putting it into a bafon of warm
water it quickly recovered, and fent forth a let oftenticles or claws, which, though
greatly enlarged, and diverfely altered, foon convinced me it mull originally have
been a fhoot from the frefh-water polypus ;
that on leaving the parent animal, it had
attached itfelf to a root or leaf of the water-creffes, which this young man unfortu-
nately fwallowed. And it appeared further, that thele tenticles or claws had been
fo ftrongly affixed to the bowel or cotes of thefbomach, as to have defied the power
of all common remedies to remove them. The patient happily found immediate
relief, and is now healthy and robuft.
* From feveral other patients, apparently in confumptions, or afflicted with nau-
fea, or uncommon fenfations in the ftomach and bowels, I have brought a way living
animals, that would terrify many people to look upon ; and which mud have come
from the fpawn, or eggs, of minute animals, taken in with the food. For this rea-
fon I would admonilh all my readers to have the utmoft care taken in the waffling
and cleanfing of fallads, water-creffes, and all raw vegetables ; and particularly to
guard againft the long red worm which almoft continually lies concealed in the very
heart or centre of a head of cellary. The fame caution is neceffary in eating all kinds
of fruit •, fince nothing much more abounds with animalcules, and various living crea-
tures. Cold raw water, particularly when ftagnant, ought never to be drunk. It
is ever the fafeft way to boil your water, before it be ufed in the co mpofition of
any kind of beverage, or even to drink alone.
I might here adduce many other inftances of perfons having engendered living
creatures in their bowels, by fwallowing the eggs or fpawn of the parent animal. A
young man, fervant to Lord Stawell, at Holt-park near Farnham, had eaten vora-
cioufly of water-creffes. Sometime afterwards he went into a decline, and complain-
ed of a continual fenfation of pain at the pitof his ftomach, which no medicine could
remove. His lordfhip having a value for the man, fent him to town for the advice
of the molt able phyficians ; but ftill to no purpofe. He was in this ftate fent home
to his friends, and given over as a loft and incurable cafe. In this ftage fome ftrong
emetics were given him, by a country apothecary, and he threw up, to the amaze-
ment of all the country round, an incredible number of fmall tadpoles, which were
evidently the production of fpawn attached to the water-creffes, eaten without care,
and perhaps without walking. The patient recovered rapidly, and in lefs than a
month was able to refume his former avocation.
But a ftill more extraordinary cafe happened in the county of Hampfhire, fo re-
cently as the year 1792, of a girl about fourteen years of age, who found a molt un-
common fenfation in her ftomach and bowels, and could plainly feel and diftin-
No. 6. X guifr
78 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
guifh fortieth ing alive, and moving within her. The girl’s defcription was for fome-
time treated as a chimera. At la ft, however, (he brought up a living toad ! This
unqueftionably muft have been taken into her ftomach in that ftate of the fpawn
which is juft emerging to tadpoles, and was attributed to her eating water-creffes,
which had long been a common food with her. Nothing could have faved her from
poifon, but the C'^ature having been bred and nourifhed up as it were in her own
body, and had aftlmilated fo much with the nature thereof as to have thus long pro-
ved harmlefs. It is however certain, that had it not been thus timely brought
away, fhe muft very foon have died.
A-nimalcula are the moft common caufes of foul and rotten teeth. They attack
the roots below the enamel, which they perforate, andinafhort time form crufta-
tio.ns or fcales round the teeth, as hard as ftones ; but which are nothing more than a
congeries or cruftaceous fhell, which thefe little animals inhabit, and are probably
formed of the fine particles falling from the teeth during their perforations, cemen-
ted together by a glutinous fiimy matter iffuing from their own bodies, which are
compofed of ringlets like a worm. Hence too we difcover the true caufe of foetid
or (linking breath ; for when thefe little eels have made their way to the marrow,
or internal part of the tooth, the whole crown foon becomes rotten, and the marrow
fends forth a putrid effluvia, fomewhat fimilar, but much more offenfive, than the
animalcula in (linking cheefe. Thefe circumftances ieem to be but little known to
the generality of dentiftsand operators on the teeth ; otherwife I am perfuaded their
mode of practice would be widely different. Inftead of applying powders and den-
tifrices calculated to deftroy thefe little worms, they prepare fuch as multiply and
nourifh them •, of which any perfon may be convinced, who will take the pains to
make a few fimple experiments. Let the roots of the teeth be fcraped, and the mat-
ter collected from them put into a few drops of any dentifrice or tooth-tindlure,
particularly of the aromatic kind. If viewed with a microfcope, it will be feen
that the animalcules or eels found in this matter, will move about with great cele-
rity, as if delighted with the liquor; and in proportion as it evaporates or dries
away, the animals appear diffatisfied, and become very uneafy.
Happening to have a patient who had a very bad fet of teeth, he fuffered me to
make fome experiments upon them. I took off a few of the fcales, and emerged
them in a fmall quantity of fpring water. It was quickly filled with the little eels
or animalcules ; but imparted no ill fmell. I examined the fcales with the microf-
cope, and found them full of pores, out of which thefe invifible animals were
iffuing. I then took out as much of the foul matter from the cavities of his hollow
teeth, as I could conveniently get at; and the moment I put it in the water, it be-
came foetid, and fent forth an offenfive fm.eff* Viewing it with the microfcope, the
animals
79
AND OCCULT SCIENCES.
animals appeared in the fame fhape as theformer, but quiteopaque, and the inteflinal
canal much fuller, and more diftended. I poured into the water a few drops of the
Solar TinCture, and in lefs than five minutes all motion ceafed, and they weie
quite dead. This induced me to perfuade the man to wafh his teeth and gums well
with the Solar TinCture. Hedidfo; and I then took off more of the icales, and
collected all the matter I could from the rotten teeth ; but very few living animal-
cula could be found therein, and the foetid fmell was confiderably abated. He
continued to wafh his mouth with the TinCture every other day for a week, and
then ufed the following preparation : Chalk finely powdered, burnt hartfhorn le-
vigated, Florentine orris-root, and myrrh, of each two drams; fpirit of fait, fix
drops; the whole mixed into a fine powder. With this he rubbed his teeth every
third day, with a foft brufh, and in lefs than three weeks his black fet of teeth be-
came beautifully white ;
his breath fweet ; and his gums hard and firm ; and he
has ever fince continued them fo by the fimple means above defcribed. I am no
dentift. What I have (fated was matter of mere accident ; but I would caution all
my readers againft too free a ufe of thofe numerous powders and preparations con-
tinually recommended for .the teeth. Inflead of preferving them, they have too
often the direCt contrary tendency, by deftroying the whole fet. The world howe-
ver is fond of tooth-powders ;
and a moderate ufe of fomeofthem may be of fervice;
but the daily rubbing does more injury to the teeth, than wholly neglecting them.
Fine levigated powders may be prudently ufed once in fix or feven days, to keep the
teeth white and fplendid. But the generality of powders prepared for this purpole are
much too hard, and wear away the gums, as well as the enamel of the teeth. Yet,
notwithstanding the danger of thefe preparations, it is a very defirable thing to be
enabled to preferve the beauty and foundnefs of the teeth, from infancy to old age.
For this purpofel would advife, that children fhould be accuftomed to wafh their
teeth every morning with common water, and a foft tooth-brufh ; and after meals
to rince the mouth, and rub the teeth with their fingers, where a brufh cannot con-
veniently be ufed. Thofe who conftantly purfuethis method, may expeCt to be free
from rotten teeth, putrid (lough, external difcolourations, flaccid gums, and pain
and loofenefs of the teeth arifing from the anjmalcula which prey upon them. When
the teeth have been negleCted for a time, and fcales and cruftations are affixed to
them, thefe mould be removed by inftruments, and the teeth and gums well wafh-
en with a powerful infinuating TinCture, to kill the animalcules ; then the teeth
fhould be rubbed with a fine teftaceous powder, in order to remove the difcoloura-
tion. When the enamel is become perfectly clean, white, and polifhed, even this
fine powder fhould be ufed very fparingly, and at diftant intervals. The colour and
fweetnefs
8o A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fweetnefs are only to be preferved by frequent brufhing and wafhing. The common
trick of dentifts, is to give a wa(h that inftantly cleanfes and whitens the teeth, the
fudden effects of which are apt to furprize and pleafe people ; but their confequen-
ces are very pernicious. All the acid fpirits will do this -, but they deftroy the
enamel, and rot the teeth. The fafeft liquid to take off black, green, and yellow
difcolourations, is the following : Take plantane water, an ounce ;
honey of rofes,
two drains ^
fpirit of fait ten drops ; mix the whole together, and rub the teeth
well with a linen rag dipped into the mixture, everyday till they are perfectly white.
If the roots of the teeth are very foul, inclined to grow rotten, and furrounded
with fcales and cruftations, I fhould by all means recommend them to be well wafh-
ed with the Solar Tindlure, which will (lop them from further decay, entirely re-
move the fcurvy from the gums, and perfectly fweeten the breath.
The form, difpofition, and order of the teeth, are admirable-, and furnifh us with
a noble inftance of the wifdom and goodnefs of the Creator ; the foiemoft are weak
and far from the center, as being only preparers to the reft ; the others being to
grind and mafticate, are accordingly ftronger, and placed near the center of motion.
Their peculiar hardnefs is very remarkable, confidering the tender fubftance they
are formed of. Again, their various forms, in various creatures, are no lefs con-
fiderable, being all curioufly adapted to the peculiar food and occafions of the
different fpecies of animals. Thus in the rapacious, they are fitted for the catching,
holding, and tearing the prey ;
in herbaceous, for the gathering and comminution
of vegetables •, and in fuch as have no teeth, as birds, the bill fupplies the defedl.
Add to this, that the temporary defedt of them is no lefs obfervable in fome : that
children, for inftance, fhould have none while they are not able to ufe them, but
to hurt themfelves, or the mother-, and that at the very age when they can take in
the more fubftantial food, and live without the bread, and begin to need teeth for
the help of fpeech, that then their teeth fhould begin to appear, and gradually
o-row, as they more and more Hand in need of them ; and that when this firft crop
are worn out or decayed they fhould be fucceeded by a new fet, more firm and du-
rable than the former. Nature indeed, fometimes deviates from the ordinary rule
according to the conftrudlion of the elementary influx then operating, as is fhewn at
large in my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences ;
whence we have inftances of per-
fons born with all their teeth, as Marcus Curius Dentatus ; and Cneius Papirius
Carbo : others have only had one continued tooth, reaching the whole length of the
jaw, as Pyrrhus king of Epirus, and Prufias fon of the king of Bithynia. A
German phyfician named Mentrelius, affures us that he faw an old man at Cleves,
in 1666, aged one hundred and twenty years, who had a new fet of teeth only two
years
Si
and occult sciences.
years before, which were cut with great pain; and he alfo faw an Englifhman at
the Hague, who cut a new fee of teeth in his one hundred and eighteenth year.
To the fame purpofe Dr. Slare mentions a relation, who had all his teeth at eighty
years of age, and afterwards fhed them, and had a new fet all round. See Phil.
Tran. Abr. vol. v. p. 353.
Of INSTINCT.
INSTINCT is an occult power or difpofition of mind, by which animals are
unerringly directed to do fpontaneoully whatever is neceffary for the prefervation
of the individual, or the continuation of the fpecies. From this caufe, all the
actions of brutes, or inferior animals, are faid to be directed by infkinft ; but thofe
of man, by reafon. Philofophers, however, have greatly differed in their opinions
concerning this fubjeCt ; and modern authors are extremely at a lofs where to draw
the line. Some maintain that man is endowed with a greater number of inftinCts,
than any fpecies of brutes whatever. Others infift, that in human nature, there
is not any power or propenfity at all, which can properly be called infbincftive.
Some contend that brutes are guided wholly by an invariable inftinCt, without the
fmalleft power of memory, or of any intellectual faculty ; whilft others infift,
that they poffefs a vegetative foul, directed by a certain inftinCt, capable both of
reafon, of memory, and’ of experience.
With refpeCt to man, nothing can be more apparent, than that as being the
microcofm, or epitome of all created nature, he mult of neceflity partake of all
its effential properties ; of which reafon and inftinft rank amongft the foremoft.
Upon the flighted: reflection, it will be obvious to every reader, that reafon can
never be exercifed but from experience; confequently, until man is arrived to a
certain degree of maturity, he muft be directed, in molt of the propenfities of na-
ture, by mere inftinCt. Thus an infant, a few moments after its birth, is directed
by an inftinCtive impulfe for its prefervation, to feek the bread, and to fuck it
;
and to the fame caufe, in the earlier ftages of life, and in all favage uneducated
countries, are to be attributed the firft fenfations, or defires of copulation, not
from the pleafures of enjoyment, for they are then unknown ; but from an impul-
five inftinCt, for the propagation of the fpecies. It has been infifted, that the
firft commerce of the fexes amongft human beings is directed by reafon ; and the
arguments affigned for it are thefe ; that as foon as the organs of generation, ia
either fex, become fufficiently ripe for the purpofe intended by nature, they fym-
pathize with the fenfes, and are affeCted with vibrations in the nerves, which rife
into pleafure above the power of controul, and are heightened by youth, health,
•
No. 6. y grateful
grateful aliment, imagination, ambition, fympathy, and various other involuntary
fenfations •, which, under fuch circumftances, pervade the whole fyftem. And
as thefe organs are endued with a greater degree of fenfibility than the other parts,
both from their make, and the peculiar ftrudure and difpofition of their nerves •,
from the great diftenfion of the mufcular fyftem and feed vefiels in males ; as well
as from the extenfion of the clitoris and finufes of the uterus in females, which
never fail to take place about the time of puberty, the genital organs in both fexes
become fo extremely irritable, that reafon being thereby awakened,
directs and impels
to that ad, by which alone the human fpecies can poffibly be continued, and the
works of an Omnipotent Creator carried on and conducted to the ends intended.
In the above ftatement, I am perfuaded every rational mind will agree, that the
word infiindl ought to have been fubftituted v/here that of reafon is ufed ; becaufe in
civilized focieties we are taught by reafon to overcome thofe inftindive paflions, in-
ftead of having our reafon awakened by them ; but we too often find that thefe in-
ftindive pafiions are proof againft both reafon and refolution, even in the moft
virtuous families, in all countries, and in the bell; regulated focieties. What fhall
we fay then of that part of the human race which yet remains in a ftate of nature,
uncultivated, and unenlightened, by any precepts of morality or fcience ? They
are fubjed to the primary command, “ encreafe and multiply and they obey it.
A couple of young favages go together for the firjl time, without any view to
offspring, without any knowledge of the pleafure to be derived from it, and with-
out any determinate idea at all ; and, as we fee thefe means invariably purfued by
all animals, as well rational as irrational, without experience, and without inftruc-
tion, we muft refer the mutual defire of the fexes to a much higher principle than
can poffibly arife from human motives ; and that principle can be nothing but in-
ftind, But as I fhall have occafion to fpeak more at large on this fubjed under
the article lovet
when I come to treat of the affedions and paffions of the mind,
and of the nature and perfedions of Man, I fhall in the interim proceed to fhew,
that the inferior animals are diredecl by inftind to performances of the moft fur-
prifing kind, and are, within certain limits, endued with memory, and a reafon-
ing intelled.
The moft remarkable inftance of the power of inftind is obferved in the con-
ftrudion of an honey-comb. Bees, it is well known, conftrud their combs with
fmail cells on both Tides, fit both for holding their ftore of honey, and for rearing
their young. There are only three poftible figures of the cells, which can make
them all equal and fimilar, without any ufdefs interfaces. Thefe are the equila-
teral triangle, the fquare, and the regular hexagon. Of the three, the hexagon is the
AND OCCULT S CIENCES. *3
mod proper, both for convenience and ftrength, Bees, as if they knew this,
make their cells regular hexagons. As the'combs have cells on both fides, the
cells may either be exactly oppofite, having partition againft partition, or the
bottom of a cell may reft upon the partitions between the ceils on the other fide,
which will ferve as a buttrefs to ftrengthen it. The laft way is the beft for ftrength ;
accordingly the bottom of each cell refts againft the point where three partitions
meet on the other fide, which gives it all the ftrength poftible. The bottom of a
cell may either be one plane, perpendicular to the fide partitions ; or it may be
compofed of feveral planes, meeting in a folid angle in the middle point. It is
only in one of thefe two ways that all the cells can be fimilar without lofing room.
And for the fame intention, the planes, of which the bottom is compofed, if there
be more than one, muft be three in number, and neither more nor fewer. It has
been demonftrated, that by making the bottoms of the cells to conflft of three
planes meeting in a point, there is a faving of material and labour no way inconfi-
derable. The bees, as if acquainted with thefe principles of folid geometry, fol-
low them moft accurately j the bottom of each cell being compofed of three planes,
which make obtule angles with the fide partitions and with one another, and meet
in a point in the middle of the bottom ; the three angles of this bottom being fup-
ported by three partitions on the other fide of the comb, and the point of it by the
common interfedtion of thefe three partitions. One inftance more of the mathema-
tical fkill difplayed in the ftrudture of a honey-comb deferves to be mentioned. It
is a curious mathematical problem, at what precife angle the three planes which
compofe the bottom of a cell ought to meet, in order to make the greateft poftible
faving of material and labour. This is one of thofe problems belonging to the
higher parts of the mathematics, which are called problems of maxima and minima.
The celebrated M’Laurin refolved it by a fluxionary calculation, which is to be
found in the Tranfadtions of the Royal Society of London, and determined pre-
cifely the angle required. Upon the moft exadt menfuration which the fubjedt
could admit, he afterwards found, that it is the very angle in which the three
planes in the bottom of the cell of a honey-comb do adtually meet. If a honey-
comb were a work of human art, every man of common fenfe would conclude,
without hefitation, that he who invented the conftrudtion muft have underftood
the principles on which it was conftrudted. We need not fay that bees know none
of thefe things. They work moft geometrically without any knowledge of geome-
try *, fomewhat like a child, who by turning the handle of an organ makes good
mufic without any knowledge of mufic. The art is not in the child, but in him
who made the organ. In like manner, when a bee makes its combs fo geometri-
cally.
Si A KEY TO PHYSIC,
cally, the geometry is not in the bee, but in that Great Geometrician who made
the bee, and made all things in number, weight, and meafure. This places, in a
molt ftriking point of view, the difference betwixt inftindt and reafbn. There are
no improvements made by man, but what we fee carried ftill further by fucceeding
generations ; but in bees, and in all inferior animals, we fee precifely the fame eco-
nomy and contrivance now, in conftrudting their cells, building their nefts, lay-
ing up provifions, &c. as at the beginning-, and that in all ages, and in all gene-
rations, they have neither improved, nor departed from, that fixed fyftem aftign-
ed to them by nature, for their prefervation and guide ; whereas men, adting by
reafon and fcience, improve from the labours and inventions of each other. Were
vve to attribute reafon inftead of inftindt, to bees, in the conftrudtion of their combs,
-
we fhould at the fame time admit them to be rational creatures, endued with think-
ing and reafoning faculties, far fuperior to men ; for the principle upon which the
honey-comb is conftruded, is founded on thofe high departments of the mathema-
tics, which were altogether unknown to the human race till the beginning of the
prefent century, and which at this moment are beyond the comprehenfion of nine-
tenths of mankind in the moft enlightened nations on earth. Hence it is plain that
the contrivance is not in the bees, but in the Creator of the bees, whodiredts them,
and all brute creatures, to adt by an inftindt for their own immediate benefit; with-
out knowing the principles upon which they adt. And this is by no means contrary
to reafon ; for we daily fee men, working under the diredtion of others of fuperior
underftanding, to effedt purpofes, and accomplifh ends, without having themfelves
any idea of either and if we look through the endlefs variety of human avocations,
we fhall find that the greater part of mankind feem deftined by God and nature
to be governed in this way. But to proceed—
Caterpillars, when fhaken off a tree in every diredtion, inftantly turn round
towards the trunk, and climb up, though they had never formerly been on the fur-
face of the ground. This is a ftriking inftance of inftindt. On the tree, and not
upon the ground, the caterpillar finds its food. If therefore it did not turn and
climb up the trunk, it would inevitably perifh. The folitary wafp digs holes in
the fands, in each of which fhe depofits an egg: fhe colledts a few fmall green
worms, which fhe rolls up in a circular form, and fixes in the hole in fuch a man-
ner that they cannot move. When the wafp-worm is hatched, it is amply ftored
with the food which nature has deftined for its fupport. The green worms are de-
voured in fucceflion ; and the number depofited is exadtly proportioned to the time
neceffary for the growth and transformation of the wafp-worm into a fly i then it
ifiues from the hole, and is capable of procuring its own nourifhment. This in-
ftindt
andoccultsciences, g5
ftindl of the parent-wafp is the more remarkable, that fhe feeds not upon flefh her-
felf. Birds of the fame fpecies, unlefs when reftrained by peculiar circumftances,
uniformly build their nefts of the fame materials, and in the fame form and fitua-
tion, though they inhabit very different climates ; and the form and fituation arc
always exadtly fuited to their nature, and calculated to afford them fhelter and pro-
tection. When danger, or any other circumftance peculiar to certain countries,
renders a deviation from the common form or fituation of nefts neceffary, that de-
viation is made in an equal degree, and in the very lame manner, by all the birds
of one fpecies; and it is never found to extend beyond the limits of the country
where alone it can ferve any good purpofe. When removed by neceffity from their
eggs, birds return to them with hafte and anxiety, and fhift them fo as to heat
them equally ; and it is worthy of obfervation, that their hafte to return is always
in proportion to the cold of the climate. Thus the oftrich in Senegal, where the
heat is exceftive, negledts her eggs during the day, but fits upon them in the night.
At the Cape of Good Hope, however, where the degree of heat is lefs, the oftrich,
like other birds, fits upon her eggs both day and night. In countries infefted with
monkeys, many birds, which in other climates build in bufhes and clefts of trees,
fufpend their nefts upon (lender twigs, and thus elude the rapacity of their enemies.
The following is remarkable. A cat frequented a clofet, the door of which was
fattened by an iron latch. A window was fituated near the door. When the door
was fhut, the cat gave herfelf no uneafinefs. As foon as fhe was tired of her con-
finement, fhe mounted on the lole of the window, and with her paw dexteroufty
lifted the latch, and came out. This practice, which we are told continued for
years, muft have been the confequence of reafoning in particular ideas. It could
not be the effedt of inftindt ; for inftindt is adapted only to a ftate of nature, in
which cats have neither latches to lift nor doors to open ; and as it is not laid that
the animal attempted to lift the latches of other doors, we are not authorifed to
infer that this particular adtion was the confequence of reafoning in ideas enlarged
by abftradtion : the cat had repeatedly feen one door opened by an exertion which
fhe was capable of imitating. It is well known that crows feed upon feveral kinds
of fhell-fifii when within their reach •, and that they contrive to break the fhell by
raifing thefifh to a great height, and letting it drop upon a ftone or a rock. This may
perhaps be confidered as pure inftindt diredting the animal to the proper means of
acquiring its food. But what is to be thought cf the following fadt, communi-
cated by a gentleman whofe veracity is unqueftioned, and who, being totally un-
acquainted with the theories of philofophers, has of courfe no favourite hypothecs
to fupport ? In the fpring of the year 1791, a pair of crows made their neft in a
tree, of which there are feveral planted round his garden ; and in his morning- walks
No. 6. Z he
*6 A KEY TO P H Y S l C,
he had often been arnufed by witneffing furious combats between them and a eat,
One morning the battle raged more fiercely than ufual, till at laid the cat gave way
and took fheker under a hedge, as if to wait a more favourable opportunity of re-
treating to the houfe. The crows continued for a fhort time to make a threatening
nolle $ but perceiving that on the ground they could do nothing more than threaten,
one of them lifted a (lone from the middle of the garden, and perched with it on a
tree planted in the hedge, where (he fat watching the motions of the enemy of her
young. As the cat crept along under the hedge, the crow accompanied her by
flying from branch to branch, and from tree to tree ; and when at laft puts ven-
tured to quit her hiding-place, the crow, leaving the trees and hovering over her
in the air, let the ftone drop from on high on her back. That the crow on this
occafion reafoned, is felf -evident $ and it feems to be little lefs evident, that the
ideas employed in her reafoning were enlarged beyond thofe which Ihe had received
from her fenfes. By her fenfes fhe may have perceived, that the fhell of a filh is
broken by a fall j but could her fenfes inform her, that a cat would be wounded or
driven off the field by the fall of a ftone ? No; from the effedt of the one fall pre-
ferved in her memory, fhe rnuft have inferred the other by her power of reafoning.
As to the natural afifedtion of brutes, fays an ingenious writer, “ the more I re-
fledt on it, the more I am aftonilhed at its efte&s.” It feems to awaken the pafilons,
quicken the invention, and fharpen the fagacity of the brute creation. Thus an
hen, juft become a mother, is no longer that placid bird fhe ufed to be, but with
feathers ftanding on end, wings hovering, and clocking note, fhe flies at every
thing which feems to threaten her brood. Dams will throw themfelves in the way
of the greateft danger in order to avert it from their progeny. Thus a partridge
will tumble along before a fportfman, in order to draw away the dogs from her
helplefs covey. In the time of nidification the moft feeble birds will aflault the
mod rapacious. All the hirundines of a village are up in arms at the fight of an
hawk, whom they will perfecute till he leaves that diftridft, A very exadt obferver
has often remarked, that a pair of ravens neftling in the rock of Gibraltar, would
fuflfer no vulture or eagle to reft near their ftation, but would drive them from the
hill with an amazing fury s even the blue thrufh at the feafon of breeding would
dart out from the clefts of the rocks to chafe away the keftril or the fparrow- hawk.
If you Hand near the neft of a bird that has young, fhe will not be induced to be-
tray them by an inadvertent fondnefs, but will wait about at a diftance with meat
In her mouth for an hour together.
A moft fingular effedt of inftind, may be ohferved in the means by which cue-
kews are propagated. Unlike the generality of birds, they do not pair. When
a female appears on the wing, fhe is often attended by two or three males, who
feem
AND O.C CULT SCIENCES. 87
feeirj to be earneftly contending for her favours. From the time of her appearance
till after the middle of fummer, the nefts of the birds felefted to receive her egg are
to be found in great abundance ; but, like the other migrating birds, fhe does not
begin to lay till fome weeks after her arrival. It is on all hands allowed, that the
cuckow does not hatch its own eggs. The hedge-fparrow, the water- wagtail, the
titlark, the red-bread, the yellow-hammer, the green-linnet, or the winchat, is
generally the nurfe of the young cuckow. It may be ftippofed, that the female
cuckow lays her egg in the abfence of the bird in whole neft Ihe intends to depofit 5
as it has been known, that on fight of one of thefe, a red-bread and its mate jointly
attacked her on approaching the neft, putting her to flight j and fo effectually drove
her away, that fhe did not dare to return. Among the birds above-mentioned, it
generally felefts the three firft, but fhews a much greater partially to the hedge-
fparrow. This iaft commonly takes up four or five days in laying her eggs. Dur-
ing this time (generally after fhe has laid one or two) the cuckow contrives to de-
pofit her egg among the reft, leaving the future care of it entirely to the hedge-
fparrow. When the hedge-fparrow has fat her ufual time, and difengaged the
young cuckow and fome of her own offspring from the fhell, her own young ones,
and any of her eggs that remain unhatched, are foon turned out, the young cuc-
kow remaining poffeffor of the neft, and foie objedt of her future care. The
young birds are not previoufly killed, nor are the eggs demolifhed j but all are
left to perifh together, either entangled about the bufh which contains the neft, or
lying on the ground under it. The early fate of the young hedge-fparrow s, (fays
Mr. Jenner, who made thefe experiments) is a circumftance that has been noticed
by others, but attributed to wrong caufesj but the true caufe we fhall prefently
explain. A variety of conje&ures have been formed upon it. A cuckow laid
her egg in a water-wagtail’s neft in the thatch of an old cottage. T he wagtail fat
her ufual time, and then hatched all the eggs but one ; which, with all the young
ones except the cuckow, was turned out of the neft. The young birds, confifting
of five, were found upon the rafter that projected from under the thatch, and with
them was an egg not in the leaft injured. The cuckow was reared by the wagtails
till it was nearly capable of flying, when it was killed by an accident.
An hedge-fparrow built her neft in a hawthorn bufh in a timber-yard. After fhe
had laid two eggs, a cuckow dropped in a third. The fparrow continued laying
as if nothing had happened, till fhe had laid five, her ufual number, and then fat.
On infpeefting the neft, June 20, 1786, (fays Mr. Jenner,) I found that the bird
had hatched this morning, and that every thing but the young cuckow was thrown
out. Under the neft I found one of the young hedge-fparrows dead, and one egg
by the fide of the neft entangled with the coarfe woody materials that formed its out-
, fide
88 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fide covering. On examining the egg, I found one end of the fhell a little crack-
ed, and could fee that the fparrow it contained was yet alive. It was then reftored.
to the neft, but in a few minutes was thrown out. The egg being again fufpended
by the outfide of the neft, was faved a fecond time from breaking. To fee what
would happen if the cuckow was removed, I took out the cuckow, and placed the
egg containing the hedge-fparrow in the neft in its ftead. The old birds, during
this time, flew about the fpot, fhewing figns of great anxiety j but when I with-
drew, they quickly came to the neft again. On looking into it in a quarter of an
hour afterwards, I found the young one completely hatched, warm, and lively.
The hedge-fparrows were fuffered to remain undifturbed with their new charge for
three hours (during which time they paid every attention to it), when the cuckow
was again put into the neft •, and on examining it again in a few minutes, I found
the young fparrow was tumbled out. It was a fecond time reftored, but again ex-
perienced the fame fate. From thefe experiments, and fuppofing, from the feeble
appearance of the young cuckow juft difengaged from the fhell, that it was utterly
incapable of difplacing either the egg or the young fparrows, I was induced to be-
lieve that the old fparrows were the only agents in this feeming unnatural bufinefs.
But I afterwards clearly perceived the caufe of this ftrange phenomenon, by difco-
vering the young cuckow in the aft of difplacing its fellow-neftlings, as the follow-
ing relation will fully evince. June 18, 1787, I examined the neft of a hedge-fpar-
row, which then contained a cuckow’s and three hedge-fparrow ’s eggs. On in-
fpedting it the day following, I found the bird had hatched, but that the neft now
contained only a young cuckow and one young hedge-fparrow. The neft was
placed fo near the extremity of a hedge, that I could diftinflly fee what was going
forward in it •, and, to my aftonifhment, faw the young cuckow, though fo newly
hatched, in the aft of turning out the young hedge-fparrow. The mode of accom-
plifhing this was very curious. -The little animal, with the afliftance of its rump
and wings, contrived to get the bird upon its back ; and making a lodgement for
the burden by elevating its elbows, clambered backward with it up the fide of the
neft, till it reached the top where refting for a moment, it threw off its load with
a jerk, and quite difengaged it from the neft. It remained in this fituation a fhort
time, feeling about with the extremities of its wings, as if to be convinced whe-
ther the bufinefs was properly executed, and then dropped into the neft again.
With thefe (the extremities of its wings) I have often feen it examine, as it were,
an egg and neftling before it began its operations ; and the nice fenfibility which
thefe parts appeared to poffefs, feemed fufficiently to compenfate the want of fight,
which as yet it was deftitute of. I afterwards put in an egg 5 and this, by a fimi-
lar procefs, was conveyed to the edge of the neft and thrown out. Thefe experi-
ments
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 89
merits I have fince repeated feveral times in different nefts, and have always found
the young cuckow difpofed to a<5t in the fame manner. In climbing up the neft,
it fometimes drops its burden, and thus is foiled in its endeavours ; but, after a
little refpite, the work is refumed, and goes on almoft inceffantly till it is effe&ed.
It is wonderful to fee the extraordinary exertions of the young cuckow, when it is
two or three days old, if a bird be put into the neft with it that is too weighty for
it to lift out. In this ftate it feems ever reftlefs and uneafy. The Angularity of
its fhape is well adapted to thefe purpofes •, for, different from other newly-hatch-
ed birds, its back, from the fcapulas downward, is very broad, with a confider-
able depreffion in the middle. This depreffion feems formed by nature for the de-
fign of giving a more fecure lodgement to the egg of the hedge-fparrow, or its
young one, when the young cuckow is employed in removing either of them from
the neft. When it is about twelve days old, this cavity is quite filled up, and
then the back affumes the fhape of neftling birds in general. It appears a little
extraordinary,, that two cuckows eggs Ihould ever be depofited in the fame neft,
as the young one produced from one of them muft inevitably perifti ;
yet two in-
ftances of this kind fell under our author’s obfervation, one of which he thus
relates: Two cuckows and a hedge-fparrow were hatched in the fame neft this
morning, (June 27, 1787;) one hedge-fparrow’s egg remained unhatched. In a
few hours after, a conteft began between the cuckows for the poffefiion of the
neft, which continued undetermined till the next afternoon, when one of them,
which was fomewhat fuperior in fize, turned out the other, together with the
young hedge-fparrow and the unhatched egg. This conteft was very remark-
able. The combatants alternately appeared to have the advantage, as each car-
ried the other feveral times nearly to the top of the neft, and then funk down again,
oppreffed by the weight of its burden ; till at length, after various efforts, the
ftrongeft prevailed, and was afterwards brought up by the hedge-fparrows. But
the principal circumftance that has agitated the mind of the naturalift refpedling
the cuckow is, why, like other birds, it fhould not build a neft, incubate its
eggs, and rear its own young ? The moft probable fuggeftion is, the fhort refi-
dence this bird is allowed to make in the country where it is deftined to propagate
its fpecies; and the call that nature has upon it, during that refidence, to produce
a numerous progeny. The cuckow’s firft appearance here is about the middle of
April, commonly on the 17th. Its egg is not ready for incubation till fome weeks
after its arrival, feldom before the middle of May. A fortnight is taken up by
the fitting-bird in hatching the egg. The young bird generally continues three
weeks in the neft before it flies, and the fofter-parents feed it more than five weeks
after this period ; fo that if a cuckow fhould be ready with an egg much fooner
No. 6. A a than
/
90 A KEY TO PHYSIC*
than the time pointed out, not a fingle neflling, even one of the earlieft, would
be fit to provide for itfelf before its parent would be inftindlively directed to feek
a new refidence, and be thus compelled to abandon its young one; for old cuc-
kows take their final leave of this country the firfb week in July. Among the
many peculiarities of the young cuckow, there is one that (hews itfelf very early.
Long before it leaves the neft, it frequently, when irritated, afiumes the manner
of a bird of prey, looks ferocious, throws itfelf back, and pecks at any thing pre-
fented to it, with great vehemence, often at the fame time making a chuckling noife
like a young hawk. Hence probably the vulgar opinion, that this bird changes
into a hawk and devours its nurfe on quitting its neft ; whence the French pro-
verb, Ingrat comine un coucou. Sometimes, when difturbed in a fmaller degree, it
makes a kind of hiffing noife, accompanied with a heaving motion of the whole
body. From what has been faid, it becomes evident, that the fame inftinclive
impulfe which directs the cuckow to depofit her eggs in the nefts of other birds,
direfts her young one to throw out the eggs and young of the owner of the neft.
The fcheme of nature would be incomplete without it ; for it would be extremely
difficult, if not impoffible, for the little birds deftined to find fuccour for the
cuckow, to find it alfo for their own young ones after a certain period ; nor would
there be room for them to inhabit the neft. Cuckows may be, and often are,
brought up tame, fo as to become familiar. They will eat in this ftate bread and
milk, fruits, infedts, eggs, and fleffi, either cooked or raw; but in a ftate of
nature, they chiefly live on caterpillars. When fat, they are faid to be as good
eating as a land-rail : the French and Italians eat them to this day. The ancient
Romans admired them greatly as food : Pliny fays that there is no bird which can
be compared to them for delicacy. In migrating, the major part of thefe birds are
fuppofed to go into Africa, fince they are obferved to vifit the ifland of Malta twice
in a year, in their paflfage backwards and forwards, as is fuppofed, to that part of
the world.
1 he inftindt which has been difcovered in ants, beavers, &c. is too well known
and admired, to need any mention in this place ; and we fee in a great variety of
birds, infedts, and quadrupeds, a fimilar economy in laying up {lores of provifion
in time of plenty, that they might have accefs to it in time of need; The common
daw has a peculiar knack of this fort ; and in houfes where they have been brought
up tame, have frequently been known to hide with their meat, money, rings,
feals, lockets, and other fmall trinkets, thereby occafioning injurious fufpicions
of theft in fervants or others, who are perfectly innocent.
We have a remarkable anecdote given by the Rev. Mr. Robinfon, of Oufby in
Weftmoreland, relative to an inftindl in the crow, by which they are made the na-
SL.S “Bxe CwkoO tUraI
ft uiot\
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 9 *
tural planters of all forts of wood and trees. They difleminate the kernels upon the
earth, which like nurferies bring them forth till they grow up to their natural
ftrength and perfection. He fays, “ About twenty-five years ago, coming from
Rofecaftle early in the morning, I obferved a great number of crows very bufy at
their work upon a declining ground of a mofTy furface •, I went out of my way on
purpofe to view their labour, and I found they were planting a grove of oaks.
The manner of their planting was thus : they firft made little holes in the earth
with their bills, going about and about till the hole was deep enough •, and then
they dropped in the acorn, and covered it with earth and mofs. The feafon was
at the latter end of autumn, when all feeds are full ripe.” Mr. Robinfon feems to
think that Providence had given the crows this inftinft folely for the propagation
of trees •, but I imagine it was given them principally for their own prefervation,
by hiding proviiion in time of plenty, in order to fupply them in a time of fcarcity •,
fothat fuch an inftind in thefe birds may anfwer a double purpofe j
both their own
fupport in times of need, and the propagation of the trees they plant : for when-
ever they hide a great number of nuts or grains in the earth, we cannot fuppofe
they find them all again •, but that as many will remain in the plot of ground they
make ufe of, as can well grow by one another.
A wonderful fpirit of fociality in the brute creation, independent of fexual attach-
ment, has been frequently remarked. Many horfes, though quiet with company,
will not ftay one minute in a field by themfelves: the ftrongeft fences cannot reftrain
them. A horfe has been known to leap out at a liable window through which dung
was thrown, after company •, and yet in other refpeCts to be remarkably quiet. Oxen
and cows will not fatten by themfelves ; but will negleCl the fineft pafture that is
not recommended by fociecy. It would beneedlefs to inftance in fheep, which con-
ftantly flock together. But this propenfity feems not to be confined to animals of
the fame clafs or fpecies. Even great difparity of kind and fize does not always pre-
vent focial advances and mutual fellowfhip. Of this the following remarkable in-
fiance is given. A gentleman who kept but one horfe, happened alfo on a time to
have but one folitary hen. Thefe two incongruous animals fpent much of their
time together in a lonely orchard, where they faw no creature hut each other. By
degrees an apparent regard began to take place between thefe two fequefiered indi-
viduals. The fowl would approach the quadruped with notes of complacency, rub-
bing herfelf gently againft his legs •, while the horfe would look down with fatisfac-
tion, and move with the greateft caution and circumfpedtion, lefi he fhould trample
on his diminutive companion ; and thus by mutual good offices each teemed to con-
fole the vacant hours of the other.
In
$2 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
In the Gentleman’s Magazine for March 1788, we have the following anecdotes 0 1
a. raven. The raven alluded to “ lives, or did live three years fince, at the red
lion at Hungerford i his name, I think, is Rafe. You muft know then, that
corning into that inn, my chaife run over and bruifed the leg of my Newfound-
land dog j and while we were examining the injury done to the dog’s foot, Rafe
was evidently a concerned fpeftator; for the minute the dog was tied up under
the manger with rny horfe, Rafe not only vifited, but fetched him bones, and
attended upon him with particular and repeated marks of kindnefs. The bird’s
notice of the dog was fo marked, that I obferved it to the hofller ; for I had not
heard a word before of the hiftory of this benevolent creature. John then told me,
that he had been bred from his pin-feather in intimacy with a dog •, that the affec-
tion between them was mutual; and that all the neighbourhood had often been
witneffe.s of the innumerable a6ts of kindnefs they had conferred upon each other.
Rafe’s poor dog, after a while, unfortunately broke his leg ; and during the
long time he was confined, Rafe waited upon him conflantly, carried him his
provifions daily, and never fcarcely left him alone! One night by accident the
hoftler had fhut the liable door, and Rafe was deprived of the company of his
friend the whole night ; but the hoftler found in the morning the bottom of the
door fo pecked away, that had it not been opened, Rafe would in another hour
have made his own entrance-port. I then enquired of my landlady (a fenfible
woman), and heard what I have related confirmed by her, with feveral other Angu-
lar traits of the kindnefies this bird Ihews to all dogs in general, but particularly to
maimed or wounded ones. I hope and believe, however, the bird is ft ill living
and the traveller will find I have not over-rated this wonderful bird’s merit.”
To thefe inftances of attachment between incongruous animals from a fpirit of fo-
ciaiity or the feelings of fympathy, may be added the following inftance offondnefs
from a different motive, recounted by Mr. White, in his Hiftory of Selborne.
“ My friend had a little helplefs leveret brought to him, which the fervants fed
with milk in a fpoon ; and about the fame time his cat kittened, and the young
were difpatched and buried. The hare was foon loft, and fuppofed to be gone
the way of moil foundlings, or killed by fome dog or cat. However, in a fortnight
after, as the mafter was fitting in his garden in the dufk of the evening, he obier-
ved his cat, with tail erefl, trotting towards him, and calling with little fhort
imvard notes of complacency, fuch as they ufe towards their kittens, and fome-
'
thing gamboling after, which proved to be the leveret, which the cat had fuppor-
ted with her milk, and continued to fupport with great affedtion. Thus was a
graminivorous animal nurtured by a carnivorous and predaceous one ! Why fo cruel
and fanguinary a beaft as a cat, of the ferocious genus of fel is, the murium leo,
as
2
as Linnaeus calls it, fhould be affedted with any tendernefs towards an animal
which is its natural prey, is not fo eafy to determine. This ftrange affedtion
probably was occafioned by that defiderium, thofe tender maternal feelings,
which the lofs of her kittens had awakened in her bread; *, and by the compla-
cency and eafe (he derived to herfelf from the procuring her teats to be drawn,
which were too much diftended with milk, till from habit flhe became as much
delighted with this foundling as if it had been her real offspring. This incident
is no bad folution of that ftrange circumftance which grave hiftorians as well as
the poets affert, of expofed children being fometimes nurtured by female wild
beads that probably had loft their young. For it is not one whit more marvellous
that Romulus and Remus, in their infant ftate, fhould be nurfed by a fhe-wolf,
than that a poor little fucking leveret fhould be foftered and cherifhed by a bloody
grimalkin.
That brute animals poffefs refledlion -and fentiment, and are fufceptible of the
kindly as well as the irrafcible pafilons, independently of fexual attachment and na-
tural affedtion ; and that they have a great fhare of fidelity, of pride, and even a
fenfe of glory, may be demonftrated from the elephant, the horfe, and the dog.
Elephants, even in a favage ftate, are peaceable and gentle creatures. They never
ufe their weapons but in defence of themfelves or companions. Their focial dif-
pofitions are fo ftrong, that they are feldom found alone, but march always in large
troops : the oldeft and moft experienced lead the van *, the younger, or lame ones,
keep in the middle ; and thofe of a fecond rate, as to age, walk in the rear. The
females carry their young on their tufks, embracing them at the fame time with their
trunk. They feldom march in this regular order but when they reckon the jour-
ney dangerous, fuch as an expedition to cultivated lands, where they expedt to
meet with refiftance. On other occafions they are lefs cautious ; fome of them fall-
ing behind of feparating from the reft, but feldom fo far as to be without the
reach of afliftance by alarming and affembling their companions. It is dangerous
to offer them the leaft injury ; for they run ftraight upon the offender •, and al-
though the weight of their body be great, their fteps are fo large, that they eafily
outrun the fwifteft man, whom they either pierce with their tufks, or feize with
their trunk, dart him in the air like a ftone, and then trample him under their feet.
But they never attack any perfon unlefs when provoked. However, as they are
extremely fenfible and delicate with regard to injuries, it is always prudent to keep
out of their way. Travellers who frequent thofe countries kindle large fires, and
beat drums during the night, in order to prevent their approach. After being
once attacked by men, or falling into any ambufh, they are faid never to forget
the injury, but fearch for every opportunity of getting revenge. As they are en-
No. 7. B b dowed
94 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
dowed perhaps with a more exquifite fenfation of fmell than any other animal,
owing to the great extent of their nofe, they can fcent a man at a very great dif-
tance, and trace him by his footfteps.
The elephant, when tamed, is the moft friendly and obedient of all animals
he is entirely attached to the perfon who feeds and takes care of him. In a fhort
time he underftands figns, and the found of his mafter’s voice. He diftinguifhes
the language of paffion, of command, of fatisfadion ; and ads accordingly.
He receives his orders with attention, and executes them with prudence and alai-
crity, but without precipitation. He eafily learns to bow his knees and lower his
body, for the convenience of thofe who mount him. He carefles his friends with
his trunk. He lifts burdens with his trunk, and aflifts thofe who are loading him
in laying them on his back. He delights in fhining harnefs and trappings. When
yoked in a cart or waggon, he pulls equally and cheerfully, unlefs he be abufed
by injudicious chaftifeme-nts. His guide is generally mounted on his neck, with
a fmall rod of iron fharp at the point in his hand; he direds his motion by prick-
ing him on the ears and head ; but, for the moft part, a word is fufficient, A
tame elephant will do more labour than fix horfes*, but then he requires a propor-
tional quantity of food. T hey are the principal beafts of burden in many parts of
Africa and the Eaft Indies. They carry facks and bundles of all kinds on their
neck, back, and tufks. They never lofe or damage any thing committed to their
care: they will ftand on the edge of a river, take bundles off their necks and tufks,
lay them carefully in a boat whenever they are defired, and try with their trunk
whether they are properly fituated ; if they be loaded with cafks, they go in queft
of ftones to prop them and prevent them from rolling. The elephant is not only
the moft tradable, but the moft intelligent, of animals; fenfible of benefits, and
refentful of injuries. In India, they were once employed in the launching of
fhips : one was direded to force a very large veflfel into the water ; the work prov-
ed fuperior to his ftrength ; his mafter, with a farcaftic tone, bid the keeper take
away this lazy beaft and bring another : the poor animal inftantly repeated his
efforts, fradured his fkull, and died on the fpot. In Delli, an elephant palling
along the ftreets, put his trunk into a taylor’s fhop, where feveral people were at
work ; one of them pricked the end with his needle : the beaft pafled on ; but in
the next dirty puddle filled his trunk with water, returned to the fhop, and fpurt-
ing every drop among the people who had offended him, fpoiled their work. An
elephant in Adfmeer, which often paffed through the bazer or market, as he went
by a certain herb-woman, always received from her a mouthful of greens : at
length he was feized with one of his periodical fits of rage, broke his fetters, and,
running through the market, put thearowd to flight ;
among others, this woman,
who
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 95
who in hafte forgot a little child fhe had brought with her. The animal recolledt-
ing the fpot where his benefadtrefs was wont to fit, took up the infant gently in his
trunk, and placed it in fafety on a flail before a neighbouring houfe. Another,
in his madnefs, killed his cornac or governor : the wife feeing the misfortune,
took her two children and flung them before the elephant, faying, “Now you
have deftroyed their father, you may as well put an end to their lives and mine.”
It inftantly flopped, relented, took the greatefl of the children, placed him on
its neck, adopted him for his cornac, and never afterwards would permit any body
elfe to mount it. A foldier at Pondicherry, who was accuftomed, whenever he
received the portion that came to his fhare, to carry a certain quantity of it to one
of thefe animals, having one day drank rather too freely, and finding himfelf pur-
fued by the guards, who were going to take him to prifon, took refuge under the
elephant’s body and fell afleep. In vain did the guard try to force him from this
afylum, as the elephant protected him with his trunk. The next morning the fol-
dier, recovering from his drunken fit, fhuddered with horror to find himfelf
flretched under the belly of this huge animal. The elephant, which without
doubt perceived the man’s embarraffment, carefled him with his trunk, in order
to infpire him with courage and make him underftand that he might now depart in
fafety. A painter was defirous of drawing the elephant which was kept in the me-
nagerie at Verfailles in an uncommon attitude, which was that of holding his trunk
raifed up in the air with his mou.th open. The painter’s boy, in order to keep the
animal in this pofture, threw fruit into his mouth ; but as the lad frequently de-
ceived him, and made an offer only of throwing him the fruit, he grew angr^l
and, as if he had known that the painter’s intention of drawing him was the caufe
of the affront that was offered him, inftead of revenging himfelf on the lad, he
turned his refentment on the maffcer, and taking up a quantity of water in his
trunk, threw it on the paper on which the painter was drawing, and fpoiled it.
At the Cape of Good Hope, it is cuftomary to kill thffe animals, for the fake of
their teeth, by the chace . Three horfemen, well mounted and armed with lances,
attack the elephant alternately, each relieving the other as they fee their compa-
nion preffed, till the beafl is fubdued. Three Dutchmen (brothers), who had
made large fortunes by this bufinefs, determined to retire to Eqrope, and enjoy
the fruits of their labours ; but refolved, before they went, to have a laft chace
by way of amufement: they met with their game; and began the attack in the
ufual manner j but unfortunately one of their horfes fell down and flung its rider :
the enraged animal inftantly feized the unhappy man with its trunk, flung him
up to a vaft height in the air, and received him on one of its tufks ; then turning
towards the two other brethren, as if it were with an afpedt of revenge and infult,
held out to them the impaled wretch writhing cn the bloody tooth.
When
gt> A KEY TO PHYSIC,
When the elephant is properly managed, he lives very long even in a ftate of
ilavery and labour. That fome have lived in this ftate an hundred and thirty
years, is pretty well authenticated. In a natural ftate, they often exceed two hun-
dred years, and propagate their fpecie3 till they are an hundred and twenty : it is
thirty years before they come to their full growth. Elephants do not copulate like
other quadrupeds. The fituation of the parts feems to render this mode of jun&ion
impoflible. The female elephant has not like other quadrupeds the orifice of the
vagina adjacent to the anus ; for it is fituated nearly in the middle of the belly,
about two and a half or three feet diftant from the anus. On the other hand, the
male organ is by no means proportioned to the magnitude of his body, nor to fo
long an interval, which in the fituation fuppofed would preclude the pra&icability
of his approach. Naturalifts as well as travellers agree in affirming, that the male
organ of the elephant exceeds not either in length or diameter that of a horfe. It
is, therefore, impoffible that he fhould attain his end in the ordinary pofition of
quadrupeds. The female muft neceffarily lie on her back. De Feynes and Ta-
vernier pofitively aflfert, that thefe animals cannot intermix in any other manner,
and the fituation of the parts confirms their evidence. They require, therefore, more
time and conveniency for this operation than other quadrupeds •, and it is perhaps
for this reafon that they never copulate but when they enjoy full liberty, and have
every neceffary article at their command. The female muft not only confent, but
folicit the male, by a pofition which ffie never affumes unlefs when fhe thinks her-
felf in perfect retirement. The male makes a pit or hollow in the ground, and
affifts his confort to lay herfelf on her back ; and in cafe he finds her perfectly
compliant and agreeable, very complaifantly helps her up again after the bufinefs
is finifhed, by throwing his trunk round her neck. Thefe animals, during the
feafon of love, remain almoft in the moft inacceffible places of the forefts. They
obferve the greateft delicacy in their amours, abhorring nothing fo much as to be
feen by their companions. The troop divide themfelves into couples, fteal off into
the moft fecret places of the foreft, and then give way to all the impulfes of na-
ture. The force of nature is fo very ftrong, that in the rutting feafon, the tame
male elephants are obliged to be chained for four or five weeks, during which time
they difcharge vaft quantities of femen, and are fo furious, that their cornacs or go-
vernors cannot come near them without danger. The approach of the rutting feafon
is eafily known ; for fome days before it happens, an oily liquor flows from a fmall
hole on each fide of the head. The domeftic female on thefe occafions fometimes
makes her efcape, and joins the wild males in the woods. Some days afterward,
her cornac goes in queft of her, and calls her by her name till fhe comes. She
fubmits to him with complacence, and allows herfelf to be conduced home, and
2 fhut
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 97
fiiut up in the liable. They bring forth but one at a time, though the female has
two dugs, one on each fide the bread:. The young one, as foon as it comes into the
world, is as large as a wild boar, and is furnifhed with teeth : however, the large tufks
do not make their appearance till fome time after, and at the age of fix months
they are feveral inches long. Elephants of this age are as large as an ox when in a
natural Hate.
The intrepidity and fagacity of the horfe, has been regarded with admiration by
all ranks of men, and in all ages of the world. Even in a domeftic Hate he is bold
and fiery; and, equally undaunted as his mailer, faces danger and death with
ardour and magnanimity. He delights in the noife and tumult of arms, and feems
to feel the glory of vidlory : he exults in the chace ; his eyes fparkle with emula-
tion in the courfe. But though bold and intrepid, he is docile and tradlabie : he
knows how to govern and check the natural vivacity and fire of his temper. He
not only yields to the hand, but feems to confult the inclination of his rider.
Conftantly obedient to the impreffions he receives, his motions are entirely regu-
lated by the will of his mailer. He in fome meafure refigns his very exillence to
the pleafure of man. He delivers up his whole powers, he referves nothing; he
will rather die than difobey. Who could endure to fee a character fo noble, abufed ?
who could be guilty of fuch grofs barbarity ? none but wretches moll relentlels
and unfeeling ! We need go no further than the horfe, to prove how ftrongly na-
ture has endowed brute animals with memory ; for whatever roads, paltures, inns,
or llables, a horfe has been accuftomed to, though removed for years to a diffcant
part of the country, he never forgets them ; but if ever he returns, or pafies by
them again, he gives evident tokens that he has been accuftomed to the place.
The celebrated equeftrians, Hughes and Aftley, could, I doubt not, furnifh a
thoufand curious anecdotes to illuftrate this faft; but the following, I think,
being incontrovertible, will be fufficient for the purpofe.
Mr. James George, a gentleman of Southampton, in the county of Hants,
loll his horfe from off the common on which he had been accuftomed to be turn-
ed out. About twelve months after, the horfe was feen and recognized, grazing
on a common near Burfiedon. Soon as this was made known, Mr. George fent
his fervant with a bridle, and ordered the horfe to be caught, and brought home.
In a few days after, a Mr. Langtree of Burfiedon, came to Mr. George, to demand
the horfe, infilling it was his property, and had been fo for years. The horfe,
however, being pofitively withheld, Mr. Langtree brought an adlion for his re-
covery, which was tried at Winchefter Lent affizes, in March 1789. The plain-
tiff, on the pofitive affirmations of fix or feven witnefies, traced the fale of the
horle from one dealer’s hands to another, as far back as the year 1784, when he
No. 7. Cc was
oS A KEY TO PHYSIC,
was purchafed of one farmer Mofes, in the county of Suffex, who bred him ; and
the horfe was identified by them all. On the part of the defendant, the mod po-
fitive evidence was adduced, to (hew that this horfe was not the horfe fworn to
have been fo bought and fold by the witnefies on the other fide, but was, and
had been, the real property of Mr. George, from the year 1786. In this fituation,
with the horfe equally fworn to and identified by the witneffes on both fides, who
had all been to infpeft him but the day before the trial, the judge, by crofs-exa-
mining the lad witnefs, difcovered, that when the defendant’s fervant brought
the horfe back, he turned him into his old pafturage on Southampton common,
where he had not been many minutes, before he fet off, of his own accord, towards
Southampton and in his way eroded a number of lanes and turnings, pafied by
eight or ten (tables, until he came to the (table of Mr. George, where he inftantly
(topped, and neighed at the (table door, as much as to fay he was come back,
and begged to be taken in. This circumftance decided the verdidt. The learned
judge remarked, that there could be no collufion in the evidence derived from the
memory of the horfe, and diredted the jury to find for the defendant. This cha-
radter, though natural to the animal, is improved by habit and education. His
education commences with the lofs of liberty, and is finilhed by conftraint. In
the vad defarts of America, they roam at large without any redraint. M. de Salle
relates, that he faw, in the year 1685, horfes feeding in the meadows of North
America, near the bay of St. Louis, which were fo ferocious that nobody durft
come near them. Oexmelin fays, that he has feen large troops of them in St. Do-
mingo running in the valleys ; that when any perfon approached, they all (lopped ;
and one of them would advance till within a certain didance, then fnort with his
nofe, take to his heels, and the whole troop after him. Thefe relations fufficiently
prove, that the horfe, when at full liberty, has no inclination to alfociate with
mankind •,
that all the foftnefs and dudlility of his temper proceed entirely from
the culture and polifh he receives in his domeftic education, which in fome mea-
fure commences as foon as he is brought forth.—The horfe has not only a gran-
deur in his general appearance, but there is the greateft fymmetry and propor-
tion in the different parts of his body. The regularity and proportion of the dif-
ferent parts of the head gives him an air of lightnefs, which is well fupported by
the (Irength and beauty of his cheft. He eredls his head, as if willing to exalt
himfelf above the condition of other quadrupeds: his eyes are open and lively;
his ears are handfome, and of a proper height ; his mane adorns his neck, and
gives him the appearance of (Irength and boldnefs. At the age of two years, or
two years and an half, the horfe is in a condition to propagate ; and the mare,
like mod other females, is ready to receive him (till fooner. But the foals pro-
duced
99
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
duced by fuch early embraces are generally ill-made and weakly. The horfe
fhould never be admitted to the mare till he is four or four and a half-, this is
only meant with regard to draught-horfes. Fine horfes fhould not be admitted to
the mare before they be fix years old •, and Spanilh ftallions not till feven. The
mares are generally in feafon from the beginning of April to the end of June;
but their chief ardour for the horfe lafts but about fifteen or twenty days, and this
critical feafon fhould always be embraced. The ftallion ought to be found, well
made, vigorous, and of a good breed. For fine faddle-horfes, foreign ftallions,
as Arabians, Turks, Barbs, and Andalufians, are preferable to all others. Next
to thefe, Britifh ftallions are the beft ; becaufe they originally fprang from thofe
above-mentioned, and are very little degenerated. The ftallions of Italy, and
efpecially the Neapolitans, are very good. The beft ftallions for draught or
carriage horfes, are thofe of Naples, Denmark, Holftein, and Frizeland. The
ftallions for faddle-horfes fhould be from fourteen to fifteen hands high, and for
draught horfes at leaft fifteen hands. Neither ought the colour of ftallions to be
overlooked •, as a fine black, grey, bay, forrel, chefnut, &c. Befides thefe external
qualities, a ftallion ought to have courage, tradlability, fpirit, agility, a fenfi-
ble mouth, fure limbs, &c. Thefe precautions in the choice of a ftallion are the
more neceflary, becaufe he has been found by experience to communicate to his
offspring almoft all his good or bad qualities, whether natural or acquired.
To fhew, more obvioufly, the reafoning faculty of brutes, and to diftinguifh
the operations of intellect from thofe of inftinct, we need only contemplate the
adtions and difpofition of the dog. In a favage ftate, it muft be allowed, that
he is fierce, cruel, and voracious-, but, when civilized and accuftomed to live
with men, he is poflefled of every amiable quality. He feems to have no other
defire than to pleafe and protedt his mafter. He is gentle, obedient, fubmiftive,
and faithful. Thefe dilpofitions, joined to his almoft unbounded fagacity, juftly
claim the efteem of mankind. Accordingly no animal is fo much careffed or
refpedted : he is fo ductile, and fo much formed to pleafe, that he affumes the
very air and temper of the family in which he refides. An animal endowed with
fuch uncommon qualities, muft anfwer many ufeful purpofes. His fidelity and
vigilance are daily employed to protect our perfons, our flocks, or our goods.
The acutenefs of his fmell gains him employment in hunting: he is frequently
employed as a turnfpit : atBruflels and in Holland he is trained to draw little carts
to the herb-market ; and in the northern regions draws a fledge with his -mafter in
it, or loaden with provifions. It is a remarkable inftindt in the dog, that when op-
prefled with ficknefs, to which he is very fubjedt, efpecially in the beginning of
fummer, and before ill weather;, in order to procure him a puke, he eats the leaves
of
JOO A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of the quicken. grafs, the bearded wheat-grafs, or the rough cock’s-foot grafs,
which gives him immediate relief. He does not throw out his excrements protnif-
cuoufly upon every thing that happens to be in the way, but carefully feeks ftones,
trunks of trees, or barren places. This is a wile inftitution of nature i for the ex -
crements of a dog deftroy almoft every vegetable or animal fubftance. They are of
{uch a putrid nature, that if a man’s ffioe touches them when recently expelled, that
particular part will rot in a few days. He obferves the fame method in making his
urine, which he throve out at a fide. It is remarkable, that a dog will not pafs a
ftoneor a wall againft which any other dog has pified, without following his exam-
ple, although an hundred fhould occur in a few minutes, infomuch that it is afto-
niffiing how fuch a quantity can be fecreted in fo fnort a time. The principal ob-
jection to dogs, is the {hocking circumftance of their going mad, and of commu-
nicating the diforder to whatever perfon, or animal, it may chance to bite ; and of
which the cure has ever been confidered precarious and uncertain. From a minute
inveft’igation of the poifonous qualities of the hydrophobia, and the effeCt it has on
the blood •, as well as from a confideration of what the blood and juices undergo
by emerging the body in the fea, I am bold to affirm that my Solar TinCture, ad-
miniftered in the way I have directed, is a certain and infallible cure for this de-
plorable malady ; at leaft as far as human certainty can go with refpeCt to medi-
cine. I would not however be underftood to encourage a negligence in thofe who
keep dogs, to watch well their aCtions, and on the fmalleft fufpicion that fuch a
misfortune is near, to have them inftantly difpatched, as they may be eafily re-
placed, and much anxiety and diftrefs prevented.-—With regard to the propagation
of dogs, the females admit the males before they are twelve months old. They
remain in feafon ten, twelve, or even fifteen, days, during which time they will
admit a variety of males. They come in feafon generally twice in the year, and
more frequently in -the cold than in the hot months. The male difeovers the con-
dition of the female by the finell ;
but ffie feldom admits him the firft fix or feven
days. One coition will make her conceive a great number of young ; but, when
not reftrained, ffie will admit feveral dogs every day •, ffie feems to have no choice
or predileClion, except in favour of large dogs : from this circumftance it fome-
times happens, that a ftnall female, who has admitted a maftiff, periffies in bring-
ing forth her young. During the time of copulation, thefe animals cannot fepa-
rate themfelves, but remain united fo long as the ereCtion fubfifts. This is owing
to the ftruCture of the parts. The dog has not only a bone in his penis, but in the
middle of the corpus cavernofum there is a large hollow, which is blown up in the
time of ereCtion to a confiderable bulk. The female, on the other hand, has a
larger clitoris than perhaps any other animal : befides, a large firm protuberance
rifes
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 101
rifes in the time of copulation, and remains perhaps longer than that of the male, and
prevents him from retiring till it fubfides : accordingly, after the ad of penetrating
is effected, the male turns about in order to reft himfelf on his legs, and remains
in that pofition till the parts turn flaccid. The female goes with young about nine
weeks. They generally bring forth from fix to twelve puppies. Thofe of a fmall
fize bring forth five, four, and fometimes but two. They continue to copulate and
bring forth during life, which lafts generally about fourteen or fifteen years. The
whelps are commonly blind, and cannot open their eyes till the tenth or twelfth
day : the males are like the dog, the females like the bitch. —The dog, the wolf,
and the fox, are certainly derived from one original parent ; and all dogs whatso-
ever, from the terrible boar-dog, to Pompey the little, were all one in the firft
creation. All the variety we behold in them, is either produced by change of cli-
mate, or the accidental effed of foil, food, or Situation; or from the iftue of hu-
man care, experiment, or caprice. Every huntfman knows what a vaft alteration
may be made in dogs, by induftrioufly improving the breed for twenty or thirty
years. Nature wifely tends to render every kind of creature fit for the country
where it is to inhabit, or be employed, which is the reafon why hounds, and all
other animals, degenerate, by being removed into contrary climates. This is ma-
nifeft from the following experiment; if a couple of right Southern hounds be re-
moved to the north, and Suffered to propagate without art or mixture, they will,
by fenfible degrees, decline into lighter bodies, and Shriller accents ; and in the
fame way are all dogs varied, by being carried from one country to another.
But the utmoft efforts of human induftry and contrivance, whether afiifted by
change of climate, or mixture of breed, could never add one new fpecies to the
works of the creation. Nature is Still uniform as to the main, nor Suffers the
Almighty Creator to be imitated by fhort-fighted mortals. Jn Spite of art, our
mules are always barren ; nor can the rnoft curious projector produce one amphi-
geneous animal that will encreafe and multiply. There appears a diftind Specific
difference in all living creatures; the horSe, the dog, the bear, the goat, how-
ever diversified by art, by copulation, or by climate, either in Size, Shape, or
figure, will ever diScover Something that approximates to the charader of their
fpecies. Above all, the peculiar inftind and appetite for generation, will prompt
them to own and indicate their relation. Animals of different Species will never
copulate together. This is one of the moft undeniable arguments that wolves,
foxes, and dogs, are originally the fame fpecies, becaufe in coition they are not
only all held together in the fame manner, but we have frequent instances of litters
of puppies both from the dog and fox, and from the dog and wolf. Mr. Brooke,
animal-merchant in Holborn, turned a wolf to a Pomeranian bitch in heat
;
No. 7. D d the
102 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the congrefs was immediate, and as ufual between dog and bitch : (he produced
ten puppies. Mr. Pennant law one of them at Gordon Caftle, that had very
much the refemblance of a wolf, and alfo much of its nature ; being flipped at
a weak deer, it inftantly caught at the animal’s throat and killed it. I could not
learn flays Mr. Pennant) whether this mongrel continued its fpecies ;
but another
of the fame kind did, and flocked the neighbourhood of Fochabers, in the coun-
ty of Moray (where it was kept), with a multitude of curs of a molt wolfifh afpeCt.
There was lately living a mongrel offspring of this kind. It greatly refembled its
wolf parent. It was firft the property of Sir Wolftein Dixey ; afterwards of Sir
Willoughby Affon. During day it was very tame; but at night fometimes re-
lapfed into ferocity. It never barked, but rather howled ; when it came into fields
where fheep were, it would feign lamenefs, but if no one was prefent would in-
ftantly attack them. It had been feen in copulation with a bitch, which after-
wards pupped : the breed was imagined to refemble in many refpe&s the fuppofed
fire. It died between the age of five and fix.-—The woodman of the manor of
Mongewell, in Oxfordfhire, has a bitch, which conftantly follows him, the off-
fpring of a tame dog-fox by a fhepherd’s cur j and fhe again has had puppies by a
dog. Since there are fuch authentic proofs of the further continuance of the breed,
we may furely add the wolf and fox to the other fuppofed ftocks of thefe faithful
domeftics, particularly as moft naturalifts fuppofe the dog to have been originally
the production of one or other of thefe animals, tamed and civilized.
Many and wonderful are the inftances of fagacity, fidelity, and attention, and
even of forefight, which thefe faithful animals have evinced towards their matters.
<Some fuch will doubtlefs occur to the minds of my readers, as falling under their
pwn obfervation ; I (hall therefore only recite two or three fuch inftances, of un-
queftionable authenticity.--- In the year 1791, a perfon went to a houfe in Dept-
ford, to take lodgings, under pretence that he was juft arrived from the Weft-
Indies •, and after having agreed on terms, faid he (hould fend in his trunk that
night, and come himfelf the next day. About nine o’clock in the evening, the
trunk was brought in by two porters, and was carried into his bed-room. Juft
as the family were going to bed, their little houfe-dog, deferting his ufual
ftation in the (hop, placed himfelf clofe to the chamber door where the cheft
was depofited, and kept up an inceffant barking. The moment the chamber
door was opened, the dog flew to the cheft, againft which it barked and
fcratched with redoubled vehemence and fury. At firft they tried to get the
dog out of the room •, but in vain. Calling in fome neighbours, and making
them eye-witneffes of the circumftance, they began to move the trunk about,
when they quickly difcovered that it contained fometh’mg alive. Sufpicion
falling
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 103
falling very drong, they were induced to open it, when, to their utter ado-
niffiment, who fhould prefent himfelf but their new lodger, who had been
thus conveyed in, to rob the houfe ! —In the fummer of the year 1792, a gentle-
man went down to Portfmouth for the benefit of fea-bathing. He went to Mr.
Bradley’s machines, to be conducted into the water. Being unacquainted with
the depth of the water, and no fwimmer, he found himfelf, the indant he
quitted the machine, nearly out of his depth. Fright increafed the peril of his
fituation, and, unnoticed by the perfon who attends the machines, he had funk
for the lafb time in the agonies of drowning. A large Newfoundland dog,
danding by accident on the fhore, and feeing the didrefs of this dranger,
plunged in after him ;
and feizing him by the hair of the head, conducted
him fafely on fliore, though it was fome time before he recovered. The gen-
tleman afterwards purchafed the dog at a high price, but values him equally
with the fum total of his fortune.—At the feat of the late Earl of Litchfield,
three miles from Blenheim, there is a portrait in the dining-room of Sir Henry
Lee, by Johndon, with that of a madid" dog which faved his life. It feems
a fervant had formed the defign of afifaffinating his mailer and robbing the houfe j
but the night he had fixed on, the dog, which had never been much noticed
by Sir Henry, for the firft time followed him up Hairs, got under his bed,
and could not be got from thence by either mailer or man ; in the dead of
night, the fame fervant entered the room to execute his horrid defign, but
was inilantly feized by the dog, and being fecured, confeflfed his intentions.
There are ten quaint lines in one corner of the pidture, which conclude thus :
But in my dog, whereof I made no ilore,
I find more love than thofe I trufted more.
Upon what hypothefis can we account for a degree of forefight and penetration
i'uch as this ? Or will it be fuggeiled, as a fclution of the difficulty, that a
dog may poffibly become capable in a great meafure of underilanding human
difcourfe, and of reafoning and adling accordingly ; and that, in the prefent
inilance, the villain had either uttered his defign in foliloquy, or imparted it
to an accomplice, in the hearing of the animal ? It has been much difputed
whether the brutes have any language whereby they can exprefs their minds
to each other ;
or whether all the noife they make confifts only of cries inarti-
culate, and unintelligible even to themfelves. We may indeed, from analogy,
conclude, with great reafon, that fome of the cries of beads are really ex-
preffions of their fentimtnts but whether one bead is capable of forming a
defign, and communicating that defign by any kind of language to others, is
what I fhall leave to the judgment of the reader, after fubmitting tc his confider-
ation
J04 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ation the following inftance. A fparrow finding a neft that a martin had juft
built, Handing very conveniently for him, poffeffed himfelf of it. The martin,
feeing the ufurper in her houfe, called for help to expel him. A thoufand mar-
tins came full fpeed, and attacked the fparrow ; but the latter being covered on
every fide, and prefenting only his large beak at the entrance of the neft, was in-
vulnerable, and made the boldeft of them who durft approach him repent of their
temerity. After a quarter of an hour’s combat, all the martins difappeared. The
fparrow thought he had got the better, and the fpedtators judged that the martins
had abandoned their undertaking. Not in the leaft. Immediately they returned
to the charge *, and each of them having procured a little of that tempered earth
with which they make their nefts, they all at once fell upon the fparrow, and in-
clofed him in the neft to perifh there, though they could not drive him thence.
Can it be imagined that the martins could have been able to hatch and concert
this defign all of them together, without fpeaking to each other, or without fome
medium of communication equivalent to language ?
From all thefe extraordinary endowments, manifefted by brute animals of differ-
ent countries and kinds, fome philofophers have maintained that brutes are endow-
ed with a foul, though effentially inferior to that of men ; and to this foul they
have allowed immortality. Father Bougeant, a Jefuit, has lately publilhed a
treatife exprefsly on this fubjedt, entitled, A philofophical amufement on the language
of brutes ,
in which he affirms that they are animated by evil fpirits, or devils.
The ftrangenefs of this dodtrine, has induced me to give the outline of his argu-
ments, fince they cannot fail to prove entertaining to the reader. “ Reafon (fays
he) naturally inclines us to believe that beafts have a fpiritual foul j and the only
thing that oppofes this fentiment is, the confequences that might be inferred from
it. If brutes have a foul, that foul muft be either matter or fpirit ; it muft be one
of the two, and yet you dare affirm neither. You dare not fay it is matter, be-
caufe you muft then neceffarily fuppofe matter to be capable of thinking ; nor will
you fay that it is fpirit, this opinion bringing with it confequences contrary to the
principles of religion and this, among others, that man would differ from beafts
only by the degrees of plus and minus ; which would demoliffi the very foundation
of all religion. Therefore, if I can elude all thefe confequences ; if I can affign
to beafts a fpiritual foul, without ftriking at the dodtrines of religion ; it is evident,
that my fyftem, being moreover the moft agreeable to reafon, is the only warrant-
able hypothefis. Now I ffiall, and can do it, with the greateft eafe imaginable.
I even have means, by the fame method, to explain many very obfcure paffages in
the Holy Scripture, and to refolve fome very great difficulties which are not well
confuted. This we ffiall unfold in a more particular manner. Religion teaches
us.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 103
us, that the devils, from the very moment they had finned, were reprobate, and
that they were doomed to burn for ever in hell ; but the church has not yet deter-
mined whether they do adually endure the torments to which they are condemned.
It may then be thought that they do not yet fuffer them, and that the execution of
the verdift brought againd them is referved for the day of final judgment.—Now
what I pretend to infer from hence is, that, till doomfday comes, God, in order
not to fuffer fo many legions of reprobate fpirits to be of no ufe, has didributed
them through the feveral fpaces of the world, to ferve the defigns of his Provi-
dence and make his omnipotence to appear. Some, continuing in their natural
date, bufy themfelves in tempting men, in feducing and tormenting them ; either
immediately, as Job’s devil, and thofe that lay hold of human bodies -,
or by the
miniftry of forcerers or phantoms. Thefe wicked fpirits are thofe whom the fcrip-
ture calls the powers of darknefs, or the powers of the air. God, with the others,
makes millions of beads of all kinds, which ferve for the ufes of men, which fill
the univerfe, and caufe the wifdom and omnipotence of the Creator to be admired.
By that means I can eafily conceive, on the one hand, how the devils can tempt
us ; and on the other, how beads can think, know, have fentiments, and a
fpiritual foul, without any way driking at the dodtrines of religion. I am no
longer furprifed to fee them have forecad, memory, and judgment. I fhould
rather have occadon to wonder at their having no more, fince their foul very likely
is more perfect than ours. But I difcover the reafon of this : it is becaufe, in beads
as well as in ourfelves, the operations of the mind are dependent on the material
organs of the machine to which it is united j and thofe organs being grolfer and
lefs perfedt than in us, it follows, that the knowledge, the thoughts, and the
other fpiritual operations of the beads, mud of courle be lefs perfect than ours :
and if thefe proud fpirits know their own difmal date, what an humiliation mud
it be to them thus to fee themfelves reduced to the condition of beads ! But, whe-
ther they know it or no, fo fhameful a degradation is dill, with regard to them,
the primary effedt of the divine vengeance I jud mentioned ; it is an anticipated
hell.”—Having mentioned the prejudices againd this hypothefis, fuch particular-
ly as the pleafure which people of fenfe and religion take in beads and birds, efpe-
cially all forts of domedic animals ; he proceeds, “ Do we love beads for their
own fakes ? No. As they are altogether drangers to human fociety, they can have
no other appointment but that of being ufeful and amufing. And what care we
whether it be a devil or any other creature that amufes us ? The thought of it,
far from Ihocking, pleafes me mightily. I with gratitude admire the goodnefs of
the Creator, who gave me fo many little devils to ferve and amufe me. If I am
told that thefe poor devils are doomed to fuffer eternal tortures, I admire God’s
No. 7. E e decrees,
io6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
decrees, but I have no manner of fhare in that dreadful fentence; I leave the
execution of it to the fovereign judge; and, notwithftanding this, I live with
my little devils as 1 do with a multitude of people, of whom religion informs me
that a great number (hall be damned. But the cure of a prejudice is not to be
effected in a moment ; it is done by time and reflection : give me leave then lightly
to touch upon this difficulty, in order to obferve a very important thing to you.
Ferfuaded as we are that beafts have intelligence, have we not all of us a thoufand
times pitied them for the exceffive evils which the majority of them are expofed to,
and in reality fuffer P How unhappy is the condition of horfes ! we are apt to fay
upon feeing a horfe whom an unmerciful carman is murdering with blows. How
miferable is a dog whom they are breaking for hunting ! How difmal is the fate of
beafts living in woods ! they are perpetually expofed to the injuries of the weather
always feized with apprehenfions of becoming the prey of hunters, or of fome wilder
animal ; for ever obliged, after long fatigue, to look out for fome poor infipid
food; often fuffering cruel hunger ; and fubjeCt, moreover, to illnefs and death !
If men are lubjeCt to a multitude of miferies that overwhelm them, religion ac-
quaints us with the reafon of it ; viz. the being born Tinners. But what crimes can
beafts have committed by birth to be fubjeCl to evils fo very cruel ? What are we,
then, to think of the horrible exceftes of miferies undergone by beafts ? miferies,
indeed, far greater than thofe endured by men. This is, in any other fyftem, an
incomprehenfible myftery ; whereas nothing is more eafy to be conceived from the
fyftem I propofe. The rebellious fpirits deferve a punifhment ftill more rigorous,
and happy is it for them that their punifhment is. deferred. In a word, God’s
goodnefs is vindicated, man himfelf is juftified : for what right can we have,
without neceffity, and often in the way of mere diverfion, to take away the life of
millions of beafts, if God had not authorifed us fo to do ? And beafts being as
fenfible as ourfelves of pain and death, how could a juft and merciful God have
given man that privilege, if they were not fo many guilty victims of the divine
vengeance ?—But hear ftill fomething more convincing, and of greater confe-
quence: beafts, by nature, are extremely vicious. We know well that they
never fin, becaule they are not free; but this is the only condition wanting to
make them finners. The voracious birds and beafts of prey are cruel. Many
infeCts of one and the fame fpecies devour one another. Cats are perfidious and
ungrateful ; monkeys are mifchievous ; and dogs envious. All beafts in general
are jealous and revengeful to excefs ; not to mention many other vices we obferve
in them : and at the fame time that they are by nature fo very vicious, they have,
fay we, neither the liberty nor any helps to refill the bias that hurries them into
fo many bad aCtions. They are, according to the fchools, neceffitated to do evil,
to
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 107
to difconcert the general order, to commit whatever is moil contrary to the notion
we have of natural juftice and to the principles of virtue. What monfters are thefe
in a world originally created for order and juftice to reign in ? This is, in good
part, what formerly perfuaded the Manicheans, that there were of neceflity two
orders of things, one good, and the other bad •, and that the beafts were not the
work of the good principle : a monftrous error ! But how then fhall we believe
that beafts came out of the hands of their Creator with qualities fo very ftrange !
If man is fo very wicked and corrupt, it is becaufe he has himfelf through fin per-
verted the happy nature God had given him at his creation. Of two things, then,
we aiuft fay one : either that God has taken delight in making beafts fo vicious as
they are, and of giving us in them models of what is moft fhameful in the world ;
or that they have, like man, original fin, which has perverted their primitive na-
ture.— -The firft of thefe propofitions finds very difficult accefs to the mind, and
is an exprefs contradidlion to the holy fcriptures ; which fay, that whatever came
out of God’s hands, at the time of the creation of the world, was good, yea very
good. What good can there be in a monkey’s being fo very mifchievous, a dog
fo full of envy, a cat fo malicious ? But then many authors have pretended, that
beafts, before man’s fall, were different from what they are now ; and that it was
in order to puniffi man that they became fo wicked. But this opinion is a mere
fuppofition of which there is not the leaft footftep in Holy Scripture. It is a piti-
ful fubterfuge to elude a real difficulty : this at moft might be faid of the beafts
with whom man has a fprt of correfpondence ; but not at all of the birds, fifties,
and infedts, which have no manner of relation to him. We muft then have re-
courfe to the fecond propofition, that the nature of beafts has, like that of man,
been corrupted by fome original fin : another hypothefis, void of foundation, and
equally inconfiftent with realon and religion, in all the fyftems which have been
hitherto efpoufed concerning the fouls of beafts. What party are we to take ?
Why, admit of my fyftem, and all is explained. The fouls of beafts are refrac-
tory fpirits which have made themfelves guilty towards Gcd. The fin in beafts
is no original fin •, it is a perfonal crime, which has corrupted and perverted their
natureinitswholefubftar.ee-, hence all the vices and corruption we obferve in
them, though they can be no longer criminal, becaufe God, by irrecoverably re-
probating them, has at the fame time divefted them of their liberty.”
Thefe quotations contain the ftrength of father Bougeant’s hypothefis, which alfo
hath had its followers -, but the reply to it is obvious. Beafts, though remarkably
mifch'ievous, are not completely fo j they are in many inftances capable of grati-
tude and love, which devils cannot poffibly be. The very fame paffions that are
in the brutes exift in the human nature j
and if we chofe to argue from the
exiftence
io8 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
exiftence of thofe pafllons, and the afcendency they have over mankind at fome
times, we may fay with as great juftice, that the fouls of men are devils, as that
the fouls of brutes are. All that can be reafonably inferred from the greater pre-
valency of the malignant pafllons among the brutes than among men, is, that the
former have lefs rationality than men - and accordingly it is found, that among
favages, who exercife their reafon lefs than other men, every fpecies of barbarity
is pradtifed, without being deemed a crime. —Upon the whole, it is impoffible
ro deduce this variety of adtion, in animals, from a general and uniform inftindt
only. For they accommodate their operations to times and circumftances. They
combine » they choofe the favourable moment j they avail themfelves of the
occafion, and feem to receive inftrudtion by experience. Many of their operations
announce refledtion : the bird repairs a fhattered neft, inftead of conftrudting in-
ftindlively a new one : the hen, who has been robbed of her eggs, changes her
place in order to lay the remainder with more fecurity : the cat difcovers both
care and artifice in concealing her kittens. Again, it is evident, that, on many
occafions, animals know their faults and miftakes, and corredt them ; they
fometimes contrive the molt ingenious methods of obtaining their ends, and
when one method fails, have recourfe to another ; and they have, without doubt,
a kind of language for the mutual communication of their ideas. How is all this
to be accounted for, unlefs we fuppofe them endowed with the powers of perceiv-
ing, thinking, remembering, comparing, and judging ? They certainly have
thefe powers, in a degree inferior to the human fpecies, and form claffes below
them in the graduated fcale of intelligent beings 5 but their adtions not being di-
redted to moral ends, are confequently not accountable and proper fubjedts for
reward or punilhment in a future world.
After all, it does not appear upon what principle of reafon and juftice it is,
that mankind have founded their right over the lives of every creature that is placed
in a fubordinate rank of being to themfelves. Whatever claim they may have in
right of food and felf-defence, did they extend their privilege no farther, number-
lefs beings might enjoy their lives in peace, who are now hurried out of them by
the moft wanton and unneceffary cruelties. It is furely difficult to difcover why
it fliould be thought lefs inhuman to crulh to death a harmlefs infedt, whofe Angle
offence is that he eats that food which nature has prepared for his fuftenance, than
it would be were we to kill any bulky creature for the fame reafon. There are
few tempers fo hardened to the impreflions of humanity, as not to Ihudder at the
thought of the latter ; and yet the former is univerfally pradtifed, without the
leaft check of compaffion. This feems to arife from the grofs error of fuppofing,
that every creature is really in itfelf contemptible, which happens to be clothed
2 with
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 109
with a body infinitely difproportionate to our own, not confidering that great
and little are merely relative terms. But the inimitable Shakefpeare would teach
us, that
•
the poor beetle that we tread upon,
In corp’ral fuff ’ranee, feels a pang as great
As when a giant dies.
And, indeed, there is every reafon to believe, that the fenfations of many infefls
are as exquifite as thofe of creatures of far more enlarged dimenfions, perhaps
even more fo. The millepede, for inftance, rolls itfelf round upon the flighted:
touch, and the fnail gathers in her horns upon the leaft approach of our hand.
Are not thefe the ftrongeft indications of their fenfibility ? and is it any evidence
of ours, that we are not therefore induced to treat them with a more fymphathifing
tendernefs ?
I cannot conclude thefe obfervations on the inftin£t and oeconomy of brute
animals, without reciting the following mod remarkable account of the land-
crab, which inhabits the Bahama Ifiands, as well as mod parts between the
tropics, and feeds upon vegetables. Thefe creatures live not only in a kind of
orderly fociety in their retreats in the mountains, but regularly once a year, march
down to the fea-fide in a body of fome millions at a time. As they multiply in
great numbers, they choofe the month of April or May to begin their expedition ;
and then Tally out by thoufands from the flumps of hollow trees, from the clefts
of rocks, and from the holes which they dig for themfelves under the furface of
the earth. At that time the whole ground is covered with this band of adven-
turers ; there is no fetting down one’s foot without treading upon them. The
fea is their place of deftination, and to that they direct their march with right-
lined precifton. No geometrician could fend them to their deftined flation by
a fhorter courfe ;
they neither turn to the right nor left, whatever obflacles
intervene-, and even if they meet with a houfe, they will attempt to fcale the
walls to keep the unbroken tenor of their way. ' But though this be the general
order of their route, they, upon other occafions, are obliged to conform to
the face of the country ; and if it is interfe&ed with rivers, they are then feen
to wind along the courfe of the ftream. The proceflion fets forward from the
mountains with the regularity of an army under the guidance of an experienced
commander. They are commonly divided into three battalions; of which the
firft confifts of the ftrongeft and boldeft males, that, like pioneers, march for-
ward to clear the route and face the greateft dangers. Thefe are often obliged
to halt for want of rain, and to go into the molt convenient encampment till
•the weather changes. The main body of the army is compofed of females.
No. 8. F-f which
no A KEY TO PHYSIC,
which never leave the' mountains till the rain is fet in for fome time, and there
defcend in regular battalia, being formed into columns of fifty paces broad*
and three miles deep, and fo clofe that they almoft cover the ground. Three
or four days after this, the rear-guard follows, a ftraggllng undifciplined tribe,
confifting of males and females, but neither fo rebuff nor fo vigorous as the
former. The night is their chief time of proceeding •, but if it rains by day,
they do not fail to profit by the occafion •, and they continue to move for-
ward in their flow uniform manner. When the fun fhines and is hot uporr
the furface of the ground, they then make an universal halt, and wait till the
cool of the evening. When they are terrified, they march back in a confufed
disorderly manner, holding up their nippers, with which they fometimes tear
off a piece of the fkin, and then leave the weapon where they infii&ed the
wound. They even try to intimidate their enemies ; for they often clatter
their nippers together, as if it were to threaten thofe that come to difturb them.
But though they thus ftrive to be formidable to man, they are much more
fo to each other ; for they are poflefled of one moft unfocial property, which
is, that if any of them by accident is maimed in fuch a manner as to be inca-
pable of proceeding, the reft fall upon and devour it on the fpot, and then
purfue their journey.—When, after a fatiguing march, and efcaping a thou-
fand dangers, (for they are fometimes three months in getting to the fhore,)
they have arrived at their deftined port, they prepare to caft their fpawn.
The peas are as yet within their bodies, and not excluded, as is ufual in ani-
mals of this kind, under the tail ;
for the creature waits for the benefit of
fea-water to help the delivery. For this purpofe the crab has no fooner reached
the fhore, than it eagerly goes to the edge of the water, and lets the waves
wafh over its body two or three times. This feems only a preparation for
bringing their fpawn to maturity ; for, without further delay, they withdraw
to feek a lodging upon land ; in the mean time the fpawn grows larger, is ex-
cluded out of the body, and flicks to the barbs under the flap, or more pro-
perly the tail. This bunch is feen as big as an hen’s egg, and exactly refem-
bling the roes of herrings. In this ftate of pregnancy they once more feek
the fhore for the laft time ; and fhaking off their fpawn into the water, leave
accident to bring it to maturity. At this time whole fhoals of hungry fifh.
are at the fhore in expectation of this annual fupply •, the fea to a great diftance
items black with them •, and about two thirds of the crabs eggs are im-
mediately devoured by thefe rapacious invaders. The eggs that efcape are
hatched under the fandy and, foon after, millions at a time of the little crabs
are feen quitting the fhore, and flowly travelling up to the mountains. The
old.
m
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
old ones, however, are not fo aftive to return ; they haVfe become fo feeble
and lean, that they can hardly creep along, and the flelh at that time changes
its colour. The moft of them, therefore, are obliged to continue in the flat
parts of the country till they recover, making holes in the earth, which they
cover at the mouth with leaves and dirt, fo that no air may enter. There
they throw off their old {hells, which they leave, as ft were, quite whole > the
place where they opened on the belly being unfeen. At that time they are quite
naked, and almoft without motion for fix days together, when they become
fo fat as to be -delicious food. They have then under their ftomachs four
large white {tones, which gradually decreafe in proportion as the fhell hardens,,
and, when they come to perfection, are not to be found. It is at that time
that the animal is feen flowly making its way back ; and all this is moft com-
monly performed in the fpace of fix weeks.---This animal, when poflefied of
its retreats in the mountains, is impregnable; for only fubfifting on vegetables,
it feldom ventures out ; and its habitation being in the moft inaccefiible places,
it remains for a great part of the feafon in perfeCt fecurity. It is only when
impelled by the defire of bringing forth its young, and when compelled to
defcend into the flat country, that it is taken. At that time the natives wait
for its delcent in eager expectation, and deftroy thoufands ; but difregarding
their bodies, they only feek for that fmall fpawn which lies on each fide of
the ftomach v/ithin the fhell, of about the thicknefs of a man’s thumb. They
are much more valuable upon their return after they have caft their Ihell ;
for, being covered with a fkin refembling foft parchment, almoft every part
except the ftomach may be eaten. They are taken in the holes by feeling
for them with an inftrument; they are fought after by night, when on their
journey,, by flambeaux. The inftant the animal perceives itfelf attacked, it
throws itfelf on its back, and with its claws pinches moft terribly whatever it
happens to faften on. But the dexterous crab-catcher takes them by the hind-
er legs in fuch a manner that the nippers cannot touch him, and thus he
throws them into his bag. Sometimes alfo they are caught when they take
refuge in the bottoms of holes in rocks by the fea-fide, by clapping a flick to
the mouth of the hole, which prevents their getting out; and then foon after,
the tide coming, enters the hole, and the animal is found, upon its retiring,
drowned in its retreat.-— Thefe crabs are of various fizes, the largeft about
fix inches wide; they walk fide-ways like the fea-crab, and are fhaped like
them : fome are black, fome yellow, fome red, and others variegated with red,
white, and yellow, mixed. Some of thefe are poifonous ; and feveraL people
have died of eating of the crabs, particularly of the black kind. The lights
coloured
A KEY TO PHYSIC
312
-coloured are reckoned heft; and when full in flefh, are very well tailed. Io.
fome of the fugar iflands they are eaten without danger; and are no fmall help
to the negro flaves, who, on many of thefe iflands, would fare very hard
without them.
Of S C E N T.
NOTHING more eminently demonftrates the dodtrine of atoms, than [cent. It
is an effluvium continually arifing from the corpufcles that iflue out of all bo-
dies ;
and being impregnated with the peculiar date and quality of the blood
and juices of that particular animal from which they flow, occafions the vaft
variety of fmells or fcents cognizable by the olfadlory nerves, or organs of
fmelling. Hence the reafo-n why one perfon differs from another in fcent, and
why a dog will trace the footfteps of his mafter for an hundred miles together,
follow him into any houfe, church, or other building, and diftinguifh him from
every other perfon, though furrounded by ten thoufand. And when the faith-
ful animal has thus diligently fought out and recognized his mafter, he is
feldom willing even to truft the evidence of his own eyes, until, with eredted
creft, he has taken a few cordial fniffs, to convince himfelf he is right. Hence
alfo we perceive how a pack of hounds are enabled to purfue the hare, fox,
flag, or any other animal they are trained to hunt, acrofs the fcent, and amidft
the fociety of others of the fame fpecies, without being diverted from the pur-
suit of that felf-fame animal they had firfi on foot. And hence too we dif-
cover how it is poffible for birds and beafts of prey to be directed to their
food at fuch vaft diftances ; for thefe corpufcles, ifluing from putrid bodies,
and floating in the air, are carried by the wind to different quarters ; where
ftriking the olfadlory nerves of whatever animals they meet in their way*, immediately
condudt them to the fpot. It matters not how much the effluvia may be gone
off, fo as enough remains to irritate the olfadlory organ; for whether it be
bird or beaft, they try the fcent in all directions, till at length they difcover
that which is ftronger and ftronger in proportion as they proceed, and this na-
ture has taught them to know is the diredl and obvious road to their prey,
and prevents them from following the contrary courfe, which is naturally weak-
er and weaker, and what in hunting is termed heel. This obfervation is con-
firmed by the encrealed eagernefs we perceive in all animals, the nearer they
approach the objedt of purfuit ; as we fee hounds and fpaniels in hunting and
* It is by this means the fmall-pox, mealies, putrid fevers, and all epidemic complaints are communicated,
and the plague andpeftilence conveyed from one place to another.
i fhooting.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 1J 3
fhooting, are the more earned, in proportion as the fcent is recent, and as
they draw nearer to the game. The fame thing, amongft quadrupeds, whether
wild or domeftic, diredts the male to the female that is in feafon for love •,
and hence we fee the dog, the boar, the bull, and the ftallion, when turned
loofe, apply their noftrils to the ambient air, and proceed accordingly. By the
fame medium the vermin which infeft our dwellings, know how to diredt
their operations, whether to undermine walls, eat through folid boards, crofs
rivers, or climb fpouts ;
which lhews how much ftronger the faculty of fmel-
ling is poffeffed by the brute fpecies, than by the human ; wifely ordained by
nature, to enable them to feek their food, and propagate their fpecies, but
for which they would often perilh, or have long fince became extindl.
There are wonderful inftances of fome animal carcafes, which, though flaked
with lime, and buried ten feet under ground, have fent forth fo ftrong a fcent, as
to have attradled dogs to the fpot, that eagerly endeavoured to dig away the
earth to get at them. And an infcance happened only a few years fince at
Petersfield in Hampfhire, where an unfortunate female, having privately deli-
vered herfelf of two children, went and buried them in a deep hole in an adjoin-
ing field ; but within three days fome dogs were attradled to the fpot by the fcent,
dug them up, and partly devoured them, before the fhocking circumflance was
difcovered. No wonder then a pack of hounds, which have caught the fcent
of a polecat or weaftl, will purfue them into the thickefb foreft, and afiemble
round the very tree up the trunk of which they have run for fhelter •, or that blood-
hounds, as in times of old, fhould trace out fugitives and robbers in fub-
terraneous caverns, in trees, caves, or forefts, or in clefts of inacceflible rocks,
of which inftances are given by the moft reputable hiftorians. It is however
to be remarked, that as all animals hunt for and purfue their prey by its fcent,
fo they feem inftindtively to know that they themfelves are hunted and purfued
by means of the fcent ififuing from their own bodies ; but as this fubject admits
of much curious and occult fpeculation, I fhail give a few inftances of the effedts
of fcent upon different animals, and the fenfe and fagacity they difplay in
the management of it.— And firft, of the hare.
The hare is naturally a timid animal, but emanates a very ftrong fcent. He
fleeps in his form or feat during the day •, and feeds, copulates, &c. in the night.
In a moon-light evening, a number of them are fometimes feen fporting together,
leaping and purfuing each other : but the lead motion, the falling of a leaf, alarms
them-, and then they all run off feparately, each taking a different route. They
are extremely fwift in their motion, which is a kind of gallop, or a fuccefiion of
quick leaps. When purfued, they always take to the higher grounds : as their,
Noi 8. G g fore-
1 14 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fore-feet are much fhorter than the hind ones, they run with more eafe up-hill than
down-hill, The hare is endowed with all thofe inftindts which are neceffary for his
own prefervation. In winter he choofes a form expofed to the fouth, and in fum-
mer to the north ; and has a thoufand contrivances to elude the vigilance of his
purfuers, and to cut off his fcent from the hounds. If it be rainy, the hare ufually
takes to the highways ; and if fhe come to the fide of a young grove, or fpring,
flie feldom enters, but fquats down till the hounds have over-fhot her ; and then
(lie will return the very way fhe came, for fear of the wet and dew that hangs on
the boughs.— -When file comes near brook-fides, and plafhes, fhe will make all
her crofiings, doublings, and works. Some hares have been fo crafty, that as foon as
*
they have heard the found of a horn, they would inftantly ftart out of their form,
though it was at the diftance of a quarter of a mde, and go and fwim in fome pool,
and reft upon fome rufii-bed in the midfi of it : and would not ftir from thence till
they have heard the found of the horn again, and then have flarted out, fwim-
ming to land, and have flood up before the hounds four hours before they could
kill them, fwimming and ufing all fubtilties and croffings in the water. Nay,
fuch is the natural craft and fubdlty of the hare, that fometimes after fhe has been
hunted three hours, flie will drive up a frefb hare, and fquat in the fame form her-
fclf. Others having been hunted a confiderable time, will creep under the door
of a fiieep-cot, and hide themfelves among the fheep ; or, when they have been
hard hunted, will run in among a flock of fheep, and will by no means be gotten
out from among them till the hounds are coupled up, and the fheep driven into
their pens. Some of them will take the ground like a rabbit, and run up a wall,
and hide in the grafs on the top of it. Some hares will go up one fide of the hedge
and come down the other, the thicknefs of the hedge being the only diftance be-
tween the courfes. A hare that has been forely hunted, has got upon a quickfet-
hedge, and ran a good way upon the top thereof, and then leapt off upon the
ground. And they will frequently betake themfelves to furze bufhes, and will
leap from one to the other, to cut off the fcent, whereby the hounds are frequent-
ly in default.—In the fpring time or fummer, a hare will not fit in bufhes, be-
caule they are frequently infefted with pifmires, fnakes, and adders j but will fit
in corn-fields, and open places. In the winter-time, they fit near towns and vil-
lages, in tufts of thorns and brambles, efpecially when the wind is northerly or
foutherly.—It is remarkable that the hare, although ever fo frequently purfued by
the dogs, feldom leaves the place where fhe was brought forth, or even the form
in which fhe ufually fits. It is common to find them in the fame place next day,
after being long and keenly chaced the day before. The females are more grofs
than the males, and have lefs ftrength and agility *, they are likewife more timid,
and
H5
and occult science.
and never allow the dogs to approach fo near their form before riling, as the males.
They likewife pradlife more arts, and double more frequently than the males.—
The hare is diffufed almoft over every climate ; and, notwithftanding they are
every where hunted, their fpecies never diminifhes. They are in a condition of
propagating the firft year of their lives ; the females go with young about thirty
days, and produce four or five at a time ; and as foon as they have brought forth,
they again admit the embraces of the male •, fo that they may be faid to be always
pregnant. The eyes of the young are open at birth •, the mother fuckles them
about twenty days, after which they feparate from her, and procure their own food.
The young never go far from the place where they were brought forth ; but ftill
they live folitary, and make forms about thirty paces diftant from each other:
thus, if a young hare be found any where, you may almoft be certain of finding
feveral others within a very fmall diftance.
The fecundity of the rabbit is ftill greater than that of the hare. They will
breed feven times in the year, and the female fometimes brings eight young ones at
a time. Suppofing this to happen regularly for four years, the number of rabbits
from a fingle pair will amount to one million, two hundred feventy-four thoufand,
eight hundred and forty.— They are in a condition for generating when fix months
old ; and, like the hare, the female is almoft conftantly in feafon ; fhe goes with
young about thirty days, and brings forth from four to eight at a litter. A few
days before littering, (lie digs a hole in the earth, not in a ftraight line, but in a
zig-zag form : the bottom of this hole fire enlarges every way, and then pulls off
a great quantity of hair from her belly, of which fhe makes a kind of bed for her
young. During the two firft days after birth, fhe never leaves them, but when
prelfed with hunger, and then fhe eats quickly and returns j
and in this manner
fhe fuckles and attends her young for fix weeks. All this time both the hole and
the young are concealed from the male ; fometimes, when the female goes out,
flae, in order to deceive the male, fills up the mouth of the hole with earth mixed
with her own urine. But when the young ones begin to come to the mouth of the
hole, and to eat fuch herbs as the mother brings to them, the father feems to know
them ; he takes them betwixt his paws, fmooths their hair, and careffes them with
great fondnefs.
The fox is efteemed to be the moft fagacious and mod crafty of all beafts of
prey. The former quality he fhews in his method of providing himielf with
an afylum, where he retires from prefting dangers, where he dwells, and where
he brings up his young : and his craftinefs is chiefly difcovered by the fchemes
he falls upon in order to catch lambs, geefe, hens, and all kinds of fmall birds.
The fox fixes his abode on the border of a wood, in the neighbourhood of ou-
tages :
A KEY TO PHYSIC
1 1
tages : he liftens to the crowing of the cock, and the cries of the poultry. He
fcents them at a diflance ; he choofes his time with judgment; he conceals
his road as well as his defign ; he flips forward with caution, fometimes even
trailing his body, and feldom makes a fruitlefs expedition. In this manner
he has been feen, on a moon-light night, enter a pafture where feveral hares
were feeding, when lying down, and taking his tail in his mouth, has trailed
along like a rolling ftone, unfufpefted by his prey, till he had got too near for
them all to efcape. If he can leap the wall, or get in underneath, he ravages
the court-ya,rd, puts all to death, and then retires foftly with his prey, which he
either hides under the herbage, or carries off to his kennel. He returns in a few
minutes for another, which he carries off, or conceals in the fame manner, but
in a different place. In this way he proceeds till the progrefs of the fun, or fome
movements perceived in the houfe, advertife him that it is time to fufpend his
operations, and to retire to his den. He plays the fame game with the catchers of
thrufhes, wood-cocks, &c. He vifits the nets and bird-lime very early in the
morning, carries off fucceffively the birds which are entangled, and lays them in
different places, efpecially near the fides of highways, in the furrows, under the
herbage or brufhwood, where they fometimes lie two or three days ; but he knows
perfedlly where to find them when he is in need. He hunts the young hares in the
plains, feizes old ones in their feats, never mifies thofe which are wounded, digs
out the rabbits in the warrens, difcovers the nefts of partridges and quails, feizes
the mothers on the eggs, and deftroys a vaft quantity of game. The fox is ex-
ceedingly voracious ; befides flefh of all kinds, he eats, with equal avidity, eggs,
milk, cheefe, fruits, and particularly grapes. When the young hares and par-
tridges fail him, he makes war againft rats, field-mice, ferpents, lizards, toads,
&c. pf thele he deftroys vaft numbers ; and this is the only fervice he does to
mankind. He is fo fond of honey, that he attacks the wild bees, wafps, and hor-
nets. They at firft put him to flight by a thoufand flings ; but he retires only for
the purpofe of rolling himfelf on the ground, to crufli them ; and he returns fo
often to the charge, that he obliges them to abandon the hive, which he foon un-
coyers, and devours both the honey and wax. In a word, he eats fifhes, lobfters,
grafs-hoppers, &c.-~ Foxes produce but once a year ; and the litter commonly con-
fifts of four or five, feldom fix, and never lefs than three. When the female is full,
fhe retires, and feldom goes out of her hole, where fhe prepares a bed for her
young. When fhe perceives that her retreat is difcovered, and that her young have
been difturbed, fhe carries them off one by one, and goes in fearch of another ha-
bitation. The fox, as well as the congenerous wolf, will produce with the dog
kind, as noticed before.-— The fox fleeps found, and may be eafily approached
without awakening : he fleeps in a round form, like the dog ; but when he only
repofes
/
ii7
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
repofes himfelf, he extends his hind legs, and lies on his belly. It is in this fitua-
tion that he fpies the birds along the hedges, and meditates {cherries for their fur-
prife. The fox flies when he hears the explofion of a gun, or fmells gun-powder.
Being exceedingly fond of grapes, he does much mifchief in vineyards. --When
purfued by the hounds, he feldom fails to deceive and fatigue them, becaufe he
purpofely paffes through the thickeft parts of the foreft or places of the mod diffi-
cult accefs, where the dogs are hardly able to follow him ; and, when he takes to
the plains, he runs ftraight out, without {topping or doubling.—It is a great ad-
mirer of its bufliy tail, with which it frequently amufes and exercifes itfelf, by run-
ning in circles to catch it : and, in cold weather, wraps it round its nofe. The
fmell of this animal is in general very ftrong, but that of the urine is remarkably
fetid. This feems fo offenfive even to itfelf, that it will take the trouble of dig-
ging a hole in the ground, ftretching its body at full length over it ;
and there,
after depoliting its water, covers it over with the earth, as the cat does its dung.
The fmell is fo obnoxious, that it has often proved the means of the fox’s efcape
from the dogs; who have fo ftrong an averflon at the filthy effluvia, as to avoid
encountering the animal it came from. It is faid the fox makes ufe of its urine as
an expedient to force the cleanly badger from its habitation : whether that is the
means, is rather doubtful ; but that the fox makes ufe of the badger’s hole is cer-
tain ; not through want of ability to form its own retreat, but to fave itfelf fome
trouble ;
for after the expulfion of the firft inhabitant, the fox improves as well as
enlarges it confiderably, adding feveral chambers, and providently making feveral
entrances to fecure a retreat from every quarter. In warm weather, it will quit its
habitation for the fake of balking in the fun, or to enjoy the free air * but then it
rarely lies expofed, but choofes fome thick brake, that it may reft fecure from
furprize. Crows, magpies, and other birds, who confider the fox as their com-
mon enemy, will often, by their notes of anger, point out his retreat.
The ftag or buck is the mod crafty of all the fpecies of deer. He conceals him-
felf with great addrefs, is mod difficult to trace, and derives fuperior relources from
inftinft: for though he has the misfortune to leave behind him a ftrong lcent,
which redoubles the ardour and appetite of the hounds, he knows how to withdraw
himfelf from their purfuit, by the rapidity with which he begins his flight, and by
his numerous doublings. He delays not his arts of defence till his ftrength fails
him *, but, as foon as he finds that the firft efforts of a rapid chace have been un=
fuccefsful, he repeatedly returns on his former fteps; and after confounding, by
thefe oppofite movements, the direction he has taken, after intermixing the pre-
sent with the paft fcent from his body, he rifes from the earth by a great bound,
and, retiring to a fide, he lies down flat on his belly, and in this immoveable
No. 8. H h fituation,
ii8 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
i
fituation, he allows the whole troop of his deceived enemies to pafs very near him.
His laft refuge when forely hunted, is the foil, keeping the middle, fearing,
left by touching a bough, or a fhrub, he may give greater fcent to the hounds.
He always fwims againft the ftream, and will often cover himfelf under water, fo
as to fhew nothing but his nofe. Where opportunity of water fails, he will fly
into herds of cattle, as cows, fheep, &c. and will fometimes leap on an ox, cow,
or the like, that he may leave no fcent on the ground. What is (till more re-
markable, it is related by the principal huntfman of Louis XII. that a buck Which
they had hunted for a long time, and being at laft hard prefled, leaped into the
middle of a very large white-thorn, in order to cut off its fcent ; and there flood
aloft till he was run through by the huntfman, rather than ftir from the place, to
be worried by the dogs.—Their feafon of love commences about the end of Auguft
or beginning of September, when they leave the coppice, return to the forefts, and
fearch for the hinds. They cry with a loud voice; their neck and throat fwell;
they become perfectly reftlefs, and traverfe in open day the fields and the fallow
grounds ; they ftrike their horns againft the trees and hedges ; in a word, they feem
to be tranfported with fury, and run from country to country, till they find the hinds
or females, whom they purfue and compel into compliance; for the female at firfl
avoids and flies from the male, and never fubmits to his embraces till fhe be fatigued
with the purfuit. The old hinds likewife come in feafon before the younger ones.
When two bucks approach the fame hind, they muft fight before they enjoy. If
nearly equal in ftrength, they threaten, paw the ground, fet up terrible cries, and
attack each other with fuch fury, that they often inflidt mortal wounds with the
ftrokes of their horns. The combat never terminates but in the defeat or flight of
one of the rivals. The conqueror lofes not a moment in enjoying his vidtory, unlefs
another rival approaches, whom he is again obliged to attack and repel. The oldeft
flags are always mafters of the field ; becaufe they are ftronger and more furious
than the young ones, who muft wait patiently till their fuperiors tire, and quit their
miftrefles. Sometimes, however, the young flags accomplifh their purpofes while
the old ones are fighting, and, after a hafty gratification, fly off. The hinds prefer
the old flags, not becaufe they are moft courageous, but becaufe they are much
more ardent. It has been alledged, that, attradled by the fcent of the hinds, the
flags, in the rutting feafon, throw themfelves into the fea, and pafs from one ifland
to another at thediftance of feveral leagues. They leap ftill more nimbly than they
l'wim ;
for, when purfued, they eafily clear a hedge or a pale fence of fix or feven
feet high, and on all prefling occafions fhew aftonifhing fenfe and fagacity.
Thefenfesofthewolf are likewife excellent, particularly his fenfe of fmelling, which
often extends farther than his eye. The odour of carrion ftrikes him at the diftance
2 of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE, ,, 9
of more than a league. He likewife fcents live animals very far, and hunts them
a long time by following their track. When he i flues from the wood, he never lofes
the wind. He flops on the borders of the foreft, fmells on all fides, and receives
the corpufcles of living or dead animals brought to him from a diftance by the
wind. Though he prefers living to dead animals, yet he devours the mod putrid
carcafes. He is fond of human flefh ; and, if ftronger, he would perhaps eat no
other. Wolves have been known to follow armies, and to come in troops to the
field of battle, where bodies are carelefsly interred, to tear them up, and to devour
them with an infatiable avidity : and, when once accuftomed to human flefh, they
ever after attack men, prefer the fhepherd to the flock, devour women, and carry
off children. The wolf, unlike the dog, is an enemy to all fociety, and keeps no
company even with thofe of his own fpecies. When feveral wolves unite together, it
is not a fociety of peace, but of war ; it is attended with tumult and dreadful howl-
ings, and indicates an attack upon fome large animal, as a flag, an ox, or a for-
midable maftiff. This military expedition is no fooner finifhed, than they feparate,
and each returns in filence to his folitude. There is even little intercourfe between
the males and females : they feel the mutual attractions of love but once a-year, and
never remain long together. The females come in feafon in winter: many males
follow the fame female-, and this afloeiation is more bloody than the former; for
they growl, chace, fight, and tear, one another, and often facrifice him that is prefer-
red by the female. The female commonly flies a long time, fatigues her admirers,
and retires, while they fleep, with the moft alert or moft favourite male. The wolves
copulate like dogs,, and have an ofleous penis, furrounded with a ring, which fwells
and hinders them from feparating. When the females are about to bring forth, they
fearchfor a concealed place in the inmoft recefies of the foreft. The puppies come
into the world blind, like the dogs -, the mother fuckles them fome weeks, and foon
learns them to eat flelh, which fhe prepares for them by tearing it into fmall pieces.
Some time after fhe brings them field-mice, young hares, partridges, and living
fowls. The young wolyes begin by playing with thefe animals, and at laft worry
them -, then the mother pulls off the feathers, tears them in pieces, and gives a part
to each of her young. They never leave their den till the end of fix weeks or two
months. They then follow their mother, who leads them to drink in the hollow
trunk of a tree, or in fome neighbouring pool. She conduces them back to the den,
or, when any danger is apprehended, obliges them to conceal themfelves elfewhere.
Though, like other females, the fhe-wolf is naturally more timid than the male,
yet, when her young are attacked, fhe defends them with intrepidity; fhe lofes all
fenfe of danger, and becomes perfectly furious. She never leaves them till their
education is finifhed, till they are fo ftrong as to need no afllftance or protection,
and
120 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
and have acquired talents fit for rapine. The wolf has great ftrength, efpecially in
the anterior parts of the body, in the mufcles of the neck, and jaws. He carries a
fheep in his mouth, and, at the fame time, outruns the fhepherds; fo that he can
only be (topped or deprived of his prey by dogs. His bite is cruel, and always
more obftinate in proportion to the fmailnefs of the refiftance ; for, when an animal
can defend itfelf, he is cautious and circumfpedf. He never fights but frotfn necef-
iity, and nor from motives of courage. When wounded with a ball, he cries *, and
yet, when difpatching him with bludgeons, he complains not. When he falls into
a fnare, he is fo overcome with terror, that he may be either killed or taken alive
without refiftance: he allows himfelf to be chained, muzzled, and led where you
pleafe, without exhibiting the lead fymptom of refentment or difcontent. Wolves
are how fo rare in the populated parts of America, that the inhabitants leave their
fheep the whole night unguarded :
yet the governments of Penfylvania and New
Jerfey did fome years ago allow a reward of twenty (hillings, and the laft even thirty
('hillings, for the killing of every wolf. Tradition informed them what a fcourge
thofe animals had been to the colonies ;
fo they wifely determined to prevent the like
evil. In their infant ftate, wolves came down in multitudes from the mountains,
often attracted by the fmell of the corpfes of hundreds of Indians who died of the
fmall-pox, brought among them by the Europeans : but the animals did not con-
fine their infults to the dead, but even devoured in their huts the fick and dying
iavages.—Britain, a few centuries ago, was much infefted by them. It was, as ap-
pears by Hollingfhead, very noxious to the flocks in Scotland in 1577; nor was it
entirely extirpated till about 1680, when the laft wolf fell by the hands of the famous
Sir Ewen Cameron. Edward I. iflued out his royal mandate to Peter Corbet to fu-
perintend and aflift in the deftruftion of them in the feveral counties of Gloucefter,
Worcefter, Hereford, Salop, and Stafford; and in the adjacent county of Derby,
certain peribns at Wormhill held their lands by the duty of hunting and taking
the wolves that infefted the country, whence they were (filed wolve-hunt. To
look back into the Saxon times, we find, that in Athelftan’s reign, wolves abound-
ed fo in Yorkftiire, that a retreat was built at Flixton in that county, “ to defend
pafiengers from the wolves, that they (hould not be devoured by them and fuch
ravages did thefe animals make during winter, particularly in January, when the
cold was fevered, that the Saxons diftinguifhed that month by the name of the
wolf-month. At the Cape of Good Hope, there is a fpecies called the tiger-wolf,
which is actually poflefied of the peculiar gift of being enabled, in fome meafure,
to imitate the cries of other animals ; by which means this arch deceiver is fome-
times lucky enough to beguile and attradf calves, foals, lambs, and other animals.
Near fome of the larger farms, where there is a great deal of cattle, this ravenous
beaft
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 12 I
beaft is to be found almoft every night; and at the fame time frequently from one
hour to another betraying itfelf by its howlings, gives the dogs the alarm. In this
cafe the cunning of the wolves is fo great, that a party of them, half flying and half
defending themfelves, will decoy the whole pack of dogs to follow them to the dif-
tance of a gun-fhot or more from the farm, with a view to give an opportunity to the
reft of the wolves to come out from their ambufcade, and, without meeting with
the leaft refiftance, carry off booty fufficient for themfelves and their fugitive bre-
thren. The tiger-wolf, though a much larger and ftronger animal, does not ven-
ture, without being driven to the utmoft neceflity, to meafure its ftrength with the
common dog, which is certainly an evident proof of its cowardice. Notwithftand-
ing this, the Hottentots inform us, that it is ftill within the memory of man, that
the tiger-wolf was bold enough to fteal upon them and moleft them in their huts,
particularly by carrying off their children. This, however, is now no longer the
cafe; a circumftance, perhaps, proceeding from the introduction of fire-arms into
the country, an invention which, in thefe latter times, has caufed this, as well
as other wild beafts, to ftand in greater awe of man than it did formerly. I have
heard the following ftory of the tiger-wolf mentioned, which is laughable enough,
though perhaps not quite fo probable :
“ At a feaft near the Cape one night, a trum-
peter who had got his fill was carried out of doors, in order that he might cool him-
felf, and get fober again. The fcent of him foon drew thither a tiger-wolf, which
threw him on his back, and dragged him along as a corpfe, up towards Table-
mountain. During this, however, the drunken nuifician waked, enough in his
fenfes to know the danger of his fituation, and to found the alarm with his trum-
pet, which he carried faftened to his fide. The wild beaft, as may eafily be fuppof-
ed, was not lefs frightened in his turn.” Any other befides a trumpeter would in
fuch circumftances, have undoubtedly been no better than wolf’s meat.
The jackal appears to have the gift of fcenc equal to a dog, of which it feems to
be a wild fpecies. They go in packs of forty, fifty, and even two hundred, and hunt
like hounds in full cry from evening to morning. They deftroy flocks and poultry,
but in a lefs degree than the wolf or fox : ravage the ftreets of villages and gardens
near towns, and will even deftroy children, if left unprotected. They will enter
ftables and outhoufes, and devour fkins, or any thing made of that material. They
will familiarly enter a tent, and fteal whatfoever they find from the fleeping traveller.
In default of living prey, they will feed on roots and fruits ; and even on the moft
infected carrion : the-y will greedily difinter the dead, and devour putrid carcafes.
They attend caravans, and follow armies, in hopes that death will provide them a
banquet. Their voice naturally is a howl. Barking, Mr. Pennant obferves, is la-
tently inherent ;
and in their ftate of nature feldom exerted : but its different modi-
No. 8. I i fications
122 A KEY TO FHYS1 C,
fications are adventitious, and expreflive of the new padions and aSections gained
by a domedic date. Their howlings and clamours in the night are dreadful, and
fo loud that people can fcarcely hear one another fpeak. Dellon fays, their voice is
like the cries of a great many children of different ages mixed together :_w hen one
begins to howl the whole pack join in the cry. This animal is vulgarly called the
Lion’s Provider, from an opinion that it rouzes the prey for that quadruped. The
fad is, every creature in the fored is fee in motion by the fearful cries of the jackals
the lion, and other beads of rapine, by a fort of inflind, attend to the chace, and
lie in wait, to feize fuch timid animals as betake themfelves to flight at the noife
of this nightly pack.
From what has been dated, as well as from the contemplation of nature in general,
it will appear, that there is an occult indindive principle infufed into the whole race
of animal beings, whereby they are unerringly led on to the propagation and pre-
Jervation of their fpecie9 j yet fo as that no one {hall become too numerous for the
exidence of another, upon which they prey, or with which they live in a conti-
nual date of warfare. We may likewife remark, that the more fimilarity we did
cover among brutes, the more amicable we find them towards each other, becaufe
the corpufcles of their bodies have an agreement pleafing to their fenfitive faculty,
without exciting the appetite ; but for which the fame fpecies would inceflant-
ly devour each other, and the purpofes of creation would be annihilated by the
operation of its own works. Contrary however to fuch a violation of order, we
find the beads of the fored, and brute animals in general, prey by antipathy upon
thofe which are oppofite or inimical in feent and fpecies to themfelves ; and affociate
by fympathy with thofe of fimilar and concordant qualities ; but the mod powerful
effed of fympathy is to be found between the male and female of one and the fame
clafs of beings *, as we lhall demondrate more fatisfadorily and pleafingly, in our
condderations
Of MAN.
M A N is placed at the head of the animal creation, and is a being who feels,
refleds, thinks, contrives, and ads ; who has power of changing his place upon
the earth at pleafure •, who poiTefles the faculty of communicating his thoughts by
means of fpeech ; and who has dominion over all other creatures on the face of the
globe. Animated and enlightened by a ray from the Divinity, he furpafies in
dignity every material being. He fpends lefs of his time in folitude, than in fociety,
or in obedience to thofe laws, which he himfelf has framed.
The hidory of man is an objed of attention highly intereding, whether we confi-
der him in the different periods of his life, or take a view of the varieties of his
fpecies,
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 123
fpecies, or examine the wonderful fymmetry and conftru&ion of his parts in the
womb, or the more mature completion and organization of his body, in perfed
manhood.— I fhall therefore attempt firft to give a fhort fketch of him in thefe
different points of view; and then, by confidering the adtions and paffions of his
mind, the infirmities of his nature, the affedtions of his heart, the objeds of his
purfuits, and the impreflion of theceleftial, elementary, and atmofpherical, influx;
of light, heat, colour, motion, magnetifm, eledricity, and the univerfal fpirit
of nature which ads upon his conftitution, deduce thofe obvious and inevitable
caufes that refult from them, and which it fhould be the care of every man to
know, who would wifh to difcover the golden Key to the occult operations of
Nature, and to the fecret of preferving health and long life.
Nofce Teipfum,
“ Know thyfelf,” is a precept worthy of the lawgiver of Athens :
it has been called the firft ftep to wifdom, and was formerly written in letters of
gold in the temple of Diana. In the purfuit of this important information, Man
may be contemplated in the following refpeds :
Physiologically,—as a frail machine, chiefly compofed of nerves and fibres
interwoven with each other. His moft perfed ftate is during youth ; and he is en-
dowed with faculties more numerous, and in higher perfedion, than thofe of all
other animals. “ Man, intended for exercifing dominion over the whole animal
creation, is fent by Nature into the world naked, forlorn, and bewailing his lot
;
he is then unable to ufe his hands or feet, and is incapable of acquiring any kind of
knowledge without inftrudion ; he can neither fpeak, nor walk, nor eat, nor per-
form any adion whatever by natural inftind Pliny.
—“ We may judge what kind
of life is allotted to us by Nature, fince it is ordained, as an omen, that we fhould
come weeping into the world Seneca.
—“ It is humiliating to the pride of man, to
confider the pitiable origin of this moft arrogant of all the animals Pliny.
Dietetically.—Cura valetudinemA Eodily health and tranquility of mind are
more to be deftred'than all the riches, pomp, or glory, of a Croefus, a Solomon,
or an Alexander. Health is to be preferved by moderation, it is deftroyed by ab-
ftinence, injured by variety of delicacies, weakened by unufual things, and
ftrengthened by the ufe of proper and accuftomed fare. Man, learned in the per-
nicious art of cookery, is fond of many diihes, rendered palatable by the injurious
effects of fire, and by the baneful addition of wine. “ Hunger is fatisfied with a
fmali quantity of food, while luxury demands overabundance. Imagination
requires vaft fupplies; while nature is contented with a moderate quantity of or-
dinary food, and is burthened by fuperfluity Seneca.—According as thou liveft,
fo fhall thy life be enjoyed.
Tffke Cart oP yaxrrr AT
c
aVVYi
Patho-
124 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Pathologic ally .—Memento mori
!
The life of man refembles a bubble ready
to burft *, his fate is fufpended by a hair, and is dependent on the uncertain lapfe
of time. “ The earth contains nothing more frail than man Homer.
^
Nothing
is weaker than human life : to what dangers, and to how many difeafes, is it not
expofed ? Hence the whole period of a man’s life is but a fpan : half of it is ne-
cefTarily fpent in a Hate refembling death ; without including the years of infancy,
wherein there is no judgment ; or the period of old age, fertile in bufferings, during
which the fenfes are blunted, the limbs become ftiff, and the faculties of fight and
hearing, the powers of walking, and the teeth, the inftruments of nourifhment,
fail before the reft of the body Pliny.— 1
1'hus a confiderable part of death is
fuffered during life •, and death poffeffes all that belonged to the times which are
paft. Finally, nature will fpeedily recal and deftroy all the beings which thou feeft,
and all that thy imagination can fuppofe to exift hereafter*, for death calls equally
upon all, whether they be good or whether they be evil Seneca,
ii. 59.
Naturally.—Innocui vivite,
Numen adejl
!
Man, the prince of animated beings,
who is a miracle of nature, and for whom all things on this earth were created, is
a mimic animal, weeping, laughing, fingingv fpeaking ; traCtable, judicious, in-
quifitive, and moft wife *, he is weak and naked, unprovided with natural wea-
pons, expofed to all the injuries of fortune, needful of affiftance from others, of
an anxious mind, folicitous of protection, continually complaining, changeable
in temper, obftinate in hope, and flow in the acquifition of wifdom. He defpifes
the time which is paft, abufes that which is prefent, and fets his affections on the
uncertain future *, thus continually neglecting winged time, which, though in-
finitely precious, can never be recalled : for thus the beft and readieft time, in
every age, flies on with miferable mortals *, fome it fummons to attend their daily
and burthenfome labours •, fome it confines to luxurious inaftion, pampered even
to fuffocation with fuperfluities •, fome it folicits in the ever reftlefs paths of am-
bition •, fome it renders anxious for the acquifition of wealth, and diftreffes by the
pofifeffion of the thing defired ; fome it condemns to folitude, and others to have
their doors continually crouded with vifitors j here one bewails the conduct of his
children, there one grieves their lofs. Tears will fooner fail us than theircaufes,
which only oblivion can remove. “ On every hand our evils overbalance our ad-
vantages *, we are furrounded with dangers *, we rufh forwards into untried fitua-
tions •, we are enraged without having received provocation ; like wild beafts, we
deftroy thofe we do not hate; we wifh for favourable gales, which lead us only to
deftruCtion ; the earth yawns wide, ready for our death :** Seneca.—
“
Other ani-
mals unite together againft enemies of a kind different from their own, while •
man fuffers moft injuries from his own fpecies.” Pliny.
~
f
~
y T)c
PoLI
^ Tiavt T.tinoc< rfVly fticPevIy 'S
AND OCCULT SCIENCE!. 125
Politically.
—
Efio antiqua virtute et fide
!
Man, in Head of following that
which is right, is fubjedted to the guidance of manifeft error ; this envelopes all
his faculties under the thick veil of cuftom, as foon as he is born ; according to its
dictates he is fed, educated, brought up, and diredted, in all things; and by its
arbitrary rules his honefty, fortitude, wifdom, morality, and religion, are judged
of ;
thus, governed by opinion, he lives conformably to cuftom, inftead of being
guided by reafon. Though fent into the world a perilhable being, (for all are evi-
dently born to fuffer,) inftead of endeavouring to fecure thofe things which are rnoft
advantageous and truly beneficial, he, infatuated by the fmiles of forturne, anxioully
colledts her gaudy trifles for future enjoyment, and negledts her real benefits ; he
is driven to madnefs by envious lnarlers ; he perfecutes with hatred the truly reli
gious for differing from himfelf in fpeculative opinions ; he excites numberlefs
broils, not that he may do good, but for a purpofe that even himfelf is ignorant of.
He waftes his precious and irrecoverable time in trifles; he thinks lightly of im
mortal and eternal concerns, while regulating the fucceflion of his pofterity ; and
perpetually entering on new projects, forgetful of his real condition, he builds pa-
laces inftead of preparing his grave; till at length, in the midft of his fchemes,
death feizes him ; and then, firft opening his eyes, he perceives, O man ! that all
is delufion. “ Thus we live as if immortal, and firft learn in death that we have
to die Seneca.
Morally.—Benefac et latawT Man is compofed of an animated medullary fub-
ftance, which prompts him to that wh’ch is right ; and of a bodily frame liable to
impreflions, which inftigates him to the enjoyment of pleafure. In his natural ftate
he is foolilh, wanton, an inconfiderate follower of example, ambitious, profufe,
diffatisfied, cunning, peevilh, invidious, malicious, and covetous ; by the in-
fluence of juft morals he is transformed to be attentive, chafle, confiderate, modeft,
temperate, quiet, fincere, mild, beneficent, grateful, and contented. “ Sorrow,
luxury, ambition, avarice, the dtfire of life, and anxiety for the future, are com-
mon to all animals Pliny.
^
Theologically.—Memento Creatoris tui
!
Man, the ultimate purpofe of crea-
tion, and mafterpiece of the works of Omnipotence, was placed on earth that he
might contemplate its perfedtions ; he was endowed with fapient reafon, and made
capable of forming conclufions from the impreflions of his fenfes, that, from a con-
fideration of created objects, he might know their Creator as the Almighty, the
Infinite, the Omnifcient, the Eternal, God*, that we may live morally under his
governing care, it is requifite that we have a thorough convidtion of his exiftence,
and mult have it ever in remembrance. “ There are two things which lead to a
knowledge of God ; creation and revelation Augufiine.—^God, therefore, may
No. 9. K k be
an Ti. rl~xj o ^ ~V *
y
^ Clkefivi* ul
nR-oneiiAtv Thv Creaf ov
126 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
be found out by the light of nature, but is only to be known by the affiftance of
dcdtrine :” Tertullian.
—“ Man alone has the ineftimable privilege of contemplating
the perfections of God, who is the author both of nature and of revelation Ibid.
“ Learn that God has both ordered you to exift, and that you fhould ftudy to adt
that part properly which is allotted for you in life:” Perf. Sat. iii. 71.
In the Syjlema Nature, Man (Homo) is ranked as a diftinft genus of the order
Primates or “ Chiefs,” belonging to the Mammalia clafs of animals, or thofe which
nourifh their young by means of la&iferous teats or paps. Of this genus he is the
only fpecies •, and denominated Sapiens , as being endowed with wifdom far fuperior
to, or rather inexclufion of, all other animals— He varies, from climate, education,
arid habits ; and the following varieties, exclufive of wild men, are enumerated by
Linnreus.
Americans. “ Of copper- coloured complexion, choleric conftitution, and remark-
ably ereCt.”-— Their hair is black, lank, and courfe ; their noftrils are wide •, their
features harfh, and the chin is fcantily fupplied with beard. Are obftinate in their
tempers, free and latisfied with their condition •, and are regulated in all their pro-
ceedings by traditional cuftoms.— -Paint their Ikin with red ftreaks.
Europeans. “ Of fair complexion, fanguine temperament, and brawny form.”
The hair is flowing, and of various fhades of brown ; the eyes are moftly blue.—
They are of gentle manners, acute in judgment, of quick invention, and governed
by fixed laws.— Drefs in clofe velhnents.
Afialics. “ Of footy complexion, melancholic temperament, and rigid fibre.”—
The hair is ftrong, black, and lank ; the eyes are dark brown.—They are of grave,
haughty, and covetous, manners •, and are governed by opinions.—Drefs in loofe
garments.
Africans .
“ Of black complexion, phlegmatic temperament, and relaxed fibre.”
The hair is black and frizly ; the fkin foft and filky; the nofe flat; the lips are
thick ; and the female has a natural apron, and long lax breafts. —They are of
crafty, indolent, and carelefs, difpofitions, and governed in their actions by ca-
price.—Anoint the fkin with greafe.
The following arrangement of the varieties in the human fpecies, is offered by
Dr, Gmelin as more convenient than that of Linnsus :
1. White, a: (Horn. Albus.) Formed by the. rules of fymmetrical elegance and
beauty -, or at lead what we confider as fuch.—This divifion includes almoft all the
inhabitants of Europe -, thofe of Afiaon this fide of the Oby, the Cafpian, Mount
Imaus, and the Ganges-, likewife the natives of the north of Africa, of Green-
land, and the Efquimaux.
b, Brown
:
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 127
, j r
b, Brown: (
Horn. Badius.) Of a yellowilh brown colour; has fcanty hair, flat
features, and fmall eyes. —This variety takes in the whole inhabitants of ACa not
included in the preceding divifion.
c, Black : (
Horn . Niger.) Of black complexion ; has frizly hair, a flat nofe, and
thick lips.— The whole inhabitants of Africa, excepting thofe of its more northern
parts.
d, Copper-coloured :
{Horn. Cupreus.) The complexion of the fkin refembles
the colour of copper not burnifhed.—The whole inhabitants of America, except
the Greenlanders and Efquimaux.
e, Tawny: {Horn. Fufcus.) Chiefly of a dark blackifh-brown colour-, having a
broad nofe, andharfh coarfe ftraight hair.—The inhabitants of the fouthern iflands,
and of moft of the Indian iflands.
Monjlers. Of thefe there are feveral varieties ; the firft and fecond of which, in
the following lift, are occafioned by peculiarity of climate, while the reft are pro-
duced by artificial management, i. Alpini ; The inhabitants of the northern moun-
tains : they are fmall in ftature, active and timid in their difpofitions. 2. Patagonici z
The Patagonians of South America; of vaft fize, and indolent in their manners.
3. Monorchides
:
The Hottentots; having one tefticle extirpated. 4. Imberbes
:
Moft of the American nations ; who eradicate their beards and the hair from every
part of the body except the fcalp. 5. Macrocephali
:
The Chinefe ; who have their
heads artificially forced into a conical form. 6. Plagiocephali
:
The Canadian
Indians ;
who have the fore part of their heads flattened, when young, by
compreffion.
We have likewife the following account of Monfters : Homines Feri ; defcribed as
walking on all-fours, as being dumb, and as covered with hair.— 1. A youth found
in Lithuania, in 1761, refembling a bear. 2. A youth found in HelTe, in 1544,
refembling a wolf. 3. A youth in Ireland refembling a fheep, {T'ulp. Obf. iv. 9.)
4. A youth in Bamberg refembling an ox, (Camerarius.) 5. A wild youth found in
1724 in Hanover. 6. Wild boys found in 1714 in the Pyrenees. 7. A wild gyd
found in 17x7 in Overyfel. 8. A wild girl found in 1631 in Champagne. 9. A
wild lad found near Leyden, {Boerhaave.)-— Thefe and other inftances of wild
men, their fimilitudes, extraction, and generation, being foreign to the prefent
fubject, I fhall treat largely of them in a future work on Natural History.
Thofe characters in the form of man by which he is diftinguifhed from brute
animals, are reducible to two heads. The firft is the ftrength of the mufcles of the
legs, by which the body is fuppcrted in a vertical pofition above them ;
the fecond
confifts in the articulation of the head with the neck by the middle of its bafe. We
ftand upright, bend our body, and walk, without thinking on the power by which
we
,28 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
we are fupported in thefe feveral pofitions. This power refides chiefly in the
mufcles which conftitute the principal part of the calf of the leg. Their exertion
is felt, and their motion is viflble externally when we Hand upright and bend our
body backwards and forwards. This power is no lei's great when we walk even on
an horizontal plane. In afcending a height, the weight of the body is more fenfi-
bly felt than in defending. All thefe motions are natural to man. Other animals,
on the contrary, when placed on their hind legs, are either incapable of performing
them at all, or do it partially, with great difficulty, and for a very Ihort time. The
gibbon,
and thzjocko or curang-outang,
are the animals moft refembling man in their
conftrudtion : they can (land upright with much lefs difficulty than other brutes
;
but the reftraint they are under in this attitude plainly ffievvs that it is not natural to
them. The real'on is, that the mufcles in the back part of the leg in the gibbon
and the jocko are not, as in man, fufficiently large to form a calf, and confequently
not fufficiently ftrong to fupport the thighs and body in a vertical line, and to
preferve them in that pofture.— The attitudes proper to man, and to the animals,
are pointed out by the different manners in which the head is articulated with the
neck. The two points, by which the offeous part of the head is conne&ed with the
firft vertebra of the neck, and on which every movement of the head is made with
the greateft facility, are placed at the edge of the great foramen of the occipital bone,
which in man is fituated near the centre of the bafe of the cranium, affords a paffage
for the medullary fubffance into the vertebras, and determines the place of the ar-
ticulation of the head with the neck. The body and neck being, according to the
natural attitude, in a vertical direction, the head muff be placed in equilibrium
upon the vertebrae as upon a pivot or point of fupport. The face is on a vertical
line, almoft parallel to that of the body and neck. The jaws, which are very ffiort
compared with thofe of moft other animals, extend very little farther forwards than
the forehead.— -No animal has, like man, its hind legs as long as the body, neck,
and head, taken together, meafuring from the top of the head to the os pubis.
—
In the frame of the human body the principal parts are nearly the fame with thofe
of other animals ; but in the connection and form of the bones, there is as great a
difference as in the attitudes proper to each. Were a man to affume the natural
pofture of quadrupeds, and try to walk by the help of his hands and feet, he would
find himfelf in a very unnatural fituation ; he could not move his feet and head
but with the greateft difficulty and pain; and, let him make what exertions he
pleafed, he would find it impoflible to attain a fteady and continued pace. The
principal obftacles he would meet with would arife from the ftru&ure of the pelvis,
*
the hands, the feet, and the head.-—The plane of the great occipital foramen,
which in man is almoft horizontal, puts the head in a kind of equilibrium upon
the
AND OCCULT SCIENCE, 129
the neck when we Hand ereft in our natural attitude; but, when we are in the
attitude of quadrupeds, it prevents us from raifing our headfo as to look forwards,
becaufe the movement of the head is Hopped by the protuberance of the occiput,
which then approaches too near the vertebrae of the neck.—In mod animals, the
foramen magnum of the occipital bone is fituated at the back part of the head ; the
jaws are very long ;
the occiput has no protuberance beyond the aperture, the
plane of which is in a vertical direflion, or inclined a little forwards or backwards ;
fo that the head is pendant, and joined to the neck by its pofferior part. This po-
fition of the head enables quadrupeds, though their bodies are in a horizontal di-
rection, to prefent their muzzle forwards, and to raiie it fo as to reach above them,
or to touch the earth with the extremity of their jaws when they bring their neck
and head down to their feet. In the attitude of quadrupeds, man could touch the
earth only with the fore part or the top of the head.—When man is Handing, his
heel reHs upon the earth as well as the other parts of his foot ; when he walks, it is
the firH part which touches the ground ; man can Hand on one foot : thefe are pe-
culiarities in Hru&ure and in the manner of moving which are not to be found in
other animals. We may therefore conclude that man cannot be ranked in the clafs
of quadrupeds. We may add, that in man the brain is much larger, and the jaws
much fliorter, than in any other animal. The brain, by its great extent, forms
the protuberance of the occipital bone, the forehead, and all that part of the head
which is above the ears. In animals, the brain is fo fmall, that moH of them have
no occiput, or the front is either wanting or little raifed. In animals which have
large foreheads, fuch as the horfe, the ox, the elephant, &c. they are placed as
low, and even lower, than the ears. Thefe animals likewife want the occiput,
and the top of the head is of very fmall extent. The jaws, which form the greateH
portion of the muzzle, are large in proportion to the fmallnefs of the brain. The
length of the muzzle varies in different animals : in folipede animals it is very
long; it is fliort in the ourang-outang; and in man it does not exiH at all. No
beard grows on the muzzle : this part is wanting in every animal.
Anatomiffs have employed much pains in the Hudy of the material part of man,
and of that organization which determines his place in the animal creation. From
tracing and combining his different external prrts ; from obferving that his body is
in fome places covered with hair; that he can walk upon his hands and his feet at
the fame time, in the manner of quadrupeds ; that, like certain animals which hold
their food in their paws, he has two clavicles ;
that the female brings forth, her
young alive, and that her breaffs are fupplied with milk : from thefe circumffances
we might be led to affign man a place in the clafs of viviparous quadrupeds. But,
in truth, fuch an arrangement would be defective, arbitrary, and abfurd, Man is
No. 9. LI not
I
130 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
not a quadruped : of all the animals, he alone can fupport himfelf continually*
and without reftraint, in an ereCt pofture, (that is, with his head and body in a
vertical line upon his legs.) In this majeftic and dignified attitude, he can change
his place, furvey this earth which he inhabits, and turn his eyes towards the vault
of heaven. By a noble and eafy gait, he preferves an equilibrium in the feveral
parts of his body, and tranfports himfelf from one place to another with different
degrees of celerity. To man alone nature has denied a covering > but ft ill he is her
mafterpiece, the laft work which came from the hands of the Almighty Artift, the
fovereign and the chief of animals, a world in miniature, the centre which connects
the univerfe together. The form of his body, the organs whereof are conftruCted
in fuch a manner as to produce a much greater effeCt than thofe of other animals,
announces his power. Every thing demonftrates the excellence of his nature, and
the immenfe diftance placed by the bounty of the Creator between man and beaft.
Man is a reafonable being ; brute animals are deprived of that noble faculty. The
weakeft and moft ftupid of the human race is able to manage the moft fagacious
quadruped •, he commands it, and makes it fubfervient to his ufe. The operations
of brutes are purely the effect of mechanical impulfe, and continue always the fame
;
human works are varied without end, and infinitely diverfified in the manner of
execution. The foul of man is free, independent, and immortal. He is fitted for
the ftudy of fcience, and the cultivation of art; he has the exclufive privilege of
examining every thing which has exiftence, and of holding communication with
his fellow-creatures by language, by particular motions of the body, and by
marks and characters mutually agreed upon. Hence arifes that phyfical pre-emi-
nence which he enjoys over all animals ; and hence that power which he poffeffes
over the elements, and (fo to fpeak) over nature itfelf. Man, therefore, is une-
qualled in his kind ; but the individuals thereof differ greatly from one another in
figure, ftature, colour, manners, and dilpofitions. The globe which man inha-
bits is covered with the productions of his induftry and the works of his hands
:
it is his labour, in fhort, which gives a value to the whole terreftrial mafs.
Nothing (fays M. Buffon) exhibits fuch a ftriking picture of our weaknefs as
the condition of an infant immediately after birth. Incapable of employing its
organs, it needs afliftance of every kind. In the firft moments of our exiftence,
we prefent an image of pain and mifery, and are more weak and helplefs than the
young of any other animal. At birth, the infant paffes from one element to
another : when it leaves the gentle warmth of the tranquil fluid by which it was
completely furrounded in the womb of the mother, it becomes expofed to the im-
prefiions of the air, and inftantly feels the effeCts of that aCtive element. The air
aCting upon the olfaCtory nerves, and upon the organs of refpiration, produces a
ftiock
fhock fomething like fneezing, by which the bread is expanded, and the air ad-
mitted into the lungs. In the mean time, the agitation of the diaphragm prefles
upon the vifcera of the abdomen, and the excrements are thus for the fird time
difcharged from the inteftines, and the urine from the bladder. The air dilates
the veficles of the lungs, and, after being rarefied to a certain degree, is expelled
by the fpring of the dilated fibres re-a£ting upon this rarefied fluid. The infant
now refpires and articulates founds, or cries.—Moil animals are blind for fome
days after birth : infants open their eyes to the light the moment they come into
the world •, but they are dull, fixed, and commonly blue. The new-born child
cannot diftinguifh objects, becaufe he is incapable of fixing his eyes upon them.
The organ of vifion is yet imperfect ; the cornea is wrinkled ; and perhaps the
retina is too foft for receiving the images of external objefts, and for communicating
the fenfation of diftindt vifion. At the end of forty days, the infant begins to hear
and to fmile. About the fame time it begins to look at bright objedts, and fre-
quently to turn its eyes towards the window, a candle, or any light. Now like-
wife it begins to weep •, for its former cries and groans were not accompanied with
tears. Smiles and tears are the effedl of two internal fenfations, both of which de-
pend on the adtion of the mind. Thus they are peculiar to the human race, and
ferve to exprefs mental pain or pleafure j while the cries, motions, and other marks
of bodily pain and pleafute, are common to man and moft of the other animals.
Confidering the fubjedt as metaphyficians, we (hall find that pain and pleafure are
the univerfal power which lets all our pafiions in motion.
The fize of an infant born at the full time is commonly twenty-one inches ; and
that fcetusy which nine months before was an imperceptible bubble, now weighs
ten or twelve pounds, and fometimes more. The head is large in proportion to
the body, and this dilproportion, which is ftill greater in the fird ftage of the
foetus, continues during the period of infancy. The fkin of a new-born child is of
a reddifh colour, becaufe it is fo fine and tranfparent as to allow a flight tint of the
colour of the blood to Ihine through. The form of the body and members is by
no means perfect in a child foon after birth all the parts appear to be fwollen. At
the end of three days, a kind of jaundice generally comes on, and at the fame time
milk is to be found in the breads of the infant, which may be fqueezed out by the
fingers. The fwelling decreafes as the child grows up.
The liquor contained in the amnios leaves a vifcid whitifh matter upon the body
of the child. In this country we have the precaution to walk the new- born infant
only with warm water-, but it is the cuftom with whole nations inhabiting the
colded climates, to plunge their infants into cold water as foon as they are born,
without their receiving the lead injury. It is even faid that the Laplanders leave
their
134 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
their children in the fhow till the cold has almoft (lopped their refpiration, and then
plunge them into a warm bath. Among thefe people, the children are alfo wafhed
thrice a-day during the firft year of their life. The inhabitants of northern coun-
tries are perfuaded that the cold bath tends to make men ftronger and more robuft,
and on that account accuftom their children to the ufe of it from their infancy.
The trutii is, that we are totally ignorant of the power of habit, or how far it can
make our bodies capable of fuffering, of acquiring, or of lofing.
The child is not allowed to fuck as foon as it is born ; but time is given for dif-
charging the liquor and (lime from the (lomach, and the mvconium or excrement,
which is of a black colour, from the inteftines. As thefe fubftances might four the
milk, a little diluted wine mixed with fugar is firft given to the infant, and the
bread is not prefented to it before ten or twelve hours have elapfed.
The young of quadrupeds can of themfelves find the way to the teat of the mo-
ther: it is not fo with man ; the mother, in order to fuckle her child, muft raife
it to her breads j and, at this feeble period of life, the infant can exprefs its wants
only by its cries.
New-born children have need of frequent nourifhment. During the day, the
bread ought to be given to them every two hours, and during the night as
often as they awake. At firft they deep almoft continually j and they feem never
to awake but when prefled by hunger or pain. Sleep is ufeful and refrefhing to
them ; and it fometimes becomes necefiary to employ narcotic dofes, proportioned
to the age and conftitution of the child, for the purpofe of procuring them repofe.
The common way of appealing the cries of children is by rocking them in the
cradle ; but this agitation fhould be very gentle, otherwife a great ri(k is run of con-
fufing the infant’s brain, and of producing a total derangement. It is necefiary to
their being in good health, that their deep be long and natural. It is pofiible, how-
ever, that they may deep too much, and thereby endanger their conftitution. In
that cafe, it would be proper to take them out of the cradle, and awaken them by a
gentle motion, or by prefenting fome bright objeft to their eyes. At this age we
receive the firft imprefiions from the fenfes, which, without doubt, are more im-
portant during the reft of life than is generally imagined. Great care ought to be
taken to place the cradle in fuch a manner that the child (hall be direftly oppofite
to the light : for the eyes are always directed towards that part of the room where
the light is ftrongeft : and, if the cradle be placed fideways, one of them, by turn-
ing towards the light, will acquire greater ftrength than the other, and the child
will fquint. For the two firft months, no other food (hould be given to the child
but the milk of the nurfe; and, when it is of a weak and delicate conftitution, this
nourifhment alone fhould be continued during the third or fourth month. A child,
however
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 133
however robuft and healthful, may be expofed to great danger and inconvenience,
if any other aliment is adminiftered before the end of the firft month. In Holland,
Italy, Turkey, and the whole Levant, the food of children is limited to the milk
of the nurfe for a whole year. The favages of Canada give their children fuck for
four, five, and fometimes even feven, years. In this country, as nurfes generally
have not a fufficient quantity of milk to fatisfy the appetite of their children, they
commonly fupply the want of it by panada, or other light preparations.
The teeth ufually begin to appear about the age of feven months. The cutting
of thefe, although a natural operation, does not follow the common laws of nature,
which ads continually on the human body without occafioning the fmalleft pain
or even producing any fenfation. Here a violent and painful effort is made, accom-
panied with cries and tears. Children at firft lofe their fprightlinefs and gaiety
;
they become fad, reftlefs, and fretful. The gums are red, andfwelled-, but they
afterwards become white, when the preflure of the teeth is fo great as to ftop the
circulation of the blood. Children apply their fingers to their mouth, that they
may remove the irritation which they feel there. Some relief is given, by putting
into their hands a bit of ivory or of coral, or of fome other hard and fmooth body,
with which they rub the gums at the affeded part. This preffure, being oppofed
to that of the teeth, calms the pain for a moment, contributes to make the mem-
brane of the gum thinner, and facilitates its rupture. Nature here ads in oppo-
fition to herfelfj and an incifion of the gum muft fometimes take place, to allow
a paffage to the tooth.
When children are allowed to cry too long and too often, ruptures are fometimes
occafioned by the efforts they make. Thefe may eafily be cured by the fpeedy ap-
plication of bandages*, but, if this remedy has been too long delayed, the difeafe
may continue through life. Children are very much fubjed to worms. Some of
the bad effeds occafioned by thefe animals might be prevented by giving them a
little wine now and then, for fermented liquors have a tendency to prevent their
generation.
Though the body is very delicate in the ftate of infancy, it is then lefs fenfible of
cold than at any other part of life. The internal heat appears to be greater : the
pulfe in children is much greater than in adults j from which we are certainly in-
titled to infer, that the internal heat is greater in the fame proportion. For the
fame reafon, it is evident that fmall animals have more heat than large ones ; for
the beating of the heart and of the arteries is always quicker in proportion to the
fmallnefs of the animal. The ftrokes of the heart in a fparrow fucceed one another
fo rapidly that they can fcarcely be counted.
No. q. M m Till
i 34 A K E Y T O PHYSIC,
Till three years of age, the life of a child is very precarious. In the two or three
following years, it becomes more certain •, and at fix or feven years of age, a child
has a better chance of -living than at any other period of life. From the bills of
mortality publifhed at London, it appears, that, of a. certain number of children
born at the fame time, one half of them die the three firft years : according to
which, one half of the human race are cut off before they are three years of age.
But the mortality among children is not nearly fo great every where as in London.
M. Dupre de Saint Maur,
from a great number of obfervations made in France, has
fihewn that half of the children born at the .fame time are not extinft till feven or
eight years have elapfed.
The period of infancy is followed by that of adolefcence. This begins, together
with puberty, at the age of twelve or fourteen, and commonly ends in girls at fif-
teen, and in boys at eighteen, but fometimes not till twenty-one, twenty-three,
and twenty-five, years of age. According to its etymology (being derived from
the Latin word cdolefcentia), it is completed when the body has attained its full
height. Thus, puberty accompanies adolefcence, and precedes youth. This is
the fpring of life; this is the feafon of pleasures, of loves, and of graces: but
alas ! this finding feafon is of fhort duration. Hitherto nature feems to have had
nothing in view but the prefervation and increafe of her work: fhe has made no
provifion for the infant except what is necefiary to its life and growth. It has lived,
or rather enjoyed a kind of vegetable exiftence, which was fhut up within itfelf,
and which it was incapable of communicating. In this firft ftage of life, reafon
is ftill afieep : but the principles of life foon multiply, and man has not only what
is neceffary to his own exiftence, but what enables him to give exiftence to others.
This redundancy of life, this fource of health and vigour, can no longer be con-
fined, but endeavours to difi'ufe and expand itfelf.
The age of puberty is announced by feveral marks. The firft fymptom is a kind
of numbnefs and ftifrnefs in the groins, accompanied with a new and peculiar fen-
fation in thole parts which diftinguifh the fexes. There, as well as in the arm-pits,
final! protuberances of a whitifh colour appear, which are the germ9 of a new pro-
duction of a kind of hair, by which thefe parts are afterwards to be veiled. The
voice, for a confiderable time, is rough and unequal ; after which it becomes ful-
ler, ftronger, and graver, than it was before. This change may eafily be diftin-
guifhed in boys but lei's fo in girls, becaufe their voices are naturally fharper.
Thefe marks of puberty are common to both fexes : but there are marks peculiar
to each, fucn as the difeharge of the menfes, and the growth of the breafts, in girls ;
the beard, and theemiffion of femen, in boys; in fhort, the feeling of venereal
dcfire, and the appetite which unites the fexes. Among all races of mankind, the
females
1
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. {35
females arrive at- puberty fooner than the males ; but the age of puberty is different
in different nations, and feems partly to depend on the temperature of the climate
and the quality of the food. In all the fouthern countries of Europe, and in cities,
the greateft part of girls arrive at puberty about twelve, and boys about fourteen,
years of age. But in the northern parts, and in the country, girls fcarcely arrive
at puberty till they are fourteen or fifteen, and boys not till they arefixteen or feven-
teen. In our climate, girls, for the greateft part, have attained complete maturity
at eighteen, and boys at twenty, years of age.
At the age of adolefcence, and of puberty, the body commonly attains its full
height. About that time, young people (boot out feveral inches almoft at once.
But there is no part of the human body which increafes more quickly and more per-
ceptibly than the organs of generation in both fexes. In males, this growth is no-
thing but an unfolding of the parts, an augmentation in fize •, but in females, it
Often occafions a fhrinking and contraction, which have received different names
from thofe who have treated of the fignsof virginity.
Marriage is a ftate fuitable to man, wherein he muft make ufe of thofe new fa-
culties which he has acquired by puberty. At this period of life, the defire of pro-
ducing a being like himfelf is ftrongly felt. The external form and the corref-
pondence of the organs of fex occafion without doubt that irrefiftible attraction
which unites the fexes and perpetuates the race. By connecting pleafure with the
propagation of the fpecies, nature has provided moft effectually for the continu-
ance of her work. Increafe and multiply is the exprefs command of the Creator, and
one of the natural functions of life. We may add, that at the age of puberty a
thoufand impreffions aCt upon the nervous fyftem, and reduce man to fuch a fitua-
tion that he feels his exiftence only in that voluptuous fenfe, which then appears to
become the feat of his foul, which engroffes the whole fenfibility of which he is fuf-
ceptible, and which at length proceeds to fuch a height, that its attacks cannot
long be fupported without a general derangement of the whole machine. The
continuance of luch a feeling may fometimes indeed prove fatal to thofe who in-
dulge in exceffive enjoyment •,
but it is equally dangerous to thofe who obftinately
perfift in celibacy, efpecially when ftrongly folicifed by nature. The femen, being
too long confined in the fetninal vefiels, may, by its ftimularit property, occafion
difeafes in both fexes, and excite irritations fo violent as to reduce man to a level
with the brutes, which, when aCted upon by fuch impreffions, are perfectly furious
and ungovernable. When this irritation proceeds to extremity, it produces what
is called the furor literinns in women. The oppofite habit, however, is infinitely
more common, efpecially in the temperate, and above all in the frozen, zones.
After all, excefs is much more to be dreaded than continency. The number of
. dififolute
i$6 A. -KEY TO PHYSIC,
diffolute and intemperate men afford ns plenty of examples. Some have loft their
memory, fome have been deprived of fight, fome have become bald, and fome have
died through mere weaknefs. In fuch a cafe, bleeding is well known to be fatal.
Young men cannot be too often warned of the irreparable injury they may do to
their health; and parents, to whofe care they are entrufted, ought to employ all
the means in their power to turn them from fuch dangerous excefles. But at the
age of puberty, young men know not of how great importance it is to prolong this
fmiling feafon of their days, whereon the happinefs or mifery of their future life fo
much depends. Then they look not forwards to futurity, nor reflect on what is
paft, nor enjoy prefent pleafures with moderation. How many ceafe to be men,
or at leaft to have the faculties of men, before the age of thirty ? Nature muft not
be forced : like a true mother, her objedt is the fober and difcreet union of the fexes.
It is fufficient to obey when fhe commands, and to anfwer when fhe calls. Neither
muft we forget here to mention and condemn an outrage committed againft nature,
the Ihameful practice of which endangers the lofs of health, and the total ruin of
the conftitution •, I mean that folitary libertinifm, fo extenfively explained in the
Medical Part of my edition of Culpeper, by which a man or woman, deceiving
nature as it were, endeavours to procure thofe enjoyments which religion has for-
bidden except when connected with the happinefs of being a parent. Such then is
the phyfical order which the Author of nature, the great preferver of the fpecies as
well as the individual, has appointed to induce man, by the attraction of pleafure,
to propagate and continue his race.
According to the ordinary courfe of nature, women are not fit for conception till
after the firft appearance of the menfes. When thefeftop, which generally happens
about forty or fifty years of age, they are barren ever after. Their breafts then
fhrink and decay, and the voice becomes feebler. Some, however, have become
mothers before they have experienced any menftrual difcharge •, and others have
conceived at the age of fixty, and fometimes at a more advanced age. Such ex-
amples, though not unfrequent, muft be confidered as exceptions to the general
rule ; but they are fufficient to ffiew that the menftrual difcharge is not eflential to
generation. The age at which man acquires the faculty of procreating is not fo
diftindtly marked. In order to the production of femen, the body muft have at-
tained a certain growth, which generally happens between twelve and eighteen years
of age. At fixty or feventy, when the body begins to be enervated by old age,
the voice becomes weaker, the femen is fecreted in fmaller quantities, and it is often
unprolific. There are inftances, however, of old men who have procreated at the
age of eighty or ninety. Boys have been found who had the faculty of generating
at
t
A N E> OCCULT ‘SCIENCE. 13*
at nine, ten, or eleven, years of age •, and young girls who have become pregnant
at the age of feven, eight, or nine. But fuch fails, which are very rare, ought to
be confidered as extraordinary phenomena in the courfe of nature.
At the age of puberty, or a few years after, the body attains its full flature.
Some young men grow no taller after fifteen or fixteen, and others continue to grow
till the age of twenty or twenty-three. At this period they are very (lender : but by
degrees the members fwell and begin to affume their proper (hape •, and, before the
age of thirty, the body in men has attained its greatefl perfection with regard to
ftrength, confidence, and fymmetry. Adolefcence ends at the age of twenty or
twenty-five •, and at this period youth (according to the divifion which has been
made of the years of man’s life into different ages) begins. It continues till the
age of thirty or thirty-five.
The common flature of men is about five feet and three, four, five, fix, or feven,
inches •, and of women about five feet and two, three, and four, inches. Men be-
low five feet are of a fmall flature. The Laplanders do not exceed four feet and a
half ; and the natives of fome other countries are flill fmaller. Women attain their
full height fooner than men. Haller computes, that, in the temperate climates of
Europe, the medium flature of men is about five feet and five or fix inches. It is
obferved by the fame author, that in Switzerland the inhabitants of the plains are
taller than thofe of the mountains. It is difficult to afcertain with precifion the
ailual limits of the human flature. In furveying the inhabited earth, we find
greater differences in the flatures of individuals than in thofe of nations. In the
fame climate, among the fame people, and fometimes in the fame family, there are
men whofe flature is either too tall or too diminutive.-—The body having acquired
its full height during the period of adolefcence, and its full dimenfions in youth,
remains for fome years in the fame (late before it begins to decay. This is the pe-
riod of manhood, which extends from the age of thirty or thirty-five to that of
forty or forty-five years. During this flage, the powers of the body continue in
full vigour, and the principal change which takes place in the human figure arifes
from the formation of fat in different parts. Exceffive fatnefs disfigures the body,
and becomes a very cumberfome and inconvenient load.
The body of a well-fhaped man ought to be fquare, the mufcles ought to be
flrongly marked, the contour of the members boldly delineated, and the features
of the face well defined. In women, all the parts are more rounded and fofter, the
features are more delicate, and the complexion brighter. To man belong ftrength
and majefty ;
graceful nefs and beauty are the portion of the other lex.— Every
thing in both iexes points them out as the fovereigns of the earth j even the exter-
nal appearance of man declares his fuperiority to other living Creatures.' His body
No. 9*- N n is
.
138 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
is ered ; his attitude is that of command j his augufl: countenance, which is turned
towards heaven, bears the impreflions of his dignity. The image of his foul is
painted in his face ; the excellence of his nature pierces through the material organs,
and gives a fire and animation to the features of his countenance. His majeftic de-
portment, his firm and emboldened gait, announce the noblenefs of his rank. He
touches the earth only with his extremity ; he views it only at a difiance, and feems
to defpife it. It has been juftly obferved, that the countenance of man is the mir-
ror of his mind. In the looks of no animal are the expreffions of pafilon painted
with fuch energy and rapidity, and with fuch gentle gradations and fha'des, as in
thofe of man. We know, that in certain emotions of the mind, the blood rifes to
the face, and produces bluffing; and that in others the countenance turns pale.
Thefe two fymptoms, the appearance of which depends on the ftrudure and tranf-
parency of the reticulum, efpecially rednefs, conftitute a peculiar beauty. In our
climates, the natural colour of the face of a man in good health is white, with a
lively red fuffufed upon the cheeks. Palenefs of the countenance is always a fuf-
picious fymptom. That colour which is fhaded with black is a fign of melancholy
and of vitiated bile ; and conftant and univerfal rednefs is a proof that the blood is
carried with too great impetuofity to the brain. A livid colour is a morbid and dan-
gerous fymptom ;
and that which has a tint of yellow is a fign of jaundice or re-
pletion of bile. The colour of the fkin is frequently altered by want of fleep or of
nouriihment, or by loofenefs and diarrhoea.
Notwithftanding the general fimilitude of countenance in nations and families,
there is a wonderful diverfity of features. No one, however, is at a lofs to recoi-
led; the perfon to whom he intends to fpeak, provided he has once fully feen him.
One man has livelinefs and gaiety painted in his countenance, and announces be-
fore-hand, by the cheerfulnefs of his appearance, the character which he is to fup-
port in fociety. The tears which bedew the cheeks of another man would excite
companion in the molt unfeeling heart. Thus the face of man is the rendezvous of
the fymptoms both of his moral and phylical affedions: tranquillity, anger, threat-
ening, joy, fmiles, laughter, malice, love, envy, jealoufy, pride, contempt, difdain
or indignation, irony, arrogance, tears, terror, aftonifhment, horror, fear, Ihame or
humiliation, forrow and afflidion, compafiion, meditation, particular convulfions,
fleep, death, &c. &c. The difference of thefe charaders is of fufficient importance
to form a principal article in the natural hiftory of man.
When the mind is at eafe, all the features of the face are in a ftate of profound
tranquillity. Their proportion, harmony, and union, point out the ferenity of the
thoughts. But when the foul is agitated, the human face becomes a living canvafs,
whereon the palfions are reprefented with equal delicacy and energy, where every
emotion
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 135
emotion, of the foul is expreffed by fome feature, and every aflion by fome mark ;
the lively impreflion of which anticipates the will, and reveals by pathetic figns
our fecret agitation, and thofe intentions which we are anxious to conceal. It is
particularly in the eyes that the foul is painted in the ftrongeft colours and with the
mod delicate {hades.
The different colours of the eyes are, dark hazel, light hazel, green, blue, grey,
and whitifh-groy. The mcft common of thefe colours are hazel and blue, both
of which are often found in the fame eye. Eyes which are commonly called black
are only dark hazel ; they appear black in confequence of being contrafted with
the white of the eye. Wherever there is a tint of blue, however flight, it becomes
the prevailing colour, and outfhinesthe hazel, with which it is intermixed, to fuch
a degree, that the mixture cannot be perceived without a very narrow examination*
The moft beautiful eyes are thofe which appear black or blue. In the former, there
is more exprtffion and vivacity; in the latter, more fweetnefs and perhaps delicacy.
Next to the eyes, the parts of the face by which the phyfiognomy is molt ftrongly
marked are the eye brows. Being of a different nature from the other parts, their
effeft is increafed by contraft. They are like a {hade in a pifture, which gives re-
lief to the other colours and forms.
The forehead is one of the largeft parts of the face, and contributes moft to its
beauty. Every body knows of how great importance the hair is in the phyfiognomy,
and that baldnefs is a very great defeat. When old age begins to make its ap-
proaches, the hair which firft falls off is that which covers the crown of the head
and the parts above the temples. We feldom fee the hair of the lower part of the
temples, or of the back of the head, completely fall off. Baldnefs is peculiar to
men-, women do not naturally lofe their hair, though it becomes white as well as
that of the men at the approach of old age.
The nofe is the moft prominent feature of the face. But as it has very little mo-
tion, and that only in the moft violent paflions, it contributes lefs to the expreffion
than to the beauty of the countenance. The nofe is feldom perpendicular to the
middle of the face, but for the moft part is turned to one fide or the other. The
caufe of this irregularity, which, according to the painters, is perfectly confiftent
with beauty, and of which even the want would be a deformity, appears to be fre-
quent preflure on one fide of the cartilage of the child’s nofe againft the breaft of
the mother when it receives fuck. At this early period of life, the cartilages and
bones have acquired very little folidity, and are eafiiy bent, as may be obferved in
the legs and thighs of fome individuals, who have been injured by the bandages of
the fwaddling clothes.
Next
i 4o A Kfl TO PHYSIC,
Next to the eyes, the mouth and lips have the greateft motion and expreffon.
Thefe motions are under the influence of the paffions. The mouth, which is fet
off by the vermillion of the lips and the enamel of the teeth, marks, by the various
forms which it affumes, their different characters. The organ of the voice like-
wife gives animation to this feature, and communicates to it more life and expref-
fion than is poffeffed by any of the reft. The cheeks are uniform features, and
have no motion or expreffion excepting from that involuntary rednefs or palenefs
with which they are covered in different paffions, fuch as lhame, anger, pride, and
joy, on the one hand ; and fear, terror, and forrow, on the other.
In different paffions, the whole head affumes different pofnions, and is affeCted
with different motions. It hangs forward during fhame, humility, and forrow ;
it inclines to one fide in langour and compaffion ; it is elevated in pride, ereCt and
fixed in obftinacy and felf-conceit •,
in aftonifhment it is thrown backwards; and
it moves from fide to fide in contempt, ridicule, anger, and indignation.—In grief,
joy, love, fhame, and compaffion, the eyes fwell, and the tears flow. The effufion
of tears is always accompanied with an extenfion of the mufcles of the face, which
opens the mouth.—In forrow, the corners of the mouth are depreffed, the under-
lip rifes, the eye-lids fall down, the pupil of the eye is raifed and half concealed by
the eye-lid. The other mufcles of the face are relaxed, fo that the diftance be-
tween the eyes and the mouth is greater than ordinary ; and confequently the
countenance appears to be lengthened.—In fear, terror, confternation, and horror,
the forehead is wrinkled, the eye-brows are raifed, the eye-lids are opened as wide
as poflible, the upper lid uncovers a part of the white above the pupil, which is
depreffed and partly concealed by the under lid. At the fame time, the mouth
opens wide, the lips recede from each other, and difcover the teeth both above and
below.—In contempt and derifion, the upper lip is raifed at one fide and expofes
the teeth, while the other fide of the lip moves a little and wears the appearance of
a fmile. The noftril on the elevated fide of the lip fhrivels up, and the corner of
the mouth falls down. The eye on the fame fide is almoft fhut, while the other is
open as ulual ; but the pupils of both are depreffed, as when one looks down from
a height.—In jealoufy, envy, and malice, the eye-brows fall down and are wrinkled
;
the eye-lids are elevated, and the pupils are depreffed. The upper lip is elevated
on both fides, while the corners of the mouth are a little depreffed, and the under
lip rifes to join the middle of the upper.-In laughter, the corners of the mouth are
drawn back and a little elevated; the upper parts of the cheeks rife; the eyes
ate pore or lefs clofed * the upper lip rifes, and the under one falls down ; the
mouth opens ; and, in cafes of immoderate laughter, the Ikin of the nofe wrinkles.
That gentler and more gracious kind of laughter which is called fmiling, is feated
wholly
Hi
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
wholly in the parts of the mouth. The under lip rifes ; the angles of the mouth
are drawn back; the cheeks are puffed up; the eye-lids approach one another;
and a fmall twinkling is obferved in the eyes. It is very extraordinary, that
laughter may be excited either by a moral caufe without the immediate a6tion of
external obje&s, or by a particular irritation of the nerves without any feeling of
joy. Thus an involuntary laugh is excited by a flight tickling of the lips, of the
palm of the hand, of the foie of the foot, of the arm-pits, and, in fhort, below
the middle of the ribs. We laugh when two diffimilar ideas, the union of which
was unexpected, are prefented to the mind at the fame time, and when one or
both of thefe ideas, or their union, includes fome abfurdity which excites an
emotion of difdain mingled with joy. In general, ftriking contrails never fail to
produce laughter. —A change is produced in the features of the countenance by
weeping as well as by laughing. When we weep, the under lip is feparated from
the teeth, the forehead is wrinkled, the eye-brows are depreffed, the dimple, which
gives a gracefulnefs to laughter, forfakes the cheek ; the eyes are more compreflfed,
and almoft conftantly bathed in tears, which in laughter flow more feldom and
lefs copioufly.
The arms, hands, and every part of the body, contribute to the exprefiion of
the paflions. In joy, for inftance, all the members of the body are agitated with
quick and various motions. In languor and forrow, the arms hang down, and
the whole body remains fixed and immoveable. In admiration and furprife, this
total fufpenfion of motion is likewife obferved. In love, defire, and hope, the
head and eyes are raifed to heaven, and feem to folicit the wilhed-for good ; the
body leans forward as if to approach it ; the arms are ftretched out, and feem to
feize before-hand the beloved objeCt. On the contrary, in fear, hatred, and horror,
the arms feem to pufh backward and repel the objeCt of our averfion ; we turn
away our head and eyes as if to avoid the fight of it ; we recoil in order to fhun it.
Although the human body is externally much more delicate than that of any
other animal, yet it is very nervous, and perhaps ftronger in proportion to its fize
than that of the ftrongeft animals. We are afiured that the porters at Conftanti-
nople carry burdens of nine hundred pounds weight. A thoufand wonderful flories
are related of the Hottentots and other favages concerning their agility in running,
. Civilized man knows not the full extent of his powers, nor how much he lofes by
that effeminacy and ina&ivity by which they are weakened and deftroyed. He is
contented even to be ignorant of the ftrength and vigour which his members are ca-
pable of acquiring by motion, and by being accuftomed to fevere exercifes, as is
obferved in runners, tumblers, and rope-dancers. The conclufion is, therefore,
founded on the molt juft and indifputable indudtion and analogy.— The attitude
No. 10. O o
142 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of walking is lefs fatiguing to man than that in which he is placed when he is
flopped in running. Every time he fets his foot upon the ground, he paffes over
a more confiderable fpace ; the body leans forwards, and the arms follow the fame
direction ; the refpiration increafes, and breathing becomes difficult. Leaping
begins with great inflexions of the members ; the body is then much ffiortened,
but immediately ftretches itfelf out with a great effort. The motions which accom-
pany leaping make it very fatiguing.
It is obferved that a ceffation from exercife is not alone fufficient to reftore the
powers of the body when they are exhaufted by fatigue. The fprings, though not
in adtion, are ftill wound up while we are awake, even when every movement is
fufpended. In fleep nature finds that repofe which is fuited to her wants, and the
different organs enjoy a falutary relaxation. This is that wonderful ftate in which
man, unconfcious of his own exiftence, and funk in apparent death, repairs the
lofs which his faculties have fuftained, and feems to affume a new exiftence* In this
ftate of drowfinefs and repofe, the fenfes ceafe to adt, the functions of the body are
fufpended, and it feems abandoned to itfelf. The external fymptoms of fleep, which
alone are the objedts of our attention, are eafily diftinguiffied. At the approach of
fleep, the eyes begin to wink, the eye-lids fall down, the head nods and hangs
down: its fall aftonifhes the Deeper ; he ftarts up, and makes an effort to drive
away fleep, but in vain ; a new inclination, ftronger than the former, deprives
him of the power of raifing his head j his chin refts upon his breaft, and in this
pofition he enjoys a tranquil fleep.
The age of decline extends from forty or forty-five to fixty or fixty-five years of
age. At this time of life, the diminution of the fat is the caufe of thofe wrinkles
which begin to appear in the face and fome other parts of the body. The fkin, not
being fupported by the fame quantity of fat, and being incapable, from want of
dafticity, of contradting, finks down and forms folds. In the decline of life, a re-
markable change takes place alfo in vifion. In the vigour of our days, the cryftal-
line lens, being thicker and more diaphanous than the humours of the eye, enables
us to read letters of a very fmall charadter at the diftance of eight or ten inches.
But when the age of decline comes on, the quantity of the humours of the eye di-
miniffies, they lofe their clearnefs, and the tranfparent cornea becomes lefs convex.
To remedy this inconvenience, we place what we wiffi to read at a greater diftance
from the eye : but vifion is thereby very little improved, becaufe the image of the
objedt becomes ftnaller and more obfeure. Another mark of the decline of life is
a weaknefs of the ftomach, and indigeftion, in moft people who do not take fufficient
exercife in proportion to the quantity and the quality of their food.-—At fixty,
ftxty-three, or fixty-five, years of age, the figns of decline become more and more
vifible.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. i 4?
vifible, and indicate old age. This period commonly extends to the age of feventy,
fometimes to feventy-five, but feldom to eighty. When the body is extenuated
and bent by old age, man then becomes crazy. Crazinefs therefore is nothing but
an infirm old age. The eyes and ftomach then become weaker and weaker ; leannefs
increafes the number of the wrinkles ; the beard and the hair become white; the
ftrength and the memory begin to fail. —After leventy, or at moft eighty, years of
age, the life of man is nothing but labour and forrow : luch was the language of
David near three thoufand years ago. Some men of ftrong conftitutions, and in
good health, enjoy old age for a long time without decrepitude ; but fuch inftances'
are not very common. The infirmities of decrepitude continually increafe, and at
length death concludes the whole. This fatal term is uncertain. The only con-
clufions which we can form concerning the duration of life, mult be derived from
obfervations made on a great number of men who were born at the fame time, and
who died at different ages.
The figns of decrepitude form a ftriking picture of weaknefs, and announce the
approaching d'ffblution of the body. The memory totally fails ; the nerves be-
come hard and blunted; deafnefs and blindnefs take place; the lenfes of fmell, of
touch, and of tafte, are deftroyed ; the appetite fails ; the necefilty of eating, and
more frequently that of drinking, are alone felt ;
after the teeth fall out, maftica-
tion is imperfectly performed, and digeftion is very bad; the lips fall inwards;
the edges of the jaws can no longer approach one another; the mufcles of the
lower jaw become fo weak, that they are unable to raife and fupport it ; the body
ftnks down; the fpine is bent outward; and the vertebras grow together at the
anterior part ; the body becomes extremely lean ; the ftrength fails ; the decrepid
wretch is unable to fupport himfelf ; he is obliged to remain on a feat, or ftretched
in his bed : the bladder becomes paralytic ; the inteftines lofe their fpring ;
the
circulation of the blood becomes flower ; the ftrokes of the pulfe no longer amount
to the number of eighty in a minute, as in the vigour of life, but are reduced to
twenty-four and fometimes fewer: refpiration is flower ; the body lofes its heat;
the circulation of the blood ceales ; death follows ; and the dream of life is no
more.
Man, however, has no right to complain of the fhortnefs of life. Throughout
the whole of living beings, there are few who unite in a greater degree all the in-
ternal caufes which tend to prolong its different periods. The term of geftation is
very confiderable ; the rudiments of the teeth are very late in unfolding; his
growth is flow, and is not completed before about twenty years have elapfed. —The
age of puberty, alfo, is much later in man than in any other animal. In fhort, the
parts of his body, being compofed of a fofter and more flexible fubftance, are not
fo
144 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fo foon hardened as thofe of inferior animals. Man, therefore, feems to receive
at his birth the feeds of a long life: if he reaches not the diftant period which na-
ture feemed to promife him, it muft be owing to accidental or acquired caufes, fo-
reign to himfelf. Inftead of faying that he has finilhed his life, we ought rather to
fay that he has not completed it. —The natural and total duration of life is in fome
meafure proportioned to the period of growth. A tree or an animal, which foon
acquires its full fize, decays much fooner than another which continues to grow for
a longer time. If it be true that the life of animals is eight times longer than the
period of their growth, we might conclude that the boundaries of human life may
be extended to a century and a half.
It does not appear that the life of man becomes Ihorter in proportion to the length
of time the world has exifted. In the days of the Pfalmift, the ordinary limits of
human life did not exceed feventy or eighty years. No king of Judah lived be-
yond that period. When the Romans, however, were numbered by Vefpafian,
there were found in the empire, in that age of effeminancy, ten men aged an hun-
dred and twenty and upwards. Among the princes of modern times, the late Fre-
deric the Great of Pruffia lived to the age of 74. George II. of Britain lived to that
of 77. Louis XIV. lived to the fame age. Staniflaus King of Poland and Duke
of Lorrain exceeded that age. Pope Clement XII. lived to the age of 80. George
I. of Britain attained the age of 83. William Lecomte, a (hepherd, died fuddenly
in 1776, in the county of Caux in Normandy, at the age of no. Cramers, phy-
fician to the emperor, faw at Temefwar two brothers, the one aged no and the
other 112, both of whom were fathers at that age. Saint Paul the hermit was 113
at his death. The Sieur Ifwan-Horwaths^ knight of the order of St. Louis, died
at Sar-Albe in Lorrain in 1775, aged almoft in; he was a great hunter ; he
undertook a long journey a fhort time before his death, and performed it on horfe-
back. Rofine Iwiwaroufka died at Minflc in Lithuania at the age of 113. Fockjel
Johannes died at Oldeborn in Friefland, aged 113 years and 16 days. Marfk Jones
died in the year 1775 at Villejac in Hungary, aged 119. John Niethen of Bakler
in Zealand lived to the age of 120. Eleonora Spicer died in 1773, at Accomack in
Virginia, aged 121. John Argus was born in the village of Laftua in Turkey,
and died the 6th of March 1779, at the age of 123 ; having fix fons and three
daughters, by whom he had pofterity to the fifth generation ; they amounted to
the number of 160 fouls, and all lived in the fame village : this father died at the
age of 120. In December 1777, there lived in Devonffiire a farmer named John
Brookey, who was 134 years of age, and had been fifteen times married. The Phi-
lofophical Tranfadtions mention an Englilhman of the name of Ecclefton, who lived
to the age of 143. Another Englifhman, of the name of Effingham, died in 1757, at
the
\
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. ,
45
the age of 144. Niels Jukens of Hammerfet in Denmark died in 1764, aged 146.
Chriftian Jacob Drakemberg died in 1770 at Archufen, in the 146th year of his
age: this old man of the north was born at.Stavangar in Norway in 1624, and at
the age of 130 married a widow of 60. In Norway fome men have lived to the age
of 150. John Rovin, who was born at Szatlova-Carantz-Betcher, in the bannat
of Temefwar, lived to the age of 172, and his wife to that of 164, having been
married to him during the fpace of 147 years : when Rovin died, their youngeft
fon was 99 years of age. Peter Zoten, a peafant, and a countryman of John Rovin,
died in 1724 at the age of 185: his youngeft fon was then 97 years of age. The
hiftory and whole-length pictures of John Rovin, Henry Jenkins, and Peter
Zoten, are to be feen in the library of S. A. R. prince Charles at Brufiels. Ha-
novins, profefior at Dantzic, mentions in his nomenclature an old man who died
at the age of 184-, and another (till alive in Wallachia, whole age, according to
this author, amounts to 186. Thomas Par, of Shroplbire, died November 16,
1635, aged 152. Henry Jenkins, of Yorklhire, died December 8, 1670, aged
169. Robert Montgomery, of Yorklhire, died in 1670, aged 126. James Sands,
of Staffordfhire, aged 140, and his wife, aged 120. Countefs of Defmond, of Ire-
land, aged 140. J. Sagar, of Lancalhire, died in 1668, aged 112. — Laurence,
of Scotland, aged 140. Simon Sack, of Trionia, died May 30, 1764, aged 141.
Col. Thomas Window, of Ireland, died Auguft 26, 1766, aged 146. Francis
Confift, of Yorklhire, died in January j 763, aged 150. Margaret Forfter,
aged 136, and her daughter, aged 104, of Cumberland, were both living in
1771. Francis Bons, of France, died Feb. 6, 1769, aged 12 r. James Bowels,
of Killingworth, aged 152. John Tice, of Worcefterfhire, died March 1774,
aged 125. John Mount, of Scotland, died Feb. 27, 1766, aged 136. A. Gold-
fmith, of France, died in June 1776, aged 140. Mary Yates, of Shroplhire, died
in 1776, aged 128. John Bales, of Northampton, died April 5, 1766, aged 126.
William Ellis, of Liverpool, died Auguft 16, 1780, aged 130. Louifa Truxo,
a negrefs of Tucomea, South America, was living October 5, 1780, aged 175.
Margaret Patten, of Lockneugh near Pailley, aged 138. Janet Taylor, of Fin-
tray, Scotland, died Oftober 10, 1780, aged 108. Richard Lloyd, of Montgo-
mery, aged 133. Sufannah Hilliar, of Piddington, Northamptonlhire, died Feb.
19, 1781, aged iio. Ann Cockbolt, of Stoke-Bruerne, Northamptonlhire, died
April 5, 1775, aged 105. James Hayley, of Middlewich, Chelhire, died March
17, 1781, aged ii2. William Walker, who was a foldier at the battle of Edge-
hill, lived to the age of 1 12. Hippocrates, phyfician, of the Iftand of Cos, aged 104.
Democritus, philofopher, of Abdera, aged 109. Galen, phyfician, of Pergam, aged
No. to. P p , 4o.
1 46 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
140. Albuna, Marc, of Ethiopia, aged 150. Dumitur Raduly, of Haromfzeck,
Tranfylvania, died Jan. 18, 1782, aged 14c. Titus Fullonius, of Bononia, aged
150. Abraham Paiba, of Charleftown, South Carolina, aged 142. L. Tertulla,
of Arminium, aged 137. Lewis Cornaro, of Venice, aged 100. Robert Blake-
ney, Efq. of Armagh, Ireland, aged 114. Margaret Scott, of Dalkeith, Scotland,
aged 125. W. Gulftone, of Ireland, aged 140. J. Bright, of Ludlow, aged 105.
William Poftell, of France, aged 120. Jane Reeves, of Eflex, aged 103. W.
Paulet, Marquis of Winchefter, of Hampfhire, aged 106. John Wilfon, of Suf-
folk, aged 1x6. Patrick Wian, of Lefbury, Northumberland, aged 115. M.
Laurence, of Orcades, aged 140. Evan Williams, of Caermarthen work-houfe,
was alive in October 1782, aged 145. John Jacobs, of Mount Jura, aged 121.
This man, in 1789, at the age of 120, quitted his native hills, and from the
fummit of Mount Jura undertook a journey to Verfailles, to behold and return
thanks to the national affembly for the vote which had freed' him and his poor
country men from the feudal yoke. In the early part of his life, he was a fervant
in the family of the prince de Beaufremont. His memory continued good to the
laft day of his life •, and the principal inconveniences which he felt from his great
age were, that his fight was weakened, and the natural heat of his body was fo
diminifhed, that he fhivered with cold in the middle of the dog-days if he was
not fitting by a good lire. This old man was received in the body of the houfe
by the national affembly, indulged with a chair, and directed to keep on his hat
left he fhould catch cold if he were to fit uncovered. A collection was made for
him by the members, which exceeded 500I. fterling-, but he lived not to return to
Mount Jura. He was buried on Saturday the 31ft of January 1790, with great
funeral pomp, in the parifh-church of St. Euftace, at Paris. Matthew Tait, of
Auchinleck, Airfhire, died Feb. 19, 1792, aged 123 : he ferved as a private at
the taking of Gibraltar in 1704. Donald Macleod, of the Ifle of Sky, was living
in May 1793, a »ed 105. There was living in Portfmouth poor-houfe, in May
1793, one Elizabeth Bennett, aged 104 years.
Before we proceed to affign the common caufes of longevity, it is proper to in-
quire into the manner of life and the fituation of thofe by whom it has been enjoyed.
We find, then, that thofe who have lived to the greateft age have been fuch as did
not attain their full growth till a very advanced period of life, and who have kept
their appetites and paffions under the moft complete fubjo&ion. In a word, thofe
who have exceeded 100 years,* .have in general been robuft, laborious, fober, and
careful to obferve the ftridteft regimen. Enjoying a good conftitution from nature,
they have feldom or never been fubjedt to difeafe. They have even enjoyed the
greateft health and vigour, and retained the ufe of their fenfes to the laft moment
of their lives.
Among
and occult science. 147
Among thofe who have led a life of contemplation and ftudy, many have reached
a very advanced age. Longevity is frequent among the different orders of religious,
who by their ftatutes are confined to a moderate diet, and obliged to abflain from
wine and the ufe of meat. Some celebrated anchorets have lived to a great age
while they fed upon nothing but the wild roots and fruits which they found in the
d'efart whither they had retired. The philofopher Xenophilus, who lived to the
ao-eof 106, was of the Pythagorean fe<5t. It is well known, that thofe philofophers
who held the tranfmigration of fouls denied themfelves the ufe of meat, becaufe
they imagined that killing an animal would be to afiaffinate another felf. A coun-
try life has produced many found and vigorous old men. It is fuppofecl that a
happy old age is attained with greater difficulty in towns than in the country. Sir
Hans Sloane, Duverney, and Fontenelle, however, are inftances of men whofe
lives have been fpent in cities, and yet extended to a very great length. It has been
obferved, that men deprived of reafon live very long ;
which is to be imputed to
their being exempt from thofe inquietudes which are the moft deadly poifon. Per-
fons poffeffing a fufficiently good underitanding, but deftitute of ambition, have*
been found to enjoy very long life. Men who are devoid of pretenfions, who are
free from thofe cares which a defire of fhining by a difplay of talents, or of acquir-
ing dignity and power, neceffarily brings in its train, who feel no regret for the
pair nor anxiety about the future, are Grangers to thofe torments of the mind which
wafte and consume the body. To that tranquillity of foul, which is fo excellent a
prerogative of infancy, they add that of being long young by phyfical conftitution,
on which the moral has a linking and powerful influence.
Premature wifdom, and early talents, are often fitter to excite aflonifhment than
expectation. The rapid unfolding of the moral faculties, by fiiortening the period of
youth, feems to diminifh in proportion the total duration of life. We have known
a young lady of feventeen, who could fpcak very corredtly feven languages: ffie
tranfiated and wrote Latin, Greek, Italian, Spanifn, German, Englifh, and French ;
but ffie died at the age of eighteen. The young man by whom ffie was afked in
marriage, having been informed that he could not obtain her hand till he had made
himfelf worthy of her by the fame degree of talents and information, died the fame
year, and at the Erne age.
From the preceding obfcrvations, Dr. Haller has attempted to deduce the caufes
why a few men are longer exempted than others from the common fate. —The cir-
cumstances which oppofe their influence are independent of our will ;
fuch as the
ravages of epidemic diftempers, trouble, and anxiety of mind, which create difeafes
in the body, or the torments of ambition. It is neceffary to live in a falubrious
climate, to enjoy a fortune fufficiently eafy to exclude thofe uneafy defires which
create
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
14&
create a feeling of want and privation, to be defcended from healthy parents, to
avoid drinking wine in youth, to drink water, and to eat little meat and a great
deal of vegetables. It is neceffary alfo to be temperate in meals •, moderate in plea-
lures, ftudy, and exercife ^ to be naturally inclined to cheerfulnefs ^ and to allot
a due time to fleep and repofe.—Long life is certainly very rare i
but, as has been
already obferved, we mull diftinguifh between what is natural to the conftitution
of man and that which is the confequence of his condition. By the former he is
made to be long lived ; but nature is arrefted in her courfe by local and accidental
caufes, which it is not always in our power to avoid.
Let us take a retrofpedlive view of man’s life from his infancy, and enumerate
the chief of thefe different caufes. Ofa thoufand infants, extradted from the Lon-
don bills of mortality, twenty-three died almoft as foon as they came into the world :
teething carried off fifty, and convulfions two hundred and feventy-feven : eighty
died of the fmall-pox, and feven of the meafles. Among the adult females, eight
at leaft died in child-bed : confumption and afthma, difeafes more frequent in Eng-
land than in France, carried off an hundred and ninety-one of the fame fex, and
almoft a fifth part of the full-grown men. An hundred and fifty died of fevers.
At a more advanced age, twelve died of apoplexy, and forty-one of dropfy, with-
out mentioning thofe to whom difeafes of little importance in themfelves became
mortal. There only remained feventy-eight whofe death could be afcribed to old
age •, and of thefe twenty- feven lived to the age of eighty and upwards. Among
the different difeafes of which we have juft now feen the fatal effedts, and which
carry off more than nine-tenths of mankind, not one, it muft be allowed, is na-
tural to the conftitution. The inhabitants of this ifland are in general but little
fubjedt to difeafes, excepting the fmall-pox and the meafles ; and many of them
enjoy uninterrupted health to old age.-~And here it may be proper to mention
what are the moft prevalent difeafes in other countries, which prove equally
fatal to the duration of human life. In northern climates, fcurvy, the cholic of
the Laplanders, and difeafes of the lungs, moft frequently occafion death. In
temperate climates, dropfy carries off a great many at the beginning of old age,
which is the boundary of life in the greateft part of both fexes, when they have
efeaped the acute difeafes, fuch as putrid fever, &c. Acute difeafes are moft com-
mon in warm countries. In fome places, the rays of the fun kill in a few hours
thofe who are expofed to its burning heat. The air of Egypt and of Afia Minor
engenders the plague, by which one half of their inhabitants are carried off. Be-
tween the tropics men are fubjedt to dyfenteries and violent fevers. The cold of
the night, in warm climates, occafions fometimes violent difeafes, fuch as pally,
quinfey, and a fwelling of the head. Damp and marfliy places give rife to fevers
of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 149
of a different kind, but alfo very dangerous. The life of failors has a great ten-
dency to produce fcurvy. How many profeffions prove fatal to the health, and in
mod men haften that period which nature would have brought on by flow degrees !
Miners, ftone-cutters, gilders, perfons employed in emptying privies, &c. are fub-
jeft to difeafes of the lungs, and become paralytic. Other profeffions of life bring
on other accidents, of which it would carry us too far to give a particular account.
What has been faid is fufficient to fhew, that it is the dangers with which we are
furrounded that ftiorten the period of human exiftence.
By examining the lift of thofe who have attained a great age, it will be found thac
mankind are longer lived in northern than in fouthern countries. It has been ob-
ferved, that there are more old men in mountainous and elevated fituations than in
plains and low countries. We repeat it, if the duration of life among the inhabi-
tants of fouthern climates be compared with the duration of life in northern nations,
it will be allowed, that the latter enjoy both longer life and better health than the
former. Their growth being retarded by the rigour of the climate, their decay
muff: alfo be flower, becaufe of the proportion which exifts between the growth of
animals and the length of their lives. Among ten perfons who have lived to the
age of an hundred, eight or nine will be found to have lived in the north.
It appears from the bills of mortality, that in the country more boys are born
than girls ; in cities, on the contrary, the number of females is commonly greateft.
Obfervations made with great care prove, that in moft countries there are fewer men
alive than women, and that more males die, chiefly at the firft and laft periods of
life. In Sweden, the whole number of females, in 1763, was to that of males in the
proportion of ten to nine. The number of old women who exceeded eighty years
of age was to that of old men of the fame age in the proportion of thirty-three to
nineteen : and there were more women than men who had attained the age of eighty-
fix, in the proportion of almoft two to one.
The late Dr. Price made obfervations, after Dr. Percival, on the difference of
longevity, and the duration of human life, in towns, country-pariflies, and vil-
lages •, of which the following is the refult: a greater number in proportion die
in great towns than in fmall ones, and a greater number in the latter than in vil-
lages. The caufe of this difference, which is found to be very great, muft be, in
the firft place, the luxury and diffipation which prevail in towns j and, fecondly,
the badnefs of the air. In the town of Manchefter, according to obfervation, i-2Sth
of the inhabitants die annually ; whereas, in the neighbouring country, the num-
ber of deaths does not exceed i-46th of the whole inhabitants. It may be laid down
as a general principle, that in great towns, the number of deaths annually is from
one in nineteen to one in twenty-two or twenty-three j in middling towns, from
No. 10. ~ Q_q one
150 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
one in twenty-four to one in twenty-eight ; and in country parifhes and villages fel-
dom more than one in forty or fifty. In 1763, the number of inhabitants in Stock-
holm amounted to feventy-two thoufand nine hundred and feventy-nine. The
average number of deaths for the fix years preceding had been three thoufand eight
hundred and two, which makes one in nineteen annually-, while throughout all
Sweden, including the towns and the country, not more than one in thirty-five die
annually. At Rome the inhabitants are numbered every year. In 1771 they were
found to amount to one hundred and fifty-nine thoufand fix hundred andfeventy-five:
the average number of deaths for ten years was feven thoufand three hundred and
fixty-feven -, which makes one in twenty-three and a half annually. In London
not lefs than one in twenty three-fourths of the inhabitants die every year.
M. Daubenton has given, in the Encyclopedic Methodique, a table of the proba-
bilities of the duration of life, conftrudled from that which is to be found in the
feventh volume of the Supplemens a I'llijtoire Naturelle de M. de Buffon.
The following is an abridgement of it
:
Of twenty-three thoufand nine hundred and ninety-four children, born at the
fame time, there will probably die.
In one year
Remaining 2-3ds, or 15996.
In eight years
Remaining i-half, or 1 1997-
In thirty-eight years
Remaining i-3d, or 7998.
In fifty years
Remaining i-4th, or 5998.
In fixty-one years
Remaining i-6th, or 3999.
In feventy years
Remaining i-ioth, or 2399.
In eighty years
Remaining i-40th, or 599.
In ninety years
Remaining i-30oth, or 79.
In one hundred years
Remaining i-iooooth, or 2.
It thus appears, that a very fmall number of men indeed pafs through all the pe-
riods of life, and arrive at the goal marked out by nature. Innumerable caufes ac-
celerate our diflfolution.' The life of man, we have obferved, confifts in the a&ivity
and
7998
1
1997
*
5996
J7994
*9995
21.595
22395
239H
23992
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 151
and exercife of his organs, which grow up and acquire ftrength during infancy,
adolefcence, and youth. No looner has the body attained its utmoft perfection,
than it begins to decline. Its decay is at firlt imperceptible ; but in the progrcfs of
time the membranes become cartilaginous, the cartilages acquire the confidence of
bone; the bones become more folicl, and all the fibres are hardened. Almoft all
the fat wades away •, the fkin becomes withered and fcaly ; wrinkles are gradually
formed; the hair grows white; the teeth fall out; the face Iofes its fhape ; the
body is bent; and the colour and confidence of the crvftalline humour become
more perceptible. The fird traces of this decay begin to be perceived at the age of
forty, and fometimes fooner ;
this is the age of decline. They increafe by flow de-
grees till fixty, which is the 'period of old age. They increafe more rapidly till the
age of feventy or feventy-five. At this period crazinefs begins, and continues al-
ways to increafe. Next fucceeds decrepitude,
when the memory is gone, the ufe of
the fenfes loft, the ftrength totally annihilated, the organs worn out, and the func-
tions of the body almoft deftroyed. Little now remains to be loft ; and, before the
age of ninety or an hundred, death terminates at once decrepitude and life.
The body then dies by little and little ;
its motion gradually diminifhes ; life is
extinguilhed by fucceftive gradations, and death is only the laft term in the fuc-
ceftion. When the motion of the heart, which continues longeft, ceafcs, man has
then breathed his laft ;
he has pafted from the ftate of life to the ftate of death ; and,
as at his birth a breath opened to him the career of life, fo with a breath he finifhes
his courfe.
This natural caufe of death is common to all animals, and even to vegetables.
We may obferve that the centre of an oak firft perifhes and falls into the dull, be-
caufe thefe parts having become harder and more compadt can receive no further
nourilhment. The caufes of our diffolution, therefore, are as neceflary as death is
inevitable; and it is no more in our power to retard this fatal term than to alter
the eftablilhed laws of the univerfe. Hence the following maxim has been uni-
verfally adopted, Contra vim mortis,
nullum medicamentum in hortisf In whatever
manner death happens, the time and circumftances thereof are unknown. It is
confidered, however, as at all times terrible, and the very thoughts of it fill the
mind with fear and trouble. It is notwithstanding our duty frequently to diredt
our thoughts to that event, which muft inevitably happen, and by a life of virtue
and innocence to prepare againft thofe confequences which we fo much dread.
As in women the bones, the cartilages, the mufcles, and every other part of the
body, are fofter and lefs folid than thofe of men, they muft require more time in
hardening to that degree which occafions death.—Women of courfe ought to live
longer than men. This reafoning is confirmed by experience ;
for -by confuking
the
v TTCK I? txo tV vC C fL » u "! if ) t-rvVWjff idi Civ ole
w
TVi af c /iti i-e .s
-
1 -V i the yye-.v evi- a l\i, —
152 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the bills of mortality, it appears, that after women have palled a certain age they
live much longer than men who have arrived at the fame age,—In like manner, it
is found by experience, that in women the age of youth is Ihorter and happier than
in men, but that the period of old age is longer, and attended with more trouble.
Citius pubej,cunt, citius fenefcunt.
*
After death, the organization of the body begins to be diftolved, and all the parts
relax, corrupt, and feparate. This is produced by an inteftine fermentation,
which occafions putrefaction, and reduces the body to volatile alkali, fetid oil,
and earth.
The defire of felf-prefervation, and of protracting the fhort fpan of life, is fo in-
timately interwoven with our conftitution, that it is juftly efteemed one of the firft
principles of our nature, and, in fpite even of pain and mifery, feldom quits us to
the laft moments of our exiilence. It feems, therefore, to be no lefs our duty than
our intereft to examine minutely into the various means that have been confidered
as conducive to health and long life -,
and, if poffible, to diftinguilh fuch circum-
ftances as are efiential to that great end, from thofe which are merely accidental.
It has long been known that frefh air is more immediately necefiary to life than
food *, for a man may live two or three days without the latter, but not many mi-
nutes without the former. The Vivifying principle contained in the atmofphere, fo
effential to the fupport of flame, as well as animal life, concerning which authors
have propofed fo many conjectures, is nothing elfe but that pure dephlogifticated
fluid lately difcovered by that ingenious philofopher Dr. Prieltly, The common
atmofphere may well be fuppofed to be more or lefs healthy in proportion as it
abounds with this animating principle. As this exhales in copious ftreams from
the green leaves of all kinds of vegetables, even from thofe of the molt poifonous
kind, may we not, in fome meafure, account why inftances of longevity are fo
much more frequent in the country than in large cities ; where the air, inftead of
partaking fo largely of this falutary impregnation, is daily contaminated with
noxious animal effluvia and phlogifton ?
With refpeCt to climate, various obfervations confpire to prove, that thofe regions
which lie within the temperate zones are beft calculated to promote long life.
Hence, perhaps, may be explained, why Italy has produced fo many long livers,
and why iflands in general are more falutary than continents ;
of which Bermudas
and fome others afford examples. And it is a pleafing circumftance that our own
bland appears to contain far more inftances of longevity than could well be imagin-
ed. The ingenious Mr. Whitehurft allures us, from certain faCts, that Englifh-
men are in general longer lived than North Americans ; and that a Britilh confti-
tution will laft longer, even in that climate, than a native one. But it muft be
3 allowed
y ,S OCivtr i’vjw , i'*ooiac v voWtvi
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. *53
allowed in general, that the human conftitution is adapted to the peculiar ftate and
temperature of each refpedtive climate, fo that no part of the habitable globe can
be pronounced too hot or too cold for its inhabitants. Yet, in order to promote a
friendly intercourfe between the moft remote regions, the Author of nature has
wifely enabled the inhabitants to endure great and furprifing changes of tempe-
rature with impunity.
Though foods and drink of the malt fimple kinds are allowed to be the belt cal-
culated for fupporting the body in health, yet it can hardly be doubted but variety
may be fafely indulged occafionaliy, provided men would reftrain their appetites
within the bounds of temperance ; for bountiful Nature cannot be fuppofed to have
poured forth fuch a rich profufion of provifions, merely to tantalize the human
fpecies, without attributing to her the part of a cruel ftep-dame, inftead of that of
the kind and indulgent parent. Befides, we find, that by the wonderful powers
of the digeftive organs, a variety of animal and vegetable fubftances, of very dif-
cordant principles, are happily afiimilated into one bland homogeneous chyle
;
therefore itfeems natural to diftruft thofe cynical writers, who would rigidly confine
mankind to one fimple difh, and their drink to the mere water of the brook.
Nature, it is true, has pointed out that mild infipid fluid as the univerfal diluent,
and therefore moft admirably adapted for our daily beverage. But experience has
equally proved, that vinous and fpirituous liquors, on certain occafions, are no
lefs falutary and beneficial, whether it be to fupport ftrength againft ficknefs or
bodily fatigue, or to exhilarate the mind under the preflure of heavy misfortunes.
But, alas ! what Nature meant for innocent and ufeful cordials, to be ufed only
occafionaliy, and according to the direction of reafon, cuftom and caprice have,
by degrees, rendered habitual to the human frame, and liable to the moft enormous
and deftrudtive abufes. Hence it may be juftly doubted, whether gluttony and in-
temperance have not depopulated the world more than even the fword, peftilence,
and famine. True, therefore, is the old maxim, “ Modus utendi ex veneno fact
t
viedieamentum, ex medicamento venenum.” *
It is allowed on all hands, that alternate motion and reft, and deep and watch-
ing, are necefiary conditions to health and longevity ; and that they ought to be
adapted to age, temperament, conftitution, temperature of the climate, &c. but
the errors which mankind daily commit in thefe refpe&s become a fruitful fource of
difeafes. While fome are bloated and relaxed with eafe and indolence, others are
emaciated, and become rigid through hard labour, watching, and fatigue.—Where
the animal functions are duly performed, the fecretions go on regularly; and the
different evacuations fo exactly correfpond to the quantity of aliment taken in, in a
given time, that the body is found to return daily to nearly the fame weight. If
No. 10. R r any
of rotsotv of
M4 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,.
any particular evacuation happen to be preternaturally diminifhed, fome other eva-
cuation is proportionally augmented, and the equilibrium is commonly preferved •,
but continued irregularities, in thefe important fundions, cannot but terminate m
difeafe.— The due regulation of the pafiions,. perhaps, contributes more to health
and longevity than that of any other of the non- naturals. The animating pafiions,
, fuch as joy, hope, love, &c. when kept within proper bounds, gently excite the
nervous influence, promote an equable circulation, and are highly conducive to
health ; while the deprefling afFedions,. fuch as fear, grief, and defpair, produce
the contrary effed, and lay the foundation of the moft formidable difeafes.
From the light which hiftory affords us, as well as from the foregoing lift of
long lives, there is great reafon to believe, that longevity is in fome meafure here-
ditary ; and that healthy long-lived parents would commonly tranfmit the fame to
their children, were it not for intemperance, and the frequent errors in medical ad-
vice, which fo evidently tend to the abbreviation of human life. —Where is it, but
from thefe caufes, and the unnatural modes of living, that, of all the children which
are born in the capital cities of Europe, nearly one half die in early infancy ? To
what elfe can we attribute this extraordinary mortality ? Such an amazing proportion
of premature deaths is a circumftance unheard of among favage nations, or among
the young of other animals ! In the earlieft ages, we are informed, that human life
was protraded to a very extraordinary length ; yet how few perfons, in thefe latter
times, arrive at that period which nature feems to have defigned ! Man is by na-
ture a field-animal, and feems deftined to rife with the fun, and to fpend a large
portion of his time in the open air, to inure his body to robuft exercifes and the
inclemency of the feafons, and to make a plain homely repaft only when hunger
didates. But art has ftudioufly defeated the kind intentions of nature ; and by
enflaving him to all the blandilbments of fenfe, has left him, alas ! an eafy vidim
to folly and caprice. Let the confideration of the following fubjeds dired every
one, who values health and long life, to purfue the means nature has pointed out,
for their prefervation and fuftenance.
Of NUTRITION.
NUTRITION, in the animal ceconomy, is the acceffion of new parts to the
body, either for its augmentation, or for the reparation of fuch as are worn off,
or exhaled through the pores and perfpiring veffels, whereby the fluids are dimi-
nifhed, and the body falls away. So that, to preferve life, it is neceflary that a
reftitution be made to the juices and folids of the body, at leafl: equal to what is
loft by thofe motions, which is what we call the action of nutrition. Now the
loft juices are eafily and quickly fupplied by aliment, air, &c. but the nutrition
3 of
* , •
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. t$5
of the folid parts is much more obfcure. This, indeed, has proved a fubjeCt of
infinite doubts and differences among authors •, nor had we any rational or iatisfac-
tory account of the fame, till that of the accurate Boerhaave, whofe doCtrine is as
follows.
Every folid part of the body conflfts of other fmaller ones, in all refpeCts like the
larger •, veffels, of veficles, and thole of others ft ill fmaller ; bones, of ofticles, &c.
Which ftruCture goes beyond all limits of fenl'e, however aflifted by art
;
as appears
by the experiments and obfervations of Malpighi, Ruyfch, Leeuwenhoeck, and
Hook. Yet it is fcarce poflible this divifion and fubdivifion fhould be infinite, as
thofe of foods and juices are. Again, it appears from microfCopes, injections,
fmall wounds, exficcations, &c. that the folid parts of the body* are very fmall,
compared with the fluids-, and it is alfo demonftrable, from confidering the rife
'
and generation of the veflels, and the refolution of the greater veflels into their
fmaller conftituent ones, that all the folid mafs of the body is conflruCted of mere
nerves, as its elements. And, in effeCt, all this mafs, an incredible fmall particle
only excepted, at firft, arofe out of what was a very fmall colliquament, much like
the nervous juice itfelf ; as is abundantly fhewn by the great Malpighi, in his two
treatifes on incubated eggs. For neither does the white of the egg nourifh, till by-
means of the incubation, it have pafied innumerable degrees of fluidity, from its
firft thicknefs, to that exceeding fubtilty wherein it terminates. But, even then,
the liquor, thus given to the embryo, is exceedingly thick, in comparifon with
what it is to be, when converted into its veflels and vifcera. Now, the firft tender
folids, arifing from this fubtile humour, do again pals infinite intermediate degrees,
before they arrive at their utmoft ftate and confiftence as is fhewn by Malpighi in
eggs, and by Ruyfch in embryoes and foetufes. Hence, therefore, it follows, that
the folids, in their firft formation out of the liquids whence they arife, only differ
from them in reft, cohefion, and figure. Therefore fuch a particle, now in its
fluid ftate, will become a part of the folid to be formed out of it, as foon as there
happens to be a power to effeCt its cohefion with the other folid parts, howfoever
that cohefion be effected.
This cohefion is eafily produced in a fibre already formed, if there happen to be
a proper cavity in the folid, left open by fome loft particle, and, at the lame time,
a particle in the fluid, anfwerable thereto in bulk, figure, and nature ; and, laftly,
if there be a power wherewithal to intrude it into that place, or accommodate ic
thereto. Thus will arife a real nutrition of the folids in the minute veffels, by
whofe union the large ones are formed -, that is, in the nerves, or in veffels fimilar
thereto. Which being impracticable by any other liquid than that brought into
thefe veffels, it appears very evident, that the nervous juice, at leaff a juice perfect-
ly
-.156 A KEY TO PH Y S l C,
]y like it, is the immediate matter of nutrition : whence nutrition appears one of the
lad and mod perfe<ft actions of the body ; fince, to have this laudable, all the pre-
cedent actions mud of neceffity have been fo. The chyle, therefore, which fome
make the immediate matter of nutrition, is, indeed, fitted to fill the larger vefiels ;
but it cannot nourifh or reftore them. This, when attenuated, changed, more
intimately mixed in the lungs by means of refpiration, and thus fitted for the
paffage of certain vefiels, is indeed rendered fitter, yet far from being quite fit to
be the matter of nutrition. 'But, by the repeated adtion of the lungs, the vifcera,
vefiels, &c. there is formed, out of this humour, a foft, tenacious, pladic, infipid,
ferum, which, thickening by the fire, becomes perfectly like the white of an egg.
This fluid, therefore, has in it all the conditions found in that, from whence, by
fure experience, we know all the folid parts of an animal arife by mere incubation.
It is, therefore, a dep nearer; but is not yet quite difpofed for nutriment •, much
lefs is the cruor, or red globular part of the blood fo. Neither are yet fitted to
enter. the vefiels; yet both the one and the other are, by different authors, made
the nutritive juice. But as the heat of the incubation, fo the adtion of the vifcera
and vefiels on the ferum, introduces various changes therein, till at length a part
of it be rendered fubtile enough for the purpofe required. This, when exhauded,
is indantly repaired : and thus we have the true immediate matter of nutrition.
The matter of nutrition thus afcertained, the manner wherein, and the caufe
whereby it is effected, are as follows : a juice being driven diredtly through a full,
conic, or cylindric, eladic or rigid, canal ; if its courfe be from a wider to a nar-
rower part, or if it have any thing to oppofe its motion, will endeavour to dretch
the fides of its canal, according to the axis of its length. This mud be the cafe
every where in the body, except, perhaps, in the veins and receptacles. By this
nifus or endeavour, how weak foever, continually repeated, the vefiels will be
infenfibly lengthened out ; and, in lengthening, they will be made more and more
flender. Hence the lad extremities of the vefiels, which in man are extremely
fmall, are continually dretched, and rendered lefs and lefs coherent, i. e. dill
nearer and nearer to a diffolution ; and thus at length will they cohere fo weakly,
as fcarce to differ from fluids. While fuch motion goes on, therefore, and the
propulfion is continued, there will, of neceffity, happen thefe two things : fird,
the outmod particles of the minuted tubes, being torn off, will again be converted
into a kind of humour, what part of the body foever they dick in. Secondly, the
fmalled particles, which, by their union, compofed the flendered fibrillae, will be
fo feparated from each other, as to leave open interdices in thofe places, where,
before, they cohered. Both thefe effe&s will be produced at all times, and in all
parts of the body, fo long as life continues, efpecially where nature is drong, and
the
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. i 5y
the adlions of the body violent. But the fame humour whereby thefe efforts are pro-
duced containing abundance of particles fimilar to thofe thus feparated and loft, con-
veys and applies them to thofe interftices, by that very impetus whereby it endeavours
to diftend the canals ; and thus intercepted, at length, it forms, adapts, and faftens,
them, fo as to adhere in the fame manner as the former, The matter, preparation,
application, energy of motion, ftill remaining the fame ; what, from time to time,
is loft, is thus prefently reftored •, and the folids continue in the fame date as before,
that is, they are perpetually nourifhed, and fupplied, and preferved.
In this the Creator’s wifdom is very confplcuousi in that the fame power which
inevitably deftroys, does repair again at the fame time, and by the fame artion ;
and that the greater the lofs is, the more copious the fupply-, and, laftly, that
thofe parts firft fpent in the adion of the body, are the firft reftored. Farther, it
is evident, that the newer, the more tender, and the nearer to the moving caufe,
thefe veftels are, the more eafily will they be lengthened, diftended, dellroyed, and
repaired : our bodies, therefore, the nearer to their origin, the more do they grow.
For, the adion ftill continuing, the greater veftels become more extended by their
fluid •, and at the fame time, the fmaller, whereof the membranes, or coats, of the
larger fort are compofed, are compreffed, dried, and at haft, concreted, and grow'
up ; whence arifes a firmnefs, indeed, of the fibres, but a lofs of the veficles. Thus
what were formerly veftels, commence mere hard ligaments ; and thus the fluids
being once fixed, the feveral veftels coalefce •, from the concurrence of thefe caufes
arife the ftrength, hardnefs, rigidity, and thicknefs, of the folid parts. Hence the
number of veftels is greateft in embryoes, and, as age comes on, it fenfibly dimi-
nifhes; and hence it is, that their weaknefs conftandy declines, and their ftrength
and firmnefs increafe. In young people, therefore, the quantity of humours is
redundant, and greatly exceeds the folids : in old men, the folids exceed the fluids.
And hence we fee the reafon, manner, and appearance, of growth, ftate, declenfion,
and, at length, of death, from pure old age.
A perfon who conflders this account, and compares it with what is artually ob-
fervable in the body, will find every circumftance to obtain : thus the whole cuti-
cula is every where, and at all times, conftantly defquamating, peeling off’, and
again renewing-, and thus the hair, nails, teeth, continually rubbed, torn, and
worn, off, come again : parts taken off from the veftels and the bones foon grow
again : and the fordes, or filth, rubbed off from the extremities of the veftels,
when examined by a microfcope, or diluted, and viewed in -water, appear plainly to
conflft both of folid and fluid parts , and thole carried off by waffling, (having, &c.
are the fame. Flence, too, we fee, that a general increafe of the bulk of the body,
with regard to habit, as in fat, flefhy, brawny, perfons, does not arife from any
No. ix. Ss increafe
1.58 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
, 9
increafe of the folia’s, but by their extenfion into larger cavities, crouded with ftag-
nant humours. And hence fatnefs becomes hurtful, as it loads, weakens, and
fuffocates. Whence arifes a very confiderable diftindtion between nutrition and
repletion, to which a phyfician muft have fpecial regard*, the one ftrengthening
and Gondenfmg the vefiels, the other weakening, loofening, and extending, the
fame. Hence, laflly, we lee, why the fabric of the folids is not deftroyed by the
contained fluids ; how our machine comes to fubftft fo long ; why, when a nerve
is corrupted, the nutrition of that part it belongs to ceafes ; and why the fame
obtains in an artery •, why in an embryo there are no folids, in a foetus very few,
in old men a great deal ; and why even the nerves, tendons, arteries, and recep-
tacles, become firft cartilaginous, and then bony. Dr. Prieftley concludes, from
fome experiments undertaken with a view of difcovering the principle of nutrition,
in vegetable and animal fubftances, that this principle is phlogifton, in fuch a ftate
as to be capable of becoming, by putrefaftion, a true inflammable air, but not
generally fuch as to burn with explofions •, but rather with a blue and lambent
flame, mixed with a certain proportion of fixed air. This principle in nutrition
is immediately held in folution by the gaftric juice, and in the chyle formed by it;
and when it has entered into the circulation with the chyle, and anfwered the pur-
"pofe in the animal ceconomy for which it is defigned, it is thrown out again by
means of the blood in the lungs, and communicated to the air, which is phlogifti-
cated with it.
Of FOOD, or ALIMENT.
FROM aliment or food, by the procefs of digeftion, is prepared a very mild,
fweet, and whitilh, liquor, refembling milk, and diftinguifhed by the name of
chyle ; which being abforbed by the iafteal veins, by them conveyed into the cir-
culation, and there aflimilated into the nature of blood, affords that fupply of nu-
trition, which, as we have feen above, the continual wafte of the body is found to
require. Food is the molt neceffary thing for the prefervation of our bodies : and
as on the choice thereof our health greatly depends, it is of much importance to un-
derftand, in general, what is the propereft for our nourifhment ; and, in particular
deviations from health, what is the beft adapted to reftore us. Our blood and
juices naturally incline to become putrid and acrimonious : frefh chyle, duly re-
ceived, prevents this deftruiflive tendency, and preferves in them that mild ftate
which alone confifts with health. An animal diet affords the moft of this bland
nutritious mucilage ;
watery fluids dilute the two grofs parts, and carry off what
is become unfit for ufe. It is only the fmall portion of jelly which is feparated from
the farinaceous parts of vegetables, that, after being much elaborated, is con-
verted
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 159
verted into the animal nature ; yet the ufe of vegetables prevents both repletion and
a too great tendency to a putrefcent acrimony of the blood. In hot climates, as
well as againft the conftitutional heat of particular perfons, vegetables are demand-
ed in the largeft portion*, animal fubftances afford the higheft relifh while our ap-
petite continues ; but will fate the appetite before the ftomach is duly filled. Ve-
getables may be eaten after either flefhor fifh : few herbs or fruits fatiate fo much
as that the ftomach may not be filled with them, when it is already fatisfied with
flefh or fifh •, whence it may be obferved, that no diet which is very nourifhing can
be eat to fulnefs, becaufe its nutritious parts are oily and fatiating. Health depends
almoft wholly on a proper crafts of the blood •, and to preferve this, a mixture of
vegetables in fome degree is always required, for a loathing is foon the confequence
of animal food alone : hot acrid habits, too, receive from milk and vegetables the
needful for corre&ing their exceffes ; but in cold, pituitous, and nervous, habits,
who want moft nourifhment from leaft digeftion, and from the fmalleft quantity
of food, animal diet is to be ufed more freely.
As the blood, the nutritive juice, and in general all the parts of the body, are
made up of three elements, viz. of one which is fulphureous, oily, and inflam-
mable ; of one of an earthy, fubtile, alkaline, nature • and of one of an aquaeous
nature : fo the feveral kinds and virtues of food may be moft commodioufly re-
duced to thefe three claffes •, and aliments of thefe three feveral qualities, duly mix-
ed with one another, afford a proper nourifhment for the human body.—The flefh
of animals, efpecially when roafted, affords the body its principal fupply of the
fulphureous part ; but it is to be obferved, that wild animals are preferable in this
refped to the tame and domeftic kind, becaufe their oils and falts are exalted by
habitual exercife. Among the aliments which furnifh the blood with its humid
parts, of animals, fifh ; and of vegetables, pot-herbs, the milder roots, and fome
fummer-fruits, are reckoned the principal. To the third clafs, which fupplies the
blood with its fixed and earthy parts, belong all kinds of grains, as the feveral forts
of bread, rice, peas, beans, lentils, chefnuts, almonds, cacoa, cheefe, &c. From
what has been faid, it will appear that all fuch aliments as are of a mild quality,
and refemble the chyle and blood, are fit for nourifhment that all fuch food as
either recedes from, or is quite oppofite to, the nature of the chyle and blood, is
unfit for nourifhing the parts j that all food in which there is too much of an acid,
is improper for nourifhment, becaufe milk and blood will not mix with an acid
which is quite oppofite to their natures, and induces a coagulation of the circulat-
ing juices-, that all falts, and all foods too highly faked, muft be unfit for nou-
rifhment, becaufe no fait whatever can be mixed with the biopd, chyle, and milk-,
2 and
i6o A KEY TO PHYSIC,
and laftly, that the free ufe of fpirits muft be very det imental both to health- and
riourifhment, becaufe blood and chyle never incorporate with fpirituous liquors, but
rather feparate from them.
This much being obvious as general principles with refped to the matter and
quality of our aliment, the valetudinarian may eafily regulate his diet with fome ad-
vantage to himfelf by an attention to the few enfuing particulars. In winter, eat
freely, but drink fparingly : roaft meat is to be preferred, and what is drank fhould
be ftronger than at other feafons. In fummer, let third; determine the quantity to
be drunk •, cold ftomachs never require much : boiled meats and vegetables, if
not otherwife contradicted, may now be more freely ufed. Lax habits require
the winter’s diet to be continued all the year, and rigid ones fhould be confined to
that of fummer. Fat people fhould fa ft at times, but the lean fhould never do fo.
Thofe who are troubled with erudationsoccafioned by their food fhould drink but
little, and ufe fome unaccuftomed exercife. The thirfty fhould drink freely, but
eat fparingly. In general, let moderation be obferved ; and though no dinner hath
been had, a light fupper'is at all times to be preferred. After very high-feafoned
meats, a glafs of water acidulated with the acid elixir of vitriol, or in very weak
ftomachs the fweet elixir of vitriol, is far more afliftant to the work of digeftion
than the common method of taking brandy.
As to common drink, water alone is fufficient and effectual for all the purpofes of
nature. Strong liquors were never defigned for common ufe. They were formerly
kept here in England, as other medicines are, in apothecaries (hops, and prefcrib-
ed by phyficians, as they do diafcordium, and Venice treacle, to refrefhthe weary,
ftrengthen the weak, and raife the low-fpirited. The effed of the ordinary ufe of
wine, and fpirituous liquors, as natural caufes will always produce their effeds,
is to inflame the body into gout, ftone, and rbeumatifm, fevers, pleurifies, fmall-
pox. See. to dry up the juices, and fcorch and fhrivel thefolids. Thofe whofe ap-
petite and digeftion are good and entire, never want ftrong liquors to fupply them
with fpirits ;
fuch fpirits are too volatile and fugitive, for any folid or ufeful pur-
pofes of life. Two ounces of flefh-meat, well digefted, beget a greater ftock of
more durable and ufeful fpirits, than ten times as much ftrong liquors.
All ftrong liquors are as hard to digeft, and require as much labour of the con-
codive powers, as ftrong food itfelf. Water is the only univerfal diffolvent, or
menftruum, and the moft certain diluter of all bodies proper for food. There are
a great many fpirituous liquors, which not only will not diftblve, but which will
harden, and make more indigeftible, certain parts, efpecially the falts of bodies,
wherein their adive qualities, that is, thofe which can do moft harm to human con-
ftitutions.
AN D OCCULT SCIENCE. 162
ftitutions, confift. And we have known perfons of tender conftitutions, who could
neither eat, nor digeft, upon drinking wine, who, by drinking at meals common
water, warmed, have recovered their appetites and digeftion, and have thriven,
and grown plump. It is true, ftrong liquors, by their heat, and flimulation on the
organs of conco&ion, by increafing the velocity of the motion of the fluids, and
thereby quickening the other animal functions, will carry off the load that lies upon
the ftomach, with more prefent chearfulnefs. But then, befide the future damages
of fuch a quantity of wine to the ftomach, and the fluids, by its heat, and inflam-
mation, the food is hurried into the habit unconcocted, and lays a foundation for
a fever, a fit of the cholic, or fome chronical difeafe. With refpecl to fermented
liquors, which are commonly ufed, it may be obferved, that thofe which are too
ftrong hurt digeftion, and are fo far from ftrengthening the body, that they weaken
and relax it. They keep up a conftant fever, which exhaufts the fpirits, heats and
inflames the blood, difpofes to numberlels difeafes, and occafions a premature old
age. But fermented liquors may be too weak, as well as too ftrong : thefe muft
either be drank new, before the fermentation is over, and in this cafe will generate
air in the bowels, and occafion flatulencies ; or they foon become ftale, four the
ftomach, and injure digeftion. On this account all malt-liquors, cyder, &c. fhould
be fufficiently ftrong, to keep till they are ripe, and then they fhould be ufed •, and
neither fooner nor later. Liquors that are adulterated with a mixture of ingredi-
ents of the opiate kind, which are poifonous in their quality, by thofe who make
them for fale, hurt the nerves, relax and weaken the ftomach, and fpoil its digef-
tive powers.
A due regulation of the quantity and quality of our meat and drink, and a nice
adjuftment thereof to the concodtive powers, is of the utmoft confequence to health
and long life. What we expend in motion, excretion, effluvia, &c. is but a deter-
minate quantity *, and the fupply fhould only keep pace with the expence : a juft:
proportion of the two would, probably, preferve us from acute diftempers, as it
certainly would from chronical ones*, moft, or all, of which, proceed from reple-
tion, as appears from their being cured by evacuation.
Phyficians have attempted to determine the healthful quantity of food for a hu-
man body. Some fay, that in winter, where the perfpiration of an unexercifed per-
fon is only equal to the urine, the diet for twenty-four hours ought not to exceed four
pounds, or four pounds and a half. In fummer, the diet may be fix pounds and
a half, which may be carried off without the help of exercife, when the air is hot
and dry. If the quantity of food be fuch as to make the perfpiration and urine of
a natural day always nearly equal, and the morning weight of the body always
nearly the fame, that quantity is the truly healthful quantity of food for grown
No. 11. Tt bodies.
162 A K E Y T O PHYSIC,
bodies, which ufe but little exercife. The quantity of food neceffary to keep a
grown body in health, will be better and more eafily digefted, when it is fo divided
as to make the meals equal, than when they are very unequal. The diftance be-
tween one meal and another fhould bear fome proportion to the largenefs of the pre-
ceding meal. Good and conftant health confifts in a juft quantity o^ food, and a
juft proportion of the meat to the drink-, and in order to be freed from chronical
diforders contracted by intemperance, the quantity of food ought to be leffened,
and the proportion of the meat to the drink increafed more or lefs, according to
the greatnefs of the dilorders -, and both the quantity of food, and the proportion
of meat to the drink, ought to be fuch as fhall make perfpiration and urine nearly
equal at all feafons of the year.
The quantity of animal food confumed by the Englifh is generally pernicious,
becaufe it produces but little of that air which is antifeptic : hence they are fubject
to the fcurvy, and its numerous train of confequences, indigeftion, low fpirits,
hypochondriacifm, &c. whereas if vegetables and milk, whofe antifeptic quality,
arifing from the gas or air which they plentifully afford, were more ufed as food,
we fhould have lefs fcurvy, and likewife fewer putrid and inflammatory fevers.
One great reafon why leprofies, hot fcurvies, dyfenteries, plagues, peftilential
fevers, and the like diftempers, formerly fo frequent in London, are now fo rare,
is the change that has been made in the food of the inhabitants. Hopped beer,
wine, and fpirituous liquors coming into general ufe, have been a great means of
fupprefiing putrid difeafes; greens and fruit are likewife more univerfally eat, and
falted meats make a much lefs part of our food than formerly: to which may be
added the more general confumption of tea and fugar.
Vegetable food is moft proper for fcorbutic and hedtical perfons, and does very
well with people who have much exercife ; but in other circumftances, a mixed
diet of vegetable and animal fubftances, fuch as is commonly ufed, feems beft cal-
culated to nourifh and preferve the body from decay.
The fofter and milder kinds of aliment are proper for children, and for youth
the ftronger. Old people ought to lefien the quantity of their food, and increafe
that of their drink : but yet fome allowance is to be made for cuftom, efpecially in
cold climates i for as in thefe the appetite is keener, fo is the digeftion ftronger
and better performed.
Different fexes alfo require a different food and regimen. Women are weaker
than men, and for that reafon require a food and regimen peculiar to themfelves
;
they are of a fpungy and lax habit, and for the moft part addidted to indolence and
pleafure, drink little, have bodies of a highly delicate and fenflble nature, much
inclined to fpafms, and convulfive motions, and difpofed to generate a redundance
of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 16$
of blood. Befide, at certain ftated times, they have a regular evacuation by the
veins of the uterus •,
and in confequence of thefe circumftances it is neceffary that
women, rather than men,lhould obferve a regimen and method of living, peculiar-
ly and accurately adapted to their habit and conftitution.
Hence it is obvious, that the phyfician acts a prepofterous and unaccountable
part, who to every one prefcribes the fame method of living •, or thinks, that what
contributes to the health ofone, will without diftinbtion or referve prove falutary to
all. For we are fufficiently taught by daily experience, that all fubftances are not
equally adapted to all patients ; and that what one may bear without being fenfible
of any bad effects, may to another prove prejudicial, and even fatal. Time itfelf
has a confiderable influence in determining the falutary or noxious effects of ali-
ments ; fince fome fubftances may fafely, and without any bad confequence, be
ufed at one feafon, which at another may contribute not a little to the deftrudtion
of health.
As to the effedts of food on the mind, it is plain, that delicacy of feeling, live-
linefs of imagination, quicknefs of apprehenflon, and acutenefs ofjudgment, more
frequently accompany a weak ftate of the body. True it is, indeed, that the fame
ftate is liable to timidity, fluctuation, and doubt ; while the ftrong have that fteadi-
nefs of judgment, and firmnefs of purpofe, which are proper for the higher and
more adtive fcenes of life. The moft valuable ftate of the mind, however, ap-
pears to refide in fomewhat lefs firmnefs and vigour of body. Vegetable aliment,
as never over-diftending the veftfels or loading the fyftem, never interrupts the
ftronger motions of the mind ; while the heat, fulnefs, and weight, of animal food,
are an enemy to its vigorous efforts. Temperance, then, does not fo much confift
in the quantity, for that always will be regulated by ouf appetite, as in the quality,
viz. a large proportion of vegetable aliment.
Of AIR.
IT is no eafy talk to afcertain the nature and origin of air, as being a fluid im-
perceptible to all our fenfes, except that of feeling. Indeed, from the refinance
and impreffion it makes, we know that there is fuch a body, which every where
furrounds our earth, and is of the utmoft importance not only to mankind, in pro-
moting many ufeful arts, but abfolutely neceffary for the prefervation of health
and life.
The wholefomenefs or unwholefomenefs of air, is certainly owing to the differ-
ent effluvia with which it abounds, and ought to be particularly attended to by the
valetudinarian. The beft air is to be met with in open champaign countries
where the foil is dry, not parched or fandy, and fpontaneoufty produces wild
2 thyme.
1 64 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
thyme, wild marjoram, and the like fweet-fcented plants. That near rivers is
rather prejudicial, unlefs they are fmall, clear, and have a gravelly channel. The
morning air is deemed more refrefhing than that of the evening, and air agitated
with breezes, than that which is ferene and ftill. As good air contributes greatly
to health, fo that which is bad is no lefs prejudicial to it. Stagnating air is pro-
ductive of putrid and malignant diforders, as dyfenteries, bilious fevers, &c. and
that which is too moift, of inflammatory ones, as coughs, rheumatifms, &c.
Moift and rainy feafons, however, differ widely in this refpeCt ; fince in marfhy
countries, intenfe and continued heats occafion the greateft moifture in the air
:
whereas frequent fhowers, during the hot feafon, cool it, check the excefs of va-
pour, dilute and refrefh the corrupted ftagnating water, and precipitate all noxious
and putrid effluvia.
To the preffureof air, we are to attribute the coherence of the parts of bodies.
Breathing too, on which depends animal life, is owing to the preffure and fpring
of the air; and to the fame caufe may be attributed the production of fire and
flame, as appears from the fudden extinction of a coal or candle in the exhaufted
receiver. It is likewife neceffary for the exiftence and propagation of founds, for
the germination and growth of plants, for conveying all the variety of fmells, and
for tranfmitting the rays and influence of the celeftial bodies. In fhort, fuch is the
generating and vivifying power of air, that fome of the ancient philofophers confi-
dered it as the firft principle of all things. Air not only aCts upon all bodies by its
common properties of weight and elalticity, but by the peculiar virtues of the in-
gredients whereof it is compofed. By means of a corroding acid it diflolves iron
and copper, unlefs well defended by oil. Even gold, in the chymifts laboratory,
when the air is impregnated with the effluvia of aqua regia, contracts a rufl: like
other bodies. It fixes volatile bodies, and volatilizes thofe which are fixed. From
the different effluvias, diffufed through the air, proceed a variety of effeCts. Near
mines of copper, it will difcolour filver and brafs ; and in London, the air of
which abounds with acid and corrofive particles, metalline utenfils rufl; fooner than
in the country. It is very difficult to obtain oil of fulphur in a clear dry air, as its
parts are then more ready to evaporate ; whereas, in a moift cloudy air, it may be
obtained in abundance. All falts melt moft readily in cloudy weather ; and fepa-
rations fucceed beft in the fame ftate of the air. If pure wine be carried into a place
where the air is full of the fumes of wine then fermenting, it will begin to fer-
ment afrefh.
Wherever air ftagnates long, it becomes unwholefome. Hence the unhappy
perfons confined in goals not only contract malignant fevers themfelves, but ofcen
communicate them to others. Nor are many of the holes, for we cannot call them
houfes.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
houfes, poflefied by ^he poor in great towns, much better than gaols. Thefe low
dirty habitations are the very lurking-places of bad air and contagious difeafes.
Such as live in them feldom enjoy good health j and their children commonly die
young. In the choice of a houfe, thofe who have it in their power ought alv/ays to
pay the greateft attention to open free air. The various methods which luxury has
invented to make houfes dofe and warm, contribute not a little to render them un-
wholefome. No houfe can be wholefome unlefs the air has a free paffage through
it. For which reafon houfes ought daily to be ventilated, by opening oppofite
windows, and admitting a current of frefli air into every room. Beds, inftead of
being made up as foon as people rife out of them, ought to be turned down, and
expofed to the frefli air from the open windows through the day. This would ex-
pel any noxious vapour, and could not fail to promote the health of the inhabitants.
In hofpitals, gaols, {hips, &c. where that cannot be conveniently done, venti-
lators fhould be ufed. The method of expelling foul, and introducing frefh, air,
by means of ventilators, is a moil falutary invention, and is indeed the moft ufeful
of all our modem medical improvements. It is capable of univerfal application,
and is fraught with numerous advantages, both to thofe in health and in ficknefs.
In all places where numbers of people are crowded together, ventilation becomes
abfolutely neceflary. Air which ftagnates in mines, wells, cellars, &c. is ex-
tremely noxious. That kind of air is to be avoided as the moft deadly poifon. It
often kills almoft as quickly as lightning. For this reafon, people fhould be very
cautious in opening cellars that have been long fhut, or going down into deep
wells, or pits, efpecially if they have been kept clofe covered. We have daily
accounts of perfons who lofe their lives by going down into deep wells and other
places where the air ftagnates ;
all thefe accidents might be prevented by only let-
ring down a lighted candle before them, and flopping when they perceive it go out 5
yet this precaution, Ample as it is, is feldom ufed.
If frefh air be neceflary for thofe in health, it is ftill more fo for the fick, who
often lofe their lives for want of it. The notion that fick people muft be kept very
hot, is fo common, that one can hardly enter the chamber where a patient lies,
without being ready to faint, by reafon of the hot luffocating fmell. How this
muft affe£t the fick any one may judge. No medicine is fo beneficial to the fick
as frefh air. It is the moft reviving of all cordials, if it be adminiftered with pru-
dence. We are not, however, to throw open doors and windows at random upon
the fick. Frefh air is to be let into the chamber gradually, and, if poflible, by
opening the windows of fome other apartment.
There are many kinds of air, produced by accidental or artificial caufes, of
which the following are the moft material
:
No. n. U u DephlogijliCiited
1 66 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Dephlogifticated air,
which is an elaftic fluid naturally extricated in the pro-
cefs of vegetation, artificially procured from nitre, minium, magnefia, water,
This is eminently capable of fupporting flame and animal life, and is one of the
component parts of our atmofphere.
Phlogifticated air, is produced in great quantities during putrefaction and fer-
mentation, and is alfo obtained in the calcination of metals and other phlogiltic
procefles. It deltroys animal life, and extinguifhes flame, but is very friendly
to vegetation, and is another of the component pares of our atmofphere.
Fixed or fixable air,
derives its name from the property of adhering to certain
bodies, and fixing irfelf in them. It confilts of dephlogifticated air united to char-
coal •, this is obtained by fermentation, and in all phlogiftic procefles, and ma-
tt ifefts the properties of an acid. It extinguifhes flame and deftroys animal life.
Inflammable air, confifts wholly of charcoal and water, rarified by heat *, and is
remarkable for being the lighted; of all gravitating fubfiances. It is produced
naturally from all putrid waters, and may be artificially procured from certain
metallic folutions, by palling the fleam of water over red hot iron, and by
diflilling wood, pit coal, &c. with a ftrong heat, or by oppofing charcoal to the
heat of a burning lens in vacuo. It extinguifhes flame, unlefs it be mixed with
a certain proportion of atmofpherical, or dephlogifticated, air ; in which cafe,,
it explodes violently. It deftroys animal life, but is friendly to vegetation.
Nitrous air,
is procured artificially by difiolving metallic or other fubftances
in nitrous acid. Being mixed with dephlogifticated air, both the fluids lofe
their elafticity, and a fmall quantity of nitrous acid is produced. It inftantly
kills animals and extinguifhes flame. By union with fome metals it is. converted
into volatile alkali. In fome cafes it may be made to fupport flame, and even,
animal life. Its property of condenfing with dephlogifticated air, renders it a
teft of the falubrity of the atmofphere.
Marine acid air, is the fame as marine acid reduced into vapour, and deprived
of moft of its waters.
Dephlogifticated marine acid air, is fuppofed by fome, to be the marine acid de-
prived of its phlogifton ;
by others, to be the fame acid, with an addition of
pure air. It deftroys many kinds of colours, and with inflammable air, re-
generates common marine acid*
Alkaline air, is the fame with pure volatile alkali, and is formed by an union
of phlogifticated and inflammable air.
Hepatic air, is produced from the decompofttion of liver of fulphur by acids j
and in the common atmofphere, it is inflammable, but does not burn with
explofion*
Atmofpherical
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 167
Jimojpherical is compofed of dephlogifticated and phlogifticated air, and
thus fupporrs and fuftains bath animal life and vegetation.
The exterior part of our habitable world is the air or atmofphere, a fpringy
body, that incompaffes the folid earth on all Tides, and is near a thoufand times
lighter than water ; and the higher it is, the lels it is compreffed by the fuperior
Incumbent air; and fo confequently it being a fpringy body, the thinner it is.
And as a pillar of air of any diameter is equal in weight to a pillar of quickfilver
of the fame diameter of between twenty-nine and thirty inches high, we may
infer that the top of the atmofphere is not very near the furface of the folid
earth. Now as quickfilver being near fourteen times heavier than water, the
atmofphere would be about fourteen times higher than the column of quickfilver,
that is, about thirty-four feet ; and if we confider that air is a thoufand times
lighter than water, then a pillar of air, equal in weight to a pillar of quick-
filver of thirty inches high, will be fix thoufand eight hundred feet, whereby
vve come to know that the air or atmofphere is fix thoufand eight hundred
feet, that is near feven miles high : and if we confider that the air is a fpringy
body, and that which is neareft the earth is compreffed by the weight of all
the atmofphere above it, we fhall find that the air near the furface of the earth
is much denfer and thicker than it is in the upper regions. On this theory
may be accounted why great cities are not fo healthful to refide in, as fmall
towns and country villages, and why London is much more prejudicial to
health, owing to the many works containing noxious effluvia poffeffed of
the component parts mentioned in the different kinds of air, and confequently
forms an air to breathe in that is not congenial to the life of Man.
Of EXERCISE.
EXERCISE may be faid to be either active or paffive. The active is walking,..
hunting, dancing, playing at bowls, and the like; as alio fpeaking, and other
labour of the body and mind. The paffive is riding in a coach, on horleback,
or in any other manner. Exercife may be continued to a beginning of vvearinel’s,
and ought to be ufed before dinner in a pure light air ; for which reafon, journeys,
and going into the country, contribute greatly to preferve and re-eftabliffl health.
Exercife increafes the circulation of the blood, attenuates and divides the fluids,
and promotes a regular perfpiration, as well as a due fecretion of all the humours^
for it accelerates the animal fpirits, and facilitates their diftribution into all the
fibres of the body, {Lengthens the parts, creates an appetite, and helps digeftion.
Whence it arifes, that thofe who accuftom themfelves to exercife are generally
very robuft, and feldom fubjedtto difeafes.
1 Boerhaave
*63 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Boerhaave recommends bodily exercife in difeafes of a weak and lax fibre. By
riding on horfeback, the pendulous vifcera of the abdomen are Ihaken every mo-
ment, and gently rubbed as it were one againft another, while in the mean time
the pure air a<5ts on the lungs with greater force. But it is to be obferved that a
weak man ffiould not ride with a full ftomach, but either before dinner, or after
the digeftion is near finifhed; for when the ftomach is diftended, weak people do
not bear thefe concufiions of the horfe without difficulty.; but when the primae vise
are near empty, the remaining faeces are difcharged by this concuffion. Sailing in
a fhip is alfo an exercife of great ufe to weak people. .If the veflel moves with an
even motion, by increafing perfpiration it ufually excites a wonderful alacrity,
creates an appetite, and promotes digeftion. Thefe exercifes are more efpecially
ferviceable to weak people ; but, in order to ftrengthen the body by mufcular mo-
tion, running, and bodily exercifes, are to be ufed. In thefe we ffiould begin
with the moft gentle, fuch as walking, and increafe it by degrees till we come to
running. Thole exercifes of the body are more efpecially ferviceable which give
.delight to the mind at the fame time, as tennis, fencing, &c. for which reafon,
the wifdom of antiquity appointed rewards for thole who excelled in thefe gym-
uaftic exercifes, that b.y this means the bodies of their youth might be hardened for
warlike toils.
As nothing is more conducive to health than moderate exercife, fo -violent exer-
.ciie diffipates the fpirits, weakens the body, deftroys the elafticity of the fibres,
and exhaufts the fluid parts of the blood. No wonder, then, that acute and mor-
tal fevers often arife from too violent exercife of the body ; for the motion of the
venous blood towards the heart being quickened by the contraction of the mufcles,
and the veins being thus depleted, the arteries more eafily propel their contained
humours through the fmalleft extremities into the now lefs refilling veins ; and
therefore the velocity of the circulation will be increafed through all the vefieis.
But this cannot be performed without applying the humours oftener, or in a
greater quantity, to the fecretory organs in the fame time, whence the more fluid
parts of the blood will be diffipated, and what remains will be infpifiated ; and by
the greater aftion of the vefieis upon their contained fluids, and of the re-adting
fluids upon the vefieis, the blood acquires an inflammatory denfity. Add to this,
that by the violent attrition of the folids and fluids, together with the heat thence
arifing, all the humours will incline to a greater acrimony, and the fairs and oils
of the blood will become more acrid and volatile. Hence thofe fevers which arife
from too much exercife or motion, are cured by reft of body and mind, with fuch
aliments and medicines as moiften, dilute, and foften or allay acrimony.
The exercife of a foldier in camp, confidered as conducive to health. Dr. Pringle
diftinguifbes into three heads > the firft relating to his duty, the fecond to his
living;
A ^
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 169
living more commodioufly, and the third to his diverfions. The firft, confifting
chiefly in the exercife of his arms, will be no lefs the means of preferving health
than of making him expert in his duty : and frequent returns of this, early, and
before the fun grows hot, will be made more advantageous than repeating it fel-
dom, and ftaying out long at a time ; for a camp affording little convenience for
refrefhment, all unneceffary fatigue is to be avoided. As to the fecond article,
cutting boughs for {hading the tents, making trenches round them for carrying off
the water, airing the ftraw, cleaning their clothes and accoutrements, and affifting
in the bufinefs of the mefs, ought to be no difagreeable exercife to the men for
fome part of the day. Laftly, as to diverfions, the men muft be encouraged to
them either by the example of their officers, or by fmall premiums to thofe who
{hall excel in any kind of fports as fhall be judged moft conducive to health : but
herein great caution is neceffary, not to allow them to fatigue themfelves too much,
efpecially in hot weather or fickly times ; but above all, that their clothes be kept
dry, wet clothes being frequent caufes of difeafes and death.
Exercife, above all, is peculiarly neceffary to the philofopher, the ftudent, and
young gentlemen at fchool. How ufeful, how agreeable foever, ftudy may be to
the mind, it is very far from being equally falutary to the body. Every one ob-
ferves, that the Creator has formed an intimate connexion between the body and
the mind ; a perpetual adtion and re-adtion, by which the body inftantly feels the
diforders of the mind, and the mind thofe of the body. The delicate fprings of
our frail. machines lofe their adlivity and become enervated, and the veffels are
choaked by obftrudtions when we totally defift from exercife, and the confequences
neceffarily affedt the brain : a more ftudious and fedentary life is therefore equally
prejudicial to the body and the mind. The limbs likevvife become ftiff ; we con-
trad!: an aukward conftrained manner ; a certain difguftful air attends all our
adtions, and we are very near being as difagreeable to ourfelves as to others. An
inclination to ftudy is highly commendable ; but it ought not, however, to in-
fpire us with an averfion to fociety. The natural lot of man is to live among his
fellows : and whatever may be the condition of our birth, or our fituation in life,
there are a thoufand occafions where a man muft naturally deftre to render himfelf
agreeable; to be adtive and adroit ; to dance with a grace ; to command the fiery
fteed ; to defend himfelf againft a brutal enemy ; to preferve his life by dexterity
;
as by leaping, fwimming, &c. Many rational caufes have therefore given rife
to the pradlice of particular exercifes ; and the moft fagacious and benevolent le-
giflators have inftituted, in their academies and univerfities, proper methods of
enabling youth, who devote themfelves to ftudy, to become expert alfo in laudable
athletic exercifes.
No. ii. X x Whoever
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Whoever confiders the ftruCture of the human body will foon be convinced of
the neceflity of exercife for the health of children. The body is compofed of an
infinite number of veffels, whofe fluids cannot be pufhed on without the aCtion
and prefllire of the mufcles. But, if the fluids remain ina&ive, obstructions muft
happen, and the humours will of courfe be vitiated, which cannot fail to occaficn
difeafes. Nature has furnifhed both the veffels which carry rhe blood and lymph
with numerous valves, in order that the aCtion of every mufcie might pufh for-
ward their contents ; but without aCtion, this admirable contrivance can have no
effeCt. This part of the animal ceconomy proves to a demonftration the neceflity
of exercife for the prefervation of health. Without exercife, the circulation of the
blood cannot be properly carried on, nor the different fecretions duly performed ;
without exercife, the humours cannot be properly prepared, nor the folids rendered
ftrong or firm. The aCtion of the heart, the motion of the lungs, and all the
vital functions, are greatly aflifted by exercife. But to point out the manner in
which thefe effcdls are produced, would lead us farther into the oeconomy of the
human body, than molt of thofe for whom this treatife is intended would be able
to follow. We fnall therefore only add, that, where exercife is negleCted, none
of the animal fundtions can be duly performed j and when that is the cafe, the
whole conflitution muff go to wreck.
The love of adlivity fhews itfelf very early in man. So ftrong is this principle,,
that a healthy youth cannot be reftrained from exercife, even by the fear of punifh-
ment. Our love of motion is finely a ftrong proof of its utility. Nature implants
no difpofition in vain. It feems to be a catholic law throughout the whole ani-
mal creation, that no creature, without exercife, fhould enjoy health, or be able
to find fubfiftence. Every creature, except man, takes as much of it as is necef-
fary. He alone, and fueh animals as are under his diredtion, deviate from this
original law, and they fuflfer accordingly. Inactivity never fails to induce an uni-
verbal relaxation of the folids, which difpofes the body to innumerable difeafes.
When the folids are relaxed, neither the digeftion, nor any of the fecretions, can
be duly performed. In this cafe, the worft confequences muft enfue. How can
perfons who loll all day in eafy chairs, and deep all night on beds of down,, fail
to be relaxed ? Nor do fuch greatly mend the matter, who never ftir abroad but
in a coach, fedan, or fuch like. Thefe elegant pieces of luxury are become fo
common, that the inhabitants of great towns feem to be in fame danger of lofing
the ufe of their limbs altogether. It is now below any one to walk, who can afford
to be carried. How ridiculous would it feem, to a perfon unacquainted with mo-
dern luxury, to behold the young and healthy Twinging along on the fhoulders of
their fellow creatures ! or to fee a fat carcafe, over-run with difeafes occafioned by
Inactivity, dragged through the ftreets by half a dozen horfes
!
Glandular
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. i yi
Glandular obftrubtions, now fo common, generally proceed from inactivity.
Thefe are the moftobftinate of maladies. So long as the liver, kidneys, and other
glands, duly perform their functions, health is feldom impaired ; but, when they
fail, nothing can reftore it. Exercife is almoft the only cure we know for glan-
dular obftruCtions ;
indeed, it does not always fucceed as a remedy; but there is
reafon to believe that it would feldom fail to prevent thefe complaints, were it
ufed in due time. One thing is certain, that, amongff thofe who take fufficient
exercife, glandular difeafes are very little known ; whereas the indolent and
inactive are feldom free from them. Weak nerves are the conftant companions of
inactivity. Nothing but exercife and open air can brace and ftrengthen the nerves,
or prevent the endlefs train of difeafes which proceed from a relaxed ftate of thefe
organs. We feldom hear the aCtive or laborious complain of nervous dileafes ;
thefe are referved for the fons of eafe and affluence. Many have been completely
cured of thefe diforders by being reduced from a ftate of opulence to labour for
their daily bread. This plainly points out the fources from whence nervous dif-
eafes flow, and the means by which they may be prevented. It is abfolutely im-
poffible to enjoy health, where the perfpiration is not duly carried on ; but that
can never be the cafe where exercife is neglected. When the matter which ought
to be thrown off by perfpiration is retained in the body, it vitiates the humours,
and occafions the gout, fevers, rheumatifm, &c. Exercife alone would prevent
many of thofe difeafes which cannot be cured, and would remove others where
medicine proves ineffectual.
No piece of indolence hurts the health more than the modern cuftom of lying
a-bed too long in a morning. This is the general practice in great towns. The
inhabitants of cities feldom rife before nine or ten o’clock ; but the morning is
undoubtedly the belt time for exercife, while the ftomach is empty, and the body
refrefbed with fleep. Befides, the morning air braces and ftrengthens the nerves,
and, in fome meafure, anfwers the purpofe of a cold bath. Let any one who has
been accuftomed to lie a-bed late, rife by fix or feven, fpend a couple of hours in
walking, riding, or any aCtive diverfion without doors, and he will find his fpirits
cheerful and ferene through the day, his appetite keen, and his body braced and
ftrengthened. Cuftom foon renders early rifing agreeable, and nothing contributes
more to the prefervation of health. The inactive are continually complaining of
pains of the ftomach, flatulencies, indigeftions, &c. Thefe complaints, which
pave the way to many others, are not to be removed by medicines. They can
only be cured by a vigorous courfe of exercife, to which they feldom fail to yield.
Exercife, if poffible, ought always to be taken in the open air. When that
cannot be done, various methods may be contrived for exercifing the body within
doors,,
172 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
doors, It is not necefiary to adhere driCtly to any particular kind of exercife. The
belt way is to take them by turns, and to ufe that longed: which is mofl fuitable
to the ftrength and conditution. Thofe kinds of exercife which give aftion to
mod: of the bodily organs, are always to be preferred, as walking, running, riding,
digging, fwi mming, and fuch like. It is much to be regretted, that active and
manly diverfions are now fo little praftifed. Diverfions make people take more
exercife than they otherwife would do, and are of the greateft fervice to fuch as
are not under the neceflity of labouring for their bread. As a&ive diverfions lofe
ground, thofe of a fedentary kind feem to prevail. Sedentary diverfions are of no
other ufe but to confume time. Indead of relieving the mind, they often require
more thought than either ftudy or bufinefs. Every thing that induces people to
fit dull, unlefs it be fome necefiary employment, ought to be avoided.
The diverfions which afford the bed exercife are, hunting, fhooting, playing at
cricket, bowls, &c. Thefe exercife the limbs, promote perfpiration, and the
other fecretions. They likewife drengthen the lungs, and give firmnefs and aeility
to the whole body. Such as can, ought to fpend two or three hours a-day on
horfeback ; thofe who cannot ride, fhould employ the fame time in walking.
Exercife fhould never be continued too long. Over-fatigue prevents the benefit
of exercife, and indead of drengthening the body tends to weaken it. Every man
fliould lay himfelf under fome fort of neceffity to take exercife. Indolence, like
other vices when indulged, gains ground, and at length becomes agreeable.
Hence many who were fond of exercife in the early part of life, become quite
averfe from it afterwards. This is the cafe of mod hypochondriac and gouty
people, which renders their difeafes in a great meafure incurable. Indolence not
only occadons difeafes, and renders men ufelefs to fociety, but promotes all man-
ner of vice. To fay a man is lazy, is little better than calling him vicious. The
mind, if not engaged in fome ufeful purfuit, is condantly in qued of ideal plealures,
or impreded with the apprehenfion of fome imaginary evil. From thefe fources
proceed mod of the miferies of mankind. Certainly man was never intended to be
idle. Inactivity frudrates the very defign of his creation ; whereas an aCtive life
is the bed guardian of virtue, and the greated prefervative of health.
Of SLEEP.
SLEEP, as well as food, ought to be duly regulated. Too little deep weakens
the nerves, exhauds the fpirits, and occadons difeafes •, and too much renders the
mind dull, the body grofs, and difpofes to apoplexies, lethargies, and other com-
plaints of a dmilar nature. A medium ought therefore to be obferved; but this
is not eafy to dx. Children require more deep than grown perfons, the laborious
i than
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 173
v
than the idle, and fuch as eat and drink freely, than thofe who live abftemiouily.
Befides, the real quantity of fleep cannot be meafured by time; as one perfon will
be more refrefhed by five or fix hours fleep, than another by eight or ten. Chil-
dren may always be allowed to take as much fleep as they pleafe ; but, for adults,
fix or feven hours is certainly fufficient, and no one ought to exceed eight. Thofe
who lie a-bed more than eight hours may dumber, but they can be hardly faid to
fleep; fuch generally tofs and dream away the forepart of the night, fink to reft
towards morning, and dofe till noon. The beft way to make fleep found and re-
frefhing is to rife betimes. The cuftorn of lying a-bed for nine or ten hours, not
only makes the fleep lefs refrefhing, but weakens the conftitution. Nature points
out night as the proper feafon for fleep. Nothing more certainly deftroys the con-
ftitution than night-watching. It is great pity that a praftice fo deftru&ive to
health fhould be fo much in falhion. How quickly the want of reft in due feafon
will blaft the mod blooming complexion, or ruin the beft conftitution, is evident
from the ghaftly countenances of thofe who, as the phrafe is, turn day into night,
and night into day. To make fleep refrefhing, the following things are requifite :
firft, to take fufficient exercife in the open air ; to avoid ftrong tea or coffee ; next,
to eat a light fupper ; and laftly, to lie down with a mind as cheerful and ferene
as poffible.
It is certain that too much exercife will prevent fleep as well as too little. We
feldom however hear the active and laborious complain of reftlefs nights. It is
the indolent and flothful who generally have thefe complaints. Is it any wonder
that a bed of down fhould not be refrefhing to a perfon who fits all day in an eafy
chair ? A great part of the pleafure of life confifts in alternate reft and motion;
but they who negledt the latter can never reliffi the former. The labourer enjoys
more true luxury in plain food and found fleep, than is to be found in fumptuous
tables and downy pillows, where exercife is wanting. That light fuppers caufe
found fleep, is true even to a proverb. Many perfons, if they exceed the leaft at
that meal, are fure to have uneafy nights ; and, if they fall afleep, the load and
oppreffion on their ftomach and fpirits occafion frightful dreams, broken and
difturbed repofe, the night-mare, &c. Were the fame perfons to go to bed with
a light fupper, or fit up till that meal was pretty well digefted, they would enjoy
found fleep, and rife refrefhed and cheerful. There are indeed fome people who
cannot fleep unlefs they have eat fome folid food at night, but this does not imply
the neceffity of a heavy fupper.
Nothing more certainly difturbs our repofe than anxiety. When the mind is
not ateafe, one feldom enjoys found fleep. That greateft of human bleffings flies
the wretched, and vifits the happy, the cheerful, and the gay. This is a fufficient
No. 12. Y y reafon
*74 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
reafon why every man fhould endeavour to be as eafy in his mind as poffible when
he goes to reft. Many, by indulging grief and anxious thought, have banifhed
found deep fo long, that they could never afterwards enjoy it. Sleep, wnen taken
in the forepart of the night, is generally reckoned mod rcfrefhing. Whether this
be the effeft of habit or not, is hard to fay but as mod people are accuftomed to
go early to bed when }oung, it may be prefumed that deep, at this leafon, will
prove mod refrefning to them ever after. Whether the forepart of the night be
bed for deep or not, furely the forepart of the day is fitted both for bufinefs and
amufement ; and we hardly ever find an early rifer who does not enjoy a good date
of health.
Experience proves that, the more a perfon deeps, the more is he inclined to deep ;
if in the morning we deep an hour beyond our cudom, the confeq ence is, that
vve dull be dull and heavy all the day •, and, as to thefe fadts, there are f me very-
remarkable. A youth in Germany, of immenfe wealth, was fummoned by hi&
prince to take up a title of nobility, on which occafion, he drank to fuch an excefs,
that the prince, in order to cure him of fuch a fcandalous vice, had him carried
into a dark and remote place, where he dept three days and three nights; for
whenever he awoke, believing it to be the middle of the night, he betook himfelf
to deep again. —The memoirs of the academy of fciences at Paris mention a deep
of two months, caufed by a catalepfy, a difeafe by which the patient is inftantly
rendered as immoveable as a ftatue.— Samuel Chilton, a labourer, in Somerfc fhi e,
fell, and without any vidble caufe, into a profound deep, out of which no means
could recover him, till, after a month’s time, he arofe of himfelf. H s mo;her,
fearing he fhould be flarved in that lullen humour, as die called it, put bread and
cheefe and fmall beer by him, and’it was daily fpent. On the ninth of April,
1696, he was feized with a like deepy fit, which laded till the feventh of Auguft,
when he awaked, without knowing he had dept above a n :
ght. He occadonally
ufed the food fet by him, and had evacuations, till, about the tenth week, his
jaws feemed to be fet, and his teeth clinched fo clofe, that his mouth could not be
opened f and all the nourifhment he received, during thefe feven weeks, was about
three pints of tent infinuated through a cavity in one of his teeth. He had made
water but once, and never had a ftool all the time. On the 17th of Augud, 1697,
his fit returned, and Dr. Oliver, the author of the memoir, in order to try whe-
ther there might not be fome impodure in this extraordinary phenomenon, went
to the houfe ; he put hns mouth to his ear, and called him feveral times, by his
name, as loud as he could ; pulled him by the fhoulders, pinched his nofe, flop-
ped his mouth and nofe at the fame time-, lifted up his eye-lids, when he found
the balls drawn up under the brows ; he farther, held a phial of fpirit of fal ammo-
niac
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. r/5
mac under one noftril -,
that producing no effed, he poured up his nofe near a
half ounce bottle, and the fpirit, he fays, being drawn from quick lime, was
almoft as hot as fire itfelf. Not fatisfied with this, he crammed the fame nodril
with powder of white hellebore : all thefe experiments producing no other effed,
than to make his eyes fhiver a little. Dr. Oliver left him, convinced that he was
really afleep. A few days after, an apothecary drew fome ounces of blood from
his arm, and bound up the orifice, without his making the lead motion : like-
wife, a gentleman, though fomewhat indifcreetly, ran a pin into his arm, up to
the very bone-, and in this date of infenfible fleep he continued till the nineteenth
of November -, during all this time, he eat and evacuated, but never fouled his
bed. The above indance of deep is to be feen at large in Jones’s abridgement of
the Philofophical Tranfadions, vol. v.
Of DREAMS.
SCARCE any part of nature is lefs open to our obfervation than the human
mind in this date. The dreamer himfelf cannot well obferve the manner in which
dreams arife or difappear to him. When he awakes, he cannot recoiled the cir-
cumdances of his dreams with fufficient accuracy. Were we to watch over him
with the mod vigilant attention, we could not perceive with certainty what emotions
are excited in his mind, or what thoughts pafs through ir, during his deep. But
though we could afeertain thefe phenomena, many other difficulties would dill re-
main. What parts of a human being are adive, what dormant, when he dreams ?
Why does not he always dream while afleep ? Or why dreams he at all ? Do any
circumdances in our conditution, fituation, and peculiar charader, determine the
nature of our dreams ? We may lay before the reader fuch fads as have been
afeertained concerning dreaming, and the mod plaufible conjedures that have been
offered to explain thole particulars, about which we caii only conjecture, or have
at lead hitherto obtained nothing more certain than conjedure.
In dreaming, we are not confcicus of being afleep. This is well known from a
thoufand circumdances. When awake, we often recoiled our dreams-, and we
remember on fuch occafions, that while thofe dreams were palling through our
minds, it never occurred to us that we were feparated by fleep from the adive
world. We are often obferved to ad and talk in dreaming as if we were bufily
engaged in the intercourfe of focial life. In dreaming, we do not confider ourfclves
as witneffing or bearing a part in a fiditious feene : we ieem not to be in a fimilar
fituation with the adors in a dramatic performance, or thefpedators before whom
they exhibit, but engaged in the bufinefs of real life. All the varieties of thought
that pafs through our minds wnen awake may alfo occur in dreams all the images
which
ij6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
which imagination prefents in the former ftate, {he is alfo able to call up in the lat-
ter ; all the fame emotions may be excited, and we are often actuated by equal
violence of paftion none of the tranfactions in which we are capable of engaging
while awake is impoffible in dreams : in fhort, our range of action and obfervation
is equally wide in one ftate as in the other and while dreaming, we are not fen-
fible of any diftindtion between our dreams and the events and tranfactions in which
we are actually concerned in our intercourfe with the world.
Though in dreams imagination appears to be free from all reftraint, and indulges
in the moft wanton freaks, yet it is generally agreed, that the imaginary tranfactions
of the dreamer bear always fome relation to his particular character in the world,
his habits of action, and the circumftances of his life. The lover, we are told,
dreams of his miftrefs •, the mifer of his money-, the philofopher renews his re-
fearcbes in deep often with the fame pain and fatigue as when awake ; and ever
the merchant, at times, returns to balance his books, and compute the profits of
an adventure, when numbering on his pillow. And not only do the more general
circumftances of a perfon’s life influence his dreams ; his paflions and habits are
nearly the fame when afleep as when awake. A perfon whofe habits of life are vir-
tuous, does not in his dreams plunge into a feries of crimes ; nor are the vicious
reformed when they pafs into this imaginary world. The choleric man finds him-
felf offended by flight provocations as well in h*is dreams as in his ordinary inter-
courfe with the world, and a mild temper continues pacific in deep. The charac-
ter of a perfon’s dreams is influenced by his circumftances when awake in a (till
more unaccountable manner. Certain dreams ulually arile in the mind after a per-
fon has been in certain fituations. Dr. Beattie relates, that he once, after riding
thirty miles in a high wind, paffed a part of the fucceeding night in dreams beyond
defcription terrible. The ftate of a perfon’s health, and the manner in which the
vital functions are carried on, have a confiderable influence in determining the cha-
racter of dreams. After too full a meal, or after eating of an unufual fort of food,
a perfon has always dreams of a certain nature. In dreaming, the mind for the moft
part carries on no intercourfe through the fenfes with furrounding objects. Touch
a perfon gently who is afleep, he feels not the impreflion. You may awake him
by a fmart blow but when the ftroke is not fufficiently violent to awake him, he
remains infen Able of if. We fpeak foftly befide a perfon afleep without fearing
that he overhear us. His eye-lids are {hut; and even though light fhould fall
upon the eye-ball, yet ftill his powers of vifion are not awakened to active exertion,
unlefs the light be fo ftrong as to roufe him from fleep. He is infenfible both to
fweet and difagreeable fmells. It is not eafy to try whether his organs of tafte retain
their activity, without awakening him yet from analogy it may be prefumed
i that
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 177
that thefe too are inadtive. With refpedt to the circumftances here enumerated, it
is indifferent whether a perfon be dreaming or buried in fleep.
Yet there is one remarkable fad: concerning dreaming which may feem to contra-
did what has been here afferted.. In dreams, we are liable not only to fpeak aloud
in confequence of the fuggeftions of imagination, but even to get up, and walk
about and engage in little enterprifes, without awaking. Now, as we are in this
inftance fo adive, it feems that we cannot be then inlenfible of the prelence of llir-
rounding objeds. The deep-walker is really fendble in a certain degree of the pre-
fence of the objeds around him ;
but he does not attend to them with all their cir-
cumftances, nor do they excite in him the fame emotions as if he were awake. He
feels no terror on the top of a houfe, or the brink of a precipice; and in confe-
quence of being free from fear, he is alfo without danger in fuch a fuuation, unlefs
fuddenly awaked. This is one of the mod: inexplicable phenomena of dreaming.
There is alfo another fad not quite confonant with what has been above advanced.
It is faid, that in deep a perfon will continue to hear the noile of a catarad in the
neighbourhood, or regular ftrokes with a hammer, or any fimilar found diffidently
loud, and continued uninterruptedly from before the time of his falling adeep.
We know not whether he awakes on the fudden ceffation of the noife. This fad
is afferted on diffident evidence ; it is curious. Even when awake, if very deeply
intent on any piece of ftudy, or clofely occupied in bufinefs, the found of a clock
ftriking in the neighbourhood, or the beating of a drum, will efcape us unnoticed :
and it is therefore the more furprifing that we fhould thus continue fenfible to
founds when adeep. Not only do a perfon’s general charader, habits of life, and
date of health, induence his dreams; but thofe concerns in which he has been
moftly deeply interefted during the preceding day, and the views which have
arifen moft frequently to his imagination, very often afford the fubjeds of his
dreams. When I look forward with anxious expectation towards any future event,
1 am likely to dream either of the difappointment or the gratification of my wiflies,
Have I been engaged through the day, either in bufinefs or amufements which I
have found exceedingly agreeable, or in a way in which I have been extremely un-
happy ? either my happinefs or my mifery is likely to be renewed in my dreams.
Though dreams have been regarded among almoft all nations through the world,
at lead in fome periods of their hiftory, as prophetic of future events ; yet it does
not appear that this popular opinion has been eftablifhed on good grounds. Chrif-
tianity, indeed, teaches us to believe, that the Supreme Being may, and adually
does, operate on our minds, and induence at times the determinations of our will,
without making 11s fenfible of the reftraint to which we are thus fubjefted. And,
in the fame manner, no doubt, the fuggeftions which arife to us in dreams may be
No. 12. Z z produced.
% *
i;8 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
produced. The imaginary tranfa&ions in which we are then engaged, may be
fuch as are adtually to occupy us in life •, the ftrange and feemingly incoherent ap-
pearances which are then prefented to the mind’s eye, may allude to fome events
which are to befall ourfelves or others. It is, therefore, by no means impofiible,
or inconfiftent with the general analogy of nature, that dreams fhould have a refpedfc
to futurity. We have no reafon to regard the dreams which are related in the Holy
Scriptures to have been prophetic of future events, as not infpired by heaven, or
to laugh at the idea of a prophetic dream as abfurd or ridiculous.
We know of no other fadls that have been fully afcertained concerning dreaming.
But we are by no means fufficiently acquainted with this important phenomenon in
the hiftory of the mind. We cannot tell by what laws of our conftitution we are
thus liable to be fo frequently engaged in imaginary tranfa&ions, nor what are the
particular means by which the delufion is accomplifhtd. The deluiion is indeed
remarkably ftrong. One will fometimes have a book prefented to him in a dream,
and fancy that he reads, and actually enter into the nature of the compofltion be-
fore him, and even remember, after he awakes, what he knows, that he only
fancied himfelf reading. Can this be delufion ? If delufion, how or for what
purpofes is it produced ? The mind, it would appear, does not, in deep, be-
come inactive like the body ; or at leaft is not always inadive while we are afleep.
When we do not dream, the mind muft either be inactive, or the connexion be-
tween the mind and the body muft be conftdered as in fome manner fufpended
:
and when we dream, the mind, though it probably a£ts in concert with the body,
yet does not a<Tt in the fame manner as when we are awake. It feems to be clouded
or bewildered, in confequence of being deprived for a time of the fervice of the
fenfes. Imagination becomes more aftive and more capricious *, and all the other
powers, efpecially judgment and memory, become difordered and irregular in
their operation.
Various theories have been propofed to explain what appears here moft inexpli-
cable. The ingenious Mr. Baxter, in hisTreatife on the Immateriality of the Hu-
man Soul, endeavours to prove that dreams are produced by the agency of fome
fpiritual beings, who either amufe or employ themfelves ferioufly in engaging man-
kind in allthofe imaginary tranfaftions with which they are employed in dreaming.
This theory, however, is far from being plaufible. It leads us entirely beyond
the limits of our knowledge. It requires us to believe without evidence. It is
unfupported by any analogy. It creates difficulties ftill more inexplicable than
thofe which it has been propofed to remove. Till it appear that our dreams can-
not poffibly be produced without the interference of other fpiritual agents, pof-
feflmg fuch influence over our minds as to deceive us with fancied joys, and involve
us
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 179
us in imaginary affiiftions, we cannot reafonably refer them to fuch'a canfe. Be-
fides, from the fafts which have been dated as well known concerning dreams, it
appears that their nature depends both on the date of the human body and on that
of the mind. But were they owing to the agency of other fpiritual beings, how
could they be influenced by the date of the body ? Thofe mud be a curious fet of
fpiritual beings who depend in fuch a manner on the date of our corporeal frame.
Better not to allow them exidence at all, than to place them in fuch a dependance.
Wolfius, and after him M. Formey, have fuppofed, that dreams never arife in
the mind, except in confequence of fome of the organs of fenfation having been
previoufly excited. Either the ear or the eye, or the organs of touching, tading,
or fmclling, communicate information, fomehow, in a tacit, fecret, manner ; and
thus partly roufe its faculties from the lethargy in which they are buried in deep,
and engage them in a feries of confufed and imperfect exertions. But what paffes
in dreams is fo very different from all that we do when awake, that it is impoffible
for the dreamer himfelf to didinguifh, whether his powers of fenfation perform
any part on the occaflon. It is not neceffary that imagination be always excited
by fenfation. Fancy, even when we are awake, often wanders from the prefent
fcene. Abfence of mind is incident to the dudious ; the poet and the mathema-
tician many times forget where they are. We cannot difcover from any thing that
a perfon in dreaming difplays to the obfervation of others, that his organs of fen-
fation take a part in the imaginary tranfadlions in which he is employed. In thofe
indances, indeed, in which perfons adeep are faid to hear founds $
the founds
which they hear are faid alfo to influence, in fome manner, the nature of their
dreams. But fuch indances are Angular. Since then it appears that the perlon
who dreams is himfelf incapable of didinguifhing either during his dreams, or by
recolle&ion when awake, whether any new imprefilons are communicated to him
in that date by his organs of fenfation ; that even by watching over him, and com-
paring our obiervations of his circumdances and emotions, in his dreams, with
what he recollefts of them after awaking, we cannot, except in one or two Angu-
lar indances, afcertain this farft i and that the mind is not incapable of adling while
the organs of fenfation are at red, and on many occafions refufts to Aden to the
information which they convey ; we may, without hefitation, conclude, that the
theory of Wolfius and Formey has been too hadily and incautioufly advanced.
Other phyfiologids tell us, that the mind, when we dream, is in a date of
delirium. Sleep, they fay, is attended with what is called a collapfe of the brain ;
during which either the whole or a part of the nerves of which it confids, are in a
date in which they cannot carry on the ufual intercourfe between the mind and the
organs of fenfation. When the whole of the brain is in this date, we become en-
tirely
1*0 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
tirely unconfcious of exiftence, and the mind finks into adlivity : when only a part
of the brain iscoliapfed, as they term it, we are then neither afleep nor awake, blit
in a fort of delirium between the two. This theory, like the laft mentioned, fup-
pofes the mind incapable of adting without the help of fenfation : it fuppoles that
we know the nature of a (fate of which we cannot afcertain the phenomena ; it alfo
contradicts a known fad, in reprefenting dreams as confufed images of things
around us, not fanciful combinations of things not exifting together in nature or in
human life. We muft treat it likewife, therefore, as a bafelefs fabric.
Inftead of the attendant fpirits watching over our bodies, and inciting us to
good or evil in our dreams, may we not more rationally fuppoie, that thefe
incitements, or rather exertions towards real and ienfible adionf, are produced
by the foul or fpirit within us, which being mortal, never fleeps ; but which
rather, during that paffive ftate of the body, aflumes an endeavour to ad
without it, or to efcape from it, as from a prifon, wherein it is reftrained to
certain limits, and obliged to ad under the will of its keeper. This furely
wili belt explain the fads attending fleep-walkers, who, in the darkeft nights
vifit different apartments, walk up and down flairs, lock and unlock doors,
open windows, and crawl over the roofs of houfes, with the utmoft eafe and
celerity ;
which, if the body were awake, would be impofiible. May we not
likewife attribute to the fame fourcc, thole elevated ideas, and fublime com-
pofitions, which Milton, and other celebrated authors have confeffed, were
communicated rightly in their dreams ? It lately happened, that a young gen-
tleman, about fifteen years of age, from one of the public fchools, flept in
the fame room with me. He chofe to go to bed early ; and when I came into
the fame apartment, about two hours after, he appeared remarkably intent
upon his ftud
:
es, though faft locked in the arms of fleep. I flood fome time
at his bed- fide, and heard him repeat feveral lines from Homer and Virgil.
After this he repeated, with a bold and nervous accent, the whole of the He-
brew alphabet •, then turning, feemed to fall into a more compofed fleep.
The next morning at breakfaft, I related this circumftance to the company,
in the prefence of the young gentleman, and all were inflantly commending the
great progrefs he muft have made in his ftudies. The young man inflantly
declared, that however converfant he might be with Virgil and Homer, he
had never heard the Hebrew alphabet repeated, nor did he ever know the
name of any one of its chara&ers.—The nature of the connexion by which the
foul and body are united, feems to be almoft beyond our comprehenfion. And
till we can apply experiment and obfervation in a better manner to this branch of
phyfiology.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 181
phyfiology, it muft undoubtedly remain unknown. To fo.nething myfterious in
the nature of that connexion, the delufion produced in dreams is in all pro-
bability owing.
Amid this uncertainty with refpedt to the manner in which our powers of mind
and body perform their functions in dreaming, it is pleafing to find that we can,
however, apply to ufeful purpoles the imperfeCl knowledge which we have been
able to acquire concerning this feries of phenomena. Our dreams are affeCted by
the ftate of our health, by the manner in which we have palled the preceding day,
by our general habits of life, by the hopes which we moft fondly indulge, and the
fears which prevail moft over our fortitude when we are awake. From recollecting
our dreams, therefore, we may learn to correct many improprieties in our conduct ;
to refrain from bodily exerciles, or from meats and drinks, that have unfavour-
able effeCts on our .confutation.; to refill in due time evil habits that are Healing
upon us ; and to guard againft hopes and fears which detach us from our proper
concerns, and unfit us for the duties of life. Inftead of thinking what our dreams
may forebode, we may with much better reafon r.efleCt by what they have been
occafioned, and look back to thofe circumflances incur ,paft life to which they are
tawing. The fleep of innocence and health is found and refrelhing •, their dreams
delightful and pleafing. A diiiempered body, and a polluted or perturbed mind,
are haunted in fleep with frightful, impure, and unpleafing, dreams.
Of INTEMPERANCE.
IT is unlverfally agreed, that temperance and exercife are the two belt phy£U
cians in the world, and that if thefe-were duly regarded, there would be little oc-
cafian for any other. Temperance may juftly be called the parent of health ; yet
numbers ot mankind aCt as if they thought difeafes and death too flow in their pro-
gress, and by intemperance and debauch, feem, as it were, to folicit their approach.
The danger ofintemperance appears from the very conftruClion of the human body.
Health depends on that ftate of the folids and fluds which fits them for the due
performance of the vital funClions ; and, while thefe go regularly on, v/e are
found and well.; but whatever difturhs them neceffarily impairs health. Intem-
perance never fails to diforder the whole an mal ceconomy ; it hurts the digeftion,
relaxes the nerves, renders the different fecretions irregular, vitiates the humours,
: and occafions numberlefs difeales.
The analogy between the nourifbment of plants and animals affords a fluking
proof ot ttie da.r
ger of intemperance. Moifture and manure greatly promote ve-
getation ; vet an over quantity of either will entirely deftroy it, The beft things
(become hurtful, nay deftruClive, when carried to excefs. Hence we learn, that
No. 12. 3 A fhe
A KEY TO P H Y 5 I C,
the higher degree of human wifdom confifts in regulating our appetites and paf-
fions to at to avoid all extremes. It is that chiefly which entitles us to the cha-
ndler of rational beings. The Have of appetite will ever be the difgrace of human
nature. —The Supreme Being hath endued us with various paffions, for the pro-
pagation of the fpecies, the prefervation of the individual, &c. Intemperance is
the abufe of thefe paffions; and moderation confifts in the proper regulation of
them. Men, not contented with fatisfying the Ample calls of Nature, create ar-
tificial wants, and are perpetually in fearch of fomething that may gratify them ;
but imaginary wants can never be gratified. Nature is content with little: but
luxury knows no bounds. Hence the epicure, the drunkard, and the debauchee,
feldom ftop their career, tiil their money, or their conftitution, fails : then indeed
they generally fee their error when too late.
It is impoffible to lay down fixed rules with regard to diet, on account of the
different conftitutions of mankind. The moft ignorant perfon, however, certainly
knows what is meant by excefs ; and it is in the power of every man, if he choofes,
to avoid it. The great rule of diet is to ftudy fimplieity. Nature delights in the
moft plain and fimple food ; and every animal, except man, follows her dictates,
Man alone riots at large, and ranfacks the whole creation in queft of luxuries, to
his own deftrudtion. An eleganc writer of the laft age fpeaks thus of intemperance
in diet :
“ For my part, when I behold a fafhionable table fet out in all its mag-
nificence, I fancy that I fee gouts and dropftes, fevers and lethargies, with other
innumerable diftempers, lying in ambufcade among the difbes.” Nor is intem-
perance in other things lefs deftru&ive than in diet. How quickly does the im-
moderate purfuit of carnal pleafures, or the abule of intoxicating liquors, ruin the
belt conftitution ! Indeed thefe vices generally go hand in hand. Hence it is that
we fo often behold the votaries of Bacchus and Venus, even before they have ar-
rived at the prime of life, worn out with difeafe, and halting with fwift pace to an
untimely grave. Did men reflect on the painful difeafes, and premature deaths,
which are daily occafioned by intemperance, it would be fufficient to make them
fbrink back with horror from the indulgence even of their darling pleafures.
Intemperance does not hurt its votaries alone •, the innocent too often feel the
direful effedts of it. Flow often do we behold the miferable mother, with her
helplefs infants, pining in want, while the cruel father is indulging his infatiate
appetites? Families are not only reduced to mifery, but even extirpated, by in-
temperance. Nothing tends fo much to prevent propagation, and to Ihorten the
lives of children, as the intemperance of parents. The poor man who labours all
day, and at night lies down contented with his humble fare, can boaft a numerous
offspring, while his pampered lord, funk in eafe and luxury, often languilhes
2 without
and OCCULT SCIENCE. 183
without an heir to his ample fortunes. Even ftates and empires feel the influence
of intemperance, and rife or fall as it prevails. Inftead of mentioning the different
kinds of intemperance, and pointing out their influence upon health, we fhall only,
by way of example, make a few obfervations on one particular fpecies of that
Vice, viz. the abufe of intoxicating liquors.
Every aft of intoxication puts Nature to the expence of a fever, in order to dis-
charge the poifonous draught. When this is repeated almofc every day, it is eafy
to forefee the confequences. That conflitution muft be ftrong indeed, which is
able long to hold out under a daily fever ! But fevers occafioned by drinking do
not always go off in a day*, they frequently end in an inflammation of the bread,
liver, or brain, and produce fatal effects. Though the drunkard fhould not fall
by an acute difeafe, he feldom efcapes thofe of a chronic kind. Intoxicating
liquors, when ufed to excefs, weaken the bowels and fpoil the digeftion *, they
deftrov the power of the nerves, and occafion paralytic and convulfive diforders *,
they likewife heat and inflame the blood, deftroy its balfamic quality, render it
unfit for circulation, and the nourifbment of the body. Hence obftrudtions, atro-
phies, dropfles, and confumptions of the lungs. Thefe are the common ways in
which drunkards make their exit. Difeafes of this kind, when brought on by
hard drinking, feldom admit of a cure. Many people injure their health by drink-
ing, who feldom get drunk. The continual habit of foaking, as it is called,
though its effedls be not fo violent, is not lefs pernicious. When the veffels are
kept conflantly full and upon the flretch, th? different digeftions can neither be
duly performed, nor the humours properly prepared. Hence mod people of this
character are affiidted with the gout, the gravel, ulcerous fores in the legs, &c.
If thefe diforders do not appear, they are feized with low fpirits, hypochondriacal
affe&ions, and other fymproms of indigeftion.
Confumptions are now fo common, that it is thought one-tenth of the inhabitants
of great towns die of that difeafe. Hard drinking is no doubt one of the caufes to
which we muft impute the increafe of confumptions. The great quantities of vifeid
malt-liquor drunk by the common people of England cannot fail to render the
blood fizy and unfit for circulation; from whence proceed obftrudions, and in-
flammations of the lungs. T here are few great ale-drinkers who are not phthiftcal
:
nor is that to be wondered at, confidering the glutinous and almoft indigeltibl'e
nature of ftrong ale. Tho!e who drink ardent fpirits or ftrong wines run Itill
greater hazird *, ihefe liquors heac and inflame the blood, and tear the tender
veflels of the lungs in pieces *, yet fo great is the coniumption of them in this coun-
try, that one would almoft be induced to think the inhabitants lived upon them.
The habit of drinking proceeds frequently from misfortunes in life. The mifera-
ble
3*4 A KEY'TO PHYSIC,
ble fly to it for relief. It affords them indeed a temporary eafe. But, alas! this
folace is fhort-lived; and when it is over, the fpirits (ink as much below their
tifual tone as they had before been raifed above it. Hence a repetition of the dofe
becomes neceflfary, and every frefh dofe makes way for another, till the unhappy
wretch becomes a Have to the bottle, and at length falls a facrifice to what at firfr
perhaps was taken only as a medicine. No man is fo dejefted as the drunkard when
his debaych is gone off. Hence it is, that thofe who have the greateft flow of
fpirits while the glafs circulates freely, are of all others the mod melancholy when
fober, and often put an end to their own miferable exiftence in a fit of ipleen or
ill humour.
Drunkennefs not only proves deftruftive to health, but likewife to the faculties
of the mind. It is ftrange that creatures who value chemfelves on account of a
fuperior degree of reafon to that of brutes fhould take pleafure in finking fo far
below them. Were fuch as voluntarily deprive themfelves of the ufe of reafon
to continue ever after in that condition, it would feem but a juft punifhment.
Though this be not the confequence of one aft of intoxication, ic feldom fails to
focceed a courfe of it. By a habit of drinking, the greateft genius is often reduced
to a mere idiot. Intoxication is peculiarly hurtful to young perfons. It heats
their blood, impairs their ftrength, and obftrufts their growth ; befides, the fre«
quent ufe of ftrong liquors in the early part of life deftroys any benefit that might
arife from them afterwards. Thofe who make a praftice of drinking generous
liquors when young, cannot expeft to reap any benefit from them as a cordial in
the decline of life. Drunkennefs is not only in itfelf a moil abominable vice, but
is an inducement to many others. There is hardly any crime fo horrid that the
drunkard will not perpetrate for the love of liquor. We have known mothers fell
their children’s clothes, the food that they fhould liave eaten, and afterwards even
the infants themfelves, in order to purchafe t{ie accurfed draught.
It is amazing that our improvements in arts, learning, and politenefs, have not
put the barbarous cuftom of drinking to excefs out of fafhion. It is indeed lefs
common in South Britain than it was formerly : but it ftill prevails very much in
the North, where this relic of barbarity is miftaken for hospitality- There no man
is fuppofed to entertain his guefts well, who does not make them drunk. Forcing
people to drink, is certainly the greateft piece of rudenefs that any man can be
guilty of. Manlinefs, complaifance, or mere good-nature, may inducea man to
take his glafs, if urged to it, at a time when he might as well take poifon. The
cuftom of drinking to excefs has long been out of fafhion in France; and, as it
begins to lofe ground among the politer part of the Englifh, we hope it will foon
be banifhed from every part of the kingdom.
Of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 185
Of the PASSIONS.
THE paffions have great influence both in the caufe and cure of difeafes. How
the mind affe&s the body, will, in all probability, ever remain a fecret. It is
fufficienc for us to know, that there is eftablifhed a reciprocal influence betwixt
the mental and corporeal parts, and that whatever injures the one, diforders the
other.
Of Anger.—The paffion of anger ruffles the mind, diflorts the countenance,
hurries on the circulation of the blood, and diforders the whole vital and animal
functions. It often occafions fevers, and other acute difeafes, and fometimes even
fudden death. This paffion is peculiarly hurtful to the delicate, and thofe of weak
nerves. I have known fuch perfons frequently iofe their lives by a violent fit of
anger, and would advil'e them to guard againft the excefs of this paffion with the
utmolt care. It is not indeed always in our power to prevent being angry, but
we may furely avoid harbouring refentment in our breaft. Refentment preys upon
the mind, and occafions the moft obftinate chronical diforders, which gradually
wafte the conftitution. Nothing fhews true greatnefs of mind more than to forgive
injuries : it promotes the peace of fociety, and greatly conduces to our own eafe,
health, and felicity. Such as value health fliould avoid violent gufts of anger, as
they would the moft deadly poifon. Neither ought they to indulge refentment,
but to endeavour at all times to keep their minds calm and ferene. Nothing tends
fo much to the health of the body as a conftant tranquillity of mind. Add to this,
the indecency of extravagant anger j how it renders us, whilft it lafts, the fcorn
and fport of all about us, of which it leaves us, when it ceafes, fenfible and afham-
ed •, the inconveniences and irretrievable mifcondudt into which our irrafcibility
has fometimes betrayed us ;
the friendfflips it has loft us *, the diftreffes and em-
barraffinents in which we have been involved by it, and the fore repentance which
on one account or other it always cofts us.
Phyficians and naturalifts afford inftances of very extraordinary effects of this
paffion. Borrichius cured a woman of an inveterate tertian ague, which had baffled
the art of phyfic, by putting the patient in a furious fit of anger. Valeriola made
ufe of the fame means, with the like fuccefs, in a quartan ague. The fame paffion
has been equally falutary to paralytic, gouty, and even dumb, perfons ; to which
laft it has fometimes given the ufe of fpeech. Etmuller gives divers inftances of
very fingular cures wrought by anger ; among others, he mentions a perfon laid
up in the g< ut, who, being provoked by his phyfician, flew upon him, and was
cured. It is true, the remedy is fomewhat dangerous in the application, when a
patient does not know how to ufe it with moderation. We meet with feveral in-
No. 12. 3 B ftances
186 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fiances of princes to whom it has proved mortal*, for example, Valentinian the
firft, Wenceflas, Matthius Corvinus king of Hungary, and others. There are
alfo inftances wherein it has produced the epilepfy, jaundice, and cholera-morbus,
diarrhoea, &c. In fa£t, this paflion is of fuch a nature, that it quickly throws
the whole nervous fyftem into preternatural commotions, by a violent ftridlure of
the nervous and mufcular parts •, and furprifingly augments not only the fyftole of
the heart and of its contiguous vefiftls, but alfo the tone of the fibrous parts in
the whole body. It is alfo certain, that this pafiion, by the fpafmodic ftridture it
produces in the parts, exerts its power principally on the ftomach and inteftines,
which are highly nervous and membranous parts ; whence the fymptoms are more
dangerous, in proportion to the greater confcnt of the ftomach and inteftines with
the other nervous parts, and almoft with the whole body. The unhappy influence
of anger likewile, on the biliary and hepatic dufls, is very furprifing •, fince by an
intenfe conftridlion of thefe, the liver is not only rendered fcirrhous, but ftones alfo
are often generated in the gall bladder and biliary du<5ts; thefe accidents have
fcarcely any other origin than an obftru&ion of the free motion and efflux of the
bile, by means of this violent ftridture. From fuch a ftrifture of thefe dudts like-
wife proceeds the jaundice, which in procefs of time lays a foundation forcalculous
concretions in the gall-bladder. Laftly, by increafing the motion of the fluid, or
the fpafms of the fibrous parts, by means of anger, a larger quantity of blood is
propelled with an impetus to certain parts ; whence it happens that they are too
much diftended, and the orifices of the veins diftributed there opened. It is evi-
dent from experience, that anger has a great tendency to excite enormous hemor-
rhages, either from the nofe, the aperture of the pulmonary artery, the veins of
the anus •, or in women, from the uterus, efpecialiy in thofe previoufly accuftomed
and difpofed to fuch evacuations.
Of FEAR.—The influence of fear, both in occafioning and aggravating difeafes,
is very great. No man ought to be blamed for a decent concern about life •, but
too great a defire to preferve it, is often the caufe of lofing it. Fear and anxiety,,
by deprefling the fpirits, not only difpofe us to difeafes, but often render thofe
difeafes fatal which an undaunted mind would overcome. Sudden fear has gene-
rally violent effects. Epileptic fits, and other convulfive dilorders, are often oc-
cafioned bv it. Hence the danger of that practice, fa common among young
people, of frightening one another. Many have loft their lives, and others have
been rendered miferable, by frolics of this kind. It is dangerous to tamper with
the human paflions. The mind may eafily be thrown into fuch diforder as never
again to a& with regularity.
But
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 187
But the gradual effects of fear prove moft hurtful. The conftant dread of fome
future evil, by dwelling upon the mind,, often occafions the very evil itfelf.
Hence it comes to pafs, that fo many die of thole very difeafes of wnich they long
had a dread, or which had been impreffed on their ninds by lome accident, or
foolifh predidtion. This, for example, is often the cafe wirh women in child- bed.
Many of thofe who die in that fituation are impreffed with the notion of . their death
along time before it happens ; and there is rcaion to believe, that this impreffion
is often the caufe of it. The methods taken to imprefs th. minds of women with
the apprehenfions of the great pain and peril of child-birth, are very hurtful.
Few women die in labour, though many lofe their lives after it ; which may be
thus accounted for. A woman after delivery, finding herfelf weak and exhaufted,
immediately apprehends fhe is in danger ; but this fear feldom fails to obftrudl the
neceffary evacuations upon which her recovery depends. Thus the lex often fall
a iacnfice to their own imaginations, when there would be no danger, did they
apprehend none. It feldom happens that two or three women, in a great town,
die in child-bed, but their death is followed by many others. Every woman of
their acquaintance who is with child, dreads the fame fate, and the dileafe becomes
epidemical by the mere force of imagination. This fhould induce pregnant
women to defpile fear, and by all means to avoid thofe tattling goffips who are
continually buzzing in their ears the misfortunes of others. Every thing that may
in the lead alarm a patient, or a child- bed woman, ought with the greatefl care to
be guarded againfl.
In general, the effects of terror are a contradlion of the fmall veffels and a repul-
fion of the blood in the large and internal ones •, hence proceed a fupprefBon of
perfptration, a general oppreflion, trembling, and anguifh of the heart, and lungs,
overcharged with blood. Frights often occafion incurable difeafes, as epilepfy,
ftupor, madnefs, &c. In acute difeafes, they have evidently killed many, by the
agitation into which they have thrown the fpirits, already too much disordered.
We have alfo accounts of perfons abloiutely killed by terrors when in perfect health
at the time of receiving the lhock from them : people ordered to be executed, buc
with private orders tor a reprieve, have expired at the block without a wound.
Out of many inftances of the fatal effedts of fear recorded in writers, the following
is feledted as one of the moft fingular. “ George Grochantzy, a Polander, who
had inlifted as a foldier in the fervice of the king of Pruffra, deferted during the
laft war. A fmall party was fent in purfuit of him *, and when he leaft expedted it,
they furprifed him ftnging and dancing among a company of peafants, who were
got together in an inn and were making merry. This event, fo fudden and un-
foreseen,. and at the fame time fo dreadful in its confequences, ftruck him in fuch
a
I$g A K E y T O P H Y S I C,
a manner, that, giving a great cry, he became at once altogether ftupid and in-
fenfible, and was feized without the lead: refinance. They carried him away to
Giocau, where he was brought before the council of war, and received fentence
as a deferter. He buffered himfelf to be led and difpofed of at the will of thofe
about him, without uttering a word, or giving the lead; fign that he knew what
had happened or would happen to him. He remained immoveable as a ftatue
wherever he was placed, and was wholly paffive with refped to all that was done
to him or about him. During all the time that he was in cuftody, he neither ate,
nor drank, nor dept, nor had any evacuation. Some of his comrades were fent
to fee him •, after that he was vifited by fome officers of his corps and by fome
prieds ;
but he ftill continued in the fame ftate, without difcovering the lead; figns
of fenfibility. Promifes, intreaties, and threatenings, were equally ineffedual.
The phyficians who were confulted upon his cafe were of opinion, that he was in
a ftate of hopelefs idiocy. It was at firft fufpeded, that thofe appearances were
feigned ; but thefe fulpicions neceffarily gave way, when it was known that he
took no fuftenance, and that the involuntary fundions of nature w'ere in great
meafure fufpended. After fome time they knocked off his fetters, and left him at
liberty to go whither he would. He received his liberty with the fame infenfibility
that he had fhewed upon other occafions : he remained fixed and immoveable;
his eyes turned wildly here and there without taking cognizance of any objed, and
the mufcles of his face were fallen and fixed like thofe of a dead body. Being left
to himfelf, he paffed twenty days in this condition, without eating, drinking, or
any evacuation, and died on the twentieth day. He had been fometimes heard to
fetch deep fighs ; and once he ruffied with great violence on a foldier, who had a
mug of liquor in his hand, forced the mug from him, and having drank the
liquor with great eagernefs, let the mug drop to the ground.”
When a pe Ton is affeded with terror, the principal endeavour ffiould be to re-
ftore the circulation to its due order, to promote perfpiration, and to allay the
agitation of the patient. For thefe purpofes he may drink a little warm liquor,
as camomile-tea, &c. the feet and legs may be put into warm water, the legs rub-
bed, and the camomile-tea repeated every fix or eight minutes ; and when the fkin
is warm, and there is a tendency to perfpiration, fleep may be promoted by a
gentle opiate. But frights have been known not only to caufe, but alfo to cure,
difeafes. Mr. Boyle mentions agues, gout, and fciatica, cured by this means.
To turn from the ferious to the ludicrous effeds of fear, the following inftance
of the latter fort, quoted from a French author by Mr. Andrews in his volume
of ..nredotes, ffiews upon what flight occafions this paffion may be fometimes exp-
orted in a very high degree, even in perfons the moft unlikely to entertain fuch a
2 gueft.
AND. OCCULT SCIENCE. 1S9
gueft. “Charles Guftavus (the fucceffor of Chriftina of Sweden) was belieein”
Prague, when a boor of mod extraordinary vifage defired admittance to his tent;'
and being allowed entrance, offered, by way of amufing the king, to devour a
whole hog of one hundred weight in his prefence. The old general Konigfmarcv
who flood by the king’s fide, and who, loidier as he was, had not got rid of the
prejudices of his childhood, hinted to his royal mafter that the peafant ought to be
burnt as a forcerer. ‘
Sir,’ faid the fellow, irritated at the remark, ‘
if your ma-
jefty will but make that old gentleman take off his fword and his fpurs, 1 will eat
him immediately before I begin the hog.
5
General Konigfmarc (who had, at the
head of a body of Swedes, performed wonders againft the Auftrians, and who was
looked upon as one of the bravefl men of the age) could not (land this propofal,
efpecially as it was accompanied by a moll hideous and preternatural expanfion of
the frightful peafant’s jaws. Without uttering a word, the veteran fuddenly turned
round, ran out of the court, and thought not himfelf fafe until he had arrived at
his quarters; where he remained above twenty-four hours locked up fecurely, be-
fore he got rid of the panic which had fo feverely affedled him.”
Fear fhould not rife higher than to make us attentive and cautious; when it
gains an afcendency in the mind, it becomes an infupportable tyranny, and ren-
ders life a burden. The objedt of fear is evil; and to be exempt from fear, or at
leaf! not enflaved to it, gives dignity to our nature, and invigorates all our facul-
ties. Yet there are evils which we ought to fear. Thofc that arife from ourfelves,
or which it is in our power to prevent, it would bemiadnefs to defpife, and auda-
city not to guard againft. External evils, which we cannot prevent, or could
not avoid without a breach of duty, it is manly and honourable to bear with for-
titude. Infenfibility to danger is not fortitude, no more than the incapacity of
feeling pain can be called patience; and to expofe ourfelves unneceffarily to evil is
worfe than folly, and very blameable prefumption.
Of IMPOTENCY occasioned by FEAR.
IT has been proved by Dr. Hunter, that impotency is frequently the refult of
fear. He obferves, that as the “ parts or generation are not neceffary for the
exiftence or fupport of the individual, but have a reference to fomething elfe in
which the mind has a principal concern ; fo a complete adtion in thofe parts can-
not take place without a perfedt harmony of body and of mind : that is, there muft
be both a power of body and difpofition of mind ; for the mind is fubjedt to a
thoufand alarms, which affedt the adtions of thefe parts.—Copulation is an adt of
the body, the fpring of which is in the mind ; but it is not volition : and according
No. 13. 3 C to
3 go A KEY TO PHYSIC*
to the ftate of the mind, fo is the aft performed. To perform this aft well, the
body fhould be in health, and the mind fhould be perfectly confident of the powers
of the body: the mind fhould be in a fate entirely difengaged from every thing
elfe ; it fhould have no difficulties, no fears, no apprehenfions, not even an
anxiety to perform the a<5t well for even this anxiety is a ftate of mind different
from what fhould prevail ; there fhould not be even a fear that the mind itfelf
may find a difficulty at the time the aft fhould be performed. Perhaps no function
of the machine depends fo much upon the ftate of the mind as this. —The will and
reafoning faculty have nothing to do with this power; they are only employed in
the aft, fo far as voluntary parts are made ufe of ; and if they ever interfere, which
they fometimes do, it often produces another ftate of mind which deftroys that
which is proper for the performance of the aft ; it produces a defire, a wifh, a
hope, which are all only diffidence and uncertainty, and creare in the mind the
idea of a poffibility of the want of fuccefs, which deftroys the proper ftate of mind
or neceffary confidence.— There is perhaps no aft in which a man feels himfelf
more interefted, or is more anxious to perform well ; his pride being engaged in
fome degree, which if within certain bounds would produce a degree of perfeftion
in an aft depending upon the will, or an aft in voluntary parts ; but when it pro-
duces a ftate of mind contrary to that ftate on which the perfeftion of the act de-
pends, a failure muft be the confequence.—The body is not only rendered inca-
pable of performing this aft by the mind being under the above influence of fear,
but alfo by the mind being, though perfeftly confident of its power, yet confcious
of an impropriety in performing it ; this, in many cafes, produces a ftate of mind
which fhall take away all power. The ftate of a man’s mind refpefting his After
takes away all power. A confcientious man has been known to lofe his powers on
finding the woman he was going to be connefted with unexpectedly a virgin.— Shed-
ding tears arifes entirely from the ftate of the mind, although not fo much a com-
pound action as the aft in queftion ;
for none are fo weak in body that they can-
not ihed tears •, it is not fo much a compound action of the mind and ftrength of
body joined, as the other aft is ;
yet if we are afraid of fhedding tears, or are de-
firous of doing it, and that anxiety is kept up through the whole of an affecting
fcene, we certainly fhall not fhed tears, or at leaft not fo freely as would have
happened from our natural feelings.
From this account of the neceffity of having the mind independent relpefting the
aft, we muft fee that it may very often happen that the ftate of mind will be luch
as not to allow the animal to exert his natural powers •, and every failure increafes
the evil. We muft alfo fee from this ftate of the cafe, that this act muft be often
interrupted ; and the true caufe of this interruption not being known, it will be
laid
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 191
laid to the charge of the body or want of powers. As thefe cafes do not arife from
real inability, they are to be carefully diftinguifhed from fuch as do •, and perhaps
the only way to diftinguiflh them is, to examine into the ftate of mind refpefting
this aft. So trifling often is the circumftance which fhall produce this inability
depending on fear, that the very defire to pleafe fhall have that effeft, as in making
the-woman the foie object to be gratified.
Cafes of this kind we fee every day •, one of which I fhall relate as an illuftration
of this fubjeft, and alfo of the method of cure.—A gentleman told me, that he
had loft his virility. After above an hour’s inveftigation of the cafe, I made out
the following fafts : that he had at unneceflfary times ftrong ereftions, which
fhewed that he had naturally this power ; that the ereftions were accompanied
with defire, which are all the natural powers wanted ; but that there was ftill a
defeft fomewhere, which I fuppofed to be from the mind. I inquired if all women
were alike to him ? his anfwer was. No; fome women he could have conneftion
with as well as ever. This brought the defeft, whatever it was, into a fmaller
compafs ; and it appeared there was but one woman that produced this inability^
and that it arofe from a defire to perform the aft with this woman well ; which
defire produced in the mind a doubt or fear of the want of fuccefs, which was
the caufe of the inability of performing the aft. As this arofe entirely from the
ftate of the mind produced by a particular circumftance, the mind was to be ap-
plied to for the cure ; and I told him that he might be cured, if he could perfeftly
rely on his own power of felf-denial. When I explained what I meant, he told
me that he could depend upon every aft of his will or refolution. I then told him,
that, if he had a perfeft confidence in himfelf in that refpeft, he was to go to bed
to this woman, but firft promife to himfelf that he would not have any conneftion
with her for fix nights, let his inclinations and powers be what they would ; which
he engaged to do, and alfo to let me know the refult. About a fortnight after,
he told me, that this refolution had produced fuch a total alteration in the ftate
of his mind, that the power foon took place ; for inftead of going to bed with the
fear of inability, he went with fears that he fliould be pofifeflfed with too much
defire, too much power, fo as to become uneafy to him •, which really happened j.
for he would have been happy to have (hortened the time : and when he had once
broke the fpell, the mind and powers went on together, and his mind never re-
turned to its former ftate.”
Impotency alfo happens from a want of proper correfpondence between the
aftion of the tefticles and penis : for we find that an irregularity in the aftions of
thefe parts fomeumes happen in men, producing impotence ; and fomething fimilar
probably may be one caufe. of barrennefs in women. In men, the parts fublervient
to generation may be divided into two *. the effential, and the acceflory. The
tefticles are the effential * the penis, &c. the acceffory. As this divifion arifes
from their ufes or adions in health, which exadly correfpond with one another, a
want of exadnefs in the correfpondence or fufcepti bility of thofe actions may alfo
be divided into two : where the adions are reverfed, the acceffory taking place
without the fir it or effential, as in eredions of the penis, where neither the mind
nor the tefticles are ftimulated to adion and the fecond is where the tefticles per-
form the adion of fecretion too readily for the penis, which has not a correfpond-
ing eredion. The firft is called priapifm *
and the fecond is what ought to be
called feminal weaknefs.—The mind has confiderable effed on the correfpondence.
of the adions of thefe two parts but it would appear in many inftances, that
eredions of the penis depend more on the ftate of the mind than the fecretion of
the femen does * for many have the fecretion, but not the eredion * but in fuch,
the want of eredion appears to be owing to fears of the mind only.
Priapifm often arifes fpontaneouQy * and often from vifible irritation of the
penis, as in the venereal gonorrhoea, efpecially when violent. The fenfation of
fuch eredions is rather uneafy than pleafant ;
nor is the feniation of the glans at
the time fimilar to that arifing from the eredions of defire, but more like to the
fenfation of the parts immediately after coition. Such as arife fpontaneoufly are
of more lerious confequence than thofe from inflammation, as they proceed pro-
bably from caufes not curable in themfclves or by any known methods. The pria-
pifm ariflng from inflammation of the parts, as in a gonorrhoea, is attended with
nearly the fame fymptoms ;
but generally the fenfation is that of pain, proceeding
from the inflammation of the parts. It may be obferved, that what is Paid of pria-
pifm is only applicable to it when a difeale in itfelf, and not when a fymptom of
other difeafes, which is frequently the cafe.
Seminal weaknefs, or a fecretion and emiflion of the femen without eredions,
is the reverfe of a priapifm, and is by much the worft difeafe of the two. There
is great variety in the degrees of this difeafe, there being all the gradations from
the exad correfpondence of the adions of all the parts to the tefticles ading alone *
in every cafe of the difeafe, there is too quick a fecretion and evacuation of the fe-
men. Like to the priapifm, it does not arife from defires and abilit ies ; although
when mild it is attended with both, but not in a due proportion * a very flight de-
fire often producing the full effed. The fecretion of the femen fhall be fo quick,
that Ample thought, or even toying, fhall make it flow. —Dreams have produced
this evacuation repeatedly in the fame night •, and even when the dreams have been
fo flight* that there has been no confcioufnefs of them when the fleep has been
broken by the ad of emiflion. I have known cafes where the tefticles have been
fo
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 193
fo ready to fecrete, that the lead fridion on the glan 9 has produced an emifllon :
I have known the fimple adion of walking or riding produce this effed, and that
repeatedly, in a very fhort fpace of time. A young man, about four or five and
twenty years of age, not fo much given to venery as moft young men, had thcfe
lad-mentioned complaints upon him. Three or four times in the night he would
emit ;
and if he walked fad, or rode on horfeback, the fame thing would happen.
He could fcarcely have connection with a woman before he emitted, and in the
emifllon there was hardly any fpafm. He tried every fuppofed ftrengthening me-
dicine, as alfo the cold bath and fea-bathing, but with no effed. By taking
twenty drops of laudanum on going to bed, he prevented the night emiflions ;
and by taking the fame quantity in the morning, he could walk or ride without
the before-mentioned inconvenience. I direded this practice to be continued for
fome time, although the difeafe did not return, that the parts might be accudomed
to this healthy date of adion •, and I have reafon to believe the gentleman is now
well. It was found neceflary, as the conditution became more habituated to the
opiate, to increafe the dofe of it.— -The fpafms, upon the evacuation of the femen
in fuch cafes, are extremely flight, and a repetition of them foon takes place; the
firflemiflion not preventing a fecond ; the conditution being all the time but little
affeded. When the tedicles ad alone, without the acceffory parts taking up the
neceflary and natural confequent adion, it is dill a more melancholy difeafe : for
the fecretion arifes from no vifible or fenflble caufe, and does not give any viable
or fenflble effed, but runs off fimilar to involuntary dools or urine. It has been
obferved that the femen is more fluid than natural in fome of thele cafes.
There is great variety in the difeafed addons of thefe parts ; of which the follow-
ing cafe may be confidered as an example. A gentleman has had a dridure in the
urethra for many years, for which he has frequently ufed a bougie, but of late has
negleded it. He has had no connedion with women for a confiderable time, being
afraid of the confequences. He has often in his deep involuntary emiflions, which
generally awake him at the paroxyfm ; but what furprifes him mod is, that often
he has fuch without any femen pafling forwards through the penis, which makes
him think that at thofe times it goes backwards into the bladder. This is not
always the cafe, for at other times the femen pafles forwards. At the time the
femen feems to pafs into the bladder, he has the eredion, the dream ; and is
awaked with the fame mode of adion, the fame fenfation, and the fame pleafure,
as when it pafles through the urethra, whether dreaming or waking. My opinion
is, that the fame irritation takes place in the bulb of the urethra without the femen,
that takes place there when the femen enters, in confequence of all the natural
preparatory fteps, whereby the very fame adions are excited as if it came into
No. 13. 3 D the
194 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the pafiage •, from which one would fuppofe, that either thefemen is not fecreted j
or if it be, that a retrograde motion takes place in the a&ions of the acceleratores
urinse. But, if the firft be the cafe, then we may fuppofe, that in the natural date
the actions of thofe mufcles do not arife fimply from the flimulus of the femen in
the part, but from their adtion being a termination of a preceding one making
part of a feries of actions. Thus they may depend upon thefridfion, or the ima-
gination of a fridtion, on the penis-, the tefticles not doing their part, and the
fpafm in fuch cafes arifing from the fridfion and not from the fecretion. In many
of thofe cafes of irregularity, when the eredtion is not ftrong, it fhall go off with-
out the emifiion ; and at other times an emiflion fhall happen almoft without an
eredtion but thefe arife not from debility, but affedtions of the mind. In many
of the preceding cafes, wafhing the penis, fcrotum, and perinasum, with cold
water, is often of fervice j and, to render it colder than we find it in fome feafons
of the year, common fait may be added to it, and the parts wafhed when the fait
is almoft diffolved.
Of GRIEF.
GRIEF is the mofl deftrudlive of all the paffions. Its effedls are per-
manent, and when it finks deep into the mind, it generally proves fatal. An-
ger and fear being of a more violent nature, feldom laft long ; but grief often
changes into a fixed melancholy, which preys upon the fpirits, and waftes the
conftitution. This paffion ought not to be indulged. It may generally be con-
quered at the beginning j but, when it has gained ftrength, all attempts to remove
it are vain. No perfon can prevent misfortunes in life 5 but it fhews true great-
nefs of mind to bear them with ferenity. Many perfons make a merit of indulging
grief, and, when misfortunes happen, they obftinately refule all confolation,
till the mind, overwhelmed with melancholy, finks under the load. Such con-
dudl is not only deftructive to health, but inconfiftent with reafon, religion, and
common fenfe.
Change of ideas is as nectffary for health as change of pofture. When the
mind dwells long upon one iubjedt, efpecially of a dilagreeable nature, it hurts
the whole fundtions of the body. Hence grief indulged fpoils the digeffion and
detfroys the appetite j
by which means the fpirits are depreffed, the nerves relaxed,
the bowels inflated with wind, and the humours, for want of frefh fupplies of chyle,
vitiated. Thus many an excellent conftitution has been ruined by a family mis-
fortune, or any thing that occafions exctfiive grief. It is utterly impoffible, that
any perfon of a dejedted mind fhould enjoy health. Life may indeed be dragged
out for a few years : but whoever would live to a good old age muft be good-
humoured
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 195
humoured and cheerful. This indeed is not altogether in our own power j
yet
our temper of mind, as well as our adtions, depend greatly upon ourfelves. We
can either affociate with cheerful or melancholy companions, mingle in the amufe-
ments and offices of life-, or fit ftill and brood over our calamities, as we choofe.
Thefe, and many fuch things, are certainly in our power, and from thefe the
mind generally takes its caft.—The variety of fcenes which prelent themfelves to
the lenles, were certainly defigned to prevent our attention from being too long
fixed upon any one objedt. Nature abounds with variety, and the mind, unlefs
fixed down by habit, delights in contemplating new objedts. This at once points
out the method of relieving the mind in diftrefs. Turn the attenrion frequently to
new objedts : examine them for fome time: when the mind begins to recoil, fhift
the fcene : by this means a conftant lucceffion of new ideas may be kept up, till
the difagreeable ones entirely dilappear. Thus travelling, the ftudy of any art or
fcience, reading or writing on fuch fubjedts as deeply engage the attention, will
fooner expel grief than the moft fprightly amufements.
It has already been obferved, that the body cannot be healthy unlefs it be exer-
cifed ;
neither can the mind. Indolence nouriffies grief. When the mind has no-
thing elle to think of but calamities, no wonder that it dwells there. Few people
who purfue bufinefs with attention are hurt by grief. Inftead therefore of abftradt-
ing ourfelves from the world or bufinefs, when misfortunes happen, we ought to
engage in it with more than ufual attention, to difcharge with double diligence
the fundtions of our ftation, and to mix with friends of a cheerful and focial tem-
per. Innocent amufements are by no means to be negledted. Thefe, by leading
the mind infenfibly to the contemplation of agreeable objedts, help to difpel the
gloom which misfortunes caft over it. They make time leem lefs tedious, and
have many other happy effedts. Some perfons, when overwhelmed with grief,
betake themfelves to drinking. This is making the cure worfe than the difeafe.
It leldom fails to end in the ruin of fortune, charadter, and conftitutiom
Of LOVE.
LOVE is perhaps the ftrongeft of all the paffions j
at leaft, when it becomes
violent, it is lels fubjedt to the controul either of the underftanding or will, than
any of the reft. Fear, anger, and feveral other paffions, are neceffiary for the
prefervation of the individual, but love is neceffiary for the continuation of the
fpecies itfelf : it was therefore proper that this paffion ffiould be deeply rooted in
the human breaft.— Though love be a ftrong paffion, it is feldom fo rapid in its
progrefs as feveral of the others. Few perfons fall delperately in love all at once.
We would therefore advife every one, before he tampers with this paffion, to con-
fide?
t$6 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fider well the probability of his being able to obtain the object of his love.
When that is not likely, he fhould avoid every occafion of increafing it. He
ought immediately to fly the company of the beloved objedl ; to apply his mind
attentively to bufinefs or ftudy ; to take every kind of amufement ; and, above
all, to endeavour, if poflible, to find another objedl which may engage his affec-
tions, and which it may be in his power to obtain. There is no paflion with
which people are fo ready to tamper as love, although none is more dangerous.
Some men make love for amufement, others from mere vanity, or on purpofe to
fhew their confequence with the fair. This is perhaps the greateft piece of cruelty
which any one can be guilty of. What we eagerly wifh for, we eafily credit.
Hence the too credulous fair are often betrayed into a fituation which is truly de-
plorable, before they are able to difcover that the pretended lover was only in jeft.
But there is no jefting with this paflion. When love is got to a certain height, it
admits of no other cure but the poflefllon of its objedl, which, in this cafe, ought
always if poflible to be obtained. The condudt of parents with regard to the dif-
pofal of their children in marriage is often very blameable. An advantageous
match is the conftant aim of parents ; while their children often fuffer a real mar-
tyrdom betwixt their inclinations and duty. The firfl: thing which parents ought
to confult, in difpofing of their children in marriage, is certainly their inclinations.
Wr
ere due regard always paid to thefe, there would be fewer unhappy couples, and
parents would not have fo often caufe to repent the feverity of their condudt, after
a ruined conftitution, a loll character, or a diftradled mind, has fhewn them their
miftake.
With regard to love, in its ufual and more appropriate fignification, it may
be defined, “ that affedtion which, being compounded of animal defire, efteem,
and benevolence, becomes the bond of attachment and union between individuals
of the different fexes ; and makes them feel in the fociety of each other a fpecies
of happinefs which they experience no where elfe.” We call it an affedtion rather
than a paflion, becaufe it involves a defire of the happinefs of its objedl : and that
its conftituent parts are thofe which have been jufl enumerated, we fhall firfl: en-
deavour to prove, and then proceed to trace its rife and progrefs from a felfifh
appetite to a generous fentiment.
Animal defire is the adlual energy of the fenfual appetite; and that it is an
eflential part of the complex affedlion, which is properly called love, is apparent
from this confideration, that, though a man may have fentiments ofefteem and bene-
volence towards women who are both old and ugly, he never fuppofes himfelf to
be in love with any woman towards whom he feels not the fenfual appetite to have
a ftronger tendency than to other individuals of her fex. On the other hand, that
i animal
AND OCCULT SCIENCE; 197
animal defire alone cannot 'oe called the affedtion of love is evident ; becaufe he
who gratifies fuch a defire without efteeming its objedt, and wifhing to communi-
cate at the fame time that he receives enjoyment, loves not the woman, but him-
felf. Mere animal defire has nothing in view but the fpecies and the fex of its
objedl ; and before it make a felection, it mud be combined with fentiments very
different from itfelf. The firft fentiment with which it is combined, and by
which a man is induced to prefer one woman to another, feems to be that by which
we are delighted with gracefulnefs of perfon, regularity of features, and beauty of
complexion. It is not indeed to be denied that there is fomething irrefiflible in
female beauty. The moft fevere will not pretend, that they do not feel an imme-
diate prepofieflicn in favour of a handfome woman ; but this prepofiefiion, even
when combined with animal defire, does not conftitute the whole of that affection
which is called love. Savages feel the influence of the fenfual appetite, and it is
extremely probable that they have fome ideas of beauty j but among favages
the affection of love is feldom felt. Even among the lower orders in civil fociety
it feems to be a very grofs pafllon, and to have in it more of the felfifhnefs of
appetite than of the generofity of efteem. To thefe obfervations many exceptions
will no doubt be found, but we fpeak of favages in general, and of the great body
of the labouring poor, who in the choice of their mates do not ftudy—who indeed
are incapable of ftudying—that reflitude of mind and thofe delicacies of fentiment,
without which neither man nor woman can deferve to be efteemed.
In the favage ftate, and even in the firft ftages of refinement, the bond of
union between the fexes feems to confift of nothing more than mere animal defire
and inftindtive tendernefs for their infant progeny. The former impels them to
unite for the propagation of the fpecies ; and the latter preferves the union till
the children, who are the fruit of it, are able to provide for their own fubfiftence.
That in fuch unions, whether cafual or permanent, there is no mutual efteem and
benevolence, is apparent from the ftate of fubje&ion in which women are held
in rude and uncultivated nations, as well as from the manner in which marriages
are in fuch nations contra&ed.
Sweetnefs of temper, a capital article with us in the female character, difplays
itfelf externally in mild looks and gentle manners, and is the firft and perhaps the
moft powerful inducement to love in a cultivated mind. But fuch graces are fcarce
difcernible in a female favage ; and even in the moft polifhed woman would not
be perceived by a male favage. Among favages, ftrength and boldnefs are the
only valuable qualities. In thefe, females are miferably deficient j
for which
reafon they are contemned by the males as beings of an inferior order. The North
American tribes glory in idlenefs the drudgery of labour degrades a man in their
No. 13. 3 E opinion.
jgn '
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
opinion, and is proper for women only. To join young perfons in marriage is
accordingly the bufinefs of the parents ; and it would be unpardonable meannefs in
the bridegroom to fhew any fondnefs for the bride. In Guiana a woman never
eats with her hufband, but after every meal attends him with water for wafhing-,
and in the Caribbee iflands fhe is not permitted to eat even in the prefence of her
hufband. Dampier obferves in general, that among all the wild nations with
which he was acquainted, the women carry the burdens, while the men walk be-
fore and carry nothing but their arms ; and that women even of the highefl rank
are not better treated. In Siberia, and even in Rufila, the capital excepted, men
till very lately treated their wives in every refped like flaves. It might indeed be
thought, that animal defire, were there nothing elfe, fhould have raifed women
to fome degree of eftimation among men •, but male favages, utter ftrangers to
decency and refinement, gratify animal defire with as little ceremony as they do
hunger or thirft.
Hence it was that in the early ages of fociety a man purchafed a woman to be
his wife as one purchafes an ox or a fheep to be food •, and valued her only as fhe
contributed to his fenfual gratification. Inftances innumerable might be colleded
from every nation of which we are acquainted with the early hiftoryj but we (hall
content ourfelves with mentioning a few. Abraham bought Rcbekah, and gave
her to his fon Ifaac for a wife. Jacob, having nothing elfe to give, ferved Laban
fourteen years for two wives. To David, demanding Saul’s daughter in marriage,
it was faid, “ the king defireth not any dowry, but an hundred forefkins of the
Philiftines.” In the Iliad, Agamemnon offers his daughter to Achilles for a wife;
and fays that he would not demand for her any price. By the laws of Ethelbert
king of England, a man who committed adultery with his neighbour’s wife was
obliged to pay the hufband a fine, and to buy him another wife. But it is needlefs
to multiply inftances * the pradice has prevailed univerfally among nations emerg-
ing from the favage ftate, or in the rudeft ftage of fociety ; and wherever it pre-
vailed, men could not poffibly have for the fair fex any of that tender regard and
efteem which conftitute fo effential a part of the complex affedion of love.
But if among favages and the vulgar, love be unknown, it cannot poffibly be
an inftindive affedion ; and therefore it may be afked, How it gets poffeffion of
the human heart-, and by what means we can judge whether in any particular
inftance it be real or imaginary ? Thefe queftions are of importance, and deferve
to be fully anfwered though many circumftances confpire to render it no eafy
tafk to give to them fuch anfwers as fhall be perfedly fatisfadory. Love can fub-
fift only between individuals of the different fexes. A man can hardly love two
women at the fame time ; and we believe that a woman is ftill lefs capable of loving
at
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 199
at once more than one man. Love, therefore, has a natural tendency to make
men and women pair, or, in other words, it is the fource of marriage : but in
polifhed fociety, where alone this affeftion has any place, fo many things befides
mutual attachment are neceflary to make the married life comfortable, that we
rarely fee young perfons uniting from the impulfe of love, and have therefore but
few opportunities of tracing the rife, progrefs, 2nd confequences, of the affedtion.
We fhall, however, throw together fuch reflections as have occurred to us on
the fubjedt, not without indulging a hope, that they may be ufeful to the younger
part of our readers when forming the mod important connection in life.
We have faid, that the perception of beauty, combined with animal defire, is
the firft inducement which a man can have to prefer one woman to another. It
may be added, that elegance of figure, a placid mafculine countenance, with a
perfon which indicates ftrength and agility, are the qualities which firft tend to
attach any woman to a particular man. Beauty is defined, “ That particular form,
which is the moft common of all particular forms to be met with in the fame fpe-
cies of beings.” Let us apply this definition to our own fpecies, and try, by
means of it, to afcertain what conftitutes the beauty of the human face. It is
evident, that of countenances we find a number almoft infinite of different forms,
of which forms one only conftitutes beauty, whilft the reft, however numerous,
conftitute what is not beauty, but deformity, or uglinefs. To an attentive ob-
ferver, however, it is evident, that of the numerous particular forms of uglinefs,
there is not one which includes fo many faces as are formed after that particular
caft which conftitutes beauty. Every particular fpecies of the animal as well as of
the vegetable creation, may be faid to have a fixed or determinate form, to which,
as to a centre, nature is continually inclining. Or it may be compared to pendu-
lums vibrating in different directions over one central point •, and as they all crofs
the centre, though only one pafles through any other point, fo it will be round
that perfeCt beauty is oftener produced by nature than deformity : we do not
mean than deformity in general, but than any one kind and degree of deformity.
To inftance in a particular part of a human feature: the line which forms the
ridge of the nofe is deemed beautiful when it isftraight; but this is likewife the
central form, which is oftener found than any one particular degree of concave,
convex, or any other irregular form that (hall be propofed. As we are then more
accuftomed to beauty than deformity, we may conclude that to be the reafon why
we approve and admire it, juft as we approve and admire fafhions of drefs for na
other reafon than that we are ufed to them. The lame thing may be faid of colour
as of form : it is cuftom alone which determines our preference of the colour of
the Europeans to that of the Ethiopians, and which makes them prefer their own
colour
20
0
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
colour to ours; fo that though h&bit and cuftom cannot be the caufe of beauty,
they are certainly the caufe of our liking it. That we do like it cannot be denied.
Every one is confcious of a pleafmg emotion when contemplating beauty either in
man or woman ; and when that pleafure is combined with the gratification of the
fenfual appetite, it is obvious that the fum of enjoyment muft be greatly increaled.
The perception of beauty, therefore, neceffarily directs the energy of the fenfual
appetite to a particular obje<5t •, but ftill this combination is a mere felfifh feeling,
which regards its obje<5t only as the beft of many fimilar inftruments of pleafure.
Before it can deferve the name of love, it muft be combined with efteem, which is
never beftowed but upon moral chara&er and internal worth ; for let a woman be
ever fo beautiful, and of courfe ever fo defirable as an inftrument of fenfual gratis
fication, if fhe be not poffeffed of the virtues and difpofitions which are peculiar to
her fex, fhe will infpire no man with a generous affecftion. With regard to the
outlines, indeed, whether of internal dilpofition or of external form, men and
women are the fame j but nature, intending them for mates, has given them dif-
pofitions, which, though concordant, are, however, different, fo as to produce
together delicious harmony. The man, more robuft, is fitted for fevere labour,
and for field exercifes ; the woman, more delicate, is fitted for fedentary occu-
pations, and particularly for nurfing children. The man, bold and vigorous, is
qualified for being a protestor ;
the woman, delicate and timid, requires protec-
tion. Hence it is, that a man never admires a woman for poffefting bodily ftrength
or perfonal courage ; and women always defpife men who are deftitute of them.
The man, as a protestor, is directed by nature to govern ; the woman, confcious
of inferiority, is difpofed to obey. Their intellectual powers correfpond to the
deftination of nature. Men have penetration and folid judgment to fit them for
governing * women have underftanding to make an engaging figure under good
government : a greater proportion would excite dangerous rival fhip between the
fexes, which nature has avoided by giving them different talents. Women have
more imagination and fenfibility than men, which make all their enjoyments more
exquifite ; at the fame time that they are better qualified to communicate enjoy-
ment. Add another capital difference of difpofition : the gentle and infinuating
manners of the female fex tend to foften the roughnefs of the other fex ; and wher-
ever women are indulged with any freedom, they polifh fooner than men.
Thefe are not the only particulars that diftinguifh the fexes. With refpeCt to
the ultimate end of love, it is the privilege of the male, as fuperior and protestor,
to make a choice : the female, preferred, has no privilege but barely to confent,
or to refufe. Whether this diftinClion be the immediate refult of the originally
different difpofitions of the fexes, or only the effeCt of affociations inevitably form-
ed.
i
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 201
ed, may be queftioned ; but among all nations it is the practice for men to court,
and for women to be courted : and were the moft beautiful woman on earth to
invert this practice, fhe would forfeit the efteem, however by her external grace
fhe might excite the defire, of the man whom fhe addreffed. The great moral
virtues which may be comprehended under the general term integrity, are all
abfolutely neceffary to make either men or women eftimable > but to procure efteem
to the female charadter, the modefty peculiar to their fex is a very efiential circum-
ftance. Nature hath provided them with it as a defence againft the artful folici-
tations of the other fex before marriage, and alfo as a fupport of conjugal fidelity.
A woman, therefore, whofe difpofitions are gentle, delicate, and rather timid
than bold, who is poffefied of a large lhare of fenftbility and modefty, and whofe
manners are fofc and infinuating, mult, upon moral principles, command the
efteem and benevolence of every individual of the other fex who is poffefied of
found underftanding •, but if her perfon be deformed, or not fuch as to excite
fome degree of animal defire, fhe will attract no man’s love. In like manner, a
man whofe moral character is good, whofe underftanding is acute, and whofe con-
verfation is inftrudive, mult command the efteem of every fenfible and virtuous
woman •, but if his figure be difagreeable, his manners unpolifhed, his habits
flovenly, and above all, if he be deficient in personal courage, he will hardly
excite defire in the female breaft. It is only when the qualities which command
efteem are, in the fame perfon, united with thofe which excite defire, that the
individual fo accomplifhed can be an objedt of love to one of the other fex*, but
when thefe qualities are thus united, each of them increafes the other in the ima-
gination of the lover. The beauty of his miftrefs gives her, in his apprehenfion,
a greater fhare of gentlenefs, modefty, and every thing which adorns the female
charadter, than perhaps fhe really pofiefles ; whilft his perfuafion of her internal
worth makes him, on the other hand, apprehend her beauty to be abfolutely
unrivalled.
The affedtion thus generated is more or lefs pure, and will be more or lefs per-
manent, according as the one or the other part of which it is compounded, pre-
dominates. Where defire of poffeflion prevails over our efteem of the perfon and
merits of the defirable objedt, love lofes its benevolent charadter ; the appetite
for gratification becomes ungovernable, and tends violently to its end, regardlefs
of the mifery that muft follow. In that ftate love is no longer a fweet agreeable
affedtion ;
it becomes a felfifh, painful paffion, which, like hunger and thirft,
produceth no happinefs but in the inftant of fruition ; and when fruition is over,
difguft and averfion generally fucceed to defire. On the other hand, where efteem,
founded on a virtuous character and gentle manners, prevails over animal defire.
No. 13. 3 F the
•202 A KEY TO PHYSI C,
the love- would not for the world gratify his appetite at the expence of a lady's
honour, or peace of mind. He wifihes, indeed, for enjoyment*, and to him en-
joyment is more exquifne than to the mere fenfual lover, becaufe it unites fenti-
ment with the gratification of fenfe ; at the fame time that, fo far from being fuc-
ceeded b# difguft or averfion, it increafes his benevolence to the woman, whofe
character and manners he edeems, and who has contributed fo much to his plea-
fure. Benevolence to an individual, having a general end, admits of adls without
number, and is feldom fully accomplished. Hence mutual love, which is com-
pofed chiefly of efteem and benevolence, can hardly be of a fhorter duration than
its objeds. Frequent enjoyment endears fuch lovers to each other, and makes
condancy a pleafure*, and when the days of fenfual enjoyment are over, edeem and
benevolence will remain in the mind, making fweet, even in old age, the fociety
of that pair, in whom are colleded the affections of hufband, wife, lover, friend,
the tendered: affedions of human nature.
From the whole of this invedigation, we think it appears, that the affedion be-
tween the fexes which deferves the name of love, is infeparably conneded with
virtue and delicacy *, that a man of gallantry cannot be a faithful or a generous
lover •, that in the bread: of him who has ranged from woman to woman for the
mere gratification of his fenfual appetite, defire muff have effaced all efleem for
the female character; and that, therefore, the maxim too generally received,
“ that a reformed rake makes the bed hufband,” has very feldom a chance to be
true. We think it may likewife be inferred, that thou fands fancy themfelves in
love who know not what love is, or how it is generated in the human bread *, and
therefore we beg leave to aclvife fuch of our readers as may imagine themfelves to
be in that date, to examine their own minds, with a view to difcover, whether,
if the objeds of their love were old or ugly, they would dill edeem them for the
virtues pf their charader, and the propriety of their manners. This is a quedion
which deferves to be well weighed by the young and amorous, who, in forming
the matrimonial connedion, are too often blindly impelled by mere animal defire,
inflamed by beauty. It may indeed happen, after the pleafure of gratifying that
defire is gone, (and if not refined by edeem and benevolence, go it mud with a
fwifc pace), that a new bond of attachment may be formed upon more dignified
and more lading principles ; but this is a dangerous experiment. Even fuppofing
oood fenfe, good temper, and internal worth of every fort, yet a new attachment
upon fuch qualifications, is rarely formed ; becaufe it commonly, or rather always,
happens, that fuch qualifications, the only folid foundation of an indiffoluble con-
r.edion, if they did not originally make edeem predominate over animal defire, are
afterwards rendered altogether invifible by fatiety of enjoyment creating difgud,
which
2C3
and occult science.
which is generally the cafe with violent love, founded on the defire of enjoyment
only. As the delicate nature of female honour and decorum, and the inexpreflible
grace of a chafleand modeft behaviour, are the fureft and indeed the only means of
kindling at firft, and ever after of keeping alive, this tender and elegant flame,
and of accomplifhing the excellent ends defigned by it ; to attempt by fraud to
violate one, or, under pretence of pafflon, to fully and corrupt the other, and,
by fo doing, to expofe the too often credulous and unguarded objedt, with a warn
ton cruelty, to the hatred of her own fex and the fcorn of ours, and to the loweft
infamy of both, is a condudt not only bafe and criminal, but inconfiftent with that
truly rational and refined enjoyment, the fpirit and quinteflence of which is
derived from the bafhful and facred charms of virtue kept untainted, and there-
fore ever alluring to the lover’s heart.
The fymptoms produced by love as a difeafe, are as follow : the eye-lids often
twinkle-, the eyes are hollow, and yet appear as if full with pleafure: the pulfe
is not peculiar to the paflion, but the fame with that which attends folicitude and
care. When the objedt of this afFedtion is thought of, particularly if the idea is
fudden, the fpirits are confufed, the pulfe changes, and its force and time are very
variable : in feme inftances, the perfon is fad and watchful ; in others, not being
confcious of his ftate, he pines away, is flothful, and regardlefs of food. As the
paflion prevails, fighs grow deeper -, a tremor affedts the heart and pulfe ; the
countenance is alternately pale and red j the voice is fupprefled ; the eyes grow
dim-, cold fweats break out -,
fleep abfents itfelf -,
the fecretions become difturbed ;
and a lofs of appetite, a hedtic fever, melancholy, or perhaps madnefs, or death,
conftitutes the fad cataftrophe. On this fubject the curious may confult iEgineta,
lib. iii. cap. 17. Oribat. Synop. lib. viii. cap. 9. or a treatife profefledly written on
love, as it is a diftemper, by James Ferrard, Oxford, printed 1640.
The ancients were much addidled to amulets and potions to excite love in the
objedt of their defire, the operation of which was violent and dangerous, and fre-
quently deprived fuch as drank them of their reafon. Some of the moft remark-
able ingredients of which they were compofed Were thefe : the hippomanes, the
jynx, infedts bred from putrefadlion, the fi fh remora, the lizard, brains of a calf,
the hairs on the tip of a wolf’s tail, his fecret parts, the bones of the left fide of a
toad eaten with ants, the blood of doves, bones of fnakes, feathers of fcreech-owls,
twifted cords of wool in which a perfon had hanged himfelf, rags, torches, reliques,
a neft of fwallows buried and famifhed in the earth, bones fnatched from hungry
bitches, the marrow of a boy famifhed in the midfb of plenty, dried human liver ;
to thefe rr.uy be added feveral herbs growing out of putrid fubftances. Such were
the ingredients that entered into the compofition of that infernal draught a love
potion.
204 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
potion. The antidotes againft love were generally agnus cajlus, which has the
power of weakening the generative faculty ; fprinkling the dull in which a mule
had rolled herlelf ; tying toads in the hide of a beaft newly (lain i
applying amu-
lets of minerals or herbs, which were fuppofed of great efficacy.
Of MELANCHOLY.
THE pathology of melancholy and mania is very obfcure j as coming on with-
out any fever, or difturbance in the blood’s motion. Often alfo they are hereditary,
depending on the original ftrudture of the body, efpecially of the brain *, the fault
of which, however, cannot be detedted by the niceft anatomift. But it is well
known, that various difeafes of the brain, obftrudtions, tumors, either of the
brain itfelf, or of the cranium preffing upon it, any injury done to the head, and,
as fome phyficians relate, the hardnefs and drinefs of the brain, and fome peculiar
irritations affedting the nervous fyftem, are capable of bringing on this malady.
.
And indeed fo great are the irritations affedting the nervous fyftem in mad people,
that they often fleep little or none for a long time. Yet even this fo defedtive and
imperfedt knowledge of the difeafes of the brain and nerves, is by no means free
from difficulties. For though we know that the brain, or a certain part of it, is
hurt, or that it is irritated by a fwelling, or a pointed bone growing into it, no-
body can foretel how great, or what may be the nature of the malady from fuch
a hurt : for examples are not wanting of people who, after lofing a large part of
the brain, have recovered and lived a long time •, or of thofe who have perceived
no inconvenience from a large portion of that vifcus being corrupted, until at
length they have fallen fuddenly down and died in convulfions.
Many perfons of a religious turn of mind behave as if they thought it a crime to
be cheerful. They imagine the whole of religion confifts in certain mortifications,
or denying themfelves the fmalleft indulgence, even of the moft innocent amufe-
ments. A perpetual gloom hangs upon their countenances, while the deepeft
melancholy preys upon their minds. At length the faireft profpedts vaniffi, every
thing puts on a difmal appearance, and thofe very objedts which ought to give
delight afford nothing but difguft. Life itfelf becomes a burden, and the un-
happy wretch, perfuaded that no evil can equal what he feels, often puts an end
to his own miferable exiftence. It is great pity that ever religion fhould be fo far
perverted, as to become the caufe of thofe very evils which it was defigned to
prevent. Nothing can be better calculated than true religion, to raife and
fupport the mind of its votaries under every afflidtion that can befal them. It
teaches thorn, that even the fufferings of this life are preparatory to the happinefs
of
205
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
of the next •, and that all who perlift in a courfe of virtue fhall at length arrive at
complete felicity.
Perfons whofe bufinefs it is to recommend religion to others, fhould beware of
dwelling too much on gloomy fubjetts. That peace and tranquillity of mind,
which true religion is calculated to infpire, is a more powerful argument in its
favour, than all the terrors that can be uttered. Terror may indeed deter men
from outward a£ts of wickednefs ;
but can never infpire them with that love of
God, and real goodnefs of heart, in which alone true religion confifts. In fhort,
the beft way to counteract the violence of any palTion, is to keep the mind clofely
engaged in fome ufeful purfuit.
Of the PROGNOSTICS of DISEASES; with RULES
for Preserving Health.
PROGNOSTIC is a judgment of the event either of a Hate of health, or of a
difeafe ; as, whether it fhall end in life or death, be long or fhort, mild or malig-
nant, &c. taken from certain fymptoms thereof. When, by the following remarks,
the perfon fhall judge what dilorder is coming upon him, or already prefent, a fafe
and effectual remedy will in general be found in the Medical Part of the Herbal;
but, whenever that work is not fufficiendy full to the purpofe, I fhall add fuch oc-
cafional obfervations for prevention and cure as have occurred to me in my late
practice.
Hippocrates was the firft who treated of medicine in a regular and rational man-
ner, and he is therefore juftly confidered as the father of phyfic. Hippocrates re-
marked four ftages in diftempers ; viz. the beginning of the difeafe, its augmenta-
tion, its ftate or height, and its declination. In fuch difeafes as terminate fatally,
death comes in place of declination. In the third ftage, therefore, the change is
moft confiderable, as it determines the fate of the lick perfon ; and this is mold com-
monly done by means of a crifis. By this word he underflood any fudden change in
ficknefs, whether for the better or for the worfe, whether health or death fucceed
immediately. Such a change, he fays, is made at that time by nature, either abfol-
ving or condemning the patient. Hence we may conclude, that Hippocrates ima-
gined difeafes to be only adiflurbance of the animal economy, with which Nature
was perpetually at variance, and uftng her utmoft endeavours to expel the offending
caufe. Her manner of aCting on thefe occafions is to reduce to their natural
ft ate thofe humours whofe difcord occafions the difturbance of the whole body,
whether in relation to their quantity, quality, mixture, motion, or any other way
in which they become offensive. The principal means employed by nature for this
No. 14. 3 G end
206 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
end is what Hippocrates calls concodtion. By this he underftood the bringing the
morbific matter lodged in the humours to fuch a (late, as to beeafily fitted for ex-
pulfion by whatever means nature might think moft proper. When matters are
brought tothispafs, whatever is fuperfiuous or hurtful immediately empties itfelf, or
nature points out to phyficians the way by which fuch an evacuation is to be accom-
plifhed. The crifis takes place either by bleeding, ftool, vomit, fweat, urine, tu-
mors or abfcefies, fcabs, pimples, fpots, &c. But thefe evacuations are not to be
looked upon as the efFedls of a true crifis, unlefs in confiderable quantity •, fmall
difcharges not being fufficient to make a crifis ; which, on the contrary, area fign
that nature is deprefied by the load of humours, and that fbe lets them go
through weaknefs and continual irritation. What comes forth in this manner is
crude, becaufe the diftemper is yet tooftrong-, and while matters remain in this
ftate, only a bad or imperfect crifis is to be expedted. This (hows that the dif-
temper triumphs, or at lead: is equal in ftrength to nature, which prognofticates
death, oraprolongation of thedifeafe. In this laft cafe, however, nature often has an
opportunity of attempting a new crifis more happy than the former, after having
made frefh efforts to advance the concodtion of the humours.—It muft here beob-
ferved, however, that, according to Hippocrates, concodtion cannot be made but
in a certain time, as every fruit has a limited time to ripen *, for he compares the
humours which nature has digefted to fruits come to maturity. The time required
for concodtion depends on the differences among diftempers mentioned above. In
thofe which Hippocrates calls very acute, the digeftion or crifis happens by the
fourth day ; in thofe which are only acute, it happens on the feventh, eleventh,
or fourteenth day •, which lafl is the longeft period generally allowed by Hippocrates
in diftempers that are truly acute : though in fome places he ftretches it to the twen-
tieth, or twenty-firft, nay, fometimes to the fortieth or fixtieth, days. All difeafes
that exceed this laft term are called chronical. And while in thofe difeafes that ex-
ceed fourteen, days, he confiders every fourth day as critical, or at leaft remarkable,
by which we may judge whether the crifis on the fourth day will be favourable or
not
;
fo in thofe which run from twenty to forty he reckons only the fevenths, and
in thofe that exceed forty he begins to reckon by twenty. Beyond the hundred
and twentieth he thinks that the number of days has no power over the crifis.
They are then referred to the general changes of the feafons ; fome terminating
about the equinoxes ; others about the folftices ^ others about the rifing or fetting
of the ftars t^ertain conftellations ;
or, if numbers have yet any place, he reckons
by months, or even whole years. Thus (he fays), certain difeafes in children have
their crifis in the feventh month after their birth, and others in their feventh or even
their fourteenth year.
I Though
20/
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
Though Hippocrates mentions the twenty-firft as one of the critical days in acute
diftempers, as already noticed *, yet, in other places of his works, he mentions alfo
the twentieth. The reafon he gives for this in one of thofe places of his works is,
that the days of ficknefs were not quite entire. In general, however, he is much
attached to the odd days : infomuch that in one of his aphorifms he tells us, “ The
fweats that come out upon the third, fifth, ieventh, ninth, eleventh, four-
teen, feventeenth, twenty-firft, twenty-feventh, thirty-firft, or thirty-fourth, days,
are beneficial ;
but thofe that come out upon other days fignify that the fick fhall be
brought low, that his difeafe fhall be very tedious, and that he (hall be fubjedt to
relapfes .'
5
He further fays, “ That the fever which leaves the fick upon any but an
odd day is ufually apt to relapfe.” Sometimes, however, he confeftes that it is other-
wife •, and he gives an inftance of a falutary crifis happening on the fixth day. But
thefe are very rare inftances, and therefore cannot, in his opinion, overthrow the
general rule. Befides the crifis, however, or the change which determines the fate
of the patient, Hippocrates often fpeaks of another, which only changes the fpecies
of the diftemper, without reftoring the patient to health ; as when a vertigo is turn-
ed to an epilepfy, a tertian fever to a quartan, or to a continual, &c.
But what chiefly contributed to procure the vaft refpedl generally paid to Hippo-
crates, was his accuracy in prognoftics : thus he not only diftinguifhed one difeafe
from another by the figns which properly belonged to each ; but by comparing
the fame fort of diftemper which happened to feveral perfons, and the accidents
which ufually appeared before and after, he could often foretel a difeafe before it
came, and afterwards give a right judgment of the event of it. By this way of prog-
nofticating, he came to be exceedingly admired: and this he carried to fuch a
height, that it may juftly be faid to be his matter-piece ; and Celfus, who lived,
after him, remarks, that fucceeding phyficians, though they found out feveral new
things relating to the management of difeafes, yet were obliged to the writings of
Hippocrates for all that they knew of figns. The firft thing Hippocrates confider-
ed, when called to a patient, was his looks. —It was a good fign with him to have
a vifage refembling that of a perfon in health, and the fame with what the fick man
had before he was attacked by the difeafe. As it varied from this, fo much the
greater danger was apprehended. The following is the defcription which he gives
of the looks of a dying man:—“ When a patient (fays he) has hisnofe fharp, his eyes-
funk, his temples hollowy his ears cold and contra&ed, the fkinofhis forehead
tenfe and dry, and the colour of his face tending to a pale-green, or lead-colour,,
one may give out for certain that death is very near at hand ; unlefs the ftrength of
the patient has been exhaufted all at once by long watchings, or by a loofenefs, or
being aflong time without eating. ” This obfervation has been confirmed by thofe
of
468 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of fucceeding phyficians, who have, from him, denominated it the Hippocratic
face. The lips hanging relaxed and cold, are likewife looked upon by this author
as a confirmation of the foregoing prognoftic. He took alfo his figns from the
difpofition of the eyes in particular. When a patient cannot bear the light ; when
he fheds tears involuntary j when, in fleeping, fome part of the white of the eye is
feen, unlefs he ufually deeps after that manner, or has a loofenefs upon him : thefe
dgns, as well as the foregoing ones, prognofticate danger. The eyes deadened,
with a mid before them, or their brightnefs loft, prefages death, or great weaknefs.
Eyes fparkling, fierce, and fixed, denote the patient to be delirious, or that he foon
will be feized with a frenzy. "When the patient fees any thing red, and like fparks
of fire and lightning pafs before his eyes, you may expect an hemorrhage and
this often happens before thofe crifes which are to be attended by a lofs of blood.
The condition of the patient is alfo fhown by his pofture in bed. If you find him
lying on one fide, his body, neck, legs, and arms, a little contracted, which is the
pofture of a man in health, it is a good fign : on the contrary, if he lies on his back,
his arms ftretched out, and his legs hanging down, it is a fign of great weaknefs;
and particularly when the patient Aides or lets himfelf fall down towards the feet,
it denotes the approach of death. When a patient in a burning fever is continually
feeling about with his hands and fingers, and moves them up before his face and
eyes as if he was going to take away fomething that paffed before them ; or on his
bed-covering, as if he was picking or fearching for little-ftraws, or taking away
fome filth, or drawing out little flocks of wool j all this is a fign that he is delirious,
and that he will die. Amongft the other figns of a prefent or approaching delirium,
he alfo adds this : When a patient who naturally fpeaks little begins to talk more
than he ufed to do, or when one that talks much becomes filent, this change is to
be reckoned a fort of delirium, or is a fign that the patient will foon fall into one.
The frequent trembling or ftarting of the tendons of the wrifts prefage likewife a
delirium. As to the different forts of delirium, Hippocrates is much more afraid
of thofe that run upon mournful fubjeCts than fuch as are accompanied with
mirth.
When a patient breathes faft, and is opprefled, it is a fign that he is in pain, and
that the parts above the diaphragm are inflamed. Breathing long, or when the
patient is a great while in taking his breath, fhows him to be delirious ; but eafy
and natural refpiration is always a good fign in acute difeafes. Hippocrates depended
much on the refpiration in making his prognoftics •, and therefore has taken care in
feveral places to defcribe the different manner of a patient’s breathing. Continual
watchings in acute difeafes, are figns of prefent pain, or a delirium near at hand.
Hippocrates alfo drew figns from all excrements, whatever they are, that are fepa-
rated
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 209
rated from the body of man. His molt remarkable prognoftics, however, were
from the urine. The patient’s urine, in his opinion, is beft when the fediment is
white, foft to the touch, and of an equal confiftence. If it continue fo during the
courfe of the diftemper, and till the time of the crifis, the patient is in no danger,
and will foon be well. This is what Hippocrates called concodted urine, or what
denotes the concodtion of the humours *, and he obferved, that this concodtion of
the urine feldom appeared thoroughly but on the days of the crifis which happily
put an end to the diftemper. “ We ought (faid Hippocrates) to compare the urine
with the purulent matter which runs from ulcers. As the pus, which is white, and
of the fame quality with the fediment of the urine we are now fpeaking of, is a fign
that the ulcer is on the point of clofing •, fo that which is clear, and of another co-
lour than white, and of an ill fmell, is a fign that the ulcer is virulent, and there-
fore very difficult to be cured: the urines that are like this we have deferibed
are only thofe which may be named good ;
all the reft are ill, and differ from one
another only in the degrees of more and lefs. The firft never appear but when na-
ture has overcome the difeafe *, and are a fign of the concodtion of humours, with-
out which you cannot hope fora certain cure. On the contrary, the laft are made
as long as the crudity remains, and the humours continue unconcodted. Among
the urines of this laft fort, the beft are reddifh, with a fediment that is foft, and
of an equal confiftence ;
which denotes, that the difeafe will be fomewhat tedi-
ous, but without danger. The worft are thofe which are very red, and at the fame
time clear and without fediment ; or that are muddy and troubled in the making.
In urine there is often a fort of cloud hanging in the veffel in which it is received ;
the higher this rifes, or the farther diftant it is from the bottom, or the more differ-
ent from the colour of the laudable fediment above-mentioned, the more there is of
crudity. That which is yellow, or of a fandy colour, denotes abundance of bile \
that which is black is the worft, efpecially if it has an ill fmell, and is either alto-
gether muddy or altogether clear. That whofe fediment is like large ground wheat,
or little flakes or fcales fpread one upon another, or bran, prefages ill, efpecially
the laft. The fat or oil that fometimes fwims upon the top of the urine, and ap-
pears in a form fomething like a fpider’s web, is a fign of a confumption of the
flefh and folid parts. The making of a great quantity of urine is the fign of a crifis,
and fometimes the quality of it fhows how the bladder is affedled. We muff alfo
obferve, that Hippocrates compared the ftate of the tongue with the urine ; that is
to fay, when the tongue was yellow, and charged with bile, the urine he knew muft
of courfe be of the fame colour : and, when the tongue was red and moift, the urine
was of its natural colour. His prognoftics from the excretions by ftool are as follow 1
Thofe that are foft, yellowilh, of fome confiftence, and not of an extraordinary ill
No. 14. 3 H fmell,
210 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fmell, that anfwer to the quantity of what is taken inwardly, and that are voided at
the ufual hours, are the beft of all. They ought alfo to be of a thicker confiftence
when the diftemper is near the crifis ; and it ought to be taken for a good prognof-
tic, when fome worms, round and long, are evacuated at the fame time with them.
T he prognofis, however, may ftill be favourable, though the matter excreted be
thin and liquid, provided it make not too much noife in coming our, and the eva-
cuation be not in a fmall quantity nor too often, fo as to make the patient faint. All
matter that is watery, white, of a pale green, or red, or frothy and vifcous, is bad.
That which is blackifh, or of a livid hue, is the mod' pernicious. That which is
pure black, and nothing elfe but a difcharge of black bile, always prognofticates
very ill ;
this humour, from what part foever it comes, fhowing the ill difpofition
of the inteftines. The matter that is of feveral different colours denotes the length
of the diftemper ; and, at the fame time, that it may be of dangerous confequence.
Hippocrates places in the fame clafs the matter that is bilious or yellow, mixed
with blood, or green and black, or like the dregs or fcrapings of the guts. The
{tools that confift of pure bile, or entirely of phlegm, he alfo looks upon to be very
bad. Matter caft up by vomiting ought to be mixed with bile and phlegm ; where
One of thefe humours only is obferved, it is worfe. That which is black, livid,
green, or the colour of a leek, indicates alarming confequences. The fame is to be
faid of that which fmells very ill •, and, if at the fame time it be livid, death is not
far off. The vomiting of blood is very often mortal. The fpittings which give
eafe in difeafes of the lungs and in pleurifies, are thofe that come up readily and
without difficulty ;
and it is good if they be mixed at the beginning with much yel-
low : but if they appear of the fame colour, or are red, a great while after the begin -
ning of the diftemper, are fait and acrimonious, and caufe violent coughings, they
are not good. Spittings purely yellow are bad ; and thofe that are white, vifcous,
and frothy, givenoeafe. Whitenefs is a good fign of concoChon in regard to ipit-
tings v but they ought not at all to be vifcous, nor too thick, nor too clear. We
may make the fame judgment of the excrements of the nofe according to their con-
co&ion and crudity. Spittings that are black, green, and red, are of bad confeqence-
In inflammations of the lungs, thofe that are mixed with bile and blood prefage well
if they appear at the beginning, but are bad if they arife not about the feventh day.
But the worft fign in thefe diftempers is, when there is no expectoration at all, and
the too great quantity of matter that is ready to be dilcharged this way makes a rat-
tling in the breaft. After fpitting of blood, the difcharge of purulent matter often
follows, which brings on a confumption, and at laft death. A kind good fweat is
that which arifes on the day of the crifis, and is difcharged in abundance all over the
body, and at the fame time from all parts of the body, and thus carries off the fe-
ver.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 212
ver. A cold fweat is alarming, efpecially in acute fevers, for in others it is only a
fign of long continuance. When the patient fweats no where but on the head and
neck, it is a fign that the difeafe will be long and dangerous. A gentle fweat in
fome particular part, of the head and bread, for indance, gives no relief, but de-
notes the feat of the didemper, or the weaknefs of the part. This kind of fweat was
called by Hippocrates ephidrofis. The hypochondria, or the abdomen in general,
ought always to be foft and even, as well on the right fide as on the left. When
there is any hardnefs or unevennafs in thofe parts, or heat and fwellings, or when
the patient cannot bear to have it touched, it is a fign the intedines are indifpofed.
Hippocrates alfo inquired into the date of the pulfe, or the beating of the
arteries. The mod ancient phyficians, however, and even Hippocrates himfclf,
for a long time, by this word underdood the violent pulfation that is felt in an in-
flamed part, without putting the fingers to it. It is obferved by Galen, and other
phyficians, that Hippocrates touches on the fubjecl of the pulfe more dightly than
any other on which he treats. But that our celebrated phyfician underdood fome-
thingeven on this fubjedd, is eafily gathered from feveral padages in his writings ;
as when heobferves, that in acute fevers the pulfe is very quick and very great i
and when he makes mention, in the fame place, of trembling pulfes, and thofe that
beat (lowly •, when he obferves, that in fome difeafes incident to women, when the
pulfe drikes the finger faintly, and in a languifhing manner, it is a fign of ap-
proaching death. He remarks alfo, in the Coacae Prasnotiones, that he whofe
vein, that is to fay, whofe artery of the elbow, beats, is jud going to run mad, or
elfe that the perfon is at that time very much under the influence of anger. Many
other variations of the pulfe are enumerated by phyficians, but mod of them un-
certain, and not confirmed by experience. See the Article Pulfe, in the Medical
Part of the Herbal, where the fubjedl is more fully treated.
We (hall now proceed to fome farther remarks on the prognodics of particular
difeafes.
The tertian ague hath one prognodic peculiar to itfelf, namely, dry fcabby ulcers
breaking out upon the lips •, thefe fometimes appear about the third or fourth
paroxyfm ; and then we may venture to foretel that the difeafe will go off fponta-
neoufly after the feventh.
The following are the prognodics of a nervous fever ; and therefore, when they
appear, people (hould take precautions accordingly, by confulting the Medical
Part of the Herbal, for a fafe and certain preventative and cure : the patient at fird
grows fomewhat lidlefs,and feels flight chills, and fhudders, with uncertain fluflies
of heat, and a kind of wearinefs all over, like what is felt after great fatigue. This
is always attended with a fort of heavinefs and dejedtion of fpirit, and more or lefs
of
212 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of a load, pain, or giddinefs of the head ; a naufea and difrelifh of every thing foon
follows, without any confiderable thirft, but frequently with urging to vomit,
though little but infipid phlegm is brought up. Though a kind of lucid interval
of feveral hours fometimes intervenes, yet the fymptoms return with aggravation,
efpecially towards night ; the head grows more giddy or heavy ; the heat greater j
the pulfe quicker, but weak ; with an oppreffive kind of breathing. A great tor-
por, or obtufe pain and coldnefs, affects the hinder-part of the head frequently,
and oftentimes a heavy pain is felt on the top all along the coronary future ; this,
and that of the back-part of the head, generally attend nervous fevers, and are
commonly fucceeded by fome degree of a delirium. In this condition the patient
often continues for five or fix days, with a heavy, pale, funk, countenance ; feem-
ingly not very fick, and yet far from being well ; reftlefs, anxious, and common-
ly quite void of fieep, though fometimes very drowfy and heavy ; but, although he
appears to thofe about him actually to fieep, he is utterly infenfible of it, and denies
that he doth fo. The pulfe during all this time is quick, weak, and unequal ;
fometimes fluttering, and fometimes for a few moment flow ; nay, even intermit-
ting, and then, with a fudden flufli in the face, immediately very quick, and per-
haps foon after furprifingly calm and equal ; and thus alternately.
Prognoses of a fcarlet fever : with various general fymptoms of fever, the pa-
tient at fir ft complains of a dejection of fpirits, a flight forenefs or rather ftiffnefs in
the neck, with a fenfe of ftraightnefs in the mufcles of the neck and fhoulders, as
if they were bound with cords. The fecond day of the fever this forenefs in the
throat increafes, and the patients find a difficulty in fwallowing; but the difficulty
feems lefs occafioned by the pain excited in the attempt, or by the ftraitnefs of the
pafiage, than by an inability to throw the necefiary mufcles into adtion. The fkin
feels hot and dry, but not hard •, and the patients experience frequent fmall pun-
gent pains, as if touched with the point of a needle. The breath is hot and burning
to the lips, and thirft makes them wiffito drink •, but the tendency to ficknefs, and
the exertions necefiary in deglutition, are fo unpleafant, that they feldom care to
drink much at a time. They have much uneafinefs alfo from want of reft during
the night. In the morning of the third day, the face, neck, and breaft, appear
redder than ufual : in a few hours this rednefs becomes univerfal ; and increafes to
fuch a degree ofintenfity, that the face, body, and limbs, refemble a boiled lobfter -
in colour, and are evidently fwollen.
The figns of an impending phrenitis, or inflammation of the brain, are fully ex-
plained in the Medical Part of this work. In the difeafe, the following are the moft
fatal fymptoms : A continual and furious delirium, with watching •, thin watery
i urine,
2X3
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
urine, white feces, the urine and ftools running off involuntarily, or a total fup-
preffion of thefe excretions ; a ready difpoficion to become ftupid, or to faint ; trem-
bling, rigour, chattering of the teeth, convulfions, hiccough, coldnefs of the extre-
mites, trembling of the tongue, fni ill voice, a fudden ceffation of pain, with ap-
parent tranquillity. The following are favourable: Sweats, apparently critical,
breaking out
a
feeming effort of nature to terminate the difeafe by a diarrhoea-,
a large hemorrhage from the nofe ; fwellings of the glands behind the ears ;
haemorrhoids.
A vertigo is obferved to be both the fymptom and forerunner of feme dangerous
difeafes fuch as apoplexy, epilepfy, hyfteria ; haemorrhages from the nofe and
other parts ; fuppreffions of the menfes plethora ; fevers, as well fuch as are
accompanied with debility as thofe in which there is an increafed impetus of the
blood towards the head.—Though a vertigo be for the moft part a fymptom and con-
comitant of other difeafes, yet it is fometimes a primary difeafe, returning at inter-
vals, increafing gradually, and equally impeding and deftroying the functions of the
body and mind.
A delirium accompanies fevers of many different kinds. Sometimes it is
flight, eafily removed, and fcarcely to be accounted a bad fign. Often, however,
it is very violent, and one of the very word; of figns, requiring the utmoft care and
attention. A delirium is either fierce or mild. The fierce delirium is preceded and
accompanied by a rednefs of the countenance, a pain of the head, a great beating
of the arteries, and noife in the ears the eyes in the mean time looking red, infla-
med, fierce, fhining, and unable to bear the light ; there is either no deep at all,
or deep troubled with horrid dreams -, the wonted manners are changed, an unu-
fual peevifhnefs and ill-nature prevail. The depravation of judgement is firft obfer-
ved between deep and waking, and by the perfon’s crediting his imagination, while
the perceptions of fenle are neglebted, and the ideas of memory occur in an irregular
manner. Fury at lad: takes place, and fometimes an unufual and incredible degree
of bodily flrength, fo thatfcveral people can fcarce keep a fingle patient in his bed.
The mild delirium, on the contrary, is often accompanied with a weak pulfe, a
pale collapfed countenance, and a vertigo when the patient fits in an ereft pollute ;
he is feldom angry, but often ftupid, and fometimes remarkably grieved and fear-
ful. The lofs of judgment, as in the former kind, is firft perceived when the
patient is half awake ;
but a temporary recovery enfues upon the admiffion of the
lio-ht and the converfation of his friends. The patient mutters much to himfclf,
and attends little to the things around him -, atlaft, becoming quite ftupid, he nei-
ther feels the fenfations of hunger or third:, nor any of the other propenfities of na-
ture, by which means the urine and excrements are voided involuntarily. As the
vr of diforder
Mo. 14. 3 A
214 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
diforder increafes, it terminates in fubfultus tendinum, tremors, convulfions,
fainting, and death. The other fpecies of delirium alfo frequently terminates in
this, when the fpirits and ftrength of the patient begin to fail. The fymptoms ac-
companying either of thefe kinds of delirium Ihow an unufual, inordinate, and une-
qual, motion of the blood through the brain, and a great change in that ftate of it
which is neceffary to the exercife of the mental powers. It is fufficiently probable,
that an inflammation of the brain, more or lefs violent and general, fometimes takes
place, although the figns of uni^erfal inflammation are frequently flight. This we
learn from the difledtion of dead bodies, which often fliovv an unufual rednefs of
the brain or of lome of its parts, or fometimes an effuflon or fuppuration.
The prognoftics of the malignant, putrid, or ulcerous, fore throat, are very
different in different perfons. Sometimes a rigour, with fulnefs and forenefs of the
throat, and painful ftiffnefs of the neck, are the fir ft fymptoms complained of.
Sometimes alternate chills and heats, withfome degree ofgiddinefs, drowfmefs, or
head-ach, ufher in the diflemper. It feizes others with much more feverifh fymp-
toms ;
great pain of the head, back, and limbs ; a vafl oppreflion of the praecordia,
and continual fighing. Some grown perfons go about for fome days in a droop-
ing ftate, with much uneafinefs and anxiety, till at lafl they are obliged to take to
their beds.—Thus various is the difeafe at the onfet. But it commonly begins with
chills and heats, load and pain of the head, forenefs of throat, and hoarfenels ;
fome cough, ficknefs at ftomach, frequent vomiting and purging, in children
efpecially, and fometimes very fevere ; though a contrary ftate is more common to
the adult. There is commonly a very great dejection of fpirits, very fudden weak-
nefs, great heavinefs on the breaft, and faintnefs, from the very beginning. The
pulfe in general is quick, fmall, and fluttering, though fometimes heavy and undu-
lating. The eyes heavy, reddifh, and as it were weeping *, the countenance often
full, flufhed, and bloated, though fometimes pale, and funk. The following are
the prognoftics in the difeafe:—If agentle eafy fweatcomes on the third or fourth day ;
if the pulfe becomes more flow, firm, and equal •, if the floughs of the fauces caft off
in a kindly manner, and appear at the bottom tolerably clean and florid ; if the brea-
thing is more foft and free, and fome degree of vigour and quicknefs return in the
eyes ;
all is well, and afalutary crifis follows foon by a continuance of the fweat, and
a turbid, fubfiding, farinaceous, urine, a plentiful expectoration, and a very large
defquamation of the cuticle. But if a rigour comes on, and the exanthemata fud-
denly difappear or turn livid *, if the pulfe grows very fmall and quick, and the fkin
remains hot and parched as it were; the breathing more difficult, the eyes dead and
glaffy, the urine pale and limpid ; a phrenzy or coma may be expedted to fucceed
215
and occult science.
with a coldifh clammy fweat on the face or extremities ; life will now be delpair ed
of, efpecially if a fingultus and choaking or gulping in the throat fhould attend,
with hidden, liquid, involuntary, livid, ftools, intolerably fetid.
Symptoms of the croup, or inflammation of the glottis. A hoarfenefs, with fome
fhrillnefs and ringing found, both in fpeaking and coughing, as if the noife came
from a brazen tube. At the fame time, there is a fenfe of pain about the larynx,
fome difficulty of refpi ration, witha whizzing found in infpiration, as if the paffage
of the air were ftraitened. The cough which attends it is commonly dry ; and, if
any thing be fpit up, it is a matter of a purulent appearance, and fometimes films
refembling portions of a membrane. With all thefe fymptoms, there is a frequen-
cy of pulfe, a reftleffnefs, and an uneafy fenfe of heat. When the internal fauces
are viewed, they are fometimes without any appearance of inflammation •, but fre-
quently a rednefs, and even fwelling, appears-, and fometimes there is an appear-
ance of matter like to that rejected by coughing, together with the fymptoms now
defcribed, and particularly with great difficulty of breathing, and a fenfe of ftrang-
ling in the fauces, by which the patient is fometimes fuddenly taken off.
In a pleurify the pathognomonic figns are a cough, a difficulty of breathing, a
pain of the fide, and a continued fever -,
the adjunct figns are the various forts of
matter expectorated, which are fometimes bloody, fometimes bilious, &c. When
the pains, which at firft affeCted one fide only, (hall afterwards fpread into the other >
or when, leaving the fide firft affeCted, they pafs entirely into the other-, thefe are
always marks of a dangerous difeafe. A delirium coming on during a pneumonic
inflammation is always a fymptom denoting much danger. VenefeCtion is the re-
medy chiefly to be depended on y and may be done in either arm, as the furgeon
finds mod convenient -, and the quantity taken away ought in general to be as large
as the patient’s ftrength will allow. Befides bleeding, every part of the antiphlo-
giftic regimen ought here to be carefully employed : the patient muft keep out of
bed as much as he can bear-, muft have plenty of warm diluting drinks, impregna-
ted with vegetable acids, accompanied with nitre or fome other cooling neutral fait 5,
and the belly alfo ought to be kept open by emollient glyfters or cooling laxative
medicines. Vomiting in the beginning is dangerous ; but in a fomewhat advan-
ced ftate of the difeafe emetics have been found the beft means of promoting expec-
toration. Fomentations and poultices to the pained part have been found uleful ;
but bliftering is found to be much more effectual. A blifter, however, ought not
to be applied till at leaft one bleeding hath been premifed, as venefeCtion is lefs ef-
fectual when the irritation of a blifter is prefent. If the difeafe be moderate, a blif-
ter may be applied immediately after the firft bleeding ; but in violent cafes, where
k
21
6
A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
it may be prefumed that a fecond bleeding may foon be neceffary after the firft, it
will be proper to delay the blifter till after the fecond bleeding, when it may be fup-
pofed that the irritation occafioned by the blifter will be over before a third bleed-
ing becomes neceffary. It may frequently be of ufe in this difeafe to repeat the
bliftering ;
and in that cafe the plafters ffiould always be applied fomewhere on the
thorax, for when applied to more diftant parts they have little effebt. The keep-
ing the bliftered parts open, and making what is called a perpetual blifter, has
muchlefs effebt than a repeated bliftering. When this difeafe terminates unfavoura-
bly it often ends in an empyema, which is occafioned by the effufion of a quantity
of purulent matter into the cavity of the thorax, producing a lingering and painful
diforder, very often incurable. The firft fignofan empyema is a ceffation of the
pain in the breaft, which before was continual : this is followed by a fenfation of
weight on the diaphragm ; and a fiubtuation of matter, fometimes making a noife
that may be heard by the by-ftanders : the acute fever is changed into a hectic, with
an exacerbation at night : a continual and troublefome dry cough remains. The
refpiration is exceedingly difficult, becaufe the lungs are prevented by the matter
from fully expanding themfelves. The patient can lie eafiiy on that fide where the
matter is effufed, but not on the other, becaufe then the weight of the matter on
the mediaftinum produces uneafinefs. The more thehedic heat is augmented, the
more is the body emaciated, and its ftrength decayed. In fome there is danger of
fuffocation when they ftoop down, which goes off when they alter that poft-
ure of the body ; and in fome there is a purulent fpitting. —Thefe fymptoms are
accompanied with great anxiety, palpitations of the heart, and faintings. Very
few recover after an empyema has been once formed, efpecially if the operation
paracentefis be negleded. After this operation is performed, if a great quantity of
bloody fetid pus be difcharged, if the fever continue, and if the patient fpit up a
purulent, pale, frothy, livid, or green, matter, with a decay of ftrength, there is
no hope : but when a final 1 quantity of pus, of a white colour, not very fetid, is dif-
charged ; when the fever and thirft prefently ceafe, the appetite returns, and faeces
of a good confiftence are difcharged, the ftrength alfo returning in fome degree ;
there is then hope of a perfebt recovery. If the matter be not dried up in feven weeks
time, the difeafe readily changes to a fiftuious ulcer, which is very difficult to cure.
An empyema affebting both fides of the thorax is more dangerous than that which
affebts only one.
The inflammation of the heart is attended with all the fymptoms before mention-
ed, but in a higher degree ; it is befides fometimes accompanied with hydrophobic
fymptoms, fainting, palpitation of the heart, a feeming madnefs, a funk and
irregular pulle, watery eyes, and a dejebted countenance, with a dry black tongue.
The
i
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 217
The figns of an inflammation of the ftomach are great heat and pain in the
epigaftric region, extreme anxiety, an almoft continual and painful hiccough, with
a mod painful vomiting of every thing taken into the ftomach. This difeafe is
always very dangerous, and the prognofis doubtful, which alfo muft always be in
proportion to the feverity of the fymptoms. A ceflationof pain, coldnefs about the
praecordia, great debility, with a languid and intermitting pulfe, and an abatement
of the hiccough, denote a gangrene and fpeedy death. From the lenfibility of the
ftomach alfo, and its great connection with the reft of thefyftem, it muft be obvious,
that an inflammation of it, by whatever caufes produced, may be attended with fatal
confequences ;
particularly, by the great debility it produces, it may prove fuddenly
fatal, without running through the ufual courfe of inflammations.— Its tendency to
admit of refolution may be known by its having arifen from no violent caule, by the
moderate ftate of the fymptoms, and by a gradual remiffion of thefe in the courfe
of the firft or at moft of the fecond week of the difeafe. The tendency to gangrene
may be fufpedted from the fymptoms continuing with unremitting violence, not-
withftanding the ufe of proper remedies ; and a gangrene already begun may be
known by the fymptoms above-mentioned, particularly great debility and fudden
ceflation of pain. The tendency to fuppuration may be known by the fymptoms
continuing but in a moderate degree for more than one or two weeks, and by a
confiderable remiffion of the pain while a fenfe of weight and anxiety ftill remain.
When an abcefs has been formed, the frequency of the pulfe is firft abated, butfoon
after it increafes, with frequent cold ftiivering, and an exacerbation in the after-
noon and evening ; followed by night-fweats, and other fymptoms of hectic fever.
Thefe at length prove fatal, unlefs the abcefs open into the cavity of the ftomach,
the pus be evacuated by vomiting, and the ulcer foon healed.
An inflammation of the inteftines flaews itfelf by a fixed pain in the abdomen,
attended with fever, vomiting, and coftivenefs. The pain is often felt in different
parts of the abdomen, but more frequently fpreads over the whale, and is particu-
larly violent about the navel. Inflammations of the inteftines may arife from the
fame caufes as thofe of the ftomach , though commonly the former will more rea-
dily occur from cold applied to the lower extremities, or to the belly itfelf. It is
alfo found furpervening on thefpafmodic cholic, incarcerated hernia, and volvulus.
The inflammations of the inteftines have the fame terminations with thofe of the
ftomach, and the prognofis in both cafes is much the fame.
Inflammation of the liver is attended with confiderable fever ; a frequent, ftrong,
and hard, pulfe; high-coloured urine ; an acute pain in the right hypochondrium,
increafed by preffing upon the part. The pain is very often in fuch a part of the fide
as to make it appear like a pleurify j and frequently, like that, is increafed on infpi-
No. 14. *
3 K ration.
2i8 a k e y t o p h y s i c,
ration. The difeafe is alfo commonly attended with a cough, which is generally
dry, but fometimes moid ; and, when the pain thus refembles a pleurify, the patient
cannot lie eafily except upon the fide affedted. The pain is frequently extended to
the clavicle, and to the top of the fhouldcr ; and is attended fometimes with hic-
cough, and fometimes with vomiting. The inflammation of the liver, like others,
may end by refolution, fuppuration, or gangrene •, and the tendency to the one or
to the other of thofe events may be known from what has been already mentioned.
Inflammation of the fpleen, comes on with a remarkable fhivering, fiucceeded by a
mod intenfe heat and very great third •, a pain and tumour are perceived in the left
hypochondrium, and the paroxydns for the mod part aflame a quartan form. When
the patients expofe themfelves for a little to the free air, their extremities immediately
grow very cold. If an haemorrhage happens, the blood flows out of the left nodril.
It is often a very difficult matter to didinguiffi rheumatifm from gout : but in
rheumatifm there in general occurs much lels affedtion of the domach ; it affedts
chiefly the larger joints, and often feveral of them at the fame time : it occurs at an
earlier period of life than gout •, it is not obferved to be herditary •, and it can in ge-
neral be traced to fomeobvious exciting caufe, particularly to the adtion of cold. To
didinguifli the chronic rheumatifm from the acute: when the pains are dill ready to
drift their place ; when they are efpecially fevere in the night-time •, when, at the
fame time, they are attended with fome degree of pyrexia, and with fome fwelling,
and efpecially fome rednefs, of the joints ; the difeafe is to beconfidered as partaking
of the nature of the acute rheumatifm. But when there is no longer any degree of
pyrexia remaining ; when the pained joints are without rednefs ; when they are cold
and diff; when they cannot eafily be made to fweat ; or when, while a free and warm
fweat is brought out on the red of the body, it is only clammy and cold on the pain-
ed joints ; and when, further, the pains of thefe are increafed by cold, and relieved by
beat, applied to them; the cafe is to be confidered as that of a purely chronic rheu-
matifm : or perhaps more properly the fird of the conditions now defcribed may be
termed the date of irritability, and the fecond the date of atony. The chronic rheu-
matifm, or rather the atonic, may affedl diflferentjoints ; but efpecially apt to affedl is
thofe which are furrounded with many mufcles, and thofe of which the mufclesare em-
ployed in the mod condant and vigorous exertions. Such is the cafe of the vertebrae
of the loins, the affedtion of which is named lumbago ; or of the hip-joint, when the
difeafe is named ifchias or fciatica. Violent drains and fpafms, occurring on fudden
and fomewhat violent exertions, bring on rheumatic affedlions, which at fird partake
of the chronic rheumatifm. Such are frequently the lumbago, and other affedlions
which feem to be more feated the mufcles than in thejoints. The didindtion of the
rheumatic pains from thofe refembling them which occur in the fiphylis and fcurvy
mud
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 219
mull be obvious, either from the feat of the pains or from the concomitant fymp-
toms peculiar to thofe difeafes. What we call a paroxyfm of the gout is principally
conftituted by an inflammatory affedlion of fome of the joints. This fometimes
comes on fuddenly, without any warning, but is generally preceded by feveral fymp-
toms ;
fuch as the ceafing of a fweating which the feet had been commonly affetted
with before ; an unufual coldnefs of the feet and legs ; a frequent nutnbnefs, alter-
nating with a fenfeof prickling along the whole of the lower extremities •, frequent
cramps of the mufcles of the legs ; and an unufual turgefcence of the veins. While
thefe fymptoms take place in the lower extremities, the body is affedted with fome
degree of torpor and languor, and the functions of the ftomach in particular are
more or lefs difturbed. The appetite is diminilhed ; and flatulency, or other fymp-
toms of indigeftion, are felt. Thefe fymptoms take place for feveral days, fome-
times for a week or two, before a paroxyfm comes on but commonly, upon the
day immediately preceding it, the appetite becomes keener than ufual. It is common-
ly fuppofed, that there are fome cafes of rheumatifm which are fcarcely to be diftin-
guifhed from the gout : but thefe, Dr. Cullen thinks, are but few y and that the
two difeafes may be for the moft part diftinguifhed with great certainty, by obferving
the pre-difpofltion, the antecedent circumftances, the parts affedled, the recurren-
ces of the difeafe, and its connexion with the fyflem •, which circumftances, for the
moft part, appear very differently in the two difeafes.
Prognoftics that a perfon is infedted with the plague : 1. Great lofs of ftrength. 2.
Stupor, giddinefs, and consequent ftaggering, which refembles drunkennefs, or the
head-ach and various delirium. 3. Anxiety, palpitation, fyncope, and eipecially
the weaknels and irregularity of the pulfe, denoting a confiderable difturbance in the
adtion of the heart. 4. Naulea and vomiting, particularly the vomiting of bile,
which (how an accumulation of vitiated bile in the gall-bladder and biliary dudts, and
from thence derived into the inteftines and ftomach •, which alfo denote a confidera-
ble fpalm, and lots of tone in the extreme veffels on the furface of the body.
1 he fmall-pox begins with a fynocha or inflammatory fever. It generally comes
on about mid-day, with fome fymptoms of a cold ftage, and commonly with a con -
fiderable langour and drowfinefs. A hot ftage is foon formed, and becomes more
confiderable on the fecond and third day. During this courfe children are liable to
frequent ifartings from their (lumbers •, and adults, if they are kept in bed, are dif-
pofed to much fweating. On the third day, children are fbmetimes affedted with
one or two epileptic fits. Towards the end of the third day the eruption commonly
appears. The principal marks by which the chicken-pox may be diftinguifhed from
the fmall-pox are, 1. T he appearance, on the fecond or third day from the eruption,
of that veficle full ofierum upon the top of the pock. 2. The cruft, which covers
the
220 A K E4
Y TO PHYSIC,
the pocks on the fifth day ; at which time thofe of the fmali-pox are not at the height
of their fuppu ration. Foreign medical writers hardly ever mention the name of
this diftemper : and the writers of our own country fcarcely mention any thing more
of it than its name. Morton fpeaks of it as if he fuppofed it to be a very mild genuine
fmall-pox. But thefe two diftempers are furely totally different from one another,
notonlyon account of their different appearances above-mentioned, but becaufe thofe
who have had the fmall-pox are capable of being inferred with the chicken-pox •, but
thofe who have once had the chicken-pox are not capable of having it again, though
to fuch as have never had this diftemper it feems as infectious as the fmall-pox.
Dr. Heberden wetted a thread in the moft concofted pus-like liquor of the chicken-
pox which he could find •, and, after making a flight incifion, it was confined upon
the arm of one who had formerly had it; the little wound healed up immediately,
and fhewed no figns of any infection. From the great fimilitude between the two
diftempers, it is probable, that, inftead of the fmall-pox, fome perfons have been
inoculated from the chicken-pox ; and that the diftemper which has fucceeded has
been miftaken for the fmall-pox by hafty or inexperienced obfervers.
It is a promifing fign, in the palfy, when the patient feels a flight degree of pain-
ful itchinefs in the affeCted parrs ; and, if a fever fhould arife, it bids fair to cure the
palfy. When the fenfe of feeling remains, there is much more room to hope for a
cure than where it is gone, as well as the power of motion. But when we obferve
the flefh to wafte, and the fkin to appear withered and dry, we may look upon the
difeafe to be incurable. Convulfions fupervening on a palfy are a fatal fign.
When fainting happens in the beginning of any acute diftemper, it is not a good
omen ; but, when it takes place in the increafe or at the height of the difeafe, the
danger is fomewhat lefs ; but in general, when fainting comes on without any evi-
dent cauTe, it is to be dreaded. In violent haemorrhages it is favourable ; as the
bleeding veffels gain time to -contract and recover themfelves, and thus the pa-
tient may efcape . When perfons of a full habit faint through excefs of pafiion, they
ought to be bled without delay, and fhould drink vinegar or lemon-juice diluted
with water •, and, after the bowels are emptied by a clyfter, take a paregoric
draught, and go to bed.
Prognoftics from convulfions. Except in fome few cafes, convulfive diforders
are always to be dreaded ; but lefs in young people than in fuch as are advanced in life.
Thofe which attack girls under the age of puberty will generally ceafe on the ap-
pearance of the menfes ; and boys have likewife a chance of being relieved as they
advance in life : but in grown-up people, unlefs the caufe be very evident, a cure is
hardly to be expedted, efpecially after the difeafe has been of long continuance.—The
treatment is much the fame with that of epilepfy.
The
221
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
The epilepfy frequently is preceded by a pain in the head, Jaffitude, fome diftur-
banceofthe fenfes, unquiet deep, unufual dread, dimnefs of fight, a noife in the
ears, palpitation of the heart, coldnefs of the joints, and in fome there is a fenfati-
on of formication, or a cold-air, &c. afc'ending from the lower extremities towards
the head. If the epilepfy comes on before the time of puberty, there are fome
hopes of its going off at that time. But it is a bad fign when it attacks about the
21ft year, and ftill worfe if the fits grow more frequent ; for then the animal-func-
tions are often deftroyed, as well as thofe of the mind, and the patient becomes ftu-
pid and foolifh. Sometimes it will terminate in melancholy or madnefs, and fome-
times in a mortal apoplexy or palfy. It has fometimes, however, been obferved,
that epilepfies have been removed by the appearance of cutaneous difeafes, as the
itch, fmall pox, meafies, &c. therefore, if any of thefe appear, it may be reckoned
a favourable prognoftic.
Signs of a diabetes.—The diabetes firft fhows itfelf by a drinefs of the mouth and
third;, white frothy fpittle, and the urine in fomewhat larger quantity than ufual.
A heat begins to be perceived in the bowels, which at firft is a little pungent, and
gradually increafes. The third; continues to augment by degrees, and the patient
by degrees lofes the power of retaining his urine for any length of time. The molt
fingular phenomenon in this difeafe is, that the urine feems to be entirely or very
much divefted of an animal nature, and to be largely impregnated with a faccharine
fait fcarce diftinguilhable from that obtained from the fugar-cane. This difeovery
was firft made by Dr. Dobfon of Liverpool, who made fome experiments on the
urine of a perfon labouring under a diabetes, who difeharged 28 pints of urine every
day, taking during the fame time from 12 to 14 pounds only of folidand liquidfood.
When a perfon perceives any of the before-mentioned fymptoms upon him, (parti-
cularly the quantity and infipidity of the urine,) he fhould lofe no time in taking
the proper precautions, for the diabetes is rarely cured unlefs when taken at the
very beginning, which is feldom done. Briftol water is reckoned a fpecific in this
diforder.
Hydrophobia. This difeafe commonly does not make its attack till a confidera-
ble time after the bite. In fome few inftances it has commenced in leven or eight
days from the accident ; but generally the patient continues in health tor 20, 30, or
'40, days, or even much longer. The bite, if not prevented, will in general be hea-
led long before that time, frequently with the greateft eafe ; though fometimes it
refills all kinds of healing applications, and forms a running ulcer which difeharges
a quantity of matter for many days. It has been faid, that the nearer the wounded
place is to the falivary glands, the fooner the fymptoms of hydrophobia appear.
The approach of the difeafe is known by the cicatrix of the wound becoming high.
No. 15. 3L hard.
222 i A KEY TO PHYSIC,
hard, and elevated, and by a peculiar fenfe of prickling at the part *, pains fhoot
from it towards the throat : fometimes it is furrounded with livid or red ftreaks, and
feems to be in a ftate of inflammation ; though frequently there is nothing remarka-
ble to be obferved about it. The patient becomes melancholy, loves folitude, and
has ficknefs at ftomach. Sometimes the peculiar fymptom of the difeafe, the dread
of water, comes on all at once. We have an inftance of one who, having taken a
vomit of ipecacuanha for the ficknefs he felt at his ftomach, was feized with the hy-
drophobia in the time he was drinking the warm water. Sometimes the difeafe be-
gins like a common fore throat ; and, the forenefs daily increafing, the hydrophobic
fymptoms fhow themfelves like a convulfivefpafm of the mufcles of the fauces. In
others, the mind feems to be primarily affeded, and they have a real dread of water
or any liquid before they try whether they can fwallow it or not. Dr. James, in his
Treatife on Canine Madnefs, mentions a boy fent out to fill two bottles with water,
who was fo terrified by the noife ofthe liquid running into them, that he fled into the
houfe crying out that he was bewitched. He mentions alfo the cafe of a farmer,
who, going to draw fome ale from a calk, was terrified to fuch a degree at its run-
ning into the veflel, that he ran out in great hafte with the fpigot in his hand.
But, in whatever manner this fymptom comes on, it is certain that the moft painful
fenfations accompany every attempt to fwallow liquids. Nay, the bare fight of wa-
ter, of a looking-glafs, of any thing clear or pellucid, will give the utmoft uneafi-
nefs, or even throw the patient into convulfions. With regard to the affedion of
the mind itfelf in this difeafe, it does not appear that the patients are deprived of rea-
fon. Some have, merely by the dint of refolution, conquered the dread of water,
though they never could conquer theconvulfivemotions which the contad of liquids
occafioned : yet even this refolution has been of no avail ; for the convulfions and
other fymptoms, increafing, have almoft always deftroyed the unhappy patients.
However, in this diftemper, the fymptoms are fo various, that they cannot be enu-
merated for we feldom read two cafes of hydrophobia which do not differ very
remarkably in this refped. When a perfon is bitten, the prognofis with regard to
the enfuing hydrophobia is very uncertain. All thofe who are bit do not fall into
the difeafe ;
nay, Dr.Vaughan relates that out of thirty bitten by a mad dog, only one
was feized with the hydrophobia. During the interval betwixt the bite and the time
the difeafe comes on, there areno fymptoms by which we can certainly judge whether
it will appear or not.
Prognoftics of a dropfy of the breaft. This affedion, particularly with refped
to itscaufes, is in many circumftances fimilar to other kinds of dropfy, particularly
toafcites. But from the fituation of the water which is here depofited in the cavity
of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 223
of the thorax, it may naturally be fuppofed that fome peculiar fymptoms will occur.
Befides the common fymptoms of dropfy, (palenefs of the countenance, fcarcity of
urine, and the like,) thisdifeafe is, in fome inftances, attended with a fluctuation
of water within the bread •, which when it does occur may be confidered as a certain
diftinguiffiing mark of this affeCtion. But, befides this, it is alfo diftinguifhed by
the remarkable affections of circulation and refpiration with which it is attended.
The breathing is peculiarly difficult, efpecially in a recumbent pofture; and in
many inftances patients cannot breathe with tolerable eafe, unlefs when fitting ereCt,
or even {looping fomewhat forwards. The pulfe is very irregular, and has often
remarkable intermiffions. But the difeafe has been thought to be principally cha-
racterized by a fudden darting from deep, in confequence of an almoft inexpreffible
uneafy fenfation referred to the bread, and attended with ftrong palpitation, which
may probably arife from an affeCtion either of circulation or of refpiration. That
thefe fymptoms are common attendants of this difeafe is undeniable ; and they are
certainly the beft charaCteriftics of this affeCtion with which we are yet acquainted :
but it mud be allowed that they are prefent in fome cafes where there is no water in
the bread j
and that in other inftances where the difeafe exifts, they are either alto-
gether wanting, or occur only to a very flight degree. Certain diagnoftics, there-
fore,. of this difeafe dill remain to be difcovered. When hydrothorax is prefent,,
from the affeCtion of the vital functions with which it is attended, it may readily be
concluded that it is a dangerous difeafe, and in many inftances it proves fatal. The
cure, as far as it can be accomplifhed, is obtained very much on the fame principles
as in other dropfies. Benefit is often obtained from an artificial difcharge of water
by the application of blifters to the bread : but in this, as well as other dropfies, a
difcharge is chiefly effected by the natural outlets, particularly from the ufe of ca*
thartics and diuretics. In this fpecies of dropfy, more perhaps than in any other, ,
recourfe has been had to the ufe of the digitalis purpurea, or fox-glove, fo ftrongly
recommended as a diuretic by Dr. Withering in his Treatife refpeCting the ufe of it.
There can be no doubt that this, though fometimes productive of inconvenience,
from the diftreffing ficknefs and fevere vomiting which it not frequently excites,
though ufed even but in fmall dofes, often operates as a powerful diuretic, and
produces a complete evacuation of water, after other remedies have failed. From
the effeCts mentioned above, however, as well as from its influence cn the pulfe,
which it renders much flower, it is neceffary that it ffiould be employed with great
caution and in fmall dofes. A drachm of the dried leaves of the digitalis, macerated 1
for four hours in half a pint of warm water, forms an infufion which may be given
in dofes of an ounce, and the dried powder of the leaves in dofes of one or two grains : .
thefe dofes may be gradually increafed, and repeated twice or oftener in the day •, ,
but
;
224 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
but this requires to be done with great caution, left fevere vomiting, or other dif-
treffing fymptoms, fhould take place.
Scurvy. The firft indication of the fcorbutic diathefis is generally a change of
colour in the face, from the natural and healthy look to a pale and bloated complex-
ion, with a liftlefihefs, and averfion from every fort of exerciie ; the gums foon af-
ter become itchy, lwell, and are apt to bleed on the flighted: touch ; the breath grows
often five ; and the gums, dwelling daily more and more, turn livid, and at length
become extremely fungous and putrid, as being continually in contad with the ex-
ternal air ; which in every cafe favours the putrefaction of jubilances difpofed to
run into that date, and is indeed abfolutely requifite for the produ&ion of aflual rot-
tennefs. The fymptoms of the fcurvy, like thole of every other difeafe, are fome-
what different in different fubje&s, according to the various circumftances of con-
flritution ;
and they do not always proceed in the fame regular courfe in every patient.
But what is very remarkable in this difeafe, notwithflanding the various and immenfe
load of diftrefs under which the patients labour, there is noficknefs at theftomach,
the appetite keeps up, and the fenfes remain entire almofl to the very laft : when
lying at reft, they make no complaints, and feel little diftrefs or pain ; but the mo-
ment they attempt to rife or ftir themfelves, then the breathing becomes difficult,
with a kind of ftraitnefs or catching, and great oppreffion, and fometimes they have
been known to fall into a fyncope. This catching of the breath upon motion, with
the lofs of ftrength, deje&ion of fpirit, and rotten gums, are held as theeflential or
diftinguifhing fymptoms of the d ifeafe.
The jaundice firft fhews itfelf by a liftleflnefs and want of appetite, the patient
becomes dull, opprefted, and generally coftive. Thefe fymptoms have continued
but a very fhort time, when a yellow colour begins to diffufe itfelf over the tunica
albuginea, or white part of the eye, and the nails of the fingers ; the urine becomes
high coloured, with a yellowifh fediment capable of giving a yellow tint to linen;
the flools are whitifh or grey. In fome there is a moil violent pain in the epigaftric
region, which is confiderably increafed after meals. In fome toe difeafe degenerates
into an incurable dropfy ; and there have been many inltances of people who
have died of the dropfy after the jaundice itfelf had been totally removed. The com-
ing on of a gentle diarrhoea, attended with bilious flools, together with the ceflation
of pain, are figns of the difeafe being cured. We are not, however, always to con-
clude, becaufe the difeafe is not attended with acute pain, that it is therefore incura-
ble •, for frequently the paflage of a concretion through tne biliary dudls is accompa-
nied only with a fenlation of flight uneafinefs. If the d feafe goes off, its return
mud be prevented by a courfe of tonic medicines, particularly the Peruvian bark
and antifeptics: but we can by no means be certain that thejaundice. will not return,
and
i
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 225'
and that at any interval ; for there may be a number of concretions in the gall-
bladder, and, though one hath palled, another may very quickly follow, and pro-
duce a new fit of jaundice ; and thus fome people have continued to be affedted
with the didemper, at Ihort intervals, during life.
Stone in the bladder. The figns of a ftone in the bladder are, pain, efpecially
about the fphindter ; and bloody urine, in confequence of riding or being jolted in
a carriage ; a fenfe of weight in the perinaeum ; an itchinefs of the glans penis j flimy
fediment in the urine •, and frequent doppages in making water > a tenefmus alfo
comes on while the urine isdifcharged.
Imaginary vifion of objedts which do not exid. This often takes place when the
body is difeafed, and then the patient is faid to be delirious. Sometimes however,
in thefe cafes, it does not amount to delirium ; but the perfon imagines he fees
gnats or other infedts flying before his eyes ; or fometimes, that every thing he looks
at has black fpots in it, which lad is a very dangerous fign. Sometimes alfo fparks
of fire appear before the eyes ; which appearances are not to be difregarded, as they
frequently precede apoplexy or epilepfy : on the other hand, it is feared that little
benefit can be derived from an attention to this prognodic, as the fits commonly
follow fo fuddenly.
I fhall now proceed to defcribe two diforders not noted by Culpeper, or any old
writer. And firft of the
ANGINA PECTORIS.
Dr. Heberden was the fird who defcribed this difeafe, though it is extremely dan-
gerous, and, by his account, not very rare. It feizes thofe who are fubjeft to it
when they are walking, and particularly when they walk foon after eating, with a
molt difagreeable and painful fenfation in the bread, which feems to threaten imme-
diate deftrudtion : but, the moment they ftand dill, all the uneafinefs vanifhes. In
all other refpedts the patients at the beginning of this diforder are well, and have no
fliortnefs of breath ; from which the angina pectoris is totally different. After it
has continued fome months, the fits will not ceafe indantaneoufly on danding
dill ;
and it will come on not only when the patients are walking, but when they are
lying down, and oblige them to rife up out of their beds every night for many
months together. In one or two very inveterate cafes, it has been brought on by the
motion of a horfe or carriage, and even by fwallowing, coughing, going to dool,
fpeaking, or by any didurbance of mind. The perfons affedted were all men,
almofi all of whom were above 50 years of age, and mod of them with a fhort neck
No. 15. 3 M and
226 AKEYTOPHYSI C,
and inclining to 8e fat. Something like it, however, was obferved in one woman*
who was paralytic; and one or two young men complained of it in a flight degree.
Other practitioners have obferved it in very young perfons. When a fit of this fort
comes on by walking, its duration is very (hort, as it goes off almoft immediately
upon (topping. If it comes on in the night, it will laft an hour or two. Dr.
Heberden met with one in whom it once continued for feveral days ; during all which
time the patient feemed to be in imminent danger of death. Molt; of thofe attacked
with the diftemper died fuddenly : though this rule was not without exceptions
;
and Dr. Heberden obferved one who funk under a lingering illnefs of a different
nature. The os fterni is ufually pointed to as the feat of this malady ; but it feems
as if it was under the lower part of that bone, and at other times under the middle
or upper part, but always inclining more to the left fide-, and in many cafes there is
joined with it a pain about the middle of the left arm, which appears to be feated in
the biceps mufcle.
The appearance of Dr. Heberden’s paper in the Medical TranfaCtions very foon
raifed the attention of the faculty, and produced other obfervations from phyficians
of eminence ;
namely, Dr. Fothergill, Dr. Wall of Worcefter, Dr. Haygarth of
Chefter, and Dr. Percival of Manchefter. It alfo induced an unknown fufferer to
write Dr. Heberden a very fenfible letter, defcribing his feelings in the mod natural
manner; which, unfortunately, in three weeks after the date of this anonymous
epiftle, terminated in a fudden death, as the writer himfelf had apprehended. The
youngefl: fubjeCt that Dr. Fothergill ever faw afflicted with this diforder was about
30 years of age ; and this perfon was cured. The method that fucceeded with him
was a courfe of pills, compofed of the mafs of gum-pill, foap, and native cinnabar,
with a light chalybeate bitter : this was continued for fome months, after which he
went to Bath feveral fuccefllve feafons, and acquired his ufual health : he was or-
dered to be very fparing in his diet ; to keep the bowels open ; and to ufe moderate
exercife on horleback, but not to take long or fatiguing walks. The only fymp-
tom in this patient that is mentioned, was a ftrifture about the cheft, which came
on if he was walking up hill or a little fafter than ordinary, or if he was riding a
very briflk trot ; for moderate exercife of any kind did not affeCt him : and this un-
eafy fenfation always obliged him to (top, as he felt himfelf threatened with imme-
diate death if he had continued to go forwards. It is the (harp conftriCtive pain
acrofs the cheft, that (according to Dr. Fothergill’s obfervation) particularly marks
this Angular difeafe ; and which is apt to fupervene upon a certain degree of mufcu-
lar motion, or whatever agitates the nervous fyftem. In fuch cafes as fell under the
infpeCtion of Dr. Fothergill, he very feldom met with one that was not attended with
an irregular and intermitting pulfe-, and this, not only during the exacerbations,
1 but
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 227
but often when the patient was free from pain and at reft : but Dr. Heberden ob-
ferves, that the pulfe is, at leaft fometimes, not difturbed •, and mentions his having
once had an opportunity of being convinced of this circumftance, by feeling the
pulfe during the paroxyfm. But no doubt thefe varieties, as well as many other
little circumftances, will occur in this difeafe as they do in every other, on account
of the diverfity of the human frame ;
and, if thofe which in general are found to pre-
dominate and give the diftinguifhing character be prefent, they will always authorife
11s in giving the name to the difeafe : thus, when we find the conftridtory pain acrofs
the chdf, accompanied with a fenfe of ftrangling or fuffocation ; and ftill more, if
this pain fhould flrike acrofs the bread: into one or both arms, we fhould not hefitate
to pronounce the cafe an angina peftoris.
As to the nature of this difeafe, it appears to be purely fpafmodic : and this opi-
nion will readily prefent itfelf to any one who confiders the fudden manner of its
coming on and going off •> the long intervals ofperfedt eafe •, the relief afforded by
wine and fpirituous cordials ; the influence which palfionate affections of the mind
have over it ; the eafe which comes from varying thepofture of the head and fhoul-
ders, or from remaining quite motionlefs ; the number of years for which it will con-
tinue, without otherwife difordering health ; its bearing fo well the motion of a horfe
or carriage, which circumftance often diftinguifhes fpafmodic pains from thofe
which arife from ulcers ;
andlaftly, its coming on for the moft part after afullmeaL
and in certain patients at night, juft after thefirft fleep, at which time the incubus,
convulfive afthma, and other ills, juftly attributed to the difordered functions of
the nerves, are peculiarly apt to return or to be aggravated. From all thefe cir-
cumftances taken together, there can belittle doubt that this affeCtion is of a fpafmodic
nature : but, though this fhould be admitted, it may not be foealyto afcertain the
particular mufcles which are thus affeCfed. The violent fenfe of ftrangling or choak-
ing which fhows the circulation through the lungs to be interrupted during the
height of tire paroxyfm ; and the peculiar conftridtive pain under the fternum, al-
ways inclining (according to Dr. Heberden’s obfervation) to the left fide ; together
with that moft diftreffing and alarming lenfation, which, if it were to increafe or con-
tinue, threatens an immediate extinction of life ; might authorife us to conclude
that the heart itfelf is the mufcle affeCfed : the only objection to this idea (and, if it had
been conftantly obferved, it would be infurmountable) is, that the pulfe is not always
interrupted during the paroxyfm. The appearances in two of. the difledtions favour
the opinion that the fpafm affeCts the heart ; as in one fubjeCt the left ventricle (and,
though it be not mentioned, we may prefume the right one alfo) was found as empty
of blood as if it had been wafhed ; and in another, the fubftanceof the heart appear-
ed whitifh, not unlike a ligament; as it fhould feem, in both cafes, from the force
of;
228 A KEY TO PHYSIC,.
of the fpafm fqueezing the blood out from the vefiels and cavities. If this hypothefis
be allowed, we miift conclude that the fpafm can only take place in an inferior de-
gree, as long as the patient continues to furvive the paroxyfm ; fince an affection of
this fort, and in this part, of any confiderable duration or violence, mull inevitably
prove fatal : and accordingly, as far as could be traced, the perfons who have been
known to labour under this difeafe have in general died fuddenly. The difle&ions
alfo fhew, that whatever may be the true feat of the fpafm, it is not neceflary for the
bringing of it on, that the heart, or its immediate appendages, fhould be in a mor-
bid ftate ;
for, in three out of the fix that have as yet been made public, thefe parts
were found in a found ftate. On opening the body of the poor gentleman who wrote
the letter to Dr. Heberden, “ upon the mod careful examination, no manifeft caufe
of his death could be difcovered •, the heart, in particular, with its vefiels and valves,
were all found in a natural condition.” In the cafe communicated by Dr. Percival
to the publifhers of the Edinburgh Medical Commentaries, “ the heart and aorta
defcendens were found in a found ftate.” And in Dr. Haygarth’s patient, on opening
the thorax, the lungs, pericardium, and heart, appeared perfectly found. Not to
mention Dr. Fothergill’s patient (R.M.), in whofe body the only morbid appearance
about the heart was a fmall white fpot near the apex. So that the caufe, whatever
its nature might have been, was at too great a diftance, or of too fubtile a nature, to
come under the infpedtion of the anatomift. But there was a circumftance in two
of the fubjefls that is worthy of remembrance; and which fhows that the crafis of
the blood, while they were living, rnuft have been greatly injured, namely, its not
coagulating, but remaining of a cream-like confidence, without any feparation into
ferum and craftamentum.
From all that we have feen hitherto publifhed, it does not appear that any confi-
nerable advances have been made towards the actual cure of this anomalous fpafm.
The very judicious and attentive Dr. Heberden (to whom the public are highly in-
debted for firft making the diforder known) confeffes, that bleeding, vomits, and
other evacuations, have not appeared to do any good : wine and cordials, taken at
bed-time, will fometimes prevent or weaken the fits ; but nothing does this fo effec-
tually as opiates : in fhort, the medicines ufually called nervous or cordial, fuch as
relieve and quiet convulfive motions, and invigorate the ianguifbing principle of
life, are what he recommends. Dr. Wall mentions one patient, out of the 12 or 13
that he had feen, who applied to him early in the difeafe, and was relieved confider-
ably by the ufe of antimonial medicines joined with the fetid gums : he was ftill liv-
ing at the time that the Dodlor wrote his paper (November 1772), and going about
with tolerable eafe. Two were carried off by other diforders ; all the reft died fud-
denly. Dr. Fothergilfs directions are chiefly calculated with the view to prevent the
diforder
AND OCCUL T SCIENCE. 229
diforder from gaining ground, and to alleviate prefent diftrels. Accordingly he
enjoins fuch a kind of diec as may be moft likely to prevent irritability : in particu-
lar, not to eat voracioufly : to be ftridtly abftemious in refpecl to every thing
heating •, fpices, fpirits, wines, and all fermented liquors : to guard moll lcrupu-
loufly againft paflion, or any vehement emotions ; and to make ufe of all the ufual
means of eftablifliing and preferving general health : to mitigate exceflfes of irritabi-
lity by anodynes •, or pains, if they quicken the circulation : to difperfe flatulencies
when they diftend the ftomach, by moderate dofes of carminatives ; amongft which,
perhaps, Ample peppermint-water may be reckoned one of the fafeft. But, fince
obefity is juftly confldered as a principal predifpofing caufe, he infills llrongly on
the neceflity of preventing an increafe of fat, by a vegetable diet, and ufing every
other practicable method of augmenting the thinner fecretions. Thefe were the
only means which occurred to the Englilh phyficians of oppofing this formidable
difeafe.—In my own practice I have never known the Solar Tincture to fail in remo-
ving by degrees this dangerous diforder. The cafes indeed that have occurred to
me have been very few ; and my uniform practice has been to order a wine-glafs of
the Tincture, diluted with water, to be taken at going to bed; and, in thofe where
the diforder had gained great afcendency, I prefcribed a like quantity to be taken
at getting up in the morning, at leaft an hour before breakfaft. This has always
rendered the attacks lefs violent, and at laft totally removed them. Two table
fpoonfuls of the Tindture undiluted Ihould be adminiftered, if poflible, during the
hieght of the paroxyfm, which will generally give immediate eafe.
Dr. Smyth of Ireland has, we are told, difcovered that it may be certainly cured
by iflues, of which Dr. Macbride gives the following inltance :
“ A. B. a tall well-made man ; rather large than otherwife ; of healthy parents,
except that there had been a little gout in the family ; temperate ; being very atten-
tive to the bufinefs of his trade (that of a watch-maker), led a life uncommonly fe-
dentary ;
had, from his boyhood upwards, been remarkably fubjedt to alarming
inflammations of his throat, which feizedhim at leaft once in |the courfe of the year;
in all other refpedts well. In 1767 (then 48 eight years of age), he was taken,
without any evident caufe, with a fudden and very difpiriting throbbing under the
fternum. It foon afterwards increafed, and returned upon him every third or fourth
week, accompanied with great anxiety, very laborious breathing, choaking, a fen-
fation of fulnefs and diftenflon in the head, bloated and flulhed countenance, turgid
and watery eyes, and a very irregular and unequal pulfe. The paroxyfm invaded him
almoft conftantly while he was fitting after dinner -, now and then he was feized with
it in the morning, when walking a little fafter than ufual ; and was then obliged to
reft on any objedt at hand. Once or twice it came on in bed ; but did not oblige
No. 15. 3
him
23° A KEY TO PHYSIC,
him to fit up, as it was then attended with no great difficulty in breathing. In the af-
ternoon fits, his greatefteafe was from thefupine pofture-, in which he ufed to conti-
nue motionlefs for fome hours, until, quite fpent and worn out with anguiffi, he
dropt into a (lumber. In the intervals between thefe attacks, which at length grew
fo frequent as to return every fourth or fifth day, he was, to appearance, in perfedb
health. Thus matters continued for more than two years ; and various antifpafmodics
were ineffectually tried for his relief. In 1769, there fupervened a very (harp con-
ftridtory pain at the upper part of the fternum, (trenching equally oneach fide, atten-
ded with the former fymptoms of anxiety, dyfpncea, choaking, &c. and with an ex-
cruciating cramp, as he called it, that could be covered with a crown-piece, in each
of his arms, between the elbow and the wrift, exactly at the infertion of the pronator
teres ; the reft of the limb was quite free. The fits were fometimes brought on, and
always exafperated,by any agitation of mind or body. He once attempted to ride on
horfeback during the paroxyfm ; but the experiment was near proving fatal to him.
The difference of feafon or weather made no impreffion upon him. Still, in the inter-
vals, his health was perfectly good ; except that his eyes, which before his illnefs
were remarkably ftrong and clear, were now grown extremely tender •, and that his
fight was much impaired. He had no flatulency of ftomach, and his bowels were re-
gular. In this fituation, February 22, 1770, heapplied to me for affiftance. I had feen,
I believe, eight or ten of thefe frightful cafes before. Two of the patients dropt
dead fuddenly. They were men between 40 and 50 years of age, andof a make fome-
what fleffiy. The fate of the others I was not informed of ; or, atleaft, cannot now
recolleCt. Having found the total inefficacy of blifters and the whole clafs of nervous
medicines in the treatment of this anomalous fpafm, I thought it right to attempt the
correcting or draining off of the irritating fluid in the cafe now before us. To
this purpofe, I ordered a mixture of lime-water with a little of the compound juni-
per-water, and an alterative proportion of Huxham’s antimonial wine: I put the
patient on a plain, light, perfpirable, diet •, and reftrained him from all vifcid, flatu-
lent, and acrimonious, articles. By purfuing this courfe, he was foon apparently
mended ; but, after he had perfifted regularly in it for at lead two months, he kept
for fome time at a ftand. I then ordered a large iffue to be opened on each of his
thighs. Only one was made. However, as foon as it began to difcharge, he amend-
ed. The frequency and feverity of the fits abated considerably ;
and he con-
tinued improving gradually, until, at the end of 18 mbnths, he was reftored to per-
fect health ; which he has enjoyed, without the lead interruption, till now, except
when he has been tempted (perhaps once in a twelvemonth) to tranfgrefs rules, by
making a large meal on faked meat, or indulging himfelf in ale or rum-punch, each
oi which never failed todiforder him from the beginning of his- illnefs : but even on
: thefe
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 231
thefe occafions, he has felt no more than the flighted: motion of his former fufferings •»
infomuch that he would defpife the attack, if it did not appear to be of the fame
flock with his old complaint. No other caufe has had the lead; ill effedl on him.
Though rum was conftantly hurtful, yet punch, made with a maceration of black
currants in our vulgar corn-fpirit, is a liquor that agrees remarkably well with him.
He never took any medicine after the ifiue began to difcharge ;
and I have directed
that it fhall be kept open as long as he lives. The inflammations of his throat have
difappeared for five years paft ; he has recovered the ftrength and clearnels of his
fight; and his health feems now to be entirely re-eftablifhed.”
Dr. Mackbride, in a letter to Dr. Duncan, publifhed in the Edinburgh Medical
Commentaries, gives the following additional obfervations on this difeafe :
“ Within thefe few weeks I have, at the defire of Dr. Smyth, vifited, three or
four times, a very ingenious man who keqps on academy in this city, of about 34
years of age, who applied to the dodtor fof his advice in January laft. 1 fhall give
you his fymptoms as I had them from his own mouth, which appear to me to mark
his oafe to be an angina peftoris, and as deplorable as any that I have read of. It
was ftrongly diftinguifhed by the exquifite conftridtory pain of the fternum, extend-
ing to each of his arms as far as the infertion of the deltoid mufcle, extreme anxiety,
laborious breathing, ftrangling, and violent palpitation of the heart, with a molt
irregular pulfe. The paroxyfms were fo frequent, that he fcarcely ever efcaped
a day, for fix or feven years, without one. They were ufually excited by any agi-
tation of mind or body, though flight. He had clear intervals of health between
the fits. The diftemper feems hereditary in him, as he fays his father was affedted
in the fame manner fome years previous to his death. He has a ftrong gouty taint,
which never fhowed itfelf in his limbs ; and he has led a life of uncommon fedenta-
rinefs, from intenfe application to mathematical ftudies, attention of mind, and
paflion, even from his boyifh years. Thefe circumftances may, perhaps, account
for his having been taken with this difeafe at fo early an age as 17. A large ifiue
was immediately opened in each of his thighs. In a month afterwards he began to
mendj and has gone on improving gradually. He can now run up flairs brifkly, as
I faw him do no later than yeflerday, without hurt ; can bear agitation of mind ;
and has no complaint, excepting a flight opprefiion of the breafl, under the iter-
num, which he feels fometimes in a morning, immediately after drefllng himfelf, and
which he thinks is brought on by the motion ufed in putting on his c loaths ;
though
for a complete week preceding the day on which I faw him laft, he told me that he
had been entirely free from all uneafinefs, and was exulting that he had not had luch
an interval ofeafe for thefe laft feven years. Doftor Smyth alfo fhowed me, in his ad-
verfaria, the cafe of a gentleman who had been under his care in 1760, which he
had
rp A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
had forgotten when my book went to the prefs, which he was'reminded of the other
day -by a viiit from his patient. It was a genuine angina pedtoris, brought on by a
very fedentary life, and great vexation of mind, clearly marked by the exquifite
pain under the fternum, that extended acutely to the upper extremities, particularly
along the left arm, together with the other fymptoms of dyfpncea, anxiety, palpi-
tation of the heart, &c. recited in the cafe above. Thediforder went off in 1762, by
large fpontaneous difcharges from the piles, but returned upon him feverely in
1765. Ilfues in his thighs were then recommended to him, but not made. But,
whether it was by the perfuafion of fome friend, or of his own accord, he went into
a courfe of James’s powder, in fmall alterative dofes, combined with a little caftor
and afafoetida. This he perfifted in for about fix weeks •, in the mean while, he had
large acrimonious gleetings from the fcrotum, and a plentiful difcharge of ichor
from the anus.—From this time he began to find his complaints grow lefs and lefs
diftrefling, and he has now been totally free from them for fix years paft.”
Dangerous Affection of the (ESOPHAGUS.
This diftemper has only been treated of by Dr. Muncldey, who reckons it one of
the moft deplorable difeafesof the human body. Its beginning is in general fo flight
as to be fcarcely worth notice, the patients perceiving only a fmall impediment to the
fwallowing of folid food : they ufually continue in this ftate for many months •, du-
ring which, all liquid foods, and even folids themfelves when cut fmall and fwal-
lowed leifurely, are got down without much difficnlty : by degrees the evil increafes,
and the paffage through the oefophagus becomes fo narrow, that not the fmalleft
folid whatever can pafs through it ; but, after having been detained for fome time
at the part where the obftacle is formed, is returned again with a hollow noife of a
very peculiar kind, and with the appearance of convulfion. The feat of this malady
is fometimes near the top of the oefophagus, and at other times father down, nearer
the fuperior orifice of the ftomach. In this laft cafe, the part of the alimentary tube
which is above the obftrudtion is frequently fo dilated by the food which is detained
in it as to be capable of containing a large quantity •, and the kind of vomiting, by
which it is again returned through the mouth, comes on fooner or later after the at-
tempt to fwallow, in proportion to the nearnefs or remotenefs of the part affedted.
In the laft ftage of this difeafe, not even liquids themfelves can be fwallowed fo as to
pafs into the ftomach, and the patient dies literally ftarved to death. On the dififec-
tion of fuch as have died in this manner, the oefophagus is found to be confiderably
thickened ; and in fome fo contradted within at the difeafed part, as fcarcely to
admit the palling of a common probe j in others, to adhere together in fuch a
2 manner
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
manneras entirely toclofeup the paffage, and notto be feparated without great diffi-
culty. He comes next to ffiew what he has found to be the moft efficacious method
of treating this difeafe, which, though not uncommon, yet in general has been con-
fidered as incurable. He claims not the merit of having difcovered the method of
cure, but hopes that fome fervice may arife from publiffiing what his experience has
confirmed to him •, having firft received the hint from another eminent phyfician.
The only medicine, then, from theufeof which he has ever found any fervice, is mer-
cury; and in cafes which are recent, and where the fymptoms have not rifen to any
great height, fmalldofes of mercury given every night, and prevented, by purga-
tive medicines, from affedting the mouth, have accompliffied the cure. But where
the complaint has been of long {landing, and the fymptom has come on of the food’s
being returned through the mouth, a more powerful method of treatment becomes
neceflary. In this cafe he has never found any thing of the Jeaft avail in removing
any of the fymptoms but mercury ufed in fuch a manner as to raife a gentle but
conflant fpitting : and this method he has purfued with the happieft fuccefs. If
this method be commenced before the complaint has gained too much ground upon
the conftitution, the cafe is notto be defpaired of; and, of thofe who have corne un-
der his care in this (late, by much the greater part have received confiderable benefit
from it, and many have been entirely cured. The complaint itfelf, he obferves, is
not very uncommon ; but there is no inftance, to his knowledge, recorded, of fuc-
cefs from any other manner of treating it than that he has recommended.
OBSERVATIONS on the MEANS of PRESERVING HEALTH.
I. Rules for the Management of Valetudinarians.
That part of the medical fyftem which lays down rules for theprefervation of health
and prevention of dileafes, termed Hygeine, is not to be ftridlly underftood as if it
refpedted only thofe people who enjoy perfedt health, and who are under no appre-
henfions of difeafe, for fuch feldom either defire or attend to medical advice ; but
ffiould rather be confidered as relating to valetudinarians, or to fuch as, though not
adtually Tick, may yet have fufficient reafon to fear that they will foon become fo :
hence it is that the rules muft be applied to corredt morbific difpcfitions, and to ob-
viate the various things that are known to be the remote or poffible caufes of dif-
eafes. From the way in which the feveral temperaments are ufually mentioned by
fyftematic writers, it ffiould ieem as if they meant that every particular conftitution
muft be referred to one or other of the four; but this is far from being reducible to
pradlice, fince by much the greater number of people have conftitutions fo indif-
tindlly marked, that it is hard to fay to which of the temperaments they belong.
No. 15. 3 O When
234 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
\\ hen we actually meet with particular perfons who have evidently either, i. Too
much ftrengch and rigidity of fibre, and too much fenfibility; 2. Too little ftrength,
and yet too much fenfibility; 3. Too much ftrength, and but little fenfibility? or,
4. But little fenfibility joined to weaknefs ; we fhould look on fuch perfons as more
or lefs in the valetudinary ftate, who require that thcfe morbific difpofitions be parti-
cularly watched, left they fall into thofe difeafes which are allied to the different
temperaments.
People of the firft-mentioned temperament being liable to fuffer from continued
fevers, efpecially of the inflammatory fpecies, their fcheme of preferving health
fhould confift in temperate living, with refpeft both to diet and exercife ; they
fhould ftudioufly avoid immoderate drinking, and be remarkably cautious left any
of the natural difcharges be checked. People of this habit bear evacuations well,
efpecially bleeding: they ought not, however, to lofe blood but when they really
require to have the quantity leffened •, becaufetoo much of this evacuation would be
apt to reduce the conftitution to the fecond-mentioned temperament, wherein
ftrength is deficient, but fenfibility redundant.
Perfons of the fecond temperament are remarkably prone to fuffer from painful
and fpafmodic difeafes, and are eafily ruffled ; and thofe of the fofter fex who have
this delicacy of habit are very much difpofed to hyfterical complaints. The fcheme
here fhould be, to ftrengthen the folids by moderate exercife, cold bathing, the Pe-
ruvian-bark, and chalybeate-waters-, particular attention fhould conftantly be had
to the ftate of the digeftive organs, to prevent them from being overloaded with any
fpecies of faburra which might engender flatus, or irritate the fenfible membranes of
the ftomach and inteftines, from whence the diforder would foon be communicated
to the whole nervous fyftem. Perfons of this conftitution fhould never take any of
the draftic purges, nor ftrong emetics ; neither fhould they lofe blood but in cafes
of urgent neceflity. But a principal fhare of management, in thefeextremely-irritable
'conftitutions, confifts in avoiding all fudden changes of every fort, efpecially thofe
with refpefl to diet and clothing, and in keeping the mind as much as pofflble in a
ftate of tranquillity : hence the great advantages which people of this frame derive
from the ufe of medicinal waters drunk on thefpot, becaufe of that freedom from
care and ferious bufinefs of every kind which generally obtains in all the places
laid out for the reception of valetudinarians.
The third mentioned temperament, where there is an excefs of ftrength and but
little fenfibility, does not feem remarkably prone to any diftreffing or dangerous
fpecies of difeafe ; and therefore it can hardly be fuppofed that perfons fo circum-
ftanced
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 235
ftanced will either of themfelves think of any particular fcheme of management, or
haV6 recourfe to the faculty for their inftrubtions : fuch conftitutions, however, we
may oblerve, bear ail kinds of evacuations well, and fometimes require them to
prevent an over-fulnefs, which might end in an oppreflion of the brain or fome othei
organ of importance.
But the fourth temperament, where we have weaknefs joined to want of fenfibi-
lity, is exceedingly apt to'fall into tedious and dangerous difeafes, arifing from a
defedt of abforbent power in the proper fets of veflfels, and from remiflhefs of the
circulation in general •, whence corpulency, dropfy, jaundice, and different degrees
of fcorbutic affedlion. In order to prevent thefe, or any other fpecies of accumula-
tion and depravation of the animal fluids, the people of this conftitution fhould ufe
a generous courfe of diet, with brifk exercife, and be careful that none of the fecre-
tions be interrupted, nor any of the natural difeharges fupprefied. Thefe conftitu-
tions bear purging well, and often require it •, as alfo the ufe of emetics, which are
frequently found neceflary to fupply the place of exercife, by agitating the abdo-
minal vifeera, and are of fervice to prevent the flagnation of bile, or the accumula-
tion of mucous humours, which hinder digeftion, and clog the fir ft paflages. The
free ufe of muftard, horfe-radifh, and the like fort of ftimulating dietetics, is fervice-
able in thefe torpid habits.
When the general mafs of fluids is accumulated beyond what is conducive to the
perfedtion of health, there arifes what the writers term a plethora, which may prove
the fource of different difeafes-, and therefore, when this over-fulnefs begins to pro-
duce languor and oppreflion, care fhould be taken in time to reduce the body to a
proper ftandard, by abridging the food and increafing the natural difeharges, ufing
more exercife, and indulging lefs in fleep. But in oppofite circumftances, where the
fluids have been exhaufted, we are to attempt the prevention of further wafte by
the ufe of ftrengthening ftomachics, a nourifhing diet, and indulgence from fa-
tigue of body or mind. Vitiated fluids are to be confidered as affedted either
with the different kinds of general acrimony, or as betraying figns of fome of the
fpecies of morbific matter which which give rife to particular difeafes, fuch as gout,
rheumatifm, calculus, feurvy, &c.
During the ftate of infancy, we may fometimes obferve a remarkable acidity,
which not only fhows itlclf in the firft paflages, but alfo feems to contaminate the
general mafs of fluids. As it takes its rife, however, from weak bowels, our views
when we mean to prevent the ill conlequences, mull be chiefly diredled to {Length-
en the digeftive organs, as on their foundnefs the preparation of good chyle depends ;
and hence fmall dofes of rhubarb and chalybe2 tes (either the natural chalybeate wa-
ters
236 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ters mixed with milk, or the flores martiales in dofes of a few grains, according to
the age of the child) are to beadminiftered ;
and the diet is tobc fo regulated as not
to add to this acid tendehcy : brifk txercife islikewife to be enjoined, with fridtions
on theftomach, belly, and lower extremities.
Where the fluids tend to the putrefcent ftace, which fhows itfelf by fetid breath,
fponginefs, and bleeding of the gums, a bloated look and livid caft, the diet then
fhould be chiefly of frefh vegetables and ripe fruits, with wine in moderation, brilk
exercife, and ftrengthening bitters.
Where acrimony fhows itfelf by itching eruptions, uncommon third, and fluk-
ing heats, nothing will anfwer better than fuch fulphureous waters as the Harrow-
gate and Moffat in Britain, or the Lucan Swadlimbar in Ireland ; at the fame time
ufing a courfe of diet that fhal! be neither acrid nor heating.
So far with refpe<tt to thofe kinds of morbific matter which do not invariably pro-
duce a particular fpecies of difeafe : but there are others of a fpecific nature, fome of
which are generated in the body ipontaneoufly, and feem to arife from errors in diet,
or other circumftances of ill management with refpedt to the animal economy ; and
hence it is fometimes poffible, in fome degree if not altogether, to prevent the ill con-
fequences. Thus, there are inftances where returns of the gout have been prevented
by adhering ftri&ly to a milk-diet.
The rheumatifm has alfo been fometimes warded off by wearing a flannel fhirt, or
by ufing the cold bath without interruption.
Calculus may be retarded in itsprogrefs, and preventedfrom creating much diffrefs,
by the internal ufe of foap and lime-water, by foap-lees taken in milk or in veal-
broth, or by the ufe of aerated alkaline water, which may perhaps be confidered as
being both more fafe and more efficacious, and at the fame time more pleafant, than
any of the other practices.
The feurvy may be prevented by warm clothing and perfeverance in brifk exercife,
by drinking wine or cider, and eating freely of fuch vegetable fubftances as can be
had in thofe fituations where this difeafe is moft apt to ffiew itfelf.
In conftitutions where there is an hereditary difpofition to the fcrofula, if early
precautions be taken to ftrengthen the folids by cold bathing, a nouriffiing courfe
of diet, and moderate ufe of wine, the acrimony which rile to the difeafe will proba-
bly be prevented from producing any very bad effects.
The other kinds of morbific matter, which are of the fpecific nature, are received
into the body by infedlion or contagion.
The infection of a putrid fever or dyfentery is beft prevented by immediately
taking an emetic on the firft attack of the ficknefs or Ihivering ; and, if that do not
completely anfwer, let a large blitter be applied between the Ihoulders : by this
1 method
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 237
method the nurfes and other attendants on the fick in the naval hofpitals have often
been preferved. As to other infectious morbific matter, we muft refer to what has
already been faid when treating of hydrophobia, poifons, &c.
The ill effects which may arife from the different fpecies of faburra, are to be ob-
viated, in general, by the prudent adminiftration of emetics, and carefully attain-
ing from fuch kinds of food as are known to caufe the accumulation of noxious
matters in the firft paffages.
Crude vegetables, milk, butter, and other oily fubftances, are to be avoided by
perfons troubled with a fournefs in the ftomach ; brifk exercife, efpecially riding,
is to be ufed, and they are to refrain from fermented liquors : the common drink
fhould be pure water ; or water with a very little of fome ardent fpirit, fuch as rum
or brandy. Seltzer and Vahls water are to be drunk medicinally ; and aromatic bit-
ters, infufions, or tin&ures, with the acid elixir of vitriol, from 10 to 20 drops,
will be found ferviceable, in order to ftrengthen the fibres of the ftomach, and pro-
mote the expulfion of its contents, thereby preventing the too hafty fermentation of
the alimentary mixture. In order to procure immediate relief, magnefia alba, or
creta and praeparata, will feldom fail ; the magnefia, as weft as the chalk, may be
made into lozenges, with a little fugar and mucilage •, and in that form may be
carried about and taken occafionally by people afflidted with the acid faburra.
In conftitutions where there is an exuberance or ftagnation of bile, and a trouble-
fome bitternefs in the mouth, it is necefiary to keep the bowels always free, by ta-
king occafionally fmall dofes of pure aloes, oleum ricini, cream of tartar, fome of
the common purging falts, or the natural purging waters.
When there is a tendency to the empyreumatic and rancid faburra, people ftiould
carefully avoid all the various kinds of thofe oily and high-feafoned things generally
termed made-difhes, and eat fparingly of plain meat, without rich fauces or much
gravy ; and in thefe cafes the moft proper drink is pure water.
II. Rul es for thofe who enjoy perfed Health.
There can be no doubt, that, in general, temperance is the true foundation of
health •, and yet the ancient phyficians, as we may fee in the rules laid down by
Celfus, did not fcruple to recommend indulgence now and then, and allowed peo-
ple to exceed both in eating and drinking : but it is fafer to proceed to excefs in
drink than in meat •, and, if the debauch ftiould create any extraordinary or diftreffmg
degree of pain or ficknefs, and a temporary fever fhould enfue, there are two ways of
fhaking it off, either to lie in bed and encourage perfpiration, or to get on horfe-
No. 16. 3 P back
23S A KEY TO PHYSIC,
back and by brifk exercife reftore the body to its natural ftate. The choice of thefe
two methods muft always be determined by the peculiar circumftances of the parties
concerned, and from the experience which they may before have had which agrees
belt with them.
If a perfon fhould commit excels in eating, efpecially of high-feafoned things,
'with rich fauces, a draught of cold water, acidulated with vitriolic acid, will take
off the fenfe of weight at the ftomach, and aflift digeftion, by moderating and keep-
ing within bounds the alimentary fermentation, and thus preventing the generation
of too much flatus. The luxury of ices may be here of real fervice at the tables of
the great, as producing flmilar effedts with the cold water acidulated. Perfons in
thefe circumftances ought not to lay themfelves down to fleep, but fhould keep up
and exercife until they are fenfible that the ftomach is unloaded, and that they no
longer feel any opprefllve weight about the prascordia.
If a man be obliged to faft, he ought, if poflible, during that time, to avoid la-
borious work : after fuffering fevere hunger, people ought not at once to gorge and
fill themfelves •, nor is it proper, after being over-filled, to enjoin an abfolute faft
:
neither is it fafe to reft totally immediately after exceflive labour, nor fuddenly fall
hard to work after having been long without motion : in a word, all changes fhould
be made by gentle degrees for, though the conftitution of the human body be fuch
that it can bear many alterations and irregularities without much danger, yet, when
the tranfitions are extremely fudden, they cannot fail of producing fome kind or
degree of diforder.
It is alfo the advice of Celfus to vary the fcenes of life, and not confine ourfelves
to any fettled rules : but as inadtion renders the body weak and liftlefs, and exercife
gives vigour and ftrength, people fhould never long omit riding, walking, or go-
ing abroad in a carriage ; fencing, playing at tennis, dancing, or other fimilar en-
gagements, which afford both exercife and amufement, as each fhall be found mod
agreeable or convenient, are to be ufed in their turns, according to the circumftan-
ces and tendency to any particular fpecies of difeafe. But, when the weaknefs of old
age fhall have rendered the body incapable of all thefe, then dry fridlions with the
flefh-brufh will be extremely requifite to preferve health, by accelerating the flow
of humours through the fmalleft orders of veffels, and preventing the fluids from
ftagnating too long in the cellular interftices of the flefhy parts.
Sleep is the great reftorer of ftrength *, for, during this time, the nutritious par-
ticles appear to be chiefly applied to repair the wafte, and replace thofe that have
been abraded and wafhed off by the labour and exercife of the day. But too much
indulgence in fleep has many inconveniencies, both with refpeft to body and mind,
as it blunts the fenfes, and encourages the fluids to ftagnate in the cellular mem-
brane 5
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 239
Rrane; whence corpulency, and its neceffary confequences languor and weaknefe.
The proper time for fleep is the night feafon, when darknefs and filence naturally
bring it on : therefore day-deep in general is not fo refrefhing ; and to fome people
is really diftrefsful, as creating an unufual giddinefs and languor, efpecially in per-
ions addifted to literary purfuits. Cuftom, however, frequently renders deep in the
day neceffary; and in thofe conftitmions where it is found to give real refrelhment it
ought to be indulged.
With regard to the general regimen of diet, it has always been held as a rule, that
thefofterand milder kinds of aliment are mod proper for children and younger
fubjedts; that grown perfons fhould eat what is more fubftantial; and old people
leffen their quantity of folid food, and increafe that of their drink.
Of FIXED AIR as a Medicine.
THE antifeptic qualities of fixed air, or as it is now more generally called of the-
aerial or carbonic acid, have of late introduced it as a medicine in cafes of putrid
diforders,. and various other complaints. —Dr. Percival obferves, that, though fatal
if infpired in a very large quantity, it may in fmaller quantities be breathed without
danger or uneafinefs. And it is a confirmation of this conclufion, that at Bath,,
where the waters copioufly exhale this mineral fpirit, the bathers infpire it with im-
punity. At Buxton alfo, where the bath is in a clofe vault, the effedts of fuch ef-
fluvia,. if noxious, muft certainly be perceived.
Encouraged by thefe and fome other confiderations, he has adminifiered fixed air
in more than 30 cafes of the phthifis pulmonalis, by directing his patients to infpire
the fleams of an effervefcing mixture of chalk and vinegar through the fpout of a
coffee-pot. The hedtic fever has in feveral inftances been confiderably abated, and
the matter expedtorated has become lefs offenfive and better digefted. He has not,
however, been fo fortunate in any one cafe as to effedt a cure ; although the ufe of
mephitic air has been accompanied with proper internal medicines. But Dr. With-
ering has been more fuccefsful. One phthifical patient under his care, by a fimilar
courfe, entirely recovered. ; another was rendered much better and a third, whofc
cafe was truly deplorable, feemed to be kept alive by it more than two months. It
may be proper to obferve, that fixed air can only be employed with any profpedl: of
fuccefs in the latter ftages of the phthifis pulmonalis, when a purulent expedloration
takes place. After the rupture and difcharge of a vomica alfo, fuch a remedy pro-
mifes to be a powerful palliative. Antifeptic fumigations and vapours have been
long employed, and much extolled, in cafes of. this kind. The following expert
1 ment
ment was made to determine whether their efficacy in any degree depends on the re-
paration of fixed air from their fubftance.
One end of the bent tube was fixed in a phial full of lime-water ; the other end
in a bottle of the tindure of myrrh. The junctures were carefully luted ; and the
phial containing the tindure of myrrh was placed in water, heated almoft to the
boiling point, by the lamp of a tea-kettle. A number of air-bubbles were fepara-
ted, but probably not of the mephitic kind-, for no precipitation enfuedin the lime-
water. This experiment was repeated with the tinSi. TolutanaPh. Ed. and with fp.
vinof. camph. and the refult was entirely the fame. The medicinal adion therefore
of the vapours raifed from fuch tindures cannot be afcribed to the extrication of
fixed air, of which it is probable bodies are deprived by chemical folution as well
as by mixture.
If mephitic air be thus capable of correding purulent matter in the lungs, we may
reafonably infer it will be equally ufeful when applied externally to foul ulcers-, and
experience confirms the conclufion. Even the fanies of a cancer, when the carrot-
poultice failed, has been Sweetened by it, the pain mitigated, and a better digeftion
produced. But, though the progrefs of the cancer feems to be checked by the fixed
air, it is to be feared that a cure will not be effeded. A palliative remedy, however,
in a difeafe fo defperate and loathfome, may be confidered as a very valuable acqui-
sition. Perhaps nitrous air might be ftill more efficacious. This Species of fadiri-
ous air is obtained from all the metals, except zinc, by means of the nitrous acid -,
as a fweetner and antifeptic, it far furpaffes fixed air.
In the ulcerous fore throat, much advantage has been experienced from the va-
pours of efferveScing mixtures drawn into the fauces. But this remedy fhould not
fuperSede the ufe of other antifeptic applications.
In malignant fevers, wines abounding with fixed air may be adminiftered to check
the Septic ferment, and Sweeten the putrid colluvies in the primrn vim. If the laxa-
tive quality of Such liquors be thought an objedion to the ufe of them, wines of a
greater age may be given, impregnated with aerial acid.—The patient’s common
drink might alfo be medicated in the fame way. A putrid diarrhoea frequently oc-
curs in the latter ftage of fuch diforders -, and it is a molt alarming and dangerous
Symptom. If the difcharge be flopped by aftringents, a putrid fomes is retained in
the body, which aggravates the delirium, and increafes the fever. On the contrary,
if it be Suffered to take its courfe, the ftrength of the patient mufl Soon be exhaufted,
and death unavoidably enfue. The injedion of mephitic air into the inteflines, un-
der thefe -circumftances, bids fair to be highly Serviceable. And in Some cafes of
this kind, the gas emitted from a mixture of chalk and oil of vitriol, conveyed into
the body by the machine employed for tobacco-clyffers, quickly reflrained the
diarrhoea.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. i4i
diarrhoea, corrected the heat and fetor of the (tools, and in a fhort-timc removed
every fymptom ofdanger.
As a folvent of the calculus, its virtues have been already mentioned ; but the
experiments made on that fubjed do not determine the matter with fufficient accu-
racy.
Of MEDICAL ELECTRICITY.
THE application of this fubtile fluid to medicinal purpofes was thought of foon
after the difcovery of the eledric fhock •, and, after various turns of reputation, its
medical virtues feem now to be pretty well eftablifhed. Mr. Cavallo, who has pub-
1 iflaed the latefl: and the bed treatifeon Medical Eledricity, entirely difapproves of
giving violent (hocks, and finds it mod: efficacious to expofe the patient to the elec-
trical aura difcharged from an iron or a wooden point ; or, if (hocks are given, they
fhould be very flight, and not exceed 12 or 14 at a time. In this way he recom-
mends it as effedual in a great number ofdilorders. The patient may be eledrified
from three to ten minutes : but, if fparks are drawn, they (hould not exceed the
number of (hocks above mentioned.
Rheumatic diforders, even of long (landing, are relieved, and generally quite
cured, by only drawing the eledric fluid with a wooden point from the part, or by
drawing fparks through flannel. The operation (hould be continued for about four
or five minutes, repeating it once or twice every day.
The gout, extraordinary as it may appear, has certainly been cured by means of
eledricity, in various inftances. The pain has been generally mitigated, and fome-
times the difeafe has been removed fo well as not to return again. In thole cafes,
the eled ric fluid has been thrown by means of a wooden point, although fometimes,
when the pain was too great, a metal point only has been ufed.
Deafnefs, except when it is occafioned by obliteration or other improper configu-
ration of the parts, is either entirely or partly cured by drawing the fparks from the
ear with the glafs-tube diredor, or by drawing the fluid with a wooden point. Some-
times it is not improper to fend exceedingly fmall (hocks (for inftance, of one-thir-
teenth of an inch) from one ear to the other.—It has been conftantly obferved, that,
whenever the ear is eledrified, the difcharge of the wax is confiderably promoted.
The toothach, occafioned by cold, rheumatifm, or inflammation, is generally
relieved by drawing the eledric fluid with a point, immediately from the parr, and
alfo externally from the face. But, when the body of the tooth is affeded, eledriza-
tion is of no ufe ; for it feldom or never relieves the diforder, and fometimes increa-
fes the pain to a prodigious degree.
No. 16. 3 Q_ Inflammations
242 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Inflammations of every fort are generally relieved by a very gentle electrization.
In inflammations of the eyes, the throwing of the electric fluid by means of a wood-
en point is often attended with great benefit ; the pain being quickly abated, and
the inflammation being generally diffipated in a few days. In thefe cafes, the eye of
the patient muft be kept open ; and care fnould be taken not to bring the wooden
point very near it, for fear of caufing any fpark. Sometimes it is fufficient to throw
the fluid with a metal point •, for in thefe cafes, too great irritation fhould be always
avoided. It is not neceflary to continue this operation for three or four minutes
without intermiflion *, but, after throwing the fluid for about half a minute, a fhort
time may be allowed to the patient to reft and to wipe his tears, which generally flow
very copioufly : then the operation may be continued again for another half minute,
and fo on for four or five times every day. The gutta ferena has been fometimes
cured dy electrization ;
but at the fame time it muft be confefled, it has proved in-
effectual in many fuch cafes, in which it was adminiftered for a long time and with
all poffible attention. However, it has never been known that any body was made
worfe by it. The beft method of adminiftering eleCtricity in fuch cafes, is firft to
draw the eleCtric fluid with a wooden point for a fhort time, and then to lend about
half a dozen of fhocks of one- twentieth or an inch from the back and lower part of
the head to the forehead, very little above the eye. A remarkable difeafe of the eye
was fome time ago perfectly cured by electrization •, it was an opacity of the vitreous
humour of the eyes. All the cafes of flftula lacrymalis, which Mr. Cavallo hath
known to have been electrified by perfons of ability for a fufficient time, have been
entirely cured. The method generally praCtifed has been that of drawing the fluid
with a wooden point, and to take very final 1 fparks from the part. The operation
may be continued for about three or four minutes every day. It is remarkable, that
in thofe cafes, after curing the fiftula lacrymalis, no other difeafe was occafionedby it,
as blindnefs, inflammations, &c. by fuppreffing that difcharge.
Palfies are feldom perfectly cured by means of eleCVricity, efpecially when they
are of long Handing ; but they are generally relieved to a certain degree. The me-
thod of electrifying in thofe cafes is to draw the fluid with the wooden point, and
to bring fparks through flannel, or through the ufual coverings of the part if they
are not too thick. The operation may be continued for about five minutes per day.
Ulcers, or open fores of every kind, even of a long Handing, are generally difpo-
fed to heal by eleCtrizat'on. The general effeCts are a diminution of the inflamma-
tion, and at firft a promotion of the difcharge of properly-formed matter ; which
difcharge gradually leflens, according as the limits of the fore contract, till it be
quite cured. In thefe cafes the gentleft electrization muft be ufed, in order to avoid
too great an irritation, which is generally hurtful. To draw or throw the fluid with
a wooden
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 243
a wooden or even with a metal point, for three or four minutes per day, is fully
iufficient.
Cutaneous eruptions have been fuccefsfully treated with electrization: but in
thefe cafes it muft be obferved, that if the wooden point be kept too near the fkin,
fo as to caufe any confiderable irritation, the eruption wili be caufed to fpread more;
but if the point be kept at about fix inches diftance, or farther, if the electrical
machine be very powerful, the eruptions will be gradually diminifhed, till they are
quite cured. In this kind of difeafe, the immediate and general effeCt of the wooden
point is to occafion a warmth about the electrified part, which is always a fign that
the electrization is rightly adminiftered.
The application of eleCtricity has perfectly cured various cafes of St. Vitus’s dance,
or of that difeafe which is commonly called fo ; for it is the opinion of fome very
learned phyficians, that the real difeafe called St. Vitus’s dance, which formerly was
more frequent than it is at prefent, is different from that which now gees under that
name. In this difeafe, (hocks of about one-tenth of an inch may be fent through the
body in various directions, and alfo fparks may be taken. But, if this treatment
prove very difagreeable to the patient, then the fhocks muft be leffened, and even
omitted ;
infteadof which, fome other more gentle applications muft be fubftituted.
Scrophulous tumours, when they are juft beginning, are generally cured by draw-
ing the eleCtric fluid with a wooden or metal point from the part. This is one of
thofe kinds of difeafes in which the aCtion of eleCtricity requires particularly the
aid of other medicines in order to effeCt a cure m, ore eafily •, for fcrophulous af-
fections commonly accompany a great laxity of the habit, and a general cachexy,
which muft be obviated by proper remedies.
In cancers, the pains only are commonly alleviated by drawing the eleCtric fluid
with a wooden or metal point. Mr. Cavallo, however, mentions one cafe in which
a moft confirmed cancer of very long ftanding, on the breaft of a woman, had been
much reduced in fize. It is remarkable, that this patient was fo far relieved by draw-
ing the fluid with a metal point from the part, that the excruciating pains (he had
buffered for many years did almoft entirely difappear •, but, when the eleCtric fluid
was drawn by means of a wooden point, the pains rather inereafed.
Abfceffes, when they are in their beginning, and in general whenever there is any
tendency to form matter, are difperfed by electrization. Lately, in a cafe in which
matter was formed upon the hip, called thelumbar abfeefs, the difeafe was perfectly
cured by means of cleCtricity. The fciatica has alfo been often cured by it. In all
fuch cafes, the eleCtric fluid muft be fent through the part by means of two directors
applied to oppefite parts, and in immediate contaCt either with the fkin, or with
the coverings, when thefe are very thin. It is very remarkable, that the mere
pafiage
244 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
paffage of eledric fluid in this manner is generally felt by the patients afllided with
thofe diforders nearly as much as a fmall fhock is felt by a perfon in good health.
Sometimes a few fhocks have been alfo given, but itfeems more proper to omit
them •, becaufe fometimes, inftead of difperfing, they rather accelerate the forma-
tion of matter.
In cafes of pulmonary inflammation?, when they are in the beginning, eledriza-
tion has been fometimes beneficial ; but in confirmed difeaies of the lungs it does
not feem to have ever afforded any unqueftionable benefit ; however, itfeems that
in fuch cafes the power of eledricity has been but feldom tried.
Nervous headachs, even of a long {landing, are generally cured by electrization.
For this difeafe, the eledric fluid mud be thrown with a wooden and fometimes
even with a metal point, all round the head fucceflively. Sometimes exceedingly
fmall fhocks have been adminifte'red ; but thefe can feldom be ufed, becaufe the
nerves of perfons fubjed to this difeafe are fo very irritable, that the {hocks, the
fparks, and fometimes even the throwing the eledric fluid with a wooden point kept
very near the head, throw them into convulfions.
The application of eledricity has often been found beneficial in the dropfy when
juft beginning, or rather in the tendency to a dropfy ; but it has never been of any
ufe in advanced dropfies. In fuch cafes, the eledric fluid is lent through the part,
in various diredions, by means of two directors, and fparks are alfo drawn acrofs
the flannel or the clothes ;
keeping the metal rod in contad with them, and fhifting
it continually from place to place. This operation fhould be continued at leaft ten
minutes, and fhould be repeated once or twice a-day.—-Perhaps in thofe cafes, a
Ample electrization (viz. to infulate the patient, and to conned him with the prime
condudor whilft the machine is an adion), continued for a confiderable time, as
an hour or two, would be more beneficial.
Swellings in general, which do not contain any matter, are frequently cured by
drawing the eledric fluid with a wooden point. The operation fhould be continued
for three or four minutes every day.—It is very remarkable, that, in fome cafes of
white fwellings quite cured by means of eledricity, the bones and cartilages were
in fome meafure disfigured.
Agues have not unfrequently been cured by eledricity, fo that fometimes one elec-
trization or two have been fufficient. The moft effedual and fure method has been
that of drawing fparks through flannel, or the clothes, for about ten minutes or a
quarter of an hour. The patients may be eledrified either at the time of the fit or
a fhort while before the time in which it is expeded.
The fuppreflion of the menfes, which is a difeafe of the female fex that often oc-
cafions the moft difagreeable and alarming fymptoms, is often fuccefsfully and fpee-
i dily
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 245
dily cured by means of eleCtricity, even when the difeafe is of long {landing, and
after the moft powerful medicines ufed for it have proved ineffectual. The cafes
of this fort in which electrization has proved ufelefs are fo few, and the fuccefsful
ones fo numerous, that the application of eleCtricity for this difeafe may be juftly
confidered as an efficacious and certain remedy. Great attention and knowledge is
required, in order to diftinguifh the arreft of the menfes from a ftate of pregnancy.
In the former, the applicaton of eleCtricity, as we obferved above, is very benefi-
cial ; whereas, in the latter, it may be attended with very difagreeable effeCts : it is
therefore a matter of great importance to afcertain the real caufe ot the dileale, be-
fore the eleCtricity be applied in thofe t.afes. Pregnant women may be electrified
for other difeafes, but always ufing very gentle means, and directing the eleCtric
fluid through other parts of the body diftant from thofe fubiervient to generation.
In the real fuppreffion of the menfes, final! {hocks, i. e. of about one-twentieth of
an inch, may be fent through the pelvis-, fparks may be taken through the clothes
from the parts adjacent to the feat of the difeafe ; and alfo the eleCtric fluid may be
transmitted by applying the metallic or wooden extremities of two directors to the
hips, in contaCt with the clothes ;
part of which may be removed in cafe they be too
thick. Thofe various applications of eleCtricity fhould be regulated according to
the conftitution of the patient. The number of {hocks may be about 12 or 14. The
other applications may be continued for two or three minutes ;
repeating the ope-
ration every day. But either ftrong {hocks, or a ftronger application of eleCtricity
than the patient can conveniently bear, fhould be avoided; for by thofe means fome-
times more than a fufficient difcharge is occafioned, which is not eafily cured. In
cafes of uterine haemorrhages, it is not known that the application of eleCtricity was
ever beneficial. Perhaps a very gentle electrization, fo as to keep the patient infu-
lated and connected with the prime conductor whilft the eleCtrical machine is in ac-
tion, may be of fome benefit.
In refpeCt to unnatural difcharges and fluxes in general, it may be obferved, that
fome difcharges are quite unnatural or adventitious, as the fiftula lacrymalis -nd
fomefpecies of the venereal difeafe; but others are only increafed natural difcf rges,
fuch as the menfes, perfpiration, &c. Now the power of eleCtricity in general has
been found more beneficial for the firft than for the fecond fort of difcharges, which
are moftly increafed by it.
In the venereal difeafe, electrization has been generally forbidden ;
having com-
monly increafed the pains, and other fymptoms, rather than diminiffied them. In-
deed, confidering that any fort of ftimulus has been found hurtful to perfons affliCted
with that diforder, it is no wonder that eleCtricity has produced fome bad effeCts,
efpecially in the manner it was adminiftered fome time ago, viz. by giving ftrong
t
No. 16. 3 R ffiocks.
246 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fhocks. However, it has been lately obferved, that a very gentle application of
electricity, as drawing the fluid by means of a wooden or metal point, is peculiarly
beneficial in various cafes of this kind, even when thedifeafe has been of long {lan-
ding. Having remarked above, that tumors, when juft beginning, are difperfed,
and that unnatural difcharges are gradually fuppreffed, by a judicious electrization,
it is fuperfluous to defcribe particularly thofe ftates of the venereal difeafe in which
eleClricity may be applied •, it is only neceffary to remind the operator to avoid any
confiderable ftimulus in cafes of this fort.
The application of eleClricity has been found alfo beneficial in other difeafes be-
fides thofe mentioned above ; but, as the faCts are not fufficiently numerous to
afford the deduction of any general rules, we have not thought proper to take any
particular notice of them.
We may laftly obferve, that, in many cafes, the help of other remedies to be pre-
fcribed by the medical praClitioner will be required to afiift the aCtion of eleClricity,
which by itfelf would perhaps be ufelefs j
and, on the other hand, electrization
may often be applied to afiift the aCtion of other remedies, as of fudorifics, ftrength-
ening medicines, &c.
Mr. Lichtenberg with a large eleCtrophorus made fome very curious experiments;
in which, the knob of an electrified phial beingdrawn over the furface of the eleCtric
plate, finely-powdered rofin afterwards fifted upon the place affumed the figure of
ftars and other beautiful ramifications, indicating not only an inclination to arrangi
itfelf in the fame regular order with the cryftals of halts, but to run out into branches
like thofe of vegetables. Thefe experiments have been repeated to great advantage
by the Reverend Mr. Bennet, according to whofe method the figures reprefented
in the annexed Plate were made. The apparatus ufed for making them confifted
only of a common Leyden phial, and a plate of glafs 15 inches fquare covered on one
fide with a varnifh of gum lac diffolved in fpirit of wine and feveral times laid over.
Two ounces of fhell-lac powdered and mixed with fix ounces of fpirit of wine anfwers
very well for this purpofe. The glafs mud be warmed, and the varnilh fpread upon
it with a camel’s- hair pencil. Care muft be taken, however, not to lay it on too
thick, otherwife the effeCt will not follow.—The other fide is covered with tin-foil
laid on with common pafte. When it is to be ufed, the glafs-plate is put upon a
metallic Hand with the tin-foil fide laid undermoft ; the phial is to be charged, and
the knob drawn over the varnilhed fide. Thus any kind of figure may be drawn, or
letters made, as reprefented in the plate ; and from every figure beautiful ramifica-
tions will proceed, longer or fhorter according to the ftrength of the charge. On
fome occafions, however, the charge may be too ftrong, particularly where we wifh
to
[A
ui/r,j
T
W'
-
,
'
'
** ••
/"•Min ,
,
m
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 247
to reprefent letters, fo that the whole will be blended into one confufed mafs. The
round figures are formed by placing metallic rings or plates upon the eledr ical plate
;
and then giving them afpark from the eleftrified bottle, or fending a fhock through
them. The figures may be rendered permament by blowing off the loofe chalk,
and dapping on a piece of black fized paper upon them y or, if they are wanted of
another colour, they may eafily be obtained by means of lake, vermilion, rofe-pink,
or any of the ordinary colours ground very fine.
Electricity feems alfo to be the caufe of cryftallization y which probably is only
an incipient or imperfeft vegetation. Different faks affume different figures in cry-
llallization, and are thus moft eafily diftinguifhed from one another. Each fait is
capable of affuming a very different appearance of the cryftalline kind, when only a
Angle drop of the faline folutionis made ufeof, and thecryftallization viewed through
a microfcope. For our knowledge of this fpecies of cryftallization we are indebted,
to Mr. Henry Baker, who was prefented with a gold medal for the difcovery, in the
year 1744. Thefe microfcopical cryftals he diftinguifhes from the large ones by the
name of configurations y but this term feems inaccurate, and the diftinClion may
well enough be preferved by calling the large ones the common, and the fmall ones
the microfcopical, cryftals of the fait. His method of making thefe obfervations he
gives in the following words t
“ I diffolve the fubjeft to be examined in no larger a quantity of rain or river
water than I am. certain it is fufficient tofaturate. If it is a body eafily diffolvable,.
I make ufe of cold water y otherwife I make the water warm, hot, or even boiling,
according as I find it neceffary. After it is perfectly difiolved, I let it reft for fome
hours, till, if overcharged, the redundant faline particles may be precipitated and
fettle to the bottom, or {hoot into cryftals ; by which means I am moft likely to have
a folution of the fame ftrength at onetime as at another y that is, a folution fully
charged with as much as it can hold up, and no more-, and by thefe precautions thecon-
figurations appear alike, howoften foever tried: whereas, if the water be lefs fatura-
ted, the proportions at different times will befubje&to more uncertainty; and, if exa-
mined before fuch feparation and precipitation of the redundant falts, little more
will be feen than a confufed mafs of cryftals. The folution being thus prepared, l
take up a drop of it with a goofe-quill cut in fafliion of a fcoop, and place it on a
flat flip of glals of about three quarters of an inch in width, and between three and
four inches long, fpreading it on the glafs with the quill, in either a round or an
oval figure, till it appears a quarter of an inch, or more, in diameter, and fo (hal-
low as to rife very little above the furface of the glafs. When it is fo difpofed, I hold
it as level as I can over the clear part of a fire that is not too fierce, or over the flame
of a candle, at a diftance proportionable to the heat it requires (which experience
only
3
24& A KEY TO PHYSIC,
only can dirett), and watch it very carefully till I difcover the faline particles begin-
ning to gather and look white, or of fome other colour, at the extremities of the
edges. Then (having adjufted the microfcope before-hand for its reception, armed
with the fourth glafs, which is the fitted: for moft of thofe experiments) I place it
under my eye, and bring it exadtly to the focus of the magnifier •, and, after running
over the whole drop, I fix my attention on that fide where I obferve any increafe
or puffing forwards of cryftalline matter from the circumference towards the centre.
This motion is extremely flow at the beginning unlefs the drop has been overheated,
but quickens as the water evaporates ; and, in many kinds, towards the conclufion,
produces configurations with a fwiftnefs inconceivable, compofed of an infinity of
parts, which are adjusted to each other with an elegance, regularity, and order,
beyond what the exadteft pencil in the world, guided by the ruler and compaffes,
can ever equal, or moft luxuriant imagination fancy. When this adlion once begins,
the eye cannot be taken off, even for a moment, without lofing fomething worth
obfervation : for the figures alter every inftant till the whole procefs is over ; and,
in many forts, after all feems at an end, new forms arife, different entirely from any
that appeared before, and which probably are owing to fome fmall quantity of fait
of another kind, which the other leparates from, and leaves to aft after itfelf has
done : and, in fome fubjefts, three or four different forts are obfervable, few or none
of them being fimple and homogeneous. When the configurations are fully formed,
and all the water evaporated, moft kinds of them are foon deftoryed again by the
moifture or adtion of the air upon them ; their points and angles lofe their
fharpnefs, become uneven and defaced, and moulder, as it were, away. But
fome few are permanent, and, being inclofed between giaffes, may be pre-
ferved many months, or even years, entertaining objedts for the microfcope.
It happens oftentimes that a drop of faline folution can hardly be fpread on the
flip of glafs, by reafon of the glafs’s fmoothnefs, but breaks into little globules, as
it would do if the furface were greafy : this was very troublefome, till I found a
way of preventing it, by rubbing the broken drop with my finger over the glafs, fo
as to leave the furface fmeared with it; on which fmeared place, when dry, another
drop of the folution may be fpread very eafily in what form one pleales. It likewife
fometimes happens, that, when a heated drop is placed properly enough for exami-
nation, the obferver finds he can diftinguifh nothing : which is owing to faline
fleams that, rifingfrom the drop, cover and obfeure the objedt-glafs, and therefore
muft immediately be wiped away with a foft cloth or leather. In all examinations
by the microfcope of faline folutions, even though made in the day-time, I always
employ the light of a candle, and advife every obferver to do fo likewife ; for the
configurations, being exceedingly tranfparent, are rendered much more diftinguifha-
ble
AND OCCULT SCIENCE, 249
ble by the brown light a candle affords than by the more white and tranfparent
day-light; and betides, either by moving the candle or turning microfcope, fuch
light may be varied or directed juft: as the objedt requires.”
In this manner were produced the beautiful cryftallizations reprefented in the an-
nexed Plate. They are vaftly different from fuch cryftals of the fame falts as are
obtained by the common proceffes ; but Mr. Baker allures us they are no lefs con-
ftant and invariable than they, and that he has repeated the experiments a great num-
ber of times with the fame fuccefs.
Fig. 1. (hows the microfcopical cryftals of nitre or faltpetre. Thefe fhoot from
the edges, with very little heat, into flattilh figures of various lengths, exceedingly
tranfparent, and with ftraight and parallel fides. They are (hewn in their different
degrees of progrefiion at the letters a, £, c, d, e •, where a reprefents how they firft
begin. After numbers of thefe are formed, they will often diffolve under the eye,
and difappear entirely •, but, if one waits a little, new fhoots will pulh out, and the
procefs go on afre'b. Thefe firft figures fometimes enlarge only with altering their
fhapes, and fometimes form in fuch fort as the drop reprefents \ but, if the heat has
been too great, they Ihoot haftily into ramifications very numerous and beautiful,
but very difficult to be drawn ; and which Mr. Baker therefore did not attempt.
There feems ali the while a violent agitation in the fluid, and molt commonly, to-
wards the conclufion, a few odtaedra (compofed of eight triangular planes, or two
quadrangular pyramids, joined bafe to bafe) make their appearance.
2. Blue vitriol produces cryftals round the edges, very ffiort at the beginning,
but increafing gradually, as reprefented at the figures 1,2, 3, which denote their dif-
ference of form, and the progrefs of their growth. Thefe cryftalline (hoots are folid
regular, tranfparent, and reflect the light very beautifully from their poliffied fides
and angles. As the watery part evaporates, numbers of long (lender bodies like
hairs are feen here and there, fome lying fide by fide, or eroding each other as at 4;
others forming ftar-like figures with many radiations (5, 5). This fait (hoots but
(lowly, and therefore requires patience. At laft the true cryftals begins to appear
commonly in the middle of the drop, and are very prettily branched, as at 6.
3. Diftilled verdigreafe, diffolved as above directed, and immediately applied to
the microfcope, (hows abundance of the regular figures, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 : but, if the
folution is differed to ftand for a few hours, and a drop of it is then heated over the
fire on a (l
p of glafs, till it begins to concrete about the fides, and then examined,
(harp-pointed folid figures, bifedted by a line cut through the middle, from which
they are cut away towards the edges, begin to appear, and (hooting forwards (1, 1,
1). Thefe figures are often ftriated very prettily from the middle line to the edges
No. 1 6. 3 S obliquely
2 50 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
obliquely (2, 2) •, and frequently they arife in clufters, and [hooting from a centre
(3,3). Thefe figures are a long time in growing; and, whilft they are doing fo, re-
gular cryftals appear forming in feveral parts of the drop, of the molt lovely eme-
rald colour, and reflecting the light from their ficles and angles, which are molt
exactly difpofed, and finely polifhed. No cryftals are formed in the middle till the
water is nearly evaporated ; and then they begin to form haft ily, for which reafon
they muft be carefully attended. Their common figure refembles two long ffcrofT-
irig each other in an angle of about 6o°, and fhooting branches every way j
each of
which again protrudes other branches from one, and fometimes from both, its
fides ;
making together an appearance like four leaves of fern conjoined by their
ftalks (5, 5). Separate clufters of the fame fharp-pointed figures, as thofe at the
edges of the drop are alfo formed in the middle of it (6). Sometimes alfo they put
on another form, like the leaves of dandelion (7). Very beautiful figures are like-
wile produced by a kind of combination of fharp points and branches ;
8, 8). All
thefe cryftals are of a mod beautiful green colour, but deeper or lighter according
to the time of their production. The deepeft are conftantly produced firft, and the
paler ones afterwards. Towards the end of the procefs fome circular figures are for-
med, extremely thin, and fo fiightly tinged, with green lines radiating from a cen-
tre, as to be almoft colourlefs (9, 9). When all feems in a manner over, bundles
of hair-like bodies appear frequently fcattered here and there throughout the drop,
like thofe of blue vitriol already deferibed.
4. Alum. The microfcopical cryftals of this fait prove more or lefs perfect accor-
ding to the ftrength of the folution and the degree of heat employed in making the
experiment. The folution of alum, however faturated with the fait, will not be
found over-ftrong after Handing fome days : for in that time many cryftals will have
formed in it. This reparation will often leave the remainder too weak for the pur-
pofe -,
but, -by holding the vial over or near the fire, the cryftals will again diffolve.
After it has ftood about half an hour, it may then be ufed. The drop put on the
glafs, and properly heated, exhibits commonly at firft a dark cloud which appears
in motion fomewhere near the edge, and runs pretty fwiftly both to the right and
left until it is either flopped by the intervention of regular cryftals, or elfe it pro-
ceeds both ways at unce, till, having furrounded the whole drop, the two ends rufh
together, and join into one {a. a). This cloudy part, which feems to be violently
agitated while it is running round, appears on a ftridt examination to confift of
falts (hot into long and very (lender lines, much finer than the fmalleft hair, eroding
each other at right angles. As they go along, rows of folid cryftals are produced
from their internal edges. Thele are compofed of many oblique plain fides (£, bj,
and which have all a tendency towards the figures of the regular cryftals to be def-
eribed
/
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. * 5I
cribed prefently. But it frequently happens, that, in fo/ne parts of the drop, many
minute and circular figures are feen rifing at fotne little diftances from the edge,
which, enlarging the nfelves continually, appear at la It of a ftar-like form (f, c ).
The cryftals in the middle feldom appear tiil the fluid feems aimoft wholly evapo-
rated ;
when, on a fudden, many ftraight lines appear pufhing forwards, whole
Tides or edges are jagged, and from which other fimilar ftraight and jagged lines
fhoot out at right angles with the firft. Thefe again have other Imail ones of the
fame kind (hooting out likewife from themlelves, and compole altogether a moil;
beautiful and elegant configuration (D). Each of thefe lines, increafing in breadth
towards its end, appears as if it were fomewhat club -headed fe, e, e). Some-
times, inftead of fending branches from their fides, many of thele lines rife parallel
to each other, refernbling a kind of palifadoe, and having numberlefs minute tranf-
verfe lines running between them (F). But the moft wonderful part of all, though
not producible without an exaCt degree of heat and right management, is the dark
ground-work (G). It confills of an infinity of parallel lines having others crofting
them at right angles, and producing a variety fcarce conceivable from lines difpofed
in no other manner : the direction of the lines (which are exquifitely ftraight and
delicate) being fo frequently and differently changed, that one would think it the
refult of long ftudy and contrivance. During the time this ground-work is framing,
certain lucid points prefent themfelves to view moft commonly on one fide. Thefe
grow continually larger, with radiations from a centre, and become ftar-like figures
as before mentioned. Some of them fend out long tails, which give them the ap-
pearance of comets : and at the end of all, a dark lineation in various directions
darts frequently through, and occupies all or moft of the fpaces between them, ma-
king thereby no ill reprefentation, when viewed by candle-light, of a dark fky il-
luminated with ftars and comets. The regular cryftals are often formed in the fame
drop with the others (/).
5. Borax. If a drop of folution of borax is held too long over the fire, it hardens
on the (lip of glafs in fuch a manner that no cryftals can appear. The beft method
is to give it a brifk heat for about a fecond, and then, applying it to the microfcope,
the cryftals will quickly form themfelves as reprefented in the figure.
6. Sal ammoniac begins with (hooting from the edges great numbers of (harp, but
at the fame time thick and broad, fpiculse •, from whofe fides are protruded, as
they rife, many others of the fame (hape, but very fhort, parallel to each other,
but perpendicular to their main ftem (1). Thefe fpiculas arrange themfelves in all
directions : but for the moft part obliquely to the plane from whence they rife, and
many are frequently feen parallel to one another (1, i). As they continue to pufh
forwards, which they do without increafing much in breadth, lome (hoot from
them
25* A KEY TO PHYSIC,
them the fmall fpiculse only (2); others divide in a lingular manner by the fplitting
oftheftem (3) ; others branch into fmaller ramifications (4). Before the middle of
the drop begins to (hoot, feveral exceedingly minute bodies may be difcernable at the
bottom of the fluid. Thefe in a little while rife to the top, and foon diftinguifh
their fhape as at (5). Their growth is very qu ck, and for fome time pretty equal;
but at laft fame branch gets the better of the reft, and forms the figure (6). The
-other branches enlarge but little after this, all the attraction feeming to be lodged
in that one that firft began to lengthen ;
and from this more branches being pro-
truded, and they again protruding others, the whole appears as at (8). It is not
uncommon to fee in the middle of the drop fome cryftals, where, inftead of the
ftraight Items above deferibed, there is formed a kind of zig-zag, with fpiculte
like thole in the other figures (7).
7. Salt of lead, or faccharum faturni. A little of this fait diflolved in hot water,
which it immediately renders milky, after Handing a quarter of an hour to lubfide,
is in a fit condition for an examination by the microfcope. A drop of it then applied
on a flipofglafs, and held over the fire to put the particles in aCtion, will be feen
forming round the edge a pretty even and regular border of a clear and tranfparent
film or glewy fubftance ( aaaa) ; which, if toofudden and violent a heat be given,
runs over the whole area of the drop, and hardens fo on the glafs as not to be got off
without great difficulty. But, if a moderate warmth be made ufe of, which likewife
mull not be too long continued, this border proceeds only a little way into the drop,
with a kind of radiated figure compofed of fine lines, or rather bundles of lines, be-
ginning from the centres in the interior edge of the border, and fpreading out at
nearly equal diflances from each other every way, towards the exterior .( bbbb ). From
the fame centres are produced afterward a radiation inwards, compofed of parallel-
ograms of different lengths and breadths ; from one and fometimes both the
angles of thefe, are frequently feen ffiootings fo exceedingly {lender, that they are
perhaps the beft pofiible reprefentations of a mathematical line. The extremities of
the parallelograms are generally caff: off at right angles; but they are fometimes alfo
feen oblique (cccc). Centres with the like radii ifluing from themn, and fome of the
glutinous matter for theirroot, are fometimes formed in the drop, entirely detached
from the edges ; and in thefe it is very frequent to find a kind of fecondary radii pro-
ceeding from fome of the primary ones ; and others from them again to a great
number of gradations, forming thereby a very pretty figure (D).
8. Salt of tin produces at the edges of the drop a number of oftaedra, partly
tranfparent, Handing on long necks, at fmall diHances from each other, with an-
gular fhoots between them (aa). At the fame time folid and regular opaque cubes
will be feen forming themfelves in other parts of the drop {bb). In the middle of the
fame
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 2.53
fame drop, and in feveral other parts of it very different figures will alfo be formed ;
particularly great numbers of flat, thin, tranfparent, hexangular bodies {ccc) : fome
among which are thicker (e) ; and a few appear more folid, and with fix doping
Tides riling to a point, as if cut and polifhed (d). The figure (/) is compofed of
two high pyramids united at their bafe. Some in this kind of form are found trun-
cated at one of their ends, and others at both. Several of the hexagonal bodies
may be obferved with floping fides, forming a fmooth, triangular, rifing plane,
whofe angles point to three intermediate fides of the hexagon (g).
9. Epfom fait begins to {hoot from the edge in jagged figures (a). From other
parts differently figured cryftals extend themfelves towards the middle, fome of
which have fine lines proceeding from both fides of a main ftem, in an oblique di-
rection •, thofe on one fide {hooting upwards in an angle of about 6o°, and thofe on
the other downwards in the fame obliquity (c, f). Others produce jags from their
fides nearly perpendicular to the main ftem, thereby forming figures that refemble
fomefpecies ofthepolipody (e) 5 but in others the jags are Ihorter id). Now and
then one of the main items continues {hooting to a confiderable length, without any
branchings from the fides : but at laft fends out two branches from its extremity
(£). Sometimes a figure is produced having many fine and minute lines radiating
from a centre {b). The laft; lhootings in the middle of the drop (h) are not unlike
the frame-work for the flooring or roofing of a houfe, but with the angles oblique :
and fometimes a form of another kind prefents itfelf (j).
10. Scarborough fait begins to {hoot from the edges : firft of all in portions of
quadrilateral figures, much refembling thofe of common fait ; but two of their an-
gles inftead of 90, are about ioo°. They {hoot in great numbers round the borders
of the drop, having their fides as nearly parallel to one another as the figure of the
drop will allow : fome proceed but a little way, others farther, before they renew
the {hoot {ad). In fome places they appear more pointed and longer ( b ) and fome-
times, inftead of the diagonal, one of the fides is feen towards the edge, and the
other {hooting into the middle (r). The middle cryftals {def) feem to be of the vi-
triolic kind.
11. Glauber’s fait produces ramifications from the fide of the drop, like the
growth of minute plants, but extremely tranfparent and elegant (c). Some of them,
however, begin to {hoot from a centre at fome diftance from the edge, and pro-
trude branches from that centre in a contrary direction (bj. Sometimes they fhoot
from one and fometimes from more fides of the central point in different varieties
(d). Other figures are produced from different parts of the edge of the drop (
a
t ft
e) •,
but the moft remarkable and beautiful cryftallization forms laft of all near the mid-
dle of the drop. It is compofed of a number of lines proceeding from one another
No. 17. ' 3 T at
254 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
at right angles with tranfparent fpaces and divifions running between them, appear-
ing altogether like ftreets, alleys, andfquares, (gg). When this cryftallization be-
gins, it forms with great rapidity, affording the obferver a very agreeab’e entertain-
ment : but its beauty is of very fhort duration •, in a few moments it diffolves and
vanifhes like melted ice, which renders the drawing of it very difficult.
12. Salt of Jefuits bark. The few fhootings which this fait produces at the edge
of the drop are of no regular figure (a). The whole area becomes quickly filled with
great numbers of rhombi, of different fizes, extremely thin and tranfparent ( h).
Some of thefe enlarge greatly and acquire a confiderable thicknefs, forming them-
felves into folids of many fides (cc). Near the conclufion fome cry flals of fea-falt
are formed (dd), and likewife a few odd triangular figures e).
13. Salt of liquorice begins fhooring from the edge with a fort of rhombic fpi-
culas (a). Some four-branched figures like thofe of vitriol commonly appear, but
moulder away before their ramifications are completed, leaving only their ftamina
behind (bb). The middle of the drop is ufually overfpread with great numbers of
parallelograms, fome exceedingly tranfparent, being mere planes; having fometimes
one, fometimes more, of the angles canted in fuch a manner as to produce penta-
gonal, hexagonal, and other, figures. Others have much thicknefs, and form pa-
rallelepipeds or prifms (c). Some of the plane figures now and then protrude an ir-
regular kind of fbooting which appears very pretty (,d).
14. Salt of wormwood. The firfl fhootings of this fait from the edges of the
drop appear of a confiderable thicknefs in proportion to their length : their fides are
deeply and fharply jagged or indented, being made up of many fomewhat obtufe
angles, and their ends point with angles of the fame kind ( a ). But other fhoots fre-
quently branch out from thefe original ones, and they again fend forth others, ma-
king altogether a very pretty appearance (bb). The cryflals of this fait are very
different from each other, confiding of fquares, rhombi, parallelograms, &c. (c).
15. Salt of tobacco. If a moderate degree of heat is given to a folution of this
fait, its firft fhootings will be from the edges of the drop, in (lender tapering figures,
ending with very fharp points, but at confiderable diftances from one another.
Along with thefe are formed other cryflals, nearly of the fame kind, but entirely
detached, and farther within the drop, having the thicker ends towards the centre
of the drop, and the fharp points turned towards its edge (a). When a little more
heat has been given, other fpiculse are produced from the edge, whofe ends fpread
on either fide, and then terminate in a point and which have all along their fides tri-
angular pointed cryflals, placed alternately fo as to reprefent a zig-zag, with a line
drawn through its middle (b). The regular cryflals are produced in the middle of
the drop, arud are either hexagons or rhombi (c). When the moiflure is nearly exha-
led.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 255
led, there are fometimes feen to (hoot from or rather under the fpiculae, upon the
plane of the glafs, a reprefentation of leaves very fmall at their firft appearance, but
gradually increafing (d). A violent agitation may be difcovered in the fluid by the
firft magnifier during the whole procefs, but efpecially at the beginning, and ex-
tremely minute cryftals rifing from the bottom.
16. Salt of hart (horn. On the application of a very fmall degre of heat, fait of
hartfhorn fhoots near the edges of the drop into folid figures fomewhat refembling
razors or lancets, where the blade turns into the handle by a clafp [d). The cryftals
of this fait are produced with great velocity, and are fomewhat opaque, (hooting
from the edges of the drop, on both fides a main Item, and with a kind of regulari-
ty, rugged branches like thofe of fome forts of coral (a a). But fometimes, inftead
of thefe branches, (harp fpiculas, fome plain, and others jagged, are protruded to
a confiaerable depth on one fide only (b). As the fluid exhales, fome one of the
branching figures generally extends to a great length, producing on one fide (hoots
that are rugged and irregular, and on the other curious regular branches refembling
thofe of fome plant (c).
17. Salt of urine fhoots from the edges of the drop in long parallelograms like
nitre {a a). But in other places, along the fides of the drop folid angles are formed,
that feem to be the rudiments of common fait (b). Some of the parallelograms in--
erea(e much in fize, and fprejid themfelves in the middle, fo as to change their firft
figure, and become three or four times bigger than the reft : and thefe have a divi-
ding line that runs through their whole length from end to end, whence iffue other
fhort lines at fmall diftances, oppofite to one another ; all pointing with the fame
degree of obliquity towards the bafe (c c '). A mong thefe enlarged figures, fome few
(hoot (till forward and tapering towards a point, but, before they form one, fwell
again, and begin as it were anew •, and thus they proceed feveral times before their
figure is quite finifhed {a a). The figures 1,2,3, 4> 5> 6, are the regular cryftals of
this fait when it is allowed to diflolvein the air, and no heat at all is given.
18. Rheum, or the clear liquor which diftils from the noftrils when people catch
cold, is ftrongly faturated with fait. A drop of it on a flip of glafs will (oon cry-
ftallize in a beautiful manner, either with or without heat ;
but if heated to about
the warmth of the blood, and then viewed through the microfcope, many lucid
points will be feen rifing and increafing gradually, till their form is (hewn to be
quadrangular, with two tranfparent diagonals eroding each other (d d). Thefe di-
agonals (hoot foon after far beyond the fquare, protruding other lines at right angles
from their fides 5
and thus they go on to form the moft elegant and beautiful cry-
ftals ( b b,
c c ). When a drop of rheum is fet to cryftallize without any heat, inftead
of branched cryftals over the whole area, fuch are formed only in the middle ;
but,
about
256 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
•about the edges, plant-like figures are produced, Shooting feveral Stems from one
point, and refembling a kind of mofs (E).
19. Camphire, though infoluble in water, diflolves very readily in fpirit of wine,
A drop of this folution fpread upon a flip of glafs crystallizes inftantly in the beau-
tiful manner reprefented in the figure.
20. Manna eafily diflolves in water, and a drop of the folution is a very pretty ob-
jeft. Its firft Shootings are radiations from points at the very edge of the drop : the
radiating lines feem opaque, but are very Slender ( a a a). Amongft thefe arife many
minute tranfparent columns, whofe ends grow wider gradually as they extend in
length, and terminate at laft with fome degree of obliquity [b). Some few figures
radiating from a centre every way, and circumfcribed by an outline, are produced
within the drop [d d). But the mod furprifing and elegant configuration is compo-
sed of many clufters of radiations Shooting one from another over great part of the
drop, and making all together a figure not unlike a certain very beautiful fea-plant
•(C).
Of ANIMAL MAGNETISM.
ANIMAL MAGNETISM isafympathy which exifts between the magnet and
the infenfible perfpiration of the human body, whereby an aether, or univerfal efflu-
via, is made to pafs and repafs through the pores of the cuticle, in the fame manner
as the ele&rical fluid pafies through bodies, and by which many cures are performed.
The fyftem originated, in 1774, from a German philofopher named Father Hehl,
who greatly recommended the ufeof the magnet in medicine. M. Mefmer, a phy-
fician of the fame country, by adopting the principles of Hehl, became the direct
founder of the fyftem. He had already diftinguiShed himfelf by A- DiSfertation on
the Influence of the Stars upon the human Body, which he publicly defended in a
thefis before the univerfity of Vienna. He afterwards made a tour through Ger-
many, publishing every where the great cures he performed by means of animal
magnetifm, and arrived at Paris in the beginning of the year 1778. Here he was
firft patronifed by the author of the Diftionnaire des Merveilles de la Nature •, in
which work a great number of his cures were published, Mefmer himfelf receiving
likewife an ample teftimony of his candour and Solid reafoning. Our phyfician Soon
collected fome patients ; and in the month of April 1778 retired to Crete ij, from
whence he in a Short time returned with them perfectly cured. His fuccefs was now
great, and patients increafed fo rapidly, that the dcdtor was foon obliged to take
in pupils to afilft him in his operations. Thefe pupils Succeeded equally well as
MeS'mer himfelf; and fo great was their emolument, that one of them, named M.
Deflon, realized upwards of ioo,oool. Sterling. In 1779 Mefmer published a me-
1 moir
1
.
*
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 2 57
moir on the fubjedt of Animal Magnetifm, promifing afterwards a complete work
upon the fame, which fhould make as great a revolution in philofophy as it had
already done in medicine.
The new fyftem gained ground daily •, and foon became fo falhionable, that the
jealoufy of the faculty was thoroughly awakened, and an application concerning it
was made to government. In confequence of this a committee was appointed to
inquire into the matter, confifting partly of phyficians and partly of members of the
royal academy of fciences, with Dr. Benjamin Franklin at their head. Mefmer
himfelf refufedto have any communication with the committee ; but his moll cele-
brated pupil Deflon was lefs fcrupulous, and explained the principles of his art in
the following manner :
i. Animal magnetifm is an univerfal fluid, conftituting an abfolute plenum in
nature, and the medium of all mutual influence between the celeltial bodies and
betwixt the earth and animal bodies.—2. It is the moft fubtile fluid in nature ; ca-
pable of a flux and reflux, and of receiving, propagating, and continuing, all kinds
of motion.— -3. The animal body is fubjedled to the influences of this fluid by means
of the nerves, which are immediately affedted by it.
—4. The human body has poles
and other properties analogous to the magnet.—5. The adtion and virtue of animal
magnetifm may be communicated from one body to another, whether animate or
inanimate.— -6. It operates at a great diftance without the intervention of any body.
—7. It is increafed and refledted by mirrors; communicated, propagated, and in-
creafed, by found; and may be accumulated, concentrated, and tranfported.—8.
Notwithftanding the univerfality of this fluid, all animal bodies are not equally af-
fedted by it ; on the other hand, there are fome, though but few in number, the pre-
fence of which deftroys all the effedts of animal magnetifm.—9. By means of this
fluid nervous diforders are cured immediately, and others mediately ;
and its virtues
in Ihort extend to the univerfal cure and prefervation of mankind.
From this theory, M. Deflon engaged, 1. To prove to the commiflioners, that
fuch a thing as animal magnetifm exilted; 2. To prove the utility of it in the cure
of difeafes ; and to communicate to them all that he knew upon the fubjedt. The
commiflioners accordingly attended in the room where the patients underwent the
magnetical operations. The apparatus confided of a circular platform made of oak,
and raifed about a foot and an half from the ground. At the top of it were a num-
ber of holes, in which were iron rods with moveable joints for the purpofe of apply-
ing them to any part of the body. The patients were placed in a circle round, each
touching an iron rod, which he could apply to any part of the body at pleafure ;
they werejoined to one another by a cord palling round their bodies, the defign be-
ing to increafe the effedt by communication. In the corner of the room was a piano
No. 17. 3 U forte.
258 A K E Y T O PHYSIC,
forte, on which fome airs were played, occafionaily accompanied with a fbng.
Each of the patients held in his hand an iron rod tenor twelve feet long •, the inten-
tion of which was to concentrate the magnetifm in its point, and thus to render its
effedts more fenfible. Sound is another condudtor of this magnetifm ; and, in or-
der to communicate the magnetifm to the piano forte, nothing more is neceffary than
to bring the iron rod near it. Some magnetifm is alfo furnifhed by the perfon who
plays it *, and this magnetifm is tranfmitted to the patients by the founds. The in-
ternal part of the platform was lb contrived as to concentrate the magnetifm, and
was the refervoir whence the virtue diffufed itfelf among the patients.
Befides the different ways of receiving the magnetifm already mentioned, viz. by
the iron, cord, and piano forte, the patients alfo had it diredtly from the dodtor’s
finger, and a rod which he held in his hand, and which he carried about the face,
head, or fuch parts of the patient as were difeafed-, obferving always the direction
of the poles. His principal application of magnetifm, however, was by preffure of
the hands or fingers on the hypochondria or lower regions of the ftomach.
The effedts of thefe operations upon Deflon’s patients were very amazing. Some
fpit, coughed, fweat, and felt extraordinary heats in different parts of the body.
Many had convulfions, which is what is called their crifis, &c.~-The commiffio-
ners after this determined to try the experiments themfelves. For the fluid was
totally imperceptible by any of the fenfes, and they could only afcertain its exiftence
by ultimately curing difeafes, or by its obfervable effedts upon the human body.
The pradtice having been fince purfued in England with great fuccefs by the in-
genious Dr. Bell, I fhall give theprocefs and effedts of this difcovery in his own
words.
“ There is an univerfal fluid which fills all fpace. Everybody is endowed with a
certain quantity of eledtric fluid. There exifts an attradlion, or fympathy and anti-
pathy, between animated bodies. The univerfal currents of the univerfal fluid, are
the caufe and exiftence of bodies. One may accelerate thofe currents in a body, and
produce crifes and fomnabulifm, which is done by adting reciprocally upon one
another, by increafing the currents going acrofs their interftices or pores, in confe-
quence of the abfolute will of the operator. As there exifts a general and reciprocal
gravitation of all celeftial bodies towards each other, fo there exifts a particular and
reciprocal gravitation of the conftitutive parts of the earth towards the whole, and
of that whole towards each of its parts.
“ The reciprocal adtion of all thefe bodies is operated upon by tlieinfenflble perf-
piration, or vapor, flowing in and out, as you fee in a real loadftone or in an ar-
tificial magnet, forming an outfide atmofphere ; it alfo produces currents in a more
or lefs direct manner, according to the analogy of bodies. Thofe of all bodies which
can
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 259
ean aCt mod effectually on a fickly man, is one who is in a good date of health, and
is of a fimilar conftitution-— the power of man in a goodftate of health will be then
more powerful in confequence of the latter’s weaknefs, who receives more than he
gives i it will increafe the circulation and produce beneficial effects.
“ The refpeCtive pofition of two beings aCting on one another is not indifferent; to
judge what that pofition fhould be, we ought to confider each being as a whole com-
pounded of different parts, of which each poffeffes a form, or particular tonical
movement. It is of courfe by that means eafily underftood, that two beings have
over each other the greateft influence poffible, when they are fo placed that their
analogous parts aCt on one another in the moft harmonical manner. It is neceffary
that the perfon who fubmits to be treated is willing, as well as that the operator’s
mind muff be abfolute, and think of nothing but of the different fenfations he then
feels. Credite & volete.
“ Therefore, in order that two perfons may a<5t on each other in the ftrongefl
manner poffible, they muff be placed oppofite each other ; from North to South
is the beft; you turn your patient’s face towards the South ; you may treat in other
directions, according to your idea and circumftances. In that oppofite pofition your
atmofpheres are joining ;
and you may be confidered as forming but one whole,
aCting in an harmonic manner. When man fuffers, all the aCtion of life is directed
towards him in order to deftroy thecaufe of fuffering; likewife, when two perfons
are aCting on each other, the whole aCtion of that union aCts on the difordered parts
with a force proportioned to the increafe of the mafs. It may therefore be in general
afferted, that the aCtion of Animal EleCtricity and Magnetifm, &c. increafes in
proportion to the maffes.
“ It is poffible to direCt the aCtion of Animal EleCtricity and Magnetifm more
particularly on any individual part,, by fixing your idea and directing the fluid up-
on the part affeCted. Our arms may be confidered as conductors to the animal fluid,
and ferve to attradt or repel according to our will,, and eftablifh a kind of continui-
ty between bodies. It follows, from what has been faid on the moft advantageous
pofition of two beings aCting on each other in order to maintain the harmony of the
whole, one ought to touch the right part with the left arm, and the right foot in
contaCt with the left. In that pofition you are in affinity with your patient, your
two atmofpheres are joined ; it ffiews the oppofition of poles in the human body,,
and is nearly the fame as thofe which may be obferved in the loadftone, or artificial
magnet.
“ Paracelfus, as well as many other anatomifts, have admitted poles in man. Mr.
George Adams, in his Treatife on Magnetifm, juftly fays,
4
In fome future period
it may be difcovered that moft bodies are poffeffed of a polarity, as well as one direc-
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
260
r ion relative to the various affinity of the elements of which they are compounded.’
The better to conceive the poles of the human body, we ought to confider man di-
vided into two parts, by a line drawn from the top to the pubis ; all the joints of
the left part may be confidered as poles oppofite to thofe correfponding therewith ^
the fluid paffes out more fenfibly, and in a greater abundance, from the extremities,
as thofe extremities are confidered as poles oppofite to the right, and are the belt con-
ductors of the animal fluid.
“ You may give polarity to animate and inanimate bodies ; that is to fay, to in-
creafean action to a degree which they had not before, only by a fridfion very near-
ly refembling that which you give to a piece of fteel before it becomes a magnet,
except that it will not be fo palpable. You may alfo change the poles in the human
body pretty nearly the fame as you change thofe of a magnet. You may alfo ftrength-
en or increafe the adtion of Animal Eledtriciry and Magnetifm by animate and inani-
mate bodies, as you may increafe the adtion of an artificial magnet by adding more
magnets, provided the poles are contrary : therefore every thing is filled in the uni-
verfe by means of an univerfal fluid in which all bodies are immerfed, and confe-
qfiently all beings touch one another in confequence of the continual cirgulation by
which the currents of the magnetic fluid flow out and pafs in j in confequence of
this you may affedf a perfon at a difiance, provided he is of a weak habit of body,
and has been in acrifis before you put the column of air into vibration which exifte
between the perfon you treat and yourfelf j
that will affedf him, as is feen or felt by
the force of founds at a concert. ,
“ In order to be in affinity or harmony with your patient, you mufi touch him by
the hand ; as there is a circulation which forms itfelf between you and him, and
tends to an equilibrium, it is generally by that mean eafier to take your patients out
of their crifes. You next hold up both your hands parallel to the head, and bring
them gently down as far as the pubis •, you may follow the diredtion of the nerves *,
then fix your hands upon the diaphragm or ftomach, where lies the greateft abun-
dance of nerves ; you may put your thumbs upon the plexus, and put the nerves in
motion ; you may alfo fix one hand upon the ftomach, and draw the other tov/ards
you, by that mean you attradl or repel at pleafure.---There are various ways of ma-
nipulation which the operator makes ufe of, according to circumftances. If you
wiffi to procure fleep foon, change your pofition get either to the right fide of your
patient gt left ; in that pofition you fix one of your hands before the head, and the
Other behind j keep them there v/ith all your might, till you feel fome heat in the
palm of the hand •, if the perfon is not inclined to fleep, you mufi charge the head in
different diredfions, by ihutting your hands as if you were boxing--then you open
theta quick, and this you repeat often •, tb 1
“rfon feels then a drowfinefs.—You
i mufi
mnimae Magnetism \ys/n O/wi#for/rfo// ry //,> l/a/fo/fo ///fo'r^/^/.r.
)
I
\
/
i
/
I
V
J
•
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 261
muft keep your hands in oppofition as before ; by this mean the animal fluid gets
into the abforbent veflels—ads alfo upon the nerves, which ftimulates the body and
produces a crifis. If you fee the patient too much agitated, get oppofite to him,
and bring both your hands downwards from head to foot, or as if you were to fan a
perfon, and, getting backwards, it will compofe him.—Then you feek for the caufe
and place of the illnefs ; or you hold the perfon’s hand, and you afk him where he
feels pain, as it is increafed by treating : if he does not anfwer your queftions proper-
ly, it is afign he is not in a perfed ftate of fomnabulifm ; you muft keep him afleep
longer without fpeaking to him—you then feek for the feat of the difeafe, by exten-
ding your hand at a little diftance from his body, beginning from head to foot 5 if
your fenfations are good, you may feel, with a little attention within yourfelf, pains
in the fame part as where the perfon is affeded—or you may feel at the end of your
fingers a heat, if it is an inflammation or obftrudion •, if you feel a coldnefs, it is in
the lymphatic veflels ;
if biiious, you feel a numbnefs, and many other ways which
different conftitutions feel ; —either of thefe circumftances will inform you where
the difeafe lies—but by touching, which is the fureft way, you foon become certain
of the feat and caufe of the difeafe, which fometimes lies in the oppofite fide to the
pain, particularly in nervous affedions, &c. You may touch, if you like, the caufe
of the difeafe, or charge it as you do the head, by that means you keep up the fymp-
tomatical pain, till you have rendered it critical— you fecond the effort of nature
againft the caufe of the difeafe, and ad like a ftimulus, which will produce a faluta-
ry crifis, by putting the whole frame in adion, which will remove any difeafe pro-
ceeding from obftrudions, &c. after the patient finds himfelf compofed, and the
caufe of the diforder diminiihed. When the patient is afleep, you afk him if it is
time to take him out of it •, if he anfwers yes, draw your hands towards his head
down to the feet, and rub the eyes with your thumbs feveral times, and wave your
hand as if you were to fan a perfon who is too hot—you get by degrees backwards
till he is recovered.
“ The caufe of mofc part of difeafes is an irritability or fever debility, or obftruc-
tions •, by the flownefs or abolition of motion, it is an obftrudion or debility, and by
its acceleration produces an irritability, inflammation, and fever.
“ The feat of thofe difeafes is generally in the vifcera, as the inteftines, the fpleen,
the liver, the epiploon, mefentery, the loins, &c. in women, the ftomach, the
womb, &c. Thefe aberrations or obftrudions are an impediment in the circula-
tion of one part, which prefles on the blood or lymphatic veflels, and on the nerves,
which produce thofe fpafms, on account that the fluid circulates flowly ; for that
reafon thofe perfons are the fooneft affeded, and put into a crifis, when they are la-
bouring under thofe maladies ; if thofe veflels prefs upon the root of a nerve, the
No. 17. 3 X motion
$62 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
motion and fenfibility of the correfponding parts are quite fupprefied, as in an apo-
plexy, palfy, &c. There is not a better conductor for the animal fluid than the
nerves, as they are fpread all over the body ; they abound more particularly in the
diaphragm, ftomatical and ombelical plexus, where lies the root of the nerves which
extend their branches (as a tree does its branches and roots in the earth) all over
the body.
“ Many philofophers have thought it is in them that the foul lies, it is through
them that the fomnabules fee in the dark when their eyes are fhut,—When you treat
a perfon, you mud follow as much as polTible the direction of the nerves ; you may
treat at a fmall diftance, and fix your hand upon the part affebted, and by motion
you put the column of air (which exids between you and your patient) into vibra-
tion, which will caufe an irritation and produce a crifis.
“ Many profeffors make ufe of conductors, either glafs, fteel, filver, or gold *
about eight inches long •, they have a good effeCt in fome cafes : all this proceeds
from the idea of the operator. Mr. Mefmer tells us, ‘
When you make ufe con-
ductors, you mult magnetite from right to right.’ that is, the poles are changed.—
I have repeatedly produced the fame effebt by treating from left to left, except when
I have put a perfon into a fleep without a conductor ; if while a deep I magnetifed
them from right to right, fome have gone into a crifis, others have awaked.' If you
touch the forehead with your right hand, you muft put your left inoppofition behind ;
and in the fame manner to any other part of the body, becaufe there is a re-abtion of
fluid from one pole to the other, like a magnet, as Dr. Mefmer reprefents the hu-
man body as a magnet ; if you edablifli the North to the right, the left becomes
the South, and the middle like the Equator, which is without predominant aCtion.
I repeat it ; it is mod advantageous to be oppofite the perfon you want to treat, in
order to cure him effectually. Curing confifts in re-edabl idling the difturbed har-
mony—the general remedy is the application of animal duid, which ferves to re-ef-
tablifh the equilibrium which is loft in fome part of the body. As there is but one
difeafe, there is but one remedy : if motion isdiminifhed, it ought to be increafed :
if there is too great irritability, it ought to be decreafed : as it is on folid bodies that
this duid operates, particularly on our vifcera, in order to rebtify them, as they are
deflined by Nature to prepare, to diffolve, and affimilate our humors, they lhould
be brought to their equilibrium by any means whatever, either by employing inter-
nal or external remedies $ but we ought to be very cautious how we adminifter
them, except fuch as the patients will order for themfelves or prefcribe for others,
which are generally very dmple. There are few remedies taken internately which
are good, becaufe, when received in the domach and the firft paffages, they expe-
rience the fame elaboration as our aliments, the parts of which analogous to our hu-
mours
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 263
mours are aflimilated there by chylification, and tfie heterogeneous particles are ex-
pelled by the means of excretions. Thofe remedies which may be given will prove
to have often the effebts contrary to the intentions of the prefcriber, becaufe moft of
them are very aqueous, ftimulate too much, and will increafe irritation, fpafms, &c.
and produce effedts dilcordant to the harmony of the parts, which ought to be efta-
blifhed and reftored to their proper equilibrium. If treating is not fufffcient to pro-
duce vomiting in the cafe of a perfon who has too much putridity, or abundance of
bilewhich has been too long Handing, then a gentle emetic is to be given, or mag-
nefia, if there is too much acid ; if alkali is predominant, order a folution of
foluble tartar or other acid, which you think will agree with your patient. In cafe
of a violent cholic and coftivenefs, or fore throat, injedtions are the beft. Thefe
are the general remedies which ought to be adminiftered to the patients, as I
am fare that all thofe preparations of minerals, &c. which we fee in an apothecary’s
fhop, were never intended by Nature for the human body. Modern phyficians have
from an interefted view negledted the knowledge of the vegetable kingdom, more
adapted by Providence for the human body. The diet of the patient is whatever
Nature points out to him ; it is her who didtates what every man ought to follow,
becaufe fhefeldom deceives us in our manner of living. It is not what we eat, nor
the quantity, which does good—it is what we digeft. Animals by inftindt will ne-
ver touch any thing but what Nature hasdidlated to them. In this their inftindl is
far fuperior to our reafon. Spirituous liquors are forbidden, ftrong green tea with-
out milk, coffee, hot aliments, and the ufe of fnuff, becaufe it irritates the pituita-
ry membranes in the throat, the ftomach, and the head, and will produce crifpation
and irritation. The ufual drink may be water with a bit of toaft in it, wine and
water, or good rich wine, old fmall beer, good porter, lemonade, or different fy-
rups—all thefe may be ordered according to the cafe of the patient. The eating
may be good broth, either ofjpeef, mutton, or veal, chicken boiled, and roafted
meat. Avoid any fait or fat meat ; make ufe of any fallads, good ripe fruits, &c.
Gentle exercife in an open air, either riding or walking. Cold or waim baths are
mod excellent ; the drinking of fome mineral waters is good in fabt, a good ob-
ferver (though not a phyfician) may cure more people than a man of the faculty—
becaufe a dobtur never goes without an apothecary— they all go together hand in
hand, and do more harm than good.
“ If you have but one patient, and cannot move him out of bed, gather round
him as many healthy perfons as you can make them rub well their hands—then
make them hold one another, and communicate to the patient : this is what I call
to form a chain,— by that you communicate to him the animal fluid, which will vi-
vify him if he is too much debilitated. You may fet him upon an infulated ffool,
as.
264 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
as when you eleftrify aperfon ; you may fet him upon a chair, and make a healthy
perfon fit upon the fame chair back to back ; you may magnetife a tree in a garden ;
you may have one in your room, or a fmall refervoir :—there are various ways,
which depend upon the idea of the magnetifer.
“ There are feveral ways of treating and curing; for that effeft much attention
and prudence are required ; and an honeft man, willing to do good to his fellow-
creatures who labour under any infirmities, will never treat his patients in public,
and make them walk in their fleep, or do many other things : it is very well to con-
vince many incredulous people of the effefts, but cannot do good to the patient. I
will fay alio, that a perfon cannot treat more than two or three patients in a day to
do them juftice, and thofe who do treat more feldom cure by magnetifing alone;
the patients may fancy they have been cured,-—but, if they had not been fo treated,
they might alfo have been well ; as their treatments are long, Nature operates, and
is a better doftor. There are fome who will firmly aifure you they have cured peo-
ple at the difiance of two or three hundred miles off, without ever having feen the
patient, and putting them into crifes.— I will anfwer them, they are either fools or
madmen ;
their imagination being heated with this idea, they are like vifionaries. I
knew an ingenious phyfician who faw every body with the yellow jaundice, and a-
nother who thought that everybody had a virus in their blood, and all the patients
who applied to him he treated as having a gallicus morbus ; and another who preten-
ded to cure every body only by looking at them : all thefe are fome degrees of infa-
ncy. I knew feveral perfons who fuppoled I had been treating them after I had
left their houfes—they fall afleep, fome twenty miles off, and they have related this
as a faft to feveral of their friends, while I was amufing myfelf, and never thought
of them ; and nevertheiefs, fuppofe I had been treating them, and they might by
chance fall afleep, I could not with with propriety relate the ftory as a fa ft, becaufe
it muft be repeated often to hold good. I never reft^ny judgment upon a fingle ex-
periment; in experimental philofophy fafts are ftubborn, and no one can contradict
them when repeated. Now I fhall explain the manner of treating and curing effec-
tually, on reafonable principles, each complaint particularly.
“ Suppofe you have one patient who has a head-ach, you feat him in a chair, the
back towards the North, or otherwife; you fit oppofite to him ; you put yourfelf
in affinity with him, as I have obferved before; you draw the general current, fol-
lowing the direftion of the nerves ;
you hold your hands the fame as if you were to
hold a pen ; you feek for the caufe of the pain, which may lie in different parts—
perhaps the patient will tell you, if you cannot find it out. If it is a hemicrania,
which is owing to the foulnefs of the ftomach, you fix your eyes upon your left
hand, which you direft towards the ftomach with your right hand—you do the fame
i as
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 265
as if you was to turn a pancake ; this you repeat feveral times, by that mean you ftir
the atmofphere and relax the ftomach, and may make him vomit; you may give
a little warm v/ater to promote your operation; you may alfo treat the head by
drawing the fluid downwards, if the pain has been of long (landing ; you may or-
der a vomit or a gentle purge, and treat them every day, and after order bitters to
ftrengthen the ftomach. There are different head-achs, as the cephalalgia, when
the head is affedted (lightly in one particular part. Cephalsea is when the whole
head is affetted, and one fide only is called hemicrania, and a fmall (pot affeded is
called clavis hiftericus. Thefe various head-achs arife from different cauies : if it
proceeds from obftrudions, crifes are very falutary, as they put the whole body in-
to motion, and will remove thecaufe. Treating the part which you think is affec-
ted is very neceflary ; you do the fame with one hand or both, by drawing your
hands towards you feveral times as before. To treat the head, you may apply your
hands upon the temples, and put your thumb upon the frontal finus, which will of-
ten remove it.
“ Deafness.-—If the want of hearing proceeds fometimes from a fault in the
ftrudture of the ear, there is no cure. If it proceeds from cold, fever, hard wax, or
drinefs, you may magnetile according to my principles ;
you keep yourfelf within
a yard or two, according as you feel a re-a£tion : you then fix your left hand toward
the ear, and you move your right open, and bring it towards the left hand, and do
the fame as if you were to clap your hands, by that mean you put the air into vibra-
tion, and, guided by your left hand as a conductor, you apply the palm of the hand
upon the ears ;
you may put your thumb in the ear, and with your finger, as you
hold a pinch of fnuff, prefs the thumb towards the ear— -you accelerate the fluid in-
to it. You may make ufeof a conductor, either glafs or artificial magnet, and put
it into the ear, and prefs jvith two fingers from the bafis towards the ear; you may
magnetife the head, by drawing the fluid towards you : all thefe means you are to
make ufe of according to your fenfations and judgment ;
fometimes an injection made
of Caftilefoap— warm brandy and water will affift you in your operation.
“ Of the Tooth-Ach This violent, though not dangerous, difeafe proceeds
from rheumatifm, obftruded perfpiration, inflammation, &c. this being the caf^
you treat according to my rules : if there is inflammation, you draw the fluid from
the head; you touch the temples, the frontal finus, the top of the head, and articu-
lation of the jaws, and under the chin ; you may touch the tooth with your index
and thumb, but a fure w-ay is to get an artificial magnet, and, as your patient’s face
is towards the South, apply the South pole upon the tooth, and touch the next teeth,
and after draw the fluid downwards, and you will perform a cure.
No. 17. 3 Y “ Diseases
1 66 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
“ Diseases of the Ey es.—There is nothing fo difficult as to cure thofe difeafes,
and none of our organs is more fubjedt to be affedted than the fight, or from fo ma-
ny caufes. When they proceed from obftrudlions in the cuftomary evacuations, you
mud magnetife according to my rules •, you treat the caufe, alfo the eyes, by fixing
your thumbs oppofite ;
you prefs with the index the fluid into the eyes •, you move
your thumb oppofite you—and may rub the eyes gently ; you drop magnetifed wa-
ter into them with a quill, —this you do three or four times a day, and you order a
little lemonade or fyrup to your patient.
“ The gutta ferena, ophthalmia, cataradl, fpecks on the eyes, and fiftula lacryrna-
lis, are very difficult and almoft incurable. I have heard many magnetifers boafling
of the cures they had made of thefe difeafes. I have had more practice in that way
than many of them ; I confefs candidly I have made but few. I fhall explain the
beft manner of treating You muft know firfl the caufe, which you treat •, after
you apply your thumbs gently on the eyes ; you rub them often---you fix your
thumb with the next finger at a diftance from the eye; but I have had fuccefs in
fome cafes of this kind by making ufe of an artificial magnet, by fixing it at the
diftance of half an inch from them-, it has by that mean removed fpots and gutta
ferena, proceeding from thecornpreffion of the nerves by fuperfluous humours. I
have dropped magnet ifed water three or four times a day with fuccefs ; a proper re-
gimen is neceflary, and fome internal and external application.
“ Of the Epilepsy and Hysteric Affections.-— Thofe difeafes are the oppro-
brium of the faculty, with many others, as they cannot be cured by internal medi-
cines, except when proceeding from obftrudlions, worms, or affedtion of the mind,
&c. In thofe cafes you treat according to the rules ; then you touch the head on the
top apply your thumb on the root of the nofe, you endeavour to diftoive the ob-
ftrudtions which may be the caufe; apply your hand upon. the diaphragm, and en-
deavour to put the nerves in motion ; you may treat at a diftance alfo, but try to pro-
duce a crifis.—Dr. Andry, and Touret, at Paris, have cured feveral epileptics by
applying artificial magnets round the head, or like a horfe-ffioe applied upon the
top of the head ; when they are in a fit, apply a magnet in each hand, it will foon
recover them. I have brought fome to, by applying a key in their hands ; they are
very good in fpafms, fainting, and cramps---by applying the magnet under the foot,
it ceafes inftantly.
“Of the Schrophula, called the King’s Evil.—This difeafe is a difgrace to
phyfic. Some perfons have had the gift of curing by touching. I have leen in
London two perfons who had been touched by a man after he was hanged ; they
were relieved ; but I really 'believe it was the force of imagination, being frightened
by the dead man made fuch a revolution in the blood, that it removed the obftruc-
tion
AND OCCULT S C. I E N C E. 267
iion in the glands. You may touch your patient in thofe parts, and draw the ef-
fluvia in order to rcfolve the glands : if there is an ulcer, order the perfon to bathe the
part with magnetifed water, and keep a bit of rag always upon the part. Sea-bea-
thing, decodtion of celery, and hemlock juice, may be tried, befides treating.
“ Sore Throat, ---Sore throat, or any inflammation in the head, is to be treated
by drawing the fluid out of the part, either by putting yourfelf in oppolition, or by
franding on one fide, and putting one hand behind the neck and the other before.
“ Of the Palsy.-—
T
he pally, when it happens to an old perfon, or has been of
long (landing, is feldom cured ;
but if it happens to a middling age, and one fide
only is (truck, called an hemiphlegia, a cure will be effected by being treated foon
after. You may magnetite your patient oppoflte as ufual. After you turn the fide
affedted towards the North, you treat the oppoflte fide, which is fuppofed to be
where lies the caufe: you may touch with one hand along the back-bone, or within
an inch from it, along the great intercoflal, by applying your right hand upon the
(lomach •, you treat him about two hours •, if you can put him into a crifis, which
is very eafy, you may expedt to cure him. You make him lift up his bad arm, or
have fomebody to fupport it •, you put a conductor in his hand to attradl the univer-
fal fluid ;
you may infulate him, and turn the part affcdled towards the North ; tie
a (ilk firing to the ceiling, at the end of it have a ftiong compounded magnet, the
North pole parallel to the hand •, to the other hand tie likewife another firing, at the
end of which there is a large piece of iron whofe furface is larger than the magnet j
have an eledlric machine, and connect the chain to the patient, then make him
ilretch his arms •, then touch the magnet and the piece of iron together, or one after
another, to the extremities of the hands, it will cure him ; I have cured feveral that
way: but this does not belong to Animal Magnetifm, fay many. But has not a
magnetifer a right to cure his patients as foon as pofiible, and employ every means
his mind fuggefls to him ? It is not fo among the faculty, they muft cure or kill them
fecundam artem, according to art. A general vomit or purge is often neceffary ; the
diet mud be good j if the tongue is affcdled, put a condudlor upon it, or an artifi-
cial magnet, fuch as you make ufe of for the teeth, by prefling the fluid from the
bafis towards the point on the tongue : fometimes a little gargarilm is ufefuh
Eledlricity and the cold bath are very good,
“ Rheumatism.—Nothing is more common in this country than that difeafe, on
account of the dampnefsand change of the weather, which will abforb the eledlric
and magnetic fluid from flying oft certain parts, particularly from the feet, whence
there flies out a greater aoundance of fluid than from any other part of the body.
It is for that reafon dogs will follow our tracks. There are very obftinate rheuma-
tifms which proceed from different caufes, and are difficult to cure. The method
of
2.68 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
of curing this difeafe is to magnetife the patient in oppofition : try to promote per-
fpiration, by putting him into a crifis. If the rheumatifrn is in a particular part of
the body, you muft treat the part affefled either by touching or rubbing, which is
the belt. You may make ufe of an artificial magnet in the form of a horfe-fhoe.
If the rheumatifinis in the head, you apply it upon the top of it •, if it is on the face
and teeth, apply it on the temples •, if it is in the hip, you apply it above the knee,
with the poles up ; if in the knees, apply it on the tarfus, with the poles up ; if it
is on the Ihoulders, you place it on the humerus of the arms, bone, &c. Electrici-
ty, hot and cold bath, earth-bathing, according to Dr, Graham’s principles, &c.
&c. Some internal and external applications will affitl the operation.
“Consumption, or Decay.— This difeafe, fo common in England, is difficult
to cure ; it proceeds from want of the animal fluid in the body, which waftes it to
nothing ; therefore it is necefiary that the perfon who treats be very ftrong and heal-
thy. His patient is like a child at the breaft, pumping his animal juice, and may be
much hurt by it, like a child who fleeps with an old and unhealthy perfon •, there-
fore I would advile you to treat as few as poffible. Riding a young horfe without a
faddle, a cow, a bullock, or to be among cattle, is very good ; to deep in a liable,
by communicating a rope from the bed to the cattle, which ferves as a conductor to
the animal fluid.
“ Difeafes in the llomach are common in this country among women, owing to
that pernicious cuftom of wearing Hays ; not only that, but they mult have a piece
of wood two or three inches broad, and proportionally thick, in it, called a bulk,
which occafions fo many difeafes. They Ihould be loofe round the body. You
treat the llomach by throwing fluid into it. Crifes are not good for it.
“ Flatulency, or wind in the llomach and bowels, arifes from want of tone in thofe
parts. It is to be treated upwards, which will make the patient break wind and
produce a crifis, which is the bell. After the crifis, you mull treat the llomach
downwards in order to fettle it ;
you may order carminatives. Bile on the llomach
is treated upwards •, alfo to make the patient vomit, and crifes. are good for it •, a glafs
of magnetifed water after will fettle the llomach. In all forts of inflammation of
the lungs, liver, &c. you treat towards you, and avoid the crifes, as well as when
thofe parts are ulcerated. In the Hone and gravel you treat; throw a quantity of
fluid and produce crifis ; it will promote evacuation, which may do fervice to the
patient. In external fwellings, or ulcers, draw towards you, and bathe with
magnetifed water.
“ Pregnant women, and in labour, may be treated without a crifis. I have mag-
netifed women in labour, and put them afleep while the acoucheurwas performing
his duty ; the woman did not recoiled! it, and was furprifed afterwards. I have
pur
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 26g
put a man a fleep who had an hydrocele ; the furgeon performed the operation, but
the patient never recolledfted any thing after. Relaxation, and the blood flowing
from a cut, may be Hopped by fixing your thumb and prefling the fore finger over
the part.
“ Fevers of every kind may be cured by crifes ; it is during that time that nature
endeavours to get rid of what difturbs her, either by perfpiration, vomiting, &c.
Thofe people are the bell; fomnabulifts, as I fhall explain hereafter. It is very eafi-
ly underftood, by the method I have taken to explain the treating of the foregoing
disorders, that an ingenious magnetifer may treat all others, as it would require a
whole volume to explain them.
“OfNcRvous Diseases. It is in thofe difeafes that magnetifm afts more forcibly
by putting the whole nervous fyftem in motion-, it operates crifes as well as fonam-
bulifm, and offers to the attentive eye a vail field of obfervation. There is as great
a variety in thofe difeafes as there are combinations between all poffible numbers.
Different organs may be affeCted, and diftin&ly from others. In fome perfons the
extenfion of fight is fo great, that it feerns as if they made ufeof amicrofcope. Some
of them can fee in the dark, the animal fluid flying in all directions, and appearing
luminous ; others will fee the Hein appear to them like a fieve, and fee the grofs hu-
mours or perfpiration as big as fmall fhot ; and by rubbing the hands they fee fpar-
kies of fire coming out. Mr. Boyle mentions a perfon, after getting half fuddled
with claret (which 1 fuppofe relaxed the ftomach and his nervous fyftem), when he
walked in the night, could fee to read moderate print. Another who could in the
night diftinguilh colours. Grimaldi tells us, that fome women can, by their eyes
alone, diftinguilh between eggs laid by black hens and thofe by white ones. This
finglefaft will lead to many things which I fhall relate about fomnabules. Wemuft
not attribute to whim all the Angularities which you obferve among people affected
in the nerves ; it is areal caufe, as that which determines the molt reafonable man.
I knew a gentleman in London, who fhook his head and arm every inftant, like a
perpetual motion ; a lady, I treated when in his company, had the fame involuntary
affefticn. A gentleman in Cork, when in company, would pronounce Peter often,
and the fame word during a week ; then he would pronounce it a bad one during
another week, and could not help it. There are different methods of treating thofe
difeafes, either by treating without crifes, or with it ; fuch people are the beft fom-
nabules. If a perfon is irritable, you treat gently, in oppofition, by drawing a cer-
tain quantity of fluid from him; if on the contrary you throw the fluid towards him,
you may put him into a gentle crifis ; if the patient has a trembling of the limbs
like the head, you treat that part; if you cannot fucceed by treating, apply a mag-
No. 18.
3 Z netic
arc A KEY T O 'P 'H Y S I G,
netrc bandeau round the head, it will flop it inftantly. For trembling of the hands,
you apply magnetic bracelets.
“To magnetife or treat a perfon at a diftance, is not impoffibie. The manner
which feveral profeffors make ufe of, is different. There are quacks in that art who
pretend to have found it out before Dr. Mefmer ; but that none of them dreamt of
it is well known. The faculty of our foul, thought, or idea, can perceive, contem-
plate, and unite itfelfto, any objedt, prefent, diflant, vifible, or invifible. That it
has adtion upon matter is well demonftrated •, it adts diredtly upon the vivifying
eledtric and magnetic fluid, and by its will determines it to be directed upon fuch
part. We know that our foul adts upon our body, and forces any part of it to move
in any diredtion, according to its will. This being the cafe, we may reafonably
believe that it may adt as well upon merely organical matter as upon animated bo-
dies. The thought, or foul, goes to any diftance. No obftacles can refift it. It
arrives and unites itfelf, by a fympathetic power, to any objedt it wifhes, without a
mafter of ceremonies *, neither the fize of the body, its ftrength, or figure, impede;
all give way
;
the union is made in an inftant, the will, and the will only, is the
caufeofir, becaufe it diredts the fluid towards the difeafes and aflfedted vifcera, by
fixing them in your imagination, as much as it is poffible, and by that mean it will
force the magnetic fluid to touch and to penetrate to a great diftance any bodies to
which the foul is willing to unite herfelf, and to re-eftablifh the animal oeconomy,
of which fhe is the indeftrudtible principle. Thefe refledtions (hew the poflibility
and the mean made ufe of, to treat a perfon at a diftance ; of which experience
will fhew the reality, and an ingenious mind may make many curious experiments
:
repeated trials will convince us.
“ To treat a perfon at a diftance, from one houfe to another, is poffible, provided
you have feen the perfon before, and put him in a crifis. The manner you do this,
is to know where the perfon is, and fix the hour by your watch, and have fome
friends with the patient to divert him : you muft be alone in a room, to avoid any
noife, or any thing to diftradt the attention of your mind. In that pofition you paint
the perfon in your imagination ; you reprefent in your idea the part which you fup-
pofe aflfedted, and you treat in the fame manner as if the perfon were before you.
That fympathy of body and mind which exifts between you and him will produce
a crifis and fonabulifm ; that phsenomenon is very interefting. You may alfo from
the fame principles treat a perfon in the fame room, without his or her knowledge,
by fixing you mind and your eyes upon the part aflfedted, or upon the heart, fto-
mach, &c. and produce crifes and fonabulifm.
“ Dropsy. There are different forts of this difeafe, according to the parts which
are affedted. I fhall treat of the manner of curing the afcite, which is, when there
is
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 271
is a collection of water in the belly proceeding from obdrudtions, 'living too low,
and fometimes from drinking fpirits or cold water when the body is hot. You treat
the patient in oppofition ; you fix your hands upon the parr, either at a didance,
or by applying the hands on the belly ; you try to produce a crifis, which is the
quickefi way. You may apply a mggnetifed bell-glafs on the belly when the pa-
tient is in bed, the fame on the legs if they are fwelled, and various accefiaries, ac-
cording to the operator’s fancy. Dropfy of the brain, of the bread, and of the
legs, are treated by extrafling the fluid and promoting circulation and perfpiration.
“Of the Asthma. This difeafe of the lungs is very feldom cured when it proceeds
from a bad formation of the bread, or is hereditary. If it comes from obdruftions,
treat the lungs and put the patient into crifes to promote circulation ; but if theadh-
ma proceeds from another caufe, as violent paflions of mind, humoreal or nervous,
and the patient fpits a great deal, treat the domach upwards to promote expectora-
tion. If the patient coughs much at night, give him a glafs of magnetifed water
going to bed, and another in the morning. Moderate exercife in a gentle air is
very ufeful.
“ Apoplexy. This fudden lofs of the fenfes may be cured by applying immedi-
ately, and with proper care. The caufe is an effufion of the blood, or a collection
of watery humours. There are two forts, a fanguine and ferous apoplexy ; it is
generally towards the brain that the caufe lies, becaufe the blood does not return
from the head. That being the cafe, you magnetife the patient either in bed or up
:
if he is in bed, you day at his feet ;
you magnetife the head downward •, you may
get at his right fide, and magnetife as before; you touch his head, one hand behind
and the other before, and bring your hands downwards ; you mud raife the head
of the patient high. If it is a fanguine apoplexy, and you fee there is no change,
you may order a bleeding, or put the feet in warm flannel. Let the patient have
free air. You mud treat him four hours a day.
“ Night Mare. This difagreeable difeafe puts the patient into the greated tor-
ture during his deep ; he feels often a weight upon his domach, like a man, cats,,
or dogs, &c. He endeavours to cry aloud, and fancies himfelf going to be drown-
ed, or to be killed. It proceeds from a weak domach, nervous affections, &c.
I have attended a patient who ufed to be blooded every year in May. During March
and April he was always fo; but, as foon as he was bled, the pain was over. They
are a kind of fomnabules. You may treat the domach, by throwing a quantity of
fluid, in order to drengthen it ; alfo treat the head downwards. A glafs of magne-
tifed water, going to bed, is very good.
“ Of Sensations, looked upon as a fixth fenfe. There are as many fenfations
as there are poffible differences between proportions, In all fenfations we mud con-
1 fider
272 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
lider three things: the caufe producing the imprefllon, the nature and di/pofition of
the organs receiving it, and the fenfations which have preceded it. It is by the
combination of thofe affinities that the organs of our fenfes may be magnified or in-
creafed to fuch a degree, as to become, for every objedt which they prefent to us,
what telefcopes and microfcopes are to the fight ; confequently our fenfations are the
refultofall the effedts which objedts make on our organ. Our fenfes can only draw
us, more or lefs, near to knowledge of objedts and their nature, by a conftantufe'
and a ferious application, in order to attain to their reality. We have a great num-
ber offmall organs proper to receive fenfations ; but the habit we are in of making
ufe of fome particular organs only, abforbs the reft. Blind people have different
fenfations from us ; they will perceive a wall, or other body, before they touch it.
There is no doubt but we are endowed with an internal fenfe, which is in affinity
with the univerfe, and is confidered as an extenfion of fight; it is by thofe means
one may comprehend the poffibility of finding the difeafe of another ; of forefights,
predidtions, and the phenomenon of fomnabules and fybils, &c.
“ It is poffible to be affedted in fuch a manner, as to have the idea of a body at
an immenfe diftance, in the fame manner as we fee the ftars, the impreflion of which
is tranfmitted to us in aright line, the fucceffion and continuity of a co-exifting
matter between them and our organs, bounded by the nature of their form: why
fhould it not be poffible, by the means of an inward organ, by which we are in con-
tact with the whole univerfe, for us to be affedted by beings, the fuecefilve motion
of which is propagated to us in curve or oblique lines, in any diredtion ? and why
ftiould we not be affeded by the connedion of beings which fucceed one another ?
“I was acquainted with Monfieur de Botinau, who had a place under govern-
ment in the Iftandof St. Helena. During twenty years he made a particular ftudy
of a fenfe unknown to us : he could perceive a fleet or a fingle fhip two or three
hundred miles off ; laft war he defcribed M. de Suffrein’s fleet, the number of fhips,
and thofe which had pafled by and did not touch at the ifland. He could do more :
at fea he could tell the diftance he was off land, as has been proved by repeated ex-
periments in the Channel. 1 cannot fay this fc# certain, but I have feen the certifi-
cates granted him from the governor and principal people of the ifland, and the pe-
tition and recommendation to the minifter, who granted him 1800 iivres per annum.
“ The famous Bleton, called the fourcier, or fpring-finder, whenever he walked
upon a ground where there was a vein of water, felt within himfelf a certain fen-
fation which gave him notice there was water. Another countryman fhook where-
ever there was water-, the elementary, eledtric, or magnetic, fire paffing through the
pores of the earth, gave him that fen fat ion.
“ Of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 2 73
“ Of the Crises. The crifes are an effort of nature againfl the diforder, endea-
vouring to diffipate the obftacles that are in the circulation, and to reftore har-
mony or equilibrium in all the parts of the body. Few difeafes can be cured with-
out a crifis, particularly when it proceeds from obftruCtions, &c. There are two
forts of crifes. The natural one, which is attributed to nature alone, gets rid of
what offends her by an increafe of movement, producing vomiting, motion, per-
fpiration, &c. Thefe are the moft falutary, as nature aCts filently, without violence,
and expels the obftacles that impede circulation, by moving gently the molecules
which form thofe impediments, and go off by perfpiration, &c. The forced one is
fometimes falutary in obftruCtions, windy and bilious complaints. Thefe are pro-
duced when nature is infufticient to expel what offends her. The ufe of animal
electricity and Magnetifm puts in aCtion the whole body, and, in conjunction with
her, aCts efficacioufty on the patient, and he difcovers benefit and eale, particularly
if it has produced evacuations, &c. There are various means of producing them,
according to the fubjeCt, and the caufe of his dileafe. Some fay there are fix degrees
of crifes*, I fay there are as many as there are different conftitutions to treat. Some
will alfo call it luminous crifis, from that new feCt called the illuminated. All thefe
are imaginary. Suppofeyou have a patient on whom you would wifh to produce a
gentle crifis *, you muft put yourfelf firft in affinity ; then put one hand behind the
head, and the other before, till the perfon is afleep. If the perfon is agitated, calm
him, by drawing the fluid downwards from the head ; if you treat the caufe by
touching, it will increafe the pain ; if you put your thumb upon the frontal finus,
they will fall into a crifis : you may magnetife your watch, and to fhew what
o’clock it is, they will go into it. You may magnetife a flower, andjgive them afmell,
they will fall in. Magnetife a harpfichord, as foon as you play on it they will go
in. Put a perfon between you and the patient, and magnetife him, you will put
him in. To magnetife a pond, make the patient ftay on the other fide of it ; you
muft Hand oppofite *, make the patient hold a flick in his hand to touch the water ;
you muft touch alfo the water with your magnetifed conductor ; the perfon will go
into a crifis immediately. Have fomebody behind him, to prevent his falling into
the water : it is the belt conductor of animal fluid. To make a perfon read, be be-
hind him *, you magnetife the lines as he reads ; he will go in. To make a perfon
ftay behind you oppofite the looking glafs, magnetife with a conductor the perfon
in a looking glafs, that you may fee him ;
the re-aCtion of the fluid will produce a
crifis. Magnetife a tree in a walk, make the perfon walk as foon as he comes near
the magnetifed tree, he will fall into a crifis. One may put a perfon in a crifis
from one room to another ; and, in faCt, an ingenious obferver may, by what I have
related, make a great many curious experiments, provided he has proper fubjeCts.
No. 18. 4 A “Of
274 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
“ Of Somnabulism. Somnabulifm is a ftate between fleeping and waking, par-
staking of both ; the patient is a fomnabule when he can do the fame as if he were
awake. Thefe natural fornnabules, who get up at night, and do many wonderful
things, are well demonftrated. They are difeafed, and may be cured by treating.
The magnetic fornnabules are thofe whom art has found out a mean of ablorbing or
fufpending fome of their external fenfes for a while, and the patient eats and drinks,
goes up and down, plays upon the harpfichord, and does many things which you
•defire him, provided he be willing. The firft I faw was at the Marquis de Puyfegur’s,
in the year 1784, and all thofe who pretended in this country before were impoftors ;
and none of them had yet dreamt of it ; and for all this we are indebted to Dr. Mef-
mer. Whenever any perfon has a real fomnabule, which is very eafy, by care they
have a treafure. They are called by us malades medians, or fick phyficians.
Thefe beings fee in the dark, and go through an external atmofphere, the fame as a
glow-worm ; they have befides an internal atmofphere, which they make ufe of to
perceive objedts prefent, diftant, vilible, and invifible. I have had feveral who re-
lated to me what they could perceive. All of them differ in many refpebts, accor-
ding to their conftitution. One muff not depend always upon what they fay, on
account of their differing fometimes. You may make them move in any direction,
by your will alone j or, by moving your conductor any way upon the floor, they
will follow its directions. You may make them play on any inftrument they can
play upon , they will read, write, and work : all this they will do better than if awake.
Being deprived of their other faculties, they become ftronger. No phyfician can
tell the difeafe of a perfon better than a real fomnabule. They feldom fail to tell
unknown perfons their difeafes, and prefcribe for them. At a future time, when
the fcience is better efcablifhed, I fhall publifh a full account of the theory of
fomnabulifm.
“ Some will accufe me of having faid too much-, but thofe who know me perfonal-
ly will never accufe me of relating any thing which I cannot demonftrate -, and thofe
who repeat thefe marvellous narrations hurt themfelves and the fcience in the eyes
of really learned men. Thofe flories, like tradition, which are handed down from
generation to generation, and become improbable, like antiquity, lofe their for-
mer luftre. I would advife my pupils to try thofe experiments I have fhewn them
firft, and try the others afterward.
“ To make an Electric or Magnetical Apparatus. I fhall not give you a
full account of the apparatus of our fociety in Paris. It is more like a grove. Mine,
which I had in London and Dublin, is a large oak tub, eight feet in diameter, well
pitched in the inflde, about an inch thick, infulated upon four glafs feet bottles,
of water well corked •, you magnetife the bottles, and lay them down, the
neck
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 275
neck of one in the bottom of the other all round, fo that the laft comes to the cen-
tre. You may fill up the fpace with broken bottles, or any vitrifiable matter, brim-
ftone, or refinous matter, minerals, &c. fill it up all but fix inches ;
put fome
loadftones and artificial magnets in different directions, then cover the whole to the
edge with fine dry river fand *, put the lead over ;
place in the middle a polifhed
iron bar about eight feet high, with fprigs to it, to attract the univerfal fluid which
concentres itfclf in the refervoir. At the far corner place an arbor vit£ in a box,
and place under it aftrong magnet, the north pole upwards ; the fouth pole is fix-
ed in a hole upon the cover, by that means you increafe the motion of the tree, and,
becoming vegetalifed, it will grow without water. You make holes all round,
about eighteen inches diftant •, put iron or brafs conductors behind, fo as to touch
the patients who come next to it. Conned a chain of an eledric machine ; infulate
your patients, and make them hold hands, it will increafe the adion in them.
You may treat them in that manner •, you will the fooner put them into crifes. I
have had all my patients round my refervoir in a crifis at a time. I could not at-
tend them. You may have a tree in a box, upon infulated feet •, have a fmall box
filled with vitrifiable matter, and fill it with water ;
you may make ufe of a large
bottle filled with water only, and conned a chain to it. All this apparatus may be
made differently, according to the idea. Some take every morning brimftone or
lozenges, and have brimftone in their fleeves, and rub themfelves with different in-
gredients ;
but I never made ufe of any, and produced a great many effeds.
“ To magnetife a tree, you muff Hand facing the north ; you mud: have a con-
dudor which you have magnetifed ; you muff then point it fx-om the top of the
higheft branches to the roots ; do the fame from the other branches : if the tree is
fo large that you cannot fee the branches on the other fide, change your pofition
from fouth to north, and do the fame ; then approach the tree ; clap your hands
round it, and ftay in that pofition five minutes, your tree becomes magnetifed.
Any patient who has been in a crifis, or fomnabuliifn, will diftinguifh it. Some
will go in a crifis as foon as they come near it ; others, if they are in fomnabulifm,
will difcover it among the reft.
“ You may magnetife a myrtle, or any other fhrub ; it will appear luminous in
the dark. You may magnetife a flower, by putting your thumbs in the middle,
and eftablifh an equator ; then, drawing your thumbs to the extremities, you prefs
your thumb with the next finger, and you throw the fluid upon the flower ;
it will
appear luminous in the dark : by giving it to a perfon to fmeH, who has been in a
crifis before, he will go into one again.
“ To magnetife a condudor or a cane, put your hands in the middle of it; Hide
your hands to the extremities, your thumbs at the top, and rub the extremities with
them ; %
-275 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
them ; by thefe means you will impregnate it with an electrical fluid, that feems
luminous in the dark, and as fulphurous as the electric rubbing.
“ To magnetite a (hilling, or a guinea, put your thumbs in the middle, and
draw them to the extremities, it will appear as a ball of fire. A watch is magne-
tifed in the fame manner, by drawing your two thumbs at the top, and your index
under it *, eftablifh an equator, and draw your fingers to the two poles : by (hewing
it to a perfon who has been already in a crifis, he will fall in one again. They can
tell you what o’clock it is in the dark ; if afleep they can tell you the fame, by
fire wing a watch.
“ To magnetife a harpfichord, fix your hands fpread in the middle, and draw
them towards the extremities; then rub the end you touch the firings with one af-
ter another, in the fame manner, by that mean you will impregnate it with an elec-
tric fluid. As foon as a perfon plays upon the harpfichord, make your patient touch
it with his hand or finger, he will fall in a crifis immediately.
“ To magnetife a room, or a bed, is the fame. Set it to the north facing the
fout’n •, point your conductor up to the ceiling ;
bring it down towards you ; point
it to the weft and eaft, and bring it alfo to your feet ; the room will appear all lu-
minous, and the bed alfo.
“A pond may be magnetifed in the fame manner, by pointing your conductor over
the furface of the water, from the cardinal points ;
touch the water with it, and
make your patient do the fame, he will have a (hock, in falling in, and it may be
cf fervice to him. From thefe few experiments it iseafy to conceive, that any in-
animated body may be electrified or magnetifed by another animal body, juft as
eafy as by an eledtrifying machine, or by the force of magnets.”
\
ARGUMENTS to PROVE, that ANIMAL MAGNETISM is the CAUSE
of SYMPATHY in MAN and other ANIMALS, and in PLANTS, &c.
THAT conftant flux and reflux of the vital principles and corporal humours in
man (without which both motion and life are (topped) produce thofe effedts of
fympathy and antipathy which become more natural and lefs miraculous ; the at-
mofpherical particle to each individual receives from the general fluid the proper
attradlion and repulfion. In the divers erodings of thofe individual atmofpheres,
fome emanations are more attradlive between two beings, and others more repulfive;
fo again, when one body pofleffes more fluid than another, it will repel *, and that
body which has lefs will make one effort to reftore itfelf into equilibrium or fym-
pathy with the other body. Robin Abraham Benhannes fays, iron or ferruginous
particles are every where, not only in the mineral world, but in ourblood and bones
i now,
c
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. *77
iow, as the magnet attra&s ferruginous particles, every thing of courfe is fubfer-
vient to magnetifm, by the power of attraction or fympathy.
I could relate a variety of examples to prove that fympathetic affeCtion which pre-
vails with people of the fame family, views, feCt, or any other caufe that binds them
harmonioufly together ; but, as it is a fubjeCt which every one mutt have experien-
ced, I Ihall not touch further on it.
The magnetic fluid often occaflons fome contractions in other parts of the body,
when a mufcle has been wounded, which produces different motions in the organs
of the fame body. Whether they have a fecret affinity or not is a queftion not yet
determined ;
however, l am inclined to think they have. Thefe motions have afto-
nifhed many phyficians who have reflected upon this art, particularly Barthe, who
has well explained them by a fubtile motion which he calls vitalfluids and which he
might as well have called animal electricity and magnetifm.
Of ANTIPATHY.
WE do not all refemble the Trojan fhepherd, who awarded the apple to the
faireft ; it is not always the handfomeft woman that wins our affeCtions ; our inte-
rior emotions are involuntary feizures independent of the influence of beauty, and
are the forerunners of love. So again, when two atmofpheres are in equilibrium,
that is to fay, when thofe corpufcular emanations are in affinity with each other, it
produceth fympathy or attraction ; but, when thofe atmofpheres are eroding each
other, it produceth antipathy or repulflon.
The difcordance of tempers, religious deputations, politics, &c. have frequent-
ly been the caufe of inveterate hatred ;
how can we otherwife account forthat fudden
averfion we feel for certain objeCts or perfons, if it be not in the difagreeable im-
preflions communicated to the nerves, and then to the brain, from the emiflion of
thofe perfons or objeCts ? This can be called by no other name than antipathy.
By antipathy many people And out the difeafes of others; they feel within them-
felves, in the oppofite fide, the fame pain the other perfons have. If I put a difea-
fed perfon in contaCt with another perfon in fomnabulifm, they inftantly feel the
fame pain ; however, only during the time they are in contaCt. It may be called
fympathy ; but, as they l'uffer in fome proportion during that time, it is properly an-
tipathy. It is well known there are many people who entertain an antipathy to
different animals, &c.
EFFECTS- of ANTIPATHY and SYMPATHY in BRUTE ANIMALS.
ANIMALS in general, like ourfelves, move at the afpeCt of pleafure, and fly
from that of diff: refs ; in fome refpeCts they are fenflble beings that feem to enjoy a
No. 1$. 4 B will
ty8 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
will adequate to determine their different motions, nay fometimes to be poffeffed of
the fentiments, vices, and paffions, of mankind, and experience likewife inclination
and hatred, which feldom vary in their objefts ; whence proceeds that conftant love
that fome animals fhew for certain fpecies, whilft they bear the ftrongeft antipathy
and averfion to others. They are differently affe&ed acording to their different
fpecies by corpufcularemifiions, but are nearly the fame when they flow from the
fame fpecies. Hence the one conftantly becomes the objefl of the other’s averfions.
Thus one animal only lives to deftroy and devour; and in his turn contributes, by
his own diftru&ion, to the prefervation of a ftronger animal. Thus nature is fup-
ported by thefe fuccefllve deftrudions, new combinations arife from the compofi-
tions operated in her bofom : likfe the phoenix, fhe only dies to revive, and return
brighter out of her own afhes. Without thinking (as the antients did) that a firing
made out of the bowels of a wolf and another from a fheep cannot agree, or if two
drums were made out of their fkins the found proceeding from that of the wolf fkin
would deprive the other of all found, antipathy between certain fpecies is evidently
a means allotted them by inftind to difcover their prey or avoid their enemy. Thus
the wolf purfuCS the lamb, the dove dreads the falcon, the wren the eagle, the gold-
finch the toad, the hen the fox, the water-fowl the ftork, the grafshopper the fwal-
low, the blackbird the hawk, the nightingale the fpeckled magpie, the frog the eel,
the fnail the partridge, the oyfter the crab, the tench the pike, the fly the fpider,
and the fpider the fcorpion. The lion diflikes the cock, the ape the tortoife, the
horfe the camel, the lizard the ferpent, the boar the fea-calf, the martin the vulture,
the owl the crow, the tunny the dolphin, the conger the lamprey, with an infinite
number of others too tedious to be mentioned. The fmell of lobfters drives bees
away ; the owl deftroys the eggs of the crow, the flock thofe of the bat, and weafel
thofe of the hen ;
the heron and the lark are continually at war, by deflroying each
other’s young. If the eagle devours the ferpents, the latter climbs up the rocks and
revenges itfelf by fucking its enemies eggs ; the toad and the rattlefnake, under the
grafs, by darting through their pores the magnetic fluid, fafcinate their prey ; the
weafel in vain endeavours to avoid them ; fhe leaps from one place to another, and -
herftrength is at laft exhaufled to no purpofe ; obliged to draw near her enemy,
fheifluesadifmalcry,and, being violently attracted towards the reptile’s mouth, perr
cipitates herfelf into it, and there finds her grave. To revenge this vidlim, the field
fpider fpins her web fufpended over the toad : her influence troubles and at laft lulls
him to deep. In like manner the flag’s breath attracts the ferpent, and occafions in
him a giddinefs. The viper, with fiery eyes and contradled mufcles, darts veno-
mous corpufcles on the branch of the tree where the nightingale finds an afylum ;
foon after, the wood-finger lofes his voice, is thrown into convulfions, falls down,
v and
V
and OCCULT SCIENCE. *7$
and is devoured by the viper. It is owing to the effe&s of emifiion that the hound
finds out the game, and purfues it to its den, where it feek for a refuge. It is by
this fame fenfation that the partridge flops in the middle of a fallow ground, and
forgets (he has the power of flying.
Animals are as fufceptible of fympathetical as of antipathetical attachments : ac-
cording to fome naturalifts, the fox is fond of the ferpent’s comipany, and the duck
that of the toad ; the bear avoids treading on the ant, the nightingale loves the pear
cock, the kite prote&s the cuckoo, partridges and pheafants doat on the flag, and
doves on teal. We v
are told that a lizard, elephant, and dolphin, are fond of a
man ; but this is nothing to the attachment of a dog to its mafter : he follows him
to all places ;
and, fhould he happen to lofe fight of him, he ftill finds out where he
paffed only by the emanation he has left in his way, (which efcapesmore abundantly
through the toes, as being more porous ;) and, if he meets him, by a thoufand tranf-
ports teftifies his joy.
Of ATTRACTION and REPULSION, otherwife called SYMPATHY and ,
ANTIPATHY in PLANTS.
PLANTS, like men, have their tranfpiration and emifiion produced by a preff
fure of a magnetic fluid which penetrates them ; and they carry in all their fibres >
that vivifying fluid, and have alfo their private fpheres of attraction and repulfion.
Hence that inclination that fome vegetables feem to have to come nearer to each *
other, to grow and die together; hence that hatred that has been obferved amongft
others, and the efforts feemingly made ufe of to repel each other.
The vine feems to improve under the elm, the olive-tree with the aloe-tree, the
plantain with the fig-tree, the agaric with the cedrus, afparagus with penny-royal, ,
and the cocoa grows powerfully under the fhade of ebony ; the rofinous-tree is favour-
able to the femla, and the colyledon and the fir-tree to the different fpecies of aco-'
nitum and folanum. By a like fympathy the poppy adorns the harveft, the water-
lily likes the ranunculus, and rue likes the water-lily ; the lily fprings delightfully
by the rofe, near garlic, where it appears more fhining, and fmells more perfu-
med, notwithftanding the fmell of the latter is fo offenfive ; the rofe is unfavoura-
ble to onions, bafilicum dries up near rice, and cabbages die away near the cycla--
men and origuiam ; the oak does not like the olive, the vines diflike laurel and
hemlock, and hemlock dies away near the vines. The latter brings to our recollec-
tion the doftrine of old Robin Abraham Benhannes, who in the 14th century attri-
buted the colour of wine and its fermentation to the ferruginous particles of the
grape, and to their union by magnetifm. The effluvia from the hands or any part
of tnan’s body is the caufe why flowers or herbs droop when touched ; the fenficive
plant
2So A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
plant is aftrikinginftanceof the force of this obfervation. The mufcifula, or catch-
fly, mifnofe, and oxalis, the flower martima, annona, dandelion, pimpernel, flow-
er of ciftus, helientheim, epine venette, and callus oputia, acquirea very remarka-
ble motion by irritability.
We could take notice of numberlefs others^ in faCt there are none infenfible to
the emanation of furrounding bodies ; all move in a reciprocal fphereof attraction
and repulflon. The fun, whofe heat attracts the magnetic fluid, dilates or contracts
plants in general according to the ordinary courfe of nature, the granadille (which
in fine weather fhews the time of the day), the tragopopagan, goat’s beard, heliotro,
the cameliors, and chryfarthenum (or daify of the field), the tulip, the lily of
Perfia, elemone, the fouci, all (hew by their motion the courfe of the fun, whofe
influence attracts in their different ramifications the principles that vivify them.
When the fun darts his ray, the enamelled flowers regtife and acafiia open their
leaves to receive the influence-, but, if he withdraws from the horifon, you fee their
leaves clafp and the flower decay, till the all-enlivening fun again vivifies them.
There is a kind of clover put in aCtion by the folar heat, according to the different
degrees of the efficient fluid. This clover will appear whitifh in the morning, of a
purple colour in the middle of the day, and towards the evening it looks yellow and
pale. It is the abundance of that fluid in fome plants which renders them fo apt to
infpire men and other animals with a defire of love ; and it is the want of it in other?
that appeafes the heat of blood, and flops the progrefs of rifing paflion.
CONSIDERATIONS on the INDISPOSITIONS and DISEASES of MAN.
MAN, with regard to his prefervation, ought to be confidered,
1. In a State of Sleeping.
2. In a State of Waking.
3. In a State of Health.
4. In a State of Indifpofition.
If we furvey all nature, we find in men, animals, plants, &c. but two principles,
matter and motion. The whole of the matter whichconftitutes him may be either
increafed or diminifhed. The diminution ought to be repaired from the general
mafs by the means of aliments, as food, drink, and other ftimuli.
Motion may in like manner be either encreafed or diminifhed. The diminution
occafioned by motion, as walking or any other bodily exercife, is repaired by fleep.
Man fuftaining two kinds of Ioffes, it neeeffarily follows that there muft be two
kinds of reparation in theflateof fleep. Man aCts like a machine whofe principles
©f motion are applied inwardly and independently of the organs of fenfe. The
j fleeping
A-ND OCCULT SCIENCE. 2S1
fleeping ftate of man, is when the life and function of a confiderable part of his in-
dividual faculties are fufpended for a while, during which the quantity of motion
loft while awake is repaired by the general currents in which he is placed. There
are two forts of currents with regard to man, gravity and the magnetic current from
one pole to another ; that is to fay, from head to foot, man receives and colleCts a
certain quantity of the univerfal current as if in a refervoir; the overplus of motion
(or the overflowing of this refervoir) determines the ftate of waking. This exiftence
of man begins in a ftate of fleep ; the degree of motion he receives, in that ftate,
proportionate to the mafs, is employed in the formation and unfolding of his organs.
As foon as his formation is completed, he awakes, and makes efforts on his mother
powerful enough to bring him into the world. If his conftitution is debilitated,
his motion being too flow owing to his weaknefs, he will prefent a wrong pofltion,
and will not come into the world without afliftance, owing to his not having fuffi-
cient ftrength to turn himfelf the proper way.
Man is in a ftate of health, when all the parts of which he is compofed have
the power of exercifing the functions they were defigned for with pleafure and eafe.
If there is perfect order in all the functions, it conftitutes a ftate of harmony or
equilibrium. Illnefs is the oppofite ftate, wherein harmony is difturbed, and is
either extended over the whole fyftem or confined to one part.
Health may be reprefented by a right line. Illnefs is a deviation from that right
line : that deviation is more or lefs confiderable, according to the ftrength of the
difeafe •, the remedy adjufts the order or harmony which were difturbed •, the quan-
tity of the univerfal motion that man receives in his origin becomes tonical by be-
ing modified in the womb, and helps the unfolding of the vifcera, and all the other
organical parts of his conftitution.
This power of motion is the principle of life 1 this principle maintains and recti-
fies the functions of the vifcera. Vifcera are the conftituent and organical parts,
which prepare, reCtify, and afiimylate, all humours, determine their motion, fecre-
tions, and excretions. The vital principle, being a part of the univerfal motion, and
obeying the common laws of the univerfal fluid, is confequently fubjeCted to the
impreflions of the influences of celeftial, earthly, and particular, bodies with which
it is furrounded. That faculty or property of man, which renders him fufceptible
of all thefe impreflions, is animal magnetifm or animal electricity.
Man, being conftantly in the univerfal and particular currents, is penetrated by
them ; the motion of the modified fluid by the different organizations of its confti-
tuent parts becomes tonical *, it follows in that ftate the continuity of the body to
the extreme parts. From thefe extremities of the body either flow out or pafs in
No. 18. 4C currents
282 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
currents of the univerfal fluid, when another body capable of receiving or returning
them is placed in an oppofitfc point.
i. There is a circulation formed between the currents pafflng in and out. 2. Thefe
currents are ftraitened and almofi: re-united in the fame point •, and thefe two caufes-
concur together to encreafe fucceflively the celerity of motion.
Thefe points of emanation or introdu&ion to or from the tonical current are
poles, bearing analogy to thole we fee in loadftones or artificial magnets; confe-
quently there are fome currents coming or ifiuing out of the poles which deftroy or
ftrengthen each other; their communications being the fame, it fuffices to determine
one for the oppoflte to be formed at the fame time. Upon a fuppofed line between
two poles there is a center or point of equilibrium, the a&ing of which is fuch that
no direction is predominant. Thefe currents may be propagated and communica-
ted at any diftance whatever, either by continuities, connection of bodies and minds,
as fympathy, or that of a fluid, fuch as air, water, found, &c. It is a conftantlaw,
that, in each variety of an intermediate body, the poles are either overturned or
changed.
All bodies whofe form ends in a point or angle ferve to receive the currents, and
become their conductors. We may confider the currents as openings or channels
to convey other currents. Currents can penetrate all folid and liquid bodies, prefer-
ring always the direction they have received. Thefe currents may be communica-
ted and propagated by any means, whenever there exifts a continuity, either folid
or fluid, in the rays of light, and by a fucceffion of the vibrations of found. Thefe
currents may be reinforced, 1. bycaufcs of common motion, fuch as the inteftines,
and local motion, found, noife, wind, &c. the eleCtrical friCtion, and every other
body which is aloadftone, is already endowed with a determinate motion, by ani-
mate bodies, by trees, and all vegetables : 2. by their communication with hard
bodies in which they may happen to be concentered and aflembled, as in a refer-
voir, to be afterwards at pleafure diftributed in every direction : 3. by the multi-
plication of bodies to which they are communicated, that principle being not a
fubflance ; by a modification its effeCt encreales like that of fire, in proportion to
its communication. If the current of animal electricity and magnetifm concurs in.
/
rts direction with the general magnetic current of the world, the encreafing of all
thefe currents is the general efFeCt which relults from it. Thefe currents may again,
be reflected by looking-glafies, after the laws of light.
Of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 2 %
Of INDISPOSITION and DISEASE.
IT has been obferved, that man’s life is a quantity of univerfal motion, which in
its origin becomes tonical, applied to matter, deftined to form the organs and vifcera,
and afterwards to maintain and rectify their fundtions. Man’s life begins in mo-
tion, and ends in reft. The entire abolition of tonical motion is death. As in all
nature motion is the fource of every combination, as well as reft is of matter, fo,
in man, the principle of life becomes the caufe of death.
Every unfolding and formation of an organical body depends on the various and
fucceffive relations between motion and reft ; their equality being determined, the
number of poffible relations between the one and the other ought alfo to be deter-
mined. The diftance between two terms or given points may be confidered as re-
prefenting the duration of life ; one of thefe terms or points is motion, the other
reft. The fucceffive progreffion of the various proportions of the one and the other
conftitutes the progrefs and revolution of life. Proceeding thus from motion to
reft, we arrive at at the point of their equilibrium •, after that point we begin by-
degrees to die.
That progreffion of divers modifications between motion and reft may have an
exadt proportion, or that proportion may be difturbed. If man runs through that
progreffion without the proportions being difturbed, he lives in a good ftate of
health, and arrives at his term without illnefs : on the contrary, as foon as the pro-
portions are troubled, difeafe begins. Illnefs is nothing elle but a perturbation in
the progreffion of motion and life, which may be confidered as exifting either in
folid or fluid bodies. If it exifts in folids, it difturbs the harmony of the properties
of organical bodies by diminifhing the one and encreafing the other. If it exifts in
fluids, it difturbs their local and internal motion.
The abberation from motion in folids, by altering their properties, difturbs the
fundtionsof the vifceraand the various elaborations which ought to take place. The
abberation from the inteftine motions of humours produces their degeneration.
The abberation from local motions produces obftrudtion or debility, fever or irri-
tation.
The flownefs or abolition of motion produces obftruflions or debility •, die acce-
leration of motion produces fever or iritability. The perfedlion of folids or vifcera
confifts in the harmony of all their properties and fundtions, and the refult of the
function of the vicera are the quality of fluids with their inteftine and local motion.
To be able to rectify the general harmony of the body, we muft rectify the fundtron
of the vifcera •, becaufe, their fundlion being once re-eftabiifhed, they rectify every
thing that can be fo, and. divide every thing that cannot be redtified.
That
2% A KEY TO PHYSI C,
That effort of nature or vifcera upon the humour is called crifis, or paroxyfm i
and no difeafe can be cured without a crifis. In all crifes, we diftinguifh three
Hates, the perturbation, digeftion, and evacuation. Difeafe being an abberation
from harmony, that abberation or pre-difpofition may be more or lefs confiderable,
and produce more or lefs fenfible effects which are called fymptoms. If thofe ef-
fects are produced by the courfe of the difeafe, they are called fymptomatic fenfa-
'tions; if on the contrary they are the efforts of nature againft the caufe of illnefs,
they are called critical fymptoms. It is of the greateft moment to diftinguifh them
well in practice, to prevent and flop the one, and favour the other.
It follows from what has been faid, that all caufes of difeafe difturb and alter
more or lefs the proportion between matter and motion, the proportion of the vifcera,
the proportion between fluids and folids, and confequently they produce by their
different applications a remiflion or perturbation more or lefs confiderable in the
properties of matter. To remedy the effects of remiflion and their perturbation,
and to deftroy or ftop them, the remiflion of properties rauft be provoked ;
that
is to fay, in animal bodies, the irritability or animal eleCtricity muft be increafed by
different ftimula. There are two methods of doing this : i. to leffen the obftacles;
2. to increafe the aCtion of nature, by a continual, fhaded, foft and harmonic,
application of magnetic currents.
A body being in harmony is hardly fenfible to the effect of animal electricity
and magnetifm, becaufe that the application of an uniform and general aCtion can-
not alter any thing in proportions which are both exadt and already confervant with
that harmony. If on the contrary a body is not in harmony, that is to fay, if it is
in that ftate wherein proportions are diflurbed, the habit it is in to experience that
diffonance hinders it from being more fenfible, and it becomes fo by the application
of animal eleftricity and magnetifm ; becaufe that difpofition and diffonance are in-
creafed. On thefe principles it is eafy to conceive that fick perfons drawing near
their recovery become gradually infenfible to animal ele&ricity and magnetifm;
and that abfolute infenfibility to its power conftitutes the perfedt cure.
It follows, from the fame principles, that the application of animal ele&ricity and
magnetifm muft often increafe the pain, as its aftion occafions the fymptomatic
fenfations to diminifli or ceafe ; and, the efforts of nature againft the caufes of difeafe
being increafed, it is abfolutely neceffary for the critical fymptoms to increafe in the
fame proportion.
It is by the exaCt obfervations of their feveral effeCts we are enabled perfectly to
difcern the fymptoms. The unfolding of the fymptoms is made in the contrary or-
der by which the difeafe was formed, and may be compared to a ball of twine which
winds off in the contrary order to which it was wound on.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 285
Of HUMAN IMPREGNATION;—FORMATION of the FCETUS—ORI-
GIN of DISEASES—and PRINCIPLES of LIFE and DEATH.
IT was not my intention to go into this Treatife fo much at large, in my prefent
work ; but confidering that the fubjedt is of the higheft importance, and that the
Medical Part could not be made complete without it, I have refolved to introduce
it here, though I fhall be under the neceffity of extending my Plan to a few more
numbers. Thefe, I truft, will not be unacceptable ;
fince they will be accompa-
nied with a fet of very curious and valuable plates, defigned on purpofe to iiluftrate
this interefting fpeculation.
In contemplating the works of creation and the word of God, unfolded to us by
the light of Revelation and Scripture; by analogy, reafon, medical experiments, and
anatomy, we are enabled to trace the human oeconomy farther in her retirement, and
deeper in her occult retreat, than fome medical men are willing to fuppofe. Impo-
verished by a fafhionable ftile of living, and driven to the neceffity of multiplying
potions and fees, their objeCt is not to heal, but to nourilh the feeds of human infir-
mity. The truth of this remark has been but too often experienced ;
and indeed
confejjed by fome, in thofe awful moments, when diffi initiation would be vain. Far
be it from me to arraign the profeffional character in its general capacity ; it is
only the medical locufts that I wifh to eradicate ; and I am perfuaded every good
man in the faculty, would with heart and hand affift me in fo laudable a purfuit.
It was principally with this view, and to affilt private families in the moments of
extremity, that I was induced to offer thofe fimple modes of cure, and felf- preserva-
tion, fo amply difpenfed in my edition of Culpeper’s Family Phyfician. And my
prefent purpofe being to make that invaluable family book ftill more complete, I
fhall here explain the nature of human generation, and the principles of animal life,
that I may from thence deduce the origin of hereditary dileafes, and point out with
more facility thofe which are accidental. And in this Treatife I fhall endeavour to
furnifh my readers with fuch obvious directions for efchewing the evil,
and choofing the
good,
that if refolutely followed, will not fail to preferve health and long life, and
prove of no fmall benefit to future generations.
When God created Adam, he planted in him the feeds of that Divine Effence,
requifite to propagate the human life and foul. Theologifts may contradict me ; yet
I will not fo much derogate from the wifdom and omnipotence of the Creator, as
to fuppofe he fhould watch the impregnation of every human female, and by fo
many feparate and diftinCt adts of his power, give life, fpirit, and foul to the foetus.
The Creator of Man, viewing with unbounded forefight the purpofes before him.
No. 19. 4 D by
2X6 A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
by oneaCt of his omnipotence, blended in Adam all the faculties of the human andce-
leftial nature ; and, without any doubt, when he was formed one,
in God’s exprefs
image,
he pofieffed the means of propagating, from his own efience, beings like
himfelf. It is here difficult to affociate the imperfeCt ideas of human reafon with
the mechanifm of Divine Wifdom ; and yet our conceptions may in fome degree
unravel the myfteries of nature by caufes and fpeculations, which, in proportion as
they captivate our fenfes, and raifeour admiration, excite in us a reverential awe of
futurity, and a grateful fenfibility of the goodnefs and mercy of Him, who gave us
being.
From the evidence of fcripture it is indifputably clear, that in the perfon of Adam
the male and female properties were originally combined; as indeed we now find them
in many fpecies of the lower clafs of animals. In Genefis i. 27, we read, that Cod
created man in his own image,
i. e. of perfection ; including or containing the prolific
or generating powers, which are diftinguifhed by the expreffion of male and female ;
and God blejfed them, i. e. thefemale and female properties, andfaid unto them, Increafe
and multiply,
and replenifh the earthy i. e. with beings like Adam ; for this benedic-
tion, and this command, were antecedent to the formation of Eve, as every one muft
know who reads the fcriptures.
In this plural capacity, therefore, Adam received the bleffing of God, when he
faid unto him, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenifh the earthy and fubdue it ; and
have dominion over thefifh of the fea,
and over thefowls of the air, &c. The fix days
creation were now compleated ; and on the feventh day God refted from all his
work ;
and having formed Adam, and breathed into his noftrils the breath of life,
he became a living foul. God alfo planted the garden of Eden, and put the man into
it, to till it, and to drefs it ; and God commanded the man, faying, Of every tree of
the garden thou mayeft freely eat
;
but of the tree of the knowledge of good and
evil, thou fhalt not eat of it ; for in the day that thou eateft thereof, thou /halt furely
die. Gen. ii. 27.
Let it here be noted, that all thefe tranfaCUons, injunctions, and commands, had
pafied before Eve was formed, or, in other words, before the male and female effen-
ces were feparated and made the efiential parts of two diftinCt perfons. Adam like-
wife, before this event took place, was appointed God’s viceroy over all earthly
things, both animate and inanimate ; the very elements being made fubjeCt to him s
for “ he wasformed more noble than the angels, and crowned with glory and honour ;” i. e.
having the peculiar advantage of multiplying his own race. He was, as to his external
form, moulded of theceleftial aether; and therefore, previous to his fall, his body
emanated rays of brightnefs and fplendour, fimilar to thofe which our ideas furnifh
of Mofes and Elias when they converfed with God. His reafoning faculty, and liv-
ing
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 287
ingSoul,
were formed of the eternal effence or TinCture of the Divinity *, being no-
thing lefs than what is termed the breath of God,
that fpark of immortality which
generates foul and body, and is the diftinguifhing characteristic between man and
beaft. For, although brute animals inherit the five fenfes, and pofTefs an inftind
to direct them in the choice of food, and to impel the propagation of their fpecies ;
yet thefeare only fenfes formed from the out-birth, or four elements of nature ; and
not from the ejfence or tintture of the Divinity, out of which the foul, the mental in-
tellect, reafon, fenfe, and understanding, are all formed, and transferred to pof-
terity. “ For with the powers God has endued man,
with the fame powersJhall he multi-
ply his race.”
From the foregoing paflfages we are warranted to infer, that the original man was
pofleffed of his fpiritual foul, and rational intellect, for the purpofe of propagating
the fame to all future generations. By the force of this rational intellect, or eter-
nal fpirit, unclouded by the deformity of fin, he knew and perceived the nature and
property of every animated being i and to exercife this intellect, God brought be-
fore him every created thing, to fee what he would call them-, “ and whatfoever
Adam called them,
that was the name thereof.” He knew and perceived the nature and
quality of all animals *, and according to their defignation and fubjeCtion to the ex^
ternal elements, fo he afiigned them thofe names which they have ever fince borne.
Adam, however, in his primeeval State, was not himfelf under the influence of
celeStial or terreftrial elements •, but, on the contrary, they were fubjeCt to his con-
troul. He was immortal ; they corruptible. They fprung out of Time, and were
elementated •, he fprung from the limbus of Eternity ; and into eternity the divine
efience or fouls propagated from him, mult indifputably return.
But man, thus created in honour and immortality, abideth not. The purpofe
of his creation was to fill the place of the rebel angels ; and hence Lucifer became
his mortal foe. This fallen Spirit had entered the gate of Eden, and was preparing
to feduce Adam, when the Almighty conftituted the teSt of his obedience ; for ha-
ving endowed him with afree-will,
an innate power of choofing good or evil, and of
multiplying the fame, it was but reafonable to expeCt from him an implicit obedi-
ence, and an angelic race. He that is alone eternal and omnipotent, could not but
forefee the fubfequent event •, and it is his Supreme goodneSs to counteract evil, by
preventing its worSt confequences. Foreseeing that the prolific tinCture, or eternal
effence of fecundation, might be contaminated by the malignant fpirit of Lucifer,
infufing itfelf into the mind of Adam ;
who then, inftead of multiplying an ange-
„ lie race, would generate devils •, and that were man to fall in his individual capacity,
there was no counterpart, no feminine principle, through the medium of which
the
288 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the ferpent's head could he brutfed.,
or a Saviour become incarnate. Therefore, on a
further furvey, after the works of creation had been compleated, animals named,
and man formed and compounded of the male and female tindures, God faid, Gen.
ii. 1 8 . It is not good that the manfoould be alone ; I will make him an help meetfor him ;
wherefore the rib, i. e. the feminine or conceptive efience, was taken out of Adam,
and concentrated or moulded into anew being, called woman. The emiflion of this
feminine efience or tindure, threw Adam into a deep deep ; yet when he awoke,
he knew that an efiential principle had departed from him, and that the woman
was bone of his bone,
andflejh of his flefh, not having been created, butformed out of him-
felf whereby he only retained the animating princip!e,or adive power of generation-,
whilft the rudiments, or feeds of future beings were configned to the matrix of the
woman. Here then individual generation ceafed ; and Adam, without the counter
part of himfelf,
had no longer the power to encreafe and multiply. Thus the two
tindures, or divine efiences, animating and compounding foul and body, were di-
vided and by means only of a re-union or contad of thole tindures, could gene-
ration then, or now, be performed. It is on this ground that the male and female
affedions are continually turned towards each other ; and that the defire of love
and union fo ftrongly pervades every individual of the human race. Hence alfo the
Tempter’s reafon for beguiling Eve, and hence the feducing power of love, which
determined Adam to fhare in all the horrors of her crime, fo pathetically and affed-
ingly defcribed by Milton.
The fatal confequences of the fall, we moll lenfibly feel, and univerfally deplore.
The earth fhook from her foundations. The order of nature was quite inverted.
The mtherial and terreftrial elements, which before were fafhioned in harmony, and
aded in unifon, were now difcordant, intemperate, and furious. Brute preyed up-
on brute, and bird invaded bird. The delicious fruits and flowers of Paradiie,
were exchanged for thorns and thiftles. The ferenity of a pellucid and finding fir-
mament, was convulfed by the thunders of an incenied Deity, by forked lightnings,
by contending feafons, by devouring winds, and impetuous ftorms. While man,
ungrateful man, from the privilege of holding thefe elements in fubjedion, became
fubjeded to them; and hence fubjed to all the perils and misfortunes of his fallen
nature.
Here, then, began the conflidof the human pafiions, as violent and ungoverna-
ble as the elements themfelves. Here the toil and labour of the man, who fliould
earn his bread by thefweat of his brow, and the tears and travail of the woman, who
fhould conceive in pain andforrow, had each their fource. Here likewife, the dark
catalogue of human infirmities, of difeafe, and death, had its too early date ;
yet
i to
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
to this sera, which gave birth to our manifold misfortunes, niuft we look for that
benign fource of alleviation and cure, which the relenting hand of Providence has
gracioufly afforded to thofe Who will feck for them ; for out of the ground hath the
Lord caufed medicine to grow ;
and he that is wife will not defpife them , for with fuch doth
he heal men, and taketh away their pains. Eccl. xxxviii. 4, 7.
Since, by his fall, man became fubjed to the elements, from them he receives
the conflitution of his body ;
but his reafoning intellect, and lpiritual foul, are de-
rived from the pure effence or tindure of the Deity, originally infufed into the feed
of man. To the violence and impurity of the elements, we owe the difordersof the
body-, to the temptations and allurements of the devil, we juftly impute the difeafes
of the foul. Yet by due attention to our reafoning faculty, it is no hard tafk to pre-
ferve health, or prolong life, to the term of its natural diffolution; while, by the
powers of the mind, and the light of thegofpel, we may ftill avoid the poifon of fin,
and become members of that eternal kingdom, which is the lure reward of the good
and virtuous.
The imperfedions and difeafes of the body, therefore, beginning with Adam,
are in confequence tranfmitted to his pofterity y and may be divided into hereditary,
,and accidental. Hereditary complaints proceed from a certain defed of the animal
powers, or imperfed (late of the fanguiferous fyftem, at the time of copulation.
The accidental, confiftof all fuch maladies as are communicated by the difeordant
or putrid ftate of the elements, not only during the time the child is encompalTed in
the womb, but from its birth, to the lateft hour of its exiftence. And it might her®
be obferved, that the increafe or decreafe of both hereditary and accidental difeafes,
depend almoft entirely on the purity, or impurity, of the blood. For if pure, in both
male and female, at the time of impregnation, the foetus will be naturally flrong and
healthful. So likewife, if after parturition, and during life, care be taken to keep
the blood in an uncontaminated and elaftic ftate, welhall not only avoid the common
effedsof exceflive cold, heat, and moifture-, but avoid likewife that direful train of
acute difeafes, communicated by putridity and infection y or, fhould they by chance
attack us, the effed becomes flight and temporary. A circumftance this, which
furely ought to weigh perpetually on the minds of thofe, who know how to value the
bleffing of health, or who would wifh to live a long, an adive, and a pleafant life.
This is therefore a fpeculation of that high importance, that I fhall now fhew how
hereditary complaints are communicated in the ad of copulation— how increafed and
foftered in the womb—how accidental difeafes grow up and follow,-— and how both
thefe enemies to the health and happinefs of mankind may be prevented, or overcome.
In that union of the fexes to which we are inftindively impelled j
or rather, in
the union of thofe effences or tindures peculiar to the generative organs of male and
No. 19. 4E female.
290 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
female, in the contact of which the firft moments of human exigence commence,
the moft whimfical and abfurd theories have been fet up. No branch of phyfiology
has been moreexpofed tocenfure and miftake. While the phenomena of the hea-
vens, of the earth, and even of the human mind itfelf, are traced with a Heady hand,
and with all the dignity of philofophy, the functions of the human body, in health as
well as under difeafe, though expounded with a profufion of fantaftical erudition,
appear almoft in as much doubt and darknefsas in the days of Paracelfus.
Let us then proceed to review the mode by which generation is accompliffied. I
have, in the former part of this work, already explained the Syftems of Buffon, and
of Liewenhoek, in their fpeculations on the animalculse found in the feed of man,
and in that of brute animals •, I have alfo, in the medical part of Culpeper’s Family
Phyfician, (hewn the mode by which generation is performed, fo far as relates
to the adtion itfelf, and to its grofs effiedt. I fhall now confider it in a new light, as
it concerns the propagation of foul and body, and of family-temper, likenefs, and
difeafe; but as the female is fo materially concerned in themyfterious adt of impreg-
nation, and in all its confequences, I fhall here take up the reafoning of a late inge-
nious anonymous author, whofe opinion exactly coincides with my own.
The extremity of the uterine fyftem, without the nymphae, feems not, except
from its aperture, and the lafcivious fufceptibility of its texture, materially requifite
to generation. Immediately within the nymphae, the vagina, or great canal of the
uterus, begins. Before coition has difturbed its proportions, it is generally about
five or fix inches long ; and when thrown into a circular form, without violent de-
tention, its diameter is about a fixth part of its length. But as, in coition, the va-
gina is the immediate receptacle of the penis, it is capable of great diftention, and
may be rendered of very confiderable capacity. In general, however, after fre-
quent contact, this canal becomes much fhorter, but more proportionably increafed
in its diameter; yet being contrived by its organization for the purpofeof exciting
titillation and pleafure, it can and does accommodate itfelf to whatever fize is necef-
fary clofely to embrace the penis in the adt of copulation.
At the upper extremity of this canal, the uterus or womb is feated. It is of a py-
ramidal form, with its apex towards the vagina. Its greateft length, in virgins, is
not more than two or three inches ; and its width is fcarcely one ; its internal cavi-
ty muft therefore be very fmall. It is connedted to the vagina or great canal by a
pafiage fo fmall, that a bodkin or flilet cannot be introduced without much difficul-
ty. In the broad or upper extremity of the womb, the ovaria are feated. Their
fubftance is fpongy, and they contain an indefinite number of vehicles of a dufkiffi
femitranfparent quality, the involucra of which are diftindt, and fimilar to the ge-
neral
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 291
neral fubftance of the ovaria. Thefe veficles are the ova or eggs, which contain
the rudiments of the foetus, and which muft abfolutely be impregnated with the
male feed, before it can be poffible for generation to take place.
Now it has been, and is, the common opinion, that when venereal embraces take
place, the whole genital fyftern of the male being thrown into adtion by libidinous
fire and violent fridtion, by this exertion the femen is thrown with confidera-
ble vehemence from the penis, and is either forced through the mouth of the womb,
and attracted by the ovaria ; or, that it is received by the Fallopian tubes, and con-
veyed by them through a variety of convolutions, till by their fimbriae they are
condudted to the ovaria, in the manner I have already fully defcribed in the medi-
cal part of Culpeper’s Family Phyfician ;
all which tedious and complicated procefs
is alledged to take place in the inftant of coition.
Others again fuppofe, that the internal orifice of the womb becomes open and
pervious, during the exertion and enjoyment of copulation, and that the glands of
the penis abfolutely pafs into the cavity of the womb, and ejedt the feed immediately
upon the ovaria. To each of thefe theories there appears infuperable objedtions.
In refutation of the firft, we need only obferve, that the vagina, from its ftrudture,
and from its organization in the adt of venery, is difpofed ftrongly, and in every
part, to embrace the penis ; and as the glans muft thereby be clofely lurrounded,
although it reaches not in every perfon to thefurthefl limits of the vagina ; the flight
and momentary impetus of the femen will thus be very effedtually refifted, if not
totally fubdued. If the penis be not of magnitude fufficient to occupy the vagina
to its full extent, the unoccupied fpace muft be fomehow diftended ;
and, let this
vacuum be what it will, its refiftance muft be effedtual ; and if it is not diftended,
the power or preffure which occafions its collapfe, will over-balance the impetus of
the femen. But fuppofmg the virile member in all cafes to be fo exadtly propor-
tioned as to occupy the whole length of the uterine canal, which however we know
is not the cafe •, yet from what principle fhall we afeertain that the feminal tube of
the penis, and the apex of the womb, fhall be made fo exadtly to correfpond as to
become continuous ? The femen, in the event of coition, is doubtlefsly thrown out
bv the penis with fome force •, though this force will always depend upon the vigour
of the male organs, and therefore muft vary from the loweft to the higheft degree
of vigour of which thefe organs can be fufceptible. But even allowing the glans
penis and apex of the womb to fall into exact contadt upon due penetration *, and
that the male feed is always ejedted with confiderable force from the penis, and the
vagina to be no barrier to the progrefs of it ; yet how is it to force its way into the
cavity of the womb ? The aperture which leads from the vagina or great canal into
3
292 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
the womb, is in fad! no aperture a,t all. During menftruation, indeed, it is pervi-
ous •, but even then it is only capable of admitting a very fmall probe ; and this is
no argument that it is naturally, and at other times pervious. How often too has
this aperture been entirely blocked up by preternatural obftrudlions, and conception
neverthelefs taken place? Inftances of this have often occurred ; and the precifion
and authority with which they are recorded by different practitioners, leave no room
ip evade the argument. .Hence this mode of impregnation appears not only highly
objectionable, but utterly impoffible ; having no correfpondence with the human
flructure, or with the economy of Nature.
After what has been faid, it may appear idle to profecute any farther refutation
of the progrefs of the male feed by the Fallopian tubes, or through the mouth of
the womb. But as authors of the greatefb refpedtability have believed in its pro-
grefs through the tubes, and tell us they have even feen it there; it may not be im-
proper to enquire how far this is afcertainable. The Fallopian tubes, through
which the femen is faid to pafs, originate, by very minute perforations, through the
fundus of the womb; and encreafing- rapidly in their diameters, their capacities,
<vhen dilated, may be about the third part of an inch where they approach the ova-
ria. Here, again, they fuddenly contract, leaving only a very final! opening ;
while their main fubftance is Bill continued, and is expanded into that plaited or
jagged fringe called the fimbriae, which is contiguous to the ovaria*. I (hall now
afk, by what law in Nature, by what effort of it, is the male femen to be condu&ed
through this conical and convoluted canals? Can the femen now poffefs any adtive
force, to introduce itfelf through the rigid perforations of this organ, and to over-
come the collapfe of the tubes ? The ftimulating power of the femen muff foon be
loft in a veffel which it has not power to diftend ; and we cannot fuppofe it capable
of acting in a direction completely oppofite to what is the acknowledged office of
the tubes. It muft be by irritability that the ovum is conveyed into the uterus from
the ovaria ; and we know no veffels in any part of the body whofe adtion is double
and contrary,. This fyftem therefore favours of great improbability. But we are
told, by fome, that they have adlually feen the male femen in its unaltered ftate,
lodged in the Fallopian tubes. Thefe fagacious authors might as prudently have
affirmed, that they had feen fnow upon the canal in Hyde-park at midfummer.
They did not know, or did not choofe to recoiled!, becaufe it made againft precon-
ceived opinion, that the human feed, when fubjedted to heat, efpecially to fuch a
moift and natural heat as thofe parts conftantly afford, foon lofes its fpiffitude and
* See Medical part of Culpeper, page 17, 895 97, &c, where all the parts, both male and
female, are anatomically defcribed.
tenacity.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 293
tenacity, and becomes very fubtilly fluid, and almoft colourlefs. Befides, it is uni-
verfally acknowledged, that a conflderable part of the femen is almoft always, im-
mediately after coition, rejeded by the female. When we attend to the many inftan-
ces of credulity and impofition, in the theories of generation, we need not marvel
at the aptitude and facility with which pretended difcoveries creep into notice, and
the folemnity with which they obtrude themfelves into fyftems.
All the foregoing arguments againft the poflibility of a pervious communication
between the vagina and the uterus, are alfo conclufive againft the fuggeftion, that
the penis, in the ad of coition, penetrates into the cavity of the womb. Nor is the
aflertion of thofe who contend that this orifice, by the turgidity of the parts during
coition, naturally opens and dilates itfelf to receive the male feed, marked with the
leaftdegreeof probability. How is this dilatation of th« orifice to be efreded? Tho*
the whole uterine fyftem, during the venereal ad, be rendered tliff and turgid by
animal defire and influent blood, yet is it more probable that this turgidity would
rather comprefs than dilate the orifice ; and the ftrudure and texture of the womb
feem exceedingly unfavourable tofudden dilatation by any means whatever. In an
unimpregnated or virgin ftate, the womb is fo fmall that its fides coalefce or adhere
together, and it has no hollow appearance whatever; though from the texture
and elafticity of its fabric, it may be thrown into a globular form, which will
conftitute a cavity. But in coition, with all its occult and uncommon phenomena,
what charm have we left to overcome this coalefcence, and form this cavity, by
opening or feparating the membranous fides of the womb ? Will it here be faid that
the forcible ejedion of the male femen will effed this purpofe ; or that the ftiff and
turgid ftate of the penis itfelf will force its way into a fabric fo remote and delicate ?
Though females may entertain fanguine ideas of thefe things, we mult fuppofe the
vigilant anatomift, toiling through the unalarming and chilly organs of the dead,
ought to furnifh a more rational hypothefis, whence to deduce the adive principle
and admirable procefs of human impregnation.
Authors have been always eager to eftablifh the certainty of a conflderable afflux
of blood to the female organs, and confequent turgidity during the voluptuous com-
munication of the fexes ; and this has been a wonderful prop to many abfurd con-
jedures. This afflux, and confequent turgidity, they fuppofe originates, like the
eredion of the penis, from the ftrength of libidinous ideas, and other locally irrita-
ting caufes ; and is intended by nature to induce atenfion in the female organs, that
the progrefs of the femen may thereby be facilitated. This tenfion, again, they fup-
pofe induces fome kind of conftridion, which is faid to fupport the adion of the
different parts of the genital fyftem, but particularly of the Fallopian tubes. Thefe
No. 19. 4 F tubes,
it
•v*
*94 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
tubes, it is faid, are remarkably diftended, during coition, by the blood ruffling
into the numerous veffels which creep between their coats, by which means they are
eredfed, and their fimbriated terminations applied to theovaria^ and it is gravely
added, that diftedlions of gravid women, and the comparative anatomy of brutes,
corroborate the opinion. Were it not for the ferious refpedt v/ith which this anato-
mical obfervation hath for a length of time been favoured, no body furely would be
at the pains of detedling the abfurdity. Allowing that this turgidity, with all its
concomitant circumstances, really happens in the living fubjedt, how can it poffibly
exift in a carcafe flaccid with death, and, as is always the cafe in a human anatomi-
zed body, where death muft have taken place fome confiderable time before ?
But this turgidity, though it fometimes may happen, and yet in a degree very li-
mited to what is allcdged, does not always happen ; and when it really does take
place, it feems rather to be the companion and promoter of libidinous gratification,
than a principal and eflential promoter of conception. To many women the em-
braces of the male are extremely, if not completely, indifferent \ and to fome they
are abfolutely difagreeable •, yet even thefe women are prolific. There is no difficul-
ty in fuggefting a very fufficient and natural reafon why the parts of the female, di-
redlly fubjedfed to the adtion of the penis, during the venereal congrefs, Should
become turgid with influent blood, and fometimes be conftridted. Nature, though
fhe feems in general unfriendly to exceffive luff, fometimes permits it ; and thefe
are the means fhe feems to have appointed for heightening it. Befldes, it is proper
that the animal inffindl, which prompts the reprodudtion of the fpecies, Should not
be difappointed in its gratification, however brutal thefe fenfations and ideas may
appear to the purified philofopher. Thefe means then, however they may contri-
bute to the mutual fenfibility of the Sexes, in the voluptuous gratification of animal
pleafure, appear to have no real influence on the procefs of generation, after the ve-
nereal congrefs has ceafed •, nay, we have reafon to believe that their action or influ-
ence does not extend beyond the limits of the vagina, except in common with the
reft of the general fyftem, even during that congrefs. If an afflux of blood to thefe
parts were always to be attended with thefe effedts, what violence muft the ovaria
be expofed to by reiterated coition, and by every return of themenftrual discharge ?
During the menftrual afflux, a very considerable diftention muft furely take place
over the greateft part, if not the whole, of the genital fyftem ; and as this turgidity
is the principal reafon affignedfor the adtion of the tubes, by what means are the
fimbriae diverted fromexercifing thofe fundtions which turgidity, though from ano-
ther caufe, atanother time fo Successfully inftigates ? Alfo, how happensit that grate-
ful copulation is not always produdtive, and the contrary ; that the fimbriae, in
every
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 295
every venereal ad, do not operate upon the ovaria, and thereby produce more fce-
tufes, or a wafte of the ova ? and that the organs themfelves are not incapacitated, or
diminilhed in their energy, by fueh repeated exertions ? We have every reafon then
to conclude, that the terffion and conftridion of the female organs, induced by the
afflux of blood during coition, if of confequence, are intended folcly to promote
animal gratification ; and that they have no dired influence on the adual progrelsof
thefemen through the above deferibed communications to the ovaria.
Upon the whole, it is certainly no ways equivocal, that the femen cannot, in any
manner, be applied to the ovaria by means of the fimbriae ; that it cannot afeend or
advance through the convolutions of the Fallopian tubes ; that it cannot divaricate
and traverfe the compreffed uterus; and that it cannot even operate a paflage through
the rigid bulwark of the cervix uteri. The probability of the progrefs of the aura
feminalis,
through the fame paths, is deftroyed by the fame arguments ; and the
whimfical opinions founded on the prefence of animalcules in the femen, and on the
organic bodies furnifhed by the femen of both fexes, and uniting in the uterus, as
far as this alledged aperture is concerned, mult hand or fall by the fame fate. It
may feem however ftrange, that a dodrine fo ancient, and fo univerfally believed,
fliould be fo eafily overthrown ; and it may furnifh, to the fpeculative reader, unfa-
vourable ideas of the prefent {late of medical literature. He may indeed wonder,
that though every fcience has become rational and refpedable by the exertions of
their cultivators. Medicine alone has been able to refill the diligence of a thoufand
years; although it has been wrefted from the hands of nurfes, and its profefflon be-
come dignified and lucrative, it can fcarcely be faid, at this day, to afford one un-
queftionable idea. In the volumes of phyfiology, compiled by the molt learned phy-
ficians, and drawn from the molt learned fources, will the unconcerned philofopher
find the dogmata of medicine confident with Nature, or with common fenfe ?
But fince the femen, in fo me Hiape or other, contains that animating principle
v/hich is indifpenfibly neceflary to generation ; and fince the ovaria as indifputably
produce fomething from whence a living creature is to be evolved, it becomes de-
monltrably clear, that the influence of the male feed mult be powerfully incorpora-
ted with the female, and direded to the ovaria, before this effed can poffibly take
place. We have already feen how this cannot happen ; let us now endeavour to
point out a rational medium by which it may be accomplilhed. For this purpofe
v/e mufl; again return to the vagina, or canal of the uterus, as being the principal
organ on the part of the female, which adually contributes to propagation ; and
without the full and complete ufe of which, impregnation cannot take place. It
therefore demands a very minute and attentive inveftigation,
3 The
296 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
The vagina is claftic, and fomewhat membranous, compofed of mufcular fibres
blood-veflels, nerves, and lymphatics, it commences, from beneath, at the nym-
phm, and rifing obliquely about five inches, is loll upon the uterus. Its capacity
is very different in different fubjefts, and in no very diftant periods of life in the
fame fubjeft. A very refpe&able anatomift finifhes his defcription of it by faying,
it is “ membro virili fecundum omnes dimenfiones accommodabilis.” Its inner membrane
though very uneven, is delicately fmooth, and, from its nervous texture, exquifite-
ly fenfible; the outer membrane is more fpongy and mufcular ; and, the whole bo-
dy of the canal is very plentifully fupplied with blood- vefTels, nerves, and lympha-
tics. We know little more of the lymphatics of thefe parts, than that they are more
numerous proportionally than in any other part of the body. Thofe which origi-
nate in the exterior parts of the female genital fyftem, traverfe the inguinal glands,
while the deepTeated ones take a much morediredt courfe to their place of union
with the lacteals ; but of thefe we fhall be more particular, when we adduce ourob-
lervations in favour of a very powerful abforption fubfi fling in the vagina.
The entrance into the canal of the uterus from without, is guarded, by the
nymphae, which form an eminence on each fide, fo peculiarly conftrudled and ar-
ranged, that we mud think lightly of the phyfiologift who could fuppofe them to
be only appendages in office to the urethra. Indeed, as Nature frequently operates
more than one end by a particular ftruftufe, we fhall not pretend to limit the fe-
condary or inferior offices which the nymphte may promote •, but we fee much rea-
son to believe them created to affift powerfully in preventing the fpeedy efcape of the
male femen, and thereby expofing it longer to the adtion of the abforbent fyftem.
A multitude of circumftances corroborate this belief ; and it will not be impaired
by the allegation, that thefe ridges by no means conflitute a regular and complete
valve. Immediately within this barrier, a ftrudture, on the fame principles as thofe
of the nymphas, but more elegant and powerful, commences; and it is continued
over the furface of the vagina, gradually growing finer, till it is loft in fmoothnefs
near the upper extremity of the canal. This ftrudture is the rugae of the vagina, fo
accurately drawn and defcribed by Haller and others ; but degraded by fome ana-
tomifts, who mark it only as ufeful in exciting venereal enjoyment, or admitting
expanfion during coition and parturition. It is infinuating a mean and difgraceful
refledtion on the- important order and operations of Nature to fuppofe, that thefe
rugae, which are not cafually arranged; but are regulated with as much precifion
and uniformity as we can trace in any other part of the general fyftem; I fay it is
nugatory and prefumptuous to afiert, that this intricate, extenfive, and beautiful
arrangement, has been fo minutely laboured for no other purpofe, but merely to
excite
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. » 97
excite a greater titillation during the groisand libidinous commerce of the fexes, and
a greater extenfion during parturition. This ftru&ure may indeed promote thefe
fecondary purpofes j but it is intended for much nobler ends. Had thefe rugae been
conftruCted merely for fimple contraction and dilatation, they would have covered
equally the whole furface of the vagina, which certainly does not happen •, neither,
if thefe had been their principal ufes, would they be fo foon and fo eafily obliterated.
We believe, then, that the i ug^ of the vagina are thus contrived principally to pro-
trad: the femen in that vifeus, after the penis is withdrawn, and thereby to favour
abforption •, efpecially as the qualities of the femen coincide wonderfully with thefe
intentions.
The femen, as it is fecreted from the blood in the tefticles, is very different from
that heterogeneous mixture which is expelled by the urethra in coition •, though,
by the alteration, its fecundating quality is not improved. When it is conveyed
into the vehicles it is of a thin confidence, of a pale yellowifh colour, and little in
quantity. In thefe vehicles it is fomewhat infpiffated, and its colour heightened j
and after it is mixed with the liquor of the proftrate glands, it becomes ftill thicker,
and of a more whitifh colour. This confidence which the femen acquires in its-pro-
grefs from the tedicles, may produce other flight properties *, but the principal in-
tention of it feems to be, to correfpond more effectually with the abforbent power of
the vagina : for thus, by the increafed tenacity of the femen, the remora of its fe-
cundating part mud be protracted in the vagina, while at the fame time the abl’or-
bentsare allowed more time to attach thofe aCtive fubtile parts intended to be carried
into the circulating fydem. We may add here, in order farther to confirm the opi-
nion concerning the ufe of the tenacity of the femen, that when too little of this mu-
cilage is derived from the glands, or when it is of a depraved or thin quality, the
whole mixture efcapes the machinery of the vagina too rapidly, and hence coition
becomes unproductive. This is the feminal ferofity, as it is called, held to be one
of the few caufes of derility in man. And we may add farther, that when the con-
sent and power of procreation begins to fail on the part of the woman, the crenula-
tions of the vagina are then always vifibly decayed, whether affeCted by the advan-
ces of age, or by imprudently reiterated venery. But what are we to think of a very
refpeCtable author, who gravely tells us, that the femen, by dagnation, and by the
addition of the cream-like liquor of the prodrate glands, is better fuited to the pro-
jecting effort of the urethra in the event of coition ? Indeed, it is not to be denied,
that the increafe in quantity of the feminal mixture may enable the projeCtile power
of the urethra, with its aiding mufcles, to aft with greater efficacy ;
but a boy would
laugh in my face were I to tell him, that by adding to the weight and tenacity of wa-
No. 19. 4G ter>
298 AKEYTOPHYSIC,
ter, his fquirt would throw it much farther. To aft in concert, then, with thele
unqueftionable qualities of the femen, the furface of the vagina, by means of its
rugae, from their elevation and arrangement, mult have a very confiderable effect
in heightening the remora we have defcribed. No doubt, if Nature had only had
in view the prevention of the regrefs of the femen, we might have met with a much
Ampler mechanifm •, but as to this part very different offices, and all of them mate-
rial, were allotted, it has been intricately qualified for them all. Thus, upon the
whole, we fee an admirable difpofition in the femen, and in the furface of the vagi-
na, to facilitate and promote the aft ion of the ablorbent veffels.
Though the abforbent fyftem has not been traced with the fame minutenefs and
fuccefs which have followed the inveffigation of the fanguiferous fyftem, it is howe-
ver known to be very general, and very powerful, and it is remarkably fo in the
cavity of the pelvis. How, otherwife, is that effufion which is conftantly going on,
in order to lubricate the whole genital fyftem in the female, and to prevent the coale-
fcence or concretion of its fides, relumed ? In thofe unfortunate females whofe
menfes have taken place, but in whom likewife the expulfion of which has
been prevented by the unruptured hymen, or by unnatural membranes blocking up
the paflage, much of the blood has always been reforbed ; and in thofe whofe difeafe
has exifted long, and where the thick parts of the blood have begun to be broken
down, thecolluvies has been reforbed, and a train of fymptoms induced, not to be
accounted for by the mere turgidity which this obftrudtion occafioned. The infec-
tion and progrefs of fyp’nilis, or confirmed lues, not only eftablifh the certainty of
a very rapid and powerful abforption in the vagina j but alfo exhibit the power and
Influence of the irregularities of its furface. It is lurely very evident, that the chief
application of the venereal virus, whether in gonnorrhoea or fyphilis, but efpecially
in gonnorrhcea, muft be near the farther extremity of the vagina, though there can
be no doubt but the ulcerated glans may often affedt the exterior parts by its intro-
dudtion •, but in a confirmed lues, the fundus of the vagina is rarely the feat of ulcer,
and it is never affedted in gonorrhoea. Here the furface of the vagina being moftly
fmooth, the poifon runs downwards, till falling upon the rugse, it is there intercept-
ed and retarded. Here then the poifon is multiplied, and leifurely applied to the
mouths of the lymphatics, through which it is carried into the blood ; where, afli-
milating together, it contaminates the whole mafs. Though the progrefs of the fy-
philitic poifon is not always thus regular, the variations do not not aftedt the opi-
nion. When the lymphatics, and their glands, are vigorous and eafily permeable ;
when the application of the venereal virus is within the nymphse ;
and when it is
fufficiently active, th« firft fymptoms of difeafe arife from general contamination ;
and
259
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
and was this poifon always very mild, and taken up by the abforbents within the
nymphte, there is no doubt but the whole mafs would almoft always be difeafed,
without much chance of ulcer or preceding bubo. But there are many circumftan-
ces which tend to retard the fpeedy abforpdon of the fyphilitic virus, even when it
is extremely aftive ;
and, among thefe, the inflammation which in general it muft
induce, is not perhaps the leaft conflderable ; but thefe cannot aflfeCt the abforption
of the feminal fluid of the male. The fyphilitic virus too, may, from the laxity and
lubricity of the vagina, (a circumftance very general in immodeft women,) not only
efcape abforption, but may be carried outwards, to exercife its energy on the exter-
nal parts. And it is from thefe reafons partly, that immodeft women are fo little
difpofed to conception, and that modeft women, when fubjeCted to venereal infec-
tion, generally experience the more latent and violent fpecies of this difeafe. And
as a greater furface of abforbents is expofed in the f emale to the contaminating influ-
ence of the difealed male organs, and as the greateft part of the female genital fy-
ftem have a much readier intercourfe with the blood than through the inguinal
glands, we meet with this fpecies of fyphilis much oftener in women than in men.
The cure of fyphilis, too, by fpecific remedies introduced into the vagina, fully de-
monftrates the ftrength and activity of the lymphatics in this canal. Is there then
a ready and eftablifhed communication, for difeafe, and for its remedies, between
the vagina and the general circulating fyftem of the blood, while a mild fluid, yet
pofleffed of activity infinitely beyond that of any poifon, and created for the higheft
and belt of purpoles, is not permitted to traverle the fame channels ? Many other
corroborating circumftances, both in faCt and in analogy, might be adduced here,
were not thefe arguments in themfelves concluflve.
Inadueftate of health there is what may be called an inteftine motion in the blood,
occafioning and promoting its commixture, as well as its feparation. In all gene-
ral difeafes, and even in many which are called local, this inteftine motion is heigh-
tened, diminiflied, or deranged ; and in the exanthematous or eruptive diforders,
'
it muft be remarkably fo. In fyphilis, though this difeafe is not direCtly exanthema-
tous, there muft beexceffi ve difturbance, and certain depravation prevailing through-
out the whole fyftem, before fuch complete deftruCtion can be brought upon it.
In thefe cafes of difeafe-— where vehement infection, with all its confequences, is
overturning all before it, we have always found, that milder infections could make
no impreflion. Hence the practitioner never hefltates to ingraft the fmall-pox,
though the patient may have already received the difeafe, either by natural conta-
gion, or by prior inoculation : hence a milder difeafe is often removed by a feverer
one; hence flow confumption is always retarded, and often overcome, by fecunda-
3 tion
;
<
3C0 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
tion ;
and hence fecundation itfelf, as the feebler ftirnulus, is often prevented by
the anticipating difturbance of fyphilis, or of fimilar difeafes vehemently pre-occu-
pying the circulating fyftem. It is this anticipation, this prior poffeffion, and change
in the circulating blood, which reafonably and emphatically accounts for the want
of influence in the human femen upon the female after impregnation has fully taken
place, or while the mother is providing milk. And we might account for the pro-
duction of twins, triplets, and thofe rareinftances of more numerous progeny, from
the fame circumftances. One, two, or more ova may indeed be fo ripe as to meet
completely the fecundating impulfe of the male femen at one time ; and it is perhaps
more flrangethat the different fcetufes fhould be maturated and expelled about the
fame time, than if a greater period intervened between the expulfion of each ; and
might not a fecond intercourfe of the fexes be fuccefsful, when the female circula-
ting mafs was not fully pre-occupied by the influence of the firft ? But the extent
and influence of prior infebtion, or impregnation of the blood, has been better ob-
ferved in the venereal, than in any other difeafe, or natural occurrence. Women
whofe general fyftem is vitiated by the fyphilitic virus, are always incapable of con-
ception •, or if the vitiation is not complete, but in a flight degree, an imperfebt
fecundation may take place *, but its produbt determines the want of energy, and
the unqualified ftate of the mother from whence it drew its principal arrangement.
Thefe ideas are corroborated by the mode of cure adopted in the circumftances we
have been defcribing, and by the general effebts of it.
Thus we have endeavoured, and we hope with fuccefs, to eftablifh the truth of a
ftrong power of abforption in the genital fyftem of the female, originating in the va-
gina ; and a difpofition in the whole mafs of blood, to be affebted according to the
properties of what may be mingled with it. And as, from the prefent ftate of ana-
tomical knowledge, we have no right to fufpebt any other mode than this of abforp-
tion, by which the unrejebted and finer parts of the femen can in any fhape, and with
any effebt, be determined towards the ovaria, let us fee how this can be farther af-
certained by what we may fuppofe to be the effebb of the abforbed femen, and the
future appearances of impregnation.
In human creatures the evolution of all their parts is gradual, and the work of
time. From the moment in which the ovarian nucleus receives the vivifying im-
pulfe from the femen, till the period of puberty ; from the dawn of its exiftence, to
the completion of its figure and its powers*, its alterations are fo many, and fo vari-
ed, that our idea of the germ is not recognifable in that of the infant, and our idea
of the infant again is loft in that of the perfebt animal. A gelatinous particle,
without neceffary form and texture, becomes a ftupendous fabric, fo intricate and
elaborate, though at the fame time perfebt and complete, that human ingenuity
and
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3°l
and reafon have toiled almoft fruitlefsly for thoufands of years in inveftigating the
progrefs. It has indeed been averred by feme, that all the different organs of the
animal in its complete ftate are original and diftinCt in the embryo, and are only
unfolded and rendered more evident by its increafe. This furely is not the cafe.
The animal is certainly endowed with power of completing itfelf; and can, from
inorganized parts, produce an organized ftrufture. The parts are only evolved
and perfected as they become ufeful in the different ftages ; and the evolution of
many of them can be prevented without the deftruCtion of life, or exceffive preju-
dice to thofe already evolved. If the different organs, or rather principles, are at
firft perfeCt, why are thofe effcCts which depend upon them not perfed alfo ? Why
is the ftate of infancy a ftate of idiotifm ? why is the temper of youth capricious
and flexible ? and why are the temper and pafiions of the adult but barely difeerni-
ble in the preceding ftages ?
As we are of opinion then, that the different organs are matured only as they be-
come requifite and neceffary •, confequently, we believe the evolution of the gene-
rative organs in both fexes muft be among thelaft efforts of the increafe and com-
pletion of the body. This evolution could not have taken place earlier. If it had,
the mind muff have been affeded by thefe impulfes which announce the maturation
of thefe organs, by which we know the mind, body, and foul, are conneded. In
the male, the foundation and powers of maturation, of that ftrength, and of thofe
more rational qualities which belong to him, are laid to ripen with puberty : hence
communication with the female, before thefe are finally arranged and fecured,
proves inefficient, and entails upon him debility both of body and mind. The fame
thing holds, as far as the fame ends are concerned, with refped to the female-, and
we cannot fuppofe that Nature could be fo idly eccentric, as to punifh the female
with a difpofition or propenfity to procreate, before the body was capable of under-
going the various dilorders and dangers of pregnancy and parturition. For the fame
reafons, none of the ordinary organs of fenfe are qualified to receive or communi-
cate diftinCt impreffions, till the brain, the feat of the foul, as the heart is of life,
has acquired thofe properties which muft fit it for its arduous offices. It is only
when the different organs of fenfe have been completely evolved, and all their parts
found and juft, that the power of the mind is effectuated and eftablifhed. This fa-
culty, though it feems effentially different from Reafon, is no doubt the origin of
it ; for the extenfion of common fenfe, from memory, or rather from comparifon,
and what may be called the balance of thefenfes, conftitutes what is called Reafon
and Judgment. While the organs are incomplete, from infancy, or from difeafe,
their communication with the underftanding is alfo incomplete. Thofe who have
been born blind, or whofe eyes have been deftroyed in infancy, before they were
No. 20. 4 H become
302 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
become ufeful, have none of thofe ideas which depend upon the eye ; it is the fame
with the deaf, and in all cafes of ideas depending upon one fenfe : and we may add,
the early caftrated have no comprehenfion of, or propenfity to, the gratifications of
love. Do not thefe things fhow--and a thoufand other circumftances might be ad-
duced to ftrengthen the proof—-that the mind acquires its powers only as the parts
of the body are unfolded, and confirmed ; that the body is perfeded only as the
mind is qualified to receive its impreflions ; and that the parts of the body are per-
feded by one another ?
During infancy and youth, ftridly, the ovaria are fimple inorganic maffes, par-
taking of no more life than is barely fufficient to fuftain them, and conned them
with that energy and progrefs of conftitution which are afterwardito unfold all their
properties. At the period of puberty, thus denominated from the change which
takes place in the genital fyftem at this time of life, this progrefs and developement
of the ovaria is finifhed by Nature; and thefe bodies are generated, and completed
within them, which will exift without impregnation by the male, but which this
impregnation alone can finally maturate and evolve. That thefe bodies arp not ge-
nerated at an earlier date, Anatomy as well as Reafon, founded on the foregoing
arguments, affure us ; and, that the ova of all the foetufes, which the female is
afterwards to produce, are generated at that time, feems equally certain. Though
this change in the ovaria is the mod effential, the whole genital fyftem alfo under-
goes a very material change. The fimple alterations of ftrudure and dimenfions in
the different parts of this fyftem, though they are neceffary and fubfervient to gene-
ration and parturition, yet they are not fo material, either in themlelves, or to our
purpofe, as to require a minute delcription. This, however, is not the cafe with
refpeft to the menfes. It is chiefly with a view to the nutrition of the foetus that
this extra-fanguification in the female is provided by Nature; which is determined
to the genital fyftem, in the fame manner as the other fluids are determined to other
outlets ; but as the continued drilling off of this extra blood would be exceedingly
inconvenient and difgufting. Nature has prepared, as it were, a ciftern for its re-
ception. What may be fufficient to bring on the haemorrhage, however, is only
accumulated ; and the general redundancy, induced by the obftru&ion and accu-
rhulation, fubfides gradually as the haemorrhage goes on. This is the manner of
menftruation in the unimpregnated female, and thefe are the reafonswhy itaffumes
a periodical form. Jn the impregnated female again, the preparation of extra blood
ftill continues, but its confumption becomes very different. By theextenfion of the
uterus, and by thewafte occafroned by the nourifhment of the foetus and its involu-
cra, the furcharge, or extra preparation of blood is nearly balanced, or is taken up
as it is prepared ; and hence the periodical efforts are almoft loft. In the firft months
of
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3°j
m pregnancy, however, the uterine fyftem is not always able to confume the lur-
charge of blood, and thereby take off the periodical effort ; and hence it is that the
lofs of the foetus happens molt generally in the early months, and at the ufual pe-
riod of the menfes, unlefs fome accident has fupervened. And it is nearly from the
lame reafons that mifcarriage is fo often to be apprehended in the latter months
of pregnancy, and that the foetus is afterwards expelled from the womb. When the
foetus has acquired all that bulk and ftrength which the capacity and powers of the
uterus can confer •, and when a change of circulation and mode of life becomes ne-
ceffary to it, the uterus and foetus become plethoric •, a general accumulation fuc-
ceeds •, and the periodical efforts of the menfes return. During the middle months
of pregnancy the foetus is in a ftate of rapid growth, and is capable of confirming all
the blood which the mother can furnifh •, but there is neither room nor waite, in
the latter months, for the blood which the mother is conflantly pouring in ; and
hence arifes that plethora, both in mother and child, which is to inftigate the effort
to parturition, which occafions the effufion after parturition, and which is to fupply
the extended circulation of the born child.
Butbefides the utility of menffruation to the foetus, there is a very evident con-
nection between it and impregnation. To fpeak of it as a proof of the ripened qua-
lifications of the female, is to fay nothing-, its immediate aCtion iseffential to con-
ception. In the human female, it is well known, that coition is almoft only fuccefs-
ful immediately after this evacuation has fubfided. Who will reconcile this— and
it is no modern and groundleis obfervation---to the confequence which has been
afcribed to turgidity and tenfion, which we have already adverted to ? Almoft every
woman who has frequently undergone pregnancy, and who has attendedjudicioufly
to the phaenomena of that fituation, calculates from the laft ceffation of the menfes.
At this time, or rather very foon after it, the plethoric tumult of the general lyftem
is completely fubfided, and theabforbed femen gets quiet and unanticipated poffef-
fion of the circulating blood ;
and at the fame time the gradually returning plethora
promotes its aClion, and perhaps its determination to the ovaria. When the menfes
are interrupted, or profufe and frequent, impregnation feldom takes place; and it
admits not of a doubt, that when the determination of this blood is towards the
mammae, in the form of milk, coition is unfuccefsful ; and as foon as its determina-
tion to the uterine fyftem is reftored, other things being favourable, copulation fuc-
ceeds. We may add as a known fadt, that continuing to give fuck after the ufual
period, will occupy the plethora, and prevent its determination, in the form of
blood, to the uterine fyftem. It is an additional reproach to the groffnefs of human
nature, that this practice hath too often been put in execution, in order to obviate
conception. Sometimes there is reafon to believe, that conception has taken place
while
t %
/
3°4 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
while the plethoric determination to the breads continued. I am rather difpofed to
believe, that in fuch. cafes its return to the uterine fydem was recommenced-, for
about the fame time the milk generally lofes its alimentary qualities, and gradually
dwindles away.
But we have faid enough to defcribe and fubdantiate thofe parts of the female,
which puberty has prepared for generation. We (hall now confider its effedts on the
male. It need not be repeated, that the feminal fluid is an exceedingly penetrating
and adtive fluid. Its effedts, after it is generated, even upon the male, demon-
drate its adlivicy and influence, far beyond the precincts wherein we believe it to be
accumulated. After puberty, the lecretion of it, during even indifferent health,
is continually going on •, and thofe colledtions of it in its refervoirs, which are not
thrown out by venereal exercife, or by other means lefs decent, are reforbed and
mingled with the general mafs. What is adtually reforbed about the period of pu-
berty before the fydem has been habituated to it, or faturated with it, produces very
curious and remarkable effedts over the whole body. The flrfh and lkin, from be-
ing tender, delicate, and irritable, become coarfe and firm •, the body in general
lofes its fucculency ; and a new exidence feems to take place. The voice, a proof
of the tenfion and rigidity of the mufcular fibre, lofing its tendernefs and inequali-
ties, becomes ungratefully harfh •, and the mind itfelf, adluated by the progreis of
the body, and forgetting all its former inclinations and attachments, acquires dif-
tindlly new propenflties and pafiions. Thefe changes are not entirely the effedt of
ordinarily progrefhve age and drength •, neither are they promoted by intercourfe
with the world *, for cadration will anticipate them, and premature venery, or even
gradual familiarity, and early onanifm, will dimini fh them. Boys who have been
fubjedted to cadration, never acquire either that drength of body or capacity of
mind which dignifies the complete male •, and the fame cruel and unnatural opera-
tion performed on brute animals, diminifhes their bodily drength, their courage,
and liberty, and the fiercenefs of their temper.
If fuch are the effedts of the feminal fluid when reforbed by the male, how pow-
erful mud it be when fuddenly mingled, and mod probably in greater quantity,
with the circulating fluids of the attradting female ! Coition, or rather the abforp-
tion of the feminal fluid of the male by the female, even when not fucceeded by im-
pregnation, induces an alteration very general over the female fydem. The lo-
cal influence of which may be inferred from the general change which it is capable
of inducing during complete health ; from the relief which it effedtuates in many
fpecies of difeafe ; and from the general vivacity and cheerfulnefs diffufed over the
whole animal frame. It would be prolix to go over every difeafe which will warrant
thefe opimonSl yet in the eye of common obfervation. the fallow and inanimate
^ female,
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3°5
female, by coition, often becomes plump and robuft, and beautiful and adlive,
while the widow, or married woman, deprived of commerce with her hufband,
gradually returns to the imperfedtions and peculiarities of fmgle life ; and that the
antient virgin, all her life deprived of this animating effluvia, is generally confumed
with infirmity, ill temper, or difeafe. It is well known, too, that the want of coi-
tion at the time of life when Nature leems to require it induces many diforders in
females-, and that the ule of it removes thefe, and even other difeafes. Chlorofi3
or the whites almoft always attack females immediately after puberty ; and, even
when the violence of its fymptoms have not been difcerned till a later period, its
origin can always be traced back to that time. When the human fyftem is com-
pletely evolved, and all its parts have acquired their full growth, a balance is pro-
duced between the circulating and folid fyfterris ; though, from the ideas we have
fuggefted concerning the menfes, this balance in the female cannot ftridtly be called
complete. It is only complete in her when in perfect health, and in an impregna-
ted ftate; at other times, the catamenia, as preponderating againft the powers of
the folid fyftem, in proportion to the degree of their period, difturb the equilibrium,
and thereby more or lefs induce a ftate inconfiftent with perfedt health. But when
the propelling power of growth has ceafed before the folids, either from actual dif-
eafe, or want of uniformity in either period, or acceffion with refpedt to the progrefs
of the circulating lyftem, have acquired their proper vigour and tone, and when
the catamenia has affirmed its deftination, before it is accompanied by the general as
well as local energy which is requifite to expel it, anuniverfal want of balance comes
on ; the blood lofes its ftimulating influence on the vitiated folids, and thefe, in
their turn, adt feebly on the diftempered blood. Accordingly, in the cure of this
difeafe, no matter whether adopted from particular theories or from experience,
medicines are directed to reftore vigour to the folids, and confidence and ftimulus
to the circulating mafs. Nature proceeds in the fame manner •, and the beneficial
effedts of coition in the cure of this difeafe have been too material to efcape obferva-
tion. It may be alleged, that thefe effedts depend entirely upon local influence ;
and that even voluptuous gratification, by quieting the turbulence of pafflon, is of
confequence in the cure. We fhall not fay that thefe things are unavailing ;
for it
appears that the relief obtained is chiefly owing to the increafed inteftine motion,
and confequent ftimulus, communicated to the blood by the abforbed femen, where-
by the folids themfelves are ultimately reftored •, and we are the more confirmed in
this opinion, becaufe all thefe fortunate effedts attend, whether coition be fucceeded
by impregnation or not. Hyfterics, and other difeafes, would furnifh us with fimi-
lar explanations and fimilar cures.
No. 20. 4 I Let
30(5 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Let us now advance a little nearer our objeCt. [t is beyond a doubt, that, in what-
ever manner the femen afts upon the female, it does not aCt fuddenly, notwithftand-
ing the general affertions of many authors. However productive coition may be,
the fecundated produCt of the ovaria is not immediately difengaged. We dare not
avouch this faCt from obfervations made on the human fubjeCt, becaufe fuch obfer-
vations never have been attempted, nor ever can with the fmalleft probability of
fuccefs : but the dififeCtion of brutes, by the moft eminent anatomifts, with a direCt
view to the elucidation of this fadt, afcertains it as far as fuch evidence can be ad-
mitted. In the difiedtion of fmall animals by De Graaff, he found no difcernible
alteration in the uterus during the firft forty hours after coition, but a gradual
change was perceivable in the ovaria ; and what he fuppofed the ripened origin of
the future animal, at the end of that time, iofing its tranfparency, became opaque
and ruddy. After that time, the fimbriae were found clofely applied to the ovaria
;
the cavities from whence the ova had been expreffed were difcernible *, and about
the third day the ova weredifcovered in the uterus. In large animals, and in thofe
whofe time of uterine geftation was longer, it was found that theprogrefs which we
have been defcribing was proportionally flower. The fame experiments have been
made by different anatomifts, and perhaps with very different views ; and, though
they have not always been managed with the fame judgment and dexterity, yet all
of them more or lefs confirm the idea that there is a very confiderable lapfe of time
intervening between productive copulation and the expulfion of the ovum from
the ovaria. But if this is the cafe with animals which foon arrive at puberty, and
which, like human creatures, copulate not perfectly before puberty, ---whofe lives
arefhort, and progrefs in equal periods of time more rapid than thofe in man,— by
parity of reafon, it mull happen, that in women the period between impregnation
and the expulfion of the fecundated prnduCt of the ovaria muft be confiderably
greater than what has been obferved to take place in thefe animals. If all this is
true— -how are we to fuppofe Nature to be employed during this interval ? We be-
lieve it is during this period that the wh >le female conftitution is labouring under the
fecundating influence of the feminal fluid taken into the blood by the abforbent
;
while the ovaria are largely participating, and their produCt ripening, by means of
the general ftimulating procefs. And the fame proc.efs which maturates the ovum
tends to facilitate its exclufion. The ovaria, as well as their produCt, are at this
time enlarged, and other changes, fubjeCt to the examination of our fenfes, indu-
ced. It is no proof againft the reality of this general alteration in thecircumftances
of the circulating fyftetn, and confequent revolution in the ovaria, that the whole is
ac complilhed with but little vifible difturbance, either local or univerfal. In other
s cafes
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 307
cafes of material alteration in the mafs of blood, equal quietnefs and obfcurity pre-
vail. In fcrophulous or fcorbutic taints*, in the inoculated fmall-pox, or when they
are produced by contagion ; the poifon filently and (lowly diffufes itfelf throughout
the whole mafs, and a highly morbid (late is imperceptibly induced. Thus, an
aflive and infinuating poifon intimately mixes itfelf with all the containing, per-
haps, as well as contained, parts, perverts their natures, and is ready to fall upon
and deftroy the very powers of life, before one fymptom of its adtion or of its influ-
ence has been difcerned. It is the fame in a confirmed lues, and it is even more re-
markable in the hydrophobia derived from the bite of a mad dog*, and the whole
round of contagious difeafes have the fame unalarming, yet certain, progrefs and
termination.
That the final influence of this elaborate procefs fhould be determined particu-
larly, and at all times, to the ovaria, is no way marvellous. To qualify the ovaria
for this, they are fupplied with a congeries of blood-veflels and nerves, at puberty
larger and more numerous than what is allotted to any other part of fimilar magni-
tude. Were the ovaria merely a receptacle for the ova, which the venereal orgafm,
communicated by the nerves, or by the impulfion of the applied femen, was to la-
cerate*, what ufe would there be for fo intricate and extenfive an arrangement of
blood-veflels and nerves ? But we may farther remark, that every didindl procefs
in the human body, either during health or difeafe, tends to one particular and dif-
tinft purpofe. The kidneys do not fecrete bile, nor does the liver drain off the
ufelefs or hurtful parts of the blood which are dedined to pafs offby the emulgents
neither do thefalivary and bronchial glands promifcuoufly pour out mucusor laliva j
the variolous virus does not produce a morbillous eruption, fyphilitic caries, or
fcrophulous ulcer*, why then would the fecundated blood unconcernedly and pro-
mifcuoufly determine its energy to the (kin, the lymphatics, or the fubflance of the
bones ? We know none of the operations in the human body, dedined for the or-
dinary purpofes of life and health, or for the removal of difeafe, but in a greater or
lefs degree involve the machinery of the whole fydem. A Angle mouthful of food,
.
*
while it is prepared, purified, and applied to its ultimate purpofes, is fubjedted to
the adlion of all the known parts of the body, and without doubt to all thofe parts
the properties of which we are unacquainted with ; a draught of cold water fpreads
its influence almod indantaneoufly from one extremity to the other ; the flighted
wound didurbs even the remotefl parts, and is followed, not unfrequently, with
the mod unhappy effedts ;
an almod invifible quantity of poifon fees the whole frame
in torture, and all the adiive powers of the body indindlively exert thenled es to fo-
licit its expulfion Can we didinguifli thefe things, and admire them, and then
fuppofe
3 o3 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fuppofe that the mod material operation cf the human body—-the renovation of it-
felf, is to be accomplifhed in a corner, and with infinitely lefs formality and folem-
nity than a fpittle is caft upon the wind ? The evident means are fufficiently degra-
ded •, we need not exert our ingenuity to degrade them farther.
It is during this interval, between productive coition and the exclufion of the
ovum from the ovaria, that likenefs, hereditary difeafes, and the like, are commu-
nicated and acquired. Inftead of that influence which the imagination of the mo-
ther is fuppofed to poflefs over the form of the child, might we not fufpeCt, that the
feminal fluid of the male, co-operating, during this interval, with the influence of
the female upon the ovum, inftigated a likenefs, according to the influence of the
male and female tin&ures, in the united principles ? It is during this period only
that the difeafes of the male can be communicated to the child ; and, if we admit
not of this interval and general operation of the feminal fluid, we cannot fee how
they can be communicated, though thofe of the mother may be communicated then
or at a much later period, confidering how the child is nourifhed while it is in the
uterus and at the breaft. It may be urged againft this early and effectual acquifi-
tion of likenefs, that the foetus does not acquire even the divifion of its largeft mem-
bers till long after its exclufion from the ovaria : but then we are confident, that,
as the foetus takes all its form and other properties from the aCtive fubtilty of thefe
blended tinCtures, we cannot fee any reafon why it fhould not poflefs this hereditary
faculty, in common with the reft. If likenefs depend upon the imagination of
the female, how happens it that the children of thofe whofe profligate manners ren-
der the father uncertain, and whofe affeCtions ceafe with the inftant of libidinous
gratification, are as frequently diftinguifhable by their likenefs as thofe children
who have been born under none of thele misfortunes ? If the features are not plan-
ted during this period, and if imagination be not idle or ufelefs, how was the fix-
fingered family, mentioned by Maupertuis, continued ? When a female of that fa-
mily married a man who had only the ul'ual number of fingers, the deformity of her
family became uncertain, or ceafed; and we muft fuppofe her imagination could
not have been inactive or diminifhed, whether alarmed by the fear of continuing a
deformed race, or inftigated by the vanity of tranfmitting fo remarkable a peculia-
rity. Was imagination, in a pregnant woman, fo powerful as many have endea-
voured to reprefent it, the mother, profligate at heart, though not actually wicked,
would always betray the apoftafy of her affeCtions ; and even a virtuous woman
might divulge that fhe had looked with as much eagernefs at a handfome ftranger
as fhe had looked at the aquiline nofe or other prominent feature of her hufband.
But
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3G9
But admitting that the feminal fluid of every male pofleffes fome kind of influence
peculiar to that male, andconneCted with his form, as well as his conftitution •, in
the fame, or in fome Similar manner, it contains, notwithftanding the elaboratenefs
of its preparation, theftamina ofdifeafes, fome of which often lie longer dormant
than even the features of individuals •, that the ova are as peculiarly constructed,
by the conftitution of the female, as any other parts which depend upon gradual
and folitary evolution ;
and that thefe, operating upon each other by the interven-
tion of the general fyftem of the female, may, according to the power or prevalence
of either, affeCt the features and figure of the incipient animal, or rather the inorga-
nized mafs from which the features and figure of the animal are afterwards to be
evolved : admitting all thefe things, will national, or even more extenfive fimilitude
corroborate the opinion ?
While men continue in the fame climate, and even in the fame diftriCt, an uni-
form peculiarity of features and figure prevails among them, little affeCted by all
thofe changes which improve or degrade the mind ; but when they migrate, or when
they are corrupted by the migration of others, this national diftinction in time is loft,
though in the latter cafe it feems to be recoverable, unleis the caul'e of change be
continued. The beautiful form and features of the ancient Greeks are at this day
difcernible in their defendants, though they are debafed by intercourfe with ftran-
gers, and by forms of government ultimately affeCtmg their constitutions ; the de-
fendants of the few who by chance or defign have been obliged to fettle among the
ugly tribes in the extremities of the North, have, by their intercourfe with thefe
tribes, and by necefi^rily accommodating themfelves to the fame modes of life, be-
fides other circumftances, become equally ugly ;
and the Jew himfelf, though he
abhors to mingle with a different nation, and though his mode of life is nearly the
fame in all climates, yet the fettlement of his anceftors in any one particular climate
for fome centuries, will very fenfibly impair the characteristic features of his people.
As equally in point, and lei’s liable to queftion, we may mention the following Simi-
lar obfervations. A- Scotchman, an Englishman, a Frenchman, or a Dutchman,
may, even without their peculiarities of drefs, be almoft always distinguished in
their very pictures •, the Sturdy and generous Briton, notwithftanding the Shor'tnefs
of the period, and the uninterrupted intercourfe, is traced with uncertainty in the
effeminate and cruel Virginian •, and the Negroes in North America, whofe families,
have continued fince the firft importation of thefe unhappy creatures, and whofe
modes of living, exclufive of their Slavery, are not materially changed, are much
lefs remarkable for the flat nofe, big lips, ugly legs, and long heels, than their ancef-
tors were, or than thofe who are direCtly imported from the fame original nation.
No. 20. "
4 K - From
3 io -A KEY TO PHYSIC,.
From thefe obfervations it feems allowable to infer, that though climate, manners,
occupation, or imitation, cannot materially affeCt the form or features of the exit-
ing animal; yet thefe circumftances becoming the lot of a feries of animals, may,
by inducing a change in the general mafs both of the male andfemale, be the remote
caufe of a change in their product.
After what has been premifed, it feems rational to conclude, that the prolific fluid,
in coition, is neither carried through the Fallopian tubes, nor protruded through
the aperture of the uterus, to the ovaria ; but that it is taken up by the abforbent
veflels, and conveyed into thefanguifirous fyftem •, where indeed every aCtive prin-
ciple that can pofTibly affeCt the human conftitution, is alfo conveyed. That after
circulating through the blood, it is by its natural impulfe, and the additional fti-
mulus acquired from the mother, forced through the correfponding veflels into the
ovaria •,
where, if it finds one or more of the ova in a ftate fit or ripe for impregna-
tion, conception takes place accordingly ;
and either one, or more are impregnated,
as the maturated ftate of the ovaria might happen to be. But if none of the ova or
eggs are in a ftate fufficiently mature, or chance to be injured by any offending hu-
mours, by debility, or difeafe, in either of thefe cafes impregnation is fruftrated, juft
the fame as happens to an addled egg, or to a damaged grain of corn thrown into the
earth.
On the other hand, if the male organ be deficient in vigour, or the femen be defec-
tive in quantity, confiftency, or active powers, it then fails of ftimulating the female
fluid, and is incapable of influencing impregnation. In order therefore that the aCt
of copulation fliould be productive, the male muft unqueftiopably convey to the
female an elaborate TinCture, which poflefles the efiences of his whole fyftem, as
well mental, as corporeal. In this aCt, the utmoft energy and powers of the
mind, of the body, and of the foul, are intimately connected ; and all contribute
their particular influence to the feed ; of which every father muft befenfible, when
he recolledts the aCtion of the Heart, the feat of life— of the Brain, the feat of the
foul—and of the whole powers of the Body, concentrated and impelled, as it were,
through the genital fy ftem. That this liquor comprehends the aftive principles of
body and foul, will not I think be doubted by thofe who give the foregoing argu-
ments their proper weight ; and that it conveys with it, more or lefs, the direCt image
of the parent, I taKfe to be confirmed by the evidence of fcripture; where we are
told that one abfolute and unequivocal form was given toman, in the exprefs image
of the Deity. So that man, thus organized and commiffioned, was doubtlefsly to
convey to future generations, that divine image or fignature which God had gra-
cioufly ftamped upon him. For this purpofe the feed of man, or efficient principle
of generation, muft be mingled with the vegetative fluid of the female j and being
attracted
o
f
» /cron// e //o/t t//
J>«dd.ja.
c 7T / /// '/ou’u/i c n&nt£
. //ttti- > /lo/if/i
^
,
\A>tsmatu>n J/umsin iAettlti- Plate i.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3 ”
TP
attradled or taken up by the abforbent veflfels from the uterine canal, paflfes immedi-
ately into the circulating fydem, where afiimilating with the peculiar temperature
of the mother, and acquiring new energy from the enlivening quality of the blood,
is directed through its natural channels to the ovaria, impregnating the germ by its
adtive quality, and conveying to it the peculiarities it had derived from the conftitu-
tions, forms, tempers, and difpofitions of the parents, with the feeds of whatever
difeafes, impurities, or taints, were lurking in their blood. For from the blood and
brain is the male feed primarily elaborated, and into the female mafs is this thrown
and aflimilated, before impregnation can poffibly take place. In the courfe of fix
days, I conclude the united tindlures to have travelled through the whole circula-
ting fydem---to have participated of the hereditary forms and peculiarities of the mo-
ther, and to have propelled the ovum or egg from its feat in the ovaria to a fufpend-
ed fituation in the womb, hanging by a minute thread, that afterwards becomes the
umbilical veflfel, or aperture through which nourilhment and life is conveyed from
the mother to the child. This firft vifible date of conception, which refembles the
lucid appearance of a drop of water, tending to coagulation, is corredtly fhewn in
the firft figure of the annexed plate, precifely in the date it was extracted from the
uterus of a female, who died on the fixth day after contad with the male, and is
now to be fee n, preferved in fpirits, in Rackdrow’s valuable Mufeum, in Fleet -
dreet, London.
At the time theovum, or rudiments of theembryo, defcends into the womb, it is in-
deed very minute ; but at the end of about thirty days, we may partly difcover the
fird lineaments of the foetus, though fmall and imperfed, being then only about the
fizeof a houfe fly. Two little vefficles appear in an almod tranfparent jelly •
the
larged of which is intended to become the head of the foetus, and the other fmaller
one is dedined for the trunk •, but neither the limbs nor extremities are yet to befeen;
the umbilical cord appears only as a minute thread, and the placenta, which only
refembles a cloud above, has no ramifications, or appearances of blood-veflels.
This date of the embryo is exprefied in the fecond figure of the annexed plate.
Towards the end of the fecond month, the foetus is upward of an inch in length,
and the features of the face begin to be evolved. The nofe appears like a fmall pro-
minent line •, and we are able to difcover another line under it, which is dedined for
the reparation of the lips. Two black points appear in the place of eyes, and two
minute holes mark the formation of the ears. At the fides of the trunk, both above
and below, we fee four minute protuberances, which are the rudiments of the arms
and legs. The veins of the placenta are alfo now partly vifible ; as may be feen in
No. 3. of the annexed plate.
3 In
A KEY TO PHYSI C,
In the third month the human form may be decidedly afcertained ; all the parts
of the face can be diftingnifhed ; the fhape of the body is clearly marked out ; the
haunches and the abdomen are elevated, and the hands and feet are plainly to be
diftinguifhed. The upper extremities are obferved to encreafe fader than the lower
ones ; and the feparation of the fingers may be perceived before that of the toes.
The veins of the placenta are now di (fended, and are feen to communicate with the
umbilical tube. This date of geftanon is faithfully delineated in No. 4. of the
annexed engraving.
In the fourth month the foetus feems to be compleated in all its parts, and is about
four inches in magnitude. The fingers and toes, which at firft coalefced, are now
feparated from each other, and the intedines appear, in all their windings and con-
volutions, like little threads. The veins of the placenta begin to be filled with
blood, and the umbilical cord is confiderably enlarged ; as may be feen in the fifth
figure of the fubjoined plate.
In the fifth month, the bodily conformation being perfected in all its parts, and
a complete circulation of the blood induced ; the mother quickens. The foetus now
aflumes a more upright figure, which correfponds with the fhape of the uterus. Its
head is found more elevated, its lower extremities are more diffended, its knees are
drawn upwards, with its arms reding upon them. It now meafures from feven to
eight inchesin length, and is defcribed in the fird figureof thefecond fubjoined plate.
Towards the end of the fixth month, the foetus begins to vary its pofition in the
womb, and will frequently be found to incline either to the right or to the left fide
of the mother. It will by this time be increafed to nine or ten inches ; and its ufual
podure, after quickening, may be feen in the fecond figure of t\\tfecond annexed plate.
In thefeventh month the child acquires drength andfolidity ; as may be demon-
ftrated by thofe painful throws and twitchings which its mother feels from time to
time ;
and it is now encreafed to eleven or twelve inches.
In the eighth month it generally meafures from fourteen to fixteen inches and in
the ninth month, or towards the end of its fulltime, it is encreafed from eighteen to
rwenty-two inches, or more-, when the head, by be coming fpecifically heavier, than
the other parts, is gradually impelled downwards, and falling into the birth, brings
on what is termed the pains of parturition, or natural labour. For theexadt pofi-
tion of the child in the womb, during thefe three lad months, as well as the former,
fee the correfponding figures in the two annexed engravings, the whole of which
were correctly drawn from real fcetufles, extracted from the wombs of -different wo-
men, and are now preferved for the infpedfion of the curious, in Rackdrow’s Mu-
feum, to which I beg leave to refer the inquifitive reader.
f
' Jr?w?t//it //<r>}f//f
JJrtf/i del
.
6((///// , ///>?/ ///
'f// * //f>H//i
y'(/
l£.Jdman- YArAu. rianjr
dTiys senip
AJ’KSmi /fit SirreKr ./in,,- to. *27^4.
/
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3 l
3
The nourifhment of the foetus during all this time, is derived from the placenta,
which is originally formed out of that part of the ovum which is next the fundus
uteri. The remaining part of the ovum is covered by a membrane cal ledjpongy cho-
rion ; within which is another called true chorion, which includes a third, termed
amnios. This contains a liquor, or watery fluid, in which the foetus floats till the
time of its birth. Before the child acquires a diftinft and regular form, it is called
embryo ;
but from the time all its parts become vifible, it takes and retains the name
offoetus till its birth. During the progrefs of impregnation, the uterus fuffers con-
flderable changes ; but, though it enlarges as the ovum increafes, yet, in regard to
its contents, it is never full ; for, in early geftation, thefe are confined to the fun-
dus only : and, though the capacity of the womb increafes, yet it is not mechanically
ftretched, for the thicknefs of its fides do not diminifh ; there is a proportional in-
creafe of the quantity of fluids, and therefore pretty much the fame thicknefs re-
mains as before impregnation. The gravid uterus or pregnant womb is of differ-
ent fizes in different women; and muff vary according to the bulk of the foetus and
involucra. The fituation will alfo vary according to the increafe of its contents,
and the pofition of the body. For the firft two or three months, the cavity of the
fundus is triangular, as before impregnation ; but as the uterus ffretches, it gra-
dually acquires a more rounded form. In general, the uterus never rifes directly
upwards, but inclines a little obliquely, moft commonly to the right fide: its po-
fition is never, however, fo oblique as to prove the foie caufe either of preventing or
retarding delivery ; its increafe of bulk does not feem to arife merely from diften-
tion, but to depend on the fame caufe and increafe as the extenfion of the fkin in a
growing child. This is proved from fome late inftances of extra-uterine foetufes,
where the uterus, though there were no contents, was nearly of the famefize, from
the additional quantity of nourifhment tranfmitted, as if the ovum had been contain-
ed within its cavity. The internal furface, which is generally pretty fmooth, ex-
cept where the placenta adheres, is lined with a tender efflorefcence of the uterus,
which, after delivery, appears as if torn, and is thrown off with the cleanfings.
This is the membrana decidua of Dr. Hunter ; which he defcribes as a lamella from
the inner furface of the uterus ; though Signor Scarpa, with.more probability, con-
fiders it as being compofed of an infpiffated coagulable lymph.
Though the uterus, from the moment of conception, is gradually diftended, by
which confiderable changes are occafioned, it is very difficult to judge of pregnancy
from appearances in the early months. For the firft three months the os tineas feels
fmooth and even, and its orifice as fmall as in the virgin ftate. When any difference
can be perceived, about the fourth or fifth month, from the defeent of the fundus
No. 20. 4 L through
3i 4 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
through the pelvis, the tubercle or projecting part of the os tineas will feem larger,
longer, and more expanded ; but, after this period, it fhortens, particularly at its
fore-parts and lides, and its orifice or labia begin to feparate, fo as to have its coni-
cal appearance deftroyed. The cervix, which in the early months is nearly fhut,
now begins to ftretch and to be diftended to the os tineas ; but during the whole
term of utero-geflation, the mouth of the uterus is ftrongly cemented with a ropy
mucus, which lines it and the cervix, and begins to be difeharged on the approach
of labour. In the laft week, when the cervix uteri is completely diftended, the ute-
rine orifice begins to form an elliptical tube, inftead of a fifiure, or to aflfume the
appearance of a ring on a large globe ; and often at this time, efpecially in pendu-
lous bellies, difappears entirely, fo as to be out of the reach of the finger in touch-
ing. Hence the os uteri is not in the direction of the axis of the womb, as has ge-
nerally been fuppofed.
About the fourth, or between the fourth and fifth month, the fundus uteri begins
to rife above the pubes or brim of the pelvis, and its cervix to be diftended nearly
one third. In the fifth month the belly fwells like a ball, with the fkin tenfe, the
fundus about half way between the pubes and navel, and the neck one half diftend-
ed. After the fixth month the greateft part of the cervix uteri dilates, fo as to make
almoft one cavity with the fundus. In the feventh month the fundus advances as
far as the umbilicus. In the eighth it reaches mid- way between the navel and fero-
biculus cordis; and in the ninth to thefcrobiculus itfelf, the neck then being entire-
ly diftended, which, with the os tineas, become the weakeft part of the uterus.
Thus at full time the uterus occupies all the umbilical and hypogaftric regions ; its
lhapeis almoft pyriform, that is, more rounded above than below, and having a
ftriCtureon that part which is furrounded by the brim of the pelvis. The appenda-
ges of the uterus fuffer very little change during pregnancy, except the ligamenta
lata, which diminifh in breadth as the uterus enlarges, and at full time are almoft
entirely obliterated.
The various difeafes incident to the uterine fyftem, and other morbid affections of
the abdominal vifeera, in weak and fickly females, will frequently excite the fymp-
toms, and affume the appearance, of real pregnancy. Complaints ^riling from a
fimple obftruCtion are fometimes miftaken for thofe of breeding; when a tumor
about the region of the uterus is alfo formed, and gradually becomes more and
more bulky, the fymptoms it occafions are fo ftrongly marked, and the fefemblance
to pregnancy fo very linking, that the ignorant patient is often deceived, and even
the experienced phyfician impofed on.
Scirrhous,
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3*5
Scirrhous, polypous, or farcomatous tumors in or about the uterus or pelvis ;
dropfy or ventofity of the uterus or tubes fteatoma or dropfy of the ovaria, and
ventral conception, are the common caufes of fuch fallacious appearances. In many
of thefe cafes the menfes difappear ; naufea, retchings, and other fymptoms of breed-
ing, enfue; flatus in the bowels will be miftaken for the motion of the child; and
in the advanced ftages of thedifeafe, from the preflure of the fwelling on the adja-
cent parts. Tumefa&ion and hardnefs of the breafts fupervene, and fometimes a
vifcid or ferous fluid diftils from the nipple •, circumftances that ftrongly confirm
the woman in her opinion, till time, or the dreadful confequences that often enfue,
at lafl: convince her of her fatal miftake.
Other kinds of fpurious gravidity, lefs hazardous in their nature than any of the
preceding, are commonly known by the names offalfe conception and moles : the former
of thefe is nothing more than the difiolution of the foetus in the early months ; the
placenta is afterwards retained in the womb, and from the addition of coagula, or
in confequenceof difeafe, is excluded in an indurated or enlarged ftate; when it re-
mains longer, and comes off in the form of a flefhy or fcirrhous-like mafs, with-
out having any cavity in the centre, it is diflinguifhed by the name of mole. Mere
coagula of blood, retained in the uterus after delivery, or after immoderate floodings
at any period of life, and fqueezed, by the preffureof the uterus, into a fibrous or
compact form, conftitute another fpecies of mole, that more frequently occurs than
any of the former. Thefe, though they may afiume the appearances of gravidity,
are generally, however, expelled fpontaneoufly, and are feldom followed with dan-
gerous confequences. But, when two or more of the ova delcend into the uterus,
attach themfelves fo near one another as to adhere in whole or in part, fo as to form
only one body, with membranes and water in common, this body will form a confu-
fed irregular mafs, which is called a monjler ; and thus a monfter may be either de-
fective in its organic parts, or be fupplied with a fupernumerary fetof parts derived
from another ovum. This proceeds from a defeCt or accident in nature, which it is
entirely beyond the power of medicine to reftify or prevent.
It would feem, however, from a due contemplation of the foregoing fatfts, from
the frame and ftrudture of females, and from the ultimate end and purpofe of their
conformation, that almoft every malady refulting from a ftate of pregnancy, except
the lafl; mentioned, may be in a great meafure prevented or removed. The natural
temperature of women differs in a very confiderable degree from that of men, inaf-
much as their blood and juices are determined to an oppofite and diftinCl purpofe ;
and hence it is that obftrudtions of the menfes, their excefs, or privation of the of-
fice intended them, conftitute thofe peculiar maladies which we term Difeafes oj Wo-
men.
31(5 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
men. The natural temperature of the male, is hot and dry ; that of the female, cold
and rnifi. The adtion of the procreative tindture of man, is Solar, i. e. of a heat-
ing and quickening faculty •, that of the woman is Lunar, i. e. of a cool and vege-
tative quality. As the fun heats, and gives prolific energy to the fruits of the earth,
fo man fecundates and gives life to the prolific tindture of the woman. Thus the
male, as the microcofm, or epitome of the celeftial fyftem, pofteffes an inherent fi-
militude with the fun, which vivifies and quickens ; and thus the female, poflefling
an inherent fimilitude with the moon, vegetates and brings forth the fruit ot her
womb, and not only feels the influence and fympathy of that luminary in her month-
ly difcharges, but in all the travail and viciflitudes of pregnancy. To the fame
fource likewife we trace the caufe, and decide the queftion, Whether the fruit of the
womb be male or female ? for if the male feed be predominant, heat will abound,
and a male foetus will be generated •, but if the cooling moifture of the woman
overcomes the mafculine heat in the male feed, a female is then produced. The
old and exploded notion of this caufe depending on the child’s falling to the right
or left fide of the mother, is too abfurd to weigh a moment on the mind of any rea-
sonable enquirer.
We difcover likewife that the male, being conftituted of the Solar temperature,
is naturally fubjedted to thofe infirmities of body and mind, which refult from the
elements of fire and air; while thofe of the female are of Lunar tendency, arifing
from the elements of water and earth. Of thefe four elements our grofs or material
part is formed, and by their due and proper commixture in the conlfitution, or
circulating mafs, are life and health eftablifhed ; whilft, on the contrary, by their
difcordant, defective, or predominant power, difeafe and death are produced. Now
the male abounding in heat, and the female in moifture, is the reafon why many
diforders incident to man, are alleviated by contadt with the woman ; as thofe of
the woman are by contadt with the man. In the grand Scale of Nature, we find the
meridian heat and Scorching rays of the Sun, are qualified and corredted by the cool-
ing moifture and mild influence of the midnight Moon ; but when either of thefe
are obftrudted in their effedt, by the intervention of accidental caufes, by ftorms,
by tempefts, or unfeafonable blafts, we then endeavour to reprefs by art, the evil
confequences that are likely to enfue. Juft fo in the human economy, the grand
purpofe and defign of medicine is to corredt and modify the difcordant elements in
the conftitution, and give that vigour and tone to the vital powers, which conftitute
the genuine principles of health and life.
From what has been fuggefted we mi^ht fafely infer, that the conftitution and tem-
perature of the female, requires a medicine of an oppofite adtion and tendency to
2 that
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3*7
that adapted to the male, and which ought to be compounded of elements conge-
nial to the intentions of Nature, calculated to purge the uterus, to purify the femi-
nal fluid, and give ftimulus to the catamenia ; which, if not put in motion by the
funftions of nature, becomes dull and dagnant, and vitiates the whole circulating
mafs ;
whence thofe diforders, peculiarly incident to the mod amiable, as being the
mod virtuous of women, are confeflfedly derived ; and for the cure and prevention
ef which, a peculiar and didindl remedy has long been wanting.
Thefe, and other confiderations, influenced by the known power of fecond cau-
fes, and their faculty of a&ing upon the mechanifm of the human frame, induced
me to attempt the chemical preparation of two fubtile Tin&ures, condituted of a
co-mixture of the pured elements of which our blood is compofed, and adapted to
the particular temperature and conditutions of the oppoflte fexes. That intended
for the ufe of Man, I call the SOLAR TINCTURE, as being congenial to the
feminal functions and vital principles of his conditution. That adapted to Woman,
I call the LUNAR TINCTURE, as being calculated to aft upon the mendrual
and vegetative fluids, and as being compounded of thofe elements which make up
the frame and temperature of her body. The invention of thefe Tin&ures hath been
the refult of a long and laborious application to the dudy of unveiled Nature—-of
the properties of fire, air, earth, and water, in the propagation of animal and ve-
getable life, and in the compofition of medicine; in which, though thefe elements
form the PABULUM of the univerfe, yet the art of colle&ing, uniting, and affi-
milating them with the vital fluids, feerns to be unknown among modern chymidso
and hath efcaped the obfervation of medical Science. The fixidity of thefe Tinc-
tures at once edabfifli their power and efficacy beyond all others ;
for they can ne-
ver be affefted by change of weather or climate, nor by heat or cold ; nor will they
differ any diminution of their drength or virtue by remaining open, or uncorked ;
a circumdance which cannot be affirmed of any other fluid at prefent known,
throughout the world.
I ffiall now proceed to fhew the aftion of the Lunar Tindlure on Female condi-
tutions ; and as this medicine is only intended to remedy fuch complaints as parti-
cularly relate to pregnancy, and the mendrual difcharge, I fhall omit to notice any
other maladies, until I come to treat of the Solar Tin&ure ;
which, though eflen-
tially directed to give tone and vigour to the conditution of the male, is neverthelefs
equally efficacious to the female in removing all diforders of the blood and lymph,
that are alike common to valetudinarians of both fexes. No complaint in the female
habit, therefore, comes under our prefent enquiry, till at or near the age of puberty.
Until this important period of the fex arrives, the Rules heretofore laid down in the
Medical Part of my new edition of Culpeper’s Family Phyficianj for the manage-
No. 2j’>
4 M ment
gi8 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ment and future health of young ladies, deferve a very clofe and ferio-us attention*
The evident diftinCtion between the male and female in their ftru&ure and defign—.
in their bodily ftrength and vigour, and in the procreative fluids, demands the ut-
moft attention from themfelves, and the tendered care from the phyflcian. Nor
can we too often nor too earneftly caution parents and guardians againft the evils
of that abfurd though fashionable {tile of bringing up young ladies, by confining
them almoft entirely to their apartments, keeping them on poor low diet, and ufing.
artificial means to make them fpare and delicate, which contributes more to their
prejudice than all the incidental difeafes to which they are otherwife fubjeCl. Thefe
refinementsin a female education, befides deftroying their ruddy complexion, (which
is often the defign of it,) relaxes their folids, impoverifhes their blood, weakens
their minds, and diforders all the functions of their body, whereby they are often
rendered incapable of conception, and denied the felicity of becoming mothers. On
the contrary it ought to be the dudy, as it certainly is the duty, of all that have girls
under their care, to indulge them in every innocent diverfion, and' in every active
exercife, that can give freedom to the limbs, or agility to the body, all of which
have a natural tendency to exhilarate their fpirits, to promote digedion, to dimulate
their blood and juices, and,, at the proper age, to bring on a free and eafy difcharge
of the mendrual flux.
Though it is univerfally admitted, that this flux is abfolutely neceffary to nouriffe
and fupport the foetus, and that without it human generation cannot be carried on ;
and that it is confequently and obvioufly peculiar to the female uterine fydem ; yet
is it curious to obferve the various abfurd and contradictory opinions fome phyfi-
cians have laboured to edablifh, merely,. one would fuppofe, to bewilder the under-
loading, and fubjeCt delicate females {till more to that erroneous or mifguided
treatment, in which their health, their life, and every earthly bleffing, is too fre-
quently involved.
Dr. Bohn, and Dr. Freind, infift that this flux is nothing more than a plenitude
of the common mafs of blood, which nature throws off only for relief againft the
too abundant quantity. Dr. Freind fuppofes, that this plenitude arifes from a coa-
cervationin the blood veffels of a fuperfluity of aliment, which, he thinks, remains
over and above what is expended by the ordinary ways ; and that women have this
plethora, and not men, becaufe their bodies are more humid, and their veffels, es-
pecially the extremities of them, more tender, and their manner of living generally
more inadive than that of men and that thefe things concurring, are the occafion
that women do not perfpire fufficientiy to carry off the fuperfluous alimentary parts*
till they be accumulated in fuch quantities as to diftend the veffels, and force their
way through the capillary arteries of the uterus. It is fuppofed to happen to women.
k more
3*9
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
more than to the females of other fpecies, which have the fame parts, becaufe of the
erefl poftureof the former, and the vagina and other canals being perpendicular to
the horizon •, fo that the prefiure of the blood is dire&ed towards their orifices
:
whereas in brutes, they are parallel to the horizon, and the prefiure wholly is on the
fides of thofe vefiels. The difcharge, he thinks, happens in this part rather than
in any other, as being more favoured by the ftrufture of the vefiels-, the arteries be-
ing very numerous, and the veins finous and winding, and therefore more apt to
retard the impetus of the blood -, and confequently, in a plethoric cafe, to occafion
the rupture of the extremities of the vefiels, which may laflr, till, by a fufficient
dilcharge, the vefiels are eafed of their overload. To this he adds the confideration
of the foft pulpous texture of the uterus, and the vad number of veins and arteries
with which it is filled. Hence a healthy maid, being arrived at her growth, begins
to prepare more nutriment than is required for the fupport of the body j which, as
there is not to be any farther accretion, muft of necefiity fill the vefiels, and efpeci-
ally thofe of the uterus and breads, they being the lead comprefied. Thefe will
be dilated more than the others whence the lateral vafcules evacuating their humour
into the cavity of the uterus, it will be filled and extended. Hence a pain, heat,
and heavinefs, will be felt about the loins, pubes, &c. the vefiels of the uterus, at
the fame time, will be fo dilated as to emit blood in the cavity of the uterus, and
its mouth will be lubricated and loofened, and blood ifiue out. As the quantity of
blood is diminifhed, the vefiels will be lefs prefied, and will contrail themfelves
clofer, fo as again to retain the blood, and let pafs the grofier part of the ferum j
till at length only the ufual ferum pafles. Again, there are more humours prepa-
red, which are more eafily lodged in vefiels once dilated j and hence the menfes go
and return at various periods in various perfons.
This hypothefis isjudicioufly oppofed by Dr. Drake, who maintains, that there
is no fuch plenitude, or at lead that it is not necefiary to menflruation y arguing,
that, if the menfes were owing to a plethora fo accumulated, the fymptoms would
arife gradually, and the heavinefs, diffnefs, and inactivity, necefiary fymptoms of a
plethora, would be felt long before the periods were completed, and women would
begin to be heavy and indifpofed foon after evacuation, and the fymptoms would in-
creafe daily ; which is contrary to all experience, many women, who have them re-
gularly and eafily, having no warning, nor any other rule to prevent an indecent
furprife, than the meafure of the time in which, fome that have flipped, have been
put to confufion and drifts no ways confident with the notice a plethoric body
would give. He adds, that even in thofe who are difficultly purged this way, the -
fymptoms, though very vexatious and tedious, do not make fuch regular ap-
proaches.
3zo A KEY T O P FI Y S I C,
preaches as a gradual accumulation neceffarily requires. If we confider what vio»
'lent fymptoms come on in an hour, we (hall be extremely puzzled to find the migh-
ty accefiaon of matter, which (hould, in an hour or a day’s time, make fuch great
altera. ions. According to the hypothecs, the laft hour contributed no more than
thefirft; and of confequence, the alteration (hould not be greater in the one than
in the other, fettingafide the bare eruption.
There are others who give into the doctrine of fermentation, and maintain the eva-
cuation in thofe parts to be an effect of an effervescence or ebullition of the bio ;d.
This opinion has been maintained by Dr. Charleton, Bale, De Graaf, and Drake;
the two fir ft of whom fuppofe a ferment peculiar to the women, which produces this
flux, and affeCts that part only, or at leaft principally. Dr. Graaf, lefs particular
in his notion, only fuppofes an effervefcence of the blood, raifed by fome^ferment,
without affigning how it aCts, or what it is. The fudden turgefcence of the blood
occaffoned them all to think, that it arofe from fomething till then extraneous to
the blood, and led them to the parts principally affcChed to feek for an imaginary
ferment, which no anatomical inquiry could ever (how, or find any receptacle for,
Eor any reasoning neceffarily infer. Again, that heat which frequently accompanies
this turgefcence, led them to think the cafe more than a plethora, and that there
was fome extraordinary inteftine motion at that time.
Dr. Drake contends, that it is not only neceffary there (hould be a ferment, but a
receptacle alfo for this ferment ; concluding, from the fuddennefs and violence of
the fymptoms, that a great quantity muff; be conveyed into the blood in a (hort time,
and confequently that it muff have been ready gathered in fome receptacle, where,
while it was lodged, its adion was reftrained Fie pretends to afeertain the place
both of the one and the other, making the gall-bladder to be the receptacle, and the
bile the ferment. The liquor he thinks well adapted to raife a fermentation in the
blood, when difeharged into it in quantity ; and, as it is contained in a receptacle
Chat does not admit of a continual iffue, it may be there referved, till in a cer-
tain period of time the bladder becoming turgid and full, through the compreffion
of the incumbent vifeera, it emits the gall ; which, by the way of the ladeals, in-
finuating itfelf into the blood, may raife that effervefcence which occafions the aper-
ture of the uterine arteries. To confirm this, he alledges, that perfons of a bilious
conftitution have the menfeseither more plentifully, or more frequently, than others;
aod that diftempers manifeftly bilious, are attended with fymptoms refembling thofe
of women labouring under difficult menftruation. But, if this argument be admit-
ted, men would have the menfes as well as women. To this however he anfwers,
that men do not abound in bile fo much as women, the pores oTthe former being
more open, and carrying off more of the ferous part of the blood, which is the
vehicle
321
AND OCCULT SCIENCE,
vehicle of all the other humours, and confequently a greater part of each is dit-
charged through them than in women, wherein the fuperfluity mud either continue
to circulate with the blood, or be gathered into proper receptacles, which is the cafe
in the bile. The fame reafon he gives why menflruation fhould not be in brutes :
the pores of thefe being manifeftly more open than thofe of women, as appears from
the quantity of hair which they bear, for the vegetation whereof a large cavity, and
a wider aperture of the glands, is neceffary, than where no fuch thing is produced :
yet there is home difference between the males and females even among thefe, lbme
of the latter having their mends, fuch as the*orang outang, &c. though not fo of-
ten, nor in the fame form and quantity, as women. But without dwelling on thefe
abftraft reafonings, the abfurdity of which will be obvious to every perfon who turns
to the foregoing fyftem of human impregnation, we need only remark, that there
are two critical periods in every woman’s life, that completely deftroys their hypo-
thefis. Thefe are, that at the age of fourteen or fifteen, the menfes begin to flow ;
butfubfide.attheageof forty or fifty. At their commencement, we generally find the
difficulty, and confequent difeafe, arifes from their deficiency ; whereas, according
to the foregoing doftrine, they would then always flow with the greateft freedom.
At the period when they fhould ceafe, they are apt to come in fuch abundance as to
bring on a flooding, which not only endangers, but too frequently deftroys life—
a
fatal confequence that could not poffibly happen, were the above arguments true.
Of FEMININE, or LUNAR DISEASES.
THAT the vegetative or procreative faculties of women are univerfally governed
by the lunations of the moon, their own experience, as well as the demonftrations
given in my Treadle on the Occult Sciences, indifputably prove. The firft fhow
of the catamenia, if it be natural, invariably comes with the new or full moon;
or fometimes, though very feldom, at the commencement of her firft or la ft quar-
ters and this effort of nature isjuftly confidered as the fure fign of a procreating
ability, and of complete puberty. Whenever this feafon arrives, w hether early or
late, the conftitution of every female undergoes a confiderable change, and the great-
eft care and attention is then neceffary, fince the future health and happinefs of
every woman depends, in a great meafure, upon her conduct at this period. It is the
duty of mothers, and of thofe who are intruded with the education of girls, to in-
ftrudl them early in the conduct and management of themfelves, at this critical mo-
ment. Falfe modefty, inattention, and ignorance of what is beneficial or hurtful
* See this curious fuhjeft, concerning the orang outang, and other animals refembling the human fpecies,
treated at large, both hiftorically and philofophically, in my New Magazine of Natural Hiftory.
No. 21. 4 N at
322 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
at this time, are the fources of many difeafes and misfortunes, which a very little
attention might now prevent. Nor is care lefs neceflary in the fubfequent returns
of this difeharge. Taking improper food, violent agitations of the mind, or catch-
ing cold, is often fufficientto ruin the health, or to render the female for ever after
incapable of procreation.
In order to efcape the chlorofis, and other fimilar difeafes, incident to young wo-
men at that period when the menfes commence, let them avoid indolence and inac-
tivity, and accuftotn themfelves to exercife in the open air as much as poflible.
The difeharge in the beginning is feldom fo inftantaneous as to furprife them una-
wares. The eruption is generally preceded by fymptoms that indicate its approach
;
fuch as a fenfe of heat, weight, and dull pain in the loins } diftenfion and hardnefs
of the breads, head-ach, lofs, of appetite, latitude, palenefs of the countenance,
and fometimes a flight degree of fever. When thefe fymptoms occur, every thing
fhould be carefully avoided which may obftruft the difeharge, and all gentle means
ufed to promote it i as fitting frequently over the fteams of warm water, drinking
warm diluting liquors, &c. When the menfes have begun to flow, great care
Ihould be taken to avoid every thing that tends to obftrua: them ; fuch as fifh, and
all kinds of food that are hard of digeftion, and cold acid liquors. Damps are like-
wife hurtful at this period ; as alfo anger, fear, grief, and other affedions of the
mind. From whatever caufe this flux is obftruded, except in the ftate of pregnan-
cy, proper means Ihould be inftantly ufed to reftore it ; and if exercife in a dry open,
and rather cool air, wholefome diet, generous liquors in a weak and languid ftate of
the body, chearful company, and amufement fail, recourfe muft be had to medi-
cine. In all fuch cafes blood-letting muft be carefully avoided •, but let the patient
take from 20 to 30 drops of the Lunar Tindure, in a wine glafs of warm water or
penny-royal tea, every morning before breakfaft, every day at noon, and every
night before going to bed, until the intention be anfwered, which will ufually take
place in three or four days, without the afliftanceof any other medicine whatever.
But it fometimes happens, in relaxed conftitudons, that the menftrual difeharge,
on its firft appearance, is vitiated, and over abundant ; the confequence of which
is, that the patient becomes weak, the colour pale, the appetite impaired, and the
digeftion languid, fo that dropfy, or confumption, is likely to enfue. LfFedually
to prevent thefe, let the patient be kept two or three days in bed, with her head low,
and obferve a {lender diet, principally of white meats, and her drink red port negus.
Every night and morning, for ten or twelve days, let her take one table fpoonful
of the Solar Tin&ure, diluted in double the quantity of deco&ion of nettle-roots,
or of the greater comfrey-; and after the flux has abated, and her health and
ftrength
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3 2 3
ftrength feem to return, let her only take a table fpoonful of the Solar Tindture
every other day at noon, in a glafs of cold fpring water j which wonderfully con-
tributes to reftore a due confiftency to the circulating mafs, promotes digeftion,
and invigorates the fpirits. Before the cuftomary period returns, fhe muft difcon-
tinue the Solar Tindture; and if there be the leaft appearance of irregularity or ob-
ftrudtion, let her again take night and morning, for two or three days, from 20 to 30
drops of the LUNAR TINCTURE in a glafs of penny-royal tea, and (he will
quickly find a regular habit, and her health amazingly eftablifhed. In obftinate,
or negledted cafes, where the menfes have feceded, and after an irregular appear-
ance, have turned wholly into the habit, both thefe Tindtures fhould be ufed with
a lefs fparing hand, particularly under circumftances in any refpedt fimilar to the
following remarkable
CASE.
Being called to the afiiftance of a young lady of-
fifteeen years of age, I was in-
formed her menfes had made an irregular appearance about five or fix times, com-
ing firft with the full, and then with the new moon, and afterwards at the diftance
of two or three months apart, until they totally difappeared, and turned back upon
the habit. No notice was taken, until the patient was'feized with a violent bleeding
at the nofe, attended with fever, and epileptic fits. After being under the care of
an eminent phyficianfor feveral months, who directed venefedtion, and almoft every
cuftomary application, to no kind of purpofe, the diforder fixed in her neck, form-
ing a large tumour, the acrimony of which fell upon her lungs, and threw her in-
to ftrong convulfions. In this extremity I was fent for. Perceiving the whole fyf-
tem deranged by fpafmodic affedtions, and a locked jaw almoft finally compleated,
my firft objedt was to relieve the vital organs, by giving force and elafticity to the
circulating mafs. With this view I with difficulty forced open the mouth, and ad-
miniftered one table fpoonful of the Solar Tindture undiluted j and within half
an hour, to the aftonifhmeni of her friends, I had the pleafure of feeing every con-
vulfive fymptom die away, and of hearing the patient’s voice, of which fhe had
been totally deprived for upwards of a week before. Two hours after, another fpoon-
ful of the Solar Tindture was taken with additional fuccefs ; and the patient after-
wards continued this medicine in the quantity of a table fpoonful, in a wine glafs of
warm water, three times a day, for fix days, at the expiration of which time her
appetite and ftrength were furprifingly returned *, and fhe was then put under a re-
gular courfe of the Lunar Tindture. Twenty drops, in a wine glafs of penny-royal
tea, were taken every night and morning for thirteen fucceftive days, and on the
morning following, it being the full moon, with which her menfes originally came,
fhe
3 24 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
flie had the confolation to find that every obftruftion was removed, and that the
due courfe of nature was completely re-eftabli(hed. The glandular fwellings gra-
dually fubfided, her natural complexion quickly returned, and flie now continues
in blooming health, perfectly regular, free from all obftrudtions, and from every
confequenr complaint, thankful for the blefiings of her recovery, and defirous of
communicating the means to any unfortunate female under fimilar affliction ; and
to whom reference may at any time be had, by application to the author.
CHLOROSIS, or GREEN SICKNESS •, by fomecalled, the Love-Fever.
THIS difeafe ufually attacks virgins a little after the time of puberty, and firfl:
fhows itfelf by fymptoms of dyfpepfia or bad digeftion. But a diftinguiffling fymp-
tom is, that the appetite is entirely vitiated, and the patient will eat lime, chalk,
alhes, fait, &c. very greedily ; while at the fame time there is not only a total inap-
petence to proper food, but it will even excite naulea and vomiting. In the begin-
ning of the difeafe, the urine is pale, and afterwards turbid ; the face becomes pale,
and then afiumes a greenilh colour ; fometimes it becomes livid or yellow : the eyes
are funk, and have a livid circle round them ; the lips lofe their fine red colour;
the pulfe is quick, weak, and low, though the heat is little fhort of a fever, but
the veins are fcarcely filled ; the feet are frequently cold, fwell at night, and the
whole body feems covered with aloft fwelling ; the breathing is difficult : nor is the
mind free from agitation as well as the body ; it becomes irritated by the flighted
caules ;
and fometimes the patients love folitude, and become fad and melancholy.
There is a retention of the menfes throughout the whole courfe of the diforder ;
which eventually fix on the vital organs ; and death enfues.
The above complaint indifputably arifes from ftifling or fuppre fling the calls of
nature at this vernal feafon, or juvenile fpring of life, when the primary command
of God, “ encreafe and multiply,” is mod fcnfibly imprefled upon the whole human
fabric. Every tube and vdfel appertaining to the genital fyftem, being now filled
with fpermatic or procreative liquor, excites in the female a powerful, yet perhaps
involuntary irritation of the parts, which drongly folicits the means of difcharging
their load, that can only be done by venereal embraces. Thefe, from prudential
reafons, being often neceflarily denied, the prolific tindtures feize upon the ftomach
and vifcera, pen back and vitiate the catamenia, choak and clog the perfpirative
vefiels, whereby the venal, arterial, and nervous, fluids become ftagnant ; and a leu-
cophlegmatia, orwhite flabby dropfical tumour pervades the whole body, and quick-
ly devotes the unhappy patient to the arms of death. Thus, I am forry to remark,
are thoulands of the moll delicate and lovely women plunged into eternity, in the
3 very
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3*5
v£ry blofiom of life, when female excellence is but budding forth, big with the
promifed fruit of delicioufnefs and joy ? How much then does it become the duty
of parents and guardians, who have daughters or wards in fituations likethefe, and
where no very grofs objection can arife, to fuffer them to marry with the men they
love, otherwife to provide fuitable matches for them ; fince this will effedt the mod
rational and moll natural cure, by removing the caufes of the complaint all together.
If, however, matrimony be not then convenient, nor likely, in a fhort time, to take
place, recourfe mult forthwith be had to proper regimen, and phyfical aid, other-
wife delirium or confumption will quickly enfue. The belt method of regimen is
laid down in the medical part of this work, page 217, which, if well obferved, in
addition to the following courfe, will generally perform a cure. Take leaves of
mugwort, briony, and penny-royal, of each an handful * infufe them four days in
two quarts of foft water, and then pour it off the clear liquor for ufe. Take a gill
glafs three parts full, with thirty drops of the LUNAR TINCTURE added to it,
three times a day, viz. morning, noon, and night, till the decodtion be all ufed.
Then reduce the dofeto 20 drops of the Tindture in a wine glafs of cold fpring wa-
ter morning and evening, for 15 days ; after which it might be taken only once a
day, or every other day, until the patient find herfelf entirely free from every fymp-
tom of the difeafe. For this malady, it is the only fpecific. hitherto known ; it un-
clogs the fpermatic tubes ;
purges and cools the uterus and vagina ;
promotes the
menftrual difcharge, cleanfes the urinary paflages, diflolves vifcid humours in the
blood, fharpens the appetite, {Emulates the nerves, and invigorates the fpirits, which
in all ftages of chlorojis are fo apt to be deprefled. When this diforder is not very
obftinate, nor far advanced, let the patient take from 20 to 30 drops of the Lunar
Tindture, in a wine glafs of cold fpring water for thirty or forty days fucceflively,
and it will perform a cure without the trouble of preparing the decodtion. In this
malady, I have lately had the happinefs of completing an elegant cure, which I
mention here, merely for the information of fuch unfortunate maids as may be
languifliing under the fame deplorable circumftances. The following is a literal
ftatement of the
CASE.
A young lady, turned of feventeen, had been afflidted with chlorojis almoft three
years. In the early part of the malady, {he conceived an unconquerable appetite for
wood-cinders, concreted mortar, tobacco-pipes, fealing-wax, &c. The courfes
appeared at different intervals of the difeafe, but always irregular, and more or lefs
in a vitiated ftate. About half a year preceding my attendance, this flux had totally
ceafedj but, upon the approach of every new moon, with which her menfes origi-
No. 2 z. 4 O nally
32
6
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fially came, (he was afflided with pains in the back and loins, heavinefs and turgi-
dity about the region of the womb, and other cuftomary fymptoms of the catamenia;
yet not the fmalleft (how could be brought to appear. A little before this, the la-
dy’s affedions had been placed on a young man in the neighbourhood ; but whofe
fituation in life was by no means on a fcale adapted to the views of her father and
family. The moment therefore this attachment was difcovered, the lady was con-
fined to her apartment, and neither buffered to take exercife or fre(h air, but when
it fuited for fome trufty attendant to accompany her. This confinement brought on
a fettled melancholy, a green fallow complexion, dejeded fpirits, univerfal lati-
tude, and wafting of the flefh. The morbid ftate of her body having thus undermi-
ned her conflitution, without attrading either her, own or her father’s obfervation,
the diforder fell upon the vital organs, and with fo rapid a progrefs, that within
twenty-four hours the was feized with an ardent fever, attended with lofs of appe-
tite, delirium, and a total privation of fpeech. In this (hocking ftate fhe had the
alternate advice of three phyficians of the firft readability ; but the diforder increa-
fing, and putting on the moft dangerous fymptoms, after having baffled their utmoft
(kill, a confultation was had, and the miferable patient was configned to the grave.
Under thefe deplorable circumftances it was my lot to be called in ; and upon a
clofe examination of the patient, fcarcely any vifible figns of life remained. The
pulfe had nearly fuhfided. The adion of the heart and lungs could fcarcefy be dif-
cerned. The eyes were funk, and fixed; yet retained an uncommon look of ex-
prefflon and fentiment. At this time fhe had a large blifler round her neck, another
on the pit of her ftomach ; a third, very large, between her (boulders ; a fourth on
the head; a fifth, and fixth, infide the ancles and legs. Venefedion had been fo
often repeated, that fcarce blood enough remained to fupport the heat and adion of
the heart. In this exhaufted ftate, I only adminiftered three table fpoonfuls
of the Solar Tindure, undiluted, at intervals of little more than an hour apart; and
in the fpaceof four hours after, I had the heart- felt fatisfadion of feeing the energy
of the blood reftored ;
pulfation gradually refumed its adion ; the lungs were dila-
ted; refpiration became free; and a profufe fweat, which the Tindure induced,
fortunately opened the perfpiratory veflels; and the patient began to give evident
figns of eafe and fenfibility. Warm nourifhing food was afterwards taken in fmall
quantities; and I was enabled to remove the blifters, and perform the dreffings,
without pain or torture to the languid patient. The Solar Tindure was now admi-
niftered every day for ten days, in the quantity of a table fpoonful in a wine glafs of
warm barley-water, three times in the day, and once in the night, whenever watch-
fulnefs came on. About the middle of the (eventh day, fhe began to articulate,
though
and OCCULT SCIENCE. 3
-
1 ?
though not a word had been uttered for upwards of fix weeks before •, and on the
tenth day, her voice and bodily functions were fo far reftored, that I deemed it fafe
to oive her an interval of fix days reft, without any medicine whatever. I had the
happinefs to find my expeditions completely anfwered j for nature, affifted by nou-
rifhin cr food, effedled more than a profufion of drugs j fo that in little more than
twenty days,' my patient was able to walk her room, and to put herlelf under a courfe
of the Lunar Tinfture. This flie perfifted in, with nourifliing diet, feconded by
occafional but very gentle airings in the carriage, for near a month longer ; when,
on the approach of the enfuing new moon, to the unfpeakable joy of her friends, the
menftrual flux refumed its natural courfe : the comfort and relief of which was fo
^ifible to the patient, that fhe in ecftacy exclaimed, “mySufferings are at an end This
kdy has ever fince continued to improve in health and fpirits in fo furprifing a de-
aree that, looking back on her late miferable and reduced ftate of body, forms a
contrail fo great as almoft to exceed belief. Yet the lady and her worthy parent,
are at all times ready to authenticate the fad, to any reputable enquirer, or to the
friends of any unfortunate female labouring under a fimilar afflidtion.
Of the FLUOR ALBUS, or WHITES.
THE fluor albus, female weak fiefs, or whites, as it is commonly called, is a dif-
eafe of the womb and its contiguous parts
;
from which a pale-coloured, greenifh,
or yellow, fluid, is difcharged, attended with lofsof ftrength, pain in the loins, bad
digeftion,’ and a wan fickly afpeft. The quantity, colour, and confiftence, of the
difchar°e, chiefly depend upon the time of its duration, the patient’s habit of body,
and the
&
nature of the caufe by which it was produced. Weakly women of lax fo-
lids who have had many children, and long laboured under ill health, are of all the
moft fubjedt to this difagreeable difeafe •, from which they unfortunately fuffer more
fevere penance than others, as the niceft fenfations are often connected with fuch a
delicacy of bodily frame as fubjefts them to it. In Holland it is very frequent, and
m a manner peculiar to the place, from the dampnefs of its Situation ; thefurround-
ino- air being fo overcharged with moifture as to relax the body, ftop perfpiration,
and throw it upon the bowels or womb ;
producing in the firft a diarrhoea or flux,
In the laft the fluor albus or female weaknefs. The difcharge often proceeds from
the vefiels fubfervient to menftruationj becaufe, in delicate habits, where thofe
veflels are weak, and confequently remain too long uncontra&ed, the fluor albus
fometimes immediately follows the menfes, and goes off by degrees as they gradually
clofe. It alfo comes from the mucus glands of the womb, as is particularly evident
in very young females of eight or ten years old 3 in whom, though very rarely, it
323 A K E Y TO P H Y S I C,
has been obferved, and where it muft then neceffarily have efcaped from thofe parts,
as the urerine veffels are not fufficiemly enlarged for its paffage at fo early a period.
Sometimes-, as in women with child, it proceeds from the paffage to the womb, and-
not from the womb itfelf; which, during pregnancy, is clofely fealed up, fo that
nothing can pafs from thence till the time of labour. The application of thofe in-
ffruments called peffaries, from the pain and irritation they occafion, are alfo apt to
bring on this difcharge. The fluor albus has been fuppofed to fupply the want of
the menfes becaufe where thefirff prevails, the laft are generally either irregular or
totally wanting : but it might more properly be faid, that the prefence of the fluor
albus, which is a preternatural evacuation, occafions the abfence of that which is
natural ; as is evident from the return of the menfes after the fluor albus has been
, cured. Indeed, when this difcharge appears about the age of 13 or 14, and returns
once a month, with fymptoms like thofe of menfes, then it may be deemed ftri&ly
natural, and therefore ought not to be flopped. The fluor albus may be diftin-
guifhed into two kinds. The firffc arifes from a Ample weaknefs, or the relaxation
ofthe folids ; which may either be general, where the whole bodily fyftem is ener-
vated and unfcrung; or partial, where the wombonly is affedted, in confequenceof hard
labour, frequent mifcarriages, a fuppreflion or immoderate quantity oi the menfes,
or a fprain of the back or loins. In the firfl: cafe, the difcharge being generally
mild, may be eafily taken away. In the fecond, it may proceed from a vitiated or
impure blood, where the body, from thence, is loaded with grofs humours, which
nature for her own fecurity and relief thus endeavours to carry off In fuch cafes,
the difcharge is often of a reddifh colour, like that from old u3 cerous fores ; being
Sometimes fo fharp as to excoriate the contiguous parts, and occaflon a fmarting
and heat of urine. A deap-feated darting pain, with a forcing down, attending-
fuch a difcharge, is a very dangerous and alarming fign, and indicates an ulcera-
tion or cancerous ftate of the womb. This malignant ftate of the difeafe, if of long
continuance, is extremely difficult of cure j and difpofes the patient to barrennefs,
a bearing down, dropfy, or confumption. In fhort, as this is a malady of the molt
difagreeable kind, which by long continuance or negled becomes difficult of cure
and often proves fatal, it were to be wiffied that women, on fuch occafions, would
be more attentive to their own fafety, by ufing all poffible means, in due time, to
prevent the diforder.
As women are fometimes connected with thofe who do not confcientioufly regard
their fafety, it is a circumftance of the utmoft confequence to diftinguilh a freffi ve-
nereal infection from the fluor albus or whites ; for, if thefirff bemiftaken for the
laff.
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 329
laft, and be either negledted or improperly treated, the word: confluences may arife.
In addition therefore to what I have (dated in page 219 of the Medical Part, the fol-
lowing figns will ferve to inform the patient whether there beoccafion for her doubts
or not. A frefti infedtion, called gonorrhoea, is malignant and inflammatory ; the
fluor albus moft commonly arifes from relaxation and bodily weaknefs : and there-
fore the remedies proper in the Hrft diforder would render the laft more violent, by
locking up and confining the infedtious matter. In the gonorrhoea, the diicharge
chiefly proceeds from the parts contiguous to the urinary pafiage, and continues
whilfl: the menfes flow •, but in the fluor albus it is fupplied from the cavity of the
womb and its paflfage, and then the menfes are feldom regular. In the gonorrhoea,
an itching, inflammation, and heat of urine, are the fore-runners of the difcharge •,
the orifice of the urinary pafiage is prominent, and the patient is affedted with a fre-
quent irritation to make water. In the fluor albus, pains in the loins, and lofs of
ftrength, attend the difcharge ; and, if any inflammation or heat of urine follow,
they happen in a lefs degree, and only after a long continuance of the difcharge,
which, becoming fharp and acrimonious, excoriates the furrounding parts. In the
gonorrhoea, the difcharge fuddenly appears without any evident caufe ; but in the
fluor albus, it comes on more flowly, and is often produced by irregularities of the
menfes, frequent abortion, fprains, or long-continued illnefs. In the gonorrhoea,
the difcharge is greenilh or yellow, lefs in quantity, and not attended with the fame
fymptomsof weaknefs. In the fluor albus, it is alfo often of the fame colour, efpe-
cially in bad habits of body, and after long continuance j
but is ufually more
offenfive, and redundant in quantity. The whites often afflidt maids of a weakly
conftitution, as well as married women and widows ; and indeed there are few
of the fex, efpecially fuch as are fickly, who have not known it more or lefs. For
whatever difeafe renders the blood poor, foul, or vifcous, and reduces a woman to
a languid condition, is commonly fucceeded by the whites, which, when they come
in this manner, continue to weaken the body more and more, and are in great dan-
ger, without fpeedy remedy, of wearing away the patient, and making her a mi-
l^rable vidtim to death. Let no woman, therefore, negledt this diforder, when ihe
finds it on her, but endeavour to obtain an immediate cure. The regimen and ge-
neral management is pointed out in the Medical Part of this work, p. 220 ;
and, in
lieu of all other medicines, make a decodtion of tormentil-root, biftort, comfrey,
and red-rofe leaves ; take a gill-glafs three parts full, and add to it thirty or forty
drops of the Lunar Tindture, which mufi: be perfifted in morning, noon, and
night, for ten days ; then take it morning and evening only for ten days more; after
which difcontinue the decodtion, and take the Tindlure every morning for a month.
No. 21. 4P twenty
320 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
twenty drops in a wine glafs of cold fpring water, the difeafe will be found gradual-
ly to abate: and, upon any fymptoms of a return of it, take fifteen to twenty drops
of the Tincture in a wine glafs of cold water every morning for a week, and it will
go entirely off ; as hath been verified in a great number of patients, who are ready
to teftify that they owe their cure, even in the raoft obftinate cafes, entirely to the
Lunar Tinfture.
Of BARRENNESS, or INFERTILITY.
BARRENNESS is fuch a ftate of a woman’s body, as indifpofes it, upon the ufe
of the natural means, to conceive and propagate her fpecies. This proceeds from
many fources, which may be reduced to thefe two general heads : Firft, —An indif-
pofition of the parts to receive the male femen in the adt of copulation, or that vi-
tal effluvium ftreamingfrom it, which alone can impregnate the ovaria. Secondly,—
-
An inaptitude in the blood to retain and nourifh the vital principle after it is com-
municated, fo as to make it grow and expand its parts, till it becomes a proper foe-
tus. Conception is alfo hindered by a hedlic, hydropic, or feverifh, fickly habit
;
by a deficiency or obftrudtion of the monthly courfes, which impoveriffles the fluids j
by the whites, which, continuing too long, relax the glands of the womb, and drown,
as it were, the prolific particles j and too often by a vice, which utterly deftroys the
tone and vigour of the parts j as is fully exemplified in the Medical Part of this work,
p. 22i. Preparatory to the cure of infertility, it is proper to ufe evacuations, unlefs
any particular fymptom (hews them to be dangerous. Bleeding, lenient purgatives,
luch as the folutive eledtuary, and a gentle vomit of ipecacuanha, efpecially if the
perfon be plethoric or cacochymic, cannot but be of great fervice j then proceed
with the following ftrengthening eledtuary : take roots of fatyrion and eringo candi-
ed, of each one ounce ;
powders of cinnamon, fweet fennel feeds, and preferved
ginger, of each half an ounce •, mace, roots of contrayerva and Spanifh angelica,
of each one drachm troches of vipers, one ounce-, juice of kermes, fix drachms j
tindture of cantharides, half a drachm fyrup of cloves, a fufficient quantity to
make an eledtuary. Let the quantity of a large nutmeg be taken every morning
early, at about five o’clock every afternoon, and at night going to bed ; and, im-
mediately after taking the eledtuary, drink a wine-glafs £ull of the following infu-
fion, adding to it from twenty to thirty drops of the Lunar Tindture, viz. take cin-
namon powdered one ounce ; of fweet fennel feeds bruifed, and lavender flowers,
of each half an ounce ; Spanifh angelica root, ginger, contrayerva, mace, and co-
chineal, of each one drachm and a half ; canary wune, two quarts : infufe according
to art for two or three days, and drain off the infufion for ufe. Continue the elec-
3 tuary
AND OCCULT SCIENCES. 33 1
ruary for ten days fucceffively ; then omit a week, and continue it for ten days
more*, after which continue the infufion and Tincture only, three times a day,. for
ten days more ; then take it only twice a day for a month, or as long as the cafe
requires, adding from fifteen to thirty drops of the Tincture to each glafs, as the
age or conftitution of the patient may require. This courfewill be found moft ex-
cellent for barrennefs and debility j
particularly while thus aflifted by the Lunar
Tincture*, which will greatly warm and rectify the blood and juices, increafe the
animal fpirits, invigorate and revive the whole human machine, and not only raife
the appetite to venereal embraces, but remove the ufual impediments to fertility
;
prepare the womb for performing its office, and the ova for impregnation. The
Tincture warms, comforts, and excites, the generative parts to admiration, and
feldom fails of curing all common occafions of barrennefs in a month or fix weeks,
if duly followed j as a proof of which I beg leave to add the pleafing circumftan-
ces of the following fingular
CASE.
A Young Lady of rank and fortune, but of a delicate frame, entered into the
marriage ftate about four years ago. Inflead of deriving from it that blifsful gra-
tification which gives the honoured name of Mother, fhe became weak, languid,
pale, and melancholy. The whole nervous fyftem was relaxed,— the natural func-
tions of the body were fufpended,— cedematous tumours obftrudted the fanguife-
rous paffages, whence incurable barrennefs, and lingering confumption, were the
fad profpects left in view. In this melancholy ftate of body and mind, by advice
of her phyfician, when all hopes were at an end, fhe was put under a regular courfe
of the Lunar Tincture* which, to the aftonifhment of all, gradually deturged
the obftructedveffels—propelled the animal juices through the fyftem— ftrengthen-
ed and braced the nerves— induced a regular habit— -reftored the fparkling eye and
livid cheek, and gave new vigour to the animal functions— the refult of which
has been, that before the end of the enfuing year, after her health was thus reco-
vered, the lady became the happy mother of a SON and HEIR, to the inexpreffi-
ble joy of an affectionate hufband and a fympathifing family !—For the fake of
females labouring under a fimilar difeafe, reference to the above pleafing fact is
permitted to be had by all refpectable enquirers, at the Author’s houfe, in Upper
Titchfield-ftreetj Cavendifh-fquare.
INDIS-
332 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
INDISPOSITIONS attendant on PREGNANCY.
THOUGH pregnancy is not a difeafe, but rather a natural alteration of the ani-
mal-oeconomy, which every female is formed to undergo, yet it is attended with a
variety of complaints, which require great attention ; but for the cure or allevia-
tion of which, medical aid has proved very deficient. In thefe complaints, however,
the Lunar Tindture exerts moft extraordinary properties, and excels whatever has
been heretofore offered under a medical form. It is an univerfal purifier of thofe
heterogeneous particles which produce naufea, and arife from the combining ef-
forts of the mafculine and feminine Tindtures ; from whence, according to the
groffnefs of the procreative effences at the time of conception, proceed vomiting,
pains in the head and ftomach, fainting, &c. occafioned by the jarring elements
arifing from the difproportion in the heat and adtive principle of the conftituent
parts of the male and female feed ; which is not only attended with great debility
and depreflion to the mother, in her whole nervous fyftem, but often with heredi-
tary difeafes, and dreadful confequences to the infant offspring. Indeed fo great
has been the conflidt of the male and female procreative Tindtures for the maftery
or predominant power, while palling through the circulating mafs or habit of the
mother, that the moft curious and aftonifhing phenomena have, on many occa-
fions, been obferved to refult from it. In a fmall village in Somerfetfhire, in the
year 1759, a girl was born with the hair on her head of two remarkably diftindt co-
lours •, the right fide, from an exadfc parallel line which divided the fkull into two
equal parts, was almoft black ; but the left fide, from the fame line, was of a red-
difh yellow. As fhe grew up, the dark hair became of a jet black, exadtly like
that of her father; whilft the other became of a ftrong carrotty red, precifely re-
fembling that of her mother ; and, after the age of puberty, the hair on the privi-
ties, and under the arm-pits, as well as on her arms and legs, wasdiverfified in the
fame manner; that on the right fide, all the way down, from head to foot, being
black; whilft that on the left was entirely red. The young woman lived till the
28th year of her age, and was reforted to as a great curiofity.
Another well-known yet remarkable inftanceof this conflidt of the male and fe-
male procreative Tindtures at the time of impregnation, was the cafe of a man
who a few years fi nee kept a public-houfe in Tooley-ftreet, Southwark. His fa-
ther was a white man, belonging to one of the Weft-India packets; and his mother
was a negro girl, whom he had taken a fancy to, and purchafed on the arrival of
one of the Guinea flave-lhips at the ifland of Jamaica. He brought her with him
to
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 333
to London, and in the courfe of the enfuing year die was delivered of a fon, the
whole right fide of which was white like the father ; but the whole of the left fide
was black like the mother. As he grew up, this vifible didinftion became more
ftrongly marked; and during the time he kept the above public-houfe in Tooley-
fcreet, he was reforted to by an immenfe concourfe of people, who flocked there to
fpend their mite, in order to be fatisfied that fo great a curiofity really exifted. The
whole of his body appeared to be interfered by an exad parallel line, by which the
efforts of conception feem to have united the male and female tindures in precife
equilibrio, without fuffering them to intermix in coagula, or in impregnating and
expelling the ovum from the ovaria, to its fufpended ftate in the uterus. Hence
thebair on theright fidewas longand brown, likethat of the father; and half the face,
neck, body, and privities, with the arm, thigh, leg, and foot, on the right fide, were
white ;
while the correfponding parts on the left fide were black, like the mother,
with half the hair on the privities and head black and woolly, exadly like that
of a true negro.
A ftill more curious and ftriking example of this aftonifhing effort in the male and
female procreative fluids, is verified in the cafe of Mr. John Clark, of Prefcot-
ftreet, Goodman’s-fields. His father was a native of Africa, who by dint of good
fortune, had amafied a confiderable fum of money, and fettled in London. He
married a remarkably healthy young woman, a native of Devonfhire, who had been
fome time his fervant. By her he had two Tons and three daughters, who were mu-
lattos, except the elded fon, who was the fird born, and the perfon above alluded
to. From the head to the navel, all round his body, he was remarkably fair,
had a fine fkin, handfome round features, light-brown hair, and fanguine complex-
ion, like his mother ; but from the navel downwards he was completely black, with
fhort black woolly hair on the privities, exactly like the father. At the age of
thirty, he married a young lady of good family and fortune, but of a delicate difpo-
fition. For near three months he had the addrefs to conceal this deformity of colour
from the knowledge of his wife, by wearing flefh-coloured filk drawers and dock-
ings, which he pretended were lined with flannel to keep off the rheumatifm, with
which he had been forely afHi&ed, even to a degree that endangered his life, every
time he attempted to leave them off. It happened however, from fome negledt of
concealment before going to deep, that the curiofity of his wife was drongly excit-
ed; and the opportunity proving favourable in other refpefls, it being quite day-
light in the morning, and her huflaand fad afleep, die eagerly proceeded to latisfy v
her doubts. Gently turning down the bed-cloaths, and removing the other impe-
diments in the way of a complete infpe&ion, fhe no fooner difcovered the real
No. 22. 4 Q date
35 4 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ftate of things, than fhe fhrieked out vehemently, and fainted away ! The huf-
band, thus fuddenly awakened, beheld his wife in a fit, and faw with forrowand re-
gret theconfequences of a difcovery which entirely refulted from his own negleCt.
He immediately arofe, called up the fervants, and procured medical affiftance with
all convenient fpeed j but in vain-—the fudden furprize, added to the mortification
and terror of mind, had fo powerful an effeCt, that the lady died in convulfions,
nearly two months gone with child. I have often lamented that fortune did not
throw me in the way at this critical juncture, for two reafons ; in the firft place, I
have the vanity to think I could have faved the patient’s life •, but, had I failed, in
thefecond, I would have perfuaded Mr. Clark, from motives of philofophical fpe-
culation, and for the improvement of medical fcience, to have fuffered me to open
the womb of this unfortunate lady, in order to extraCt the foetus ; which, under the
circumftances of the uncommon conformation of the father, might have enabled
me to throw a new light on this very curious fubjeCt of occult enquiry, perhaps fo as
to have accounted, more obvioufly, for the jarring conflicts and ftruggling efforts
of the mafculine and feminine tinCtures; to which alone we are to look for the
formation of hermaphrodites, the production of monfters, &c.
Sympathy and antipathy moft certainly operate very powerfully on females in the
early ftate of pregnancy, and might, as was then fuggefted, have had a principal
fhare in carrying off the above unhappy patient, while no means were ufed to coun-
teract their influence on the mafs of blood. Sudden frights, longing and loathing,
and all marks on the foetus, are obvioufly derived from this caufe, and can only be
corrected by giving energy and ftimulus to the circulating fyftem, whereby the func-
tions both of mind and body are ftrengthened, and the nervous fluid fortified and
protected againft the fudden imprefllon of external objeCts. It feems to be admit-
ted by many eminent practitioners, that the difeafes incident to a pregnant ftate in
the early months, arife from fympathy.*, whilft thofe peculiar to the more advanced
ftages of geftation, are produced by the ftretching and preffure of the uterus on
the contiguous vifcera. Thus heart-burn and diarrhoea, tenfion and pains of the
breaft, naufea and head-ach, defire of unnatural food, tremors, and dejeCted fpirits,
fainting andhyfteric fits, premature menftruation, and confequent abortion, proceed
•from the firft of thefecaufes; while coftivenefs, ftranguary, cramp, and cholic, ap-
pear to refult from the other. And though the celebrated Dr. Stahl, Dr. Cullen,
and others, have fo much differed as to the theory of thefe difeafes, yet they all agree
that gentle opiates, aromatic infufions, ftrengthening bitters, and medicines calcu-
lated to give energy to the languid ftate of the circulation, and to purify thegrofs
and vifcid elements which opprefs the ftomach and vifcera, are the only proper re-
2 medies
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 335
rnedies to be adminiftered. Now the Lunar Tindture poffeffes the aromatic and
aftringent virtues in an admirable degree j and is elegantly adapted to invigorate
and affift the adtive faculties of nature, in expelling all vifcid humours from the fto-
mach and bowels •, and being compounded of the moft fubtle and occult elements,
which preferve the vital principle, it hence produces the moft falutary effedts on
all women in a Hate of pregnancy, by ftimulating the procreative faculty to the for-
mation of the fineft children ; corredting and purifying the procreative fluid from
infedtion or difeafe ; preventing moles or falfe conceptions, removing all loathings,
longings, or vomiting, and effedtually preventing abortion, from any caufe whate-
ver.—For thefe reafons, when a woman enters into the Hate of matrimony, (lie would
do well to take twenty drops of the Lunar Tindture every other morning to pro-
mote conception ; (he fhould then continue it three times a week, from conception
to the end of the fourth month ; then it may be omitted till a fortnight before her
time, when fhe fhould take twenty drops in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water, every
morning till her labour, at which time it will wonderfully (Lengthen her, affift her
throws, facilitate the birth, promote the lochia, and carry off the after-pains. She
might take it occafionally during the month, in any fymptoms of cold, fever, or
hyfterics, diluted in a wine-glafs of warm barley-water, about the middle of the day.
Women who are fubjeft to mifearriages, fhould never fail to take this medicine,
from the time they have reafon to believe they are pregnant, until a full month after
they have quickened. It may be taken once, twice, or thrice, a day, or every other
day, as the urgency of the cafe may require, from twenty to thirty drops, in a glafs of
forge-water ; or in foft fpring-water, in which common oak-bark has been deeped ;
and fhe will effedtually get over all caufes of abortion. Women after fudden mil-
carriages, or bad labours, will find wonderful relief by taking twenty drops of it in
a wine-glafs of warm barley-water, for a week or ten days. Nurfes, alfo, whole
milk is griping, or defedtive, fhould take it once or twice a day, or as often as occa-
fion may require. The intention will quickly be experienced, the milk will be pu-
rified and augmented, and all the fluid fecretions promoted in a manner productive
of found health, both to the mother and child.— In cafes where oedematous fwel-
lings of the legs and labia, are occafioned by the interruption of the refluent blood
from the preffureof the diftended uterus on the vena cava;---in violent floodings—
in nervous fpafms— in epileptic fits, and in obftinate convulfions, where the vis vit*e
muft be fupported by replenifhing the veffels with the utmoft fpeed, recourfe fhould
be had to the Solar TinCture, which in the moft dangerous cafes has been found to
give immediate relief ;
and if duly perfifted in, according to the bill of directions,
will fcarce ever fail to effect a cure.
State
$$$ A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
State of WOMEN at the TURN of LIFE.
THE moll critical and dangerous time of a woman’s life is that wherein themen-
fes ceafe to flow, which ufually happens between forty and fifty years of age. The
great change that this produces, by fo copious a drain being returned into the habit,
without previous preparation, is the foie caufe of its danger. Every woman mult be
more or lefsfenfible when this period arrives, and fhould conduct herfelf according-
ly •, for when the menfes are about to go off, they appear for the molt part irregu-
larly, both in time and quantity, once in a fortnight, three, five, or fix, weeks ;
fometimes very fparingly, and other times in immoderate quantities. For want only
of necefiary care and attention, during the time that the menfes thus give fymptoms
of their departure, many and various are the complaints that enfue ; amongft which
are cold chills, fucceeded by violent flufliings of the face, and heats of the extremi-
ties ;
reftlefs nights, troublefome dreams, and unequal fpirits ; inflammations of the
bov/els ; fpafmodic affeCtions •, fliffnefs in the limbs, fwelled ankles, forelegs, with
pains and inflammation ;
the piles, and other fymptoms of plenitude. But all this
might eafily be prevented, by attending to a due regimen, and taking thefe Tinc-
tures, as occafion may require. Whenever a woman has reafon to fufpeCt her men-
fes are about to leave her, let her lofe four, five, or fix, ounces of blood, as her habit
of body will admit •, then let her make a decoCtion, by taking gentian-roots, one
pound •, fenna, and orange-peels, of each half a pound ; pour upon them a gal-
lon of hot water, and, after it has flood twenty-four hours, pour off the liquor for
ufe. Let her take from twenty to forty drops of the Lunar Tindlure in a gill-glafs
full of the above decoCtion, every night and morning for ten days ; then let her con-
tinue it every morning for ten days more, and afterwards once every two or three
days, or oftener if the terms are of an ill colour and fcent, until they are corrected.
This courfe muflbe followed every fpringand fall, for a month or fix weeks fuccef-
fively, by all women who find their menfes come irregularly, or toofparing, until
they entirely ceafe ^ after which let the patient put herfelf under a courfe of the Solar
Tinfture, for a month or fix weeks, taking one fpoonful in a wine-glafs of warm
water every night and morning for a week , then let it be taken only once a day, in
.cold water, for the refidue of the time j and if file takes occafionally two table
fpoonfuls of the Solar Tindlure, diluted in a tumbler of warm water, as a beverage
after dinner or fupper, inflead of wine or brandy and water, it will be productive
of great benefit in eftablifhing an healthful ftate of her blood, and carrying off the
vifcid humours generally produced by the menftrual flux returning into the habit.
Should
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 337
Should it at this time happen, which it often does, that the terms flow too abun-
dantly, and produce a flooding, the patient muft immediately lofe fix or eight oun-
ces of blood, and be kept as much as poflible at reft, with her head low, until the
medicine has had time to take effeCl; let her diet be fpare, but not too lax ;
and
let her apply to the following courfe : Take conferve of red-rofes, marmalade of
quinces, juice of kermes, candied nutmegs, fyrup of quinces, and fyrup of coral,
of each half an ounce; aromaticum rofalum, and aftringent faffron of iron, of
each two drams ; oil of cinnamon fix drops ;
mix into an eledbuary, (which might
be made up by any apothecary, if the receipt be fent him,) and take the quantity
of a large nutmeg every day at noon for fix, eight, or ten, days, or longer, as the
urgency of the cafe may require, drinking immediately after it twenty drops of the
Lunar TinCture in a wine-glafs of warm water; the flooding, by this means, will
gradually abate, the feverifh fymptoms will go off, the back will be {Lengthened,
the womb-veflels cleanfed, and the patient wonderfully reftored. After the tenth
day, in moft cafes, the elefluary might be difcontinued ; and the Lunar Tinfture
fhould then be taken every morning for a month, from fifteen to twenty drops, ac-
cording to the conflitution of the patient; by which time the parts will be braced,
comforted, and coiled up; fo as to fear no danger of a relapfe. About a month af-
ter, let her undergo a courfe of the Solar TinCture, for the purpofe of rectifying
and ftimulating the mafs of blood ; this fhould be taken for a month ; a table
fpoonful night and morning in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water for the firft ten
days; and then once a day only for the refidue of the time; the good effcCts of
which will be fenfibly and quickly felt.
The intention of nature in returning this flux back into the habit, is to nourilh
and preferve life, not to deftroy it. Until the age of puberty, girls require this
blood for the fuftenation and nouriihment of their bodies ; when that is fufficient-
ly eftablilhed, it is applied to the purpofes of nouriflfing the foetus, and of fuck-
ling the infant after it is born. When child-bearing ceafes, and the eve of life comes
on, the flux is returned back, to comfort and preferve it; therefore, if women were
but careful to obferve a regular courfe before this flux returns upon them, by
adopting the methods I have prefcribed, and by taking the medicine fpring and fall
for two or three years previous to the time, they might not only efcape the perils and
dangers attendant on this period, but would lay the foundation of a fettled ftate of
health, and enjoy a found conflitution of body to extreme old age,
4R
No. 22, Of
33^ A KEY TO PHYSIC,
Of MASCULINE, or SOLAR DISEASES.
SOLAR difeafes are all fuch as proceed from a hot and dry caufe, and have
their origin in the blood and lymph. For as the beams flowing from the fun are
the fountain of life and heat to the great world, or univerfal fyftem of nature, fo
the blood, flowing from the heart, is the fountain of life and heat to the little world,
or univerfal fyftem of the microcofm,
or body of man. And again, as the ftream of
rays from the fun regulates the feafons, and produces the variety of climates, fo the
ftream of blood in man’s body, as affeded by the fun, regulates and diverfifies the
form and figure of the whole race of human beings. As feafons and climates are
fubjed to the external elements, which are ftill governed by the fuperior influence
of the fun, fo are they rendered either mild, healthful, and produdive, or turbu-
lent, peftilential, and barren. Juft fo the whole circulating mafs is affeded by
change of climates and feafons, and by all the variations and agitations of the ex-
ternal elements; and hence difeafes are induced in the blood, and are either mild,
ardent, or acute, in proportion as the fanguiferous fluid becomes diftempered and
impaired by the adion of the ambient, or contiguous atmofphere. Thus we per-
ceive the folar influence on the human frame, and difcover that the origin of difeafe
is in the blood; for, no longer than this vital ftream is kept in due circulation,
pure, and uncontaminated, can animal life be fuftained, or the body preferved in
health and vigour.
From the exprefs words of fcripture, Levit. xvii. n, 14. Deut. xii. 23. we are
warranted to infer, that “ in the BLOOD is the LIFE ;” and there is not a doubt
but the living principle of the blood conftitutes the life of the body. Of this opi-
nion was the celebrated Hervey, as well as many of the ancient philofophers and
phyficians; and the late Mr. John Hunter declared himfelf to be of the fame way
of thinking. We find the blood unites living parts, in fome circumftances, as
certainly as the yet recent juices of the branch of one tree unite it with that of ano-
ther. Were either of thefe fluids to be confidered as extraneous or dead matters,
they would ad as ftimuli, and no union would take place in the animal or vegetable
kingdoms. This argument Mr. Hunter eftablifhed by the following experiment.
Having taken off the tefticle from a living cock, he introduced it into the belly of
alivinghen. Many weeks afterwards, upon injeding the liver of the hen, he in-
jected the tefticle of the cock likewife, which had come in contad with the liver,
and adhered to it. In the nature of things, there is not a more intimate connedion
between life and a folid, than between life and a fluid. For, although we are more
aceuftomed to conned it with the one than the other, yet the only real difference
which
*
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 339
which can be fhewn between a folid and a fluid is, that the particles of the one are
lefs moveable among themfelves than thofe of the other. Befides, we often fee the
fame body fluid in one cafe and folid in another. The blood will alfo become vaf-
cular like other living parts. Mr. Hunter affirms, that, after amputations, the co-
agula in the extremities of arteries form veflfels, and may be injected by injecting
thefe arteries-, and he had a preparation by which he could demonftrate vef-
fels rifing from the centre of what had been only a coagulum of blood, and opening
into a ftream of circulating blood. If blood be taken from the arm, in the molt in-
tenfe cold which the human body can bear, it raifes the thermometer to the fame
height as blood taken in the mod fultry heat. This is a ftrong proof of the blood’s
being alive for living bodies alone have the power of refilling great degrees both
of heat and cold, and of maintaining in almoll every fituation, while in health, that
temperature which we diftinguifh by the name of animal heat. Blood is likewife
capable of being adled upon by aftimulus; for it coagulates from expofure, as cer-
tainly as the cavities of the abdomen and thorax inflame from the fame caufe. The
more it is alive, that is, the more the animal is in health, it coagulates the fooner on
expofure; and the more it has loll of its living principle, as in the cafe of violent
inflammations, the lefs is it fenfible to the ftimulus produced from its being expos-
ed, and it coagulates the later. We may likewife obferve, that the blood preferves
life in different parts of the body. When the nerves going to a part are tied or cut,
the part becomes paralytic, and lofes all power of motion ; but it does not mortify.
If the artery be cut, the part dies, and mortification enfues. What keeps it alive
in the firft cafe ? nothing but the living principle, which alone can keep it alive;
and this phenomenon is inexplicable on any other fuppofition, than that the life is
contained in the blood. Another argument is drawn by Mr. Hunter from a cafe of
a fradtured os humeri. A man was brought into St. George’s hofpital for afimple
fradlure of the os humeri, or arm, and died about a month after the accident. As
the bones had not united, Mr. Hunter injedted the arm after death. He found that
the cavity between the extremities of the bones was filled up with blood which had
coagulated. This blood was become vafcular, or full of velfels. In fome places
it was very much fo. He does not maintain that all coagulated blood becomes vaf-
cular : and indeed the reafon is obvious ; for it is often thrown out and coagulated
in parrs where its becoming vafcular could anfwer no end in the fyftem : as, for ex-
ample, in the cavities of aneurifmal facs. If it be fuppofed, that, in inch cafes as
that juft now mentioned, the veflels are not formed in the coagulum, but come
from the neighbouring arteries, it is equally an argument that the blood is alive:
for the fubftance into which veflels fhoot muff: be fo. The very idea, that fuch a
3 quantity
340 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
quantity of dead matter as the whole mafs of blood, circulates in a living body, t§
abfolutely abfurd.
Thole who have ventured to oppofe this doftrine, and the evidence of fcripture
with it, confiderthe brain and nervous fyftem as the fountain of life; and that, fo
far from receiving its life from the blood, the nervous fyftem is capable of inftanta-
neoufly changing the crafts of the blood, or any other animal fluid ; and though the
nervous fyftem cannot continue its a<5tion for any length of time if the adtion of the
blood-veflels is fufpended, yet the heart and blood-veflels cannot aft for a Angle mo-
ment without the influence of the nervou fluid. For this reafon, fay they, it is
plain we muft fuppofe the nervous fyftem, and not the blood, to contain properly
the life of the animal, and confequently to be the principal vital organ. The fe-
cretion of the vital fluid from the blood by means of the brain, is, by the fupporters
of this argument, denied. They fay, that any fluid fecreted from the blood muft be
aqueous, inelaftic, and inactive ; whereas the nervous fluid is full of vigour, elaftic,
and volatile in the higheft degree. The great neceflity for the circulation of the
blood through all parts of the body, notwithftanding the prefence of the nervous
fluid in the fame parts, they fay is, becaufe fome degree of tenfion is neceflary to be
given to the fibres, in order to fit them for the influx of the nervous fluid ; and this
tenfion they receive from the repletion of the blood-veflels, which are every where
difperfed along with the nerves. >
To follow this opinion through every argument, would prove tedious and un-
neceflary, as the following fhort obfervations will decide the matter abfolutely
again ft the patrons of the nervous fyftem. In the firft place, then, if we can prove
the life of the human body to have been communicated from a fluid to the nervous
fyftem, the analogical argument will be very ftrongly in favour of the fuppofition
that the cafe is fo ftill. Now that the cafe once was fo, is moft evident ; for the hu-
man body, as well as the body of every other living creature, in its firft ftate, I have
fhewn to be a gelatinous mafs, without mufcles, nerves, or blood-veflels. Never-
thelefs, this gelatinous matter, even at that time, contained the nervous fluid. Of
this there can be no doubt, becaufe the nerves are formed out of it, and have their
power originally from it ; and what is remarkable, the brain is obferved to be that
part of the animal which is firft formed. Of this gelatinous or procreative fluid
we can give no further account, than that it is the nutritious matter from which the
whole body appears to be formed. At the original formation of man and other ani-
mals, therefore, the nutritious matter was made the fubftratum of the whole body,
confifting of mufcles, nerves, blood-veflels, &c. nay more, it was the immediate
efficient caufe of the nervous power itfelf. Again, in the formation of the embryo,
we
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 34t
we fee a vital principle exifting as it were at large, and forming to itfelf a kind of
regulator to its own motions, or a habitation in which it choofes to refide, rather
than to aft at random in the fluid. This habitation, or regulator, is undoubtedly
the nervous fyftem ; but at the fame time, it is no lefs evident that a nutritious fluid
is the immediate origin of thefe fame nerves, and of that very nervous fluid. Now
we know, that the fluid which in the womb nouriffies the bodies of all embryo ani-
mals, is necefiarily equivalent to the blood which nouriffies the bodies of adult
ones-, and confequently, as foon as the blood became the only nutritious juice of
the body, at that fame time the nervous fluid took up its refldence there, and from
the blood diffufed itfelf along the nerves, where it was regulated exaftly according
to the model originally formed in the embryo. Perhaps it may be faid, that the vital
power, when once it hath taken pofleffion of the human or any other body, requires
no addition or fupply, but continues there in the fame quantity from firft to laft. If
we fuppoie the nervous power to be immaterial, this will indeed be the cafe, and
there is an end of reafoning upon the fubjeft; but, if we call this power a volatile,
andelaftic fluid, it is plain that there will be more occalion for recruits to fuch a
power than to any other fluid of the body, as its volatility and elafticity will pro-
mote its efcape in great quantities through every pore of the body. Jt may perhaps
be objefted, that it isabfurd to fuppofe the blood capable of putting matter in fuch
a form as to direft its own motions in a particular way : but even of this we have a
pofitive proof in the cafe of the electric fluid. For if any quantity of this matter
has a tendency to go from one place to another where it meets with difficulty,
through the air for inftance, it will throw lmall conducing fubftances before it, in
order to facilitate its progrefs. Alfo, if a number of fmall and light conducting
fubftances are laid between two metallic bodies, fo as to form a circle, for example;
a ffiock of eleClricity will deftroy that circle, and place the fmall conducting fub-
ftances nearer to a ftraight line between the two metals, as if the fluid knew there was
a ffiorter paflage, and refolved to take that, if it ffiould have occafion to return.
Laftly, it is univerfally allowed, that the brain is a fecretory organ, made up of an
infinite number of fmall glands, which have no olher excretories than the medul-
lary fibres and nerves. As a confiderable quantity of blood is carried to the brain,
and the minute arteries end in thefe fmall glands, it follows, that the nervous fluid
muft come from the blood. Now, there is no gland whatever, in the human or
any other body, but will difcharge the fluid it is appointed to fecrete, in very confi-
derable quantity, if its excretory is cut. Upon the cutting of a nerve, therefore,
the fluid fecreted by the brain ought to be dilcharged ; but no fuch difcharge is vifi-
ble. A fmall quantity of glairy matter is indeed difeharged from the large nerves
;
No. 22. 4 S but
342 A KEY TO P El Y S I C,
but this can be no other than the nutritious juice neceflary for their fupport. This
makes it plain, even to demonftration, that the fluid fecreted in the brain is invifi-
ble in its nature ; and as we know the nervous fluid hath its refldence in the brain,
it is very probable, to ufe no fcronger expreflion, that it is the peculiar province of
the brain to fecrete this fluid from the blood, and confequently that the blood origi-
nally contains the vital principle.
This fadl being eftablilhed, I fliall now endeavour to defcribet’ne adfion of quick-
ening, or mode by which life is communicated to the child in the womb, which
ulually takes place in the fifth month of pregnancy. Opportunities, however, of
diflefling the human gravid uterus at or near this critical juncture occurring but
feldom, it is with great difficulty that afubject of this delicate and abftrufe nature
can be treated with perfpicuity, and is the principal caufe why it has not been at-
tempted by former phyfiologifts. I have already fhewn, that the rudiments of the
embryo puts forth four membranes, viz. the placenta, the navel-flring, the chorion,
and amnios, which contains the fluid above-mentioned, in which the foetus floats.
Until the period of quickening arrives, the embryo poflefies only vegetative life, fimi-
lar to that of a common plant and its growth is nourifhed and preferved by the
fluid in which it fwims, until the nerves, veins, arteries, and vital organs, are entire-
ly formed, and the circulation of its mother’s blood is completed through them,
which is conducted in the following manner.
The placenta is the medium by which the blood from the heart of the mother is
communicated to that of the child ; but to check its too rapid progrefs, which would
overwhelm the tender veflels of the infantframe, the texture of the placenta is form-
ed fimilar to that of a fponge, round like -a cake, of confiderable dimenfions, and
capable of great abforption, being chiefly made up of the ramifications of the um-
bilical arteries and vein, and partly of the extremities'of the uterine veflels. The
arteries of the uterus difcharge their contents into the fubftance of this cake ; and
the veins of the placenta, receiving the blood either by a direct communication of
veflels, or by abforption, at length form the umbilical vein, which pafles on to the
flnus of the vena porta, and from thence to the vena cava, and heart of the infant,
by means of the canalis venofus, a communication that is clofed up in the adult.
But the circulation of the blood through the heart is not conducted in the fcetus as
in the adult : in the latter, the blood is carried from the right auricle of the heart
through the pulmonary artery, and is returned to the left auricle by the pulmonary
vein j but a dilatation of the lungs is eflential to the paflage of the blood through
the pulmonary veflels, and this dilatation cannot take place till after the child is
born, and has refpired. This deficiency, is therefore fupplied in the foetus by an
immediate
AND. OCCULT SCIENCE. 3 43
immediate communication between the right and left auricle, through an oval open-
ing, in the feptum which divides the two auricles, called foramen ovale. The
blood in the foetus, is likewife tranfmitted from the pulmonary artery to the aorta,
by means of a dudt called canalis arteriofus, which, like the canalis venofus, and fo-
ramen ovale, gradually clofes after birth. The blood is returned again from the
foetus to the mother through two arteries called umbilical arteries, which arifefrom
the iliacs. Thefe two veftels, taking a winding courfe with the vein, form with that,
and the membranes by which they are furrounded, what is called the umbilical
chord. Thefe arteries, after ramifying through the fubftance of the placenta, dif-
charge their blood into the veins of the uterus, in the fame manner as the uterine
arteries difcharged their blood into the branches of the umbilical vein. So that after
quickening, the blood of the mother is conftantiy palling in at one fide of the pla-
centa, and out again at the other, for the nourilhment of the child.
Now what we call th taftion of quickening, is that inftantaneous, yet undefcribable
motion of the vital principle, which, the inftant the foetus has acquired a fufficient
degree of animal heat, and is completely formed in all its parts, rulhes like an elec-
tric Ihock, or flafh of lightning, conducted by the fanguiferous and nervous fluids,
from the heart and brain of the mother, to the heart and brain of the child. Ac
this moment the circulation begins ; the infant fabric is completely fet in motion ;
and the child becomes a living foul. As foon, therefore, as the circulation commen-
ces, the child ftarts into life ; and the inftant the circulation ceafes, life ceafes alfo.
This aft of quickening is therefore derived from the blood, and is fo fenfibly felt by
the mother, that fhe often faints, and feels an internal depreflion of her animal and
vital powers, which may be faid, in fome meafure, to have departed from her. But
the adt of quickening does not take place in all women at the fame period, nor al-
ways in the fame woman at the fame diftance of time from her conception ; nor is it
governed by any given number of weeks or days after conception has taken place ;
but depends entirely on that inftant of time, when the joint influence of animal
heat, and an entire completion of the nerves, veins, arteries, and other parts and or-
gans, of the foetus, are fitted and ready to receive and fupport a due circulation of
the blood and juices; for this, and this alone, is the fource of quickening, and the.
beginning of animal life. Strong and healthy women will therefore quicken fooner
than the weak and delicate, by reafon that their procreative and ftimulating pow-
ers are more robuft and can fooner contribute that portion of animal heat, which is
necefiary to the entire completion of the foetus in all its parts ; and which will hap-
pen fooner or later, according to the health and ftrength of the pregnant woman,
and her fufficiency of menftrual blood to fupport the demand. For this flux will
3 now
344 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
now be wholly taken up by the new fubjedl, until the hour of birth ; after which k
either renews its monthly evacuation, as being redundant in the mother •, or, if (he
fuckles the child, it is then determined to the mammae, and is converted into milk*
Such is this curious and moil admirable contrivance of nature, for the re-pro-
duftion and propagation of mankind ; and fuch the nature and event of that myile-
rious adtion of quickening, which has hitherto been involved info much darknefs
and obfcurity, as to lead the unthinking multitude to fuppofe, that giving life to the
'aecus, was in every inftance a new and diftindt interpofition of the Deity, inftead of
religioufly imputing it to that primary exertion of his omnipotence, which, in the
original formation of Adam, implanted in his nature the power of re-producing his
like, and of imparting life and foul to his fpecies, by a fixed and immutable decree,
to be continued down from father to fon, to the finalend and confummation of this
fublunary world. If the feed of Adam had not been originally endued with the
gift of imparting life and fpirit to his future generations, how could the fouls of his
defcendants be fubjedted to original fin ? Were any one child defcended from the
race of Adam, to receive the gift of life and foul from a fubfequent exertion of the
power of God, it would become a new and diftindl adl of creation, and the offspring
could notpoffibly be contaminated by theFall, nor be fubjedted to themiferies and
misfortunes refulting from it, as having received its being from an independent
caufe.
I have, to the belt of my ability, endeavoured to illuftrate this occult procefs of
Nature, by means of the annexed copper-plate engraving, taken from the vifcera
and womb of an afflidted female, who fainted and died at the time of quickening,
the foetus itfelf being now preferved in fpirits. The ftrudture of the gravid uterus
is, however, extremely difficult to be ffiewn, and the more fo under thefe peculiar
circumftances. In the wombs of women who die after this period, or at the time of
labour, or foon after delivery, fibres running in various directions are obfervable
more or lefs circular, that l'eem to arife from three diftindl origins, namely, from the
place where the placenta adheres, and from the aperture and orifice of each of the
tubes •, with all the veins and veffiels communicating to and from the placenta and
the mother, furcharged with bloody but it is almoit impoffible to demonftrate re-
gular plans of veffiels and fibres, continued any length, without an interruption
which involves us in doubt, and deftroys that view of the admirable connexion
which nature has formed between the vital organs of the mother and child in a (late
of advanced pregnancy.
From the foregoing obfervations we may fafely conclude, that the mafs of blood is
the univerfal medium by which life is propagated, and health preferved, to every
clafa
l
/
-
V/,
--A . ..
) J
34 ,
and occult science.
clafs of beings; and that, in its impure or infe&ed ftate, it is the fource from
whence the endlefs number of hereditary difeafes derive their origin. Whatever
fault impairs the parent blood, fails not to taint the tender habit of its young;
whence it has become an eftablifhed maxim, that, as healthy parents naturally pro-
duce healthy children, fo difeafed parents as naturally produce a difeafed offspring.
Some of thefe difeafes appear in the earlieft infancy; others occur equally at all
ages; whilft others lurk unfufpe<5ted in the habit to extreme old age, or even to a
new generation, (lowly impairing the vital organs, and gradually undermining the
conftitution, before their fource, and fatal tendency, can poftibly be difcovered.
There are fome difeafes indeed, which, though born with us, cannot be faid to be
derived from the parent, as when a foetus receives fome hurt by an injury done to
the mother ;
while others, neither born with us, nor having any foundation in the
conftitution, are fucked in with the nurfe’s milk. Let it then be the care of every
parent, who from fome local misfortune is fo far compelled to depart from the ties
of nature as to abandon her tender offspring to the breaft of another, to be fatis-
fied, as far as human forefight and medical penetration can reach, that the conftitu-
tion and blood of the nurfe be free from fchrophula and every other hereditary
impurity.
Accidental difeafes, though not derived from the parents, neverthelefs in general
fpring from the blood ; which, conftituting or propagating animal life through eve-
ry part of the body, is neceffarily expofed to every external offending caufe, from
which imprefflon particular accidental difeafes enfue. The climate itfelf, under
which people live, will often produce thefe affecf ions in the blood ; and every par-
ticular climate hath more or lefs a tendency to produce a particular difeale, either
from its excefs of heat or cold, or from the mutability of the weather. An im-
menfe number of difeafes are alfo produced in the blood by impure air, or fuch as
is loaded with putrid, marfhy, and other noxious, vapours. The fame thing like-
wife happens from high-fealoned or corrupted aliment, whether meat, or drink j
though even the beft and moft nutritious aliment will hurt, if taken in too great a
quantity ; not to mention poifons, which are endowed with fuch pernicious quali-
ties, that, even when taken in the fmalleft quantity, they produce the moft grievous
ferment in the blood, ending perhaps with death itfelf. There are likewife
other accidents and dangers to which mankind are expofed, that ingraft innumera-
ble difeafes in the mafs of blood ; fuch as the bite of venomous reptiles, or of a
mad dog ; an injudicious inoculation or mis-treatment of the fmall-pox, or meafles *
the pfora, or itch ; the venereal infection ; alfo broken limbs, wounds, and contu-
No. 22 .
4 T fion&j
34.6
'
A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
fions •, which, though proceeding from an external caufe at firfr, fail not to impair
the bloo^and often terminate in internal difeafes and premature death.
Man, however, is not left without defence againft fo many and luch great dan-
gers. The human body is poftcffed of a molt wonderful power, by which it pre-
ferves itfelf from difeafes, keeps off many, and in a very fhort time cures fome al-
ready begun, while others are by the fame means more (lowly brought to a happy
conclufion. This power, called the autocrateia ,
or vis medicatrix nature, is well
known both to phyficians and philofophers, by whom it is moft juftly celebrated j
for this alone is fufficient for curing many difeafes, and is of fervice in all. Nay,
even the beft medicines operate only by exciting and properly directing thisexpul-
five force, by which the excrementitious humours from the aliments and blood are
expelled, through the proper channels of evacuation, through the excretory duffs,
chiefly by means of the infenjibleper/piration,
by which power the offending humours
from the blood and juices are perpetually flying off. But though phyficians juftly-
put confidence in this power, and though it generally cures difeafes of a flighter
kind, yet it is not to be thought that thofe of a more grievous tendency are to be
left to the unaftifted efforts of the footfteps of Nature. Phyficians have therefore
a two-fold error to avoid, namely, either defpifmg the powers of the vis medicatrix
too much, which, if left alone, would work a radical and perfect cure ; or, putting
too great confidence in thefe exertions of nature, they are left unfeconded and alone,
till the virulence of infection or difeafe undermines the conftitution, and bears down
all before it.
The grand and perpetual means by which the foul and offending humours in the
blood and juices are continually carried off, is undoubtedly through the perfpira-
tive pores and veffels, which it is highly compatible with found health to keep open,
and for which purpofe medicaments are principally ufed. When this evacuation
is copious and grofs enough to be difcerned by the eye, as infweat, the perforation
is faid to be fenfible but where it is fo volatile as to efcape the notice of the fenles,
as is the cafe in the ordinary ftate of the body, it is called infenftble perfyiration,—The
veffels through which the perfpiration is performed lie obliquely open under the
fquammae or fcales of the cuticle or fcarf-lkin. They are inconceivably fmall
from a calculation of Leewenhoeck it appears, that the mouths of one hundred
and twenty-five thoufand of them may be covered with a common grain of fand.
The moft confiderable of thefe pores are the orifices of the dudls arifing from the
miliary glands. Through thefe veffels there is continually tranfuding a fubtle hu-
mour, from every point of the body, and throughout the whole expanfe of the cuti-
cle. The matter evacuated this way is found by certain experience to be more than
equal
347
and occult science.
equal to that evacuated all the other ways, i. e. by ftool, mine, &c. Sandlorius
found in Italy, under the circumftances of a moderate diet, middle age, and eafy
life, that the matter infenfibly perfpired was five-eighths of that which was taken
in for food : fo that there only remained three-eighths for nutrition, and for the
excrements of the nofe, ears, inteftines, bladder, &c.
The fame author (hews, that as much is evacuated by infenfible perfpiration in one
day as by ftool in fourteen days ;
particularly that, in the fpace of a night’s time,
about fixteen ounces are ordinarily difcharged by urine, four ounces by ftool, and
above forty ounces by infenfible perfpiration. He alfo obferves, that, if a man eat
and drink eight pounds in a day, five pounds of it are fpent in infenlible perlpira-
tion •, and adds, as to the times, that within five hours after eating there is perfpir-
ed about one pound ; from the fifth to the twelfth hour about three pounds * and
from the twelfth to thefixteenth fcarcely half a pound. M. Dodart, from a number
of experiments made thirty-three years fucceflively, proves that we peripire much
more in youth than in age. In fome perfons the perfpiration is fo copious, that they
void very little of the coarfer excrements, though they eat heartily. The benefits of
infenfible perfpiration arefo great, that without it animal life could not bepreferv-
ed. The general caufe of perfpiration is the circulation and heat of the blood,
which enables it to throw off the offending matter. The great fubtlety, equability,
and plenty, of the matter, thus perfpired, its increafe after fleep, &c. conffitute the
grand fymptoms of a perfedt ftate of health; and the chief means of preferving
the fame. On the contrary, the departing from thefe is the firft fure fign of ap-
proaching difeafes.
Perfpiration is performed, preferved, and increafed, by the vifcera, veffcls, and
fibres •, by motion or exercife as far as the firft appearance of fweat ; by moderate
ufe of venery •, by fleep of feven or eight hours, the body well covered, yet non
loaded with bed-clothes : cheerfulnefs ; light, fermented, yet folid, food, not fat ;
pure, not heavy, air, See. The contraries of all thefe, as alfo the increafe of the
other excretions, diminifh, prevent, and deprave, it. Hence we fee the caufe and
efr’edt of this perfpirable matter, its ufe in preferving the parts foft and flexibl ,
and in fupplying what is loft, but chiefly in preferving the nervous papillae moift,
frefh, lively, and fit to be affedted by objedts, and to tranfmit their impreffions.
Hence it is, that upon a ftoppage of the ufual perfpiration there arife fo many in-
difpofitions, particularly fevers, agues, rheums, Sec. Too much perfpiration oc-
cafions weaknefs, and fwoonings •, whilft too little, or none at ail, occafions the ca-
pillary veflels to dry, wither, and perifh. Hence alfo the larger emundlories come
to be obftrudted-, hence the circulation is difturbed, fharp humours retained ;
and
3 hence
A KEY TO PHYSIC
348
hence putridity, crudity, fevers, inflammations, and impofthumes. Cold prevents
perfpiration, by conftringing the pores of the fkin and thickening the liquors cir-
culating in the cutaneous glands ;
heat, on the contrary, augments it, both by
opening the excretory dudts of the glands, and by increafing the fluidity and veloci-
ty of the humours. To determine the ftate and conditions of the perfpiration, fo
necefiary for judging of thofe of the body, Sandtorius invented a weighing chair,
whereby he examined the quantity, degree, &c. of perfpiration in feveral circum-
ftances of the body, under feveral temperatures of the air, and in the feveral inter-
vals of eating, drinking, fleeping, &c.
Some of the more extraordinary phenomena obferved in the fpeculation, are,
that for fome time after eating the perfpiration is lead of all ; that between the fifth
and twelfth hour after meals perfpiration is greateft ; that riding either on horfe-
back, in a coach or fhip, &c. brifk motion on the ice, &c. but, above all, a brifk
fridtion of the Akin, promote perfpiration furpriflngly ; and that perfpiration is na-
turally always much lefs in women than in men. Perfpiration is influenced by the
paflions of the mind. Thus anger and joy increafe, and fear and fadnefs leflen,
both perfpiration and urine. Anger caufes a ftrong motion in the membranes of
the heart, and quickens its contraction and dilatation, and thereby quickens the
contraction and dilatation of the blood-veflels and fecerning dudts, and of confe-
quence increafes the difeharges of perfpiration and urine; and that more or lefs, in
proportion to the ftrength and continuance of the paflion. Joy affiedts thefe dif-
eharges in like manner as anger. In the paflions of fear and forrow, perfpiration
and urine are leflened, by the deprefflon of the adtivity of the foul under thofe paf-
fions. The proportion of perfpirtaion to urine is increafed by all thofe exercifes
which increafe the motion of the blood, and warm the fkin.
We have an account of a perfon who, by pafling many nights in aftronomical fpe-
culations, had his perfpiration fo obitrudted by the cold and damp of the air in Hol-
land, that a fhirt he had worn for five or fix weeks was as clean as if it had been
worn but one day. The confequence of this was, that he gathered fubcutaneous
waters but was cured in time. The garments beft calculated to encourage and
promote infenfible perfpiration, to keep the mouths of the minute veflels open, and
to guard the body from the too fuaden and violent effedls of cold, are thofe made
of flannel. Whence flannel fliirts and waiftcoats, ora fquare piece of flannel worn
over the bread: or pit of the ftomach, particularly in the winter months, are produc-
tive of fuch beneficial effedls to weakly and debilitated conftitutions, and adt as a
valuable prefervative to the hale and robuff. In the annexed copper-plate engrav-
ing, I have endeavoured to (hew the manner in which the infenfibje perfpiration
iffues
*
/
. p
2k lilife
7)cM M.
Tn/'r .ratty
30
and occult science
iiuics from the pores of the body, which can only be difcerned by means of a ler.s ;
being of fo volatile and fubtle a quality, that it partes through our garments with
the utmoft eafe, particularly if woollen •, and it even afcends through the bed-clothes
like a mitt, in the greateft abundance when we are afleep, and the animal functions
at reft.
In this manner Nature, from all cafual obftruftions, endeavours to relieve hcr-
felf; and fo long as difeafes are recent, and of a m;
ld tendency, they are ufually car-
ried off by this means, without requiring any aid from medicine. When, however,
difeafes are of long {landing, and the humours in the blood become too foul and vif-
cous to be thrown off by the bis medicatrix nature, the whole habit is quickly vitiat-
ed, and the circulating mafs becomes morbid j yet even in this infected ftate, the
vital heat and aftivity of the blood drives to purify itfelf, by determining thefe
morbid particles to the {kin, where they form fcabs, ulcers, pimples, and other
fpots, as in the fcrophula, leprofy, fmall-pox, meartes, fyphilis, &c. orellethe
virulent matter is direfted inwards, where falling upon the lungs and other vifeera,
death quickly enfues. Here then we may view the {hocking confequences which
refult from thofe, who enter into matrimony under a tainted or infefted ftate of the
blood. Indeed perfons who are afflicted with the leprofy, fcrophula, or king’s-
evil, fhould never marry until a perfeft cure has been happily effefted, and a pure
and healthful ftate of the blood induced. To enter into wedlock under a venereal
taint, is a moft unwife, a moft cruel, and an ungenerous, aft. A man, with only a
flight infeftion, by contaft with the woman, will, himfelf, perhaps, experience a
perfeft cure, in confequence of the foul and infeftious matter being drawn from the
parts by the female organs, feconded by the aftion of the rugs and abforbent vef-
fels on the furface of the vagina. But the unhappy female is fure to take thediforder
;
and, fhould ihe prove with child, fhe not only carries the poifonous infeftion into the
marrow of her own bones, but brings an infant offspring into the world, devoted to
mifery and difeafe; for whatever foul or infeftious humour is-iinplanted in the pa-
rent blood, it is immediately carried by the circulation to the vital organs of the
child, juft as the flame of one candle is by contaft communicated to another. Nor
can we be furprized at thefe things, if we only refleft on what has already been ad-
duced, and contemplate the fyftem and oeccnomy of the human frame. Confider
only the powerful effects of a few grains of cantharides, which, if externally applied,
aft as a burning cauftic ; but, if taken into the ftomach, inftantly overturn the na-
tural courfe of the circulation, by forcing the whole mafs of blood into the extre-
mities, but more particularly, with great vehemence and turgiuity, into the private
parts *, for which reafon cantharides are taken with intent to cure the weaknefs and
No. 2j. 4 U debility
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
35° '
debility of the penis ; but the truth is, that greater debility, and an emaciated con-
ftitution, is fure to follow, and not unfrequently inftant death.
If, then, fo powerful an effedt can be wrought on the blood by fwallowing a few
irritating particles of afmall infedl, may we not juftly infer, that by infufmg into
the circulating mafs, particles congenial to itfelf, the utmoft relief may be afforded
to it, even in its moft depraved and inadtive ftate ? From this confideration alone,
we may venture to pronounce, that all diforders originating in the blood, might ei-
ther be prevented or repelled, could fuch a medium be difcovered, by which we
might infufe, immediately into the mafs, a combination of fuch elemental principles
as the blood and juices themfelves confift of in their pureft and moft elaftic ftate ;
for this, in fadt, is the aim of all medicines •, but which they mifs, by being admi-
niftered in their grofs form, and being obliged to pafs the feveral digeftive opera-
tions of the ftomach, before they can reach the blood, whereby the principal part of
their occult virtue is loft among the food, orfecreted in fuch fmall quantities as to
produce very little effedt. But a medium, poffeffing thefe congenial principles, rea-
dy digefted, and fo combined as to be taken inftantly, and without diminution, into
the habit, would not only keep the cruor and the ferum in dueproportion, which is fo
effential to health, but would ftimulate, corredt, purify, and augment, the blood,
as its reduced or difordered ftate might from time to time require. Such a medium,
after infinite labour, and unlimited experience, I pronounce the Solar Tindture to
be; and fuch will be found its operative effedts, under whatever circumftances it
may be adminiftered, in any climate or feafon ; the innocent and balfamic qualities
of which are as grateful to the internal organs of the human frame, as the folar rays
are cheering to the external ; and it affords me no fmall gratification to avow, that,
in offering it to the public, I invade no man’s property, nor imitate any medicine at
prelent known in public or private practice, —The experiments I have made with
it upon a variety of difeafed wretched objedts, exceed belief ; and I fhall ftill con-
tinue to adminifter it gratis to the poor, who are given over by others, or who have
not the means of applying for medical affiftance.
The infinite variety of complaints an impure or infedted ftate of the blood indu-
ces, almoft exceeds belief; and hence the new and deceptive forms a fcrophulous
or fcorbutic taint puts on, which often deceives the moft eminent of the faculty,
and baffles the belt intention towards a cure. An impure or fcrophulous taint will
invade the nobleft organs of the human frame, before the patient can be aware of
his danger. In the firft ftageof its vifible effedls, a weary pain feizes the joints and
mufcles, attended with a wafting of the legs and loins. In the fecond ftagethe
gums fweil, grow painful, hot, and irritable, and bleed upon the flighteft preffure;
the
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 351
the roots of the teeth become bare and loofe, and the breath naufeous. In the third
ftage, the gums grow putrid, the teeth black and rotten, the fublingular veins be-
come varicofe, and the breath cadaverous ; foetid blood diftils from the lips, gums,
mouth, nofe, lungs, ftomach, liver, fpleen, pancreas, inteftines, womb, kidneys, &c.
fcabs and ulcers break out in all parts of the body, and the joints, bones, and vifce-
ra, become morbid. In the fourth ftage, putrid, eruptive, and fpotted, fevers, en-
fue, which end in an atrophy, or elfe follow diarrheas, dyfentery, dropfy, confump-
tion, palfy, contrail ions, melancholy, and all the long and direful train of nervous
diforders, which to defcribe would fill a volume.
Tocounterafl this mod virulent of all chronic complaints, the utmoft exertions
of human (kill have been employed. The remedies prefcribed in its different ftages
are almoft innumerable. The objeil is to reduce the virulence of the infection, and
to eradicate its feeds from the blood and lymph ; to which end the mildeft and moft
Ample medicines are recommended. Mineral and tar waters, for their warm and
ftimulating quality; milk or whey, from their fimilitude to the chyle; the cold
bath, for bracing the folids and quickening the circulation ; antifcorbutic vegeta-
bles, &c. for purging and fweetening the blood, luch as fcurvy-grafs, water-cref-
fes, wormwood, hemlock, centaury, vervain, water-trefoil, juniper-berries, the Pe-
ruvian bark, faffafras, guaiacum, aloes, affa-fcetida, camomile, diafcordium, faffron,
fenna, rhubarb, manna, iEthiop’s mineral, hartflhorn, native cinnabar, antimony,
&c. When thefe fail, mercury, ora mercurial falivation, is looked upon as the only
cure ; which, in fa£t, is but to give the human frame its laft vehement fhock, and to
fend the wretched patient in agonies to the grave!
The intention of all thefe remedies is to impregnate the blood with qualities op-
pofite to thofe with which it is infe&ed ; and this rnuft be done in a fuperior degree
of force and power, before a cure can be completed. But thefe medicaments are
often adminiftered under fuch naufeous forms, and in fo crude and unqualified a
ftate, that they not only torture the patient, but mifs entirely their intended aim.
The naufeous tafte of medicine is nothing but itsgroffer particles; which, inftead
of entering the ftomach, to irritate and opprefs its organs, ought to be drawn off
by chemical procefs ; for it is the occult virtue of every drug, not its groffer part,
that performs the cure. Now the peculiar excellence of the Solar Ttndlure is, that
it combines the effential and occult virtues of all fcorbutic vegetables, ready digeft-
ed, concodled, purified, and refolved into an elegant balfamic effence, pleafing to
the tafte and grateful to the ftomach. It flies immediately to the heart, whether
internally or externally applied, blends and aflimilates with the venal and arterial
blood, which it generates, corrtfts, warms, purifier, animates, and impels through
the
552 A K E Y T o P H Y S I C,
the whole f}dem. It clcanfes all the vifcera, and glandular parts, particularly the
lungs and kidneys ; dimulates the fibres, whereby thegaftric juice and digeftion
are promoted ; diffolves vifcid humours, and expels infection. It exerts very con-
liderable effeds on the whole nervous fyftem, fenfrbly raifes the pulfe, ftrengthens
the folids, and invigorates the animal fpirits. It penetrates into the mod intimate
parts, opens the mouths of the minuter vefiels, reftores the natural perforation, and
promotes all the fluid fecretions. In every ftage of infedious difeafes, and in all
fudden epidemical diforders, which ufually follow from a wet, putrid, and unwhole-
fome, date of the atmofphere, it is an abfolute fpecific ; and, as a preventive, an al-
terative, and purifier of the blood, it has not its equal in the world. It quickly re-
lieves every common malady originating in the blood, fuch as relaxations, debili-
ty, laffitude, tremors, finking of the fpirits, and all thofe nervous affedions which
harrafs and opprefs the weak, fedentary, and delicate; and are often the confe-
quences of high living and luxuriant indulgences, without bodily exercife and
frefh air. In all thefe cafes, the Solar Tindure is calculated to warm and dea-
dy the cold tremulous nerves ; to fheath and invigorate the mufcular fydem ; to ani-
mate the fpirits ; and renovate the whole man, whereby the chill watery fluids be-
come rich and balfamic, and the circulating mafs refumes its healthful date. It is
an infallible cure for joint- achs, cramps, fpafms, rheumatic gout, nervous head-
ach, agues, and all diforders arifing from obdruded perfpiration. In complaints of
the bread, domach, and bowels, it gives immediate relief ; and, in adhmatic and
confumptive cafes, is an elegant and expeditious cure. It will dop mortification in
very advanced dages, by expelling the poifonous matter, and correding the juices
of the whole body. It requires no argument to convince, more than a fingle trial 5
after which, I think, no family who value their health or life will chufe to be withr
out it j particularly under any of the following afflidions
:
SCROPHULA, SCURVY, or KING’s-EVIL.
IN the firftandfecond dages of this diforder, a fmall table-fpoonful of the Tinc-
ture, taken in a wine-glafs of cold fpring- water night and morning, will prevent the
further progrefs of the difeafe, and in a very fhort time redore the blood to its
healthful date, the effeds of which will be fo obvious to the patient, that he will be
at no difficulty when to difcontinue the medicine. In the third dage, it is often re-
quifite that the medicine be internally and externally applied. The mouth fhould
be frequently wafhed with the Tindure diluted in warm-water, and it will very
foon expel the poifon from the gums. If the vifcera be in a morbid date, which
may
2
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 353
may be known by the excrements, or foulnefs of expectoration, it will be neceflary
to take the medicine, night and morning, for feveral days, in the quantity of a ta-
ble-fpoonful undiluted ; and, at noon, a table- fpoonful in the fame quantity of warm-
water. The fcabs, whether dry or rnoift, fhould be frequently walked with the
Tin&ure, undiluted,
which, being aoforbed by the minuter vefi'els, and taken into
the habit, will expel the humour, and clear away the fcurf. If tumours or foul
ulcers occur, walk them frequently with a dilution of the medicine in the fame
quantity of warm-water, until the heat and virulence be abated; then apply the
Tinfture undiluted^ with lint or fine rags, by which myans the infectious matter will
be totally eradicated, the blood and juices purified, and the ulcers healed.
In the fourth ftage, whatever may chance to be the fad malady to which the dif-
order ultimately turns, a ftrift attention to regimen, exercife, and frefk air, as far as
the ftrength and condition of the patient will admit, mult be particularly attended
to. And, in all thefe cafes, the belt and molt fimple methods of treatment are laid
down in theMedical Part of this work, p. 168, &c. to which I begleave to refer every
patient in this dreadful ftage of the difeafe ; and, in aid of the advice there given,
let the Solar Tin&ure be regularly perfilted in every night and morning, in the
quantity of one table-fpoonful in as much warm-water; and, at twelve o’clock at
noon, take a table-fpoonful undiluted. ---Let this be continued eight or ten days ;
then take a table- fpoonful diluted in warm-water three times a day, morning, noon,
and night, till the nerves and organs begin to refume their healthful tone; then let
the dofes be gradually abated to a fpoonful in water every other morning, which
fhould be continued till health is perfectly re-eftablifhed ; and which, by God’s
bleffing, will generally happen, even in thefe defperate cafes, in the courfe of a
month or fix weeks.— As a preventive of all foul or fcrophulous taints in the habit,
and as an alterative, and purifier of the blood, it may be occafionally taken every
other morning for a week together, particularly in the fpring and fall, in the quan-
tity of a table-fpoonful in a wine-glafs of cold fpring water ; or it may be occafion-
ally taken as a beverage after dinner or fupper, mixed in a tumbler with warm-wa-
ter, and made palatable with fugar. It will be found pleafant to the tafte, and
grateful to the ftomach, fuperior to any lpirits, or punch. The many inlfanccs
of elegant and uncommon cures effected by the Solar Tincture, on perfons of the
firft eminence, may be infpe&ed at any time, on application at my houfe. But at the
particular requeft of the parties, I have here added the following remarkable
CASE.
Mr. R. Pinder, of Bramftone, near Bridlington, in Yorkfhire, had been long
affli&ed with a violent lcorbutic humour in his blood, which threw out fometimes
dry, and iometimes moift lcabs and tumours on the fkin. Being negle<fted, it at
No. 23. 4X length
354 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
length pervaded the whole fyftem, till turning inwardly, it fell upon his lungs, and
reduced him to the laft ftage of a confumption. In this deplorable ftate, given
over by the faculty, left totally emaciated, and incapable of turning in his bed, he
fortunately had recourfe to the Solar Tincture. The firft dofe was given undiluted,
which threw him into a fine perfpiration, and compofed him to fleep, which had
long been a ftranger to his eyes. After one large bottle had been adminiftered
agreeable to the bill of directions, at the end of a week he was fo much reftored,
that with very little afliftance he was enabled to put on his own clothes ; and after
continuing the medicine for little more than a month, he was able to walk abroad.
And now, after having continued the TinCture night and morning, and occafional-
ly ufing it as a beverage made fimilar to warm brandy and water, he has quite reco-
vered his former health and ftrength; being, to the furprizeof every body who be-
held him in his late emaciated condition, as robuft afld as hearty as it is well pof-
fible for a man to be.
DEBILITATED, TAINTED, and ENFEEBLED, CONSTITUTIONS.
MUSCULAR debility was a misfortune but little known to our forefathers.
Whether immured in venereal embraces, or facrificing at the lhrine of Bacchus,
moderation and feafonable hours directed the meafure of their enjoyment. If re-
velry or voluptuoufnefs by chance unftrung their nerves, gymnaftic exercifes and
field fports, or the more pleafurable delights of the chace, quickly reftored them to
their proper tone,—gave new vigour to the blood,—health to the cheek,—and
lighted up afrelh the flame of love. But now, how ftrange is the reverfe. Ha-
bituated to effeminacy, and fed w'ith dainties,—revelling all night with wine, and
ftretcht on beds of down all day,—ftiut up in ftews and brothels, fcarcely breath-
ing wholefome air,— clafpt in the arms of tainted or difeafed females, until enjoy-
ment palls upon the fenfes* and the mufcular powers abfolutely refufe their office,
no wonder fo many men are found old in every thing but years; whofe conftitu-
tions are fairly worn down, blood ftagnant, folids relaxed, fecretions diverted from
their proper courfe, mufcles debilitated, eyes funk, palid cheek, and fpirits gone.
Thefe are not half the evils refulting from this fafhionable fource of deftruClive
folly. It may not be amifs, however, to defcribe the remarkable cafes of a few, of
whom the Solar Tinfture has made perfect cures, by infufing a new portion of
health into the mafs of blood ; fincerely hoping, that a more wife and manly courfe
of life will Ihortly eradicate thefe difgraceful complaints, and reftoreto the ladies a
genuine race of Englifhmen and Britons.
CASES.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 355
CASES.
Prematurf. Debility.— A gentleman in the army, under thirty years of age,
complained to me that he had all at once become iyicapable cf enjoying bis wife. Suf-
pecting the nature of his diforder, I defired him to be open and candid, to relate to
me his real fituation, and not a pretended one, which was only to impofe on his own
underftanding. He thanked me for the rebuke— -faid he would be frank, and in few
words declared, That from excefiive lull, and continual debauch, he had loll his
virility; and, to add to the misfortune, he was on the eve of being married. In
other refpeCts he felt no diminution in his health or conflitution ; and from exter-
nal appearances, this was furely the lafb imperfection that could have been fufpefl-
ed. His complexion was vigorous and lively, his flefh firm, and conformation ex-
cellent; yet, notwithftanding this, he was impotent to fuch a degree, that neither
the (Length of his own defires, nor the excitations of the female, could afftCl the
part. It often happens, that though the organs remain found, yet if the nervous
and feminal fluids have degenerated from a healthful (late—if they are impoveriffi-
ed by being too much drained, or turned into an unnatural courfe, they cannot then
perform their office, by reafonthat their moving powers and (limulus on the blood,
are become too weak to direCl their force and a&ion in the manner nature requires
in the a<5t of copulation. I therefore enjoined him, to abftain entirely from all at-
tempts of the kind, for three months at lead ; directed the ointment as in p. 240 of
the Medical Part of this work, with the Solar TinClure three times a-day for two
months; then twice a-day, until he found it no longer neceflfary. After taking fix
large bottles, he generoufly thanked me for a more hale and robuft (late of body,
than he ever remembered to have enjoyed before. He has fincefent me feveral pa-
tients, in almofl: as debilitated a (late as himfelf, who are now ready ro unite with
him in giving full tellimony to the renovating powers and peculiar efficacy of the
Solar TinCture.
A RELAXED HABIT.
LITTLE more than three months ago, a gentleman, about fifty years of age, lately-
returned from the Eaft-Indies, applied to me for the cure of what he termed a broken
conjlitution. He had made very free with the fable beauties of Bengal,— had un-
dergone a mercurial lalivation, and appeared to be finking under an univerfal lan-
guor and debility of the whole mufcular fyftem. The fphinCter of the bladder was
fo weakened, that the urinary fecretion came from him by drops, in fo perpetual and
involuntary a manner, as not to be perceived until the moifture of one fet of cloths
became fo fenfibly affliCting, as made it neceftary to fupply frefn ones, which ufual-
iy
35& A KEY TO PHYSIC,
ly happened every hour. The corporeal fundions were diffipated and relaxed, the
tone of the ftomach and vifeera was nearly gone, the tremulous nerves reludantly
performed their office, and the circulation was become ftagnant and morbid. I
advifed an immediate recourfe to the moll nourifhing food, with ftrong port-wine
negus for his drink, and the Solar Tindure, to be taken four times a-day for the
firft month •, three times a-day for the fecond month, and once or twice a-day after-
wards, asoccafion might feem to render neceffary. Before the expiration of twenty
days, the fphinder mufcle acquired its proper tone, the pulfe became ftrong and
regular, and the nervous tremors were confiderably abated. By the end of the fe-
cond month, a renovation of the whole animal oeconomy feemed to have taken
place, and a vifible accumulation of the blood and juices had retrieved the circu-
lation. Before the expiration of three months, I had the gratification to fee this
patient completely reftored to fuch a ftate of bodily health and ftrength, as utterly
aftoniffied himfelf, after taking only eight large bottles of the Solar Tindure.
HYPOCHONDRIACAL DEBILITY, or WEAK NERVES.
A GENTLEMAN in Oxfordlhire lately came to town on purpofe to confult me
in this complaint. He appeared to be near thirty years of age, of middling ftature,
but of a weakly conftitution. He had for upwards of feven years paft paid his addref-
fes to a lady, whom he had long promifed, and very much defired, to marry, but
whenever he propofed in his mind to fix the day, or whenever it happened that he
attempted to falute or embrace her, he was feized with an unaccountable tremor of
the whole body, his fpirits funk, his virility left him, and a violent palpitation of
the heart enfued. In ffiort, he was fo diftruftful of his own powers, that he confef-
fed it was the fear of not being able to perform the rites of the marriage-bed, that
had been the only, and the foie caufe, of thus protrading his wedding-day. This
is certainly a moft fingular inftance of the hypochondriacal affedion, and of its de-
rangement of the nervous fyftem. The debility induced by it, feems to arife from
the weaker energy of the brain, the fault of which however, cannot be deteded by
the niceft anatomift. For this reafon, we do not well know how fuch deled fhould be
reftored-, butas nature, feemingly for this purpofe, excites the motion of the heart and
arteries, we rnuft aferibe the continuance of fuch debility to the too weak readion
of the fanguiferous fyftem. The heart will generally palpitate from a violent ex-
citement of the nerves, efpecially when the blood is endowed with too fmall a fhare
of ftimulus. Hence palpitation from any affedion of the mind, and from hyfterics
in women. Under whatever circumftances this hypochondriacal affedion happens,
it debilitates the whole animal machine, and renders the perfon unable to perform
the proper offices of life. The proftration of fpirits, weaknefs, and languor, are
„ often
357
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
often furprifingly great, though the pulfefeem? tolerably ftrong, as being heightened
by animal defire. The effect, however, is lure to produce a languid circulation,
the blood feeming to adhere, with uncommon energy, about the region of the
heart. I fufpedt it is in thefe cafes that cantharides arc moll; frequently ulcd- The
patient acknowledged, after fome helitation, that he had tried them ; but they only
produced an involuntary, though violent ereclion, by no means adapted to the cure,
nor to the purpofe he intended. Hence this remedy is not only inadequate, but
extremely dangerous •, for it too much exhaufts the vital powers, and is followed
by a vaft deje&ion of lpirics, tremors, ftartings of the tendons, See. which bring
on rigours, cold clammy fweats, fyncope, and premature death.
The means, therefore, which nature points out for the cure of this fpecies of de-
bility, are directed to fupport and increafe the action of the blood through the
heart and arteries ; and the remedies to be employed are tonics and ftimulants. Of
all the ftimulants, which in this conftitutional defett, may be advantageoufly em-
ployed, port-wine feems to be the mod eligible. It has the advantage of being
grateful to the palate and ftomach, and of having its ftimulant parts fo much
diluted, that it can be conveniently given at all times and feafons, and may
be employed with fufficient caution; but it is of little ferviceunlefs taken pretty
largely.— It may be fufpedted that wine has an operation analogous to that of opium;
and on good grounds. But we can diftinctly mark its ftimulant power only ;
which renders its effects in the phrenitic delirium manifeftly hurtful; but in cales
of debility as remarkably ufeful.—Hence I directed the Solar Tinfture to be taken
morning, noon, and night, in ftrong dofes, for the firft month ;
once a day, or
oftener, at the diferetion of the patient, until the end of the third month ; but to
drink every day after dinner, a pint of generous port; and to inform me at intervals
the change he might find in his conftitution. He took with him a dozen large
bottles of the Solar Tin&ure, and before a month elapfed, I had the pleafure of
receiving an epiftle of unfeigned thanks. He found himfclf fo much reftored by
the courfe I laid him under, that, before the expiration of the three months, he
married the lady ; and 1 have no doubt will very fhortly have ifTue. —I have been
fomewhat more elaborate in deferibing the particulars of this cafe, having reafon to
believe it is not an uncommon malady, and would therefore ~wifh to enable every
patient to become as much as pofiible a judge of his own infirmity.
NOCTURNAL EMISSIONS, or INCONTINENCE of the SEMEN.
A YOUNG man, of robuft make, and in the prime of life, being under twenty-
fix years of age, applied to me for relief in the above unfortunate complaint. It
appeared, that, from the time of puberty, he had found a weaknefs in the part, and
No. 23. '
4 Y
I
an
$53 A K E Y T O P H Y S 1 C,
an occafional difcharge of the feed, upon the flighteft irritation. As he grew up
to greater maturity, the malady increafed upon him. Upon every attempt to have
contact with a female, the femen palled involuntarily from him, before even a com-
plete eredion could take place, whereby his purpofe was continually defeated.
This defed grew upon him, until the bare fight or thought of anything which
tended to excite venereal defires, brought away the feed ; yet it had no affinity
whatever to a gleet, becaufe the emifiion never occurred but either in the attempt,
or in the defire, of copulation ; or under the influence of lafcivious dreams. In
proportion as this weaknefs grew upon him, his defire of familiarity with the fex
became the ftronger ; and, I am inclined to think, was the principal reafon of the
encreafe of the malady, and of the nodurnal emifiions, which happened more or lefs
every time he went to deep. This incellant difcharge had reduced him to a meagre
vifage, fallow complexion, hollow eyes, depreftion of fpirits, and flow fever; and
a galloping conlumption would foon have followed. I direded the Solar Tinc-
ture every morning at fun-rifing, at mid-day, and at fix o’clock in the afternoon,
in the quantity of a wine-glafs full, with one third warm water ; and every night
at going to bed, twenty drops of liquid laudanum, for the purpofe of making his
deep too ftrong to be affeded by the influence of dreams. This courfe, aflifted by
a ftrengthening regimen of calf’s- foot jelly, veal-broth, and ftrong port-wine
negus, had very quickly the defired effect. His deep was perfectly found and calm,
and, after the fir ft night, he could not recoiled the return of any nodurnal emif-
iion. The ftrengthening ointment, direded in page 240 of the Medical Part of
my work, was ufed every other morning, and within the fpace of only two months,
the feminal veffels were completely braced up, and the diforder fo totally removed,
as not to leave a Angle fymptom of his former weaknefs.
ONANISM.
A YOUTH, apparently under age, applied to me for the cure of a diforder,
which, he Paid, had deprived him of the power of eredion, and of ail fenfation in
the privities. In fo young a fu’ojed, I could not fuppofe this want of tone to arife
from a general debility of the nervous fyftem, particularly as no other fymptoms
warranted the conclufion. I had a ftrong fufpicion it was the effed of Onanifm, or
fecret venery, which ufually ends in this fpecies of abfolute impotency ;
but this he
denied. He told me he had fome time ago contraded the foul diftemper, and
through fhame, and the dread of its coming to the knowledge of his friends, he
had negleded to difclofe his misfortune to any perfon, until the prefent malady was
brought on. Of the foul diftemper, however, I could find no other fymptom than
a, Ample gleet ;
and, upon putting the neceffary queftions, not a fingle reply corre-
3
fponded
/
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 359
fyonded with the ulual efTc<fts of that diforder. After half an hour’s clofe exami-
nation, I brought him to confefs what I above fufpefted, that he had fo much
addi&ed himfelf to this fhameful and deftruftive vice, that the feminal veffels were
completely related ; the ereiftories, the nerves, and glans, of the penis, had entirely
loll their tone •, an involuntary discharge of the fe men, without irritation, or tur-
gidityof the parts, had long taken place, and brought on a want of appetite, an
impoverilhed date of the blood, and an univerfal latitude of the body. The lec-
ture I gave him upon this occafion, will never, I truft, be effaced from his memory-,
and he has fince faithfully promifed that it fhall not. I dire&ed the ftrengthening
electuary and ointment, in page 239 and 240 of the Medical Part of this Work, to
be tiled as, therein prelcribed j then to take, four times a day, a table fpoonful of
the Solar Tintture in an equal quantity of warm water, for a month at lead ; then
three times a day for the fecond month, and twice a day, in cold fpring water, for
the two months following ; which gradually coiled up the debilitated parts, gave
elafticity to the blood, retrieved the fenfation of toe glans, and the l'ympathetic
office of the erehtories, braced the nerves, ligaments, and tendons, and gave that
due tone and energy to the mufcular fyftem, which in lei's than four months reftored
the patient to perfedl health and vigour.
An IMPURE or TAINTED HABIT.
THIS malady, fo common among our diffipated youth, generally arifes from a
venereal complaint badly cured. Indeed the lchrophula, the king’s evil, the
leprofy, and other foul humours, when too long fuffered to prey upon the blood,
w ill naturally induce this confequence-, yet ninety-nine cafes out of every hundred,
are found to refult from the improper ufe of mercury, either taken too abun-
dantly into the ft omach, or too often applied externally, in the venereal diieale. A
gentleman in the militia very lately came to me under this misfortune, who had
abfolutely worn down the organs of his ftomach by taking medicines for its cure,
without obtaining the fmalleft relief. He was no fooner warm in bed, than deep-
feated nocturnal pains attacked his arms, fhins, and head, which many of the faculty
miftook for rheumatiim. The membranes, mufeies, and ligaments of the jo nts,
were lcarceever rree from pain ; whilft carious ulcers occafionally broke out upon
the ulna, tibia, and bones of the cranium. Thele fymptoms had allb deceived
feveral of the faculty, who, taking his complaint to be a confirmed lues, ftili added
to the malady, by loading him with frefh doles of mercury. The truth is, that
this dilorder was by no means of a venereal nature, but was rather the confequence
of the remedy, than of the diieafe, fince it aroie entirely from the long and repeated
dofes of mercury his body had fuftained, and which was grounded in his habit by
falivation.
3&> A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
falivation. The mercury had infinuated itfelf into the marrow of his bones, had
vitiated every fluid fecretion, and tainted the very air he breathed. Under fuch cir-
cumftances I will allow, it is very difficult, if not almoft impoffible, for a phyfi-
cian, upon a fuperficial infpedtion, abfolutely to decide, whether th<? original difeafe
hath been altogether overcome; yet fu rely he ought attentively to diftinguifh and
confider the feveral fymptoms apart ; and then, by comparing them with each othef,
a clear judgment may be formed upon the general review. Finding, by this method,
the real ftate of the patient’s cafe, I ordered him a nourifhing diet, gentle exercife,
and an abfolute denial of the fmalleft intercourfe with woman. To this he readily
fubmitted, putting himfelf under a regular courfe of the Solar Tindture, which he
took three times a day, in the quantity of a wine-glafis three parts full, filled up
with warm water, for the firft month. At the expiration of this time he paid me a
vifit, when his company was infinitely more agreeable,
becaufe the pleafing afpedt of
health had fuperfeded the naufeous effluvia of his difeafe I now only enjoined him
to follow the fame regimen and abfiemious mode of living for a month or two longer,
taking the Tindture diluted in a glafs of cold fpring water once or twice a day, as
he might find himfelf inclined. This he rigidly actended to ; and I have now the
pleafure to declare, that only nine large bottles of the Solar Tindture, have reftored
this gentleman from the mod dangerous and deplorable ftateof a tainted and cor-
rupted habit, to found health, and a renovated ftate of the blood and juices.
A TAINTED HABIT in a STATE of PREGNANCY.
THIS is the mod fhocking cafe my pradtice or experience ever produced. The
patient was taken in labour, and in the add of parturition, the child prefented its
right arm, which feparated from the body, while the operator was returning it into
the womb. The life of the mother being defpaired of, I was fent for ; when, on
infpedfcion, I quickly perceived conception had taken place under an infedted ftate
of one of the parents. I performed the refidue of the operation myfelf, and brought
away the foetus without a farther feparation of the joints, but with great difficulty,
fince it was ulcerated and half rotten with difeafe. By a mod tender and judicious
treatment of the woman, affifted by the Lunar Tindture, her life was preferved ;
and in the fpace of five weeks Ihe appeared to have regained her health and ftrength ;
when, to the aftonilhment of every one, Ihefell into a violent falivation. Being
lent for upon this Angular occafion, I thought it right to interrogate the hufband ;
when, after a vaft deal of hefitation and diffembling, he confeffed having had con-
nedtion with his wife under a venereal infedlion ; and with a view to prevent the
confequences, he had prevailed on her tofwallow ftrong dofes of mercury, which 1
have reafon to fuppofe lay dormant in the body until after her delivery; when the
efforts
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 361
efforts of nature being no longer diretted to the preservation of the child, fuff.’red
the mercury to attack the falival glands, and to produce the efiocl we have jud
deferibed, I ordered her a fpare, but nourifhing diet-, worked off the merdury in
the cudomary way, and then began a courfe of theSoiar I inCturc. A table fpoon-
ful, in an equal quantity of warm water, was taken four times a day for the lull
week ; then three times a day until the end of the month-, afterwards twice a day
in cold fpring water for a month longer-, and then once or twice a clay, or every
other clay, as the patient found convenient -, by this means Hie happily experienced
a complete cure in lefs than three months, and now enjoys a perfect ffate of health,
defirous of certifying the fadt to any unfortunate female, who, under fimilar circum-
ftances, withes to call upon me for that purpofe. Indeed every woman, who has
the misfortune to fufpedt even the fmalled taint of a fimilar nature to be lurking
in her blood, fhould put herlelf under a courfe of the Solar Tincture, and perfilt
in it every night and morning, in the quantity of a table fpoonful diluted in a wine-
glafs of cold fpring water, during the whole nine months date of pregnancy.
The above cafe brings to my recollection a very fingular inftance of an accidental
falivation, broucht upon a young lady by a foreign fubdance irritating one of the
parotid glands; the particulars of which I fhall here infert for the fake of thole
who may happen to be under fimilar circumttances.-— 111 the month of April, 1751,
a young lady about the age of fixteen years, of a delicate habit, but fubjedt to no
particular complaints, perceived the beginning of a difeafe which afterwards proved
mod obdinate and loathfome, viz. an inceffant fpitting. The quantity of this dif-
charge was different at different times, varying from one pint to two pints and a
half in twenty-four hours. As to its quality, it feemed to be no other than the
ordinary fecretion of the falival glands. By fo large and condant an evacuation,
her drength became extremely impaired, and the mod efficacious medicines had
proved ui'elefs. She had taken large quantities of the Peruvian bark, both alone
and combined with preparations of iron: and afterwards the fetid gums, opium,
amber, alum, and the Neville-Holt-water, had in fucceffion been given her. In
the mean time an exact regimen had been preferibed : (he had been ordered to ride
condantly ; and to confine herfelf to a mucilaginous diet, fuch as veal, calves’ feet,
£cc. Likewife a gently-opening medicine had now and then been interpofed. The
difeafe dill continued unaltered -,
fhe had afterwards tried the tinRura Jatumina\
and had, at the fame time, been encouraged to chew the Peruvian bark, and to
fwallow the faliva. But all thefe attempts had been vain ; and after fhe had taken
fome or other of the medicines above mentioned until the end of September, 1753,
namely, above two years, it appeared to her phyfician. Sir George Baker, 'unrea-
sonable to expedl relief in fuch a cafe from any internal medicines whatever. He
No. 23. 4 Z now
A KEY TO PHYSIC,
362
now conceived a fufpicion, that fome extraneous body, having accidentally found its
way into the meatus auditorms^ might poffibly be the caufe of this extraordinary
fecretion, by keeping up a continued irritation in the parotid glands. With this
view he examined her ears, and extracted from them a quantity of fetid wool.
How, or when, it came thither, no account could be given. To this fubftance he
attributed the beginning of the falivation, notwithftanding that the difeafe did not
immediately abate on the removal of the wool ;
as it appeared to be no improbable
fuppofition that the difcharge might be continued by the force of habit, though
the original caufe no longer remained. It feemed therefore expedient to introduce
fome other habit, in the place of the increafed fecretion of faliva ; which habit
might afterwards be gradually left off. With this intention, he prevailed on the
patient to chew perpetually a little dry bread, and to fwallow it with her fpittle. In
a few weeks, it became neceffary for her to chew the bread only at certain hours in
the day ; and thus, after two months, fhe became entirely free from a moil difgufl-
ful and tedious diforder. —It is worthy of obfervation, that, at firft, the fwallow-
ing of fo much faliva frequently occafioned a naufea-, and that then, for a few
hours, fhe was obliged to to fpit it out as ufuaU and that, during the greateft part
of the time, when fhe chewed the bread, fhe had a flool or two every day more
than common.
TABES DORSALIS, or CONSUMPTION of the BACK.
A YOUNG gentleman, twenty-two years of age, applied to me in the above
diforder, which had worn him down to a mere fkeleton. The Tabes isfeldom dif-
tinguifhed by any remarkable fever, cough, or difficulty of breathing •, but is attend-
ed with want of appetite, a weak digeftion, and a morbid ftateof the blood, whence
the body grows languid, and waftes by degrees. Sometimes this fpecies of con-
fumption is brought on by a venereal ulcer ; but it molt commonly proceeds from
exceffive evacuations of the femen, which was the cafe with this r
patient. He had
too early addicted himfelf to an intercourfe with lewd women, which eventually
"brought on an involuntary fhedding of the feed, which came from him on the leaft
exertion, whether of walking, riding, lifting a weight, or even of pulling off his
clothes.— I ordered him a ftrcng nutritious diet, with a table fpoonful of the Solar
Tin&ure four times a day, 'in the fame quantity of warm water, which he purfued
for a month. He found his ftrength was fo much recovered, that I could fafely
advife moderate exercife both on horfeback and on foot. The gleet, however, was
uncommonly obftinate-, and the Tincture was continued for the fecond month in
the fame quantity. By this time the parts were confiderably braced ; he could run,
or jump without perceiving the fmalleft emiffion j
and the healthful colour of his
cheek
AND OCCULT C C I £ N C £. 363
cheek began to return.— He now perfifted in the Tindture, only three times a day,
for a month longer -,
after which the dofe was reduced to night and morning for
another month ; he then took it twice a day for two months more, at the end of which
period every fymptom of the complaint was removed, he had fully recovered his
flefli and ftrength, and now prcferves it by taking the bolar Tindlure as a beverage,
made after the manner of brandy and water. Thisdilorder has in general been
deemed incurable. It is true, that even in its early attacks, it is fo eflentially necef-
fary to abftain from venereal embraces, that without it, the belt remedies will
prove altogether ufelefs; hence the Tabes Dorfalis fo often proves mortal, becaufe
the patient has l'eldom refolution enough to dilpenlc with hts amours.
RHEUMATIC GOUT.
A ... 4
THIS difeafe is generally brought on by alternate heats and colds in the blood,
whereby a humour is produced which attacks the joints and mufcles, fometimes ac-
companied with difcolourations and fwellings, and at other times without either
but it is always attended with excruciating pain. Mr. John Brandham, of Brid-
lington Quay, was attacked in this manner ; when, after lome time, the fevere pain
of his joints falling into his legs and thighs, deprived him of the ufe of his limbs,
and confined him entirely to his bed. He was foon after icized with a violent pain
in his head and ftomach, which fo much affected his refpiration, that inftant death
was expected. In this extremity, half a wine-glafs of the Solar Tindhure was admi-
niftered, undiluted,
which removed the danger, and gave his ftomach immediate
eafe. A table fpoonful, in the fame quantity of warm water, was then given every
third hour, during the fucceeding day and night, by whic-h the pains were con-
fiderably abated. He continued the medicine four times a day for a month longer j
at the expiration of which time he experienced a perfect cure, and lias never fince
found the fmalleft return of his complaint •, of which he is defirous of fatisfying
any enquirer, who chufes to apply for that purpoie.
AGUES, CONVULSIONS, CHOLIC, BLOODY-FLUX, and violent
SPASMS in the STOMACH and BOWELS.
DURING the fit, letoneortwo table fpoonfuls of theSolar Tindlure, undiluted, be
adminiftered fucceffively, as the extremity of the cafe may require-, and afterwards
let the patient continue the medicine, night and morning, in the quantity of a table
fpoonful in a wine-glafs of warm water, or oftener, as the obftinacy of the cafe may
render neceffary, and in a very fhort time a perfedt cure will be experienced ;
a few
inftances of which I fhall add, in the words of thofe who have tranfmitted me the
fadts.
To
3^4 A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
-
'
:
1
To E..SIBLY, M. D.
, SIR,—A few nights ago, I was attacked in bed with a violent pain in myftomach
and-bowels, which alternately produced fuch a fucceffion of convulftvefpafms, and
cold chills, that I really thought I was feized for death. Fortunately a bottle of
your Solar Tin6tu,i?e was in the houfe, purchafed the day before by my fon, of which
my fervant gave me a table fpoonful and a half, unmixed with water. The inftant
effedt it had on my ftomach, I could only compare to eledtricity ; for to the aftonilh-
ment of all about me the fpafms inftantly ceafed, a gentle perfpiration came on, in
which ftate I fell afleep, and did not awake till the morning, when I found myfelf
entirely free from pain. On getting up, I took a fpoonful more of the Tindture, in
an equal quantity of warm water, and have not fince experienced the fmalleft re-
turn of the diforder. Requefting you will make this known, for the benefit of
others, I remain, with grateful efteem, &c.
No. 25, Philpot-lane,
Fenchurch-Jlreet,
Feb. 12, 1794. M. ARMSTRONG.
To E. S I B L Y, M. D.
SIR,—Ingratitude, I cannot but thank you for that excellent medicine, the Solar
Tindture. It has faved my life. I was fuddenly feized with a violent cholic,
which brought on a mortification of the bowels. The efforts of the faculty were
tried in vain, and I was given over. In thefe moments of extremity, my exigence
was preferved by only two fpoonfuls of your medicine, undiluted, which inftantly
relieved me from the wrack of torture. After two more dofes, the obftrudtion was
removed by natural evacuation, and a few hours reftored me to my ufual ftate of
good health. I entreat you to publifh this for the public good, and fhall be ever
gratefully your’s,
Clifton,
near Brifiol, Feb. 24, 1794. JOHN POWF.LL.
To E. S I B L Y, M. D.
SIR,—Adtuated by a principle of gratitude, I cannot omit acquainting you of
an extraordinary cure performed on me by means of your Solar Tindture. —I had
for fome time been afflidted with the dyfentery or bloody-flux, and was reduced to
a very weak and languid ftate, without deriving any benefit from the prefcriptions
of the faculty. This induced me to make trial of your Solar Tindture j when, af-
ter taking only two fmall bottles, I found myfelf perfectly recovered ; therefore by
publiftiing this to the world, you will confer a favour on your grateful, &c.
WILLIAM JACKSON.
No. 8, Windmill-fireet^ Tottenham-court Road, May 15, 1794.
DISEASES
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3*5
DISEASES of the BREAST and LUNGS, ASTHMA, DROPS! ,
or CON-
SUMPTION.
TAKE one fpoonful of the TinCture, night and morning, for twenty days fuc-
ceffively, diluted in two fpoonfuls of cold fpring- water ; then reduce it to the Cam:
dofe every other day, which will in general remove the malady in the courfc of a
month ; but if the dropfy or confumption have been far advanced, it will be necef-
fary to continue the medicine for one, two, or even three months longer, reducing
the number of dofes in proportion as health and llrength appear to return, and as
the blood (ball have relumed its proper confiftency, and a brilker circulation. In
thele complaints, it will not be amifs to take the TinCture in a tumbler of warm wa-
ter, as a beverage, for l'ome time after the cure is perfected, as it will infallibly pre-
vent the blood from returning to its watery and impoverilhed Rate, and will rarefy
and expel the vifeid cohefions in the pulmonary veflels. In theie diforders, the So-
lar TinCture may be fafely adminiftered to females even during obltruCtions of the
catamenia, as hath lately been experienced by perfecting an admirable cure on a
lady in Grafton-ftreet, Tottenham-court Road.
This lady was afflicted with obltruCtions of the liver and fpleen, infomuch that
fhe could not walk up one pair of flairs without much pain, and fhortnefs of breath.
Her menfes were obftruCted ;
and twice or thrice a day fhe was attacked with afth-
matic fpafms, accompanied with febrile fymptoms. This affliction being of a pecu-
liar nature, I was obliged to preferibe both the Solar and Lunar Tindures, in the
following manner. Whenever the fever came on, fhe took a dofe of the Solar Tinc-
ture; and every morning and evening, fixty drops of the Lunar TinCture in a gill
of mugwort tea; and in twenty-one days Ihe was perfectly recovered, and reltored
to her ufual colour and vivacity, to the great joy of her parents and friends.
MENTAL DEPRESSION, or LOWT
NESS of SPIRITS.
THIS may be confidered the primary diforder of the nervous train ; and if refilled
in time, may in molt cafes be eafily cured. For this purpofe take a table fpoonful
of the Solar TinCture, diluted in a wine-glafs of cold fpring-water, every forenoon
at eleven or twelve o’clock, for fourteen fuccellive days ; then ufe it every two or
three days for a month ; and the complaint will be entirely removed, as all patients
will fenfibly feel, by their alertnefs, activity, and unufual flow of natural fpirits; of
which the following cafe may ferve as an example :
To E. S I B L Y, M. D.
SIR,-From a full conviction of the efficacy of your Solar TinCture, I cheerfully
come forward to inform you, that having been much afflicted with depreffion of
No- 2 4- 5 A fpirits.
366 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
fpirits, a nervous tremor, and palpitation of the heart, (owing, I believe, to clofe
application to ftudy, and much profeflional duty,) I have lately experienced a per-
fect cure, by taking one large bottle of your medicine. Imprefled, therefore, with
afenfeof gratitude to God and you, and having a certain knowledge of many
other cures performed by your Tincture, I do hereby requeft this may be made
public for the benefit of the afflibted, and am with efteem, &c.
Borough,
Southwark,
March 10, 1794. W. YfOOLLEY, M. A,
BILE ON THE STOMACH.
ALL bilious complaints are removed by the Solar Tinfture in a mofi: extraordi-
nary manner. Whenever a fit appears to be coming on, with the ftomach loaded
and oppreffed, one large table-fpoonful, taken in the fame quantity of warm water,
will in ten minutes carry off the offending matter, ckanfe and comfort the digeftive
organs, and give the patient immediate relief.
BITE of a MAD DOG, or any VENOMOUS REPTILE,
THE fatal difeafe confequent on the Bite of a Mad Dog, is the Hydrophobia, or
dread of water which circumftance firft fuggefted dipping in the fea for the cure.
It is very remarkable that thefe patients have not only a dread of water, butof every
thing bright or tranfparent. Soon after this affettion takes place, the mind be-
comes impaired j
which (hews that the poifon is carried through the blood to the
nervous fluid, and thence to the brain. Dr. James, in hisTreatife on Canine Mad-
nefs, mentions a boy fent out to fill two bottles with water, who was fo terrified by
the noife of the liquid running into them, that he fled into the houfe crying out
that he w^s bewitched. He mentions alfo the cafe of a farmer, who, going to draw
fome ale from a calk, was terrified tofucha degree at its running into the veflel, that
he ran out in a great haftewith the fpigot in his hand. But in whatever manner
this fymptom comes on, it is certain that the molt painful fenfations accompany
every attempt to fwallow liquids. Nay, the bare fight of water, of a looking-glafs,
of any thing clear or pellucid, will give the utmoft uneafinefs, or even throws the
patient into convulfions. In this difeafe there feems to be an extreme fenfibility
and irritability of the nervous fyftem. The eyes cannot bear the light, or the fight
of any thing white •, the lead touch or motion offends them, and they want to be
kept as quiet and in as dark a place as poflible. Some complain of the coldnefs of
the air, frequently when it is really warm. Others complain of violent heat; and
have a great defire for cold air, which yet never fails to increafe the fymptoms. In
all there is a great flow of the faliva into the mouth ; which is exceedingly trouble-
lome to the patients, as it has the fame effedt upon their fauces that other liquids
0 have.
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. *67
have. This therefore they perpetually blow off with violence, which in a patient
of Dr. Fothergill’s occafioned a noife not unlike tiie h.llow barking of a dog, and
which he conjectures might have given rile to the common notion that hydropho-
bious patients bark like dogs. They have an infat iable thirft ; but are unable to get
down any drink, except with the utmoft difficulty, though fometimes they can
fwallow bread foaked in liquids, dices of oranges, or other fruits. There is a pain
under the fcrobiculus cordis, as in the tetanus; and the patients mournfully point to
that place as the feat of the difeafe. Dr. Vaughan is of opinion that it is this pain,
rather than any difficulty in lwallowing, which diftreffes the patient on every at-
tempt to drink. The voice is commonly plaintive and mournful; but Dr. Vaughan
tells us there is a mixture of fiercenefs and timidity in the countenance which he
cannot delcribe, but by which he could know a hydrophobious perfon without afk-
ing any queftions. Some feem to have at times a furious delirium, and an inclina-
tion to fpit at or bite the by-ftanders ; while others ffiow no l'uch inclination, but
will even fuffer people to wipe the infideof their mouths with the corner of a hand-
kerchief in order to clear away the vilcid faliva which is ready to fuffocate them.
In fome male patients there is an involuntary ereiflion of the penis, and emiffion of
the femen ;
and the urine is forced away by the frequent return of the fpafms. In a
letter from Dr. Wolf, of Warfaw, to Henry Baker, F. R. S. dated Warfaw, Sept.
26th, 1767, we have the following melancholy account of the cafes of five perfons
who died of the hydrophobia : None of them quite loft their right fenfes ; but they
were all talking without intermiffion, pray ing, lamenting, defpairing, curling, fight
ing, fpitting a frothy faliva, lcreeching, fometimes belching, and retching, but rare-
ly vomiting. Every member is convulfed by fits, but moft violently from the na-
vel up to the breaft and osfophagus. The fit comes on every quarter of an hour;
the fauces are not red, ncr the tongue dry. The pulie is not ar all feveriffi ; and
when the fit is over nearly like a found pulfe. The face grows pale, then brown,
and during the fit almoft black ; the lips livid; the head is drowfy, and the ears
tingling ;
the urine limpid. At laft they grow weary ; the fits are lefs violent, and
ceafe towards the end ; the pulfe becomes weak, intermittent, and not very quick ;
they fweat, and at laft the whole body becomes cold. They compofe themfelves
quietly as if to get deep, and fo they expire. A general obfervation was, that the
lint and dreffings of the wounds, even when dry, were always black, and that when
the pus was very good in colour and appearance. In one of Dr. Wolf’s patients
who recovered, the blood ftunk intolerably as it was drawn from a vein ; and one
of Mr. Vaughan’s patients complained of an intolerable foetid fmell proceeding
from the wounded part, though nobody but himfelf could perceive it. In general,
the violent convulfions ceafe afhort time before death ;
and even the hydrophobia
goes
368 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
goes off, fo that the patients can drink freely. But this does not always happen ; for
Mr. Vaughan mentions the cafe of a patient, in whom, “ when he had in appearance
ceafed to breathe, the fpafmus cynicus was obfervable, with an odd convulfive mo-
tion in the mufcles of the face-, and the ftrange contrariety which took place in the
adtion of thefe produced the moft horrid affemblage of features that can well be
conceived. Of this patient alfo it was remarkable, that in the laft hours of his life
he ceafed to call for drink, which had been his conftant requeft; but was perpetual-
ly afking for fomething to eat.”
The hydrophobia feems to be a fymptom peculiar to the human race ; for the
mad animals which communicate the infedtion, do not feem to have any dread of
water. Notwithftanding this, dipping is the common remedy for the cure of dogs
and men. With regard to the fymptoms of madnefs in dogs, they are very equivocal
;
and thofe particularly enumerated by fome authors, are only fuch as might be ex-
pected in dogs much heated or agitated by being violently purfued and (truck.
One fymptom indeed, if it could be depended upon, would determine the matter
;
namely, that all other dogs avoid and run away from one that is mad; and even
large dogs will not attack one of the fmalleft fize who is infedted with this difeafe.
Upon this fuppofition they point out a method of difcovering whether a dog who
hath been killed was really mad or not; namely, by rubbing apiece of meat
along the infide of his mouth, and then offering it to a found dog. If the latter eats
it, it is a fign the dog was not mad ; but if the other rejedts it with a kind of howl-
ing noife, it is certain that he was. Dr. James tell us, that among dogs the difeafe
is infedlious by ftaying in the fame place; and that after a kennel has been once in-
fedted, the dogs put into it will be for a confiderable time afterwards in danger of
going mad alfo. A remedy for this, he fays, is, to keep geefe for fome time in the
kennel. He rejedts as falfe the opinion that dogs when going mad will not bark
;
though he owns that there is a very confiderable change in their bark, which be-
comes hoarfe and hollow.
With regard to the immediate caufe among mankind, there is not the leaft doubt
that the hydrophobia is occalioned by the faliva of the mad animal being mixed
with the blood. It does not appear that this can operate through the cuticula ; but,
when that is rubbed off, the fmalleft quantity is fufficient to communicate the dif-
eafe, and a flight lcratch with the teeth of a mad animal has been found as perni-
cious as a large wound. It is certain alfo, that the infedtion has been communicated
by the bites of dogs, cats, wolves, foxes, weafels, fwine, and even cocks and hens,
when in a ftate of madnefs. But it does not appear that the diftemper is communi-
cable from one hydrophobious perfon to another, by means of the bite, or any
other way.
It
and occult science. 369
4
It has been generally allowed by pradlitioners, that though the hydrophobia may
be prevented, yet it can feldom be cured after the difeafc has made its appearance.
The molt eflential part of the treatment therefore depends on an immediate ule of
the proper means of prevention. For this purpofe fome advife the inftant cutting
out the part bitten, which mutt certainly be an effiedtual mode, provided we could
be fure the poil'on had not reached beyond the wound. When, however, we con-
fider the rapidity with which the blood and juices tlow, it feems impoflible we can
ever wholly depend on fuch an operation. 1 fhould neverthelefs advife it to le
done ;
alter which let the part be well foaked with the Solar 1 incture j and, to for-
tify the blood, let the patient immediately fwallow a table fpoonful every three hours
undiluted,
for the firft day j and the fame dole night and morning, for a month fol-
lowing. Let the part be again foaked with the Tindlure four times a day, for three
or four days •, and I am fatisfied a fafe and perfedl cure may be relied on. For the
bice of adders, fnakes, &c. bathing the part, and raking the medicine undiluted, will
counteradt the virulence of the poil'on, and preferve the patient from further injury.
For GUN-SHOT WOUNDS, CUTS, STABS, Szc.
GENTLEMEN in the army and navy, and all perfons liable to gun-fhots, ftab?
wounds, &rc. fhould never be without the Solar Tindlure. Its falutary effcdls on
the blood, in all thefe cafes, are really furprifing. It totally prevents, and will even
flop, mortification, in very advanced ftages. It quickly lupplies the greatefl lols of
blood ;
fortifies the heart, cherifhes the vital organs, and heals and unites the fic-fh
in an uncommon degree. If taken internally, and poured at the fame time into the
wound, it is quickly propelled through the heart, by the veins and arteries, and
thus renovates the exhaufled fpirits, and prelerves life. Its eftcdl on a few fimple
wounds may be feen in the following cafes.
To E. S I B L Y, M. D.
SIR,—For the fake of thofe who are liable to accidents, I think it right to inform you
of a mod remarkable cure performed by your Solar Tindlure, on a very deep and
dangerous wound made on Mrs. Cook by a cafe-knife, of more than the depth of
my fore-finger. After trying every means in vain to ftop the blood, I fent for a
bottle of your Solar 1 indfure, and well bathed the wound therewith. The blood
and T indture readily afiimilated, and formed a crult on the orifice of the wound,
which very foon flopped the effufion of blood. But what is molt remarkable, the
wound was compleatly healed in lefs than fix days, and is now fo perfectly clofed,
as to be almoft imperceptible. You are welcome to publifh this, and in fo doing
will oblige, &c.
Seymour-firm, Portlani-fqmre, April 14, 1794, WILLIAM COOK.
No. 24. 5 B To
To E. S I B L Y, M. D.
SIR,—In juftice to my own feelings, I cannot but acquaint you with a cure per-
formed by your Solar Tindture, in a very uncommon manner. As I was travelling
in the ftage to Boxley- Abbey, near Maidftone, in Kent, a gentleman, who fat next
me, putting his head out of the window, received a violent cut acrofs the eye with the
coachman’s whip, which produced an immediate fwelling and inflammation, attend-
ed with fo much agony, that he declared the pain was infupportable. I had pur-
chafed a bottle of your Solar Tindlure while in town, knowing it had performed
many furprifing cures in my neighbourhood. This I immediately opened, and ap-
plied to the inflamed part; and, after walking the eye well with it, I bound a white
handkerchief tight over it, wetted with the Tindlure. In lefs than ten minutes the
anguiffi was greatly affwaged ; and in the courfe of three hours it was quite well.
The gentleman exprefled the utmofc aflonilhment at the celebrity of the cure, as did
every paflenger in the coach. I wifh this to be made as public as pofiible, for the
benefit of thofe who are liable to accidents ; and am with refpedl, &c.
M. STABLES. '
I fhall only remark further, with refpedl to wounds, bruifes, &c. that a Ihort time
ago, as a coach was driving furioufly out of Cavendifh-fquare, the horfes unfortu-
nately beat down a girl of eight years of age, the daughter of Robert and Elizabeth
Larken, of Clipflon-ftreet ; and the wheels paling over her body, Ihe was taken up
to all appearance dead. The fpedlators were for carrying her immediately to the
hofpital ; but, the accident happening very near my houfe, 1 was fent for. I avoid-
ed letting blood, but bathed the bruifed parts thoroughly with the Solar Tindlure,
and introduced half a fpoonful, undiluted,
into her ftomach. It was now about nine
o’clock at night. She was compofed and afleep before ten, being overcome by
the medicine. A fpoonful more of the Tindlure was given her at different periods
of the night, the fudorific power of which brought on a plentiful perfpiration. At
ten o’clock the next morning Ihe awoke, and got up, and was fo well recovered as
to be able to play about with her companions, in all refpedts the fame as if nothing
had happened. The girl, and her parents, are pleafed with every opportunity of
recounting the circumftances of this event, to any enquirers.
Let it not be faid, that, becaufe this medicine appears to be prefcribed for many
diforders, u can be good for none.—I affirm, that every complaint for which it is re-
commended, originates in the blood, or in obftruffed perfpiration. The adtion of the
Solar Tindlure is on the blood and juices ; it flrikes at the root, not at the
branches; by which peculiar advantage it effedls a cure when other medicines fail.
And though there is a medicine, fold in regular pradlice at a guinea an ounce,
o which
3 7 *
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
which poft'efTes no one virtue comparable to the Solar Tinfture, yet the proprietor,
unwilling to adopt fuch examples, or to withhold from the affii&ed in every line
of life the benefits of his difeovery, has determined to render it to the public at
only 7s. 6d. the final!, and thirteen killings the large, bottles, duty included, with
ample directions in every complaint for which it ought to be adminiltered. —A fingle
bottle will in many cafes perform a fpeedy cure, when, in the ordinary courfc of
medical praftice, it would occupy a month, and coft many pounds for unneceflary
tttendance, and an excels of drugs.
It is fold at my houfe. No. i. Upper Titchfield-ftreet, Cavendifh-fquare-, by
Mr. Williams, perfumer to his majefty, No. 41, Pall Mall ; at Melvin’s perfumery
warehoufe. No 70, New Bond-ftreet; at J. Wye’s medicinal warchoufe, No. 59,
Coleman-ftreet ; at the Britifh Direftory-office, Ave-Maria-lane, St. Paul’s; and by
all retailers of patent medicines in thecountry.
Wholefale orders muft be addrefled to Mr. Wye, No. 59, Coleman-flreet, being
the only place in London where country orders for the medicine are executed, the
txtenfive pra&ice, and dole ftudy, of the inventor, rendering it impoffible for him
to attend to them.
In order to make a trial of thefe medicines as little expenfive as poffible, and
convenient to perlons refiding in every part of the kingdom, and to convince the
world I do not defire any dealer to rifk his money upon an article he might per-
chance never fell, I have given orders that any ftationer, grocer, or dealer in
medicines in the country, on writing to his London correfpondent, fhall be fupplied
with a Jingle bottle, up to any quantity, at the wholefale price.
Of the PRINCIPLES of LIFE an d DEATH.
Above all, the efficacy of the Solar Tincture is moftftrikingly manifefted, by its
ftimulating and reanimating powers, in cafes of accidental or fudden death. Life
denotes the animated date of nature ; and in human beings, exifts as long as an
union of the foul and body lafts. With us, therefore, life continues, until fuch fe-
paration has really taken place ; which can no more be faid to have happened dur-
ing the paroxifm of a fit, or of a blow which for a time deprives us of fenfation, or
in the early period of an unnatural or fudden death, than during the time we are
afleep. It is the want of proper (kill at fuch times that too often occafions death
to take place, when life abfolutely exifts in the blood, and might with little care
have been prefer ved. Death is therefore the aft of feparation of the foul from the
body; in which fenfe it ftands oppofed to life, which confifts in the union thereof.
An animal body, by theaftions infeparable from life, undergoes a continual change,
and receives its diflolution by degrees. Its fmalleft fibres become rigid ; its minuter
vefiels
372 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
veflels grow into folid fibres no longer pervious to the fluids; its greater veflels
grow hard and narrow ; and every thing becomes contradled, clofed, and bound up :
whence the drynefs, immobility, and extenuation, obferved in old age. By luch
means the offices of the minuter veflels are deftroyed ; the humours ffagnate, har-
den, and at length coalefce with the folids. Thus are the fubtileft fluids in the
body intercepted and loft, the concodtion weakened, and the reparation prevented ;
only the blood continues to run flowly through the greater veflels, affiduous to pre-
ferve life, even after the animal fundtions are deftroyed. At length, in the procefs
of thefe changes, death becomes inevitable, as the neceflary confequence of life.
But it is rare indeed that life is thus long protradted, or that death fucceeds merely
from the natural decays and impairment of old age. Accidental difeafes, and our
negledt of preferving health, cut the work fhort.
The figns of death are often very uncertain. If we confult what Window or
Bruchier have faid on this fubjedt, we fhall be convinced, that between life and
death the lhade is fo very undiftinguifhable, that even all the powers of art can
fcarcely determine where the one ends and the other begins. The colour of the
vifage, the warmth of the body, and fupplenefs of the joints, are but uncertain figns
of life ftill fubflfting, while, on the contrary, the palenefs of the complexion, the
coldnefsof the body, the ftiffhefs of the extremities, theceflation of all motion, and
the total infenflbility of the parts, are but uncertain marks of death begun. In the
lame manner alio, with regard to the pulfe and breathing; thefe motions arefooften
kept under, that it is impoflible to perceive them. By bringing a looking-glafs
near to the mouth of the perfon fuppofed to be dead, people often expedt to find
whether he breathes or not. But this is a very uncertain experiment : the glafs is
frequently fullied by the vapour of the dead man’s body ;
and often the perfon is
ftill alive, though the glafs is no way tarniflied. In the fame manner, neither noifes
in the ears, nor pungent fpirits applied to the noftrils, give certain figns of the dis-
continuance of life and there are many inftances of perfons who have endured
them all, and afterwards recovered without any external afliftance, to the aftonifh-
ment of the fpedfators. This furely ought to be a caution againft hafty burials, ef-
pecialiy in cafes of fudden death ; for it is fhocking to refledt, that fome hundreds
of valuable members of fociety are annually torn from their difconfolate families by
fome accidental fudden caufe, and hurried thoughtlefsly to the grave, in whom the
principles of life were capable of being revived! This lamentable truth has been
eftablifhed by the happy fuccefs of the humane fociety, from whofe laudable exer-
tions feveral hundred perfons have been reftored to life, who, to all vifible appear-
ance, were pafl recovery. Every age and country affords fome inftances of perfons
having been recovered, even after lying long for dead ; and from the number of
thofe
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
tnofe preferved by mere lucky accidents, it is ev ident ft i 11 greater numbers might be
faved by timely pains and (kill. Thofe who have contemplated the druCturc of the
human machine know, that its diflolution cannot mturdlly happen but by that gra-
dual decay of the whole fyftem above delcribcd, when the vefl'cls are become imper-
vious to the fluids, the circulation weakened or deftroyed, and the vital organs no
longer able to perform their office. But, when their functions are merely fufpend-
ed by fome fudden fhock, it may be likened to the date of a watch flopped by a fall,
which refumes its motion the infiant that injury is repaired. In the animal areono-
my, “ the BLOOD is the LIFE-” Levit. xvii. u, 14. Deut. xii. 23. therefore, if
its circulation be fufpended or deflroyed, death follows. But if the blood can be
re-agitated, and its circulation relumed, life will of neceffity be reftored. For this
real'on, whenever any accident has happened, by which fudden death appears to have
taken place, whether by blows, fits, falls, fuffocation, ftrangulation, drowning,
apoplexy, convulfion-fits, thunder and lightning, afiaffination, duelling, or the like,
let the unfortunate perfon be carried into a warm houfe, and laid by the fire, or put
into a warm bed ;
let two or three table fpoonfuls of the Solar Tincture be intro-
duced as early as poffible into the flomach, and rubbed profufely in by a warm
hand, upon the fpineof the back, loins, bread, and region of the heart, and poured
into the wound, if there be any; the warm dimulating quality of the medicine, af-
fifted by the external heat and friction, will quickly rouze the dagnant blood and
juices, particularly in the_ grand refervoir the heart, where, rarefying, prefling every
way, and being refided by the valves, it will fwell fo as to fill the flaccid right auri-
cle of the heart, which by the fhock had become empty and at red ; and thus di-
mulating its fibres, will put them in motion. The right auricle being thus filled
anddimulated into contraction, fills the ventricle ;
which, by this means being irri-
tated, likewife contracts and empties itfelf into the pulmonary artery ; and the mo-
ment this is done the circulation begins again where it left off; and the lungs, being
filled by the dephlogidicated air contained in the medicine, begin to a<ft, and life is
redored, provided the organs and juices are in a fit difpofition for it; which they
undoubtedly are much oftener than is imagined. Nor is this dimulating aCtion of
the TinCture upon the heart at all furprifing ; for every medical man knows, or ought
to know, that the heart, even when taken out of the body, if it be pricked with a
pin, or hath warm water thrown upon it, will beat afrefh, and endeavour to exert its
fun&ions, though for fome time before it had been motionlefs. No perfon there-
fore ought to be confidered dead, until the energy of the blood is fo far gone, that
it can never again be agitated fo as to fill and ftimulate into contraction the right
finusvenojus and auricle of the heart.
No. 24. 5 C When
<-
i
374 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
When the patient is thus far recovered, he ought to be treated with great care and
tendernefs •, andfome warm milk, wine and water, elder-flower-tea, or any nourifh-
ing fpoon-meat, fhould be given to him as foon as he appears capable of taking
food. In fome cafes it may be neceflary to open the temporal artery and the exter-
naljugular, or to bleed in the arm ^ but this fhould never be done, if it can fafely
bedifpenfed with, as it certainly weakens the animal principle, which it is the firit
objeCt of this medicine to ftrengthen. Under different circumftances, and as parti-
cular occafions may require, the rules laid down in p. 196,
of the Medical Part of
this work, and recommended by the Humane Society, will be found of confiderable
advantage. Above all, let me entreat an anxious perfeverance in this fublimefl: of
all virtues—the attempt to recover perifhing lives. Humanity calls for it in the
mod moving accents •, and what can infpire a good heart with more fincere, per-
fect, confcientious, and commendable, fatisfaction, than a retrofpeCt of fuch endea-
vours as have been generoufly exerted and fuccefsfully contributed to recover, per-
haps to reftore, the life of a fellow-creature from that molt deprecated calamity—
fudden death, with its alarming retmue of threatening confequences to thole who
die unprepared ? fince, by thus preferving a finner to a future period, perhaps a foul
may emerge in full maturity to felicity which fhallhave no end!
To demonftrate the reanimating power of the medicine, experiments may bemade
upon a fowl, lamb, cat, dog, or other animal, by plunging them under water until
they are apparently dead, or piercing them through the head, or any part of the bo-
dy except the heart •, by fuffocation, or an electrical fhock : for fudden death, how-
foever it happens, whether by drowning or otherwife, is much the fame as to its ef-
fects on the vital organs ; confequently they are all to be treated in a fimilar manner.
Upon the whole it is evident, that by contemplating the ceconomy and harmony
of our ftruCture, both external and internal, we may quickly difcern a proper line
of conduCt for the confervation of health, and the prolongation of life ; and we (hall
alfo perceive a more auguft view of the marvellous works of divine wifdom in the
ftruCture of the human breaft, than we fhall perhaps again find in the whole com-
pafs of nature. The gift of health was evidently the defign of our benevolent
Creator in the conftruCtion of our bodies j it is therefore no lefs our duty than our
intereft to preferve this blefling to our lateft moments, as the feafoning and fund
which gives the relifh to all our other enjoyments. To enumerate the various
abufes of health, which take place from our earlieft infancy, particularly among the
rich and gay, and which are continued through the fucceeding flages of modifh
life, would fill a volume. Suffice it to obferve, that they prevail more particularly
among people who are the moft highly polifhed and refined. To compare their
artificial mode of living, with that of nature, would afford a very ftriking contrail,
and
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 375
fupply an obvious reafon why perfons in the lower orders of fociety are generally
the longeft livers, and enjoy the belt ftate of health •, and hence we are warranted to
conclude, that a large proportion of thedifeafes to which we are fubjeCted, are pro-
duced by ourfelves.
Notwithftanding this unaccountable abufe of our health, yet the want of it unfits
us for moft of the common avocations of life, and is more efpecially an enemy to
the focial and humane affeCtions, as it generally renders the unhappy fufferer peevifn
and fullen, difgufted at the allotments of Providence, and apt to induce fuicide, by
fuggefting gloomy and fufpicious fentiments of the Almighty. It obftruCts the
free exercife and full improvement of our reafon, makes us a burden to our friends,
and ufelefs to fociety. Whereas the uninterrupted enjoyment of health is a con-
ftant fource of good humour, and good humour is a great friend to opennefs and
benignity of heart ;
enables us to encounter the various ills and difappointments of
this world with more courage, or to fuftain them with more patience •, and, in fhort,.
conduces much, if we are otherwile duly qualified, to our aCting our part in every
exigency of life with more firmnefs, confiftency, and dignity. Therefore it imports
us much to preferve and improve the habit of its enjoyment, without which every
other external entertainment is taftelefs, and moft other advantages are of little avail.
To this end, we ought above all things to cultivate prudence, temperance, fobriety,
fortitude, and equanimity of temper for without a prudent care of the body, and
a fteady government of the mind, to guard the one from difeafe, and the other
from the feuds of paffion and prejudice, found health is unattainable. By temper-
ance we enjoy the real gratifications of life, without fuffering any confequent incon-
venience. Sobriety enables us to be content with fimple and frugal fare, and pro-
tects us from the pain and difgrace of intoxication. Fortitude enables us to bear
thofe infirmities which prudence and fobriety cannot fhun, and banifhes all dread of
imaginary evils from our thoughts. Equanimity of temper contributes greatly to
the happinefs of life, as well as to the prefervation of health, by preferving the mind
from anxiety and perturbation, and arming us againftthe calumnies and animofities
of human nature. Violent paffions, and the excefies they induce, gradually impair
and wear away the conftitution •, whilft the calm and placid ftate of a temperate
mind, and the healthful exercifes of the body, preferve the natural functions in full
vigour and harmony, and exhilarate the fpirits, which are the chief inftruments of ac-
tion. The worft confequences that could poffibly refult from a ftriCt adherence to
this regimen, would be that of exterminating a fwarm of locufts, and rendering the
difcovery of my medicine of much lefs importance to the community.
Of
376 A K E Y TO PHYSIC,
Of the CRISIS, or CRITICAL TURN of a DISEASE.
THE Crifis of a Difeafe is no other than the ftruggle betwixt nature and the
infirmity, which of them fhall prevail. If nature at the time of the crifis over-
comes the malignity of the difeafe, it is a furefign it will be cured •, but if the fick-
nefs prevails, it is then a pernicious crifis, and fhews fudden alteration for the worfe.
Every fudden and vehement motion of the difeafemay be called a crifis; therefore
days critical, decretory, and crifmal, are all one and the fame thing, and import
no more than a certain and more fure judgment of the infirmity afflicting, either
more powerful, or lefs vehement, at thofe times when the true crifis happens;
therefore a crifis is to be calculated from that moment of time when the difeafe
firft invaded the patient. And on this ground I fhall make fome obfervations to
prove the truth of what I have now to deliver, and of what I have before fo often
proved, that I cannot but admire the wonderful providence of God, who difpofeth
all things by number, weight, and meafure, prefcribing to the whole fyftem of na-
ture fo immutable a lav/, that it were as eafy for the Heaven and the Earth to return
to their original chaos, as to break and infringe that immutable law, unlefs the di-
vine will and pleafure alter it miraculoufly.
We difcriminate two forts of difeafes ; acute, and chronic. Of acute difeafes,
fome are fimple acute, others peracute, that is very acute ; others again are perper-
acute, or exceeding acute. Thofe that are fimple acute are finifhed in eight, ten,
eleven, fourteen, twenty, or twenty-one, days. They are terminated in the time
the Moon traceth the twelve celeftial figris of the zodiac, viz. in twenty-feven days
and eight hours.
Thofe acute difeafes which fuffer changes are very fickle ; for fometimes they in-
creafe, and fometimes they are remitted, according as the Moon meets with the
beams of either benefic or baneful planets; and fometimes they change out of
acute difeafes into chronic; and thus a continued fever may change into an hetftic
fever, or an intermittent fever into a continual fever ; and thefe difeafes terminate
in forty days.
Very acute difeafes are fuch as terminate in five, fix, feven, or eight, days
;
among!! which is the difcaie called peripneumonia, or inflammation of the lungs.
Exceedingly acute difeafes are fuch as end in three or four days at fartheft, as pef-
tilences, apoplexies, &c.
Chronic difeafes follow the motion of the Sun, and it is about ninety days before
the firft crifis begins to appear; for in that time the Sun comes to the proper quar-
tile of the place he was in at thedecumbiture, as appears in hettic fevers, dropfies,
and the like. But when he comes to thofe degrees from the decumbiture which
« are
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 377
are called indicative, or intercidental, which are both one, or judicial, (as may be
l'een in the Table,) fome alteration will appear, whereby a man may judge of thecri-
fisto come. For the patient will be well, if the Sun be well configurated with be-
nign placets ; but worfe, if in afped with evil ones ; and this rule is infallible, if you
confider it from the nativity throughout the whole courfe of a man’s life j for dif-
eafes are the particular attendants of the inequality of the elements in every hu-
man being.
All'o a crifis may be perfed, or imperfed. A perfed crifis is when the difeafe
appears plain, and perfedly to be judged of-, and this is fometimes hopeful, and
fometimes defperate. Hopeful, when there is a great probability of health and re-
covery defperate, when there are palpable figns of death. An imperfed crifis is
when the difeafe is changed upon every light occafion-, as if Mars be the author of
the difeafe, and in a double-bodied fign -, in this cafe the dileale will be variable.
That crifis may be deemed fafe, which comes without pernicious afpeds -,
but
that is doubtful and dangerous which comes with malignant afpeds -, what thefe
afpeds are, with the fignificators of every difeafe, and the mode of afeertaining
them, are already explained in my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences. We have
there fhewn, that to judge of a difeafe, it is necefiary to obferve the motion of the
Sun, Moon, and lord of the afeendant. With refped to the lord of the afeendant,
obferve, before you give judgment, what application he makes to any planet, either
by conjundion, quartile, or, oppofition j
or, fhould he apply to more than one planet,
look to which of them he approaches neareft, and then count how many degrees of
longitude are between them ; and, if the difeafe be acute, then for every degree add
a day ; bur, if chronic, a week, month, or year, according to the fituation of Jupi-
ter, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon, at a perfed crifis.
Now the time called critical is always evil, becaufe of the contrariety of the fign
the Moon is then in, to the fign (he was in at the decumbiture, which induceth the
contrariety of her nature to the oppofite place ;
therefore at fuch a time there arifeth
a controverly and conteft between the difeafe and nature. The Moon upholds na-
ture in acute difeafes and hence is the real'on that a bad crifis will always happen,
if fhe be afflided upon a critical day by the bodies or evil beams of Saturn or Mars,
or by the lord of the eighth houfe, or by the lord of the fourth houfe if he be a ma-
levolent, becaufe he fignifies the grave. But if the Moon at the time of the crifis
behold the lord of the afeendant, or be configurated with the benefic planets, health
enfues, and the malady will be vanquifhed and overcome in the conflict.
If the difeafe terminates not upon the firft crifis, obferve how the Moon will be
configurated on the fecond crifis, and judge by the fame rules. If it terminates
not then, as will fometimes happen, view the third crifis, and judge by that the fame
No. 24. 5D way.
378 A K E Y T O P H Y S I C,
way. If your judgment, fupported by reafon and the former rules, declare that the
difeafe will not terminate one way or other, neither in health nor death ; then examine
the face of the heavens at the time the Moon returns to the place die was in at the
decumbiture, which is at the end of 27 days, eight hours and fome minutes ; and
judge according as the Moon fhall be then configurated with benefic or malig-
nant planets ; for this of necefiity terminates all acute difeafes; though we may ob-
ferve that not one in a hundred hold on fo long, nor one out of twenty continue half
fo long.
If the acute difeafe ends not in a month, it is then turned into a chronic difeafe;
and muft be judged of by the Sun. The rules forjudging chronic difeafes by the
Sun are fimilar to thofe by which we judge of acute difeafes by the Moon. Now,
for the right diftindtion and calculation of time to judge of the progrefs of a difeafe
in this way, obferve the following method. See what degree the Moon was in at the
decumbiture, by an Ephemeris, and add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes, which
is called the indicative time, becaufe it informs the phyfician the nature of the dif-
eafe; for upon thefe indicative days the difeafe is ufually remitted and mitigated.
To this indicative time add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, and this
points out the judicial day, viz. juft forty-five degrees from the place of the Moon
when the patient fell Tick, being the half of a crifis, and manifefts according as the
Moon happens to be afpedted, whether a good or a bad crifis will enfue. To the
judicial day add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, and it makes fixty-feven
degrees thirty minutes, which produces the fecond indicative day, as falling be-
tween the crifis and judicial day. From this the phyfician may expedt indications
how the difeafe will finally fhew icfeif. To this add twenty-two degrees thirty mi-
nutes more, and you have the perfedl crifis of the difeafe from the decumbiture,
viz. ninety degrees, or one quarter of the zodiac. At this time nature will mani-
feft, according to the planets that are in afpedt to the Moon, whether the fick per-
fiori will have a good or bad crifis; and adding twenty-two degrees thirty minutes
more, it makes the next judicial day, when the Moon approaches to it; and fo on,
through the whole twelve figns of the zodiac, and over it again, if the difeafe termi-
nate not in that time, as will plainly appear by the following Table, which fhews
when the Moon comes to an indicative or to a judicial day, that is, a femiquartile,
or half a crifis ; and when to a true quartile, and when to an oppofition, which is
called a full crifis
;
and fo to all the indicatives and judicial days during the fick-
nefs, &c.
EXAMPLE.
Suppofe the true place of the Moon, at the time a perfon falls fick, be fixteen
-degrees of Gemini, which will be found in the fourth column of the following Ta-
3 ble>
/
379
and occult science.
ble, fo that fixteen degrees of Gemini will be the Moon’s radical place in the de-
cumbiture. Over againft lixteen degrees, to the right hand, I find 8 30, and
over the head thereof I find 2?, fo that when the Moon came to eight degtccs
thirty minutes of Cancer, it was the firft indicative day, wherein the phylician
might expeft to fee how the difeafe would fiiew itfelf. Upon every crifis or indica-
tive day, make fpecial obfervation what planet the Moon is in configuration with •,
if with a benevolent planet, expea fome remilfnefsin the dileafe ; but, if with a ma-
levolent, the contrary effea will follow. Next, on the right hand to 8 3° 23 >
you will find 1 51, which ftiews that when the Moon comes to the fiift degree of
Leo, file will be in femiquartile to her firft place-, and this is, as before ftated, half
a crifis, at which time the difeafe will more or lefs manifeft itfelf according to fuch
configurations as the Moon is found to make with the other planets at the time file
comes to the firft degree of Leo. In the next column on the right hand, you lee 2
3
30, over it 51 . This points out the indicative day, wherein the phyfician is enabled
f urther to judge of the increafe or decreafe of the dileafe. In the next column you
find 16, over it «r, which indicates that when the Moon came to the fixteer.th de-
gree of Virgo, there was a true crifis, whereby the difeafe might be more fully in-
veftigated, and a judgment framed according to the afpe&s the Moon in that de-
gree had to the good or evil planets for from hence will the patient or phyfician
deferya better or worle crifis, in progreffive order. And thus, in the continued line
or column, you may run round the face of the Heavens, obferving the configura-
tions of the Moon when file comes to thofe places of the zodiac wherein fiie makes
the indicative, judicial, and critical, days, and what planet or planets file is then in
contact with, and whether in the decumbiture they promife good or evil. Befides
this, you muft oblerve on what day the Moon, or the lord of the afeendant, tranfits
the cufp of the fixth, leventh, and eighth, houfes, and how die is then afpeCted with
the benevolent or malign planets; and obferve whether (he be combult or in via
combujta, which is from the twentieth degree of Gemini to the firft of Cancer, in
the northern part of the zodiac ; and in the fouthern from the fixth degree of Sa-
gittarius to the fixteenth of the fame conftellation ;
and from the twenty-fourth
degree of Sagittarius to the fifth degree of Capricorn, or in conjunction, quarrile,
or oppofition, of Saturn or Mars, or of a combuft planet, or of fome fixed ftar of a
malignant nature ; for irj all theie cafes an indication is given of death, or of long
and levere ficknefs, according to the number of teftimonies and aftral indications,
according to the rules given in my Illuftration of the Occult Sciences ; but in which
the following moft valuable Table was omitted.
A LU-
380 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
A LUNAR TABLE,
Which, by entering with the Degree of the Moon at the Time any Per-
fon falls lick, will point out at one View the Indicative, Judicial, and
Critical, Day, of the Difeafe.
T r « n 25 25 a
1
~ X kf kf
-
X
0 30 23 *5 30 8 0 3 ° 23 ‘5 3 ° 8 0 3023 *5 3 ° 8 0 30 23 5 3o 8
1
3 ° 24 16 30 9 1
3 ° 2 4 16 3 ° 9 1
3 °i
2 4 1
6
3 ° 9 1 30 24 16 30 9
2 3 ° 2 S <7 3 ° 10 2 30 2 S *7 3
° 10 2 3
° 2 5 17 30 10 2 3 ° 25 17 3 ° 10
3 3 ° 26 18 3 ° 1
1
3 3 ° 26,18 3 ° 1
1
3 3 ° 26 18 30 1
1
3 3 o 26 18 3
° 1
1
4 30 27 *9 3 ° 1
2
4 3 ° 27
i‘
9 3 ° 1
2
4 3 °j
2 7 19-3° J 2 4 3 ° 2
7 19 30 1
2
5 3 ° 28 20 3° 13 5 302820 3 ° r
3 5 3028 20 3 ° *3 5 3
° 28 20 3 ° *3
6 3 ° 29 21 3 °J 4 6 30 29; 21 3 ° H 6 3°| 2 9 21 3074 6 3 ° 2 9 21 3 o 3
4
7 3 ° 3 ° 22 3 ° l
5 7 3 ° 3°j22 3 ° l
S 7 3 ° 3 ° 22 30 *5 7 30 3
° 22 3 ° *5
« Si m '*•*»
8 3 ° 1 2 3 3 ° 16 8 3 ° I 23 3 ° 16 8 30 1 23 3° 16 8 30 J 2 3 3 ° 16
9 3 ° 2 24 30117 9 30 2 24 go l
7 9 3 ° 2 24 30 *7 9 3 ° "2
24 30 171
10 3 o 3
2 S 3 o 18 I c 3 ° 3 2 5 30 18 10 30 3 2 5 3 ° 18 10 3 ° 3
2 5 3 ° 18
'
1
1
39 4 26 3 ° 19 1
1
3 o 4 26 30 l
9 1
1
3 ° 4 26 3 ° 19 11 3 ° 4 26 30 *9 (
12 3
° 5
2 7 3 ° 20 12 3 o 5 27 3
° 20 12 3 ° 5 27 3 ° 20 12 3 ° 5 27 30 20
1
3 3 ° 6 28 30 21 *3 30 6 28 3 ° 21 *3 3 o 6 28 30 21 *3 3 o 6 28
1
3 ° 21
H 3 ° 7 29 3 ° 22 14 30 7 2 9 30 22 J
4 3 ° 7 29 3022 14 30 7 29 3 ° 22
n 4f X
r
5 3 o 8 I
3 ° 2 3 15 30 8 0 3 ° 2
3 15 3 ° 8 0 3 ° 23 1
5 3 ° 8 0 3 ° 23
1
6
3 ° 9 2 3° 2 4 16 3
° 9 1
3 ° 2 41 16 3 ° 9 1
3
° 24 1
6
3 ° 9 1
3 ° 24
l
7 3 o 10 3 3° 25 l
7 3
° 1 0 2 30 25 *7 30 10 2 3 ° 25 *7 3 ° 10 2 3 ° 2 5
18 30 r 1
4 3° 26 18 3
° 1
1
3 3o 26 18 3 ° 1
1
3 3 ° 26 18 3 ° 1
1
3 30 26
19 30 12 5 3 ° 27 T
9 3
° 12 4 3
° 2 7 19 3
° 12 4 3
° 27 !93 o 12 4 3 ° 27
20 30 T
3 6 3° 28 20 3 ° 1
3 5 3 ° 28 20 3 ° *3 5 3 ° 28 20 3 ° J
3 5 30 28
21 3 ° 14 7 3 ° 2 9 21 3 ° M 6 3 ° 29 21 3 ° H 6 3
° 29 2 [
3 ° 14 6 30, 2 9
22 3 ° *5 8 30 3
° 22 3
° *5 7 3° 3 ° 22 30 3
5 7 3
° 3 ° 22 30 *5 7 3
°'
3 °
25 -n. Vf T
23 3 ° 16 9 3 ° I 23 3 ° 16 8 3 o 1 23 30 16 8 3 C 1 2 3 3 ° 16 8 3 ° 1
24 3
oi 7
|
10 3° 2 24 3 ° 47 9 3 ° 2 24 1 01 7 9 30 2 2 4 3 ° *7 9 30 2
25 3
° 18 11 3 ^ 3 2 5 30 18 10 3 ° 3 25 3
° 18 [O 30 3
2 5 3 ° 18 10 3
° 3
2 6 3 ° *9 12 3 ° 4 26 jo *9 1
1
3 ° 4 26 3o 19 1
1
3
° 4,26 30 l
9 1
1
3
° 4
2 7 3 ° 20 13 3 ° 5 27 3
° 20 1
2
3 ° 5 27 30 20 12 3
°
5j
2 7 3 ° 20 12 30 5
28 3o 21 14 30 6 28 3 ° 2 1 r
3 30 6 28 3 ° 2 j
*3 3 ° 628 3 ° 21
,
x
3 3 ° 6
29 3 ° 22 15 3C 7 29 3022 H 3° 7 2 9 3 ° 22 14 30 7U9 30 22 14 3 °
L2
j
With)
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3^
With refpeft to moderate or flight difeafes, Hippocrates aflerted, in the fi It
place. That contraries, or oppoficcs, are the remedies for each other; aiui t iiis
maxim he explains by an aphorifm ; in which he fays, that evacuations cure thole
diflempers which come from repletion, and repletion tlnfe that are cauted by eva-
cuation. So heat is dcftroycd by cold, and cold by heat, &c. In thefecond place,
he aflerted, that phyfic is an addition of what is wanting, and a lubtraction or re-
trenchment of what is fuperfluous : an axiom which is explained by this, viz. that
there are fome juices or humours, which in particular cafes ought to be evacuated,
or driven out of the body, or dried upj and fome others which ought to be reftor-
ed to the body, or cauled to be produced there again. As to the method to bo
taken for this addition or retrenchment, he gives this general caution, That you
ought to be careful how you fill up, or evacuate, all at once, or too quickly, or too
much •, and that it is equally dangerous to heat or cool again on a ludden ;
or ra-
ther, you ought not to do it : every thing that runs to an excefs being an enemy to
nature. In the fourth place, Hippocrates allowed that we ought fometimes to di-
late, and fometimes to lock up : to dilate, or open the paflages by which the hu-
mours are voided naturally, when they are not fufficiently opened, or when they are
clofed ; and, on the contrary, to lock up or ftraiten the paflages that are relaxed,
when the juices that pafs'there ought not to pafs, or when they pals in too great
quantity. He adds, that we ought fometimes to fmooth, and fometimes to make
rough ; fometimes to harden, and fometimes to foften again ; fometimes to make
more fine or fupple ;
fometimes to thicken ;
fometimes to roufe up, and at other
times to flupify or take away the fenfe; all in relation to the l’olid parts of the bo-
dy, or to the humours. He gives alfo this farther leffon, That we ought to have
regard to the courfe the humours take, from whence they come, and whither they
go-, and in confequence of that, when they go where they ought not, that we make
them take a turn about, or carry them another way, almoft: like the turning the
courfe of a river; or, upon other occafions, that we endeavour if pofllble to recal,
or make the fame humours return back again ; drawing upward luch as have a ten-
dency downward, and drawing downward l'uch as tend upward. We ought alfo to
carry off, by convenient ways, that which is neceffary to be carried off ;
and no.
let the humours once evacuated enter into the vefiels again. Hippocrates gives al-
fo the following inltruflion,' That, when we do any thing according to real‘05,
though the fuccefs be not anfwerable, we ought not too eafily, or too haftily, to al-
ter the manner of ailing, as long as the reafons for it are yet good. But, as this
maxim might fometimes prove deceitful, he gives the following as a corrector to it
:
“ We ought (fays he) to mind with a great deal of attention what gives eafe, and what
creates pain; what is eafily fupported, and what cannot be endured.’’ We ought
No. 25. 5 E not
3?2 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
not to do any thing rafhly ; but ought often to paufe, or wait, without doing any
thing : by this way, if you do the patient no good, you will at lead do him no hurt,
Thefe are the principal and mod general maxims of the practice of Hippocrates,
and which proceed upon the fuppofition, that nature cures all flight difeafes.
When, however, they are acute or fevere, they demand the utmod ingenuity and
fkill of the ph>fician to moderate their violence; and it is then that their termina-
tion may be known by confulting the foregoing Table,
Of the UTILITY of the preceding TABLE.
NOW in order to {hew the great utility and convenience of this Lunar Table, in
deciding the event of any particular fit of likenefs, I {hall here date fome real pre-
dictions which were made, during the.indifpofition of fome of my patients, and for
whom the following horofcopes were erected.
3 a
3
and occult science.
I have placed the horofcope of this patient’s nativity over the figure of his de-
cumbiture; in order to fhew, by way of analogy, that fuch an indifpofition would
Cei tainly take place about this time, from the pofition of the fignificators, and their
particular configurations with the heavenly intelligencers, at the time of his birth.
For this reafon, the figure of the Tick perfon’s nativity fhould always be infpefted
where it can be had, becaufe it enables us the better to judge, in many intricate cafes,
whether the difcaie will terminate with life or death j
for although, in mod com-
mon maladies, it is pofiible to determine this queftion pretty accurately, by the help
of cue preceding Table, without the radical figure of birth, yet, where that can be
had, our judgment will in general be more certain, and often infallible.
In the above figure of the decumbiture of the patient, we find the Moon hath late-
ly tranfitcd the place of the Sun and Jupiter in the figure of birth ; and that this
place is in the fiery triplicity, afflicting the Moon in the radical point with a quar-
tile afpeft ;
at the fame time that the Moon and Mars beholding each other with a
trine, from fiery figns, at the time of birth, clearly fhews that the native would be
fubjedt to fevers of the inflammatory kind. But I {hall decline making any com-
ments an the temperature of the native, or the defignation of his fignificators at the
time
3*4 A KEY T'O PHYSIC,
time of birth ; as it is not my intention here to explain the mode of calculating a
nativity, that being already fufficiently demonftrated in my Uluftration of the Oc-
cult Sciences. All that can be neceffary here, is to give a few examples from the
decumbitures of different patients, compared with the horofcope of their nativity,
in order to fhew, by the Table, whether fuch fick perfons would live or die. And,
in doing this, it will be proper for thofe who wifli to be convinced of the truth and
exiftenceof the celeftial influx, to pay the ftridteft attention to the Moon’s places in
the Table, and what pofitions of the benefic or malefic afpedts {he tranfits, or comes
in configuration with ; for from thefe events will the malady of each particular pa-
tient be abated or increafed ; and from thefe of courfe mult our judgment be ulti-
mately drawn.
By the decumbiture of the patient now under confideration, we fee that the Moon,
at the time of his falling lick, was in twenty-two degrees forty minutes of Virgo.
To this I add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes of the zodiac, which brings her to
fifteen degrees ten minutes of Libra, and is her firft indicative place. At the time
fhe arrives here, I find, by examining the preceding horofcopes, that fhe is within
orbs of a fextile afpedt of Mars, which indicates a ftrong fever ; though not ex-
tremely ardent, owing to the Moon’s transiting the place of Venus in the figure of
birth. I now add, or pafs on to, twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more of the zo-
diac, which cuts an angle of forty-five degrees, and brings the Moon’s place to fe-
ven degrees forty minutes of Scorpio, which gives her judicial time, and furnifhes
the means of diredting our judgment whether a fevere or favourable crifis would
follow. To this end I infpedt the figures, and find that the Moon now comes to a
conjunction of the two benevolent planets Jupiter and Venus, which alone prog-
nofticates a favourable crifis j
and the more fo, as at this time the Moon nearly tran-
fits the place of Saturn in the horofcope of birth : accordingly, the patient became
much better, thefever decreafed, and his pulfe was more regular. From the Moon’s
judicial place in Scorpio, I now pafs on twenty-two degrees thirty minutes further,
which fhews her fecond indicative pofition, in ten minutes of Sagittarius ; where,
finding no particular afpedt of the principal ftars or luminaries, it portended little
or no alteration in the ft ate of the difeafe at this time *, and fo it happened. I now
advance twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, which {hews the place of the
Moon on that day to be in twenty-two degrees forty minutes of Sagittarius, where
{he produced the firft crifis of the diforder. It was now obfervable, that from the
laft indicative day to the time of this crifis, the patient fhewed figns of a delirium,
and rambled much in his talk, concerning riding of horfes, which exadly corref-
ponds with the nature of the fign where the crifis fell; but it was evident he would
recover from this, and be much mended, when the Moon formed her trine with
2 Saturn,
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 385
Saturn, to which flu* was approaching, in twenty-nine degrees twenty-fix minutes of
Sagittarius. When this afpedt was formed, the patient had vifibly recovered, and
the brain was never atter afiedted. I now proceed twenty-two degrees thirty mi-
nutes more on the zodiac, which brings the Moon to her next indicative day, in
fifteen degrees ten minutes ot Capricorn. PL re the two celeftial luminaries form a
quai tile, a difeordant afpedt, which gave the patient a relapie. Proceeding the next
twenty-two degrees thirty minutes, I come to the Moon’s judicial place, in ieven
degrees forty minutes of Aquaries. Here we find a mundane trine, formed by Ju-
piter and Venus with the Moon, and a zodiacal trine of Mercury, a plain demon-
ftration that the diforder mud abate, and that a favourable crifis would enfue. To
the feven degrees forty minutes of Aquaries, I add twenty-two degrees thirty mi-
nutes more, which brings the Moon to her l'econd indicative place, in ten minutes
of Pi fees. Viewing the decumbiture, I now find the Moon approaches to a
trine afpedt under the benign influence of Jupiter and Venus, w hich overcomes
the quartile of Mars, and indicates the difeafe would be completely conquered
by the next crifis. To afeertain the truth and manner of this, I proceed onwa ds
twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, which brings the. Moon to twenty-
two degrees forty minutes ot Aquaries, where the fecond grand crifis was to be pro-
duced. Now, upon maturely infpedting the decumbiture, 1 find the Moon, at the
time this patient was feized with his dilorder, was placed in her north node, and
contributed to the evil effedts of the other configurations ; but at the time of this
grand crifis, flic is fortunately pofited in her fouth node, thereby helping to deprel's
the vitiated humours of the body, and to overcome the difeafe. This poficion, con-
tributing to the favourable influence of the other configurations, reftored the pa-
tient from his bed of ficknefs, and his ftrength gradually increafed; fo that by the
time the Moon formed her conjundtion with Saturn, as exprefied on the face of
the heavens in the figure of his decumbiture, the mafs of blood was purified from
all feverifh fymptoms, and the patient was reftored to his accuftomed health and
ftrength. And thus we may fee, that by erecting the decumbiture, or figure of the
pofitions of the heavenly bodies, at the time any patient is feized, and proceeding in
this manner to afeertain the influence of the good or evil afpedts on the indicative,
judicial, and critical, days, we fhall, without difficulty, be able to determine whether
the dileafe will prove flight or dangerous, and bediredted accordingly in our regi-
men and mode of treatment. But in order to make this ipeculation ftill more obvi-
ous to the young practitioner, as well as to the curious reader, I fhall now proceed
to examine the decumbiture of a patient, whole difeafe was more malignant, and
proved fatal.
No. 25. 5 F DECUM-
" ^ ^ i X u r rl i S 1 C,
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 387
Thefe figures I eredted while refident in Briftol, at the requeft of my good friend
Dr. Till Adams, who being feizcd with a mali nant fever, accompanied with dan-
gerous fymptoms, and being himfelf a friend to, and an admirer of, the Occult
Sciences, was defirous of feeing the refult of fuch an enquiry, and of judging him-
fclf, by thefe means, whether hefhould live or die.
In confidering the fidereal effedt of the preceding figures, it is by no means requi-
fite to calculate the genethliacal prognoftications of the fevcn erratics at the time of
the native’s birth. It is however neceflary to notice their principal afpedls and po-
rtions in the horofeope, in order to determine whether the fame pofitions are tranf-
mitted, or fimilar or adverfe afpedts formed in the decumbiture, at the time the pa-
tient is taken ill; but no further or more minute fpeculation is required, fince we
are neither confidering the effeclof directions, nor the fate of a nativity ; but are en-
deavoui ing to prove, that, by only obferving the pofition of the heavens at the time
the patient is taken ill, the probable termination of the difeafe might be foretold,
and whether it would end in life or death. Firft, then, we may obferve, the Moon
is fituated in the eighth houfe, termed by the ancients thehoule of death, becaufeof
its obfeurity and pofition under the earth. Brfides this we find the Moon in op-
pofition to Saturn, who was her difpofitor at the time of birth; and from this afpect
fhe forms an oppofition with Venus, the lady of the doctor’s afeendant ; and imme-
diately approaches to an oppofition of the Sun, the fountain of life. Thefe are
three evil diredtions by pofition, and furnifh a veiy unfavourable profpedt of the
event of the difeafe. For the Moon, the giver of radical moilture, afflicted by the
adverfe rays of the Sun, the author of vital heat, fails not to produce fuch a putri-
fadtion of the animal juices, as to bring on a fpeedy diffolution of the body. Let
11s then examine the decumbiture by our Table, and fee how and when this fatal
event would take place.
At the time the patient fell fick, we find the Moon in ten degrees forty-fix mi-
nutes of Leo ;
to which add twenty-two degrees thirty minutes, for the firft indica-
tive time, which falls in three degrees fixteen minutes of Virgo; and indicates the
nature of the difeafe to be a fever; for the Moon, from this indicative place, be-
holds the Sun in the radical point with a baneful quartile afpecl ; and the Moon,
according to her own nature, was Saturnine, as departing from a fextie confirma-
tion with Saturn in the radix, to a quartile with Venus, lady of the afeendant, and
giver of life; and therefore, according to the aftral rules of the immortal Ptolomy,
this firft motion of the Moon from the radical point of the decumbiture indicated
evil. I now go forward twenty-two degrees thirty minutes more, for the firft judi-
cial day, w hich places the Moon in twenty-five degrees forty-fix minutes of Virgo.
Now as the Moon is not configurated at this judicial time with either of the planets,
2 neither
3 88 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
neither by tranfit in the nativity, nor afped in the decumbiture *, and her judicial
place falling in the twelfth houfe, the houfe of affliction, we cannot draw any fa
vourable judgment from thefe circumftances •, but on the contrary, a dangerous
crifis is to be expeded. ,To this judicial time, we add twenty-two degrees thirty
minutes more, and it brings the Moon fixty-feven degrees from the place (he oc-
cupied when the patient was feized with the diforder, and this is her fecond indica-
tive place, which falls in eighteen degrees fixteen minutes of Libra. Now, if we in-
fped the foregoing horofeopes, we fhali find the Moon, in approaching to this point,
has juft: departed from a baneful oppofition with Jupiter, which, having the dired
oppofite effeCt of a conjunction with that benevolent plajiet, which reprefents the
heart and vital principle, Ihews a contaminated or morbid ftate of the blood and
lymph. We likewife perceive the Moon is in quartde to her own radical place,
tranfiting at the fame time the body of Venus, and making this alpeCt the harbin-
ger of a fatally-approaching crifis. To determine this faCt, I proceed twenty-two
degrees thirty minutes further in the zodiac, which brings the Moon to ten degrees
forty-fix minutes of the fign Scorpio, at which point of time the crifis, or critical day,
of this patient’s difeafe occurred. Now oy infpeding the figures, we fhali perceive
this crifis is ulhered in by fuch evil configurations of the heavenly bodies, the fe-
cond caufes under nature, as would not only heighten the malady, and put it out
of the power of medicine to lubdue, but would infallibly terminate in death. In
the firft place we fhali notice, that the Moon tranfits the place of Saturn in the ra-
dical point ; fecondly, fhe is configurated in a malefic quartile afped of Saturn in
the decumbiture; thirdly, fhe is within orbs of a baneful quartile of Venus, lady
of the patient’s afeendant ; and fourthly, fhe is rapidly approaching to a quartile
configuration of the Sun, which is inimical to life and motion, without anyone
friendly afped of the benefic planet Jupiter intervening, to leffen or repel the male-
fic influence. Such, therefore, are the teftimonies, that under any kind of malady,
and wherever they occur, infallibly portend the death of the patient ; and they ac-
cordingly put an end to the exiftence of this much-refpeded man, whofe integrity
in his profeffion had gained him univerfal efteem, and renewed in him the ineftima-
ble character of the immortal Culpeper, who never, with a view to gain, gave two
medicines for the cure of an afflided fellow-creature, when one was fufficient.
But death levels all dsftindions ; and, in ftrid conformity with the time and manner
pointed out by the above decumbiture, it conduded the foul of this excellent man
from an earthly to an heavenly habitation, on the 20th of February, 1786, at the
time the Moon formed her quartile afped with the Sun, which was in eight days
from the time he was feized with the fever, and fix days after it was foretold by the
preceding horofeopes •, from whence, having forefeen the dodor’s fate, I compofed
an
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 3*9
an Elegy on his death, while he was yet alive, which 1 got printed, and publifhed
on the very day he expired, thus manifefting to the world, with the patient’s earned
approbation, an incontrovertible inltance of the verity of afiral prediction.
Having thus far endeavoured to prove the utility of the Lunar Table, by the in-
difpofition and recovery of Charles Thomas, apprentice to Mr. Hall, engraver to
his majefty, in the one cafe; and by the fickneis and death of Dr. Till Adams, in
the other; I fhall now, for the farther fatisfaCtion of the reader, prove, that it is
pofiible to judge whether a patient will live or die, from the horofeope of the de-
cumbiture only, without knowing or recurring to the horofeope of the patient’s na-
tivity, or time of birth. —To this end, the following axiom mult ever be remember-
ed : That if we find, at the time any perfon is feized with illnefs, that the Moon is
afflicted by more than one planet ;
and that on the next critical day file forms a con-
grefs with the malefic planets Saturn and Mars, either by conjunction, quartile, or
oppofition, the fick perfon fliall die on the day and hour in which the afflicted Moon
comes to the interficient point of the zodiac ; as the great Ptolomy declareth in his
16th Aphorifm :
“ We mult behold the motion of the Moon as fhe pafieth through
“ the critical, judicial, and mortal, days ; for if fhe be in them fortunate, it fareth
“ well with the patient ; but if unfortunate the contrary.” I fhall exemplify this by
the following example.
PREDICTION from a DECUMBITURE.
Being fent for to a perfon who fell Tick on the icth of April, 1791, and being de-
firous to know the event of his difeafe, l examined the face of the heavens at the ex-
ad time the patient was feized, viz. at half paft twelve o’clock at noon, when the
celeftial intelligencers were pofited as in the above decumbiture, and which are as
follow : the Moon, which in all decumbitures reprefents the fick perfon, isfituated
within the quartile influence of no lefs than four planets, Saturn, Mars, Mercury,
and the Sun ;
and, as they are all within orbs of a conjunction with each other, it
follows that the difeafe would bear defignarion of their joint pernicious influx,
which, fcientifically confidered, manifefts a fever, with putrefaction of the animal
juices, as thofe {killed in the aflral fcience will quickly fee. For the Sun’s burning
influence, in conjunction with Mars, a hot and violent planet, and Mercury being
controvertible in his nature, unites in the malefic rays of the Sun and Mars ; and, al-
though Saturn is conftitutionally cold, yet, being alfo dry, his cold quality is over-
balanced, inafmuch as drought participates of the qualities of heat, being fuel for
the fire. Yet the cold quality of Saturn fpecificates the difeafe, by {hewing that it
fprungfrom a cold caufe, or deathly cnill, extended over the whole circulating fyf-
tem, or mals of blood.
On examining the patient, he informed me he had drunk a quart of cold water,
being overcome with heat and third, and in a violent perfpiration, whence his blood
mult have been in a highly inflamed ftate. This feems eminently prenoted by the
Moon’s pofition in a watery fign, and a moveable one, at the fame t me in oppofi-
tion to the four planets above-mentioned, in fiery figns. Here, then, we at once
perceive the fource and malignity of the difeafe j
and finding neither of the benefic
ftars caft a fingle ray, either by body or afped, to the aphetic place, I thence con-
cluded i he patient mult inevitably die, notwithftanding the Moon was beheld by a
Textile configuration of Venus, which (Lengthened his nature, and fhewed that he
would greatly ftruggle with the malady. But as the teffimonies of evil arifing from
the joint influence of Saturn, Mars, Mercury, and the Sun, a r
e more and much
greater than the contra fupport afforded by Venus, 1 reafonably concluded the pa-
tient would die of the diforder, and that it was not in the power of medicine to fave
him. My next endeavour was to determine the hour of death. With this view I
look to the Table for the Moon in Cancer, and in the fifth column, on the left
hand, i find the degree the Moon was in at the time the patient was feized, viz.
7
30 ;
and then, gu ding my eye along till I come to the ninth column, I find 7 30 of
Libra-, now, Libra being oppofite to Aries, the malefic planets Saturn and Mars of
courfe fend their opp< fite malignant beams into tha' fLn, Saturn in ten degrees
eighteen minutes, and Mars in thirteen degrees twenty-fix minutes ; I therefore con-
cluded, that, when the Moon came to feven degrees thirty minutes of Libra in the
v xodiaCj
'otti
.Mane-Anfinnette ofj/ornzm kAiiftriai
\ Widow of3/ewto Ca/iefr /
^ Executed 7fi Tlcif 7721.
»jS 3031'.in i/ioJfirnine? /r c?.>
i fZws '
//1117 C.
'7/171/
AND OCCULT SCIENCE. 39 »
zodiac, thecrifis would take place, as may be feen at the top of the fifth column in
the Table*, and thac when the Moon came to ten degrees eighteen minutes, being
the oppofition of Saturn, a vifible change in the patient would take place for the
worfe; and that when file arrived at the thirteenth degree twenty-fix minutes of
that fame fign, thereby forming the oppofition with Mars, the difeafe would prove
mortal, and terminate in death. If, therefore, the duration of the difeafe be reckon-
ed by the motion of the Moon, we fhall find, without any enquiry from the nurfe
or dodlor, that the patient died about half pad four o’clock in the afternoon, on the
17th of April 1791, at which precife time the critical al'peifl on which the difeafe
turned was formed. Thus was afforded an incontcftible proof of the correCtnefs of
my Lunar 'Fable, and of the force and power of the planetary influx on fublunary
bodies. I fhall therefore conclude this decumbiture by the following axiom of
Hippocrates :
“ When the fick party taketh to his bed, you muff confider whether
“ the Moon departeth out of combuftion*, for then the ficknefs final 1 increafe till fhc
“ come to the oppofition of the Sun, by reafon that humours then increafe in man’s
“ body. If lhe then meet with good planets, it falleth out well; if with evil, the
M contrary,—in libro dejudicus irfirmitat fecundum Lunam.**
Of the DIFFERENCE betwixt a NATURAL and VIOLENT DEATH,
exemplified by the FATE of the late KING and QJ EEN of FRANCE.
WITH a view to teach the curious reader how to diftinguifii the aftral teftimo-
nies portending a violent death from thole which fortfhew our natural diffolution,
I fhall, by way of example, inveftigate the particular configurations which prenot-
ed the violent death of the late unfortunate Lewis XVI. king of France, and his
unhappy confort, Marie- Antoinette, of Auftria. For this purpolc I have annexed
a copper-plate engiaving of their nativities, with figures of the pofitions of the ce-
leftial intelligencers a: their coronation, and on the days of their execution. Who-
ever has peruled my Iiluftration of the Occult Sciences, will have feen, that in my
prediflions, publilhed in the year 17S6, 1 foretold the revolution in the French
empire, and the dethronement and execution of the French king and queen, fix
years before it happened ; with all the dreadful conlcquences appertaining thereto,
txa&ly as they have fince /alien out; and whoever lives to fee the uplhot of a few
years, will alfo fee every other part of my predictions literally fulfilled. 1 could
even now publiTh to the world the fuccefs and termination of many great events,
which all men are anxious to know, though few perhaps, would believe, were I at
liberty to dilclofe them. The fafetyof particular individuals, the well being of the
ftatr, the peace of Idciety, the profperity of emp res, hang upon the iffuc oi a few
revolving periods ; and, though wife the age we live in, yet few would brook the
* '
2 admoni tions
admonitions of a friend, though they ffiould lead to profperity and riches—to
glory and renown.— The uncommon pofitions of the heavenly bodies, which are
the fecond caufes in the fecret operations of Nature, are at this time well worthy
the attentive confideration of the naturalift and fpeculative philufopher. Their
mundane influence is by no means confined to the nations of Europe, but threaten
the ruder and more widely extended realms with the effeCt of a convulfive ftroke.
God, in his unbounded favour to the Britifh ifles, will overlhadow and protect
them: and it is not impoffible but the day may come, when the humble author of
thefe remarks may beat liberty to amplifiy and develope the fubjeCt in fome future
publication.
Lewis XVI. was born the 23d cf Auguft, 3I1. 50m. P. M. 1754. The fign Sa-
gittarius afcended upon the eaftern fine ter of the horizon, intercepted by Capricorn;
wherefore Jupiter and Saturn are the lords of his afcendant, and, with the Moon in
the tenth houfe, reprefent his perfon. From the nature and quality of thefe fignifi-
cators, we may deduce the following inferences : that Saturn, being in the alcend-
ant, gave the native a wavering and irrefolute difpofition ; the Moon, pofited in
Scorpio, gave him a tafte for luxury; and Jupiter, being co-fignificator in the
eighth houfe, in afpeCt with Mercury, render him mild and pafiive, yet declare that
his principal aCtions fhall be attended with difappointment, and produce him much
anxiety, vexation, and infult. In the royal hereditary figure of birth, we find four
planets occupying the houfe of death ; and as the Moon, giver of life, is difpofedof
by one of thofe planets, it is an argument that he would not live to an old age.
The precifetime of death is only afcertainable by bringing up the feveral directions
of the nativity : and, as the method of doing this is already amply explained in my
Jlluftration of the Occult Sciences, we muft refer thofe who chufe to work them
up, for any affiftance they may want, to the rules there laid down. Suffice it here,
that we point out thofe teftimonies from the face of the nativity, that are always
found to be arguments of a violent death. Thefe are, firft, Saturn in the afcend-
ant, pofited in a violent fign. Secondly, the Moon, giver of life, configurated with
the violent fixed ftar Chaslae. Thirdly, the lord of the afcendant malevolently con-
joined with the lord of the houfe of death. Fourthly, the two lights of the world
deprefied in the eighth houfe. And, fifthly, the Moon, elevated in the dignities of
an infortune, and Mars, her difpofitor, having his fall in a human fign, plainly de-
monftrates that the native fhould fall by the hand of man. And this was unhappi-
ly verified by his execution, on the 21ft day of January, at twenty-two minutes paft
ten in the morning ; at which time thefe malefic directions came up, as reprefented
in the figure of his execution, in the preceding plate. At that fatal moment we find
the Sun, the light of time, was in his detriment ; that Mercury, the fignificator of
the
393
AND OCCULT SCIENCE.
i
the French people, occupied the culp of the tenth houfe, tranfitting the place of
Saturn, the king's fignificator, at the time of birth ; that the two malefic planets
Saturn and Ma:s are in reception of each other ; and that the Moon, the fignifica-
tor of life, is Unrounded with violent fixed ttars, in oppofition to the benign planet
Jupiter, in angles, and in quartile to Mars, her d.fpoficor in the horolcope of birth;
all which peculiar configurations are lo many tlrong and irrefiflible arguments
of the rclolution of the people to proceed to extremities, and of the irrevocable
fate of this unfortunate monarch. For although Jupiter, his co- fignificator, is ob-
served to fend a friendly ray to the aphetic place, yet having no dignities, and being
difpofed of by Mars, the fignificator of the convention, this benefic afpeft was de-
prtfied, and its influence overcome, by the redundancy of a malefic influx. This
admirably points out the druggies of Dumourier, who flew to Paris in the hope of
being able to preferve the life of his king; but his endeavours were quickly borne
down by the violence of the leading faction, and there was not a man to be found
who had courage enough to fecond his heroic intentions. This alfo, by the rules
of the fidereal fcience, is clearly prenoted by the circumflance of Mars being the
difpofuor of Jupiter; and that Mars is difpofed of by Saturn, the author of pufil-
lanimity and fear. Thus the afeendant of birth fliews that want of refolution and
intrepidity in the native, which, if exerted in the favourable moment, would have
turned the daggers of his enemies towards their own breads, and have permanently
fecured himfelf and his poderity on the throne; and thus the figure of his decumbi-
ture points to the fatal execution of the guillotine, and proves, that although the
native fprung from a mod illudrious houfe, having the two fuperior planets for his
fienificators, ahd although he was a king, at one time beloved and idolized by his
people, yet that he was but a man, lubjeft to the fevered reverfe of fortune, and
doomed to as ignominious an end as the viled of hisfubjefts !
The elegant and accomplifhed confort of this unfortunate monarch was born on
the 2d of November, 1755, 7h. 23m. P. M. as exprefled in the plate. In the figure
of her nativity, we find the Moon is lady of the afeendant, rifing upon the fign Li-
bra, in the fifth houfe, the houfe of plealure and fexual enjoyment; of which, it is
more than evident, fhe was pafllonately fond. Mars being poficed on the afeend-
ant, in his efiential dignities, fliews her to have been datel), audere, and proud ;
yet predi6s that fhe would be unfortunate in her connections, ami impatient of con-
troul. This is the more obvious, becaufe Mars, the fignificator and influencer of
her paflions, is dignified in her afeendant, though approaching to an oppofition of
Saturn, lord of the feventh and eighth houfes, who is likewife configurated in his
efiential dignities, and, more extraordinary dill, is pofited in the exaltation of Mars.
No. 25. 5 H This
391 A KEY TO PHYSIC,
This gave her an unconquerable fpirit, and ftrong natural pa (lions, with an infatia-
ble appetite for intrigue, united to an inconftant and arbitrary turn of mind. This
is ftill moreftrongly demonftrated by the prefence of four planets in the fifth houfe,
and two of them afpedted in the fign Scorpio. That her reputation would be ar-
raigned by the voice of the multitude, is forefhewn by the Dragon’s Tail being in
the tenth houfe, the houfe of dignity and honour-, and the treachery of her confi-
dants is pointed out by Mercury being in the fixth houfe, in his detriment, and in
oppofition to the Part of Fortune. That her confort would be involved in misfor-
tunes, and fufFer greatly on her account, is made manifeft by Saturn, the fignifica-
tor of the king, being in oppofition to Mars and the Moon, lady of her afcendant,
in baneful quartile to both the infortunes. Indeed, there never was a nativity yet
made public, wherein the infortunes were fo mifchievoufiy configurated, or wherein
the general fignificators fo confpicuoufly denoted individual misfortune and univer-
fal rage. But I fhall pafs over, for the prefent, any farther remarks on the unfortu-
nate defignation of the fignificators in this nativity, and notice them no farther than
as they point out the teftimonies of a violent and premature death. Thefe are, Firfi,
the Sun and Venus, configurated with a violent fixed fiar, in a violent fign. Se-
condly, Mars afcending to the violent fixed ftar Hercules ; and the fign afcending
being of a violent nature. Thirdly, the lord of the eighth houfe, the houfe of
death, afflidting the Moon in the aphetic place. Fourthly, the lord of the fixth
houfe afflidting the Moon, the lady of the afcendant, and fignificator of life, with
a malefic quartile ray, the harbinger of violence, and the prefage of death.
Thus we may obferve, that one of the principal luminaries is afflidted by both the
infortunes, and the other is pofited in a violent fign, denoting a violent death.
Again, the lord of the eighth houfe, a malevolent planet, afflidted by the quartile
rays of an infortune by nature, is another prefage of untimely death. Alfo the lady
of the afcendant, in a violent fign, banefully configurated with the infortunes, and
the difpofitor of the luminaries in a violent fign, is an irrefragible proof of an ap-
proaching untimely death. Now, the Moon, who is lady of the afcendant, having
her fall in a human fign, portends a violent death by the hand of man; and, if we
examine the face of the heavens at the time of her execution, we fhall find her death
proceeded from the violence of an ufurped power, occupying the feat ofjuftice for
the Moon, elevated in her afcendant at the time of birth, is raoft remarkably confi-
gurated in the fall of the Sun at the time of her execution ; and that fame fign cul-
minating on thecufp of the tenth houfe, the houfe of juftice, and the Sun being po-
rted therein his fall, in conjundtion with Mercury, mod aptly defcribes the man-
ner of the native’s death. Mercury who is the natural fignificator of the French
-people, being in his effential dignities, elevated, and in reception of Venus, lady
3 thereofj
m
AND OCCULT S C I E N C E.
thereof; and Mars beholding Jupiter with a quartile ray, pofitcd in the twelfth
houfe, and lord of the afcendant of death ;
and the Moon, lady of the afcendant of
birth, being within orbs of an oppofition of Mars and Venus, who have their fall in
the houfe of dignity and honour; all tend to fore (hew that royalty is deftroyed in
France; as is mod wonderfully prenoted in thehorofcope of the coronation. And
what is very remarkable, at the time of the French monarch’s death, the Sun, which
is king among the planets, was pofited in his own detriment, or in that peculiar
point of the heavens, which is oppolcd to his own houfe ; and at the time of the un-
fortunate queen’s execution, the Sun was in his fall, without a Angle dignity to fup-
port him, as is molt clearly evinced by the horolcopes in the preceding plate; fo
that we may fay, the ftars in their courfes fought againft this illu ftrious pair, as they
fought againft Silera of old; and thus we may perceive, that the molt valiant, and
the molt courageous, are not proof againft the fhafts of fate ; but that the nobleft,
and molt glorioufty clad, whether in honour, glory, or renown, are but like the ofF-
fpring of plants, which have their fpringing up, their flowering, and their fragrant
maturity; until, plucked by a rude hand, they wither, fade, and die, and return no
more !
Erratum. Page 3S2, line 10. for likenefs read illnefs.
INDEX
INDEX t
AIR, as contributing to the health or difeafe of the human
body, 1
63 ; various kinds, 168.
Anemone, 57, 58.
Anger, various effects of, r 3j .
Angina pedtoris, an uncommon diforder, 227.
Animalcula infuforia, 70.
Animalcules, various kinds, 62; the caufe of many difeafes,
76; particularly of bad teeth and olfentive breath, 78.
Animal flowers, 56; cluttered, 57; the Barbadoes, 59.
Animal magrietifm, 257; Dr. Bell’s procel's, 258; argu-
ments to prove that animal magnetifm is the caufe offym-
pathy in man and other animals, and even in plants, 276.
An imais can exift without air, 74.
Atoms, nature of, 23 ;
properties, magnitude, figure, weight,
and motion, of, 24.
Bel! flower animalcule, or plumed polypus, 66.
Brutes, an enquiry into the nature of, 49 ;
curious inftances
of friendlhip among brutes of different ipecies, 91 ;
Bou-
geant’s curious hypothefis, 104.
Cantharides, their effects on the body, 3 49.
Conception, progrefs of, and growth of the foetus, illuf-
rrated with curious plates, 311; remarkable conceptions,
owing to the conflict of the male and female procreative
tinctures, 332.
Crilis, or 'critical turn, of a difeafe, 376.
Difeafes, divided into hereditary and accidental, 289; at
what time hereditary difeafes are communicated to the fic-
tus, ‘308; difeafes mafeuline, or lblar, 338; Hippocra-
tes’s inftruefiens for the cure of flight difeafes, 381.
Eels in paite, 63.
Eledtricity, medical, 241 ;
curious experiments, 246.
Exercife, as conducive to health, 167.
Fear, extraordinary effects of, 183 ; a ludicrous anecdote,
189.
Firft matter explained, 22.
Fixed air, as a medicine, 239.
Fkwer-fhh, their remarkable properties, 37.
Foetus, how nourithed in the womb, 313 ;
its growth, and
.
the diforders occafioned thereby, 313, 314, Sec.
Food, its nature and qualifies, 138.
Fox, ‘fagacity of, Sec. 1/7.
France, king and queen of, their nativities examined, 392.
Generation, occult properties of, in plants and herbs, 39.
Globe-animal, various kinds, 67.
God, his exiftence clearly pointed out, 4.
Grief,' a deftructive paflion, 194.
Hair-like infect, 62.
Flare, account of the, 113.
Health, rules for preferving, 233 —239. ,
Heaven, enquiries into the nature and fituation of, 7.
Hunter, Mr. curious experiments made by him, 338.
Jackall, vulgarly cailed the lion’s provider, 122.
Impotency, fometimes occafioned by fear, 189; other caufes
of it, 191; cure, igq.
Impregnation, the procefs of, 290.
Infect with net-like arms, 69.
lnltinct diftinguilhed from reafon, 8t, 82; curious inftances
of, in various animals, Sc — 112; bees, 82 ; caterpillars,
and warps, 84; a cat, 85 ;
crows, 8,3, 91 ;
cuckows, 86 ;
holies, 91, 97; ravens, 92; elephants, with foine uncom-
mon anecdotes, 93; dogs, 99; the land-crab, 109.
Intemperance, deftructive eh lets of, iSt.
Longevity, remarkable inftances of, 144; caufes of, 147, Sec.
Love, its foundation and effects, 195.
Lunar Table; pointing out the various turns of a difeafe, 380 ;
explained by the nativities and decumbitures of Charles
Thomas and Dr. Till Adams, Sec. 382, &c. farther ex-
plained by a decumbiture only, 389.
DIRECTIONS for P
Frontifpiece to face the Title.
Syflem of the Interior Heaven page 8
Symbol of the univerfal Spirit of Nature 28
Polypes and Animal Flowers 62
Animalcules ’
74
Electrical Stars 24.6
C'ryttais formed from Salts 256
THE
THE KEY.
Lunar Tin flare, its action on female conftitutions, 317—33 2;
with cafes annexed in proof of its efficacy, in irregularity
of themenfes, 323 ; green iicknefs, 324 ;
fluor albus, 327 ;
barrennefs, 33
1
; recommended to all married women’,
335 ;
and to women at the turn of life, 336,; cafe of a
tainted habit in a ftate of pregnancy relieved by this me-
dicine, 360.
Man confidered in his various relations, 122; varieties of
the human fpecies, as enumerated by Linnaeus, 126 ; how
arranged by Dr. Gmelin, 126, See. how differing from
brutes, 127; natural hiftory of man, 129; confiderations
on the indifpofitions and difeafes of, 280; formed oiigi-
nally perfect, and capable of propagating from his own
efience, 285 ; reparation of the male and female effences in
the formation of Eve ;
286 ;
man’s fall, 287; thence be-
came fubjeCt to difeafe and death, 289.
Melancholy, enquiry into the caufes of, 204.
Mole, or talfe conception, 315,
Monllers, 127.
Nature, definition of it,
9 ; its properties, vifible and occult,
explained, 13.
Nutrition in the animal economy, 155.
CEfophagus, a dangerous affection of, 232.
Pallions of the mind, 1 83—205.
Perfpiration, infenlible, a medium whereby bad humours are
carried off, 346.
Pipe-animal, 68.
Polypus, 56, 60.
Pregnancy, difeafes attendant on, 332.
Prognoffics of difeafes, 205.
Proteus, a curious animalcule, 64.
Puberty, the changes it produces in the human fyftem, 302,
Quickening, action of, eleferibed, 342.
Rabbit, great fecundity of, 115.
Salivation, accidental, a curious cafe, 36r.
Scent, 1 1 2—122.
Scrophula, its progrefs in undermining the human frame,
35 °-
Sea-anemone, 58.
Sea-carnation, 59.
Sleep, a due regulation of, 172.
Solar and Lunar Tincture, two medicines invented by the au-
thor, 3 17.
Solar Tincture, itsaftion on the blood, 350 ; diredlions for its
ufe in the lcurvy and king’s evil, 352 ; with a remarkable
cafe, 353 ;
cafes of premature debility, 355 ;
weak nerves,
356; nocturnal emiffions, or incontinence of the femen,
357 ;
onamifin, 358; tainted habit, 359 ; tabes dorfalis,
or confumption of the back, 3 62 ; rheumatic gout, 363;
fpafms, cholic, and bloody flux, 364 ;
difeafes of the brealt
and lungs, afthma, dropfy, or confumption, 365 ; mental
depreffion, ibid, bile on -the ftomach, 366 ; bite of a macl
dog, Sec. 3 06 ;
gun-Ihot wounds, cuts, ftabs, &c, 369;
cafes of (apparently) Hidden death, 371.
Spermatic animals, 69, 72, Scc.
Stag, his fagacity in avoiding the hunters, 117.
Sympathy and antipathy in natural bodies, 29, 279; -in
brutes, 49, 277 ;
operate very powerfully on females in a
ftate of pregnancy, 334.
Teeth, how to cleanfe and preferve, 78; other remarks on
them, 80.
Turn of life in women, the danger attending this period,
and cautions to be gblerved, 35b.
Valetudinarians, advice to, 233.
Water- creffes, diforders caufcd by, 76.
Wheel-animal, or vorticella, 65.
Wolf, natural hiftory of, 118.
Worm, acquatic, 69.
LACING the CUTS.
Animal Magnetifm j6o
Progrefiive Formation of the Foetus, Plate I. 311
Ditto Plate II. 312
The Aflion of Conception 344
The Infenlible Perfpiration 349
Nativities of the King and Queen of France 39
1
END.
A E N D I X
P P
TO
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
HAVING given a minute defcription of the plants and herbs contained in
Culpeper’s Britifh Herbal, with their medical properties and effefts, I fhall
L-proceed to an inveftigation of feme foreign trees, plants, and herbs, that
are now in general ufe amongft us. And firft, of the
PERUVIAN, or JESUIT’S BARK.
CORTEX PERUVIAN US, called alio quinquina, kinkinna,
quina-quina, pul-vis
patrum, and popularly the Jef
nit's bark, is the bark of a tree, growing in the Weft-
Indies, called by the Spaniards palodecaknturas, q. d -fever-wood , by reafon of its ex-
traordinary virtue in removing all kinds of intermitting fevers and agues. The In-
dians commonly call it the fuddling- tree, from the property it has of intoxicating fifti-
es, when either its wood or bark is beaten, and fteeped in the water where they are.
The tree that yields this noble fpecific, is only found in Peru, in the Province of
San Francelcode Quito, or Quinto, near the city ot Loxa j though fome fay it is
alfo found in that of Potofi; and F. Labat in the iftand of Guadeloupa. The
bark, while on the tree, is ftreaked, of a whitifh >ellow without-fide, and a pale tan-
colour within.
The Spaniardsdiftinguifh four forts of this precious bark, viz. th tcafcarilla colorada,
or reddifh bark ; amarylla,
or yellowifti ^
cre/pilla,
or curling ; and blanca, or whitifh.
Thzcolorada and amarylla are reckoned the beft : the crefpilla is the produce of the
d fame
2 APPENDIX TO
fame fort of tree, only growing in a cold frody climate, which impairs the quality
of- the bark, and renders it whitifli on the outfide, and cinnamon-coloured within,
and unfit for medicinal ufe. As to the blanca, as it is procured from another fpe-
cies of the tree of a much larger trunk, the leaves of a lighter green colour, and the
bark of a very thick fpongious fubftance, whitifh on the outfide ;
being withal fo
tough, as to require the force of an ax to dice it from the tree. When fird cut
down it is as bitter as the bed fort, and has then the fame virtue in the cure of inter*
mining fevers *, but when dry, and kept any length of time, it grows infipid, and
good for nothing. In reality, both forts are found to have much furer and quicker
effebts when green than when dry ; fo that the Europeans only come in for the fe-
cond-rate virtues : what is worfe, the bad fort is in great plenty, and the good is very
fcarce, and hard to come at: for which reafon, with a little of the fine bark fent
yearly to Panama, for Europe, large quantities of the word fort are ufually mixed.
The amarylla,
or fmall bark, which curls up like dicks of cinnamon, and which in
England is muchedeemed, as being fuppofed to betaken from the branches of the
tree, and therefore more efficacious in the cure of fevers, is only the bark of the
younger trees ;
which being very thin curls in this manner. For the bark of the
branches is never gathered •, it would not compenfate the charge of cutting. The
feafon of cutting the bark is in Augud, the only fettled dry time in the country.
After a tree has been barked, it requires eighteen or twenty years for a good bark to
grow again. Mr. Arrot, a Scotch furgeon, who had gathered the bark in the place
where it grows, is of opinion, that the gathering the better fort of bark will foon be
at end, or at lead very much reduced, partly by reafon of its didance from any in-
habited place, and the impenetrability of the woods were it grows, and partly by the
want of Indians to cut it, whofe race, through the cruelties of the Spaniards, is like-
ly to be totally extinft.
The mod accurate account we have ever received of the tree which produces the
quinquina, or true Peruvian bark, is from M. de la Condamine, who, in travelling
through fome parts of America, chofe the route of Loxa, where the fined bark is ga-
thered, and where the greated number of the trees is found j and, taking indruftions
from M. de Juffieu, informed himfelf concerning it. The quinquina-tree never
grows in the plains ; it is a condant inhabitant of the mountains, and is eafily known
from the trees among which it dands by its eredt growth, and its height when of
any confiderable age, as it always carries its head above the red, and alfo by its fize.
1'hefe trees are never found in clumps or cluders together, but always feparate or
Angle among other kinds. It is very rare, however, to find any large ones at this
time on the mountain where the bark is gathered, the great demand for it having
made
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERB \ L. 3
made them bark all the trees, and thcfe having all perifhed by it tor the old trees
never recover the barking, though the young ones frequently do.— -The bark is now
gathered at all times, if the weather be dry. When the bark is taken off, it is laid
in the fun till it is i^rfedlly dry ; the omitting this circumllance, and packing up
the bark while moitt, have occafioned it often to become mouldy, and fj>oil ; and
the merchants have attributed this to the taking it off in the wrong time of the
moon, when it was wholly owing to its being put into the fkin while too moift.
The leaves of the quinquina /raiftand on pedicles of about half an inch long : they
they are very fmooth and gloffy, and of a beautiful green ; but fomewhat paler on the
under fide than the upper. They are perfectly fmooth at the edges, and are of an ob-
long figure pointed at the end, and rounded at that part which joins to the ftalk.
They are from two and a half to three inches in length, and from an inch and an
half to two inches in breadth. The middle rib of the leaf is rounded on the upper
fide, and is ufually of areddifh colour, efpecially towards the pedicle ; and the whole
leaf often becomes red, when perfciftly mature. All the fmall branches towards the
top of the tree terminate in one or more clutters of flowers, which before they are
open, refemble in their fhape and colour thofe of the common lavender. When thefe
open they change their colour: each ftalk that fuftains one of thcfe clutters arifes
from the ala of one of the leaves, and divides into many fmall branches, each termi-
nated by a cup divided into five parts, which fuftains a flower refembling that of the
hyacinth. It is compofed of a pipe of three quarters of an inch long, which at the
end is divided into five, and fometimes into fix fegments. Thefe are of a beautiful
deep red within, and are ierrated round the edges in a very elegant manner. From
the bottom of the tube of the flower there arifes a white piftil, terminated by a long
green head; this arifes above the level of the fegments of the fower, and is furround-
ed by five ftamina, which fuftain apices of a pale yellow colour : thefe remain hid
within the flowers. The tube is of a dirty red, and is covered with a fort of whitifh
down. W7
hen the flower is fallen, the cup fwells in the middle into the form of an
olive, which by degrees grows into a fruit divided into two cells, which in drying
become fliorter, and the whole fruit rounder than in its natural condition.
This fruit finally opens longitudinally into two capfules, feparated by a membra-
naceous feptum, and coated by a thin yellowifh fkin ; the feeds are of a reddifh co-
lour, and in fhape are flattifh, and, as it were, fofiaceous •, they are not more than
the twentieth part of an inch in diameter, and arethickeft in the middle, becoming
thinner at each fide. The plancula feminalis lies in the very center of the feed, be-
tween two pellicles : thefe feeds are fattened in the manner or fo many leales to a
placenta of an oblong figure, pointed at the two extremities, lo as fomewhat to re-
2 fcmble
4 APPENDIX TO
femble a feed of the common oat, but that it is longer and flatter. This is joined to
the feptum, and has on that part a longitudinal furrow; but on the other fide is
convex, and fomewhat rough all over. Mem. Acad. Scienc. Par. 173S. By this
defcription it appears, that they were very ignorant of the nature and characters of
this tree, who, when it was firft introduced among us, called it a fpecies of febeften.
The ufe of this febrifuge feems to have been very long known to the natives, pro-
bably as early as 15CO, and their manner of taking it was by pounding the bark, and
laying it to infufe in water, and drinking the infufion ; their hatred to the Spaniards,
their conquerors, made them keep it a long time a fecret from them ; and when the
thing became known among the inhabitants of Loxa, it frill remained a fecret to the
reft of the world, and its great value was never generally known till the year 1653 ;
when the lady of the viceroy of Peru, the countefs de Chinchon, being long ill of an
intermitting fever, which would give way to none of the known remedies, the cor-
regidor of Loxa fent to the viceroy a quantity of the quinquina bark, which he allu-
red him would cure the lady, though all other means had failed. Upon this the cor-
regidor was fent for to Lima, and, after having given the medicine to many other
perfons with fafety and fuccefs, the lady at length took it and was cured. She imme-
diately on this fent for a large quantity of the bark, had it powdered, and herfelf
difperfed it to thofe who had occafion for it ; whence it obtained the name of the
countefs’s powder : but this lady being foon tired of the office, gave it in charge to
the Jeluits ; and they continuing to give it to the fick with the fame fuccefs, it then
was called the Jefuit’s powder. Thefe reverend fathers foon found means to fend
a quantity of it to cardinal Lugo, who difperfed it with the fame fuccefs at Rome
;
and after him the apothecary to the college gave it gratis to the poor with the fame
good effedts, and under the name of the Jefuit’s, or the cardinal’s powder : afterwards
the better lort were made to pay its weight in filverfor it, to defray theexpences of
its importation, while the poor ftill had it gratis. Lewis XIV. at that time dauphin
of.France, was cured by it of a fever, which had not given way to other medicines.
When the count and countefs of Chinchon returned to Spain, their phyfician, J uan
de Vega, who brought a great quantity of it over with him, fold it at a confiderable
price; and foon after this, large quantities were fent over by the galleons : but the
great demands from Europe caufing the inhabitants of Loxa to adulterate it with
other barks, it had like to have loft part of its juft praife. The quinquina-trees are
found at this time on all the chain of mountains adjoining to Cajanuma,and in many
other parts of America.
When bark was firft introduced, it is faidto have been fold for about eight ffiil-
lings fterling the dofe ; which great price, with the little effe&s found from it, by
reafon
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 5
reafon of their ignora .ceof the manner of preparing an ! preferibing ir, occafioned
its being diluted, till about the year 1679, that Mr. Talbor, anEnglilh practitioner
in plvyfic, brought it into vogue again, by the great number of cures wrought about
the court and city of Paris with this powder, prepared after his manner: the fee ret
whereofwas loon after made public by the munificence of LouisXIV. who rewarded
Talbor for the difeovery with 5,000 crowns. The preparation is about two ounces
of the cortex in powder, digefted in a land-heat, with about a quart of red wine :
after digeftion, the wine mull be poured off, and two or three ounces given every
three or four hours between the paroxyfms, till the intention is anfwered.
The quinquina is fold either in bark, or in powder : thole who buy it in the bark,
mull choofe it very dry and compact ; fuch as has never been moillcned, and which
will break dole and fmooth, is friable between the teeth, is eafily pulverized, and
yields a powder of a pale cinnamon colour. It has a multy kind of lmell, and yet
lb much of the aromatic as not to be dilagreeable. The inferior kinds, when bro-
ken, appear woody, and on chewing feparate into fibres. The female bark is confi-
derably thicker, whiter on the outlide, redder within, and weaker in fmell and tafte
than the former, and much inferior in medicinal virtue. The fmall, fine, quilled
barks, fhagrecned without, and reddifh within, of a bitter mully talle, are the molt
elteemed. The powder mult be well fifted, and care be taken to buy it of perfons
that may be trufted •, it being very ealy to fophifticate it, and difficult to find out the
fraud. The red bark, lately brought into reputation by the experiments of the in-
genious Dr. Saunders, pofiefies the virtues of the common bark in a much higher
degree. A quantity of it was introduced to London, as part of the cargo of a Spa-
nilh lh ip from Lima, taken by anEnglilh frigate in 1779 and carried into Lifbon.
Whether this is the bark of the trunk of full-grown trees, the branches, or young
trees yielding the pale bark, or whether the trees be of different fpecies, is not yet
accurately determined. In the province of Santa-Fe, there has been lately difeover-
ed two kinds of cinchona, one of which is the red bark of Peru, and the other, one
of the white lpecies.
The cortex is a bitter, abforbent, and aftringent, or ftyptic : from its bitternefs,
M. Reneaume obferves it becomes fit to foften lour acrimonious juices ; for a lour
and a bitter make a fweet. Again, as an abforbent, it blunts the points of acids,
and prevents their adlion ;
and, ol confequence, preferves the fluidity of the juices,
which acids would coagulate. As a ftyptic, it mull have earthy parts to ablorb le-
rofities, by which the parts, before moiftened and relaxed, will contract themlelves j
and, by this means, the cortex augments the fpring and tenfion of the fibres. As
a bitter, it warms and it facilitates perfp'raiion by warming and augmenting the
B fluidity
6 APPENDIX TO
fluidity of the juices. Its primary operation is that of ftrengthening the folids. On
thefe properties it is that its medical ufes are afcertained. Its chief ufe is in curing
of agues, and intermitting fevers •, for which purpofe it is applied in all ages and
moft conftitutions.— It produces this effed better than any other medicine of the
fame intention, in the ratio of 365 to 1. It is ufual to give a gentle emetic of ipeca-
cuanha before the exhibition of the cortex : by thus preparing the pafiages, the cor-
tex has not only more fuccefs, but alfo is notfubjedto caufethofe indifpofitions, viz.
fwelling in the belly, naufeas, &c. which often arife whenfuch preparation is neg-
leded. The cortex muft never be exhibited in the paroxyfm of an ague, or inter-
mitting fever ; but given in fuch a quantity, at times, between the paroxyfms, as
to prevent a return of the fit. The cortex exhibited in continual fevers, is held dan-
gerous *, and care muft be taken, that the remiflion of a continual fever be not mif-
taken for its intermiffion, which happens at particular or ftated times. The cortex
is given feveral ways, viz. in powder, in form of eledary, extrad, bolus, infufion,
tindure, &c. When the ftomach will bear it, the preparation in very fine powder
is the moil ufeful and agreeable.
If the bark take downward, Venice treacle, diafcordium, conferve of rofes, terra
Japonica, dofes of laudanum, &c. muft be added to its preparations. When there
happens to be an obftrudion of the menfes from the exhibition of the cortex, or to
prevent it, it isadvifable to add to its preparations black hellebore, aethiops mineral,
cinnabar, &c. The cortex is often ufed for young children in agues, by way of
clyfter •, and alfo applied to the wrifts, and foies of the feet, wrought up in a ftifF
mafs, with turpentine, Venice treacle, &c. which ufually anfwers the purpofe. Dr.
Helvetius, phyfician to the king of France, above twenty years ago, wrote a book
entirely upon the fubjed of curing agues by giving the cortex clyfter-wife; in which
he pretends, that this is more fafe, and no lefs certain, than the cortex given by the
mouth. Dr. Cockburn, in hisTreatife of Sea Difeafes, aflerts the contrary : he al-
leges, that the cortex given inwardly is as fafe, and much more certain and expe-
ditious ;
and notes, that we know how to remedy all the inconveniences the cortex
may occafion. Dr. Sydenham, and after him Mr. Reneaume, and others, have
prefcribed the the cortex, with fuccefs, in melancholic and hyfteric affedions, com-
monly called vapours.
The virtues of this medicine are at this time fufficiently known i but the largenefs
of its dofe in the common forms of powder, or infufion in wine or in water, are
great difad vantages ; and our common methods of giving it in theextrad or refin, as
we prepare them, not certain, and have their inconveniency. Mr. Geoffroy has
.attempted a method of giving the bark in all it efficacy, without its ill tafte, and in
one
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 7
one third of the ufual dofe, by means of its dry extraft $ twenty-four grains of
which, it is averted, contain the whole efficacy of a dram of the choice!! bark in
powder* Hence it appears very evident, that when we take the bark in fubftance,
it is only about a third part of what we are forced to fwallow that can be of any ufe
to us ; and that the fame portion is all we can expeCt in the virtues of any decoCtion
or infufion of it. Mem. Acad. Sci. Par. 1758.
Wine, which is a liquor partly aqueous, partly faline, and partly fpirituous, is a
menftruum much properer to extrad the virtues of the bark than mere water, as it
is much more able to diffolve the juices or fap condenfed and infpiflated in the bark
of the tree; and for this reafon a ftrong infufion of bark in this menftruum remains
clear, and keeps the refin fufpended when cold •, in which refped it differs from the
infufion in boiling water when cooled, as the refin precipitates itfelf. Thus it is the
fire alone which can fufpend the refin in a watery infufion of the bark ; and in a vi-
nous one, the fpirituous and inflammable part of the liquor does the fame thing:
and as the refin of the bark, which there is great reafon to believe pofteftes all the
virtues of that medicine, is wholly precipitated from watery infufions when cold,
it has been faid there can be but very little dependence placed on the common clear
infufions in this menftruum : the remaining tafte in thefe infufions is only a faint
bitternefs, which arifes from the gummofe and faline parts of the dried juices of the
bark : the whole concrete, which alone poflefies the virtue of the medicine, being
of the nature of thofe bodies properly called gum refins, which are but very imperfectly
foluble in water, and of which wine is the proper diflfolvent. It has been found, that
cold water aCting more gradually than boiling water, extracts both the gummy and
refinous principles of bark. And infufions made by macerating one ounce of bark
in fine powder, in eight or twelve of water, without heat, for twenty-four (or even
twelve) hours, have been fuccefsfully adminiftered in dofes (of the clear liquor) of
two or threeounces. It is acommon opinion, that bark in fubftance is more effectual
than any preparation of it. Lewis, Mat. Med.
Peruvian bark has been found very effectual in preventing colds. The method
in which it was ufed, in a cafe mentioned in the Philofophical TranfaCtions, was, af-
ter due preparation, by bleeding or purging, to take two ounces of it every fpring
and fall. By this method, an habitual taking of cold, and a confequent fore throat,
was curedi Phil. Tranf. No. 478. p. 3.
The antifeptic power of the bark has been abundantly evinced, and we have many
accounts of its great eflfeCts in the cure of gangrenes and mortifications. See Med.
Eff. Edinb. vol. iii. art. 5. We have alfo feveral accounts of the good effeCts of this
medicine in ulcers and the fmall-pox, and alfo in fcrophulous complaints.
The
APPENDIX TO
I
The bark probably in cafes of this kind throws off by fermentation a quantity of
fubtile vapour, or fixed air, which is fufficient to fat urate the acrimonious matter j
and even when the putrefaction has made farther advances, larger quantities of this
medicine will difcharge moie of the antifeptic vapour, which, reaching the blood,
will reftore its confiftence, and corredl its fharpnefs. Macbride’s Effays, edit. g. p.
140, &c. The bark has alfo been applied, in conjunction with other medicines, to
the cure of periodic head-achs, hyfterkal, hypochondriacal, vertiginous, and epilep-
tic, complaints. And it is a very ufeful medicine in weaknefs of the ftomach, uterine
fluxes, and fundry chronical difeafes proceeding from a laxity and debility of the
fibres.
Many infiances are recorded by medical writers of the jaundice, dropfy, afthma,
and all the train of nervous diforders, brought on in a furprifmg fhort time after an
injudicious adminiftration of the bark : among others, the curious may confult the
Med. Effi Edinb. vol. iv. art. 24. The Peruvian bark is difeovered to be effectual
in the cure of mortifications from an internal caufe. The Uiftcry of this difeovery is
:
in 1715, Mr. Rufhworth, furgeon in Northampton, gave it to a patient labouring
under a mortification j and having afterwards other proofs of its good effects in this
difeafe, communicated his difcovei;y in 1731. Mr. Amyand loon tried it in fuch ca-
fes, and found it fuccefsful in feven. Mr. John Douglas confirmed this by the hif-
tory of a patient of his, which he publifhed in 1732 j and Mr. Shipton loon after
related his fuccefs by this medicine, to the royal fociety. Mr. Rufhworth and Mr.
Amyand confirmed its ufe in mortifications from an internal caufe -
3 the former thinks
it is not proper in all cafes of that kind, particularly where there is nointermiffion in
the fever. Mr. Douglas feems to think it will fucceed in all mortifications. All
thefe three gentlemen gave half a dram for a dofe every fourth hour. Mr. Shipton
increafed the dofe to two fcruples, and gave it while the fever continued. He pro-
pofed to have it tried in nomae, phagedenas, herpes, or other chironion ulcers.
Some call the gentian-root the European quinquina, becaufe goodagainft intermit-
ting fevers. The fea-fide beech of Jamaica, or Cinchona Carribaea of Linnseus, is
a fpedes of the Jefutt’s bark, produced in Jamaica and the Carribee Hands, which
together with its virtues, has lately been accurately deferibed by Dr. Wright, who
has found it very efficacious in the dangerous remittent fevers of the Weft Indies •
and it has lately been adminiftered in London in intermittents, in which it has ef-
fected a cure as completely as the Peruvian bark. Phil. Tranf. vol.lxvii. 504. Med.
Com. vol. v. p. 398. part 2.
BREAD
'
‘
V
)
1
\
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 9
BREAD-FRUIT TREE.
TEIIS tree is called artccarpus, (from «§to?, bread, and fruit ;) and is
a genus of the monandria order, belonging to the monceciaclals of plants. It has
a cylindric amentum or catkin, which thickens gradually, and is covered with flow-
ers ; the male and female in a different amentum. In the male, the calyx is two-val-
ved, and the corolla is wanting. In the female, there is no calyx nor corolla the
ftylus is one, and thedrupa is many-celled.
Though this tree has been mentioned by many voyagers, particularly by Dam-
pier, by Rumphius, and by Lord Anfon, yet very little notice lee ms to have been
taken of it till the return of Captain Wallis from the South Seas, and flnce that
time by others who have touched at Otaheite and fome countries in EaPc Indies. Cap-
tain Dampier relates, that in Guam, one of the Ladrone Iflands, “ there is a certain
fruit called the bread-fruit, growing on a tree as big as our large apple-trees, with
dark leaves. The fruit is round, and grows on the boughs like apples, of the big-
nefs of a good penny loaf; when ripe, it turns yellow, foft, and fweet : but the
natives take it green, and bake it in an oven till the rind is black : this they fcrape
off, and eat the inflde, which is foft and white,, like the inflde of new- baked bread,
having neither feed nor {tone •, but if it is kept above 24 hours it is harlh. As this
fruit is in feafon eight months in the year, the natives feed upon no other fort of bread
during that time. They told us that all the Ladrone iflands had plenty of it. I never
heard of it in any other place.”
Rumphius, after defcribing the tree, obferves, that “ the fruit is fhaped like a
heart, and increafes to the fize of a child’s head. Its furface or rind is thick, green,
and covered every where with warts of a quadragonal or hexagonal figure, like cut
diamonds, but without points. The more flat and fmooth thefe warts are, the few-
er feeds are contained in the fruit, and the greater is the quantity of pith, and that of
a more glutinous nature. The internal part of the rind, or peel, conflfls of a flefliy
fubftance, full of twifted fibres, which have the appearance offline wool ; thefe ad^
here to, and in fome meafure form, it. The fiefhy part of this fruit becomes fofter
towards the middle, where there is a final! cavity formed without any nuts or feeds,
except in one fpecies, which has but a lrnall number, and this fort is not good, un-
lefs it is baked or prepared fome other way : but, if the outward rind be taken off, and
the fibrous flelh dried and afterwards boiled with meat as we do cabbage, it has then
the tafte of artichoke bottoms. The inhabitants of Amboyna drefs it in the liquor
of cocoa-nuts ; but they prefer it roafted on coals till the outward part or peel is
burnt. They afterwards cut it into pieces, and eat it with the milk of the cocoa-nut.
C Some
to APPENDIX TO
Some people make fritters of it, or fry it in oil ; and others, as the Sumatrians,
dry the internal foft part, and keep it to ufe inftead of bread with other food. It
2.ffords a great deal ofnourifhment, and is very fatisfying, therefore proper for hard-
working people : and, being of a gentle aftringent quality, is good for perfons of a
laxative habit of body.
<c
It is more nourifhing boiled in our mariner with fat meat than roafted on coals.
The milky juice which diftils from the trunk, boiled with the cocoa-nut oil, makes
a very ftrong bird-lime. This tree is to be found on the eaftern parts of Sumatra,
and in the Malay language is called foccus and foecum capas. It grows likewife about
the town of Bantam in Java, and in Ballegaand Madura, and is known there by the
name offoccnm
In Anfords voyage we are informed, “ that the rima, or bread-fruit tree, is com-
mon in all the Ladrone iflands and fome of the Philippines. It is fomewhat larger
than our apple-tree, and bears a broad dark-coloured leaf with five indentures on
each fide. The fruit hangs on boughs like apples : and is of the fize of a penny loaf,
with a thick tough rind, which when full-ripe turns yellow. The natives gather it
before it is quite ripe, a red bake it till the cruft is pretty black; then they rafp it, and
there remains a pretty loaf, with a tender yellow cruft, and the crumb of it is foft
and fweet as a new-baked roll : it is without eny feeds or (tones. This fruit the in-
habitants enjoy for about feven months ; during which they never eat any other kind
of bread : but they are obliged to bake it every day ; for, when it grows a little
Hale, it becomes harlh and bulky, fomewhat like the potatoe-bread made in the weft
of England. There is, however, a remedy for this ; which is cutting the loaf into
dices when it i-s new, and drying it in the fun, by which it is changed into the plea-
fanteft rulk that can be eaten.*’
Captain Cook, in his voyage, obferves, that this fruit not only ferves as a fub-
ftitute for bread among the inhabitants ofOtaheite and the neighbouring iflands, but
alfo, varioufly drafted, compofes the principal part of their food. It grows on a
tree that is about the fize of a middling oak ; its leaves are frequently a foot and an
half long, of an oblong lhape, deeply finuated like thofeof the fig-tree, which they
refemble in colour and confidence, and in the exfuding of a milky juice upon being
broken. The fruit is about the fize and lhape of a new-born child’s head : and the
furface is reticulated, not much unlike a truffle ; it is covered with a thin lkin, and
has a core about as big as the handle of a fmall knife. The eatable part lies between
the lkin and the core •, it is as white as fnow, and fomewhat of the confidence of new
bread ; it mull be roafted before it is eaten, being firft divided into three or four
parts; its tafte is infipid, with a flight fweetnefs fomewhat refembling that of the
crumb
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. it
crumb of wheaten bread mixed with a Jerufalem artichoke. This fruit is alfo cook-
ed in a kind of oven ,
which renders it foft, and fomething like a boiled potatoe; noe
quite fo farinaceous as a good one, but more fo than thofe of the middling fort. Of
the bread-fruit they alfo make three difhes, by putting either water or the milk of
the cocoa-nut to it, then beating it to a pafte with a (lone peftle, and afterwards
mixing it with ripe plantains, bananas, or the four pafee which they call mahie.
Themahie, which is likewife made to ferve as a fuccedaneum for ripe bread fruit
before the feafon comes on, is thus made : the fruit of the bread-tree is gathered
juft before it is perfectly ripe ; and, being laid in heaps, is clofely covered with
leaves : in this ftate it undergoes a fermentation, and becomes difagreeably fweet :
the core is then taken out entire, which is done by gently pulling out the (talk, and
the reft of the fruit is thrown into a hole which is dung for that purpofe generally in
the houfes, and neatly lined in the bottom and fides with grafs : the whole is then
covered with leaves, and heavy ftones laid upon them ; in this ftate it undergoes a
fecond fermentation, and becomes four, after which it will fuffer no change for many
months. It is taken out of the hole as it is wanted for ufe ; and, being made into
bails, it is wrapped up into leaves and baked : after it is clreffed, it will keep five
or fix weeks. It is eaten both cold and hot ; and the natives feldom make a meal
without it, though to Europeans the trfte is as difagreeable as that of a pickled olive
generally is the firft time it is eaten. The fruit itfelf Is in feafon eight months in
the year, and the mahie fupplies the inhabitants during the other four.
To procure this principal article of their food (the bread-fruit) cofts thefe happy
people no trouble or labour except climbing up a tree ; the tree which produces it
does not indeed grow fpontaneoufly ; but, if a man plants ten of them in his life-time,
which he may do in about an hour, he will as completely fulfil his duty to his own
and future generations as the native of our lefs temperate climate can do by plough-
ing in the cold of winter, and reaping in the lummer’s heat, as often as thefe feafons
return ;
even if, after he has procured bread for his prefent houfehold, he Ihould
convert afurplus into money, and lay it up for his children.
There are two fpecies of artccarpus, viz. the incifus, with gaftsed leaves ; and the
integrifolia, with entire leaves. There is alfo laid to be another diftinbtion, into
that which bears fruit with ftones or feeds, and that in which the fruit has none.
The parts of frudtification of that tree which bears the fruit without ftones are defec-
tive. The amentum, or catkin, which contains the male parts, never expands.
The ftyli, or female part of the fruit, are likewife deficient. From which it follows
that there can be no ftones or feeds, and therefore that this tree can be propagated
only by fuckers or layers j although it is abundantly evident that it mult originally
have
*& APPENDIX TO
Have proceeded from the feed-bearing bread-fruit tree. Inftances of this kind we
fometimes find in European fruits •, fuch as the barberry, and the Corinthian grape
from Zant commonly called currants, which can therefore be increafed only by lay-
ers and cuttings. Dr. Solander wasaffured by the oldeft inhabitants of Otaheite and
the adjoining Hands, that they well remember there was formerly plenty of the feed-
bearing bread-fruit j,
but they had been negle&ed upon account of the preference
given to the bread-fruit without feeds, which they propagate by fuckers.
CASHEW - NUT TREE.
ANACARDIUM, the cafhew-nut tree, is a genus of the monogynia order, be-
longing to the decandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking under
the 1 2th order, Holoraceae. The characters are : The calyx is divided into five
parts, the divifions ovate and deciduous ; the corolla confifts of five reflected pe-
tals, twice the length of the calyx; the ftamina confifts of ten capillary filaments
fhorter than the calyx, one of them caftrated the antherae are fmall and roundifh :
the piftil has a roundifh germen ; the ftilus is fubulated, infledted, and the length
at the corolla ; the ftigma oblique: there is no pericarpium ; the receptaculum
is very large and flefhy : the feed is a large kidney-ftiaped nut, placed above the
receptaculum.
Of this only one fpecies is as yet known to the botanifts, viz, the occidenrale.
It grows naturally in the Weft Indies, and arrives at the height of 20 feet in thofe
places of which it is a native ; but cannot be preferved in Britain without the grea-
teft difficulty. The fruit of this tree is as large as an orange * and is full of an acid
juice, which is frequently made ufe of in making punch. To the apex of this fruit
grows a nut, of the fize and fliape of a hare’s kidney, but much larger at the end
which is next the fruit than at the other. The fhell is very hard ; and the kernel
which is fweet and pieafant, is covered with a thin film. Between this and the fhell
is lodged a thick, blackifb, inflammable, liquor, of fuch a cauftic nature in the frefh
nuts, that, if the lips chance to touch it, blifters will immediately follow. The
kernels are eaten raw, roafted, or pickled. The cauftic liquor juft mentioned is
efteemed an excellent cofmetic with the Weft-India young ladies, but they muft
certainly foffer a great deal of pain in its application ; and, as fond as our Britifh fe-
males are of a beautiful face, it is highly probable they would never fubrnit to be
flayed alive to obtain one. When any of the former fancy themfelves too much tan-
ned by the fcorching rays of the fun, they gently ferape off the thin outfide of the
ftone, and then rub their faces all over with the ftone. Their faces immediately
fv/ell
16
I
C U L P E P E R’s BRITISH H E R B A L. i
3
fwell and grow black : and the {kin being poifoned by the cauftic oil above-men-
tioned, will in thefpace of five or fix days come entirely off in large flakes, fo that
they cannot appear in public in lefs than a fortnight ; by which time the new fkin
looks as fair as that of a new-born child. The negroes in Brazil cure themfelves
effectually of diforders in the ftomach by eating of the yellow fruit of this tree ; the
juice of which, being acid, cuts the thick tough humours which obftruCted the free
circulation of the blood, and thus removes the complaint. This cure, however, is
not voluntary : for their matters, the Portuguefe, deny them any other fuftenance •,
and letting themloofe to the woods, where the cafhew-nuts grow in great abundance,
leave it in their option to perifh by famine or fuftain themfelves with this fruit.
The milky juice of this tree will ftain linen of a good black, which cannot be
wafhed out.
This plant is eafily raifed from the nuts, which fliould be planted each in a fepa-
rate pot filled with light fandy earth, and plunged into a good hot- bed of tanners
bark-, they muff alfo be kept from moiftuie till the plants come up, otherwife the
nuts are apt to rot. If the nuts are frefb, the plants will come up in about a month •,
and in two months more, they will be four or five inches high, with large leaves :
from which quick progrefs many people have been deceived, imagining they would
continue the like quick growth afterwards; bur, with all the care chat can be taken,
they never exceed the height of two feet and an half, and for the moft part fcarcely
half as much. The Indians eat the nuts flightly roafted, dipped in water or wine,
and fprinlded with fait, as a provocative to venery, to which they are found a mod
remarkable ftimulus. Thejuice will flop a diarrhoea, and cure a diabetes; and the
oil is ufed by painters to give their colour a lading black, and to preferve wood from
putrefaction.
CANELLA ALBA.
THE canella alba is a genus of the monogynia order belonging to the dodecandria
clafs of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the twelfth order, holora-
ceae. The calyx is three-lobed; the petals are five ; the anthers fixteen, growing
to an urceolated or bladder-fhaped neftarium ; and the fruit is a trilocular berry,
with two feeds. There is but one fpecies, the alba; which grows ulually about
twenty feet high, and eight or ten inches in thicknefs, in the thick woods of mod
of the Bahama iflands. The leaves are narrow at the dalk, growing wider at their
ends, which are broad and rounding, having a middlerib only ;
they are very fmooth,
and of a light fhining green. In May and June the flowers, which are pentapeta-
lous, come forth in clufters at the ends of the branches : they are red, and very fra-
grant, and are fucceeded by round berries, of the fizeof large peas, green, and when
No. 27. D ripe
14 APPENDIX TO
ripe (which is in February) purple, containing two fhining black feeds, flat on one
fide, otnerwife not unlike in fhape to a kidney-bean : thefe feeds in the berry are en-
veloped in a flimy mucilage. The whole plant is very aromatic, the bark particu-
larly, being more ufed in diftilling, and in greater efteem in the more northern parts
of the world than in Britain.
The bark is the canella alba of the (hops. It is brought to us rolled up into long
quills, thicker than cinnamon, and both outwardly and inwardly of a whicifh co-
lour, lightly inclining to yellow. Infufions of it in water are of a yellowifh colour,
and fmell of the canella ; but they are rather bitter than aromatic. Tinbtures in
rectified fpirit have the warmth of the bark, but little of its fmell. Proof- fpirit dif-
folves the aromatic as well as the bitter matter of the canella, and is therefore the
beft menftruum.
The canella is the interior bark freed from an outward thin rough one, and dried
in the fhade. The fhops dilfinguifli two forts of canella, differing from each other
in the length and thicknefs of the quills : they are both the bark of the fame tree
;
the thicker being taken from the trunk, and the thinner from the branches. This
bark is a warm pungent aromatic, though not of the moil agreeable kind ; nor are
any of the preparations of it very grateful.
Canella alba is often employed where a warm ftimulant to the ftomach is neceffa-
ry, and as a corringent'of other articles. It is now, however, little ufed in compofi-
tions by the London college ; the only official formula which it enters being the pul-
vis aloeticus : but with the Edinburgh college it is an ingredient in the tindtura araa-
ra, vinum amarum, vinum rhei, &c. It is ufeful as covering the take of fome other
articles.—This bark has been confounded with that called winter’s bark, which be-
longs to a very different tree.
COFFEE-TREE.
THE coffee-tree is fuppofed to be a native of Arabia Felix. It feldom rifes more
than fixteen or eighteen feet in height ;
the main ftera grows upright, and is cover-
ed with a light- brown bark ; the branches are produced horizontally and oppofite,
croffingeach other at a every joint ; fo that every fide of the tree is fully garnifhed
with them, and they form a fort of pyramid. The leaves alfo ftand oppofite; and
when fully grown are about four or five inches long, and two broad in the middle,
decreafing toward each end; the borders are waved, and the furface is of a lucid
green. The flowers are produced in clulters at the root of the leaves, Acting dole
to the branches; they aretubulous, and fpread open at the top, where they are di-
vided into five parts; they are of a pure white, and have a very grateful odour, but
are of Ihort duration. The fruit, which is the only ufeful part, refembles a cherry.
It
-
/
j
SI-
f'
15
CULPEPER*s BRITISH HERBAL.
It grows in clutters, and is ranged along the branches under the axillae of the leaves,
of the fame green as the laurel, but fomething longer. When it comes to be oi a
deep red, it is gathered for the mill, in order to be manufactured into thofe coffee-
beans now fo generally known. The mill is compoled ot two wooden rollers, tur-
nifhed with iron plates eighteen inches long, and ten or twelve in diameter. T. he.e
moveable rollers are made to approach a third wnich is nxed, anu which they call
the chops. Above the rollers is a hopper, in which they put the coffee, from whence
it falls between the rollers and the chops, where it is ftripped of its firft fkin, and
divided into two parts, as may be feen by the form of it after it has undergone this
operation ; being fiat on the one fide and round on the other. From this machine
it falls into abrafs fieve, where the fkin drops between the wires, while the fruit Aides
over them into bafkets placed ready to receive it : it is then thrown into a veficl full
of water, where it foaks for one night, and is afterwards thoroughly wafhed. Vv hen
the whole is finifhed, and well dried, it is put into another machine called the peel-
ing-mill. This is a wooden grinder, turned vertically upon its trendle by a mule or
horfe. In paffing over the coffee it takes off the parchment, which is nothing but
a thin fkin that detaches itfelf from the berry in proportion as it grows dry. The
parchment being removed, it is taken out of this mill to be put into another, which
is called the winnowing-mill. This machine is provided with four pieces of tin
fixed upon an axle, which is turned by a Have with confiderable force •, and the
wind that is made by the motion of thefe plates clears the coffee of all the pellicles
that are mixed with it. It is afterwards put upon a table, where the broken ber-
ries, and any filth that may remain among them, are feparated by negroes ; after
which the coffee is fit fotfale. The coffee-tree is cultivated in Arabia, Perfia, the
Eaft-Indies, the I fie of Bourbon, and feveral parts of America. It is alfo raifed
in botanic gardens in feveral parts of Europe. Prince Eugene’s garden at Vienna
produced more coffee than was fufficient for his own confumption. It delights
particularly in hills and mountains, where its root is almoft always dry, and its head
frequently watered with gentle fhowers. It prefers a wettern afpeft, and ploughed
ground without any appearance of grafs. The plants fhould be placed at eight
feet diflance from each other, and in holes twelve or fifteen inches deep. If left to
themfelves, they would rife to the height of fixteen or eighteen feet, as already ob-
ferved ; but they are generally ttinted to five, for the conveniency of gathering their
fruit with the greater eafe. Thus dwarfed, they extend their branches fo, that they
cover the whole fpot round about them. They begin to yield fruit the third year,
but are not in full bearing till the fifth. With the lame infirmities that moil; other
trees are fubjebt to, thele are likewife in danger of being deftroyed by a worm or by
the fcorching ra>s of the fun. The hills where the coffee-trees are found have ge-
nerally
i 6 APPENDIX T O
nerally a gravelly or chalky bottom. In the laft, it languifhes for fome time and
then dies: in the former, its roots, which feldom fail of ftriking between ftones, ob-
tain nourifhment, and keep the tree alive and fruitful for thirty years. This is near-
ly the period for plants of the coffee-tree. The proprietor at the end of this period,
not only finds himfelf without trees, but has his land fo reduced, that it is not fit
for any kind of culture; and unlefs he is fo fituated, that he can break up a fpot of
virgin land, to make himfelf amends for that which is totally exhaufted by the cof-
fee-trees, his lofs is irreparable.
The coffee produced in Arabia is found fo greatly to excel that railed in the Ame-
rican plantations or elfewhere, that the cultivation of the tree is now but feidom
pradtifed in any of the Britifh colonies. Large plantations of this kind were for-
merly made in fome of them ; and it was propofed to the parliament to g
:
ve a
proper encouragement for cultivating this commodity there, fo as to enable the
planters to underfed the importers from Arabia. Accordingly, there was an abate-
ment of the duty payable on all coffee imported from our colonies in America, which
at that time was fuppofed to be fufficient encouragement for this kind of commerce;
but the inferiority of the American coffee to the Arabian hath almoft ruined the
project. Mr. Miller propofes fome improvements in the method of cultivation.
According to him, the trees are planted in too moift a foil, and the berries are ga-
thered too foon. They ought, he fays, to be permitted to remain on the trees till
heir fkins are Oari veiled, and they fall from the trees when fhaken. This will in-
deed greatly diminifh their weight, but the value of the commodity will thereby be
increafed to more than double of that which is gathered fooner. In Arabia, they al-
ways (hake the berries off the trees, fpreading cloths to receive them, and only take
fuch as readily fall at each time. Another caufe may be the method of drying the
berries. They are, he obferves, very apt to imbibe moifture, or the flavour of any
thing placed near them. A bottle of rum placed in a clofet, in which a canifter of
coffee-berries clofely flopped was (landing on a fhelf at a confiderable diftance, in a
few days fo impregnated the berries as to render them very difagreeable : the fame
has alfo happened by a bottle of fpirit of wine (landing in the fame clofet with cof-
fee and tea, both which were in a few days fpoiled by it. Some years ago, a coffee-
fbip from India had a few bags of pepper put on-board, the flavour of which was
imbibed by the coffee, and the whole cargo fpoiled. For thefe reafons, Mr. Mil-
ler diredts that coffee-berries fhould never be brought over in (hips freighted with
rum, nor laid to dry in the houfes where fugars are boiled or rum diftilled. When
they are fully ripe, they (hould be (haken off when the trees are perfectly dry, and
fpread upon cloths in the fun to dry, carrying them every evening under cover, to
prevent the dews or rain from falling on them. When perfectly dry, they (hould
„ have
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL 17
have their outer Heins beaten off, and then be carefully packed up in cloths or bags
three or four times double.
The coffee-tree, as we have already obferved, is fometimes cultivated in European
gardens : but for this it requires the affiftance of a flove. It makes a fine appear-
ance at all feafons of the year (being an evergreen), but efpecially when in Sower,
and when the berries are red, which is generally in the winter, fo that they continue
a long time in that Hate. It is propagated from the berries : but they muH be plant-
ed immediately when gathered from the tree, for they lofe their vegetative quality
in a very fhort time : when they have beenfent abroad, they have conftantly failed in
thofe that have been a fortnight on their journey •, fo that, where thefe trees are de-
fired, the young plants muft be fent, if it be at any diHance from the place where
they grown The frefh berries may be planted in fmallpots, and plunged into a hot-
bed of tanners bark. If the bed be of a proper temperature, the young plants will
appear in a month or five weeks time; and in fix weeks more will be ready for tranf-
planting into feveral pots. During fummer, they muft be frequently watered ; but
not in too great plenty, otherwife the roots will be apt to rot. The firft fign of the
plants being difordered is their leaves fweating out a clammy juice; after which
they are over-run with infeffs, that cannot be deftroyed till the plants have recover-
ed their health ; fo that, on the firft appearance of thefe infedts, the trees fhould be
removed into frefh earth, and all poffible care taken to recover them. The difor-
ders incident to them, generally proceedeitber from their having been put into large
pots, or from the earth about them being too ftiff or over-watered. The moft pro-
per foil for them is that of a kitchen-garden, which is naturally loofe, and notfub-
jedt to bind, efpecially if it has conftantly been well wrought and dunged.
Explanation of the Plate.
A. reprefents the flower, cut open to fhew the fltuationof the five filaments, with
their fummits lying upon them.
B. the flower-cup, with its four fmall indentations, inclofing the germen, or em-
bryo feed-veflfcl ; from the middle of which arifes the ftyle, terminated by the two
reflexed fpungy tops.
C. the fruit intire ; marked at the top with a pundture, like a navel.
D. the fruit open, to fhew that it confifts of two feeds ; which are furrounded
by the pulp.
E. the fruit cut horizontally, to fhew the feeds as they are placed eredt, with their
flat fides together.
F. one of the feeds taken out, with the membrane or parchment upon it.
G. the fame, with the parchment torn open, to give a view of the feed.
H. the feed without the parchment.
No. 27. E The
APPENDIX TO
The origin of coffee as a common drink is not well known. Some afcribe it to
the prior of a monaftery •, who being, informed by a goat- herd, that his cattle feme-
times browzing on the tree would wake and caper all night, became curious to prove
its virtue: accordingly, he firft tried it op his monks, to prevent their deeping at
matins. Others, from Sehehabeddin, refer the invention of coffee to the Perfians:
from whom it was learned in the 15th century by Gemaleddin, mufti of Aden, a city
near the mouth of the Red Sea ; and who having tried its virtues himfelf, and found
that it biffipated the fumes which oppreffed the head, infpired joy, opened the bow-
els, and prevented deep, without being incommoded by it, recommended it firft to
his dervifes, with whom he ufed to fpend the night in prayer. Their example
brought coffee into vogue at Aden ; the profeffors of the law for ftudy, artifans to
work, travellers to walk in the night, in fine, every body at Aden drank coffee,
lienee it paffed to Mecca ; where firft the devotees, then the reft of the people,
took it. From Arabia Felix it paffed to Cairo. In 1511, Kahie Beg prohibited it,
from aperfuafion that it inebriated, and inclined to things forbidden. But Sultan
Caufou immediately after took off the prohibition ; and coffee advanced from Egypt
to Syria and Conftantinople. Thevenot, the traveller, was the firft who brought
it into France ;
and a Greek fervant, named Pafqua, brought into England by Mr.
Daniel Edwards, a Turkey merchant, in 2652, to make his coffee, firft fet up the pro-
feffion of ccffee-man, and introduced the drink into this ifland.
In the year 1714, the magiftrates of Amfterdam, in order to pay a compliment
to Lewis XIV. king of France, prefented to him an elegant plant of this rare tree,
carefully and judicioufly packed up to go by water, and defended from the weather
by a curious machine covered with glafs. The plant was about five feet high, an
inch in diameter in the ftem, and was in full foliage, with both green and ripe fruit.
It was viewed in the river, with great attention and curiofity, by feveral members of
the academy of fciences,'and was afterwards conduced to the royal garden at Mar-
ly, under the care of Monfieur de Juffieu, the king’s profeffor of botany; who
had, the year before, written a memoir, printed in the hiftory of the academy of
fciences of Paris, in the year 1713, deferibing the characters of this genus, toge-
ther with an elegant figure of it, taken from a fmaller plant, which he had received
that year from Monfieur Pancras, burgomafter of Amfterdam, and director of the
botanical garden there.
In 1718, the Dutch colony at Surinam began firft to plant coffee; and, in 1722,
Monfieur de ia Motte Aigron, governor of Cayenne, having bufinefs at Surinam,
contrived, by an artifice, to bring away a plant from thence, which, in the year
3725, had produced many thoufands.
In
CULPEPERS
s BRITISH HERBAL. 19
In 1727 the French, perceiving that this acquifition might be of great advantage
in their colonies, conveyed to Martimco fome of the plants ; from whence it moft
probably fpread to the neighbouring iflands ;
for, in the year 1732, it was cultivated
in Jamaica, and an aft palled to encourage its growth in that lfland.— Thus was
laid the foundation of a moft extenfive and beneficial trade to the European fet-
tlements in the Weft indies.
The preparation of coffee confifts in roafting, or giving it a juft degree of torre-
faftion, on an earthern or metalline plate, till it has acquired a brownilh hue equal-
ly deep on all fides. It is then ground in a mill, as much as ferves the prefent oc-
cafion. A proper quantity of water is next boiled, and the ground coffee put into
it. After it has juft boiled, it is taken from the fire, and, the decoftion having flood
a while to fettle and fine, they pour or decant it into dilhes. The ordinary method
of roafting coffee amongft us is in a tin cylindrical box full of holes, through the
middle whereof runs a fpit: under this is a femicular hearth, whereon is a large
charcoal -fire: by help of a jack the fpit turns fwift, and fo roafts the berry-, be-
ing now and then taken up to be fhaken. When the oil rifes, and it is grown of a
dark-brown colour, it is emptied into two receivers made with large hoops whofe
bottoms are iron plates : there the coffee is fhaken, and left till almoft cold; and,
if it look bright and oily, it is a fign it is well done.
Very different accounts have been given of the medicinal qualities of this berry.
To determine its real effefts on the human body. Dr, Percival has made feveral
experiments, the refult of which he gives in the following words :
“ From thefe ob-
fervations we may infer, that coffee is (lightly aftringent, and antifeptic; that it mo-
derates alimentary fermentation, and is powerfully fedative. Its aftion on the ner-
vous fyftem probably depends on the oil it contains ; which receives its flavour, and
is rendered mildly empyreumatic, by the procefs of roafting. Neumann obtained
by diftillation from one pound of coffee, five ounces five drachms and a half of
water, fix ounces and half a drachm of thick fetid oil, and four ounces and two
drachms of a caput mortuum. And it is well known, that rye,, torrefied with a
few almonds, wnich furnifh the neceffary proportion of oil, is now frequently em-
ployed as a iubftitute for thefe berries.
“ The medicinal qualities of coffee feem to be derived from the grateful fenfation
whi<. h it produces in the ftomach, and from the fedative powers it exerts on the vis
vita. Hence it affifts digeftion, and relieves the head-ach ; and is taken in large
quantities, with peculiar propriety, by the Turks and Arabians; becaufe it coun-
terafts the narcotic effefts of opium, to the life of which thofe nations are much
addifted.
“ In
3
20 APPENDIX TO
“In delicate habits, it often occafions watchfulnefs, tremors, and many of thofe
complaints which are denominated nervous. It has been even fufpeCted of produ-
cing palfies •, and, from my own obfervation, I (hould apprehend not entirely with-
out foundation. Slare affirms, that he became paralytic by the too liberal ufe of
coffee, and that his diforder was removed by abftinencefrom that liquor.”
“ The following curious and important obfervation is extracted from a letter with
which I was honoured by Sir John Pringle, in April 1773 :
6
On reading your
feCtion concerning coffee, one quality occurred to me which I had obferved of that
liquor, confirming what you have faid of its fedative virtues. It is the bell abater
of the paroxyfm of the periodic afthma that I have feen. The coffee ought to be
of the belt JVIocco, newly burnt, and made very ftrong immediately after grinding
it. I have commonly ordered an ounce for one diffi •, which is to be repeated frefh
after the interval of a quarter or half an hour ; and which I direCt to be taken with-
out milk or fugar. The medicine in general is mentioned by Mufgrave, in his trea-
tife Be Arthritide anomala •, but I firft heard of it from a phyfician in this place, who,
having once pradtifed in Litchfield, had been informed by the old people of that
place, that Sir John Floyer, during the latter years of his life, kept free from, or at
leaft lived eafy under, his afthma, from the ufe of very ftrong coffee. This difcove-
ry, it feems, he made after the publication of his book upon that difeafe.’ Since
the receipt of that letter, I have frequently directed coffee in the afthma with great
fuccefs”
CITRUS, or FORBIDDEN-FRUIT TREE.
THE forbidden-fruit tree, in trunk, leaves, and flowers, very much refembles the
common orange-tree •, but the fruit, when ripe, is larger and longer than the biggeft
orange. It has fomewhat the tafte of a fhaddock ; but far exceeds that, as well as
the be ft orange, in its delicious tafte and flavour. They are elegant evergreens, ri-
ling in this country from about five to ten feet in height ; forming full and hand-
fome heads, clofely garnifhed with beautiful large leaves all the year round, and put-
ting forth a profufion of fweet flowers in fpring and early in fummer *, which even
in this climate are often fucceeded by abundance of fruit that fometimes arrive at
tolerable perfection. Though all the varieties were originally obtained by feed, yet
the only certain method of continuing the approved varieties is by budding or
inarching them on ftocks raifed from feed to a proper fize. As the young trees,
however, are brought in plenty from abroad, this method is never praCtifed in this
country: but, for curiofity, it may be done by thofe who are fo inclined, in the fol-
lowing manner: Early in the fpring procure fome kernels, which may be had in
plenty from rotten fruits, or others that are properly ripened. Sow the kernels in
March,
22 APPENDIX TO
thefe fliould be chofen preferably to others •, as they will form the mod regular
heads. Preparatory to their planting, they muft be placed for a day or two in tubs
of water to plump their bark and roots; after this they muft be walhed and clean-
ed, their branches trimmed to half a foot long, and the roots freed from difeafed
parts, and all the fmall dried fibres. Then they are to be planted in pots filled with
light rich earth ; and plunged in a tan-bed, where they are to remain for three or
four months; after which they are to be trained to the open air, but will not bear
it longer than from the end of May till the middle or end of Odtober.
Sometimes thefe trees, inftead of being kept in pots or tubs, are planted in the
full ground ; and, where this can be done, it is by far the moft eligible method.
Where this is intended, there muft be frames eredted for the fupport of glafs and
other covers, to defend the plants during inclement weather ; and in this flotation
the trees generally fhoot ftrong, produce large fruit, and may be trained either as
wall or ftandard trees. A fouth wall, in a dry fituation, is proper for training them
as wall-trees •, againft which may be ereded wooden frame- work Hoping, either fix-
ed or movable, for the fupport of glafs frames for winter ; likewife, for the greater
protedion of the trees in fevere frofts, there may be a fire-place with a flue or two
carried along a low wall in the fronts and ends. To have the trees as ftandards, a
more capacious and lofty glafs cafe fhould be ereded againft the wall, in the man-
ner of a hot-houfe, but higher; in this one or two rows may be planted, differing
them to run up as ftandards, with only fome neceffary pruning juft to preferve their
regularity. In fome places there are lofty movable glafs cafes, fo that two or three
rows of trees are planted in a confpicuous part of the pleafure-ground. In winter
the frame is put over them, and in fummer wholly taken away. The flowering and
fruit-fetting feafon of all the forts of citrus is in June and July. They are often,
greatly loaded with blofloms ; and, when thefe ftand very thick, it is proper to thin
them a little, taking off the fmalleft. It is alio to be obferved, that, as the trees
continue blowing and fetting their fruit for three months, when a full crop of fruit
is fet it is of benefit to the trees and fruit to gather off the fuperabundant bloffoms
as they are produced, though fome permit them to remain on account of their ap-
pearance.
G A R C I N I A.
THE garcinia is a genus of the monogynia order, belonging to the dodecandria
clafs of plants; and in the natural method ranking under the 1 8th order, Bicornes.
The calyx is tetraphyllous inferior ; there are four petals ; the berries are odofper-
mousj and crowned with a fhield-like ftigma. There is but one fpecies, the man-
goftana.
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 23
godana, a tree of great elegance, and producing the mod pleafant fruit of any yet
known.
This tree has been very accurately defcribed by Dr. Garcin, in honour of whom,
as its mod accurate defcriber, Linnaeus gave it the name garcinia in the 35th vo-
lume of the Philofophical Tranfaftions. It grows, he informs us, to about feven-
teen or eighteen feet high, “ with a draight taper dem like a fir,” having a regular
tuft in form of an oblong cone, compofed of many branches and twigs, fpreading
out equally on all fide’s, without leaving any hollow. Its leaves, he obferves, are
oblong, pointed at both ends, entire, fmooth, of a fhining green on the upper-fide,
and of an olive on the back. Its flower is compofed of four petals, almod rounds
or a little pointed : their colour refembles that of a rofe, only deeper and lefs lively.
The calyx of this flower is of one piece, expanded, and cut into four lobes. The
two upper lobes are fomething larger than the lower ones •, they are greenifh on the
outfide, and of a fine deep red within : the red of the upper ones is more lively than
that of the lower ones. This calyx inclofes all the parts of the flower ; it is fup-
ported by a pedicle, which is green, and condantly comes out of the end of a twig
above the lad pair of leaves. The fruit is round, of the fize of a fmall orange, from
an inch and an half to two inches diameter. The body of this fruit is a capfula of
one cavity, compofed of a thick rind a little like that of a pomegranate, but fofter,
thicker, and fuller of juice. Its thicknefs is commonly of a quarter of an inch.
Its outer colour is of a dark-brown purple, mixed with a little grey and dark-green.
The infide of the peel is of a rofe colour, and its juice is purple. Lad of all, this
fkin is of a dyptic or adringent tade, like that of a pomegranate, nor does it dick to
the fruit it contains. The infide of this fruit is a furrowed globe, divided into leg-
ments, much like thofe of an orange, but unequal in fize, which do not adhere to
each other. The number of thefe fegments is always equal to that of the rays of
the top which covers the fruit. The fewer there are of thefe fegments, the bigger
they are. There are often in the fame fruit fegments as big again as any of thofe
that are on the fide of them. Thefe fegments are white, a little tranfparent, flelhy,
membranous, full o! juice like cherries or rafberries ; of a tade of drawberries and
grapes together. Each of the fegments inclofes a feed of the figure and fize of an
almond dripped of its (hell, having a protuberance on one of its fides. Thefe feeds
are covered with two fmall fkins, the outermod of which ferves for a bafis to the
filaments and membranes of which the pulp is compofed. The fubdance of thefe
feeds comes very near to that of chefnuts, as to their confidency, colour, and adrin-
gent quality.
“ This tree (according to our author) originally grows in the Molucca iflands,
where it is called mangodan -
} but has been tranfplanted from thence to the iflands
of
24 APPENDIX TO
of Java and Malacca, at which laft place it thrives very well. Its tuft is fo fine, fo
regular, fo equal, and the appearance of its leaves fo beautiful, that it is at prefent
looked upon at Batavia as the moft proper for adorning a garden, and affording an
agreeable fhade. There are few feeds, however, (he obferves,) to be met with in
this fruit that are good for planting, moft part of them being abortive.”-—He con-
cludes his defcription by mentioning, that one may eat a great deal of this fruit
without any inconvenience-, and that it is the only one which fick people may be al-
lowed to eat without any fcruple.
Other writers concur in their praifes of this fruit. Rumphius obferves, that the
mangoftan is univerfally acknowledged to be the beft and wholefomeft fruit that
grows in India ; that its flefh is juicy, white, almoft tranfparent, and of as delicate
and agreeable a flavour as the richeft grapes : the tafte and fmell being fo grateful,
that it is fcarcely poflible to be cloyed witheating it.-—He adds, that, when fick peo-
ple have no relilh for any other food, they generally eat this with great delight ; but,
ihould they refufe it, their recovery is no longer expedted. “ It is remarkable (fays
he) that the mangoftan is given with fafety in almoft every diforder. The dried bark
is ufed with fuccefs in the dyfentery and tenefmus and an infufion of it is efteem-
ed a good gargle for a fore mouth or ulcers in the throat. The Chinefe dyers ufe
this bark for the ground or bafis of a black colour, in order to fix it the firmer.”
According to Captain Cook, in his Voyage round the World, vol. iii. p. 737, the
garcinia mangoftana of Linnaeus is peculiar to the Eaft Indies. It is about the fize of
the crab- apple, and of a deep red- wine colour. On the top of it is the figure of five
or fix fmall triangles joined in a circle; and at the bottom feveral hollow green
leaves, which are remains of the bloffom. When they are to be eaten, the fkin, or
rather flefli, muft be taken off; under which are found fix or feven white kernels,
placed in a circular order ; and the pulp with which thefe are inveloped is the fruit,
than which nothing can be more delicious. It is a happy mixture of the tart and
the fweet, which is no lels wholefome than pleafant; and, as well as the fweet orange,
is allowed in any quantity to thofe who are afflidted with a fever either of the putrid
or inflammatory kind.
MANCHINEEL-TREE.
THIS is a genus of the adelphia order, belonging to the moncecia clafs of plants;
and in the natural method ranking under the 38th order, Tricoccs. The male has
an amentum and bifid perianthium, without any corolla ; the female perianthium is
trifid; there is no corolla: the ftigmais tripartite; and the plum or capfuletricocous.
Species. 1. The mancinella with oval fawed leaves is a native of all the Weft-In-
dia iflands. It hath a fmooth brownifh bark'; the trunk divides upwards into ma-
3 «y
_
I . .
A
#;
'
% r.
T.Ihlc .
delin /
///7'Y.j/. //ff//r>
OYS>\).
-
'
'
V
J'.Paft, jcut/J.
V
25
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL;
ny branches, garnifhed with oblong leaves about three inches long. The flowers
come out in (hort fpikes at the end of the branches, but make no great appearance,
and are fucceeded by fruit of the fame fbape and fize with a golden pippin. T he
tree grows to the fize of a large oak. 2. The biglandulofa, with oblong bay leaves,
is a native of South America*, and grows to as large a fize as the firft, from which
it differs tnoftly in the fliape of its leaves. 3. The fpinofa, with holly leaves, is a
native of Campeachy, and feldom rifes above twenty feet high *, the leaves greatly
refemble thofe of the common holly, and are fet with {harp prickles at the end of
each indenture. They are of a lucid green, and continue all the year.
Culture. Thefe plants, being natives of very warm climates, cannot be preserved
in this country without a ftove ; nor can they by any means be made to rife above
five or fix feet high even with that afliftance. They are propagated by feeds ; but
muft have very little moifture, or they will certainly be killed by it.
'Properties. Thefe trees have a very poifonous quality, abounding with an acrid
milky juice of a highly cauftic nature. Strangers are often tempted to eat the fruit
of the firft fpecies ; the confequences of which are, an inflammation of the mouth
and throat, pains in the ftomach, &c. which are very dangerous unlefs remedies are
fpeedily applied. The wood is much efteemed for making cabinets, book-cafes,
&c. being very durable, taking a fine polifh, and not being liable to become worm-
eaten: but as the trees abound with a milky cauftic juice already mentioned, fires
are made round their trunks to burn out this juice; otherwife thofe who fell the
trees would be in danger of lofing their fight by thejuice flying in their eyes. This
juice raifes blifters on the fkin wherever it falls, turns linen black, and makes itfall
out in holes. It is alfo dangerous to work the wood after it is fawn out ; for, if any
of the faw-duft happens to get into the eyes of the workmen, it caufes inflammations
and the lofs of fight for fome time ; to prevent which, they generally cover their
faces with fine lawn during the time of working the wood. It is with thejuice of
this tree that the Indians ufed to poifon their arrows.
MARSH- MALLOW of SURINAM.
THIS plant is called at Surinam okkerum, and is an elegant fpecies of the marfh-
mallows, fo well known to botanifts. It grows about fix feet high, and bears dou-
ble flowers, fome of which are yellow and white, and others red. —If the fruit be cut,
a milky liquor drops out, clammy and in the form of threads; which they boil and
make a drink of in America, being famous for internal bruifes, and for moft difeafes
of the ftomach and bowels.
Befides this, there are three other fpecies of the marfh-mallow, which I Ihall here
defcribe. 1. The vulgaris, or common marlh- mallow, is a native of Britain, and
No. 27. G hath
9
2 6 APPENDIX TO
hath a perennial root, and an annual ftalk, which perifhes every autumn. The ftalks
grow eredt to the height of four or five feet. Thefe are garnilhed with leaves,
which are hoary, foft to the touch, and placed alternately on the branches. The
flowers come out from under the v/ings of the leaves, like the mallow, and are of a
purplifn white. 2. The hirfuta, or hairy marfh-mallow, is a native of Spain and
Portugal. It is a low plant, whofe branches trail on the ground, unlefs they are fup-
ported by ftakes. The leaves and ftalks are befet with ftrong hairs, the flowers
come out like thofe of the common fort, but are fmaller, and have purplifh bot-
toms. 3. The cannabina, or flhrubby marfh-mallow, is a native of Hungary and
Iftria. It has a woody ftem, which rifles to the height of four or five feet : and puts
out many flde-branches. The flowers come out in the fame manner as in the others,
but are of a deeper red colour. This fort feldom flowers the firft year, unlefs the
fummer proves warm : but when the plants live through the winter, they will flower
early in the following fummer, and produce good feeds.
Culture. Though the vulgaris is found naturally in fait marffies, it will thrive
when tranfplanted into any foil, or in any fituation ; however, it will always grow
larger in moift than in dry foil. It may be propagated either by parting the roots
in autumn when the ftalks decay, or by fowing the feeds in the fpring. If the feeds
of the fecond fpeciesare fown in April, the plants will flower in July, and carry ripe
feed in September. They ought to be fown in the places where they are to remain,
as the roots fhoot deep in the ground : fo that unlefs the plants are removed very
young, they feldom furvive it. The feeds of the cannabina ought alfo to be fown
where the plants are to remain, for the reafon juft now given. They fhould have a
fheltered fituation and a dry foil, otherwife they will not live through the winter.
Indeed they feldom continue in this country above two years, with all the care that
can be taken of them.
Medicinal Ufcs
:
The vulgaris is the only fpecies ufed in medicine. The whole
plant, efpecially the root, abounds with a mild mucilage. It has the general virtues
of an emollient medicine •, and proves ferviceable in a thin acrimonious ftate of the
juices, and where the natural mucus of the inteftines is abraded. It is chiefly recom-
mended in (harp defluxions upon the lungs, hoarfenefs, dyfenteries ; and likewife in
.nephritic and calculous complaints ; not, as fome have fuppofed, that this medicine
has any peculiarpower of diflolving or expelling the calculus •, but as, by lubricating
and relaxing the vefiels, it procures a more free and eafy pafiage. The root is fome-
times employed externally for foftening and maturating hard tumours chewed, it is
faid to giveeafe in difficult dentition of children.
This root gave name to an officinal fyrup, decodlion, and ointment *, and was like-
wife an ingredient in the compound powder of gum tragacanth and the oil and
plaifter of mucilages. But of all thefe formulae the fyrup alone is now retained.
'
3
I4AN-
C U L P E PER’s BRITISH HERBAL; 27
MANDRAKE.
THE fruit of this plant has been much recommended in cafes of barrennefs. Its
frefflroot is a violent purge, thedofe being from ten grains to twenty in fubftance,
and from half a drachm to a drachm in infufion. It has been found to do fervice in
hyfteric complaints ; but mult be ufed with great caution, otherwife it will bring on
convulfions, and many other mifchievous fymptoms. It has alfo a narcotic quality.
At prefent only the frefh leaves are fometimes ufed in anodyne and emollient cata-
plafms and fomentations. It ufed to be an ingredient in one of the old officinal un-
guents ; but both that and the plant itfelf are now rejected from our pharmaco-
poeias. It ftill however retains a place in the foreign ones, and may perhaps be con-
fidered as deferving farther attention.
Naturalifts tell ftrange ftories of this plant : but fetting afide its foporiferous vir-
tue, the modern botanifts will fcarcely warrant any of them, nor even that human
figure ordinarily afcribed to its roots, efpecially fince the difcovery of the artifice of
charlatans in fafhioning it, to furprifethe credulity of the people. The figure given
m the annexed plate, however, was taken from a genuine root,
Mofes informs us (Gen. xxx. 14.) that Reuben the fon of Leah, being in the
field, happened to find mandrakes, which he brought home to his mother. Rachel
had a mind to them, and obtained them from Leah, upon condition that ffie ffiould
confent that Jacob ffiould be Leah’s bedfellow the night following. The term
dudaim,
here made ufe of by Mofes, is one of thofe words of which the Jews at this
day do not underhand the true fignification. Some tranfiate it violets, others lilies,
or jefiamine. Junius calls it agreeable flowers ; Codurquus makes it truffle, or
mufflroom-, and Lalmet will have it to be the citron. Thofe that would fupport
the tranflation of mandrakes plead, that Rachel being barren, and having a great
defire to conceive, coveted Leah’s mandrakes, it may be prefumed, with a view to
its prolific virtues. The ancients have given to mandrakes the name of the apples
of love, and to Venus the name of Mandragoritis ; and the emperor Julian, in his
epiftle to Calixenes, fays, that he drinks the juice of mandrakes to excite amorous
inclinations.
MIMOSA, or SENSITIVE PLANT,
IS a genus of the polygamia order, belonging to the monoecia clafs of plants ; and
in the natural method ranking under the thirty-third order, Lomentacea. The her-
maphrodite calyx is quinquedentate ; the corallaquinquefid ;
there are five or more
ftamina, one piftil, and alegumen : The male calyx is quinquedentate-, the corolla
quinquefid ; with five, ten, or more, ftamina. The name mimofa fignifies “ mimic j”
and
28 APPEND’ IX TO
and is given to this genus on account of the fenfibility of the leaves, which, by their
motion, mimic or imitate, as it were, the motion of animals. To this genus Lin-
naeus joins many of the acacias ; and it comprifes near 60 different fpecies, all natives
of warm climates. Of the forts cultivated here in our ftoves, &c. fome are of the
fhrub and tree kind, and two or three are herbaceous perennials and annuals. The
fenfitive kinds are exceedingly curious plants in the very fingular circumftance of
their leaves receding rapidly from the touch, and running up clofe together ; and in
fome forts the footftalks and all are affeded, fo as inftantly to fall downward as if
fattened by hinges, which laft are called humble fenfitives. They have all winged
leaves, each wing confifting of many fmall pinnae, In the Syftema Vegetabilium,
this
genus, including the mimojas properly fo called, and the acacias, is divided into fe-
veral fedions, diftinguifhed by the figure, fituation, and arrangement, of the leaves;
as, Ample, fimply-pinnated, bigeminous and tergeminous, conjugate and pinnated,
doubly pinnated. The following are the molt remarkable
:
Species,
with their properties, i. The Senfitiva, or common fenfitive humble plant,
fifes with an under-fhrubby prickly ftem, branching fix or eight feet high, armed
with crooked fpines ; conjurated, pinnated leaves, with bijugated patial lobes or
wings, having the inner ones the leaft, each leaf on a long footitalk ;
and at the fides
and ends of the branches many purple flowers in roundifh heads-, fucceeded by
broad, flat, jointed pods, in radiated clufters.—This is fomewhat of the humble fen-
fitive kind ; the leaves, footftalks and all, receding from the touch, though not with
l'uch facility as in fome of the following forts.
2. The Pudica, or bafhful humble plant, rifes with an under-fhrubby, declinated,
prickly, ftem, branching two or three feet around, armed with hairy fpines ; pin-
nated, digitated leaves, each leaf being of five or more long folioles, attached by
their bafe to a long footftalk, and fpread out above like the fingers of a hand; and
at the fides and ends of the branches roundifh heads of greenifh white flowers, fuc-
ceeded by fmall jointed prickly pods.---This is truly of the humble fenfitive kind
;
for by the leaft touch the leaves inftantly recede, contract, clofe, and together with
the footftalk quickly decline downward, as if afhamed at the approach of the hand.
3. The Pernambucana, or penambuca flothful mimofa, has unflirubby, procum-
bent, unarmed, fterns, branching two or three feet around ; bipinnated leaves, of
three or four pair of fhort winged foliola ;
and at the axillas drooping fpikes of
pentandrous flowers, the lower ones caftrated.—This fpecies recedes very flowly
from the touch, only contrafting its pinnae a little when fmartly touched ; hence
the name flothful mimofa.
4. The AJperata, or panama fenfitive plant. Of this curious fpecies, which has
been well delcribedby Dr. Browne (but not figured), there is a good figure in the
Reliquiae
72
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 29
Reliquiae Houjloniana,
publifhed by Sir Jofeph Banks. It grows in moift places, and
by the Tides of rivulets, in the parifties of St. James and Hanover, Jamaica. It fel-
dom riles above three feet in height ; but its {lender branches extend confiderably
on the neighbouring bufhes. It is armed with crooked, {harp, fpines ; fo thickly
feton the trunk, branches, and leaves, that there is no touching it with fafety. But
the plant has a beautiful appearance ; the flowers are yellow and globular, growing
at the extremity of the branches. The pods are hairy, brown, and jointed; each
containing a fmall, flat, and brown, feed. The leaves are numerous, fmall, and
winged: next to thofe of the mimofa pudica, they are the moft irritable; contradt-
ing with the leaft touch, and remaining fo for feveral minutes after. This fpecies
would form a good hedge or fence round a garden; and by being trimmed nowand
then by a cutlafs or gardener’s fciflars, may be eaflly kept from fpreading.
5. The Punftata, or pundtated fenfitive mimofa, rifes with a Ihrubby, upright,
taper, fpotted, unarmed, ftem, branching eredtly five or fix feet high ; bipinnated
leaves, of four or five pair of long winged folioles, having each about twenty pair
of pinnae ; and at theaxillas and termination of the branches, oblong fpikes of yel-
lowifh decandrous flowers, the inferior ones caftrated ; fucceeded above by oblong
feed-pods. This fort, though naturally Ihrubby and perennial in its native foil, yet
in this country it fometimes decays in winter. It is only fenfitive in the foliola, but
quick in the motion.
6. The Viva, lively mimofa, or fmallefc fenfitive weed, has many creeping roots,
and fpreads itfelf fo as to cover large fpots of ground. It rifes at moft to two in-
ches, has winged leaves, with numerous fmall pinnae. The flower is globular, of a
bluifli colour, and grows in clufters from the axillae : thefe are followed by little,
ftiort, hairy, pods, containing fmooth Alining feeds. This is the moft fenfible of all
the mimofas, the pudica not excepted. By running a ftick over the plant, a perfon
may write his name, and it will remain vifible for ten minutes.
7. The Quadrivalvis, perennial or quadrivalve humble mimofa, has herbaceous,
{lender, quadrangular, prickly, ftems, branching and fpreading all around, armed
with recurved fpines ; bipinnated leaves of two or three pair of winged lobes, hav-
ing eacn many pinna; ; and at the axillas globular heads of purple flowers, fucceed-
ed by quadrivalvular pods. This is of the humble fenfitive kind, both leaves and
footftalks receding from the touch.
8 . T he Plena, annual or double-flowered fenfitive mimofa, rifes with an herbace-
ous, eredt, round, unarmed, ftem, clofely branching and fpreading every way, three
or tour feet high ; bipinnated leaves of four or five pair of winged lobes, of many
pairs of pinna; ; and at the axillas and termination of the branches fpikes of yellow
No. 28. 77 ^ „ ,
pentandrous
3© APPENDIX TO
pentandrous flowers, the lower ones double ; fucceeded by fhort broad pods. This
annual is only fenfitive in thefoliola, but extremely fenfible of the touch or air.
g. The Cornigera, or horned Mexican mimofa, commonly called great horned
acacia, has a Ihrubby, upright, deformed, ftem, branching irregularly, armed with
very large horn- like white fpines, by pairs, connated at the bafe ; bipinnated leaves
thinly placed •, and flowers growing in fpikes. This fpecies is efteemed a curiofity
for the oddity of its large fpines, refembling the horns of animals, and which are
often varioufly wreathed, twilled, and contorted.
10. The Farnefiana, or fragrant acacia, grows in woodlands and walle lands in
moil parts of Jamaica ; rifing to twenty-five or thirty feet, with fuitable thicknefs.
The bark of the trunk is brown and fcaly, the branches are alternate. It is adorned
with bipinnated leaves of a bright-green colour ; and yellow globular flowers from
the axillae, of a fragrant fmell. The pods are about three inches long, and half an
inch broad : they are of alight-brown colour, fmooth, comprefied, and contain five
or fix fmooth flat feeds. Formerly the flowers of this tree were ufed as an ingredi-
ent in thttheriaca andromachi of the old difpenfatories. The tree is fometimes planted
for a hedge or fence round inclofures ; and the timber, though fmall, is ufeful in
fural economy.
11. The Arborea,
or wild tamarind-tree, is common in all the woodlands, and ef-
pecially near where fettlements have been made in Jamaica. It rifes to a confidera-
ble height, and is proportionably thick. The timber is excellent, and ferves many
purpofes in rural economy : it is of the colour of cedar, pretty hard, and takes a
good polilh. The leaves are numerous; the flowers globular and white. The
pods are about a foot in length, of a fine fcarlet colour ; when they are ripe they
open and become twilled. The feeds then appear ; they are oblong, fmooth, of a
fhining black, and quite foft. On the whole, from the leaves, flowers, and pods,
this tree exhibits a Angular and beautiful contrail. With us this plant is raifed in
hot-houfes ; but it appears, that with a little pains it may be made to grow in the
open air. A good fizeable tree of this fort grew in the garden of the late Dr. Wil-
liam Pitcairn, at Illington, near London.
12. The Latifolia, lhag-bark, or white wild tamarind. This excellent timber-tree
is very common in Jamaica, and rifes to a moderate height and good thicknefs.
The trunk is rough and fcaly : The leaves are numerous, of a rhomboidal figure,
and yellowifh call. The flower- fpikes are from the axillae ; their colour is yellow.
The feed-veflels are flat, jointed, and twilled. The feeds are of the bignefs of a
vetch, white, and finely llreaked with blue. Of this tree there is a variety which
fome botanills call M. ferpentina. The chief difference is in the leaves, which are
fmaller, and of a Ihining dark green.
13. The
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 31
13. The Lebeck, or ebony-tree. This is a native of the Eaft-Indies, but raifed
from feeds in Jamaica and St. Vincent’s. It is figured, though not accurately, by
Pluckenet, Tab. 331. fig: 1. To what height this tree grows, we cannot yet fay •,
but it muft be of a confiderable thicknefs if it be the ebony we have in ufe here.
Time will foon determine this, as the few plants in the iflands are reared with great
care by Dr. Dancer in Jamaica, and Mr. Alexander Anderfon in St. Vincent’s.
14, 15. The Cinerea—Pinnata, Calhew bullies. Thefe fpecies are common about
Kingfton and SpanilhTown Jamaica, and rife by (lender trunks to about twenty feet.
See the Plate, fig. 2.
Dr. Roxburgh of Madras, amongfta number of ufeful difcoveries, has found the
lac infedt on this fpecies of mimofa. We have feen the native gum-lac on one of the
fmall twigs, and a fpecimen of the plant in the collection of a gentleman. The plant
is a variety of the cinerea, and appears rather to be the M pinnata,
Lin. It is to be
hoped, that in a Ihort time the ufeful infeft juft mentioned may be tranfported from
Alia to the Weft-Indies, where this gum, or rather wax, may be alfo produced.
16. The Scandens, cacoons, or mafootoo wyth (
Gigalobium fcandens, Browne’s Jam.
p. 362. Phajeolus maximus perennis,
Sloane’s Cat. 68. Perein Kaku-valli,
H. M. viiL
T. 32, 3, 4.) This fpecies of mimofa is frequent in all the upland valleys and
woodlands on the north fide of Jamaica. It climbs up the tailed: trees, and fpreads
itfellf in every direction by means of its cirrhi or clafpers, fo as to form a complete
arbour, and to cover the fpace of an Englilh acre from one root. This circum-
fiance has a bad effect on the trees or bulhes fo lhaded. Light, air, and rain (fo
necefiary for all plants), being Ihut out, the leaves drop off, the tree gradually rots,
and the limbs fall down by the weight of this parafite.
The roots of this plant run fuperficially under the ground or herbage. The
trunk is feldom thicker than a man’s thigh, and fends off many branches, with nu-
merous fhining green leaves, each of which terminates in a tendril or clafper, that
ferves to fallen it to trees or bulhes. The flower-fpikes are from the axillae : they
are llender, and the florets on them fmall and numerous. The pod is perhaps the
largeft: and longeftof any other in the world ; being fometimes eight or nine feet in
length, five inches broad, jointed, and containing ten or fifteen feeds. Thefe feeds
are brown, Ihining, flattened, and very hard, and called cacoons. They are the fame
mentioned in the Philofophical Tranfa&ions, No. 222, page 298, by Sir Hans
Sloane, as being thrown alhore on the Hebrides and Orkneys. This happens in the
following manner : The feeds or beans fall into the rivers, and are conveyed to the
fea. The trade-winds carry them weftward till they fall into the gulf Itream,
which forces them northward along the coall of America and Bahama iflands. As
the winds blow frequent and ftrongfrom America, thefe feeds are driven to theeaft-
2 ward.
APPENDIX TO
32
ward, till at length they are thrown aftiore and left with the tide as aforefaid. This
bean, after being long foaked in water, is boiled and eaten by fome negroes ; but, in
general, there feems to be no other ufe made of it than as a fort of fnuff- box.
17. The Catechu,
according to Mr. Ker, grows only to twelve feet in height, and
to one foot in diameter ; it is covered with a thick rough brown bark, and towards
the top divides into many clofe branches : the leaves are bipinnated, or doubly
winged, and are placed alternately upon the younger branches : the partial pinnte
are nearly two inches long, and are commonly from fifteen to thirty pair, having
fmali glands inferted between the pinnae : each wing is ufually furnifhed with about
forty pair of pinnulae or linear lobes, befet with fhort hairs : the fpines are fhort,
recurved, and placed in pairs at the bafes of each leaf : the flowers are hermaphro'-
dite and male, and ftand in clofe fpikes, which arife from the axillae of the leaves,
and are four or five inches long : the calyx is tubular, hairy, and divides at the limb
into five oval pointed fegments : the corolla is monopetalous, whitifh, and of the
fame form as the calyx, but twice its length : the filaments are numerous, capilla-
ry, double the length of the corolla, adhering at the bafe of thegermen, and crown-
ed with roundifh antherse : the germen is oval, and fupports a flender ftyle, which
is of the length of the filaments, and terminated by a Ample ftigma : the fruit, or
pod, islance-fhaped, brown, fmooth, compreffed, with an undulated thin margin i
it contains fix or eight roundifh flattened feeds which produce a naufeous odour
when chewed. From this tree, which grows plentifully on the mountainous parts
of Indoftan, where it flowers in June, is produced the officinal drug long known in
Europe by the name of terra japonica.
18. The JSilotica,
or true Egyptian acacia, rifes to a greater height than the pre-
ceding : the bark of the trunk is fmooth, and of a grey colour; that of the branches
has commonly a purplifh tinge : the leaves are bipinnated, and placed alternately;
the partial pinnae are oppofite, furnifhed with a fmali gland between the outermoft
pair, and befet with numerous pairs of narrow elliptical pinnulae, orleafits; the
fpines are long, white, fpreading, and proceed from each fide of the bafe of the
leaves : the flowers are hermaphrodite and male ; they aflame a globular fhape, and
Hand four or five together upon flender peduncles, which arife from the axillae of
the leaves : the calyx is fmali, bell-fhaped, and divided at the mouth into five mi-
nute teeth : the corolla confifts of five narrow yellowifh fegments : the filaments are
numerous, capillary, and furnifhed with roundifn yellow antherae : thegermen is
conical, and fupports a flender flyle, crowned with a Ample ftigma: the fruit is a
long pod, refembling that of the lupin, and contains may flattifh brown feeds. It
is a native of Arabia and Egypt, and flowers in July.
Although
33
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
Although the mimofa nilotica grows in great abundance over the vafl extent of
Africa, yet gum arabic is produced chiefly by thofe trees, which are fituated near
the equatorial regions •, and we are told that in Lower Egypt the folar heat is ne-
ver fufficientlv intenfe for this purpofe. The gum exfudes in a liquid Hate from the
bark of the trunk and branches of the tree, in a fimilar manner to the gum which
is often produced upon the cherry-trees, &c. in this country; and by expofure to
the air it foon acquires foiidity and hardnefs. in Senegal the gum begins to flow
when the tree firft opens its flowers and continues during the ra :
ny feafon till the
month of December, when it is colleded for the firft time. Another coliedion of
the gum is made in the month of March, from incifions in the bark, which the ex-
tremedrinefs of the air at that time is faid to render necefiary. Gum arabic is now
ufually imported into England trom Barbary; not packed up in fkins, which was
the practice in Egypt and Arabia, but in large cafks or hogfheads. The common
appearance of this gum is well known; and the various figures which it aflumes
feem to depend upon a variety of accidental circumftances attending its tranfuda-
tion and concretion. Gum arabic of a pale ydlowifh colour is moft efteemed ; on
the contrary, thofe pieces which are large, rough, of a roundifh figure, and of a
brownilh or reddilh hue, are found to be lels pure, and are faid to be produced from
a different fpecies of mimofa (M. Senegal); but the Arabian and Egyptian gum is
commonly intermixed with pieces of this kind, fimilar to that which comes from the
coaft of Africa near the river Senegal. Gum arabic does not admit of folution by
fpiritoroil, but in twice its quantity of water it diffolves into a mucilaginous fluid,
of the confiftence of a thick fyrup; and in this ftate anfwers many ufeful purpofes, by
rendering oily, refinous, and pinguious, fubftances, mifcible with water. The glu-
tinous quality of gum arabic is preferred to moft other gums and mucilaginous fub-
ftances, as a demulcent in coughs, hoarfenefles, and other catarrhal affedions, in
order to obtund irritating acrimonious humours, and to fupply the loft of abraded
mucus. It has been very generally employed in cafes of ardor urinae and ftrangua-
ry but it is the opinion of Dr. Cullen, “ that even this mucilage, as an internal de-
mulcent, can be of no fervice beyond the alimentary canal.”
The Senegal is a native of Guinea, and was fome time ago introduced into Jamai-
ca. Dr. Wright tells us, he faw both this and the mimofa nilotica, of thefizeof a
cherry-tree, growing at Dr. Paterfon’s, in the parifh of Hanover, Jamaica. The
flowers are globular, and fragrant. The pods are brown, and of the fize of a goofe-
quill. The tree, on being wounded, exfudes gum arabic, though in left quantity,
and lefs tranfparent, than that of the ihops, which is obtained from t hz nilotica above
deferibed. There are above forty other fpecies charaderifed in the Syjlema Vegeta
-
bilium.
No. 28, I I n
34 APPENDIX TO
In the annexed Plate is figured a non-defcript fpecies, of an uncommon fize, men-
tioned by Mr. Paterfon in his Travels among the Hottentots, but not particularly
defcribed. Like feveral other mimofas, it produces gum, which is confidered by the
natives as a peculiarly delicate fpecies of food : the leaves and lower points of the
branches feem to conftitute the principal aliment of the Camelopardalis ; and, from
the extent of its boughs, and the fmoothnefs of the trunk, it affords a fufficient de-
fence to a fpecies of gregarious bird againft the tribe of ferpents and other reptiles
which would otherwife deftroy its eggs. Mr. Bruce defcribes two plants which
feem referable to this genus •, the one named ergett el dimmo,
the other ergett el krone.
The former, in our author’s opinion, fhould be named mimojafanguinea j its name in
the Abyffinian language hgmtyxng the bloody ergett.>
and denvtd, as hefuppofes, from
its being partly compofed of beautiful pink filaments. When the bloffoms are ful-
ly fpread, the upper part of them confifts of yellow curled filaments, and the under
part of pink filaments of a fimilar fbape. In its unripe ft ate, that part which after-
wards becomes pink is of a green colour, and compofed of tubercles of a larger fize,
and more detached, than thofe which afterwards produce the yellow filaments ; the
latter being fmaller, and clofer fet together : the leaves are of the double-pinnated
kind.
The name of the other fpecies, in the Abyffinian language, fignines the horned er-
gett \
which our author fuppofes to be given it on account of the figure of the pods.
The flower very much refembles that of the acacia vera in fize and fbape, excepting
that it is attached to the branch by a ftrong woody {talk of confiderable length,
which grows out at the bottom of the branch bearing the leaves, and is (heltered as
in a cafe by the lower part of it. The branches are all covered with fhort, ftrong,
and iharp- pointed, thorns, having their points inclined backwards towards the root.
The pods are covered with a prickly kind of hair, which eafily rubs off with the
fingers, (ticks to them, and gives a very uneafy fenfation. They have thirteen divi-
fions i
in each of which are three hard, round, and fhining feeds, of a dufky brown
colour. Both of thefe fhrubs fhut their leaves on the coming on of the violent rains
in the wet feafon, and never fully expand them till the dry feafon returns.
MYRISTICA, or NUTMEG-TREE.
THE myriftica, or nutmeg-tree, is a genus of plant belonging to the clafs dice-
da, and order fyngenefia, in the New Genera Plantarum of Linnaeus by Shreber ; and
of the natural order Lauri, in his fourth clafs Monocotylidones. The male calyx is
monophyllous, ftrong, and parted into three lacinii of an oval fhape. In the middle
of the receptacle rifes acolumnof the height ofthe calyx-, tothe upper part ofwhich the
antherse
•
¥ .
CULPEPER5
s BRITISH HERBAL, 35
antherae are attached. They vary in number from three to twelve or thirteen. The
female calyx and corolla as in the male, on a diftinCt tree. The germen of an oval
fhape ;
the ftyle fhort, with a bifid ftigma ; the lacinii of which are oval and fpread-
ing. The fruit is of that fort called drupa. It is fiefhy, roundifh, fometimes unil-
ocular, lometimes bivalved, and burfts when ripe at the fide. The feed is envelop-
ed with a fiefhy and fatty membraneous fubftance, which divides into filaments (this
in one of the fpecies is the mace of the fhops). The feed or nutmeg is round or
oval fhaped, unilocular, and contains a (mail kernel, variegated on the furface by
the fibres running in the form of a fcrew.
Species. There are five fpecies of this genus according to fome authors-, but fe-
veralof thefe being only varieties, may be reduced to three, viz.
1. Myriftica fatua, or wild nutmeg : this grows in Tobago, and rifes to the height
of an apple-tree-, has oblong, lanceoiated, downy, leaves, and hairy fruit: the nut-
meg of which is aromatic, but when given inwardly is narcotic, and occafionsdrunk-
ennefs, delirium, and madnefr, for a time.
2. The myriftica febifera, ( Virola Sibifera Aublet, page <304. Tab. 345.) A tree
frequent in Guiana, riling to forty or even to fixty feet high -, on wounding the
trunk of which, a thick, acrid, red, juice runs out. Aubletfays nothing of the nut-
megs being aromatic ; he only obfcrves, that a yellow fat is obtained from them,
which ferves many (economical and medical purpofes, and that the natives make
candles of it.
3. The myriftica mofchata, or nutmeg, attains the height of thirty feet, producing
numerous branches which rife together in ftories, and covered with bark, which of
the trunk is a reddifh brown, but that of the young branches is of a bright green
colour : the leaves are nearly elliptical, pointed, undulated, obliquely nerved, on the
upper fide of a bright green, on the under whitilh, and ftand alternately upon foot-
ftalks : the flowers are fmall, and hang upon (lender peduncles, proceeding from the
axillae of the leaves: they are both male and female upon feparate trees. M.
Schwartz, who has carefully examined this as well as the two firft fpecies, preferved
in fpirits, places them amongft the monodelphia.
The nutmeg has been fuppofed to be the Comacum of Theophraftus, but there
feems little foundation for this opinion; nor can it with more probability be thought
to be the Chryfobalanus of Galen. Our firft knowledge of it was evidently derived
from the Araoians ;
by Avicenna it was called jiaujibun, or j(lujibcind, which figni-
fies nut of bands. Rumphius both figured and delcribed this tree; but the figure
given by him is fo impeded, and the defcription fo confufed, that Linnaeus, who
gave it the generic name myriftica^ was unable to affign its proper characters. Son-
nei at s account of the mufcadier is ftill more erroneous ; and the younger Linnaeus
3
was
36 APPENDIXTO
was unfortunately mided by this author, placing the myriftica in the clafs Pollan-
dria,
and defcribing the corolla as confiding of live petals. Thunberg, who exa-
mined the flower of the nutmeg, places it in the clafs Monoecia ; and, according to his
defcription, the male flower has but one filament, furrounded at the upper part by
the antheras ; and as the filaments are fhort and (lender, and the anthers united, this
miftake might eafily arife. M. De La Ma ck informs us, that he received feveral
branches of the myriftica, both in flower and fruit, from the Ifle of France, where a
nutmeg-tree, which was introduced by Monfieur R ivre in 1770, is now very large,
and continually producing flowers and fruit. From thefe branches, which were
fent from Monf. Cere, director of the king’s garden in that ifland, Monf. De La
Marck has been enabled to defcribe and figure this and or her fpecies of the myrifti-
ca with tolerable accuracy ; as will appear from the annexed plate, of which the fol-
lowing is an explanation :
Fig. a. A fprig with frudificacion. The drupa of the natural fize, and burfting
open. Fig. b. The full-grown fruit cut lengthways. Fig. c. Another fedion of
the fame. Fig. d. The nutmeg enveloped with its covering the mace. Fig. e.
The fatty membrane or mace fpread out, Fig./ The nutmeg of its natural fize.
Fig. g. The fame with its external tegument removed at one end. Fig. h. The
fame with its outer tegument entirely removed. Fig. i. A tranfverfe fedion of the
nutmeg.
The feed or kernels called nutmegs are well known, as they have been long ufed
both for culinary and medical purpofes. Diftilled with water, they yield a large
quantity of eflential oil, reiembling in flavour the fpice itfelf; after the diftillation,
an infipid febacious matter is found fwimming on the water; the decodion infpif-
fated, gives an extrad of an unduous, very lightly bitterifb, tafte, and with little or
no aftringency. Redified fpirit extrads the whole virtue of nutmegs by infufion,
and elevates very little of it in diftillation ; hence the fpirituous extrad poffefies the
flavour of the fpice in an eminent degree.
Nutmegs, when heated, yield to the prefs a confiderable quantity of limpid yel-
low oil, which on cooling concretes into a febaceous confiftence. In the {hops we
meet with three forts of unduous fubftances, called oil of mace,
though really expref-
fed from the nutmeg. The beft is brought from the Eaft Indies in ftone jars *, this
is of a thick confiftence, of the colour of mace, and has an agreeable fragrant fmell;
the fecondfort, which is paler coloured, and much inferior in quality, comes from
Holland in folid mafles, generally flat, and of a fquare figure: the third, which is
the worfl of all, and ufually called common oil of macefs an artifical compofition of fe-
vum, palm-oil, and the like, flavoured with a little genuine oil of nutmeg.
Method
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 37
Method ofgathering andpreparing Nutmeg. When the fruit is ripe, the natives af-
eend the trees, and gather it by pulling the branches to them with long hooks.
Some are employed in opening them immediately, and in caking off the green fhell or
firft rind, which is laid together in a heap in the woods, where in time it putrefies.
As foon as the putrefaction has taken place, there fpring up a kind of mufhrooms,
called boleti mojchatyni,
of a blackifh colour, and much valued by the natives, who
confider them as delicate eating. When the nuts are ftripped of their firft rind,
they are carried home, and the mace is carefully taken off with a fmall knife. The
mace, which is of a beautiful red, but afterwards affumes a darkifh or reddifh co-
lour, is laid to dry in the fun for the fpace of a day, and then removed to a place lefs
expofed to his rays, where it remains for eight days, that it may foften a little. They
afterwards moiflen it with fea-water, to prevent it from drying too much, or from
lofing its oil. They are careful, however, not to employ too much water, left it
fhould become putrid, and be devoured by the worms. It is laft of all put into
fmall bags, and fqueezed very clofe. Mace mull not be co. founded with macer.
The nuts, which are ftill covered with their ligneous fhtl), are for three days ex-
pofed to the fun, and afterwards dried before a fire till they emit a found when they
are fhaken ; they then beat them with fmall flicks in order to remove their fhell,
which flies off in pieces. Thcfe nuts are diftributed into three parcels : the firfi of
which contains the largeft and moft beautiful, which are deflined to be brought to
Europe-, the fecond contains inch as are referved for the ufe of the inhabitants;
and the third contains the fmaileft, which are irregular or unripe. Thefe are burnt,
and part of the reft is employed for procuring oil by preffure. A pound of them
commonly gives three ounces of oil, which has the confiftence of tallow, and has
entirely the tafte of nutmeg. Both the nut and mace, when diftilled, afford an ef-
fential, tranfparent, and volatile, oil, of an excellent flavour. The nutmegs which
have been thus feledted would foon corrupt if they were not watered, or rather pick-
led with lime-water made from calcined fhell-fifh which they dilute with falt-water
till it attain the confiftence of fluid pap. Into this mixture they plunge the nut-
megs, contained in fmall bafkets, two or three times, till they are completely cover-
ed over with the liquor. They are afterwards laid in a heap, where they heat, and
lofe their fuperfluous moifture by evaporation. When they have fweated fu Ancient-
ly, they are then properly prepared, and fit for a fea-voyage.
In the ifland of Banda, the fruit of the nutmeg-tree is preferved entire in the fol-
lowing manner : When it is almoft; ripe, but previous to its opening, it is boiled
in water and pierced with a needle. They next lay it in water to foak for ten days,
till it has loft; its four and fharp tafte. They then boil it gently in a fyrup of fugar,
to which, if they wilh it to be hard, a little lime is added. This operation is repeat-
No. 28. K ed
5 8 APPENDIX TO
ed for eight days,, and each time the fyrup is renewed. The fruit when thus pre-
ferved is put for the lafh time into a pretty thick fyrup, and is kept in earthern pots
clofely ffiut. Thefe nuts arelikewife pickled with b ine or with vinegar-, and, when
they intend to eat them, they firft fteep them in freffi water, and afterwards boil
them in fyrup of fugar, &c.
IJfes. Nutmegs preferved entire are prefented as deferts, and the inhabitants of
India fometimes eat them when they drink tea. Some of them ufe nothing but the
pulp ; others likewife chew the mace * but they generally throw away the kernel,
which is really the nutmeg. Many, who perform fea-voyages to the north, chew
this fruit every morning. The medicinal qualities of nutmeg are fuppofed to be
aromatic, anodyne, ftomachic, and reftringent ;
and, with a view to the laft-mention-
ed effedts, it has been much uled in diarrhoeas and dyfenteries. To many people
the aromatic flavour of nutmeg is very agreeable; they however fhould be cautious
not to ufe it in large quantities, as it is apt to affedt the head, and even to manifeft
an hypnotic power in fuch a degree as to prove extremely dangerous. Bontius
fpeaks of this as a frequent occurrence in India ;
and Dr. Cullen relates a remarka-
ble inftance of this foporific effedt of the nutmeg, which fell under his own obferva-
tion, and hence concludes, that in apopledlic and paralytic cafes this fpice may be
very improper. He obferves, that a perfon by miftake took two drachms ora little
more of powdered nutmeg : he felt it warm in his ftomach, without any uneafinefs;
but in about an hour after he had taken it he was feized with a drowfinefs, which
gradually increafed to a complete ftupor and infenfibility ; and not long after he
was found fallen from his chair, lying on the floor of his chamber in the ftate
mentioned. Being laid a- bed he fell afleep ; but, awaking a little from time to time,
he was quite delirious -, and he thus continued alternately fleeping and delirious for
feveral hours. By degrees, however, both thefe fymptoms diminilhed -, fo that in
about fix hours from the time of taking the nutmeg he was pretty well recovered
from both. Although he ftill complained of head-ach, and fome drowfinefs, he
flept naturally and quietly the following night, and next day was quite in his ordi-
nary health. The officinal preparations of nutmeg are a fpirit and efiential oil, and
the nutmeg in fubftance roafted, to render it more aftringent. Both the fpice itfelf
and its efiential oil enter feveral compofitions, as the confedtio aromatica, fpiritus
amoniae com. &c. Mace poffefies qualities fimilar to thofe of the nutmeg, but is
lefs aftringent, and its oil is fuppofed to be more volatile and acrid.
Remarks on the Trade of Nutmegs. Nutmeg-trees grow in feveral iflands in the
eaftern ocean. The wood-pigeon of the Moluccas is unintentionally a great
planter of thefe trees, and difieminates them in places where a nation, powerful by
its commerce, thinks it for its intereft that they ffiould be rooted out and deftroyed.
i The
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 39
The Dutch, whofe unwearied patience can furmount the greateft obftacles, have ap-
propriated to themfelves the crop of nutmeg, as well as that of cloves and cinna-
mon, growing in the iflands of Ternate, Ceylon, &c. either by right of conqueft or
by paying fubfidies to the iflanders, who find thefe much more profitable than the
former produce of their trees. It is neverthelefs true, that they have prevailed upon
or compelled the inhabitants of the Moluccas to cut down and root out all the
clove-trees, which they have preferved only in the iflands of Amboyna and Ternate,
which are in a great meafure fubjeft to them. We know for certain, that the Dutch
pay 18,000 rixdollars yearly to the king of Ternate, by way of tribute or gift, in or-
der to recompenfe him for the lofs of his clove-trees in the other Molucca iflands *,
and that they are moreover bound by treaty to take, at. three-pence three-farthings a
pound, all the cloves brought by the natives of Amboyna to their magazines. They
have likewife fucceeded to deftroy the cinnamon every where except in the ifland of
Ceylon, which is in their pofleflion. The fame is the cafe with white pepper, &c.
fo that the trade of the whole of Europe, and of great part of Afia, in this fpecies of
commodity, pafles through their hands.
The Dutch have immenfe and very rich magazines of thefe precious aromatics,
both in India and Europe. They have adtually by them the produce of fixteen
years, and never fupply their neighbours with the laft, but always with the oldeft,
crop : in 1760 they fold what was laid up in 1744. It is commonly faid, that when
the Dutch have too great a quantity of cloves, nutmeg, &c. in their magazines, they
throw them into the fea *, but the fadt is, that they get rid of their fuperfluous aro-
matics by burning them. On the 10th of June 1760, M. Beaumare law at Amfter-
dam, near the admiralty, a fire, the fuel of which was valued at 8,000,coo of livres j
and as much was to be burned the day following. The feet of the fpedlators were
bathed in the eflential oil of thefe fubftances ; but no perfon was allowed to gather
any of it, muchlefs to take any of the fpices which were in the fire. Some years be-
fore, upon a fimilar occafion, and at the fame place, a poor man who had taken up
fome nutmegs which had rolled out of the fire, was, as M. Beaumare was inform-
ed, feized and condemned to immediate execution. We will only add, that not-
withftanding the jealoufy of the Dutch, and the pains they take to prefefve the fale
of cloves wholly to themfelves, they have never been able to prevent their own offi-
cers in feveral parts of India from embezzling and felling confiderable quantities of
them. M. de Jaucourt informs us, that, in order to defraud the company, they fell
them to the veffels of other nations which they meet at fea, and moiiten the remain-
der with water, that they may Hill have the number of quintals of which their cargo
con ft fled. I he quantity iold may amount to ten quintals in one hundred before it
tan be perceived by the clerks of the magazines at Batavia, where they are received.
We
40 APPENDIX TO
We are informed by M. Rome de Lifle, who has lately arrived from India, that
the tnglifh draw a great deal of cinnamon, pepper, and cloves, from the lfland of
Sumatra. Theftaplefor this commodity, which gives great offence to the Dutch,
is at the fadory of Bencoolen. We have likewile leen a ipecimen of pretty good
cinnamon raifed at Martinico. The French, to prevent the exportation of fpecie
for theie aromatic and exotic produdions, have attempted to introduce the cu ture
of them into fomeof their colonies. A great many plants of the clove and nutmeg
tree have been procured, and planted in the Ifle of France, the ifland of Bourbon,
and alfo at Cayenne, where they have a very promifing appearance.
The FLOWERING P A V O N I S.
THIS plant grows nine feet in height, and bears rnoft beautiful yellow flowers.
The feed fteeped in water, and a ftrong decodiun of it given to a woman in labour,
greatly facilitates the delivery. For this reafon, thofe Indian flaves who have con-
iidered themfelves cruelly ufed by their tafk-matlers in the plantations, take great
pains to get at this tree, for the purpofe of procuring abortion, which they know it
never fails to effect. Thofe negroes who are brought from Guinea, and Angola,
•were the firft who were dilcovered making ufe of this plant •, and while they ate of
it, or drank a decodion of its leaves or feeds, they neither conceived, nor brought
forth children. On being remonftratrd with, they faid they would fooner die than
bring forth children in flavery, who, as they grow up, muft undergo the fame yoke,
and iuffer all the cruelties inflided on their unfortunate parents. Tournefort calls
this tree poinciana fiore pulcherrimo. It grows in all the warm climates, and is found
in many parts of America.
PIMENTO, or JAMAICA PEPPER TREE.
THE Jamaica pepper tree is a fpecies of the myrtle, a genus of the monogynia
order, belonging to the icofandria clafs of plants ; and in the natural method ranking
under the 19th order, Hefperide<e. The calyx is quinquefid, fuperior ; there are five
petals ; the berry is difpermous or trifpermous. There are fourteen fpecies, of
which the moft remarkable are,
1. The communis, or common myrtle-tree, rifeth with a fhrubby, upright, firm,
Item, branching numeroufly all around into a clofe full head, rifing eight or ten feet
high; very clofely garnilhed with oval-lanceolate, entire, moftly oppofite, leaves,
from half an inch to an inch and a half long, and one broad, on fliort foot-ftalks ;
and numerous, fmall, pale, flowers from theaxillas, fingly on each foot ft alk, having
diphyllous involucrums; each flower fucceeded by a fmall, oval, dark-purple, berry.
The
Oil' dcl.
L
J?a,i
41
C U L P E P E R’s BRITISH HERBAL.
Themoft material varieties are -.—Broad-leaved Roman myrtle, with oval, fhining,
green, leaves, an inch and an half long, and one broad; and which is remarkably
fioriferous. Gold-ftriped broad-leaved Roman myrtle. Broad-leaved Dutch myr-
tle, with fpear-fhaped, fharp pointed, dark-green, leaves, an inch long, and about
three quarters of one broad. Double-flowered Dutch myrtle. Broad-leaved Jews
myrtle, having the leaves placed by threes at each joint ; by which particular cir-
cumftance this fpecies is in univerfal eftimation among the Jews in their religious
ceremonies, particularly in decorating their tabernacles; and for which purpole
many gardeners about London cultivate it with particular care, to fell to the above
people, who are often obliged to purchafe it at the rate of fixpence or a fhilling for
a fmall branch : for the true fort, having the leaves exactly by threes, is very fcarce,
and is a curiofiry ; but by care in its propagation, taking only the perfectly ternate-
leaved fhoots for cuttings, it may be increafed fad enough ; and is worth the atten-
tion of the curious, and particularly thofe who raife myrtles for the London mar-
kets. Orange-leaved Spanifh myrtle, with oval fpear-fhaped leaves, an inch and a
half long or more, and one broad, in clufters round the branches, and refemble the
fhapeand colour of orange-tree leaves. Gold-ftriped leaved orange myrtle. Com-
mon upright Italian myrtle, with its branches and leaves growing more ereeft, the
leaves oval, lanceolate-fhaped, acute-pointed, and near an inch long, and half a one
broad. Silver-ftriped upright Italian myrtle. White-berried upright Italian myr-
tle. Portugal acute-leaved myrtle, with fpear-fhaped, oval, acute-pointed, leaves,
about an inch long. Box-leaved myrtle, with weak branches, fmall, oval, obtufe,
lucid-green, clofely-placed, leaves. Striped box-leaved myrtle. Rofemary-leaved
myrtle, hath eredl branches, fmall, narrow, lanceolate, acute-pointed, fhining,
green, very fragrant, leaves. Silver-ftriped rofemary-leaved myrtle. Thyme-leav-
ed myrtle, with very fmall clofely-placed leaves. Nutmeg-myrtle, with ereift
branches and leaves ; the leaves oval, acute-pointed, and finely feented like a nut-
meg. Broad-leaved nutmeg-myrtle. Silver-ftriped leaved ditto. Criftated or
cock’s-comb myrtle, frequently called bird’s-neft myrtle, hath narrow fharp-point-
ed leaves, criftated at intervals. Thefe are all beautiful ever-green flirubs of ex-
ceeding fragrance ; exotics originally of thefouthern parts of Europe, and of Afia
and Africa, and confequently in this country require the fhelter of a green-houfe in
winter: all of which, though rather of the fmall-leaved kind, have their foliage
clofely placed, and remain all the year, and are very fioriferous in fummer ; and when
there is a colledtion of the different forts, they afford an agreeable fource of variety
with each other. They therefore claim univerfal efteem as principal green-houle
plants, efpecially as they are all foeafily railed from cuttings, and of fuch eafy cul-
ture, as to be attainable in every garden where there is any fort of green-houfe, or
No. 28. L garden-
42 APPENDIX TO
garden-frames furnilhed with glaflfes for protecting them in winter from from frcft
but fome of the broad-leaved forts are fo hardy as to fucceed in the full ground,
again ft a fouth wall and other warm expofures, all the year, by only allowing them
fhelter of mats occafionally in fevere frofty weather : fo that a few of thefe iorts
may alfo be exhibited in a warm fituation in the fhrubbery : obferving, however, all
the forts are principally to be confidered as green-houfe plants, and a due portion of
them muft always remain in pots to move to that department in winter.
2. The pimenta, pimento, Jamaica pepper, or all-fpice tree, grows above thirty
feet in height and two in circumference ; the branches near the top are much divi-
ded and thickly befet with leaves, which by their continual verdure always gives
the tree a beautiful appearance; the bark is very fmooth externally, and of a grey
colour; the leaves vary in fhape and in lize, but are commonly about four inches
long, veined, pointed, elliptical, and of a.deep Ihining-green colour; the flowers are
produced in bunches or panicles, and ftand upon fubdividing or trichotomous ftalks,
which ufually terminate the branches ; the calyx is cut into four roundilh fegments;
the petals are alfo four, white, fmall, reflex, oval, and placed oppofite to each other
between the fegments of the calyx ; the filaments are numerous, longer than the
petals, fpreading, of a greenilh-white colour, and rife from the calyx and upper part
of the germen ; the antheras are roundifti, and of a pale-yellow colour; the ftyle is
fmooth, Ample, and ereCt ; the ftigma is obtufe; the germen becomes a round fuc-
culent berry, containing two kidney-fhaped flattifli feeds. This tree is a native of
New Spain and the Weft-India iflands. In Jamaica it grows very plentifully ; and
in June, July, and Auguft, puts forth its flowers, which, with every part of the tree,
breathe an aromatic fragrance. The berries when ripe are of a dark-purple colour,
and full of a fweet pulp, which the birds devour greedily, and, muting the feeds,
afterwards propagate thefe trees in all parts of the woods. It is thought that the
feeds pafling through them, in this manner, undergo fome fermentation, which fits
them better for vegetating than thofe gathered immediately from the tree.
The pimento is a moft beautiful odoriferous ever-green, and exhibits a fine varie-
ty in the ftove at all feafons. It was firft introduced and cultivated in this country
by Mr. Philip Miller in 1739. Wich re fPe& t0 flowering, all the varieties of the
myrtus communis flower here in July and Auguft, moft of which are very floriferous
:
the broad-leaved Roman kind in particular is often covered with flowers, which in
fome of the forts are fucceeded here by berries ripening in winter. The pimento al-
fo flowers in the ftove with great beauty and luxuriance. The flowers of moft of
the forts are fmall, but numerous ; and are all formed each of five oval petals and
many ftamina. As all thefe plants require protection in this country, they muft be
kept always in pots, for moving to the proper places of fhelter according to their na-
ture;
:-r •
>
\
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 43
ture-, the myrtus communis and varieties to the green-houfe in winter, the pimento,,
and other delicate kinds to the ftove, to remain all the year : therefore let all the
forts be potted in rich light earth ; and, as they advance in growth, fliift them into
larger pots, managing the myrtles as other green- houfe (hrubs, and the ftove- kinds
as other woody exotics of the ftove.
Properties,
&c. The leaves and flowers of common upright myrtle have an af«
tringent quality, and are ufedfor cleanfing the fkin, fixing the teeth, when loofened
by the fcurvy, and (Lengthening the fibres. From the flowers and young tops is
drawn a diddled water that is deterfive, aftringent, cofmetic, and ufed in gargles.
A deco&ion of the flowers and leaves is applied in fomentations. The berries have
a binding deterfive quality-, and the chemical oil obtained from them is excellent
for the hair, and ufed in pomatums and mod other external beautifiers of the face
and (kin. As an internal medicine, thefe berries have little or no merit.
In th z Didlionnaire portatif d’Hifloire Naturelle, a fad is related, which, if true,
tends to (how the ftrongly aftringent quality of myrtle. “ Myrtle (fays he) is like-
wife the bafe of a pommade called Pommade de la Comtejfe, and well known on ac-
count of an extraordinary hiftorical fad. One of thofe gay youths who flutter about
the toilets of the fair happened one day to be left alone in the ftorehoufe of the gra-
ces. With eager curiofity he examined the perfumes, the fmelling bottles, the per-
fumed powder, the effences, and the cofmetics. To give more of the Vermillion
and greater pliancy to his lips, and to remove feme difagreeable eruptions, he lightly
fpreads with his indifcreet finger the fatal pommade, looks at himfelf in the glafs,
and contemplates his beauty with admiration. The lady enters ; he wiftses tofpeak,
but his lips contracted, and he could only ftammer. The lady looked at him with
aftonifliment j at length calling her eyes on the toilet, fhe dilcovered by the open
pot the caufe of the miftake, and enjoyed a hearty laugh at the expence of her ad-
mirer, whofe confufion announced his indiferetion.”
Pimento berries are chiefly imported into Britain from Jamaica ; whence the name
Jamaica pepper. It is alfo called all-fpice, from its tafte and flavour being fuppofed
to refemble thofe of many different fpices mixed together. It is one of the ftaple ar-
ticles of Jamaica where the pimento walks are upon a large fcale, fome of them
covering feveral acres of ground. When the oerries arrive at their full growth, but
before they begin to ripen, they are picked from the branches, and expofed to the
fun for feveral days, till they are fufficiently dried ; this operation is to be conduct-
ed with great care, obferving that on the firft and fecond day’s expofure they require
to be turned very often, and always to be preferved from rain and the evening dews..
After this procefs is completed, which is known by the colour and rattling of the
feeds in the berries, they are put up in bags or hogCheads for the market. This fpice,
2 which
44 APPENDIX TO
which was at firffc brought over for dietetic ufes, has been long employed in the
fhops as a fuccedaneum to the more coftly oriental aromatics: it is moderately
warm, of an agreeable flavour, fomewhat reiembling that of a mixture of cloves,
cinnamon, and nutmegs. Diddled with water it yields an elegant eflential oil, fo
ponderous as to fink in the water, in tafte moderately pungent, in fmell and flavour
approaching to oil of cloves, or rather a mixture of cloves and nutmegs. To recti-
fied fpirit it imparts by maceration or digeftion the whole of its virtue: in diftiila-
tion it gives over very little to this menftruum, nearly all its a&ive matter remaining
concentrated in the infpiffated extraCt. Pimento can fcarcely be confidered as a
medicine : it is, however, an agreeable aromatic, and on this account is not unfre-
quently employed with different drugs, requiring fuch a grateful adjunct. Both
the Pharmacopoeias direct an aqueous and fpirituous difbillation to be made from
thefe berries, and the Edinburgh college order alfo thzoleumejfentialepiperisjamaicenjis.
PLANTAIN-TREE.
THE plantain-tree is a genus of the monoecia order, belonging to the polyandria
clafsof plants -, and in the natural method ranking under the eighth order, Scitami-
W<£. The calyx of the male hermaphrodite is a fpatha or fheath •, the corolla is di-
petalous ; the one petal ereCt and quinquedentate ;
the other nectariferous, concave,
and fhorter ; there are fix filaments ; five of which are perfeCt ; one ftylc ; the ger-
men inferior and abortive. The female hermaphrodite has the calyx, corolla, fila-
ments, and piftil, of the male hermaphrodite, with only one filament perfeCt; the
berry is oblong, and three-angled below. The moft remarkable fpecies are, i.
The paradifaicay
or Jamaica plantain ; 2. The mufa fapientum, or banana-tree. See
the Plate.
The firft fort is cultivated in all the iflands of the Weft Indies, where the fruit
ferves the Indians for bread ; and fome of the white people alfo prefer it to moft
other things, efpecially to the yams and cafifada bread. The plant riles with a foft
ftalk fifteen or twenty feet high the lower part of the ftalk is often as large as a
man’s thigh, diminifhing gradually to the top, where the leaves come out on every
fide ; thefe are often eight feet long, and from two to three feet broad, with a ftrong
flefhy mid-rib, and a great number of tranfverfe veins running from the mid-rib to
the borders. The leaves are thin and tender, fo that where they are expofed to the
open air, they are generally torn by the wind ;
for, as they are large, the wind has
great power againfc them : thefe leaves come out from the centre of the ftalk, and
are rolled up at their firft appearance-, but, when they are advanced above the ftalk,
they expand and turn backward. As thefe leaves come up rolled in the manner
before-mentioned, their advance upward is fo quick, that their growth may almoft
be
CULPEPER*s BRITISH HERBAL. 45
be aifcerned by the naked eye*, and, if a fine line is drawn acrofs level with the top
of the leaf, in an hour’s time the leaf will be near an inch above it. When the
plant is grown to its full height, the fpikes of flowers will appear in the centre,
which is often near four feet in length, and nods on one fide. The flowers come
out in bunches; thofe in the lower part of the fpike being the larged ; the others
diminifh in their fize upward. Each of the bunches is covered with a fpath or
fheath of a fine purple colour, which drops off when the flowers open. The upper
part of the fpike is made up of male or barren flowers, which are not fucceeded by
fruit, but fall off with their covers. The fruit or plantains are about a foot long,
and an inch and a half or two inches diameter: it is at firft green, but when ripe of
a pale-yellow colour. The fkin is tough ; and within is a foft pulp of a lufcious
fweet flavour. The pikes of the fruit are often fo large as to weigh upwards of
forty pounds. The fruit of this fort is generally cut before it is ripe. The green
fkin is pulled off, and the heart is roafted in a clear fire for a few minutes, and fre-
quently turned: it is then fcraped, and ferved up as bread. Boiled plantains are
not fo palatable. This tree is cultivated on a very extenfive fcale in Jamaica;
without the fruit of which, Dr. Wright fays, the ifland would fcarcely be habita-
ble, as no fpecies of provifion could fupply their place. Even flour or bread itfclf
would be lefs agreeable, and lefs able to fupport the laborious negro, fo as to ena-
ble him to do his bufinefs or to keep in health. Plantains alfo fatten horfes, cattle,
fwine, dogs, fowls, and other domeftic animals. The leaves being fmooth and foft
are employed as dreflings after blifters. The water from the foft trunk is aftrin-
sent, and employed by fome to check diarrhoeas. Every other part of the tree is
ufeful in different parts of rural oeconomy. The leaves are ufed for napkins and
table-cloths, and are food for hogs.
The fecond fort differs from the firft, in having its ftalks marked with dark pur-
ple ftripes and fpots. The fruit is fhorter, ftraighter, and rounder: the pulp is fofter
and of a more lufcious tafte. It is never eaten green ; but, when ripe, it is very
agreeable, either eaten raw or fried in dices as fritters ; and is relifhed by all ranks
of people in the Weft-Indies. Both the above plants were carried to the Weft-In-
dies from the Canary iflands ; whither, it is believed, they had been brought
from Guinea, where they grow naturally. They are alfo cultivated in Egypt, and
in moil other hot countries, where they grow to perfection in about ten months,
from their firft planting to the ripening of their fruit. When their ftalks are cut
down, there will feveral fuckers come up from the root, which in fix or eight months
will produce fruit; fo that, by cutting down the ftalks at different times, there is a
conftant fucceffion of fruit all the year.
No. 29. M In
46 A P P E N D I X T O
In Europe there 2re fome of thefe plants preferved in the gardens of curious per-
fons, who have hot-houfes capacious enough for their reception, in many of whom
they have ripened their fruit very well ; but as they grow very tall, and their leaves
are large, they require more room in the ftove than raoft people care to allow them.
They are propagated by fuckers, which come from the roots of thofe plants which
have fruited •, and many times the younger plants, when they are Hinted in growth,
will alfo put out fuckers.
The fruit of the banana-tree is four or five inches long, of the fize and fhape of a
middling cucumber, and of a high grateful flavour : the leaves are two yards k ng,
and 2 foot broad in the middle ; they join to the top of the body of the tree, and
frequently contain in their cavities a great quantity of water, whkh runs out, upon
a fmail incifion being made into the tree, at the jun&ion of the leaves. Bananas
grow in great bunches, that weigh a dozen pounds and upwards. The body of the
tree is fo porous as not to merit the name of wood ;
the tree is only perennial by its
roots, and dies down to the ground every autumn.
When the natives of the Weft-Indies (fays Labat) undertake a voyage, they make
provifion of a pafte of banana-, which, in cafe of need, ftrves them tor nourilh-
ment and drink : for this purpole they take ripe bananas and, having fqueezed
them through a fine fieve, form the lolid fruit into fmail loaves, which are dried in
the fun or in hot allies, after being previoufly wrapped up in the leaves of Indian
flowering reed. When they would make ufe of this pafte, they dftfolve it in water,
which is very eaftly done ; and the liquor, thereby rendered thick, has an agreeable
acid tafte imparted to it, which makes it both refrelhing and nourifhing. The ba-
nana is greatly efteemed, and even venerated, by the natives of Madeira, who term
it the forbidden fruit, and reckon it a crime almoft inexpiable to cut it with a knife*,
becaufe, after difleclion, it exhibits, as they pretend, a fimilitude of our Saviour’s
crucifixion ; and to cut the fruit open with a knife, is, in their apprehenfion, to
wound his facred image.
Some authors have imagined, that the banana-tree was that of the leaves of which
our firft parents made themfelves aprons in Paradife. The facred text, indeed, calls
the leaves employed for that purpofe fig-leaves; and Milton, in a mod beautiful
but erroneous defeription, affirms the bearded or Bengal fig to have been the tree
alluded to. But, befides that the fruit of the banana is often by the moft ancient au-
thors called a fig, its leaves, by reafon of their great fize and folidity, were much
more proper for a veil or covering than thofe of the Bengal fig, which are feldom
above fix or eight inches long and three broad. On the other hand, the banana-
leaves, being three, four, and five, feet long, and proportionably broad, could not
fail to be pitched upon in preference to all others ; efpecially as they might be ea-
fily
\
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 47
lily joined, or fewed together, with the numerous thread-like filaments that may,
with the utmoft facility, be peeled from the body of this tree.
Some have fuppofed the Abyfiinian plant enfete to be a fpecies of mufa. It is faid
to be a native of the province of Narea, where it grows in the great marfhes and
fwamps for which that province is remarkable, owing to the many rivers which
originate in that country, and have but a fmall declivity to the ocean. This plant
as well as the coffee- tree, is faid to have been unknown in Abyffinia before the arri-
val of the Galla, who imported them both along with them. It comes to great
perfection about Gondar; but the principal plantations of it are in that part of
Maitfha and Gouth, to the weft of the Nile, where it is almoft the foie food of the
Galla who inhabit that country. Maitfha is almoft entirely on a dead level ; fo that
the rains ftagnate and prevent the fowing of grain. Were it not for the er^ete,
therefore, the Galla would have fcarcely any vegetable food. Mr. Bruce thinks that
the enfete may have been cultivated in fomeof the gardens of Egypt about Rofetto,
but that it was not a native of the country. He ftrongly controverts the opinion
that this plant is a fpecies of mufa. “ It is true (fays he), the leaf of the banana re-
fembles that of the enfete: it bears figs, and has an excrefcence from its trunk,
which is terminated by a conical figure, chiefly differing from the enfete in fizeand
quantity of parts-, but the figs of the banana are of thefizeand figure of a cucumber,
and this is the part which is eaten. This fig is fweet, though mealy, and of a tafte
highly agreeable. It is fuppofed to have no feeds, though in fa<5t there are four
fmall black feeds belonging to every fig. But the figs of the enfete are not eatable :
they are of a fofc tender fubftance ; watery, taftelefs, and in colour and confiftence
refembiing a rotten apricot : they are of a conical form, crooked a little at the low-
er end about an inch and an half in length, and an inch in breadth where thickeft.
In the infide of thefc is a large ftone half an inch long, of the fhape of a bean or ca-
fhevv-nut, of a dark-brown colour; and this contains a fmall feed, which is feldom
hardened into fruit, but confifts only of Hein. The long ftalk that bears the figs of
the enfete fprings from the centre of the plant, or rather is the body or folid part of
the plant itfelf. Upon this, where it begins to bend, are a parcel of loofe leaves ;
then grows the fig upon the body of the plant without any ftalk ; after which the
top of the ftalk is thick fet with fmall leaves, in the midft of which it terminates the
flower in the form of an artichoke; whereas in the banana, the flower in form of the
artichoke grows at the end of that (hoot or ftalk which proceeds from the middle
of the plant, the upper part of which bears the row of figs. The leaves of the en-
fete are a web of longitudinal fibres clofely fet together ; the leaves grow from the
bottom without ftalks : whereas the banana is in form like a tree, and has been mif-
taken for fuch. One half of it is divided into a ftem, the other is a head formed with
leaves a
APPENDIX TO
48
leaves •, and, in place of the ftem that grows out of the enfete, a number of leaves,
rolled round together like a truncheon, fhoots out of the heart of the banana, and
renews the upper as the under leaves fall off: but all the leaves of the banana
have a long ftalk •, this fixes them to the trunk, which they do not embrace by a
broad bafe or involucrum as the enfete does.
“ But the greateft differences are ftill remaining. The banana has by fome been
miffaken for a tree of the palmaceous kind, for no other reafon but a kind of fimila-
rity in producing the fruit on an excrefcence or ftalk growing from the heart of the
ftem i but ftill the mufa is neither woody nor perennial ^ it bears the fruit but once •,
and in all thefe refpedts it differs from trees of the palmaceous kind, and indeed
from all fort of trees whatever. The enfete, on the contrary, has no naked ftem ;
no part of it is woody : the body of it, for feveral feet high, is efculent •, but no part
of the banana plant can be eaten. As foon as the ftalk appears perfedt and full of
leaves, the body of the plant turns hard and fibrous, and is no longer fit to be eaten :
before, it is the beft of all vegetables. When boiled, it has the tafte of the beft new
wheat-bread not perfectly baked. When you make ufe of the enfete for eating,
you cut it immediately above the fmall detached roots, and perhaps a foot or two
higher, as the plant is of age. The green muft be ftripped from the upper part till
it becomes white ; when foft, like a turnip well boiled, if eaten with milk or butter,
it is the beft of all food, wholefome, nourilhing, andeafily digefted.”
Our author now proceeds to confider an hieroglyphic fometimes met with in
Egypt, viz. the figure of Ifis fitting between fome branches of the banana-tree, as
is fuppofed, and fome handfuls of ears of wheat. You lee likewife the hippopota-
mus ravaging a quantity of the banana-tree. Yet the banana is merely adventitious
in Egypt : it is a native of Syria : it does not even exift in the low hot country of
Arabia Felix ;
but choofes fome elevation in the mountains where the air is tempe-
rate i and is not found in Syria farther to the l'outhward than lat. 34
0
.
For thefe reafons Mr. Bruce thinks, that the banana, not being a plant of the coun-
try, “ could never have entered into the lift of their hieroglyphics ; for this reafon,
it could not figure any thing regular or permanent in the hiftory of Egypt or its cli-
mate. I therefore imagine (adds he), that this hieroglyphic was wholly Ethiopian-,
and that the fuppofed banana, which, as an adventitious plant, fignified no-
thing in Egypt, was only a reprefentation of the enfete ; and that the record in the
hieroglyphic of Ifis and the enfete- tree was fomething that happened between harveft,
which was about Auguft, and the time that the enfete-treecame in ufe, which was in
October.—The hippopotamus is generally thought to reprefent a Nile that has been
fo abundant as to be deftru&ive. When, therefore, we fee upon the obelifks the
hippopotamus deftroying the banana, we may fuppofe it meant, that the extraordi-
nary
1
' .v
.
27
?. 8.
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL, 49
nary inundation had gone fo far as not only to deftroy the wheat, but alfo to retard
or hurt the growth of the enfete, which was to fupply its place.’
5
The true TURKEY RHUBARB.
RHUBARB is a genus of the enneandria trigynia clafs. Its characters are thefe:
the flower has no empalement ; it hath one petal, which is narrow at the bafe,
and impervious ; the brim is cut into fix parts, which are obtufe and alternately
fmaller ; it hath nine hair-like ftamina inferted in the petal, and of the fame length,
terminated by oblong fummits, which are obtufe, and a fhort three-cornered germen,
with fcarcely any ftyle, crowned by three-feathered ltigmas, which are reflexed ; the
germen afterwards becomes a large three-cornered feed, with acute membranaceous
borders. Miller reckons four and Linnaeus five fpecies. The true rhubarb is now
fown in many gardens, and may probably fucceed fo well here in time, as that a
fufficient quantity of that valuable drug may be raifed to fupply our confumptiom
The rhubarb with hairy leaves and equal foot-ftalks has been generally reckoned
the true rhubarb plant, having been produced from the feeds fent from Ruflia, as
thofeof the true rhubarb, to Juflieu of Paris, Rand at Chelfea, and Linnaeus at
Upfal. It is a native of China and Siberia, and has been raifed in fome of our
own gardens, where it is found to grow with vigour in the open ground. Some
have derived its name from Rha,
the river called by us Wolga, and harbarum, q. d.
the root found by the barbarians on the river Rha. However it is necefiary to ob~
ferve, that Dr. Hope, received, in 1763, rhubarb-feeds from Ruflia, which Dr.
Mounfey allured him were the feeds of the true rhubarb ; and, having fown them
in the open ground at Edinburgh, they produced a different fpecies, viz. the rheum
palmatum Linnai, with the leaves deeply cut into pointed fegments. He obferves
that the root'of this plant, though taken up too young, and at an improper feafon,
viz. in July, agreed perfectly with the beft foreign rhubarb in colour, fmell, tafte,
and purgative quality. See his botanical defcription and drawing of the plant in
Phil. Tranf. vol. Iv. art. 32. Perhaps, fays Dr. Lewis, the roots of both fpecies
may be of the fame quality, and taken promifcuoufly. The rhaponticum is a dif-
ferent fpecies from either of thefe. Mr. Bell informs us, in his Travels, that the beft
rhubarb grows in that part of the Eaftern Tartary called Mongallia, which ferves
as a boundary between Ruflia and China. This plant, he fays, does not run and
fpread itfelf like docks, but grows in tufts at uncertain diftances, as if the feeds had
been dropped with defign. As the Mongalls do not think it worth cultivating, the
marmots, which burrow under the fhade of its fpreading leaves, and probably feed
on its leaves and roots, contribute to its increafe, partly by the manure which their
dung affords it, and principally by calling up and loofening the earth, into which
No. 29. N the
5© APPENDIX TO
the ripe feeds blown by the wind fall, and where they immediately take root. Af-
ter digging and gathering the rhubarb, the Mongalls cut the large roots into fmall
pieces, in order to make them dry more readily. In the middle of every piece they
fcoop a hole, through which a cord is drawn, in order to fufpend them in a conve-
nient place ; and by this practice they deflroy fome of the beft part of the root.
All rhubarb-plants, fays Miller, are propagated by feeds, which fhould be fown
in autumn foon after they are ripe, and then the plants will come up rhe following
fpring j whereas, if they are fown in the fpring, they will not come up till the next
fpring. The plants fhould remain where the feeds are fown j and, when they appear
in the fpring, the ground fhould be hoed to cut up the weeds, and they fhould be
thinned, like carrots and parfnips, leaving them at the firfl hoeing fix or eight inches
afunder ; and, at the fecond hoeing, at the diftance of at leaft a foot and a half.
After this the plants will require no other culture but to keep them clean from weeds
;
in autumn the leaves decay, when the ground fhould be made clean ; and it fhould
alfo be hoed and cleaned in the fpring, when the plants put out their new leaves.
In the fecond year after they come up the ftrongefl will produce flowers and feeds
;
and, in the third year, molt of them will flower. The roots will remain many years
without decaying, and, it is faid, that the old roots of the true rhubarb are much
preferable to the young ones. They delight in a rich foil, not too dry nor too moift,
and where there is a good depth for their roots to run down •, in fuch land their
leaves will be very large, and their roots will grow to a great fize.
Two forts of rhubarb-roots are met with in the fhops. The firfl is imported
from Turkey and Ruffia, in roundifh pieces, freed from the bark, with a hole
through the middle of each, externally of a yellow colour, internally variegated
with lively reddifh {freaks. The other, which is lefs efleemed, comes immediately
from theEafl Indies, in longifh pieces, harder, heavier, and morecompaft, than the
foregoing. The firfl fort, unlefs kept very dry, is apt to grow mouldy and worm-
eaten •, the fecond is lefs fubjeft to thefe inconveniences. Some of the more induf-
trious artifls are faid to fill up the worm-holes with certain mixtures, and to colour
the outfide of the damaged pieces with powder of the finer forts of rhubarb, and
iometimes with cheaper materials. The marks of the goodnefs of rhubarb are,
the livelinefs of its colour when cut, its being firm and folid, but not flinty or hard^
its being eafily pulverable, and appearing, when powdered, of a fine bright yellow
colour-, its imparting to the fpittle, on being chewed, a deep faffron tinge, and not
proving flimy or mucilaginous in the mouth. Its tafle is fubacrid, bitterifh, and
fomewhat flyptic -, the fmell is lightly aromatic.
Rhubarb is a mild cathartic, and commonly confidered as one of the fafeft and
moft innocent of the fubftances of this clafs. Befides its purgative virtue it has a
„ mild
CULPEFER’s BRITISH HERBAL. 5 i
mild aftringentone, difcoverable by the tafte, and by its ftriking an inky blacknefs
with chalybeate folutions-, hence it is found to ftrengthen the tone of the ftomach
and inteftines, to leave the belly coftive, and to be one of the moftufeful purgatives
in diarrhoeas, dyfenteries, and all diforders proceeding from a debility and laxity of
the fibres: it is frequently given with a view to this ftomachic and corroborating
virtue rather than to its producing any confiderable evacuations. It tinges the urine
of a high yellow colour. Rhubarb in fubftance purges more effectually than any
preparation of it: the dofe is from a fcruple to a drachm. By roafting it with a
a gentle heat, till it becomes eafily friable, its cathartic power is diminilhed, and its
aftringency fuppofed to be increafed. The purgative virtue of rhubarb is extracted
more perfectly by water than by rectified fpirit ; the root remaining after the aCtioni
of water is almoftif not wholly inactive •, whereas, after repeated digeftion in fpirit,
it proves ftill very confiderably purgative : when the rhubarb has given out to fpirit
all that this menftruum can extract, it ftill imparts a deep colour, as well as a purga-
tive impregnation, to water. A drachm of the extraCt, formed by infpiffating the
watery infufion, is not more efficacious than a fcruple of the root in fubftance •, but
half a drachm of the extract formed from the fpirituous tinCture proves moderately
purgative, though fcarcely more fo than an equal quantity of the powder. The fpi-
rituous extraCl diffolves almoft wholly in water, and hence the tinClure, like the
fpirituous infufions of moft other vegetables, does not turn milky on being mixed
with aqueous liquors •, of the watery extraCl fcarcely above one fourth is diffolved by
rectified fpirit, and the part that does not diffolve proves more purgative than that
which does. Hence it appears, that rhubarb contains much more gummy or mu-
cilaginous than refinous matter-, and its purgative quality feems to refide chiefly in
a combination of gummy and faline matter.
TinClures of this root are drawn in the (hops with proof fpirit and with moun-
tain wine, in the proportion of an ounce of rhubarb to a pint of tfie menftruum,
Thefe preparations, ufed chiefly as mildly laxative corroborants, in weaknefs of the
ftomach, indigeftion, diarrhoeas, colicky and other fuch complaints, are commonly
aromatifed with a little cardamom feeds, and faffron, as two drachms of the former
and one of the latter to the above quantity of the root, and thus are formed the
tinchire of rhubarb, vinofa &fpirituofa. For fome purpofes a tinClure, called tinSlura
rhei dulcis, is drawn from the rhubarb and cardamom feeds with proof fpirit, and
two ounces of white fugar-candy diffolved in the ftrained liquor. For others, in-
fteadof fweetsand aromatics, gentian and fnake-root are joined, in the proportion
of a drachm and a half of the former and a drachm of the latter, with the addition
of a fcruple of cochineal as a colouring ingredient ; this laft tinClure, called tinflum
rhii
APPENDIX TO
St
rhsiamara^ is, in many cafes, an ufeful affiftantto the Peruvian bark in the cure of
intermittents.
The Turkey rhubarb is generally preferred to the Eaft-India fort, though the
latter is more aftringent, but has fomething lefs of an aromatic flavour. Tin&ures
made from both, with equal quantities of rectified fpirit, have nearly the fame tafte:
on drawing off the menftrua, the extract left by the tincture of the Eaft-India rhu-
barb proves in tafte confiderably ftronger than the other. They feem both, fays
Dr. Lewis, to be the produce of the fame climate, and roots of the fame fpecies of
plant, taken up probably at different feafons, or cured in a different manner.
The yellow colour of rhubarb, it is faid, is much lefs deftru&ible than many
other vegetable yellows. Aqua fortis, and other acids which deftroy the colour of
faffron, turmeric, &c. make no change in that of rhubarb, or at moft render it only
turbid. Volatile fpirits heighten the colour, and incline to red. Fixed alkaline falts
have this effect in a greater degree. Mr. Model affirms that a confiderable quan-
tity of felenites is contained in rhubarb. In one experiment he obtained fix ounces
of felenites from four pounds of rhubarb ; and, in the other, no lefs than an ounce
of felenites from two ounces and five drachms of old rhubarb.
The Indian rhubarb fown in our gardens has this peculiar property, that it yields
a fine and clear gum. This is perfectly white and pellucid ; and in the months of
of June and July is fo plentiful, that an ounce may fometimes be gathered at a time
from one plant of it. It exfudates of itfelf from all parts of the ftalks and ribs of
she leaves, and fometimes from the under part of the leaves themfelves. It ftands
in fome places in large drops, and in others the ftalks, &c. feem only to be covered
with a thin layer of it; and the under part of the leaves in fome have it in form of
Swifted wires or long icicles. The plant may always be feen wounded by a fort of
cauftic in the places where the germen makes its way out, and thefe may be followed
i
with any pointed inftrument through the fkin ; in fome parts of the plant this juice
is found to be turned gummy within it, and looks like clear ice. As this is the on-
ly known herbaceous plant that yields a true gum like that of trees, it would be
worthy obfervation, whether fome of ourown plants may not have fome tendency of
nature to form a juice of the fame kind. It would be moft proper to look for this
in the plants of the fame genus, and as nearly related to the rhubarb as we can.
The docks, fo common about our fields, are of the fame genus; and the forrel ffiews
by its tafte, that it is particularly allied to the plant ; for both are alike of the dock-
kind, and both alike four. It would be proper to look carefully about the leaves
of forrel a little before it flowers, to fee whether any thing like the fame gum ap-
pears on ito
There
(
l
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL, 53
There is yet this farther analogy between this rhubarb and our common forrel
:
that the hufks of our forrel, boiled in water, with a little alum, turn it to a fine red
colour ; and the hufks of rhubarb do the fame, and both the one and the other of.
ten turn red in decaying.
The juice of the roots of this rhubarb, extracted by bruifing and fteeping it in
common water, when the liquor is drained and evaporated, becomes only a clear
uninflammable gum, and melts in the flame of a candle. This gum, as well as that
of the (talks and leaves, is of an inlipid tafte ; and it is obfervable, that, though the
plant naturally yields it in fo large a quantity, yet it will not flow from wounds
made by art in any part of the plant. Upon the confideration of the infipid tafte
of this gum, and its folubility in water, we may found fome probable conjecture
in regard to the different virtues of this plant in purging and binding.
The woody fibres have a ftrong tafte-, and, in all probability, are alone endued
with the aftringent quality. An infufion of rhubarb is known to purge, and a pow-
der of it to bind : the reafon is eafily feen on this confideration. The water in in-
fufion takes up all this gummy juice, and its other juices, but leaves the fibrofe
part behind, in confequence of which it ought to purge without binding ;
but, in
cafe of giving the powder, the juices are in great part evaporated in the drying, and
the woody part left almoft alone ; it therefore purges but little, and proves power-
fully aftringent.
The INDIAN ROCU.
THE rocu is a tree of confiderable ftature, bearing flowers of a pale red, like the
European apple-blofloms. When the flowers fall off, a head of feed follows, of an
oblong roundifh form, and prickly, like a chefnut. This contains that beautiful
red feed, which the Indians break or macerate, and, putting it in water, it finks to
the bottom, converting the fluid into a moft elegant tranfparent red tin&ure. This
tinfture they pour off at their leifure, and the fediment which the feeds form at the
bottom they fuffer to dry in little cakes, with which they paint their naked bodies
in various figures, which they efteem a very great ornament.
This tree is the urucu of Pifo j and Tournefort, having joined it with the two
fpecies of Cortufa Americana,
calls it mitella for the fruit of this, as well as the Cor-
tufa Americana, burfts open and reprefents the fhape of an epifcopal mitre ; and
therefore he entitles it, in his Inftitut. Rei Herb, the mitella Americana, maxima^
tinftoria.
No. 29.- O SPEED-
55
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.
fomeafhes in a box fecuredfrom the weather, for the following purpofe : This pow-
der being lighted at one end, burns (lowly on, and being come to certain marked
diftances, they (trike a bell, and by means of this time-keeper, proclaim the hours
of the night to the public. And laftly, that it has the remarkable property of ren-
dering the poifon of the bladder-fifh ( tetraodon ocellatus of Linn. Syftem of Nature*
p. 333.) more virulent, as manv have experienced, that have ufed violent means to
deitroy themfelves. We are indebted for the firft difcovery of this curious Ameri-
can tree to a negro fervant of William Clifton, Efq. chief juftice of Weft Flori-
da, who was fent to coiled: fpecimens of all the rarer plants by his mafter, in April,
1765.
After this, in the latter end of January, 1766, Mr. John Bartram, the king’s bo-
tanift for the Floridas, difcovered it on the banks of the river St. John, in Eaft
Florida, as appears from his delcription of it, and the drawing of a feed-veffel, with
fome of the leaves, which he fent to Peter Collinfon, Efq. Mr. Bartram’s defcrip-
tion of it is as follows :
“ Near here my (on found a lovely fweet tree, with leaves
like the fweet bay, which lmelled like faffafras, and produces a very ftrange kind of
feed-pop •, but ail the feed was (hed, the fevere froft had not hurt it, fome of them
grew near twenty feet high, a charming bright ever-green aromatic.”
Thisobfervationof Mr. Bartram, relating to its bearing a fevere froft, may afford
a ufeful hint in the cultivation of this tree, efpecially as I am convinced, from re-
peated accounts of the weather in Weft Florida; that the froft is much more in-
tenfe there, from whence thcfe plants were brought, than in Eaft Florida •, fo that
the experiment is well worth making with one of them, to fee how far it will ftand
the feverity of our winters. Should it fucceed, it would be a very great acquifition
to our gardeners, and be highly ornamental to our plantations of ever-greens.
The medicinal properties of this tree are certainly worth enquiring into. The
leaves afford a moft agreeable bitter. A fprig of it fet to putrify in a phial of wa-
ter, the bark foon became full of a clear mucilage. The young bluffoms, put into
water with a fmall quantity of tartar per deliquium, from a dark-reddi(h colour be-
came a light-brown ; but, rrom the iame proportion of oil of vitriol in water, they
turned to a tine carmine colour, which ftained the paper of a fine red. This points
out itsaftringent quality.
Before 1 come to the botanical charabters of our Florida illicium, I inuft obferve,
that it appears to me to be a different fpecies from the oriental one. The feed-ve(fels
from China, which aie to be feen in collections of the Materia Medica, efpecially
among foreigners, fmell very difagreeably of anifeed : our Florida feed- veffcl is
agreeably aromatic, as are the leaves and young branches. The flower, according
to Kasmpfer, is o( a yellowi(h white, and looks at a diftance like a narciffus : ours
56 APPENDIX TO
is of a dark-red colour. Kaempfer reckons the number of petals fixteen, and the
rays or feed-vefiels eight : the number of petals in ours is from twenty-one to twen-
ty-feven, and the feed-vefiels twelve or thirteen that ripen. In refpedl to the form
and growth of the tree, they are much the fame •, for inftance, they both grow to the
fizeof a cherry-tree; their leaves are of an oblong oval fhape, pointed at both ends,
flefhy, with few veins, growing alternately, and in tufts, at the ends of the fmail
branches.
Dr. Linnaeus, who takes his characters of the illicium anifatum (Gen. Plant, p.
244.) from Kaempfer, places it among the dodecandria polygynia. But I am per-
fuaded, that, from the following characters, this mult be of the polyandria polygynia,
andihoutd Hand next to the magnolia.
Characters of the Illicium Floridanum, or Florida Starry Amfeed Free.
Calyx. The perianthium, or flower-cup, confifts commonly of five little mem-
branaceous and coloured leaves, that foon fall off *, they are of a concave, oblong,
oval, form, pointed at the ends. Sometimes we meet with only four little leaves,
fometimes fix, in the flower-cup. Kaempfer obferved four in his.
Corolla. The flower confifts of many petals (from twenty-one to twenty-feven)
which are lanceolated : thefe are of three fizes, and equal numbers in each circle,
the outward ones are long, (about an inch,) concave, obtufe, and fpreading open.
The next are a little fhorter and narrower ; and the innermoft are ftill fhorter, much
narrower, and very fharp-pointed : but are not nedtaria as Dr. Linnaeus fuppofes.
Stamina. The filaments are many, (about thirty,) very fhort and flat, placed
over one another, furrounding the germina, or embryo feed-vefiels. Thefe fupport
as many antherae, or fummits, which are erebVoblong, and emarginated, or having
a fmall identure at top, with a cell on each fide full of farina, of a globular form
when they are magnified.
Pistillum, or female organ. The germina, or embryo feed-vefiels, are twenty,
or more, in number, placed in a circular order above the receptacle of the flower :
they are comprefied, erect, and ending in fo many fharp-pointed ftyles, bending out-
wards at the top. The ftigmata or openings on the top of the ftyles are downy, and
placed lengthways along the upper part of each ftyle.
Pericarpium, or feed-vefiel, confifts of twelve, oftner thirteen, little pods, or
capfules, that ripen. Thefe are of a comprefied oval fhape, and a hard leather-like
fubftance, with two valves to each, and are difpofed edgeways in a circular order,
like fo many rays of a ftar.
Semina. The feeds are frnooth and fhining, of an oval fhape, a little comprefied,
and appear obliquely cut off at the bafe. There is one feed in each capfule.
SUGAR
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 57
SUGAR MAPLE TREE.
An Account of the Sugar Maple Tree of the United States,
and of the Methods of obtaining
Sugarfrom it, together with Obfervations upon the Advantages, both public and private,
of this Sugar : in a Letter to Thomas Jefferfon, Efq. Secretary of the United States, and
one of the Vice-Prefidents of the American Philofophical Society, by Benjamin Rufh, Pro
-
fejfor of the Inftitutes and of Clinical Medicine in the Univerfity of Philadelphia.
THE fubjed: of this excellent paper feems at firft fight more particularly to re-
late to the United States-, but it may, and we hope will, very effentially afted the
general ftate of the world, by increafing the fupply of an article, of which the ufes
are yet, on account of its high price, but imperfectly known. If the monopoly of
the Weft-India Hands, where alone the wafteful culture by Haves, in the abfence of
the owner, can be fupported, fhould be gradually diminifhed, and at laft abolifhed,
by a plentiful produce of fugar from the maple, humanity would no longer luffer,
the article would find its true level, and every nation would be more or lefs benefited.
The oxer faccharinum of Linnaeus, or fugar maple tree, grows in great quantities
in the weftern countries of all the middle Hates of the American union. It is as
tall as the oak, and from two to three feet in diameter -, puts forth a white blofiom
in the fpring, before any appearance of leaves : its fmall branches, afford fuftenance
for cattle, and its afhes afford a large quantity of excellent pot-afli. Twenty years
are required for it to attain its full growth. Tapping does not injure it ; but, on
the contrary, it affords more fyrup, and of a better quality, theoftener it is tapped.
A fingle tree has not only furvived, but flourifhed, after tapping, for forty years.
Five or fix pounds of fugar are ufually afforded by the fap of one tree--though
there are inflances of the quantity exceeding twenty pounds. The fugar is feparated
from the fap either by freezing, by fpontaneous evaporation, or by boiling. The
latter method is the molt ufed. Dr. Rufh defcribes the procefs, which is fimple,
and pradikd without any difficulty by the farmers.
From frequent trials of this fugar, it does not appear to be in any refped inferior
to that of the Weft Indies. It is prepared at a time of the year when neither infed,
nor the pollen of plants, exifts to vitiate it, as is the cafe with common fugar. From
calculations grounded on exifting fads, it is afcertained, that America is now capa-
ble of producing one eighth more than its own confumption; that is, on the whole,
about 135,000,000 pounds, which in the country may be valued at fifteen pounds
weight for one dollar. Dr. Rufh mentions many other benefits his country may
derive from this invaluable tree, and concludes his paper with an account of feme
of the advantages of fugar to mankind, not merely as commonly confidered to be a
luxury, but as an excellent, wholefome, and noui idling, article of food.
No. 29. P TEA-
3' APPENDIX TO
TEA-TREE.
THE tea-tree, tbea, in botany, is the name of a genus of plants, of the polyan-
dria monogynia clafs, the characters of which are thefe : the cup is a very fmall,
plane, permanent, perianthium, divided into five or fix roundifh, obtufe, leaves;
the flower confifts of fix or nine large, roundifh, concave, and equaLpetals ; the (la-
mina are numerous filaments, about two hundred, and are very (lender, capillary*
and (horter than the flower; the antherasare Ample; thegermen of the piftil isglo-
bofe and trigonal ; the ftyle is Tubulated, and of the length of the (lamina; the (lig-
ma is Ample ; the fruit is a capfule, formed of three globular bodies growing toge-
ther ; it contains three cells, and opens into three parts at the top. The feeds are
Angle, globofe, and internally angulated.
From an original drawing taken of the tree when in its flowering (late, it appears,
that the tea-tree, as Mr. Miller fir ft obferved, belongs to the order of trigynia ; and
Linnaeus was led to the miftake of placing it in that of monogynia, by not having
had any opportunity of examining any other than dried fpecimens of this (hrub.
Of this genus Linnaeus enumerates two fpecies : viz. the bohea tea, having flow-
ers with fix petals ; and the green tea, having flowers with nine petals.
Dr. Lettfom, in his botanical description of the tea-plant, thinks it mod proba-
ble, that there is only one fpecies, and that the difference between the green and bo-
hea teas depends on the nature of the foil, culture, age, and the manner of drying
the leaves. He adds, that it has even been obferved, that a green tea tree, planted
in the bohea country, will produce bohea, and on the contrary ; and that on his ex-
amining feveral hundred flowers, brought both from the bohea and green tea coun-
tries, their botanical characters have always appeared uniform.
We are principally indebted to Kasmpfer, Le Compte, and Du Halde, for an
authentic hiftory of the culture of this exotic (hrub, and the manner of preparing
or curing its leaves. The particulars of greateft importance that have been recit-
ed have lately been judicioufly collected, and the fubjeCt farther llluftrated by ad-
ditional obfervations, by Dr. Lettlom.
The tea-tree loves to grow in vallies, at the foot of mountains, and upon the
banks of rivers, where it enjoys a fouthern expofure to the fun ; though it endures
confiderable variations of heat and cold, as it flourilhes in the northern clime of Pe-
kin, as well as about Canton ; and it is obferved that the degree of cold at r*ekin is
asfevere in winter as in fome of the northern parts of Europe. However, the bed
tea grows in a mild temperate climate, the country about Nankin producing better
tea than either Pekin or Canton, betwixt which places it is (ituated.
The
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. ®
The root refembles that of the peach-tree j the leaves are green, longifh at the
point, and pretty narrow, an inch and half long, and jagged all round. The flower
is much like that of the wild rofe, but fmaller. The fruit is of different forms,
fometimes round, fometimes long, fometimes triangular, and of the ordinary fize of
a bean, containing two or three feeds, of a moufe-colour, including each a kernel.
Thefe are the feeds by which the plant is propagated : a number from fix to twelve
or fifteen being promifcuoufly put into one hole, four or five inches deep, at certain
diftances from each other. The feeds vegetate without any other care, though the
more induftrious annually remove the weeds and manure the land. The leaves
which fucceed are not fit to be plucked before the third year’s growth, at which
period they are plentiful, and in their prime.
In about feven years the fhrub rifes to a man’s height ; and as it then bears few
leaves, and grows (lowly, it is cut down to the Item, which occafions an exuberance
of frefh fhoots and leaves the fucceeding fummerj fome, indeed, defer cutting them
till they are of ten years growth. In Japan the tea-tree is cultivated round the bor-
ders of the fields, without regard to the foil •, but, as the Chinefe export confidera~
ble quantities of tea, they plant whole fields with it.
The bed time to gather the leaves of tea is while they are yet fmall, young, and
juicy •, and the different periods in which they are gathered are particularly deferib-
ed by Kaempfer. They are plucked carefully one by one, and, notwithftanding the
feeming tedioufnefs of this operation, the labourers are able to gather from four to
ten or fifteen pounds each in one day. The tea-trees that yield often the fined
leaves grow on the deep declivities of hills, where it is dangerous, and in fome
cafes impra&icable, to colledt them. The Chinefe are faid to vanquifh this difficulty
by a Angular contrivance. The large monkeys which inhabit thefe cliffs are irri-
tated, and in revenge they break off the branches, and throw them down, fo that
the leaves are thus obtained.
The buildings, or drying-houfes, that are eredled for curing tea, contain from five
to ten or twenty fmall furnaces, about three feet high, each having at the top a
large flat iron pan. There is alfo a long low table covered with mats, on which the
leaves are laid, and rolled by workmen, who fit round it : the iron pan being heat-
ed to a certain degree by a little fire made in the furnace underneath, a few pounds
of the frefh gathered leaves are put upon the pan *, the freih and juicy leaves ciack
when they touch the pan, and it is the bufinefs of the operator to fhift them as quick
as poffible with his bare hands, till they become too hot to be eafily endured. At
this inflant he takes off the leaves with a kind of (hovel refvmbling a fan, and pours
them on the mars before the rollers, who, taking fmall quantities at a time, roll
them in the palms of their hands in one direction, while others are fanning them
jj that
APPENDIX TO
'60*
that they may cool the more fpeedily, and retain their curl the longer. This pro-
cefs is repeated two or three times, or oftener, before the tea is put into the (lores,
in order that all the moifture of the leaves may be thoroughly diflipated, and their
curl more completely preferved. On every repetition the pan is lefs heated, and the
operation performed more (lowly and cautioufly. The tea is then feparated into the
different kinds, and depofited in the (lore for domeftic ufe or exportation.
The Chinefe know nothing of imperial tea, flower of tea, and many other names,
which in Europe ferve to didinguifh the goodnefs and the price of this fafhionable
commodity ; but, befides the common tea, they diftinguifh two other kinds, viz. the
*OQui andfoumlo, which are referved for people of the firft quality, and thofe who are
Tick. We have two principal kinds of tea in Europe : viz.
Green tea, which is the common tea of the Chinefe, &c. F. le Compte calls it
ling-tea,
and fays it is gathered from the plant in April. It is held very digeftive,
and a little aftringent •, it gives a palifh-green t influ re to water, and its leaves are
much twilled. The fecond is,
Bohea tea, which is the voui-tea, or bou-tcha, of the Chinefe. F. ]e Compte makes
this only differ from the green tea by its being gathered a month before it, viz;
rn March, while in the bud ; and hence the fmallnefs of the leaves, as well as the
depth of the tinflure it gives to water. Oihers take it for the tea of fome particular
province j the foil being found to make an alteration in the properties of the tea,-
as much as the feafon of gathering it. It is all bought at Nankin, and thence
brought into Europe, where it is now much in vogue.
As to the differences in colour and flavour peculiar to thefe two kinds, and to
their varieties, Dr. Lettfom thinks that there is reafon to fufpeft that they are, in
fome meafure, adventitious, or produced by art. He has been informed by intelli-
gent perfons, who have refided fome time at Canton, that the tea about that city
affords very little fmell while growing. The fame is obferved of the tea-plants now
in England, and alfo of the dried fpecimens from China. We are not, however, as
he obferves, to conclude from hence, that art alone conveys to teas, when cured, the
fmell peculiar to each kind; for our vegetable graffes, for inflance, have little or no
fmell till they are dried and made into hay.
As to the opinion that the green tea owes its verdure to an efflorefcence acquired
from the plates of copper on which it is fuppofed to be cured or dried, he (hews
that there is no foundation for this fufpicion. The infufions of the fined imperial
and bloom teas undergo no change on the affufion of a volatile alkali, which would
detedl the minuted portion of copper contained in them, by turning the liquors blue.
The fine green colour of thefe teas, with as little reafon, hath been attributed to
green copperas ; as this metallic fait would, on its being diffolved in water, immedi-
ately
CULPEPER’S B R I TM S H HERBAL. 61
ately aft on the aftringent matter of the leaves, and convert the infufion into ink,
as happens when a chalybeate water has been employed in the making of tea.
On the whole Dr. Lettfom thinks it not improbable, that fome green dye, pre-
pared from vegetable iubftances, is employed in the colouring of the leaves of the
green teas. And Neumann fufpefts, that the brown colour and the flavour of the
bohea forts are introduced by art. Both the green and bohea teas have an agreea-
ble fmell, and a lightly bitterifh fubaftringent tafte-, with folution of chalybeate vi-
triol, they ftrike an inky blacknefs. They give out their fmell and tafte both to
watery and fpirituous menftrua ; to water, the green forts communicate their own
green tinflure, and the bohea their brown •, but to a rectified fpirit they both impart
a flne deep green. The extrafts, obtained by gently drawing off the menftrua from
the filtered tinftures, are very confiderably aftringent, and not a little ungrateful j
but the fpirituous moft fo.
Savary alfo fpeaks of a fort of red tea, or Tartar tea, called honan tcha,
which tin-
ges the water of a pale red, and which is faid to be extremely digefiive-, by means
hereof it is that the Tartars are faid to be able to feed on raw flefli. Its tafte is
earthy, and much the leaft agreeable of them all ; but this is fcarcely known in
England.
'Pea is to be chofen of the brifkeft fmell, and as whole as pofiible ; and the great-
eft care is to be taken that it have not been expofcd to the air to pall and evaporate.
The drink, tea, is made in China, and throughout the greateft part of the eaft,
after the fame manner as in Europe •, viz. by infufing the leaves in boiling water,
.and drinking the infufion hot. Indeed, among us, it is ufual to temper its bitter-
nefs with fugar, but the Orientals ufe it without the addition of fugar or milk.
However, the Japanefe are faid to prepare their liquor a fomewhat different way,
viz. by pulverizing the leaves, ftirring the powder in hot water, and drinking it as
we do coffee. From the account given by Du Halde, this method is not peculiar to
the Japanefe, but is alfo ufedin fome provinces of China.
The common people, who have a coarfer tea, boil it for fome time in water, and
make ufe of the liquor for common drink. Early in the morning, the kettle, filled
with water, is regularly hung over the fire for this purpofe, and the tea is either put
into the kettle enclofl d in a bag, or by means of a bafket of proper fize preffed to
the bottom of the veflel, that there may be no hindrance in drawing off the water.
The Bantsjaa tea only is ufed in this manner, whofe virtues, being more fixed, would
not befo fully extracted by infufion.
The Chinefe are always taking tea, efpecially at meals : it is the chief treat where-
with they regale their friends. The moft moderate take it at leaft thrice a day j
No. 29. c)
others
62
\
'
APPENDIX TO
others ten times, or more -, and yet it is computed the confumption of tea among
the Englifh and Dutch is as great in proportion as among the Orientals.
With regard to the commercial hiftory of tea, we may obferve that it was firft in-
troduced into Europe by the Dutch Eaft-India company, very early in the laft cen-
tury, and that a quantity of it was brought over from Holland by Lord Arlington
and Lord Offory about the year 1666, at which time it was fold forfixty fhillings
a pound. But it appears, that before this time, drinking of tea, even in public cof-
fee-houfes in this country, was not uncommon •, for, in 1660, a duty of eight-pence
per gallon was laid on the liquor made and fold in all cofFce-houfes.
The prefent confumption of it is immenfe. Dr. Lettfom tells us, that he has been
informed, that at leaft three millions of pounds are allowed for the annual home
confumption, not including the incredible quantity fmuggled into the kingdom ;
and that the Eaft-India company have generally in their warehoufes a fupply for
three years. By 13 Geo. III. cap. 44. no licence fhall be granted to the Eaft-India
company to export tea, unlefs there remain in the warehoufes a quantity not lefs
than ten millions of pounds weight.
As to the properties of tea, they are ftrangely controverted ; the eaftern nations
are at leaft as much pofTefTed with an idea of their extraordinary virtues as the Eu-
ropeans but it is, perhaps, becaufe imagination bears as great a fway there as here.
The reafon why the gout and ftone are unknown in China, is afcribed to the ufe of
this plant.
Tea is extolled as the greatefl of all medicines : moderately and properly taken,
it abts as a gentle aftringent and corroborative ;
it ftrengthens the ftomach and
bowels, and is good againft naufeas, indigeftions, and diarrhoeas. It a£ts alfo as a
diuretic and diaphoretic. The immoderate ufe of it, however, has been very preju-
dicial to many, who have been thereby thrown into the diabetes. And alfo in Eu-
rope, infufionsof tea- leaves have been extravagantly condemned by fome and com-
mended by others. From the contradictory opinions even of medical writers on this
fubjeCt, the natural inference feems to be, that they poffefs neither noxious nor bene-
ficial powers in any very confiderable degree. They feem, when moderately ufed,
to be for the moft part innocent j
in fome cafes they feem to be falutary ; in fome
they are apparently prejudicial. They dilute thick juices, and quench thirft more
effectually, and pafs off by the natural emunCtories more freely, than more watery
fluids •, they refrefh the fpirits in heavinefs and fleepinefs, and feem to counteract
the operation of inebriating liquors.
From their manifeftaftringency they have been fuppofed to ftrengthen and brace
up the folids ; but this effeCt experience does not countenance, as it is in diforders
and in conftitutions wherein corroborants are moft ferviceable that the immoderate
ufe
1
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL- 6j
ufe of tea is peculiarly hurtful ; in cold indolent habits, cachexies, chlorofis, drop-
fies, and debilities of the nervous fyftem.
Dr. Lettfom has particularly enquired into the medical qualities and effedts of
tea ; and, having oblerved that infufions of bohea and green tea contribute to pre-
ferve fweet fome fmall pieces of beef immerfed in them, he infers that they poffefs
an antifeptic power, when applied to the dead animal fibre, and from their Itriking
a purple colour with fait of iron he deduces their aftringent quality. From other
experiments he concludes, that the adtivity of tea chiefly refides in its fragrant and
volatile parts; and that, if the ufe of it be benefical or injurious to any particular
conftitution, it becomes fo principally by means of this odorous fragrant principle.
He apprehends that it is the fafeft courfe to ufe the infufion of the more ordinary
kinds of this plant, which abound lefs with this fragrant principle. Or the tea may
be boiled a few minutes in order todifiipate this volatile part, which Hands charged
as thecaufe of thofe nervous affedtions that are faid to be produced, or aggravated,
by the ufe of this liquor. By this procefs may likewife be extradled more copioufly
the more fixed, bitter, and ftomachic, parts of this vegetable. Dr. Lettfom, who
feems to be thoroughly perfuaded of the occafionally noxious effedts of this vola-
tile principle, in the finer teas efpecially, recommends this laft-mentioned mode of
making tea, or the fubftitution of the extradt inftead of the leaves ; by the ufe of
which the nervous relaxing effedts, which follow the drinking of tea in the ufual
manner, would be in great meafure avoided. This extradl has been imported hither
from China, in the form of fmall cakes, not exceeding a quarter of an ounce each in
weight, ten grains of which might fuffi.ce one perfon for breakfaft : but it might
eafily be made here by Ample decodtion and evaporation, by thofe who experience
the noxious qualities of the volatile principles of this plant.
It may be farther obferved, that the effedt of drinking large q uantities of any warm
aqueous liquor would be to enter fpeedily into the courfe of circulation, and pafs
off as fpeedily by urine or perfpiration, or the increafeof fome of the fecretions. Its
effedts on the folid parts of the conftitution would be relaxing, and thereby en-
feebling. If this warm aqueous fluid were taken in confiderable quantities, its ef-
fedts would be proportionable, and Hill greater, if it were fubflituted inftead of
nutriment. The infufion of tea, however, has thefe two peculiarities. It is not
only poffeffed of a ledative quality, but alfo of a confiderable aftringency; by which
the relaxing power, alcribed to a mere aqeous fluid, is in fome meafure corredted
on this account. It is, perhaps, lefs injurious than many other infufions of herbs,
which, befiaes a very flight aromatic flavour, have very little, if any, ftypticity, to
prevent their relaxing debilitating effedts.
So
APPENDIX TO
-64
So far, therefore, tea, if not too fine, if not drunk too hot, nor in too great quanti-
ties, is perhaps preferable to any other known vegetable infufion. And if we take
into consideration, likewife, its known enlivening energy, our attachment to it will
.appear to be owing to its. Superiority in tafte and effefts to moft other vegetables.
Tea may be confidered as a very powerful aphrodifiac ; and accordingly a phyfi-
cian of considerable eminence in his profeffion, imputes the amazing population of
China, amongft other caufes, to the general ufeof it.
Various AVis of Parliament on the Subject of 'Tea .-— No tea is allowed to be import-
ed, except from the place of its growth, on pain of forfeitu re, 1 1 Geo. cap. 30 and
by 24 Geo. III. cap. 38. all the duties upon tea imported, fold, or ufed, in this king-
dom fhallceafe from September 15, 1784, at which period the Eaft- India company
is aifeharged from the payment of duties on tea in their warehoufis j
and afterwards
there Shall be paid a duty of 12k ios. per cent, computed upon the grofs prices, for
all tea delivered by the company to the purchafers, which duty Hiali be drawn back
on exportation to any place where the drawback is already allowed. The company
is required to make four Sales in the year, and to fell Such quantity as (hall be Suf-
ficient to Supply the demand, provided an advance of id. per lb. be bid upon the
prices at which the teas fnall be put up 5 and at the four firft Sales after pafilng the
aft, thefe prices fball not exceed the following rates, viz. for bohea tea is. 7d.
per lb. for Congo tea 2s. §6 . per lb. for fouchong tea 3s. 3d. per lb. for fmglo tea
3s. 3d. per lb. and for hylon tea 4s. nd. per lb. and afterwards the whole price at
which the teas are put up Shall not exceed the prime coft, with the freight and
charges of importation, lawful intereft from the time of the arrival of fuch tea in
Great Britain, and the common premium of infurance. In lieu of the duties on tea,
this aft fubftitutes an additional duty on windows.
By this fame aft, the inland duties upon cocoa-nuts and coffee fiiall ceafe from
September 15, 1784, and the following additional duties be paid, viz. for every
pound of cocoa-nuts, the produce of Britifh America, 6d. and the produce of any
other place is. 6d. and for every pound of coffee, the produce of Britifh America,
6d. and the produce of any other place 2s. 6d. and thefe duties are fubjeft to an ad-
ditional impofl of five percent, and five per cent., thereon impofed by 19 Geo. III.
cap. 25. and 22 Geo. III. cap. 66.
No drawback Shall be allowed on tea exported, except to Ireland, when the whole
duty on importation Shall be allowed. 18 Geo. II. cap. 26. 17 Geo. III. cap. 27.
Every perfon having in his cuftody more than fix pounds weight of tea is a dea-
ler i and felling without a licence, to be had for i2d. Snail forfeit 5I. a month. 11
Geo. cap. 30. 15 Geo. II. cap. 11. Every perfon dealing in tea. &c. Shall caufe
t© be painted or written over the door of his fhop, the words,
ec
Dealer in couee, tea,
cocoa-
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL, 63
cocoa-nuts, or chocolate,” on pain of 2C0I. 19 Geo. III. cap. 69. and any dealer,
buying of any perfon who has not this infcription, incurs a forfeiture of iool. and
any other perfon iol. By 20 Geo. III. cap. 35. no perfon fhall trade in coffee, tea,
or chocolate, without a licenfe, at the price of 5s. under penalty or 20I. More than
fix pounds of tea cannot be removed without a permit. 10 Geo. cap. 10. The
adulteration of tea is fubjeft to a penalty of iool. befides the forfeiture of the fame,
and for every pound of dyed leaves of tea, 5I. 11 Geo. cap. 30. 17 Geo. III.
cap. 29.
VERVAIN.
THIS herb is defcribed, with a plate, in the Herbal, p. 379 ;
but, as it has lately
come into great repute in the cure of the fcrophula or king’s evil, I cannot make
this Appendix complete without giving feme account of its ufe in that dreadful
diforder.
Take a piece of frefh common purple vervain-root, about three or four inches
long, and about the fize of the patient’s little finger, if men or women ; to young
children and infants, as large as their thumb, and fo in proportion, but not lefs;
becaufe it fhrinks much, and contains but little virtue. All the fibres are to be cut
off fmooth, and as little of the rind as poffible, to be worn always at the pit of the
ftomach, tied with a yard of white fatin ribbon, half an inch wide, round the neck
of men and women of an ordinary fiature: if taller, an ell will be wanting; and
children in proportion; but no other coloured ribbon is proper : becaufe the dye in
fome colours may be prejudicial. The root muff never be wetted, not when frefh
gathered, but wiped clean with a dry cloth. It muff not be fown up, or covered
with any thing, but always worn naked at the pit of the ftomach. If, after wearing,
the ends of the fibres ftick out and hurt and prick the ftomach, they muft be cut off
with a {harp knife as at firft. When it has been worn a few days it will (brink, by
the heat of the ftomach; then the ribbon muft be tied fafter. Obferve the root
be not decayed or rotten, but frefh and green when applied ;
and it is necefiary to
have a frefh one every fpring and fall.
The fores fhould be wafhed night and morning, with a lotion c.ompofed of vinegar
one third, red port one-third, and diftilled vervain-water one-third. If the diftilled
vervain-water cannot be fo eafily procured, the infufion of the leaves may be ufed ;
that is, boiling water poured upon the herb, like tea, and covefed, when cold, may
be ufed in its ftead. The fores after wafhing, fhould be dreffed with an ointment
made of green vervain leaves mixed with a fourth part of houfeleek-leaves, boiled
in pork lard till of a good confidence, and the watery part wafted.
No. 30. R WURZEI
APPENDIX TO
ft
WURZEL MANGEL, or ROOT of SCARCITY.
THIS root in time of fcarcity affords to mankind afalutary and agreeable food;
and, when fodder is dear, prefents, both in fummer and winter, a copious and cheap
nourifhmentfor cattle ; which in all feafons as well as in all lands, has an abundant
and certain produce; and of which the culture is fimple, the harveft and preferva-
iion eafy.
This root is not to be claffed either among turnips or carrots ; and, although in
its exterior and feed it refembles beets, it is much fuperior to thefe plants in every
refpect, and feems to be a diftinft genus. Its culture is fo eafy, its advantages fo
numerous, fupplying as it does the want of other food, that l think it deferves not
only to be adopted every where, but to be preferred to all other roots with which
cattle are fed, even in the mod plentiful years. It is planted in open and fallow
ground ; and fucceeds well in all, and efpecially in moifl and light lands. If in a
Riff and clayey foil, where it cannot deepen its fibres, it ftretches horizontally, and
grows as large outwardly as it would inwardly, were it not obftructed by the com-
paftnefs of the foil.
This precious root is not fenfibleof the viciflitude of the feafons : it has no de-
ftrudtive enemy ;
the all-fpoiling vine-fretter does not bite it ; no other infedl hurts
it : mildew never affedts it ; nor is its vegetation ever impeded by the drieft fummer.
It does not impoverifh the foil which nourifhes it; on the contrary, it prepares it
for receiving feeds of every other kind afterwards.
In the months of March and April, the land being well prepared, manured, and
made light, the largeft and foundeft fcarcity-root feed muft be chofen, fteeped in
water for twenty-four hours, and then dried a little, fo that they may be handled.
Lay the line upon the field, as if you were to plant the roots, at the diftance of
nineteen inches, on each fide ; make with your finger, holes one inch deep, in each
of which put onegrain only, which cover immediately with earth. After ten or twelve
days, it will fhoot, and every grain will have four, five, or fix, foots growing toge-
ther. As foon thefe fmall roots fhew their fourth leaf, the feebleft of them muft
be carefully plucked off, and the fineft and moft vigorous root only left. In a little
time the growth of the roots thus feledted will be aftonifhing ; not one will fail.
After this manner, equally fimple and eafy, you avoid the tranfplantingof the roots,
and obtain leaves four or five weeks fooner ; the roots grow finer and larger, and
deepen better; and, in a light land, much labour is faved.
As the roots naturally grow a little above the ground, you muft notice thofe
which do not fo appear, and bare them by removing the earth from around their top.
Sow the remains of your feed at random, that you may tranfplant the roots where
you
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL.' 67
you pleafe. If you chufe to leave thefe in the fame place, they muft be thinned and
dug roundearly : but this is very troublefome, and the roots planted thus never grow
fo large as thofe whofe feed has been fet. Experience has proved this difference.
At the latter end of June, or in the beginning of July, when the outer leaves are
about one foot long, the firfl gathering of them is to be made, by breaking them
around and clofe to the root. For that purpofe you lean your thumb on the infide,
and at the very bottom of the leaf. You muft take care not to leave a ftump, and
to gather only the leaves which incline to the ground, always fparing thofe of the
heart of the plant*, they then are re-produced, and grow fafter.
Immediately after the firft gathering, the ground round the root is to bs
again dug with a mattock •, in which operation the furface of the ground muft be
removed from the top of the roots, with a wooden fpatula, fo that every root may be
uncovered about two inches, which then feems to be planted in a kind of bafon nine
or ten inches in diameter. A child may eafily do this. In light lands it fuffices to
grub the weeds, and ufe well the fpatula. After this fecond very important opera-
tion, there is nothing more to be done, but to ufe the leaves at pleafure. From this
moment the roots begin to ftretch and grow wonderfully. Be careful to deftroy
all grofs weeds, which partake of their nutrition and give them the advantage of
the open air, when they may be left to their own inconceivable vegetation.
In a good foil the leaves of thefe roots may be gathered every twelfth or fifteenth
day. I have often remarked, that the leaves grow to the length of nearly two inches
and a half, and to the breadth of one inch and a half, within twenty-four hours j
and at the fecond gathering, they are twenty-eight and thirty inches long, and twenty
or twenty-two broad. This account may appear exaggerated till experience prove,
the truth of it.
Oxen, other cattle, and fheep, are fond of thefe leaves, with which they are eafily
fed and fattened to the greateft advantage, eating them whole, as they are brought
from the field •, but for poultry they muft be minced and mixed with bran. They
are alfo very good nourifhment for horfes during the fummer; for this purpofe
they need only be minced with that kind of knife which I will hereafter defcribe,
and mixed with cut ftraw. Swine alfo heat them very heartily.
The leaves of fcarcity-root afford alfo a wholefome and pleafant food for man.
The ftalks of them are eaten like thofe of beets, but have not the fame earthy tafte.
They may be prepared in different manners : when dreffed like fpinage, many prefer
them to it. By the continual fucceffion of their production, from fpring to the
month of November, they are very ufeful to farmers, and all others who maintain
a great number of fervants. In winter time the roots are eaten, dreffed alfo different
ways j
they are wholeforntj of an agreeable tafte, much fuperior to the red- beet, and .
1
APPENDIX TO
at leaft equal to the turnip. The leaves produced by the roots when preferred in a
a cellar, during the winter, are very foft and delicate.
1 he approach of fevere frofts fhews the time for getting in the rotts. This pre-
vious harveft muft be made in fine weather, though it be a few days fooner than
otherwife neceflary, as the prefervation of the roots depends very much on their
being houfed dry. The roots mult be plucked early in the morning, and left ex-
poled to the air and the fun ; children go behind the perfon who plucks them, and
cut the leaves to the heart •, an operation which may as well be performed one or
more days before the harvelt. In the evening the roots mull be collected together,
and, if fufficiently dr ied, lodged in a place well fecured againft fevere frofts. It there
is nothing to be apprehended from rain, thofe which have been plucked in the even-
ing may be left in tire field, and carried home next day. It is beft to leave them ex-
poled to the air for two or three days, when the weather will permit. As their fkin
is very thin, they mull be handled fortly, and great care taken not to bruife them,
which would be prejudicial to their prefervation.
The harveft time is precifely that wherein tiie roots proper for bearing feed fhould
b>e fixed upon ; and thofe are the beft for the purpoie which have attained only to
a middle fize, arelmooth and even, roly on theoutfide, and white or marbled white
and red within : fuch is the description of the roots which ought to be preferved for
cultivation. Thofe which are entirely red or entirely white, are either roots dege-
nerated, or the real red-beets, whofe feeds have not been carefully diftinguifhed by
the Tower. It is neceflary to feparate, and fhelter from all moifture and froft, the
roots which are defigned for feed.
In the beginning of April, thofe roots which have been fet apart for feed muft be
planted in the open field, three feet diftant from each other. As their ftems grow
five or fix feet high, they muft be kept up with props feven feet high, placed a foot
and a half in the ground, with fmall rods between them, in order to form a kind of
trellis, to which the ftems are tied, as they grow up, to prevent their being broken
by the wind.
The feed ordinarily ripens towards the latter end of Odober : it muft be ga-
thered immediately after the firft hoar- frofts. The ftems are then cut, and placed
againft a wall or palifade, if the weather permits ; if not, they are tied in fmall
bundles, and hung up in a flickered airy place, till they are quite dry. At laft the
feed is taken and preferved in bags, like others of the kitchen garden.
The feed of the fcarcity-roots degenerate, like all others, if the foil is not changed
every year, or eyery two years. Care muft be taken, therefore, to low in a ftiff foil
that feed which has been grown in a light or Tandy foil; and in light foil, that
which has been grown in a ftrong and compact foil. Thus thofe who cultivate
fuch
CULPEPER’S B R I T I $ H HERBAL.
fueh or fuch lands, may be of great fervice to one another by making annual ex-
changes. This feed preferves all its qualities for three or four years.
If the quantity of the roots you intend to preferve is too great to be lodged in the
houfe, fome days before they are pulled pits (hould be dug in the field, or any other
£>lace that is fheltered from water during the winter. After the infide of thefe pits
has been left to dry for eight or ten days, their bottom and fides muft be covered
with a imall quantity of draw, and the roots afterwards be placed regularly one by
one, taking care not to bruife them, and to clean them well from the particles of
their natural foil. Then let the upper roots be over-laid with ftra-v, which is to
be covered three feet deep with the earth dug from the pit •, and this earth mull be
hard beaten, anddifpofed in a Hoping manner, that the water may eafily flow off.
The dimenfions of the pits ought to be proportioned either to the riling of the
ground, or to its declivity. They may be from two to three feet deep. Their
length depends on the quantity of roots which are to be placed in them, but their
breadth is commonly three feet and a half.
Thefe roots poflcfling the valuable quality of being capable of prefervation till
the month of June without the lead alteration, it will not be amifs to multiply the
pits, and to make one for each month, beginning in March, when the winter
provifion is ordinarily over. The reafon for this advice to multiply the pits is, be-
caufe, if the roots, after having been deprived of the adbion of the air, are expofed
to it a-new, they do not preferve their fre Panel's long. The multiplying of the pits
will prevent this inconvenience.
Every pit absolutely requires an air-hole, through which the fermentation of the
roots may evaporate; for without this precaution all the roots you intend to pre-
ferve under the earth will rot. The air-hole muft be made in the following man-
ner Before any thing is put into the pit, a pole fix or feven feet long, and two
inches in diameter, muft be planted in the middle of it ; then place therein the roots,
and difpofe them in a Hoping direction. When the pit is full, and the roots are half
a foot above the level of the ground in the middle part, twift a rope of hay about
an inch thick round the pole, taking care not to bind it too hard. After that is
done, throw on the earth, and difpofe and beat it as before-mentioned. When the
pit is quite covered, take out the pole ; the hay will remain in the hole, through
which the exhalation arifing from the fermentation of the roots will pafs. After
fome days, the hole muft be covered with a pan-tile, and, on the approach of fevere
cold, (hut quite clofe with a flatftone.
That cattle of every kind may eat the roots, they muft be cut or minced, after
they have been walhed and cleaned ; which is done with a kind of knife, i. e. a blade
of iron, one foot long and two inches broad, bent like an S, to the middle of which
No. 30. 5 is
70 APPENDIX TO
is foldered a focket about fix inches long. In this focket is fixed a wooden handle,
about three feet fix inches long. With this knife, which at firft fight feems intended
for printing the letter S, the roots are minced as equally as eafily. This operation is
performed in a bucket or trough ufed for that purpofe only. A fingle man in one
hour is able to mince a quantity of roots fufficient to feed twelve oxen a whole day.
Before the roots are put into the trough, they muft be cut in large pieces. It will
be befl: to mince them as fmall as a walnut.
The roots, being prepared as above, may, without being mixed with any other
food, be given to horned cattle and fheep, and efpecially to thofe which are to be
fattened : but, if it is neceffary to be fparing of the roots, they may be mixed with
one-fourth part or more of hay and minced ftraw. It is even proper to obferve that
method during the three or four firft weeks, wibh refpedt to lean cattle, which are
meant to be fattened. Dry trefoil, faintfoin, &c. are belt for this ufe. Thofe who
have a hay-knife for cutting dry fodder, of the fame fort with that ufed in Germany
with fo much fuccefs and advantage, willfave much time, and confumelefs of their
provifion.
Horfes may be fed, during the winter, with the fcarcity-roots, by adding to them
one half of hay and ftraw minced together, which will make them healthy, fat, and
vigorous. But in the feafon of hard and conftant labour, a fmall quantity of oats
muft, from time to time, be added. This is the pradicein thofe provinces of Ger-
many, where the fcarcity-roots fervealmoft inftead of meadows, and of w;
hich the
horfes are well known and efteemed.
Swine eat thefe roots very well, raw, minced, and mixed in their greafy or milky
drink. They become as fat as thofe which are fed with potatoes, which require to
be boiled. By the ufe of this root, the expence of wood and coals, as well as the
trouble of boiling, &c. isfaved.
Befides the advantages which have been already enumerated, the fcarcity-roots
afford many others •, amongft which, in particular, is the certainty of an abundant
harveft, whatever may be the intemperature of the feafons.
If the culture of this root is adopted, it will no more be neceffary to let the grafs
of the natural or artificial meadows be eaten by cattle during the hammer-, all
which will, therefore, be converted into hay. How great, then, will be the quanti-
ty of hay to be fold, fince, during the winter, more than two thirds of it will be
faved! And, as the roots facilitate the feeding cattle in the ftables for the whole
year, the quantity of dung, fo neceffary to agriculture, will be increafed. —When
this root fhall be well known to the farmers, there is no doubt but they will pre-
fer it to all other fodder of the like kind.
2 TABLES
C ULPEPER’s BRITISH HERBAL. 7*
TABLES and INSTRUCTIONS for GATHERING HERBS and PLANTS
in the PLANETARY HOUR.
TABLE No. I.
To find the Beginning and End of the Planetary Hour by Day for ever.
Place
of the
o.
Hotirs from Sun-r fe to Is oon. ]4ours from Noon to Sun-fet
f . ... 1- -
Place
of the
O.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1
9 IO 1
1
12
bignD H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. M. H. H. M. H. M H. M. H. M. H. M IH. M. SignD
r 06 o 7 0 8 0 9 0 IO 0 1 1 0 12 I 0 2 o'q 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 "L3 o |
3* 54 6 55 7 5 6 8 57 9 5 8 IO 59 12 I 2 3 4 5 6 27
6 47 47 5i 54 5 6 5 8 2 4 6 9 1
1
J
3 2 4 j
9 41 44 47 5 1
54 57 3 6 10 *3 1
6
1
9 21
I 2 35 39 43 48 5 2
5 6 4 8 13 J
7 21 2 5 18
J
5 28 33 39 44 49 55 5 11 16 21 27 3i 15
18 22 28 35 4 1
47 54 6 13 19 2 5 3 2 38 12
21 16 23 3 i
3 8 45 53 7 15 22 2 9 37 44 9
2 4 10 18 27 35 43 5 2 8 i
7 2 5 33 42 5° 6
2 7 3 i 3 22 3 2 41 5 1 10 19 29 3 8 48 57 3 ;
a 0 4 57 8 18 29 39 5° 1
1
2
1
32 42 537 3 m 0
3 5 1
3 14 26 49 12 23 35 46 5 8 9 2
7 j
6 45 5 5
8 10 23 48 1
3 25 3 8 50 6 4 J
5 24
9 40 5
q
2 7 20 47 53 27 40 53 7 20 21
1
2
34 48 3 17 46 14 29 43 57 22 26 18
1
5 28 42 6 59 14 45 J 5 3 1 46 5 1 J
7 3 i :
5 j
18 23 39 55 12 44 16 32 49 5 2
1
37 12 1
21 18 35 5 2
9 43 27 34 5 1 8 2 5 41 9 j
24 12 3
° 4 8 6 42 1
8
3 6 54 1
2
30 48 6 j
27 8 27 45 4 41
I
29 37 5 6 15 33 52 3
n 0 2 23 *42 2 4 i
1
20 39 59 18 3 8
,
57 si 0
3 3 59 19 39 0 40 20 40 1 2
1
41 8 1 27
6 5 ? 16 37 7 5 8
39 |
21 42 3
2 3 44 5 24
9 5i 13 34 5 6
39 |
22 43 5 26 48 9 21
12 48 10 3 2 54 3 8 22 44 6 28 5 ° 12 18
J
5 45 8 3 ° 53 3 8 23 45 8 3 ° 53 *5 15
18 43 6 29 5 2
37 23 46 9 3 1
54 J
7 12
2
1
4 i
4 27 5 1
37 23 46 10 32 5 6 19 9
24 40 3 27 50 37 23 47 10 33 57 20 6
27 39 2 26 5° 36 24 47 1
1
34 5 8 21 3
3 ° 3 8 1 25 49 3 6 24 47 1
1
35 S 81 22 23 O 1
TABLE
72 APPENDIX TO
TABLE No. II.
To find the Beginning and End of the Planetary Hour by Day for ever.
Place 1
of the
o.
Hour:
l
from 1lun-rife to Noon.
1 ! 1
Hours from I
s
Toon to Su .-fet.
Place
of the
G.
I 2 3
1
1
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1
1
1
2
SignD H M. H. M. H. M. H. M. II. M. H. M. H. H. M H. M H. M H. M. H. M H. M. SignD
* ° 6 0 7 0 8 0 9 0 10 0 11 O4 2 1 c 2 C 3 c 4 0 5 0 6 0
j
*3°
3 6 5 4 3 2. 1 0 59 1
5 8 2 57 3 S 6 I 55 5 54 2 7
6 *3 1
1
9 7 4 2 5 8 3
5 6 55 5 1
49 47 24
9 19 16 3
3 10 6 3 57 1
55 5 1
47 44 41 21
12 2 5 21 1
3 8 4 5 6 5° 48 43 39 35 18
3
5 32 24 21 16 1
1
5 55 49 44 39 33 28 3
5
1
8
3 8 3° 2 5 3
9
3
3 6 54 47 4 3 35 28 2 1 12
21 44 37 29 22 3
5
^7
/ 53 45 38 3
3 2 3
16 9
2 4 50 42 33 2 5
1
7 8 5 2 43 35 27 18 10 6
2 7 57 48 3 8 2 9 3
9 9 5 1 41 3 3 23 1
3 3 3
ni O 7 3 53 42 32 21 10 5° 3
39 29 1
8
8 4 57 x 0
3 9 58 46 35 2 3 1
1
49 3
37 26 3
4 3 5 1
27
6 3
5 8
3 5° 38 25 1
2
48 35 2 3 10 3 58 45 24
9 20
7 53 40 2 7 1
3 47 33 20 7 53 4° 21
1
2
26 12 57 43 29 i4| 46 3 3 3
7 3 4» 34 18
3
5 3 2 3
7 9 1 46 3 1 3
5 45 2 9 3
4 2
59 43 28 3 5
18 37 2
1
5 49 3 2 16 44 28 12 55 39 22 12
21 42 2 5
8 5 1
34 3
7 44 26 9 5 2 35 18 9
.24 4S 30 12 54 3 6 18 43 1 24 6 48 3° 3 4
tj.
6
27 52 33 i5 56 37 3
9 4i 2 3 4 45 27 8 3
t 0
8
57 38 18 59 39 20 4 3 2
1
2 42 2 3 3
/vuv
Q
vyy
3 1 4i 24 10 1 40 20/ 40 20 0 39 3
9 3 5 9 27
6 5 44 23 2 41 21 39 18 1
57 3 6 3
5 55 24
9 9 48 26 4 4 2 22 39 3
7 5 6 34 3
3 5 3 21
12 12 50 28 6 44 22 38 1
6
54 32 10 48 l8
3
5 15 53 3o 8 45 2 3 38 1 3
5 53 3° 8 45 3
5
18 17 54 3i 9 45 2 3 37 141 5 3 28 5 43 1
2
\ 21 19 56 33 10 46 23 37 3 4 5 3 2 7 4 41 9
20 57 33 10 47 2 3 37 3 3
3 5° 27 3J
40 6
27 21 5 8 34 1
1
47 23 37 3
3 5° 26 2 39 3
30 22 58 35 1
1
47 24 36 3
31 491 25 2 38 Yf Oj.
’
TABLE
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. n
TABLE No. III.
To find the Planetary Hours for every Day in the Week, beginning at
1
Sun-rifing.
Sunday. Monday. Tuefday. Wednefd, Thurfday. Friday. Saturday.
Planets H Planets H Planets H Planets H Planets H Planets H Planets H
O 1 D 1 3 1 B 1 % 1 ¥ I b l
? 2 b 2 O 2 s 2 3 2 a 2 U 2
? 3 3 ¥
3 b 3 0 3 5
3 3 3
3)
4 4 B 4 it
4 ¥ 4 b 4 G 4
b 5 O 5 S
5 5 a 5 n 5 ¥
5
U 6 ? 6 b 6 O 6 3) 6 3 6 a 6
3 7 B 7 4 7 ¥
7 b 7 G 7 3)
7
O 8 3) 8 3 8 B 8 It 8 ¥ 8 b 8
¥ 9 b 9 O 9 D
9 3 9 a 9 V 9
B 10 V 10 ¥ 10 b 10 O 10 3) 10 3 10
3) 11 1
1
¥ 1
1
U 1
1
¥ 1
1
b 1
1
G 11
b 12 G 12 3) 12 3 12 a 1
2
it 12 ¥ 32
. n I
3 ? 13 b J
3 O 1
3
3) J
3
$ 33 a J
3
3 14 2 H It 14 ¥ *4 b 14 G 14 3> 14
0 x
5 3)
15 1
S B It *5 ¥ *5 b *5
? 16 b 16 O 16 3) 16 16 a 1
6
it 16
a *7 % *7 ¥ *7 b 17 G *7 » J
7
3
*7
3) 18 3 18 B 18 it 18 ¥ 18 b 18 O 18
b *9 O J
9 5 l
9 * 19 a 19 it 19 ¥ l
9
n 20 ? 20 b 20 O 20 i) 20 3 20 a 20
3 21 5? 21 21 ¥ 21 b 21 O 21 D 21
0 22 D 22 22 a 22 it 22 § 22 b 22
?; 23 b 23 O 23 3)
23 3 23 a 23 23
a 24 n 24
(
¥ 24 b 24 0 24 3)
24 24
r*
No. 30.
74 APPENDIX TO
Tofind what Planet rules any Hour of the Bay by the Table No. III.
LET it be obferved, aftrological hours are regulated by the motion of the fun
both in fummer and winter; and the fpace of time which is contained from fun-
rife to fun-fet is divided into twelve equal parts, whereof the one half contains the
hours before noon, the reft the hours after noon. So alfo the fpace of time from
fun-fet till fun-rifeis divided into twelve parts ; thefe hours are unequal, confifting of
more or lefs than fixty minutes, as the fun recedes from v or =&, as will be feenby
example by the foregoing Table.
The feven planets are attributed by the ancients to prefide over the feven days of
the week, and each of them rules over the firft hour of each day, as may be fefen by
the Table. The firft planetary hour of Sunday is the Sun, the fecond is Venus, and
fo on ; the firft planetary hour of Monday is the Moon, the fecond is Saturn ; and
the fame is to be obferved of the other days.
The ufe of thefe Tables will appear by bare infpeCtion, as they req uire no fort of
calculation, but a perfon of the meaneft capacity will be able to underfcand them.
Thereafon of their being placed in this manner, in the form of Tables, is, becaufe
no Herbals which fpeak of the-force and power of planetary influx, and the necef-
fity of gathering herbs for medical ufe under the planet which principally governs
them, have laid down any rule whereby an herbarift may know when thofe planetary
hours are, and confequently could not know the fit time to gather them. This de-
ficiency has not only occafioned much uneafinefs in the minds of many medical
gentlemen, but has much prevented the progrefs of cures, and many diforders have
been deemed incurable from not making ufe of the precifion which is abfolutely
neceflary for the perfection of fome cures.
Thefe Tables are fo calculated, as by bare infpeCtion to point out thofe beautiful
times, when man, who is endowed with a rational foul derived from the centre, is
able by expanding itfelf into the circumference of this outward nature, fo to hit
upon the hour, not only in gathering of herbs, roots, &c. but to adminifter them
in a time correfponding thereunto, and thereby force from the patient the offending
matter that robs him of the moft invaluable bleffing of health. But, as I intend
not this as a treatife, but as a fmall part of the Key to Phyfic, I fhall therefore pafs
over all obfervations on the ebb and flow of all fublunary virtues in terrene things,
and only fay truth needs not many words to recommend it, but will demonftrate
itfelf by trial ; fo thefe Tables, and the reft of this little Key, will prove to the
afflicted patient, or to the compaflionate phyfician, the legitimate offspring of
TRUTH and EXPERIENCE,
2 EXAM-
CULPEPER’S BRITISH HERBAL. 15
EXAMPLE I.
To find the planetary hour on Sunday, the 22d of April, 1792, at half paft ten
o’clock in the morning.-—I examine in the Ephemeris what degree the Sun is in,
and find on that day at noon he is in three degrees of the fign Taurus •, with this
degree I enter the Table No. I. and feek three degrees of b in the firft column, and,
by running even in the columns, in the feventh column I find ioh. 49m. which
fhews me, if I look on the top of the Table, that the fifth planetary hour would finifh
at forty-nine minutes paft ten o’clock in the morning. Now I refer to the former
column, and find the fifth planetary hour began at thirty-feven minutes paft nine
o’clock •, now as the time I entered was ioh. 30m. in the morning, and ir being be-
tween gh. 37m. and ioh. 49m. it proved it to be the fifth planetary hour. To
know what planet ruled this hour, I enter the Table No. III. and, counting down
the planets in the firft column under the word Sunday, find the fifth planetary hour
on that day to be Saturn ; if it had been on a Monday, the fifth planetary hour would
have been the Sun ; on a Tuefday, it would have been the Moon ; on a Wednes-
day, Mars •, and fo on •, by which rule may be found the planetary hour for any day
of the week.
EXAMPLE II.
We will fuppofe that we want to find the hour of Venus on Saturday, the 19th
of January, 1793.-— 1 look into the Ephemeris, and find the Sun at noon on that day
is in Deg. o I enter the Fable marked No. III. and, in the column of the pla-
netary hours under Saturday, I find the fifth hour is under Venus •, now, as the Sun
is in o deg. of Aquaries, I enter the Table No. II. in the right-hand column with
o and in the ninth column on the left hand, I find the planetary hour of Venus
began twenty minutes paft eleven o’clock, and continued till noon on that day.
Such was the mode of praflice, when nature only was confuked, and the intention
really to make a cure, without a view to gain: then difeafe was but little known, and
people lived to a good old age.
CONTENTS
C 76 t
CON T ENTS of
PEruvian or Jefuit’s Bark
Bread-Fruit Tree
Cafhew-Nut Tree
Canella Alba
Coffee-Tree
Citrus, or Forbidden-Fruit Tree
Garcinia
Manchineel-Tree
Marfh-Mallow of Surinam
Mandrake
Mimofa, or Senfitive Plant
Myriftica, 6r Nutmeg-Tree
Flowering Pavonis
page 1
9
12
*3
H
20
22
24
.25
27
27
34
40
the APPENDIX.
Pimento, or Jama'ica Pepper Tree -
Plantain-Tree - tr '
True Turkey Rhubarb
Indian Rocu
Speedwell
Starry Anifeed - - -
Sugar Maple Tree
Tea-Tree - -
Vervain -
Wurzel Mangel, or R.ootof Scarcity
Tables and Directions. for gathering Herbs
and Plants in the Planetary Hour.
40
44
49
53
54
54
57
58
6s
GENERAL DIRECTIONS to the BINDER.
LET the Plates belonging to the APPENDIX be placed as nearly oppofite to the defcription of
-each plant, -as circumftances will allow; obferving never to place two cuts together, hut to turn
over the next leaf, fo as to have one leaf of letter-prefs between them.
DIRECTIONS for binding the KEY and CULPEPER together.
Let the APPENDIX be placed at the End of CULPEPER’s BRITISH HERBAL, which
will complete the firft Volume; and at the End of the MEDICAL PART of CULPEPER,
add the KEY to PHYSIC, &c. which will divide them into two uniform Volumes, and make the
whole Subject complete—To be lettered, Dr. SIBLY’s FAMILY PHYSICIAN.
DIRECTIONS for Binding Dr. Sibly’s Works in FOUR VOLUMES.
LET the Sixty Numbers of the Occult Sciences be divided into two Volumes; and the above
two volumes added to them, making four in the whole ; to be double-lettered,
in the following
Order, viz. The WORKS of Dr. SIBLY, to be the general Title of each Volume; then under
Vol.I. is to be added, DOCTRINE of the STARS. Under Vol. II. CALCULATION of
NATIVITIES. Under Vol. III. BRITISH HERBAL. Under Vol. IV. FAMILY
PHYSICIAN.
Let the Portrait of Dr. Sibly be placed at the beginning of the firft Vol. The Frontifpiece of
the Occult Sciences to front the fecond Vol. The Portrait of Culpeper the third Vol. And the
Frontifpiece of the Key, the fourth Vol.
A general Title for each Volume of Dr. Sibly’s Works, to be placed before the Frontifpieces,
may be had gratis by thofe who have taken the whole in Numbers and want to bind them uniform,
by applying at the publifhers.
END of the APPENDIX.
is.
