{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__robson___look_at_your_karma.pdf","mytitle":"Look At Your Karma","mylang":"de"}
•
~~~~~~
~ . ~
?) LOOK AT YOUR fi
~ fi
r !{ARMA ~
~! By ARTHUR ROBSON i
~~~~~~~~~~
" You can do nothing
better than to stud')) the
two doctrines-of Karma
and Nirvana-as pro-
foundly as _you can."
The Master K. H.
This Iittle book will
give you very valuable
help in that study.
Rs. 1/8
LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
BY THE SAME AUTHOR .
HUMAN NATURE
Published by
THE THEOSOPHICAL
PUBLISHING HOUSE
Adyar - Madras - India
Agent in Gt. Britain
THE THEOSOPHICAL
PUBLISHING HOUSE
68, Great Russell Street
L o n d o n , W. C. 1
•
A g e n t i n U. S. A.
THE THEOSOPHICAL
PRESS
Wheaton, Illinois
LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
BY
ARTHUR ROBSON
Yau can do ·. :nothing ..better than to
stiu:ly the two doctrines--of Karma and
Nirvana- as profoimdly cts you ccm.
The Mctster K. H.
THE THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
1947
0 y
The Theosophical Press
Wheaton, Illinois
Copyright, Arthur Robson
All Rights Reserved
Printed by The Shakti Press, Ltd., (Shanti Press),
115-E, Mawbrays Road, Madras 14. P.I.C. MS. 23.
PREFACE
THE three Essays contained in this book are published
together be9ause in all of them emphasis is laid on
the necessity for everyone to make a deep study of
Karma and, most particularly, of his own karma,
his nature, scrutinising his natural impulses and
trying to discover from where they originate. It
is only in this way that we can hope to develop
that insight into Karma which will enable us to free
ourselves from its bondage.
The first two Essays are, in the main, reprints of
two articles which have appeared, under other titles,
in The Theosophist of February, 1943, and December,
1941, respectively. The third Essay has not been
published hitherto. Its purpose is to give in outline
the principles of the philosophy set forth in my book,
Human Nature, a philosophy which makes no pretence
to be new, but is, on the contrary, as ancient as the
Aryan race itself.
In an Appendix I have added three interesting
examples of cause and effect in Karma which I dis-
covered too late to incorporate in the first Essay, as
I might have done. The first example is particularly
interesting and merits careful study.
Adyar
May, 1947
A.R.
CONTENTS
PAGE
THE wORD' " KARMA ,,
The Romance of Words, 1. The Original Meaning of
the Word, "Karma'', 2. Origin of the Four Castes, 3.
Castes Originally Seleotive, 4. How People were
Allotted to their Appropriate Castes, 5. The Castes
Become Hereditary, 8. The Lord Buddha Denounces
he Hereditary Principle in Caste, 9. Truth Loses
against Vested Interests, 10. Doctrine of Karma
Falsified to erve the Interests of the Brahmanas, 10.
Decay of Hinduiam, 11. Dr. Besant 's Treatment of
the Word, "Karma", in Her Translation of the
Gita, 12. Theories to Describe the Modus Operandi of
''Karma", 14. The Distorted Doctrine of "Karma"
Js Sterile, 15. and Is Even Fraught with Serious
Harm, 16. The Truth about Karma is Beautiful and
Wholesome, 18.
NEwToN's THREE LAws oF l\foTrnN IN 'rHEIR
APPLICATION TO KARMA
Law 1. Continuity of Motion, 23. Law 2. Change of
Motion Proportional to Force Applied, 24. Law 3.
Retroaction, 25.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA
The Anatomy of Pain, 29. Mental Pain is Created by
Oneself, 30. So Is Physical Pain, 31. The Suspension of
Physical Pain, 32. The Suspension of Mental Pain, 33.
Karma, 33. The Evolution of Form and Spirit, 35.
Looi> a~ Your Karma, 37. The Potter's Wheel, 37.
1
23
29
viii LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
Karma Subsists on Illusion, 38. The _
;Dynamism
of Karma Has Its Value, 39. Transmutation of
Karma, 40. Tares and Wheat, 41. The Problem of
Life, 44. Overdoing Karma, 44. Are Your Brakes
Good? 46. Wheels within Wheels, 47. An Analogy, 48.
An Extremely Narrow Path, 49. This World Is
Ours for Keeps, 50. The Faculties Essential to
Beingness, 52. The Factors of Success in Doing
Karma, 52. A Sense of the Goodwill of Others
Transmutes Karma, 54. Advancement in Evolution
Brings with it the Nece~sity of Streamlining One's
Character, 56. The Sense of the Goodwill or Illwill
of Others towards Oneself Is Largely the Result of
One's Own Conduct towards Them, 58. We Shall All
Be Together to the Encl of Time, 59. The Sub-
conscio~s Concept of Others in General, 60. The
Dangers of a Policy of Appeasement, 60. The Four
Qualifications for the Path, 62. The Four Qualifi-
cations are the Four Factors of Success in a Subli-
mated Form, 63. The F our Qualifications Help to
Give Detachment from Kr.rma, 66. '."he_ Transfor-
mation of the Statesman into the Ma.nu, 66. The
'.I'ransformatioµ of the Teacher into the Bodhisattva, 68.
The Transformation of the Philanthropist into the
Master of Compassion, 69. Detachment from Life in
the Physical, 70. The Four Qualifications Become, in
Perfection, the F our Pillars of Nirvana, 70.
APPENDIX : THREE SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF
CAUSE AND EFFECT IN KARMA
INDEX
73
79
THE WORD, "KARMA "
The Romance of Words
It is a well-known fact that words go through
changes of meaning from one age to another, and often
in the history of a word scraps of folk history are found
entangled, little records of otherwise forgotten doings
of the past, which are generally interesting and some-
times most fascinating. The word "lumber," for
instance, is merely a variant of "Lombard " and has
a curious story attached to it. In the Middle Ages the
Lombards set up as bankers in London-as they had
done in ·other parts of Europe-in the street that still
bears their name, and later combined banking with
the business of the pawnbroker. In course of time
the word "lumber" came to be applied to the contents
of a pawnbroker's shop, and then, by an easy step, to
any collection of old and ill-assorted things that were
out of use, and so to any dump of what is now called
"junk". Within the last century the word "lumber"
has taken on yet a new meaning, the one we generally
associate with the word now-" timber."
Every student of Shakespeare becomes familiar
with the changes of meaning which f?UCh words as
"nice" and " quaint " have undergone. These two
words have moved in opposite directions, the first from
something discreditable to something commendable; .
2 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
the second, the other way about. Often words come in
course of time to take on a meaning diametrically
opposite to that which they once had. Examples of
these are the French words, jamais, rien and personne,
as used colloquially.
The Original Meaning of the Word u Karma "
But, whereas other words have caught only
fragments of out-of-the-way history, in the life story
of the word " Karma " and its changes of meaning the
most momentous part of the history of an entire
nation is written.
The original and true Vedantic meaning of the
word " Karma" is given in the Niralamba Upanishad,
which is perfectly explicit on the point :
. What is Karma ?
Karma is that action alone which is performed by
the organs and ascribed to the .Atma as " I do."
The Bhagavad Gita says,
All Karma is done by the force of nature.
deluded by egoism, thinketh, " I am the doer."
The self,
III, 27.
K arma means " action ", " doing ", but is used of
those things only that we do by natural impulse, from
natural inclination or tendency. In other words one's
Karma is the sum of one's habits, tendencies, man-
nerisms and p.eculiarities of nature, as manifested by
what one does. A collective unit of any kind-a
family, a social class, a sect, a race-has its own
collective Karma, that is, a mass of . habits and
THE WORD, "KARMA" 3
tendencies common to all members of the unit. But,
aipart from the collective kar!lla that one shares with
other members of any unit to which one happens to
belong, there is, of course, one's personal and individual .
karma, one's own peculiarities of nature, which are
an indelible record of one's past. (See p. 78, last para.)
Karma, all Karma, comes from the past, which
is plainly seen in it, and from which it derives its
dynamic power. You meet a person for the first time
and within half-an-hour, without his mentioning a
word of his past history, you can by his mannerisms
a nd peculiarities of behaviour often divine quite a fair
part of that history.
But it is not only, or even chiefly, with one's
past in this life that Karma is concerned. Karma.
.arises from, and is a record of, one's entire past.
We take our Karma, our particular nature, our
·character, with us from one life to another. This is
the " constant rolling on " of Karma, carried along
by its own momentum.
Origin of the Four Castes
Now it was the purpose of the Hindu sages to dis-
cover how best we could become masters of our Karma
obtain release from the " bondage of Karma ", cease t~
be slaves of habit and instinct. They made a thorough
study of the subject and found that the methods that
could be adopted to this end were many, and that the
·one best suited to a person depended on his nature and
special abilities or excellences. The method that was
4 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
best suited to one, who was strong on the intellectual
side, would be found ill suited to another person, whose
outstanding qualities were those of heart, but who was
.not possessed of an acute brain.
They found that, broadly speaking, mankind could
be divided into four groups, the four castes.
The four castes were created by me according to the
varied distribution of excellences and karmas.
Bhagavad Gita, IV, 13.
Perhaps one might be inclined to put karmas before
excellences, because it is out of one's karma that one's.
particular excellence grows. One tends, for example,
to follow intellectual pursuits, and that naturally
develops one's intellect; another's natural bent is for
p-
ursuits demanding strength of will and, as a result, he-
develops a strong will.
But the converse is equally true. If one's
excellence lies in intellect, it inclines one to activities.
of an intellectual nature; if strength of will, to acti-
vities in which that excellence serves one best.
Thus Karma and excellence are interdependent.
Castes Originally Selective
Now the primary object of the institution of the
four castes was almost certainly cultural, being designed
so that each person's development might proceed_
along lines besp suited to him. But it also lent itself
to another purpose-vocational, the distribution of
vorations according to people's native karmas and.
THE WORD, '' KARMA ''
.excellences. There is no doubt about it that the
system grew from very small beginnings, and during its
heyday, which may have been before the Aryans
descended on to the plains of India, it embraced no
larger a proportion of the population than is represented
to-day by the university-trained members of any modern
civilized state. And it is quite certain that originally,
and as long the system was still a healthy and life-
giving institution, the four castes were selective.
That is, each person was allotted to his proper caste
after it had been determined what his native
karmas and excellences were that he had brought
with him from his past. Scattered all over the ancient
scriptures are texts declaring that a person's caste
was determined by his karma. rrhe Jain Sutras, for
example, has:
By one's karma one becomes a Brahmana, or a
·Kshattriya, or a Vaishya, or a Shudra.
Uttaradhyana, XXV, 33.
How People Were Allotted to their Appropriate
Castes
The questions naturally arise : If people were
allotted to their castes according to their respective
karmas, whose business was it to do the allotting 1 And
what means was there of determining with certainty
what caste a person really belonged to 1
Let us take the second question first. The
fascinating subject which treats of the principles which
guided, or should have guided, those whose business it
6 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
was to decide what caste a person belonged ·to can only
be touched upon here. It would require a whole book
to deal with it at all adequately. It is sufficient to our
present subject to notice its operation with respect to
one caste, the Brahmanas, and this will serve as an
illustration to indicate its operation with respect to
the other three castes. The principle here may be stated
quite simply: those whose strong point was intellect
were allotted to the Brahmana caste. In the Bhagavad
Gita, XVIII, 42, are enumerated the Brahmana's
_
karmas, "born of his own nature," and the most
important of these, the fundamental Brahmana.
karmas, are the two allied ones of Knowledge and
Wisdom, and those who were found to have these as
the most prominent features in their make-up were put
into the Brahmana caste.
Now it is obvious that the sooner it can be deter-
mined with certainty what particular group or caste
one belongs to, the better. The great Brahmanas, the
earliest in the group and those who really deserved the
name, and to whose deep wisdom the development of
the four-caste system was due, found a means of
determining as soon as a child was born along what
lines he was likely to develop and what his at present
undisclosed karmas and excellences were. They could
truly look into the seeds of time and say which grain
would grow and which would not. It is possible that
they did this by the use of occult powers. But there
.would be ma.ny Brahmanas who had not developed such
THE_ WORD, " KARMA " ·7
powers, and it seems to me probable that the means
that these were taught to employ,' in determining what -
caste a new-born child should belong to, was Astrology.
To this day every Hindu child's horoscope is cast
almost as soon as he is born. But the custom is now
followed wit h the very doubtful objert of trying to peer
into the future.
It must be admitted that the scientific basis of
Astrology has been entirely lost, and what seems to
have been once a science is now guess work. It is as if
the basis of the logarithmic tables in common use
among mathematicians were lost while the ta.hies
remained, and those who used them did not know how
they had been arrived at and were not altogether sure
how they should be used. It would hardly be surprising
if the results which followed from their use were found
to be unreliable. Astrology will be a science again
only when, having re-discovered its scientific basis and
having b]ot,ted out from human memory all present
astrologicaJ knowledge; it is possible to build it all up
again right from the very foundation, in the same way
as it is possible for a mathematician, provided with
only a pencil and a supply of blank paper, to calculate
the logarithmic tables afresh.
There is no doubt about it that the original purpose
of casting a child's horoscope was to determine his
karma, the nature that he had brought with him from
the past, with the object of determining how his edu-
cation should be shaped and what vocation he would
LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
be best fitted for. And this is the most useful purpose
to which the casting of the horoscope can be put. . To
use it for trying to divine what one's fortune is to be
is a. prostitution of the science, which cannot but lead
to its decay, a fate which has already overtaken it.
Since the exercise of the true science and art
of Astrology called for intellectual powers of the
highest order, the casting of horoscopes and the allo-
catfon of people to their respective castes naturally
fell to the Bra.hmanas, who were in this and other ways
trustees of the great civilization of Aryavarta, having
grave responsibilities, but also enjoying considerable
privileges and power.
The Castes Become Hereditary
It is easy to see that tl:?-ey would be tempted to
secure the same privileges and power to their children
by making them Brahmanas even if the karma which
they had brought with them from the pa.st did not
entitle or qualify them for it. No doubt they with-
stood the temptation for centuries, being held to a
regard for their trust by the public opinion of their
own caste. But in course of time lapses began to occur
and became more and more general, thus bringing into
the Brahmana fold men who were devoid of intellect
and wisdom and who had been smuggled into the caste
only because of their being the sons of their fathers.
With the increase in the numbers of such pseudo-Brap.-
man;i.s the tendency to make the caste hereditary
became more and more general until, in course of time,
THE WORD, '' KARMA " 9
its hereditary character become absolutely fixed and
rigid. At the same time the other castes, for similar
and complementary reasons, also became hereditary.
But the evils which attend a social system which
reserves authority in a state to any particular caste by
hereditary right, irrespective of whether the members
thereof are fitted by nature for the exercise of that
authority, soon showed itself in India. India was seen
to be definitely on the down grade.
The Lord Buddha Denounces the Hereditary
Principle in Caste
When the Lord Buddha came, he pointed out the
evils of the existing system and repeatedly declared
that it was not a man's birth, but his karma, that
determined whether he was a Brahmana or not.
Adhered to for a long time are the views of the
ignorant, the ignorant tell us, one is a Brahmana by
birth. Not by birth is one a Brahmana, nor is one
by birth no Brahmana ; by Karma one is a Brahmana,
vy Karma is one no Brahmana.
Butta Nipata (Vasethasutta).
He said in almost those very words that a man is
not a Brahmana merely because is the son of his
father.
A man does not become a Brahmana by his plaited
hair, by his family, or by his birth.........I do not call a
man a Brahmana because of his origin or of his mother.
Dhammapada, XXVI, 393, 396.
10 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
The whole system of hereditary castes, particularly
a Brahmana caste enjoying authority solely by right of
birth, was anathema to the great Light of Asia, and he
constantly endeavoured to have it swept away. And
indeed his endeavours seem to have had some success.
Truth Loses against Vested Interests
But the virus of Brahmanism had not been des-
troyed. The Brahmanas were loath to part with the
authority to which they had unlawfully succeeded, and
in course of time they re-established their power, and
it was Buddhism that was swept out of the land of its
birth. The perfect light of that great religion, which,
8tripped of its superstitions, is eternal truth, as the
Mahachohan has said,* was snuffed out in the country
where it first shone upon the world.
Doctrine of Karma Falsified to Serve the Interests
of the Brahmanas
There remained, however, a snag. The Brahma-
nas might sweep away the teachings of the Buddha, in
which it was stated beyond all possibility of doubt
that birth and family were no qualification for one's
being a Brahmana. But in their very Hindu scriptures,
particularly the well-known Bhagavad Gita, it was
stated that it was one's karma that made one a Brah-
mana or Kshattriya or Vaishya or Shudra. Nothing,
it is true, was said about one's not being qualified for
a Brahmana's . position and authority by birth, but
that was for the simple reason that at the time· those
"'.Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom (1st Series), p. 3.
THE WORD, " KARMA " n
scriptures were written the hereditary principle had
not come into existence. But it was stated that it
was one's karma that determined one's caste. Some~
thing had to be done about this. And the Brahmanas,
whose ancestors had by ~heir breach of a sacred trust
secured their present position to them, did not hesitate
to falsify the meaning of the word "Karma " in order-
to hold on to that position. " Karma", they explained,
was what one had earned by one's actions of the past,
and one was a Brahma.na (or whatever else one was);
because one's actions in the past had earned one that
particular destiny. This meaning of the word "Karma',.
could be made to fit into these particular texts and
those which stated that Karma was the cause of suffer..
ing. But it made nonsense of a large number of other
passages in which the word occurred.
Decay of Hinduism
The decay which had set in with.the introduction
of the hereditary principle into the caste system was
aggravated by the distortion of Hindu doctrines and1
the resulting confusion in the Hindu philosophy,
whos~ exponents were these hereditary trustees of
Aryan wisdom.
A way out of the confusion was sought by treating
the word "Karma" as being very fluid in meaning, a
sort of blank cheque to which any value might be-
attached which would make some semblance of sense
of the particular passage in which it occurred. And it-
is in this debased form that the doctrine of "Karma',.
]2 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
remains to this day. And it is this debased doctrine
:of "Karma" that Theosophists have taken over, in
all good faith, from Brahmanism and are trying to
disseminate all over the world. As Mr. J. Ramsperger
has written in The Canadian Theosophist (June, 1941,
p. 121).
The theory of Karma is one of the most important
<-oncepts of the Theosophical doctrine, but it is also the
1nost misunderstood and bungled up part of the teaching.
' ·The principal cause of this is that it has been taken
-0ver by the Theosophists almost entirely from the Hindus
and Brahmanas. That the Hindus and the Brahmanas
doctored the theory in such a way as to enable them to
-defend their own personal and caste interest, is obvious.
Dr. Besant's Treatment of the Word, "Karma," in
Her Translation of the Gita
It did not escape Dr. Besant's notice that the
meaning that was attached to the word "Karma,"
popularly and by Theosophists, could not be made to
fit it in the large majority of passages in the Gita in
which it is found. It is a significant fact that in her
translation of that peerless work, whereas she left
other words in their Sanskrit form-words such as
Sankhya, Yoga, Maya, .Atma, Mahatma, .Adhyatma,
Omlcara, Piirusha, Pitris, Sattva, Rajas, Tamas-she
found she could not allow the word "Karma" to stand,
and has rendered it by one English word or another.
It will be said that these Sanskrit words are fami-
liar to everyone and do not need to be translated ;
THE WORD, "KARMA" 13
that, moreover, they have no true English equivalents.
But that applies also to "Karma". In fact, there is.
no Sanskrit word that is more commonly w11ed by
Theosophists than "Karma". If they truly under-
stood it, there should be no need to substitute arb
English word for it. But she found that the word
could not possibly be made to bear the meaning given
to it by Brahmanism and Theosophy, and has rendered
it by words such as" duty", "obligation", "works",.
etc. It was obvious that in the passages in question
the word, " Karma", was being used of what the per-
son does himself and not-as " Karma." is made to
mean now-the things that happen to him. For-
example, it is said that
Agriculture, cattle-farming and trade are the·
Vaishya's karma, born of his own nature. XVIII, 44.
The meaning should be clear enough : that anyone-
whose karma or natural inclination consists of any of
these things is a Vaishya by nature and falls into that
caste.
Even the use of the word " action " as a rendering:
of" Karma" generally leaves the meaning of the pas-
sage obscure if it does not make nonsense of it. The
expressions " bondage to Karma " and " freedom
from Karma" ~re clear enough when one understands
that Karma is that action alone which is done by
innate impulse, coming from the past, and that bond--
age to Karma means nothing more or less than being a
bond slave to one's impulses and passions, and that.
\l.4 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
freedom from Karma means emancipation from such
bondage. But when the expressions "bondage to
action" and "freedom from action" are used instead,
-0ne is left puzzling what one is expected to understand
by them.
Theories to Describe the Modus Operandi of
"Karma"
Theories have been propounded which attempt to
describe the modus operandi of " Karma " (in the
falsified sense of the word).
But all such theories are entirely fanciful.* And
they perforce must be. For the simple reason that
the " law " which they are intended to explain has not
itself been observed. It is itself only a theory. No
single concrete example of a " karmic effect " has yet
been traced to its "cause" so as to leave us in no doubt
.as to the connection between the two.
The history of Science abounds in theories which
.attempted to account for natural phenomena, and
which, accepted for a time, have later proved to be
false. But at least the facts themselves, of which they
purported to give the raison d'etre, were certain
.and indubitable. When astronomers before the time of
Newton propounded theories to account for the fact
·that the planets circled round the sun, and the satel-
lites round their respective planets, at least the fact
itself was certain. The movements of the planets and
• I ha.ve discussed these theories in The Theaophiat of February,
1943, pp. 412-415·
THE WORD, " KARMA " 15
their satellites could be observed and their rates and
directions calculated. In fact it was from a study of
the rate of motion of the Moon and his discovery that
the rate at which it "falls towards" the Earth con-
forms to exactly the same law which governs the rate
at which an apple falls to the ground that Newton
lighted on the great truth that it is the force of
gravitation that holds the Solar System together.
But those who pretend to give the reason why for
the "law of Karma" have no such observable facts to
work on.
The Distorted Doctrine of "Karma " Is Sterile-
The distorted doctrine of " karma " is like all
false doctrines, utterly sterile. Even if it were true, the
knowledge of it would still be quite useless until it
should be possible to trace each piece of what is called
"karma" to its source. Now look at this:
Grady K. was on his way home about 2 a.m. He was
riding on air because his girl had just consented to
marry him. He knew he was driving too fast, but he felt
like driving fast; in fact, he was flying. He was probab-
ly doing 60 miles an hour when he hit the milk waggon.
The driver was killed. Grady was unhurt.
The Reader's Digest
It will be said that it was the driver's "karma"
that Grady should run into his waggon and kill him.
But how in the name of Reason can the fact of Grady's
being crazy with joy and driving rashly be the effect
of something that the unfortunate victim of his rash-
•
16 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
ness had done in a former life ? And of what use is it ,
saying it was the latter's "karma" if it can't be traced •
to its cause and shown how it was the natural effect
of that cause? If it were possible to trace "karma" to
its cause and so to be able to foresee with certainty
and accuracy what the " karmic effect" of- any action
would be, we should know what actions to avoid and
what to do. But that has not been done for a single
piece of " karma " in such a way as to be at all
convincing.
-and Is Even Fraught with Serious Harm
But the popular doctrine of " karma " is not only
useless. It is even worse. It can lead to, and has
led to, teachings which are positively dangerous.
Teachings, be it said, which follow from the main
doctrine by a process of reasoning that is perfectly
logical.
If it is true that nothing can happen to you which
is not the effect " by the operation of natural laws" of
something you have done in the past, then, obviously,
there is a certain amount, no more, no less, of " bad
karma" that can happen to you, and also a certain
amount of "good karma." All this "bad karma,"
then, must come to one sooner or later. This belief
produces a fatalistic attitude and a sense of helpless-
ness when beset by evils, "flopping." Why try to
remedy what must be ?
It produces not only this sense of helplessness
with regard to one's own misfortunes, but indifference .
•
THE WORD, " KARMA " 17
to the misfortunes of others. As Mr. Ramsperger
says,
It was a welcome excuse to be indifferent to the
conditions of the poorer classes by telling them that it
was " their karma to be poor," or " that they deserved it."
There are some who would even be inclined to
welcome misfortune when it should come to them,
in the belief that they were getting it over and done
with, "working off their bad karma."
But we have not yet reached the peak of absurdity.
The teaching is being given in all setiousness that we
should not wait for misfortune to come our way, but
actually draw it down upon ourselves, on the
assumption that every piece of " bad karma " that one
suffers reduces by one the number on one's tally.
Could there be a teaching more pernicious than
that 1 It is of no use saying that it is too patently
absurd for anyone to take seriously. There is no teaching
so absurd but there will be found some people, with
more fervour than commonsense, who will believe
it, and even act upon it. There are, in fact
numbers of men to be found in India, chiefly round
about the sacred places, who deliberately court suffering,
men who hold up an arm until it withers, or keep a
fist clenched until the nails grow into the palm, or
submit to pain and disfigurement of some other kind,
all in the belief that they are thereby "working off
their bad karma ".
18 LOOK AT . YOU~ KARMA
This " tally of bad karma " idea raises an utterly
vain hope in the minds of its adherents, the hope that
a time will com!') when no further misfortune of any
kind can befall them. They ignore a most important
tru,th : that Pain does not inhere in the occasion of it
but in the person who feels it. Thus, instead of
devoting their energies to a schoolin.g of themselves so
as to make themselves immune from pain, or at least
less subject to it, they waste them in " working off
their bad karma ". There is only one way of making
yourself absolutely secure against the things happen-
ing to you in life that you don't want to happen, and
that is by getting rid of all karmic urge to enter this
life, and keeping out of it-Nirvana.
The Truth about Karma is Beautiful and Whole-
some
The truth about Karma is something which is
at the same time thoroughly wholesome and full of
beauty, as is clear from a passage from a letter from
the Master K. H., which Dr. Besant quoted in her
manual, Karma.
Every thought of man, upon being evolved passes
into the inner world and becomes an active entity by
associating itself, coalescing, we might term it, with an
elemental-that is to say, with one of the semi-intelligent
forces of the kingdoms. It survives as an active intelli-
gence-a creat·ure of the mind's begetting-for a longer or
shorter period proportional with the original intensity of
the cerebral action which generated. it. Thus a good
THE WORD, " KARMA "
thought is perpetuated as an active, beneficent power, an
-evil one as a maleficent demon. And so man is contin-
ually peopling his current in space with a world of his
-own, crowded with the offspring of his fancies, desires,
impulses and passions; a current which reacts upon any
~ensitive or nervous organization which comes in contact
with it, in proportion to its dynamic intensity. The
Buddhist calls it his "Skandha"*, the Hindu gives it the
name of "Karma". The Adept evolves these shapes
.consciously; other men throw them off unconsciously.
Now let us see from an example or two what this
means.
A person, "A", observes the unhappy condition
-of another and there comes to him a feeling of sym-
pathy and the desire to do something to improve the
latter's condition. Although he may do nothing about
e The word "Skandha " is from a root meaning "ascend",
and is a close and recognisable relative of the latter word. It was
applied originally to the trunk-the ascending part-of a tree. The
trunk being the basis from which the branches spring and take
their particular form and nature, a fairly obvious metaphor likened
it to a person's character, from which his thoughts, desires and
actions spring and take their particular form and nature. So 8
secondary meaning of " Skandha " is the aggregate of all those
things that make up an individual, or, as the Master K. H. puts it,
that form and constitute the physical and mental individuality we call
man. (The Mahatma Letters, p . 111.)
Compare this with the root meaning of the word " character "
which, in the original Greek, is " a die or seal," something that ha~
a set form or shape, which it gives to all things that emanate from
it, the "shapes" that are mentioned in the last sentence of the
passage quoted.
.20 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
it at that time, the thought becomes a force which,
reinforced later by other thoughts akin to it, becomes
a driving power so insistent that he feels himself
carried a.Icing by it into doing something to alleviate
the unfortunate one's distress.
The ·same sight of another's distress may produce
in " B" a sense of repulsion and thoughts allied to
·that~ These leave their appropriate traces from whi'ch
there grows a force that drives him to take some action
with regard to the other which would hardly be
humanitarian.
But, whatever he does, that is his karnia, just as
it is A's karma to alleviate distress. One's karma is
what one is carried along into doing by the force of the
current created by one's fancies, desires, impulses and
passions of the past. This force is generally likened
to a rolling wheel or a revolving potter's wheel, but t he
Master likens it here to the dynamic current of a river.
The dynamic intensity of any such force, good OF
bad, coming from the past, depends on the strength of
the thoughts and feelings from which it springs. It
must be understood that it is not only thoughts which
are unaccompanied by action that set these forces
going, but also, and more especially, those which
accompany action. (See Appendix, p. 73)
It is in this way that all those forces have been
generated which we bring with us from the pa.st, and
which constitute our Karma in the present. And each
of which, according to its dynamic intensity, (what
THE W.ORD, _"KARMA'.~ 21
I have repeatedly referred to in Human Naiur,e as the
1;trength, impetus, power, etc., of Karma) - not
only governs our own actions in the present, but also-
reacts on any sensitive or nervous-organization which
~omes in contact with it. I have devoted a whole
chapter in Human Nature to this aspect of Karma,
which I have called The Infectiousness of Karma.
Now these forces-tendencies, impulses, etc.,-
that we find in our nature are capable of being exa·
mined and traced to their sources, as I have shown in
the first half of Human Natnre. From a study of this
we are enabled to foresee what influence our thoughts,
feelings and actions in the present are going to have on
-0ur conduct in the future. We are thus enabled, if we
would take the necessary pains, to train ourselves to
control these forces coming from the past, and to so
shape our thoughts, feelings and actions in the present
that the forces which we shall take with us into the
future-our Karma in the days to come-will be good
and beautiful. It is just this that the Adepts have
l'earnt to do, as indicated in the last part of the quota-
tion given above. How we must set about to achieve
this for ourselves is a problem to the study of which
the second half of Human Nature is devoted.
It will be seen that an indispensable preliminary
is for us to be able to look into our Karma and to see
from where our natural and characteristic urges and
impulses spring, and whither, if they are allowed to
express themselves in action, they are likely to lead.
22 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
It is only by learning to do this and, further, by
watching every step we take, fashioning our every a.ct
with the greatest circumspection, that we learn to-
evolve these shapes consciously.
Hence, LOOK AT YOUR KARMA,
NEWTON'S THREE LAWS OF
MOTION IN THEIR APPLICATION
TO KARMA
The Law-or rather, Laws-of Karma are in
truth nothing more than the familiar Laws of Newton
in their application to the superpbysical, in which they
-
are found to be as fully valid as in their purely physi-
cal application.
Let us look again at Newton's three Laws of
Motion. T hey are enunciated by him as follows:- ·
1. If no force acts on a body in motion, it con-
tinues to move uniformly in a straight line.
2. If force acts on a body, it produces a change
of motion proportional to the force and in the same
direction.
3. W hen one body exerts force on another, that
other reacts with equal force upon the one.
Law 1. Continuity of Motion
The first law states that anything that is in motion
will continue in motion indefinitely if it encounters no
interference.
Now this is a statement of the fundamental Law
of Karma, the motion in question being that of the
spirit. We should rather use the plural, the motions
of the spirit. All the motions of the spirit, the natural
24 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
urges and tendeneies which make up our nature, our
Karma, are merely a continuation of the motions
which had been generated in our spirit at some earlier
time, and these will continue unchanged as long as
nothing is done to change them, bringing us back into
the same condition of things again and again and again
ad infinitum. This is the " constant rolling on " of
Karma, likened by the ancients to a wheel which goes
on turning indefinitely, and symbolised by the
Svastika, the wheel which continues turning of its own
inherent motion.
Most of us are inclined to allow ourselves to be
carried along by our Karma, our impulses, the motions
of our spirit which come with us from the past. But
'many of us at times, and a few very often, apply the
force of our will to change one or other of the motions
of the spirit, either to accelerate it or to moderate it.
And that brings us to the Second Law.
Law 2. 'Change of Motion Proportional to Force
Applied
We are too apt to believe that a casual application
of the will is going to produce a great change in our
nature, that the resolve one makes on one's way home
from ·church will result in a complete change of heart.
But the change is always proportional to the will force
applied. If we want to make a radical change in our
nature, -we must go on applying the force of our will,
strenuously, repeatedly, and over long stretches of
time", to achieve our purpose. This is true .whether our
NEWTON'S LAWS OF MOTION AND KARMA 25
purpose is to speed up the desirable motions of the
spirit or moderate those that are undesirable. It must
be remembered with regard to the latter that the
momentum of Karma has been gathering over an
immense past, which explains the strength of our
animal propensities and the need for a corresponding
effort to bring them under control.
On this depends the whole principle of Yoga-
systematic, unremitting, strenuous and wisely directed
effort to reform our nature, our Karma.
Law 3. Retroaction
In this we have the penal or Nemesis aspect of
Karma, the aspect.which is given the greatest attention.
Now let us get the truth of this Law in its
application to Karma. There is-as always with truth-
nothing involved or obscure about it. Roughly stated
it is this : The amount of pleasure or pain that is
occasioned by anything that occurs to one depends
entirely upon one's Karma., one's character. It is not
the occurrence itself that is the effect of Karma :
that is the error of the perverted doctrine of" Karma'~.
The latter doctrine declares that if, for example~
during an earthquake, two houses in a locality are
destroyed while the others escape damage, it is because
of certain deeds that the owners of those two houses
had done in a previous life which bring that misfortune
on them. It is not shown how those deeds operate as a
cause to bring about that destruction as an effect. It
is absurd to say that those forgotten deeds were .the
26 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
cause of the earthquake in that particular locality, or
of its having that particular destructive effect.
Certainly not a shred of evidence has been adduced to
prove either of these propositions.
Nor is this the true doctrine of Karma of Aryan
philosophy, which, with respect to the example before
us, may be put thus. If, of these two: men, to whom
precisely the same thing has occurred, destruction of
property, one suffers intense grief whereas the other
feels little or no pain at the loss, it is because of their
respective karmas, which they bring with them from
the past. ·Karma is the cause of pain, not the
occasion of pain, in this case loss of property. The two·
men in question m.ay be likened to two dogs that have
been chained up, of which one keeps on pulling at his
chain while the other sits quiet. The first, of course~
feels the pain of the chain pulling at his neck. What is.
the cause of the pain~ Not the chain, because the other
dog also has a chain round his neck, but feels no pain.
The chain is only the occasion of the pain. The real
cause of the pain is the retroactive force created by
the force of his own pull at the chain.
This is exactly the priniciple of Newton's Third
Law. If you strike a wall, you will find that the force
of the impact which acts back on you is exactly the
same as that on the wall.
Now all our karmas are forces generated in th~
past which continue to act in the present. In so far
as a force succeeds in its purpose, we have pleasure;
NEWTON'S LAWS OF MOTION AND KARMA 21
in far as it does not, we have pain. If a force is.
successful, the pleasure it gives tends to make us in-
crease the force. If that too is successful, our pleasure
is· greater, and t hat again tends to make us increase the
force of that karma still more. But the greater the
force of Karma, the greater will be the pain when that.
force is unsuccessful. This is true as much of human
groups of any kind-families, classes, nations-as it is.
of individuals. It is thus that a person's sins are
:visited on him, and that the sins of the father are
visited on the children and children's children.
We have an example of the latter before our eyes.
at the present moment in the case of Germany.
Frederick the Great initiated the policy of wanton and
sudden aggression and got away with it, and with
Silesia into the bargain. Bismarck continued the
policy, and he too found it paying, having acquired
Schleswig-Holstein and Alsace-Lorraine as a result.
Unprovoked aggression had become part of the karma
of German rulers. But when William II pursued that
policy in 1914 he came to grief and brought disaster on
the country. That, however, didn't prevent Hitler
from carrying the policy to a still higher pitch of
impudence and faithlessness, bringing still greater
suffering to his country.
The man who has accustomed himself to inordinate
wealth will find poverty all the more unbearable when
he should find himself right in it, whether in this life or
in a succeeding one. To be humbled is more insuffer-
28 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
-ably galling to an overbearing man than to an ordinary
person. The inquisitive woman suffers intense torture
when another person evades her questions and leaves
her entirely in the dark about the things she is burning
to know. Nor can she be brought to see that it is she
that is the author of her .own sufferings, that if she
would only set aside her inquistiveness about things
that don't concern her, she would immediately put an
end to her own sufferings. The busybody feels as if
she had been slapped in the face when she finds that
the advice that she had given, gratis and unsolicited, is
.completely ignored. She too can't be made to see that
-she would save herself that chagrin if she would
.curb her meddlesomeness and see that other people
have every right to follow their own inclinations in
matters which are their own concern.
Thus we see how Karma brings us pain as easily
as it does pleasure, and how we can avert that pain by
freeing ourselves from the bondage of Karma.
It is these eternal, yet simple, truths that con-
stituted the basis upon which the entire scheme of
Hindu and Buddhist philosophy was built, as I have
endeavoured to show in my book, Human Nature. It
is only by getting to understand Karma in general and
one's own karma in particular that one can hope to
secure freedom from its bonds and so make oneself
secure from pain and tribulation.
Hence, LOOK AT YOUR KARMA.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA
The Anatomy of Pain
What precisely is the nature of Suffering, of Pain,.
of Sorrow ? Does Pain subsist in the conditions which
occasion the pain, or does it subsist in oneself?
There are certain phenomena in connection with
it that must be kept in view in any study of the.-
nature of Pain :
I. A circumstance that is continuous and unvary--
ing will be found to give intense pain at certain·
times, and at other times give very little pain or none·
at all. For example: One has been robbeol of some-
thing that one had valued greatly. Thinking over one's.
loss will be found to cause intense irritation at certain
times, and at others to occasion only a mild annoyance
or leave one altogether unaffected.
2. The same circumstance will be found to cause
one person poignant grief and another no pain at all,.
although both stand in the same relation to that.
circumstance. If, in the example we have just taken,.
instead of a single person, we have a husband and wife-
robbed of something that both made equal use of and'
valued equally, the circumstance is not likely to cause
the same amount of pain to both. It is almost certain·
that they will suffer to a. different degree, and probably--
to a very different degree.
20 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
It is even possible for the same thing to cause one
-person crushing agony, and another, pleasure, although
both stand in the same relation to it. The financial
-crash that prostrates Colonel Newcome gives Clive
Newcome almost a thrill of joy. "Good-bye to our
fortune and bad luck go with her-I puff the prostitute
.away."
:Mental Pain Is Created by Oneself
From all this it is clear that Pain does not subsist
i n the occasion of it but in what one does in relation to
it. A solid oaken door is not in itself painful. It is
hurling oneself against it that makes it so. So is it
-with mental pain. It is· the pressure against the
occasion of the pain that causes the pain. The whole
.of Colonel Newcome's being presses towards providing
-bis son and daughter-in-law with the worldly wealth
which would give them a place in that society to which
such wealth was a necessary ticket of admission. He
never paused to ask himself if such an aim in life was
.a worthy one ; he joined in the pursuits of his associates,
treating the direction in which so many were going as
naturally the right one. But Clive's will never pressed
in the direction of wealth or being accepted into a
society of people whom he did not find to be any better
or truly happier than those who were outside it. And
the obstruction that raised itself between him and these
things in no way hurts him who does not thrust him-
:self against it.
So, if one withdraws the volitional push which is
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRV~NA 31
the real cause of the pain, one puts an end to the pain.
So Is Physical Pain
But, it will be argued, how can one end physical
pain this way-the pain of an aching tooth, of a
burn or laceration ~
This is a matter that will provide a most interest-
ing field of investigation, and it is probable that it
will be found that physical pain t00 can be ended or
suspended in the same way. It is certain that in India
yogis who have trained themselves to it can lie on a
bed of nails, or walk over live coals, without seeming
to feel any pain. The subject, as I have just said, is a
most fascinating one, but it is impossible to enter into
it in the course of a short essay.
I should like to suggest, however, that our ideas of
the sensation of physical pain will need revision, and
it is probable that in the light of an understanding of
the true modus operandi of sensation an explanation of
the phenomena above described will be reached.
We regard the nerves of the body as being at rest
as long as there is nothing to activate them, no sensa-
tion to communicate to the brain, and as being stirred
from rest by the sensation which they carry to the
brain. But the truth is probably something like this:
There are impulses-electric, I should say, or, maybe,
impulses of some other kind-going out unceasingly
from the brain to all the sensory nerve-ends. As long
as these impulses encounter nothing foreign, the bra;in
32 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
remains a blank as far as sensations of any kind are
concerned. But, as soon as they encounter anything
foreign in any particular field of nerve-ends, the sensa-
tion is conveyed to the brain.
In short, the process is on the same principle as
Radar, only much more perfected in that the nerves
convey to the brain information, not merely of the
presence of something, but also such things as whether
it is hard or soft, warm or cold, wet or dry, light or
heavy.
The Suspension of Physical Pain
Now it is obvious that, if, as in Radar, one could
suspend the outgoing impulses, the particular sensations
which result from those impulses encountering some-
thing foreign would never reach one's consciousness.
And, maybe, it is in this way that the pain of
the nails or live coals is kept from the consciousness.
It is certainly not done by any dulling of the brain or
of the nerve-ends, because the performers-shall we
call them ?-are in full possession of their senses, and
an examination of the soles of their feet or of
their skins show them to be fully capable of
sensation.
The subject is certainly a fascinating one in view
of the possibilities it opens up. If it is possible to
suspend sensation-and there are many other things
that Indian yogis can do which seem to suggest this-
then a person who has acquired the power could under-
FROM TRIBULATION 'fO NIRVANA 33
go a surgical operation without being treated with any
of the usual anaesthetics.
A~iri to the power of suspending sensation is that
of suspending organic functions, such as the circulation
of the blood, a power which many Indian yogis seem to
have acquired. This would be most useful to prevent
exc~ssive bleeding if that threatend as a result of, say
an accident, or in the course of a surgical operation.
The Suspension of Mental Pain
It will; in any case, be readily accepted that much
of the mental pain that we experience can be termi-
nated, or at least suspended, by what is usually called
a" change of attitude", which, put more precisely, is,
suspending one's will-push or will-impulse in the direc-
tion in which the source of the pain lies.
It is, in fact, true that all mental pain can be
terminated in the same way, if only we had the requi-
site faculties to enable us to take the " correct
attitude" in the matter and suspend the impulse which
is the real cause of the pain.
Karma
That makes us scrutinise this will-thrust to see
where it springs from and what it is that makes
us press our will in this direction or that and so suffer
pain when it com.es up against obstruction. From
whence come ·all these urges, impulses and thrusts of
our being that we find within us~ Because, when we
come to take stock of them in order to withhold
3
34 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
our will-pressure on them, we find them to be multitu-
dinous and the task of neutralising them to be
herculean. Nay, the task of holding back and bringing
to a state of rest any single natural urge is found to be
so difficult that we often find it less trying to let it go
its way, and take whatever the consequences may be.
It is of no use merely repressing the urge. .We
must take the indriya, the inherent strength, the "lust,"
out of it, or at least reduce it appreciably. When we
merely repress the urge, we generally find that it
gathers strength from repression and, when we are
forced to let it go, it is often found to be stronger than
it was before being repressed.
The truth of the matter is we find that we have
undertaken the impossible, that we have undertaken to
withstand the weight, not of a year or even a lifetime,
but of millions of years, of countless lives spent, not
only in humanhood, but also in the animalhood which
preceded it. These urges of ours are incalculably old
and are survivals of animal habits which we have "'
brought with us into humanhood. They make up our
KARMA, habits which we had developed in our
immeasurably long struggle for existence in .the past,
and they derive their present strength from the fact
that subconsciously we see ourselves as still engaged in
that struggle in its more primitive forms and as having
the same dangers to combat. ·
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 35
The Evolution of ~orm and Spirit
How we come to be governed by our karmas-in,
fact, as far as most of us are concerned, how we come
to be the helpless slaves of those karmas-is a vas1;
subject which is of great importance and at the same
time most absorbing. I have dealt with it in my book,
Human Nature. But I shall briefly recapitulate here
the salient facts, a knowledge of which seems to me
essential in order to understand what. follows in this
essay. I shall not attempt to substantiate them. For
that and for a better understanding of the facts the
reader is referred to Human Nature.
Let us first assume as established facts : 1. The
Evolution of Form, and 2. The Evolution of Spirit.
1. No living thing that exists or has existed in,
the world was created-as far as concerns the visible
form wherein it manifests its existence-out of nothing.
Nor, if that form is at all complex, has any single
factor of it been created out of nothing. . Taking as our
example the human body, the most complex of organic
forms., every single part of it, the eyes, the brain; the
heart, the digestive system, nay, every single muscle
and nerve, has evolved gradu_
ally from small beginnings,
the process of evolution being urged on by the struggle
for existence. That is a fact that now has general
acceptance among the intelligentsia of all nations.
2. But what has not yet been generally accepted
is the . equally important fact ·that the spirit which
36 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
animates the visible manifestation of its ~xistence has·
also evolved very gradually over immeasureable ages,
and there is no single factor in its make-up but has
evolved from small beginnings under the pressure of
the struggle for existence. Taking Man again as our-
example, every single ego that ensouls a human body
has evolved gradually, and every single element of our
nature, nay, every single habit, mannerism, and
peculiarity of _nature of every single individual person
has its history-its genesis and gradual evolution.
We bring with us from all our countless yesterdays the
habits, instincts, urges and impulses that we find to be
part of our nature. It is all this that.makes up our-
KARMA, our "doing," which we bring with us from
the past and which, with whatever developments and
modifications we make in them during this life, we shall
c~rry with us into the future.
Consider for a moment bow highly complex is the
character of any human being, even the humblest, and
then consider how people quite contentedly accept, and'
base all their ways of thinking on, the staggering·
fatuity that our existence in this world or any-other,
our entire existence, goes no further back than our·
birth in this particular life. No, there can be no doubt
whatever that we have been in existence here for
measureless ages, and shall in all probability continue
our existence here for measureless ages to come. And
it behoves us in our quest of happiness to establish the
basis of a happiness that wiJJ endure, not merely for-
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA ·37
this brief span of life, but into the countless to-morrows
that lie ahead of us.
Look at Your Karma
Our purpose must be, not so much to introduce
new karma into our nature, as to shape that which we
already have so as to ensure that it will be the cause
of as little sorrow as possible and will bring us the
maximum of true happiness.
In order to be able to do this at all it is of sup-
reme importance to us to be able to see clearly into our
Karma, to see from where each impulse springs and
wherein lies its strength : we must be able to look
into and understand our nature. LOOK AT YOUR
KARMA. Scrutinise those springs of feeling and
volition that seem to well up from nowhere but in
truth come by underground channels from your past.
Examine them closely, study them, analyse them and
see if you can trace them, ea.ch to its respective source.
The Potter's Wheel
A study of one's nature discloses the following
truth with regard to Karma : All our Karma, our ins-
tinctive habits, have developed as a result of constant
repetition over measureless ages, and it is the momen•
tum that they have gathered through long and con-
stant use that makes them continue in action. A stock
simile used by the sages of ancient India likened
Karma to a potter's wheel which goes on revolving
after the hand of the potter, which gave it its impetus,
has been removed from it.
38 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
But what is the hand that actuates Karma, gets it
moving with such force that even when it is removed,
Karma goes on acting with a momentum which is
generally found to be ungovernable ? That hand is the
will1
to life. It is the struggle for existence, to hold on
to life and hold death off, that makes the lower
animals go on repeating the particular actions, what~
ever they may be: keeping carefully under cover,
straining all their senses to observe anything strange in
their vicinity, careering off at top speed when discover-
ed, throwing all their powers into the fight for dear
life when at bay, or any of the multiplicity of things
which an animal does to stave off death and which
consequently develop into such strong habits that they
are carried by us into humanhood and into conditions
in which they are often out of place, but in which,
nevertheless, they persist.
You may say: It's all very well to speak of mom-
entum with regard to a physical force, but how can a
habit be said to gather momentum?
Karma Subsists on Illusion
The answer is this : The oftener one does a parti-
cular thing to meet a particular set of conditions, the
more readily does one respond with that part;icular
reaction to meet those conditions whenever they arise.
That is, the more habitual an action becomes, the
more readily does one resort to it as soon as one finds
~he particular set of conditions present to which it is
~me's habitual response. T~is makes one so much the
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA. 39
more prone to respond with that reaction to conditions
which are not the same as those to which it is one's
habitual response, but which one mistakes for them.
And when the habit has been in use for untold miJle-
nia and has become an ingrained instinct, the tendency
to respond with a habitual reaction to a stimulus
which is in its essence different to the accustomed one,
but which one is deceived into believing to be the
same, will be found to have become ungoverna.ble.
And so it comes about that the Karma that we
have generated during those long ages spent in animal-
hood comes into operation in human conditions to
which they are often not applicable, but which one is
subconsciously deceived into believing to be the same
as those with which one had so long been familiar.
This is the ILLUSION which is at the root of all
Karma -as we are repeatedly told in the ancient
scriptures-and which keeps Karma active and gives
it its strength. Subconsciously at least, one sees the
object of one's karmic urge as vital to one and suffers
mortification when frustrated in one's endeavours to
attain it.
The Dynamism of Karma Has Its Value
Now the question is: What are we to do about this
immense mass of Karma that we bring with us from the
past ~ Knowing that it all springs from, and subsists
'- on, Illusion, it would seem to be the right thing to do
to put an end to all Karma. But that is easier said
than done. The Illusion which makes the subconscious
40 ·LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
mind see death in the karmic urge not being satisfied
gives Karma its immense strength and makes it a
herculean labour to stay it, a fact that we discover
when we attempt to suspend any one of the vast
multiplicity of karmas which throng our being.
Moreover, if we are to apply the principle to
Karma at all, then we must apply it to all Karma.
But, if we were to suspend all Karma, it would mean
suspending life itself. Because life, all life, is main-
tained by Karma. All the functions of the whole vast
complexity of organs of the body-breathing, diges-
tion, the circulation of the blood, and so on-are
carried on by Karma which we have acquired in the
course of our long evolution from the primordial
protoplasm. If it were not so, every function of every
single organ of the body would have to be a conscious
and deliberate ·act. So the innate strength of Karma
and its tendency to be carried along by its own
momentum is not altogether a matter of regret.
Transmutation of Karma
The blind strength of Karma is found to be of the
greatest value to us in yet another way. All our kar-
mas, even the basest of them, undergo in the process
of evolution a most wonderful transmutation. There
·can be seen ensconced in the brute karmas which we
bring with us from animalhood the germs of sovereign
·virtues. These develop gradually, transforming in the
course of time those base instincts into admirable and
-vaiuable attributes. In Greed there is found the insis-
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 41
tent drive to all-ness which, when better developed and
more distinct in form, becomes the inborn instinct for
Thoroughness in all that one strives after; in Inquisi-
tiveness there is the drive to know all about this or
that strange thing an animal finds in its vicinity, a.
tendency which develops into the insistent Know-quest
which is the native instinct that goes to make the
scientist and philosopher; in the mad Fury with which
an animal fights for its life against its foes is that
sheer will to survival which develops into the sheer
Determination that knows not defeat.
And here is the entrancing wonder of it all : 'rhese
derived qualities, the virtues which come to enrich our
natures, inherit from the brute passions, from which
they spring, all their immense strength, and we find
ourselves carried along as irresistibly by them as by
their baser originals-by the Know-quest which makes
the scientist go on trying to penetrate through the
obscurity that shrouds the unknown; by the Thorough-
ness or indomitable Resoluteness or the passion for
Cleanliness or whatever else it is that we find to be
our good karma.
Tares and Wheat
And so we see that in each of the brute instincts
that we bring with us from animalhood a tiny seed (as
small and insignificant as a grain of mustard seed) of a
most valuable quality is to be found, which goes on
developing unobserved (like unto leaven) in the
course of our countless lives down the ages, until a
42 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
sovereign quality is found to enrich our character.
But during the long ages of its growth, while it is still
lacking in maturity and strength, it is found to be
inseparable from the animal lust out of which it deve-
lops, the two being so interwoven-and, in fact, often
indistinguishable-that any attempt to destroy the evil
cannot but injure and even destroy the good. Let
them grow together, our Lord advises, until the
wheat is mature, and then it will be easier to destroy
the tares while preserving the good grain.
This, in its figurative application, is found to be
extremely difficult and to call for qualities of the high-
est order. To control our animal urges and instincts is
in itself difficult enough, but to do this without injury
to t~e sovereign virtues which derive from them
calls for sovereign qualities. And it does not
make it any the easier that it is often difficult
to distinguish between the tares and the wholesome
wheat, between what must be controlled in our natures
and what must be fostered. To be domineering may
be regarded as a tendency to be deprecated, but the
forcefulness of character which enables a strong man to
maintain law and order in human society will be
regarded as a most valuable asset. But often it is
found difficult to tell whether such a man is using this
asset in his character for the good of society or whether
he is imposing his will imperiously in order either to
have his own way or else to maintain his power
.among his fellows to serve his own ends. The same
......
..
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 43
sort of difficulty is very often met with in distinguish-
ing between anim11l Curiosity and that Know-quest
which makes one peer into the unknown for informa-
tion that would be valuable to others besides oneself ;
between Acquisitiveness and Thoroughness ; between
Niggardliness and Thrift.
In fact, it is because one does not distinguish
easily between the original animal karma and its trans-
muted derivative that the latter takes the strength of
the former, that strength subsisting in the subconscious
illusion which is at the root of both.
It must not be thought that the transmuted
karma supplants its original. The two continue sid.
e
by side. A person's Acquisitiveness of as much as he
can get of the things that make for happiness m.ay
have led him to discern the value of moral and spiri-
tual asset~ in ensuring happiness. But his Acquisitive-
ness of mere material assets will remain unabated
until he himself does something to abate its hold
·on him. The need to do so will probably be borne in
on him when he finds that it gets in the way of
the nobler quest.
There comes a period in one's evolution when, the
derived virtue having developed a strength of its own,
the lusts of the flesh are found to hamper its action
and full development, and one considers how one can
disencumber oneself of them.
But any attempt to throw off their hold on one
soon makes one aware of their irresistible strength and
44 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
makes ·one scrutinise them to see wherein their
·strength lies. One would get to see, maybe not very
.clearly at first, that there is something deceptive,
something illusory, in their allure.
But it will be found that awareness of the illusion
·does not by itself remove the fetters of Karma.
Although one's conscious reason may see the illusion,
'8Ubconsciously one sees death in one's karmic urge
remaining unfulfilled, and one's efforts to fulfil it only
·serve to keep the wheel of Karma turning, thus
i mposing on one the necessity of going on satisfying
Karma.
The Problem of Life
· That is the great problem of life: We find ourselves
impelled forward by forces coming from our past,
which are the cause of suffering for us when they come
up against obstruction. And yet we find it so difficult
to stay those karmic forces. We find that we must
fulfil Karma. In our attempts to do so we often have
·to bend all our powers to our purpose and, when we
:succeed, we tend to be carried · by our momentum far
past our original purpose and to overdo what we had
intended. This results in Karma being given an added
force, an upadhi, and so given additional power to
,cause us pain in the future when that karma runs into
-0bstruction.
•Overdoing Karma
Most of us have to devote so much of our time
.and energy to the first side of this problem that we can
1 -·
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 4&
give little attention·to the Nemesis which awaits every
upadhi that we add to the karma that we already
have. A man who, having struggled desperately for
years to reach his goal of an income of so many
hundred pounds a year, by an unexpected piece of
luck succeeds beyond his expectations and sees bis.
way clear to the making of an income many times.
greater. He pll.ts no check to his wealth-amassing.
proclivities and accustoms himself to luxuries such as
only the few can afford. But what are his chances of
remaining one of those fortunate few? His good fortune·
may last the whole of this life. But can he be assured;
of it for the next life, and the one after that, and the·
countless lives which are to follow? And yet his hav-
ing accustomed himself to possession of wealth, his.
having become a spoilt minion of fortune, cannot but
make a condition of even average well-being galling to.
him when he should happen to find himself in it.
Why give Karma all-out acceleration because yoll'
happen to see the way clear along the short strip of
road that lies immediately ahead, this short life ? You·
have no knowledge what's coming round the corner..
And unless you have good brakes upon which you can·
rely to bring Karma to a standstill at short notice,
you'll find yourself heading helplessly into disaster.
Even if it were possible to set up a socio-politico-
economic system-no country has yet succeeded in set-·
:ting up one that works at all satisfactorily-which
guarantees your Karma a fairly clear run up to a com-·
46 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
fortable distance-and this is what "se~urity" really
is-what guarantee have you of the same security in
the countless lives to follow ?
Then there's the karma that drives one to get
power into one's bands, to obtain control over a politi-
·Cal unit, small or great, or of some institution or
organisation. One strains all one's abilities to the
achievement of this purpose and, after years of endea-
vour succeeds. But, in· doing so, one sees the possibili-
ties opening up before one of extending one's domini-
on over greater and still greater realms. One may
allow oneself to be carried forward by the momentum
.of one's push and may in time have come to accept it
as in the established order of creation that one should
be the dominating force in one's own part of it. But,
.even if one can assure oneself of that domination for
this life, can one be assured of it for the next life and
all the lives that are to come? And yet the greater
the authority that one accustoms oneself to, the greater
will be one's chagrin when one finds oneself without
any authority and yet with the will to it brought over
from past lives.
Are Your Brakes Good ?
. So you must have Karma completely under con-
trol so as to be able to brake it to a standstill at short
notice. Have you faculties upon which you can rely
to do this, even when you have allowed Karma to get
up speed? Do you test yourself occasionally to see if'
_
you can reduce the momentum of Karma t.o any speed
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 47
you choose~ to see if you can do without all those things
that you accustom yourself to 1
Truly, life is a bewildering problem : It calls for
all the forces we can command to achieve the purposes
we set before ourselves, and yet, when we have them
working at full pressure, they can spell terrible disaster
for us unless we have them all the time under
our control and can, when required, ease off on them
to a.ny degree we choose.
Wheels within Wheels
We have been considering things so far as if
the problem consisted only of the working out of
a purpose in life-a multiple purpose as it generally
appears to us-which the karma that we bring with us
from all our yesterdays imposes on us. But this
problem is made up of a multiplicity of smaller
problems which keep arising from day to day, from
hour to hour, and from minute to minute, and which
are created sometimes as a result of one's having
conceived a purpose oneself, but far oftener in aiding
or in countering- according as whether one looks on it
as good or bad-a purpose conceived by another. And,
needless to say, it is the aspiration of all of us to be so
equipped, mentally and otherwise, as to be able to deal
with each such problem as it arises, and to overcome
the difficulties it presents. Now when we come to
look into these problems we find that each is a minia-
ture of the basic problem of life. We are impelled by
our karma to bend our will towards a particular
48 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
purpose in dealing with the problem that has arisen,
and while it often happens that we .need to strain
all our powers to the achievement of that purpose, we
need to be on our guard that we are not overcarried by
our own push. At any moment something may arise
requiring us to rein in our force. Nor must we allow
ourselves unthinkingly to employ the method we have
habitually employed in dealing with similar problems
in the past. There may be in the present that subtle
difference which, if not spotted in time, will spell
disaster for us if we use the method with which
we have overcome similar difficulties in the past.
An Analogy
Life is like a game of cricket : There is the main
problem for the Captain of winning the match and, as
every cricketer knows, he can easily fail to do that by
allowing his side to make too big a score, thus staying
ill too long when his batsmen have mastered the bowl-
ing, leaving insufficient time to his bowlers to get.
the opposing side out in the allotted time. The
Captain has to steer a narrow course between two
dangers which threaten him from one side and from
the other.
But each change of bowler, each over, nay,. ea.ch
ball that's bowled, presents its own problem. . The
batsman sees a ball coming up to him that he recogni-
ses as of the kind that he has found easy, time
and again, to drive through the covers to the bound-
ary, and he braces himself up and begins his swing.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 49
But the moment the ball pitches he sees that it
is subtly, but vitally different. He must be able to
halt his swing (just when it has gathered momentum)
and halt the ball, or it will be his undoing. If his
abilities prove unequal to the task, he finds himself
beaten.
The bowler too has a narrow course to steer be-
tween two dangers: The danger of the balls he sends
up being wild and ill-directed as a result of his bowling
as fast as he can so as to beat the bat; and the danger
of their becoming easy for the batsman to hit as
a result of his directing them slowly and carefully.
An Extremely Narrow Path
In order, then, to maintain Beingness-by which
I mean a sense of being, a sense of keeping on one's
feet in life-we must be able to steer a narrow course
between opposed dangers.
This is the Path, the extremely narrow Path* of
Beingness. The Lord Buddha likens the Noble Path to
a narrow causeway across the troublous waters of lifet
-could any simile be better than that~ Keeping one's
feet on it is Dhammapada, literally "poise-footing",
* Sometimes called the "Razor's Edge". But surely this
expression is itself an exaggeration, an overstepping of one's pur-
pose, and so fails to keep on the "Razor's Edge". In any case it
is somewhat misleading, suggesting something that is painful to
walk on. But, when one has the necessary faculties to enable one
to keep one's feet on the Path, far from being painful, it is joy
supreme.
t Mahaparinibbanasutta, I, 34.
4
50 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
maintaining by featness of foot one's poise between
perils into which we are constantly in danger of falling
on one side and the other.
Now that may sound commonplace. Surely it's a
fact that we have all come to understand with regard
to life in this world.
This World Is Ours for Keeps
But here's something that Theosophy has to add
to our knowledge which makes a vital difference to all
this : It is the all-important fact of our continuity in
this world. This world is ours forever, and if we want
to keep on our feet in it and not go on being flung
down this side and that by the multiplicity of currents
and cross-currents that swirl in and about us in life,
it is only by developing in ourselves the necessary
faculties which will enable us to do so. It is of no
use looking.on the problem as only a temporary one
that will vex us only for this short life, or thinking
that any faculties that we may develop to meet it
will be of no use to us once this life is over. In all our
to-morrows we shall find ourselves face to face with
exactly the same problem as that which we are up
against to-day, as that which we wrestled with in all
our yesterdays, and the faculties we shall have at our
command to meet it in the days ahead will be those
. which we take with us from our to-day.
Even in Theosophical circles, where repeated
rebirth into this life is accepted as the prospect which
lies before us, the hope is held out of ultimate escape
FROM TRIB-
lJLATION TO NIRVANA 51
from the cycle of birth and death and so, it is
commonly believed, from this_ world. And this,
presumably, by the action of certain Lords of Karma, ·
who apparently have it in their power to decide
whether one is to come back into life or not. But this
bolstering up of a hope of ultimate escape from this
world tends to foster geophobia, repulsion from life
on this earth. It must be understood that there will
never come a time when any of us shall turn his back
on this world as a thing that he has done with, and
that it is only by At-one-ness with all life on this
earth, identifying oneself completely with it, that the
desire for personal enjoyment of the things that
attract people into incarnation is dissolved.
The more fully one attains to At-one-ness the
easier does it become for one to ease up the wheel of
birth and death and ultimately to yield up entirely
any desire to enter into incarnation.
But those who have attained to such At-one-ness
do not turn their backs on life . On the contrary they
are more fully immersed in life.
In the meanwhile, as long as this consummation
remains only a far-off divine event for us, we shall
go on returning again and again into physical life on
this earth, and shall find ourselves facing the old
problem, with only those faculties to meet it that we
shall have developed in earlier lives.
52 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
The Faculties Essential to Beingness
So it behoves us to find out what those sovereign
faculties are and how they can be developed, and then
to do what we can to develop them.
We have to consider on the one hand what facul-
ties we require to enable us to achieve any purposes
that we conceive. Then we must seek to discover
what faculties we must have at our command to insure
against our being overcarried by our efforts to achieve
that purpose.
The Factors of Success in Doing Karma
Since by far the larger part of t he energy and time
devoted by men to anything is given to the achieve-
ment of some purpose or other, and only an insigni-
ficant amount to that of guarding against overstep-
ping their purposes, we shall find that it is fairly
generally known what the faculties are that are re-
quired on the first side of our enquiry.
Now if we made this very thing our purpose-the
acquisition of the qualities requisite for success in
achieving a purpose-we should find them to be:
1. Knowledge. Knowledge of what it is we
want and of the means we must employ to attain
it. In the example we have taken, we should need to
know what the qualities are that we must develop,
and ·what we must do to develop them. Knowledge
should have clarity, precision, completeness and
certainty, and the better it qualifies in each of these
respects, the more useful it is.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 53
But even if it were perfect in all these respects,
Knowledge by itself would not achieve our purpose for
us. Something else is needed, namely-
2. Desire. Or call it Keenness, or Ent husi-
asm. Supposing in our example one knows
dearly, exactly, fully and without doubt what the
qualities are which constitute the pre-requisites of
success in the attainment of a purpose, one would
need to have a desire to possess those qualities. The
more ardent that desire is, the more certain can one be
-0f success.
Yet, even if one has Knowledge and Desire in
perfection, they would not by themselves ensure
success. Many a time has one yearned most intensely
for something which has been clearly perceived, but
one has never attained it, and all for want of-
3. Will. Courage to purpose it and Resolute-
ness in bending one's powers to t he achievement
of one's purpose. The stronger our \Nill, that is, the
more resolutely we bend all our powers to our purpose,
the more certain are we of achieving it. And yet
something else is needed besides Knowledge, Desire and
Will to ensure success. And this is-
4 . Action, the actual doing of what is neces-
'sary to attain our purpose. The greater our readiness
to act, and the more we can go on tirelessly doing
what is necessary, the surer can we be of attaining that.
p urpose.
LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
That these are the pre-requisites of success
will not be disputed. In fact, as I have already said,
they are well.known to be such, and the reader
will recognise them as the qualities which he himself
has found to be such.
Each of us will, according to his own bent, his
personal karma, be inclined to attach more value
to one of . these qualities than to the others. But.
we recognise that they are all indispensable to
success.
A Sense of the Goodwill of Others Transmutes
Karma
There is another factor which plays an important
part in securing success to us. But it is not indispens-
able to success. It cannot be included among the
faculties which make for .success, because it is some-
thing which. is outside oneself and which is, to
some extent, outside one's control.
But, although it is not indispensable to success, it
is indispensable to one's satisfaction with success
and to a sense of security in it. That factor is
a sense of the goodwill of others towards oneself in one's
doing of Karma. It is possible to obtain success, and
even to maintain it, in the teeth of opposition.
But we can never know true satisfaction until we feel
that others are consenting to our success, that ,they
even welcome it and are prepared to promote it,
because in some way they derive life from it.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 55
The natural instincts which we bring with us
from animalhood and primitive humanhood incline us
to regard life as something that we maintain
as against the other creatures that we encounter
in life, and all that we do we ten<~ to regard as
done against their opposition.
If one's habitual way of maintaining life, one's
karma, is the use of power, that power is regarded as
exercised as against the opposition of others. This is
the instinct of the bully. But however strong he may
be, and however complete his ascendancy over his
fellows in forcing them to submit to his will, he
is never truly happy because he is all the time conscious
that, although they submit to his power and acquiesce
in it, they do not welcome it.
And yet there will be occasions when it will
be welcome to them, when, for example, he uses it to
protect them from the violence of strangers or to
maintain order and justice, however crude, among
themselves.
Now, a taste of the sense of others welcoming his
power and deriving life from him will be found by him
to have a pleasant flavour, which will tend to
make him want to repeat it. In other words, he will
have tasted of the delights of using the power and
ascendancy which he finds native to him to benefit,
not himself, but others. Here we have the beginning
of that subtle and wonderful transmutation into a
56 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
sovereign virtue of the base karma which he brings
from animalhood.
The sense that his native ascendancy can be wel-
come to others sets him trying to exercise it in such a
way as to make it as welcome to them as he can.
They value his power and dynamism if he employs
those assets to do what others, lacking them, would be
unable to do: maintain law and order, and give
the members of the body politic a definite purpose in
life and keep them to that purpose. In this his
karma of exercising power moves forward with a
sense, not only of ease, but also of others in general
appreciating it and supporting it. And this gives him
a happiness that he has never known before, because it
combines two things that are essential to happiness:
Freedom and Honour, a sense of freedom to do one's
will, and a sense that, in doing it, one has the honour
of one's fellows.
Advancement in Evolution Brings with it the
Necessity of Streamlining One's Character
His natural inclination will be to expand this
source of happiness. The transmuted karma will
prove to have derived from the primitive animal
karma all its indriya, its strength. It will not have
replaced the original, which will still be found in his
nature, side by side with it. That is, while he strives
to use his ascendancy for the general benefit, he
will not have given up his tendency to use it for
personal ends.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 57
But the more the transmuted karma develops, the
more will the manifestations of the primitive urge be
found to hamper it.
One might find a parallel in this : As long as
vehicles moved at a rate of not more than 15 miles an
hour, anything in their shape which allowed of air-
resistance went unnoticed. But, as they developed
higher speeds, the need to eliminate all those parts
of the vehicle which, by offering resistance to the air
through which it must move, hampered that speed, be-
came more and more insistent, forcing the builders to
give it a form which has come to be called streamlined.
In the same way, the more our strong man deve-
lops into a statesman-as he would in the course
of many lives- the more do his failings come in
his way. The use of powers for selfish ends, which
would pass unnoticed in an ordinary person, becomes a
serious obstruction in a statesman, and the karma
of controlling the affairs of a body politic, small
or great, has now become so strong, that he is
prepared, and in fact feels himself compelled, to sacri-
fice the primitive karma in order to advance the
derived karma.
The good wheat has now a strength of its own
sufficient to allow of the tares being removed without
danger to the wheat.
The making of t he statesman is but an exam-
ple of a process which will be found to be active in
other karmas. Out of t he brute karmas that we bring
58 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
with us from animalhood develop the most splendid
qualities, which go t~ make the scientist, the healer,
the builder, the artist, and so forth. But the stronger
the good karma becomes and the more one's particular
high purpose in life takes hold of one, the more will
the primitive karma be found to hamper one and the
more insistent becomes the necessity for eliminating or
at least controlling them.
Their hampering effect is felt in more ways than
one. In the first place they get in the way of one's
good karma. One has some sort of acceptance as a
leader amongst one's fellows and would like to be given
a fuller control over their destinies. But one finds
that such things as one's high-handedness, deceitful-
ness, bad temper, personal greed, stand in the way of
one's attaining such an object.
The Sense of the Goodwill or lllwill of Others
towards Oneself Is Largely the Result of One's
Own Conduct towards Them
There is a deeper way in which the Nemesis of
such karmas operat es. We have seen that it is the
aspiration of all of us to have the happiness of having
our karmas moving forward with a sense of the good-
will of all concerned. Now this sense of having the
goodwill of others is created very largely by what one
does oneself. Whenever one does anything-however
secretly, or however much one may disguise one's
secret sentiments in connection with what one does
overtly-in the doing of which one has a sense of its
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIBVANA 59
being done against the interests of others and so
encountering their opposition, actual or potential, it
must of necessity tinge the concept that one has of
others in general in their attitude to oneself with a
certain amount of hostility. And that concept stays
with us and in all that we do we have a sense of this
hostility of other people in general. Here again we
see Karma operating as Nemesis, in that it is a habit.
of thinking we ourselves create which later works
against us.
We can, of cou,rse, undo it-"live it down/' as the
expression is-by being careful, in all we do, to think of
others quite honestly with love and goodwill, and by
doing only those things with which we can associate
this thought. This will have the effect of our seeing
them in an attitude of goodwill to ourselves when that
goodwill is vital to us.
We Shall All Be Together to the End of Time
We bring with us from animalhood a karmic sense.
of our own impermanence in this world, and also of
the impermanence of those we meet. Our natural
instincts incline us to regard those that we encounter
in life as concerning us only for the fleeting period of
actual contact. Hence we care little what their atti-
tude is towards us and what sense of that attitude we-
take away with us from our dealings with them. But
if we could only make ourselves realise that all the-
people we encounter in life are our co-mates down the
long ages and into eternity and are all permanent parts
~60 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
-0f the one life, we should learn to attach more impor-
tance to the karmic relations we set up with them.
The Subconscious Concept of Others in General
Even if things were as we subconsciously regard
them, if we were never again to meet the people that
we1meet with to-day,all the same the subconscious con-
..cept that we should have of others in general would be
tinged with the particular shade of feeling which we
entertain towards those that we have to do with now
and which we believe them to entertain towards us.
This subconscious concept of others in general has
a very vital effect upon our actions. If one has a.
concept of goodwill as bet ween oneself and other
people, it allows of one's karma moving forward easily
to its purpose. If, on the other hand, the concept is
one of mutual illwill and suspicion, one's karma moves,
if at all, with difficulty.
So Nemesis acts in shaping our subconscious con-
cept of others in general according to what we our-
selves have done.
The Dangers of a Policy of Appeasement
Does this mean that in everything that we do we
must seek to please others, doing nothing that we feel
is not to their liking 1 This truly is a danger to be
guarded against, a pitfall into which many people, pur-
·suing a high and shining ideal, find themselves falling.
There is the inescapable fa.ct that, no matter what we do
-we shall often-and, maybe, quite unexpectedly-find
FROlVI TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 6I
ourselves up against malice, cunning, unprovoked'
aggression, deceit, and obher unpleasant karmas in,
others. Even Christ himself met with all these. What
is one to do with respect to anything of this kind that
one may find oneself treated to~
To decide that the question that one must ask one-
self is: What effect is one's action going to have on
one's karma~ Again, LOOK AT YOUR KARMA. But
here it is a scrutiny of what one's karma is likely to be
in the future as a result of what one does now that one
must look at. Supposing one is cheated or insulted or
assaulted, one may counter hostility with hostility,
taking what action one deems necessary to get the
better of the other party. But that is obviously going
to have the effect of giving others in general a hostile
appearance in one's concept of them.
One may take no action in the matter, turning a
blind eye to the evil in what's done to one and allow-
ing others to do their will, but with a feeling somehow
of not having got the better of the situation. One will
find oneself later, when one dwells in memory over the
event, feeling a sense of frustration, of not having
righted oneself then, and will find oneself doing in
imagination what one feels was necessary to put one on
one's feet. In so doing one is all the time genera.ting
a karma of hostility, which again has the same effect
as if one had in the first instance taken the necessary~
action to redress oneself.
62 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
In point of fact it is generally found to be even
worse, raking up more hatred than if one had at the
outset taken the necessary action to right oneself.
The ideal thing, if one has the necessary qualities,
is to do as little as possible by way of redress and yet
feel at the end that one is on one's feet, without any
feeling of hostility towards the other party.
The Four Qualifications for the Path
Now what are the qualities that would enable us
to do this?
1. Surely one is Wisdom, Discernment, that
Perceptiveness of mind that can see the essential reali-
ties of a situation and see through the illusory
appearance that Karma presents to the mind. It is
over and above Knowledge. It is the power to Know-
ledge, that acuteness of intellect which allows of one
discarding stored up knowledge and seeing the essential
facts of a situation for oneself.
2. Another such quality would be At-one-ness,
that deep love and Sympathy which allows of one's
identifying oneself with, being completely at-one with,
the other person and seeing things through his eyes.
We have seen that in evil karma there is the germ of
good and that that germ of good is enabled to develop
through the karma meeting with the goodwill of
others. Love, At-one-ness, Compassion, allows of one's
·perceiving that germ of good in others' karma and of
aiding its development.
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 63
3. Many people would say that the quality that
would best enable one to overlook an act of hostility
... towards oneself would be Conscious Power, Power-
unto-Assurance, which gives one a sense of security
in Life which that particular act in no way imperils.
4. Others would maintain that the quality that;
really enables one to set aside a Karmic urge is
Adeptness, that psychic adroitness that enables one
to stay an impulse immediately it is felt which is
likely to lead to regrettable consequences.
This Adeptness serves in another way to reduce
Karma to a minimum. We have compared life to a game
of cricket in which it is our problem to counter all the
moves of the adversary, aimed at undoing one. The
unproficient batsman will probably find himself
undone by the first or second ball that is bowled to
him. But, as he gains proficiency, he 1
learns how to
deal with those that threaten his life at the wicket,
but in disposing of them he expends considerable
physical energy. The skilled batsman can dispose
of them with the minimum of effort.
Now in life one learns, when anything has
happened to throw one off one's balance, to recover it
with less and less ·effort. The Adept maintains it
without any apparent effort.
The Four Qualifications Are the Four Factors of
Success in a Sublimated Form
It will be seen that each of these is, as it were, a
degree higher than and, in a way, a yielding-up of, the
64 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
corresponding faculty which we considered necessary
to enable one to achieve any purpose which ·Karma
sets before one.
1. Wisdom~ Discernment, Intellectual Acumen-
or call it just Brains-is higher than Knowledge
and allows of a yielding up of knowledge in that one
finds it unnecessary for one's memory to keep a grip on
knowledge which one can come at easily when it is
needed. A person with a mathematical mind does not
trouble to stock his memory with mathematical facts-
formulae and proofs and such like-which he can
easily think out for himself when the need for them
should arise.
2. At-one-ness, Divine Love, is a degree
higher than, and a yielding-up of Love-that is, that
Love which consists chiefly of Desire. It is good to
love what is good in life in the sense of having that
fineness of feeling whereby one's being is set vibrating
by what is beautiful, even subtly beautiful, in what
one finds around one in life, which results in one's
being attracted to it. But the greater one's sense of
At-one-ness with all life, the less becomes the Desire to
take anything to oneself as an individual.
3. Power, again, is a yielding up of Reso-
luteness. After all, Resoluteness is bending one's
Will to one's purpose and not relaxing the strain
until that purpose is achieved. But the greater one's
Moral Power, the less is the Resoluteness, the strain,
one needs to exert. Just as: The greater one's
FROM TRIBULATION · TO .NrRVANA 65
physical power, the less is the physical strain
one exerts to do anything.
4. Adeptness is a yielding-up of Action~ or
say, a reducing of Action-what is called in Applied
Mathematics "work "- to a minimum. Coming back
to our skilled·batsman, his skill enables him to apply
his energy just when, where, and how it is most
effective, and so he effects with little expenditure of
energy what the unskilled batsman can do only by the
expenditure of far more energy.
Adeptness, Skill, is a different thing to Power,
Strength. A batsman who is physically powerful, but
unskilled, would nevertheless do much more "work "
in effecting his purpose than a batsman who is skiUed.
As each of the Four Qualifications is the corres-
ponding Factor of Success in sublimated form, it can
easily be seen that they can supersede the latter in
enabling us to fulfil Karma. At i(he same time they·
help to give us mastery over Karma and help us to
avoid being carried away by it into overstepping the
true achievement of a karmic purpose.
They thus enable tis to keep our poise on the
Path, the Narrow Path between the perils into which
we are constantly in danger of falling on one side or
the other, the Path on which alone is found Beingness
and abiding happiness. They are truly the Four·
Qualifications for the Path.
5
LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
The Four Qualifications Help to give Detachment
from Karma
As these qualities develop in us, we find that we
can attain a. purpose with ever less expenditure of
~ffort, .and ,this itself makes it easier to stay one's
hand as soon as the necessity should arise.
But they also enable us to eliminate more and
more of our Karma, thus reducing possible causes of
pain to ourselves.
The Transformation of the Statesman into the Manu
We have watched the transformation of the bully
into the statesman, the person who welComes author-
ity because he feels that he can direct the affairs of a
particular political unit better than anyone else. But
any such person soon learns that his purpose of having
things go the way he has purposed that they should is
achieved most satisfactorily by convincing people of
the advisability of that course and so having them
direct their own wills to the objectives he bas con-·
ceived. All the political speeches, in and out of Parlia-
ment, the broadcast talks, the flood of political litera-
ture, in periodicals and in books-all these things,
which are so prominent a feature of political life,
especially in a democracy, have this end in view.
Now supposing our statesman had some other
means of directing the wills of others to a great ob-
jective which they themselves would not ordinarily
have conceived, a means which he could employ with-
out his subjects knowing from what source the ideas
FROM TRIBULATION TO NI'RVANA 67
that had entered their minds were coming, or, for
that matter, without them even knowing that the
ideas were not their own. After all, the important thing
from his point of view is that they bend their wills
to the objective which he has conceived, and whether
-0r not they know whose will it was that originally bent
towards that objective becomes of ever less importance
to him. In fact, it suits his purpose best that they
should believe that the purpose aimed at was of their
own conception, because they are the more likely in
that case to throw their whole being into their will-
push towards that purpose.
Having the means of doiJJ.g this, he would find it
unnecessary to take authority into his own hands and
so expose.himself to all the slings and arrows which a.
person in authority has to face, especially in a demo-
cratic organisation. And he would like it to be
democratic, because he does want the wills of others
to be operative and not dragooned by his own or that
-of anyone else.
Now it is possible to exercise just such a states-
manship, guiding the destinies of a people with an ex-
pert, firm and loving hand, and yet a hand that is
unseen and unknown, and the existence of which is
even unsuspected. And this is made possible by the
use of faculties which are at present known as occult.
With the development of such faculties our statesman-
the bully of a dim and distant past-is on his way to
becoming a Manu.
68 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
The - Transformation of the Teacher into the
.Bodhisattva
It may be that one's high purpose in life is not so
much that which goes to make the statesman as that
which inspires the teacher, and the stirrings of one's
soul are in the direction of throwing light on the
obscure paths of life, imparting knowledge.
But every teacher knows that that knowledge hr
most useful which one has acquired for oneself, pro-
ceeding laboriously from step to step until one has
reached the truth one was seeking. So he finds that
his purpose of putting knowledge into others' minds is
best served by arousing.their interest in a problem and
inducing them to enter into its obscurities and work
their way carefully onwards until they arrive by their
own powers of perception at the required truths, the
teacher keeping an eye on the steps taken and, maybe,
correcting them occasionally when a false s'tep has
been taken.
Nov;' the possession of occult powers enables him
to do this far, far better than when it is done by a
teacher who . has to depend on the spoken word to
convey ideas from mind to mind. A teacher with
occult powers can put an idea into his pupil's mind
and can ascertain for himself, without questioning the
pupil, if the idea he has conceived is what the teacher
had intended. Again, since the pupil has no suspicion
that the problem which arises in his mind has be.en
s~ggested by, and that the solution is ~nown to, some.qne
FROM TRIB'ULATION TO NIRVANA 69
else, he is tlie more likely to concentrate all liis mental
powers to discern the solution, thus acquiring a far
better knowledge of it than if it had been conveyed to
him through the medium of language.
The Transformation of the Philanthropist into the
Master of Compassion
Or it may be that one finds one's greatest happiness
in providing others with the means to happiness.
A somewhat elementary form of this instinct finds
satisfaction in providing others with the ~aterial
sources of pleasure, such as enticing eatables, attractive
garments, and other desirable material possessions.
But one learns that benefits which have only an
ephemeral value do not give any more lasting happi-
ness to others than they do to oneself. And so one
seeks to provide benefits which have a. real enduring
value. The difficulty is that such higher values are
not always easy to appre.ciate, and the faculty of
appreciation needs to be cultured. Moreover one is
somehow not satisfied with merely bestowing benefits.
In a love that becomes ever fuller and deeper one
would like to have the object of one's love possess not
only the means to happiness but the power to those
means, the ability to acquire them for himself as and
when he should conceive the desire for them.
Now one~s own experience, as one progresses in
one's quest of happiness, teaches one that a more
enduring happiness is to .be derived from spiritual
assets than from material possessions. And in one's
70 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
love for those whom one seeks to benefit one's yearning.
bends naturally in the direction of awakening in them
an appreciation of such spiritual assets, an appreciation
strong enough to drive them to seek to acquire them
for themselves. Because such possessions, one finds.,
are not in one's gift, or, for that matter, in the gift
of the gods themselves. The most that can be done
is to inspire in the mind of the pupil a yearning fo~
these things and, unseen, guide him in his acquisition
of them.
So, in this too, with bis high purpose in life being
that of providing others with the means to happiness
he finds that, with experience of trying to bring happi-
ness to others and with his love becoming fuller and
deeper, the need for contact in physical life becomes-
ever less.
Detachment from Life in the Physical
The same sort of thing will be found true, what-
ever else his high purpose in life may be. The more
he throws his being into that purpose and seeks a
means of achieving it as effectively as possible, the
more is he driven to the cultivation of faculties which
allow of his remaining in obscuro, inspiring, unseen
and uns_nsl'ected, those whom he seeks to benefit.
The Four Qualifications Become, in Perfection,.
the Four Pillars of Nirvana
Thus there comes a stage when the Adept can
achieve his high purposes most effectively without
FROM TRIBULATION TO NIRVANA 71
entering into physical life among men. Any desire
that he may have to do so can but a.rise from some
karma from which he has not yet completely freeg
himself. But, as h~ goes on perfecting the four facul-
ties which constitute the Four Qualifications for the
Path, he goes on progressively, life after life, dissol-
ving more and more of whatever remnants of karma
still cling to him, and so gradually attaining to
Nirvana, the condition in which he finds himself with
all his karma dissolved and so without any further
urge to enter life among men. Nirvana means literally
" dissolution ".
Nirvana doesn't mean that he is secured by some
power outside himself from incarnation among men, or
that freedom to enter into it has been in any way lost
to him. But, with the four faculties perfected, any
urge to do so dissolves itself immediately.
In Nirvana he is completely withdrawn from life.
But at no time does he turn his back upon it as some-
thing that no longer concerns him. Paradoxically
enough, he is enabled to withdraw more and more from
material and physical life only because of a progres-
sively greater At-one-ness with it.
•The Master K. H. has written,
Oh, for the final Rest! for that Nirvana where-
" to be one with Life, yet-to live not ".•
The Mahatma Letters, p. 116.
• It would be interesting to know where the words in inverted
commo.s are taken from.
72 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
If the Lord Buddha declines to take a physical
body, it is probably because he finds that his Love for
all life ori this earth finds fuller expression on higher
planes than it does in physical life.
And it is the four faculties which sustain the
Adept in Nirvana. Thus the Four Qualifications for
the Path become, in perfection, the Four Pillars of
Nirvana:
Wisdom,
Compassion,
Assurance,
Adeptness.
•
APPENDIX
THREE SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF CAUSE
AND EFFECT IN KARMA
The three Essays contained in this book have
already been set up in type, and things have reached a.
stage where it would be very inconvenient to make
any considerable alterations in the text and · intro-
duce fresh matter. But as what follows is of
importance, I add it in an Appendix.
I have just chanced upon three specific examples
of Karma, in which both the cause and the effect are
given and .are authoritatively declared to be such, and
by no less an authority than the Master K. H. It will
be noted that ia each case the karmic effect is what
the person does himself and not anything that
happens to him or is done to him by another; and
that the effect in each case follows naturally from its
cause without the intervention of any " Lord of
Karma".
All the three passages quoted below are from
letters written by the Master K. H. to Mr. A. P. Sinnett,
as copied in The Mahatma Letters (pp. 352, 189, 175.)
1. Then why should you complain that powers are
not given you, that even proof of our own powers
74 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
begins to fail you, etc. ? True you have offered several
times to give up meat and drink, and I have refused.
Since you cannot become a regular chela why should
you? I thought you had understood all this long ago;
that you had resigned yourself, satisfied to wait patiently
for future developments c.,nd for my personal freedom.
You know I was the only one to attempt and persevere in
my idea of the necessity of, at least, a small reform, of
however slight a relaxation from the extreme rigidity of
our regulations if we would see European theosophists
increase and work for the enlightenment and good ofhuman-
ity. I failed in my attempt, as you know. All I could obtain
.was to be allowed to communicate with a few-you,
foremost of all, since I had chosen you as the exponent of
our doctrine that we had determinecl to give out to the
world-to some extent at least. Unable on account of
work to continue my teaching regularly, I was decided to
resume it after rny work had been done, and 'I had a few
hours of leisure at my disposal. I was tied hand and
foot when I made that attempt to let you have a paper of
your own. I was not permitted to use any psychical
powers in that matter. You know the results. Yet, I
would have succeeded even with r,he small means of action
I had at my disposal had it not been for the Ilbert Bill'
excitement. Have yo·u ever given a thought, or ever
Buspected the real reason of my failure? No; for you
know nothing of the ins and outs of the work of karma-
of the " side-blows " of this terrible Law. But you
do know that there wa.s a time when you felt the profound-
·est contempt for_ us all, of the dark races ; and haa
THREE SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF KARMA 75·
regarded the Hindus as an inferior race. I will say
no more. If you have any intiiition, you will work out
cause and effect and perhaps realize whence the failure.
2. Had I but written,-when answering Mr. Hume's
objections, who after statistical calculations made with the
evident intention of crushing our teaching, maintained
that after all spiritualists were right and ·the majority of
seance spooks were " Spirits"-" In no case then, with
the exception of suicides and shells "- and those
accidents who die full of some engrossing earthly
passion-is there any possibility for any other, etc.,
etc." I would have been perfectly right and pu0ka
as a "professor·~ ? To think that, eager as you are to
accept doctrines that contradict in some most important
points physical science from first to last-you shouW
have consented at Mr. Hume's suggestion to split hairs
over a simple omission ! My dear friend, permit me to
remark that simple common sense ought to have whispered
you that one who says one day: "in no case then etc.:"
and a few days later denies having ever pronounced the
word never-is not only no adept but must be either
suffering from softening of the brain or some other
" accident ". " On marg·in I said rarely biit' I have not
pronounced the word never "-refers to the margin of
the proof of your letter N. II; that margin--or rather to
avoid a fresh accusation-·the piece of paper I haa
written iipon some -remarks referring to the subject and
glued to the margin of your proof-you have c'{tt out as
well as the four lines of poetry. Why you have done ~q
16 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
is known better 'to yourself. Bilt the word never refers
to that margin.
To one sin though I do, plead " guilty". That s·in,
was a very acute feeling of irritation against Mr. Hume
upon receiving his triumphant statistical letter; the
answer to which you found incorporated in yours when I
wrote for you the materials for your answer to Mr. Khan-
dallawala's letter that you had sent back to H.P. B.
Had I not been irritated I would not have become guilty
of the omission, perhaps. This now is my Karma.
3. A . P. Sinnett is not " an absolutely new
invention " . He is the child and creation of his antecedent
personal self ; the Karmic progeny for all he knows, o.f
Nonius Asprena, Consul of the Emperor Domitian-
(94 A. D.) together with Arricinius Olementus, and friend
of the Flamen Dealis of that day (the high priest of
Jupiter and chief of the Flamenes) or of that Fla.mens
himself-which would account for A. P. Sinnett's suddenly
developed love for mysticism.
It is easy to trace the connection between cause
and effect in each of these three cases.
1. Sinnett's contempt for Indians as a race
prevented him from putting his faith in a particular
Indian. With this lack of faith his Will did not bend
itself to his objective-the success of the Phmnix
venture-as it should have done. The result was
the lamentable failure of that venture. It might
be said with truth that from the beginning he had
THREE SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF KARMA 77
subconsciously willed that it would not succeed.
In his cold reason he was prepared to join hands
with an Indian, but. in his pride he subconsciously
recoiled from a success for which he would have had to·
be beholden to an Indian. However much he might
regret the failure, he had himself willed it, from pride
and lack of faith.
~>,. Sinnett's subconscious unwillingness to accept
from an Indian is also shown by the way in which-in
spite of his avowed readiness to learn from the
Master K. H., a readiness which truly did exist in his.
cold reason-he was ready to split hairs in his argu-·
ments with the Master, especially, as here; when he-
had the more sceptical Hume to put his own objection-
raising ideas into Sinnett's head. This habit could'
be very irritating and, in this instance at least, did
irritate the Master, who, in his irritation, subconsciously·
decided to give Hume short shrift. Too short, as it
turned out, in that he made an omission which Hume·
pounced upon to " crush " the Master's teaching.
Here again the Master's Karma in omitting the words,
"and those accidents who die full of some engrossing.
earthly passion", may be said to have been subcons-
ciously willed by him in that, in his irritation, he·
wanted to dispose of Hume with the minimum of
words.
3. This is the only example of the three in which
a karmic effect in one life is traced to a cause in an,
earlier life. And the use of the words, " for all he·
knows," leaves us in some doubt as to whether the
'78 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
Master intended the earlier incarnations of Sinnett to
be taken as a fact or as a hypothesis. But whether
-factual or hypothetical, the karmic effect of Sinnett's
Jove of mysticism in this life is readily traceable to his
having been in the past a friend of a Roman Flamen,
-or even the Flamen - himself, an office in which
mysticism played an important part. Sinnett was
merely continuing to do in this life what he had
already done in earlier lives.
The Master K. H. has said, Your acts in the past...
...are indelibly stamped upon the record of Karma.• In
the three examples given here a person with Insight,
without any other knowledge of the causes, might be
.able to read them in their karmic effects.
•Letters from the Masters of the Wisdom, ·(1st Series), p. 61.
INDEX
A dash after a number stands for et sequenti a ; " n " after a
number refers to a footnote on that page.
Action, 53, 65.
Adept, 19, 21, 63, 70, 75.
Adeptness, 63, 65, 72.
Appeasement, 60.
Aryan, 5, 11, 26.
Aryavarta, 8.
Assurance, 63, 72.
Astrology, 7-.
At-one-ness, 51, 62, 64, 71.
Besant, 12, 18.
Bhagavad Gita, 2, 6, 10, 12-.
Bismarck, 27.
Bodhisattva, 68.
Brahmanas, 6, 9, 12.
Brakes, 4.-0-.
Buddha, The Lord, 9-, 49, 72.
Buddhism, 10, 19, 28.
Canadian Theosophist, The, 12.
Castes, 3-, 8-.
Character, 19n.·
Chela, 74.
Christ, The Lord, 42.
Compassion, 62, 69, 72.
Cricket, 48-, 63, 65.
Current, 19-.
Democracy, 67.
Desire, 53, 64.
Dhammapatia, 9.
Dhammapada, 49.
Domitian, 76.
Elemental, 18.
European, 74.
Evolution, 35, 56.
Flamen, 76, 78.
Four Qualifications, 62-, 70--.
Frederick the Great, 27.
Germany, 27.
Gravitation, 15.
Hindu, 7, 10-, 28, 75,
Hitler, 27.
Human Nature, 21, 28, 35.
Hume, 75-.
Illusion, 38-, 43-, 62,
Indriya, 34, 56.
Jain Sutrae, 5.
80 LOOK AT YOUR KARMA
Karma and Excellence, 4.
K. and Illusion, 38-, 62.
K. Determines Caste, 4-, 9.
K. Maintains Life, 40.
Continuity of K., 23-.
Definition of K., 2-, 19, 34, 36
Dissolution of K., 71.
Dynamism of K., 3, 19-,
23-, 37-.
Examples of K., 19 - , 25-,
27, 30-, 73-.
False Doctrine of K., 10-, 25.
Infectiousness of K., 21.
Retroaction of K., 25-, 30- .
Tally of Bad K .• 18.
Transmutation of K., 40-,
54-.
Wheel of K., 20, 24, 37.
Working off Bad IC, 17.
K. H., The Master,'18, 19n, 71,
73-.
Knowledge, 52, 64.
Love, 62, 64, 70, 72.
Mahachohan, The, 10.
Mahatma Letters, The, 19n, 71, 73.
,. Manu, 66-.
Nemesis, 25, 45, 58-.
Newcome, 30.
Newton, 14, 23.
Nirvana, 18, 70-.
Pain, 18, 26-, 29-.
Path, 49, 62, 65.
Philanthropist, 69.
Potter's Wheel, 20, 24, 37.
Power-unto-Assurance, 63-.
Problem of Life, 44, 47.
Psychical Powers, 67, 68, 74 .
Radar, 32.
Ramsperger, 12, 17.
Razor's Edge, 49n.
Reader's Digest, 15.
Resoluteness, 64.
Repression, 34.
Sanskrit, 12-.
Security, 46.
Sensation, 31-.
Shakespeare, I.
Sinnett, 73-.
Skandha, 19.
Statesman, 57, 66.
Streamlined, 56.
Sutta Nipata, 9.
Svasti ka, 24.
Sympathy, 19, 62.
Tares, 41, 57.
Teacher, 68.
Theosophists, 12-, 50, 74-.
Theosophist, The, 14n.
Transmutation, 40-, 54-.
Upadhi, 44, 45.
Upanishad, Niralamba, 2.
Ve.ishya, 13.
Wheel, 20, 24, 37, 47.
Will, 53, 76.
William II, 27.
Wisdom, 62, 64, 72.
vVords, 1.
Yogis, 31-.
(Cont1>rvued from oidside the cover)
mo~t interested in the subject matter of this publica-
tion. It is set forth with simplicity of style and
great clarity of expression..•..•The writer deals with
the flaws in the popular conception of the law of
Karma.
The Link (South Africa)
This book is interesting because of the new
outlook on Karma that it enunciates......The author
analyses human emotions and reactions very exhaust-
ively and interestingly, and points out their obvious
evolution from similar reactions in animals, eventu-
ally relating them to Karma•.••••We can recommend
the book because it opens out a new conception of
the riddle of Karma which should help towards a
clearer understanding of that interesting subject.
Theosophy in New Zealand
The author shows in a very interesting way
how our instincts can be traced to the experiences
and behaviour of the animals in relation to their
environment. If evolution is a fact, and if it is true
that we human beings are descended from some spe-
cies of animals, much of what is insisted on there- •
in must be accepted... His discourses on Karma
and spiritual development are illuminating. The
book, on the whole, makes interesting reading, and
is to be commended to all those who seek for a
scientific basis for · our Karmic evolution.
The Calcutta Review
THEOSOPHICAL PUBLISHING HOUSE,
ADYAR, MADRAS, INDIA
I
By the Same Author
HUMAN NATURE, 352 pages, Cloth,
Rs. 3/12
It is the purpose of this book to study human
Karma, all those instinctive habits which go to
make up human nature, and by analysing them, to dis.
cover their origins ; and, furthermore, to apply this
knowledge to the problem of life so as to determine
what directio all our endeavours should take.
• In these pages are thus laid the foundations of
an entirely new science, which will be found to
bridge the gulf between Western Science and Eastern
Philosophy. ·
Press Opinions.
I hail this book with all assurance as a great
asset to our Theosophical literature......The advent
of an original thinker is not so common an event
in the wide world as not to give excuse for some
excitement when we are une:x;pectedly faced by
one......The chapters on Karma and Dharma are of
the best and of the most original, well worth repeat-
ed study, especially by Theosophists......Of the
importance of the idea of Karma in the author's
system of thought, the number of chapters carrying
that name, each with a different approach to it
gives an eloquent testimony-Karma (II), The Wheel
of Karma (X) The Infectiousness of Karma (XI),
Transmutation [of Karma] (XII), Good and Ba<I
Karma (XIII), The Release of Karma (XV).......
The Theosophist
Students of Psychology and Occultism will be
(Continued inside the cover)
