{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__richmond___yenlo_and_the_mystic_brotherhood.pdf","mytitle":"Yenlo And The Mystic Brotherhood","mylang":"de"}
DEDICATED
To
The True, Tried and faithful
followers of Brother Yenlo,
From Alpha to Omega.
OLNEY H. RICHMOND. G. M. of 0. M.
A GREETING
As· we meet our Master going,
With the Sun, towards the West, ·
We should have some way of·showing
Honor due our noble guest.
But instead, upon arriving
At the wicked town of Bab,
He will find us all a-striving
Hard to keep ourselves "on tab."
He will find no Tsarskoe-Selo,
Meet no potentates or kings,
He will scarcely see a halo
But it's made from Saturn's rings.
Still, beneath this heap of ashes
There's a power for the good,
When it's touched by lightning Hashes
From the Mystic Brotherhood.
Here is space and site befitting
Where to raise our temple walls,
Where the thou.sands would be sitting,
Gath'ring wisdom in our halls.
All our gods are sick and dying,
There's a crepe upon· the· door,
And the Hag of truce is Hying ·
Where the victors ruleCi before.
And the Devil's hopes- are sinking-
He does nothing but complain,
For his hot-house plants are shrinking
By the &re of Man's brain. ·
Man has naught to fear but Nature,
There's no God to save his soul:
He must reach his full-grown stature,
'Tending Life's progressive school.
3 .
Hasten on bis graduation,
Give .him now the ·proper start,
Let our mystic education
Reach his mind and BN his heart.
Once 'midst thunders' roar and rattle,
While our very planet shook,
Opening up the 8n~1 battle
Came the 1
'Angel with the Book."
He unveiled its mystic pages
To the mort~l human eye,
Thus uniting coming ages
With the ages Jong gone by.
Hearts and clubs began conversing
With the diamonds and the spades,
In a language fast dispersing
Falsehood's many dark'ning shades.
And this Broth~r who was voicing
What these emblems had to say,
Is the cause of· our rejoicing
For he's with us here today.
Enter now the mystic teachers
Where the Prince of Darkness rules,
With his servants-priests and preacber1
Superstition's transport i:ziules:
Enters now a bana of Brothers
Of the sacred mystic fold,
Blending with the minds of others--
With the master,minds of old.
Let all members be the workers
In their own particular way:
Be it said there are no 1 shirkers
Where the Order holds its sway.
·Every member of th~ Temple
la a teacher-if he wills:
He can. teach. by bis example
As he helps to pay the bills.
. '
Let us keep our cu\h a-sailing
Through the tempests and the calm.
Let our cou·rage ne'er be failing
Us beneath the Bag of OM
Wake all m~kind from its slumber-
W rite the 8gure forty-four,
Make a thousand times this number
And a hundred thousand more;
Join the batt)e-L-when we win it,
And the cyclone sweeps the Earth,
We may say that we were "in it"
When the Order had its birth.
While all other lights grow dimmer
As their day is nearly done,
We can live within the glimmer
Of this bright and rising Sun-
Till we reach those starry .portals
In the sweetest bye and bye,
Through this link between us mortals
And the Brotherhood on high.
I
And remember of this Brother
"Who is carrying_ now t.he cross-
What_ we're teaching one another
He first taught it unto us.
. ' .
May he prosper more ·and faster!
Be his ·future life a fHst! ·
ls our welc;ome to the Master
·In the station in the East.
.Tli.e late CARL 0. LAR.soN, former
Grand Warden of our temple.
s
FOREWORD
Olney H. Richmond's devotion of a life time, \o -tlae
work ·o1 the Order oi' the Magi, deprived him of· iDany
of the privileges acco~cled most men of brilliant lntdlect.
Because of the very nature of the order,- with it's complete
machinery for ttaching the one and only univerSal religion
of the future; the Order of the' Magi is obliged to operate
as a secret sodety;Tberdore, the fact that Mr. Richmond
possessed knowledge that waa beyond other great men of
science and phil080phy; was known· to only a.limited num-
ber of persons.
Knowing Mr. Richmond, or Brother Yenlo, u I do, and
also having eyes and ears with which to see and hear,
I have come to the conclusion that he i1 the real-forgotten
man today .. ; .. It is with this idea in mind largely, that
I am publishing this li~e boolc. The. lectures, letters,
notices and articles in the main part of this book. .are taken
from print, just as they appeared years ago. Our present
membership, who constitute the truest of Yenlo'a .fellowing
and are the most loyal. tho small in number, have taken a
keen inter~t in an old scrapbook. containing a great many
articles of all kinds, dealing with the early experiences
of Brother Yenlo, or relating to the work of the .Magi, the
Magi that is now our Magi. The lectures by our leader,
were delivered extemporaneously before clasaa in the·
grand temple. He "made no pretent!ons .to rlietoric or
scholarly flsiish in them, believing more in the tboughts
expressed, 'than the. style or m~ of expressing them."
It will be a long time before the world will produce another
great mind like Mr. ~clam~nd. So ~ow I take pleasure in
presenting s0me of the old clippings, for your entertainment
and information.
Mr. Richmond puled away March 30, 1920. He was
loved in his old age by many, but understood by only a
few. He wu better understood in the Checker and Oien
world, his hobby, ·than in the 6eld of relifion, his Mis-
sion. ·Nevertheleu, as the result of his coming and again.at
all opposition, his work ia done! .The world is being waslled
6'
today in it's own blood, to receive the works this faithful
and trusted servant of the Most High O.M. brought for
the regeneration of Terra. One day the world will awake
to discover that wQile they were busy killing each other,
with every scientific means ·known to man, the gates of
Heaven were quietly _opened.
As a master of all the sciences, Brother Yenlo knew
how to make use of his k~owledge, for the good of all m~­
kind. He left us what every civilized man, woman and child,
needs and wants today. The Truth, "Know ye the Truth
and the Truth shall make you free." Come, let us build
the new promised Kingdom, even as the old fs passing
away!
Brother Yenlo left certain keys and a perfect plan of
operation with me. The Plan now has a good legal founda-
tion. We have never had this before. This was brought
about with the assistance of one of the best. attorneys in
Chicago. We are chartered as a corporation not for pe-
cuniary profit. Mr.. Richmond's signature and mine appear
on our charter as charter members, as of the year 1917.
Our gates are wide OP.en to receive new members. We
are especiCllly' .interested in new members who wish to
serve humanity and help raise the cross out of the black
mire of ignorance.
· The Grand Jurisdictional Temple of the· Magi, holds
meetings t:Very Sunday· evening ~t 7~0, in the various
degrees (see our booklet) in Garrick Chapter Hall, 64 W.
Randolph Street, Chicago,. ·m. Letters of inquiry may be
addressed to us there. We will be glad to welcome you,
who are seekers of the Light, upon your arrival at our
Gates.·
Yours fraternally,
ARLINE L. RI~HMOND.
7
'Prom the Grand Rapids (Mich.) Daily ~mocrat, March 2, 1890)
A MYSTgRIOUS TALE
Olney H. Richmond tells how
he became a member of
The Magi.
Hu Experience at Nulavflle and Hairbreadth &capa Daring
the War-Hu PhQolOphg, Hu Religi~An Oath-Bound
Socidg Witla SigM anti P~n Prove .U tlrM he
Clainu-A Craft Which PlourUW Twentg TltouaMd Yan
&lore Chmt--DucriptioM of the Temple.
Much talk has been caused by several ·articles that
appeared in "The Democrat" recently reg•rding occult
astronomy or astral magnetism, of which·Olney ·H. Rich-
mond. the South Division street druggist. claizu to be a
student and expounder. Heretofore Mr. Richmond has re-
fused to give a full "account of the manner in which he
became possessed of his mysterious knowledge. So much
Comment bas been made OD previous articles OD the subject
that Mr. Richmond was again called upon the other day
and asked to give his story in full. His reuon for refusing
to give the information heretofore was, as he said, because
his superiors had not yet given him permission to tell.
When ~ccosted by the reporter the other day he answered
cheerfully: "Come back here by the stove, where it is warm.
and. I will tell. you the strange story of the manner in
which I became acquainted with this wonderful philosophy."
This the reporter willingly did. and on getting comfortably
seated Mr. Richmond proceeded as follows:
· · Richmond's Strangt Story
"During the war I' was a soldier in the Fourteenth
Michigan infantry. and ~ the Spring. of '&t our regiment
was quartered at Nashville, Tennessee. One night. about
8 o'clock, when I was on camp-guard duty, I saw a man
approaching. I thought at &rst that Ile might be a spy. but
immediately after I Brst saw· him. he -Poke to me. I con:.
eluded that he could do me no harm as I waa IO near the
8
. - . .
camp. and so I answered hf1 salute. He came up to me and
said, 'your name ia Richmond,' 'Right,' said I. supposing
that some of my comrades had given him my name. 'And
your. other name is Yenlo.· continued the stranger. 'There
you are wrong. for that is not my name.' 'Yes, it is,' he
said, 'at l~ast that is the name given you by my authorities.
w.ho have sent me to you; spell Yenlo backward and see
what yo_u make of it.' '0-1-n-e~y. Olney, why yes that is
my name.' ·yes, and you were born on February 22, in
the year 1844.' said the stranger. 'How did you &nd that
out?' 'By the wonderful philosophy which I wish to com-
municate to you. . I do not know you. but was guided to
you. I am <! member of an order, which has been lost to
the public for many ·ages: I am a member of the ancient
order of the Magi, which flourished in Egypt thousands of
years ago. I feel th.at I am about to die, and am bound by
the powers that 'rule me to convey the marvelous secrets
which I hole! to another. who shall live after me. .You are
that successor, and I wish you to call on me at No.........
............ street some evening. and very soon. for I am sure
that I shall not live long.' My curiosity was aroused and
I ·promised to do as he wished me.
A Visit To }he Stranger
. "The man was ·a tall, thin, hollow-cheeked individual.
and .was· very earnes~ in his conversation. I called on him
as I had promised. and he initiated me into the high order
of which I have the honor to 'be a· member. He also gave
me different articles which are. µecessary· in the s.tudy.
He was a Fre~chman and told me· that ~e liad been told the
secrets while in India.
. "I did not understand.' but very little of wh~t he told
me at the time, but I am now able to understand it all, and
the signs.·pass-words, etc.. that he gave me really amounted
to initiat~on into the higher degrees of the craft. 'I am much
obliged to you,' said I to him, 'for. the information" you
have given ·me. ~ut it seems to me, inasmuch as the object
is to transmit this knowledge in an unbroken line, you are
.leaving i~ in ·bad hands.' 'Hov.: so?' said the Frenchman.
. 9
I ~nswered, 'How long the war wiH ~ I JMrVe --meaa
of knowing: I am liable to be killed long before ·ck war
ends, and could not transmit thia kn<J1'11itdge:to .anothe.r .,e.f~
son.' He said: ·'I am not acting· without~ )'Oii
need not fear: you will pass thro•gh many battlea llettaket,
but without injury: not a bullet will touch you.'
His Narrow Eacapn
"I must confess that I did not believe what he told·me.
for before every batt~ that I ever took pl,lrt in..I felt that I
was about to be killed. But, sure enough, not ~ enemy's
bullet touched my body, no.twithstaading that· my clothes
were perforated in several instances. Something always
seemed to move me juat enough to escape a bullet. At
Kenasaw, for instance, I was standing with my head above
the breastworks, looking at the enemy's batteries on the
mountain. Suddenly and involuntarily I ducked my head
below the head-log just in tim·e to escape a ri8e ball from
a sharpshooter, coming from a direction in whidt 1 bad not
been looking. He had evidently~ taking ddiberate aim
at me. _On another occasion I was aittiag OD a bank.· and
by some unaccountable i·mpulse I suddenly arose, ju-rt in
time to escape a twenty-pound shot which whi%ud past
right beneath my coat tails. This was at. the siege of At-
lanta. I might relate many similar instances of tliil char-
acter. but this will suffice to show you that some unseen
power constantly protected me.
In The Hand1 of Fate
"At the close of the war -I came North and opened a
store at Cedar Springs. I resided dlue for several years.
and the;11 removed my store to Pien0n, a small town a few
miles north of Cedar Springs. I :was at this place in 1871.
and it was in this year that I took an·unaccountable notion
that I wanted to go to Chicago: I did not know .why I
wanted to go. but something made me desire tO da so.
My wife asked me if I was going· there to buy goods. rtold
her no, that I could buy all the goods Jwankd in Grad
· Rapids, but that i needed relaxa~oo and bad made up my
10
mind that I would take it in Chicago. I went, and as I in-
tended to stay for some time, went to a private· boarding
house, at, I think, 172 State street. I do not know why I
went to this particular house, but I was attracted to it.
There were several boarders in the same house, and at the
first meal I took there I met a gentleman with whom I
immediately formed an attachment. His name was Dr.
Hamilton. from Charleston, S.C. After we had finished the
meal. we had a cigar together and got to talking. He
invited me up to his room, and while we were there he
showed me some books. among which was an old book,
which he said was a family heirloom. He had no idea why
he had brought the book along with him when he came
to Chicago to seek his fortune. I opened the book and was
surprised to see some of the mysterious words which the
Frenchman had given me at Nashville seven years before.
The Mysteries Unlocked
"My curiosity was at once aroused. and I concluded
that. I could spare as much as $~5 to buy that book if it
could be bought for that sum. I asked him how much he
would take for it. 'I have no use for it,' said he, 'take it
along if you want it.' I brought the book home with me.
and it cast a flood of light on my studies, which I began
to prosecute with great vigor. It took from that time to
this, over eighteen years, of profound study for me to gain
the valuable knowledge which I now possess. I have books
which have cost me $700 to get up. It took me years to
get these books up; for I printed them myself, with rubber
stamps. "Are you ~ mason?' asked he of t~e reporter.
"No sir, I a~ not."
"I was going to say, if you were I could give you a
much better idea of my philosophy. The Masonic order
claims to have had its origin among the ancient priests of
Isis. My philosophy is the true Masonry; that which existed
among the ancient Chaldeans 20,000 years before Christ.
Every Mason will admit that a great change took place
in the order at the time.of the building of Solomon's temple.
11
The 'word,· which is often mentioned in t&e Bible, was
lost at that time, and the 'word' is the great secret of this
order. To this day, no one outside of the Magi moWB what
this word is. My philosophy is really my religion."
"Does this religion include a Christ?"
Christ Was a Mystic
'Most certainly it does; my religion is the true Christi-
anity. Christ was a member of the Magi and received his
education at the hands of the order when he went down
into Egypt. Why is the fact of Christ receiving his educa-
tion in Egypt so little spoken of in the Bible? Simply. be-
cause as it now is, it reached the present genei:ation, with
many books suppressed. It is because of the church that
the arts of the Magi have been suppressed for so many
hundreds of years. The exponents of the craft have been
burned at the stake by the church, and tortured to death
in many other ways. so that the order has been kept very
secret, no one but the members dreaming of its existence.
One proof to Christians of .the truth of astrology is the
fact that the three wise men who found Christ in the manger-
at Bethlehem were guided thither by a star. These three
wise men were a committee from the Magi. The old
prophets mentioned in the Bible were members of the Magi,
and foretold coming events by the stars and planets.
"My religion does not require that its believers shall
have faith. Everythinsi that I believe I can prove. Where
Christians. that is Christians in the common acceptation of
· the word. believe in a heaven, and have faith that there is
one, I know and have absolute proof that there is one.
By heaven, I do not mean a place where winged angels sit
about on clouds. playing golden harps, but a practical
hereafter, a heaven·such as a man makes for himself. A
man of high and refined tastes certainly would not be
happy in a heaven where he would be. classed with men of
naturally low tastes."
An Oath-Bound Order
"Mr. Richmond, what pecuniary benefit do you realize
12
from having this knowledg~ which you ·claim to have?"
asked the reporter.
"I can truthfully say that it is more of a nuisance to
me than a profit. speaking in a ftnancial way. Men come
here to my store every day and want me to tell their fort-
unes, or prophesy how certain matters in which they are
interested will pan out. Almost without exception I refuse
these requests, as I do not care to degenerate my philosophy
and religion to such uses."
· "Now that the church has been wrested from its throne
of tempo_ral power, so that it cannot materially interfere
with worldly affairs it is time that the ancient order. of thf':
priests of Isis should be revived, and within the past year
I have been directed by the powers who rule me to com-
municate my knowledge to others. Accordingly I have
formed a class. which already include 30 members. many
of them prominent and in.Ruential men and women. who
are cultured and refined people."
"Then you admit ladies to your secrets?" was asked.
"Yes, sir: in the ancient days such was not the case.
but women now stand 9n a level with man. and they are
admitted. It is not an easy thing to become a member of our
circle, and many. applications have been denied. Members
must stand well, intellectually and socially. and withal be
virtuous else they will be unable to grasp the great ideas
of this philosophy. An oath-bound order is the result of
the .formation of my class, s'everal members of which re-
side in other parts of the. state, and one lives as f.ar away
as the state of Alabama. We have a room all fitted up for
our temple, which ·is located on this street (South Division
street). We have our signs. passwords. etc., and symbols
and articles similar to those used by· the· P.riests of Isis,
way back in the time of the Rameses and Pharaohs. We
have elected officers. and no out!'iders are admitted to our
meetings."
A Visit ~o The Temple
"At Mr. Richmond's invitation. the writer visited the
13
temple. Tbc Int thcJiaObt that lltrika tlat. ~-Of the Yt.imr
on aaterhlg the place is that he ia fa an utroDolillc.al stady,
ud such ia tht cue•.except that: the·place .ii devoted more
to the. ~calt branche9 of ~e study rather duui·plain ~troa­
omy. In the center of the ceiling ts a large cliptical diagram.
which includes tlte ligm .of zodiac. :aac1 fro~ the c:atre'of
the Bgure is suspended a large· w:hik globe, yhich repre-
sents the sa.n. Within thia globe are ·:HVttal facaudescent
electric lights, one or all of which c:aii be turned on, and
any shade of light can be obtained which is desired. Around
the sun, at rela~ive distances and' locations; are suspended
the planets. By means of the system all·manner of astron-
omical phenomena cu be plainly illustrated. The walls
are bung with charts of the heavens, and illustrations of
planetary movements. Four .chairs, evidently for the oficers
of the.. temple. are stationed opposite each other. on' the
four sides of the room.. Against one of the chairs, presum-
ably that of the highest olic,er, leaned ,the symbol of his
office, the three-pronged spear of Neptune. Mr. Richmond
explained that this trident was
The Oldtst Symbol Known
on the earth at the present time. It was the emblem of the
ancient lost Atlantis. and was derived by them from the
form in which the stars now composing the great dipper
of the north occupied 22,000 years ago. as.be has demon-
strated with the sptttroscope by mathematical calculation,
based upon the motion of the seven stars composing the tail
and part of the body of the great bear. A. descriptions
have heretofore been related of Mr. RichmOGd's mysterious
performances with cards, etc., it will not be necessary to
describe seeming miracles which he performed .during this
visit to his temple.
Mr. Richmond says he does not mean· to antagonize
prevailing religions with his ~y: all that he an-
tagonizes is their dogmaa. His ph.ilOsopby. he claims, gives
a much clearer inaigbt into tme Christianity. Several masons
are aQiOng hia mast ardeiat students. Mr. Richmond .cJ.im1
.that his atu~es show that the order of the Magi emted and
H
was started.on the continent of Atlantis, which exist~ in
the Atlantic ocean, too many ages gone by for man to
trace back. This is where he thinks the Garden of Eden
was located: on the continent which he believes sank be-
neath the waves ·ages upon ages before the time that the
8rst page of history begins to record the accurate story
of mankind.
This article not covered by copyright.
IS
ASTRONOMY
The Mother o( Rdigma
Farew.U Lecture of tlw Seuae. e&
the <Mand Temple of the Magi.
BY OLNEY H. RICHMOND, G.M.
ReconU of tlte P..t~luildan A.ttro1101111,.....7'he &n.ntg-two
Boob ol Bel-&nincnt Nania of Muter• ol tlw Put-Return
of the Liglrt-Holg Dag--Sun-Dltfl Cra.a-•Hu the Tlrun-
da Rebucd to Cruhr'- Other WorlcU Than Oan-To-mght
We Ooee ~ Gata.
Astronomy, the grandest science in all the universe; the
oldest science upon this globe: the mother of all religious
systems: the God-written knowledge, superior to all and
every possible invention of priests and ministers, the "re-
ligion of the stars." is as old as man himself: Many of the
discoveries of astronomy date back of authentic records,
far; far into the dim and mysterious traditions of the past:
but its progress and glorious 'achievements can be traced
downward through all the ages as a bright line of light.
forever ennobling men and lifting them above the sordid
cares of life and the follies of ignorant superstition. ·
The Chinese made many astronomical diecoveries, and
their records extend back many tboua&nds of years. They
recorded the conjunctions ol four planet& and the moon
twenty-five centuries before Christ. They recorded an
eclipse of the sun in 2128 B.C.
The Chaldean shepherds, while watching their Bocks by
night, under a clear and beautiful sky, became familiar
with the heavenly bodies and thrir movements.
The Chaldean priests were all astronomea, and ·their
temples were ·observatories, wherein the brotherhood of
celestial magic held their nightly convocations.
When Alexander took Babylon, in 331 B.C.• he found
a record of their observations extending back. nineteen
16
centuries. They discovered the Saros; or lunar cycle. The
ruins of Ninevah are full of astronomical inscriptions, and
the public library of. that city contained a series of ~enty­
two volumes devoted to astronomy, and called the "Ob-
servations of Bel," a high dignitary of the ancient ord.er.
These records date back 1
forty-6ve centuries to that far-
off time when Alpha. or the constellation of the Dragon.
was the pole star of our earth.
The illustrious- names that are found upon the roll of
honor as we ·pass down the ages, ,would 611 a volume.
Thales, one of the seven sages of Greece; Anaximander
the astronomer: Pythagoras, the illustrious founder of an
astronomical school at Crotona, Italy, where hundreds of
enthusiastic scholars were educated in the· mysteries of
the universe, both physical and spiritual. Pythagoras pos-
sessed the full secret knowledge of a Grand Master of the
outer circle. He taught the harmonies of the planetary scale
and the correlations of the vibratory scale of music and
light. He know that there were "other worlds than ours."
containing intelligent human beings; yet he lived more than
6ve hundred years before ~he birth of Christ: But if ·we
wonder at all thb knowledge in possession of Pythagoras
and bis contemporaries, what must we think when we have
evidence that these splendid philosophers understood the
grand principles of evolution and progression of the human
soul? They most. certainly did.
Anaxaooras. 500 B.C.. taught that there was no such
thing as ~hance or .acci~ent. these being only names for
unk:-1ow11 laws. Fo'r his grand knowledge and teachings he
was rewarded by his countrymen by banish.ment of himself
and entire family, perpetually. The Egyptians were noted
for their knowledge of astronomy long ages before the
science was known in Greece.
It was the pra<;tice of the philosophers of other coun-
tries. before aspiring to the rank of teachers, to visit the
Temples ol the Magi in Egypt. Chaldea and Persia, for the
purpose of ~ng degrees and supping wisdom at the foun-
tain hHd. Pythagoras spent thirty years in this kind of
study. -
17
In one library and temple aeboo1 at .AleXan.c:ls;a, cva as
.late as 260 B.C., was concatrated the wisdom ucl.Je-ming
of the world, 8ourisllin9 ·under the patfonagt ~f·muai8cent
kinga.
Would you believe it possible that after the world hais
taated of these divine &uiu of the tiee of laaowledge, that
it could again be burled downward into the.dark·abyM of
theological claptrap an~ ignorance? But it was. Pri~craft
bad the power, and used it unmercifully. to bind the 90uls
of men in the iron shackles of bigotry. intolenuice and
religioua stupidity; giving ua the Dark Aps, that have been
a foul blot upon the record of poor Terra for more than a
thousand years.
But. as we glance at the pages of history, we sec
glorious and illustrious names standing out like sparkling
gems from the black background of that soul-blighting time.
All honor to those noble brothers who preserved the
religion of the stars," while the practice or teaching of it
meant the dungeon, the rack, the thumbscrew,· starvation
or banishment. ut the names of Bruno, Bacon, Kepler,
Brahe, Lillie, Newton, Copernicus and Galileo be in5c:ribcd
in letters of gold upon the banner of light; for future genera-
tions of mystics to ·read. . ·
, But the light has co~e back to poor, deserted ·Terra.
and the slaves of superstition can no longer dictate to her
children; from ten thousand coward's castles, what they
shall or shall not believe. The snake bu lost his most
poisonous fangs, but his hiss is yet heard over our fair
land, as he attempts to imp6se, by the ·~d of law, whaf he
cannot longer hope to impose upon the children of men by
ttaaon..· One day, at least, in seven, the gates of science,
progress and knowledge must be .closed in the faces of
poor laborers, that they may be induced, perhaps, to at- ·
tend a So-called place of worship, where the shackles of
superstition C&Jl be attended ·to. and the·rivets more ·ftrmly
6x~d in the intcrem of an aristocracy of religion, wealth
and blood. · · ·
One-thing. however: must not be forgotten: ~tis, that
J8 -
these persons who are ready to turn heaven and earth to
accomplish their ends, · in the way. of forcing others to
believe their absurd dogmas, are mostly sincere in their
cfforts. They are so blinded by ignorance that black appears
white to them. A light seems darkness. Their spiritual
development is so low that they cannot comprehend any-
thing outside of the physical. They have been absolutely
forced into recognizing some of the spiritual or mystic
truths of the universe: but not an inch will they go, or can
they go, beyond where they are forced by evidence they
cannot overthrow. They cling with a deathlike grip to
the old story of a heaven and a hell, gods and devils. and
other personalities that science has long ago exploded with
her telescopes and spectroscopes. They cling to the material
raising of the body of flesh, or an equivalent, which has
been 8atly disproved ten thousand times by the chemist and
biologist. They ding with the tenacity of a ·porous plaster
to the theory that certain portions of time or eternity are
"holy:" notwithstanding the fact that the 8nger of science
has pointed out time and again that there is no such thing
as time: time being nothing but a convenient way of recko:i-
ing the motions of the most familiar heavenly bodie3, such
as the earth, moon and sun.
Why! you might as well think of space as holy. or a
vacuum as holy. as to think of a day as holy. Yet it is
claimed that fifteen million people of the United States
have petitioned Congress to close· the World's Fair on one
day in seven, on Sun-Day, or the day certain ancients set
apart for offering burnt sacrifices to the sun. ·
Can one of these fifteen million cranks who threaten
to boycott the Fair, point to a spot or place where the
infinite ruler of the universe has in any manner distinguished
one day above another? Can they 'point to a time when the
celestial machinery stopped for a moment for a holy day?
Has the thunder refused to crash: the lightning refused to
Bash: the wind to blow; the water to flow, or earthquake to
rend and smash? Has the volcano ceased to roar; the water-
fall stopped its pour; the cyclone to whirl, the brook to
purl, or the clouds above to soar? Have wild· beasts re-
19
fused to slay: have the lambs refused to play: the sun to
glow, the crops to grow, because of a holy day?
We have no record of anything of the kind transpiring
up to this date. When the almighty and infinite control sets
us the example by stopping his works on. some: particular
day out of each seven, it will be time for us to get into
line. It will be time for Chicago to nail up her gates to
museums and fairs. and above all. the "family entrance"
to her thousands of saloons on that holy day, and every-
body wend their way to the nearest church.
The dogmas of the theological world have received their
death blow, from which recovery is impossible. This fact
is patent to all thinking persons. It is in vain that the
church edifices are multiplied in number and wealth. It is
in vain that men who have wrung their millions out of the
public by trusts and monopolies. donate a part of their ill-
gotten gains to found theological seminaries·. It is in vain.
because the fiat has gone forth, and men have dared to
think. They have dared to question the God of .Nature.
Ten thousand newspapers are echoing public sentiment by
telling from day to day what is going on in the heavens.
My mystic friends. mark my words, inside of sixteen years
the whole world will know what we know now about the
planet Mars. News from "other worlds than ours" '!.!ll for-
ever set at rest the claims of theology, and set free the
minds of men, and give them liberty to revel in the grand
and eternal truths of the universe.
To-night we close our gates for the seas.on, and many of
us depart fQr the invigorating pine and spruce forests of
the ·northland. Since we dedicated this Grand Temple last
October. we have multiplied our membership by three and
one-half. What other secret order has been so blessed?
As for the quality of our membership, I make bold to say
that upon no other place upon all the broad, fair face of
our planet can be found collected together a band of such
kin_d, harmonious, loving, intelligent, refined and noble souls
as are found here in this circle of Mystics, gathered beneath
the starry vault of blue that glistens above.
20
May heaven ·bless you! May .the bright angels of love
and truth be ,,.,ith you and guide you, until we meet again
in our beloved Temple, at ~he call from- the East of which
you will all receive due and timely notice.
. 21
NEBUCHADNEZZAR'S DREAM
A Vision of the Ages Past
A Lecture
BY OLNEY H. RICHMOND
Before the Grand Temple pf the Order of
the Magi, Chicago
The Univer&al Religion-Science Does Not Repel-A Wonder-.
ful Dream-The Chief Astrologer of tM Time-A Hard Nut
to Crack-The Little Stone-The Mystic Chart-18H. the Year
of P~The Handwriting On tire Wall.
Before this altar we behold a .large number of strange
faces this evening: intelligent faces, with thoughtful brows
and sparkling eyes. These eyes have beheld the light of the
house of Libra for the first time this day. Some of you
come from distant States to the east or the south. Others
have faced the winds sweeping across the wild prairies of
the west, and the mountain tops of the highlands: but fro·m
whatever·point you come, be it near or far, you have been
drawn hither by that occult force that has led Mystics in
all ages since intelligent beings first developed upon the
planet Terra. You have been admitted to the Temple oj
Light-thus ~ailed because those whom ·you see about you
here devote their lives to the shedding of light upon the
hidden mysteries of nature, with her boundless and inex-
haustible resources.·
In this Temple, we do not confine our religion t~ this
speck of dust called the Earth, for ours is the. "religion of
the stars," which deals with cosmical truths and laws that
are alike upon all planets. in all systems of suns and sun-
clusters. of infinite space. ·
We deal not with man-invented gods, devils, imps.
angels, heavens and hells peculiar to this pla'net, but with
the universal force that extends to all worlds. When we
find a truth in the divine book of nature, we have a truth
that will s~and the test of ages and will be_ a fact, as well
22.
on a distant world as on our own. We are all united by
on mystic bond of brotherhood, and any system of religion
that does not recognize this great fact cannot stand. I am
not afraid to go upon record as saying. that strive and
struggle as they may, lavish money as they may, preach
and teach as they may. to this every church in the civilized
world must come at last; that the religion of science or the
universal Religion of the Stars is the only true and lasting
religion. the only religion that appeals to man's reason, and
the only one that he hungers and thirsts for from a natural
instinct. My Mystic friends. it is just as natural for children
to reject the stories of Jonah and the whale. the snake story
of Genesis. the sun and moon stopping story of Joshua. the
golden chariot and the ascending fiery chariot stories, and
the hundreds of other absurdities of an ignorant age. as soon
es they arrive at years of understanding. as it is for their
little eyes to sparkle with intelligence and delight when you
tell them of the real wonders of the universe, above other
worlds than ours, and other suns than ours. Religion ough~
not to be antagonistic to our natures; science is not. Sci-
ence onlys asks a hearing. She does not need to hold re-
vivals or protracted meetings. She does not intrigue for
the passage of laws designed to force people to obey her
mandates. The ReJigion of the Stars does not ask mankind
to bend t~·-knee to some supposed autocrat who has the
power and will to crush them, or everlastingly damn them,
if they do not placate him and cajole him as one would an
earthly tyrant. But we as Mystics, while obtaining our
knowledge from high sources. are not debarred from re-
ceiving light from certain ancient sources of knowledge.
such as certain mystic books that have come down to us
from past ages; therefore. we have for a motto: "Seiu
upon truth wherever found."
Mankind. subject to compelling. irresistible forces, anc
amenable to inexorable law. paradoxical as it may seem, i~
prone to assert· and exercise free-will, right of choice and
judgment. and is emphatically opposed to yielding these
rights upon compulsion.
Thus. when we felt compelled to believe the Bible.
23
"inspired," from Genesrs to Revelation inclusive, and were
taught by our forefathers that we must accept it or be eter-
nally damned, we rejected it, and risked the consequences;
a course millions have taken in the past hundred years.
Now that we are free.from this bonda~e of compulsory.
unreasoning belief, the Bible and other ancient books of
like construction are interesting and instructive to us as a
partial history of a peculiar people, their religion and tra-
ditions, manners and customs, chronicles and prophecies,
poetry and morals.
In the New ·Testament we find the introduction, initia-
tion and grafting in of a new religion, the influence of
which has been world-wide.
Since we are not obliged to fully endorse the "mistakes
of Moses" in his conception of the universe. the construc-
tion of the earth and the planetary system, the origin of
species and the descent of man, .we can admire him and
study him as a most cultivated and powerful magician, a
brave leader and a great law-giver.
These remarks are preliminary to an explanation of
Nebuchadnezzar's Dream
We read in the first chapter of the book of Daniel, that
Nebuchadnezzar, King of Babylon, beseiged and captured
Jerusalem in B. C. 682; that the vessels of gold and silver
were taken away, together with certain young men. who
were well favored and skillful in wisdom and "understand··
ing science," the whole thing being carried unto Babylon.
Daniel was one of these young men, and his mystic name.
given him by the brotherhoo,d, was Belteshazzar.
Now Daniel was particularly skille~ in the interpreta-
tion. of dreams, as well as ten degrees higher than any of
the astrologers or magicians in that realm .in general occult
knowledge, as the king found on consulting him.
In the y.ear 603 B.C.. in the second year of his reign,
the King dreamed strange dreams, whereby his "spirit was
greatly troubled," so that he called for the magicia~s, sor-
2i
cerers and astrologers to show him his dream. It seems that
the King knew that he had dreamed an awful symbolical
dream, but as •day approached and the physica1 senses be-
came fully awa.kened he could not recall the vision of the
night. This is a comm~n occurrence to thi~ day:· (See Dan.
ii. 3 to 12). These magicians. or astrologers. who formed
an i.mportant part o(every eourt in those days, have been
represented by interested religious parties ·since that day
as imposters and humbugs; but such an idea is WQolly er-
roneous, for these men were more or less developed in the
occult line and many of them were learned in the ·:Mysteries
of Egypt" and the· IOre of past ages: Some of them were
scientific: others mediumistic: as we read that they ~ad
"familiar spirits" that ea~abled-them to divine. What con-
stitutes a'."familiar person?" Why, one who is near to you.
with you a great deal. to be sure. Yet the believers in this
holy book are not "Spiritualists." Oh, no!
Of course it is highly probable that many of _the incan-
tations aqd oivinations performed by these so called ''wise
me!t" were impositions, same as we find.today, but' we must
concede. that they must have really possessed considerable
occult· power, or they woulcf not" have been able to· hold
their ·positions.·at the cour~.
.
We see, however, by the text, .that the nut 9ive11 to
theni by. Nebucb~dnezzar ori the o~casion. under. consider-
ation. ·was- tcx) mu·ch for them to crack. J'hey evidently did
not t'ike to try .a- ·gues~ at the dre.ai;n; bec.ause King.s h-4:\d ·an· ·
unpieaf?ant ·Jiabit of throwing people into red-hot furnaces.
or feeding them to the. menagerie· of wi~c{ beasts, in case
the p~ognosdcations. did not exactly tallx. wit~ the -facts.
So th~y all pas~e.d. Bu~ the King ·sent ·for one Daniel. and
when the. magician stood .before him he r~al~zed that a
Master· of' the Inner Temple .was there". Daniel ':Vas upright
and noble, polished,and pointed in his _
remarks and had an
eye -sin"g_l~ to the·glory-of the· highc!!t. He was at that time
in particularly ·good ·form, because he . had been fasting
from all ·gross foods for many .month~ and was i~ a frame
of mind to act as an admirable instrument for the unseen
ones to trans~it wisdom through. He had ·also been warned
25
.by his guides from on high•. and therefore knew· that he
held the key to the situation.
We can imagine the feelings of the King, as he recog-
nized. in captive Prince liefore him one who .had ascended
high up· the ladder of divine knowledge, and we can als~
imagine the fervor of Daniel as he asked tb'.e infinite to
make known the secret. By what particular name Daniel
recognized the Infinite Intelligence ·is unimportant, if
through him communications from a h'igh astral plane were
received and the procession of events occurring in accord-
ance. with immutable law were predicted, and prescience
firmly established.
Now the King, it seems from Daniel ii, ·had been shown
in. his dream a great image, with a' head of gold, breast
and arms of silver. thighs of brass, legs of iron and feet of
clay and iron mixed. This is in exact accordance with
the entire princip}es of symbolism, which conceals mystic
knowledge in figures of men, animals and things, in the
same manner that X, Y and Z conceal the unknown quan~
tities used in algebra. But the King also saw a stone "cut
out without hands," which smote the ima_
ge on the feet
made of iron and clay, with .such force that the feet (the
basis) and with the~ the-entire image was broken to pieces
and scattered so that :·no place was found for them." This
little stone then became a ''great mountain and filled the
whole earth." I am filled with awe as I contemplate this
image. Not the one depicted here so graphically upon this
canvass chart. nor yet the one seen by Nebuchadnezzar,
albeit "the form thereof. was terrible," but rather the vast
period of years and the rise and fall of great dynasties it.
symbolizes. ·
Prophecy has been aptly defined as '"history in ad-
vance," and chronology as the "eyes of history." Daniel.
staiiding at the head of this image. looked down the. long
vista of future ages with prophetic eyes and interpreted the
dream, and told the King that the head of gold was himself. ·
the breast and arms of silver another kingdom inferior to
his'own. and the thighs of brass indicated a third kingdom
.which should ruie over.all the earth.
26
The legs of iron represented a fourth kingdom, "strong
as iron," while the feet and toes, of iron and clay mixed,
represented .a divided kingdom that should not ~ling to-
gether, but be partly strong and partly broken. Lastly the
stone that smote the image and dealt it its death blow, and
then grew until it filled all the earth, typified a new king-
dom "f.rom on high" that should. from ·s~all beginnings.
increase until it· should break the other kingdoms int0
pieces and fill the whole earth.
This is substantially the account of the dream and its
interpretation by the chief Astrologer and Master Mystic
Daniel, as may be read more circumstantially in Chap. ii.
1 to 47. That the' symbolism displayed herein was con-
sidered to be of great moment and of much importance to
man, by the ancient brotherhood, is fully proven by the fc!ct
that other mystic prophets allude to the same figures con-
tained in Daniel, in all sorts of ways. Thus the "time.
times, and half a time" appears as "forty and two months''
in Rev. xiii., 5, and as a "thousand two hundred and three
score days" in Rev. xii., 6: this time being 1260 years of
the prophetic time. leading downward. through the ages
and culminating in the year A.O. 1844, as exhibited upon
thts chart. We, standing at the feet of this image, look back
over some. 2495 years of the world's history and witness the
fulfillment of the prophecy.
·- In ancient history there are co.mmonly recorded five
powerful monachs, all of which successively established
themselves on the ruins of the others. There are the Egyp-
tians, Assyrian, Persian. Grecian and Roman. Egypt had
alttady begun to decline. so the prophecy begins with the
Assyrian monarchy. .This head of gold represents the
·Assyrian Empire, founded by Minrod 2218 B.C. It em-
braced the greater part of Central and Western Asia. Its
capital and metropolis was Babylon, the "City .of the
Shinar, on both sides of the River Euphrates. We need not
dwell upon the wealth and splendor of this ancient city-its
brazen gates. magnificient temples, the glory of which has
never been equaled. The empire attained its greatest glory
under the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, about 560 B.C.
27
In the year 538 B.C., Belshazzar, the son of Nebuchad-
nezzar, became King of Babylon. In those days the only
place ;n the world where an education befitting a king
could be obtained was in the Temples of the Magi in
Egypt, although a lesser education could be obtained in
some other countries. So it was customary for the Princes
of several countries to take degrees in our order that they
might be better prepared for the high stations they were
to fill.
Belshazzar had followed this rule, and had been duly
and regularly admitted to the house of Libra, where he had
remained on probation for many years on account of his
dissipated ways. But, like many another who passed the
mystic portals. this king went back to the flesh-pots and
became a fallen brother. He made a great feast. where
wine flowed like water. where he and his lords and shame-
less woman drank and became intoxicated, even desecrating
the sacred vessels of gold and silver.
"The King was on the throne,
The satraps thronged the hall,
A thousand bright lamps shone
O'er that high festival."
When in the height of their unholy revelry. a dark-
faced and majestic stranger parted the rich hangings that
draped the arched doorway at the king's back; that man
was a Grand Master of Oriental Mysticism. from our
Temple in Egypt. He saw the drunken king before him;
he stretched forth his hand; a hush fell upon the assembled
revelers, the lights grew dim; a spell seemed to be cast
like a pall upon all present. As all gazed with bated breath
and staring eyeballs, a mysterious materialized hand came
forth and wrote upon the wall in letters of magnetic fire.
the words:
Mene, Mene, Tekel, Upharsin!
28
Thou art LJ:eighed ir: the ~alance and art found wanti?g
----·-···········-···-
IR ON
_ Belshazzar c~uld not read and
. .
understand the meaning of this mys-
.tic message, so he cried 'out for the
wise men and astrologers to come to
him and interpret it for him. But
none of them were sufficiently ad-
vanced in mystic science to do so.
until ~he grand maste~ and chief
magician of the court. Daniel. was
brought before him. Daniel told .the
. king that his kingdom was num-
bered and divided and given unto
·the Medes and Persians. It was in-
deed numbered, and in that very
night was Belshazzar slain, and
Darius the Median too~ the king-
dom.
The head of gold is passed. The
arms an_
d breast of silver com~ next,
and we will take up the story at an-
other time and follow out this line of
wonderful prophetic history, as it
· ~inds its way down the ages of this,
the ..culminating century of proph-
ecy,_ for we, the chosen and mystic
ones of earth are much concerned
th.erewith.
Think of these things. friends.
and then endeavor to realize in your
own minds the magnitude of the
events that have transpired and are
to transpire in this enlightened nine-
teenth ! i;:entury and the work we
have before us in preparing the sons
and daughters of men to see the
. light!
NEBUCHADNEZZAa's. DREAK. commg
29
PRIESTR OF ISIS
A Visit to the Temple of the Order of the Magi
A Few Facts Concerning the Religion of the Stars-The State
Temple Has Been Located in This City-Grand Mages Rich-
mond of Chicago in the City.
There is always a fascination in the mysterious, and the
attraction is all the more intense when that mystery belongs
to the far-off ages. The religions of an!'.;ient Egypt, per-
haps. have taken more of this sort of charm to themselves
than any other, and of late years many students have
turned their attention to the resurrection of the forms of
worship so long ago used in the land of Isis and Osiris.
Among these students an order has been formed. th~
state branch of which, (and indeed the only one in Mich-
igan) is located in this city, with .headquarters or templt:
in the Ayres block, corner of Kalamazoo and River streets.
Little has been known of this sect or order in the city. but
for the past year or more its members have been holding
their regular meetings. and now their new quarters afford
them better facilities for the study of their religion-for
~uch it is. The new religion or rather the revival of an
ancient form, is called the "religion of the stars," and the
sect, the Ancient Order of the Magi. ·
Olney H. Richmond of Chicago, the grand magea of the
order, is in the city for a week, and while he is here the
grand temple work can be done, although this is customar-
ily done only in Chicago. A representative of the State
Republican spent Saturday afternoon with the grand magea
in the new and well-appointed temple,·and so far as the un-
initiated are allowed to see and hear the reporter saw and
heard. On entering the room one is rather awed and mysti-
fied by the wonderful charts and diagrams seen on all
sides. The walls of the temple represent those of a college
or scientist's room more than those of an ordinary place
of worship. There are charts on geological subjects, treat-
ing of the earth's formation from the cyclic period, through
the helioic, down all the 'oics. to· this present condition.
30
and e\'en to its state three r.1illion years hence. Similiar
charts are devoted to the evolution of the planetary system,
vegetation. and the lower forms of life: in fact, the entire
theory demonstrated is evolution.
Among other signs and symbols with which the t~mple
is decorated were noticed the different figures to be found
on ordinary playing cards: These- card signs were placd
in connection with others relating to zodiac planets. etc .,
<
ind arranged in the form of charts. The curious reporter
asked his guide of what possible use could common playing
cards be in connection with such mathematically correct
things as planets.
.. It is generally believed that cards were invented for
the amusement of King Charles IV of France in the four-
teenth century,.. answered Mr. Richmond. "but nothing
could be farther from the truth. for cards are the oldest
book record in the world and bear upon their face today
not only the portraits of ancient kings. queens, an.cl cour-
tiers of Egypt. but the secret symbols of the Magi and
priests of Isis.""
There is a tradition that away back in the shadowy past
there existed somewhere in the billowy Atlantic the kmg .
dom of Atlantis. This was so far down the corridors of
rime that Egypt. which seems ever old. was but a youth.
In the temple of the Magi there is a map of the great con-
tinent of Atlantis, which is divided by four rivers flowing
toward the fo.ur cardinal points of the compass, and it is at
the junction of these rivers that Mr. Richmond locates the
Garden ·of Eden. Atlantis was ruled by four kings. and it
is these kings and their courts that the twelve court cards
represent. By volcanic or other eruption of nature. the
kingdom of Atlantis was sunk beneath the waves, and the
knowledge possessed by the Atlantians was transmitted
to the Egyptians by a few wanderers 9£ that kingdom.
"I will give you," said Mr. Richmond. "some facts about
cards which are not generally known. From the time when
in ancient Egypt they were painted on thin sheets of ivory,
engravers and printers ever since have reproduced them
31
exactly. Wandering tribes of gypsies have the secrets of
cards as emblems of plan~tary motion. time, etc:. but with-
out the higher knowledge of why they have these wonder-
ful properties. But in this old yet ever new religion of the
stars there is abundant evidence to show that cards were
used by Egyptian priests as sacred emblems of astronom-
ical time and combinations. of the solar system. Astronomy
was the basis of the religion of the Egyptians, and cards
wer~ mathematically constructed and had symbolical refer-
ence to time. planetary motion. and the occult calculations
and mysteries of the Magi. What x, y and z are to algebra
so are card emblems to heliocentric astrology."
The Lansing temple differs from the grand temple in
Chicago, in that the miniature solar system is omitted on
account of the lowness of the ceiling.
· Above the master's station in the east of the temple is a
circular chart called the "trestle board," on which are mov-
able representations of the planets which are kept from day
to day exactly corresponding to their prototypes in the
heavens. The work of the temple is laid out from the posi·-
tion of the planets. even as the mathematical work was laid
out upon the trestle boards in the temple of King Solomon.
The illustration shows the trestle board with the planets as
arranged on the day of the visit.
In the center of the temple is a large altar, and it would
jlppear that upon this altar most important work and mys.:
teries are performed. The top is embroidered in silk. and it
is said that the symbols used upon this altar have been
found engraved upon stone dug from the ruins of temple!=
in Egypt. Persia, and other mystic lands. The four sides
are covered with velvet. which is also embroidered with
mystic emblems consisting of pyramids, obelisks, and rising
·suns. ·so much for the temple.
The Order and Its Teaching
''What is the Order of the Magi and what does it
teach" was asked.
"This order.'' returned Mr. Richmond, "teaches the re-
32
ligion of the stars. based on a knowledge of astronomy,
geology. mathematics and other sciences. . It ·is a scientific
religion which accepts nothing as a fact unti'l proven, and
every proposition we make is susceptibl~ of mathematical
demonstration and pr'oof. I not only believe in a hereafter
and heaven. .but have absolute proof of a life to come and
know exactly what it is; this religion is christianity. with
the absurdities of a bodily resurrection, a material heaven.
and an et.dless hell left out. It is theosophy, with the wild
and untenable speculation's of dreamers omitted. It is. spirit-
ualism of the highest type. with the false communications
and ignorant teachings of unadvanced beings on the other
side ignored. It is science. which does not place a limit on
!nfinity. It Is transcendentalism in its best form. which ig-
nores nothing real while giving due prominence to will
force and mind or the psychic powers. It teaches us to cul-
tivate only the best, honesty, purity, sobriety. We try ever
to bear in mind the great law of life, that we cannot raise
ourselve.s by the downfall of others."
Mr. Richmond claims that· the knowledge possessed by
the ·anc~ents thousands of years before the christian era.
has been in the keeping of a chosen few, who during the
centuries before and through the dark ages have transmitted
the secrets of this mystic order down to the present. How he
came into possession of the truths is a very interesting story.
He was born in St. Johns, Clinton·county, this state, in 1844.
and when the war broke out joined the 14th Michigan infan
try. It wc>s while on guard duty one ·night near" NashviHe in
1865 that he was approached by a stranger. whom he
had never before seen, ·who called ·him by name and in-
form~d him that he had been selected as one of the "keep-
.ers of the word." in fulfillment of ancient prophecies. The
next night he went to a place appointed in the city of Nash-
ville and was there initiated by this stranger and invested
with the work and secrets of the order of which he is now
the head in America. Mr. Richmond says for many years
he had no idea of what it was all about or what use was
to be made of the information which had been given him .
Eighteen years ago. however, he began an active study in
31
mathematics as applied to the science of astronomy, during
which time he has compiled many books, logarithmic rules,
and tables showing the movements of the planets for the
next hundred years to come. The fullness of time disclosed
the object of the stranger's visit, and the culmination of
the prophecy came with the establishment of the first mod-
ern temple of the Magi in the year 1890. It is claimed that
the first temple of this order was dedicated 13,000 years
before Christ. and the present year of the Magi would
therefore be 14892.
34
A SIGNIFICANT LETTER
To Mr. l. A. Hulse to Prof. 0. H. Ric.hmond
My Dear Brother:-1 am impressed to write you words
of encouragement. You seem to be the focus of scientific
thought. and a leader in progression on the earth. You are
under the special care and direction of advanced philos-
ophers in the Astral life. Bro. J. R. Francis gave an able
resume of your lectures in a late issue of his valuable sheet.
and gave us the glad news that you had opened a Temple
of the Magi in Chicago. This is indeed good news. Your
enlarged field of labor will enable you to give greater
scope to your grand teachings and future ages will record
and appreciate your discoveries in the occult world.
The vibratory theory is a fact with me. for there can
be no better evidence than mathematical demonstrations.
and that I have witnessed. Our esteemed brother, the
editor of THE PROGRESSIVE THINKER, reaffirms my
observations. Your theories and themems are founded in
the ego of the universe-love, truth, infinity.
I see the grand truth brightening the horizon with its
beams. and that I may become a worthy member of the
noble and ancient order you represent. is my ambition, and
would be a great honor to me and a step in my life, out-
stripping all others. Your grand order is the organization
that extends further, and is calculated to do more good
than any other extant. I see the grandest· truths and the
preatest light ever given to the craft. During the past sum··
mer I have worked in many cities, and have conversed with
many persons of high scientific attainments. They are con-
founded by the results of your investigations in the hidden
lines and forces of nature. but mostly agree in your general
deductions. The masonic . fraternity are especially inter-
ested. as they. from their secret knowledge of the history
of their craft. better understand the hidden mysteries, than
do the outside world. Some brothers, who are believers in
reincarnation, think that you are our illustrious brother.
Hiram Abiff. returned to earth to restore that which was
35
Jost at the building of King Solomon's Temple. Those who
are better acquainted with prophetic times, as set forth in
ancient books, trace certain prophecies down to 18-43-i, the
year of your birth, when certain things should come to pass
and certain "books should be opened." The time has
passed, my dear brother, and I have seen the books that
are now opened and the "golden key" that unlocks the
Temple. the Temple of Knowledge, science and truth. ·I
have seen for myself that more and grander light is attain-
able. and I desire to obtain it as fast as I am able to com-
prehend the vast truthes.
Be of good cheer, Brother Richmond; you will be sus-
tained until your Temple will become the centre.of scien-
tific thought and progress in this country and will even en-
lighten the world. I feel a nearness towards you that I
never felt towards any other object or person in my life.
I feel from my intuition that the mysterious "brother of
light" who intrusted you with the ancient mysteries of a
lost world and gave you the key to the Pyramid was indeed
wise, and acting under the divine law in making you a
member of the Magi. I must ere many moons wend my way
toward the setting sun to that city upon the lake where I
can meet you and enter the sacred Temple. I hear a small
Yoice say, "So mote it be." May success attend you forever
in your efforts to benefit mankind, and may the bright star
of hope, the beautiful Venus, light your pathway through
life to the higher and fuller development, is the sincere
wish of
Yours in fraternal love,
.. L. A. HULSE.
fowell. MEUs.. Nov. 9th. 1890.
Note: The "Progressive Thinker" was the official organ of the
Magi. Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Francis, who founded that paper, were mem-
bers of the Magi. We have no connection with that paper now. A. R.
36
Saturday, Sept. 13. 1890
AN EASTERN GENTLEMAN INVESTIGATES
THE MAGI AT GRAND RAPID'S MICHIGAN
ASTRALISM AND PSYCHOMETRY
Their Correlation With the Sc1rnce of Anthropology. Man
Having business in Washington. D . C.. and in Grand
Rapids, and having seen reports published in THE PRO-
GRESSIVE THINKER and extracts from periodicals. of
Prof. 0. H. Richmond's discoveries in Astralism. I availed
myself of the opportunity. pleasure and profit of seeing him·
and I say that after investigation and personal examination
of Astral Laws, Rules and Logarithms. and comprehending
somewhat of their correlation, scope and harmony. with
the Science of Psychometry and also Anthropology. I was
greatly surprised, for I found that they were basic and fun-
damental and far reaching. and grander than I had been
led to believe from all I had read about his discoveries an J
wonderful predictions in astronomy and human life.
After being introduced to him. he invited me to spend
an evening with him and his beautiful family at The Bruns-
wick. and I was given an extraordinarv and wonderful ex -
perience before three witnesses. in full gas light. I exam-
ined his valuable hooks and charts of the geography of
th2 heavens illustrated under th e heliocentric or Coper-
nicum system of astronomy. Two of the booLs cost above
one thousand dollars. they being the result of over ei~ht
years' study, calculations and lahor of Prof. Richmond. to
sether with the aid of a stenographer. They could not h1:
purchased for money. a~ they are above all price and such
equivalents.
The writer being a student in the science of Psychom-
etry and Anthropology. and finding that I possessed the
psychic or psychometric gift. I could comprehend and un-
derstand much of the philosophy and the beautiful and
scientific system displayed in his works. which are based
37
upon the heliocentric system, the only true system and
5cience of astronomy.
In addition to three hundred and seventy tables of
planetary motion and over two hundred rules for perform-
ing the Egyptian mysteries, there are above twenty tables
of logarithms for finding the various culminations of time
and of polar angles of all the pl~nets of the solar system.
together with our earth's, for any given period of time.
These rules are based upon the science of mathematics, and
fortell the eclipses of sun and moon and also of events in
the near or remote future; yet all are based upon natural
laws and prove themselves; and further, they prove the
mysteries true. which many have heretofore regarded as
chance, and to be the results of certain laws as natural and
as true as truth itself. and also the fact that man can com-
prehend. understand and possess the Keys to the knowledHe
which foretells the future at any given data desired.
I weigh my words well.
I am not mesmerized, or psychologized. or influenced
in any manner whatever-never was; but fully comprehend
these sublime facts and results. I will not be deceived my-
self nor deceive the materialist. atheist, orthodox. or cath-
olic. but seek for truth and facts which tower above the
writers belief or disbelief, and also above all creeds and
isms extant.
By means of common playing cards. used as emblems
of planetary motions only, together with cubes or dice. anct
a watch set exactly meridian time, Prof. Richmond ex-
hibited to me and a friend the philosophy of this occult
planetary force, and demonstrated upon us exactly at 8
p. m. seven problems in occultism:
1. He showed us under full chandelier light that our own
hands were naturally controlled by occult lav.r while handl-
ing and cutting the cards.
2. That the cubes fell upon the chart and give their
true number upward. under said exact law, every time.
3. That even our minds and dispositions to lay the
38
cards and cubes unseen upon the chart. were acting under
. and by the same law.
When all this was done upon exact time, by our own
hand, in the presence of the above witnesses, we were in-
vited to open two sealed letters, written and calculated and
prepared by Prof. Richmond the day previous, without our
giving him any other information or date but the month and
the day of the month in which we were born; and lo! and
behold: there was written in each letter a statement of what
we had drawn and done, signed by Prof. Richmond. We
have the solved problems in our possession today to prove
those very facts, yet these letters had never been seen by
Prof. Richmc;md. nor by ourselves, or handled, but were in
a locked book-case and taken from the same and handed
to us by Mrs. Richmond herself, and were the results of
his scientific calculation. made out the day previous to
our meeting.
I ·must admit of and state the facts--belief or disbelief
in the matter is set aside and is out of the question; for I
know there was no deception; could have been none, for
five ,persons were present, and the answers in every par-
ticular in seven problems were solved mathematically. and
if Prof. Richmond will consent to make ·a prognosis for
you, if you give him the corrett date of birth, he will aston-
ish and nonplus you, even as he did me! I told him then
and there that I would have wagered a thousand dollars
(if I .was a betting man) that such ·calculations could not b·~
-for.etold of my shaking dice and laying off cards at random
unseen; could not have been done by man. or by"God hii,n-
self. and man still be a free moral agent as he is, or is sup-
posed to be.
I did not sleep that night "for thinking," and I turned
and thought over the work of the evening, and how the
seven problems wer~ wrought by Prof. Richmond; and be-
fore I settled the matter, or could sle.ep at all, I placed
said letter .and its content upon my forehead and tested the
case by and through the science of Psychometry: First. a
light around my head, then the Sun of Truth illumined my
39
soul, and the worry of the night was brighte~ than the
sunrise; and above all I heard a voice say, "It is true," in·
answer to my inquiring soul; and then there was shown me
the Corelation and perfect juxtaposition of the science of
Psychometry and Sarcognomy with Astralism, whereupon
I called upon Prof. Richmond and showed him Prof. Joseph
Rodes Buchanan's Psycho-Chart of Brain and Body, An·
thropology, for the purpose of comparing it with the Astral
System. We were surprised to find upon comparing and
full 'investigation, that the 125 or more organs in the brain,
as shown upon said chart in Sarcognomy, that Prof.
Buchanan's entire system of Anthropology agreed with
Prof. Richmond's entire discovery of polarity-positive and
negative poles--and of the convolutions of the brain and
their' corresponding regions in the body. That each power
of the soul is represented by a special organ in the brain;
that each organ in the brain has· a corresponding region in
the body; that the soul and brain are in a triune corres-
pondence; that each organ in the brain of the correspond-
ing region of the body has a star set thereon and therein.
and that a11 corelate and unite with the planetary polarities
and the zodiacal poles. We also discovered that the
sciences were and are in harmony with medical botany,
and that the reciprocal action of mind and med:cine jointly
came under psychical and planetary laws.
Not satisfied with the above, I made several practical
experiments and actual tests, with some two.astral-magnetic
remedies. First. I tested them myself psychometrically, and
then gave them to two patients who· were born in ·the saine
month, and noted their almost immediate results. One was
a lady who was suffering from a relapse from the La Grippe,
with lung tendency. Marked improvement in sleep and
appetite. The other case was immediate relief from over-
work and debility, resulting from loss of sleep and a tired-
out brain.
Thus it follows that the corelation and perfect harmony
of these truths open up a new.Seid of research, and medical
practice will be improved wonderfully. The people in time
will learn to follow the laws of health, for the onenes~ of
'
-to
all .nature is proved from the Science of Systematic An-
thropology, Sarcognomy, and Psychology, as ~xemplified
by the.. writings and teachings of Prof. J. R. Buchanan, as
discovered by him in 1842, and the late Wm: Denton's
work on the Soul of Things. is fully understood; and now
comes Prof. Richmond's wonderful astronomical works.
teaching us that God rules the heavens and the earth
through His intelligence and.divine wisdom. by the medium
· of the positive and . negative polarity and attraction; for
in His right hand He holds electricity itself under subjec-
tion, and in His left hand He holds the laws which govern
the universe. for even' the erratic comet is subject to law.
and the time of its cycles is known to man even.
The Temple of the Magi at Grand Rapids was closed
for the hot season previous to my trip there. or I should
have submitted.my name, and. if found worthy. would hav;:
joined the order. In case a Temple is ever located near
me, I shall endeavor to become a member thereof.
The writer was the first President of the Buchanan
Anthropological Society. founded in Boston in 1879, and
is now one of its directors, and I shall make known my
doings at its next meeting.
Knowing that THE PROGRESSIVE THINKER is
fully abreast in this progressive and inquiring age, and ·in
·all that leads to growth in advanced thought and useful
knowledge. I have penned you a correct account of my
doings. I have met your bright paper in many places. on
my trip. and hope to see its circulation enlarged in numbers
and its inHuence marked upon the characters of men for
· 11.ood. ·
L.A. HULSE.
l.owell. Ma.ss.
11
·THE EXPERIENCES OF A CRITICAL LADY
. .
I am trying to brush t.he cobwebs from my brai.D.. And
it really. seems to me that the cobwebs-:-or something-
have the right of way: that this ru1,1et~th century part
that I thought was myself, and nothing but myself. and all
of myself. is--is nothing, Not even as much as a fleck of
dust to the universe. These cobwebs that refuse to move·
have swayed, triumphed and held their own -for fifteen
hundred years. I did not consider myself an infant, but
to be confronted with evidence that I cannot disp~te that
these cobwebs and myself have been in company that many
years--it was astonishing. The wonders piled up when at
the same time I discovered that in Chicago was a temple
belonging to the Ancient Order of the Magi that flourished
thousands of years before Christ and that the master mystic
positively refused to have the address given to the public.
It was sacred and could not be desecrated by the.curiosity
and vulgarity of an ignorant rabble. He said to people
who were not students or thinkers the astral astrology. or
occult phenomena, assumed the form of the supernatural
and immediately his .house was overrun by the class of
people who search 'the country for clairvoyants and "for-
tune tellers.''
It all came about this way: Several days ago, a letter
came to .me from a friend of long years'. standing. It said
that on a certain street. in C~icago lived a man of whom
wonderful things were said. If I would go to him and get
an "astral reading," the writer would only be too glad to
refund the money to me for the sake -of my opinion of
the astrologist. In the practical everyday slipping away of ·
time, things astral, occult or phenomenal were left undis-
- turbed and almost forgott-en. It finally occurred to ·me that
if a practical business man had sent in that request, the
matter was w,orth looking, up.· I went to the place desig-
nated. It was the ordinary ''three story and basement
house," in a pleasant ~~ of t~e 'city. I asked for. Professor
--. and was shown into a reception room at the end of
th~ ball. The professor came in. He was a refined, scholariy.
. delicate-.looking man. He _had giv~n no readings for a week
. -12
because of illness, but if the "Temple" was warm he would
lty.
In a few moments I was sho~n into what is the ..front
parlor" in similar houses. In the center was an altar 'covered
with black silk. On the mantel were dozens of silver candle -
sticks, holding wax candles. The walls were hung with
mystic charts and maps appertaining to astronomy. Be-
tween the windows was a portrait of the veileci prophet or
Magi. I turned from the penetrating, soul-searching, trans-
parently veiled eyes, and gl.ancjng upward saw that sus·
pende'd from the ceiling by fine wires was the whole solar
system. There was Jupiter and Mars and Uranus and
Neptune, and all of them. with their satellites represented
by glass balls, all in relative positions, while the sun held
forth in the center in th~ shape of a large electric light and
globe. Nature's wonders commenced to appear quite within
the realm of comprehension. In one corner was a largi?
organ. Ar<?und the room dose to the wall were chairs.
At one end was a small table on which lay a gavel. Near
by stood a mystic spear with three silver stars on the end
and in a half open drawer to a cabinet I caught a glimpse
of a pi:le of rich regalias. \.Yhile everything was entirely
different from anythi~g I had seen of the Order of Mason-
ry, I fe~t as if some of its curtains were being lifted.
Professor - - seated me at a table near a bookcase
&lied ~ith. ancient books. The table was covered wi_th
blue cloth, on which was embroidered in yello~ silk the
zodiac, the sun in tbe center, with its rays branching out
into twelve "houses" with the different names of the months
at the ends. He gave me a pack of cards and told me that
these little pasteboards that have such a tendency to demor-
alize this century were sacred to the Magi, and were used
by the Egyptian priests in their secret astronomical re-
searches. And without my $Oing into detail: he proved it
then and there.
He put a small clock on the table and told me to shuffle
the cards one minute. This would impart· to them magne-
tism. After sixty seconds of promiscuous mixing of past,
present and future I laid the cards on the .sun. Then I cut
43
them· once, placing those left on the sun OD the top of
those cut off and then placed the whole pack back OD the
sun. This was repeated· three times, allowing twenty
seconds for each operation. I then was told to place a few
cards from the top of the pack in the house belonging to
the month in which I was born. And then I made six more
divisions of the pack .placing them in any month I chose.
The professor gave me a slip of paper and pencil and said:
"Now, I am going to leave you; I want to give you a
test of occult phenomena. I will go to the ot~er side of the
room. You select a card from each one of the seven piles.
Look at it and lay it face down on the table. To assist
your memory write the denomination of each card on this
slip of paper."
He went to another part of the room, where it was
impossible for him to see the cards. Since I had first taken
the cards to shuffle them he had not touched them.
I made my selections and wrote the names of the cards
down on the slip of paper and placed the paper in my
pocketbook. He gave me further instructions about piling
up the cards, and they were placed once more by myself on
the ''sun." All of this time a book had been lying near me
on the table. "The "Astral Magnetizer" came back and
spread the cards out on the table face up. There certainly
had been nothing at all "astral" about my shuftling and
handling those cards, b'ut as they were spread out in rows
corresponding to the planets. there seemed to be a peculiar
shading, of the black and the red. The professor looked
puzzled a moment and then he said:
- "I believe I have heard of you before. I have a record
that told me months ago that you were coming."
He took up the book that had been on the table all of
the time: It was bound in black. On the back was the word
"Records" in gilt letters. After turning a few pages he said:
"Yes, here it is. On Sept. 1, 1890, I was told that you
would come."
And there, written in ink on that date, was something in
three different languages.
In English were these words:
'.'Before many moµths have passed away, a lady will
come to you. She was know _
to the Magi 1,500 years ago.
and has been known four.different times. (Then followed
some symbols, by which. researches could be made to dis-
cover in what other form or persons -this lady ~ad lived.)
. . . She will draw the following emblems: Three of dia-
monds, knave of clubs, two of clubs. king of clubs, four
of diamonds, queen o'f diam'!nds arid ace of diamonds."
It was all expressed a little more mythologically than
I have expressed it, but this is the substance. I took the
slip of paper from my pocketbook 'and compared the cards
with the "emblems." They were the same. I asked him
how that record came to be placed in that book on ,Sept. 1.
He said it was revealed· in the mirror of the Magi, and
to preserve it it ~as copied by hi!llself into the book with
other records. Astral magnetis~. occult pheno~ena, the
mathematical sciences of astronomy and magical i;airrors.
were all dancing a confused sort of jig in my head. but
of ,one·thing I was certain, I was fifteen hundred years old.
and I did not care how many knew it..
. Then this student of the planets and astral forces went
on to tell me what relation that layout of cards had to my
life. An<;l ·I will never d.oubt again that there is such a thing
as "manifest destiny." though the little pasteboards only
gently hint'ed .as to, what had made failures. and successes
in the past, and how the same forces would undoubtedly
contr61 the fut~re. · ·· '
..This. man. who s~~.!Ds to live in another atm9spher~
from the every aay one of huma·n beings. is practical. ~nd
doe~ not claim' t<;> be. help~d ·by ~nything but science. He
was fqi:merly a druggis.t and chemist, and took up the study
for his own· advancement. He has gone on in his studies and
researches until success for~es him to devote his time' to
the -
enlighteninen't of others. It is only a question of time
.when bris'k, bustlfng Chicago will fo~ce him out of th.e
sech,ision he consiaers sacred" to the· ancient Order of the
Magi and or~er of ~asonry. , :
TERESA H. DE~, in.Chicago Herald.
MYSTIC PIDLOSOPHY
THE RELIGION OF MYSTICISM
Records of the Past-Chaldean Astronomy-Eminent Masters
in the Past-The Secret of Matter.
A Lecture Delivered in Broo/clgn, New York. b11 Prof. 0.
H. Riclunond, Grand Magea of the Temple of the 0. M .•
Chicago, Ill..
LADIES AND GENTLEMEN:-"Mystic" means sec-
ret rites and ceremonies; occult or hidden qualities. "Phil-
osophy" means, says Webster; the love of wisdom. The
search for or pursuit of knowledge. frhe study of laws and
phenomena.
To say that Mystic Philosophy has made a deep and
lasting impression upon the minds of men in the latter part
of this nineteenth century, even greater than that which
prevailed in the days when the wise philosophers of ancient
Greece flourished, is. but reiterating what has been said
from that platform and by the press many, many times.
The entire civilized world seems to be awakening to the
sublime truth that the unseen far transcends the seen, and
that he who only comprehends that which appears upon
the owside of nature is like the man who lives in a cave
and never comes to the outer light. Connected closely with
general mystic philosophy we find that the study of the stars
has been in past ages a very important part of mysticism.
The Grandest Science
Astronomy-the grandest science in all the universe,
the oldest science upon this globe, the mother of all religious
systems; the God-written knowledge, superior to all and
every possible invention of priests and ministel's:. the "re-
ligion of the stars"-is as old as man himself. Many of
the discoveries of astronomy date back of authentic records,
far. far into the dim and mysterious traditions of the past;
but its progress and glorious achievements can be traced
.downward through all the ages as a bright line of light.
forever ennobling men and lifting them above the sordid
cares of life and the foJlies of ignorant superstition.
The Trident Blazing in the Heavens
The study. of the stars. which has usually been correl-
ated with that deeper study denominated astrology. wa!';
the first and most natural mystic philosophy which man
could comprehend and ~ppropriate to his use. The starry
heavens were ever spread above him. He had looked ar
what was then a trident, blazing in the heavens, for thous-
ands of years, and he had observed the effects upon man
apparently attributable to the. movements of the heavenly
bodies nearest the earth. and after ages upon ages had
passed the wisest among men had formulated a mass ot
knowledge which was guarded jealously in temples, and
constituted the religion of mankind.
The Chinese made many astronomical discoveries. and
··their records extend back many thousands of years. Thev
recorded the conjunction of four planets and the moon
twenty-Ave centuries before Christ. They recorded an
eclipse of the sun in 2128 B.C. The Chaldean shepherds
while watching their flocks by night. under a clear anc
beautiful sky. became familiar with the heavenly bodies anc
their movements.
The Chaldean priests were all astronomers, and their
temples were observatories, wherein the brotherhood ol
celestial magic held their nightly convocations.
Ancient Volumes Devoted To Astronomy
When Alexander took Babylon, 331 B.C.1 he found a
record ·of their observations extending b~ck nineteen cen·
turies. They discovered the Saras, or lunar cycle. The ruin~
of Nin'eveh are full of astronomical inscriptions. and th(
public library of that city contained a series of seventy
two volumes devoted to astronomy, and called the "Obser
vations of Bel," a high dignitary. of the ancient order
These records date back forty-five centuries, to that far
ei time when Alpha, of the consellation of the Dragon, wa~
the pole star of our earth. .
The illustrious names that are found UJ>'?n the roll of
honor as we pass down the ages, would Im a volume.
Thales. one of the seven sages of Greece; Anaximander, the
astronomer; Pythagoras, the illustrious founder of an as-
tronomical school at Crotona, Italy, whue hundreds of
enthusiastic scholars were educated in the mysteries of
the universe, both physical and spiritual. Pythagoras pos-
se~sed the full secret knowledge of a Grand Master of the
outer circle. He taught the harmonies of the planetary scale
and the correlations of the vibratory scale of music an'd
light. He knew that there were "other worlds than ours,"
containing intelligent human beings: yet he lived more than
five hundred years before the birth of Christ. But if we
wonder at all this knowledge in possession of Pythagoras
and his contemporaries, what must we think when we have
evidence that these splendid philosophers understood the
grand principles of evolution and progre5Sion of the human
soul? They most certainly did.
Anaxagoras, 500 B.C., taught that there was no such
thing as chance or accident, these being only names for
unknown laws. For his grand knowledge and teachings he
was rewarded by his countrymen by banishment of him·-
self and entire family, perpetually. The Egyptions were
noted for their knowledge of astronomy long ages before
the science was· known in Greece.
It was the practice of the philosophers of other coun-
tries, before aspiring to the rank of teachers, to visit the
Temples of the Mag{ in Egypt, Chaldea and Persia, for the
purpose of taking degrees and supping wisdom at the foun-
tain head. Pyth~goras spent thirty years in this kind of
study. ·
I~ one library and temple school at Alexandria, even as
late as 260 B.<:;.. was concentrated the wisdom and leaming
of the world, ftourishing undt;r the patronage of munificent
kings.
The World's Retrogression
Would you believe it possible that after the world had
tasted of these divine fruits of the tree of knowledge, it
48
could again be hurled downward into the abyss oi theologi-
cal clap-trap and ignorance? But it was. Priestcraft had the
power. and used it unmercifully. to bind the souls of men
in the iron shackles if bigotry. intolerance and religious
stupidity; giving us the Dark Ages, that had been· a foul
blot upon the fair record of poor Terra for more than a
thousand years.
But as we glance at the pages of history we see glorious
and illustrious names standing out like spar~ling gems from
the black background of that soul-blighting time.
All honor to those noble brothers who preserved the
Religion of the Stars
while the practice or teaching of it meant the dungeon. the
rack, the thumbscrew, starvation or banishment. Let the
names of Bruno. Bacon, Kepler. Brahe. Lillie. Newton.
Copernicus and Galilio be inscribed in letters of gold upon
the banner of light. for future generations of mystics to
read.
But light has come back to poor, deserted Terra. and the
slaves of superstition can no longer dictate to her children.
from ten thousand coward's castles. what they shall ·or
shall not believe. The snake has lost his most poisonous
fangs, but his hiss is yet heard over our fair .land. as he
attempts to impose, by the aid of law, what he cannot longer
hope to impose upon the children of men by reason.
One thing, h~wever.. must not. be forgotten; that is.
that these persons who are ready to turn heaven and earth
to accomplish their ends. in the way of forcing others to
believe their absurd dogmas. are mostly sincere in their
efforts. They are so blinded by ignorance that black ap-
pears white to them. A light seems darkness. Their spiritual
development is so low that they cannot comprehend any-
thing outside of the physical. They have been absolutely
forced into recognizing some of the spiritual or mystic
truths of the universe; but not an inch will they go, or can
they go. beyond where they are forced by evidence they
cannot overthrow. They clirtg with a deathlike grip to the
49
old story of a heaven and a hell, gods and devils. and o~er
personalities that science has long ago exploded 'With her
telescopes and spectroscopes. They cling to the material
raising of the body of flesh, or an eqlivalent, which has
been flatly disproved ten thousand times by the chemist and
biologist. They cling with the grea.test tenacity to the
absurd dogma that certain portions of "time" are holy, .al-
though the finger of science has pointed ag~in and again
to the fact that there is no such thing as "time" per se;
time, so-called, being nothing but the most convenient meth-
od ~f reckoning the relations and motions of the most
familiar heavenly bodies.
Mystic Philosophy Come To The World To Stay
As Col. Ingersoll says: ··you might as well think of
space or a vacuum as holy, as to think of a day as such."
But I believe, my dear friends, that mystic philosophy has
come to the world to stay and to advance mankind to a
higher plane. The dogmas of the theological world have
received their death-blow. from which recovery .is im-
possible. This fact is patent to all thinking persons. It is
in vain that church edifices are multiplied in number and
wealth. It is in vain that men who have wrung their mil-
lions out of the public by trusts and monopolies donate a
part of their ill-gotten gains to found theological semin-
aries. It is in vain, because the fiat has gone forth._ and
men have dared to think. They have dared to question
the God of Nature. Ten thousand newspapers are echoing
public sentiment by telling from day to day what is going
on in the heavens.
My mystic friends, mark my words. inside of sixteen
years the ·whole world will know what we know·now about
the planet Mars. News from
Other Worlds Than Ours
~ill forever set at rest the claims of theology. and set free
the mind~ of men, and give them liberh' to revel in the
granti and eternal truths of the universe.
50
Oldest Secret Order
This philosophy has workers in many different branches
and fields, and we believe that all such should work to-
gether harmoniously for the common good. Let us all pull
together. The order of the Magi, the oldest secret order
on the earth, has performed its part in the past in its own
peculiar field. and is now reinstated upon this planet under
conditions which it is hoped will enable it to achieve a
great success in the future. Perhaps not its greatest with-
in the present generation. It is seldom that a religion gains
a great following within the lifetime of one who is chosen
to first bring it forward from obscurity.
The secret brotherhood have increased most wonder-
fully within five years. and a number of temples of the or-
der have been and are running in various cities of our
country.
Mystic Properties of Numbers, Etc.
The aim of the order and its teaching is to inculcate the
principles of mystic truth and philosophy-to exploit, to
prove and to demonstrate the mystic properties of num-
bers. of matter, of spirit, and all the unseen potencies and
forces of nature. But Jew of the most potent factors in the
government of the universe can be seen. · They can only
be understood or known to exist through observation of
phenomena· connected with them.
Thus, the much talked of "ultimate atom" can be rea-
soned on and examined theoretically. We. can even tell
many of its mystic or hidden properties, but no man can
see an atom. No microscope reveals it. Were it no't too
small to be seen, it would be wholly invisible, from its tre-
mendous rate of vibt-ation alone. But, friend.s, all things
in the universe are made up wholly of those little invisible,
unmeasurable, vibrating, transparent atoms. World or its
satellite. sun or comet, nebula or clusters of suns. all are
made from such insignificant tl:nngs as atolnS':' Oh! what,
a marvelous universe it is. So complic;ated yet so simple.
So grand. so great. so infinite and so ·beyond our' compre-
51
hension. We ·poor mortals can bat lift up .our hearts and
"Souls in silent contemplation of the ln&nite Soul, the ln8aite
Spirit which permeates the univene. and behold our Ddty,
om.nipotent, om.nipresent OM.
THE TEMPLE OF THE MAGi .
Capac has the honor of bang the Brst to establish a
Court of the Magi. -and as a neophyte of said order I de-
cided to visit the Grand Temple of Oriental Mysticism lo-
cated at Chicago. and leam what I eould.of the order~ Up-
on my arrival I discovered that from a prognostication
made several months before Brother Richmond had been
notified of my coming, even to the day of the month, which
was aQreat surprise to me, for I had not intendul going
only a few days before I started, and could not understand
how he seemed to know more about it than I did: bu~ after
taking a number of degrees and suing ~e wonderful
demonstrations of spirit power, and then listening to the
grand. soul-inspiring lectures of Bro. Ridunond. I could
not help wondering how it was possible for one man to
gain so much wisdom and knowledge in a lifetime. and yet
he seemed perfectly able to explain everything to the satis-
facti(>n of his hearers. Although I was ill. and only able to
sit up a part of the time. I hav~ never regretted my visit
to the temple, for I found that Sister Richmond and her two
charming daughters have the faculty of. making strangers
feel perfectly at ease: i~ fact. all connected with.the temple
do all in their power to make it pleasant f~ their guests.
Since my return, the question.. "'What do you think of
the T em.pie of the Magi?" has bttn asked so often that I
say to all who are interested in tM arts and .sciences and
soul culture. that this temple does not intafere with any
order on this earth. Its objects have always been to edu-
cate and elevate mankind, and it is in hearty sympathy and
co-operation with all organizations with like objects. Help
all. and antagonize none, is, and alway$ has been its motto.
As a Spintualist lecturer, one who is interested in the
progression and welfare of the whole human family, I feel·
52
the necessity of the work of ·advancing mankind and plac-
ing knowledge-of our future abode and ultimate destiny up-
on a ftrm foundation. and I believe this divine order can
. do this (\S no other.can.
We must not forget that Spiritualism is not organized
as it should be to do the most effectual work; and we some-
times have to work at great disadvantage by not having
suitable places to hold meetings: but we live in hopes that
the time will come when all true Spiritualists will concen-
trate their forces and .do all in their power to aid ali honest
mediums and lecturers in advancing the truths of the spirit-
. ual phenome'na and philosophy, for we fully realize ·that·
Spiritualism is the leaven that shall eliminate all error and
redeem the world from ignorance, bigotry and superstition.
NELLIE S. BAADE.
• Capan, Mich.
Mrs. Typhena C. Pardee writes: "I feel as though I
could not do without The Progressive Thinker, and every
time it comes I am reminded of seeing just such a paper
in the month of April 183-i, in a vision bearing the illus-
trated book, and the Temple of the Magi just as it now
appears."
51
THE TEMPLE OF THE MAGI
The Grand Magea in the City of the Interest of
the Order
Some 300 people met at the home of H. J. Wadsworth.
2605 Third Avenue, south, last evening, the occasion of a
reception to Prof. 0. H. Richmond, grand magea of the
Grand Temple of the Magi at Chicago. A short address,
explanatory of the order, was delivered by Prof. Richmond.
The Temple of Magi, the members claim, is the mother of
Masonry. which order had its origin at the building of King
Solomon's Temple. It is an astronomical institution, being
based upon astronomy, as was the religions of Atlantis and
Egypt. The order propose: .
"To reinstate on earth the once glorious organization
that has been kept sacred and secret during the dreary dark
ages in the hearts of but a few masters."
The Grand Temple at Chicago is the only one in the
world having a subordinate temple at the home of Mr.
Wadsworth in this city. There are 65 members of the or-
der in this city and Prof. Richmond's work here will be to
initiate others into the order and to confer higher degrees.
Refreshments were served during the evening.
Note: Mrs. Wadsworth was the ideal friend and sister. Loyal to the
Magi and Brother Yenlo, right to the end. Long may .she be remembered
in her "Mansion on High!" A. L. R.
51
MYSTIC NUPTIALS
Unique Marriage Ceremony in the Temple of the Magi
Dr. John Rutherford and Miss Blanche Noteman united by
by a priest of ISIS
Michigan Grand Temple the Scene. ·and the Ceremony per·
formed with all the Ancient Symbolism and Pomp of the Wi.se
Men of the East for the Third Time on This Her:nisphere-The
first Published Ducription of the Rite.
By special invitation, seldom extended to the "profanes,"
a representative of the State Republican was made a wit-
ness. on Christmas evening, to probably the most .curious,
interesting. and yet beautiful of mystic rites ever celebrated
upon this continent, being no less than the marriage of two
members of the Ancient and Oriental Order of the Magi,
in accordance with the ancient forms practiced by that
body.
The scene of this ceremony was the Michigan state
temple of the Order of Magi, located in this city: the chief
celebrant, ·Rev. Olney H. Richmond. of Chicago. grand
magea .of the order for this hemisphere, and the contracting
parties, Dr. John Rutherford of Detroit and Miss Blanche
Noteman of Lansing. Dr. Rutherford was born in Huron
-County, province of Ontario, is a graduate of Ontario
veterinary college of Toronto and of Rush medical college
of Chicago, and is at present at the head of the. veterinary
department of the Detroit college of medicine, having as-
sumed those duties about a year ago. Miss Noteman. a
young lady of pleasing appearance, and unusually striking
·and intelligent features, was born at Blooming Prairie,
Wisconsin, about 21 years ago, and is a stepdaughter of
J. T. Bell of No. 523 Washington Avenue north, Lansing.
Miss Notemari is a graduate of the well~known school of
elocution at Detroit1 of which Mrs. Edna Chaffee Noble
is the head, and which has given to the modern stage
some of itS most Charaiing footlight favorites. Miss Note-
man has been before the .public ~_an actress for three years,
her last engagement being with the "Private Secretary··
55
company-a position which she resigned in view of her
approaching marriage. Both Mr. and Mrs. Rutherford are
ardent Mys.tics. · ·
At the appointed hour the guests and members of Michi-
gan Temple, who had gathered in the p.leasant parlors of
Mr. and Mrs. Wesley Ayres, at the foot of Kalamazoo
Street, repaired to the'temple on the second floor, and, with
officers and members .clothed in regalia and at their sta-
tions, the temple was publicly opened by the Grand Magea.
The scene was one that could not fail to impress all ob-
&ervers with a sense of the mysterious. The spacious room
was hung on all sides with symbolical charts-<hemical.
geographical, geological. astronomical and zoological. The
altar in the center was richly draped with velvet, upon
which appeared the zodiacal signs, lighted by two diminu-
tive lamps located within the "houses" of Aries and Taurus.
c:.nd representing the groom and bride. ahd the whole scene,
dimly lighted from a_ shaded chandel.ier in the center. was
beautiful and impressive.
At the moment when all were seated. amid a silence
which was almost oppressive, a knock was heard at the in-
ner door of the temple, which was hailed by the grand
guard. Mrs. 0. H. Richmond, who reported to the presid-
ing officer the arrival of two candidates for the matrimonial
rites. After a short formula of interrogation the door was
thrown open and the wedding party entered. Led by
Grand Conductor Charles M. Schooley. the bridegroom
appeared, attended by his brother, Dr. Hugh Rutherford
of Detroit, as best man, followed by the bride, who was
attended by her maid. Miss Merta Richmond of Chicago.
and took up the wedding march around the temple pre-
cincts to the soft and sympathetic strains of Mendelssohn.
evoked by Prof..Walker. At the close of the march the
bridal party reached the altar and was arranged in proper
order before the high priest of Isis, Rev. Richmond. who
arose from his station, called the entire temple to its feet,
and advanced to the altar, facing· the postulants, where.
after a short address explanatory of the peculiar dressing
of the altar. and a brief series of interrogatories, similar in
56
many respects to the usual wedding services, were asked,
and answered by the: candidates, the grand conductor was
ordered to bind the contracting parties at the altar prepara-
tory to taking their nuptial vows.
Grand Conductor Schooley then raised the hands of
the bride and groom. palms meeting and fingers interlaced.
and they were bound to each other by two silken cords.
white and blue. each passed around the wrists twelve
times. emblematic of the twelve signs of the zodiac. As ex -
plained to the postulants, the white cord typified purity,
the blue truth and fidelity. Thus standing, Grand Magea
Richmond advanced, and in solemn and impressive tones
made official proclamation that by virtue of the authority
vested in him by the supreme brotherhood of Oriental Mys-
tics. and under the laws of the·sovereign state of Michiga:?
and of the United States. the contracting parties were de-
clared husband and wife. As the last words of the procla-
mation were pronounced the high priestess. Miss Lottie
Camp, removed the small lights from their stations upon
the zodiac and placed in their stead a tall silver candlestick
containing a wax taper, lighted, and representing the torch
of Hymen. in the third house of the Zodiac, Gemini, or the
house of marriage. This act signfiied that the lives of the
happy pair. heretofore represented by the two lights upon
the altar, were now blended into one.
The members, in full regalia, were then called to form
a grand circle around the altar and the wedding party.
where all joined hands and raised them precisely as th~
hands of the bride and groom were joined, and in this posi-
tion a blessing was invoked from the Infinite 0 M and the
union duly ratified by the circle. the ceremony ending with
the "grand salute" of the order. The entire circle then
passed before the bride and groom presenting informal
congratulations.
The white cord was then carefully unwound by the
high priestess. formed into a ring and presented to the
bride. and the blue cord was in like manner unwound by
the grand vizer, Mrs. A. J. Champion, and presented to the
Hroom. The wax taper was extinguished by Grand Magea
57
Richmond and given to the pair, with a req'uest to light it
and allow it to burn one minute at the moment of the anni-·
versary of their marriage as nearly as might be, during each
year of their wedded life. During this "awful moment"
they are enjoined to silently meditate upon the events.in
their journey of life in double harness. It was doubtless in
kind consideration of the possible agony attending such an
ordeal that Grand Magea Richmond limited it to one little
minute and but once a year. The. gentleman is a much
married man himself.
With this injunction closed the most singular nuptial
ceremony ever witnessed in our commonwealth. It has
been performed but three times on this continent( twice in
Chicago and once in Michigan.) and never before has the
privilege of witnessing such a ceremony been extended to
a journalist not a member of the mystic order. The de-
scription here presented to·the readers of the State Repub-
lican, by special permission from the head of the order on
this hemisphere, will doubtless be read with lively interbt.
and may be relied upon as absolutely truthful in every par-
ticular. ·
Saturday. Nov. 22. 1890
0. 0. M.
Grand Temple of the United States of America
To Seekers of Light Greeting:
In answer to many thousands of inqumes that cannot
well be responded to in writing, this circular is prepared.
The Temple of Oriental Mystics, or the Temple of the
Magi, is an institution that dates back over fourteen thous-
and years. The Order. reached its culminating glory in
ancient times, in Egypt. where it was protected and fos-
tered by the powerful kings of that mystic land. This order
is the original Masonry, or rather the Mother of Ma-
sonry. which order had its origin at the building of king
Solomon's Temple.. It is an astronomical institution, being
based upon astronomy as was the religions of Atlantis and
Egypt.
Objects of the Order
This order has many and far reaching objects which
cannot be communicated to the outside world, being secret
to the work. But some objects .of the order are:
i. To reinstate upon the earth the once gloi:ious or-
ganization that has been ·kept sacred and secret during the
dreary dark ages, in the hearts of but a few Masters, while
its sacred and ancient emblems have been dragged in the
dust.
2. To foster and encourage harmony among seekers
after light in all the various branches arid planes of de-
velopment. and to assist our social co-operjition in all mat-
ters pertaining to the study of science and occultism.
... .
3. To develop our inner or spiritual life and our motto
towards all organizations having the above as their object
is: "lhlp to all; antagonism to none."
59
Membership in the Order
Membership is divided into three classes: Neophytes.
Mystic.s and Masters. Any person of good reputation and
standing. who is 18 years of age or over, may become a
Neophyte upon application, signed and endorsed by two
reputable citizens of the town where such applicant re-
sides. Neophytes are members of the order who have not
been regularly initiated in a Temple, and are eligible to
initiation upon presenting themselves at a Temple of the
Orde~ with suitable notice. '
If they are found to be worthy and are qualified, they
will be accepted by the Temple and advanced to the rank
of Mystics of the Temple.
Thus, a person residing in a distant State may becom:?
a member of the order and receive a certificate of member-
ship and thus aid the good work and benefit themselves:
but such cannot become Mystics except upon person~) appli·
cation and initiation in a regular Temple of the order.
Mystics mu~t be persons of high respectability. and
over 21 years of age.
Members of the Grand Temple at Chicago are entitled
to perm~nent or transient membership in any State Grand
Temple or subordinate Temple in the United States. and
are eligible to any· official position therein. ·
When seven or more Neophytes or Mystics reside in
any city or town. they are authorized by the Grand Temple
to form a subordinate Court of Neophytes. If all are
Mystics they may form a Temple, hold regular meetings,
and elect officers. Full initiating Temples cannot be ·held.
however, except with the presence of a Grand Master of '
the Inner T~mple who possesses the occult knowledge
necessary in the work of initiation. Therefore, subordi-
nate Courts and Temples are for mutual help ·and advance-
ment in knowledge and for social entertainment. Develop-
ing circles can be successfully held by the co-operatio~ of
three or four Neophytes.· but will receive more power. if
a Mystic i~ also" present.
60
A full record is kept at the Grand Temple,' of the names
and addresses of members of all grades. Should a chang':!
of address occur the Grand Scribe at Chicago should be
notified.
Truth-seekers and seekers after light are requested to
interest themselves in spreading t~e knowledge ~f this or-
der, but on no account to encourage unsuitable or inhar-
m~nious persons to become members.
.
In this order we all stand on one plahe of intellectuality;
male and female, rich or poor, old or young, being all
equally interested in· spreading the LIGHT that has so
long been looked forward to in this world.
'
· Tbe Time, Times and half a time have· passed. The
harvest' is great. and the reapers few. We want laborers
in the field.
The general scope of the teachings of the order. to-
gether with the lectures delivered at its convocations. can
be understood best by reading what has heretofore ap-
peared in THE PROGRESSIVE THINKER.
Parties who wish to gain membership will have circular
and· blank applications sent to them on receipt of stamp
and address. Many persons have written to Prof. Rich-
mond for horoscopes and the prices therefor. To all those
we wish to say that the press· of business at the Temple is
such diat he cannot find time to delineate life-horoscopes.
If at any future time he can make arrangements to do such
work the fact will be announced in this paper.
Genei:al address for all Temple business,
PR.OF. 0 . H. RICHMOND.
No. 17. 33rd Street. Chicago. Ill.
61
Mag 31. 1890
THE MAGI
ANOTIIER VISIT TO THE TEMPLE
AT GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN
Explanation of Cards-Their Ancient Origin and Uses-A Mystery
Prognostications Fulfilled on the Spot
Our Reporter Nearly Paralyzed-A Snake Produced From a
Cane in Broad Light-Scientific Explanation of the "'Jim
Jarru"- Six Centuriel Back Brought to Our Doorl.
On the reporter's second visit to the Temple of Orien-
tal Mystics at Grand Rapids, made a few days subsequent
to the one narrated heretofore, he was met at the inner door
by Mr. Richmond, who evidently was expecting h{m.
"Now, what investigations do you wish to make this
evening?" inquired the professor.
"What I want most," replied the reporter, "is to wit-
ness some of the occult phenomena that I have seen ac-
counts of in the Grand Rapids Democrat and other papers;
the Egyptian card mysteries and other exhibitions. such as
you have given in public on several occasions."
. "Before showing you these mysteries," said the profes-
sor, "allow me to give you an insight into the history of
cards. Generally, the very name of 'playing· cards' brings
out a sneer on the face of most people, who have visions
come before their eyes of gambling rooms1
drinking and
late hours, oi: thoughts of tricksters and lege~demain. Now
this is not to be wondered at, considering . how cards
have been used for hundreds of years past. But, on the
other hand, ask those wh9 have had most to- do with cards.
and yo~ will find that, without knowing a single thing about
the philosophy of it, every person is a firm believer in
'lucky suits.' his 'lucky card' or hi~ luck running good and
poor at different times.
"Now, at first sight. thi.s looks like bosh to· a trunking
62
person, and I used to think so myself; but facts are stub-
born things. and will upset any number of fine-spun
theories. For instance, take the theories of Ptolemy and
his followers relating to the motion of the heavenly bodies.
How quickly they had to fall before the facts discovered
by Copernicus. I should say re-discovered, though, for
the same facts were well known thousands of years before
Copernicus.
"But I started to explain about cards. It has bee:i
claimed by many historians that the French invented them
in about the fourteenth century or later. and that they
were made to play games ·with. and to amuse the French
court and people. Nothing could be farther from the
truth than this account of their origin and purposes. If
they were so invented, why is it that the court cards bear
upon their faces even to this day. not only the likenesses
of ancient kings, queens and courtiers of Egypt, but also
secret symbols of the Magi and priests of Isis?
"These symbols have been handed down and repro-
duced hy each !'.Jeneration of engravers and printers. as it
were. unconsciously.·
"The wandering tribes of Gypsies have preserved the
secrets of cards as emblems of planetary motion. time. etc..
without havinH preserved the higher knowledge that en-
. ables us to explain why and how it is that they have these
properties.
"I am myself of the opinion that playing cards had
their oriqin even further back than Egypt. Even upon the
Island of Atlantis. a remnant of what was once an immen.se
continent. where the ocean now rolls.
"But, let this be as it may, they were used by the
Egyptian. priests in their sacred astronomical mysteries. as
abundant evid~nce shows. They regarded them as sacred
emplems of astronomical time. and combinations of the
solar system. Says Ammon in Antiquity of Playing Cards:
"The religion of the Egyptians was wholly based on
astronomy. and these cards· w~re constructed with perfect
61
mathematical and symbolical reference to time, planetary
motion, and the occult calculations and mysteries of the
Magi. Thus the fifty-two cards correspond to the weeks
in a year. The court cards to the months and signs of the.
zodiac. The three court cards symbolize in each s~it the
three houses of one-quarter of the zodiac. Hearts in the
first quarter symbolize spring. also love and friendship.
Clubs in the second quarter. summer; also knowledge,
learning. religion. heat. temper, quarrels, law suits, etc.
"Diamonds in the third quarter symbolizes fall, when
the crops are gathered and sold. and therefore represent
wealth, power and trade. Spades rule in the fourth quar-
ter. and stand for winter, cold, darkness, death, hardship,
labor. etc.
"Every aspect has its ruling or emblematic card, and
t>very day and year its ruling card. Even the minutes
have each a card called the "minute card of time.'
··1n' ancient times they only recognized three hundred
and sixty-four days to the year, the odd day being re-
8ardeci ;l~ waste time. and used up in pleasure and amuse-
ricnt Now. as each card rules a day under each of the
beven planets during a year. you can see thal they exactlv
fill out the year. seven times fifty-two making 364.
"Even to this day we have no ruling card for the 31st
of December. and I cannot perform many of the mysteries
in these books on that day in consequence. The ancients,
it is true. knew not the existence of Neptune and Uranus,
but they counted the sun and moon as planets. which iiiade
up the seven.
"Y~u know seven has always been a sacred sort of
number among all nations and in all religions, the center,
so to speak. of all symbolic numbers.
"The seven is also the center o! each of the four suits
of cards. whether counting from the king or from the ace.
The thirteen cards of each suit is also astronomical and
indicates among other things, knowledge of good and evil.
"That is why. I suppose. that thirteen has been assigned
to the 'Old Boy,' in the same category with the printing
.pras and other ·wicked things, and regarded as unlucky.
"The Magi of ancient times knew that the time would
come when their sacred emblems would be prostituted to
base uses. They predicted that the time would come when
'these' sacred emblems ~ill be trampled 'under the feet of
the ungodly, .and become a reproach 'in high places amang
nations yet unborn.' · '
"This bas all come to pass, besides the other predic-
tions Oientioned· by Ammon, Le Rouche, Lillie and others,
that 'no matter what changes shall take place in future
generations of man, through all coming time, amid down-
.falls of empires and kings, these emblems shall go on un-
changed· in value and effect.' "
"It is singular," continued Mr: R., "but it is a fact that
many and qiany a time inventors and manufacturers have
endeavored to introduce packs of cards containing more or
less in number, or with a change in the emblems used. But
in every case they have met with a flat failure: fifty-two
they were.-&nd fifty-two they remain to this day.
"The- card called a Joker, introduced ~in late years,
amounts to nothing. Its vah~e is a cypher astronomically..
and although placed in every,pack made lately, it is thrown
away by the purchaser as soon as he sees it. Still it rules
~n that odd day I mentioned 'to you. a.s you can prove by
rule. No. ·fin this book for '6nding daycard of day.' "
A Great Mystery
"But we will now come to some practical work, which
. will illustrate the· occult powers of cards better than a
hundred.pages of argument would do;· said the ProJessor,
looking at his watch. ''.Have the goodness to place this
1etter in your pocket, and examine this pair of dice and
this- pack of cards. YOU wffell find them nothing but the
most ·ordinary kinds sold jn,.stores. But I am going to
show yo~ that everything that happens comes under strict
mathematical law: and not a sparrow falls, or even one of
these little cubes bf bone, excqrt under the cognizance of
the!~ divine laws. ·
65
"Now, please shuffle these cards well for a minute, and
when that second hand gets to the even minute again, cut
the pack. There, now take four cards from the top, and deal
them into any one of the houses of the zodiac here upon
the alt~r. and keep on with the deal haphazard whenever
you feel like dealing them until you have placed four in
each sign of the zodiac, and one pile in the center, or sun.
The reporter performed this entire operation as re~
quested, without Mr. Richmond's touching a card.
"Now, when I give the signal from my time, you will
throw these dice after shaking them well, and whatever
the number you throw, take the cards from the house or
sign indicated by the throw...
The reporter placed the dice in a glass tumbler. .and
after shaking them about fifteen seconds threw them out
upon the altar cloth. They came up a three and a two,
which made five, whereupon he took the four cards found
in Leo, the fifth house of the zodiac. They proved to be
the Ave of hearts, Ave of clubs, seven of spades, and queen
of diamonds.
"Here is the rule by which I found what cards you
would draw this evening, and you may copy it, if you
choose. You can, by. using the time at which this was
done. And exactly what cards you have drawn: but to pre-
vent all chance of fraud, I will ask you to read the letter
I gave you awhile ago, which I wrote yesterday.
The reporter with great surprise broke the seal of the
letter, and reading the following:
Grand Rapids, April 23, 1890
"I find from my study of the planets ruling the person
whose time of birth I have before me, that he will· come to.
this Temple tomorrow night between the hours of 7 and 8.
"I find that if I have him perform the Egyptian Mystery
of the twelfth house at exactly 9: 15 for the cut ~d 9: 19 for
the throw, he will draw the lollowing emblems: Queen· of
diamonds, five of hearts, five of clubs and seven of spades,
as indicated on page 84 of the astral charts in quadratur.
Oi.Nl!Y H. RICHMOND, ~
"G. M. Qf 0. M."
66
The reporter was perfectly thunderstruck. Although
he had in a measure been prepared for some wonderful
manifestations. he had not really at hHrt believed it pos·
sible.
Two other mysteries were then performed, the reporter
performing the mathematical work himself. but full details
are too long to insert in this article.
"Now, Professor," said the reporter, "as what I hav:?
seen, illustrating the laws of planetary effect upon luck
and chance. so.called. has been so satisfactory. I would
be pleased to see some other manifestation illustrating the
occult powers of the Magi."
"Well. what shall it be?" asked the Professor.
•·we read of such miracles as turning rods into snakes,
etc. 'Could you show me anything of the kind?"
"Perhaps I might. but to tell you the truth, I do not lik!!
to show these things to any one. In fact, I am not allowed
to do so; but in this case I will give you a slight illustra·
tion."
The reporter had a common black ebony cane. with
gold·plated head, with him. The Professor took thi1l in
his hand, and holding it above the altar, made an invocatio:t
in an unknown language. ending with three short words.
spoken in a firm, commanding tone.
He then threw the cane on the floor. and said to the
reporter. ''Look out for the snake!" This is the reporter's
own account of the transaction:
"I can safely swear that I am not a drinking man. and
have not had even a drink of beer in a week, otherwise
this description would "
he open to suspicion;out if I ever
saw anything plainly in my life, I saw that cane turn to
a snake, about a yard long.' Its body was spotted in
white. and black along the back and sides, while its belly
looked of a copper color. Its head had a bright golden
look. and its eyes sparkled like diamonds.
"All this I noticed while I was climbing into a chair.
67
where, I must admit, I fdt aafer than on the floor, for his
snakeship had that peculiar look.. auociated naturally iD
one's mind with deadly poison.
"The snake now wriggled towards the chair I stood
upon and looked as if about _
to ascend one of the legs. I
was just going to make a break for the altar, with a view
to climbing upon it, out of harm's way, when the Profes-
sor cried, 'Halt!' and told me to jump upon the snake abd
grab him by the body.
"At first I feared to do this, but on further persuasion
and assurance that he would not harm me, I made a jump
onto the snake's body and r~cklessly grabbed it by the tail
(the safest-looking end), and held up-my innocent cane
to view.
"I could now understand how the ancients must have
felt when Moses had his celebrated contest with the Magi,
to decide which had the most power.
"If I remember rightly, the Magi produced snake for
snake. until the Prophet could only win the match by hav-
ing his snake swallow those of the wise men, which of
course placed their snakes hon du combat."
The reporter then asked the Professor to explain how
;i· snake could be manufactured from a cane.
"The explanation is simply this. Perhaps I cannot make
it plain to your understanding, but the fact is, there.·was
no snake. and has been none in this room, any more than
there is in the boots of a person suffering with delirium
tremens. To such a person 'the low elementals, among
which are snakes in profusion, become visible to the eye,
apparently. although there is strong evidence that they are
in all such cases seen by the inner sight or astral eye.
"But no matter how that m_
ay be, the fact is that this
imitation snake was set up in the astral plane by the pow-
ers called upon by me. so that for the time being it bore
all the appearanc~ of genuine reptile.
"In the case of an i.,nebriate, I believe that the drunken
and debauched life led by the sufferer has .drawn aroc nd
68
him certain e1ementals, and the physical body h"as become
so warped and debilitated that the astral man is sufficie.ntly
liberated to allow him to. cognize the astral elements.
"151 this style ~f Oriental mystery, much practiced in
ancient times, you are deceived by an appearance set up
in the mind. ·
'.'Many persons fall naturally into these conditions, and
set up false figures in th~ astral plane and become greatly
deceived thereby. Jesus had this power. but he belonged,
· from t~e age of twelve, to what was known as the Essenese
branch of the Magi. who believed more in elevation of the
soul at the expense of the body. than in cultivating the in-
. tellectual forces. ·
"His phenomenal powers took directions accordingly.
Some of the Magi naturally developed one way, and others
another. and all cannot be alike.
"Jesus the wise-had his elders or twelve disciples of
the outer circle, all with him during his travels. but no
one developed into the same power as ~he master.
"Perhaps if he had lived to found a temple at Jeru-
salem. as he wished to do, they would have become more
fully developed.
"We have a branch now of the Essenese, same as the
lodge in Palestine, that is. 'healers.' It is a distinct branch
by itself. and to become an adept in it, one. must mQrtify
the flesh or pra<:tice asceticism. ·
"But th.is is too deep a subject to go into now, and is
doubtless more or less familiar to mos~ of the readers of
THE PROGRESSIVE' THINKER.
~
"By the way, what a circulation that paper must have.
Since 'that article came out i~ that paper, I have been just
literally bombarded v:ith letters.
"I hope '?'hat you will ·write up will answer many of
therr questions. for I cannot find time to answer one jn fifty
by letter." · ·
With many thanks for kin"dness extended, the r.eporter
lt>ft.: with a promise to call" again. ·
69
S~urday, Nov.. 8. 1890
PROF. 0. H. RICHMOND
The Mystic Brotherhood
A Resume of what has Heretofore Appeared Regarding the
Order of the Magi
Inasmuch as the circulation of THE PROGRESSIVE
T}:IINKER has largely increased since we began· the pub-
lication of int~rviews, lectures and articles last April. re-
garding the wonderful and mysterious knowledge of occult
fortes in nature possessed by Prof. Richmond of Grand
Rapids, Michigan, we have deemed. it best to give a brief
resume of what has heretofore appeared, for the benefit
of the thousands of our readers who have not read those
articles.
On the 5th day of April, 1890, we published an artilce
taken from the Grand Rapids Daily Democrat, of March
2nd wherein Mr. Richmond gave a reporter of that paper
the first public statement of how he started in his .occult
studies. This article was headed:
"'A Mysterious Tale"
and told, among other things, how the Professor became
a member of the Magi. detailin~ 'his experience with ::i
mysterious· stranger at Nashville, Tenn., 186'4, and receiv-
ing of the magic Word: an initiation into the secrets of
ancient Egypt; his narrow escapes afterwards and adven-
tures while apparently in the hands of late: his studies
and struggles while seeking for light; the visit to Chicago
in 187i, and finding the ancient occult book that unlocked
the mysteries of the pa~t: an oath--bound order and Magic
Temple: visit of the Democrat reporter to the Temp1e and
witnessing of seeming miracles there, etc.
. ..
This article awakened such a vast amount of interest
among our readers, that we desired more light r~garding
what•appeared to us beyond the range of oi-dinary matters,
. .
7<J.
nearly to the verge of incredibility. We therefore sent·
a reliable and scientfic reporter to Grand RaJ1ids to in-
terview Mr. Richmond. He made two visits to the Temple,
and the result appeared in our issue of May 31st in the
shape of two articles !=Overing the entire first page. The
first was headed:
"A Mystic Temple"
Startling revelations were given regarding the Ancient
Magi and the order of Masonry; a full description of the
Temple with its planets and satellites moving about an elec-
tric sun. The charts and valuable books used in the exer-
cises and instructions in the Temple were fully described.
Our reporter, being a Mason of high degree, obtained other ·
information regarding the famous "Lost Word" of An-
cient Oriental Masonry, and how the "Word" ·became
lost tp the modern world at the building of King Solomon·.s
Tempie. The second article was headed:
"The Magi-More Wonderful Revealments"
and contained a full description of our reporter's second
visit wherein he was almost paralyzed by seeing his own
cane turned into what appeared to be a snake before his
eyes, and many mysteries performed that seemed in-
credible. · Prognostications were made and afterwards ful-
filled on the spot; and in many ways. as our reporter re-
marked. "twenty-six centuries back was brought to the
doors of the 19th."
These interviews created wide spread e~citement. ;nd
letters poured in from all quarters, both to us and Prof.
Richmond. asking innumerable questions. Mr. Richmond
soon published a notice in this paper informing the public
that he had nothing to sell. and was not .able to answer
questions by mail. being engaged constantly in his business
as a member of the firm of 0. H. Richmond & Co., Drug-
gists and Manufacturing Chemists at Grand Rapids. Not-
withstanding this notice, the seekers a:fter light hav~ con-
tinued to send letters by the dozen up to this time. So
71
much ·interest was ·manifested, that we resolved to obtain
reports of all lectures' delive~ed by Pr.of. Richmond, if pos- ·
sible; being .always determined to obtain the best thought
extant upon all scientific and spirital subjects for the beneftt
of our numerous readers. In pursuance of this policy, we
had a full unabridged report made of a· lecture delivered
by the Professor at Grand Rapids, in the month of June,
which appeared in our issue of July 26, under the title of
''Looking Backward-A Glance Into The
Past History of the Earth"
This lecture fully sust.ained the reputation gained by the
speaker, by what had gone before, being a comprehensive
survey of the earth from remote aeons in the past from
geological, astronomical. historical and scientific stand-
points. He showed that the history of the Magi extended
to more than thirteen thousand years before Christ, and
an inferential history actually extended to more than 22,000
years ago. as proven by astronomical eras and symbols
now in existence. He showed that the so-called "Copemi-
cian System,'' was well known to the Egyptians long, Ion~ .
before the dark ages and the teachings of Ptolemy. He
showed where human life probably began at the North
Pole, and how mankind retreated Southward to the. after-
wards, "Lost Atlantis." This lecture contained many quo-
tations from various scientific works and caused wide-
spread attention and discussion.
This lecture was followed by one entitled
"Astral Magnetism or the Occult Forces
in Nature"
which we published August 16. We also copied a long
and well written article from the Grand Rapids 0Ha.ocrat,
giving a reporter's investigation into the new.-old philo-
sophy and the result <>f tests given by Prof. Richmond.
This appeared in our issue of July 19, and was copied by
several of our exchanges.
72
.
s~ptember 13th. we published an article from . Prof..
Hul~e of Lowell, Mass.. who is a member of the Boston
Society of·Anthropology. In this article the writer gave
a detailed statement of.a visit to Pi:of. Richmond and sev-
eral remarkable tests witnessed thei:e, together with ~ome
comparisons made between astronomical and physical char-·
acteristics according to the science ·of· Sarcc;:ignomy by
Pra'"f. Buchanan. The appearance of ~his article,· which
was soon followed, September ·20th, by a lecture by Prof.
Richmo~d. entitled "Vibrations, or Life and Motion in
Nature," intensified the interest to such an .extent that we
wrote to the Praiessor to 'the effect that we thought it
advisable to not stir up any more excitement unless he could
come to c ·hicago and open a Temple before long. and thus
gratify the public demand. This letter reached Mr. R. at
Highland P&rk, Michigan, where he and his family were
spenging the summer. and we were gratified with a reply
that Mr. R. would come here in a.few weeks. He subse-
quently ret~~ned to Grand Rapids o~ly to pack his house..:
hold belongings. and offer his business .for sale; leavinq
the same in charge of his business partner. Mr. L. Judcl
Shafer. Mr,. R. and family started for our city and arrived
on the 13th of October. 1890.
Some time in July last, we made. the acquaintance of
Mr. and Or. Alma. whom we found were mt:mbers of the
Ord~i o'f the Magt and were familiar .with the teachings
and wonderful manifestations of occult phenomena. These
friends assured us that .all we had-published was true. Our
readers will n.atur~lly infer from' all this. that we were pre-
pared for ~)most anything . But strange ·to say. we now.
see that we did not, rlor could not begin to realize the
vastness of the. ne~ light that has dawned upon the earth
through the researches of Prof. Richmond a~d his col-
leagues. w~ saw illustrated the action 9f the.astral forces
ave~ the soul or astral man, in a ~anner to set aside all
doubt. We 'were shown several of the occult mysterie5
'
that have been~ described heretofore by ·our reporter and
Mr. Hulse, and all undei: the stricte!t te8t conditions.. For
nearly haJ(~n hour t~e editor of thi.s.paper performed cer -
73
tain operations usually regarded ~s mere chance and with·-
out any consciousness that he was acting under inexorable
laws. All this time a book lay on the table in front of
him, containing a prediction dated Sept. 20, 1890, which
in plain English told how said editor would come to t~is
house Oct. 15, and would. perform certain mysteries with
certain results. This prediction was true in every detail.
The prognostication was written in ink, and was certainly
made before the events it foretold, let the time be long or
short. We intended to make a full and detailed account of
the entire phenomena, but on writing it out we found it
occupied too much space.
Present State of the Work
Prof. Richmond ha·s secured, for a term of years, a
large fine dwelling on the South side, at No. 17 Thirty-
third street. It is a beautiful locality. between Cottage
Grove Ave. and the Lake; it possesses the advantage of be-
ing but a few rods from the cable on the Avenue, and yet
upon a quiet, clean resident street where the air and sur-
rounding influences are the best attainable in this hustling.
prowing city. The Temple is just established, and Mr.
Richmond will be found at home to seekers after liqht.
He wi]J be glad to meet brothers and sisters of the Valley
City who have ··so nobly assisted him in the work in the
past. THE PROGRESSIVE THINKER has been con-
stituted the official organ of the Order of the Magi in
America, and will contain all information necessary to
those interested in the work. Details relative to member-
ship, etc:, wiJI be found under the appropriate. head from
time to time.
Prof. Richmond is now prepared to receive applications
for membership in the Order of the Magi, and bank ?pp)i.
cations will soon be ready for distribution. Non-residents
can become members when suitably recommended, and
subject to full initiation when able to visit" Chicago. Par-
ticulars will be given 'at the Temple. No. 17 Thirty-third
street, near Cottage Grove a,;enue.
7..
MAN AS A CITIZEN OF THE UNIVERSE
The vast and wonderful strides made J?y Science dur-
ing the past quarter of a century. has made possible what
would not have been possible a few years ago, that is, the
re-introduction upon the planet "Terra" of the old, and
yet ever new. "RELIGION OF THE .STARS."
The time has arrived when man must realize that he
is not simply a citizen of this little earth. over which the
Omnipotant is supposed, by theologians. to exercise con-
stant care. as if it was the only inhabitable world in all
the vast univ~rse of space.
When man first began to observe the kingdom ot
nature, outside of their immediate surroundings, they very
naturally concluded, in their ignorance of the multitude of
facts that have since been learned, that the earth was the
great all in all, the centre of the entire universe; the one
inhabited globe, around which all else revolved.
We cannot blame the m~n of those times for believing
that they were the particular objects of the Divine care and
that the rest of the heavenly bodies, the sun. the moon .and
the stars, also, were made for their particular benefit. Nor
can we blame them that they. in their ignorance of the
facts. should invent or conceive of a system of religion.
fitted out with gods. devjls, angels and other supernatural
personages in accordance therewith. But we are not bound
longe"r by these crude conceptions of early men. .therefore
we must .regard man not alone as a citizen of the world.
but rather a citizen of the solar system. of the sidereal
system, of the vast Universe of suns and worlds that con-
stitute the milky way, yea, of the majestic universe of
universes itself. infinite and almighty in duration. and extent.
How little can we realize the grand and wonderful
facts of astronomical science, without the aid of knowledge.
We gaze upward to the sparkling vault of heaven and in
its c:alm and quiet majesty, who could conc,:eive that the
shining stars there seen, in the same relative positions.
week after week, month ·after month, year after year, and
75
century after century, were everyone instinct with LIFE
and motion. That those apparently ..fixed" orbs are in
reality rushing through space, at almost inconceivable
velocities: drawing after them and about them their· re-
spective families of inhabitable and barren worlds, satelites.
comets and meteoric streams ~f matter', upon great orbits of
such length, and requiring such gigantic reaches of eternity
to accomplish, tha.t our periods of time sink into absolute
insignificance in comparison. But when all this is learned
by the patient investigations of ages upon ages of scientific
research, we find that as yet we are but upon the very
threshold of Nature's storehouse, We have but pulled the
corner of the veil aside, that conceals the infinite mysteries.
Even, when science comes to our aid, with. wonderous in-
struments and discloses to us the motions of these far off
bodies and even gives us an insight into their very inmost
being. by demonstrating even the chemical constitution of
far off suns and systems, we are yet but at the beginning.
For we have yet to learn. that these physical properties
are but the shadow. or the cloak, for yet more wonderful
vibratory forces and powers, hidden from the view of
superficial observation, even as the mind and soul of man
is hidden from the ·scalpel of the most expert and learned
.:i.natomical demonstrator.
Who would think. to look upon the calm fair face of
our nearest neighbor, Luna, that she, even in her present
dead condition. with all her fires and former terrific geolog-
ical upheavals silenced, yet "exerts a tremendous inftuence
upon the earth. Who would suppose from Apriori reason-
ing. that she could not only level down continents inch by
inch, by the action of tidal waves; change the very cos-
mical relations of our globe upon its axis; but in addition
thereunto, affect the inmost .minds of men, and even have
the power to regulate the organic physical characteristics
of one of the sexes. to an exact periodicity with her own ·
phazes?
What is the moon's capacity however. compared with'
that of the giant, Sol. who sends his vibrant messages pul-
76
.
sating to us across ninety-three millions of miles of space?
Why, my friends, one gigantic.upheaval of Solar flame, that
sends the white hot billows of burning, glowing hydrogen,
oxygen and iron. to more than a hundred and fifty thous-
and ~iles above his surface, generates more electricity.
more magnetism and more of all co-ordinating vibratory
forces that together affect our magnetic and other governing
conditions, than ~ame from calm Luna in a year. Yet
thousands of these tremendous convulsions are going 'on
upon his surface at one and the same time. Amid this
"clash". of matter" our earth w
0
ould be but as a drop of
water thrown into a roaring furnace, to be dissipated in
vapor and g~s instantaneously.
'
When we come to exa:,mine more ~inutely into this
apparent chaos of rushing matter. however, we find the
chaotic condition is only in appearance. for the spectro-
scope, combined with our knowledge of chemical laws, re-
veal to us that each and every process there going on is
in perfect· rhythmic harmony and obeys the exact laws of
its existance; Laws that can be expressed in exact mathe -
matical formulae and correlated into definite proportions
with other forces and powers. Could man, by the utmost
!ltretch of his imagination 50 years. ago, have conceived of
the stupendous fact that men would, ere the century ended.
analyze the chemical formation· of flames burning on suns,
so far away that the vibrations that bring the message
started more than five thousand years ago? But, if'he· could
have done that.' by som"e remarkable Jules ·Verne power of
imagination, could he have foreseen that the message from
the stars would be so accurately known and measured that
the star"s very rapidity· of motion .and eveq its direction
would be read by the eye of· science? But such is the ac-
complished. fact today; Ah, dear friends, this is but a be-
ginning. One hundred years from now our great grand
children will read the pages whereon this lecture is in-
scribed. with laughing wonder, to "think that we. in this
XIX Century should presume ·to think that we knew any-
thing scarcely. regarding the Universe. We wonder, now.
that when Copernicu~ rediscovered and gave to the world
77
the true thlory of the' celestial motions, men could not and
would n.fJt believe him. We wonder now that·hundreds aiul
thou1ends could not comprehend and understand the il-
1"'8trious discoveries and·deductions of the immortal Charles
Darwin, as he demonstrated the great truth of evolution..
Just so, the gener~tions ol the future will wonder that the
time .ever was when men could not c,omprehend the great
laws of the governing forces, astral magnetism and its co-
ordinating mind force.
These things will be well understood then, and new
problems will have arisen to perplex the minds .of men,
and others will stand up before the world, I suppose, to be
considered as cranks, as a penalty for being ahead of their
day and generation.
Physical science is now well advanced. The last two
hundred years has put our race in possession of a wonder-
ful store of knowledge regarding the universe of matter.
THE NEXT GIGANTIC STRIDE MUST BE MADE
IN THE DOMAIN OF SPIRIT. OF SOUL. OF MIND.
This knowledge is at present "occult" or hidden. Hundreds
and thousands are striving to brush away the obstructing
veil that hides the entrance to the temple of the hidden
and Infinite One. Do not laugh at them, or blame them.
my mystic friends, as you witness their vafn attempts. .It
is all for a wise purpose, and the time will come after they
have knocked at many, many doors, that they will come
to the right one, where the weary searchers can rest and
be comforted.
In the meantime, the occult searchers will go on look-
ing in far off mountains for "Mahatmas" and "Adepts,"
that exist only in some one's vivid imagination, and thev
will keep·on and on. gazing upwards at the starry heavens
with wonder, and they will question the great unknown and
seek to penetrate the veil of Isis, until the time comes to
them, as it has come to many before them, when they will
leave the valley of Hindostan and penetrate the encircling
walls of rock an~ travel to the mystiC city of the sun.
where perchance a new door may open unto them, giving
them a glimpse of the light beyond the portal.
May that light be a beacon ~nto their footsteps, may
it shine upon and illumine their pathway onward and up-
ward. even as the clusters of suns congregated along the
milky way that spans our heavens, shine and sparkle in
a golden path of LIGHT. -
This lecture is not covered by copyright.
79
MAN AND HIS RELATION -TO THE
UNIVERSE
AR110.E No. Ill.
BY OLNEY H. RICHMOND
Chief of the Order of tM Magi.
_Having logic_
ally established Man in an Infinite Universe
with the wonderful possibilities befitting such an environ·
ment opening up before him, we will now consider the
perpetuity of this vast expanse which he has entered and
which is nothing more nor less than another phase of
Infinity.
Although space and time are infinite, the duration of ·
organized matter in its various forms, might be finite. We
can unhesitatingly say, however, that no doubt exists but
that any particular organic body must, in the fulness of
time, and under the laws of evolution, change, until it is
practicalJy a different body. To illustrate: The planet Jupiter
was, within the comparatively recent period of a few mil-
lions of years, a sun, with a diameter of about one hundred
thousand miles. This sun might have been observed by
astronomers of other solar systems as a small companion
sun to' Helios; but as the centuries rolled by it gradually
cooled and crusts formed on its hitherto shining surface
until it became a red-hot globe, with all its light obscured
beneath· more than eight thousand miles of carbon and
hydrogen vapors which are held in suspension in its atmos-
phere. Still the change goes orf. Although Jupiter has
ceased to be a sun, if is not, as yet, an inhabitable planet;
but the time will come, however, when this condition wi1l
obtain. It will be long after Mars and perhaps our earth
have ceased to be abodes of life, but the great planet Jupiter.
fourteen hundred times our earth in size, will take its place
in the universe of life as an inhabited globe. In that far
distant time it will possess an equable temperature with
but a slight variation. throughout its year, which is equal
to twelve of our years in duration. Jupiter will not .receive
80
as much light from the su.n as is enjoyed by our planet. but
this deficiency will be made up in "'!armth derived from
its own interior which, no doubt, to beings evolved upon
its surface, will be equally as beneficial and grateful. The
life period of Jupiter would naturally be one of great length
under ordinary environment, but no matter how long that
planet may endure, the time must come when it will become
a cold and barren world without even a ray of light to
bless its surface: for even old Sol must in time lose his
fires and become a dark and cl!.-erless globe.
Now, from the above premises it might be argued that,
as goes the part so must go the whole, and that in the
course of time th, entire, unive!'se must come to an end:
The question then arises as a corrollary: Where then is
eternal life? That. too, would have no abiding place unless
a co14. dark, cheerless and dead universe, d~void of phy-
sical existence, would suffice for an abode.
This condition being scarcely conceivable, we are
driven to .the alternative of a self-perpetuating universe.
It has been proven by scientists who have investigated this
question from a mathematical standpoint that, given a certain
number of suns. each decreasing in heat through condensa-
tion and consequent radiation into space, the time must
come, and that within a finite period, when each and every
sun would become cold and dead. Now we can reason
from this basis that if at any period of time a certain num-
ber of suns existed, if that time
1
was only l~ng enough ago.
not ·a suq would now be shining. This accepted, we arrive
at the presumed lapse of time and place it as a factor in the
problem. •
· We know tnat matter must have always existed in some
form ~nd manifestily has always possess.ed its present qual-
ity of condensation, thus forming suns and planets; hence
we cannot do otherwise. than form ·the conclusi~n that the
period of time under consideration must be infinite and
therefore this infinite lapse of time must have extinguished
every sun and have rendered the universe uninhabitable.
As this condition of affairs does not prevail, and it is a
81
self-evident fact that it never has obtained in the p~st,
we have a perfectly logical right to a!lsume that the in-
finite time which is still ahead of us and which is the second
member of the equation·, will likewise fail to reduce this all-
pervading universe to a state of death and oblivion.
From the above mathematical considerations into which
we have but briefly gone, we could prove the fact of a
perpetual universe by logical deductions alone; but aside
from this we have a method of reasoning derived from our
knowledge of the conservation of energy and the correla-
tion of forces, together with facts relative to the pressure
of light upon surfaces, which account for and justify the
belief in an ever-changing but always existing ·universe
of heat, light and life. From the latest observations we
might affirm with a goodly degree of assurance,. that the
pressure of light and heat, combined with the force of grav-
ity, constitute the real and only reason for the existence of
life throughout the entire universe. Furthermore, we can
affirm that the differential existing between the squares of
the diameters of bodies and the cubes of their diameters.
i~ responsible for the continuation of life.
It is known that in addition to the suns', planets, satel-
lites, asteroids and comets, which perform their motions in
regular orbits without our solar system, there are also an
unknown number of bodies which come into the system from
outer space-from any and all directions, regardless of
the pl~me of the ecliptic. Obeying the law of gravitation.
these comets aim directly for our Sun. passing. in some in-
stances, so close to him as to almost graze his surface:
then. swinging around that dignitary, they again dart off
into the realms of space, on hyperbolic orbits which cannot
by any devised ·method of figuring, indicate a return. ·
When bodies of this description first make their appear-
ance they !ook simply like globes, dark, in the main, except
as to the light reflected from their surfaces, but as they
enter our solar system, tails develop which rapidly extend
to millions of mile in length. More and more of the come-
tary matter from the nucleus or head seems to be driven off
82
until in some cases, almost if not all the comet turns to tail.
The tail is always extended from the sun: hence, at the
approach of the comet the tail streams out behind, while
upon · its recession the tail goes before the head. This is
entirely different to all appearances caused by a stream
of matter extending. as smoke, for instance, behind a loco-
motive, and indicates a force acting as a repellent from
the sun himself. This effect was, for a qme, a puzzle to
science, but the discovery relative to the pressure of light
solves the problem.
It has been shown that, as the cor:netic .body approaches
the sun, its outer envelope of clinging atoms and probably
corpsicles are thrown into high vibration and being so small
individually that the pressure of light and heat against their
surface exceeds the pull of gravitation, they are driven off
into space to form the cometary tail. As the comet nears the
sun, more and more matter is thus vaporized, liberated and
driven off. some of it with the velocity of light itself. The
force of gravity constantly increases as the distance from
the sun diminishes, and. likewise, the pressure of light
increases: thus, we have these two forces rapidly increasing
in inverse ratio to the square ·of the distance, one hurling
the comet toward its goal with tremendous velocity, some-
times amounting to hundreds of miles per second, the other
tearing and rending its constituent atoms apart and hurling
them into space into one grand distintegration of matter.
Thus the cold, solid body which, in outer space, might
have constituted a projectile capable of crashing into and
enlivening a dead sun, perhaps to the degree of another
cycle of activity, is rendered incapable of doing aught but
swinging harmlessly around a -living sun, like a ghost of
imponderability. - , ·
If the power of gravity_did not decrease in ratio to the
cube of the diameter, while the surface decreases in ration
to the square of the diameter, this effect could not obtain
and 'our sun as well as all others would be constantly sub-
jected to ·auctations of heat and light· which would 'render
their. attendant planets incapable of acting as abodes of
lffe.
Of course, upon the recession of the comet the procaa
is reversed and the comet talC.es in ita ~· and .becoma once
more a frozen ball, aiming at some otlacr lar-of aun. In
the course of time-perhaps a million, or it may be, a
billion of years-our friend, the comet, will.&riive at a cold,
dead sun, and.undeterred by the pressure of light, he ·win
plunge into that black, massive body with all the.potential
force of a fall from in&nite space, and lo, a new sun blazes
out where before reigned naught but darkness and ob-
scurity.
Then astronomers in surroundi.ng systems record a new
star. The new sun may blaze out as a nebulous body of light
extending far beyond its outermost planet, as· did the ~ew
sun which became apparent to us a few years ago, but it
will soon cool down to its normal dimensions and "A new
hea'Ven and a new earth will appear." Such events do not
occur every day, but among the multitude of dead suns
interspersed throughout our Ne"'bula, one or two are thus
resurrected on an average. each century.
It is not remarkable that our earth is protected hy its
envelope of air from the bombardment·of ·millions of tiny
meteors, so our sun is protected' by his armor of vibrant
light from the bombardment of millions of numerous hy-
perbolic comets.
Such. are the marvels of the universe in which we live
and have our bei~g. Truly a universe worthy the highest
aspirations of the human soul and a home of transcendant
glory to all eternity.
Considering the important functions performed by Com-
ets, in the economy of the Universe, we will give these
erratic bodies farther consideration.
The mysterious nature of the appearance and disappear-
ance of com.ets has always been a source of .curiosity to
mankind. while the strange peculiarities of some of these
bodies bas awakened a feeling of awe and in some in-
stances unbounded terror in the mind of the beholder. .
That the variety of expression taken on by cometary
bodies depends upon their mass, velocity of motion. peri-
helion, distance and chemical .constitution is well nigh
an established fact. If the comet is simple in its atomic con-
struction the head is gradually disintegrated and a single
tail· results. The great comet of 18-43 is· of this class. its
brilliancy being so great as to render it visible in full
daylight and its tail increasing in length, when nearest the
Sun. at the rate of five millions of miles per day. This
rapid .exhaustion entirely used up the head of the comet
while it was within the orbit of Mercury. It passed its
perihelion at a distance of only thirty thousand miles from
the Sun and was thereby subjected to a temperature two
thousand times that of red-hot iron. It is clearly evident that
the most refractory body know to man must be vaporized
and even super,..vaporized under these extreme conditions.
The wonderful comet of 1844 is another of the same class.
It fell towards our Sun from a distance of more than four
hundred billions of miles. This comet is due to pay us
anoth~r visit about the year 10184'4. In 17H, just one
hundred years previous to the advent of this comet. still
another of the same class appeared. This one will again be
due A.O. 124425.
Another class of comets are made up of several chemical
elements of molecular combinations. As the various con-
stituent elements are driven off the atoms become electrified
and in this condition repel each other so that in some in-
stances two, three. or more tails may be seen. The marvelous
comet of 1811 may be cited as a fair example of this class.
The tail of this comet was compound and spread out like
a huge fan having a length of one hundred and t~elve mil-
lions of miles. Its head was larger than the planet Jupiter.
bei~g greater in diameter by twenty-:four thousand miles.
The central nucleus ~lone was four hundred miles in
diameter. This comet is due to return to Helios three thous-
and years ·hence, its orbit extending outward from our Sun
to a distance only, of fourteen times the radius ·of the orbit
of Neptune. · .
The above mentioned are but a few of the long dis-
85
tance comets known to us, no one of which gets beyond
the control of our Sun.
Comets of short, elliptic orbits, are more like planets. in
their movements about the Sun. Encke's comet, for instance.
has a period of only three and one-half years.
Some comets break up under the action of the Solar
forces and finally entirely disappear as comets.
From the many observations of the behavior of c~me­
tary bodies, it is deemed probable that their presence with-
in a Solar System brings about more or less po.werful
magnetic changes. Very large comets like those of 1811 and
1844, swooping in from the cold outer space, with a tem-
perature of hundreds of degrees below zero, are subjected
to first a melting and then a vaporizing heat of thousands
of degrees. These conditions cause powerful physical and
chemical adjustments and give rise to electric pulsations
which in turn produce magnetic polarization upon a gigan-
tic scale. We have every reason to believe that the magnetic
exchanges between some comets and our Sun. produce ac-
tual changes in the magnetic conditions of all the planets
of our Solar System. If this is true with regard to .comets
of closed orbits. how much mor~ may the same effect pre-
vail with those which come in on hyperbolic orbits. a!ter
taking on the magnetic conditions of some region of space
so far from our system that the aerial traveler may have
been a billion years in making its journey toward us. Who
knows to what strangely constituted suns such a comet may
have paid its addresses? From a corbohydrate sun· it may
have passed to an oxy-hydrate sun or one of nitrous
oxide as a predominating constituent. But, no matter what
we may suppose or how far we may speculate upon the
history of a given comet, we must presume t~at the time
was when the particular mass of matter now known by that
name, was not a comet; hence we are led in our investiga-
tions to
The Origin of Comets
This is a great field in itself and one of entrancing in-
86
terest to persons who regard science from the standpoint
of knowledge rather than that of utility.
We will consider some of the ways in whi,ch a comet
may originate:
Let us conceive of an en~rmous mass of nebulous mat-
ter existing in a certain region of space. It would be ir-
tegular in form. like a rain-cloud, so that in condensing.
under the pull of gravity.' many outlying portions of the
cloud would be much behind in arriving at and joining with
the centrally revolving mass. Thus it would naturally fol-
low that, while the greater part of the nebular cloud would
form a solar system, a quantity of matter would be left
behind and would condense into globes of various sizes.
according to the amount of material available in' each. As
bodies of different specific gravity tend to separate. when
chemically incompatible. this supposition accounts for the
difference existing in the chemical constitution of comets.
Falling constantly towards the parent mass. these ex-
teriorly formed globes would be forced to perform in orbits
more or less elongated, according to the distance at which
each body originated. Some of these bodies would form
closed orbits and repeatedly revolve about the central su'n:
but some, on the other hand, originate at such tremendous
distances from the parent mass that they fail to join in
the general revolution during the planetary formative-
period.
It is manifest that a fall from an almost infinite distance
would give such bodies a velocity that would not only carry
them past the sun, but would cause them to dart off into
space again to nearly their original position while in a
gaseous state.
Thus a comet may possess an elliptical, a parabolic or
a hyperbolic orbit. When an orbit is once established by
one of these bodies, it will continue in that path indefinitely
unless some influence outside itself drives it from its accust-
omed course.
It has been shown by LaPlace, Herschel. Proctor and
87
other astronomers. that it is not an uncomm.on occurrence
for a comet to be thrown from its occustomed orbit by the
powerful wrench given to it while passing near some large
planet such as Jupiter, Saturn or Uranus, this wrench may
throw the comet into an oval orbit and thus change its
cometary period, or, on the other hand, it may give it a
direction which will turn it into a roving comet or an orbit
which will never return to its parent sun. However, under
the governing forces of the Universe, it must gravitate
toward some attractive center, hence it goes on and on
until, losing its original impulsion, it eventually feels the
attractive force of some other sun and slowly· turns its
course toward it.
From the above facts we deduce that wherever masses
of nebulous or gaseous matter exist, comets may form from
portions of them; that short period comets may be turned
into long period ones or into hyperbolic comets. In short.
any comet may be transformed into one of any other class.
A comet may even be captured by a planet and made to per-
form an orbit about the capturing body. Jupiter performed
this operation upon a comet known as Lexell's, within a
recent period. but the prisoner finally escaped and again
became a wanderer.
The importance of cosmical transformations is mani-
fest when we consider the fact that were it not for the
continual origin of new comets under the laws of condensa-
tion. the old ones would be all used up in time and general
stagnation would inevitably result: but we have an endless
chain of cosmical effects. Live suns grow cold and dark;
in time they are vaporized by plunging comets; some of
the nebulous matter is driven off to immense distances,
in some cases so far that it would take light itself more
than one year of time to traverse the tremendous reach
of space.
Comets are formed as well as planets; one or more of
these comets may, in the course of time, become hyperbolic.
thus keeping the number of these useful messengers up
to the average. It is also believed and in fact it can be
88
show.n that under certain· conditions a planet may be trans~
formed into a comet; but thi§ is another rather extended
examination into which it is not necessary to go at present,
however interesting the subject·may be.
We have ascertained through the study of the subject
under discussion, that the known physical laws of the
Universe have come to the aid of the matliematical deduc-
tions as set forth in our third article and have proven that
we do not only reside in a selfperpetuating universe, but
that it could not, by any possibility be otherwise; for, if
the laws of nature were not capable of bringing about these
marvelous rounds of transformation, inhabited worlds
would long ago have ceased to exist and in consequence
there would be no human intelligence to take cognizance of
the fact that anything had ever existed.
As sentient beings possessing minds and souls, how
grateful we should be that we live, not in a dying universe,
but in a universe containing the .elements of eternal light
and life.
·SWEET DAMEH
BY 0. H. RICHMOND
Sweet Dameh is a tricky lass,
As all the boys acknowledge,
And deeper than a graduate
Of any female college.
Sometimes. her smiles are all serene
And your moves Kem all perfection,
Then Dameh frowns a rival bold,
Comes out with a "correction."
Talk of chess, or algebra,
Or geometric twisters:
Differential calculus,
And all her mystic sisters:
Comic sections: Missing Link
In Darwin's Evolution:
They are all problems which admit
Of proximate solution.
But Dameh, coy, forever keeps
Her lovers in contention.
"Is this, or that, or t'other sound?"
Or that a new invention?
In vain her lovers spend a life,
Like Martins or a Wyllie.
When Barker, young and lusty, comes
She winks at him so slyly.
When lo ! the love of many years
Is upset in a twinkling, ·
And "lines" that held her heretofore
· Are broken quick as winking,
Where was she bom7 No man can say,
Was it "Bristol" or "Dundee?"
Ip "'Edinburg'' or "Glasgow?"
Is she an "Ayrshire Lassie?"
Was she born of "Laird and Lady?"
Or a ''Maiden of the Mill?"
What ere she was or is
I a~ her "Suter" still.
90
Tho.ugh she lives in "Boston Center"
Or"at a ''Cross"-roads town.
"Deftnarice" bid to all the world
"Dyke"-ontented with Her Crown.·
No "Single Corner" of the Earth
But yields unto her sway,
From Florida's green glades
To Alaska's frozen spray.
Froin Scotland's iron coasts
To Zealand's sunny isle,
All own the gentle rule
of Dameh's loving smile.
91
MATHEMATICS OF THE GAME OP CHECKERS
By 0. H. Richmond, Chicago. Ill.
Experiments and caluculations have been made in at-
tempting to find how many different games could be played.
Approximately the number of drawn games is· equal to thf
permutation of the n':1mber of pieces on the attacking side.
Let the number of pieces ·at the beginning of the game
be "P." Now, as games won by either side consist pf de-
partures from the draw lines. by errors, it follows that
the wins are in excess.of the draws. The minimum must be
equal to P+l, permutated. Considering the great number of
errors ~nd foolish moves. in sc~ub play, the won games
must greatly exceed this value. How much we· cannot even
approximate. However, the result is astonishing and start-
ling enough at that to cause us to despair of ever ex-
hausting the study of it, or getting at the bottom of the
game, during all the ages to come. Look at this:
2 men on a side- 2 draws and 6 won games.
3 men on a side- 6 draws and 24 won games.
4 men on a side-24 draws and 120 won games.
12 men on a side-479,001.600 draws.·
12+1 permutated--6,277,020.800 wins.
·T~tal games, 6,706,022.400.
Nearly seven billions! Is it any wond,.er that we never
get to the bottom of even one branch of the noble game?
We need not worry over the coming generations having
nothing to discover.
92
RICHMOND'S DRBAM-A ROYAL BATTtB·
'
By 0. H. Richmond, Chicago. Ill.
(E:specially for Pitt:sburgh Leader)
I.
I had a dream. on New Year's night,
· Which was more up to date
Than the one I had in Michigan
In Eighteen Eighty:.Eight.
The checkered field wa$ very lar~e;
. How large. I do ·not know,
The dark squares made of bloody soil,
The light ones trampled snow.
II.
The men who occupied the. squares,
.Were not the usual disks:
Live nilers of great countries
Were entered in the lists.
Some wore crowns upon their head!
And robes of ermine white,
While others dressed more plainly,
One in dark and oi_ie in light.
III.
One great king on nineteen stood-
. With hosts at his command
An aliied king of twenty-two
Had taken up his stand.
A monarch stood on thirteen bold,
With men and guns galore,
While a single man on thirty
made up the "Fighting Four."
IV.
I gazed abroad to see what foe
Oare stand before this line, _
·· And I beheld a rival king
"Corked up" on twenty-nine,
His life-long friend, a single man;
Stood by on twenty-one;
They were both "dug in," helpless.
So but little could be done.
v.
Their allied monarchs bravely helped
On fourteen, one held sway;
But the one o~ four could not do much.
He was so far away.
As I stood gazing at the sight
The guns began to flash.
And the first lot of the ·serried. hosts
Began to make a dash.
VI.
The dreadful. carnage that ensued
To my memory yet clings.
.As I shudder at the havoc ~rought
In this '·'Royal Sport of Kings."
The New Year's guns and whistles
Awoke me in a sweat;
So I presume the "Serried Hosts"
Are out there fighting yet.
RICHMOND'S DREAM DIAGRAM AND SOLUTION
Wbite-ao. 1Ung11 13, rn, .:?::.
White to 11lay and win.
Hr 0. H. RJ<'hmond, Chicago, Ill.
19-15 25-22 30-26* 30-25 15-19*
li-18 17-26 22-25 23-19 25-30
15-11. 29-25 31-27* 25-29 11-16
18-25 26-31 25-30 19-15 30-23
13-17 25-22 27-23* 21-25 19-26
White wins.
SOLUTION NO. 2.
Names of solvers on this line will appear in the list of honor.
22-17 17-li 19-15 13-9
li-18 18-22 12-16
13-9 9-13 li-17
l I ) i-8 8-12 22-25
29-25
17-li
18-22
9-13
i-8
19-15
(I)
25-29
li-17
22-25
W wins.
W wins.
Solvers of both lines and correct arrangement of Rulers will be
accorded first rank.
New Years 1916. Evanston, III.
·THE CHECKER KING
0. H. Richmond, of This City, Wins the
Checker Championship of
. the World. ··
HIS POETIC .PROBLEM
Mr. O ..H. Richm~nd. the druggist at 1i.1 South Division
street, yesterday received Janvier's Ander.son, an expensive
late edition of a work 011 draughts, as the first prize in the
International Checker ProbJem ·Tournament. This tourna-
ment was instituted at Cleveland, 0., Dec. 25, 1884, and
ended a f~w days ago. There wer~ 73. entries about one
fourth of which were from Scotland, England'. France and
.Australia. the balance from the United States and Canada.
The second prize was. taken by MJi.C. Wardell, of Col- ·
· chester, N.Y.. and R. A. Gurley, of Denver, Col., there
. being no choic.e between them. J. Labadie, of Canada,·won
the stroker or third prize. and ( H: Robinson. of Atlanta,
Ga.. the· fourth. The problem solved by ·Mr: Richmond
wa_
s No. 139-Black i. 9. 10. King. 13: w~ite 11. 22, 30.
31, white to win. It is pronounced one of the harClest
problems ever propounded. The Cleveland "Sunday Sun" .
prints an excellent .porti:ait of Mr. Rich.mend above thE"
··following artide: ·
"The subject of this sket~h has for tnany years held a
leadi~g place among the. ~orld's , compos~s. ,His ability
in this line !lf che~ker composition, has long been recog-
nized throughout the ~orld. He has contributed l.iberally ·
to th17~a!ious newspapers and maga-
zines hundreds of prob-
.Jen:is.of such superior merits that he is today justly recog-
nized as· one -of the forei:qost ·living problemists_. Mr. Rich-
m6nd i~ a gen~Jeman of fine appearance, and one of the'
solid. bu,siness. men of Grand ~apids, Mich,, being 'the
head of a large firm of man·ufacturing chemists and drug-
gists: His, problem in verse, given in today's issue; wilJ give _
the reader s~me idea of Mr. Richmond's powers. ln this
especial_l~ne he stands alone without ·a rival in the world.
97
His last "poem puzzle position" that appeared in the "Sun"
has been widely and favorably received and commented on.
His production this week stands unrivalled in the annals
of the literature of the game of draughts."
The problem referred to is the following. which is also
printe~ in the "Sun":
Richmond's Dream-Position No. 92
I had a dream the other night. when all around was still.
Methought I saw a checker-board, laid out with greatest
skill.
It occupied the city square, two acres plump were seen;
The white squares made of gravel. the dark ones. grass so
green.
The pieces on this mammoth board were not turned out of
wood.
But real men occupied the squares, all checker players
good.
Charles Hefter stood on twenty-eight, with a crown upon
his head.
Dressed in black from top to toe, a"probleµi king," folks
said.
Another checker king in black, stood guarding number
three,
He looked like J. D. Janvier, as near as I could see.
James 'Labadie, of Canada, an analyzer bright, .
Stood on thirteen. a single man to strengthen Hdter's right.
I gazed about to see what foe dare face so bold ·a clan.
A~d I notic~d in the "center field," a light-d~essed single;
man.
'T~as Charles F. Barker. rash and brave· on .fifteen held
his ground.
A perilous position, too, as H. D. Lyman found.
The latter, a great problem king I saw on twenty-five;
I thought he called to C.F.B. "Can you get through alive?"
Baker answered: "I don't know, it looks a little mixed,
If Janvier comes to seven now I fear I will be fixed."
Then Lyman said, ··suppose he does, I know what we can
·do.
98
There is George H. Powell brave, up there on thirty-two.
Although he is a single man, he'll rush to your relief.'"
At this I saw James Labadie make signals to his chief.
0
The battle opened: Hefter's side were first to start the fight.
And then they marched and countermarched and fought
with all their might. · ·
Although the "lusty boys in white" fought well, as all
could see.
They had to yield the checkere~ Seid. How? pray tell to me.
0 . H. RICHMOND.
Gr..,nd Rapids. Mich.
This is pronounced by expert draughtsmen to be the
finest poetical problem ever published.
SYSTEMATIC CHECKER RECORDS
·Please permit space in your v·alued column for a few
words regarding my checker scrap books, which I treasure
more highly than any of over 1.200 volumes in my library.
These. contain about 2.000 pages, well filled with every
kind of checker literature known. Each book is systematical-
ly indexed and tabulated. making it easy to refer to any
author. to any game or 'problem, or article, in a jiffy.
I'can also tell the text of any article: the setting ·of any
problem and the initial moves of same or the name of an
opening of game placed. etcetera. within a few seconds of
time. For instance: If one should ask what is the subject
matter of Jones' or Smith's a·rticle published in the Pittsburg
Leader during a certain year or month, I can answer him
quickly. If a certain game or problem is required 'tis quickly
arrived at.
From my experience a'nd observation there has been
a very sad neglect among players in the method of keeping
their records systematically arranged. I was in a near-by
club a few evenings since and one of the members asked
the secretary if he could refer to a certain game played
between "so and so," desiring to know how the game pro-
ceeded from a certain point. The secretary (a moderate
salaried man) looked wise and went in quest of the informa-
tion thro.ugn the sqap-book rou.te. In ju~t 48 minutes (dur-
ing which many hurry-up calls were..made) he returned
with the proper scrap book (scrap heap) with the game
and annotations. Had we our "scrappings" at hand we
could have given the member the desired information in
fewer seconds than it took minutes through this. paid secre-
tary of the club. who, apparently, had little else to do than
run such matters in a getatable manner. -
System, pure and unadulterated, is the watchword. It
covers many evils and without it nobody ca!l make business
a success. Let it be your New Year's resolution in · all
things; it pays better than costly gems-'tis priceles-s.
Of. a stormy night, when not caring to venture to the
club or other places of amusement, we -take out the "old,
familiar friends" and find so many things of interest that
the midnight hour comes on ere we are aware that a late
hour has arrived. This shows that the time given in reading
and re-reading these old pages has not passed drearily
but, on the contrary, most pleasantly. We familiarize our-
self with some old game; re-establish in mind the solution
to some intricate problem. but best of all re-read the· writ-
ings of a favorite author, those that appeal to our heart
yearnings most. The games and problems are by the thous-
cinds. a considerable number of which are as dfy as a bone
of the Cambrian period, and.that is horribly dry. .
Many_ of the w·ritten articles are ...;ery instructive, full
of pithy sayings·, humorous to a degree. These are the kind
that send one fo his rest in happy frame of mind and a good
sleep generally follows. . ·
Long, extended, matter~of-fact articles rarely get an
audit from us, and more especially "the-to-be-continued"
kind that take us from a dozen to 20 columns before we note
the "concluded next week."
These, generally, are on subjects thrashed out 30. 40 or·
50 year·s agQ by the best masters ·and very little valuable
information is added to where the ·masters left off. They are
100
among the least valued of our entire collection and · 'tis
difficult to get i~to the hu~or of following them, being too
long drawn out, too wearisome for use.
Naturally, in· conning ·over these old books for years
past. we have become rather partiai t~ward certain authors
· whose names frequently appear the"rin. However. if we
were ·to be asked as to who appeals to·US most We would be
rather at a loss for an answer, there being so many who are
real shining lights in the checker world. If compelled to
na~e a few of our best· favorites we would answer Messrs.
R. A. Gurley, 0. H . Richmond. Charles Hefter, A. J. Heff-
ner. Willie Gardner". James P. Reed. J. R. Yoeman. James
Tonar, James Smith. Dr. Schaefer. .J. R. Richmond, Dr.
Brown, William Strickland and some others whc have done
great work for the game in all its bearings. Remember.
we are covering a period extending over fully two-score
years and are including everything in the line of checkers.
writings. games", sketches. problems, etc.
If we were selected to award the "iron cross to our
favorite trio. we think .Mesrs. Gurley, Richmond (0. H. )
and Hefter would bear off the honors. This is based purely
on "the whole chec~er combine" and not on any one parti-
cular branch of same. If we .were to· take simply problem-
making, or games played, ·or "writings, or squibs given. then
the cross might fall else"Yhere,· If taken . singly, Messrs.
Gurley and Richmond ·have given to the world but a small
percentage ~f 'games that Mr. Hefter has, but- what' their
deficiency has been ·in this respect they have fully made
up in other ways. · · · •
. . .
Of la_
te y~ars l\1r. Gurley bas been 'rather reticent as to
giving articles, games. problems, etc.; to the checker col-
umns, Age may have made its. inroads on him. There was
a time when a score of more papers, magazines. small
periodicals. fairly teemed with hi: "masterpieces," than
which none better existed. This many years ago. .
It would please a legion of your reader~ if he would
follow Mr. Richmond's example and publish his produc-
IOI
tions· from 40 years back down to the p~esent. and with
them let us see also what he looks like, and let him write
some of his more ~ecent experiences, yet unp\Jblished.. This
would be so pleasing to the talent. We J,ave pages of his
contributions given 25 to 40 years ago, dipped from fully
a score of th~ best columns then in existence and -include
about 100 problems of his making. · 'His article-"The·
Ramblings of a Checkerist"-:--~s one of the choicest morsels
in al! our books and will bear reading a dozen times; it
should be republished. ·
. .
His late articles published in the Leader, Salt Lake
Tribune, etc., are well worthy of his' admirable versatility.
though his writings of long years ago rather appeal to
us most. His descriptive powers· seem nearly ·endless. He
clothes each subject in new garb and he never ~ses tautology
-a rehashing of any previous article. His style is unique
and ever ·interesting. When.ever we see his name at the
head of a column we feel certain we have· a new treat
awaiting_.us and disappointment does not follow the perusal.
At one moment he is filled with sympathetic compassion.
as· it were; the next, we find him · qmstic, running. into
sarcasm, but never with the kind that wounds. We simplv
feel he is the favorite .over all. · · ·
While· he and Mr. Richmond are of different type in
their writing, yet eac.h has his peculia·r rare. wit,' _
and at
times both' are so humorous that it takes aday or. two
to get back to one's eqµili~rium. We never note resent-
ment in either; they are as gentle, mild. and har~less as
a dove ?f peace, thoug~ living conte~poraneously.
Mr. Richmond's dreams. Poe-et...J-c~l li~es and problems
are genuine pieces of attractfon that will never die-future
·generations· of players will sing his praises to the end.
His name app~ars in our books more than ~ny other and
we hope he will be spared to 'double the pages we already
have of him, as we hope all will.
Mr. John H. Finn is one of .our favorites. We greatly
appreciate his writings on the mastt:rs of the last century.
Anything from his pen is sure of a place in our books. Mr.
102
Harvey L. Hopkins do~s great good in trying to show the
young the pitfalls in checker life.
We can't extend further, we can't do justice to all in a
single writing. the list is long. Later on we may take them
up from a different point of view, and we hope interest-
ingly so.
Just at present we are waiting for the ·initial games
between Messrs. Jordan and Banks. The players he,re are
as enthusiastic over the match as the patrons of a scientific
boxing match and when· watching their favorite drop a
right or left-hander o.n his oppone~t.
Nobody regards the world's championship at stake in
the outcome of the match. It is not admitted even that the
American championship is actually at stake, there being a
player in Binghampton. another in Boston and still others
elsewhere who may dispute the right of championship
honors. When last in Scotland, sometime after Mr. Richard
Jordan's death, we heard much regarding the championship
emblem of the world.
Nearly all expressed their opinion that this emblem still
remains on Scottish soil, but when asked "where"-"by
whom held?" a ready answer was not given. We feel certain
that this feature will be thrashed out after the war is over
and then the real world's champion wi.11 be proclaimed.
May the best player take his knightly spures and wear them
in modesty. '
We have wrecked our motto-"Brevity in all things"-
and will now yield our pen.
103
Olney H. Richmond-Dameh's Wizard
A NEW YEAR'S GREETING
By .R. A. Gurley, Denver; Colo.
0-n Dameh's Field I once did dream of warrior bold.
L-ong years a mighty chief, by Mystic Muse foretold.
N-ever daunted me, though furious strife arose,
E-nraptured valor his, when conquering "secret foes,"
Y-ield unto him. in pride, the glory of a crown,
. . .
H-appless and heartless he who scorns him with a frown.
R-espect, with reverent awe, his countless battles won,
1-mbibe. with deepest thought, the wiles of Dameh's son.
C-heri~h, with knightly pride, this lord of art divine,
H-onor his deeds of Jove. inspired at Dameh's shrine.
M-ora) his lessons be, smiled at by Heaven,
0-Jympus' gods e'en smile in glee, when' proffend "knots"
are riven.
N-e'er shaJJ his glory fade-none can it mar ,
0-ameh reveres thee-thou: 0.H.R.
CRITICISM
John Clayson of Payson, Utah, submits the foJJowing
play .to draw and correct Tribune problem No. 165, by
0. H. Richmond:
Black-5, 15, 16. 19; king 28.
Whi.te-27, 31: kings 12;·32.
Terms: White to play and win.
12-8 28-2i 20-16 25-30
15-18-a 32-28-c 32-28 15-18
8-11-b 23-32 16-11 20-25
19-23 28-19 22-25 19-23
11-20 18-22 11-15 28-2i
23-26
2i-J9
26-30
25-21
31-26
-Drawn
J9-2i
26-22
2i-19
(a) Mr. Richmond plays 5-9 here with the rema;k that Is is best.
I think 15-18 will draw.
8-12 . 5-9
18-22 2i-15
27-2i 16-19
31-27
22-26
27-23
19-M
23-18
26-30
(c) 12-16, 2i,19, 16-11, 19-15: drawn.
104
12-16
30-26
16-19
-Drawn.
JOHN CLAYSON.
Checker Editor. Salt Lake Tribune:-1 want to .use a
little of your valuable space in ~xtending my thanks ~o
such analysts as Gurley, Johnson, Vair and otheI" Denver
boys, as well as Hefter and others, who have kindly· cor-
rected _my fa~lty problems. · ·
Working as I do. entirely .alone. with 'no one to criti-
cise or play one side against .me, it is inevitable that .I
should overlook · a play occasionally, which turns out to
invalidate the problem. I try to make this percentage as
low as possible. ~s I dislike ab~ve . all things- to have the
boys work on a "blind trail,". bu't with the large number
I am composing it seems unavoida~le t~at· the number of
"flivv:ers" should be .larger than I wish it was. Therefor<!
the kind fellows who "candle my eggs" and thereby sort
out the bad ones are doing 'a distinct favor to me. as well
as the checker- public. I do not want .a faulty problem of
mine to ever get into a book and as far as I know· none
has. I can conscientiously say that I am not working for
reputation. I could have rem·ained out and have !~ft a fair
record to the checker world. but I put in- all this hard work
for. pure love of the game and. a desire to leave' all I can
behind me when I end- my earthly career.
0. i-f. Richmond.
"DAMEH'S WIZARD"
By 0. H. Ri~hmond. Chicago. lll.
I have read a~d earefully filed·away in the.An::hives of
Dameh the · New :Year'_s greeting by that ·".'eteran of the
checkered field; R. A. Gurley. Esq:, of· the Rocky Mountain
EagJes. Believe !Jle. it ta~es some s~ill to ·write an acrostic,
chained as one is by the sequenc~ of _
first Je~ters. ·
A man has a "poetic·licence" in su~h cases, they say,
so I presume Brothe_r Gurley availed himself of that when
he called me "Da·meh's 'Wizard." Thanks, .!llY _dear boy;
but I am not much of a wiz, at -least in checkers. I. make
too many blunders for a genuine all wool. yard wide. No.
1 wiz, such as the Wizard of Oz. for instance.·
.
·But this is not what I .started to say. Mr. Gurley,
by virtue doubtless ·of his aforesaid license. ·brings in some
allusions in that acrostk; which will be Greek. or· worse,
to the checker fraternity: none of whom know so much
about me as does our old friend G. For in~tance: what can
a disciple of Dameh make of line two? "Long years a
· mighty chief, -
.by Mystic Muse foretold." How CO!Jld they
5.uppose that I have been the chief of the Order of the .
Magi for the jurisdiction of the United States since 1888
and that, incredible as it ·may seem, .it was· f9retold long
before I was born that I was to hold that position? I am
· in a measure forced, now, to give this information, in order
to shield my old friends from unjust criticis~. ·
I just read in the Leader that we are to have his photo
in that splendid papeJ:'...I can hardly wait for the day to
come.
, Here I have been one of his particlu)ar. chum; fot 40
years or so, yet I do not know how he looks, to this day.
He may be an Apollo, or he may be as plain as the rule
of ·tJlree. I suspect the fo~mer: from .the fact that all the
ladies who have his pictures refuse to part with them "for
love or money." Even the one you are to publish, Mr.
Kerr, had to be borm~ed from a lady. J have been in hopes
that Mr. G.urley would get money ·enough ahead to have a
new negative taken. pretty soon. But with bu~~er up to 49
cents and mixed eggs graded from strictly fresh to strictly
rotten, bringing 41 to 71 cents, I do not see h~w the presi-
dent of "the R.M.C.A. is going to get ahead very much,
while the war lasts.
The Pittsburg Leader
·RICHMOND IN FIELD BY H.lMSELF
For · unique, pure-cussed, .brain-racking. · and brain-
wrecking ·compositions, the name of b. H. Richmond stands
in a field by itself. His versatile "pyrotechnics" are known
across 17 oceans, and every nati_
on he ·has penetrated has
its victims of despair in countless number, and 'tis possible
106
that in the asylums of the land may be found plenty who
say nothing from day to day, but, "Here's a Richmond."
we have gone almost ..dippy" over his non-plusing "fire-
works," and we hope . for the sake of tho~e who desir.e
to enjoy their holidays in peace ·and comfort that he will
give us a brief season of rest. After the first of the year
we will welcome his "trouble-maker's"-all will.
BY R. A. GURLEY
Denve~. Colo., Nov. 20, '1915.
0. H. RICHMOND, FAMOUS CHECK~RIST
In 1844. 71 years ago, in Michigan. 0. H. Richmond
was born. When 17 years of age he enlisted in the Four-
teenth Michigan infantry, and served four years during
the Civil.war. He began to play chess in 1863, played seven
years, and then promoted himself by enlisting in the checker
·field. At first he (like many others) thought it was "child's
play," but he soon learned bettel\. Being a druggist and
chemist. the possibilities of checkers appealed to him as a
mathematician. In 1871 he tried problem .com'position and
for 44 years he has kept at it, making several hundred.
which are in all the magazines and books. ·
Mr. Richmond resided in Grand Rapids. Mich., became
state checker champion and held it until 1888. when he
moved to Chicago. where he has since been located. He
sold his chemical and drug business .and became a lectur··-
on astronomy. chemistry and the higher mathematic::..
physics and kindred sciences. It w~s because t>f his work in
these branches that he was forced to ease up on checkers
until, having reached the point in life which many call
independence, the old fever returned; so here. we find him
back in the harness again. a 71-year colt who is setting
an example· for others to follow. There are a dozen other
players to whom Mr. Richmond's career points its finger.
saying "Go thou and·do likewise"-(who will be. the first
to take· the hint?)
107
A COMPETITION O~ WITS
Assuming that the countries of the rulers indicated in
the above dream· are A-B-E-F-G-1-R·T; give your opinion
of ·what square is occupied by each ruler."
Give the result of the battle: I(you furnish figures to
prove your statement, so much the better. If your interpreta-
tions are m~iled to me, I will chrefully examine all of them
and furnish a list of the competitors as a "list. of honor"
to be published in the-Pittsburg Leader. .The best orie will
be the winner· and stand at the head. But those who ·ijet
nowhere near the correct interpretation will not be listed.
Competition ends two weeks from date. when diagram
and solution will be published .in the Pittsburg Leader
March 5. 1916. Honor list one week1ater. Address,
. 0 . H. RICHMOND:
1726 Central Street. Evanston. 1ll.
PUZZLE PROBLEM
By 0. H. RICHMOND .
(Frmn the Oieckerist. 1887)
A game of checkers.once was played isi 1883•
Between a man named Robinson and his friend R.A.G.
It was a very pretty game; with neither one ahead,
Until it ~ame quite near the end, when R. A. Gurley said:
"I think I have the best o"f it; as one can see, ·
With my two Kings on four and five, and single man on
three."
_
"You may be right," said Robinson, "but I have got the
move,
AI)d ~hc;>ug~ ·my .·men are single ones. yet iartars they may
prove.
But ·I must move to· eleven now, for if to twelve I go.
You catch me. in a problem, by Spayth, of Buffalo." .
"Ah," said Gurley, "Rob, my boy, that mo'-'.e wa~ very fi11e.
I fear t'will let that other man from thirteen down to nine.
. . '
For if I move my single man, it lets you get a King,
And you.rs on twenty we'll change.off as sure as anything."
The end soon came, Rob drew the game,
But Gurley found next day·, oh, what a sin! he had a win
·by· 'a pretty piece of play. · '·
(*Leader Editor's Note-The. R.A.G. referred to 32 years ago is
. <'ur corres~ndent. R. A. Gurley. of Denver, Col.-W. T. K.)
108
WHAT IS A ·PROBLEM?
By 0. H. Richmond. Chicago, Ill.
I do not want to make .myself dis.agreeable by criti-
cisms. but would like to give my idea of :what constitutes
a problem. By way of. basis, let ·us take mathe.matics. To
. add up a l<?ng column of items in a day book . or · ledger
may require care and take 'time, but it ·is not a problem.
It requires no special talent oi analysis. Now let us take
algebra, a still more "occult". form of mathematics. .
X plus Y equals 7
X minus Y equals 3
This is no problem 'to ·an algebraist, _as he can instantly
find the value ,of each unknown quantity by addition.
But let us alter it somewhat:
X square plus Y eqiials 7 ·
Y square plus X equalil 5
What ~re the valu'e.s ~f X and Y·?
In this we have a true proble!X! .for, if one of your read-
ers should mail a solution, or ev·e~ the bare ans.wer to it:
to 2726 Central street, Evanston'. I should need no other
recommendation to know he was a·fine mathematician. '
r
. .
Now to. turn this to. draughts. I. will open a standarq
book, almost haphazard, and take one o.f the problems:
. .. \ ~
Black-14. 16. 21 ·
White-~8. 30. K23. White to play. and win.
This "problem'.' has been published in. two papers and
has now attained the classic positi9n of a book problem.
The solution .starts off 28-:H,' ~s obviqus as a street sign;
16-20, i3-27, .14-17, .clll naturaf. a11,d. ~evitable; 30-26. Why
not? Is there a .four~h rate player in the Chi2ago or Pitts_.
burg Checker· clµb ·but ·who· would s~e this in_ordinary
across-board· play?. This .cas~ is .only one of hundreds and
has only ~een taken haphazard as a sample.
. .
The point I wish to make is· that a "problem" should
contain some unusual move, or moves, which are not' easy
to ·find and that would be overlooked in ·ordinary ·play.
109
To solve such a problem requires talent and powers ol
analysis. Some problems are carried to an interesting posi-
tion by ignoring a shorter and much easier line. Of course.
t~is is through error. I have been cau'ght in this way my-
self. A sample of this is to be found in the· work of that
talented problemist, Drummond. Harsfall's 106.
· Black-3, 32, K19 ·
Whit~12. 27, K29. Black play and ~.
The play starts off with 3-7 and works along to a
beautiful win, 25 moves ahead. But 19-15 or eyen 19-16
wins right off as easily as taking pie from a baby. I wonder
how such obvious errors ever get so far as a book, although
they may easily get into a newspaper' column.
110
A .~ARROW ·ESCAPE
E.xprreuly for 'the.DERRY NEWS.
by 0. H. Richmoncf. Gra"'f Ra,,W. Michigan
Martin McCarrick, of Elmira.' New York.
The Sunday Tidings man
At checkers can ·play,
The livelong day, ·
And go without his 'meals they say,
But I hardly think he can.
The Sandusky Regi~ter has a man.
Erastus H. by name, · .
The column to run.
For love and fun, .
And he makes it sparkle like the sun,
The Sunday Sun. of fame.
But this is not exactly the thing
I started out to write,
What· I wished to say..
Was about soQle play, ·
That occurred between these two one day
Or rather late one night.
. .
They had played foul' hours and a half.
Without an intermission,
Then chanced to strike .
In a Bristol-Dyke,
. A game not very strong for white,
The following posit!on.:
PQSITIOI'il NO. 289
Black 3, 9. Kings 20, 31.
White 5, 11. 17. 30
As the wily Scot o'erlookeCi the board,
Deciding where· to play,
. He said, "No doubt .
I'm put to rout, ,
That ·man of mine ·is up the spout,
Make whatever move l may."
Said Huntington, "I guess you're right.
You'r 'gone .up, 'as you say,'
But strange to tell,
Mac played so well,
He forced a draw in spite of-well,
The best that black could play.
ti I
POSITION N0.140-PUZZLE.PROBLEM
Expn:s,,ly for THE CHECKERIST
by 0. H. Richmond. Grand Rapilb. Mich. ·
A game of checkers orice was played .
In eighteen eighty three, ·
Between a man named Robinson
And bis friend. napied R.A.G.
It was a very pretty game,
With neither one ahead,
Until it came quite ~ear the end
W.hen R. A. Gurley said,
"I think I have the best of it,
As any one can see, ·
With my two kings on fo~r and five
· And single man· on three," . ,
"You may be right," said .Robinson, ·
''But I have got the move ·
And though my men are single ones,
Yet, Tartars they may prove ·
But, I must move to eleven D0\11.'.,
For if to twelve I go
You will catch me in a problem .
By Spayth, of Buffalo.'~ ·
"Ah!" said Gurley, "Rob, my boy,,
That move was very fine.
I fear 'twill let that other man
From thirteen down to nine. ·
Ior if I move my· single man.
It lets you get a king.,
And yours .on twellty we'll-change off.
.As sure as anything.'.' · .
·The .end soon came, Rob drew· the .game,
But Gurley found next day,
Oh, What a sin! he had a win, ·
·By a pretty piece of play_.
. \
. .
Four years· have passed, and Gurley last,
On Denver's heights was seen.
While jolly "Rob," stills loves a "Prob,"
· In the classic ."Southern Queen,"
But you can bet, that.neither yet,
Forgets the games and fun .
Of former days, when we and Maize,
All took the Sunday Sun.
112
A POE-ETICAL POE-SITION
· By O. H. Richmond
As I sat one evening dreaming,
On checker problems schem~ng, ·
Trying to invent a screaming problem,
as in days of .yore. ·
I though 'tis useless trying
For new enigmas spying. ' · ·
As all the best positions were published
long before; .
Useless tryi~g any mo.re !· ..
t • .
I though of many checker tricks, ·
And set two Blacks on ten and six,
And then, as an appendix, l"-added
two more-
On ftfteen placed a White man, . -
On ·nin.eteen set a light man;. · ,
Then it was I no~iced a ·simple rpw
· of four, . ·
Just a row and nothing more.
.•
On fourteen sat a· Black ·King; .
Thought .I.""This is a slack thing. · .
Unless· I make a crack thing by ·adding
·one man more:· . .
So a m~n .on six and .twenty
I· placed, and then had plenty.
And as I moved the King and played it o'rr.
Black just won·, and nothing more.
PITTSBURGH LEADER PROBLEM NO. 1670
Blac:k--0, 10. King-Ii.
White-15, 19, 26.
Black to play and win.
11'1
REMINISCENCE
By 0. H. Richm.ond. Grand Rapids, Mich.
I will relate a circumstance,
· That~happened years ago. ·
In connection with the "noble game,"
Between two gentlemen of fame.
Whom man·y of you know.
The game had been a red-hot one,
A Bristol or a Fife, ·
But I cannot now recall the name,
Of this individual game
To save my very .life.
L. M. "Sterns, of the DERRY NEWS
For Blacks was engineer, ·
While Stephen T. of the Cbeckerist,
Was giving him a friendly tY1ist
For a glass of lager beer.
This conversation did ensue,
As the latter end drew near,
Said Stephen T .. "It seems to me,
Although I'm only two to three,
I ought to draw, it's clear.'.'
'Tll move my king to ~wenty, now,
So you~ man on sixteen, there,.
Will have to climb for all that's out
And then I'll make it hot, no doubt,
For that man on fifteent~ square."
Stearns scratched. his head, and slowly said.
"My boy-you may be right,
My king on two, can nothing do,
To help my single men get through.
So I can win the fight.'' .
''And there's your man on twenty-five,
But-that is all correct,
For if you look in Lyman's book,
You will find wins by hook or crook .
. When such you'd least expect."
Now brothers all, both· .short and. tall,
Who love all neat. positions, ·
I wish to say. please find the ~ay,
That L.M. forced a win, by play,
Under these conditions. ·
Black 15, 16, King 3. White 25, King 20. Elmira Tidings.Elmira, N. Y.
114
In this line of problem compositiOJ! Mr. Richmond has no eq~al.
Tf space permits we -will give another of his beautiful compositions.
lately published in the Checkerist, by Stephen Terry. Tavares, Flor~da.
.SOLUTION TO REMINISCENCE
By 0. H. Richmond, Published Dec. 18th.
A solution to Richmond's· Reminiscence was published in the
TIDINGS Dec. 25th. showing a white win, but Eziam thinks the result
shown justifies a draw. What say ye, eagle-eyed critics.
.
AMENDED SOLUTION TO A REMINISCENCE
Friend Richmond let me think awhile
·And mem'ry's record's sc.an.
And I will solve in old-time style
Your problem, if I can,
From Sunday sun of days gone by
I catch a flittin~ gleam.
I see it all in mem ry's eye.
'Tis Richmond's famous dream.
Black goes to nineteen with a rush
And white on sixteen stands.
To twenty-three the black men rush
Whilst white extenas his hands,
And compels black for safety's sake
In square eighteen to- rest.
White follows fast a man to take
Defying still black's best,
On thirty-one black makes a king
And let the 9dd man go,
The whites to eighteen promptly spring
·Defying still the foe.
But to twenty-sev'n keen and· swift
. The black king wends his way.
To twenty-one the black men shift ·
Content to save the.day.
But now steps forth a king- from two,
A monarch dark and grim,
. And in spite of all that skill could do,
Whites hopes grow faint and dim
Theil:.·sole resource is to fourteen, .
.Black goes to twenty-three,
And by their movement, swift and keen,
Is strong as strong can be, '
From twenty..-one the white· man goes
Grasping all that's in it._ ·
11i;
.
The battle now draws to 8 close,
Neither side can V{in it,
Else Allen, Hefter, Lyman Broy.rn
Have missed the situation,
And I at checkers am a clown
A double aggravation. ·
.-Ezism.
ANSWER TO EZIAM'S CRITICISM
Published in the TIDINGS of Jan. 8th.
_
Turn backward, 0 "Eziam,"
Turn back in thy flight
And be my friend Joseph
Just for to-night.
An "eagle-eyed critic,"
I know you to be,
But the point to your _poem
I'm blessed if I see.
The words are well chosen
In the language of song,
And the playing correct. -
As far ·as you've gone,
With black king twenty-three
/\nd another on six,
I think the white ones
Are in a bad fix.
With a man seventeen.-
And fourteen a king.
1 move·to nineteen
While to eighteen. you swing.
Six to nine I then move
And the dickens· is in it,
If Brown, Lyman, Hefter
Or Allen can't win ·it.
Grand Rapid.s, Mich.
0 . H. .RICHMOND
(The position which has call.ed o~t so much 'rhymed play. occurred
between L. M. Stearns· of the Derry News, and Stephen Terry of the
Checkerist. and was published in the TIDINGS December 18th. 1887.
It was contributed by 0 . H. Richmond of Grand Rapids. Mich.. and has
her.n copied in a number of the leading checker· papers.-Checker Editor
Elmira Tidings.) ·
116
SPECIAL NEW ,YEAR'S .PRO-LEI
PITTSBCUG LEADER PROBLEM NO. 1580
By 0. H. Richmond, Chicago, Ill.
Black-11. 16, 20,
1915
, White--10, 80.
White to play and draw.
"Don't waate all rour flower• qn the dead. Throw
~ t_ew bouquet• to the live on•• or;ice In & while."
1·consider ,this problem about the most remarkable case
o~ holding at bay a. force superior to itself by 50 per cent,
~ have. ever seen;considering that white has no king and the
board free. to both sides, Not that it is hard to. solve, nor
that it contains brilJiant 'play, 'yet white does well to "save
his bacon.." . ·
0. H. RICHMOND.
Here is a problem for
1
the My&tics to. try their skill on.
It is a simple lesson in occultism: Occult until you find the
soluti.on. .: . ' . . '
I have it.
A. R. .
117
0. H. RICHMOND
Much interest has been awakened .of late regarding the
magic. square of "16"-and owing to the large number of
the 15 puzzles that are owned by individuals throughout
the country, nearly every one can amuse himself by con-
structing such squares. Benjamin Franklin spent con-
~iderable time investigating the subject. and concluded that
there could be but 128 different squares made that would
add up J4 in all the I0 lines. However. the contrary has
been proved by a man in Chicago who constructed 245 of
them. But within the last month this has been completely
thrown in the shade by 0 . H. Richmond. of Pierson. in this
state, who has with the assistance of a young man named
\Villiam Barrenger succeeded in constructing the unpre-
cedented number of 6,65~. no two alike. and they have them
all recorded in a book for any one to examine.
The above article was published many years ago while
Mr. Richmond still lived in Pierson, Michigan. I believe
he ,. as still in h1~ twenties. There is no date with thi'i
11em found •n an old scrapbook. To those of us who have
some conception of the number of tarots discovered and
1 ecorded hy this milthmatical wizard, the mere Hgures of
6 656 looks like ci gram of sand on the shores of Eternity.
My intentions were to write something here about tarots
;ind to show off some of these wonders pulled out of the
infinite. hut I linc;l that in order to do any kind of justice
to the suh1ect. 1t will require too many pag~s for this little
l'ook. Some time in the not too distant future, I hope to
\.jet out a complE'te work on tarots alone. I have in my
possession thousands of tarots or magic squares, that have
never been published. There are the 3x3, the 4x4 or birth
tarots. and the 5x5 or the Pentads. also known as the
Pyramid tarots. The Pentads are the most used in magic:
from the fact that they fit the zo.diac in .so many ways.
The Geometry of !arots came in with the new· Jurisdic-
tion and was not known prev!ous to 1844. Because I have
handy some of the original drawings ·made by Mr. Rich-
118
mond in 1919 when he and I got out the last edition -of
"The Mystic Test Book," I will have a few plates 'made
from these same drawings. Should the reader be particularly
interested in Tartology, the back part of this work by
Mr. Richmond, treats quite extensively on the subject.
I can only attempt to show a few of these wonders. All
lines in the mathmatical expression. add up 65. In the 5th
and 10th chapters of the book of Revelations, are to be
found prophesies relating to Mr. Richmond and the opening
of the "Little Book" which led to these and many other
wonders.
ARLINE L. RICHMOND. ,
THE KYSTIO TBBT .BOOK.
)
_,..._
-
I
;("
-~
'7]1, '
.V
'111
II + *
x ~ · v
~ UlaJUOB
or T••
STARS,
120
¢" Q -
11R . J\
X.
.ffJ '
z > "N
. ~ II
+· x
II· tJ
l. _LI. L ~o
,, II I ~' (
- - - .
S- 11 'I Ill U
- ··-,-
f: ,. /.":_ .1~1 1~-
' II l.L I, IO J
......1
~00
O<: 0
o<3 o o
4 a.I
•••••
••••
~ ..
r 1' J" 7
tr ,,.. f" l/f
J.r JI ,, I
/Z z. 1<r ZL
,, 1 11 ZI
'I- 14- ~ Ir
/~ Zt.. I~ ,l.
,[~ I 13 ~J
./' 7 k
"'
II ZI
'
,
THE MYSTIC TEST BOOK.
11 ;- 7 lo I' 1r ¥
~~ If Iii ~ Ir
""
s-
J lti I /J tJ ,. l;
II /Z. Zz. /y ;!. // It.
11"
,
If 1-1
' f 10 If
. .
lrf . l..'f
l
y I I""! #
/'f /'!-
// 17 7 ~o /~ s--· 7
.J J I l:J LJ LI'] lt.
I' II 1L IY z /t_;. I
'" I." ZI
' f If J.J
121
19 ~ Ir ~_!J_
7 tc
I' 17
.
I 1.3 ZJ .j
zz. I~ z. II
/,/ (, 1 /4
J.lf f 'f Ir
I? 'J.di
' '"
J /.J .2s- z.
II If It- ~J
/(}
' If 1
ZZ!
-....a....., ...I' .,. ... ,. 'lftutl 'flU9 <
X·I .X.
~-· ~ t••·-..,
X I.X
J ...I/ ~- ,, f~
II '1 ;,~ I.' Qf
---
...p 1-r S'/ ~ "
41 .n " 1-sr '¥1
,~~ .a 011 "'1
•••
0 •••
:
D
..
~
..1; j..; ' 11 rt ~' -" ' .Jr,!..!_
r " .,+r 11 n /1 1.1 111 r 01
i IT S'/ J II 7 11' r/ I. Tt
1--1---1-- --1--1 - - --1--:-1
" ~1 7 J c1' J .JI 1 I" r r
11 -& 0'7 r~'-1 ~r -1 07 *I~
THE .MYSTIC TJ!:ST .BOOK.
»'BlEi .........
.THE MYSTIC.TEST· ~OOK.
111 J!o
·
.13
12i
. THE MYSTIC TEST BOOK.
125
This is about the last picture taken of Mr. Richmond
before he passed away. Although he looks happy, th~
tired look is there also. Miss Richmond also was begin-
ning to show the strain of overwork. Classes were too
large in those days, members lacked genuine interest in
the Temple work. Mr. Richmond's health was beginning tc
fail. due largely to three attacks of the Influenza suffered
by Miss Richmond, who was his sole companion and
manager of the Temple work.
It was at this address, one floor up, that Mr. Richmond
collaspsed on March 21st, 1920. He passed away March 30.
126
Generic I Q •
Class f µ RA/ TO
MATHEMATICAi.- EXPRESSTON.
Geometric
biJJ- l~i_&_l_L_g_
Form Number
J4=~ 3_ Jj_!J_Q_ _J_Li_!_i
Number Fauna
1 l §3 l-1tln
<ind Recorded IL
'jj/
_j_!J ~ 1 _,~ I / g-
l.EstimatedNum- I l
ber Possibfe - - - - - -
I
tCl I '
!rlo o Jo ~3 i 1t
Mates add' twe.nty•siic; and are united by lines.
All the twelve lines mmst add sixty-five each.
127
Mr. Richmond, on Lake Superior, inventing a chess ..Prob."
Miss Richmond tuning h~r violin. Another "Prob.. so close to the water.
128
This is the simple summer
cottage-the place prepared of
God, on the great lake of the
Northland - Well, Mr. Rich-
mond and I built it with au:
ov.-n hands. We each had a
hammer-that was a help-we
also had a saw and a jack
knife. Another year we built
on the back porch. Then Mr.
Richmond made the lattice
work enclosing the foundation.
I still like the looks of that
chimney. That and the fire-
place were the hardest part of
the job. Together we spent
six summers there to escape
the hayfever and asthma. I
have since spent many hours
in meditation there. It is the
only home I have on earth.
Dispensing truth is not exactly
a paying job as yet.
Old Lake Superior almost got away v.ith this house. a few years <
back. It is not any too safe even now. l hope it will last so loryg as I do.
129
.._.
v>
0
This was taken al ci picnic in Evanston, June 1916. Many of these have since passed ciway.
Mr. B. C. Peterson, a former Grnnd Magea o[ the llrsl tlm:c dc11rccs or !he Diamond quarter,
is holdinu the Tridl'nt. His wife Mary, is th(' h,rndsonw plump l.idy in the front row. Mr.
Sanyor is holdinH the spear. I see Rolwrl and \Villiam Johnson, Cl'or11i;1 and Lucile Cli<'nowcth,
Mrs. Chenoweth. Mr. Bak<'r ;md Miss BakC'r, Mr~ . Lenze' and Lillil' \lirl. Frn;i Lunde. Mcrti!'
Peterson, H;irrict P;ilmcr. Dr. Nutt, i\lis~ l\nnic (kkly, Pa11l and E111111,1 Sack111;i11. Prrd Owen
Ci;11;1 l\e;1r. t\rli11,· P1d1mo11d \\·e;1r111\J li.i• ;ind 1n 1· D.id. "/\ ll<'"'' r111H' w:i' Ind hv ;ill."
Here is another group. A bit dark, but interesting just the same. Mr.
Richmond and Mr. Peterson are in the center. Down in the front row
is my old friend, Ted Bear. You pick out the rest.
Thi:> was an unusually nice picnic. All went very well until some of
cf the guests complained of hunger. That almost spoiled the party.
Mertie Peterson found an old frying pan, held it over some paper, while
I took the picture. Everyone was agreed that that would solve our
problem, except the small boy to the left.
131
In closing this Pictorial Review, I have two more showings of
recent date. Last February 22, 1944, the Grand Temple, Order of th.:
Magi, celebrated the one hundreth birthday of Olney H. Richmond.
It was the finest affair of any held in the present incarnation of the order.
I believe the program and pictures speak for themselves.
Not every o::e pre~ent is in the picture-I am sorry about that.
but it cou!d not be helped. We all had a wonderful evening. I feel sure
that we will long remember the charm ancl beauty of that event
THE GRAND TEMFLE ORDER OF THE MAGI
Jt msn'.CTION u . s. AMER"CA
Olney H.
Richmond
Founder
Miss Arline L.
Richmond
[ upt t:'ml:' Rl l" CJnh·1
64 W. Randolph
St.
Chicago. Ill.
"Jn My Father's House There Are Many Mansions'"
CEl'ffENNIAL CELEBRATI0:'>1
oi the Birth Anniversary of Olney H. Richmond
February 22. 1944
7:45 p.m. to 8 p.m. Mr. Rich:noncrs Fa vorite Selections:
Piano - Norrine Godin
Violin - Victor DeNicola
ORDER OF CEREMONY
8:00 p.m. ........................................................................ Temple Ode No. 15
Invocation
Why we are gathered here
Impressions of our Grand Magea, Our Founder and Leader
Violin and Piano selections ........................................ To be announced
Poem ···············-··················· Christian Kjelsoe
A Greeting ............................ Carl 0. Larson
Temple Ode No. 18
The First Hundred Years .... Miss Richmond
Temple Ode No. 16
Lighting the Altar in Commemoration of Our Founder
Olney H. Richmond
Star of the East ................................................................ Victor DeNico!a
Temple Ode No. 14
A Prayer
Photographer
Invitation to join the Grand ·March and cut the Birthday
Cake.
132
133
134
This is the temple Mr. Richmond had built soon after
e opened the work in Chicago. The building is located
i the 42nd block in Washington Blvd. It has been re-
a
odeled into a two .Rat building.
This was the place where so many came to meet from
11 parts of the world in the Gay Nineties. · , ·
135
THE WORD
am the Law, expressed by evolution,
In secret order, without end or change
rule supreme. no chaos nor confusion
Exists within my universal range.
built the world, and laid its first foundation;
My hand divine all things therein has wrought.
By constant change of form. without creation-
! am your master and your servant both.
I fill the Earth with sunshine and with showers,
I am the spirit flame in nature's breast
That breathes upon the soil. and lo, the flowers
Unfold their leaves-and life is manifest.
Each single drop throughout the mighty ocean
Bears my design to which the whole complies;
write my name with every atom's motion,
' Within the Earth and out in yonder skies.
I fill the depths of heaven, undivided
I dwell in each most minute grain of sand;
By me each planet's fate must be decided
I hold the solar system in my hand.
I seal man's fate and plan his mortal mission
At dawn of life, where first his infant breath
Proclaims him bound to Earth, till by transition
He shall retur~ beyond the gates of death.
I made the arrows found in Cupid's quiver,
I also taught him how to use his bow
To reach man's heart and bid life's rushing river,
Come, join the fountain of Love's gentle flow.
I square life's circle where three points united
Embrace, around the sun, the sacred nine:
am the Lord, your prophets have invited,
I am the father, son and ghost divine.
137
My earthly reign, in past,and distant ages,
With new predictions for the coming race,
Is but an index of progrenive stages.
Expressed in Time, in Matter and in Space.
I Roat upon the wings of zephyrs vernal.
Again I ride stern winter's raging storm:
My royal scepter rests 011 Mind Eternal,
As architect of motion and of form .
. am the source of every soul's desire,
My thirteen points embracing all its parts;
Through water and through earth, and air and flre,
I rule in spades, in diamonds, dubs and hearts.
am the Christ. perchance the unexpected,
All mystic light, all life and love is mine.
1 am the WORD. long lost, DOY! resurrected,
And placed within the circle, in your shrine.
IJI
