{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__lonk___manual_of_hypnotism_and_psycho-therapeutics.pdf","mytitle":"Manual Of Hypnotism And Psycho-therapeutics","mylang":"de"}
"The OrtgtnaL"
COMPLETE
S E V E N T Y - T W0 P A R T
MANUAL OF HYPNOTISM AND PSYCHO-THERAPEUTICS
AND ALSO
MYSTERIES OF TIME AND SPACE
by
Adolph F. Lank, D. c., Ph. c.
South Plum Grove Road,
Pal at t n e, Il l t nots, n. s. A.
Price
TWENTY-FIVE DOLLARS
Copyrighted
19 29
I 9 3 0
19~7
• •
Part
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
s.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13 .
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32 .
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
Table Of Contents
of
"The Orid/inal"
COMPLETE
Seventy-Two Part
MANUAL OF HYPNOTISM AND PSYCHO-THERAPEUTICS
And Also
MYSTERIES OF TIME AND SPACE
- 0 -
Introduction ............................................. .
Mesmer and Mesmerism ••••..•••.•.•••.••••••••••• , ••••••••••
The Phenomena of Hypnotism••••••••••• , , • , , • , . , • , •.• , ••••••
Medical Hypnotism . ...........•.....•......................
Tl'le Hypnotic Gaze . . .................................••..•.
Waking Hypnosis . ...........•...•. o • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
Hypnotic Passes ....................•......................
Perfumes And Their Use In Hypnotism•••••••••••••.. ••••• •••
Colored Lights And Their Use In Hypnotism•••••••••••••••••
Drugs And Their Use In Hypnotism••••..••••.•••••••••••••••
The Sleep Formula . .............. ... .- ...... ·~ ............... .
Hypnogenic Zones ........ ................................. .
Sixteen Ways And Means To Induce Hypnosis •••••••••••..••••
Apparatus For Inducing The Hypnotic State ••••.•••.••••••••
Nine W
ays And Means To Hypnotize Rapidly •••••.••..••••••••
Hypnotiz.ing Refractory Subjects •.••••.•••••.•• • .•••••••.••
How ~o Give Suggestions W
ithout Sleep••.•.•....•••.••..•.•
Hypnotizing In· Natural Sleep•••••.•.•..••••.•.••••..••••••
Post-Hypnotic Suggestions •••.•.•...•..•••...••..••..••••••
Seventy M
ore Ways And M
eans -To Induce Hypnosis •••..••.•.•.
How To Awaken The Subject •.••.••.....•• , .••.•.•.•.•.•.••••
How To Get Subjects ........................... ; .......... .
Stage Hypnotism ~Includes all spectacular stunts) ••...••••
How To Pick Good Subjects •..•••• , ••....••.••..••..•••••• ,.
The "Atomic Way" of Hypnotizing •••••.• ,, •••.•.••• , ••••••••
An Hypnotic Interlude .. .................................. .
The Philosophy Of Mental Healing ••••••••..••••.••.•..•••••
Psychotherapeutics And Somnotherapeutics •.•••.•..••••••.••
How Your Private Sanctum Should Be Arranged, •..•..••••.••• ,
How To Hypnotize Animals . ................................ .
Pseudo-Hypnotism And Tricks Of The Trade •••••••••.••••••••
Absent Treatment .............................•............
Psychology For Every-Day Success And Prosper ity •••••••••.•
Practical Applied Psychology •• , ••••••••••• , ••••• ,, •• ,,.,,,
Psychology Of Sex Attraction••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
How To Use Perfume To Advantage ••••••..•••••••••• ••• ••••••
How To Develop A Charming Personality•••••••••••••••••••••
Pa.ge
9
9
11
12
15
18
19
21
21
22
26
26
27
29
31
33
34
34
35
3 6
41
41
42
47
48
49
50
51
555
~5
56
62
62
64
65
66
66
Pa.rt
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61_
.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
(Contents Continued)
Practical Telepathy • ..•..••.....•..•.•.•••.•.•.•......•••.
How To Attr.act What You Want •••.••••••.•••••• • ••••••••••••
How To Succeed As A Public Speaker ••••••••••••••••••_••••••
How To Overcome The Tobacco Habit •••••.•••••.•••••..••••••
Practical Control or Your Destiny•.•••.•.•••••• • ••••••••••
How To Make Yourselr Invisible •••.••••••••••.••••••••••••••
Practical Application or Sound ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Music That Can Kill Or Cure (Music Therapy) •••••••••••.•••
How To Hypnotize Yourselr •••••••••••••.••••••••••••.••••••
How I Hypnotize . .............•.............•............•.•
Producing Hallucinations ••••••••••.•.•••••••.••••••.•.••••
Age Regression Through Hypnosis •••.•••••••••••••••••••••••
A Short Lecture On Hypnotism•••••.•..••.••.••••••••.••••••
Eighteen Ways To Get To Sleep•••.••••••.•••.•••••.••••••••
Practical Auto-Suggestion Without Sleep•••••••••••••••••••
Things You Should Know To Become A Successrul Hypnotist •••
Philosophy Of Medicine . .................................. .
Hypnotism, Medicine; And Health••••••••••••••••.••••••••••
Views On Hypnotism. ....................................... .
Adventures In Psychicism•••••••••••••••••••••••••••.••••••
Oriental Magic or Yogi Philosophy•••.•••••••••••••••.••-•••
Hypnotism In Surgery .. ..........•..................... •'• •.
Hypnotism Produces Vision In Crystal Ball. •••••••••.••••••
How To Make Money Out or Hypnotism••••••••••••••••••••••••
Practical Sug~estion or How To Control Others •••••••••••••
Buried Alive tSuspended Animation) ••••••••••••••••••••••••
Controlling Death. ......•............................•....
Mwmny Juice .......................•............ . .......•..
psycho-Ge:qic Christianity•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Practical Crystal Gazi1 •• ~ •••••.•••••••••••••••••••••••••
Finer Forces or Nature The Human Aura, etc.) ••••••.••••••
Practical Iridiagnosis How To Read The Eye) ••••••••••••••
Practical Num.erology . .............•.•. .......•...•. ,, ...... .
Voodooism or Black-Magic And Witchcrart •••••••••••••••••••
Hypno-Tips (Things or interest) •••••••••••••••••••••••••••
Page
68
69
70
72
74
74
75
77
79
79
81
82
83
84
86
87
90
91
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
100
107
107
109
114
115
115
120
122
128
JDr. J\bnlpq 3J;.1![nnkt ~nutq Jlum ®rntte ~nabt Jalatinet 11llhtoist lfl. ~. _\.
Ambitio.us Friend:
Your remittance for the book, which accompanies this letter, is
evidence that you are the kind of person who will recognize the value
in, and will get the value out ·of this bo9k.
Unlike the person who expects something for nothing, you will
profit by all of the parts or divisions of _ :this book, each loaded to
runnine; over with information.
Mere reading will not satisfy you. You will want to work it out
carefully, step by step, each day growine? a little more proficient in
tne art of hypnotism.
No matter what you have studied before , you will find in this book,
suggestions, aids, helps, new knowledge gleaned .from the obscure corners
of the hypnotic world, that will repay you over and over, if you will
but ta.ke the time to study long, carefully, deeply, and conscientiously
into the h i dden mysteries of hypnoti sm that may now become plain and
understandable to you.
When uncertain and puzzled over knotty, p erplexing problems in
hypnotism, this book will serve as a reference that will never fail you,
Prove yourself a worthy companion and co~wo~ke r in the noble field of
hypnotism .
I feel sure that you will measure up to the high standard of a
conscientious student and benefactor of humanity.
Cordially and fraternally your c ,
Adolph F. Lank, D.C., Ph.C.
This book is dedicated to all
hypnotists, suggestionists and
healers of the world who by their
untiring efforts are elevating the
art and science of hypnotism and
suggestion to a professional plane.
Adolph F. Lonk, D.C., Ph.C.
CAN Y0 U BE TRUS T ED WI T H P 0 WE R?
Because one can soon learn to control others by putting into practical use
information contained in this book, the author will not knowingly· permit same to
fall into the hands of minors, curiosity seekers or the unscrupulous. It is the
autho~s sincere wish that the wonderful Science of Hypnotism and Allied Studies
as taught here in be used for good only and never for a diabolical or criminal
purpose.
Y0 U R S UCC E S S I S AS S URE D
For a few years all people coming into this world live :in it as they find it.
Then a few commence to think and make effort to control their destini es. You are
one of these people. You are wide awake, intelligent, have imagination, courage
and faith in your ability to accomplish wonders. Because you can think wisely,
quickly and intelligently is the reason you have chosen this book to study of all
other books. You are destined to make a remarkable success of your life. You
will let nothing stop you to become a grand success. You will take my word for
it that you can have anything you want, yes anything. You need but to carefully
study this book of practical information and put into practice that which it
teaches. This then makes you a typical Lonk Student of the wonderful Science Of
Hypnotism and Allied Studies and so a master of your destiny. Therefore, you at
once will c ommence to attract to yourself Health, Happiness, Power, Success and
Pros ~erity .
Adolph F. Lonk, D.C., Ph.C.
~-·
BEWARE
This entire book is copyrighted, and can-
not be copied, loaned or made the basis of
sale, barter or exchange. All rights are re-
served. No part of this book, text or illus-
trations, may be reproduced in any form with-
out the written permission of the publisher.
Persons infringing will do so at their own
risk.
Copyrighted 1947
by
Adolph F • .Lank, D.C., Ph.C.
REVISED THIRD EDITION
The extreme enthusiasm with which the first and second editions of t his work
was received encouraged the author to revise it, and to enlarge, improve , and to
clarify it in some particulars. While the first and second editions of this work
won nation-wide popularity and a tremendous sale, this edition it i s expected
will far surpass the first. A friend and collaborator recently said this of this
work: "Dr. Lank, I have been a student 9f hypnotism ever since I was a me re boy.
I have practiced hypnotism . as a means of entertainment and aid to f r iends for
years. I let no opportunity go by to . learn more about the subject. Therefore, I
have taken paid for and studied -- about every course that was ever offered
for sale, and I can say this for your work, that it has everything in i t t hat the
rest put together have and then some, and you have presented it in a s impler~
plainer, more comprehensive and interesting manner than any I have ever s t udie d.
This is truly a tribute f .rom one who knows, and it is partially responsible for
the enthusiastic, conscientious work which Dr. Lank has put into this n ew revised
edition of his work on hypnotism and allied studies.
194 7
LIMITED EDITION
Privately Printed
and
Published
by
Adolph F. Lank, D.C., Ph.C.,
Palatine, Illinois, U.S.A.
PART ONE
I N T R 0 D U C T I 0 N
The first cause of health and its opposite, sickness, is mental. The uncon-
scious or as it is better known, the subconscious mind has control of all bodily
functions and keeps the body in perfect;- health if it is not interfered with. The
fact that cures are effected by all schools of healing and in many cases by none
of them, be those schools of medicine, diet, manipulation, faith or what not,
proves beyond a possible · doubt that _ these cures were not brought about by the
particular method used, but by the fact ~hat all these schools utilized the same
principle - that of arousing and stimulating into action the indwelling principle
which admittedly does .the work .of healing, and, whatever method is used, it works
by the principle of suggestion, · and all _
these methods can serve no other way than
as suggestion to the subconscious mind. ··
It should be clear, then, that hypnotism which lays hold of this- indwelling
life principle, this subconscious. mind, at a time and under conditions when it is
the most sensitive fo suggestion as during sleep or a very relaxed, passive, re-
ceptive condition when the ·conscious mind is completely side-tracked, is the most
logical and effective method of treatment.
The condition of hypnotism, differs in no particular from ordinary sleep,
except that it is artificially induced by suggestion. . Ideas planted in the sub-
conscious mind during the time the conscious mind is off guard, are the most ef-
fective. That is why many consider the · speedy results that follow hypnotic
treatment as miraculous.
Remember that any intelligent person who applies himself can become a good
hypnotist just as he can learn to play any musical instrument or to st~dy to be-
come a doctor, lawyer or chemist. Study and practice does it.
Steady your nerves. If you are nervous others will become so too by watch-
ing you. Keep a clear head, steady hand and employ a positive tone of voice
while experimenting.
Be business-like as you go about your. work. Never hesitate to do the next
thing. If you are not sure that you know what is to be done next, do something
even if it is only to give you time to recall the proper thing to do. Hesitation
causes subject to lose confidence in your ability, making him think you do not
know your business.
The difficult task is to hypnotise your first subject.
simple process and becomes more so after each success.
After that it is a
Information given to you in this book· or any other ever published will_prove
of no value to you unless you make use of same. The more you study and practice
the greater will your returns be on your investment. ~ou can make this book mean
nothing to you, or you can make it mean much. Sit down for a few minutes where
you will not be disturbed and think the matter over. I want you to make up your
mind at this sitting that you are going to be successful; that this book of in-
struction will help you through life. - ·
Make up your mind that this is true and if you will act upon this suggestion
you will find your work much easier. Bear in mind that what others can do and
have done, you too can do. Soon y.ou will be able to exercise an influence over
others to an extent of which you now little dream. ·
PART _TWO
M E S M E R A N [} ME S ME R I S M
The phenomena known as hypnotism today is older than man since the same
phenomena applies to animals.
In the 17th century, Father He'll, -. a Jesuit, and professor of astronomy at
P.age 9
the University of Vienna, became famous through his magnetic cures. He used mag-
netized iron plates of ~ peculiar snape which he a~pli ed to the naked body of the
patient to procure results.
At this time, Friedrich Anthony Mesmer studied Father Hell's system and too
obtained gratifying results. It was shortly after he parted witn Father Hell
that he adopted the theory of animal magnetism.
"SVENGAL'I"
Mesmer soon threw away h is mag-
nets and instead used passes. Ani-
mal magnetism became the vogue in
Viepna and the medical frate r nity
there secretly waited for an oppor-
tunity to run Mesmer out of town.
After Mesmer successfully restored
sight to a blind girl who was ac-
cording to otner medical men about,
ingura.bly blind, these doctors
poupced ~pon Mesmer and n ot only
succeeded in causing the girl to
again go blind but also made Mesmer
:i_eave Vienna.
Mesmer then left for Pari s. In
paris the French Academy of Medicine
refused to recognize him, and so,
disgusted,/ with their treatment of
hinl. he d~cided to quit all pretense
of pract!cing medicine and went i n to
charlatanism in a wholesale manner.
In the year of 1778 he start ed his
remarkable clinic where 'ooth patients
and pupils flocked to him from every-
where. Even members of the Royal
Court were among his patients .
At first Mesmer used what was
called a "valet toucheur," a r od i n-
vested w~th power. With this rod he
treated various diseases wit h ex-
cellent results. As busines s in-
Wtl ton Lackaye, veierqn actor who created creased he invented the famous
"Trilby" and tn which he appeared as "baquet," a large oaken tub a.t the
Sven~alt. bottom of which was a layer of pow-
dered glass and iron filings over which were several laye;rs of bottles l ying on
their sides and with their necks directed toward the center of the tub while the
second layer had their necks directed tow~rd the circumference . The tub was
filled with water and in a lid that fitted snugly were many holes from which pro-
trud,ed hinged iron rods with which the patients could touoh any diseased part of
their podies and so treat themselves.
Extreme silence was maintained, ~he pati ents were arranged around the
''baquet" and connected with each other by cords passed around the waist a nd also
by a c~ain formed by joining .hapds. Burning of expensive 1ncense was noticed in
the air. Aeolian harps sighed melodiously from a distance. Rich stained glass
s~ed a dim religious light into this treating room which was almo§t covered with
mirrors. At the right moment Mesmer would appear garbed in a purple sil ken robe
and would assist in the healin~ by passing from one -patient to the other t ouching
them with the "valet toucheur.
More than once Mesmer created a great sensation in faris. The medical fra-
ternity became hostile and threatened to revoke his license to practice becaus e
he cured without medicine and refused to even pretend to co-operate with the
local doctors. He had been branded as a quack and a demon, and today, over two-
hundred years since Mesmer's time, the medical fraternity stubbornly refuses to
change it's opinion about Mesmer. At the same time, the physician repeatedly
prescribes many remedies, drugs, serums and vaccines which are useless and often-
times deadly poisonous, or performs surgical operations that ar~ uncalled f or and
thereby endangers or takes the very life of the trusting patient .
Page 10
PART TIt RE.E
T H E P H E N 0 ME N A 0 F H Y P N 0 T I S M
The study of hypnotism is interesting and instructive. Books that treat the
subject fairly and without prejudice are eagerly sought after. Hypnotism is a
common topic of conversation among all classes from the college professor to the
schoolboy, There never was a period in the world's history when so much thought
was given by the masses to mental, psychic, and occult subjects. To be abreast
of the times, one must understand psychic processes. That is what, this minute,
you have started to learn. You are destined for marve+ous results.
After more than twenty-five years of experimental work in hypnotism, during
which time I hypnotized thousands of different people and taught a vast number of
students the science of hypnotism, I have come to the conclusion that everyone
can be hypnotized, providing the correct methods are used for each particular in-
dividual. Knowing one or two simple methods, such as are usually taught, will
never make you a successful hypnotist.
It is necessary that you have many methods at your command to become a real
success. Like the magician, you must have all the tricks of the trade at your
command. Therefore, instead of burdening you with a long drawn history and
theory of hypnotism, I shall eliminate these altogether and give you information
of practical use, and of great value.
Hypnotism is not something supernatural. I wish it distinctly understood
that I do not claim, nor have I ever posed before the people as one endowed with
occult power differing in any sense from the common gift to humanity. A hypno-
tist is not a deep-dyed villain who preys upon weaker minds. In fact the weaker
the mind of the individual, the more difficult it is to hypnotize him. When I
hypnotized a young man over the radio, at Gary, Indiana, when radio was in its
infancy, I had to use an intelligent individual in order to make the demonstra-
tion a complete success.
Hypnotism involves scientific facts that anyone can learn with more or less
success. Some will make more rapid progress than others, on account of devoting
more time and more study to what follows. Therefore, be diligent and you will
succeed.
At first you will .think it impossible that the simple methods given herein
will produce hypnosis. But don't pass judgment until you have studied the whole
book and put into practice what it teaches. Try the methods, put them into prac-
tice, and you will be surprised at your own ability, Even then you have only be-
gun. You will be in a better position to judge their value after you have prac-
ticed hypnotism for some time.
The remarkable curative or therapeutic possibilities of suggestions given to
patients while in the hypnotic state has led me to specialize in psycho-therapeu-
tics, Since adopting this mode of treatment, I have never had a case that I did
not or could not help. Most physicians will admit that a prescription is of little
value unless accompanied by suggestion, telling the patient just what t4at par-
ticular medicine is expected to do. Many physicians have unconsciously used
suggestion in their daily practice. Had they studied hypnotism and psycho-thera-
peutics they could have applied these same suggestions more i ntelli gently and
brought about more definite results. Prominent practitioners who have brought
about wonderful cures through hypnotic treatment as a result of having been
taught this system have, we believe, wisely prophesied that the time is near when
a physician will not be tolerated or considered qualified to receiye a diploma
without a thorough knowledge of psycho-therapeutics. -
This book is for busy and intelligent people. It is hoped that from its
study you will derive such a definite clear understanding of hypnotism that you
can hypnotize people for their good.
The many methods of producing the hypnotic state, contained herein, have
been gathered from many lands. Some of them are jealously guarded secrets of
professional hypnotists. Some of them have been taken from rare books in foreign
languages and translated for your benefit. Still others are of my own origin.
Page 11
It J.s the essence of hynotism that I unselfishly revea l to you . Every met hod is
g iven in detail so that nothing whatever is l eft to the imagination. The physi-
cian, the magician, the student, the amateur and even the professiona stage
hypnotist, will find many new, practical methods and information of value in the
contents of this book. With it you will build a reputation and increase your in-
come.
PART FOUR
ME D I C A L H Y P N 0 T I S M
D~. Lonk demonstrates hypnotism in
surgery plus some showmanship that
often goes over nicely with both
the subject as well as onlookers.
In using hypnotism in medicine, it :ts
necessary that you know just what t o do and
when to do it. Remember also that t he mar -
vels of hypnotism lie in the simplicity of
its methods. Remember also that what others
have done with hypnotism, you too can do.
You can have just as perfect control over
your subjects as the most skilled hypn otist
in the world. You must know that you will
succeed and have confidence in yourself .
Make people believe that you thor oughly
understand this science. Never l e t them
know that you are a beginner. Let every
~ look, every word, every act, convey t o t he
subject the impression that you will succeed.
The more subjects you hypnotize, ·the more
confidence you will have in yourself and the
more confidence others will have in you.
I will now explain just how I apply
suggestion in my daily office practice , for
relieving a vast number of disorders , some
of which have been pronounced incurab l e by
the medical profession. Sugges tion i s one
of the most successful of all healing meth-
ods. Whether used consciously or uncon-
sciously results always follow.
There are two minds. One we call the
conscious mind and the other tlE subcons cious
mind. The conscious mind manifests itself
through the five physical senses. It i s the
mind that is capable of all forms of r e ason-
ing, such as inductive and deductive r e ason -
ing. It is located in the cerebral cortex, which is the gray matter composing
~hat part of the brain where the objective or conscious mind manifests i t self.
The subconscious mind is in the medulla oblongata and is connected with all other
intelligences of the entire organism. A point to remember here is that each
cell of which our bodies are composed of has intelligence an d i s not a dead mass
as many think.
The conscious mind has reasoning power as already explained, while the sub-
conscious mind has no reasoning power and will accept suggestions whether good or
bad, and will work just as hard to produce acrop of weeds as a garden of flowers.
In orde~ to ·evoke the necessary force to successfully hypnotize the s ubject
it is necessary for the operator to inspire his own subconscious mind with confi-
dence. This can be done by the simple means of auto-suggesti on. The power to do
this does not depend upon his own conscious belief. The power to contr ol sub-
conscious belief is inherent in the conscious mind; and that control may be made
absolute, even in direct contradiction to conscious belief. I f, therefore , the
operator doubts his power over his subject, he can, nevertheless, exert all the
necessary force simply by reiterated affirmation to himself that he possesses
that power. This affirmation need not, and perhaps should not be uttered aloud .
But it should be constantly reiterated mentally while passes are being made; and
if in addition to this he concentrates his gaze upon the open or closed eyes of
Page 12
the subject, or upon any part of the head or face, the effect will be all the more
powerful. Whatever effect is desired should be formulated in the mind of the
operator, and reiterated with persistency until it is produced. The subject is
passive, and receptive of subconscious mental impressions. The subconscious mind
of the operator is charged with faith and
confidence by auto-suggestion. That faith
is impressed telepathically upon the sub-
conscious mind of the subject; and even
though his conscious belief may not co-
incide with the subconscious impression
thus received, the latter obtains control
unconsciously of the subject, and the end
is accomplished just the same.
You need but sufficient intelligence
to understand the above directions, suf-
ficient mental balance to follow them
with persistency with a willing subject
who is possessed of the requisite mental
equilibrium to enable him to become pas-
sive and receptive during the experiment.
In giving treatment with suggestion,
the subconscious mind must be told just
what is expected of it, just what dis-
or der should be corrected. Simple sug-
gestions are first given in order to in-
duce the psychological state or condition
before actual treatment is given. In
some cases as long as one hour is neces-
sary to bring about this state.
I generally have the patient sit in
an easy chair with his back toward the
light. Now I tell him to close his eyes,
saying to him that in a little while he
will feel a heaviness starting in his eyes
and head. The heaviness will extepd down
his back and all over his body, but will
not in any way interfere with the normal
circulation of the blood. The blood will
circulate freely, the heart will beat
regularly, but the heaviness will be so
Dr. Lank demonstrates how hypnotism
is us.ed in surgery, dentistry and
obstetrics.
great that he will be unable to raise his head or open his eyes. I continue and
repeat that the eyes are becoming tightly closed. That the head feels heavier
and heavier, et cet.era. I now tell him to try to open his eyes but at the same
time I assure him it is impossible for him to do so. Then I ask him to try to
raise his arm or leg, which he also finds impossible to do, because my sugges-
tions are being acted upon by his subconscious mind.
Unless there are indications that the patient would greatly be benefited by
being put into a deep sleep, I do not suggest sleep to him. On the contrary I
tell him he will not go to sleep and will understand all that is going on, but
that he will feel so heavy that he could not rise under any ciTcumstances. I
always use a very positive tone when talking to patients.
If the suggestions are given properly, and the subject . has kept his eyes
closed all this time, he is now under muscular control and ready for the suggest-
ive treatment. This is to be given for twenty or thirty minutes, according to
the case . . Simply tell the patient what you want his subconscious mind to do in
· order to restore the body to a normal state of health.
Another method I use is to arrest the visual attention by holding some bright
object, as a coin, about ten inches in front of him and on a level with top of
his head. The subject's eyes will be under some strain to see it. I then give
monotonous suggestions, such as that the pupils of the eyes will soon dilate,
that his eyelids will feel very heavy and will close unconsciously. I never hurry
a subject, but take him step by step, as that is the only way to get the proper
subconscious state for treating.
Page 13
In starting, it may take ten to twenty minutes before his eyes close . The
subject must be in an easy position with the light coming from behind, s o t hat it
is reflected from the bright object into his eyes. This is a g ood me thod and
does not frighten the patient as some other methods do.
My third method is the same as above, but instead of looking ste adily a t the
bright object, held on a level with to·p of his head, I ask the patien t t o op en
and close his eyes at each count while I continue to count.
Before commencing I assure him that very soon he will experience diff iculty
in opening his eyes. In time he will be unable to open them. Many patients go
into the subconscious state after fifteen counts. If after one hundred or two
hundred counts, he is still able to open his eyes, I tell him to close them. Then
I give suggestions as in the first method, following with the suggestive treat-
ment. After two or three attempts with these methods, the subject will general ly
go into a subconscious state, in spite of the fact that they seemed to have little
or no effect upon him at first. One of the three methods or a combination of them
will develop the subconscious condition in every person of sound mind, if the
person does not resist the hypnotist's efforts.
The SIX STAGES OF PSYCHOLOGICAL INFLUENCE are now given:-----
1st.-
2nd.-
3rd.-
4th.-
5th. -
6th.-
The subject is unable to open his eyes--occular muscles are affected, pre-
venting the lids from being raised.
All skeletal muscles are under control of the suggestionist. The s ubject
cannot get up from a sitting position, raise his head, or bend his arm. Yet
he is awake, but drowsy, He is not hynotized, in the full sense of the
word, because there is no sleep, This~ according to my experience, is a
good time for therapeutic suggestions.
This is the stage of sleep (hypnotism). The subject is unaware of his sur-
roundings, his five senses being locked up. He knows nothing consciously.
This hypnotic state differs but little from ordinary sleep. The difference
is that in natural sleep his mind is subject only to his own consci ou sness,
while in the hypnotic sleep his mind is subject to the consciousness of the
hypnotist. He obeys the operator only, regardless of the number of p eople
who may try to gain his attention.
This stage is known as the somnambulistic state. It is very s imilar to
that of the sleep-walker. Suggestions are acted upon. The eyes are open
or closed. The subject is told what he should see. The delusion must be
suggested to the subject while his eyes are closed. Upon opening his eye s
he will see the very things suggested to him. If requested, he will talk
and describe in detail just what he sees, which in reality is only i n his
subconscious mind. If he does not see what has been suggested, he i s still
in the third stage, and suggestions of sleep must be continued.
This is the stage of clairvoyance. In this state the subject can describe
hidden objects, tell what :IB taking place at any distance, even on the other
side of the earth. While his eyes are closed, and he is in a deeper sleep
than in the fourth stage, he sees. This proves that we have psychic eyes
as well as physical eyes.
The sixth stage is the last in which the subject is inalethargic condition
or deep trance. As a suggestive state it is not good except in the c a se of
very sensitive people. It is into this stage that the professional ypno-
tist throws his subject when he desires him to sleep twenty-four or f ourty -
eight hours in a show window. It is only with difficulty that one c an get
a subject in this state to answer questions. For therapeutic purposes I
never try to induce this stage except where rest is indicated.
There is a common superstition that a hypnotist is a deep-dyed villain who
preys upon weaker minds. This, I assure you, is wholly untrue. I leave i t to
your own judgment. Neither is there any evil in hypnotism itself, any more than
there is evil in a kn:ife. There may be evil in the hearts of those who use e i ther.
Hypnotism, which really begins with the third stage, does not weaken the
will, but on the contrary strengthens it if properly used. As an example i t may
be used to overcome the tobacco or drug habit.
To give suggestions properly, one must be positive. To receive them s o that
the subconscious mind will act upon them, one must be negative.
Page 14
Some of the morbid conditions which readily respond to proper suggestions
are---
Sleep-walking .
Pains of all de s cription.
Sleep l essness (insomnia) .
Functiona l paralysis and contractions.
Loss of appetite and all digestive disorders.
Chlorosis or green sickness.
M
enstrual disturbances.
Perverte d sex appetites.
Alcoholism and morphinism.
Chronic muscular and a I'thritic rheumatism.
Stamme ring , nervous distu.rbances of the vision,
hiccough, neurasthenic disturbances, nightmare,
e speci a lly in children, uncontrollable vomiting ,
bed-we tting, chorea, nervous attacks of coughing ,
hysterias of all sorts, weak will-power may be
s trengthened, memory improved, and anaesthesia
may b e produced for minor and major operations
and also for labour ,
PART FIVE
T H E H Y P N 0 T I C GA Z E
It is ne cessary that the student learn just how to flash messages of power,
con viction and sincerity by means of his eyes. By doing so, he will develop one
of the strongest faculties of his personality.
The power of the human eye is welli known. As an inducer of mental states in
A cZose-up of Dr. Lonk in his stage
make-up as "~iizard of the Nile."
Note the Hypnotic Gaze.
others, the eye has no equal among the
physical agencies. It is a direct avenue
for the passage of mental currents. While
one may speak false words, and the lip s
utter intentional untruths, saying things
opposite to the inner thoughts, the eye
honestly t e lls the truth. Regardless of
how false a story may sound, if a man's
eyes support his words, we are inclined
to listen and approve of it.
A powerful glance will halt people
in their tracks. It is said that Andrew
Jackson so paralyzed the will of a noted
de sparado by his glance that he surren-
dered and meekly accompanied his cap~or,
although fully armed and therefore seemed
absolutely fearless and dangerous. The
bandit afterwards said that he could not
understand just why he did not kill Jack-
son where he stood.
We have all flinched at one time or
another under the masterful gaze of one
possessed with the secret I am about to
reveal to you.
There are many theories set forth by
those who try to explain just how thoughts
are transmitted by the eye. None of these
seem quite correct, therefore, I will not
burden the reader with any of them just
now but will go on to tell just how to
develop a powerful hypnotic gaze.
Most ·teachers of hypnotism teach the
student to stare straight into one of the
Page 15
NERVE AND MUSCLE CONTROL METHOD
pressure ie ap- _
plied on line
with jaw.
Transverse process of
2nd cervical vertebra.
Croee-eectio~ of neck
showing related parts.
Press back With
thumbs eo thumbnails
are on line with eyes.
FOR REFRACTORY SUBJECTS
-<{'.
Desp-breathing
and retention of
breath exercise
to increase the
carbonic acid in
the system f'or
refractory sub-
j ecte.
HYPNOGENIC ZONES
Root of nose
known a.e the
Qrgan of Indi-
viduality.
Base of skull
between the two
cords.
Dr. Lonk's HyPnotic Ga~s.
;):
Operator's
eyes.
subject's
eyes. F. P. ( f oca.l
point)
-4 l"
Learn to look 'thru' subject a.a in day-dreaming
but add force to your thought. You throw your gaze
through and a.bout five feet behind your subject.
£ATALEPTIC BOW
Professional cataleptic
bow. Correct support of'
subject is shown. Chairs
are padded which note.
subject's eyes •. This is not at all practical because the operator can look into
but one eye at a time and it is quite fatiguing. Other teachers advise the stu-
dent to gaze at a point between the eyes or at the root of the subject's nose.
This is not so hard on the operator but the effect of the gaze is lost, just as
it is in the first method,· should the subject's gaze wander from one eye to the
other of the operator 1 s.
The most perfect method, and the one I use daily--a method which does not
fatigue the eyes is not to direct the gaze at some point on the subject's face,
but to look through him, so to speak. If the subject is about three feet in
front of me, I throw my gaze through him and behind him, so that my focus is
fixed at a point about five feet behind him. This keeps the operator 1 s pupils
far enough apart to give the subject ' the impression that each one of the
operator's eyes are looking into each of the subject's • . The subject finds it
impossible to avoid the gaze regardless of whether he shifts his gaze from one of
the operator's eyes to the other. To the operator, the subject's face will not
be distinct because of the distant focus. It is like the distant look in day-
dreaming. It is ho strain upon the eyes, but a relaxed condition that is bene-
ficial. Therefore, if you use this gaze more or less continuously, you will find
that your eyes do not become fatigued as readily as they did before using it.
THE EVIL EYE
To master this gaze, practice the following exerci~e. Look out of the window
at some object. A tree will do. Now while your eyes are focused upon the tree,
pass a newspaper before your eyes, retaining the original long dist·ance gaze.
Your eyes will be focused for the distant object · and not for the close object.
By daily practice you will become perfect in this method of "seeing thru." A few
minutes daily will suffice. You may also practice seeing through your image in
the mirror. Two friends may practice this exercise together with benefit to
both. An. advantage of this long distance focus is this: should the subject you
are trying to hypnotize or inf1uence in any way have a stronger will-power than
you, you will not be affected by it in the least, for your vision of him or of
his eyes is a biurred one. What you do not see cannot worry you.
Page 17
After you have mas tered this long distance focus, go back to the mir ror ex -
ercise and throw into your g lance the force of the thought: 11
I AM MORE POSITIVE
THAN YOU. YOU ARE FEELING MY POWER. I CAN OUT-GAZE YOU. ET CETERA.
11
You will
soon be surprised at the power you will have over others, especially s o if you
will use a very positive tone of command when speaking , which permits of no dis-
obedience. It is not necessary to raise the pitch of the voice. On the c ontrary,
it is preferable to employ the ordinary pitch, but stress every word in a dry and
imperative tone.
This method of gazing was taught by a well known teacher of occultism, who
gave personal instruction in one of the large cities a few years ago. This teach-
er charged enormous fees. The follo'wing suggestions formed the keynote of his
entire system of psychic influence. He taught the pupil to gaze s t e adily and
earnestly at the other person, at the same time sending him the strong , earnest
thought statement: 11
I AM LOOKING AT YOU. I AM LOOKING THRU YOUR EYES I NTO YOUR
BRAIN. MY WILL-POWER IS STRONGER THAN YOURS. Y'OU ARE UNDER MY CONTROL. I SHALL
COMPEL YOU TO DO WHAT I WISH. YOU MUST DO WHAT I SAY. YOU SHALL DO THIS. DO IT
AT ONCE! ET CETERA. 11
It is claimed that some of his pupils attained such terri -
ble proficiency in this art of psychic influence, that public attenti on was di-
rected to this teacher. He was compelled to discontinue his teaching, and leave
the country for Europe . Among his pupils were some of the most prominen t men of
this country.
PART SIX
WAKING HYPNOSIS
For the beginner, I advise that he put his subject through the preliminary
experiments in this part. In doing so, the subject will become trained to resp ond
to suggestions, and other experiments will be more easily carried out. These ex-
periments will create confidence in the subject's mind for the operator. It is
necessary that the operator win the subject's confidence at the start. Putting
the subject through these experiments is about the quickest way of doing t his.
Drawing Subject Backward.
Have the subject stand upright. Tell him to imagine that he is rigid like a
board, his ankles like hinges, and that his feet are glued to the floor . Have
him understand that if you push him forward or backward he is to fall as a mass,
without resistence, in the direction in which he is pushed. Stand to one s i de of
him, with one· hand on his chest and the other on his back, sway him to and fro
several times to let him see that you will not permit him to fall to the floor.
Then step behind the subject and tell him to throw his head back, shut his eyes,
and that very shortly he will feel your power drawing him backward. Tell him t hat
he must not resist but to let himself be drawn backward, that you will c a tch him
as he comes. Now place your right fist on the lower part of his neck betwe en the
shoulder blades, and your left hand on his forehead. Say to him, "You are now
falling backward, back, back, you cannot resist, you feel yourself f alli ng ,
that's right don't resist, et cetera. 11
At the same time slide the left hand
slowly backward over left temple, over the head above ear and slowly r emove as
you draw him back. Also, at the same time remove the right fist. If y ou have
done everything right you will see the subject start falling. If he starts to
fall and stops himself, have him try again, telling him that hemust not resist
this time. Let him fall but a few inches the first time, and as you r epeat the
experiment several times, let him fall farther and farther. As you c a tch him
always say, 11
All Right" and snap your fingers. This will train him to c ome out
of the deeper stages more quickly.
Drawing Subject Forward.
Thi~ experiment resembles the above in many respects. The subject f aces the
operator, his eyes open, and he must look into the pupil of one of the operator's
eyes. Operator uses the Hypnotic Gaze, placing his open hands alongside of the
subject's temples to act as blinders as those used on horses. Tell the S1J.b j ect
that he will soon feel himself drawn forward and that he must not resist but let
himself fall. The operator must lean slowly backward so as to coax the sub j ect
forward. IMPORTANT---It is necessary for the operator to keep up a runni ng fire
Page 18
of suggestions, suited to the experiment. This applies to ALL experiments. RE-
MEMBER THIS -NEVER allow a subject to think of anything but what you are suggest-
ing.
Fastening The Eyes
Subject may stand or sit. Tell him to close his eyes tightly and to roll
his eye-balls upward as if to look at his brain. With your thumbs in contact
with his eye-lids, make a few outward passes over his eyes. Then place the
fingers of the right hand on top of the subject's head with the thumb at root of
his nose, between his eyebrows, pressing downward as if to keep his eyes closed.
Place the second finger of your left hand at the base of the brain between the
cords of the neck. Now say to him, "Your eyes are fastened, your lids are stuck,
and you cannot open your eyes. You may now try, but you CAN 1 T. 11
Emphasize the
important words with extra pressure of your thumb in front and your finger in the
back. He will not be able to open his eyes. Let him try for a moment and then
say 11
ALL RIGHT!"
Fastening The Hands
Have the subject standing before you, clasp his hands together, fingers in-
terlaced. Give him the Hypnotic Gaze and have him look into one of your eyes as
before. Keep his elbows close to his sides. Clasp one of your hands over his,
while with the other apply the second finger to the base of th~ brain as before.
Now say, "Put your hands still more tightly together until they tremble. They
are sticking, sticking! Should you try to take them apart you will find them
stuck. Tightly stuck! Now try to separate them, but you CAN'T. The more you
try, the more THEY STICKl •••••Et Cetera." You need but snap your fingers and say
11
ALL RIGHT" to release him.
Other Experiments
After you have mastered the technic of the foregoing experiments you may
then apply the same technic to other experiments such as stiffening the arm, the
leg, fastening subject's jaws open or shut, rendering him incapable of speaking
his name, rotating the hands so that he cannot stop their movement, patting his
hands, et cetera.
REME.MBER--That contact is fifty percent of the power of suggestion, and emphasiz-
ing the important words with added pressure adds at least ten percent more to the
power of suggestion. Always carry out these experiments in a serious manner. Do
not try them on people who are inclined to act silly or girls that giggle. Such
people never put their minds on what theff are doing, or on what you are saying.
If you find that a subject is getting his eyes open or his hands apart, do
not wait until he is successful in his attempt, but immediately say "ALL RIGHT"
so as to beat him to it. If he succeeds by himself, he will lose confidence in
you to some extent and you will have difficulty with him later on. Let him think
that he got his eyes open because of your command and not of his own free will.
Even though you have never hypnotized anyone in your whole life, you will
succeed with these experiments if you will carefully follow these directions, and
if you will try them out on at least five subjects. Strangers are best because
they take much for granted, while relatives or close friends know, or think they
know how little you know. Out of five that you try you should be successful with
at least two, after which the remaining three should be easily handled by you.
Your increased confidence in yourself will rapidly increase your ability and
success.
PART SEVEN
HYPNOTIC P A S S E S
Passes are generally believed to be unnecessary but they greatly assist by
way of suggestion. They are of assistance to the operator, as they enable him
more effectually to concentrate his mind upon the work in hand and to fix his at-
tention upon the parts of the body of the subject which he desires to affect.
Page 19
Er. Lank demonstrates the use of passes tn hypnotism.
The student of hypnotism should carefully acquaint himself with the various
passes he will use in his work. By familiarizing himself with the movement he
not only leaves his mind free fdr concentration upon the work of hea ling but pre-
vents his actions from appearing awkwar.d.
Before you make any passes of any kind, it is always best to r ub the palms
of the hands together very briskly as though to warm them up. ----- If this is
done correctly your hands and fingers should tingle. This means you have im-
proved the circulation and increased the flow of nerve force to the finger tips,
Passes may be made by direct contact of the subject or patient a s in magnetic
healing or they may be made without contact or just barely touching t h e individual
as is done in the demonstration of hypnotism.
. '
Longitudinal passes are the passes most commonly used by the average hypno-
tist. The hands are held well apart, palms down, fingers extended and s eparated,
With the hands above the subject's head you now make a slow downward sweeping
movement before him to about his knees. As you come down with the hands and ap-
proach the knees you close the hands, bring them outward and upward in a semi-
circle to where you started and make your second pass. Such passes may be made
to great advantage while your subject either sits or stands, whether you remain
silent or are giving him suggestions of sleep, whether he has his eyes open or
closed, and whether you are experimenting with him pri vately or on the stage
before an audience.
Passes may be varied and modified to suit the individual case. The left
hand of the operator may be used for making contact on some. hypnogeni c zone on
the subject while his right hand alone may be used for making passes over the
face, or face and chest.
Keep in mind that as you make the passes downward, a flow of vitai force
pours from your finger ends. Such downward motion over the subject gives him a
restful feeling while the upward one would have a waking effect. I t is for this
reason you close your hands at the end of the downward sweep and bring them up
along the sides of the subject and not before him.
Slow passes with contact or very
while those made more rapidly and about
stimulating to the circulation and have
greater activity.
near contact are best for hypnotic work
a foot or more from the subject are
a tendency to arou se sluggish organs to
It is hardly possible to put onagood stage demonstration before an audience
without making some kind of passes. Hypnotism in the eyes of the public hardly
can be hypnotism without both passes and the hypnotic gaze. Your a ct is doomed
to failure if you do not make use of both pas~es and the gaze. W
i t hout such it
would be like eating without food, or dressing without clothes.
Page 20
PART EIGHT
P E R F U M E S A N D T H E I R U S E I N H Y P N 0 T I S M
Certain perfumes have a hypnotic influence upon most people. Perfumes com-
pounded from formulas that come out of the dim past of Egypt prove to be real
hypnotic adjuvants. The odor of Mayblossom, New-Mown-Hay, Balm Of Gilead Fir,
Heliotrope, Lilac and Tube Rose unquestionably contribute toward mental placid-
ness and so mental surrender. Many persons cannot at any time inhale the odor
from these flowers without being soothed and rendered drowzy. This will happen
if they are in an atmosphere of quietitude and solemnity.
The author had formerly used the liquid type of perfume but found them in-
convenient to use on certain occasions. For this reason he now has the best of
the lot put up in form of cone-shaped incense which is more convenient for
hypnotic work. The odor of the burning incense will not induce sleep but it does
make any method of hypnotizing far more effective.
PART NINE
C0 L0 RED L.I GHTS AND THE .I R USE .IN HY P N0 TIS M
That which has been said of perfumes may also be said of colored lights.
Green will quiet the insane as well as soothe the nervous individual. Yellow
stimulates the imagination. Most people show a tendency toward hypnosis under
blue, violet, lavender and purple shades, Red is very irritating and will pro-
duce a severe headache if one gazes into it too long. It is useful in awaking a
deeply hypnotized subject.
Have yellow light flooding the face of the subject while you explain to the
subject the wonders of hypnotism and how quickly he will go to sleep. This will
stimulate his imagination so that everything you tell him will become much ex-
aggerated in his mind. Say nothing that would frighten him. Then switch off the
Yellow Light and turn on your Blue and then Purple Li~ht and go ahead with what-
ever hypnotic method you choose, or just give the Sleep Fo-rmula", given else-
where in this book.
H Y P N 0 T I C R A Y S 0 F L I G H T
1. Green (Spinach Green). A normalizer and stabilizer.. Used for quieting in-
sane patients as well as for quieting excited subjects preliminary to hypnotiz-
ing. Let subject gaze directly toward the rays.
2, Yellow (Med. Oak Yellow). An energizer. Used to activate or stimulate the
imagination. While flooding subject's face with this number tell him about the
wonders of hypnotism.
3. Blue (Med, Cobalt Blue). An anodyne.
and lighter stages of hypnosis are desired.
Used in insomnia and where relaxation
Often called magnetic shade.
4. Purple (Blue-Violet). A cardiac, motor and splenic depressant, as well as
antispadmodic. If used with No. 3, it excites the imagination, producing
hallucinations. The subject will see all kinds of crawling shapes and forms when ·
looking directly toward these rays. Soon the excitement subsides and changes
into lethargic dullness. When the face and eyes of the subject become expression-
less and he must make special effort to talk, Dr. Lonk 1 s Original Sleep Formula
should be given, modified to fit the case. The subject will then readily pass
into a hypno-lethargic sleep.
5. Red (Flame Red). A sensory stimulant.
very deep hypnosis as the lethargic state.
Used for awaking the subject from
Every student should make use of these colored lights as well as the afore-
said perfumes.
Page 21
Samples of the correct shades of color in form of pieces of cel lophane can
be supplied at a reasonable price. Directions for using them in a projector will
be supplied with the specimens.
PART TEN
DR
. UGS AND THEIR USE IN HY P N0 TIS M
I do not advise anyone but a competent physician to use the following drugs.
Many are dangerous and may stop the heart or respiration. In such a case, the
experimenter would be at a loss to know just what to do even if restoration of
life was yet possible. Because many who read this book and study my methods are
practicing medical physicians, this part on drugs is included for the i r benefit.
Small doses of any hypnotic drug will produce calmness and mild relaxation
while greater doses will produce greater calmness , drowsiness and sleep.
No drug, with the exception of Cannabis Indica, will actuall y bring on the
hypnotic state by itself. While these hypnotic drugs act, suggestions must be
driven in so that the forced drug sleep is changed into a true hypnotic sleep.
The drug merely puts the conscious mind of the subject out of the way so that
suggestions readily pass into the subconscious mind where they can be acted upon.
Amyl Nitrite {Amyl Nitris, U.S.)
In difficult cases, you will find that by crushing one or two, three to five
minim pearls of this drug in a handkerchief and holding it to the subject's nose
to inhale will prove excellent. He will become sufficiently bewildered so as to
permit suggestions to enter his subconscious mind at once. This drug when in-
haled gives one a sensation of blushing, face becomes warm, a sinkin g sensation,
fear and the pounding of the pulse can be heard in the ears. When subject's face
becomes red it is time to give him suggestions for at that time he feels like one
suffering from stage-fright and the easiest escape from such a predicament is to
go to sleep.
Amytal and Amytal Sodium
Hypnotics such as Amytal and Amytal Sodium have been used very successfully
in neuropsychiatric conditions to establish contact with the un-co-operative
patient and in cases of amnesia. These drugs are reasonably safe. A patient
suffering from amnesia need only be placed under the influence of the drug and in
most instances he will promptly recall his identification if questioned. The
subconscious mind never forgets. Amytal Sodium has been used as a truth serum.
Dose - 1-1/2 grains to 6 grains is administered by mouth on an empty. stomach and
washed down with some very warm water to hasten action.
Barbital Sodium, B.P. {Verona!)
This is a very satisfactory hypnotic in nervous insomnia and therefore an
excellent drug to quiet the subject for hypnotic work. In full doses it often
causes ataxia and hallucinations and sometimes tremor. It is a safe drug, since
very large doses are required to produce death. The average dose for inducing
the psychological state is 10 to 15 grains in tablet or capsule form on an empty
stomach and washed down with very warm water to prevent precipita tion of the
drug. When a poisonous dose is taken sleep may last for two or three days.
Bromide Of Sodium {Sodi i Bromidum, U.S., B.P.)
Sodium of Bromide is much weaker but l ess likely to upset the stomach than
Bromide of Potassium. In full doses it produces drowsiness, sleep and decreases
all nerve reflexes. Dose: 5 to 120 grains a day at i ntervals in a watery solu-
tion with a little syrup.
Cannabis lndica
Cannabis Indica that is used
extract. Extract Cannabis, U.S.P.
should be only the physiologically tested
is administered in capsule form on an empty
Page 22
stomach. The average dose for other than psychological work is 1/8 to 1/4 grain.
But for psychological work to bring on an hypnotic state the dose must be extra
large, 1/2 to 1-1/2 grains. If the subject does not become ill and lose the drug
by vomiting he will soon go into a deep hypnotic state. About two hours after
aruninistration of the drug , the subject feels happy, acts intoxicated, time seems
to stand still . Two more hours later he will be asleep and quite insensible. If
his arm is raised and p l aced in any abnormal position in mid-air, it will remain
put without a verbal suggestion. Like a putty figure, the subject can be put into
any position and he remains so. Suggestions are best driven in at this time or
l ittl e before this stage. It is the only drug that brings on the hypnotic state
without verbal suggestion. For added information I will say that an extremely
hot climate is required to grow the best Cannabis Sativa the plant from which
Cannabis Indica extract comes. For this reason the best comes from the Hindustan
·region of the Himalayas. The plant is also known as Indian Hemp, the leaves are
used in making cigarettes (Marijuana). The extract mixed with butter and water
makes a syrup called Hashish. Antidote: Faradization of respiratory muscles and
cautious use of strychnine. Lemon juice will neutralize its effects.
Chloral Hydrate (Chloralum Hydratum, U.S., Chloral Hydras, B.P.)
This drug produces sleep by quieting the intellectual centers of the brain,
depressing the motor tract of the spinal cord and the motor nerves. An overdose
of Chloral Hydrate is a cardiac paralyzant. Death has resulted from a dose of
over 30 grains. It is one of the purest hypnotics for simple nervous insomnia if
not due to pain. The average dose is 10 to 30 grains in capsule form.
Chloroform
Chloroform is administered by inhalation. Unlike Ether, it depresses the
heart. It first affects the sensory part of the brain, then the sensory part of
the spinal cord, then the motor tract of the cord, then the sensory paths of the
medulla oblongata, and finally the motor portion of the medulla, producing death
by failure of the vaso-motor center and of the respiratory center. In using this
drug, one must watch for the end of nervous excitement, just before the stage of
delirium. At this stage the subject is quite susceptible and suggestions ·are
driven in. Sometimes only a few Jnhalations are necessary. In very susceptible
subjects, a dry inhaler or one that is moistened with only a little alcohol will
do the trick just as well as one saturated with chloroform.
Oubciisine
An alkaloid of the Duboisia Myoporoides, used as an hypnotic in cases of in-
sanity. Dose of Duboisine Sulphate, hypodermically is 1/80 to 1/60 grain.
Eli xer Al urate "Roche"
Excellent results had been obtained with this hypnotic. Insane subjects and
those who fear hypnotism are usually influenced after they had been given a dose
of this Elixer. It has a pleasant odor, reminding one of Wild Cherry Phosphate
althou9h the taste reminds one of medicine. Dose is 4 to 6 teaspoonfuls of this
syrup ~Elixer) is stirred into a half g lass of cool water and given to the sub-
ject to drink. Within fifteen minutes the subject will begin to feel drowsy.
Suggestions are then given. Some extremel y difficult subjects turned out to be
excellent ones after such treatment. It is best to give this Elixer on an empty
stomach. Elixer Alurate is made up of Allylaisipropyl-barbiturate and alcohol.
To avoid mental heaviness on the following day it is advisable to give a laxative
shortly after you are through experimenting on the subject.
Ether, Sulphuric Ether (Aether , U.S., Aether Purificatus, B. P.)
This drug is administered same as is Chloroform, by inhalation. Ether also
a cts on the nervous system much like Chloroform which see. In an overdose it
produces death by respiratory failure. To some extent it is safer than Chloro-
form but considered a very dangerous hypnotic for general use. Pneumonia often
fol lows its use.
Page 23
Ethyl Bromide (Aethyl is Bromidum , U. S. )
Ethyl Chloride (Aethyl is Chloridum, U.S.)
Both of the above two drug s ar e use d to p roduc e anesthesia by inhal ation .
Only a small quantity i s required to p rocure anes t hesia when compared wi t h Ether.
Neither one is very s afe.
Hypna l (Monoch l ora I-anti pyr i ne)
When Chlora l and Antipyrine is mixed toget her, they usually will liquefy , It
may be for this rea son that this hypnotic never bec ame ver y popular. Th e dose is
5 to 20 grai ns given with simple sy rup and water.
Lophophora, Lewin'ii, Mescale
This is a small plant of M
ex ico which yiel ds the mescal e buttons. It is
used by the Rio Grande Indians to produce i n tox i cati on during r e ligio s cere-
monies. The Alkaloid Pellotine (Pellotin i um ), c an be empl oyed hypodermica lly and
is an excellent hypnotic to produce sleep without untoward symptoms . I n action
it resemble s Cannabis Indica which see . Dose of Pellotine is 1/2 t o , l grain
given hypoder mically .
Morphine (Morphinae Sulphas , U. S.)
Sometime r epea t e d dose s of Morph ine have proved useful wher e or dina r y met hods
of inducing hypnosis have failed . Si n ce M
orphine is extr emel y habit formi ng and
somewh a t dangerous, i t ' is not ver y highl y r ecommended. Dose 1/4 to 1/2 grain
hypodermically and n ot into a vein so as not to produce col lapse . Death h as fol -
lowed but J/8 grain of Morphi n e and prac t i cally ever y dr ug a ddic t was made by some
well meani ng but c ar e l e ss phys i c ian .
Myrist ica
Myristica i s the ke rne l of the ripe s e e d of Myr istica Fragrans , a n East and
West Indian plant. It is u s ed s e cretl y in the Orient for its sop orif i c and
nervous sedative action, and e specially for i ts peculiar influence over t he cere -
brum , The symptoms of excessive doses of M
yri sti c a r esembl e those produced by
excessive doses of Cannabis Indica wh i ch has a lready been described . (Syn .
· Nutmeg.)
Nembutal (Abbott)
This is a fairly safe and rapid hypnotic. The dos e is 1 - 1/2 grains to 3
grains on an empty stomach. Mental heavi nes s may follow i t s us e.
Nitrous Oxide (Laughing Gas)
Nitrous Oxide is used by the dent i st f or making painless extra c t on of a
well fastened molar. This is an ideal hypn otic f or us e i n hypnotism. I t s draw-
backs are that first it calls for spe cia l apparat us and t hen too it is f ar f rom
being safe, Many a patient had a tooth extracted and their life t oo bec aus e of
the inhalation of this gas.
Paraldehyde (ParaJdehydum U. S. and B.P. )
Paraledhyde is an aldehyde used as a sopor ific and nervous sedati ve . An
overdose may produce respi ratory f ailure and s o death. It is speedily absor bed
and soon loses its soporific p ower, For thi s reas on i t should not be given until
patient is in bed and physician ready t o gi ve suggestion. Dose - 20 minims t o 1
drachm in capsule ,
Pentothal Sodium (Abbott)
Pentoth al Sodium is a barbiturate and i s a p owerful but brief-acting hypnot ic .
It is used for the same purpose as Amyt a l Sodium, that is in neuropsych i a t r ic
conditions t o establi sh contact with the un-c o-oper ative patient and in c ases of
amnesia . It has been used as a "tr uth ser um . " Dosage: 1 gram (15 gr a ins ) of
Pentothal Sodium is dissolved in 20 c , c, of s terile chemi cally pure wa~r to make
a 5% solution for injection. This is inj e cted s lowl y into a vein just be low the
Page 24
cronk of the subject's arm. The subject is asked to count backward from 100 and
when he shows confusion, the administration of the drug is stopped and suggestions
are driven home to the subconscious. Or, if used as a truth serum, questions are
asked.
Phenobarbital
Phenobarbital is a long lasting and acting barbiturate. If it is long con-
tinued, its use produces mental deterioration in the patient. Dose is 1/2 to 3
grains.
Seconal Sodium (Lilly)
Seconal Sodium is a barbiturate that produces sleep and relaxation with
greater promptness than is generally obtained with other barbiturates given by
mouth. Much mental depression rarely follows its use. It is relatively safe and
short-acting. This permits the physician to commence giving suggestions within
fifteen minutes of its administration. Dose: 1-1/2 grains to 6 grains is ideal.
If combined with Amytal Sodium the results will prove more gratifying.
Scopolamine or Hyocine
This is the 11
truth serum" of yester-year. Hyocine is usually used as hydro-
bromide (Scopolaminae Hydrobromidum u.s.). Besides being used as a 11
truth serum"
it has been used for the relief of pains of labor. Dose: 1/100 grain with 1/12
grain of Morphine Sulphate at each injection. This will soon subdue the con-
scious mind and so the subconscious reveals its secrets. However, it is mentioned
here mainly for the psychotherapist to use for implanting some worthy suggestions
into the subconscious mind.
Sulphonal (Sulphonmethanum U.S., Sulphonalum , B.P.)
Sulphonal will produce sleep even in the insane patients. It is difficult
to administer because of its bulkiness and insolubility in cold water. It is
best given as follows: 20 grains to 40 grains are put into about 6 ounces of hot
water. When dissolved it must be taken before precipitation occurs. This drug
does not act quickly and often as long as several hours elapse before it does act.
Mental heaviness and a staggering gait may be noticed on the following day unless
a laxative be given. Very large doses of this drug have been taken without seri-
ous results.
Tr ion al (Sul fonethylmethane)
Trional r·e-s·emble·s Sulfonal in many respects. It is more toxic but has great-
er solubility and prompter hypnotic action. Warm water should be used in which
to dissolve it. Dose 10 to 15 grains.
*******
Some narrow-minded and selfish individuals may resent my going into such de-
tail on Hypnotic Drugs because other than strictly medical men will read this
book. Others will inform me that they appreciate this refresher course on the
subject. Be it as it may, let me say that any individual living in a large city
can walk into any public library or bookstore and without question procure a
medical book on drugs of all nature. To quiet the resentful let me add that no
druggist will sell any of the above drugs to an individual without a prescription
so in this way the business of controlling drugs reverts back to the medical man
who may complain the most about my including such information on drugs in this
book.
For other than the medical man, let me state that if you depend more on your
ability and your technic without the use of drugs, you will become a far better
and more successful hypnotist than you can possibly become if you depend on drugs
as a crutch for support.
Page 25
PART ELEVEN
T H E S L E E P F 0 R M U L A
(Abbreviated as ns.F. 11
thru-out this Manual)
To induce the hypnotic state in any subject by any method, it is a s a rule
necessary that the subject expects to be hypnotized. That is, you must convince
him of your ability to induce the hypnotic state in him. By your ac tion and
speech the subject must be led to believe that you know your business. In a re-
laxed position have him sit in a comfortable chair or lying down upon a cot un-
less stated otherwise and proceed with any method chosen from this M
anual . To
induce the hypnotic state with most methods given it will be found nece ssary to
use what is termed the "SLEEP FORMULA" abbreviated as "S.F!' through- out this
Manual for convenience.
A "SLEEP FORMULA" is nothing more nor less than the giving of one suggestion
after another in a monotonous, not loud, but commanding tone, as follows ----
"I want you to look at this object. I want you to keep on looking at it,
right at it, and soon your eyelids will become very heavy, then heavier and
heavier. You will then close them in sleep. Keep looking at this object, right
at it and pay no attention to anything but what I tell you. Do just as I ask and
nothing more. A feeling of heaviness and a great desire for sleep are now taking
possession of your entire body. Your thoughts are becoming confused, you can't
think. You feel yourself sinking, sinking, sinking into darkness. Even my voice
seems to come to you from a great distance and soon you will not be con~cious of
my presence, Your eyes are closing. Your eyes are almost closed now and your
thoughts grow more and more confused. You are now closing your eyes and are go-
ing fast asleep, asleep, You are fast asleep and cannot awaken. You do not care
to awaken because you are too comfortable and desire sleep. You are going deeper
and deeper to sleep. Each and every breath you take seems to put you·'more deeply
to sleep. Going deeper and deeper to sleep. More and more soundly t o sleep.
Sleep, sleeping, s-o-u-n-d-1-y s-1-e-e-p-i-n-g. Sleeping. Soundly sleeping.
You will remain sleeping. Nothing can disturb you. You cannot awaken until I
command you to do so. You will obey me and do everything I tell you to do with-
out awaking. You will do it at once." -- You can now suggest that he open his
eyes and see a beautiful lake before him and will want to go fishing. Or, that
he will see anything, feel anything, hear anything, smell anything or tas te any-
thing you suggest. If your sugges ti.on is not of a therapeutic nature and not meant
to stay put in the subconscious mind, then be sure to remove it so it will not
remain and annoy him or perhaps cause him harm. If you suggested that h is nose
itches and he has rubbed and scratched it enough to suit you, suggest that now it
no longer itches, that it feels fine and normal in every way. That the flies,
ants or whatever you suggested caused the itching are now gone. Now, continuing
with the sleep formula after experimenting, suggest sleep again to rest subject
before awaking him. -- "You will now rest by sleeping for one minute and when I
awaken you by counting to five, you will awaken feeling splendid, the be t ter for
having gone through this experiment. Ready, one, two, three, four and FIVE, W
AKE
UP. 11
Snap your fingers and he will be awake. That's all there is to it .
PART TWELVE
H Y P N 0 G E N I C Z 0 N E S
If you are to bring on the hypnotic state by any method, it is nec e s s ary
that you convince the subject that the method will be successful. He mus t expect
to be hypnotized, must expect to feel drowsy, sleepy, must expect his eye l i ds to
become fastened, etc. In other words, the operator must ·cell the subject before-
hand, while he has his entire attention, just what he is going to do, ·ust what
will take place, how soon the subject will experience this drowsy, sleepy feeling
that will soon come over him and just when his eyelids will become fastene d.
The conscious mind is always on guard, ready to prevent suggestions entering
into the subconscious mind. In order to get your suggestion past the conscious
mind and into the subconscious mind, it is necessary to side-track the c onscious
mind and keep it sidetracked while you drive in your suggestion. By applying
Page 26
Dr. Lonk. demonstrates contact with
hypno~enic zone as ~ell as passes
bein~ used simultaneously.
pressure over various spots on the sub-
ject 1 s body, called hypnogenic zones,
the conscious mind is side-tracked, be-
cause its attention is directed to that
spot, and the way is clear for your sug-
gestion to pass to the subconscious mind
without being blocked. I have already
mentioned the spot at the root of the
nose between the eye-brows. This is
called the organ of individuality. I
have also mentioned the spot at the base
of the brain or skull between the cords
of the neck. Other modes of side-track-
ing the attention are: Pressure (light)
on the eyeballs with the thumbs while
the lids are closed and pressure at the
root of the thumb nails. While applying
pressure at one or two of these points
as mentioned, drive in your most import-
ant suggestion whether it be to induce
sleep or cure some ailment. If you do
not succeed well with one hypnogenic
zone, use a different one in your next
attempt. Some subjects have their con-
scious mind side-tracked more .readily
with one zone than another.
PART TH I RTE EH
SIXTEEN WAYS AND
MEANS TO INDUCE HYPNOSIS
1. Subject is seated with his eyes
closed. A watch is placed near his ear
and he is requested to listen intently
to the ticking of the watch for some
time. After about . three minutes, give
the Sleep Formula and subject will go to
sleep.
2. Similar to the above, but instead of using a watch, the "Morpheus 11
a sleep
inducing machine is used. The lulling sound of the instrument is said to bring
on sleep in those subjects who find the sound agreeable. It resembles the
monotonous croaking of a pond of frogs at a distance. Because of the war this
item is not available at this time.
3. Have the subject clench his teeth tightly and also to close his eyes tightly
for two or three minutes as he sits. After this, give Sleep Formula without
letting him open his eyes.
4. The operator holds both of his hands in such a position that the backs are
toward the subject. The nails of his fingers are about ten inches in front of the
subject's eyes and on a level with the top of his head. The subject is requested
to stare at the first finger nail while the operator counts to ten. Repeat with
the second nail, etc. Before your subject gets to the tenth finger nail he will,
in many cases, be asleep. If not, tell him to close his eyes as you give the
Sleep Formula.
5. A Dr. Parkyn used this method successfully in his practice. He would strike
a match and hold it above the subject's eyes about ten inches before him and on a
level with the top of his head. He let the subject stare at the burning match
until it burned out. The subject was told to close his eyes until another match
was struck, when he should open them again. This was repeated three or four
times. The subject was given to understand that the fourth match would bring
about the desired results. This it usually did in all good subjects.
6. Have the subject hold one end of a full length lead pencil between his teeth
Page 27
and instruct him to run his gaze up and down its polished surface for a few
minutes. If he is not affected in a few minutes, tell him to close his eye s and
give the Sleep Formula.
7. Tell the subject to close his eyes and look at the bright-colored spots on
the inside of his lids. After he has done this for some time, tell him his lids
are fastened and give the Sleep Formula.
8. This method works well with children. Have a bottle of any solution, al cohol
or ammonia. Label is "CHLOROFORM". Explain to the child that you have a very
powerful drug in the bottle that instantly produces sleep. Tell him that on~
smell of it will put him to sleep at once. Then uncork the bottle, pass it under
his nose, and say, "I can see you smell it. It is already affecting you. You
are going to sleep. Your eyelids are closing, etc." Continue with the sleep
formula. After you have put an individual to sleep with this method, it is of ten
only necessary to show the subject the bottle in order to put him to sleep a
second time. Its influence will be felt at once. I have successfully used t his
method with many children as well as with some grown-ups. An excellent method.
9. Have the subject close his eyes while he is inacomfortable sitting posi tion.
Take an ordinary tuning fork. Strike it and tell the subject to listen t o its
vibrations until he no longer hears them and then to open his eyes, at which time
you strike the fork again and he must close his eyes and listen as before. This
is repeated fifteen or twenty times. Have the subject understand that each time
he is to open his eyes, he will find it more and more difficult to do so, and
that after a few times, he will be unable to open them at all. If after t wenty
times he is still able to open them, close his eyes by pressing the thumbs on t he
closed eyelids and say to him that his lids are stuck. Give the Sleep Formula .
10. Have the subject look at the second-hand of a watch, watching it for ten
seconds. Have him close his eyes and count off ten seconds mentally. Open them
and count off another ten seconds while watching the second-hand, etc. Have him
understand that each time he opens his eyes he will find it more difficult to do
so. Best results are obtained if operator remains silent until the sub j ect's
eyes are fastened shut, then give Sleep Formula.
11. Have the subject lie on a couch with his eyes open and completely relaxed.
The operator sits on a chair near the subject's head, leans over the subject and
gives him the hypnotic gaze, while the subject looks into the eyes of the oper-
ator. The Sleep Formula may be given right along, or the operator may remain
silent. The subject must know just what results are expected. This is a good
method but hard on the operator because of the sitting and leaning f orward
posture.
12. Have the subject write the word "SLEEP" upon a sheet of paper for at l east
fifty times. He must audibly speak the word each time he writes it, also closing
his eyes for a moment after each word. If he is not asleep at the end of speci-
fied number of words, close his eyes and give the Sleep Formula. This is a good
remedy for insomnia. At first, it may require two or three sheets filled with
the word "SLEEP" to barely influence you. But, if you repeat it every evening at
the same time, riou will soon go to sleep by merely thinking of the task of writing
the word "SLEEP ' •
13. Have the subject close his eyes and open one of them for a moment, saying t he
word "SLEEP" to himself, Close that eye and open the other, saying tlle word
"SLEEP" again. Keep this up for a minute or two, alternately, ·then tell him to
close both eyes and give him the Sleep Formula,
14. Subjects difficult to hypnotize, generally respond to this method, You need
a Medical Battery (Faradic Current .Machine) also known as shocking coil or induc -
tion coil which receives its current from a few dry cells. The electrodes are
given to the subject to hold or are fastened with an elastic band to his temples.
The subject is requested to close his eyes and a very mild soothing curren t is
turned on, not interrupted but continuous. The Sleep Formula is given as t he
machines buzzes on.
15. A medical battery as above is used, but instead of actually letting a curr en t
pass over the wire it is simply bound about the binding post to appear conne c ted .
The sµbject is told beforehand that he will feel a soothing sleep-inducing curr ent
Page 28
as soon as you turn on the rheostat upon which he keeps his eye. As soon as he
thinks he feels the 1 soothing and sleep inducing current' give him the Sleep
Formula. I have successfully hypnotized insane subjects with this and the pre-
vious method.
16. The subject ls seated with light coming from behind him. Get his attention
and tell him that you are going to ask him to do three things, and if he carries
them out carefully, he will soon be asleep. Tell him that you are going to hold
a bright object in front of his eyes and that you want him to look at it. While
you count, he must close and open his eyes at each count, looking up at the
bright object after each count. The second thing you want him to do, is to count
mentally with you as you count for him to close and open his eyes. And third, he
is to keep track of the number of times you count to five, because you will count
only from one to five over and over. Repeat these instructions to him several
times until you are certain that he understands ~ust what to do. When you say
"one" he must close and open his eyes, and at "two he repeats it, looking up at
the bright object between the counts. Have him understand that he is not to
interrupt your counting if he commences to lose track of the gro~ps of fives.
That, is his look-out. It is at this time, when he becomes mentally fatigued as
he becomes tangled in the maze of the three different tasks, that he is most sus-
ceptible. You will know this condition by his eyelids refusing to open regular-
ly. They will flutter and remain closed more than open. When you see this, you
may know he has lost track of his duties and it is time that you no longer count,
but keeping the same rhythm and tone of voice, substituting the words -- "Your
eyelids are sticking. They are now stuck tight. You cannot open them. You do
not care to open them for you are too tired, sleepy, s-1-e-e-p-y, s-1-e-e-p-i-n-g ,
etc." Go on with the regular sleep formula. For the bright object you may use
any bright coin, pencil with metal tip or similar object. Hold this about ten to
fifteen inches in front and on a level with top of subject 1 s head as he sits well
relaxed, feet flat on the floor and hands in his lap. This is one of my favorite
methods. Recommended highly.
- 0 -
Now let me explain why these simple methods induce sleep. It must be re-
membered that if any one set of nerves become fatigued, the entire body needs
sleep in order that these nerves may be rested. If one reads very long, the op-
tic nerve becomes fatigued and the reader drops off to sleep. Should one listen
to a monotonous · sound for very long, the auditory nerve becomes fatigued and
sleep follows. Light downward passes of the hands over the scalp or over the en-
tire body, will induce sleep. Such passes fatigue the sensory nerves of -the skin.
Most of us have experienced dropping off to sleep in a barber's chair, on reading
or listening to some uninteresting lecture, on looking out of the window of a
moving train, or looking at a motion picture show which we had already seen once.
In closing this part, I want the student to understand that most intelligent
and serious minded normal individuals can become good suggestionists and hypno-
tists. Practice that which I teach. There is no mysterious aura surrounding a
man who knows how to hypnotize. Believe not that "Knowledge Is Power. 11
Knowledge
is power ONLY when put into practical use.
PART FOURTEEN
AP P ARATUS F 0 R I No·u c ING THE Hy p N0 T I c s TATE
Both Dr. Luys and Dr. Sage of Paris used what they called Hypnotic Mirrors
for -
inducing hypnosis. These mirrors were made to revolve by clock-works so that
a beam of light was flashed into the subject's face momentarily as each mirror
revolved. Dr. Luys used a modification of the lure employed by bird-catchers
which he called Revolving Mirrors. Dr. Sage constructed his Rotating Mirrors
much in appearance of the device used by the weather bureau to test the velocity
of the wind, also operated by clock-works.
Such devices are of little value because of the noise they make when in
operation. It is not a steady humming sound but a disturbing sound, much +ike
some infernal machine about to explode. It is to be unders.tood that the device
would not produce hypnosis if the subject was not prepared to expect to go to .
Page 29
sleep as a result of gazing at it while in operation.
Metronome
The Metronome is an instrument used by those who practice on the piano. It
beats out time for the musician. However, it makes an excellent hypnotic instru -
ment and should be used by every student of hypnotism. Attach a bright metal
disc to the pendulum and arrange the instrument so that the disc will b e on a
level with the top of the subject's head and about fifteen inches 1nfront of him.
Have the light come from above and behind the subject shining upon the moving
disc and reflecting into his eyes. The subject must keep his eyes upon the disc
as it swings left to right. Have him understand that his eyes will tire r ap i dly
and that the steady clicking sound will soon put him to sleep. The best M
etro-
nome is the kind without a bell and one that can be wound up and will operate for
quite some time without re-winding. The writer can supply such an instrumen t.
"Morpheus" Lui I ing Machine
The "Morpheus" was invented by a German physician named Dr. Hans Solomon of
Berlin who was in charge of an institution for the insane. He used this i n stru-
ment, resembling a nice wooden musical powder-box that wound up like an alarm
clock, to induce sleep in the insane in place of dangerous drugs. The instrument,
when in operation produced a steady, soothing, continuous sound whic when
listened to with your eyes closed, would remind you of going on a long journey by
train. The hum and slight buzz made you almost see the wheels of the train roll-
ing along the track toward your destination. Because of the war these i nstru-
ments are no longer available.
The Lonk Revolvo-Ball
This device consists of a large wooden ball covered by tiny reflectors . The
ball is suspended from the ceiling by a cord. By twisting this cord, the ball is
made to revolve first in one direction fora time, then in the opposite direction,
et cetera. Light coming from behind and above the subject will shine on the ball
and thousands of tiny beams of light will be reflected into the subject's eyes.
As the ball revolves the operator stands to one side and gives subject the Sleep
Formula as mentioned elsewhere·.
Tuning Fork
The Tuning Fork is an ideal instrument and should be in the possession of
every experimenter. Dr. Parkyn made use of the tuning fork in producing hypn osis
and considered his method with the use of this instrument as an excellent one.
The fork is struck and made to vibrate while the subject is told to close his
eyes and listen intently to its vibrations until he no longer can hear t hem at
which time he is to open his eyes. Then he is to close them again as the f ork is
set into vibration and again held to his ear. He is made to understand b efore-
hand that each and every time he closes his eyes and tries to open them when the
fork stops vibrating, he will find it more and more difficult to open them until
after the fifth time his eyes will stick and he will go promptly into a s ound
sleep. The tuning fork of proper vibration for hypnotic work can be supplied by
the writer. This makes a fine investment and with reasonable care the instr ·ument
should last a lir'e-time.
Stethoscope
The Stethoscope is used in auscultation by the physician to listen for chest
sounds like the heart and lungs, makes an ideal instrument for use in implanting
suggestions into the subject's subconscious mind. The subject is permitted to
place the ear-tips into his ears, sortof play the doctor, while the suggestion i s t
holds the bell of the instrument in his hand before his mouth and drives in the
necessary suggestions. The subject is permitted to lie on his back on a soft
comfortable cot with a towel over his eyes while the suggestionist sits at the
head of the cot. After a while the subject forgets the presence of the sug-
gestionist and the voice seems to be just a voice within his own head sugges t i ng
the desired things. Difficult subjects are often cured of different conditions
long before they are actually hypnotized if this technic is.adopted. The i deal
instrument can be supplied by the writer if you are not a physician and in pos ses-
sion of a stethoscope already. With the instrument you can treat those in your
immediate family with excellent results.
Page 30
PART Fl FTEEN
N I N E WA· Y S T 0 HY P N 0 T I Z E R A P I D L Y
:No. 1
Have the subject seated in a chair and start to pass him. When near him,
look quickly into his eyes and tap him on the jaw with the first two fingers of
your right hand; saying very decidedly, "You have a tooth-ache." Don't hold the
fingers still but keep tapping and vibrating them while you keep on telling him
that he has a tooth-ache and that it hurts him very badly. Look him in the eye·s
steadily (using Hypnotic Gaze~, and very soon, in all probabilities he will jump
up with a howl. Then say, 'Your tooth-ache is gone, but you are getting very
sleepy and are going fast asleep." Continue with the Sleep Formula very rapidly.
No. 2
Have the subject stand in a doorway with his back against the door while
with the .back part of each hand he tries to push the door-frame away from his
sides. Tell him to push harder and harder and as he concentrates and you stand
in front of him rapidly giving him orders to push harder and harder, you suddenly
change your suggestions . You say, "Push harder and harder, still harder, try and
spread the door-frame, a little harder, harder, your eyes are closing, closing
tightly, your eyes are closing and you are going to s-
leep, to sleep, sleeping,
soundly sleeping." J:n most instances you will quickly put your subject to sleep.
The secret of this method is to watch his eyes carefully and when you see that he
is concentrating deeply and you have his undivided attention, suggest sleep and
away he will go into a sound sleep.
No. 3
This method is excellent for stage-work. Point your finger at some nervous
young man in the audience, one that is deeply interested in your performance.
With a firm commanding voice request him to step up upon the stage. Possibly he
may attempt to refuse, but if he is sitting .with other boys of his acquaintance
they will soon help him out of his seat and on his way to you. Rather than show
his fear of you, he will q_ontinue on his way to you. As soon as he has one foot
on the stage, the hypnotist should reach down toward him as if to help him up,
clasps one hand to the back of his neck and the other on the point of his chin in
a rapid firm and simultaneous manner so as to produce a nervous shock to the brain.
This must be done to appear as a friendly gesture. As this shock treatment is
applied, the hypnotist shouts, "SLEEP, GO TO SLEEP AT ONCE!" The lad has fear of
the hypnotist, suffers with stage-fright, becomes bewildered from the shock
treatment applied by the hands of the hypnotist, and with all eyes upon him there
remains but one avenue of escape SLEEP. So, to sleep he goes at once. Do
not permit your technic to resemble that of killing a rabbit, but that is the
correct technic.
No. 4
This is a nerve and muscle control method and consists in placing your arms
about the chest of the subject from behind and squeezing hard while subject has
his lungs filled with air and holds his breath. In about a minute he will
suddenly become unconscious, then suggestions are driven into his subconscious
mind to keep him in the subconscious state. Otherwise the subject would become
conscious of his own accord within a minute. This method does not work so well
on too. robust and husky individuals. The operator must be physically strong and
he must put his arms about the lower part of the subject's chest over the float-
ing ribs which are less likely to break than the upper ribs. Be careful with
this method.
No. 5
This is a better nerve and muscle control method than the above. This method
has been sold upward for as much as $1000. It is generally jealously guarded by
those who know how to apply it. Simultaneous pressure on the cervical, sympathet-
ic, the pneumo-gastric nerves, and carotid nerve plexus produces sleep instantly.
The operator's hands are placed around the subject's neck as if to strangle him.
But, insteud of placing the thumbs on the center of his neck in front where they
Page 31
would interfere with normal breathing, the thumbs are placed at a point so that
the thumb nails are in line with the subject's eyes, under the angle of the jaw.
The tip of each thumb should come just up against the thyroid cartilage of the
larynx, commonly known as the Adam's Apple. Pressure is directed with balls of
thumbs toward back of the neck. With the thumbs in given position the hypogastric
nerve and other sought for plexuses are located between the balls of the thumbs
and the anterior surfaces of the transverse processes of the upper c ervical
v~rtebra~, against which the pressure is applied so as to impinge upon these
vital points. The operator's fingers encircling the neck of the subject are for
sup~ort only, so that the pressure of the thumbs from the front do not push the
subJect backward. If you feel a pulsation under your thumbs, you have located
the right spot. Do not dig your thumbs in too roughly or too deeply, but apply a
slow, gentle pressure, and the subject will become unconscious at once in most
instances. There may or may not be some spasmodic contractions of various
muscles. Do not let this frighten you. To avoid a possible embarrassing si tuation,
see to it that the subject's bladder is quite empty before using this method be-
cause the sphincter at the neck of the urinary bladder sometimes relaxe s suffi-
ciently to allow the urine to escape. This method never fails and alone is worth
the time required to study it out carefully so it can be applied and also worth
many times the price you paid for this book. Some Lonk students who demonst rate
hypnotism upon the stage use this method to gain publicity by offering a reward
to anyone they fail to influence. To get the knack of this method, try i t on
yourself before a mirror. Your hands will automatically release the pre ssure as
you go into the unconscious state. Be sure you are seated before the mirror and
not standing. Never use this or other drastic methods upon individuals who are
ill, suffering with high blood pressure, heart disease, or those who are past
fifty.
-
Those practicing hypnotism continually meet people that imagine they know
something about hypnotism because they have read some book on the subject . They
have come to believe that it is impossible to be hypnotized against the ir will.
Such people often put the hypnotist in an embarrassing position if he i s not in
possession of this particular. instantaneous method. Such a hypnotist i s obliged
to make various excuses when confronted by one of these 'know it all' individuals
who say, 11
1 bet you can't hypnotize me." Master this instantaneous method so you
can put one over on the 'wise guy' that insists that you go ahead and hypnotize
him.
No. 6
Subjects that have been deeply hypnotized once can readily be hypnotized
again instantly by merely commanding them to go to sleep at once, providing that
a post-hypnotic suggestion has been given to that effect when subject was origi-
nally hypnotized. Most books and courses offering instantaneous methods teach
one to do th.is very thing. Hypnotize the subject, suggest to him that whenever
you snap your fingers in his face he will go to sleep at once. Then upon awaking
the subject the operator need but snap his fingers in front of subject's face and
subject instantly goes into a deep hypnotic sleep. This appears veFy spectacular
to one who does not know how the subject was prepared.
No. 7
Have your subject standing. Give him a ring, crystal or other
to hold about six inches above his head. Have him throw back his
at this object. Stand behind him giving him the "Sleep Formula",
will close and that he will drop back into your arms fast asleep •
. No. 8
bright object
head and gaze
that his eyes
Sit facing your subject or place him on his feet and stand in front of him.
Ask him to look steadily into one of your eyes as you give him the "Hypnotic
Gaze." While gazing, keep telling him that he is going to sleep. Keep this up
for about half a minute. Then suddenly without warning, clap your hands together
loudly and at the same time shout the word 11
SLEEP 11
• This method often works ex-
cellently with the hysterical type of subject.
No. 9
Have your subject sitting in a fairly dark room while you let him gaze into
a dark box that has an opening at one end about 2 11
x 6 11
in size. The subject
Page 32
must not know that within this box you have two sockets with a couple 100 Watt
bulbs and you hold the switch in your hand that can turn them on as you please.
As subject looks into this dark box and sees nothing but blackness you give him
the "Sleep Formula" and if he does not go to sleep promptly, suddenly turn on the
lights and shout "SLEEP, GO TO SLEEP AT ONCE." This method, like the above one
is especially suitable for the hysterical type of subject.
PART SIXTEEN
H Y P N 0 T I Z .I N G R E F R A C T 0 R Y S U B J E C T S
Refractory subjects are those who use all their will-power to work against
yourhypnot izing them or those who try to cooperate so much that they keep awake
because they are t~o busy helping you. Then there are those who just are not
tired enough to relax properly and those whq want to stay awake to see what they
look l ike when they are hypnotized. The following instructions cover enough ways
and means to help you to successfully handle most refractory subjects. (Also see
"Technic For Hypnotizing Rapidly").
Charcot's Met hod
Dr. Charcot 1
s method was to suddenly startle and shock the subject by the
sudden sound of a Chinese gong, or a very bright light suddenly thrown into the
s ubj ect's eyes. This would throw many of the subjects, many of whom were hystero-
epileptics, into a quasecateleptic state . Any method that will produce a nervous
shock or startle the subject will accomplish the same thing as the above.
Unco-operative Method
Tell the unco-operative subject that you wish to test the power of his own
will and show him what a strong will he has. Fasten his hands together as taught
e lsewhere but say nothing about hypnotism. From this go on to fastening his eyes
and then put him to sleep with your suggestions.
Force Method
Many ye ars ago a successful . hypnotist would wager that he could hypnotize
anyone . He would have the man seized by an assistant and thrown upon his back on
the floor where he was held. The hypnotist would then apply a steady and gentle
patting on the epigastric region (solar plexus) which would soon put the subject
t0 sleep .
Trick Methods
A subject should fully cooperate and concentrate his attention upon the sug-
gestions of the hypnotist; or give himself up fully to him without restraint or
restriction. If neither condition prevails, the operator may have to resort to
trickery to catch the subject's mind off guard in order to take advantage of him
and so induce hypnosis . This might call for the use of hypnotic drugs or some
nerve and muscle control method as already described. Also remember many people
can be frightened into the hypnotic state as practised by Dr. Charcot who took
a dvantage of hysterical subjects in this way. -
Two Ways To Increase The Carbonic Acid
If the carbonic acid is increased in the subject's system he will prove more
susceptible to ordinary methods of hypnotizing. It is easy to increase the car-
bonic a cid gas. Have the subject standing, take a long deep breath and hold it,
at the same time raising his arms above his head in a flexed position, fists
clenched, and contracti ng every muscle in his arms, his legs and back. He must
hold this position while you, the operator, count off ten slow seconds. At the
end of this period th~ subject may relax, put his arms down, exhale and rest for
one short breath. This relaxed state should not last over two or three seconds,
then the exercise is again repeated and continued for ten to twenty minutes if
necessary. Stop only when the subject complains of great fatigue then promptly
let him sit or lie down and use any of your favorite methods on him. If you have
him sitting let him gaze at some bright object held on level with "top of his head
Page 33
and about fifteen inches before him. If you decide to let him lie down the use
of a towel over his eyes and stethoscope in his ears makes th~ ideal me t hod.
Another method to increase the carbonic acid gas in the system is to have
the subject breathe in and out of a large paper bag which is fitted closely about
his mouth, This makes him rebreathe the air he has just exhaled and in a short
time he will be far more susceptible than he was before he started t hi s simple
but extremely effective exercise. Use any hypnotic method to follow up with.
PART SEVENTEEN
H0 W T0 G I VE S UGGES T I 0 NS WI TH0 UT S LEEP
Effective suggestions may often be implanted into the subconscious mind with-
out profound hypnosis. In fact, the subject need not be in any stage of sleep.
Sleep is not always necessary for the production of the suggestible state . It is
for this reason that many drugless physicians such .as chiropractors, ost eopaths,
naturopaths and naprapaths now adopt this manner of treatment.
The subject is merely put into a very passive or suggestible state so that
the operator may drive home to his conscious and subconscious mind the required
suggestions. Some operators write out the suggestions beforehand and t hen read
them off carefully with masterful earnestness to the receptive subjec t with ex-
cellent results.
When giving suggestions to a person in a waking state, insist that he nods
his head every time you give him a good suggestion. Such response indica tes that
he not only is paying excellent attention to what you are saying but that he also
agrees to what you say thereby better impressing both his conscious and subcon-
scious mind.
With your finger, tap the subject on the left temple region to send thoughts
into his subconscious mind. Doing likewise on the right temple region will send
thoughts out of his subconscious mind.
Since tomorrow never comes it is always best to use suggestion worded as
present tense completed. Say,· 11
Your health is better. 11
Do not say, 11
Your health
will improve. 11
Negative suggestions should never be used by a good operator. They are
wrong, illogical, confusing and often work just opposite to what they were given
for. 11
Don 1
t drink coffee 11
is a negative suggestion because rrou are saying,
11
drink coffee, 11
But, substitute, 11
Drink milk, it is good for you,' is a posi tive
suggestion and results will follow. The expression of the needful thought should
be made into the affirmative.
The ideal instrument and method to use is that as described under t he head-
ing of "Apparatus For Inducing The Hypnotic State 11
, the 11
Stethoscope 11
as explained
therein.
PART EIGHTEEN
HYP N0 T I Z.I NG IN NATURAL SLEEP
Many people can be put into the hypnotic state from natural sleep, e special-
ly if they are somnambulistic in nature. When the person is sound asl eep, ap-
proach him cautiously, talking to him in a subdued voice, telling him that he will
not be disturbed by your presence or by the sound of your voice. When you are at
his side, tell him that you will now place your hand upon his forehead and that
he will not awaken but instead obey you · in every way you desire him to, Place
your hand upon his forehead, giving more suggestions and add, 11
you are going
deeper and deeper to sleep. You cannot awaken and must obey me. You will now
breathe deeper and deeper." If you find he obeys you by breathing deeper as you
suggest it, you may be assured he is under your control and carrying out your
suggestions. Another test is to raise his arm and suggest rigidity. If it be-
comes rigid, suggest relaxation and go on with your therapeutic suggestions for
Page 34
must not know that within this box you have two sockets with a couple 100 Watt
bulbs and you hold the switch in your hand that can turn them on as you please.
As subject looks into this dark box and sees nothing but blackness you give him
the "Sleep Formula" and if he does not go to sleep promptly, suddenly turn on the
lights and shout "SLEEP, GO TO SLEEP AT ONCE." This method, like the above one
is especially suitable for the hysterical type of subject.
PART SIXTEEN
H Y P N 0 T I Z .I N G R E F R A C T 0 R Y S U B J E C T S
Refractory subjects are those who use all their will-power to work against
yourhypnotizing them or those who try to cooperate so much that they keep awake
because they are too busy helping you. Then there are those who just are not
tired enough to relax properly and those whq want to stay awake to see what they
look like when they are hypnotized. The following instructions cover enough ways
and means to help you to successfully handle most refractory subjects. (Also see
"Technic For Hypnotizing Rapidly").
Charcot's Method
Dr, Charcot 1
s method was to suddenly startle and shock the subject by the
sudden sound of a Chinese gong, or a very bright light suddenly thrown into the
subject's eyes. This would throw many of the subjects, many of whom were hystero-
epileptics, into a quasecataleptic state. Any method that will produce a nervous
shock or startle the subject will accomplish the same thing as the above.
Unco-operative Method
Tell the unco-operative subject that you wish to t est the power of his own
will and show him what a strong will he has, Fasten his hands together as taught
elsewhere but say nothing about hypnotism. From this go on to fastening his eyes
and then put him to sleep with your suggestions.
Force Method
Many years ago a successful. hypnotist would wager that he could hypnotize
anyone. He would have the man seized by an assistant and thrown upon his back on
the floor where he was held. The hypnotist would then apply a steady and gentle
patting on the epigastric region (solar plexus) which woul d soon put the subject
to sleep.
Trick Methods
A subject should fully cooperate and concentrate his attention upon the sug-
gestions of the hypnotist; or give himself up fully to him without restraint or
restriction. If neither condition prevails, the operator may have to resort to
trickery to catch the subject's mind off guard in order to take advantage of him
and so induce hypnosis. This might call for the use of hypnotic drugs or some
nerve and muscle control method as already described. Also remember many people
can be frightened into the hypnotic state as practised by Dr. Charcot who took
advantage of hysterical subjects in this way. -
Two Ways To Increase The Carbonic Acid
If the carbonic acid is increased in the subject's system he wil l prove more
susceptible to ordinary methods of hypnotizing. It is easy to increase the car-
bonic acid gas. Have the subject standing, take a long deep breath and hold it ,
at the same time raising his arms above his head in a flexed position, fists
clenched, and contracting every muscle in his arms, his legs and back. He must
hold this position while you, the operator, count off ten slow seconds, At the
end of this period the subject may relax, put his arms down, exhale and rest for
one short breath. This relaxed state should not l ast over two or three seconds,
then the exercise is again repeated and continued for ten to twenty minutes if
necessary. Stop only when the subject complains of great fatigue then promptl y
let him sit or lie down and use any of your favorite methods on him. If you have
him sitting let him gaze at some bright object held on level with ~op of his head
Page 33
and about fifteen inches before him, If you decide to let him lie down the use
of a towel over his eyes and stethoscope in his ears makes th~ ideal method.
Another method to increase the carbonic acid gas in the system is to have
the subject breathe in and out of a large paper bag which is fitted closely about
his mouth. This makes him rebreathe the air he has just exhaled and in a short
time he will be far more susceptible than he was before he started thi s simple
but extremely effective exercise. Use any hypnotic method to follow up with,
PART SEVENTEEN
H0 W T 0 G I V E S UG G ES T I 0 NS WI TH0 UT S LEEP
Effective suggestions may often be implanted into the subconscious mind with-
out profound hypnosis. In fact, the subject need not be in any stage of sleep.
Sleep is not always necessary for the production of the suggestible state, It is
for this reason that many drugless physicians such .as chiropractors, osteopaths,
naturopaths and naprapaths now adopt this manner of treatment.
The subject is merely put into a very passive or suggestible state so that
the operator may drive home to his conscious and subconscious mind the required
suggestions. Some operators write out the suggestions beforehand and then read
them off carefully with masterful earnestness to the receptive subject with ex-
cellent results.
When giving suggestions to a person in a waking state, insist that he nods
his head every time you give him a good suggestion. Such response indica tes that
he not only is paying excellent attention to what you are saying but that he also
agrees to what you say thereby better impressing both his conscious and subcon-
scious mind,
With your finger, tap the subject on the left temple region to send thoughts
into his subconscious mind. Doing likewise on the right temple region will send
thoughts out of his subconscious mind,
Since tomorrow never comes it is always best to use suggestion worded as
present tense completed, Say,- "Your health is better," Do not say, "You r health
will improve."
Negative suggestions should never be used by a good operator. They are
wrong, illogical, confusing and often work just opposite to what they were given
for. 11
Don 1 t drink coffee" is a negative suggestion because y,ou are saying,
"drink coffee, 11
But, substitute, "Drink milk, it is good for you, 1
is a positive
suggestion and results will follow. The expression of the needful though t should
be made into the affirmative.
The ideal instrument and method to use is that as described under the head-
ing of 11
Apparatus For Inducing The Hypnotic State 11
, the "Stethoscope" as explained
therein.
PART El GHTEEH
HYP N0 T I Z.I NG I N NATURAL S LEEP
Many people can be put into the hypnotic state from natural sleep, e special-
ly if they are somnambulistic in nature. When the person is sound asleep, ap-
proach him cautiously, talking to him in a subdued voice, telling him that he will
not be disturbed by your presence or by the sound of your voice. When you are at
his side, tell him that you will now place your hand upon his forehead and that
he will not awaken but instead obey you in every way you desire him to. Place
your hand upon his forehead, giving more suggestions and add, 11
you are going
deeper and deeper to sleep. You cannot awaken and must obey me. You will now
breathe deeper and deeper. 11
If you find he obeys you by breathing deeper as you
suggest it, you may be assured he is under your control and carrying out your
suggestions. Another test is to raise his arm and suggest rigidity. If it be-
comes rigid, suggest relaxation and go on with your therapeutic suggestions for
Page 34
his health or for whatever the treatment is desired, then suggest that he will
again pass into a natural sleep and awaken in the morning as usual without having
any knowledge of the incident. Often suggestions take hold and results follow
even though operator seemingly did not establish rapport between patient and him-
self,
Parents may treat their children in this way. If they are ill, disobedient,
backward at sphool, helpful suggestions should be given while child sleeps.
Stuttering, stammering, nail-biting, masturbation and other habits have been suc-
cessfully treated in this way. Wives may treat their husbands or husbands may
treat their wives. Always remember to repeat a suggestion at least three times
at each session or treatment.
It is believed that a child may be transformed into almost anything good,
noble, splendid and even into a genius, by applied suggestion of their elders
given wisely and persistently. Through suggestion, dissatisfaction may be trans-
formed into satisfaction, and indifference into interest and vital enthusiasm.
A mother can tell her child, "I shall come and talk to you tonight while you
are asleep." At the appointed hour she will come and talk saying, "You hear me
talking to you and when I touch your li~s with my finger you can speak without
awaking. You can hear me can't you? Say 'Yes", You will do as I say. You will
study hard. You will be happy. You will be healthy. Et cetera."
PART NINETEEN
P 0 S T - H Y P N 0 T .I C S U G G E S T I 0 N S
Post hypnotic suggestions are those given to a subject while he is under
hypnosis and are to be carried out by the subject at some time in the future.
Such a suggestion often holds good for more than a year. In demonstrating hypno-
Subject feels no pain as Sokeitous burns her fingers with
flame from cigarette lighter. Not recommended.
Page 35
tism I often tell 'a hypnotized subject that upon his awakening he will immediate-
ly go to sleep whenever he sees me remove my watch from my pocket and look a t it.
Should I meet this subject later, perhaps a month later, and I wish to put him
into the hypnotic state at once, I need but remove my watch from my p ocket and
look at it as if determining the time of day and the subject will immediately go
into a sound sleep.
To hypnotize by letter, it is only necessary to place a subject in a hypnot-
ic state and suggest, "From now on you will do as I say even to obeying me in a
written message. If I should write the word 'SLEEP' on a card and sign my name,
you will at once go into a deep sleep upon reading it." Repeat these sugges tions
se'1eral times. Awaken subject and at once test out the power of this post -hyp-
notic sug*estion by having some one else give a note to - the subject upon which is
, the word SLEEP" and your signature below it. Never send a note like this to an
individual far away unless you have given sugges tions that the subject will
awaken of his own accord after a lapse of time, stating definite l y h w long he
will sleep before awaking.
To hypnotize by telephone, telegram, radio or television, the s ame technic
is used as hypnotizing by letter given above. You need but give the s l eeping
subject suggestions that he will at once go to sleep on command given over tele-
phone, by telegram, radio or television. It is quite possible to hypnotize people
who have never been previously hypnotized and who have not been prepared f or it
other than have the misfortune of tuning in the television set to some p rogram in
which a hypnotist is experimenting.
Without post-hypnotic suggestions, hypnotism itself would be of littl e value.
Curative suggestions are all post-hypnotic in nature. When hypnotizing a subject
for the first time always include suggestions to the effect that the next time
you experiment with him, he will respond more quickly and go to sleep more deeply.
By repeating this each time you develop the subject who may be unaffec ted at
first. Repetition overcomes all obstacles. Always repeat suggestion s to make
them stick.
To hypnotize a subject in ten seconds it is only necessary to give him a
post-hypnotic suggestion that from now on whenever you point your f inger at him
and count to ten he will promptly go to sleep. This is a favorite technic of
mine. It never fails if the subject had been properly hypnotized and the post-
hypnotic suggestion was driven in strongly.
PART TWENTY
SEVENTY MORE WAYS AND MEANS TO INDUCE HYPNOSIS
Secure your subj ect's undivided attention :in any of the following ways given.
After a few minutes of concentration, commence givin~ the "SLEEP FORMULA" abbre -
viated as "S.F." to save space. This "SLEEP FORMULA will be found given · n de -
tail on a firevious page in this Manual. Look it up now so you will understand
what "S.F. 1
really stands for.
1.--Have your subject gaze steadily at your little finger nail, held about four
inches in front of him and ~ust above his eyes. Have l lght come from behind and
just above his head. Give S.F.
11
2.--Use a metal ball or similar bright object as above and give the "S .F . "
3.--Have subject gaze at a coin or small mirror held in palm of the sub ject's hand
about six inches below the chin'1 light to reflect into his eyes . As sub j ect's
eyes become fatigued give "s .F. '
4.--Place a lighted candle behind a beer-bottle and have the subject ga ze at the
spot at which the light focuses on opposite side which is the front of the bottle
to subject. Give "S.F."
5.--Have the subject gaze at the flame of a candle placed about ten inches in
front of him and on a level with-the top of his head. This must be done in a dark
room. Give "S.F, 11
as you sit or stand to one side of him.
Page 36
6.--Have the subject look steadily at a spot on the ceiling.
give "s.F."
When his eyes tire
7.--Place ahand-mirror in the subject's hand and have him look into the pupils of
his own eyes reflected in the mirror. Mirror should be held about ten inches
away and above his eyes. Give "s.F."
8 .--Have the subject gaze at a crystal or diamond in same position as in the above
experiment with mirror. Give "S.F."
9,--Have the subject gaze into a clear glass of water standing onahigh stool, on
a level with top of his head and fifteen inches in front of him. Give "S.F."
10.-Have the subject gaze intently at the tip of his nose. Give the "S.F."
11.-Take the photograph of someone unlmown to the subject and tell him it is the
picture of the greatest hypnotist in the world. Tell him that if he will gaze
into the eyes of the photograph he will feel the hypnotist's influence and will
soon drop off into a sound sleep from which he will arouse when you tell him to.
Let him gaze at the picture as you give the "S.F." This is a very sensational
method and a good subject will follow out your suggestions at once.
12.-Close your hand but leave the first finger extended and move it slowly side
to side, moving the hand on a level with the top of the subject's head and about
ten inches in front of him. Give the "S.F."
13.-Take a seat directly in front of your subject. Have him lean forward a little
in his chair while you too lean forward until your eyes are about afoot from his.
Hold his hands firmly and have him gaze intQ one of your eyes while you give the
"s.F." Avoid winking if possible. This is easy if you have learned the Hypnotic
Gaze taught you elsewhere in this Manual. It is a popular idea that a hypnotist
should be able to out-stare anyone.
14.-Place the subject in the same position as given above, but instead of holding
his hands, stand before him and make passing slowly from his head to his knees
without touching him while you let him gaze up into your eyes. While doing this
give the "S.F. 11
15.-Stand the subject about six feet away facing you. Extend your arms and hands
in front of you on a level with your shoulders. Have him gaze into your eyes.
Tell him that soon he will have a desire to fall forward. Keep suggesting the
falling forward and incorporate this with the "s .F." and soon he will fall forward
sound asleep.
16.-Take two volunteers and seat them opposite each other in chairs. Have these
subjects hold one another's hands and look into each other's eyes. Tell them
that what one does the other will do, that after -staring at one another for a few
minutes their eyes will tire and that they will put one another to sleep. If by
chance both are good subjects, both may become hypnotized. This is an effective
stage stunt and can be done with any number of pairs of subjects.
17.-Hold a bright object in front of your subject standing on his feet. Suggest
that when you move it away from him he will be compelled to follow it. When his
eyes look blank, move it away slowly and if he is a good subject he will commence
to sway and follow it.
18.-Take hold of the back of subject's neck with your left hand and hold the front
of your right thumb about ten inches in front of his eyes. Have the subject gaze
steadily at this thumb while you gradually bring it closer very slowly. When you
have brought it up to his eyes, tell him to close them. Now grasp his forehead
with this hand and press head lightly between the two hands asyou give the "S.F."
19.-Have subject lie on a cot, close his eyes and request him to breathe deeply
and regularly. Convince him that after he has taken sixty-three deep breaths he
will be fast asleep. Sit at his side and count audibly each breath he takes.
Use "S.F." between counts.
20.-Sit subject before an orange with a string running through it and tied to a
hook in the ceiling. Spin orange so that it revolves first one way and then the
Page 37
other, similar to the Revolve-Ball. Let him gaze at it while you give 11
S.F. 11
21.-Suspend an orange in the same way as in above technic, but instead of having
it near the subject's eyes and on a l evel with the top of his head, have it a
little higher and about three feet away. Let it swin* from left to right as a
pendulum on a clock and as subj ec t gazes at it give the S.F. 11
22. -Have the subject sit before a fire -p l ace and gaze at the fire in a dreamy
fashion as you sit along side of him and give 11
S .F. 11
23.-This is similar to the above only instead of the fire - place let the subjec t
gaze out of the window at a fairly b right sky while you stand along side of him
and give the 11
S.F. 11
24.-This method works well with summer weather.
on the subject's face as he sits well r el axed.
give the 11
S.F. 11
Let an electric fan b l ow gently
You must sit or stand near by and
25.-Have a bottle of simple eyedrops · or make some up by using some pure boil e d
water and put into it a few crysta l s of boracic acid (boric acid). Tell your
subjects that these drops are used to make t he eyes relax and so p roduce sleep in
the individual in whose eyes they are dropped. Now with an eye - dropper p l ace one
drop of the solution into each eye of the subject , make him c omfortable and give
11
S.F. II
26.-Have subject sitting comfortably in a dark room fac ing the wall. Paste or
attach a luminous disc to the wall. Let subject gaze at it while you give the
11
S.F. 11
Such a disc can be supplied by the author. It is made especiall y for
this purpose and of the correct color.
27.-Have some kind of a container of water hung up high with a tiny hole in the
bottom. Let the water drip, drop by drop into a vessel on the floor . Sit your
subject in a comfortable chair, darkened room, l et him close his eyes and count
the drops of water that fall. Le t him unders tand t hat before he counts sixty-
three drops he will be fast asleep. Let him count mentally while you stand near-
by and give the 11
S.F. 11
28.-Have subject look through a piece of screen
swatter held b7i you about a foot before his eyes;
you give 11
S.F. 1
This tires opt i c ne rve quickly .
wire of small mesh or a f ly
M
ove it slowly to and fro a s
29.-Let subject gaze into darkness by suspending a box before him with the open
end toward him. It must be painted dead black within . As he gazes into the box
give 11
S.F. 11
30.-Let subject listen intently to the sound coming from a l arge sea-shell you
hold to his ear. After a few minutes give the 11
S .F. 11
31.-Draw a picture of a l ar ~e eye on a piece of white paper. Let subject gaze at
it while you give the 11
S.F.
32.-Draw the word "SLEEP" in l a r ge b l ack letters on white paper. Let the subject
gaze at this while you give 11
S.F. 11
This object as well as others should al ways
be suspended about fifte en inches in front of the subject and on a level with the
top of his head.
33.-Tell the subj e ct t hat the center controlling sleep is situated at the base of
the brain just above the spinal cord and that if he will close his eyes and rivet
his attention upon it while you apply pressure on that spot, sleep will soon
overwhelm him. Give the "S.F . 11
as you press gentl y at base of skull.
34.-Have the subj ect p l ace the fingers of one hand on the pulse of the other and
to count t he pulse beat while he wills the heart 1
s action to go slower and slower.
Have his eyes closed. Afte r a few minutes give the 11
S.F. 11
35.-Hold a watch to sub jec t 1 s ear whil e his eyes are c l osed. Suggest that as h e
starts to g o to sleep the ticking will become fainter and fainter. After a few
minutes move - the watch slowly away and give 11
S.F . 11
Page 38
36.-Take a common large horse-shoe magnet and hold the poles against the subject's
forehead, Ask him to close his eyes and to concentrate on the magnetism passing
through his head, After a few minutes commence giving the "S.F, 11
37,-Let subject hold a pole of a horse-shoe magnet in one hand and the other pole
in the other hand while his eyes are closed and he concentrates on feeling the
current. After a few minutes g:Lve the "S.F. 11
Subjects that tell you they can
feel the suggested magnetic current usually make excellent subjects.
38.-Learn the subject's favorite color. Then have him close his eyes and imagine
he can see nothing but this color. After he has thought of this color for two or
three minutes, give the "S.F."
39.-Have the subject lie. down on a comfortable cot and pretend to sleep by snor-
ing lightly. . This tends to encourage sleep. Remember, we do this every nite to
get to sleep, nothing new to you only you never thought of it this way. Give
TI's.F."
40.-Have subject close his eyes and ask him to imagine he is looking at the ceil-
ing, looking into the corners of the ceiling one at a time. After a few minutes
of this, give "s.F."
41.-Have subject close his eyes and have him drop his head forward on his chest.
Ask him to imagine that he is looking Ufil and down his spine from behind. After
two or three minutes of this give "S.F.'
42.-Let your subject lie down on a comfortable cot in a warm room in .which you
had been burning some incense, Suggest that he close his eyes, that it is a warm
sununer day and that he should picture himself under a shady tree out in the coun-
try. Suggest that he can smell the grass and flowers growing about him, hear the
rustle of the leaves in the tree-top and that he feels so tired he does not care
to stay awake. Give the' "S.F, 11
43,-Have subject stripped to waist and lie face down on a comfortable massage
table in a warm room. Then with some sweet oil or cold-cream gently massage his
back from head to hips giving "S.F."
44,-Have subject close his eyes while you place one of your fingers on top of his
head and ask him to rivet his att~ntion on the sensation he feels. After two or
three minutes give the "S.F."
45.-Tie a bit of twine about the middle finger of the subject's hand. Have him
fix his attention on that with his eyes closed. In two or three minutes give the
"S.F. II
46.-With each of your hands grasp his. With your thumb and first finger press at
root of his thumb-nail. Have him gaze into your eyes as you give the "S.F."
47,-Give the subject a glass of water into which was placed a few drops of orange
flavor. Suggest that it is a sleeping potion and tell him to drink it. Explain
that soon he will be asleep. Stay with him and give the "S.F. 11
48.-Have subject close his eyes and
against the palate or roof of mouth.
you give the "s.F."
to raise his tongue upward until it presses
Have him continue this for a few minutes as
49. -Fasten one end of a piece ·of copper wire around subject 1 s head and the other
around your own head. Tell the subject that you will WILL him to close his eyes
and go to sleep. Sit facing each other and give the "s.F."
50.-Tell your subject that you will drop a very powerful solution into his eyes
that will not only fasten them shut but also will put him to sleep at once. Then
drop one or two drops of pure sterile water into each of his eyes, close them for
him and give the "S.F."
51.-While subject is on his back place an electric pad or hot-water pottle to his
abdomen. Tell him this will draw the blood away from his head to this region and
so put him to sleep rapidly. Have him close his eyes as you give the "S.F."
Page 39
52.-Conne ct a copp er wi re around the sub ject' s head and the other end around a
water-pipe. Assure him tha t this grounding of hi s t houghts thus will redu ce
me~tal activity and so put him to sleep . Have h im c l ose his eyes and give the
"s.F."
53.-Have t he subject lie on a cot fac i ng up ·wit h his eyes c losed. Sit at the
head of the cot and make gentle passes over his forehead fr om center to templ es,
one of your hands go to the left and other to t he r ight making actual contact
with his skin. Give the "S .F."
54.-Have subject listen to the ticking of a clock near by . Tell him to cl ose and
open his eyes at each tick. One tick to close and one t ick to open. When his
lids flutter or become fastened shut give the "S.F."
55.-Place a small weight on subject's chest as 4e lays f ace up on a c ot with his
eyes closed. ~ell him that this weight will cause him t o br eat he slower, heavier
and regularly thereby putting him to sle ep. Give him the "S.F." as he breathes .
56. -Have the subject do vigorous deep-breathing exercise s for five or t en minutes ,
have him lie down, close his eyes and relax. Give the "S.F."
57.-Have the subject stand and. do stationary running fo r a whil e unt il we l l fa -
tigued. Let him lie down on a cot, close his eyes and relax . Give the "s.F."
58.-Let the subject gaze intently at a tiny ink-spot on a whit e card held on a
level with the top of his head and about ten inches in f r ont of him . Give the
"s.F."
59.-Have subject lie down, close his eyes, contract every mus c l e i n his body mak-
ing them all rigid and breathe very little. Have him ho ld t h is position until
fatigued. Let him relax and give the "S.F."
60.-With subject sitting in reclining ·position, massage his s cal p as a bar ber
would and give "s .F." at the same time.
61.-With subject lying down, place r.our thumbs over hi s clos e d eyel ids and appl y
gentle pressure on them as you give 'S.F. 11
62,-To hypnotize a subject in a very light room is sometimes difficul t unl es s a
strip of black felt in form of a mask but with no eye -openings is used and
fastened about subject's head. Have him lie down, relax and give the "s.F."
63.-Give subject a !'lugar-pill or some harmle ss tablet taken from a bottle
labelled "HYPNOTIC." Tell him that as a r e sult s l eep will r ap idl y overwhelm him.
Gi ve the ·"s . F."
64. -Let subject hold a disc of zinc over one of h is eyes and a disc of copper over
the other. Tell him that the electric current thus gener a t ed will soon put him
to sleep. Give the "S.F."
65.-Have subject hold h i s nose tightly b e t ween thumb
breathe deeply and regularly through his mouth , ho lding
his mind. After two or three minutes give the "S.F."
and first finger and to
t h e thought of sleep in
66.-Place a rubber cork between the sub ject's tee th. Let him bite hard on it for
two minutes, r emove and gi ve the "S.F . 11
67. -Fasten subject 1 s eyes close d with a ·pie c e of adhesive tape p l aced over a bit
of cotton to prevent sticking to eye-la she s. Le t subject t ry to open his eyes
for several minutes. When he becomes v er y fatigued gi ve "S . F ." Remove tape
after he is hypnotized.
68.-Place subject in a chair in a very warm room. Ask him t o enc ourage yawning
and to yawn every time you do. After he h as yawned a f ew t i mes and l ooks sleepy
give the "s.F."
69.-Have the subject close his eyes and to imagine he is counting the number of
bricks apfiearing on the corner of a high building . After three minutes of thi s
give the 's .F."
Page 40
70.-Have your subject lie down comfortabl y on a cot in a warm room. Place a
folded towel over his eyes and insert the ear-tips of a stethoscope into his ears,
You tallc into the bell giving "S .F. " You can purchase a stethoscope from the
author. It is ideal for shutting out various outside noises that may interfere
with results.
H 0 W
A Popular Type of Business Card
Used By Hypnotists
PART TWENTY-ONE
T 0 A WA KE N T H E S U B J E C T
To awaken asubject is very simple providing that you follow directions care-
fully. Al ways keep your mind on your work and do not become excited, for if you
do, the subject will do likewise and you will exp erienc e diffiQulty in awaking
him. Do not try to awaken a subj ect suddenly as he will experience a headache.
The effect i~ much the same as running to some sleeping i ndividual's be~ dragging
the bed covers off . and dashing a full pail of cold water upon him. This produces
a shock and all shock should be carefully avoided.
When you are ready to awaken the subject jus t say, "Now I am going to awaken
you. When I count to fiye and snap my fingers you wi·ll be fully awake and feel-
ing spl endid. " Then count to five and snap your fingers and he will awaken
promptly. This method gives him a chance to awaken gradually.
Should he fail to awaken, it is because he is much in need of rest and it is
best to suggest that he will awaken after he has had two hours of sleep, after
which he will awaken of his own accord. Should it be necessary to awaken the
subject at once even though he needs sleep, repeat the suggestion that he will
awaken at the count of five, but in addition, whisper the suggestion separately
into each ear. Then count and instead of merel y snapping y our fingers, slap him
smartly across the cheek, saying, "You are all right now, f ully awalce and feeling _
splendid. Awake!" This will never fail. '
To awaken the subject who has been hypnotized by some other operator, you
need but suggest deeper sleep to him to establish rapport after which you awaken
him same as suggested above.
PART TWENTY-TWO
H 0 W T 0 G E T S U B J E C T S
The practicing physician will find ample opportunity to practice hypnotism
upon his patients, but the layman s eems to think it , difficult to procure material
for experimentation. The following advice is for those who need it.
Invite several of your friends to your home some evening. Request that they
bring along several of the ir friends and acquaintances. After refreshments have
been served, bring up the subject of concentration, stating that most people do
Page 41
not have the ability to keep their minds on one subject for more than a few seconds
at a time. You soon will have an argument on your hands. To prove your point ,
tell them that you have a little psychologi c a l test that all may try out. Begin
with the methods given under Waking Hypnosis but be careful not to mention hypno-
sis. After you have succeeded with these tests and perhaps put one or two sub-
jects to sleep, you may then tell them just what you are doing, saying it is hyp-
notism. They will be much surprised but convinced that there is no harm in hyp-
notism and will not hesitate to go on with more elaborate experimentation. Tell
them about the value of suggestion given under hypnosis and if possible, cure
some one of the smoking habit if you can find a willing subject who de s ires to
quit the tobacco habit. Such a demonstration will soon advertise you and the
science of hypnotism and soon you will have more subjects to work upon t han you
counted on.
To procure subjects for stage work, simply place a small classified adver-
tisement in the daily papers, stating that men are wanted to assist upon the
stage. You will receive sufficient response f rom which to choose many good
subjects.
I
Stanley Sokeitous, on the sta~e, demonstrates hypnotism
PART TWENTY-THREE
S T A G E H Y P N 0 T I S M
A genuine hypnotic performance always attracts large crowds. Good hypno-
tists receive excellent salaries. Pauline, the hypnotist, received over one
thousand dollars a week for demonstrating hypnotism upon the American stage . To
do stage work, the hypnotist must have at least two good subjects that are will-
ing to travel with him. They must be well developed by repeatedly being hypno -
tized so they will promptly carry out all suggestions.
I shall try and give the beginner an idea of just how to start on a stage
career . You will need some nice posters printed telling about the wonders of
your hypnotic act. You also will need some large photo prints of yourself, your
ac t and perhaps a picture of one of your subjects sleeping in a store window.
Now you can approach the theatre manager of some theatre and obtain permission to
put on your act gratis. This will give you experience and the manager in most
cases will accept your offer. Fill in the name of this theatre on some of the
posters you will have made up and include date of performance. These posters may
be tacked up or placed in barber shop and candy store windows or anywhere else
within the neighborhood.
Before the performance have your trained but genuine subjects seated in the
Page 42
audience. Have the orchestra play a little weird or ghostly music as the "Ghost
Dance." The curtain may now rise and dressed to fit the occasion you step for-
ward upon the stage. You may or may not wish to make a speech about hypnotism.
It is often best not to make any if you are going to speak so that no one can
hear you. But, if you are able to talk loud, even a poor speech will go over
well. It need not be too long and you can word it as you please. Should you de-
sire a speech already made up and easily mastered you need but remit $1 to Dr.
Lonk for a copy that you can memorize and yet tell all.
You will finish your speech by saying - "I now want a number of gentlemen to
volunteer as subjects. I assure you that nothing will be done that will prove
distasteful to the volunteer or to the audience.
Your planted subjects, after a moments hesitation, should come forward upon
the stage . Likely others will follow. Seat them all in a semi-circle on the
stage on chairs already arranged. Start with the experiments covered in part on
Waking Hypnosis as already given. Those that do not respond to any of these ex-
periments, send back to their seats in the audience. Your time is too limited to
allow you to work long on refractory subjects. The audience must be kept inter-
ested and entertained. Those remaining must all be seated before you. Tell them
to close their eyes and request that they roll their eye-balls up toward the
ceiling while at the same time they keep their eyelids closed tightly. Pass
rather quickly from one to the other, pressing down on the eyelids and requesting
them to keep looking upward. In a commanding tone say, "Your eye-lids are STUCK.
You CAN'T open your eyes, they are STUCK. You are GETTING SLEEPY, VERY SLEEPY.
You are going SOUND ASLEEP, ASLEEP, ASLEEP, SLEEPING. You are SOUNDLY SLEEPING."
Now pass around raising each
remains extended, the subject is
prove sufficient to put him into
rounds, suggest relaxation.
subject's left arm and say "RIGID." If the arm
asleep, but if not, a few suggestions more may
the desired state. After you have made the
Now for the comedy. To produce hallucinations, suggest to your subjects,
while they are asleep, that when you count to three, they all will open their
eyes, and though still asleep, they will see a beautiful lake before them. Sug-
gest that they all will want to go fishing. Count to three and say, "All right,
you now see a beautiful lalce before you and want to go fishing. 11
A few broom-
s ticks or canes will do for fishpoles. Pass from one to the other, inquire what
luck each has had. Suggest good luck to one and bad luck to another. The-ex-
pression on their faces and their actions when they have abite will prove comical
to the audience. You may suggest many ludicrous things such as going in swimming
wherein you will permit a subject to remove his top shirt, undershirt and stop
him just before he drops his trunks. This is an ideal ending for the act as most
people get a good laugh out of it.
Snap your fingers before each subject and awaken them in some ridiculous
pose. However, in order that you need not again put them to sleep, do not awaken
them but merely suggest that the lake is no more, and suggest another scene.
There are various possibilities, such as the following scenes which must be
elaborated upon to make an excellent act. Some are comical and others scientific,
1. - Suggest subject is freezing - give him a blanket.
2. - That subject is sweating - let him strip to waist.
3. - That subject is up in a balloon or airship, falling out .
4, - Let subject speak on any silly subject.
5. - Rotating hands and cannot stop them rotating.
6, - Under a cold shower.
7, - Intoxicated by drinking water.
8, - One subject as mother and other adult as baby.
9. - Bees chasing subjects.
10. - Catching money from the slcy.
11, - Fleas in clothing.
12. - Ants in pants.
13, - Let subject think of a funny joke and laugh.
14. - Let other subject think of a sad story and cry.
15, - Tell subject his name is PEANUTS then ask his name.
16. - Mice on floor or in clothing for girl subjects.
17. - Tell subject he has rubber nose. Act as if stretching it.
18. - Red hot seat, hot coin or hot poker.
Page 43
19. - Tell subjects they are petrified, turned to stone.
20. - Love scene. Two male subjects. Tell one he is a girl.
21. - Tell subject he is a senator. Place whiskey bottle in his pocket.
22. - Fishing scene. Suggest good luck to one and bad l uck to other.
23. - Boat ride.
24. - Going swimming. Allow subjects to strip to waist.
25. - Strawberry picking scene.
26 . - Monkeys in zoo scene.
27. - Riding horses. Let subjects sit facing back of chairs.
28. - Have subject sing or dance imitating some actor or actress.
29. - Selling bananas.
30. - Speech but let subject use alphabet letters instead of words.
31. - Tell subject he is but seven years old and to recite.
32. - Give subject lemon to eat telling him it is sweet.
33 . - Give subject sugar or candy and say it is a lemon.
34. - Tell subject he is a Mexican Jumping Bean. Let him jump.
35. - That he is a cat or dog and let him act accordingly.
36. - Permit subject to lift box of matches telling him it weighs 200 pounds .
37. - Pugilist scene. Prize-fight.
38. - Ball game scene with trimmings of Cracker Jack, etc.
39. - Tell subject he cannot do other than follow your finger which you
point at him.
40. - Tight-rope walking.
41. - Stomach-ache scene from eating green apples.
42. - Skating party scene.
4p. - Tell subject his finger is stuck to tip of nose and he must try t o
pull it away.
44. - Cake-walk scene.
45. - Horse race scene.
46. - Salesman selling impossible things.
47. - Barber shop scene.
48. - Flag-pole sitter on a high chair.
49. - Radio announcer scene, advertising some s i lly thing.
50. - Let two subjects face each other and hypnotize one another.
51. - Needle through arm. Anesthesia. (Serious).
52. - Slow down or speed u~ pulse beat. (Serious).
53. - Catalepsy. (Serious).
S{anley Sokeitous demonstrates anesthesia · by
pushing hat pin through skin of arm. (Pin
was touched up to make it more Visible).
Page 44
Other than the above s cenes
will suggest themselves t o tha
student. They all must b e in-
teresting and if possible, such
that will keep the people laugh-
ing .except when you become seri-
ous and demonstrate the sci enti-
fic and practical side of hypno-
tism. The last three s cenes
given fit into that category.
The Great Needle Test
To demonstrate anesthesia
it is best to use one of your
good subject's arms. Hypnotize
him and make upward passes over
the bare arm while suggesting
numbness, then no sensation and
that there is no more feel i ng in
it than there is in a piece of
wood. Tell him that you will
stick his arm with a sharp pin
but that he will feel nothing.
Now sterilize a sharp long hatpin
with some good grain a l c ohol,
sterilize several square i nches
of the skin on the arm and like-
wise your own fingers of both
hands. Now pick up the skin on
his arm with two fingers and
stick the hatpin through the skin and not through the fleshy or muscular part of
arm or you may strike a large blood vessel, nerve or the bone. With pin horizon-
tal, pull upward to show that skin fs pulled up by it. Now you can remove it but
not until you sterilize the point again if you handled that end of it so you do
not cause any infection on withdrawal. Pressure of your sterilized thumb on
wound will prevent any bleeding. Since you are not endeavoring to heal, you are
.not practicing :ruedicine.
The Great Hypnotic Blood Control Test
If you have two good subjects you may now use the other subject. Hypnotize
him and suggest rigidity of the shoulder muscles of one of his arms, squeezing
the shoulder here and there with one of your hands as you suggest rigidity. The
pulse in that arm will soon be obliterated same as is _
the case when the cuff of
the sphygmomanometer (blood-pressure machine) is applied. The arm becomes very
white and cold. Permit some physician in the audience to step up and count the
pulse beat at the wrist of subject before you suggest rigidity and after. His
word will be convincing. Like the average patient does, do not attempt to count
the pulse of any subject's arm by using your own thumb. This does not look pro-
fessional nor is it practical because you yourself have a pulse beat in your
thumb. Use the first, second or third finger or all three but not your thumb.
To elaborate on this blood control test, you can suggest contraction of
shoulder muscles which soon learn to contract without verbal suggestions. You
need but place your hand on the shoulder and suggest the slowing or stoppage of
pulse as you please·. Then you can verbally suggest a speed-up of the pulse in
other arm and you have a combination that fools even the physician who cannot un-
derstand why you should be able to get a slow pulse in one hand and a rapid one
in the other when the one and the same heart pumps blood to both arms simultane-
ously.
Lastly, you can leave out
mind over the heart. Suggest
enough on an excellent subject
opposite suggestions, you can
over-do this.
all trickery and merely demonstrate the power of
a slowing of the heart. If you keep it up long
you can slow it down alarmingly. Then by giving
speed it up to a point just as alarming. Do not
In addition to the above there are several other methods of blood control,
some are genuine and others depend upon trickery. Such will be found under
"Pseudo-Hypnosis," given elsewhere in this Manual.
The Great Cataleptic Test
Webster describes
catalepsy as a sudden
suspension of sensa-
tion and volition, with
mu-scular rigidity. Have
one of your good sub-
jects stand up, grasp
the sides of his trou-
sers as his hands hang
at the sides, and put
him into a deep hypnot-
ic sleep in this posi-
tion. Stand behind him
now and with your hands
going over his arms,
back and legs, suggest
rigidity. As you make
contact with each group
of muscles say, "RIGID".
Be certain that the
muscles of the back are
especially well con-
tracted so that he has
a slight bowed back ap-
pearance. This is known
as the professional cat-
aleptic bow.
Catalepsy under Dr. Lonk's power. Note food support
for head and neck. _ Three men can readily stand . on
such a ~ell supported subject under deep hypnosis.
Page 45
Have two chairs arranged about four feet apart with their backs
other and well padded at top edge of each back with a folded blanket.
one sit on each chair to steady it and prevent it from tipping over.
your subject by the shoulders from b ehind while an assistant grasps
ankles and together you suspend his rigid form across the backs of the
to form a human bridge.
facing each
·Have some-
Now grasp
him by his
two chairs
Now place a heavy folded blanket upon · him and two or three men may safely
stand upon him for a moment. A good subject can easily hold from four to six
hundred powids if the weight is properly distributed and providing he i s in a
genuine cataleptic state and is not too frail. CAUTION: Do not make the mis take
of letting the subject 1
s neck and ankles rest on the backs· of the chairs but in-
stead let his shoulders and calves of legs rest on backs of chairs. The bones in
the neck are easily fractured and by being cautious you will not h ave an ac cident.
Another thing to remember if you permit three individuals to stand on your sub-
ject is to have the lighter one in the center and the two heavie r ones a t the
ends as most of the weight will then fall on the part of body best supported by
the chairs. This puts less strain on the subject's back muscles and appears just
as spectacular. After your subject has supported the individuals for abou t ten
seconds, remove him from the tops of the chairs, give him sugge stions that when
he awakens he will feel fine and promptly awaken him so that he may share in t h e
applause that follows.
The Great Rock-Breaking Test
This is done in the same way as the above . The subject is placed in the
Cataleptic state, supported in the same way across padded chairs, a heavy f olde d
blanket is placed over him, but instead of his supporting anyone a large f l a t
limestone rock is placed upon him by two assistants. The heavier the rock , t he
better. It can weigh up to two-hundred pounds. Invite some intelligent and
sober blacksmith to break the rock with a hammer you supply which should have a
long handle but not be too heavy. A lighter hammer insures better control and
prevents accidents. Another precaution is to wrap a strong board in the b l anke t
wider the rock to protect the subject should the rock break too easily.
The blacksmith will strike the rock two or three blows before it will break
and fall to the floor with a loud noise proving to the audience it is a genuine
stone. You now quickly get the subject on his feet, awaken him, thank the black -
smith and shake hands with him and enjoy the applause with the others.
This Rock-Breaking Stunt is very spectacular when done right. It may be
safer for the subject if you yourself handle the hammer as you will know how hard
to strike the rock because you can practice on some specimens of rock beforehand
to learn this.
The Great Show-Window Publicity Sleep
To obtain free publicity for your show, put your subject to sleep f or t wenty -
four or fourty-eight hours in a store window. A radio store is an ideal place
because the proprietor will gladly connect up his ·loud speaker with a microphone
for you so you can talk to the people outside of the window. This brings publi -
city to you and to the proprietor of the store. If you want to help the under-
taker out in that town and increase the value of this demonstration, ask him t o
loan you a coffin in which to let your subject sleep for the allotted time. On
the casket you will have to place a little sign "Casket supplied by John Doe,
Mortician."
Prepare your subject by first giving him a dose of castor oil to cle an him
out on the day you expect to put him to sleep in the store window. His meals
should consist of foods that do not make gas. Milk, toast , lean meat . Avoid
cabbage, beans, onions, radishes. If you are putting on a show that evening a t
the theatre, complete your performance and then as a climax you tell your audi-
ence that you will now hypnotize an individual and put him to sleep for t wenty-
four hours. Tell them where he can be seen sleeping at any time of the day or
night. Explain that he will breathe, move about in his bed like other peop le do
because you will not make him cataleptic so that the ci rculation of blood may re-
main normal. Tell them that at such and such a time tomorrow evening you will
have him returned to the stage at this theatre and will awaken him. You can say
that this is the first time you are doing this and that you trust that you will
Page 46
experience no difficulty in awaking him. This will make them want to see if you
will succeed and so they will jam the theatre.
After you have put your subject to sleep on the stage, have a couple of as-
sistants with a stretcher carry him off the stage out of the theatre to the store
if just across the street or to an ambulance if possible to obtain this service,
and let subject thus ride to his destination where he is carried into the store
and placed in the window. Have a nice sign explaining that the subject is in a
deep hypnotic trance and will be awakened on such a day at such an hour at the
Bijou Theatre or what ever name it has.
If your subject is to sleep more than a few
hours, it is best to sneak in late at night,
awaken him, let him empty his bladder, have a
bit of nourishment like a milk-shake or other
easily taken food and let him get back into .his
casket and again put him ~o sleep. If it is hot
weather, have a small fan in the enclosure. If
flies are about, cover him with fly netting. It
is best if some one sits up with him as a guard.
If the guard can be a woman dressed as a nurse
so much the better for publicity. If subject is
to sleep twenty-four hours you will have to feed
him several times and also attend to nature's
call. The object of the castor oil on the morn-
ing before the evening he is to be put to sleep
is not only to clean him out but to constipate
him because that is the action of castor oil.
After one or two thorough bowel movements from a
good dose of it (one ounce) the individual will
not have a desire to evacuate for a couple of
days so that problem is overcome.
Be sure to place all this information in
the hands of the editor of the local paper.
Have photographs taken of your subject as he
sleeps in the window, place extra photographs of
your act in the store window same as .you have in
front of the theatre and use all.of the showman-
ship you can think of, letting everyone share in
the publicity who helps you publicize your act.
After several performances you will be in1
tremendous demand by theatres, clubs and lodges.
Have a nice business card and act like an hypno-
tist, look like an hypnotist, and hypnotize your
PART TWENTY-FOUR
H 0 W T 0 P I C K G 0 0 D
MARVELOUS EXHIBITION
-m=-
~ ltl ,., IV ~ i() T II J ~\ K-
DON'T FAIL TO SEE
S-TANL-eY SOKeI-TOUS
Pa~ular Bay Hy~natlst
IN ~eRSON
A SIDE - SPLITTING ENTERTAINMENT
FOR YOUNG AND OLD
He Will yIU Wlll
MyiWy 1ngn uQ
na ~cmm ai
Amm Nem
You! Berm!
FREE HYPNOTIC SHOW
rriaay,August ~lit &~aturaay, ~e~tem~u lit.
GIVEN AT
COME ONE, COME ALL!
A popular type of circular used
by the hypnotist.
way to success.
S U B J E C T S
Good subjects are those that are intelligent and have learned to take orders.
For this reason, men who are or had been recently in the military service, make
excellent subjects. For some unexplainable reason the author had found that those
individuals between the ages of fi~een and twenty-five who have curly blond hair
and are somewhat over-weight, make the best subjects.
To test if a person will make a good subject the successful operator will
put the subject through various simple tests as taught you under "Waking Hypnosis.
11
If you can successfully fasten the subject's clasped hands together so he cannot
open them, you can rest assured your subject is going to prove himself a good one
to experiment with.
If you have a group of people before you such as an audience and you wish to
pick those that will prove good subjects, then try the following.
Ask all the people in the room to sit with their hands in their laps and
Page "4 7
the1r r'eet flat on the floor. Request them to close their eyes and to relax com-
Rletely. Now, while their eyes are closed you must give the following suggestions.
You are now completely relaxed. Your arms and legs begin to feel very heavy.
Your head feels heavy, very heavy. Your eyes are closing . Your eyelids are be-
coming fastened tightly together. Your eyeballs have rolled upward and are fas-
tened there. Your whole body is tired and relaxed. You have no desire to keep
awake and so you are going to sleep, to sleep, into a very deep sleep. Each and
every breath you take will cause you to go more deeply to sleep. Now when I count
to ten you will be soundly sleeping and will start to snore loudly and t here is
nothing that can disturb you. You will sleep soundly and will obey me implicitly.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine and ten, you are now soundly
sleeping and snoring. Nothing can disturb you. You will not awaken even when I
ask you to try to open your eyes. In fact, the more you try, the more f astened
your eyes will become. Now you may try. Try harder, still harder. You see, it
is impossible to open your eyes and so you will no longer try. Instead, you will
remain sleeping until I tell you to do otherwise." ·
After the above experiment, you can either demand that they all awaken and
taking note of those who were asleep and call on them later for successf ul ex-
perimentation, or while they are still asleep you can command them to come forward
and continue with hypnotic experimentation right where you left off withou t first
awaking them.
F.duoation. during natural_ sleep. Passive somnambulism. Patient
is dreruidng at oommand •
Mother and child.
PART TWENTY-FIVE
T H E n A T 0 M I C WA Y " O F H Y P N 0 T I Z I N G
/
By Nelmar
This particular manner of rapidly producing hypnosis is especially adaptab le
to the stage. With a pair of very conspicuous dark sun glasses over your eyes
you come forward on the stage and make a speech. The speech should be short,
convincing and cover matters related to the atomic bomb, the storing of atomic
energy, and how the sudden release of such stored energy produces almos t unb e-
lievable results. Explain that sheets of lead and leaded glass are used t o p r e-
vent the escape of destructive rays; that all radio-active substance is kept in
containers made of lead; how X-ray technicians protect themselves with screens
made of lead; that the men working on the atomic bomb must be protected fr om t he
destructive rays by a generous use of lead; and that you too are protecting others
from the powerful hypnotic rays that leave your eyes, by the use of special
glasses that you wear and which are made of leaded glass. Explain that y ou not
only wear the glasses to protect those you do not want to hypnotize from bei ng
influenced but also to conserve this hypnotic energy until you have chosen a sub-
ject upon whom you will release all the stored-up energy behind these gla~ses.
After you have chosen your subject, one that appears to be almost hypnotized
just from listening to you talk, you explain to him that now you will remove your
glasses and that but one glance from your eyes into his will put him into a deep
hypnotic sleep. Now remove your glasses, give your subject a determined gaze and
he will promptly go into the expected hypnotic sleep.
Page 48
A N
PART TWENTY-SIX
H Y P N 0 T I C I N T E R L U D E
(Burlesque)
by
Anthony "ff. Lu' Basz, D.S. T.
Hypnotism, as a serious business, is educational and inspirational. But,
who wants to study -and be inspired all the time. The spice of any program, re-
laxes the audience as well as the performer and often-times packs that necessary
"Punch" which helps to make the demonstration a grand success.
The following which has been found among my collection and which I had pre-
sented at some of my performances may be of help to other performers whose act
may seem a bit too dry.
l, Introduction of the "Hypnotist."
his fame, et cetera.
A great spiel is made about his ability,
2, Hypnotist calls for subjects from the audience.
3. Subject who is previously coached (stooge) comes upon the stage and stands
partially facing audience while performer does likewise but facing the stooge.
4, Hypnotist makes passes over stooge's face who blinks and grimaces as t hough
resisting but finally closes his eyes seemingly against his will(?),
5. The stooge is commanded to fall forward. Hypnotist reaches out to catch him,
but stooge does not move. Command is repeated several times but to no avail.
6, Performer explains to audience that they must be quiet to make it possibl~
for him to concentrate strongly. At this moment the stooge sways to and fro very
realistic. Audience howls while hypnotist runs back to the stooge and catches
him just in time so both fall down together with stooge holding hypnotist around
the neck with a half-Nelson. Quite tangled up.
7. Hypnotist awakens stooge by twisting his ears which causes the stooge 1 s tongue
to stick out. However, by loudly ringing a cow-bell that is handy the hypnotist
finally awakens the sleeping stooge.
8, Passes are repeated, stooge is told he is growing taller and taller into a
giant. (Have him do the "stretch gag", the rotation of his shoulders, one above
the other so he appears growing). Now the command is given for him to walk across
the stage floor. He does, but he limps as though one leg is much longer than the
other. The hypnotist explains to the audience that he must be more positive on
one side, and tells the stooge to grow a little more on the other side and to
walk again. Stooge again walks across stage floor but this time, a-la-pretzel
legs (like Leon Errol).
9, Hypnotist gets behind stooge to awaken him, grabs him by t~e arm to shake
him, but stooge holds onto him and swings hypnotist around a-la-Maypole dance.
Hypnotist awakens the stooge same as before.
10. Passes are again made, stooge closes h~s eties and is told he is a piece of
cheese. Stooge answers; "Sviss - Sviss - Sviss. '
Page 49
11. Hypnotist now says, "You are a door-mat . Act like one!" The stooge answers,
"Velcome - Velcome - Velcome." He is now awakened.
12. Hypnotist states that he · will make a t est to prove that his own will power
is superior to that of the stooge 1
s. Both stooge and hypnotist sit f acing each
other, each making passes at one another while each continues to shout "Sleep!
SLEEP! SLEEP!" Each tries to resist the other, malcing funny facial expressions.
To all appearances it seems that neither one can r es ist long, they look droopy,
sway toward each other and fall fast asleep on one another 1 s shoulder.
Curtain.
PART TWENTY-SEVEN
T H E P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y 0 F ME N T A L HEALIN G
To heal anyone you must get them under your spell of "expectant at tention."
This will arouse their faith-center, the hope-center, the interior dynamo of
personality and power which is the subconscious mind. It is for this r eason that
the more striking your personal appearance is, the more peculiar your dres s and
the more mysterious your methods, the more deeply you will make an impr ession on
the subconscious mind of your patient.
It is believed that most chronic ailments may be cured by any means in which
a patient has confidence and expects relief, Confidence and expectati on is the
secret. Harmony and agreement between healer and patient are necessary. The
guide speaks the word which the subject· must receive as was done by t he M
aster
Healer when he said, "According to your faith, be it unto you."
Suggestion is the great motive power that lifts mankind from the shadows of
the past up to the beautiful intellectual heights of today. Suggestive t reatments
today are being given to artists in various lines. Suggestion is given to actors
and actresses for increasing self-confidence and histronic inspirations; to
speakers to increase freedom of expression and to overcome disturbing emotions;
and to musicians and vocalists to improve their talents.
Every circumstance or incident of life, however apparently trivial, reveals,
in our use of' it, either strength or weakness. Happiness in i ts highest aspect,
means harmony.
Every mental activity results in a similar kind and quality of activity in
the corresponding part of that mind's body. The mental image of that activity
may also be· transferred to other minds through reflection of the picture , in which
event the corresponding action may be re-enacted in both mind and body of the one
who thus absorbs the action from the mind which thinks it.
When these facts are comprehended it will readily be seen that a realization
of the fundamental idea is possible. Harmony, must result in a mental picture
conforming to harmonious activity; also, that the reflected copy of that mental
action must inevitably have a harmonious tendency, If the idea be perfectly con-
ceived, the thought will reflect in harmonious action through the nervous system;
producing a natural condition in the physical body.
In harmonious activity, nature builds and retains a healthy body , If ob -
strucrtions to healthy action be present, they must, of course, be .removed through
right thought, after which the harmonious result will be inevitable; nothing can
prevent it.
All maladies are mental rather than physical in their nature, being simply
different degrees of mental distress registered in the physical system. All forms
of disease may be cured by changing the order of the mental action from which they
originally emanated.
It is imperative that distorted thought should pass away before the body can
cease to register and express distorted action.
Page 50
Every thought repeatedly indulged, leads eventually to corresponding actions
in life's experience. Thought and action are inseparable. The most powerful
leader is he who places the highest and purest ideas before the thinkers of a
community. Pure ideals perpetuate pure thoughts, inevitably resulting in right
actions. Purity and health are co-existent.
The impulse of Eternal Life is irresistible. If the right mental action be
established and continued, a natural healthy physical condition must eventually
result, because discordant mental emotion underlies every known disease.
PART TWENTY-EIGHT
PSYCHO-THERAPEUTICS AND SOMNO-THERAPEUTICS
PSYCHO-THERAPEUTICS
(psyche= Soul or Spirit -- plus therapeuo =I heal). Psycho-Therapeutics
is the healing of disease by suggestion.
SOMNO-THERAPEUTICS
(somnus =Sleep -- plus -- therapeuo =I heal) . Somno-Therapeutics is the
author's own coined word for healing while one sleeps.
Both of the above healing methods sum up to but one thing and that is the
science of stimulating the subconscious mind to the desired activity so that it
will restore the body to a normal condition which we call health. The f ighting
spirit of the patient must be aroused. Instead of thinking of sickness and death,
the patient must be made to think of health so he expects health and becomes
healthy. If the doctor were to tell a patient that he had but three days to live
and the suggestion was accepted by the subconscious mind of the patient, the pa-
tient would die at the specified time whether there was anything seriously wrong
with him or not at the tii:ne suggestion was given. Unless, as seldom happens,
that the statement would arouse the patient's fighting spirit. In the latter
case, the patient would survive in spite of an abnormality.
I recall having read a story somewhere about a soldier who was pretty well
shot up. One bullet hole through the abdomen usually means several perforations
in the intestines and almost certain death. This soldier got in the way of
machine-gun fire and looked like a sieve, having some forty bullets passing
through him and most of them produced several perforations in t~e intestines.
The doctors all shook their heads and looked glum. The soldier noticed this and
spoke up saying, "Don't worry Doc, I'll be all right." Such encouragement from
the one that should be most concerned seemed to get some action out of the doc-
tors. They operated, cut out pieces of perforated intestine, patched him up the
best they could but could not hold out any hope for him to ever recover. When he
came out of . the anesthetic and seeing the doubtful look on the doctor's face
looking down at him, he said, "Don't worry Doc, I'll be all right. 11
To shorten
the story, he not only turned out all right but went through the ward from one
bed to the other and told each and every one, "Don't worry, you'll be all right."
They all got well. They believed him. They knew that he knew what he was talk-
ing about because any man that can be so shot up and completely given up to die
by a number of the very bes.t surgeons must know wh~t the final outcome will be.
It was that which he pictured it to be "all right.'
We are constantly influenced by what we hear, see, smell, feel· and taste. A
newspaper tells us the "Flu" is raging over the city. Within a few days hundreds
of people are in bed with it. And so, suggestion works daily and hourly for good
or for evil.
The healer, from any school of thought, who has mastered the important points
of healing as taught in this Manual can accomplish seemingly miraculous cures by
putting to practical use that which he has learned. Suggestion is responsible for
all there is good in Christian Science, New Thought, the Spring at Lourdes,
France, the bone at St. Anne's, and those pills that are red, green, blue, purple,
orange, striped and unstriped and some with polka dots, given to you by the medi-
cal man who never takes any himself.
Page 51
Unless you offer to heal without pay and strictly by prayer or spir "tual means
as a practice of religious freedom under the Constitution of the un · ted States
you will soon get into difficulty. To open an office and hold yourself out as
some type of a doctor, offer treatments and charge a fee for same, alls for a
license from the State. If you hand a patient a pure glass of water and suggest
that that water will cure his condition, you are~ according to the M
edical Prac-
tice Act, practicing medicine. If you lack a State license to prove your right
to practice any one of the various healing methods for which a license may be
procured from the State, you are liable to be arrested and jailed and then fined
in addition to a jail sentence. You may be a brilliant man; you may be ext remely
successful in curing different diseases and could cure thousands because y ou may
have mastered the real art of healing; you may be a graduate of the best universi-
ties in America and Europe; you may have more knowledge and experienc e than any
number of practicing physicians about you; but if you do not have a l i cense to
practice under the laws of that State in which you are practicing, y ou will be
arrested. How? By some envious medical man in the neighborhood who p e rhaps can-
not cure the diseases you succeed with and yet cannot stand to see his p atients go
to you for relief, so he reports you to the State. The State insp ector will
personally pay you a visit or hire someone to act as a patient "seeking relief1t
and ask for things that he knows can be used in court against you, l ike pills,
medicine and receipts for payment. Shortly after the evidence is col lect ed you
will be arrested and only a miracle will save you from a stiff fine or jail. The
cures, the lives you saved, the wonderful work for suffering humani ty you have
done means nothing in court. It is the same today as of yore when 1 wi tches 1 were
burned at the stake because they would cure the people and arouse the ire of the
medical man, only they do not burn you at the stake today, they brand y ou without
fire.
The above does not apply to treatment of any member of the immediate family.
A father or mother may treat their children or one another without a license or
other difficulty.
The following manner of treating a number of diseases will gi ve y ou the
technic of how to go about treating other diseases not described.
ALCOHOLISM
Hypnotize the subject and suggest that he will not care for alcoh ol i n any
form. That the smell of beer, whiskey and wine will make him nauseated and if he
should take a sip of any of these he will vomit. Do not suggest t hat he will
taper off, but quit promptly. That he is through with all such alcoholic bever-
ages for keeps.
AMNESIA
Hypnotize the subject and tell him that his loss of memory is a t h ing of the
past and that from now on he remembers everything and will answer all questions
upon awaking. If he did not know his name, it is best to ask it and many other
questions under hypnosis, and then when you awaken him you have some thing with
which to prompt him.
ANEMIA (Chloris or Green Sickness)
Hypnotize the subject and give suggestions to improve the appetite for foods
rich in iron, vitamins and proteins. Suggest good digestion, assimilation and
elimination.
BLINDNESS (Psychic)
Blindness as a result of a psychic cause responds very nicely to suggestion
given under hypnosis. The subject is permitted to re-live his past life and at
the point where the scene is such that brought on the blindness, suggestions are
given to neutralize the effect of the tragedy.
CONSTIPATION
Hypnotize the subject and suggest that from now on, every day, at a given
hour after breakfast, he will have a desire to move his bowels and t hat he will
have a normal and natural evacuation.
Page 52
DEAFNESS (Psychic)
Deafness as a result of a psychic cause responds very nicely to suggestion
given under hypnosis. The subject is permitted to re-live his life and at the
point where the scene is such that brought on the deafness, suggestions are given
to neutralize the effect of the tragedy.
HABIT
Hypnotize and give suggestion that will prove an excellent substitute for the
undesirable habit you wish the subject to overcome .
HEART DISEASE
Since the heart is a sympathetic organ and responds excellently to suggestion,
certain heart conditions are treated with success. The heart can be slowed down
and made stronger without resorting to digitalis, or speeded up without the use
of strychnine, a very poisonous and deadly drug. Hypnotize the subject and give
the necessary suggestions to bring about the desired results.
INSOMNIA
Hypnotize the subject and give post-hypnotic suggestion leading to a desire
for sleep at a respectable hour, and that he will sleep through the whole night,
awaking at a specified time in the morning, rested and feeling much refreshed.
LABOR IN CHILDBIRTH
Subject must be hypnotized a number of times before term. She must be made
to respond to suggestions of anesthesia and to suggestions of contraction of
different muscles. At actual labor, such muscle-control is excellent when ap-
plied to abdominal muscles to control labor as progress is made. Only then and
not before, must contraction of abdominal and uterine muscles be made lest sug-
gested contraction endanger the life of the foetus.
MIGRAINE HEADACHE
Hypnotize the subject and suggest away the headache. Include suggestions to
improve liver function, digestion, elimination, eye-strain and any other prevail-
ing abnormal condition. Chiropractic or osteopathy is often -also indicated where
impingement of nerve tissue calls for this type of manipulation. Look into the
diet avoiding fats and hot spiced foods.
NARC 0 T 1-0.S ,_
~llypnotize the subject daily and give suggestions that he will get along on
less -
and less of the drug he had been taking until you finally reach the point
where you have made him stop its use entirely. It is not best to stop the habit
suddenly if subject had been an addict for a long time and had been taking large
doses of the drug daily. Gradual reduction and gradual distaste -for the drug is
best.
NERVOU S INDIGESTION
The stomach is readily influenced by suggestion from within or without and
whether good or bad suggestion, results are accordingly. Improper suggestion
leads to nervous indigestion and soon ulce!l>ation which eventually leads to cancer.
Hypnotize the subject and give suggestions' fur good digestion, elimination, cheer-
fulness, excellent appetite for foods readily digestible, et cetera.
NEURASTHENIA
This is a form of psychoneurosis and
element that may be present. This must be
sis. The subject needs plenty of rest and
his mind and to develop his talents.
Page 53
calls for the removal of any psychic
done when the subject is under hypno-
some occupational therapy to occupy
NEURITIS.
If you can hypnotize the subject in spite of his orher pain give su gges tions
to change pain into a warm comfortable sensation. Remove lesion when possible
which may be infection, heavy metal intoxication, alcohol excess or ot her abuse.
Insist upon a diet rich in vitamin B.
N0 CT URNAL ·ENURES I S
Hypnotize the child and suggest that he or she will awaken when ~here i s
pressure in the bladder region and go to the toilet to empty it. Tha t from now
on he will not wet the bed but will awaken as you suggest. To he l p make matters
a bit easier it is best if the patient does not drink any l arge amount of fluids
after three o'clock in the afternoon and very l i ttle for the eveni ng meal . A
little salty herring or ham or even popcorn with plenty of salt on it eaten near
bedtime will help hold the water in the blood and not permi~ t he bladder to fill
rapidly. By pinning a lmotted towel to the back of a nightshirt will prevent
patient from sleeping on his back which encourages bedwetting. All t hese extras
only if patient does not prove an excellent hypnotic subject. Other wi se, no need
for these as the suggestion will cure the patient promptly.
OBE~ITY OR OVERWEIGHT
People who are overweight usually could reduce promptly if they coul d control
their appetite. They lack will power and so go on eating as they plea se usually
seeking some drug to do the trick. Any drug that will speed up the h e art ac t ion
to burn up the fat by increased metabolism will not only r educe the per son but
will also wreck the heart and nervous system as well. Both, thyroid extract and
benzedrine are commonly used and either one when taken over a long period of time
will help burn up fat but will also make a nervous wreck out of the patient. For
obese patients, hypnotize and give suggestions to control their appetite. Suggest
that they will eat but one-third the amount of food they usually do and wi ll get
up from the table well satisfied. Should they try to stuff themsleve s as usual
suggest that they will feel nauseated and might even vomit if they do not obey
your commands. This will soon reduce the patient's weight without harm to any
vital organs. Treatments must be repeated once a week at least to c ontrol the
diet according to the loss of weight.
PARALYSIS
Many forms of paralysis respond to suggestion under hypnosis. After hypno-
tizing subject suggest movement of paralyzed limb which at first will b arel y move
if at all. If paralysis is due to pressure on root of nerve as it l eaves the
spine chiropractic adjustment should be resorted to. I n infantile paralysis do
not immobilize with splints as is often recommended by the 'health department '
doctors but instead, chiropractic or osteopathic adjustment should b e gi ven to
the cervical spine daily followed by massage, diathermy, gal vanism and hypnotic
suggestion. Results are most gratifying.
SMOKING HABIT
Hypnotize the subject and give suggestions that smoking will make him death-
ly sick. That he has quit smoking and will not care to try it again. That
others smoking about him will not bother him but only if he himself tri es i t will
he suffer. For more information on smoking and how to quit t he habit see a com-
plete article on this subject in this book .
STAMMER1NG AND STUTTERING
Those who stammer and stutter do not do so if they ar e singing or are angry
when they don't give a whoop about what they say or how they s ay it. They also
have no speech impediment when they talk to a tree, pos t or a store display mani-
kin. This proves that the condition is strictly a self-conscious condition.
Hypnotize the subject and give suggestions that will overcome his self-conscious-
ness and self-centered condition. Treat the cause of the difficulty r ather than
the symptoms .
W
0 RR Y
It is said that ninety-percent of all the things we worry about never happen .
Page 54
This is proof that worry is a great waste of nervous energy which should be ap-
plied to some useful purpose. Hypnotize the subject and suggest a worthwhile
substitute for worry. If the subject has talent for art, music or some other
worthwhile and useful work, give suggestions that instead of worry he will keep
his mind so busy with this new work that there will be no time left for worry.
PART TWENTY-NINE
HOW YOUR PRIVATE SANCTUM SHOULD BE ARRANGED
I will now tell you how best to arrange your treating room. The psychologi-
cal effect of this room can be of much help in your work. It is best to locate on
a rather quiet street. Have the treating room in center of building if possible
so that very little sound from the outside can enter. The windows if any should
be covered with heavy drapes of a blue or purple color. Soft purple colored
carpets should be on the floor while the walls are f.inished in some soft (non
glossy) lavender or blue color. There should be several soft comfortable chairs,
incense should burn and soft music should be heard as coming from afar. The
operator should wear some purple robe, dressed to resemble an oriental.
The reception room should be likewise quiet, comfortable and with an old
fashioned grandfather's clock ticking off the time slowly. By having this room
decorated in green, you will quiet the subject and place him in the proper frame
of mind for that which is to follow.
A patient coming into ~uch an office will find himself :in an entirely differ-
ent world than what he is used to. The green room will make him relax, the tick-
ing of the clock will slow down his pulse from 80 to around 60. By letting him
wait about twenty minutes in this room with nothing much to look at outside of a
small green light on the wall in front of him and a little above his line of
vision, will almost put him to sleep. Now ask him to enter your sanctum and com-
mence work on him. It should require but little suggestion to put him into the
hypnotic state with any method you choose. The Revolvo-Ball is ideal, suspended
before his eyes with abright purple light shining down on it from behind subject
so the thousand and one beams of light strike his eyes as you stand or sit to one
side of him and give him the Sleep Formula, namely suggestions that his eyelids
are closing and that he is going fast asleep.
PART THIRTY
H 0 W T 0 " H Y P N 0 T I Z E " A N I M A L S
I have no intention of going into the matter of proving that the following
technic will or will not produce actual hypnosis in animals. I do promise, that
with little difficulty you can successfully put the bird or animal under your
control so as to convince your onlookers that you do hypnotize it. For your
first experiment, try a rabbit, hen or chameleon. These are the easiest.
1 . To hypnotize a rabbit, hold it in the hollow of your hands, rock him in a
swinging manner from left to right for a minute or so. Without harming him but
with a quick motion, throw him down upon the table upon his back with head hang-
ing over the ledge of the table. He will remain put.
2. To hypnotize a chicken, set it down firmly as if setting it on a nest. Draw
out its neck a bit, forcing entire front part of hen to the floor including its
beak. If done in a business like manner the fowl remains put. Sometimes, a
chalk line drawn on the floor running the length of the hen and extending beyond
the end of the beak seems to help make this technic more effective.
3. Another simpler method for a beginner
under its wing and set it on its side so that
the floor side. This never fails.
is to place the head of fowl well
the wing covering the head is on
4. To hypnotize a goose, duck or pigeon you can use the same method as given
above .
Page 55
5. Another method to hypnotize a pigeon is to put a small piece of putty on the
end of its beak, holding it steady until its attention is centered on the object.
His eyes will converge as is the case in human subjects. It soon goes to sleep.
If you blow on its eyes you can awalcen it promptly.
6. To hypnotize reptilia the chameleon is the most easily procured as well
as easily handled. Hold the chamel eon between the palms of your hands, suddenly
place him on his back on one of your pal ms or on the tabl e. It becomes motion-
less at once and stays put.
7. To hypnotize an alligator or crocodile you rapidly turn him over on his back
same as you do the chameleon only you don't hold him in the palm of. your hand .
8. To hypnotize a frog, hold him between the palms of your two hands and sudden-
ly turn him over upon his back. Now holding him by his two hind legs, raise and
lower him a few times. The muscles soon relax and he will remain in the position
put.
9. To hypnotize fresh water crabs, stand them upon the i r heads, stroke their
back gently from tail to head, adjust their claws so as to form a three-legged
stool with head as third leg. The crab will remain in this position for some
time. Falling over awakes him.
10. To hypnotize a small grass· snake, coil him up in ·palm of your hand and place
your other palm over him. Now swing him from left to right and back a f ew times.
With a sudden movement, place him on his back and he will stay put.
11. Another method to hypnotize a snake, but which requires more practice, is to
grasp the snake near the head with one hand and its tail with the other hand.
Hold him perpendicular. Slightly str etch him and hold him in this positi on until
he becomes rig id. Then J:et go of the upper end and he will remain r i gid as a
stick. The Hindu Fakirs of India use this method to demonstrate their magic power
of changing a stick into a snake which is done by awaking the snake which they
had hypnotized and made the audience believe it to be a stick of wood.
12. To hypnotize a canary, stand in front of the cage , attract his attention by
moving your hand slowly from right to l eft on a level with its eyes and about a
foot in front of the cage. Do this for a few minutes and then gradually move
nearer and nearer, until your hand is about an inch from the bird, making shorter
and shorter passes. The bird will soon close it~ eyes and· go to sleep oft en fall-
ing off its perch.
13. To hypnotize dogs and cats is not especially easy. However you may succeed
with some by the following method. Make passes over the eyes down to no se~ If
after a little while the animal trembles, it is a favorable sign. Oper ate with
intention as on human beings. Continue short passes until eyes close. If a dog
resists this as they sometimes do resort to the use of the Hypnotic Gaze as
taught elsewhere in this Manual.
Certain bodily stimuli applied to animals will produce what is called hypno -
sis. It is not true hypnosis for hypnosis is based upon auto-sugges t ion. The
production of a stimuli will produce a form of paralysis of the muscle s and the
animal will stay put.
PART THIRTY-ONE
PSEUDO-HYPNOTISM AND TRICKS OF THE TRADE
The author is not especially proud to include "Pseudo-Hypnotism and Tricks
of the Trade" in this book. But, in order to make this a complete Manual on the
subject of Hypnotism, the false hypnotic methods must be included with t he genu-
ine. Some of the following tricks may not appear to have any connec t ion with
hypnotism yet when presented properly they can be made to appear as if t he final
result is due to some strange power of hypnotism. It was just such a performance
that started the author to take an interest in hypnotism and to stay wit h it for
forty years. A magician on the stage performed the well known "Levitation Act."
He went through the motions of hypnotizing a girl, let her recline on a cot and
Page 56
by making passes over her body caused her to rise with no apparent support. To
prove that no strings were supporting her floating body, the magician passed
large hoops over and below her floating form. It was then and there that I de-
cided to become a hypnotist. This was not because I cared much to induce hypno-
sis, but to make people float on air interested me. So to this day, I have
taught hypnotism to thousands, hypnotized subjects in like manner, but I must
Stanley Boktetous fastens subject's mouth
open so he cannot close tt.
admit defeat. I have yet to se.e the day when I can by mere passes make people
float on air as a result of my hypnotic power. I do know where I can purchase a
complete levitation act and with the apparatus make anyone float in a few minutes
with or without passes, or for that matter without hypnotism in any form, but
that is a trick and I prefer the genuine even if it doesn 1
t wark so well. For this
reason, I include the following tricks but I do so with apology.
THE GREAT NEEDLE TEST
This demonstration can be faked by sterilizing the lobe of a pseudo-hypno-
tized subject's -ear and putting a sterile needle through it just as if puncturing
the ear for earings . There are not many nerves in this part of the body and it
produces very little pain. Some pain-killer such as aspirin or anacin has been
taken by a fake subject to withstand punishment of this nature.
THE GREAT BLOOD CONTROL TEST
To stop the pulse at the wrist have your subject sit sideways on a high-backed
Page 57
chair. With his one arm over the back and in a hor i zontal manner, you make pass -
es over it as though controlling the circulation of blood. If he has his fist
clenched and arm rigid and the under side of upper arm pressing well down on the
top of the back of chair, circulation in that ar m will be stopped and so no pulse
can be felt even if he opens his hand to show the p al e appearance it has compared
to his other hand that is in his lap. There are s evera l other ways of doing this
without a chair or apparatus which I teach in my Private Personal Instruction.
However, space permits for one more method and that is to p l ace a small ball or
round bottle under the subject's shirt in the arm- pit . By pressing his arm
against his body and so against the ball or bottle he ob l i t erates the circulation
and so the pulse-beat at wrist.
THE GREAT CATALEPTIC TEST
Catalepsy l i ke other genuine hypnotic demonstrations may be faked. A fairly
strong man who has practiced a bit can readily supp ort one or two individuals
while he is suspended across two chairs. A very easy way is to have a sheet on
the floor of the stage, on this sheet is placed a stro~g ironing board or a board
of about that size and shape, the narrower the better . Over the board is p l aced
another sheet. The subject is put through the hypnotizi ng act, made rigid and
with the help of an assistant he is carried by the p erformer and p l ac ed on the
prepared sheet with the hidden board underneath the first sheet but between the
two sheets. The subject is wrapped up and lifted with b oard and al l on to the
prepared chairs . Over him is spread a couple of folded b l ankets and anri number
of people can stand on him to demonstrate the great power of "suggestion. 1
THE GREAT ROCK BREAKING STUNT
This would be done in the same way as given above wit h the use of the board
hidden in the two bed-sheets. The rock can be a very soft sandstone one , and
with proper showmanship, should go over just as the genuine a c t.
THE GREAT SHOW-WINDOW PUBLICITY STUNT
Many a subject can easily sleep twenty-four hours if enc ouraged to do so.
Several heavy meals of liver and onions, l e ttuce and anything else he likes will
help keep him asleep without actual hypnosis, especia lly · if you put him through
some vigorous exercise in the afternoon before he is to be 11
hypnotized11
and
placed in the window on display. A hypn otic drug i s sometimes used such as
barbital sodium.
RESTORING LIFE TO THE DEAD
Catch an ordinary house-fly, place a sieve or pie c e of bent screen wire over
it as you lower it into a container of water. Let t h e fly drown for an hour or
longer. When everyone is convinced that you have thoroughl y dr owned the f l y and
it is dead, place it on a piece of blotting-paper and sprinkle about half' a tea-
spoonful of ordinary table salt on it. After a few minut es you will find your
fly coming to l i fe and none the worse for the experiment. Don't forget the magic
word "ABRACADABRA" which you should say to bring the f l y to life.
MESMERIZED OBJECTS
A thin coating of a strong glue rubbed into the palms of your hands will
cause a table knife and other small objects to cling to t hem as if mesmerized.
ANESTHESIA OF THE EYE
A 2% solution of Para amiriobenzol-gannna- di - n -butilamino-propanal Sulphate
dropped into the eyes will produce such anest h e s ia that touching the eye ball
with a clean finger will cause no discomfort. Excell ent for demonstrating the
power of will and for faking hypnosis.
THE HYPNOTIZED BEETLE
Place a small beetle on its back and place a small bal l of wax upon its up -
turned feet. The beetle will juggle the ball of wax . To all who witness this i t
will appear that your beetle is trained or is under y our hypnotic p ower. The
secret is that the beetle is only trying to get a f oothol d on the wax to r ight
Page 58
itself but carmot because the ball is too tiny.
THE SLEEPING FLOWERS
A drop or two of chloroform on any blossom will put the flower to sleep a t
once, A chloroform-soaked sponge concealed in the palm of the hand and hypnotic
passes made over the blossom will mystify yo~ friends when flower commences to
droop.
THE HYPNOTIZED DUCKS
Place your ducks in a cage with a metal bottom under which secretly p lace a
flat top toaster, portable electric stove or other heating element with a handy
switch which you can secretly control. Now when you want the ducks to dance be-
cause of passes you make over the cage, you need but turn on the current. As
soon as the heat is felt by them they will commence to dance because of the hot
floor. Shut the current off at once as soon as they start ·acting up a bit other-
wise you may harm them.
THE POSSIBLE IMPOSSIBILITY
If you will place and firmly hold your finger tip of one hand to your nose,
the strongest man carmot remove it by slow, gentle forc e when he grasps your
wrist and tries to separate your finger from your nose.
REVERSED FORCES
Procure an old spool from thread, Push an ordinary straight pin through the
center of a small card about one inch square. Place your spool over this card
with the shaft of the pin within the hollow core of the spool. Now putting your
lips to the other end of spool, blow hard as if to blow the card away. According
to average intelligence, the card with pin should be blown away. Instead, the
harder you blow the more fimrly the card adheres to the spool end.
MESMERIZED SUGAR CUBES
Dip a cube or two of sugar into collodion and let dry. By placing these
cubes of sugar in your coffee they will sink like other sugar but if you will
make a few mysterious passes over your cup and say the magic word "ABRACADABRA"
the cubes will soon again rise and come floating to the top. Secret: The sugar
dissolves and the remaining shell of dried collodion comes floating to the sur-
face.
ORIENTAL FIRE FLUID
The hypnotist or magician appears with a small bottle of color less liquid i n
one hand and a few pieces of white paper in the other . He proceeds to pour a
l i ttle of the fluid on the paper resting on a screen or some other fireproof
metal support.
He steps back, explaining to his audience that this magic fluid, invent ed by
the Japanese thousands of years ago, was used by them to torture their prisoners,
or relating any similar story, keeping the audience interested. Usually in two
minutes the paper will burst into flames spontaneously. This trick i s very
mystifying to anyone who does not understand it. It will prove ex cellent to con-
vince others of the burning power of your hypnotic gaze.
The fluid is prepared by dissolving phosphorus in carbon di-sulf ide . Be ex-
tremely careful in handling phosphorus, cut it under water, never touch it with
the fingers, and keep surplus stock under water always. Carbon di-sulfide is i n -
flammable so keep this away from open flames. Much mystery is added to the trick
by the disagreeable odor of both ingredients.
Any kind of paper. Both filter paper and newspaper works well.
phorus being dissolved leaves the paper upon drying, impregnated
divided particles of phosphorus, which oxidize and raise the paper
point. Do NOT spill this fluid on anything you do not wish to burn.
always.
Page 59
The phos-
with finely
to kindling
Works 100%
MYSTERIOUS FIRE
By mixing equal parts of potassium · chlo·r ide and ordinary granula t ed sugar ,
and by dropping a single drop of sulphuric a cid upon t he compound, t he ma s s
ignites at once.
MYSTERY FIRE FROM TWO LIQUIDS
By pouring a little chromic acid into a little alcoh ol contained in a t e s t -
tube held by a clamp, the two liquids combining will produce fl ame .
A NEW EXPLOSIVE
A peculiar substance called nitrogen iodide can be made by mi xing househol d
ammonia and tincture of iodine. Pour on a blotting paper and allow t o dry. When
touched with a feather, the dry substance will explode. All brands of ammonia do
not produce the desired results. You will have to experiment . Be c aref u_ with
it.
MIND OVER MATTER
By placing your watch upon the table and by apparent conc entr ation of your
will power you can stop and start it at will. A small but p owerful horseshoe
magnet is strapped to your kne~ under your trouser leg. With the watch ontte
table and you sitting in front of it you need but raise your kne e to under s i de of
table top near where watch is above and it will stop going a t onc e. Move your
leg away and watch will go again. It may stop going if i t b e comes magneti z ed.
This can be overcome by placing watch in a loose coil of wire through which y ou
run the 110 volt alternating current for 10 seconds . You will have to ha.ve a 60
watt bulb in circuit so you blow no fuses in. your house.
MAGNETIC FINGER
Magnetism, especially of the 'personal' kind is the .talk of today. You c an
cause all of your friends to wonder at the magnetism b e ing emitt ed f r om y our
finger tips by causing them to attract iron filings, bits of iron l ike a steel
needle, or the needle of a compass. Tell them you studie d book s on Persona l
Magnetism and this is the result. The secret is in a piece of magneti c stee l
glued to the underside of a not too clean fingernail of first f inger . Rub an ol d
sewing needle against a strong magnet for a few minutes whi ch will magnetize i t.
With a pair of pliers break the tip off which you will use as stated .
BREAK A GLASS WITH THE POWER OF SUGGESTION
To demonstrate the power of your suggestion use t his method . Take a very
thin, sensitive, cut glass goblet and set it in vibra t i on by hitti n g it with a
cork hammer or by rubbing it if you are adept at i t . The glass sh ould emit a
loud musical tone. Now place the opening to your mouth and s hout a s l oudly a s
you can the word "BREAK." At the same time try and imitate the tone or key t ha t
is emitted from the glass. This will render double amptitude of vibrations and
the glass will break to pieces.
HYPNOTIZED CANE
Procure two black safety-pins and a piece of black thread about t hree f eet
long. Tie a pin to each end and fasten one on each inner s i de of your trouser
leg just above the knee. The hangi ng thread will not be notic e d nor will i t in-
terfere with walking about. Now sit down upon a chair at some distance from the
audience and spread the knees to tighten the thre ad. Take a cane, or some stick
of similar length and after some "hocus pocus" pas ses over i t, let it rest
against the taut thread which will support it in almos t any position to the as-
tonishment of all. By gentle movement of the knee s the cane may b e made to sway
in a life-like manner while standing on end with n o visib le support . This is an
excellent impromptu stunt for parties.
FIVE SYMPATHETIC OR INVISIBLE INKS
Sympathetic or invisible inks are largely u sed by mediums and fortune tell -
ers. With proper patter it can be used to advantage in pseudo-hypnot i c work.
By writing with any of the following solutions upon plain paper usi n g a qu ill pen
Page 60
or toothpick~ the writing will be invisible until heated when it can be read.
#1.-Use just pure lime or lemon juice. #2.-A little sulphate of iron in an ounce
of water. #3.-0ne part Sulphuric Acid to twenty parts of water. #4.-Chlorate of
Potassium in a little water. #5.-Solution of Chloride of Copper which will ap-
pear with heat and disappear upon cooling.
MYSTERIOUS SPHERES
By taking a tumbler and filling it with water charged with sodium bicarbonate
and dropping into it a few ordinary moth balls will produce a mysterious action.
The balls will rise and fall in a very lifelike manner. The taller the tumbler or
jar, the more interesting. Of course you can make your "hocus pocus" passes over
the jar. The balls really rise and fall because bubbles adhere to them raising
the ball, and when bubbles leave the ball when it comes to the surface the ball
sinks again. Most ordinary brands of moth balls work but there are some that will
not.
TO SHOOT A SMALL BIRO AND BRING IT BACK TO LIFE AGAIN
This experiment is contributed by Dr. O. A. Carpenter taken from a very old
book found in his private library. "In this experiment take an ordinary fowling-
piece, and put the usual charge of powder into it; but, instead of the common
charge of -shot, introduce a half charge of quick-silver. When a small bird ap-
· proaches, fire. Although it seems not necessary to hit the bird, it will be
found stunned and stiffled as to fall upon the ground in a state of suspended
animation. As its consciousness will return at the expiration of a few minutes,
avail yourself of the interval in declaring your intention of bringing it to life
again and your declaration will come true to the amazement of your brother
sportsmen."
SUGGESTIONS THAT BURN
This experiment is contributed by _ Prof. W. _H. Dexter. To convince the
skeptic of the power of suggestion, secretly put a quantity of lime in a hot
water bottle or bag. (Experimenting will teach you just how much to use for a
definite size bottle.) Fill the bag with cold water in front of subject but do
not let him know about the lime. Tell your subject that you will make him accept
the suggestion that the rubber bag filled with cold water is hot. Give the bag
to him to hold against his cheek and commence giving suggestions about him feel-
ing the bag becoming warm, hot and hotter. This of course soon takes place. By
putting proper showmanship into this you will soon have your subject convinced of
your power and actually hypnotizing him will prove very simple.
HOW TO AGE WRITING
A concentrated solution of Permanganate of Potassium makes a splendid ink.
It is purple as it flows from the pen but upon· drying it turns a brown, resembling
faded ink a century old. It will rust a good pen. A quill pen is best.
ASBESTOS SKIN
To take a red-hot poker and apply it to your bare skin without harm always
will prove mystifying. You can have spectators believe it is due to your hypnot-
ic power. Apply two coats of the following solution, letting the first coat dry
before applying the second coat.
Dissolve 1/2 ounce of camphor in 2 ounces of alcohol. Shake well. Add 1
ounce of quicksilver and 1 ounce of liquid styrax and shake until there is no
sediment. Now add 2 ounces of pulverized red-stone, shake, let stand for 24 hours
and it is ready to use.
FIRE-PROOF HAIR
To make hair fireproof make up the following solution. In one cup make a _
very concentrated table salt solution. In another cup, a heaping tablespoonful
of washing soda to which add hot water to fill the cup. Mix the contents of the
two cups together in a bottle. Soak hair with this solution, dry and comb out
the surplus powder that is too visible and your hair, it is said, will not burn
even when put into a flame for a second. (Author 1 s note: If hair is very oily
Page 61
it should be washed and dried before it is soaked in the above solution because
the oil can burn and also because the oil will prevent solution impregnating the
hair properly to protect it.) This is not guaranteed so be careful whose hair
you risk in fire. Experiment a little before demonstrating. Trry it on a. sample
of hair clippings which your barber will gladly give you for the asking.
PART THIRTY-TWO
A B S E N T T R E A T ME N T
By Dr. Adolph F. . Lon~
(Reprint from January 1930 Issue of The Occult Dtfest Kafaztne.)
The beneficial results obtained by the "faith cure" system and all other
systems of the same type are prought about by what is known as "absent healing,"
or the healing of patients at a distance from the healer and which is in r eality
a form of thought transference. ·
Many schools claim that absent treatment is aform of telepathy, while others
claim that "'everything is one in Spirit" and that there being no such t hing as
space, a treatment given by a healer, even though the patient be many mile s dis-
tant, is a.s efficacious as an office treatment.
So-called absent treatment sometimes arises from the auto-suggestion ar awak-
ened faith of the patient, the treatment by the healer having in fact but little
to do with the case. In other cases, the suggestion of the healer acting as a
post-hypnotic .suggestion, serves to stimulate the subliminal mind and aro ses it
to action so that it proceeds with the healing work.
Undoubtedly, the best conditions. for absent treatment are those where there
is .sympathetic rapport and expectant attention on the part of the patient . How-
ever, - there are no records of many successful cases where the patient was not
aware that he was being treated, the healer's services having been requested by a
relative who thought that the patient might object to the treatment.
Whether a healer tree,ts his patient in his office, or gives him "absent
treatment," he can make use of the same principle and in both cases obtai n j ust
as .remarkable results. 'L'he patient is instructed to place himself 0r· her self in
a comfortable bodily position and a restful mental attitude at the expect ed hour
of treatment, as if the healer were there in person. The healer does likewise.
The patient should endeav"
or to form the mental image of the healer 1 s pr esence,
while the healer endeavors to see himself mentally in the presence of the patient.
A photograph and the history of ' the case are necessary for successful ·treat-
ment, and a knowledge of anatomy, physiology, diagnosis, and so on, is an ad-
vantage, but is not ·absolutely necessary in ordinary cases.
The healer addresses his patient mentally as if he were before him and gives
the same suggestions and advice that he would give the patient were he actually
there -in.person. This should take about thirty minutes or more and should be re-
peated daily, for the quickest results ~
PART THIRTY-THREE
PSYCHOLOGY FOR EVERY-DAY SUCCESS AND PROSPERITY
SECRET PLANNING
Keep your plans to yourself. Discuss them with no one. Seek and .secure all
the information you can on the subject ·related to your plan, but do this in an
indirect way wLthout revealing the secret of your plan. Your stored up nervous
energy will help you carry out your plans successfully if you use it f or that
purpose . But, if you use up this energy -
in idle talk boasting of what you intend
to do you will lack the necessary energy to carry out the plan.
Page 62
Because you have been in the habit of supplying such advance information to
your relatives and so-called friends is one reason for your lack of progress. No
sooner do these well-meaning friends learn of your plan, they condemn it each
time tho they know less about the matter than you do. They convince you how
foolish you are and how you will surely fail. These pessimistic remarks of these
so-called well meaning friends together with the exhaustion of your nervous
energy quickly prevents further action on the plan .or idea.
Unless you can learn to keep things to yourself, be like a sponge, absorb
much but tell very little, you cannot hope to succeed.
THE SUCCESS OF FAILURE
Keep your failures to yourself. Tell no one about them. Doing so will not
help you but will only help others who will learn how not to do that which you
attempted. It .will help them to succeed at your expense. Why be the laughing
stock in exchange for such valuable information. Thomas Edison believed every
experiment he or his assistants made were successful experiments even if they did
not work out as anticipated. This, because each so-called failure, proved that
such did not work and so was not a failure but a success.
DETERMINATION
Unless you are determined to succeed it is impossible for you to do so.
Sufficient determination and plenty of effort and energy behind it will get you
anything you want in this world whether it be a million dollars or anything else
seemingly impossible for you to procure right now. It is necessary that you want
that thing above anything else and continue striving to procure it until you
succeed. Without determination you cannot hope to get anything.
MONEY AHO KNOWLEDGE
"Invest in knowledge, for that i.9 the only investment which never depreciates
in value and which no once can take away from you, 11
· is the advice of the great
Gladstone to a young man. ·
PSYCHOLOGY OF DOING FAVORS
Favors are seldom if ever appreciated. The mere fact that you have the
ability to do someone a favor causes the recipient to begrudge you that ability.
So that you may better understand the above advice we will say that you had
recently purchased a good suit of clothes. Because of having gained a few pounds
in weight, you find the suit no longer fits you. You decide to give the suit
away to some friend in need and to purchase another suit for yourself. This
friend finds that the suit fits him perfectly and he thanks you. You may feel
that you had done him a- good turn and that as a result, he holds only the nicest
thoughts for you. Be not mistaken, for although his need is urgent for the suit
and he appears to be thankful, he dislikes you more than ever because you can af-
ford to give away a suit of clothes and can afford another to replace it. _
You will find that lending money too, makes enemies of your friends. - Any
excuse that you can give is better than parting with your money when these hard-
up friends approach you for a loan. If you continue to be foolish enough to lend
money to others then be a good loser.
Loan money to others and you invite envy, hatred, slander and malice. You
have nothing to gain but everything to lose. Learn to say 1no. 1 Don't agree to
everything . Use your head. Say "no".
BE DIFFERENT
Make it your busines.s to be different than the average individual so you can
accomplish more than he and thereby rise above him. The average individual is
neither successful nor prosperous. He wastes too much valuable time. He seems
to have more time on his hands than he knows what to do with and so seeks ways
and means to 'kill' -time. Therefore, one of the most important steps to take in
order to be different is to stop killing time. Then, use all available time for
study. Endeavor to improve yourself. Playing a game of pool, cards, betting on
Page 63
horse races and such are all time killers and keep you broke. Avoid such recrea-
tion. Many of your so-called friends will attempt to ridicule you for turning
over a new leaf and showing some real wisdom. However, they will soon commence
to show great respect for you. You will be different. You will become a success.
You will prosper. More power to you.
PART THIRTY-FOUR
P R A C T I C A l A P P l I E D P S Y C H 0 L 0 G Y
SUCCESS THROUGH HARMONY
Harmony in music, in contact with people, in our home, in business and such
is absolutely necessary for our happiness and success. Lack of harmony will de-
stroy friendship, health, business, love and so results in misery. This is not a
lesson in music. It is a practical lesson on how to get the most out Q
f lif e by
creating harmony, rather than discord, success instead of failure, fr i ends in-
stead of enemies, and all that is worthwhile in life. All this and more can
readily be yours by putting these instructions into practical use. The more you
practice,· the greater will your success be, There is sufficient practical psy-
chology in this section alone to cause you to rise to tremendous heights . Use it.
Apply it daily. It is said that anyone of any importance used the secr ets I re-
veal. Among the people of prominence will be found such names as Roc ke f eller,
Wrigley, Edison, Coolidge, Hoover, Morgan and Ford. Were it not for practical
and applie~ psychology used by these great men it is doubtful if they would
have become prominent.
To create harmony of body which is health, we must eat proper foods, think
properly, live in harmonious surroundings, and create harmony in every thing we
do. To create harmony in business, we must attract people to us who will help
our business. In order to do this we must demonstrate harmony ourselves. And to
do this, we must make all people our friends. You cannot do this by boasting of
your ability or by belittling the other person. Simply act humble. If you are
great other people will soon know of it without you telling them. If you can
raise the other fellow's ego, you succeed in making him your friend. As a friend
he is in harmony with you. The word 'Ego" is the Latin word for "I". It is the
opinion we have of ourselves, Learn to uphold the ego of others at all times and
you become a master of the people. Give a man a better opinion of himself and
you earn his good will at once, There is no greater secret that one can use in
making people like us. Help the other fellow sustain his ego and he becomes your
slave. You can often do this by merely asking a favor in form of assistance in
some way which he will enjoy doing and which is of little or no trouble to him.
It is said that Benjamin Franklin often used this method.
AN UNCANNY POWER TO CHARM
You can succeed in raising the ego of any normal person be they superiors or
subordinates, relatives or strangers, friends or enemies. Of course, you must
take into consideration their personal interests. Remember that they most enjoy
doing for you such things that touch upon their own special interests. You will
have to study each case and must not try to treat all people alike. As with hyp-
notism, one man will respond nicely to one kind of suggestion while another man
will respond unfavorably to the same suggestion. You must know just what to say,
when to say it and when you know you are right, go ahead and say it. Henry Ford
said, "I am convinced that if there is any one secret of success, it l ies in the
ability to get the other person's point of view and see things from his angle as
well as 'from your own." Approach people through their own point of view and you
control them. It may be necessary to sacrifice your own ego in order to uphold
another's to avoid making enemies.
I will now give you an example of how to uphold the ego which you must learn
to do successfully at all times if you hope to follow the road of success which
all ·prominent men travel, It is said that Napoleon, Theodore Roosevelt and others
possessed some uncanny power which they wielded in order to charm those they came
in contact with. This seemingly uncanny power to charm was nothing more or less
than their ability to uphold the ego of those they met.
Page 64
Suppose you are to meet an individual who is your enemy but with whom you
still are on speaking terms. If you sacrifice your own ego and uphold his, he no
longer will be your enemy. But, if you do as you would like to do, telling him
just what you think of him and that he is nothing more than a bag of -wind, you
make him one of your worst enemies.
Avoid looking at the dark side of things. Look for the best in people no
matter who they are. All people have good traits whether they are rich or poor,
educated or not, men or women.
You will always find it easy to talk to great men or women but you will find
it extremely difficult to talk to those who think they are great but really are
not. Because a foreman of a shop thinks himself superior makes it difficult for
you to get along with him. If you meet the superintendent of that same . shop, you
will find him a most likable chap to talk to. It is for this reason he is what
he is. He upholds your ego and does not force it down for you like the foreman
did. His nice way, his personality, the respect you have for him is all because
of the fact that he upheld your ego.
PART THIRTY-FIVE
P S Y C H 0 L. 0 G Y 0 F S E X ATTRACT .ION
For centuries it has been known among the Aryans, Chinese and Hindoos t~at
certain odors of flowers and perfumes will greatly increase desire. Among the
most active odors are Extract of Violets, Locust Blossoms, Musk, Civet and the
burning of Chinese Joss Sticks. These or . otber such odors must be made up into
an appropriate perfume before they can be used to advantage.
The odor need not be strong enough to be noticeable, yet the power it has
over men often is remarkable. This may explain why some of the homeliest women
have attracted some extremely handsome men to themselves. The most sensitive of
the human faculties is that of smell.
No doubt but that the exotic power ·of perfume, was the secret of Cleopatra's
enslavement over Mark Anthony, as they floated down the Nile.
In the olden times it was customary for persons to anoint themselves with
perfumed ointments. We read that when Mary anointed the feet of Jesus 11
the room
was filled with the odor of the ointment. 11
It must have been some such perfume that caused Solomon in his song to state
that, 11
because of the savor of thy ointment do the virgins love thee. 11
The young ladies of Tahiti consume a great deal of time in perfuming their
hair· and oiling their bodies with perfumed oil.
In order to make the eyes more attract:i,ve Italian women would use Belladonna
(It. bella = beautiful, plus, donna = lady) also known as Deadly Nightshade. A
widely dilated pupil is considered . an indication of . amorousness and so these
women would put a drop of Atropine (an alkaloid of Belladonna) into each eye to
dilate the pupil. The solution is made up of the following strength for dilating
the pupil. To 1 ounce of water is added l to 4 grains of Atropine Sulphate.
It is a known fact that the soft musical feminine voice attracts the male,
while the strong, deep vibrant masculine voice attracts the female.
Psychic impotency in man calls for treatment with suggestion. In some in-
stances, results seem almost miraculous. In impotency where other than only a
psychic difficulty exists, other form of treatment may be indicated in addition
to suggestive-therapy. Some of these ·adjuvants are stimulation, diet, perfumes,
electricity and glandular food substances to help build up depleted glands. The
tobacco habit often aggravates a case of impotency and so must be overcome.
Page 65
PART THIRTY-SIX
HOW TO USE PERFU ME
TO
ADVANTAGE
The girl
others and to
as the French
at all times,
trade-mark.
or woman who chooses to please
attract the opposite sex, will do
women do, get one perfume to wear
so that it litera lly becomes her
To preserve the finer perfumes i t is im-
portant that they be kept in a dark cool place.
If you leave it on a sunny dre·s sing table it
evaporates and the action of light causes it to
lose its odor. The finer the perfume, the more
quickly it deteriorates in heat and l ight .
.
Perfume experts think it is better to put the fragrance directly on the skin
since the body warmth makes it come alive. Use perfume sparingly. To douse
yourself with perfume, leaves, instead of an elusive and charming fragr ance, an
impression of vulgarity. Use it wisely. A little placed on the hair, along the
eyebrows, near the lips and ears, or on the wrists is enough. Or if you prefer,
a few drops on your dress or handkerchief, A drop or two in the cont ainer f or
your stationery to give your writing paper an odor ~hat will s ay more t han mere
words can express. Several drops of perfume added to your bath water when taking
a bath will surround you with an atmosphere of alluring and seductive ch arm. And
don't forget that a little perfume on the bedclothes will mean much, befor e , dur-
ing and after your honeymoon. Perfume can recall a special occasion, a certain
scene.
The author of this book highly recommends "TIAB PERFUME" as the i deal per-
fume for use as described in this article. More information may be had by ad-
dressing a letter direct to Dr. Lonk.
"TIAB" PERFUME, is pronounced with a long "I" as "Ty' ab, 11
the 11
Ty11
like in
"my," and "ab" like in "cab." Spelled backwards the name "TIAB" spell :s "BAIT,"
which in reality it is.
PART THIRTY-SEVEN
HOW TO DEVELOP
A CHARMING PERSONALITY
With present day competi-
tion, it is hardly possible for
one to succeed in any walk of
life without a well rounded and
pleasing personality. The man
or woman with a charming person-
ality is wanted everywhere. Un-
like something possessed only by
a few, a charming personality
may be developed by anyone of
intelligence who will apply him-
self to the task of doing so as
is outlined herein.
The total sum of all good
points of a person help make up
a pleasing personality. The
total sum of all undesirable
points help subtract from the
good qualities and make up an
undesirable personality. A bal-
ance between the two, the good
and the bad, make up the average
personality which attracts no
Page 66
special attention. People who possess the so-called average personality merely
get by, It takes some effort and will power to rise above the average individual.
Unless you are willing to put forth thi.s extra effort and energy, your personali-
ty, or for that matter, your success, can hardly be expected to show improvement
in any way, shape or manner. With this understanding, we now pass on to good
qualities which you should cultivate.
1. Being well dressed will add much to your own
effectiveness of all your other good qualities.
tically the same as to be slovenly dressed. It
and good judgment in choosing clothes.
comfort as well as increase the
To be well dressed costs prac-
is really a matter of tidiness
2. Personal cleanliness should be looked after. Regular brushing of the teeth,
care of the nails, hair and a daily bath will do much toward making you feel at
ease.
3. Avoid being timid or shy. Remember that you are as good as the next man and
possibly more intelligent than many. You are endeavoring to improve yourself in
every way possible.
4. Portray confidence rather than egotism. Believe in yourself and in your
ability. This will cause you to radiate confidence.
5. Be earnest and you will overcome much opposition. Avoid doing things in a
half-hearted way.
6. Look only for good in others.
will not become popular.
As long as you look for faults in others you
7. Be ready to forgive at all times so that you need not hold a grudge against
anyone.
B. Overcome all jealousy. Mistrust and inferiority breed jealousy.
yourself above these destructive and negative thoughts.
Raise
9. Form the habit of saying only pleasant things to others.
conversation has no place in a charming personality.
Unpleasantness in
10. Be of an optimistic nature at all times. People avoid those who are pessi-
mistic, The world looks to us as we decide to see it.
11. Control your temper. Never become angry even for a moment regardless of how
angry the other fellow may get. This will -keep you out of much difficulty.
12. Learn to use tact.
and the right place,
Say the right thing in the right way a~ the right time
13. Be truthful and sincere. Better say nothing if you must lie. You will
automatically show sincerity in your speech and manner by being always truthful.
14 . Always show respect for other people and their property.
go far toward developing a charming personality.
This quality will
15. Endeavor to be polite at all times. Politeness faciliates tr8.l].saction of
business, It is just as easy to please as not to please.
16 . Be sympathetic. Learn to show sympathy when and where it is necessary.
Lack of sympathy is lack of harmony and a well rounded personality is impossible
where this quality is lacking.
17. Be of good nature. Learn to laugh often. A- daily hearty laugh at something
worth laughing at will not only improve the expression on your face, but will
also keep your entire system in better condition. Recall the old saying - "Laugh
and the world laughs with you." A good sense of humor is · important.
Starting now, substitute .good qualities for undesirable ones. Make this a
daily habit so that you may be assured of regular improvement in your personality.
Make every effort to practice that which you have been taught, striving to improve
at every opportunity. - In time this conscious effort will become a subconscious
one and without giving the matter conscious 'thought, you will go on improving.
Page 67
PART THIRTY-EIGHT
P R A C T I C A L T E L E P A T H Y
Telepathy is the sympathetic affection of one mind or person bY another
without direct communication through the senses; or in other words, it i s the
science of mental communication. This positively can be done if two parties are
sufficiently able to concentrate their thoughts and follow rules here gi ven.
We find that the great force called thought has scientific relations, corre-
lations, and transmutations; that its vibrations project themselves in waves
through the ether, regardless of distance and other sensuous limitati ons ; that
they strike unisons in other minds and make them vibrant; that they rel ate them-
selves to like and are repelled by unlike; that their silent though forceful im-
pact makes a distinct impression.
It is not necessary for the one who transmits the thought to have a suffi-
cient power of concentration, but equally important for the one receiving the
message to be in a fit condition of reception. Before both parties c an become
sufficiently receptive or sensitive it will require some practice. At f irst your
efforts will be flat failures, but with constant practice you will get a fair
percentage of successful results, and later on, when by repeated trials you have
fully established a feeling of sympathy between yourself and your sub ject , you
will have a long series of unbroken successes.
It is best for one person to give his whole attention to transmitting and
the other to receiving, at first. After one has become proficient in the trans-
mission of thought to another, he will then be more easily able to put himself in
a passive frame of mind at any time and receive with equal proficiency. The one
who transmits is the positive individual. The one receiving is the negative one.
Practice the concentration of thought. Sit in a chair for half an hour at a
time and picture to yourself the face of the one to whom you wish to transmit a
thought. It is important that this be the face of one that you love or in whom
you are deeply interested, 'for first results will be better. Feature by feature
should be pictured to your mind's eye. Do not knit your brows or excite yourself
in any way, Simply call up in your memory your friend's Sace, then close your
eyes and proceed to paint the face before you in darkness.
At first you will get no results unless you have a vivid iinagination. You
may be able to see the eyes and part of the face, but it instantly fades away and
the effort must again be made, and finally the whole face stands out cl earl y be-
fore you as a living photograph. Ybu must continue practicing every morning, when
the mind is clearest, for half an hour, and repeating again at night, unti l you
can without effort call up a friend's face out of the darkness in all its com-
pleteness.
After you have become proficient in the art . of visualizing, yo take the
next step which is the study of thought transmission.
Begin by taking some simple sentence, as ."I will see you tomorrow . " Call up
your friend's face and say to it mentally'1 once or twice just as if you were
speaking aloud, "I will see you tomorrow. 11
·
1
You will come to see me . 11
Or , any
other message you wish to convey. Keep your mental eye fixed on the face for
several moments, and as it fades away, you will see plainly written in its place
the message you sent.
You will not see the answer to your message right away. That will not come
for a long, long time. You are now only practicing the sending of messages, which
is best for the first six months or a year. When you see in bold vivi d writing
and in vivid lines the message you sent, you will know it has been del ivered to
the receiving party.
Both parties should practice visualizing for several months, that is, call-
ing up the other's face, and when this can be easily done, thought transmi ssion
can soon be done .
•
The London Society for Psychical Research has demonstrated beyond all ques-
Page 68
tion the fact that telepathy is a power possessed by many; and the early mesmer-
ists have shown conclus~vely that the hypnotic condition is the one of all others
the most favorable for the development and exhibition of that power.
Telepathy is the normal means of communication between two subconscious
minds, and it is only between subconscious minds that telepathy can be employed.
The conscious mind has no part or lot in telepathy until the threshold of c·on-
sciousness is displaced so as to enable the subconscious mind to take cognizance
of the message. It will be understood, therefore, that when the subject is hyp-
notized, and all of his conscious mind is in complete abeyance, and the operator
with whom he is en rapport is in a partially subconscious state, the conditions
which render possible the exhibition of telepathic power will prevail.
PART THIRTY-NINE
H 0 W T 0 A T T R A C T WHA T y 0 u WA N T
By Dr. Adolph F. Lank .
(Reprint from the February 19~9 Issue of the The Occult Difest Hafaztne)
Every person draws to himself thoughts, environment, persons and conditions,
in exact harmony with the character of his own thoughts. Like always attracts
like in the world of thought or in the world of things. Thoughts are things, and
are governed by th~ laws of things as truly as is the most material things. A
man thinking thoughts of depression, gloom, discouragement and despair will in-
evitably draw to himself the thought-currents of others who are thinking along
the same line, which currents will increase the degree of his gloom, and w~ll add
fuel to his mental fires. Not only will such a man attract to himself gloomy
thought-currents of the mental atmosphere, but he will also attract to himself
other gloomy persons, failures, men who never amount to anything, useless people,
undes_;lrable companions, unfavorable environments and conditions, and these re-
acting upon him will only intensify his original condition of non-success and
failure.
A man with anger in his mind often manages to attract to himself conditions
and an environment in which anger plays the leading part. One often finds that
for which he looks~ We get that which we look for, and about which we think most.
We draw to our hand the things in harmony with our mental attitude and the gener-
al character of our thoughts. Like Job, many men can truthfully say, "The thing
I feared hath come upon me." Good things which one constantly expects and de-
mands from nature will surely come to him. - As the gloomy ·man attr.acts gloomy
thoughts, things, conditions, persons, environment, so does the cheerful, hopeful
man attract thoughts of others of similar character, persons who are successful
and can help him, conditions favorable to his success, and environment calculated
for his advantage. In $hart, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. The suc-
cessful men of the world are those who never allow their minds to dwell upon
thoughts of failure, discouragement, and the like, but who always keep before
their- mental vision t~e picture of hope, confidence and success.
The subconscious mind must be impressed with the necessity of producing just
what is wanted. Each school of thought and philosophy has a different name and a
different theory for this law of attraction which puzzles -the student, and he
often gives up in despair because he cannot grasp the basic principle of the par-
ticular course of study he is taking, because of the many conflicting explana-
tions. No matter what -may be the method employed, or the theory advanced, the
subconscious mind is the active principle which produces the result in response
to the method and in spite of the theory. The subconscious mind has control over
the physical functions; has the power of telepathic communication and psychic in-
fluence over the minds of others at a distance or nearby; has the power of mould-
ing and influencing the character of man and causing him to become that which he
wishes to be; it also has the power of causing the materialization and objectifi-
cation of one's ideals.
It is necessary that the mental command given to the subconscious mind be
accompanied by the confident expectation that the command -will be obeyed. A com-
mand given in a doubtful. manner will bring about doubtful results. It is neces-
sary to visualize the thing you desire most. It is also necessary that you know
Page 69
just exactly what you want, desire it with your heart and soul, and keep it upper
most in your mind as much as possible. The subconscious mind will att act what
you need to you, or you to it, just as it leads the root of the tree t o the dis-
tant water or source of nourishment, or as it leads the animal to the place in
which its food may be found. It is the subconscious mind which, used unconsci ous-
ly, manifes~s as instinct. Used consciously and with understanding, it gives us
intuition and also attracts to us that which we need from the outer war d .
PART FORTY
H 0 W T 0 S U C C E E D A S A P U B L I C S P E A K E R
SUCCEEDING AS A PUCLIC SPEAKER
To succeed as a public speaker you should possess thought, language and im-
agination. Likewise, you should have something to say.
By much reading, studying and thinking, you soon can learn to do s ome real
thinking about a given matter so that you can actually talk about it. You must
learn to think quickly, wisely and intelligently. You must learn to think on
your feet.
To develop your language, or increase your vocabulary, it is neces sary that
you store up a stock of words that are neither too long, odd or pedantic. A good
dictionary used regularly as you read and study various interesting literature,
will help you much. Become familiar with many synonyms for ordinary words so that
you will not have to use the same word again and again but can fit adequate and
proper words to your thought.
Learn to use your imagination so you can make your very thoughts and words
live. If you are speaking of happiness, you must actually think and feel happy.
If you are speaking of sorrow, you must think and feel sad. Think and experience
that which you speak of if you hope to sway people by the power of speech.
Unless you can deliver a speech in an impromptu manner, without notes or
manuscript, it is advisable that you prepare a speech beforehand to be cert ain of
having really something to say. Choose the subject you will speak on and prepare
a manuscript on same. When completed and you are satisfied that it is as you
want it, memorize the thought of the manuscript. When delivering the address be
guided by only brief notes. This is the most satisfactory method and i s usually
employed by great orators.
STRUCTURE OF YOUR SPEECH
Build up your speech in three parts. First, the introduction. Often a happy
story or an account of events leading up to the speech will serve as an i ntro-
duction to the body of the speech which will follow. The body of the speech
should contain the important facts of the subject matter. It is the most impor-
tant part of your speech. Now comes the conclusion or last part of your speech.
This generally amounts to a summing up in brief of what has been previously said
by you in the body of the speech. It should be delivered with enthusiasm,
THE PROPER USE OF GESTURE
Although gesture is being used less and less in the United States, it is far
better to make use of gesture if you can use it properly. It will add power to
your speech. The over-use of gesture or improper use of same must be carefully
avoided.
Gesture should be used only when there is a good reason for it. It should
be used to make _the thought more clear and emphatic.
Upward motion of the arms and hands are used to indicate divine, beautiful,
exalted, magnificient, glorious, heavenly.
Gestures before the speaker are used to indicate common things, width,
breadth, length, shape.
Page 70
Downward motion of the arms and hands are used to indicate condemnation,
stubborness, base, determination.
Clenching the right fist and bringing it down, ·rather sharply, into the left
hand is used to emphasize a fact and drive it home.
THE PROPER ATTITUDE FOR SPEAKING
The proper attitude is the only attitude to asslUile for speaking. Do not sit,
stand on one leg, keep hands in pockets, lean against anything or stand rigid as
a post without moving a muscle outside , of those used in talking.
If you have something to say, you need fear no one. Throw your head back,
expand your chest, breathe sufficient air, stand on two feet and deliver your
message with force. Appear dignified, strong and manly to your audience.
THE PROPER VOICE FOR SPEAKING
Breathing exercises are extremely important to the speaker. Unless your
chest is well expanded, your voice will lack strength and therefore, power.
Avoid carelessness in speech. Do not slur over syllables, Breathe through
your nose when not speaking. If you cannot, then have your physician look into
the matter. Nasality due to some nasal obstruction which prevents easy breathing
through the nose will retard your success as a speaker.
Try to associate as much as possible with people who speak well. By so do-
ing, you are unlikely to fall into various errors generally brought on by listen-
ine to foreigners or ignorant people speak incorrectly.
If your voice is rasping and irritating to others, practice cultivating a
voice that is rich and mellow. If necessary, imitate some voice that pleases you.
Avoid sameness of pitch and tone in your speech.
will please the hearer. Practice by reading aloud from
one who will listen to you. Your voice should be flexible
fall as modulated music.
DELIVERING THE SPEECH
Make it melodious so it
the daily paper to some-
so that it can rise and
When speaking from the public platform, endeavor to speak loud enough so
that everyone can hear you, but no louder. Do not shout nor talk so rapidly that
you run the risk of not being understood. It is far better to speak slowly and
correctly.
Regardless of what others may say on the subject, you will find it best to
look your listeners directly in the eye. Avoid looking over their heads~ at the .
floor or some other place. You are talking to them, to each and everyone of them,
and can succeed only by talking directly to them. By careful observation, the
expression on the faces of your listeners will permit you to determine whether or
not your speech is being accepted by them in the right spirit.
A conversational style of address is far better than the stilted or bombastic
oratory of the past. The most direct kind of speaking is now in demand by audi-
ences. Cultivate this kind. ·
Do not talk as if you have memorized the speech by heart and that it means
nothing to you. Unless you take real interest in your own speech you can hardly
expect your audience to do so.
It is advisable not to speak or lecture for more than an hour so that you do
not tire your audience. Long drawn out speeches seldom result in proper response
from the audience. Speak briefly and to the point at all times.
By relating some hlllllorous anecdote when audience appears to show a lack of
interest will immediately change the situation. You are advised to have a list
of such anecdotes on hand at all times for just such a purpo~e. Most speeches
can be improved by the addition of one or more hlUilorous anecdotes.
Page 71
.. "·
Endeavor to arouse curiosity and thereby interest. By doing or saying some-
thing unusual will arouse curiosity. If possible, produce specimens or pictures
of the object of your speech.
Form the habit of correct enunciation so that your audience can understand
you fully at all times.
To emphasize the thought containing words it is only necessary to say them a
bit louder than the subordinate or connective words. The use of gesture l i kewise
will help you in emphasizing them.
To gain real oratory technic, commence collecting short paragraphs, articles
and speeches from newspapers to paste into your scrapbook. Read these aloud
often. A daily half hour of such reading will do more to make you a public speak-
er than hours of silent study.
In conclusion, you are Urged to avail yourself of every opportunity t o speak
before a gathering. Make it your business to be prepared to say something, even
if only a few words.
PART FORTY-ONE
H 0 W T 0 0 V E R C 0 ME T H E T 0 B A C C 0 H A B I T
Before you try to quit smoking it is necessary that you find a good reason
.or two for quitting, otherwise you will have no reason to carry out your resolu-
tion. Do not tell your friends that you can quit just like that, snap your
fingers to emphasize your statement and yet go right on smoking as though you said
nothing.
Don't expect to be a baby all your life. Grow up. Do not always want some-
thing in your mouth. It is childish not to be able to give up something that is
not good for you. Are you man or mouse?
Why should you quit? Because, after you learn that smoking is det rimental
to your health as outlined below you certainly will be foolish to tolerate such a
habit.
Nicotine has a stimulating effect on the pituitary gland in the head causing
it to secrete more hormone than is good for you. This hormone being released
into the bloodstream causes the coronary arteries (blood vessels supplying the
heart itself with blood) to contract and thereby reduce the .blood supp l y to the
heart muscle. Because of a shortage of blood, the heart in its effort to procure
its normal blood supply, must beat faster. If you constantly race the engine of
your car you soon will need a new car. If you constantly race your heart because
you starve it for nourisbment, you may soon need a new heart which is unobtain-
able as yet. Your death certificate will merely cover heart failure as cause of
your death. There are over 400,000 deaths each year from heart trouble alone.
Are you driving nails into your coffin with each cigarette you smoke? In addi-
tion to deaths in this way, each year hundreds of cigarette smokers l ose their
life and homes because of fire due to carelessness with matches and ci garettes
that have not been extinguished properly and also because af'having fallen asleep
while smoking in bed.
In addition to nicotine which one receives from the cigarette and of which
only a few drops if injected into the bloodstream direct would cause i nstant
death, the combustion of the cigarette also produces poisonous gases one of which
is the deadly carbon monoxide gas. This same gas also comes from the .exhaust
pipe of an automobile in operation and if inhaled in small quantities for a short
time kills promptly. Lastly, the combustion of the pap~r, whether it be called
'rice paper' or not, produces a drug called acrolein which is so detrimental to
the nervous system of the smoker that Thomas Alva Edison, the great inventor, re-
fused to hire any man who smoked cigarettes because he believed a cigare.t e smoker
could not possibly think intelligently enough to help him with his invent ions.
Acrolein has a violent action upon the nerve centers, producing degeneration
of the cells of the brain which is rapid among growing boys and girls.
Page 72
Henry Ford said: "If you will study the history
will find that he is an inveterate cigarette smoker.
train with bad company. They ~o with other smokers to
The ciearette drags them down.
of almost any criminal you
Boys, through cigarettes,
the poolrooms and saloons.
Hon. George Torrence, former superintendent of the Illinois State Reformatory,
after years of contact with criminals, says: "I am sure cigarettes are destroying
and making criminals of more boys than liquor . "
Roger Babson, the famous statistician, said: "When .America 1 s keenest minds
are using the newspapers, magazines, movies, and radios to entice youth to drink
whiskey, smoke more cigarettes, and make heroes of criminals, those youths should
have the other side of the argument from someone . "
The mode of advertising has been a success, for thousands of young women and
innocent girls have become slaves to a habit which is ruinous to the complexion,
injurious to health, and destructive to morals. Smoking has in the past few years
become common among girls and young women, chiefly because of the cleverly
written, misleading, and untruthful ads of tobacco sellers. The habit harms a
woman more than it does a man. The woman's nervous system is more highly organ-
ized than the man's. The reaction is, therefore, more intense.
Joseph Byrne, managing director of the National Beauty Shop Owner's Conven-
tion, said: "The features of women who smoke grow sharper as the nicotine habit
fastens on them. Their skin becomes t aut and sallow. The lips lose their rosy
color. The corners of the mouth show wri nkles. The lower lip shows a tendency
to project beyond the upper lip. The eyes acquire a stare, and the lids rise and
fall slowl y. 11
A stupid expression .
Sonja Reni e, the world's champion figure skater, was approached by publicity
agents for her endorsement of a certain cigarette. They said: "You don't have
to put one in your mouth, but we will publish your picture and give you $2,500."
To this she replied, 11
I don't smoke. I won't take your $2,500. I am ashamed of
women who smoke, 11
The claim is made that the cigarette soothes the nerves. It is true that
the cigarette is a temporary soother of the nerves of nervous women, but eventual-
l y it aggravates the condition it temporarily palliates, and in time it ruins the
nervous system.
Smoking tends to make women coarse and mannish, and it also injures the voice.
This is recognized by professional singers.
No sane or worth while y.oung man wants a cigarette smoking woman for a wife
or to be the mother of his children.
To prove to your complete satisfaction that what I tell you is true and not
sug3estion to frighten you, I suggest that before you have your first smoke in
the morning that you sit yourself down in an easy chair and count your pulse, and,
if by chance you happen to· be a doctor and have your sphygmomanometer (blood-
pressure machine ) handy, that you take ·your own blood-pressure. Now, smoke a
couple of cigarettes and again count your pulse and take your blood-pressure.
You will find that your pulse rate has increased as much as 20 counts to the
minute and that your blood-pressure shot up at least 10 points. If your blood
pressure happens to be say around 180 or over before you smoke which is about the
bursting point in cases of arteiosclerosis (hardening of arteries), a sudden rise
of 10 p oints in blood pressure can suddenly burst a branch of the ce.ntral cerebral
artery in the brain and result in either paralysis or instant death for you.
Having learned the facts and perhaps even checked up on your pulse to satisfy
yourself that what I said thus far is true, you no doubt are ready to quit smok-
ing and so want to know how.
Use no will power. Instead, use your imagination. Direct your imagination
and it will help you to quit. Your imagination is far stronger than your will
is. If you tried to quit by using will power, you will fail because you imagine
that you can't quit and so you don't. Instead, say to yourself, "I'm through
smoking. I do not crave nor do I find it necessary to smoke." Do not throw your
cigarettes away nor hide them. Do not go about boasting that you have quit smoking
Page 73
and a11ove all do not seek sympathy, you don 1 t need it. Do not walk about in a
daze as though you lost your best friend. Instead, get busy, work harder , forget
about smoking. Should you feel a lack of your stimulant, eat an apple, some ·
candy, peanuts or chew some gum. No one feels like smoking after candy . Don't
drink coffee, instead drink milk. All these foods will help you to neutralize
the nicotine with which you had saturated your body. Don't drink cof fee as
thi=i.t encourages one to .smoke.
Have your druggist make you up a couple of ounces of a 1%strength Si lver
Nitrate Solution same as is used to drop into the new born baby's eyes . I t is
quite tasteless and harmless. If you will rinse your mouth with about a half
teaspoonful of this solution, getting it back around the throat and tons i l s , you
will find that smoking will be impossible as a puff or two on your former favorite
brand of cigarettes will convince you. It works like a charm. Try it.
With improved blood supply to your heart, safer blood pressure, a healt hier
nervous system and a much more clear mind because of more oxygen reaching the
brain, you will find the little effort to quit smoking well worth your while. At
first, your friends may poke fun at you for quitting the habit of smoking, but
soon they will envy your ability and soon respect you for doing that which they
feel unable to do. Your breath will be sweeter, your clothes much cleaner, if
married your little woman will be happier because you will not polute t he atmos-
phere with the filthy habit wherever you go. You will no longer need to light up
the first thing in the morning, the last thing at night and sometimes wake up at
night from a sound sleep to have a smoke. More power to you.
PART FORTY-TWO
PRACTICAL CONTROL OF YOUR DESTINY
Certain processes of thought lead to sickness, others to pover ty, while
others that are opposite to these will lead to health, power and prosperity. By
proper thinking one can determine his own future. Regulate your thinking and you
can make just about anything happen that you like. Yes, you and you alone control
your destiny by your thoughts.
Learn to think for a. purpose. Unless you have a definite motive for think-
ing, your thoughts will not be purposeful. You must create thoughts, thoughts
that aim to build something worth while.
Avoid aimless "thinking. Too many people do such aimless thinking and thus
throw away a great part of their life and ability.
To think scientifically and for a definite purpose you must have a definite
goal in mind. You must know just what you are going to live, think and work for.
Usually the first thing that you will want to do is to succeed in your vocation.
Then you will want to develop·your leading mental qualities. Following t his, you
will desire the attainment of higher and higher states of ideal talent. Your un-
divided attention should be concentrated on such matters as outlined and your
destiny is under your control,
PART FORTY-THREE
HOW TO MAKE YOURSELF INVISIBLE
If you have an audience before you and can hypnotize this audience, it is
relatively simple to suggest to them that you are becoming invisible, and finally
that you are invisible. Under the hypnotic spell, they will be unable t o contra-
dict, and when they come out of it, they will believe that you had been i nvisible,
The famous Hindu Rope Trick is worked this way.
Magicians today use a method of becoming seemingly invisible. They make use
of the fact that the color of their costumes, skin, some apparatus that is not to
be seen by the audience, are made to . blend with the surrounding colors i n the
background. If for instance, they are completely covered with orange material
Page 74
and stc:mding against an orange background and an orange light be proejcted upon
them, they automatically become invisible. If they stand behind a bank of flood-
lights, they also fade from view. Draping the body black against a black cur-
tain, renders it;invisible to the audience. Concealing the body behind arranged
mirrors is often used for becoming seemingly invisible. Smoke screens, camou-
flage and such were used during the World Wars for the same purpose.
PART FORTY-FOUR
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF SOUND
PSYCHOLOGY OF SOUND
By
B. J . . Nowrey
Professor of Radionics
Our bodies are equipped with five special senses, sight, hearing, smell,
feeling, and taste. These are for the purpose of gathering information from out-
side of our bodies. Hearing is as important as it is interesting because it is
usually the means for conveying information from one person to another.
Sound, as we usually think of it, is something that travels thru the air to
affect our ears, resulting in the sensation of sound. Sound, however, travels
thru other mediums than air and has many other interesting applications other
than to vibrate our ear drums.
It will not be the purpose of this article to discuss the psychological ef-
fects of subconscious impressions, but rather to principals that have been gained
elsewhere.
A person might be tranquilized, or even put to sleep, by the sounds present
in a railroad car if he ord~narily went to sleep after boarding a train. If the
same person was also accustomed to going to sleep when, slow, soft music was
playing, and if he were equally impressed subconsciously with both conditions,
the music would probably be the most effective condition for inducing sleep in
that individual. If we can collect most of the qualities of sound, we can prob-
ably analyze the situations above, and even find ways to improve them. In the
table below, a number of qualities of sound are listed.
Restful
Soft tones
Low tones
Pure tones
Harmonious combinations
Slow attack
Rhythmic music
Slow tempo
Exciting
· Loud tones
Medium tones
Impure tones
Blue combinations
Fast attack
Arhythmic music
Fast tempo
Noise
Mysterious
High tones
Minor chords
Wavering
Note that noise has no other effect than excitement. Noise is a special
kind of sound. It is composed of more than one tone that are not harmonious. It
has no rhythm.
Getting back to the train and the music, the staccattoof the wheels beating
the joints of the rails is the most outstanding noise of the train. It is all
noise and the only good feature listed above is rhythm. The noise is loud, it
contains medium and high tones, the staccatto constitutes fast attack and the
tempo is fast. However, if these sounds were produced, they could be made softer,
some or all of the medium tones could be filtered out, the tranquilizing effect
being made much better. The music's qualities are all in the right column.
EXPERIMENTS IN SOUND
Sound is wave motion in matter. It is transmitted by matter in all three of
its physical forms, gaseous, liquid and solid. Sound is always originated by a
Page 75
vibrating body and it represents power. Sound waves behave according to wave
theory. They have the usual sinusoidal form when the wave is pure, tha t is, if
only one frequency is present. Usually there is some distortion due to addition-
al frequencies being present. These additional frequencies, if they are in har-
monic relationship to the fundamental frequency account for the richnes s of the
tone. If the source of the sound is a musical instrument, they are re sponsible
for its richness or quality. Tones that are not in harmonic relation ship are
detrimental to quality.
Tones that have a simple mathematical relationship to the fundamen tal tone
are said to be harmonious. 2:1 is the simplest and means that the harmonic (also
called overtone) has twice the frequency of the fundame~tal. It is also c alled
the second harmonic. 3:1, 4:1,, et cetera, are simple relationships, but 3:2 et
cetera is also harmonious. One octave of the musical scale is a 2:1 f requency
ratio. Strike two 11
do 1 s 11
or two "e's" on a piano. This is a ,2:1 ratio or 1
octave. It is a harmonious chord. Now include a "g" or "sol" between t he two
"C's". That is also harmonious. , "G" is a 3:2 ration. Now try "ra" or 11
do11
•
That is not harmonious because the mathematical relationship is complicated.
Clamp a thin stick in a vice and set it in vibration. If the stick is long
a low tone will be heard. If the stick is short the tone will be high. If the
stick is too long the tone will not_ be heard, only the swish of the stick thru
the air. This is because our ears do not hear very low tones. They are not sen-
sitive to very high ones either. The limits of audibility are about 30 to 20000
vibrations per second. Some people's ears do not hear as wide range of fre-
quencies as others. Our ears ,are not equally sensitive to all frequencies and
are best from about 200 to 2000 c.p.s. (cycles per second).. Frequencies above
the range of audibility are called supersonic frequencies or tones. Those below
are called subsonic.
Some animals can hear tones that are inaudible to humans. Experiments were
performed and it was found that 25000 cycle tone was very annoying to sea gulls,
but of course, is not heard by humans because it is supersonic. Sea gulls were
chased away from places where they had been a nuisance by setting up powerful
electronic generators to produce the tone.
A supersonic whistle is used by the army to call dogs. The dog c an hear the
whistle which is inaudible to human beings.
Tuning forks vibrate in a manner similar to the stick in the vice. They
always vibrate at the same frequency and are designed to generate a pure tone.
They are said to be resonant to that frequency. If two tuning forks having the
same resonant frequency are placed near to each other and one of them is set in
vibration, the other will also vibrate, and can be heard if the firs t fork is
stopped. That is because waves arrive and impart power, or motion, to the second
fork eac~ time the first fork vibrates. Thus the second fork is given a push at
just the right time to aid its vibration, once each cycle.
Magicians and often singers, will break fragile glasses by generating the
resonant frequency of the glass with a voice or a musical instrument . Such a
glass is usually resonant to a rather high frequency so that a soprano v oice or a
violin or other source of high frequency sound is required. ' The glass is caused
to vibrate so violently by a sustained tone that it shatters to bits.
Sound waves are reflected, If the voice is directed toward a wall suffi-
ciently far away, part of the wave will return and is called an echo.
Bats use echoes to protect themselves and to find prey. They have been
equipped by nature with supersonic generators and receivers. They send short
bursts of sound and are able to judge from the echo that returns how far away the
reflecting object is and in what direction. Small objects will reflect these
waves because the wave length is small compared to the size of the obj ect.
The Navy uses equipment called Sonar to detect submarines and other objects
under water. Sound waves are usually generated in the water by a mechanical vi-
brator. The reflecting waves that return are received by a directional micro-
phone. The direction in which the microphone is aimed reveals the direction of
the object. The amount of time required for the wave to travel out to the object
and come back reveals the distance, the speed of the wave being known. Even the
Page 76
speed of the object is determined by using the Doppler Effect. When a source of
sound is approached, each wave arrives a short time ahead of schedule so that the
frequency is higher. The opposite is true when trave~ing away from the sound;
the tone gets lower. The Doppler Effect is readily noticeable when we pass a car
at high speed whose horn is blowing. Efficient electronic apparatus is used to
measure the direction, distance and speed.
Nature has, believe it or not, actually equipped an animal with radar! While
radar is a little off the subject, the material is an interesting sequence to the
bat story. _During the war, our government gathered electric eels in foreign
countries and brought them to this country for study. These eels are thought to
send electrical waves which echo back from objects to the eel, revealing in the
manner of sonar, the location of the objects .. A remarkable consideration is ,.that
electrical waves travel at the speed of light, about 188,000 miles per second,
compared to about 5000 feet per second for sound waves in water or about 1100
feet per second for sound waves in air. Thus, in order to determine distance,
the eel would have to measure time of the order of one one-millionth of a second.
We use an electronic instrument called an oscilloscope for making this measure-
ment in radar. I wonder what those eels use?
Extremely high frequency sound waves areused to homogenize milk. These fre-
quencies are of the order of 5001000 cycles per second. These high frequencies
are destructive to small objects and they break the butter fat globules up into
small particles which do not separate from the milk. Animal cells are of com-
parable size and this principle is used in a new kind of death ray. It is said
that small animals can now be killed with it at a distance of fifty feet. Power-
ful high frequency sound waves destroy the living cells of the animal in the same
manner in which they break up the globules of fat in the milk. When matter is
vibrated so intensely, considerable amounts of heat would be generated due . to
molecular friction and this heat probably plays an important part in killing the
animal.
A small paper box, sealed up, with a small hole in one end, when aimed at a
candle, will blow the flame of the candle out when the box is tapped with the
fingers . This has also received some attention in the past as a weapon, but to
my knowledge has not been developed for practical use. A large box is used, and
is struck with a mallet. This has knocked a man down and stunned him at fifty
paces.
PART FORTY-FIVE
MUSIC THAT CAN KILL OR CURE
0 R
MUSIC THERAPY
Music is said to be the gift of the gods. Seemingly miraculous cures have
been accomplished with music. -Music is as practical a therapeutic agent as is
any other worth- while therapy. MusicJJ.as restored memories to those suffering
with amnesia, has .overcome insanity, relieved pain and made peoply happy. The
wrong kind of music can work just the opposite. People can be made sad or hys-
terical with music. So~e · patriotic music will make people march to war and even
to their very doom.
It is said that every time "Tschaikowsky 1 s Sixth Symphony" was played, some-
one in the audience ·would commit suicide. This applies to other similar music of
which "Blue Sunday" is another.
The healing powers of the body are stimulated by proper music which is done
through the mind. Through the mind we can create health or un-health, depending
upon whether there is or is not a harmonious condition of the mind, and so of the
body. Our body is keyed to the entire range of the chromatic scale and a disso-
nance or discord between tones will produce disease. The normal rhythm of vibra-
tion of each and every organ and each and every cell composing such organs must
vibrate normally if health is to prevail.
Music like "My Wild Irish Rose" or the "Indian Love Call" is good for
patients who are nervous or suffer from some mental trouble. For melancholia a
soprano voice is recommended. For paranoics the baritone voice is recommended.
Page 77
Dr. Lonk demonstrates the use
of the tuntng fork tn hypnotism.
Music like "Beethoven's Fifth Sym-=-
phony" or "on Wings of Song" is good for
treating patients suffering from insomnia
(sleeplessness).
Music like "Somewhere , Over the
Rainbow" or "March of the Wooden Soldiers"
is good for treating patients with wasting
diseases such as tuberculosis.
Music like "The Anvil Chorus" or
"Sousa's March" is good for treating
patients with all forms of paralysis and
joint diseases.
Music like "Song of India, 11
"The
Blue Danube" or "Humoresque" is good for
treating patients with heart trouble.
Music like
or "Beethoven's
used on some
pain.
"Meditation From Thais"
.Fifth Symphony" can be
patients suffering with
For deaf people the timbre of wood
instruments is used as it carries well to
them, otherwise the voice is recommended.
The piano being next in choice.
In his "Thumb-Nail Edition," George
Starr White, M.D., tells how he cleared up
a case of acute appendicitis with music.
Insteadof resorting to surgery ev en after
another medical man urged an immediate
operation, he instead let the patient
·· listen to "Wedding of the Winds 11
played
on a player piano. Pain soon disappeared
and patient recovered rapidly.
A Funeral March will slow down the heart beat and will mentally depress an
individual so he cares not if he lives or dies. Such music should be a voided at
all times.
Paderewski and His Spider
From the memoirs of Ignace Jan Paderewski, Polish pianist and statesman,
comes an interesting spider story. In brief, it follows.
When young Ignace Jan Paderewski had to practice his piano lessons daily in
a little room in Vienna, he repeatedly had to play a study in thirds. As he
practiced, he one day noticed that a little spider let himself down from the
ceiling right before him and remained suspended on a single silver thread as if
listening to him play. When he changed his study in thirds and began to play a
study in sixths, the spider · immediately turned himself about and hurried up to
the ceiling out of sight. When this took place, young Ignace stopped his study
in sixths and returned to playing his former study in thirds. The spider again
came down and hung there before him on his silken web evidently listening to the
music. This took place daily and was repeated often by the boy who derived much
pleasure from the action of his friend, the spider. When vacation time arrived
the boy stopped his studies and when he returned in September, he was unable to
find the spider or call him down regardless of his repeated efforts in playing
the spider's favorite study in thirds. It is believed that the spider moved out
of the building because he was lonely or that some ambitious housemaid crushed
out his life.
Page 78
PART FORTY-SIX
H 0 W T 0 H Y P N 0 T I Z E Y 0 U R S E L F.
So much has been written by other writers on the subject of self hypno·sis
and yet so little has been said that the writer of this book has decided to try
and reverse matters by writing little and telling much. If you will carefully
consider everything taught you in this article and will put it into practice, you
will find that the technic given far surpasses· that presented by others.
It must be remembered that self-hypnosis is and is not auto-suggestion.
Auto-suggestions are used in both insta,nces but in self-hypnosis you end up in a
trance while with general application of auto-suggestion you do not go into a
trance because auto-suggestion is usually practiced while one is fully awake
throughout the entire treatment.
The easiest and quickest way to hypnotize yourself is to first have an ex-
perienced hypnotist hypnotize you. Then, while you are under hypnosis have the
hypnotist give you suggestions to the- effect that from now on you. yourself can
put yourself into a hypnotic state by merely making up your mind · to do so and
counting to ten. Have him include the suggestion that you will accept your own
suggestions and that you will remain asleep for just ten minutes after which you
will awaken feeling refreshed and with the desired suggestion properly implanted
in your subconscious mind.
To carry out the above technic and so develop your ability to hypnotize
yourself may require only a few visits to the hypnotist's studio providing you
are an excellent subject to start with. On the other hand, if you are a diffi-
cult or refractory subject, it may require any number of visits rangi~g from five
to fifty.
The far slower but often successful method is to go about hypnotizing your-
self same as you would attempt and expect to hypnotize someone else. Sit your-
self in a comfortable chair in a dark warm room. On a stool in front of :you have
a candle burning so that the flame comes on a level with the top of your head and
about fifteen inches in front of you. Now gaze into the flame 8.nd as your eye-
lids grow heavy and tired commence to breathe deeply and regularly while giving
yourself suggestions same as you would give some other subject. Say, "My body is
relaxed. My thoughts grow more and more confused . My eyes are growing tired and
my eyesight is becoming dim. My eyelids are closing. I am · going to s 1 e e p •.
Sleep. Sleeping. I am sleeping. Soundly sleeping. S-1-e-e-p-i-n-g~"
It is unnecessary to concern yourself about whether or not you will wake up.
If you expect to remain asleep for ten minutes, you will remain asleep for ten
minutes and only for ten. However, you cannot expect to implant more than one
suggestion in your subconscious mind at a time or at a single session. This is
accomplished by "Expectation." That is, you write the desired suggestion down on
a piece of paper and hold it in your hand as you hypnotize yourself. Your con-
scious mind knowing what suggestion is to be transferred to the subconscious mind
at the psychological moment 'will implant it in your subconscious as desired.
Because to give suggestions one must be positive, and to receive suggestions
one must be negative, makes it such a seemingly impossible task to play hypnotist
and subject at the same time. Expecting the message to be delivered, automatical-
ly delivers the message to the subconscious. Expectation does it.
The writer. can supply a Lumin.escence Disc of proper color which glows in the
dark and makes a far more ideal object to gaze at than the use of a candle flame.
PART FORTY- .SEVEK
ft H 0 W HY P N 0 T I Z E ft
By
Dr. Adolph F. LonR
I will not burden you with
matter related to hypnotism, but
just how I handle a subject so
become a successful operator.
ancient history, theory or other impracticable
instead, I will tell you, right from the start,
that you too may follow my technic and likewise
Page 79
If possible, I choose an individual for a subject that will be between
fifteen and twenty-five years of age. I first impress my subject of my ability
as a hypnotist. I show assurance in all that I do. I speak in a positive tone
of voice. I never hesitate but do what is t o be done next so the sub ject will
not doubt my ability in the least.
I have :rcy- subject sit down comfortably in a chair. As he sits with his hands
in his lap and feet flat on the floor, I ask him to relax and explain to him just
why the method I will use on him will make him very tired, very sleepy and will
soon put him into a deep hypnotic sleep . The reason I give is that t he method
will rapidly tire his optic nerve, tire the muscles of his eyelids and that his
own concentration in keeping up with the task of obeying me will tire hi s intel-
lectual center and so cause him to go to sleep .
•
I then hold a bright object about fifteen inches in front of him and on a
level with the top of his head. A shiny metal pencil will serve the purpose well.
The source of light must come from behind and above the subject in order to fall
on the bright object so as to reflect a beam of light directly into the subject's
eyes as he gazes up at an angle at the metal pencil or other bright object .
The subject is now told by me to gaze up at the bright object which I hold
in the position as already mentioned and that when I start counting he i s to
close and open his eyes for each count. That is, when I say "ONE," he is to close
and open his eyes, looking up at the bright object and to be ready to close and
open his eyes again when I say ''TWO," and so ·on as I continue to count. I tell
him that before I get to the count of 'twenty' he will find his eyelids becoming
very . heavy and more difficult to open as I continue to count; that soon af ter,
his eyelids will become so heavy and tired that they will fail to open; that this
· tired feeling will extend down his neck and back to his arms and legs ; that his
head, his arms and legs will begin to feel extremely heavy and that sleep will
rapidly overwhelm him.
Now, with everything ready and prepared, I stand to his right while my right
hand holds the pencil or other bright object. In a monotonous low voice I count
slowly and he closes and opens his eyes. Soon his eyelids grow heavy and as they
fail to open, I stop counting but continue in the same tone and rhythm telling
him that his eyelids are becoming fastened, that his legs and arms are becoming
heavy and feel very tired; that his breathing is becoming heavy and that he f eels
very tired; that his breathing is becoming heavier and that each and every br eath
he takes will cause him to go deeper and deeper into a sound sleep. , I now tell
him that he cannot awaken until I tell him to.
After I am assured that the subject is sound asleep by his breathing and a
few simple tests, I will put him through several experiments involving the five
senses in order to develop him for future psychological experimentation. At this
time, I also will give him necessary post-hypnotic suggestions for his welf are,
success, health and prosperity; or to overcome any undesirable habit. In 1order
to assure myself that the subject will be easy for me to hypnotize in the future
I will give him post-hypnotic suggestions to that effect. I now am ready to
awaken him. I generally say, "Now, when I count to FIVE, you will be ful ly awake
and feeling splendid . Get ready, ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR and FIVE. Wake Up!"
This he croes promptly since he is obeying me throughout the entire experiment .
Like the magician, a good hypnotist has his bag of many tricks. Instead of
depending upon a single method of hypnotizing or awaking a subject, he wi ll be
armed with many. He may use adjuvants such as soothing and sedative rays of
light, hypnotic perfumes to induce mental placidness, hypnotic drugs if he is a
medical man and can use them intelligently, sounds and apparatus for induction of
hypnosis. I offer you advanced Private Personal Instruction when you are ready
for it.
Page 80
PART FORTY-EIGHT
P R 0 0 U C I N G H A l L U C I N A T I 0 N S
nNELKARn, demonstrates halluctnattons under hypnosis.
Two of the subjects are evidently beinl eaten up by ants while the other two
are ftshtnl. One seems to be wadtnf out afte ~ the fish.
The production of hallucinations is one of the most interesting phases of
hypnotism. Hallucinations can be worked on any of the five senses . Hallucina-
tion is a form of illusion. The subject can see, taste, feel, smell or hear
things that are not there. It is always better to show some object than to try
to create one out of thin air. For example, show a cane 1
and say it is a snake.
Give the subject a glass of water to drink and say it is liquor and that it will
intoxicate him. Let him feel a cold metal pencil and tell him it is a red hot
poker. Let him smell some perfume and tell him it is Limburger cheese. Or, tell
him that the noise he hears (perhaps someone is getting in a load of coal next
door) is beautiful music and that he is enjoying it very much.
Always remove the hallucination suggested by the suggestion so that you leave
no after effect unless it is to the subject's advantage and is part of a thera-
peutic treatment.
Page 81
untary manner .
The request to hypnotize him may not be well
or inferi ill received by B, but through f
or w power he may be forced to yield, ear
ly the same. and the result will be precise-
ment
who
help
Page 83
PART FORTY-NINE
AGE REGRESSION THROU GH HYPNOSIS
is the heavier of the two, he is sus-
ceptible and may prove to be a fine sub-
ject. This type of subject be lie ves
that a pound of lead is heavier than a
pound of feathers. If he is not sus-
ceptible, he will say that the blocks
weigh about equal.
How Fascination Is Done
. ~he o~erator s~ould take a standing
position in front of the subject who
also :is standing facing , him. The subject
is requested to place his hands, palms
down, upon those of the operator's whose
palms face upward, and to concentrate a
minute or two on pressing his palms
downward. The operator giv,es the sub-
ject the Hypnotic Gaze given you else-
where in this book, and also gives the
subject suggestions to the effect that
the subject's palms are firmly stuck to
his palms and that he cannot remove them
under any circumstances. By keeping up
a rapid fire of suggestions in the
proper tone Of voice while the subject's
conscious mind is side-tracked by the
task of applying pressure, the subject
will soon be under your control and will
follow every movement you make, even to
imitating the expression on your face.
How to Quiet the Subject Preliminary
to Hypnosis
Have subject seated or lying down
comfortably and request him to close his
Charles Victor, a student of
Dr. Lonk's, practicing on one of
his subjects.
eyes and slowly, in t1mewith his breathing, to count to one hundred. By the
he finishes, his mind and body w:ill be so relaxed that any method of inducing
nosis will work ~ore rapidly. If you suggest to him and have him anticipate
he will be sound asleep long before he reaches the count of one hundred,
your return to his side a few minutes later will in most cases prove to you
this is an excellent hypnotic method calling for little effort.
An Effective New System of Side-Tracking the Mind
time
hyp-
that
upon
that
As stated elsewhere in this book, one of the hypnogenic zones for side-
tracking the conscious mind is located at the roots of the finger nails; I have
found that by using ten ordinary wooden spring-type clothespins, one clipped to
the tip of each finger of a subject, so pressure is exerted on root of nails, the
subject 1 s conscious mind is centered to this pressure. The spring in the clothes-
pins should not be too strong so as not to be painful, but only firm . In order
to treat an individual for some ailment, you will find this method very useful to
side-track the mind. It will prevent the conscious mind from wandering or doing
unnecessary reasoning that might interfere with suggestions passing t o the sub-
conscious mind.
How to Test for Illusions
Suggest to the new subject to close his eyes and bring forth in his mind's
eye a scene of some landscape or building with which he is familiar. Suggest to
him, "Now the scenery will become more clear. It is getting very clear to you.
You can now see it perfectly. Et Cetera." Later ask him to open his eyes and
tell you about the picture. This test is preparatory to the induction of illu-
sions and will indicate to you beforehand how sensitive the subject is before you
do any actual hypnotizing. A perfect description indicates a good sub ject .
'.Page 88
PART FORTY-EIGHT
P R 0 D U C I N G H A L l U C I N A T I 0 N S
"NELK AR n, demonstrates hall UC tnat tons under hypnos ts.
Two of the subjects are evidently betnE eaten up by ants while the other two
are ftshtnE. One seems to be wadtnE out after, the ftsh.
The production of hallucinations is one of the most interesting phases of
hypnotism. Hallucinations can be worked on any of the five senses. Hallucina-
tion is a form of illusion. The subject can see, taste, feel, smell or hear
things that are not there. It is always better to show some object than to try
to create one out of thin air. For example, show a cane 1
and say it is a snake.
Give the subject a glass of water to drink and say it is liquor and that it will
intoxicate him. Let him feel a cold metal pencil and tell him it is a red hot
poker. Let him smell some perfume and tell him it is Limburger cheese. Or, tell
him that the noise he hears (perhaps someone is getting in a load of coal next
door) is beautiful music and that he is enjoying it very much.
Always remove the hallucination suggested by the suggestion so that you leave
no after effect unless it is to the subject's advantage and is part of a thera-
peutic treatment.
Page 81
PART FORTY-NINE
AGE REGRESSION THROUGH HYPNOSIS
Stanley Sokeitous, The Boy Hypnottst, no longer tn
his youth, here makes subject believe that she is
a moth.er of the •babyn (doll) in her arms. Note
sleeping subject in back-ground.
Consciously we forget easily but subconsciously we never forget and r emember
everything. Under hypnosis the subject may be made to tell you anything about
any part of his life whether it be something that took place on any certa in day,
week, month or year of his life from the time anything made any appreciable im-
pression u~on him, This ability to recall things or incidents of the past (age
regression), proves extremely valuable in the practice of psycho-analysis, in
amnesia, and for the entertainment among people who are interested in the more
serious, scientific and practical application of hypnotism.
Page 82
PART FIFTY
A SHORT LECTURE ON HYPNOTISM
By Dr. H. J. HcKahon
In this diagram, let A and B represent two
telegraph operators, seated side by side, send-
ing various and different messages to the ends
A--~-~-~-~~~~~~~~~~~---:X
----------
of their respective lines, represented by X and B
Y. A conceives the idea that he would like to
______________y
transmit his own messages to Y over B's line and calls B's attention to .some spe-
cial object of interest and succeeds in so completely attracting his attention
that he is enabled to connect his own line with B's a.s shown by the diagona 1
dotted line. A can therefore transmit whatever messages he may desire and in-
stead of their being received at the end of his own line, X, they will be received
at Y, the end of B's line.
Dr. Lon~ teachin~ hypnotism
to a small class. Hard to believe
but many students are women.
Again, without trying to at tr a c t
B 1 s attention, he may propose the con-
nection of his line, and be absolutely
refused the privilege, and then set to
work to make the connection by force
and if stronger than B, he may over-
power him and transmit his message as
desired.
Or, after expressing his wish to B
to send messages over his line, B may
readily give his consent and cease to
use his own instrument and allow -it to
lie idle while the connection is being
made, and the result accomplished will
be satisfactory. The practical appli-
cation of these illustrations may serve
a most excellent purpose to beginners.
Let A aid B represent the thought centers
of physical action. That is, when A
conceives a thought he can at his
pleasure transmit it to his own center
of physical action and carry out his
desires by physical manifestations .
For instance, let him conceive the
thought of walking and voluntarily he
wills to walk, his thought has bee n
.sent to X, and immediately hi.s legs be-
gin to move and he walks, B near him,
is also entertaining thoughts in carry-
ing out his conceptions in a similar
manner.
A wishes to entrance B. That is,
he desires to compel B to do whatever
he may suggest. To accomplish this he
manages to concentrate B's thought upon
some object or occurrence and while the mind is thus comparatively passive, he
suddenly "makes connection" with B's mind and his suggestions are immediately
transmitted to B1 s center of physical action and carried out by B in an invol-
untary manner .
The request to hypnotize him may not be well received by B, but through fear
or inferior will power he may be forced to yield, and the result will be precise-
ly the same,
Again, B may desire to be hypnotized -and enter heartily into the arrange-
ment and be able to facilitate matters greatly by his aid.. As a rule, subjects
who have been hypnotized a few times throw aside all doubt and fear and greatly
help the operator.
Page 83
Many persons believe that only the weak minded can be readily hypnotized.
This is mt so, for they often prove to be difficult subjects. On the other hand,
a ·very highly intelligent person who has his mind and thoughts completel y under
control, and who can render himself completely passive; may be hypnot i zed with
the greatest ease, if he is interested in the subject of hypnotism and yields
himself to the operator's influence. Otherwise intellectual capacity doe s not
enter much into hypnotic susceptibility, which is controlled by other factors .
Occasionally, during an attempt to hypnotize a new subject, the oper ator may
find himself utterly unable to accomplish his purpose and the concentr ation of
his own thoughts upon the single idea of producing hypnosis being continued with-
out effort for some time may render him passf.ve toward his subject, and t hus re-
verse the relationship of the parties. The would-be operator then become s the
subject, and.is himself hypnotized. Such an occurrence is rare but its possibili-
ty serves as a warning to operators who persist in repeated fruitle.ss ef forts to
hypnotize others who are capable of exercising great will power in t heir re-
sistance.
HYPNOTIZING 180, ALL AT ONCE
The latest extraordinary manifestation of the power of suggestion is the
feat of hypnotizing without using the eyes ~ Dr. Thoma, eminent experimental psy-
chologist and telepathist, iecturing at the University of Vienna, actuall y proved
it could be done.
Since the first faint stirrings of interest in hypnosis in the s ixt eenth
century, the idea of controlling the subject's imagination through the vision of
the mesmerist has been predominant. Dr. Thoma believes that the majority of
people are so highly "suggestible" that their actions can be manipulated by the
voice alone.
To prove his contention, he filled the lecture hall at the University with
180 persons of both sexes. They were placed at desks circling the amphitheatre
and the doctor, his eyes tightly bandaged, began to lecture. As he talked on in
an insidious ;monotone, ..the subjects came more and more under his sps:ill. They did
various things that he indicated, and the climax of the demonstration came when
Thoma announced: "We will now partake of an air supper." There was no food in
the room, but the subjects began to go through the motions of eating wi th great
vigor and seemingly inexhaustible appetite.
PART fl FTY-ONE
EIGHTEEN WAYS TO GET TO SLEEP
1.- Often a snack just before retiring will be of much help. Hot milk or hot
chocolate made with milk will prove satisfactory.
2.- A glass or two of ordinary beer is of help in some cases because of the hops
used in making the beer. · Beer is a sedative.
3.- Some people depend upon hypnotic drugs such as one or two five-grain t abl ets
of Barbital Sodium. If such a,; drug is prescribed by your doctor it is best taken
with a glass of hot wate~ for only one night. On the following night at the same
hour you need but take the glass of hot water and no drug. You will find that
you will go to sleep just as well as you did on the first night. Keep up the
good habit of going to sleep without drugs.
4.- A warm bath just before retiring relaxes and encourages sleep.
5.- A hot foot bath relieves an over-active mind and encourages sleep.
6.- Put several books under the legs at the head of the bed so that the bed is
higher at the head end. This will reduce activity of the sleeper's mind because
of the reduced blood supply to head.
7.- Gentle but firm massage with oil, from neck downward to hips on the bare back
Page 84
drains the blood from head and relaxes mind for sleep.
8.- Rub some Mentholatum, Vapo-Rub or similar ointment containing menthol into
the back of the neck with vigorous massage. This will relieve tension of mind
and muscles of the neck and encourage sleep.
9.- If the sleeping room is either too quiet or outside noises seem to be bother-
some, turn on a radio and let it play softly.
10.-To help overcome outside noises or the snoring of another person in the same
room, place small pledgets of cotton into the ears.
11.-If the room is too light and there is no way to shut out the incoming rays of
light, use a felt mask made of blue or black material with no openings for the
eyes.
12.-A brisk walk for half a mile or more, slowing down as you near home, will
help you to sleep promptly if you retire at once.
13 . -Reading an uninteresting article before retiring is of benefit.
14. -Changing from a rather hot and over-heated bed from tossing about, to a clean,
cool bed will do wonders to encourage sleep.
15.-0ften the ticking of a clock in the room w
a ll be of help. In other cases re-
moval of the clock will be of more help.
16.-Avoid tight fitting garments. Try sleeping in the "raw" (nude). This often
makes a world of difference if sleeping garments bind.
17.-A great French physician's secret of sound sleep is to have the head to the
north and the feet to the south. He says the magnetic currents of the earth
which flow from north to . south pass easily and freely through the body producing
quiet and rest. If these currents pass across the body the result is nervousness
and irritation resulting in insomnia. It is said that some hotels in Paris have
changed the position of their beds to run in a north and south direction to the
satisfaction of mariy guests.
18.-If you are not in the habit of sleeping in a dark room, then .burn a small
blue light. Finish your bedroom in blue, use blue colored blankets and blue
pajamas. Blue has a soothing effect upon the nervous system. When you enter
your bedroom be certain that you have left all your worries outside. Go to bed
to sleep and not to worry or think.
DAY AND NIGHT FOOD
It is known that starches and sugars are good heat
one is to work late into the night and eats a quarter
not have a tendency to ihterfere with the individual.
an excellent food for lunch so that one does not become
meal.
and energy producers. If
pound of candy, sleep will
For the same reason it is
sleepy after the noon-day
On the other hand, meat and other protein products induce sleep by relaxa-
tion and by the fact that they require so very long to digest. Because so much
blood is called away from the brain to the region of the digestive organs when
protein food is ingested that protein becomes an excellent night food. The hyp-
notist might take advantage of this fact when experimenting with a difficult or
refractory subject.
NARCOTIC IN LETTUCE
One of the commonest vegetables, lettuce, contains a narcotic. The juice of
the lettuce contains a feeble narcotic, which produces heaviness and sleep if
taken in large quantities.
Page 85
HOW TO KEEP AWAKE
Often much depends upon one keeping awake regardless of whether one i s just
sleepy or suffers with narcolepsy (inability to keep awake). Falling a s l eep
while driving a .car may mean death to the driver and his passengers. · For this
condition, carbohydrates as mentioned in "Day and Night Foods" is recommended. A
cup or two of strong coffee is of value. (Each cup of coffee averages appr oxi-
mately two grains of caffein.) Many medical students who wi sh to "cram" studies
in preparation for an examination manage to stay awake several days and nights by
taking 1/2 tablet of BENZEDRINE SULFATE (Brand of Amphetamine Sulfate 10 mg. to
each tablet) orally three or more times daily.
PART Fl FTY-TWO
PRACTICAL AUTO-SUGGESTION WITHOUT SLEEP
Many systems have been offered by many schools of suggestion endeavoring to
teach the individual how to best :iJnpress his subconscious mind with desired s g -
gestions, or auto-suggestions as they are called when one gives suggesti ons to
one's self. Most methods do riot work well because the impression one made on his
own subconscious was not strong enough to result in action. The method was at
fault. For this reason I am here giving you a practical method of auto-suggestion
whereby you can be assured of making a real impression on your subconscious as
well as be certain of definite action.
First, you must know just what you want and you must desire it with all the
power with~n you if you are to make any impression on your subconscious mind.
For an example, let us assume you are poverty stricken and desire to give your-
self auto-suggestions for the purpose of becoming prosperous. First you must be
thoroughly fed up of poverty. Go into a room all by yourself and let of f steam
by saying in a reasonably audible voice something along this line - 11
I 1m sick and
tired of being poor. I have been skimping and scraping for so long without any
headway and I refuse to go on this way any longer. This poverty complex must
leave me now, this very minute. I insist upon an immediate change for the bet ter
and each and every day from now on a greater change must prevail." Rave on for a
few more minutes and clear out all the old cobwebs from your mind. Get yourself
out of that rut you were so satisfied with for so long. Then from this day on,
never spend one penny, instead you must invest it. Each time you buy somet hing,
be sure it is an investment. Purchase only that which will help you to make more
money. Keep in mind the fact that every cent you invest in anything will br ing
you many more in return. Always expect returns.
Before retiring at night, take seven sheets of ordinary writing paper upon
which you must write seven sentences on each. Each of the seven sentences must
differ but the set of seven sentences as put down on the first sheet of paper
must be exactly alike on all the remaining six sheets of paper. Number the
sentences from one to seven, memorize them, then without looking at the f i rst
sheet, if possible, write the same seven sentences on the second sheet and so on.
Use a pencil rather than a pen. When writing speak the words out so you c an hear
yourself read them as you write them. When you have the seven sheets of paper
filled on one side, place them under your pillow and sleep upon them, so t speak.
Repeat this every ,night adding the newly written seven sheets of paper to t hose
under your pillow. Do this for seven nights, then destroy the lot of for ty-nine
sheets of paper by tearing up and throwing to the follr winds but do not burn t hem.
Now you are ready to start accumulating them again under your pillow as you con-
tinue writing them each night until definite results follow. Example of sent ences
-
11
I must succeed. I will prosper. I am a success. I am prosperous, etc . 11
With this method you impress your subconscious through memorizing which is
done by sending suggestions to same over many nerve-pathways from the eyes , ears,
muscles of mouth and hands; The subconscious mind of yours attracts to you any-
thing you want through the Universal Mind.
Page 86
PART FIFTY-THREE
THINGS YOU SHOULD KNOW TO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL HYPNOTIST
.Something About the Eye Worth Knowing
A practical point of interest about the eye that very few business men know
is that human beings always look a little more toward the right than toward the
left. Well informed magicians utilize this point by doing their most difficult
tricks on the left hand side of the stage rather than on the right. In that way,
of course, they make it harder for you to detect them.
Were I in business, however, and had anything especially attractive to sell,
I should certainly 5pend some extra time in dressing the window on the right, or
the counter that would strike the right eye upon entering the store, so that the
customer's first glance would fall on something that appealed to him. And, by
this same token, something extra fine should be put on the left, so as to combat
the natural tendency to look toward the right only.
This particular point should be kept in mind by you when using some of the
many hypnotic methods given you in this book. Where the subject's attention is
to be held on some object for any length of time, the operator can do much in
preventing the subject's gaze from wandering if he will place object upon which
subject is to gaze, a little to subject's right. For this same reason, I often
tell the subject to look into my left eye as I give him the Hypnotic Ga.ze as
taught you elsewhere in this book.
Psychology of Colors and How .to Use Them to Advantage
Advertising men and color specialists, have, thru experiments with large
groups of men and women, established the color preferences of both sexes. Order
of colors is given below.
Note that Red and Blue rank first; then that color containing Red and Blue
follows which is purple, with Yellow and the colors of which it is part of, at
the end of the list.
This information will prove useful to anyone in business. It may be put to
practical use in preparing literature for either sex as for example: Blue paper
for men and Pink for women. A men's furnishing store front should be Blue, while
a dress or hat shop should be some color with plenty of Red in it as s. foundation.
Purple would be best used when it is to appeal to both sexes. Study the follow-
ing colors carefully.
Masculine Color Preference
1. - BLUE
2. - RED
3. PURPLE
4. - GREEN
5. - ORANGE
6. - YELLOW
How to Give Suggestions Properly
Feminine Color Preference
1. - RED
2. - PURPLE
3. BLUE
4. - GREEN
5 . - ORANGE
6. - YELLOW
Always use a tone of command as if you would force the subject to obey you.
The tone of command must suffer no disobedience. Stress every word in a dry im-
perative tone. There usually is no need to raise the voice to give positive sug-
gestions. Rather lower it. Be sure to repeat the suggestion over and over at
least three times to make it stick. You can change the wording as you repeat the
suggestion but have it mean the same thing.
How to Test Susceptibility of Subject
Make two blocks of wood, exactly equal in weight but one must be smaller in
size. If necessary, load the smaller one with lead to equalize the weight. Sub-
ject is told to determine which is the heavier block. If he says the smaller one
Page 87
is the heavier of the two, he is sus-
ceptible and may prove to be a fine sub-
ject. This type of subject believes
that a pound of lead is heavier than a
pound of feathers. If he is not sus-
ceptible, he will say that the blocks
weigh about equal.
How Fascination Is Done
The operator should take a standing
position in front ·of the subject who
also :Ls standing facing -him. The subject
is requested to place his hands, palms
down, upon those of the operator's whose
palms face upward, and to concentrate a
minute or two on pressing his palms
downward. The operator giv.es the sub-
ject the Hypnotic Gaze given you else-
where in this book, and also gives the
subject suggestions to the effect that
the subject's palms are firmly stuck to
his palms and that he cannot remove them
under any circumstances. By keeping up
a rapid fire of suggestions in the
proper tone of voice while the subject's
conscious mind is side-tracked by the
task of applying pressure, the subject
will soon be under your control and will
follow every movement you make, even to
imitating the expression on your face.
How to Quiet the Subject Preliminary
to Hypnosis
Have subject seated or lying down
comfortably and request him to close his
Charles Victor, a student o f
Dr. Lonk's, practicing on one of
his subjects.
eyes and slowly, in time with his breathing, to count to one hundred. By the
he finishes, his mind and body w:ill be so relaxed that any method of induc ing
nosis will work more rapidly. If you suggest to him and have him anticip ate
he will be sound asleep long before he reaches the count of one hundre d,
your return to his side a few minutes later will in most cases prove to you
this is an excellent hypnotic method calling for little effort •
.An Effective New System of Side-Tracking the Mind
time
hyp-
that
upon
that
As stated elsewhere in this book, one of the hypnogenic zones f or side-
tracking the conscious mind is located at the roots of the finger nails ; I have
found that by using ten ordinary wooden spring-type clothespins, one c l ipped to
the tip of each finger of a subject, so pressure is exerted on root of n a ils , the
subject's conscious mind is centered to this pressure. The spring. in the clo t hes-
pins should not be too strong so as not to be painful, but only firm. In order
to treat an individual for some ailment, you will find this method very u seful to
side-track the mind. It will prevent the conscious mind from wandering or doing
unnecessary reasoning that might interfere with suggestions passing to the sub-
conscious mind.
How to Test for Illusions
Suggest to the new subject to close his eyes and bring forth in his mind's
eye a scene of some landscape or building with which he is familiar. Su ggest to
him, "Now the scenery will become more clear. It is getting very clear to you.
You can now see it perfectly. Et Cetera." Later ask him to open his eyes and
tell you about the picture. This test is preparatory to the induction of i llu-
sions and will indicate to you beforehand how sensitive the subject is b e fore you
do any actual hypnotizing. A perfect description indicates a good subjec t .
Page 88
How to Cause a Subject In Lethargy to Repeat Every Word Said
By applying pressure over the epigastric region known as the solar plexus,
the subject will repeat every word that operator utters, providing subject is in
a deep hypnotic sleep known as lethargy. If subject does not respond at once,
prompt him a bit .
How to Hypnotize and Awaken Deaf People
By letting t he deaf subject see you put others to sleep and having them un-
derstand that by placing your thumbs upon their eyebrows and gently raising them
that they are to awaken, it becomes a simple task to handle this type of subject.
For those who are but partially deaf, suggesti ons can be made audible with the
aid of the ordinary stethoscope used by physicians for listening to the heart
beat. The subject in this case plays the doctor and wears the stethoscope while
the operator talks into the bell of same, In complete deafness, suggestions may
be wri tten down for subject to read, The written suggestions may be so elaborate
so as to cover the entire treatment, or suggesting that the subject wi ll go to
sleep at once, open his eyes when asleep and read, as well. as obey other written
suggestions.
How to Hypnotize by Telepathy·
Hypnotizing by telepathy is rare, yet, never the less a fact. The power of
projecting thought is one which every hypnoti s t should practice. It is the prin-
ciple and practical operation of the art of concentration. Visualize the sub-
ject 1 s face, or to help you at the start, use a photograph of the subject. Pic-
ture yourself as speaking into the subject's ear, saying - "You must sleep. Sleep
at once. Your eyelids are as heavy as lead and you cannot keep them open. Your
thoughts are becoming confused and you are obeying my commands of sleep. Sleep.
You have gone soundly to sleep. Sleep. Sleep. Soundly to sleep. Et cetera."
Do this at a time you know that the subject has nothing of great importance oc-
cupying his mind. Keep this up for ten minutes daily until you succeed. It is
better to work on several different subjects daily so as to succeed with at
least one at an early date which will inspire you to keep on practicing. Being
the most difficult method of hypnotizing, it naturally takes time to master.
The Hindoo Sleep and How You May Induce It
This method of inducing hypnosis is used by the Fakirs of India to hypnotize
a vast number of people at one time. It is this method they use to make their
audience believe they see what really is not so as in the Famous Rope Trick where
a rope is thrown into the air, becomes rigid, a small boy climbs up it and dis-
appears into the sky after which the rope drops, .minus the boy. All this is sug-
gested to the audience while under the Fakir's spell.
To practice this method, it is best to dress in a mysterious manner, using a
purple robe to produce the required air of mystery which is a great aid. Sit
tailor-fashion upon the floor before your subjects. Now commence to sway the
upper part of your body in.a rotary manner, without moving the body below the
hips. A little weird music should be played while keeping up the movement with
monotonous regularity. Fix your hypnotic gaze upon your subject. Do not say a
word. The soft, weird, monotonous music should come from a distance. Short 1 y,
the effect should become apparent and in an audience of many, you will be sur-
prised at the vast number that will succumb to this technic. When you have . suc-
ceeded in hypnotizing your subject or subjects in this Hindu Fashion, you may
arise and continue with experiments on your subjects as with any other method.
Fireside Mesmerism
Dr. 0. A. Carpenter of Maine sent in the following contribution which he says
was t.aken from a very old work of magic in his library of rare books on hypnotism .
and magic. This is a reprint of his.contribution published in The Practical Hyp-
notist Magazine of January 1931 edited and published by Dr. Lonk at that time.
"Take a gold ring -- the more massive the better, but your wife's wedding
ring' will do, if you are lucky to have one. Attach the ring to a silk thread a
foot long; fasten other end to nail-joint of right forefinger, and let the ring
Page 89
hang about half an inch above the surface of the table on which you rest y our el-
bow to steady your hand. Hold your finger horizontally, with the thumb thrown
back as far as possible from the rest of the hand. If there be nothing on the
table, the ring will soon become stationary. Now if you place some silv er coin
immediately below the ring, it will begin to oscillate to and fro. If you bring
your forefinger in contact with the thumb, the ring will now swing transversely.
Or, this transverse swing may be brought about if a lady take s hold of your dis-
engaged hand. When transverse motion is established well, let a gentleman take
hold of a lady operator's disengaged hand, and the ring will start to s wing in a
to and fro manner. These effects are produced by the animal magnetic currents
given off by the experimenter. The sex of an egg can be determined befor e it is
hatched if the ring be held over the egg. The ring will swing one way or the
other way for one or the other. If it does not settle down to one direction , but
swings in a circle, it usually indicates neither sex."
PART Fl FTY-FOUR
PHILOSOPHY OF MEDICINE
The physician who is not married to his art with his soul is a quack , an
adulterer and an imposter.
If :you wish to be a true physician, you must be able to do your own thinki ng,
and not merely employ the thoughts of others. What others may teach you may be
good enough to assist you in your search for knowledge, but you should b e ab l e to
th1nk for yourself, and not cling to the , coat - tail of any authority, no mat ter
how big sounding the title of the latter may be. A physician must be a good
philosopher; that is to say, he must dare to use his own reason and not c l i ng to
antiquated opinions and book authorities.
A physician who has no faith and consequently no spiritual power in him can
be nothing else but an ignoramus and quack, even if he has graduated in all the
medical colleges in the Wo~ld and knew by heart the contents of all the medi cal
books that were ~ver written by man.
A physician who does not possess wisdom will amount to little or not hing as
far as any benefit or usefulness to suffering humanity is concerned. Wisdom can-
not be found in books nor in any external things. He alone is in posses sion of
wisdom who is in possession of reason and knows how to use it without e rror or
doubt.
Today, the physicians have entirely deserted the path indicated by nature,
and built up an artificial system. Modern medicine is, to a great extent , looked
upon and employed as if it were a system by which man by his cunning and clever-
ness may cheat nature out of her dues and act against the laws of God with im-
punity, while, to many persons calling themselves physicians, it is merely a meth-
od of making money and gratifying their vanity.
There are five causes of diseases, so there are five different ways of re-
moving them, and therefore five classes of physicians:
1. Naturales; i.e., those who treat diseased conditions with opposite remedies
-~for instance, cold by warmth, dryness by moisture, etc., according to the ·
principle Contraria contrariis curantur. To this class belonged Avicenna, Galen,
etc. (Allopathy, Hydrotherapie, etc.)
2. Specifici -- Such as employ specific remedies, of which it is known that
they have certain affinities for certain morbid conditions. To this class be-
long the Empirics. (Homoeopathy.)
3. Characterales. The physicians of this class have the power to cure diseases
by employing their will power. (Magnetism, Hypnotism, Mesmerism.)
4. Spirituales. The followers of this system have the power to employ spiritu-
al forces in the same sense as a judge has power over a prisoner in the stocks,
because he is in possession of the keys. Such a physician was Hippocrates.
(Magic . )
Page 90
5. Fideles; i. e., those who cure by the power of Faith, such as Christ and the
apostles.
PART FIFTY-FIVE
HYPNOTISM, MEDICINE AND HEALTH
Once you get a suggestion over into the subconscious you at once set into
action the greatest healing force there is. To do good and help humanity you
need but confine your suggestions to that which is good for the subject.
Medical practice is not an exact science. That which is done today by the
medical man is no better than was done in the past. Some comfort and reassurance
is all that he brings. Very frequently that which he does beyond bringing com-
fort and reassurance kills the pati~nt. You do not learn of this. You are
assured that all was done that medical science and skill could do. The medical
man knows nothing apout the nature and effect of many poisons he introduces into
the human body. He will remove organs that have been implanted in the body for a
definite and useful purpose.
It must not be forgotten that it was the medical profession that drove
Mesmer into dishonored exile and a premature grave for the sole reason that he
healed the sick without the use of pills. The faculty ridiculed and ostracized
every medical man who dared to conduct an honest investigation of mesmeric phe-
nomena • .And now that the scientists of Europe and Amer·ica are compelled to admit
the therapeutic value of the science, they are insistant in demand that no one but
a physician shall be permitted to make experiments. It is perhaps natural and
right that treatment of disease by means of drugs should be restricted to those
who are educated in the proper use of drugs; but the employment of psychic powers
and remedies rests upon an entirely different footing. Their demand that hypno-
tism be reserved for their exclusive use rests not upon their knowledge of its
laws, but it is founded upon their willful ignorance of the fundamental principles
which underlie · the science. The medical profession with its great schools,
thousands of laboratories and countless of trained students has failed to dis-
cover the cause of human disease. Medical practice has no treatment to offer
that is not more or less injurious to the individual seeking help.
Clarence Darrow, noted criminal attorney, in his book, "The Right to Live"
writes --
"I know that the doctors, like everybody else, take themselves very serious-
ly. I know that the effort of the medical profession in the United States to
control the treatment of hum$n ailments is not due to love of human life; it is
due to its love of its job, which job it proposes to monopolize for itself. I
know that the doctors have been carrying on: a vigorous campaign against new
methods and schools because they want the business and insist that nobody shall
have a right to live or die without -their services. I know that doctors dose the
people with medicine which they do not believe in themselves. I know that
doctor's families use few drugs. I know that they have specifi~s to prevent one
taking almost any disease, yet not one of them can tell you how the prevention is
brought about.. I know that they would vaccinate people for smallpox, and there
is not one doctor that can explain, nor can he prove that it does prevent it.
And they are not content to vaccinate the people who come to them, but they ask
the State to pass laws to compel everybody to be vaccinated."
PART FIFTY-SIX
VIEWS ON HYPNOTISM
Hypnotism a Menace
In a popular magazine there appears each month an advertisement concerning
the "Science of Hypnotism." This advertisement states that the concern can teach
by mail the mysteries of hypnotism; teach how one may become master of people,
how to hypnotize by telephone; how to make subjects susceptible and how to per-
Page 91
form numerous other forms of mysterious phenomena.
It has occurred to me that such sciences should be thoroughly investigated.
to determine how many people in this country take up such practices. What kind
of a world would this be if each educated person tried to become master of his
acquaintance by occult and mysterious sciences?
It is known, of course, that neuropsychiatrists employ hypnotism, mental
telepathy, magnetic healing and other mysterious methods in treating p atients.
But to employ such practices in everyday life would soon make a bedlam out of
this world. There would be no such thing as sincerity or trustworthiness. Any
person educated in such science should be licensed by the State, and the number
should be limited to a small degree per capita. - J. H. R., Albany, N. Y .
Hypnotism Is Harmless
J. H. R., above, who appears in a state of fear lest hypnotism as taught by
mail create a race of masters of men, is making much ado about nothing. No one
can ever be made to do things while in a state of hypnosis that he would not do
in the wake state. Weak-minded or insane persons are not susceptible t o hypnotic
influence. No one can be hypnotized against his will. The general pub lic looks
upon hypnotism as something mysterious, when as a matter of fact it is a very
simple thing, anyone being able to hypnotize. The sensational, , mystic and :iiE-
nomenal appearing deeds of hypnotism exist only in fiction. Trilby, far instance,
is a scientific impossibility.
There isabsolutely no harm in submitting to hypnosis. The idea that fre-
quent submitting to hypnosis renders the subject a powerless tool of the hypno-
tist is absolutely erroneous. Criminals have imposed upon the ignorant by invok-
ing hyPnotism as a defense, but only misinformed people will accept such as a de-
fense. - Dr. R. H.
Hypnotism Viewed as Aid in Drug Cure
Hypnotism, formerly viewed as showman's trickery or vaguely supernatural is
coming to the fore as a valuable aid in medical cases, says Dr. R. E., psychology
instructor. "Long considered as one of the so-called 'black arts,' hypnotism has
taken its proper place in scientific research and experiment, 11
said Dr . R. E •
"During experiments here we have cured one hopeless case of stammering and one
case of nervous finger-nail biting. We believe that hypnotism is scheduled for
eventual wide use in curing drug and liquor addicts and other neurotics. "
PART FIFTY-SEVEN
ADVENTURES IN PSYCHIGISM
By
Dr. Charles Killer
I used to be a hard-shelled individual when it came to believing i n the
occult. I condemned everything that I had not proven to my own satisfaction.
Proving things to your own satisfaction is all right but condemning things which
you have not proved is irrational. Mind reading, mental telepathy, and r elated
arts were nothing but trickery to me. Since then, I have learned much.
In experiments in which only myself and unlearned laymen took part, I p r oved
to myself beyond a shadow of doubt that there is much beyond the r ecognized
senses. The subject was put into the psychic or clairvoyant stage of hypnosis.
She locatea lost objects, p1cked the best horses i n races in which she· d1d not
even know the entries. (The subject has never seen a horse race.) She saw
friends and relatives at a distance, heard conversations and the discussion of
plans, perfectly described objects she had never seen, read people ' s inmost
thoughts, and so on indefinitely.
Page 92
I had read statements similar
However, subjects and controls used,
truly occurred.
to the above but considered them
proved conclusively that these
ravings.
phenomena
It is quite true that these phenomena and also the lighter degrees of hypno-
tism can be faked, but it is the worst possible kind of logic to conclude that
because it can be faked that there is no such thing. Our friend, Mr. Blackstone,
magician, makes this grievous error in the May issue of Popular Science. He
simply succeeds in making himself ridiculous for the sake of some publicity. Of
course,. he contributes no new idea when he says these things ~ be faked.
I use hypnotism extensively in my practice and assure you that in many cases
i n which all other methods failed, hypnotism with proper suggestion proved suc-
cessful as a therapeutic agency. --- The moral of this, which may be taken to
heart by certain parties, is this, DON'T BE TOO SURE THAT THERE IS NOTHING BEYOND
THE END OF YOUR NOSE.
PART FIFTY-EIGHT
0 R I E N T A L M A G I C
0 R
Y 0 G I P H I L 0 S 0 P H Y
In an article such as this it will be impossible to cover all the work one
might find in a more elaborate course on Yogi Philosophy. That which this
article covers will prove enlightening to the student of hypnotism who is not ac-
quainted with the philosophy of the East and wishes to procure an idea of what it
is all aoout.
It is believed that the most important difference between Oriental Healing
and Occidental Healing is that in Oriental healing the Yogi appears to be able to
exert greater force or mental power and bacai.ise of this, often can produce results
after all Occidental methods have failed. The Yogi has been taught that all the
forces of the entire universe are at his beck and call and he depends upon these
forces to do the work of healing. He believes that he, as a healer, is merely an
instrument or channel through which these natural forces and energies flow from
the universe into the one seeking relief from some condition of un-health.
The Yogi keeps his mind free of earthly troubles and worries so he can be
free to concentrate, visualize and desire with sufficient strength to bring about
prompt and definite results. He becomes a master at sending and receiving tele-
pathic messages. He not ·only, can read your very thoughts but he can by way of
telepathic communication carry on a mental conversation with wild beasts of the
Asiatic jungles •. Because _
of his ability to send out powerful telepathic messa-
ges of health he becomes a grand success as a healer.
The true Yogi is usually so occupied with the task of self-development that
his services are not available either for public demonstration or for any finan-
cial gain. Every Hindu in India is not a Yogi. Those who demonstrate by walking
over hot coals, sleeping on a bed of sharp spikes and maiming themselves in some
way to· gain sympathy and so financial gain are a cheap imitation of the real
Yogi. · Such fakirs should not be confused with the real Yogi who does none of
these things but spends all his time in attempting to attain the higher stages of
Yoga. This he does by a certain type of breathing exercise, self control, me_
di-
tation and going into the silence.
Before the Yogi has reached the highest peak of his brotherhood he must pass
every test and go through many stages of development. So:rreof these stages are
known as Hatha Yoga, Bhakta Yoga, Raya Yoga, Karma Yoga and Gnani Yoga. The ob-
ject of each stage of development is to aid in liberating the mind from the body
of the Yogi student.
Page 93
Pranayama, which i s the control of breath through rhythmic breathing, produces
a form of autointoxication (increase of c arbon ic ac id in the system) wh ich soon
brings on an auto-hypnotic trance similar t o t hose stages of hypnosis brought on
by other means described in thi s b ook .
PART FIFTY-NINE
HYPNOTISM I N SURG ER Y
By Dr. Adol ph F. Lonk
(Reprint from june 1929 Issue Of Th e Occult Dt f es t Hafaztne.)
In every physician 1
s practice t here are daily opportunities to se hypno -
tism, yet he does not take advantage of them . Unfortunat eJ;y; i t is too often the
practice to employ repeated injections of morphi ne, f rom which dangerous begin-
ning almost every case of morphine habit is started . The proper method for the
physician to employ in all these cases, except where deli rium i s r aging, is hyp-
notism.
One finds very few medical books that even mention hypnotism, and only a f ew
of those that have anything at all to say about it do not tel l the reader how t o
practice it or where to obtain such informa t i on.
I wish that every physician and surge on in the l and fully under s t ood the
simplicity of hypnotism. No doubt, his training has been entirel y too material
and he is inclined to scoff at a means of treatment so extr eme l y simple and
bereft of mystery . The unfortunate rule of human interference in the di vine law
of cure has been to gauge the value of a remedy by its unpleas antness or its dif-
ficulty in applying. We estimate the value of a drug by its des t ructive effect
upon the tissues and its poisonous properties when administered in l arge doses .
We do not understand as yet that the simplest agencie s are the mighties t and that
the force of suggestion is the most powerful facto r i n de termining hum.an happi-
ness and health or misery and disease. Mind has always govern ed and mind will
always govern. Therefore, the law of cure that most di rec t ly rea ches the mind is
the most successful.
Had it not been for the discovery of chemical anaes theti cs such as chloro-
form, ether, ethylene, hypnotism would be use d as an anaest heti c i n a l l surgical
operations today. All of us who understand the grave danger t o human ife when
these chemical anaesthetics are inhaled, can readily appreciate t he value and
safety of anaesthesia produced by hypnotism. True, hypnotism take s more t ime,
but while under observation in the hospital, before t he operation , the pat ient
can be hypnotized several times to put him in the requi red lethargic s tate.
Those of us who find an operation absolute ly neces sary would pref e r to b e
hypnotized, rather than to have forced upon us some drug which may prove fatal ,
as often happens when the diagnostician has by chance overlooked s ome or ganic
lesion of the heart.
The production of lethargy or deep hypnosis in surgical operative work i s
absolutely necessary. This, in most cases, requires from four to six s itti ngs.
In some cases, such profound lethargy is produced that t h e patient will pay n o
attention whatever to the operation. In others , the patient may even s i t up and
himself assist in the operation, carrying out the direction s of the physicians
and surgeons, apparently watching the progr es s of t he ope r a tion with as much
interest as any attendant r
Upon awaking after the operati on , the patient does not feel any pain nor i s
he nauseated as is the case when drugs ar e used for anaesthes ia . Furthermore ,
there is no stage of excitement where the patient almost br e ak s the straps h old-
ing him upon the operating table, as sometimes happens when chemic al anae sthetics
are administered.
Page 94
PART SIXTY
HYPNOTISM PRODUCES VISIONS IN CRYSTAL - BALL
Some women have taken as much interest in hypnotism as have men. As in
nursing, the woman will make a far better nurse than will the man. It may be
this same reason that women can and do succeed in hypnotism. It ~s true that
very few women ever decide to demonstrate their ability upon the stage, but now
and then one woman will do so and make a grand success of the venture. Such an
example is my student Jenni Lea who has so kindly contributed the following arti-
le from which others may learn much.
"Although I had some professional experience with hypnotism -- both as a
demonstrator and as a nurse interested in suggestive therapy, your Private
Personal Course received first hand at Palatine, was of the greatest benefit to
me and possibly the following will be of interest to your future students.
"From knQwledge gained there, I have been able to build theories into actual
practice, and induce hypnosis into subjects previously avoided. I never used
pre-hypnotized or primed subjects and my demonstration begins with a short,
truthful lecture on hypnotism. At the same time, I remove the fear and distrust
of hypnosis by answering questions that usually run through the minds of the
average person. A mass hypnotic 'trial run' will always find the best subjects
for me which are then called up front for the real performance.
"As no set routine can be made for all types of
audiences, or subjects, my demonstration varies ac-
cording to 'their level' or rat~er the phenomena I
think they would be most interested in. At no time do
I use 'alapstick comedy' or ridiculous and humiliating
stunts. I do not forget that the subject is doing me
a favor and is making my program possible, and that it
would be coarse and crude to make fun of him in front
of his friends and neighbors. I strive to entertain
with a stunt similar to the following. Such h a s
brought me more comment, publicity and good will than
any •sensational' effect I could name.
"To begin I take the best of my picked subjects
and glance at the large carotid artery running along
the side of his neck which tells me by the rate of
movement, the degree of nervousness at the moment. I
proceed to quiet him with the assurance that he will
remember everything -- that he may awaken at any time
he so desires, and that nothing will be done against his wishes. I ask if he has
ever misplaced something that he has often wished where; or if he has forgotten
some friend that he would like to have recalled to mind, or if he has ever had a
pleasant experience that he would like to re-live, et cetera. After he has se-
lected the subject of his choice I proceed carefully to put him into a deep, deep
sleep.
"I test small muscle reaction first, then larger muscle, and then get an in-
vo,luntary action such as rotating one hand around the other, all the time working
for a deeper and deeper sleep. After each test I carefully remove that sugges~
tion before going on to the next test.
"I then tell my subject that he can speak, slowJy at first and then naturally.
I ask him how he feels, how deep asleep he is; I ask him if he is ready to talk
about the chosen subject. I then tell him that he will be able to open his eyes,
that he can see without waking when I tell him he can. I place a crystal ball in
his hand and notice that his hand stays where I put it. Now I tell him that when
I count to three he will open his eyes slowly and look into the crystal ball,
that he will see only the crystal ball and nothing else about him and that in the
ball he will see, in technicolor, the friend or situation he desires to see. · I
tell him to concentrate hard upon the subject. I help him by tel~ing him exactly
how the image will appear and look to him. (I have had this test done to me so
that I would know how it acts on one.) I then slowly count to three and make
suggestions according to the vision desired.
Page 95
"I have him describe that which he s e e s and
his statements will give you an idea of what sug-
gestions I am to follow up with. This i s a beau-
tiful test and the more intelligent your subj e ct,
the better the performance. I h ave had subj e cts
almost demand to keep on 1
seeing 1
i n the c r y stal,
or after waking them they want the test r epeated.
"Now I ask the subject to close his eyes and
I take away the crystal ball. I ask him to re st, to
get ready to awaken. I give him the usual sugges-
tions about feeling fine and say to him that when
he will count to ten he wi ll commence t o slowly
awaken as he counts and be fully awake feeling
just fine when he reaches the end of his c ount. I
start counting with him, one, two, three and then
let him go on to ten by himself.
"Unusually good subjects 1 go to town 1
on the
above stunt and it really creates audienc e inter-
est. Of course, the subject must be a good one to
do a good job. One bit of advice I migb t add is
that you go into the opening of the eyes very
gradually and · prepare him carefully as t o what he
may see and how it will look when he doe s see it
because the surprise at seeing a vision i n the
crystal ball may awaken him. I suggest that you
have this done to you or do it upon a clos e friend
with good descriptive powers until you know and
can tell the subject exactly what to expect .
"For entertainment purposes, never mention or answer medical questions even
if you know the answers. Leave this part of the hypnotic phenomen a to the
doctor, the psychiatrist and the hypno-therapist, and to other qualified p ersons
for technical purposes. Stay away from medicine in all its phases and you will
stay away from trouble.
"Study hard and well. Be overly cautious. Keep your performance c 1 e an.
Stick to facts. You will be successful. You will continue to be succe s sf ul for
you cannot be otherwise."
Hypnotically yours,
Jenni e Lea
(Hypnotist and Hypno-Therapist)"
PART SIXTY-ONE
HOW TO MAKE MONEY OUT OF HYPNOTISM
The science of hypnotism offers splendid opportunities to make money . For-
tunes are being made by those that know far less about -the science than y ou al-
ready know just from studying this book thus far.
You have already been told how to go about demonstrating hypnotism upon the
stage. This pays well and is worth your consideration.
Another method to make practical application of hypnotism is to speci alize in
breaking up bad habits such as nail-biting, stammering, stuttering, smoking,
liquor and the morphine habit. There are many medical institutions that offer a
cure for both the liquor habit and the morphine habit. You too can do as good
and better if you can successfully hypnotize the addict.
'If you already are
a license to practice
practice will enhance
called incurable cases
a graduate from some type of school of healing and possess
you will find that the application of hypnotism in your
your ability to relieve all manner of disease. The so-
of paralysis often respond excellently to suggesti on given
Page 96
under hypnosis. Where a patient has had
some form of paralysis for a long time
and had gone the rounds of all the doc-
tors in the neighborhood with no results,
you can readily appreciate how that pa-
tient will advertise you when you procure
definite results. You soon will have
people coming to you from far and near.
The public is learning more and more of
the uselessness and dangers of drugs,
serums and operations. Their demand is
for a safe and sane science of healing
based upon natural principles. It is up
to you to meet this demand.
PART SIXTY-TWO
PRACTICAL SUGGESTION
OR
HOW TO CONTROL OTHERS
Power of Suggestion
The power to draw people to you and
hold them spellbound by your magnetism
and make them obey your every wish is
suggestion.
Suggestion is one of the most potent
forces with which man is thrown in con-
tact. It influences everyone, and at all
times. Every man, woman and child is
constantly influenced by suggestion, or
is influencing someone else by suggestion.
KYSTO, the Hypnottst and
Kentaltst
Btanley Lorence, a Lonk Student
who put on btg shows tn hts day.
Now rettred from the road.
It is an omnipresent, all powerful force in the life
thoughts we think are nothing more than suggestions we
to others. Action is nothing but thought in material
gestion.
of every human being . . The
are giving to ourselves or
form and the result of sug-
Only a
fellow men.
vertisements
pect. ·
few people realize the extraordinary power they can have over their
Advertisers make it their business to know human nature. Their ad-
are made to appeal by suggesting to the s .
elf-interest of the pros-
Properly timed suggestion has landed million dollar orders for salesmen,
made great men greater, won great wars, and healed the sick. There is no greater
power on earth that we can use.
We persuade a!licontrol others by the power of suggestion whether we know it,
or not. However, an intelligent and willful application of suggestion for the
purpose of controlling others, will greatly increase our success in any undertak-
ing. Properly directed suggestion will overcome practically all opposition. It
is the foundation upon which to build your success.
No minister, doctor, lawyer, salesman or anyone else can succeed without
making practical application of suggestion. Since it proves to be so important a
subject, make up your mind now, that you will learn to make practical and intel-
ligent application of suggestion in your daily life. Only greater success can be
your reward.
The modern biological theory is · that man is an automaton and that each of
our actions is caused by some stimulus, either external or internal. Such being
the case, the man who should learn just how to apply the proper stimuli, could
compel all other men to do as he pleased and so become ruler of the world. That
stimuli will be found to be nothing more than properly directed suggestion.
It is not probable that you will become ruler of the world as a resultof
Page 97
reading these instructions. But i t is possibl e that you will learn to give
suggestions so as to control the thought and action of those about you and there-
by make them carry out your every wi sh.
Control of Others
Francis Bacon writes "If you would work on any man, you must either know
his nature and fashions, and so lead him; or his end·s, and s o per suade him; or
his weaknesses and disadvantages, and so awe him.; or those that have i nterest in
him, and so govern him. 11
Whatever the undertaking, have your campai gn mapped out beforehand . Become
familiar with every step of it . Permit no one t o l ear n what you expect to do or
say before the interview. By not knowing what you will s ay or do, others cannot
make any preparation to guard against your tact ics and so prevent your success.
A mayor, governor, senator or president i s such only bec ause he knows how to
control others. Through the f i ne ar t of ~uggesti on, he has or has had the polit-
ical situation under control well enough to i nsure his receiving enough votes to
elect him to the office which he holds . Through suggestion, he has c onvinced
enough citizens that he is the man of their choice.
The first principle of controlling others i s to l earn to say something that
pleases them in order to take them off their guard . An example of this i s demon-
strated by every good speaker or salesman who is endeavoring to control the
thoughts of others. He will please his audience before he makes his r eal ap-
pro·ach. He will look for a l.oop-hcil.e or make one by saying something that t ouches
upon personal or self-centered interest of the people . He will appr oach them
through their own point of view . He will use honeyed wo rds~ He knows that if he
can help the people sustain and uphold t heir ego, he t hen becomes thei r master
and they become his slaves .
Through suggestion, make the other person feel i mportant. This secr et alone
will be worth more to you if you put i t to pract ical use than any other knowledge
you might possess. It is the all-i mportant secret of controlling others . Every-
one is susceptible .
Suggestions that carry conviction will do thei r work regardless of whether
they are right or wrong, good or bad. No matter how absur d a suggestion may seem
at first, if repeatedly given to a person a suffi cient number of t imes , that
person will eventually believe it to be a truth and will act upon it. Repeated
suggestions are like dripping water which wears away the s t one of res istance.
Resistance is nothing more than independent reasoni ng which may or may not be
logical. Therefore, if you fail to control others with your first attempt at
suggestion, remember that your chances of success are greatly increased with each
and every attempt thereafter , for l i ke t he dr ipping water , each and every repeat-
ed suggestion given by you will do much toward over coming r esistance.
Mental Dominati on
If you can make people feel as you feel, think a s rrou think without seeming-
ly suggesting the fact , you are considered "magnetic. ' As already stated, sug-
gestions need not be verbal suggestions; you can well use suggestion in its many
varied forms without others suspecting that you are doi ng s o .
To control others, you must have perfect cont r ol over yourself at all times.
You must not allow fear or doubt t o enter your mind. Such thoughts are automat-
ically transmitted to those about you and decreas e your chances of success in any
undertaking . You should endeavor t o build up a personality that suggests
courage, confidence and success. Such qualities are contagious.
Cultivate a calm, masterful mood . Al ways receive exciting news calmly and
with little or no comment. This suggest s that you are not easily thrown off your
mental balance and you will be looked up to a s a l eader.
Learn to do but one thing at a t ime and to do that with all the power within
you. It is a lack of concentration of thought that is responsible f or much of
your failure to date.
Page 98
Thought is a force created by our minds. With a strong will power behind
that deadly Indian hug in which men wrestle with their eyes, where one such
battle lasts but a few moments but forever settles the entire matter, is thought.
It is said that Julius Caesar while a young officer was once captured by
pirates near the Islands of Rhodes and held. for ransom. His mental domination
over the pirates was so strong that he made them all his servants, causing them
to release him while at the same time he taunted them, saying that he would re-
turn and put them all to death. At a later date he carried out his promise.
Suggestion and the Mind
Th<JS6 that control, and those that are controlled, make up the two main
groups of people. As in the days of yore, so it is today. The weak grow weaker
and the strong grow stronger. The negative must surrender to the positive. The
-positive individual draws from the negative. "And from him that hath not, shall
be taken away even that which he hath." Be guided accordingly.
The control of others by you .depends upon your ability as a suggestionist.
The more you realize that each and every thought, word and act of yours repre-
sents a suggestion and influences those about you, either to your advantage or
disadvantage, the more effort you will make to control these suggestions of yours
so that the result will prove only advantageous to you and not otherwise.
Impressions are suggestions which man receives through his senses. They are
all stored up in the minute cells of his brain. These cells are all in relation
to one another, so that each impression is associated with those which have pre-
ceded it through the same avenue of sense. Stored up impressions or suggestions
remain inactive until some suggestion arouses them into activity by the associa-
tion which the suggestion calls up. The greater the activity of any group of
cells the more likely will such stored up impressions or suggestions of the cells
be found in our conscious minds. The three impor~ant ways in which such cells
may be aroused to activity is by suggestion from without; by suggestion from
within as voluntary or involuntary thoughts of individual; and lastly by conges-
tion of the brain due to disease or .drugs.
If we have a thought, ·say a bit of poetry or a musical air "running through
our heads," and we find it gives us no rest, we need but start humming something
else. By getting another group of cells stimulated to activity and getting the
mind completely absorbed with this new task, the formerly active cells that had
kept the musical air "running through our heads," now can rest.
And so, if it be your desire to change a man's line of thought to your way
of thinking, substitute this something else for his mind to act upon. A new
group of cells must be made active while those that had been active will automat-
ically be put to rest. New thoughts will "replace" the old ones if suggestions
are repeated often enough to stimulate a new group of cells to activity.
Rules for. Success
Others must be made to feel a sense of rest in your presence and not feel
nervous or fidgety. This can be possible only if you yourself are not nervous or
fidgety. Mannerisms, such as yawning or drumming with the fingers on a chair or
table should be overcome. Such characteristics suggest nervousness.
Your handshake should be given some attention. Looking the person pleasant-
ly between the eyes, grasp his hand firmly, well up around the back and palm .
After a quick warm pressure, draw your hand away, passing your fingers down his
palm and off at his fingertips. Avoid shaking the fingers. Suggest power.
Learn it.
Develop a piercing glance by which you may quickly size up those whom you
meet. The desired glance is one that may seem to go right through the subject
but there must be nothing offensive about it.
Be polite and listen attentively.
so as to make him feel uncomfortable.
Never interrupt nor stare at the person
Learn to keep secrets secret. Tell no one that which has been confidential-
Page 99
ly imparted to you. If you demonstrate that you can be trusted with secrets of
importance, you automatically convey the suggestion of confidence to ot hers and
they will trust you.
Be a man of mystery. Make it impossible for anyone to penetrate t he depths
of your thought. Permit no one to gauge you. Always leave your acquaint ances in
the dark concerning your attributes and opinions.
Convey the impression that you are a man who knows what he wants and knows
that he will get it. Be in no hurry.
Make it your business to develop every mental habit that will help you to
succeed in controlling others through suggestion, and discard every ment al habit
that would tend to destroy this power.
Learn to smile. A genuine and sincere smile speaks more than words. It
suggests pleasant relationship and optimism. And who is there that does no t pre-
fer to associate with such an individual?
Suggestions should always be given in a very positive way. Do not ask a
person if he will do this or that. Instead, suggest that it i s the t hing that
he really wants to do.
Suggestions that excite a person's mental opposition should be avoided be-
cause they put a person on his guard. This will cause him to make ever y ef fort
to refuse to accept and carry out any of your future suggestions.
Make itJ'Qur business to look for good qualities in people. There are good
qualities in everybne. Only by doing so can you convey the suggestion of sincere
interest in people.
Avoid criticizing a man to his wife, a wife to her husband, a par ent to a
child or a child to a parent, or for that matter, anybody to anybody else. By
doing so, you can only suggest ·that you criticize everyone as their turn comes.
By living up to all your promises, you suggest honesty and no one will hesi-
tate to extend credit to you if needed.
When discussing social, business, political or religious matters, be sure to
make it your business to know with whom you are conversing at all times . A mis-
take on your part in this respect may cause you to invite antagonism, envy and
hatred.
Learn to use tact and strategy. Become a Clarence Darrow. Know when to
assume a plaintive, appealing voice, as well as the precise moment to adopt an
imperative, commanding tone; be capable of portraying in turn anger, grief, or
joy; be a keen judge of character and be able to discern the weaknesses and f ail-
ings of the individual whom you wish to control. If he is susceptible t o compli-
ments, pay him compliments; if his chief quality is gratitude, show him kindne3s;
if he prides himself on his generosity and good-fellowship, do not refu se kind-
ness when extended. Be a master suggestionist, master of yourself and master of
others.
Endeavor to keep in the best of health at all times. People who bubble over
with radiant health make the best suggestionists and leaders providing all oth:lr
things are equal. On the other hand, those people who are run down in health and
always ailing, make extremely poor suggestionists. Instead, they make better
subjects for the suggestionist. Healthy people are positive. Sickly people are
negative. Be guided accordingly.
PART SIXTY-THREE
BURIED ALIVEI
Will you be buried before you are really dead? The complex phenomena con-
nected with death and other forms of suspended animation cannot fail to appeal
. to thinking minds. Untold numbers of people -- perhaps our own loved ones --
might be prematurely buried. When such cases are discovered -- which i s the ex-
Page 100
ception it sends a .thrill of horror through the
community but the lesson it teaches seems unheeded --
and today the body is hardly cold before the under-
taker assumes his task and the body consigned to its
last earthly resting-place. How to prevent this in-
creasing evil the greatest of all tragedies is
told here by the author.
The author hereby wishes to thank Dr. Joe Shelby
Riley for the special permission granted him to re-
print and incorporate into this chapter case histo-
ries from his most remarkable book, "Conquering Units."
SUSPENDED ANIMATION or DEATH TRANCE
The phenomena connected with trance and other
Dr. Lonk asks, forms of apparent death cannot fail to appeal to won-
"Wi l l you be buri e d alive?'' der-loving minds. Now and then, a case of premature
burial sends a thrill of horror through the community,
but the lesson that it teaches, that less haste should be manifested in commit-
t .i..ng deceased persons to their silent homes, does not seem to be heeded, and at
pre sent the body is hardly cold before the undertaker is called on to perform his
tas k.
An eminent professor most earnestly and solemnly enjoined his medical stu-
dents never presume to decide positively that any person is dead until that in-
fallible evidence, mortification, appears, for there have been a vast number of
cas es where all ordinary tokens of death failed to tell the reality, and vitality ·
was developed into restorative action, with life continuing for years after.
In ancient times, the Greeks and Romans took warning from similar occur-
rences, and prohibited the early burial of their dead. The first recorded in-
stance of recovery to life of an individual about to be buried was that of a
woman in Agrigentum, in ancient Greece, whose funeral was arrested by Empedoceles,
a ma:n of great medical skill. :rerestored her to life, and she lived for many
years after. Later a law was passed forbidding interment of deceased persons un-
til the elapse of three days, during which time, if animation were simply sus-
pended, precautions were taken to restore it, often with satisfactory results.
In Rome, at the time of Pompeii, a physician detected signs of·life in a
person on a funeral pyre which had already been lighted and was burning furiously.
However, the flames were extingui-shed, and the individual resuscitated.
~
Another Roman by the name of Aviola was less fortunate. Having fallen into
a lethargic fit, he was taken for dead and placed upon the lighted pyre. He was
revived by the heat and attempted to arise, but was killed by the flames before
the spectators could remove him.
Lamia, the praetor, met a similar fate, while Tubero, who had formerly been
praetor, was saved by signs of life which were accidentally discovered as he was
being laid upon the pyre.
There are many cases recorded by physicians, of the apparently dead haVlng
been restored to life.
Some twenty years or more ago, my sister was dying. Our family doctor, who
was. also somewhat of a psychologist, was called at once, but failing to locate
him immediately, my father called another doctor. After a few minutes this doc-
tor pronounced my sister dead. The undertaker was notified and other plans for
her burial were made. Our family doctor, who had not learned of my sister's
death, not having received my father's second message, called late that evening.
He insisted upon making several tests upon my dead sister. · He b .athed her. in hot
water, whispered something into her ear at intervals (no doubt suggestions, as
the subconscious mind can pick them up and act upon them even though the con-.
scious mind is blank), and finally restored her to life. . She recovered rapidly, ·
and today is a high school teacher in Chicago and the mother of three healthy
Page 101
children. Had the undertaker arrived that evening before our family doc tor, I
feel certain the story would have ended differently.
As I write this, a baby was pronounced dead and the doctor made out a de ath
certificate. The undertaker who came to pick up the body called attention to the
fact that the body was quite warm and that he believed it might still h ave life
in it. The doctor resented the undertaker's remark and insisted the baby is dead
and to take it away. When the undertaker brought the baby to his own p lace of
business, he thought he saw more life in the 1 dead1
baby and so applied hot wa ter
bottles to it. Soon the baby revived and was promptly delivered to a hospita l
where it lived only a short time. It is possible that the baby might h ave c on-
tinued to live had not the doctor pronounced it dead and so refused it any more
at t (·rntion. There is nothing spectacular about this case only that it happened
now in 1947 and right in a neighboring town from where this is being writt en .
Bruhier, a medical writer, has collected one hundred and eighty cases in
which persons still living were treated as dead. Fifty-two of these were actu al-
ly buried alive, four were opened before death, fifty-three ·revived spontane ou sly
after being placed in their coffins, and seventy-two others were supposed to have
died when they did not.
In Greece, at the present time, the last journey follows quickly upon death.
The day after the person is supposed to have died, the white-robed pries t s and
choristers may be seen winding along the road toward the church where the corp se,
dressed as in life, and with face downward , lies before the altar until t he mo-
ment arrives when it must be committed to the earth. The last farewell i s gi ven
in the church.
Wnat of that terrible last journey in the cold earth, where the dying Esqui-
mau is closed up in his snow house and left to die alone, or of the African tribe
who bury their hopelessly sick before death, hurrying them out of the wor ld alto-
gether. This is called an affectionate leave of their relatives, and t he p er-
formance of this burying is carried out with the consent of the person mo s t c on-
concerned.
Mr. Vett Case, of Sandy Creek, in western New York, was attacked by scar let
fever. Upon the fourth of ~anuary, the physician pronounced him dead. Two days
later he was buried in Sandy Creek Cemetery. A few weeks later his fat her was
taken ill and also died. The ground was broken for a new grave beside t he grave
of the son, when it was found necessary to remove the coffin already there, for
some reason or other. A terrible sight greeted the eyes of the spectators. The
glass front of the coffin · was shattered to pieces, the bottom knocked out, and
the sides sprung. Upon removing the lid, the body of Vett Case was found rest ing
on its face, the arms bent at the sides and the fingers tightly clenched, holding
bunches of hair that he had torn out in his agony.
Mrs. Lida M. Childs gives an instance of an aged friend of hers who s e s t ory
she had from her own lips. To all appearances she was lifeless, no impress ion
could be made on her rigid form, sight, hearing, touch, taste or smell -- all
seemed dead, yet she revived. Afterwards, she told all her thoughts and f eelings
while she was in that strange state, told all that had been done in that room,
all that had been said. She said that she seemed to be standing by her own body,
out of it, witnessing as a spectator all that the friends and physicians were
doing to resuscitate her.
A most remarkable case on record of trance which is perfectly authent ic, was
that of William Tennent, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Freeho d. New
Jersey, where he died a hundred years ago. We learn from the memoirs of h is life
that after a regular course of study in theology, Mr. Tennent was prepar n g f or
his examination by the Presbytery, as a candidate for the ministry of the Gospel.
His intense application affected his health and brought on a pain in his breast
and a slight hectic fever. He soon became emaciated, and at length was like a
living skeleton. Life was threatened. He was attended by a physician, a young
man attached to him by the strictest and warmest friendship, but he grew worse
and worse until little hope of life was left. In this situation, his spir its
failed him, and he began to entertain doubts of his final happiness.
One morning he was conversing with his brother in Latin, on the state of his
soul, when he fainted away and died. After the usual time he was laid out on a
board, according to the common practice of the country, and the neighborhood was
Page 102
invited to attend his funeral. The next evening, his physician and friend re-
turned from a ride in the country, and was affected beyond measure at the news of
his death. He could not be persuaded that it was certain, and on being told that
one of the persons who assisted in laying out the body thought he had observed a
little tremor of the flesh under the arm, although the body was cold and stiff ,
he endeavored to ascertain the facts. He at first put his own hand into warm
water to make it as sensi.tive as possible, and then felt under the arm, then the
heart, and affirmed that he felt an unusual warmth, though no one else could dis-
cover it. He had the body placed in a warm bed, and insisted that the people who
h a d been invited to the funeral be requested not to attend. The brother objected
to this as absurd, the eyes being sunken, the lips discolored, and the whole body
stiff and cold. However, the doctor finally prevailed, and all possible means
were us e d to discover symptoms of returning life. But the third day arrived and
no hopes were entertained of success, except by the doctor, who never left the
body night or day . The people were again invited and assembled to attend the
funeral. The doctor still objected, but at last confirmed his request for one
hour's delay. He had discovered that the tongue was much swollen, threatening to
crack, and he was endeavoring to soften it by ointment put on with a feathe~ when
the brother came in about the expiration of the last period of delay. Mis-
taking what t he doctor was doing for an attempt to feed him he manifested some
resentment, and said in a spirited tone that it was shameful to be feeding a
life l e ss corpse, and insisted that the funeral immediately proceed. At this
crltic a l moment, the body, to the great alarm and astonishment of all present,
opened its eyes, gave a dreadful groan, and sank again into apparent death. This
put an end to all thought of burying him, and every effort was again made in
hopes of bringing about a speedy recovery. In about an hour the eyes reopened, a
heavy groan proceeded from the body, and again all appearances of animation van-
ished. In another hour, life seemed to return with more power, and a complete
revival took place, to the great joy of the family and . friends and the no small
astonishment and conviction of the very many who had been ridiculing the idea of
restoring a dead body to life. Mr. Tennent continued in so weak and low a state
for six weeks that grave doubts were entertained of his final recovery. However,
after that period, he recovered much faster, but it was about twelve months be-
fore he was -completely restored. One Sunday afternoon he was able to walk about
the room and take notice of what passed around him. His sister, who had stayed
home from church to attend him, was reading the Bible, when he noticed it, and
asked her what she had in her hand. She answered that she was reading the Bible.
He replie d, "What is the Bible? I do not know what you mean." This affected the
sister so much that she burst into tears, and informed him that he was once well
acquainted with it. Reporting this to her brother when he returned, Mr. Tennent
was found on examination to be totally ignorant of his life previous to his sick-
ness. He could not read a single word, neither did he seem to have any idea of
what it meant. As soon as he became capable of giving attention, he was taught
to read and write as children are usually taught, and afterwards he began to
learn the Latin language under the tutorship of his brother. One day as . he was
r eciting a lesson in Cornelius Nepos, he suddenly started and clasped his hands
t o his head as if something had hurt him, and made a pause. His brother asked
him what the matter was; Mr. Tennent said ne felt a sudden shock on his head, and
it now seemed to him as if he had read that book before. By degrees his recol-
lection was restored, and he could speak Latinas fluently as before his sickness.
his memory revived so . completely that he gained perfect knowledge of the past
transactions of his life, just as if no difficulty had occurred. This case ex-
cited much interest and comment at the time, and afforded not only serious matter
for contemplation by the devout Christian, but furnished a subject for deep in-
vestigation, and learned inquiry to the philosopher and anatomist •
. .
It is astonishing to find how many authenticated instances there are of per-
sons erroneously reported dead. A man is still alive in Boston today who was
supposed to be dead, when on board a ship returning home and preparations were
being made for his burial in the deep. He knew everything that was going on
around him, but could make no sign of life. The preparation went on. He was actu-
ally lowered over the side of the ship, when he felt that he must make the last
desperate effort to make the mind act in the body. Apd he succeeded in lifting
his hand. The motion arrested attention. He was taken in the ship and restored
to health again. Marvelous is the fact of this knowledge of outward things, when
the mind seems locked up and not a single sense reports the news of the outward
world.
These cases happen far more often than is imagined. When any apprehension
Page 103
arises, medical men and others are on the alert to assure the public that it is
all exaggerated and that in the present advanced state of science such things can
hardly occur.
Does each physician make all tests for signs of death? He does not , but
should.
Burying Alive a Frequent Peril
Note. It is said that at the public mortuary of Paris about one in every
three hundred persons supposed to be dead actually comes to l ife again . At any
rate, some hundreds must be buried alive in the larger cities of America, for few
of the precautions are taken that are required in several European countries.
The fact is that medical certificates are often perfunctory and given simply
to meet the requirements of the law. As many are consigned to the madho s e with-
out judge or jury almost, so others are placed in the grave upon the word of a
physician, who has not made a cri tical examination of the case. If t he under-
takers were to tell the facts that have come under their eyes, the blood would
run cold with horror.
Death which is actually instantaneous or sudden seldom occurs except in
cases of violence. Life withdraws from the body gradually; death come s to its
place in one part after another, creeping through the tissues, and sometimes de-
fying a ll test s to prove that it is there. "Under nature's laws," says Dr . A. B.
Granvi lle , "there i s no such thing as sudden death. There has been in e very case
a preparation, more or less antecedent to the occurrence, which must inevitably
have l ed to it.
The subject, I may remark, has engaged my attention for many years . I have
been both .astonished and even discouraged at the difficulty of arousing public
attention to it. In 1870, when I was president of the New York Medic al Society,
I took occasion at the annual meeting in the capitol of the State at Albany to
discuss this subject in my address. I was heard in silenc e. Some days after -
wards I p r epared the draft of a statute requiring greater certainty of death be-
fore permitting the interment of a body. My friend, Mr. A. X. Parker, of St.
Lawrence County, then a s enator, introduced it for me in the Senate of the State,
but told me that it stood no chance with the Judiciary Committee. His prediction
proved true; it slept the sleep of legislative death.
Those, however , who seem most ready to put public anxiety to slee p in this
matter are medical men. Few months pass without some article in a newspaper to
lull apprehension in regard to the danger of being buried alive . If a l arm is
raise d, some medical hypnotizer is r eady to tell the public that there is no oc-
· casion for a l arm; that medi cal science is so thorough, that such a thing is well-
nigh impossibl e . Like the commander of his majesty's ship Pinafore, s uch men are
ready on the instant t o affirm that burying alive never happens; and when the
"never
11
is ques t ioned they attempt to soothe us by saying, "Hardly ever . "
Physicians are often not philosophers, and it is by no means wonderful that
sometimes they are not skillful in relation to the phenomena incident to the wan-
ing of life. The medical art i~ not so much the accumulated wisdom and experi-
ences of ages and centuries as the exploiting of the most recent notions . We do
well to obtain our conclusions from a wider field and a higher inspirat ion. The
matter now under discussion is of too much importance to everyone t o be dismissed
Without absolute assurance. We do not wish our anxiety to be soothed, unles s the
cause is removed.
I have often been told that the modern practice of embalming made death cer-
tain. I admit it; but those who are too poor to pay for this funeral luxury must
yet take the chances in the old-fashioned way. There is no doubt, however , that
the number annually put to death by the embalmers is sufficiently large to demand
attention. An investigator of this subject in New York has openly declared his
belief that a considerable number of human beings are annually killed i n America
by the embalming process.
The instruction given in medical institutions in relati on to this matter has
been culpably insufficient. In our own country the ordinary practitioner, when
he follows the traditions and practice of leading members of his profess ion, con-
Page 104
,._
siders himself exonerated from blame in such matters. He has not the time, the
opportunity, to study abnormal phenomena, like trance and catalepsy; and so se-'
pulture of living persons is likely to go on without check under his sanction.
Ye t the h abits and manners of the people of our time are such as to require
anxious precaution and carefulness. The number actually buried alive, in the
judgment of obse rvers, including those whose business it is to conduct interments,
i s gr e at enough to justif y alarm. Especially is this the case at extraordinary
p e riods of epidemic visitation. But under more usual conditions, those of habit-
u a lly overtaxing the brain and nervous system, overworking generally, habitual
u se of tobac co and oth er sedati ve s, excessive stimula tion and excitement, sexual
ab erration, anaesthe sia, and other abnormalities, the occurring of sudden death,
or rather of death which is only apparent, must consequently be frequent, and re-
quire e ver y p r e c auti on against peril which can be devised. Before burial in such
case s there should b e detention in a mortuary till death was certain.
Common humanity pleads for this. Human life may appear to come to a stop in
many c a ses, and no one can say that if time is allowed for this it will not go on
again. This even t he most learned in medicine cannot explain away or deny. "One
c annot be too car eful in deciding as to life or death," says Hufeland, "and I al-
ways a dvise a de lay of the fune r al as long as possible, .so as to make all ce.rtain
as to death. No wonder when those who are buried alive and who undergo inde-
scribable t orture , condemn those who have been dearest to them in life. They
will have t o under go slow suffocation in furious despair while scratching their
fl e sh to piece s , biting their tongues and smashing their heads against the narrow
hou ses t h a t c onfine them, and calling to their best friends and cursing them as
murde r ers. The dead should not be buried be fore the fourth day; we even have ex-
ampl es t hat prove that eight days or a fortnight is too soon, as they have been
revivals as late as tha t. "I say," he conti nues, "everyone should respec"G those
who onl y s eem to be de ad . They. should be treated gently and kept in a warm bed
for thirty -six hours . 11
·
It would seem that this was a legitimate field for legislative a.ction. . In
· the p eriod, howe ver, that must ensue before this will be had, those who are awake
t o the subj ect should take the matter in hand. Volunteer co-operative effort to
ar ous e public s entiment and to prevent ~asty interments can bring the desired ~e­
sult s about.
A body should b e critically examined by an expert before its interment is
permi tt e d. Thos e who have charg e of funerals should be required to ascertain,
befor e deal ing with the r emains, that death has occurred beyond a doubt. . The
thought of suf f ocation in .a coff in is more t errible than that of torture on the
r a ck or burning a t the stake. The fearful despair, however short the period, is
too full of horror to contemplate with calmness. Carelessness in this matter
c annot be innocent; even i gnorance i n respect to it is closely akin to crime.
Our sorrowing is a mockery, our tears little better than hypocrisy, when we ne-
gl ect p recautions against a f a t e so terrible a fate to which every one of us
i s more or l e ss l i able ." -- By Alexander Wilder, M. D., Chicago Tribune, Septem-
b er 7, 1902 .
So that you wi ll not have to depend on the word of someone who takes little
i n tere st in such matte rs as this, I give you various tests that you may carry out
for y our own s a tisfaction. These wi ll be found at the end of this article.
A person or animal in suspended animation will breath hardly at all. His
t emperature will drop down to b e low 40 degrees and because of no visible circula-
tion of blood in t he extremitie s and very sluggish circulation of blood through
t he n erve centers , eye s, ears, n ose and he art, he can easily be mistaken for dead.
This non-circula tion anIT c i rcula tion of the blood has been proven by injecting
me thy lene blue or some other har ml ess dye into t he blood.
Hiber nating animals s uch a s bears, wood- chucks , ground squirrels and hedge-
hogs go voluntar i l y into · suspende d animation. These animals will prepare for
s u ch by f a tteni ng up and s ome will go so far as to pla ce a supply of food near
them s hould they awaken becaus e of hunger . I n this way some will sleep through-
o ut the entire wi n t er which may last f or more than s ix months in some localities
b efore snow mel t s and food a gai n i s p l entiful.
Susp ende d animation in a human being diffe rs from hibernation in an animal
on ly that in most case s the indi vi dua l did not voluntarily go into that state.
Page 105
He did not prepare for it by fattening himself up because winter was approaching.
In his case it may have been some toxic condition within the blood-stream which,
acting upon certain vital centers,. suddenly brought on suspension of visible life
in his body. This toxic condition may have been due to some inflammatory condi-
tion of the brain as in encephalitis, some infection or perhaps even d e to the
medicaments prescribed by the physician on the case. Experiments on hibernating
and non-hibernating animals have shown that if certain drugs are injected into
their bodies and they are kept cool, they will soon pass into a suspended anima-
tion state for which, if they had prepared themselves and had gone into it volun-
tarily, would be termed hibernation. The drugs that bring on suspended animation
are common and daily prescribed by the average physician. These are Insulin and
Magnesium.
Definitions
Coma
A condition of profound insensibility and is due largely to a changed condi-
tion of the brain.
Syncope.
A state of suspended animation due to a sudden failure of the action of the
heart.
Asphyxia and Atnoea
Asphyxiapulselessness) and Apnoea (breathlessness) usually mean the condi-
tion that follows interference with respiration.
Death Tests
Circulatory Test
By binding a cord about the finger of the suspected individual, the finger
will become swollen in a few minutes if life exists. By burning the ski n wi th a
hot iron so as to raise a blister, then upon opening it, if found to contain a
liquid, life still exists, but if empty it is a sign of death. By ho ding the
suspect 1 s hand before a strong light, if a red glow is found on looking 11
through11
the hand, life exists, but if a dead appearance, then death.
Respiratory Test
By placing a saucer of mercury (quick silver) upon the chest of the suspect,
you can readily see by the delicate vibrations of the mercury whether suspect is
breathing or not. By placing an ice cold mirror close to the mouth and nostrils
of suspect, moisture will condense upon the mirror if life exists. Condensation
of moisture on the ice cold mirror indicates breathing. A bit of cotton-wool on
the lip or nostrils may indicate feeble breathing if it blows away.
Miscellaneous Tests
Loss of sensation in the cornea of the eye is a good sign of death, although
sensation in the cornea seems to occur in some cases after death. Corneal trans-
parency occurs rapidly after death and may even be present before death. After
death there is a loss of corneal tonicity with wrinkling and changes in t he shape
of the eye-ball. There is often a rise of temperature in the body :immediately
following death. It may be quite apparent or very slight. When putrefaction oc-
curs, it is an absolute sign of death. It does not appear until the cessation of
rigor mortis which varies from a few hours to three or four days, depending upon
the cause of death and surrounding temperature. Putrefaction first starts ex-
ternally about the middle of the abdomen and extends outward in all directions.
Another place to look for it is internally in the lining membrane of the larynx
and trachea (throat).
There are tests of a chemical nature that require greater knowledge of such
matters to carry out. These would not prove practical for the average person and
he hardly would have need for such. For this reason they are not given here.
Page 106
PART SIXTY-FOUR
C 0 N T R 0 L L I N G D E A T H
If the efforts to introduce a new life into this world is right and commend-
able, why is it thought wrong or sacrilegious to strive to keep or prolong it
here? Personally, therefore, I think we should all boldly make experiments with
death. Death can and ha's been defeated in many instances, Some of such cases
have already been cited in a previous chapter. The following will give you some
practical information that may be applied toward making experiments for the con-
trol of death.
The blood pressure of a person can be controlled by the power of suggestion.
Hypertension or high blood pressure can produce death almost as readily as hypo-
tension or low blood pressure. High blood pressure generally produces death by
causing a rupture in the central cerebral artery of the brain if this artery is
brittle as is the case in arteriosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. Very
low blood pressure or a sudden drop in blood pressure can and often does end in
death, A profound dread of anything may cause a sudden and. serious drop of tl).e
blood pressure. Dread, apprehension .or great fear is easily produced in the mind
of a receptive individual by direct or indirect suggestions.
When an individual is supposedly dying and the helpless physician declares
the end can no longer be averted, there immediately prevails a killing psychic
atmosphere of hopelessness. This atmosphere of doom soon kills the patient in
most instances.
If, instead of permitting such a negative undesirable atmosphere to surround
the "dying" person, a positive and life giving psychic atmosphere of hope must be
substituted if life is to be prolonged.
. An Oriental Method of bringing the dead back to life is here given. As you
sit on a chair with your knees apart, have the "dead" .person propped against the
front of the chair. Place your thumbs into the clavicular fossa (the triangular
area of soft tissue on top of the shoulder close to the ne·ck) and press firmly on
the vagus and sympathetic nerve centers located there. With the fingers of each
hand resting over the upper part of the chest and pointing downwards give a firm
and vigorous massage of the large pectoralis major muscle. Now grasp this pecto-
ralis major muscle firmly in each hand and pull upward and thereby expand the
chest, and release ·in two or three seconds, then repeat. It is necessary to keep
this up for about thirty seconds. Now clench your fists and for about ten sec-
onds beat a vigorous tatoo on the middle dorsal spine (between the shoulder
blades). Now for another ten seconds beat another tatoo on the. lower cervical
vertebra at the lower part of the back of neck), at the same time in a very loud
voice, yell into the patient's left ear, "OYE, OYE, OYE. 11
This whole procedure
may be repeated any number of times if there appears reason to continue repeating
same. In poisoning or drowning, it will be necessary to try to rid the body of
excess poison from the stomach or water f~om the lungs before this system of
bringing the dead back to life can be considered.
PART SIXTY-FI VE
MU MMY J U I C E
Egyptian Mummy .was used in medicine as a therapeutic agent down to the end
of the eighteenth century . Proof of this will be found in the first edition of
the Encyclopedia Brittanica 1768. This is what it said:
Mummy Juice of the Eighteenth Century
"We have two different substances preserved for medicinal use under the name
of mummy, though both in some degree of the same origin. The one is the dried
and preserved flesh of human bodies, embalmed with myrrh ahd spices; the other is
the liquor running from such mummies, when newly prepared, or when affected by
great heat or damps. The latter is sometimes in a liquid, sometimes of a solid
form, as it is preserved in vials well stopped, or suffered to dry and harden in
Page 107
the air. The first kind of mummy is brought to us in large pieces, of a lax and
friable texture, light and spongy, of a blackish brown color, and often damp and
clammy on the surface; it is of a strong but disagreeable smell. The second kind
of mummy, in its liquid state, is thick, opaque, and viscous fluid, of a blackish
color, but not disagreeable smell. In its i ndurated state, it is a dry solid
substance, of a fine shining black color, and close texture, easily broken, and
of a good smell; very inflammable, ~nd yielding a scent of myrrh and aromatic in-
gredients while burning. This, if we cannot be content without medicines from
our own bodies, ought to be the mummy used in the shops; but it is very scarce
and dear; while the other is so cheap, that it will always be most in use.
11
All these kinds of mummy are brought from Egypt. But we are not to imagine
that anybody breaks up the real Egyptian mummies to sell them in pieces to the
druggists, as they may make a much better market of them in Europe whole , ~he n
they can contrive to get them. What our druggists are supplied with , is the
flesh of executed criminals, or of any other bodies the Jews can get, who fill
them with the common bitumen so plentiful in that part of the world; and adding a
little· aloes, and two or three other cheap ingredients, send them to be baked in
an oven, till the juices are exhaled, and the embalming matter has penetrated so
thoroughly that the flesh will keep and bear transportation into Europe. Mummy
has been esteemed resolvent and balsamic; but whatever virtues have been attribu-
ted to it, seem to be such as depend more upon the ingredients used in preparing
the flesh, than in the flesh itself; and it would surely be better to give those
ingredients without so sh<?cking an addition."
Mummy Juice of the Twentieth Century
Today we still have our Mummy Juice, only we call· it Serum, Toxin-Antitoxin,
Vaccine and other nice names. Dr. George Starr White, M.D., in his Thumb-Nail
Edition, says, "The best vaccine on the market today, I am told is from calves
that have been infected from the sores of one who has died from smallp x. I am
told that this 'corpse pus' makes better sores on the inoculated calf and that
there is 'more reaction' from such vaccines. If the smallpox victim also had
syphilis, or any other loathsome scourge, that seed is planted in the animal in-
jected or inoculated with his pus. The pus from the animal infected by such pus,
carries the original pollution with it.
"Smallpox vaccine is made from mixed animal pus from putrid sores. Syphilis
follows vaccination as night follows day. . Good blood and clean surroundings are
the best protection.
"The··, so-called 1 ethics 1 of modern medical doctors is on the same order as
the secret oaths of secret orders, and they dare not deviate from what they have
been told they must do, for fear something terrible will happen to them at the
hands of their brethren.
"It is well known by all, who look up the honest records, that vaccination
_has killed more -t-han smallpox ever has. The parents must learn to look out for
their own children and to never trust them in the hands of any doctor who uses
serums or vaccines. Keep your child's blood pure and never allow it to be pollu-
ted by any fanatic."
Quoting from the Chattanooga Times of March 4th, 1914. "Calf-Pus as a Bev-
erage: By drinking vaccine in water, a person seeking immunity to disease can
get the vaccination without a permanent scar."
Dr. Wiley B. Forbus of Duke University in his recent book, "Reaction to In-
jury," says that brain inflammation follows vaccination. That vaccination produc-
es a disease called "vaccinia" and is contagious. The encephalitis that may fol-
low vaccination is abrupt in its onset, characterized by headache, vomiting and
fever, and finally convulsions and a variety of paralysis sometimes leading to
death.
The Truth Teller, published at Battle Creek, Michigan, contains an exceed-
ingly interesting article -- "Who are for compulsory vaccination? Those who prof-
it: doctors who vaccinate, doctors who ignore sanitation, Board of 'Healtht
doctors, doctors who create 'Panics for Profit, 1 vaccine and serum manufacturers
(there were ninety-two of these in the United States in 1931. They take in mil-
lions annually from the sale of these products, which are sold and used on false
claims of 'immunity' and 1harmlessness. 1 Also their stockholders, lobbyists and
Page 108
advertisers. Vivisectors, laboratory men who derive profits from creating
disease in the bodies of living animals for the virus and serum trade. Those who
do not know the facts or who do not think for themselves, but believe what the
vaccinating doctor tells them."
The American Liberty League of Chicago, Illinois issues the following warn-
ing. "Toxin-antitoxin (like all serum.s and vaccines) is DANGEROUS• It is of no
value -- except to those who make it, sell it, and shoot it into the children.
Pushing it through the schools and elsewhere by 'health' officials is a piece of
lawless impudence that ought to be stopped, and that will be frowned upon an.J
discouraged by intelligent citizens. Your safety and that of those dear to you
is imperiled by this serum selling campaign, and it is as much YOUR BUSINESS to
warn others as to refuse the operation for your own family. Besides, it is a
matter of good citizenship to check misuse of office and power."
This article on past and present use of Mummy Juice is included here for two
reasons, The. first and very excellent reason is to teach you the nature of se-
rums, toxin-antitoxins and vaccines, and in this way give you a chance to pro-
tect yourself and those dear to you from some terrible disease like syphilis ,
cancer or polio. The second reason is to teach you the precious therapeutic se-
cret there is in the use of deterrent, repugnant, and frightful materials which
are sometimes used to advantage under certain circumstances. Influence of mind
over body can be exerted in full only when a deep impression is produced upon the
patient by the remedy or physician, or both. To the :r.hysician I say, do not jeo-
pardize the life of little children with "Mummy Juice' when orange juice will
work better.
PART SIXTY-SIX
PSYCHO-GENIC CHRISTIANITY
OR
PRACTICAL SUGGESTIVE THERAPY
(A Text For The Practtttoner}
By
Dr. Adolph F. Lonk and Dr. John L. · Va~ Horn
Introduction
The term Psychogenic Christianity is just what the na111e implies; an open and
fair study of the Bible and its connection with the human mind; the -human mind
and the God mind in everyone.
True Christianity lies in the understanding of the powers of the God mind or
subconscious mind which is at all times in contact with, and under the control of
the Great Universal Mind.
God created the Heavens and Earth and all that in them is; And created he
them only that which are good. There is no room for malice or prejudice in the
true psychology of religion. We believe it necessary to face facts frankly, and
term things by their true names, rather than cover them up with a cloak of shame
and mystery, which has been the downfall of so many good faithful healers hereto-
fore. Therefore, we term our Healing Power by its true term, SUGGESTION, which
it has been in reality since the works of the greatest psychologist who practiced
t.his healing -- Jesus Christ.
It is only necessary to show the patient the true meaning of suggestion,
that he may understand the word of God more clearly.
These conclusions have been BITived at only after years of diligent research.
And no place in the Bible have we found Suggestion, as a healing art, denounced.
This, only the work of th6se who wish to misunderstand that which they practice.
The purpose of this works is to give a clearer understanding to those who
really wish to abide by the laws of God and understand His works.
Page 109
Understanding the Scriptures
Exodus: 15-26
If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the Lord thy God, and wilt
do that which is right in His sight, and wilt give ear to His commandments, and
keep all His statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee which I have
brought upon the Egyptians: for I am -the Lord that healeth thee.
Corresponsive Reading:
To keep diligently after the truth and to abide thereby is to retai n Health
as well as to Real.
Psalms: 107--17-18-19-20
Fools because of their transgression and because of their iniquities are af-
flicted: Their souls abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the
gates of death. Then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble and He saveth
them out of their distresses. He sent His word and healed them, and delivered
them from their destruction.
Corresponsive reading:
We believe in that mostly which we see, therefore, we allow the material or
conscious mind to take the upper hand because of its material power of reasoning.
However, it is never too late to call upon the true mi~d for help.
* * *
John: 11--25
Jesus said unto her: "I am the resurrection and the life.
eth in Me, though he were dead, yet he shall live. 11
Corresponsive reading:
He that believ-
Jesus speaking for the God mind in all of us attempted to demonstrate its
powers. Whereby Jesus proved the necessity of faith in the practitioner .
* * *
James: 5--14
Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church; and let
them pray over him, anoin~ing him with oil in the name of the Lord • .
Corresponsive reading:
Anointing the body with oil helps to give the conscious mind an excuse to
let suggestions (prayer) pass through the subconscious or God mind.
* * *
Isaiah: 26--19-20
Thy dead men shall live together with My dead body, shall. they arise, awake
and sing, ye that dwell in dust; for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the
earth shall cast out the dead.
Come, My people, enter thou into tP,v chambers, and shut thy doors about thee,
hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be over passed.
Gorresponsive reading:
To practice the control of the Astral Body and the positive control of the
subconscious mind that you may understand the deliverance from death.
* * *
Daniel: 12--2
And many of them that in the dust of the earth awake, and some to everlast-
ing life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
Corresponsive reading:
Those spending their lives without learning the power of mind over matter
shall live in everlasting shame of going into the Astral state a failure, through
lack of study and effort to control the material.
* * *
Matthew: 4--23-24-25
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preach-
ing the gospel of the kingdom and healing all manner of sickness and all manner
of disease among the people.
Page 110
And His fame went throughout all Syria; and they brought unto Him all sick
people that were taken with divers diseases and torment, and those that had
palsy; and He healed them.
Corresponsive reading:
With the proper training, there is nothing impossible with the God mind
within us. Our results ·are limited only by our faith and understanding. Our
patients must be made to understand before results can be expected.
* * *
James: 5--16
Confess your faults one to another and pray one for another, that ye may be
healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
Corresponsive reading:
To receive suggestions, one must be negative; to give suggestions, one must
ask aid of another. To be righteous is to be sincere in the belief the cure will
be effected, which is the only way of becoming positive.
* * *
Acts: 28--1
For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ~ars are dull of
hearing, and their eyes have they closed; lest they should see with their eyes
and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts, and should be convert-
ed, and I should heal them.
Corresponsive reading:
Because of years of hypocrisy, this work will be hard now as of old, but
should they believe, a relief may be assured.
How to Enter the Kingdom of Heaven
We must throw false religious opinions aside as we seek the truth. God
never afflicts anyone. If it is God's will that we should. suffer, nothing we can
do would change such an ordained condition.
We must get right down to the things that Christ said, instead of twisting
His sayings around . to fit some pet creed. Only in that way can we make rapid
progress. He said that we must become as little children before we can enter the
Kingdom of Heaven. By that Re meant, that we must take on a willing-to-be-
taught attitude. There is no other way to enter the Kingdom of Heaven.
The healing of sickness is NOT accomplished by the denial of disease nor by
the strenuous affirmation of health, but rather by the insistent demand of the
subconscious or God mind to bring about improved health. Without such a demand,
the God mind will fail to respond.
The Mind and Its Functions
It is a known fact 4hat man has one mind which is divided into two parts.
One we call the conscious mind which is responsible for all of our reasoning and
is located in the brain. The other is the subconscious or God mind which perme-
ates and fills the entire body and is the seat of memory. It has no reasoning
power and believes every suggestion reaching it. It will work as hard to produce
a crop of weeds. as a crop of beautiful flowers. Negative and destructive
thoughts that reach this mind as a result of havihg been tolerated in and permit-
ted to pass by the conscious mind, are responsible for all manner of disease.
We are constantly .influenced by what we see, hear, smell, taste and feel.
Because we read a newspaper which tells us in glaring headlines that the "flu"
is raging over the city, hundreds of people soon turn to their beds with it. We
pay the price of our thinking, . Repetition of any one thought, be it good .or be
it bad, .finally becomes part of us.
If a doctor were to tell a patient that he has but three days to live, and
the suggestion was accepted by the subconscious mind, the patient would die at
the specified time, whether there be anything wrong with him or not, unless as
seldom happens, that the statement would arouse his fighting spirit~ In the
latter case the patient would survive in spite o"f any present abnormality.
Page 111
As Christ and His followers, you too will practice healing by pra er (sug-
gestion), the laying on of the hands and anointing the body. But instead of
misunderstanding the teachings of Christ, you will interpret them correctly and
carry out His inst.ructions. You too may perform the same seemingly !Jliraculous
cures as Jesus.
How Jesus Made the Blind See and Raised the Dead
Jesus asked, "Believe ye that I am able to do this?" The blind answered,
"Yea, Lord!" Then he touched their eyes, saying, "According to your fai th be it
unto you," and their eyes opened,
You can see how he made sure that the necessary e,lement of the law of sug-
gestion was present b~fore He healed them. He made .sure of faith and belief,
when He made the suggestion.
When the ten lepers called to Him, He simply instructed them to s how them-
selves unto the high priests, and they were cleansed. He knew that if they did as
they were told they must have faith. When one of the ten was grateful enough to
return and thank Him, the man was rewarded for his gratitude by being told the
secret, when Ch,rist said unto him: "Go thy way; thy Faith hath made thee whole."
When Jairus came for Christ to heal his daughter and, in the meant i me , she
died, Christ was not dismayed, when the news came; he simply said: "Be not
afraid, only believe." He took with Him some of the disciples whose faith was
sublime, because He had an unusual case. He told them she was not dead, but
sleeping, in order to allay their doubt and put them in a neutral, willing-to-be-
shown attitude. This also carried through the damsel's soul the suggest ion that
it still had control over her body. He then went in, taking hold of her hand,
told her to arise, and she did.
It is common knowledge that by the power of properly directed s uggestion,
the blind have come forth into light, the deaf hear, the paralytics have verily
run and leaped for joy, life has been restored to limbs apparently a t rophied
through infantile paralysis and other "miracles" achieved. The Great Psycholo-
gist said, "Greater things than these shall ye do."
Jesus not only healed all manner of sickness and disease Himself', but com-
manded His followers to do likewise. The early Christians ~racticed the anoint-
ing with oil and laying on of hands in prayer (suggestion) for their sick and
thus restored them to health~
The Secret of All Healing
Sugg?stion is one of the most potent forces with which man is thrown in con-
tact. It influences everyone, and at all times. Every man, no matter what his
character, nationality or religion, is constantly influenced by suggestion, or is
influencing someone else by suggestion. It is an omnipresent, all powerf ul force
in the life of every hunian being. Therefore, it is desirable - nay, necessary -
forJQu who desire to become -successful healers, to have knowledge of the laws
governing this wonderful force. The thoughts we think are nothing more than
suggestions we are giving to ourselves or to others. Action is nothing but
thought in material form, and the natural result of thought.
The great majority of people believe that a suggestion is a verbal s t atement.
That is not the case in every instance, for we constantly receive suggestions
from inanimate as well as animate things about us. A beautiful landscape, pic-
ture, storm, sunset, beautiful music, a look or gesture of another, can give
suggestion. That is, to cause thoughts to originate in ourselves.
To give suggestion, it is best to be positive. So that your patient will re-
ceive the full benefit of the curative suggestions, he must. be negative, that is,
in a receptive mood.
Suggestion for
arouse the hope of
aroused. If these
better and I don't,
the cure of disease should be given in a manner t hat will
the patient; that will arouse his expectation, and keep it
are aroused he cannot say, "The time ha-s come for me to feel
so I will not feel any better at all."
Page 112
If the suggestions are given in the following manner, the above will_
, to a
great extent, be avoided: "Now in a short time you will feel some better, and in
an hour from now you will feel still better; you will continue to improve gradu-
ally all day; you will have a good appetite; you will enjoy your dinner and to-
night you will rest well and will awaken in the morning feeling refreshed and in-
vigorated." These suggestions are not to take effect at any particular time, but
are to be gradually experienced by the patient.
Duty of the Healer.
One of your great duties as a healer is to rid the patient's mind of fear,
worry and doubt, and to substitute couFage, faith and confidence. To change his
line of thought from sickness to radiant health and strength. This is done by
the giving of proper suggestions to the subconscious or God mind which permeates
every single cell of the body and which must respond to your demand and command
if results are to follow.
Scientific Mental and Divine Healing calls for the presentation of mental
pictures of the right sort to the subconscious mind of the patient. Well bal-
anced intellectual people are needed to reach ill-balanced intellectual people ,
because harmony needs to reign in the healer when discord prevails in the patient.
To evade a fact through ignorance of its nature and existence, is not to
heal; healing being a result of deliberate, enlightened grappling with a trying
situation to the end that discord is vanquished because harmony is restored.
We have no intention of formulating a series of stereotyped sentences and
urging that they should be used verbatim on every occasion. We are only seeking
to suggest ways and means of helping suffering humanity and it rests with you,
dear reader, to elaborate on the information in this book to suit your needs.
Winning Confidence of the Patient
Diplomatically secure the confidence of your patient by letting him go into
detail in explaining his case to you. And you in turn lending a sympathetic and
understanding ear to his woes. Nine times out of ten your patient will feel much
better immediately after, as a result of being relieved of his burden. Show a
personal interest in his case. Do not rush him. With a sheet of paper on your
desk before you, take down the history of the case, starting off with his name,
address, age, and ending with symptoms. After some study of all that which you
jotted down, suddenly look ur. at the patient and in a modest but bus~ness-like
manner and tone of voice say, 'I can help you."
Giving the Tre~tment
Have your patient strip to the waist if a man, or if a woman, don an apron
that leaves the back exposed. Have him lie prone upon a comfortable well padded
treating table, face to one side and eyes closed, requesting that he keep his
eyes closed during the entire treatment to insure receptiveness. Rub the palms
of your hands together very ' briskly until your fingers tingle, and standing to
the right side of the table near patient's head, while facing in the direction of
his feet, place both palms flat on his back while making slow, soothing but firm
strokes with the fingers -and palms over his entire back from neck to hips. While
doing so, use impulsion. That is, seemingly place yourself in your patient's
place, and repeat mentally to yourself, as though you were the patient, "I am
feeling better already. My pain is leaving me now. Et cetera."
Do not make the mistake of saying to yourself, "You are feeling better.
11
As
that is compulsion. Use Impulsion, 11
1 am feeling better." Keep this up for
about ten minutes, stopping now and then to briskly rub your palms together and
perhaps if you wish, apply a bit of oil to your hands. Then, after ten minutes
of impulsion, use compulsion. You need not shout or talk harshly. Speak in a
low modulated voice, saying something like this, "Now, in a very short time
you will feel so much better and you will continue to improve right along each
and every hour of the day until you are again feeling just fine in every way,
shape and manner. Each and every cell in your body will vibrate with new life
and energy. Your mind will be more alert. You will be able to think more clear-
ly, wisely and intelligently. You are having a wonderful rest and upon leaving
my office you will find that the healing force -has become activated within you
and your disorders will soon be things of the past.
11
You must give suggestiOQS
Page 113
to fit the case. ' Then, after five or more minutes of this compulsion , say --
"Now when I count to five and snap my fingers on the count of five you will open
your eyes and find yourself well started on the road to robust health . 11
Then
count as advised, snap your fingers at the count of five and say, 11
Al l right.
Open your eyes. You feel much better, don't you!" Permit the patient to dress
and arrange for future appointment.
A properly scented oil made up of certain rare perfumes may b e used to
great advantage in giving the above treatment. The use of such an oil will help
induce mental placidness and so mental surrender. Such an oil should b e u sed in
magnetic healing, massage, Divine Healing, and any other form of mental healing
ever taught.
PART SIXTY-SEVEN
P R A C T I C A L C R Y S T A L - G A Z N G
Crystal-gazing has become quite fashionable lately. It ls used to develop
higher clairvoyant powers. The clairvoyant stage of hypnosis is desired when one
wishes to see things in the crystal. The seer or crystal-gazer must p l ace him-
self in this stage of hypnosis by gazing at the crystal before his subconscious
mind can pick up the delicate vibrations about him and register them cons ciou sly.
Many rules for crystal-gazing have been advanced. Other rules for the care
of the crystal itself. But, to be honest with my students and in order to give
practical information stripped of mystery, I recommend the use of any suitable
object for a crystal; a drop of blood, a hole full of water, a blob of i nk, or a
genuine crystalball whether it be made of pure quartz, or volcanic glass when it
is known as an Obsidian Mirror.
You simply look into the crystal.
This crystal is placed before you in such
a way so that too much light does not
faJl upon it. No mumbo-jumbo- business is
needed. Look at it three to five minute s ,
winking as necessary and fixing your
thought upon that which you want to see.
If you are a natural born clairvoyant,
the glass will cloud over with a milky
mist almost at once and in the center you
will find this mist precipitating gradu-
ally and forming the picture you desire
to see. On the other hand, it may re-
quire several sittings before you develop
yourself to this stage. The use of hyp-
notic perfumes, hypnotic incense, and
even certain drugs that may form a dan-
gerous habit, may be used to advantage .
A fair substitute for an expensive and
practically unobtainable Obsidian Mirror
is a watch crystal placed on a jet black
cloth or a small brandy glass filled to
the brim with jet black ink.
The Lonk Hypnotic Gaze, as given -
elsewhere in these instructions, should Dr. Lonk As
be used when crystal-gazing. Black vel-
vet should surround the crystal. Allow
yourself to become dreamy. Look for the
"The Wizard of The Nile.•
milky mist. Individuals who are negative
.and those in poor health make the best crystal
person in robust health and of positive nature
crystal-gazer.
Page 114
gazers.
to become
It is difficu lt for a
clairvoyant or a good
PART SIXTY-EIGHT
F I N E R F 0 R C E S 0 F N A T U R E
"N" Rays
If a screen is made up of a piece of cardboard and coated with a substance
that will glow in the dark after exposure to light rays, it will emit N-Rays when
touched with the finger-tip. The spot touched will glow more brightly than the
rest of the screen. The better health of the individual, the more will the spot
glow. If one is ill or under an anesthetic, the N-Rays emitted by the touch of
such a person will be very little. The increase or decrease of N-Rays emitted is
not due to heat from the hand, but due to the electro-magnetic vibrations given
off from the finger-tips. To prove this a copper wiremay be held in the hand to
use in making contact.
Another experiment may be carried out by placing the screen facing a window
in front of which one has wooden shutters. The rays from the sun, many of which
are invisible, will cause the screen to glow. Now, if a moist piece of paper is
placed between the window and screen, the glowing will almost cease altogether.
If that same piece of wet paper be dipped in a concentrated table-salt solution,
the luminous screen will again glow even though the paper is again placed in ~ts
former place, between luminous screen and window. This indicates that pure water
is not a good conductor for the finer forces of nature but acts as an insulator.
When the water in which the paper is dipped contains salt (sodium chloride) the
activating sun rays pass through and their action upon the chemical screen re-
sults in N-Rays. Muscular contraction, nervous excitability and a positive na-
. ture like the good hypnotist should possess will increase the luminosity of the
screen when touched by such an individual. The chemicals used in making up such
a screen are Platino-Cyanide of Barium or for an inferior screen one may use
(Luminous) Sulphite of Calcium.
How to See the Human Aura
A screen is made up of two pi.
eces of glass about 4 by 8 inches in size and
about 1/8 of an inch apart. Small strips of glass or wood are used around the
edges to keep the two pieces of glass separated evenly. The edges of this small
reservoir are well sealed with the exception of a small opening at the top through
which a solution of Dicyanin (a dye used in Infra-Red Photography) is poured.in.
The exact amount of Dicyanin and alcohol must be determined by experimentation.
The observer should stand with his back toward a darkened window while the sub-
ject under observation should face the window. Light should fall evenly upon
him. In some cases a dark background is best while in others a light one is
better. After you observe the aura about the individual for a while, your eyes
sometime become so sensitive that the aura may still be seen even after the
screen is no longer held before observer's eyes. People that are ill have a very
close-fitting aura. Those in good health have the opposite. In pregnancy, one
will see a double aura. Diagnosis of many conditions may be done by this means •
In health, the color of the human aura is blue, in spinal cord degeneration it is
mauve, in mental disorders it is yellow and in some nervous disorders, it is
green, and in chronic alcoholism it is pink. The outline may be smooth, wavy, or
jagged. (At this writing, Dicyanin Dye is' unobtainable. At some later date it
may again be released to the public.) ·
PART SIXTY-NINE
P R A C T I C A l R I D I A G N 0 S I S
A Great Discovery
Quite by accident, when a boy of only ten years of age, Ignaz von Peczely of
Hungary, born in 1826, discovered that the eye records and reveals that wlu.ch is
not revealed by other known diagnostic methods. It is said that the lad caught
an ovil.. In the struggle, the owl's leg was broken. The lad being very observing,
noticed that the iris of the eye, on the side corresponding with the fractured
leg suddenly revealed a black spot, seemingly the result of the fracture. The
lad had supported the fractured leg with splints, and as it healed, he noticed a
change in appearance of the mentioned black spot in the iris.
Page 115
.r.1
''°
IRlDIAGNOS/5
~·CHART.(
lfO
1.70
LEFI [Rt.S
----
HC!iLIN~ -'(.,
$/(;/{ OF '
/ lfFLl!ftNllT/Oll{
AcuT<i: -3.
INFUflt<llTlv"
.SlftN
...
ARco15f·;~
SC'l'ilLIS 4' o»
I
t
7.
C/INCf'lf.
PHYSICAL LEsto Ns ANv DRuG S1GNS
To B.:: FouND IN THE IT:us Or: TH£ fy~
s.
p
1.-TRAllNll
SIG/I'
/4. ·ff£/IL1Nt;
s 11;;11 or
Tlt.tlJ'MA
OPlfJ'i
LCSIOI(
b·
.Sv"'~"'~ - IJ.
LCll.D - 7.
fl(CAPULlli'°D
CollT'AMHAL
l.i:SI Oflf
Zyt<o1D-
Sl'OT$- //,
Page 117
" I!!,,
~
~
J}
J
I. -/o.1111u
Z,,• !RON
0 0
() <>
D /J
D 0
D '· /llU£"1C
D fJ O
'f.- ST"1"<H1t11111£
®
@I
~ fO. \'AC"C' /N6
~
In the year of 1867, Ignaz von Peczely entered the University of Vienna .
Later, as a medical man who followed homeopathy and practiced the profes sion, he
recalled the incident of his early boyhood life and so commenced to ex amine the
eyes of all his patients. Because of his very large practice, he was furnished
with ample opportunity for making observations along his chosen line . In the
year of 1880 Dr. von Peczely published his first works on diagnosis from the eye.
This truly great man died in the year of 1911.
Later a Swedish clergyman and homeopathic physician, Dr. Niels Lilj equ ist of
Stockholm, Sweden, elaborated this science considerably by his detect i on of the
color change that took place in the iris when medicaments were taken by the pa-
tient. His works were published under the tile of "Quinine and iodine change
-the color of the iris; I formerly had blue eyes, they are now of a greenish
color, and with reddish spots in them."
Born in the year of 1864 at Reichenberg, Bohemia, Dr. Henry Lahn met Ignaz
Peczely in the year of 1890. In the year of 1899 he came to the Unit ed State s
where he finished his medical studies at Chicago. He produced a wor k titled,
"Iridology." He was considered an authority on diagnosis from the eye . He died
in the year of 1921.
Born in the year of 1884 in Austria, Dr. J, Haskel Kritzer, c ame to the
United States where he specialized in diagnosis from the iris of the eye . His
extensive lecture tours throughout the United States and Canada have done much to
popularize this science in America. He produced a work titled 11
Tex t-Book of
Iridiagnosis."
Structure of the Iris
The dictionary tells us that the iris is the opaque, contractile diaphragm
perforated by the pupil and forming the colored portion of the eye.
Anatomy teaches us that the iris is composed of many delicate blood vessels
and nerve filaments interlaced with muscle fibers in form of layers, al l r a diat-
ing toward the pupil. The posterior part of the iris is made up of two layers of
pigmented columnar epithelium which is of a deep purple tint. The color of the
iris is produced by the reflection of light from dark pigmented cells underlying
translucent tissue. These pigmented cells are distributed throughout t h e texture
of the iris. Because pigment is lacking in the iris of the albino, his iris is
pink in color due to the reflection of l i ght from the exposed blood vessels.
Iridiagnosis teaches us that every organ and part of the body is r epresent-
ed in the iris. That serious physical abnormalities whether due t o trauma,
disease, or medication of the body, are promptly registered in the iris . Every
shadow or discoloration from ·the normal clear color of the iris, indicates some
abnormality within the body. The changing conditions in various organs and parts
of the body may be carefully watched by the ever registering iris so tha t on e may
know at all times the progress or arrest of a diseased condition within the body,
or the value of a certain treatment or drug.
Lesion Signs to Look for in the Iris
1. - TRAUMA SIGN. Any injury or wound of an organ or any part of t h e body by
outside influence may· be seen as a black spot or streak in the iri s by the
trained iridiagnostician. This initial sign will be found in the i r is right
after surgical interference, fracture of a bone, scalding, e t c etera. The sign
is less distinct and sometimes impossible to find when an anesthetic has teen
used as in surgery.
2. - ·HEALING SIGN OF TRAUMA. As the part heals, the black spot or streak in the
iris becomes surrounded with a white border. The black spot or streak represents
loss of substance, while the white represents scar tissue which nature uses to
unite separated tissue with.
3. - ACUTE INFLAMMATION SIGN. This is represented in form of an open wedge as
shown in illustration which see.
4. - HEALING SIGN OF INFLAMMATION. This
open edge of the wedge mentioned above.
is represented by a
Appears as a spindle.
Page 118
closing up of the
5. - OPEN LESION SIGN. The total absence of a white border around a lesion after
a reasonable time, indicates that the patient lacks vitality and that the afflic-
tion is steadily progressing.
6. - ENCAPSULED CATARRH.AL SIGN. This sign will be found especially in the iris
of arrested consumptive cases. It appears as a closed spindle with light specks
within representing the cheesy substance of degeneration going on within the en-
capsulated area.
7. - CANCER SIGN. This sign appears as a dark gray shadow within which may be
seen specks. Its appearance is best described by saying that it resembles in
appearance a cluster of frog's eggs.
8. - ARGUS SENILIS. This sign appears in old age as a light gray, more or less
broken ring along the outer margin of the iris. The more complete the ring, the
lower is the vitality of the individual.
9, - NERVE RINGS, This sign will be seen as curved lines near the outer margin
of the iris and indicates an unbalanced nervous or painful condition in that
orgah or part of the body represented in the iris over which such rings may be
found.
10. - SCURF RIM. This sign appears as a darkened rim along the outermost margin
of the iris. When found it indicates poor elimination through the skin. The
heavier the rim, the greater is the accumulated waste. If found extra oroad in
region of fee t, it indicates that much waste is concentrated at that point and
that nature is m~king every effort to eliminate it by profuse perspiration of
the feet. If found broad in region of thyroid gland, it indicates that the thy-
roid gland is being made to care for the big task. An over-worked thyroid gland
soon enlarges. Such enlargement -is termed a goiter. Sometimes, the accumulated
waste becomes so great that not only will the scurf rim become broad and heavy,
but dark lines will extend from it toward pupil as spokes in a wheel.
11. - SYMPATHETIC WREATH. This sign is seen in the iris in health and in dis-
ease. It is the more or less irregular and ragged edged wreath located between
the outer margin of iris and the pupil. It signifies sympathetic affections of
organ o~ part of body to which it points as represented in the iris. For ex-
ample, if it points to the lung area, dyspnea or difficult breathing may be in-
d.i.cated,
12. - TYPHOID ROSARY. This
iris of patients who have
string of black beads strung
roilllds the whole.
sign will be found in the intestinal area of the
had typhoid fever. In appearance it resembles a
loosely upon a black thread. A whitish border sur-
Dru3 Signs to Look for in the Iris
Be it understood that unless the patient has at one time or another during
life taken or used medicaments containing any one of the following drugs, the
mentioned signs representing such drugs will be found in the iris. Certain
drugs taken as long ago as twenty years will remain registered in the iris be-
c ause such drugs happen to have a special affinity for a particular organ or
part of body where it is deposited and there remains as a foreign substance.
1. - IODINE. Brownish-red spots represent iodine which may be found on any part
of the iris but usually over the liver, kidneys and stomach.
2. - IRON. Organic iron as in spinach or other vegetable is never indicated in
the iris. Inorganic iron such as is sold by druggists does not fit in with
Nature's plan and is represented as rust-brown spots, somewhat less reddish in
color than the iodine sign. It is found over the stomach and intestinal region
of the iris.
3. - Q.UININE. A yellowish cloud appears over the region of the brain, liver and
intestinal tract as represented in the iris. A blue eye with this yellow cast
will appear green.
4. - MERCURY. The whole eye takes on a diffuse metallic lustre, a sort of gray-
ish-white film. Because this drug has an affinity for the nervous system, it
settles in the region of the brain and spinal cord usually in form of a crescent
similar to bromine but instead of a dirty gray it is of a silver-gray color.
Page 119
5. - BROMINE . A dirty grayish are a along region of the br ain in iris.
6. - ARSENIC. This sign appears as snow-flake s all over the iris .
becomes well distributed to all organs of t h e b ody.
This drug
7. - LEAD. Like mercury, thi s s ign is of a metallic lustre but it is grayish-
blue instead. Lo ok for .it over r egion of stomach , intestinal tract, liver and
kidney region as represented in the iris.
8. - SULPHUR. Bright yellow patches over r egion of small i ntestines.
9. - STRYCHNINE. Bristle-like appe arance around pupil, yellowish discoloration
over region of stomach.
10. - VACCINATION SIGN. The injection of any such fi l th c al led vaccine , toxin-
anti toxin or serum directly into the bloodstream is acc ompan i ed by a darkening of
the color of the entire iris. In addition t o t his , specks of gray appear with
white borders.
11. - ZYMOID SPOTS . These gray specks without borders appear where one had ac -
quired some congenital dise ase . They are a s ign of some t aint of the b loo d .
12. - SODIUM RING. This salt ring will be f ound i n the iri s of those who either
use too much table-salt (sodium chloride), or those who h ave been taking large
doses of sodium salicyla t e i n tryi ng to treat a rheumatic c ondition .
Diagnosing From the Eye
The student of iridiagnosis should ende avor t o carefully examine as many
different pairs of eyes as he possibly can. He should familiarize h imsel f with
the different signs and to some extent with the chart as fUrnished. I t mi ght be
we ll for him to carefully copy the chart, f rame it and h ang it on the wall just
behind the patient whose eyes are being ex amined. I n this way the s t udent may
r e adily refer to the chart throughout the examination.
Although daylight is b e st us e d for the examinat i on of the iris , a good ar ti -
ficial light may be substituted for sun-light. A magni fying gl ass known al s o as
a reading glass may be used to advantage for minute l es i on s seemingl y inv.:.sible
otherwise.
Use colored pencils and make c olored drawin gs of the variou s eyes you exam-
ine. This will help y ou to memorize and famil i arize y our self with many points of
interest you otherwise might overlook. Preserve y our drawings in book form with
brief history of the case and your success with s ame . At a l ater date you can
more readily appreciate the progress you are making a s an irid~agno s tic i an .
Seek patients who
are right when that is
toward your goal.
will cooperate with y ou and fr ankly will admit that you
the case. Only in that way can y ou make rapi d progres s
PART SEVENTY
P R A C T I C A L N U ME R 0 L 0 G Y
Through Numerology, you may study the characteri stics of i ndividu a l s with
surprising results. In order not to make this course long drawn but i nstead give
you practical and useful information right from the start, I will avoid detail ed
discussion of occult magica l significance of numbers, sufficient to say that each
number carries amazing expression, a vi bration, a subtle i nfl uenc e t hat is ever
active, causing each person to come under the influenc e of one or more of the s e
vibrations. The most important vibration i s that of birth b e c ause it is r eadily
determined and indicates a distinctive kind of mankind. W
e are i nter e s ted i n
primary numbers only.
Take any birthday and reduce it to f i gures. As an example: March 5,19 05
is represented by 3-5-1905. Those figures: 3,5,1,9, 0,5 add up to 23. The sum of
2 and 3 is 5. Therefore the vital number of that date is 5, and a per son born on
that day has the birth vibration number of 5.
Page 120
Similarly, the birthday January 18, 1900, is represented by figures 1-18-
1900, and the figures 1,1,8,l,9,0,0, total 20, and 2 and O equal 2, and a person
born on that day is influenced by vibration 2,
By determining any birthday, arid applying the significance of its vibra-
tory number to it, you can learn the characteristics that, according to numerolo-
gy should be found in that person. In order that this may be easily done, the
characteristics of each number as . it appears in the human personality, is given
below.
1. - A person with the vibratory number ONE will be aggressive, commanding and
active. His mind will be particularly capable when directed along one channel of
thought, and people of this type succeed in one line of effort. They are keen
and alert; yet often selfish and self-centered, belittling affairs that lie out-
side their own field. Thus they are often narrow-minded. At the same time, they
like progress, and they are tireless workers when they have a definite goal in
view.
2. - A person with the vibratory number TWO will be tactful, careful, and of
quiet disposition, giving every subject careful consideration, and taking note of
both sides of a situation. These people are anxious for harmonious conditions,
and do their best to be helpful. But they lack aggression and purpose , finding
it difficult to follow a direct course; and they are often extremists, alternate-
ly happy and sorrowful; optimistic and pessimistic; embracing pursuits which they
formerly avoided, and swinging from one side to the other. Their natures are ad-
mirable, but lacking controlling influences, they will waste their time in over-
meditation.
3. - A person with the vibratory number THREE will be bold and fearless, quick in
action, and adaptable to all circumstances. These people are versatile, and will
take up new enterprises without the least hesitation, and they will often succeed.
They go after opportunity, rather than wait for it, and they leap into new work
with enthusiasm. But they dislike details and slow progress. They are too ready
to desert the old for the new; to build up structures and leave them for. others
to finish. They are indifferent to many things which should interest them, and
they lose much through carelessness. They follow the dictates of the moment,
caring little for the future~ and will often give up work for pleasure. Yet they
have ability and talent, which they can use to great advantage.
4. - A person with the vibratory number FOUR will be a plodding constant worker,
normally satisfied with the lesser things of life. Careful thought, slow action/
and regularity are notable characteristics of this number as seen in the indivi-
dual. People with this number will be satisfied with filling ordinary positions
and extending great effort for moderate reward. They often lack inspiration and
also underestimate their own value. They can be of immense importance if they
associate with more active persons.
5. - A person with the vibratory number FIVE will invariably seek adventure,
Such people will enjoy change of scene, new and speculative enterprises and they
will often be ~uccessful in the wildest venture. They are clever and quick,
fearless of danger, and ready for anything which appeals to their imaginations.
They like to travel .and are intrigued by the unusual. Their unexpect·ed actions
will amaze conservative people, and their whole spirit breathes adventure. Liv-
ing in the present, or in the immediate future, they often throw aside chances
that are filled with possibilities; they sometimes take on more than they can
bear; and they frequently meet with disaster. Yet their ingenuity, cleverness,
and ability to deal with new situations always stands in good stead, and they are
just as quick in getting out of difficulties as they are to rush into trouble.
6. - A person with the vibratory number SIX will be cheerful, optimistic and sat-
isfied with things as they are. Few people of this type have great ingenuity or
capacity for enormous success. They get their best results in smaller enterpris-
es and are usually regarded highly in the community in which , they live, They are
sincere and honest, but too apt to be pleased by their own virtues. They build
up high ideals and strive to attain them, but sometimes become bigoted through
this tendency. They represent unselfishness and kindness; and will fight for the
principles in ~hich they believe; but often neglect to consider the rights of
others.
Page 121
7. - A person with the vibratory number SEVEi
1 often seeks knowledge and deeper
things of life. These people are highly imaginative and often analytical. They
cannot always understand themselves and their inherent love of mystery often pre-
vents them from applying their efforts to constructive work. They make excellent
scholars, when they develop themselves; but their great difficulty l ies in at-
t aining such development. They must seek to obtain a practical viewpoint on life
to succeed.
8. - A person with the vibratory number EIGHT has all the indications of a suc-
cessful business man. Where number one can direct his own affairs, number eight
can manage the affairs of other people and embark upon immense undertakings of
boundless possibilities. This is a number of material things -- of practical
mindedness and organization. Such people lose little time in idle dr eaming.
Their great fault, however, is lack of imagination. Once they have succeeded,
they are not quick to note the change of time and they will stick to old and ob-
solete methods, once their great constructive power is on the wane.
9. - A person with the vibratory number NINE has boundless possibilities for
these are the people who reach the highest places. They gain influence rather
than mere wealth and through this power they are often more successful t han those
who dwell on the material plane. They are artistic and imaginative . But in
their broadness of possibilities and action, in their wealth of underlying traits
lies their frequent lack of success. It is difficult for the majority of these
people to develop their amazing talents, and often they go through life , never
able to exert their powers to full extent.
Number 11 and 22 indicate peculiar genius that may or may not occur i n per-
sons. Hence, people with vibratory number 2 (which reduces from 11) are some-
times great inventors and possessed of amazing powers. The same is t rue of some
people with the vibratory number 4 (when reduced from 22), but less frequent and
often bad influence.
In addition to determining the number of your birthday, you can also attach
a numerical significance to your name or occupation. The table below gives you
the value of each letter in the alphabet.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
A B c D E F G H I
J K L M N 0 p Q R
s T u v w x y z &
Add up the letters in a name like John G. Doe. They total 42, which reduc-
es to 6 (4 plus 2 makes 6). That indicates that the person bearing the name of
John G. Doe, responds to vibration 6.
The birth numbers mentioned before indicate,..the underlying traits of the in-
dividual. But in the active affairs of daily life, he will as he grows older,
acquire traits of the number' indicated by name.
The year of attainment can be discovered by adding the figures of a certain
year to the original date to form a new year. Example: A person born in 1901,
those fitures total 11, which when added to the same year of 1901 will make the
year 1912. That means that the year 1912 will be of great importance in that
person's life. It is surprising in how many cases the year of attainment brings
results.
PART SEVENTY-ONE
V 0 0 D 0 0 I S M
OR
BLACK MAGIC and WITCH-CRAFT
Witches and Witchcraft
"So the old witch waved her wand above the bubbling brew. And suddenly, out
of the smoke, there rose a dreadful genie, with blazing eyes~ who bowed and said,
'You have called, mistress; I am here at your command' .•....
1
Such were the tales we listened to in fear and wonderment .Witchcraft is not
Page 122
nonsense but something that calls for careful analysis and consideration. The
object of these instructions is not to place fear into your mind, but to enlight-
en you on the subject of Black-Magic and Witch-Craft and to teach you the secret
of the power behind such so that you can make intelligent use of this power to
your advantage and to protect yourself against psychic influence of others.
Grace Sherwood of Virginia was the last "witch" executed. This was in the
year 1706. Witches are no longer publicly executed. Judges and jurors no longer
i?rosecute "witches" yet they do not deny their belief in witchcraft . Both
'witches" and witchcraft continue to exist same as in the days of yore.
Witchcraft is not confined to the ignorant and superstitious Negroes of the
South, but flourishes everr.where. Every large city in Europe and America can
boast of witchcraft. The 'hex doctors" of Pennsylvania, Aleister Crowley, the
devil worshipper of Detroit, Michigan, and others are examples to be found taking
much space in our daily newspapers.
It is estimated that almost $200,000,000 is spent annually for fortune-tell-
~ng , crystal-gazing, astrology, tea-leaf, card and palm-reading . Another
~l,000,000 is spent annually for love-potions and charms of all descriptions.
The serious-minded student of psychology will neither deny nor affirm the
existence of witches, witchcraft, and black-magic, until he has had an opportuni-
ty to study the matter more deeply. It is said that no religion, science or cult
exists without some · truth for its backing. This may well apply to the subject
matter in hand.
Among my collection of material on witchcraft, I find a very interesting
story, I do not know the source of it. In brief, it is about a woman who is
being tried for witchcraft because of the vast number of cures she had accom-
plished during an epidemic of the ague. She had invited the envy of the medical
men of that age who could do little or nothing for patients with the ague and
were determined to send this so-called witch to her doom, for having saved the
lives of many suffering souls. The jury retired and promptly returned with the
verdict of"guilty." The judge, before passing sentence of death, asked the so-
called witch just how she had accomplished these seemingly miraculous cures. Her
reply was that she really did not know how they were accomplished. That the
power that cured seemed to be in a small piece of rolled up parchment upon which
was some mysterious writing. The rolled-up parchment was tied at each end with a
bright colored ribbon. This she said made up the amulet which accomplished the
cure when brought in contact with the sufferers who flocked to her for relief.
•\
The judge carefully examined the· amulet an~ immediately commenced to tell
all present the entire history of the amulet and how it came into the possession
of the "witch." He said, "Many years ago, a young man without funds but in dire
need of food, stopped at a tavern which this woman was then operating. As he ate
he planned how he might repay this good woman for the food. Conversing with her,
he soon learned that her little girl was sick in bed with the ague. Taking ad-
vantage of this opportunity, he took a sheet of parchment, wrote some mysterious
wording thereon, rolled it up and tied it with a bit of bright colored ribbon at
each end, then fastened it to the wrist of the sick girl, at the same time assur-
ing the mother that the girl would soon be well. The mother felt more than com-
pensated for the food this man had eaten and would have refused payment if such
we re offered. The man went on his way rejoicing, feeling he had done a good deed
in payment for the meal. The little girl soon recovered. For many years after,
this mother, in possession of this amulet, had helped hundreds of sufferers, al-
ways with most gratifying results."
At this point of the story, the tried and about to be sentenced woman in-
terrupted the judge with, "But, your honor, how do you know all this?" The judge
replied, "Because I was that young man who made and gave you this amulet in ex-
change for that most excellent meal you had served me." In spite of the protests
from the selfish medical men, the judge refused to sentence this good woman to
death by hanging or burning as was the custom.
What was this power to heal that the amulet possessed? How did it heal the
sick? The answer is, the belief of all concerned in the power of this amµlet to
bring about the expected results. Such faith and belief is a powerful sugges-
tion. When accepted, vibrations of health soon predominate.
Page 123
Charms and Their Make-Up
. The "Hoodoo Doctor" or "Conjur Woman'' of the South prospe r, se l i ng charms
to the best people of the country who would not think of being witho t a t least
one of the many charms offered at prices ranging from $1 to $1, 000 .
The "hoodoo" bag is among the low priced and most popular of the char ms
offered. It contains a bit of scorched leather, two bones, some c arc oal and
some hair. Among the high priced charms are to be found "Buzzard Ne st " a t $100 .
"Black Cat's Ankle Dust" at $500. And "Black Cat's Wishbone" at $1000 .
Roots and herbs are also much used as charms. The most popular of roots and
herbs used for mysteriously attracting all that which is good in life , f oll ows: -
Master of the Wood, an old German good luck talisman. Holy Sandal Wood, carried
about by the natives of Egypt for good luck. Adam and Eve Root, val u ed f or its
magic qualities in restoring vitality to the generative organs and t o bring back
and hold the love of a husband, wife or sweetheart. Sea Spi r i t, alue d for
bringing good luck. Dragon's Blood, used by natives of Borneo and Suma tra i n re-
ligious superstitious practices. Lovtne Herbs, said to cause others t o love you.
Betel Nut, used by the Hindu to. increase their spiritual and mental p owers . Ori-
ental Gum, also known as "Love Powder," sold in India to those who wi sh to at-
tract the opposite sex. European John the Conqueror Root, believe d b y some
voodoo and high priests that a person carrying same in his or her p ocke t will
never be without money and can obtain anything desired.
The wearer of a symbol of good luck will experience good luck f' or a good
sound logical and psycho-analytical reason. The charm stimulates the imag i nation;
the wearer becomes alert and expectant that good luck and fortune is j ust around
the corner. He becomes both consciously and subconsciously ready to me e t ' Good
Luck and Opportunity at least half way, instead of passing them by unheeded.
Success and power come only to him who is alert, prepared and expec t an t . For
this reason, no one should be without a talisman of one kind or anothe r .
An Amulet for Flux of Blood and for the Ague
The following was taken from a very old book of Hindu Mag~c. I t h a s been
copied much as given in this book except for my clarifying a few poin t s for your
convenience. It is included in this Manual so that you may better understand the
construction of the amulet mentioned in the story just told where the j u dge ad-
mitted having made up an amulet and not the woman who was being tried for prac-
ticing_witchcraft when she healed so many of the ague.
"In the blood of Adam arose death -- in the blood of Chri st death is extin-
guished -- in the same blood of Christ I command thee, O, blood that 'thou stop
fluxing! 1
" (A form of bloody diarrhea.)
(Let the party who pronounces the abov~ words hold the other's hand.)
In this godly supersitition there will be found a ready, cheap , easy reme-
dy for that dreadful disorder the bloody-flux, whereby a poor miserable wre t ch will
~eap more real benefit than in a whole shop of an apothecary's drugs. The four
letters as written (see Fi~. 1.) are a powerful charm, or amulet, against the
common ague (Malarial Fever); likewise, let them be written upon a piec e of clean
and new vellum (a fine parchment usually of calfskin), at any time of t he day or
night, and they will be found a Sl)eedy and certain cure.
Page 124
ABR ACA DABR A ~ --
ABRACADA BR
ABRACADA B
ABR ACA DA
-AB RACAD
ABR ACA -
AB RA C
ABRA
-A BR -
AB - ·
.:__ A -
It is said that much more efficacious is the word ABRACADABRA; however, as
that ancient charm is still in fine repute (amongst the Hindu Adepts to cure
agues, etc.), I will here set down the form and manner of its being written (see
Fig. 2,); likewise, it must be pronounced, or spoken, in the same order as it is
written, with the intent or will of the operator declared at the same time of
making it.
It is here to be particularly noticed that in forming of a charm or amulet,
it will be of no effect except the very soul of. the operator is strongly and in-
tensely exerted and impressed, as it were, and the image of the idea sealed on
the charm, or amulet, for, without this, in vain will be all the observation of
times, hours and constellations; therefore, this I have thought fit to mention,
once for all, that it may be almost always uppermost in the mind of the operator,
for without this one thing being observed and noticed, many who form seals, etc.,
do fall short of the wished-for effect.
The Practice of Black and White Magic
Many theories have been advanced to account for magical phenomena. Before -
reviewing some of these it will be well to give an account of the facts them-
selves. When the Objibwa Indian desires to work evil on anyone, he makes a small
wooden image of his enemy and pierces its head or heart with a needle in the be-
lief that the object of his hate will be similarly affected. If the intent is to
kill, the puppet is burnt with the accompaniment of magical words. In pursuit of
a similar end the Malay takes bits of nails, hair, eyebrows and other parts of
the victim's body and moulds them into an effigy resembling the victim. For
seven nights he scorches the effigy slowly while holding it over a lamp muttering
incantations. Then the figure is ·burned. To this day in India, a magician will
make an image of earth, taken from sixty-four filthy places, and will mix it with
the hair, nails, et cetera, then he writes the name of his enemy on the chest of
the figure and maims itin some way in the hope that the fate of the original will
be that of the copy. To this day thousands of jilted women right here in America,
who know the secret of Black Magic, practice same nightly. They will stick pins,
strike and use other torture methods upon a doll representing the person upon
whom they want their hatred to work misery and death. Sooner or later, the per-
son toward whom this hatred is directed becomes mysteriously ill and soon dies.
Passing from evil to beneficial or harmless effects which we will term white
magic, we find that a barren woman in Sumatra, if she wants to become a mother,
will make a wooden image of a child and hold it in her lap, believing that this
objectification of her wish will lead to its fulfillment. The Ancient Hindu mode
of winning the love of a woman was to shoot an arrow into the heart of a clay
image of the woman. In other numerous instances an entire group of people will
perform the Magical Act. Thus, among the Eskimos when the men are away whaling,
the women are supposed to spend their time in comparative idleness; if any gar-
ments Pre to be mended or repaired, the women take the garments away from the sea
as far as possible and do the work in the small huts, large enough for one person
only; no work is done which is connected with any kind of noise. On the other
hand, the Thompson Indians of British Columbia, or among the Californian Yuki,
when the husbands are away on a war expedition, the wives will perform elaborate
dances, in which the incidents of combat are dramatized believing that such Magi-
cal Performances will insure the success of their husbands .
Among the Eskimos, .the parent, to give his boy the strength of a bear, will
sew into his cap the skin from the roof of the bear 1 s mouth. To acquire a fox's
cunning, a piece of a fox's head is sewed into one's clothing. These are magical
charms of the Eskimo.
Many people delude themselves with the beli ef of l i ving in a rationalized
era until someone in the room opens an umbrella. The power of the evil eye has
not lost all its terrors. People will "knock on wood" to avert the consequences
of excessive optimism. · We have our lucky days and unlucky days . The discovery
that thirteen guests have been invited to a dinner party prompts the hostess to
make a hasty revision of her arrangements. A horse-shoe insures the well-being
of a household. Magical charms are carried by more men and women among us than
is generally believed. Some religions teach that Black Magic can only be ac-
quired after "giving-up" a person's soul to the devil; while others claim it is
acquired with the aid of evil spirits. The Hindu believes results are had with
the aid of The Divine Power, called by some, White Magi9.
Page 125
Voodooism
From the feverish jungles of Africa to America comes Voodooism, a form of
sorcery. The Voodoo Worshippers practice both black and white magic. The Voodoo
priest will perform weird dances and incantations to the incessant drumming of
tom-toms and whining sounds of a gourd fiddle played on by other Negroes. Chick-
ens, goats, cows and even humans are sacrificed at the crude altar made up of
bones. The throat of each is slit open. The body is dismembered and distributed
to the worshippers who believe they have been purified by it. Voodooism in the
South is practiced to heal as well as to kill. If an effigy repres ent s a sick
friend, all his friends join the high priest in entreating the ailing one to be-
come well. If an effigy represents an enemy, various torture methods are used
upon same in the hope that the original will suffer and die just as it is meant
that he should.
' \
There are two forms of Voodooism. The mild form, known as Obeah, and the
vi cious form known as Nanigo. Sacrifices at the altar by the Voodoo High Priests
are limited to roosters and black cats in the ritual of Obeah, while in the
Nanigo cult, devil worshipping is combined, and humans are sacrificed at the al-
tar. This accounts for so much kidnapping of children in vicinities where the
Nanigo cult prevails.
The Voodoo Curs.e
As a result of the voodoo curse, a hoodooed, witched, or conjured person
will usually experience bad luck or become mysteriously ill and pass away just
as the voodoo curse was meant that he should. Much of the power behind such a
curse, whether it be given by a Voodoo Priest, an "old hag, 11
a witch, or anyone
else, is mostly suggestion and the results are brought about by the a to-sugges-
tion of the individual that is cursed.
Recently a partially crazed man, believing himself to be God, pointed his
finger at another whom he met, and said, 11
You die. 11
The man, a total stranger,
apparently in good health a moment before he had the misfortune to cro s s the path
of the crazed man, dropped stone dead at his feet. The curse had done its work .
What was the
death in others?
tion which was
should.
power that this crazed man possessed that could produce sudden
It was the power of one mind over another. A powerful sugges-
accepted and acted upon just as the crazed man meant that it
A number of years ago the writer was called on the following cas~. The
facts are as follows. While having his fortune told by a Negro woman on South
State street in Chicago, a young man showed much interest in the art of crystal-
gazing. As a result, the fortune-teller loaned him some books on the sub ject of
crystal-gazing. With the promise that he would return the books safely, he
thanked her and departed. For some reason or other, he failed to return the
books within a reasonable time. The fortune-teller became angry. When the young
man's sister dropped in to have her fortune told by this fortune-teller, she was
told that unless her brother returned the books he would lose his power of
speech. The sister beca.'Uo frightened and upon arriving home conveyed the message
to her brother. He apparently accepted the threat as a joke and did nothing
about the matter. Some three weeks later he commenced to talk less. He talked
only when he was asked a direct question but not otherwise. A little later he
refused to pay attention to questions put to him and so replied to none. He
walked about as a man in deep thought. He seemed to age many years in but a few
weeks. When he commenced to show ~igns of insanity he was confined to an insti-
tution for the insane. It is unnecessary to go on with the story. It is here
given as an example to illustrate the power of a curse. The writer learned that
the borrowed books were either lost or stolen so could not be returned. To save
his face, the lad refused to see the fortune-teller or make good the loss. Feel-
ing guilty, he became susceptible to any suggestion from this source and so the
p1mishment, loss of speech, was accepted by him even when it was delivered to him
indirectly by his own sister. He soon lost his power of speech and mind too as a
result of the "curse" placed on him by an "old hag. 11
The old tales of witchcraft, while erroneously ascribed to supernatural
causes and forces, were actualities, and the psychic power of one mind over an-
other was manifested therein. The charms, pow-wows and other superstitious
Page 126
methods, while in themselves ridiculous and without effect, nevertheless enabled
the practit.!.0217:n:•s to concentrate their minds and powers upon other individuals.
Their power over the affected individuals was increased, of course, by the credu-
lity, belief, auto-suggestions of the latter. It was a case of direct, indirect
or telepathic psychic influence of one mind over anot iwr.
Love Sorcery
As in the practice of black-magic where the woman will concentrate her
hatred upon the image of the man who had jilted her, love sorcery is practiced in
much the same way. Instead of hatred, love is concentrated upon and directed
toward an image in an effort to influence the original. There are many ways of
doing this. Because most people believe that one who practices sorcery as a pro-
fession is more likely to procure results than one who is not experienced and
knows not all of the secrets, has caused sorcerers to charge their clients out-
rageous fees. The love sorcerer uses an effigy to represent the individual upon
whom he is to concentrate nightly for fifteen minutes to half an hour at each
sitting. If he is unable to visualize and does not personally know the person,
he will insist upon a photograph or something that belongs to the individual to
help him concentrate and try to bring about the desired change. Love sorcerers
are usually called upon to attract a lover, or bring back a strayed husband or
wife.
The power behind the mentioned methods and results that follow such are
mainly due to the power of concentrated mental force. That is, the ability of
the mind to set up vibrations which affect the individual upon whom they are fo-
cused. Because an effigy or photograph helps make concentration easier, is the
all-important reason for its use. Combining physical action with thought will
often bring about more rapid results.
Psychic Influence
There is a case recorded of an old German physician who was consulted by one
of his patients, a farmer, who complained of having his night's rest disturbed by
annoying sounds which reminded him of someone pounding iron. He was unable to
account for the phenomenon and sought to be relieved from what he considered to
be a delusion . The physician asked him whether he had any enemies, and he re-
plied that the village blacksmith, an old man of eccentric character, bore him
ill-will. The physician then visited the old blacksmith, and charged him with
using magical arts on the farmer. The old man, taken by surprise, admitted the
charge, and explained that he was justified in his actions, because the farmer
had once cheated him out of some money justly due him, and he was determined to
get even somehow. When asked what he did and how he did it, he replied, "I ham-
mer a bar of iron every night at the bewitching hour of zero, and at the same
time I think intently of the farmer, and see him in my imagination as having his
rest disturbed by my hammering. 11
The physician made the farmer pay his debt and
caused the blacksmith to desist. He also instructed the farmer in the art and
science of self-protection from psychical influences of this kind.
Self-Protection
We have learned that witchcraft, black-magic, voodooism, the curse and such,
all depend upon suggestion for results, whether it be given directly, indirectly
or by telepathic psychic means, makes little difference. In order that you may
always be master of yourself you must pay no attention to other than desirable
suggestions. This will automatically beat off and repel all undesirable influ-
ences. By sleeping with your head toward the north you will insure sound sleep
for yourself. Sleeping with head toward south, long life. Toward east, happi-
ness and prosperity. And, toward the west, a short life. Now that your eyes are
open to the ways and means of self-protection, you are stronger than anything
that can be employed against you.
Page 127
PART SEVENTY-TWO
H Y P N 0 - T I P S
The hypnotize d sub ject ha s done mor e to induce the condition than the opera-
tor did.
Suggestions are like seeds. You plant the s e s eed-suggestions and watch for
r e sults with gr eat i n t erest. Good cle an see ds produc e a good c l ean crop .
To this day a hypnotist is still l ooked upon as a man possessed of weird,
strange and p i ercing eye s. · Your p rel imi nar y succe s s is more assured i f you fo l-
low this pattern.
Under hypnosis a subject will n ot commit a cri:rrethat he would not commit
in h i s normal sta t e . If evil suggesti on s a r e r epeated often even the good may be
s e duced.
A vast number of students of psychology who have faithful l y fo l l owed
Dr. Lonk's teachings in this book have sent in sp ontaneou s ~estimonial s concern-
ing great mental, physical and material benef i ts received. With this, the thir d
editi on, the author wi ll be pleased to r e ce i ve other de clar a t ions where positive
good has been r e alized. This is not for h i s own gr atific ation but as a wi tness
to the value of his te a chings.
The average medical man does not usually make the best hypnoti s t . He no t
only lacks knowledge of the subjec t but h i s trai ning at college is such that he
learns to refuse to see any possibilitie s in anyt h i ng b eyond that t aught him
there. Ordinary individuals who de cide to make hypnotism their hobby, who put
their heart and soul into he aling because t hey are fas c inat ed by it and nQt be-
cause of the money in it, usually make the best hypnotists and healers.
It has b een proved that a powerful ray doe s emanat e from the eyes of an in-
dividual who is angry. This r ay very much r e s emble s t h e actinic or ch emical ray
produced by c ert ain quartz lamps. A moment ary glance of one who is angry, upon
l i ving yeast cells, h a s killed them . Therefore, "looking daggers" is a fact .
If some subject of yours tells you late r that he do e s
notized and that he carried out your suggesti on s b e c aus e
that he was in the first stages of hypnosis.
not think he was hyp -
he wanted to, prove s
If you keep within the bounds of reason , frequent hypnotization will not
prove detrimental to your subject.
A person who has once passed into the sta t e of auto - hypnosis can e a sil y pas s
i n to it any time in the future.
Hypnotism i s a quiet, restful and bene ficial condition very much s imil ar to
natural sleep.
A subject g iven suggestions of failing health an d death can be made serious -
ly ill and even made to die. The subconscious mind will work just a s hard on
suggestions for ill-health as for good health . It i s this type of s uggestion
that is used to frighten people into g iving t h eir last c ent to various so - called
relief agencies or foundations for research on dis eas e . "The thing t h at I have
feared hath come ·upon me," says Job. The way to f ight fe ar of any kind i s to
create such an overwhelming desire for the opposite thing t hat there s no room
for fear. Crime and disease presented in bold headlines by the sensational pres s
should receive a discriminating and righte ous condemnation .
Unless a subject is actually told t ha t a c ertain piece of apparatus will
hypnotize him, he will pass into a natural sleep . Al ways remember t o sugge st
that this or that piece of apparatus will hypnotize him bec ause it is a machine
or device for producing .hypnosis.
Always sa y to your subject, "I wi ll hypnotize you, " and not , "I wi l _
l t r y t o
hypnotize you."
~ quiet atmosphere is of much help with any method you may b e u sing .
Page 128
Prof. Stanley Sokettous, an early Lank student
demonstrates catalepsy under
hypnosis.
Page 129
Never let anyone know you are only a beginner. Give the impression t hat you
have much experience and know your business.
Your voice should be pleasing, soothing, confident and firm. After t he sub-
ject is in a hypnotic sleep you may change your voice as you see fit.
For greatest success it is essential that you thoroughly master the Hypnotic
Gaze as taught you elsewhere in this Manual.
You possess a hidden reservoir of great psychic strength which if exercised
will greatly thrill and fascinate you.
"En Masse," means "in body" or "in a crowd." The use of influence on a
crowd or a large number of people is often used by great leaders, st a tesmen,
politicians, newspaper publishers, et cetera. This influence must be us e d by all
who wish to succeed in any form of business or profession.
Beware of people who are always putting their hands on you, or p at ting or
stroking you, or -wishing to hold your hands a long time. Some people do this
from force of habit, and innocently, but others do so with intention of p roducing
a mild form of hypnotic influence upon you.
In magnetic healing or
the hands you will feel the
nervous systems.
induction of hypnosis with passes and strokings of
vibratory waves flowing from your hands i n to their
Bernheim 1 s definition of suggestibility is that it is a mental condition in
which suggestion has an exaggerated effect.
Indirect suggestion is a suggestion implanted into the subconscious mind at
an unexpected time and from an unexpected source. Indirect suggestion fol l owed
up by direct suggestion has remarkable power.
The word "hypnotism" was adopted by Braid at a time when he regarded himself
as the discoverer of a principle which embraced the whole science of induced
sleep. It is from the Greek word 11
hypnos," which broadly signifies sleep .
Anyone who tries to force himself to remember soon discovers how f'utile it
is. · Force locks the door to memory. Never concentrate on concentration if you
want results. Relax and depend upon your imagination. Imagine you soon will re-
call a certain thing you wish to remember and it will soon pop up without effort
or force.
Regression or retrogression is a word used in hypnotism for going or coming
back to past events in a subject's life. Good memories last a lifetime while un-
pleasant memories are soon forgotten. Under hypnosis a subject may. be ma de to re-
call anything in his past life. If the operator suggests that the subject is now
six years old, the subject will not only talk as he talked at the age of six but
will also write, walk, recall all his playmates of that age, et cetera. Com-
plexes of fear can be uncovered and brought out into daylight for examination and
cure of one who suffers because of such.
The essential thing in producing hypnosi~ in your subject is to hold his
undivided attention in one direction or on one thing long enough to tire one set
of nerves. If you tire the optic nerves and suggest sleep, sleep will f ollow al-
most immediately. This applies to the auditory nerves, sensory nerves, etc.
Psychology is the science of mental life, both of its phenomena and their
condition.
Women have proved more sensitive to suggestion than men.
boys. Blondes more than brunettes.
Girls more than
Anyone can learn to become a hypnotist if he merely learns to give sugges-
tions so they are accepted.
With the healing forces properly directed by suggestion, the living organism
is in itself normally able to cure all curable disorders.
Page 130
Our newspapers and radio broadcasts are filled with propaganda. Propaganda
is the scheme or plan to influence you and all others like you, to do as the
propagandist wants you to do. It is the power of influencing you to think their
way even if it is wrong and this it usually is. Propaganda raises millions and
billions of dollars, makes wars~ stops wars, makes us arm, then dis-arm and junk
our good ships, sell out our 'surplus" war material for a fraction of what it
cost us, and then again re-arm and re-manufacture that which we just got rid of so
the various manufacturers can make themselves a few more billions of dollars. A
charitable (?) organization will tell some city or . state that they met their quo-
ta of contributions last year and that they must not let it down this year but
must again meet the million or billion raised last year for it. Thousands upon
thousands of people are made to believe they are working for a good cause by can-
vassing the neighborhood for one or another of the various charitable (?) agen-
cies. Today the writer read an article in the April 1947 issue of the I.C.S.
News where both the Red Cross and the Welfare Agency refused cooperation where it
was needed most. The article is about Miss Elsie Bonhiver who had a chair pulled
out from under her and as a result of this prank became paralyzed. After making
the usual round of doctors she commenced to improve only after engaging the serv-
ices of a chiropractor. Her problem was to get to and from the chiropractor's
office for treatments. . The Red Cross and the Welfare Agency were both notified
of this service they could render. Both were willing until they learned that it
was to a chiropractor that Miss Bonhiver was to be taken. They then immediately
turned down the case and refused to have anything to do with it. The police of
Evanston, Illinois, stepped in and without contributions of millions of dollars
to any fund of theirs, see to it that this girl is receiving her regular chiro-
practic adjustment so that she may continue to improve as she is now doing. Our
hats off to the Evanston Police Force.
The September 1946 issue of "HEALTHWAYS" Magazine says that the Warming
Colors are Orange-Red such as Henna, Terra Cotta and Tangerine. It also says
that crying babies are soothed by Blue Light. You will no doubt want to subscribe
to an excellent health magazine that is loaded with health facts. The price is
but $2 for a full year of 12 issues. Address Healthways Magazine, National Build-
ing, Webster City, Iowa. (No, you don't have to mention you saw their ad in this
book. They did.not ask to have it advertised and this book is not accepting ads.)
Another item I want you to be put wise to is a book put out by the Columbia
Publishing Company, P.O. Box 1623, Washington, D.C. The title of the book is
"MEDICAL MUSSOLINI," price only $3 and worth it. This same concern also sells
the book, "WASHINGTON SQUIRREL CAGE," priced at $2. Both books will open your
eyes to many things you never believed possible.
If you want to know where cancer comes from and why the increase of syphilis
and other ill health you should procure a copy of the book titled "The Horrors of
Vaccination and Inoculation at Work," published by Dr. Vera L. Yoµng, 604 Joplin
National Bank Building, Joplin, Missouri. With clear photographs of actual cases
you will see how cancer develops following injections of the various serums
foisted upon the public. Write to Dr. Young for prices on this book. Procure a
copy and save yourself and others from cancer, syphilis and anterior poliomyeli-
tis (infantile paralysis).
11
100,000,000 Guinea Pigs" by Arthur Kallet and F. J. Schlink, and published
by Grosset and Dunlap is a low priced book that you should procure. It covers
the dangers in everyday foods, drugs, and cosmetics. This is a must item you
should have.
A copy of "Challenge to Germ Theory of Disease" by R~putable Doctors of
Medicine, will be sent you free for the asking if you will send your request to
Responsible Enterprises Association, 1232 Majestic Building, Detroit 26, Michi-
gan. As a thinker and believer in liberty you will also want their list of books
so that you can choose those of interest to you.
Page 131
Answers to Your Questions
No book or course of instruction has ever been written where the reader
finds every question answered that comes up in his mind. There is every reason
to believe that this book is no exception. There is also every reason to believe
that you may have a question or two, which, if answered, would give you much
satisfaction.
Because it takes both time and effort to answer letters from those who send
in questions, it has been found imperative to make a charge of $1 for such serv-
ice. Write your letter plainly, make your questions clear, enclose the required
fee of $1 (currency, stamps or money order) and also include a self-addressed and
stamped envelope for your reply. Such a letter will receive Dr . Lonk 1
s personal
attention. That which is a small amount of expense and trouble when divided
among many becomes a heavy burden when borne by one. For this reason your coop-
eration is requested when you write.
***
And so, dear student and friend, I conclude this Manual of Hypnotism. If
you have gained more knowledge as a r esult of carefully reading this book and
have gained greater success, health, happiness and prosperity by having put into
practical use the knowledge you have gained, then my efforts have not been in
vain. The oftener you read this book and apply my teachings, the greater will
your success be. Under no circumstances part with this book. Your entire future
depends upon this.
Fraternally yours,
Dr. Louk (himself)
N 0 T I C E
------
This book is sold for educational and entertainment purposes only without claim
to any supernatural· or occult power differing in any sense from the common gift to
humanity. It was written for the busy individual whose time is extremely valuable
and who cannot find time ·to wade through volumes of books seeking that which is
to be found so conveniently within the covers of this one book.
....... ... ... .... ... .... ...... ... ... ... ... ... ...
THANK ·YOU
BUT ONCE
I shall pass through this world but once. Any
good, therefore, that I can do, ol: any kindness that
I can show to any human being, let me do it now.
Let me not defer nor neglect it, for I shall not pass
this way again. DR. ADOLPH F. LONK
PALATINE, ILLINOIS
............ *"*' ................. .
Page 132
Stanley Sokettous here demonstrates anesthesta wtth twel~e ptns
stuck tnto subject's face.
(Pins were touched up by the author to cleartfy,)
Page 133
'"d
Pl
()Q
CD
I-'
C.N
,,,,..
Professor "lftllard D. Nordahl, professtonal hypnotist, student of hypnotism,
mentaltsm and magic, puts on an tnteresttng demonstratton of the sctence.
Note the excellent stage setttng.
Introduction by DR. HARLAN TARBELL
The Greatest and Most Comprehensive Book Ever
Written On Mentalism and Psychic Entertainment.
Every Phase of lh Operotion Is Exhaustively Treated I~
Detail. Here's New, Modern Streamlined Mentalism
for Profit and Fame.
STEP INTO THE LIMELIGHT OF MENTALISM
It's today'• smart, aophi.ticated entertainment. The clever mentalist j 1 ever in
demand. The fee1 are larger-the dividend1 bigger. The field i1 virsin and unlimited.
Rirht NOW a tremendous wave of intere1t is sweeping the country. Mental Enter-
tainment is ridins h.i1rh. Get in the awim NOW. This book tells you how.
A VAST ARRAY OF FULL STAGE
THEATRE PRESENTATIONS - RADIO
MEHTALISM- HIGHT CLUB PSYCHIC
ENTERTAINMENT-HOTEL AHO CLUB
MINDREADIHG - p RIV ATE OFFICE
R.EADIHG - SEANCE WORK - GHOST
SHOWS - HOROSCOPE SALES - MINO-
READIHG FOR FUN AHO PLEASURE-
APPARATUS AH D SECRET DEVICES
REVEALED IN PRINT AHO PICTURE
_METHODS OF FAMOUS STAGE AMD
RADIO MENTALISTS FULLY EX-
PLAINED- BOOKING- SALES-ADVER-
TISING AND EXPLOITATION - COM-
MERCIAL MIHDREADIHG FOR PROFIT,
PLUS HELSON HAHHE'S FOLIO Of
SEVEN HUMOROUS PENCIL SKETCHES
PORTRAYING MEHTALISM AHO ITS
SATELLITE CHARACTERS.
Ultra Smart Routines
Ultra modern mindreading rou-
tines for today's smart and sophis-
ticated audiences in smart clubs,
theatres, radio and private groups
.•. Including the author's own time
proven master system of mindread-
ing ••. Psychic entertainment ex-
plained in workable detail in all its
phases •.• Practically every knowct
method is brazenly exposed . • .
Easily applied and workable presen-
tations for all types of audience and
situations, whether it be for a small
home group, a mental interlude in
your present program or o complete
theatre presentation.
GUARDED SECRETS REVEALED
Each step is prorre11ively presented
and analyzed for your immediate use ..
Long aought, secretly ruarded and ne•er
before published information ... The
key to fame and fortune a& a succ..u-
ful mentalist . . . Menta lism in all ih
vast ramifications of yesterday, today
and tomorrow!
PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED
.The "HOW -TO DO . IT" BOOK
IT TELLS ALL! - IT TELLS HOW!
Complete expoae of old a nd new methods-take& you
behind the scenes and into the ment.alist's private dressing
room-into the smartest cocktail luun1es--onto the lecture
platform-into the inner circle of the 1eance room-past
the locked doors of the private office medium - into tho
aatrologer's study-and onto the pitchman's lot. It probes
E11erywhere ! .
IT'S DOLLARS IN THE BANK MENTALISM
Tells how to duplicate the feats and successes of famoua
menlalish-reveals the tremendous money makin1 po11ibili.
tiea--gives new fach a nd firures garnered from year• of
actual experience for your rreater succesa and profit.
THE AUTHOR'S UNIQUE POSITION
The author, Robert Nelson, has drawn upon hia 30 years of
actual experience to give you insii'ht into tho myateriea of Men-
tali1m and the A11ied Arts. For 23 yeara, Mr. Nelson has been
the guiding genius of the Nel1on Enterpriaea and haa produced
more mental attractions than any other man. He is recognized
aa an outsta ndinl' world a uthorily. For 14 years he directed and
managed the highly auccessful career of hia brother, Alla Rageh.
Seven years were &J:>ent on the Nation's leading ,'
radio •tations a• the famou1 "Voice of Destiny"
proaram, as well a• yeara behind the footlirhts,
readins the crystal. Mr. Nelaon'1 unique posi-
tion as a uthor, producer, performer a nd author-
ity i• your guarantee of the first truly rreat
hook on the inner aecrets of Mentali•m.
FACTS - NOT THEORY
Aa a result of the au lhor's vast experience, you get fa cts-aound worka ble ideas-
timo tested advice-information and wrinkle• from the school of experience-NOT
vi•ionary ideu or haph11.zard theory from tho uninitiat ed. Little subtle things that
create •ensat ion-worthy le11ona in showmanship that teach you how to achieve the
ultimate in thi1 field of endeavor.
Never Before Has Such a Complete and Authoritative Book on Mentalism
ond° the Allied Arts Been Published .. . The Profession Demanded It ..•
Quite Naturally~ the House of Nelson Creoted It, and Offer It to You for
Your Enlight'rnent and Glorification!
The Encyclopedia of Mentalism is on expertly printed book, on first
qualify enamel finished paper, profusely illustrated, bound in cloth and
stamped in gold, with art jacket. 2nd enlarged edition.
ORDER YOUR COPY NOW $J.oo
The
INNER SECRETS
of
PSYCHOLOGY
Written by
C. A. ALEXANDER
The World's Foremast Psychologist,
Author and Lecturer
5 Volumes - SO Lessons
One of the Most Complete and Authorative treatments ever given this
vital subject. The Course is written in view of giving each student Individual
Personal Instructions. A questionnaire at the end of each lesson gives the
student the benefit of the author's many years' of experience as a teacher.
Vol. 1. Creative Thought Power Vol. 3. Psychology of Sex
Val. 2. Personal Mognetism Vol. 4. Psychology of Health
Vol. 5. Astral-Plane Phenomena
Five Complete Volumes-Fifty Leasona-1022 Pare1. Vital Information £or the
Performer Who Wishes to Obtain an Authoritative Backrround of Real, Scientific
Knowledge. Build a solid foundation by real knowledre. Essential help for the •s-
rressive performer. Each book exquisitivcly printed, beautifu1ly bound in senuine
embossed Crain Karatol Leather, Cold Stamped.
FORMER PRICE $26.00
Special Offer-All Five V olumos...
ORIENTAL WISDOM
By C. ALEXANDER
WISDOM AND WONDERS OF THE ORIENT
UNVEILED BEFORE YOUR VERY EYES!
21 CHAPTERS - 557 PAGES
P a rtiR.I Contenb: Wisdom of the Orient - Marie: Black
and White • Oriental Mal'ic - Higher Hindu Marie • Science
of Pranayama - Rhythmic breathinr - Power of Prana •
Hindu Mental Control • Hindu Concentration - Hindu
Viaualization and Projection • Mantra - Yara - P1ychic
Jnfluencinl' -Silent P aychic Influence - P1ychic Broadcast-
inc - Oriental Psychic Healin1 • P sychic Contr ol - Yama -
Yosi Cosmology - Oriental Love Attraction - P1ychic Sclf-
Protection.
VALUABLE KNOWLEDGE AND INFORMATION
....$1 2.00
Beautifully bound in Cenuir..e Karatol Leather, gold &tamped. Former price. $10.00
OUR SPECIAL PRICE............$6. 00
OTHER BOOKS YOU SHOULD HAVE IN YOUR LIBRARY
PHYSICIAN IN THE HOUSE --by Dr. Greer. Cloth bound,
960 pages, eight volumes in one book. Covers dis-
ease, symptoms ·and remedies. Many illustrations.
.Highly recommended. No home should be without this
book. Be master of any situation when an accident
occurs or disease strikes. Price .. ....... . ......$5.
DISEASES OF WOMEN (for the general practitioner) by
Paul Titus, M.D., Obstetrician and Gynecologist
to St. Margaret Memorial Hospital, Pittsburgh, 320
pages, cloth, illustrated. Price ...............$3.
FRACTURES AND DISLOCATIONS by Philip Lewin, M.D. in.
TWO VOLUMES (not sold separately) 698 pages in
all,cloth, illustrated. Covers diagnosis and treat-
ment. Price per set (2 volumes) ................$6.
MODERN PHYSICIAN AND HOME MEDICAL GUID~ by G. N.
Gillum, M.D ., large volume, 716 pages, cloth, il-
lustrated. Covers practically every illness and
emergency man is heir to. Authoritative and de~
pendable. Price ................................ $5.
SUGGESTION AND HYPNOTISM MADE PRACTICAL by Dr. S.
Kahn, 219 pages, cloth. Teaches how to get what
you want. Covers auto-suggestions, suggestion in
medicine, in business, in rumot propaganda, actions
and re-actions. Price ...... . ...... ......•....... $4.
BRAIN WAVES by Rose J. Ballinger, 52 pages, cloth.
Explains how to utilize the brai·n to send health
vibrations to all parts of the human system, re-
building and rejuvenating worn-out cells, · starved
nerves and weakened muscles. Price ... ..........$2.
Remit by money order or currency by registered
letter. No personal checks or C.O.S. orders please. ,
Add 109 extra for shipping charges for each item.
DR. ADOLPH F. LONK
SOUTH PLUM GROVE RD., PALATINE, ILLINOIS, U.S.A.
Page 135
