{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__hammond___houdini_unmasked.pdf","mytitle":"Houdini Unmasked","mylang":"de"}
5 ~ * * r
D ED ICA TED TO TH E L I T E
Dr. GEORGE B. WARNE
HOUDINI UNM ASKED
B Y
WILLIAM ELLIOTT HAMMOND
D E D I C A T E D
TO T H E L A TE
Dr. George B. Warne, Pr esident of the American
Spir itualists for Seventeen Years
His personality will stand out through the ages to come
while the charlatans and tricksters will disappear, fade and
be forgotten. He was true to his task, and never considered
the petty sum of gold. He leaves no stain upon the ship
which he piloted for 17 years. Edgar A. Guest says—
Let cynics scoff and point the cleverer ways,
Let weak men for the base temptation fall;
Tricksters and sharpers have their little day,
But men with high ideals outlive them all.
Dr. Warne had a pride that purse could not supply; he had a high
ideal to which he clung, a goal ahead. He battled and sacrificed not
for the Spiritualism and mediumship “that is", but for what “it
should be.” He had not only the vision, the blue print, but all his
energy was spent in building the temple and making it a reality.
Never, in all the 17 years that 1 knew him, did he rise to such
heights as were his during the national convention last fall in Los
Angeles. He was the hub in the great banquet room, with the Mayor,
and representative of the Chamber of Commerce seated near him.
J. P. Whitwell, vice president of the N. S. A., a thirty-second degree
Mason; Otto von Bourg, internationally-known Swiss psychic and
myself just a few weeks before, during the Minnesota convention, had
seen the beloved giant all but collapse—we were silent, we feared—all
our fears vanished like mist before the rising sun; our Dr. Warne
was at his best. He amazed all with his singularly effective brilliance
and eloquence. The convention with its usual strain must have
burned all the sacred oil. Our last dinner together was in an impromptu
midnight lunch in a dreamy, Chinese court—Mr. and Mrs. Harold
Courtney were the hosts. Dr. Warne sat at the head of the table, and
he never looked more happy. The strain of the week was over, why
shouldn’t he be happy?
(1
)
DR. WARNE, AS AN ORATOR
As an orator Dr. George B. Wame had no equal in Spiritualism.
When you looked upon him for the first time in a great assembly, your
attention and interest became fixed on a tall figure, with clear-cut,
ascetic face, scholarly in bearing, sober, dry-eyed, didactic personality.
When he arose, that straight, level, self-contained look made no appeal,
and the thin, flexible lips seemed made to set inferior folk right in
no very gentle terms. After he was well launched in his subject, his
clear, carrying voice—rather rasping at times, owing, no doubt, to some
throat trouble—seemed to grip every listener and weave a vast aud­
ience into one man. He had a fiery oratory, at times he was cyclonic,
and at times he was master of assemblies.
Those who did not hear him when he was deeply stirred, and
dealing with a great theme before an expectant throng do not know
him at his highest and best. There were the sweep and grandeur of his
thought aglow with virility, sympathy, and abounding hope, and shot
through with color, fire and beauty of a poet, a thing of splendor.
He had a dangerous gift of humor, which sometimes sharpened into
satire, but he used it as a whip of cords to drive sham and unreality,
charlatans and tricksters out of the temple of truth.
He had a high command of great assemblies; his sympathies for
suffering humanity ran deep; I shall never forget his witchery of per­
sonality ; his knowledge of life from bottom to top was rare; his speech
was magnetic; he loved babies, dogs and cats; his mind was full of
color, a heart confident of God, and joyously loyal to his friends.
W. E. H.
H OU D I N I UNM A SK ED
BY
WILLIAM ELLIOTT HAMMOND
The well-known hand-cuff king, Houdini, is making great merri­
ment over the humbug in which so many mediums have been detected,
talking as if the whole thing were either deliberate fraud or crass
stupidity, and judicioiusly slurring over any inconvenient evidence that
is not quite so easy to explain away.
Sometimes it looks as if Houdini’s idea in talking about psychic
phenomena is seldom to arrive at the truth, but most often to get the
better of his opponent, and when he fails to do this, instead of thanking
the other man for putting him right, he loses his temper with him and
tries to carry his point by violence. After hearing him many times
and reading all that he has to say to the public about psychic phen­
omena, one is profoundly convinced that Houdini is thinking in a
passion.
We spiritualists accuse Houdini of giving the public a false aspect
of Spiritualism as a religion. We realize that human nature and the
human mind are frail. This is illustrated by the fact that England
accuses American movies of giving a false aspect of British life and
manners. The House of Commons, recently heard a version of the
complaint often raised by the English papers that our pitctures give
an entirely false impression.
But whether the grounds on which we Spiritualists base our know­
ledge are actually false, or merely part of the truth, the fact remains
that hardly ever, in ordinary life, does any one attempt, in the noble
phrase of Matthew Arnold (who was far from living up to it) to see
life steadily and see it whole.
As a proof of the foregoing, take up any newspaper or magazine,
the latest book, a novel, a story of American Indian life—examine a
carefully edited biography, a political or social treatise, history of the
World War, Darwin, evolution, Einstein, and you will not be long in
discovering that the average human mind does not even attempt to
see or think about reality, that its opinions are dictated by its pas­
sions; so says no less an authority than Dr. Stratford, and the truth
has to accomodate itself thereto.
The first thing that Houdini does with any information that his
(3)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
senses give him while in a spiritualistic seance room is to distort it to
suit his own wishes, and then acts as if the distorted version were the
true one. If he is to achieve the supreme task of putting himself right
with reality, he must address himself to the reformation of his own
mind.
Houdini reminds one of Dr. Johnson, the “grand Cham” of
English letters; for all his uprightness and lucidity, he possessed a
mind wholly incapable of realizing the difference between “what is”,
and what he “wanted to be.”
When he reported the debates in Parliament he confessed, not
without a certain humorous satisfaction, that he did not allow the Whig
dogs to have the best of it. It would never have occurred to him to
say, “Sir, so addicted is the heart of man to the practice of falsehood,
that I will neither endure to perceive, nor suffer others to become
acquainted with, any particle of truth or reason tending to the detri­
ment of those opinions that my prejudices and passions have imposed
upon me.” And yet this would have been ho less than true, according
to that splendid writer, Esme Wingfield—Stratford, C .SC., ex-fellow
King’s, Cambridge, author of “The Reconstruction of Mind.”
With Houdini “truth” is what he “wants it to be”, and anybody
who thinks differently is an object of passionate hatred. He calls the
former president of the British Association for the Advancement of
Science (probably the most learned body of men in the world), Sir
Oliver Lodge, an “imbecile” and publicly insinuates a mental weakness
with a world-war surgeon, man of letters, Sir. Conan Doyle, and in
thenext breath congratulates himself on having a “normal” mind. Some
of us fear Houdini will never be able to eliminate the personal element,
to think, as we say, dispassionately.
We are all groping in the dark for truth, in Heaven’s name let
us sit down and see what help any one of us can give to the others.
It is probable that none of us is quite correctly informed about the
management of this universe around us.
The reasoning by which Houdini is confirming his convictions is
based upon the process of allowing his desires to select the facts. An
old-fashioned abolishionist and an anti-abolishionist can reason them­
selves each into a fury of non-compromise by selecting from the early
history of the Civil War only those facts that suit him. One side
sees one set of facts and the opposite side another, and these are the
only facts allowed to be dwelt upon in their respective minds.
A psychologist of note says, “A tremendous power has the human
(4)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
mind of distorting the truth, once its desires or fears are engaged.”
Passion not only picks and chooses among' the facts, but actually fals­
ifies and invents. We shall present the facts in the following incident
and allow the reader to form his own impression; but to some of us,
it looks as if Houdini deliberately attempted to fan hatred against
Spiritualists by referring to the murderer, Frank McDowell, Clear­
water, Florida. Houdini in his syndicated articles attacking Spiritual­
ism, articles which have been published all over the States, reads:
“GHOST OF CRIME AND POVERTY STALK IN WAKE
OF SPIRITUALISM”
“A boy in Clearwater, Florida, named Frank McDowell, heard voices
telling him to kill his two sisters, and a year afterward to the very
day, told him to kill his father and mother, which he did. You never
hear the Spiritualists tell you of crimes committed by these people.
This is the sad part of it.”
CORRESPONDENCE WITH ROY BOOTH, SHERIFF
PINELLAS COUNTY
A recent inquiry brought the information from the sheriff of
Pinellas County, Roy Booth, that this-crime took place in Clearwater,
Florida, February, 1924. After exhausting bundle after bundle of ‘‘The
Evening Independent”, St. Petersburg’s leading paper, and consulting
friends of the McDowell family we find that the lad is in the Insane
Asylum, Chattahoochee, Florida. We would like Houdini to take notice
that the local paper, giving all details of the crime and trial do not
once mention the words; medium, spirits, spirit voices, spiritism or
spiritualism. Further let it be known to the public that this lad was
referred to all through the trial as a ‘‘religious fanatic.” He himself
said, “I do not believe in a hereafter.” Yet Houdini says, “You never
hear the Spiritualists tell you of crimes committed by these people.
This is the sad part of i t ” Well, here is one time when a Spiritualist
will tell about this kind of crime.
“THE EVENING INDEPENDENT”, St. Petersburg, Florida,
Thursday, February’ 21, 1924.
“That Frank McDowell, confessed slayer of four members of his
family to atone for a sin he says he committed against the Holy Ghost
planned to kill by drowning a girl he knew years ago in Georgia
who was his childhood sweetheart.
“In his letter that was found on the bed between his murdered
(5)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
f ather and mother, placed there af ter he shot them, according to his
confession, he spoke of three sacraflces that w ere to be made by him
.and said that one was by fire, one by blood and one by w ater. T he first
sacrafice was by fire, when he burned to death his two sisters. The
second was by blood when he shot his parents in their home, and the
third was by w ater, the drowning of his childhood sw eetheart.
“ Frank M cDowell’s loss of f aith in the religion of his f ather and
his mother, who w ere consistent members of the B aptist church, w as
due, i t was stated today by friends, to the teaching of an infidel pro­
fessor in Emory college, who is now dead. This man, friends of
M cDowell’s stated, was an infidel and taught infidelity in his classes un­
til the college authorities learned of it. Frank w as an intim ate friend
and follower of this professor.
I t was only when he talked on religion that he
showed traces of the odd streak that developed into actual insanity.
* * | W hen he w as 10 years old he met a young girl, whom
he loved very dearly. Today there is no one in the w orld whom he
loves more. W hen he was 12 years old, on the 19th of February, he
became very angry and committed an unpardonable sin, the sin of
blasphemy of the Holy Ghost, according to w hat he then believed, but
which he claims he looks now upon w ith another light. T he littl e girl,
who lived at the big hotel in his home town, w as to visit him on that
day. She came, i t was a great day in his life. H e almost forgot the
blasphemy, but two years later, while at school in a M ethodist college,
he learned how great his crime was.
TALKED ATONEMENT
“ My teachers talked about atonement f or sin. They told me I
must clean myself by fire, by blood and by w ater, to break any chains
which bound me to sin. From that day on, I have alw ays had an idea
of cleaning my soul by fire, by blood, by w ater.
A ny professor at any of the best colleges w ill tell
you that the entire social system is wrong. Read the w orks of Prof.
John Dewey or any other professor at Columbia. Columbia college
today is the most advanced radical institution in the world. I have
learned from these great minds, but I have learned more from my
inner self. I may appear egotistical, but I skipped two classes at school,
I took my college examinations w hen in the last year at high school
and entered Emery college at D ecatur, Ga., at 14. L ater I w ent to
(6
)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
George Washington college, at Washington, D. C. The first was a
Methodist, the second a Baptist”
It is most shocking to learn that this boy’s religions training
—Methodist and Baptist—combined with a college education would turn
out such a one, but those who are acquainted with the study of insanity
know that it is not the training, but the mind or lack of mind, that
is the real cause of insanity.
After the foregoing, is it not just to ask: “Why, Mister Houdini,
did you wish to give the public the false impression that this crime
was in any way connected with Spiritualism?”
Letters from Florida inform me of the fact that there is a Spirit­
ualist church in St. Petersburg connected with the National Spiritualist
Association, but this lad never attended, never consulted a medium and
knew nothing about Spiritualism and as hesays himself, did not believe
in a hereafter.
Rev. Charles L. Tweedale, F. R. A. S
., vicar of Weston, England,
author of a voluminous and impressive work, “Man’s Survival After
Death,” and a clergyman of the Baptist faith says:
“The statements so often made that spiritualists are especially
liable to insanity is entirely false. What are the facts? According to
the ‘British Medical Journal’ out of 14,500 cases of insanity examinend
in the United States in 1878, only four were attributed to Spiritualism
—a proportion of one in 3,837—but there were many cases put down to
“religious mania,” among the Orthodox, including a number of min­
isters of religion. In England, between 1878 and 1887, there were
attributed to “religious mania,” among the Orthodox a proportion of
one in 37, just a hundred times as many!
“Much the same state of affairs exists at the present day, and
there are scores of insane Orthodox for every insane Spiritualist.”
Of course, all sections of the community are liable to insanity.
Even clergy and ministers, are no exception. On this head I could
give statistics fiom recent reports of the lunacy commissioners which
would astonish those who glibly talk about lunatic Spiritualists. En­
quiries recently directed to the board of lunacy control elicited the
reply that “they were unable to refer to any statistics which would
be applicable to the allegation that devotion to Spiritualism is a fre­
quent source of lunacy.’
One would readily suppose from the attacks of Houdini that the
spiritualistic message was something blasphemous and obscene, which
(7)
H O T
J D N I U N M A S K E D
was nut forward by unprincipled teachers with some ulterior and selfish
motive. It is met by the most unscientific technique, the most wild
denials the most- grotesque explanations, the most desperate and
occasionally unprincipled efforts to discredit everyone concerned. Why
this furious antagonism, which unites for once inveterate enemies:
the believer in ritual, the Protestant sectarian and the rationalist
agnostic? Have we brought ill news to the world? When we have
carried our point, and it is universally accepted, will the world be
the worse for it? It is the obscurity of death, the cold uncertainty of
it, which casts a shadow on life. There is nothing in the teaching of
spiritualism to arouse frenzied opposition.
The greatest problem that confronts spiritualism as an organization
is the “sifting of the wheat from the chaff." We don’t need Houdini
to tell us who are the fakers, we know them and their names are on file
at national headquarters, Washington, D. C. The lady exposed by him
in her famous “card trick’ was exposed by our National Association
twenty years ago in St. Louis, Mo. j the lady from Indiana, whom he
called the “queen of mediums," has never had the endorsement of the
National, has never appeared on their programs; P. L. O. A. Keeler
did not hold any papers of any kind from the National Association en­
dorsing his “slate-writing.”
Human nature is weak; as long as we continue to have men who
wiii claim to be “Rabbis", who will wear the robes of priests without
the endorsement of the authorized body; as long as we have in our
midst “quack” doctors, “swindling” lawyers, “fake” stock salesmen,
“Tea Pot Domes”, M. D. and Ph.D. “diploma” mills—all human vultures,
just so long will we have mercenary, unscrupulous individuals who will
pose as mediums for the sake of making a few dollars, as did Harry
Weiss (Houdini) when he traveled with the Davenport brothers and
did thricks before large audiences for money. Honest mediums are
retiring folks and do not care to have their names appear on Broadway
in white lights.
It would be a mistake to suppose that spiritualism is altogether
a bad thing because it has many errors, it is not necessarily all fraud
because it is profitable to some mediums. ' Every religion under the sun
has had to contend with and solve innumerable errors, and every
doctor in the world practices pious frauds daily, seldom solely for his
personally private ends.
Sincere seekers after the truth and honest believers in sipirtualism
I (8)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
who would find consolation in communication with departed friends
are entitled to all respect and sympathy, but no language is sufficiently
severe to condemn those who would capitalize these noble feelings of
the human heart and cruelly deceive those who morn.
Houdini is helping the world to get rid of its fake mediums, but
spiritualists are the ones who are doing the actual and efficient work
to protect the public. Houdini exposes them, and quits there. The
exposed medium continues on with his bogus phenomena and satisfies
his faithful following. Houdini receives a little publicity and then it
ends there. The late president of American spiritualism, George B.
Warne, M. D., gaveup a medical practiceand devoted hislife to piloting
the National Spiritualist Association; .He served seventeen years, and
died in the harness. His salary was small. We laid him down like
a banner torn in battle. Death found him as he faced his*foes, clear­
eyed and unafraid.
Upon the subject of “Fraud” we find the following in his last
PRESIDENT’S ANNUAL REPORT TO 32nd SPIRITUALISTIC
CONVENTION.
Greetings of the Official Board of the N. S. A. to the Officers, Del­
egates and Visitors at the Gathering in Los Angeles, Sept. 23rd., 1924.
(Section 2)
Since our convention of 1923 Scientific American’s Commission has
patiently pursued its assigned task. At first some noxious weeds were
found growing in the field of mediumship. Presumptuous purveyors
of psychic powers have deceived themselves at times, and then their
fellows, until trained experts have made plain their unfortunate un­
reliability. Again brazen simulators have been made to stand forth in
the repulsive nakedness of their actual character and the pathway to
truth has been thereby cleared of some accumulated debris of barfaced
trickery.
He, or she, is indeed a thoughtless Spiritualist and an unworthy
medium who dares to whine that any exposure of deception in our
name is doing an injury to Spiritualism. Growth of sympathetic sent­
iment and development of personal mediumship are primarily depend­
ent upon the highest possible degree of honesty and accuracy in every
single manifestation of i t
Phrophetic were Abraham Lincoln’s words that our nation could
not endure half slave and half free, for it would eventually become
either all one or the other. Just as true is the parallel deduction that
(0 )
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
Spiritualism cannot Increase its prestige if deliberate deception is
allowed to thrive beside reputable mediumship, for it will of necessity
be dominated by one or the other of those qualities.
We will face a credible future only by heroic excision of every
method that is hollow pretense under its seemingly candid exterior.
As a people we know that one nugget of gold is proof of the
existence of many other mediums like in kind. Let us also keep in
mind that Iron Pyrites, or “Fool’s Gold”, may often appear to be the
real thing and change the eager prospector’s anticipation of fabulous
wealth into an abject despair.
In Fraternal Fellowship,
George B. Warne, President
National Spiritualist Association
Of the United States of America.
Houdini says, “I have no desire to spread false propaganda and if
wrong, will be delighted to be corrected.” After receiving letters from
him (which were published by him in local papers), challenges, etc.,
I mailed him the following letter (extracts are given), and hold at this
time a registered return slip proving that he received same:
My Dear Mr. Houdini:
After all the mean things you say about Spiritualism—
which to me is my life—as Magic is yours—I want to be friendly with
you. I hold nothing against you, personally, but I ruthlessly condemn
your acts, the things you do, your unethical and unscientific method of
attacking another man’s religion.
You do not seem to take into consideration that some of us
have been born in Spiritualism—not duped into it when old men we
have been reared in its schools for religious education, trained in its
national institute for religious leadership (located in Wisconsin) and
have devoted and consecrated our lives to the religious aspect of this
movement.
You thanked me for being so courteous as to answer
your letter when you were in Wheeling, W. Va„ last September and
for my personal appearance at the Court Theatre—now it is my turn
to expect this same courtesy from you.
May I ask you to explain the following inconsistency?
When you appeared at the Alvin Theatre, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, you emphasized in your talk and had published in your
program which I have before me, these words, “That there is no mistake
(1 0 )
H O P P 1 N 1 U N M A S E D
in Houdinrs attitude, he wishes it to be thoroughly and eleariy under­
stood that he is not attacking any religion in any way. He is not
a skeptic and respects genuine believers. He is simply exposing the
fraudulent mediums. 6
I , Then you give out this statement which I defy youto deny
having said: Tell thepeoplethat all I am trying to do isto save them
from being tricked in their griefs and sorrows; and to persuade them to
LEAVE SPIRITUALISM ALONE AND TO TAKE UP SOME GEN­
UINE RELIGION.”
The best chess players sometimes make the wrong move.
Did you by so many words expose your insincerity? Am I and the
reading public to understand that it was a “slip" that has exposed
your plot against a religious organization that is chartered and pro­
tected by the Constitution of the United States of America? Do you
know that Father Conway, a Roman Catholic authority, gives on page
145 of his book “The Question Box” this information: “There are
in thiscountry alonesometenmillionadherents(to Spiritualism).’’Spirit­
ualism is the only religious organization in all the world that is free
from the slavery of authority. We have no Pope, no Book, no Person,
no House of Bishops, no (enslaving) Board of Directors, no Synod,
no Church Council to enslave our thinking and tell us what to believe
and what not to believe. We are not bound and confined like the
liberals to the New Testament, like Unitarian’s theological students to
the interpretation of immortality, as it wasgiven 100yearsago by Chan-
ning, nor to the aged conception of God as it was given by Theo. Parker.
Thanks to Old Glory! We Spiritualists are free to think
and use our reason on all of these questions. You would legislate and
take this freedom away from us.
You speak of a “genuine religion.” Will you be as court­
eous, as you said I was to you, and write me your definition of a
“genuine religion?”
We, Spiritualists, know that our religion will live on into
the far future in spite of all opposition and the organized effort headed
by you because it has within it the following immortal principles:
(1) The free spirit, (2) seeking through scientific truth,
(3) to enlarge and perfect life, (4) in termsof universal fellowship, (5)
we beiive in the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man, (6)
the Golden Rule.
(11)
H O U D I N I U N M A S K E D
Mr. Houdini, what criticism do you have to make of the
foregoing principles for which many a one is giving his life’s blood and
all his energy? We expect nothing in return and are hardly making
living expenses. How much are you making?
As a national lecturer, I am speaking to thousands all over
this country and leave next fall for a European lecture tour. It
would be well for you to take advantage of the opportunity to make
your position clear to one who is naturally called upon to express
himself upon such famous American personages as yourself.
Yours truly,
A seeker of Light and Truth,
(Signed) WILLIAM E. HAMMOND
The above letter remains at the present unanswered.
HOUDINI’S CHALLENGES
Houdini is famous for his challenges which have so many strings,
ifs, ands, and buts, to them that they do not mean much when they
have been carefully analyzed. At the Day of Judgment Houdini will
challenge Gabriel for $10,000 to blow the trumpet by magic better than
the Archangel can blow it.
HOUDINI’S INCONSISTENCIES
To many of us, Houdini is so inconsistent with his inconsistencies
that he does not know that he is inconsistent. One of these incon­
sistencies and the most grotesque explanation of the phenomena of the
seance room is given in “Liberty,” November 28th, 1925.
He tells of a spirit, John Meeker, coming in a seance room and
leaving his finger prints. No doubt, the lampblack was placed on the
trumpet by Houdini to catch the medium, to trick her into registering
her finger prints, in case she handled the trumpet. When the lights
were turned on, human finger prints, their every ridge and whirl dis­
tinct, were found upon it. The medium claimed they had been left by
John Meeker, the drowned son.
John had had finger prints taken: once when he entered the Army
and once when he applied for the bonus. The father made a special
trip to Washington to compare finger prints with the governmental
digital .records. He found the two sets of finger prints identical.
To this unusually strong and evidential message, Houdini insults
intellegence by giving this absurd and ridiculous explanation:
H
H O V D I N
P N M A S K E D
I I 8mf
ed‘" “ ’ p | medlum’s assistant, obtainsa position In an under-
taking estabUshment and eventually findsan opportunity to make pias-
ter of Paris molds of the fingers of one or several of the dead there
These molds are filled with a rubberUke substance which hardens Into
exact replicas of the dead hands, even to the tiniest scrolls on the finger
tips. Of course, mediums choose only those among the dead whose
finger prints are on file. In the darkness of the seance the rubber
duplicate Is pressed upon the lampblacked trumpet."
The foregoing is a fair example of all the explanations given by
Houdinl. Could anything be more absurd? We cite it as proof of onr
assertion that he is thinking In a passion; therefore, unable and in-
capable of straight-thinking.
In regard to the future of Spiritualism, we turn to the great
Ghanning, who preached the year before his death a sermon on “The
Church.” With prophetic words, he closed that sermon in these words:
“My friends, I know that I am addressing those who hold various
opinions as to the controverted points of theology. We have grown up
under different influences. We bear different names. But if we pur­
pose solemnly to do God’s will . . . we are one church and let
nothing divide us For varieties are not schisms
We may still honor, and love and rejoice in one another’s spiritual life
and progress as truly as if we were cast into one and the same un­
yielding form In many great truths, in those which are
most quickening, purifying and consoling, we all, I hope, agree. There
is, too, a common ground of practice on which we may all meet. We
may all unite hearts and hands in doing good, in toiling and suffering
for the cause of humanity, in spreading intelligence, freedom and virtue
- in exploring and drying up the sources of poverty,
in breaking the yoke of the oppressed and enslaved, in ex­
posing and withstanding the horrors of war. TI-IE ANGELS AND
PURE SPIRITS WHO VISIT OIJR EARTH COME NOT TO JOIN A
SECT BUT TO DO GOOD TO ALL. MAY THIS UNIVERSAL
CHARITY DESCEND ON US, AND POSSESS OUR HEARTS!”
FREEDOM OF RELIGION
FREEDOM OF SPEECH
FREEDOM OF PRESS
The Spiritualists of America—ten million strong—reaffirm their ad-
erence and devotion to those cardinal principles contained in the
institution and the precepts upon which our Government is founded.
(13)
H O U D N I U N M A S K E D
Our enemies seem to say, “Be ready, gods, with all your thunder­
bolts; Dash (them) to pieces.” Or again, “Thou shalt be whipp’d with
wire, and stewed in brine, smarting in lingering pickle!”
The Crusaders and Houdini will live to learn that we Spiritualists
are in this contest, struggle, war or fight—what ever one wishes to call
it—and we intend to stay in it until the end. We will go down if we
must, but we shall do so with our colors flying!!
America is a cosmopolitan democracy in which we find Catholics
and Protestants, Jews and Gentiles, Mohammedans and Buddhists,
blacks and whites, materialists and spiritualists—we like to feel that
there are some who still breathe the Yankee spirit of the men who went
down to the sea in ships, held their course against the fiercest storms
and returned with the full hatches.
We say to our professional enemies, “let slip the dogs of war” and
give battle. You shall find the leaders of Spiritualism inspired by
the words of Roosevelt—Aggressive fighting for the Right is the noblest
sport the world affords.
“Charge, Chester, charge! On, Stanley, on?”
VICTORY IS OURS FOR THE FIGHTING !
FINIS
1
