{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1947__fillmore___new_ways_to_solve_old_problems.pdf","mytitle":"New Ways To Solve Old Problems","mylang":"de"}
New Ways to Solve
Old Problems
by
LOWELL FILLMORE
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
KANSAS CITY 6, MO.
1947
This is a standard Unity book,
which first
appeared in 1938.
FOREWORD
In presenting this book I wish to
express my
deep appreciation to the many who have helped
make it
possible; first to the Spirit of truth for
guidance, and next to my father and mother
Charles and Myrtle Fillmore, who since I was
a little child inspired me by their consecrated
lives and spiritual ideals. They steadfastly made
practical application of spiritual principles. I
am thankful to many teachers and livers of
Truth who have for years been sharing their
rich ideas with me, and I owe much gratitude
to my associates in the Unity movement for their
suggestions, good will, and loving co-operation.
To my readers and subscribers everywhere I am
indebted for their good will, words of appre-
ciation, and helpful letters concerning these
writings. These good friends, readers of Weekly
Unityj
have encouraged my efforts as the essays
have appeared. Their favorable comments on
the ones reprinted here have helped the pub-
lishers to make selections for this book from
more than the thousand articles that
appeared
during the past
several years in the column,
Things to Be Remembered.
Each essay or "Remember," as it is called, is
usually based upon some personal experience
or some experience of others that has come
under my observation. All are written for the
purpose of showing how human problems can
be solved in a practical way by co-operation
with the higher powers of Spirit,
With each
chapter or lesson a set of seven meditations to
cover a week's period of application
has been
provided. These meditations are to
help the
reader make practical
use in his life and affairs
of the ideas in the lesson.
I am trusting that this book will aid you,
dear reader, to effect a doser unity with the
Christ
power that dwells within you, and that
through that
power you will find the true joy of
living in health, happiness, and prosperity.
~T&
Kansas Ctty, Mo.
March, 1939
Contents
Foreword 3
SECTION I
Getting Acquainted with God
1. The Riches of God - - - -
7
2.
Using God's Riches - - - - 13
3. Trusting in God's Wisdom - -
-.19
4. Faith the Magic Wand - - - 24
5. The Power of the Word - - - 28
SECTION II Practical Prayer
6. Prayer in Action 32
7. Honest Prayer 37
8.
Helping Others through Prayer
- -
43
9. The Power of Blessing
- - - 48
SECTION III New Views of an Old World
10. Living Now 53
11. Freeing Yourself from the Past - -
58
12. Taking Care of the Future - - -
62
13. Getting Justice 67
14. Overcoming Hate 72
15- Your Divine Birthright 77
16. Bless Your Money 83
SECTION IV Looking at Yourself
17. How to Relax 89
18.
Setting Yourself Free - - - -
95
19. Overcoming Loneliness - - - -
99
20. Your True Home 103
21. Rename Your Enemies - - - - 108
22. Leave It with God 113
SECTION V The Usefulness of Truth
23. Thinking for
Prosperity
- - - 118
24. Christ the Way 125
25. Spirit, Soul, and Body
- - -
133
26. The Body of Christ 138
27. A Personal God 143
28. The Blood of Christ 149
29. Physicians and Prayers
- - - -
154
30. The Power of Nonresistance - -
161
31. There Is No Adverse Law - - - 166
SECTION VI Helping Others
32. Just Another Mother - - - -
170
33. Helping Children 176
34. Trusting in
People
- - - -
182
35. Freeing Our Friends - - - -
187
Section I
GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH GOD
The Riches of God
MORE
GOOD things have been prepared for you
than you will ever be able even to imagine.
The problem of human welfare is not
lack of supply, but how to make use of the abun-
dant supply that has been provided.
All good things come from one source, God. Be-
cause God is infinite He means much more to you
than you comprehend. As you grow in wisdom and
love God's importance will be revealed to you in an
ever-widening vision, and His blessings will become
more tangible in your life. As you develop your
abilities by good works God will become more won-
derful to you. The more you prove Him the better
you will understand Him. As you grow in under-
standing of spiritual
Truth God will grow more
wonderful in your life. Life, love, peace, power,
and plenty, all of which have their source in God,
will grow for you as you praise Him. It is
good for
you to praise God, for praising increases your ability
to accept God in a larger way.
It is necessary for us to praise God in order to
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
increase our consciousness of His glory and power.
By praising God we expand our consciousness o
His presence until it fills our entire life with ra-
diance and beauty. God's glory has existed from
the beginning of time. We cannot subtract from or
add to it, but we can increase our own understand-
ing and appreciation of that glory through our
practice of praise and thanksgiving and faith. You
do not praise God in order to flatter Him, as you
would praise a vain monarch, but you praise Him
to bring more of His beauty before you, to discover
a larger measure of His joy, life, and beauty. Praise
develops the muscles of your inner power of dis-
cernment, thus aiding you to appreciate in larger
measure the blessings that He has prepared for you
from the beginning of the world.
By giving our best thought and attention in the
past to the things of the manifest world our men-
tality has become so involved in these things that
we are disturbed by changes that occur to them.
We can lift our consciousness out of the entangle-
ments of such worldly troubles by transferring our
attention to God's goodness.
When you express what faith you have, it will
grow. By faithful, thoughtful, devoted practice you
can increase your faith in the power and goodness
of God to such a wonderful degree that no in-
cident or happening in the outer world of affairs
can shake your peace of mind. Try to attain the
consciousness where you absolutely know that God
is
omnipresent good, love, life, wisdom, protection.
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Cultivate unshakable faith in ever-present good.
Know that it is
impossible for God to bring any-
thing but good into your life. Have no fear of His
will's being done in you, for His will is the will of
a loving Father. Understanding this truth, you will
not be afraid of anything in the world. When you
have put yourself and your affairs in God's hands,
when you have made yourself know that you can
have nothing but good from Him, then only good
will be yours.
If anything comes into your life that is less than
good, it does not come from God. Train yourself
to know that you are worthy of receiving God's good.
Be meek and humble of course, but remember that
when you are meek and humble your mind is
emp-
tied of all vain thoughts and there is therefore room
in it to receive God thoughts. Have faith that no
evil can come to you since God is on your side.
Know that He is on your side because you are on
His side. You are on His side when you abide with
Him in faith, love, and understanding.
One who is poised in the consciousness of God's
presence cannot possibly be upset by changing con-
ditions in the world of affairs. He will actually have
power over mere things even as Jesus had power
over the storm and the demons.
When something disturbing happens, just wait
a moment before you explode. Quietly realize the
presence of God and say, "Peace." Know that you
are in the presence of divine wisdom and power,
and you will be shown what to do without losing
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
your poise and peace. If you become angry, remem-
ber it is because you have forgotten that God is
peace. If you are worried, it is an admission that
you have forgotten that you have placed your af-
fairs in God's hands. If you are jealous, it is because
you have forgotten that God supplies you with all
that you are able to receive and use. If your feelings
are hurt, it is because you have forgotten that God
is love. If you are discouraged, it is because you have
forgotten that God can do all things. If you are
sick, it is because you have forgotten that God is
your health. Do not try to use God's power to make
things happen. Do not try to exercise your faith in
God in order to make anyone do what you think
is best for him. Use your faith to know that God is
working in perfect love in the affairs of those you
have in mind and that only good can come into
their life. God's blessings include health, happiness,
prosperity, but remember that you should not try
to force any of these blessings upon unwilling re-
cipients. Even God does not do this. Do not pray
that your friend shall go to some particular church
or do some other thing that you think is right and
proper for him to do. Put your friends and your-
self in the keeping of divine law, and stop worrying.
One who becomes zealous even in the interest of
the Unity teachings may feel that he is
doing right
to pray that other members of his family may think
as he thinks. This is not the correct use of divine
power. Pray that the members of your family may
be in God's hands and that your selfish thoughts
10
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
about them or their selfish thoughts about them-
selves may not prevent His perfect love from working
in and through them. They have as good a right to
their personal beliefs as you have to yours. You both
may need a new understanding of righteousness.
Let us not therefore worry about the shortcom-
ings of people, but spend our best energies in grow-
ing into a larger appreciation of God's expression
in our own life. As we do this the understanding
of many things will unfold in our mind so that we
become able to demonstrate a more perfect way by
our own behavior before others ;
or perhaps we may
find that they can show us a better way.
If we are not poised, it is a sign that we need a
little more faith in God's peace and harmony, which
are omnipresent. If we are upset, it is often because
we personally are trying to regulate things that are
none of our business. Let us rather settle back, let
go of the trials and troubles of the world, take a
deep breath, and thank God for His goodness.
Let God help you. You will find that things are
not so bad as you think they are. Beauty and good-
ness are all about you. Get an eyeful of these and
rejoice!
11
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I
praise God for His loving-kindness.
MONDAY
In quietness and confidence I seek God with my
whole heart, knowing that I shall find Him very near.
TUESDAY
I know that only good can come from God.
WEDNESDAY
Because I love God with my whole heart, mind, and
strength, there is nothing left in me that will sup-
port thoughts of fear.
THURSDAY
I am poised and centered in God's love.
FRIDAY
Nothing can disturb me, for I abide securely in God's
peace and love.
SATURDAY
I am guided and prospered by infinite wisdom and
love.
12
Using God's Riches
EVERYONE
can see much further than he can
jump.
We all are able to perceive more Truth
than we can apply. Many of us seem to understand
the Truth statement God is
good and God is all,
therefore all is
good." But few of us are able to
make practical use of this Truth in working out our
problems in the material world.
Man is
perfect in Spirit.
That is, he is a perfect
idea in the mind of God. It is the Truth student's
business to demonstrate this by incorporating perfec-
tion into his mind and body. Jesus said, "Ye there-
fore shall be perfect, as your heavenly Father is
per-
fect." In the 1st chapter of Genesis we are told that
God made man in His own image and likeness.
The perfect man thus created is the Christ ideal.
God is
Spirit,
the great creative mind. The perfect
Christ-man idea exists in the mind of God. Human
or physical man is
attempting to make this perfect-
man idea manifest in the world of forms. Jesus was
the first man to accomplish this end.
13
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Jesus plainly stated the principles of Truth gov-
erning the perfect man. We may read and under-
stand His statements in an intellectual way, but to
understand them fully in Spirit
we must make them
a working part of our life, so that the innate perfec-
tion that is in Christ may become a manifest reality
in us. In other words, we must put on Christ,
Truth students are working with principles of
Truth that are often beyond their present under-
standing but to a greater or lesser degree they are
nevertheless accomplishing good results in their
bodies and affairs. When anyone fails to manifest
the perfection that he perceives to be true in Spirit,
he does not in any way disprove Truth. He simply
does not rise to his full power and ability to use
Truth. Many are proving the wonderful law in cer-
tain ways and are failing in others. This fact should
not discourage anyone from resolutely continuing
to use his statements of Truth.
We must develop our faith. As Jesus said: "Ac-
cording to your faith be it done unto you." To say,
"I have faith/' is not enough. We must actually
prove that faith, and the results will be manifest,
for "faith is assurance of things hoped for, a con-
viction of things not seen/' Through our faith, love,
and other spiritual powers we are able to touch the
perfection that is ours in Spirit, and through that
same faith we are able to bring it into manifesta-
tion. Every Truth student has had a number of mar-
velous demonstrations of the power of Truth.
These should encourage him to exercise greater
14
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
faith. He should keep Truth ever in mind and not
let the seeming failure of any other person who is
trying to use truth distract his attention from the
principle. Everyone must lay hold of Truth for
himself. The prayers of others will help us, but
eventually we must make individual contact with
the perfect One, just as everyone must eat his own
food if it is to benefit him. Everyone must put on
Christ by his own efforts.
There are certain principles governing the solu-
tion of mathematical problems. If a student makes
a mistake in working a problem, his mistake does
not disprove the accuracy of the principle. We know
that God is
good and that God is all. God is
Spirit,
and in Spirit everything is
good.
.
Since God is all, there is no room for any evil.
When we see manifest about us what appears to
be evil, we must maintain steadfast faith in our
statement of Principle in order to keep ourselves
from being upset by the apparent evil. Jesus said,
"Judge not according to appearance, but judge
righteous judgment/' When we perceive a principle
of Truth we must stick to it and not let appear-
ances upset us. We must not try to run away from
the problems that confront us in the material world,
nor shut our eyes to them. We must see Truth as
the reality and let our spiritual realization of Truth
be so perfect and vivid that material appearances
will adjust themselves to conform to it.
If we continually let our faith vacillate between
Spirit
and materiality we shall be continually upset.
15
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Accept material things as facts but not as Truth.
Stick to truth in the face of facts. A fact is some-
thing that appears to be true today but may not be
true tomorrow. Truth is something that is eternally
true. You may be sick today, which is merely a fact,
but it is not Truth. Truth is
stronger than fact. Put
the Truth in place of the fact and prove the Truth.
You are not telling a falsehood when you say, "I
am well," when the fact seems to be that you are
sick; for you are speaking of your true spiritual self
when you say you are well. By sticking to this spir-
itual Truth you will produce a healing effect in your
body, because in Spirit you are dealing with causes
and in the material world with effects only.
All causes are mental or spiritual. Do not be
disturbed when a Truth student says that there is no
evil and all around you things apparently are going
wrong. Throw your mental power on the side of
Truth and realize that there is no evil in the sight
of God, Then you will be working constructively on
the cause side and your efforts will produce harmony
in the outer world. When we judge by appearances
we are not doing anything to change those appear-
ances, but when we know the Truth and affirm it,
we are doing a definite work in changing appear-
ances.
Stick to the truth about God no matter what
your senses may tell you, and you will bring that
Truth into manifestation. If it does not work out
every time, do not be discouraged; because discour-
agement works in the realm of causation and helps
16
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
to destroy your perception of the true situation.
Affirm that you are Spirit and that in Spirit you
have power over all
appearances. Praise God for
His goodness, for you are His perfect child. As you
are able through praise and thanksgiving to realize
more of God's true nature, you will manifest, or
bring forth, more of this nature in the world of
effects.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Thou only, O God, art true.
MONDAY
No matter what obstacles may impede my way I
shall remember that all
power is in God.
TUESDAY
As a child of God I
proclaim fearlessly that I am
well and strong.
WEDNESDAY
In Spirit there is no lack of substance anywhere. I
am therefore abundantly supplied with all good
things.
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
In Spirit there is no lack of harmony. I am there-
fore well and strong and happy.
FRIDAY
I am not afraid of the things that appear. I am
poised and sustained by my unfaltering faith in
omnipresent God.
SATURDAY
Nothing external shall disturb me, for I am poised
in eternal Truth.
18
Trusting in God's Wisdom
wHILE INTELLECTUAL understanding is a
necessary faculty and should be cultivated,
there are times when it seems to be in-
adequate to our needs. At such times another kind
of intelligence comes to our rescue. Every day we
profitably use principles
and processes that we do
not comprehend intellectually.
You may be able to help a friend by speaking
encouraging words to him even though you have
no clear idea of how your words are formed in your
mouth. Your lack of knowledge of the physiology
or psychology of speech does not prevent you from
expressing what is in your heart. No doubt an intel-
ligence more subtle than your reasoning intellect
directs the complex activities of nerves, muscles,
and tissues in your brain, lungs, throat, and mouth
to produce the words that your heart dictates.
When you eat you do not know how your di-
gestive organs are going to convert the food into
blood, bones, hair, and nerves, but even so you go
right on eating because you know they will do it
19
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
We plant seeds and harvest crops without knowing
how plants grow, yet in spite of our ignorance they
do grow and produce their increase. We do not even
understand many of the quite simple electrical and
mechanical helpers that have been provided by man.
Few of us know how electricity is made or how
it
operates to produce light when we merely press
a button on the wall. How many understand the
principles and workings of that patient little ma-
chine that stands in the kitchen freezing ice cubes
every day, in summer as well as in winter? No one
hesitates to turn on a radio just because he does not
understand how and why it works. So many things
serve us that we do not understand, so we should
be very humble concerning the underlying intelli-
gence that directs all life.
When we pray we may not understand how our
prayer is
going to be answered, but if we have faith
enough to relax and allow the divine power to act
for us it will be answered. If we have perfect faith
we shall not try to place a limit upon God as to the
manner in which our prayer is to be answered. We
do not worry about how our food is going to be
digested, neither should we worry about how our
affirmation of Truth is
going to work in our life.
We willingly trust the intelligence governing the
inner workings of our body to take care of our heart-
beats; why should we not trust Divine Mind, which
created us, to take care of our other problems?
When we take a problem to God, let us not try to
tell Him how it must be worked out, but let us trust
20
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
in the wisdom of His way.
If you are praying for financial help, do not limit
God's power to help you by believing that your
funds must come through a raise of salary, through
the payment of a debt owing you, through the sale
of a certain piece of property, or through any specific
avenue that you may have in mind. Put these limi-
tations fearlessly out of your thoughts and realize
that God has channels for taking care of your needs
that you have not thought of.
Give Him a free hand to help you in His own
wise way. Put out of your mind all doubts and
fears about how your prayer is to be answered, but
have faith that it will be answered, because God
is infinite, wise, and powerful, and cannot fail. Do
not worry, but put the problem lovingly, trustingly,
and confidently in His hands, just as you leave the
digestion of your food in the care of your body.
Someone may complain that his case is beyond
help. Circumstances are arrayed against him. He has
no job and is
past the age when he is wanted in
business. One third of the men in his town are out
of work, and he has no funds to go elsewhere to
apply for a job. Even if a job were offered he is not
well enough to work.
You see he counts all the reasons why he cannot
succeed, yet he protests
that he does want to pros-
per. He decrees that there is no way for him to
prosper, before giving God an opportunity to pro-
vide one. It is
impossible for him to prove God's
power to prosper him when he fixes his attention
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
on the reasons why he cannot succeed. Let him deny
all his vain excuses and put his trust in God's in-
finite resourcefulness." Let him open his mind to the
constructive ways by which his good may come to
him. God will show him the way and will prosper
him in that way according to his faith.
Use your intellect in constructive projects, never
in abetting doubt or worry. Remember that "there is
a spirit
in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding/' There are better ways
to do things than you or I have ever dreamed of.
God knows all these ways.lDo not try to figure out
everything with your human intellect. Give divine
wisdom an opportunity to help you.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Give me an understanding heart, O God, so that I
may listen to Thy wisdom.
MONDAY
I am not dominated by fear or doubt. I know that
God's love is taking care of me and mine.
TUESDAY
Infinite wisdom guides me and divine love prospers
me.
22
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
WEDNESDAY
My intellect is obedient to divine wisdom and I
always know just what to do.
THURSDAY
The Spirit of truth reveals the Truth to me.
FRIDAY
My understanding is
quickened by Jesus Christ.
SATURDAY
"But if any of you lacketh wisdom, let him ask of
God/'
23
Faith the
Magic Wand
FAITH
CLOTHES ideas with substance. Faith is
like a magic wand. He who possesses it
speaks
the word and the sick are healed, peace is
restored to the discordant, the poor are prospered,
and the sad are made joyful.
Faith is the rock upon which churches and great
institutions have been built. Faith is very active; a
little of it can move mountains. Faith makes weak
people strong and sick people well. Jesus told the
woman who was healed by touching the hem of His
garment, after she had been sick for twelve years
of a disease that physicians could not heal, that her
faith had made her whole. Think of the marvelous
faith this woman must have had in the healing
power of Jesus Christ to believe that if she could
just touch the border of His robe she would be
healed. So great was her faith in Jesus that she felt
it was not necessary for Him even to look at her
or say a word of prayer for her. This kind of faith
will
develop irresistible healing power in anyone.
Faith is more than presumption. It is
stronger
24
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
than credulity. It carries one far beyond prospect
and chance. It
outstrips wishes and wins the goal of
the high calling. Faith transcends hope and fulfills
expectation. Jesus promised: /'He that believeth on
me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater
works than these shall he do." This promise is for
you and me and everybody. What are we doing
about it?
Faith and fear do not fraternize. Imagination
shows us the possibilities of God's goodness, but
faith makes them real to us. Faith becomes the
manifestation in tangible substance of the things
that we behold in our visions.
By faith were worlds formed. By faith families
are held together. By faith skyscrapers have risen
and bridges have arched themselves over rivers and
bays. Without faith business could not be carried
on and great factories would not be built. Even
money would have no value if it were not for the
faith that man puts behind it.
Faith is a spiritual quality and is therefore avail-
able to all who will seek within the quietness of
their soul for it. No one is so poor that he cannot
have all the faith that he can prove his ability to use.
The poor have as good an opportunity to lay hold
of faith as the rich. In fact the unemployed man has
more time to devote to the cultivation of faith than
the so-called successful man.
Spiritual riches are infinitely abundant and can-
not be limited by the supply of material possessions.
There is enough substance in spirit
for everybody.
25
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
But to use this abundance one must make room for
it in himself. He must give up the little selfish things
in his nature to make a place for the greater things
of Christ. He must be willing to give up doubt, fear,
greed, and contention. He must relax his feverish
hold on the little things of life and take hold of
faith in God. He must practice putting his affairs
in the hands of the Father and then resting in the
consciousness that God is
taking care of them for
him.
Remember Jesus promises: "All things, what-
soever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall
receive."
Faith can conquer even the last enemy. When
after the death of Lazarus Jesus told weeping Mar-
tha that her brother would rise again she replied
that she knew he would rise again in the resurrection
at the last day. But Jesus made it clear to her that
He referred to a present resurrection for Lazarus
and for all those who believe in Him. He said to
her: "I am the resurrection and the life; he that
believeth on me, though he die, yet shall he live;
and whosoever liveth and believeth on me shall
never die."
Here is a challenge to all of us. Many of us
have quickened our faith to a certain degree, but
we are still, most of us, far from receiving the great-
est benefit that may be derived through faith: the
resurrection of the body in Christ.
26
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
My faith reveals God to me.
MONDAY
My faith in the kingdom of heaven makes it a reality
in my world.
TUESDAY
I know that God is able to do all things through
Christ in me.
WEDNESDAY
I can do all things through Him that strengthens me.
THURSDAY
Because God is the only reality in the universe I
know that I am in truth well and strong and happy.
FRIDAY
I believe that the Christ in me is able to heal me
now.
SATURDAY
I
accept as truth for me the words of Jesus Christ
"Thy faith hath made thee whole."
The Power of the Word
N AFFIRMATION, as understood metaphysically,
7\ is a statement of Truth. Such statements
J V are true in the light of divine principle, but
they may not be in accord with what the physical
conditions seem to be. One purpose of the affirma-
tion is to improve or change a physical condition.
The affirmation states Truth as it is in Spirit.
The
mind of the individual may have become so hypno-
tized by the negative or unpleasant aspect of things
that it cannot remember what is true about life,
that God has made everything good.VThe affirma-
tion helps him to remember the Truth of Spirit. As
he repeats the affirmation with faith in its truth-
fulness, his mind is lifted up, and he begins to exer-
cise his powers as a child of God in creating a good
world in which to live. God created a good world,
and His child must do what he sees the Father doing.
There is creative power in man's word. When he
decrees a thing it is established. If he has created
unhappy conditions, they cannot be changed by
mere physical means ;tfhey have their roots in mind,
28
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
and they must be corrected there; hence the affirma-
tion of Truth.
The affirmation does not change the character
o God, for God is
unchanging. It does not cause
God to change His mind about anything. God is
infinite love, and He has done all things for His
children already. The affirmation opens the eyes of
the affirmer to the reality of what God has done.
An affirmation must be made in faith, for it deals
with seemingly intangible things. These intangibles
are, in the last analysis, the true things. Love, life,
wisdom, and joy are intangible: we see the results
of them in the physical, but we never see the actual
qualities of love, life, wisdom, and joy. Yet there
would be no action in the physical realm without
them.
An affirmation becomes powerful by repetition.
It accumulates power by being said over and over.
An affirmation of Truth organizes the scattered
powers of the mind and directs them into one chan-
nel. Helter-skelter thoughts about this, that, and the
other will not accomplish much constructive good,
but when they are lined up by the continued repe-
tition of a truth they do wonders.
Since man's word is creative, if his words are not
organized in Truth, it is
possible for his creations
to be destructive. When they are organized and di-
rected through the door of the Christ mind they
reveal the true character of the Father's plans.
Heaven then comes to earth for that individual, and
where there seemed to be evil, good appears.
29
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
If you are subject to spells of depression, take an
affirmation like the following: "The Christ mind 1
*
fills me with eternal joy." Believe in the reality of
joy. Say the 'affirmation over and over till
you feel
the presence of joy. Enter into joy and forget de-
pression. The latter will go, and the unpleasant
things that seemed to cause it will work out pleas-
antly. The clouds will show their silver lining. Each
time you find the "blue" thoughts descending upon
you, get quiet and repeat the affirmation a number
of times. By following this
plan you will eventually
send the "blues" away forever.
You can effectively use affirmations for health,
prosperity, success, inspiration, and everything that
is needful.
Jesus affirmed as He healed the nobleman's son,
"Go thy way; thy son liveth." To the palsied man
He said, "Son, thy sins are forgiven." To Jairus He
said, "The child is not dead, but sleepeth." We do
not know the actual thought processes that were
taking place in His mind at the time of these heal-
ings, but we feel certain that He was communing
with the Father and was taking a very positive at-
titude against sickness and death and for health and
life. He knew that there was no lack of life and
health in the Father.
30
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
There is but one presence and one power, God, the
good omnipotent.
MONDAY
"God is
my help in every need/'
TUESDAY
"God does my every hunger feed/*
WEDNESDAY
"God is my health, I can't be sick."
THURSDAY
The love of God in me dissolves and dissipates
every adverse condition in my mind, body, and
affairs.
FRIDAY
The Christ of God within me stirs me to new life,
new energy, and new activity.
SATURDAY
God in me is infinite wisdom: I know just what
to do.
31
Section II
PRACTICAL PRAYER
Prayer in Action
AITH WITHOUT works is dead." Faith is one
of the most necessary attributes of prayer.
We might say that "prayer without works-
is dead." The true purpose of prayer is not to change
God's mind in the hope that He may be persuaded
to do for our especial benefit something that He is
not in the habit of doing for everyonevOn the con-
trary, prayer is for the purpose of changing the one
who prays in order that he may be able to receive
and use what God has already provided for him.
True prayer is scientific and therefore brings re-
sults to anyone who uses it
aright. God shows no
favoritism. God cannot be bought or bribed or flat-
tered into doing anything/As a matter of fact, God
%as done everything for us already. He is
unchang-
ing; He makes His rain to fall on the just and the
unjust alike. How one receives the rain determines
the amount of benefit one enjoys from it.
Prayer is communion with God, a sincere desire
of the heart. We are told to pray without ceasing.
If we should pray all the time, we should need to
32
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
pray while we are at work, or else stop working
altogether. When we understand what prayer means
we shall be able to pray while we work. Abiding in
the consciousness that God is with us all the time,
inspiring and helping us, is a form of prayer. We
need not get down on our knees or assume any
particular physical position in order to pray. Prayer
is a spiritual service, not an outer form.
I once heard of a man who told his friends that
his best prayer was said while he was standing on
his head. It seems that he was falling headfirst into
a well at the time.
A hungry man testified that he had prayed to the
Lord many times to send him a chicken, but that the
Lord did not send him a chicken. Finally he got the
chicken when he prayed for the Lord to send him
to a chicken. Perhaps he did not use a wise or com-
mendable means of getting the chicken but this is
only a story anyway. However it illustrates a cer-
tain phase of prayer, which is that we must expect a
change to occur in ourselves when we pray. We
should not pray in order to make others do our will,
or with the purpose of causkig certain things to
happen to please our whims. /We should pray that
'our consciousness may be enlarged and our activi-
ties increased to the point where we shall be able to
do the will of God and to work in harmony with
the good that He has already created for us.
We need to pray for a larger understanding, in
order that we may appreciate the blessings that have
been given us in Spirit.
33
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
A skeptic insisted that he did not believe in prayer.
When asked if he had ever prayed, he replied that
he had prayed once. He explained that on that occa-
sion he was lost in a deep forest and could not find
his way out. He had been there several days and was
beginning to feel the pangs of starvation. He said
that in his weakness he prayed.
"Then God did answer your prayer, or you
wouldn't be here/' exclaimed his acquaintance.
"No," replied the skeptic, "God did not answer
my prayer. A couple of hunters came along soon
afterward and showed me the way out/'
This man did not understand that his prayer had
been answered, and that the hunters were the hu-
man agency through which God's work had been
done. He might have experienced the great thrill of
knowing that God had heard his prayer, but he shut
himself off from this happiness by a wall of doubt,
ignorance, and selfishness. Such a man needs to de-
velop a larger spirit of appreciation. Without ap-
preciation life is a drab, unhappy experience.
Prayers have been used effectively for thousands
of years. Prayers were answered in the days of
Moses and Daniel and the prophets. Jesus fed the
five thousand, healed the sick, and raised the dead
through prayer. Prayers have been of avail through-
out all history. In modern times people still
pray.
Thousands of answers to prayer are experienced
every day. A crowd at a prize fight paused a moment
to pray for Lindbergh's success, and he crossed the
great Atlantic in his plane. Since prayer is a scientific
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
'application
of divine Principle,
it has always been
effective and always will be effective. The future
holds the possibility
of greater achievement and
greater happiness
than v/e have ever dreamed of in
the past, for we are learning how to
pray better.
A large percentage of human effort today is
wasted in friction and false moves. yWhen we have
learned how to
pray aright
and to co-operate
with
God more definitely, we shall be spared much fric-
tion and shall avoid many unnecessary and unpleas-
ant experiences.
In the Lord's Prayer Jesus Christ has given us a
beautiful example of prayer. This prayer is
designed
to bring the one who is
praying into harmony with*
God and to aid him in working with God in the
practice of divine principles.
Jesus gave thanks when He prayed, praying as
though He had already received. Ke admonished us
to forgive and to have faith. He said, "I am the
door." Through this Christ door we are able to
come to the Father. Christ is the only begotten Son,
the real spiritual
man. We must find Christ within
^urselves.
God is
everywhere present, but we have
'consciousness only in ourselves. Here, then, in our
own conscious center we establish contact with the
great, everywhere-present Father. The Son is the
perfect
man made in the beginning. This perfect
man is the connecting link between every man and
God.
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Abiding in the consciousness of the presence of God,
I am blessed and prospered.
MONDAY
"Not my will, but thine, be done."
TUESDAY
The will of God is
good and brings only good to me.
WEDNESDAY
I am willing that divine order be established in me
and in my affairs.
THURSDAY
God is
everywhere present, and my faith makes His
goodness manifest in me.
FRIDAY
There is no other power but God in Spirit.
SATURDAY
'Father, I thank You for abundant life, joy, peace,
prosperity,
and health now manifesting themselves
in me and in all of my affairs.
Honest Prayer
THE
SPIRIT OF every prayer should be in har-
mony with universal love, Truth, and justice.
The divine law under which prayer oper-
ates is so universal and so perfect that the one who
prays as well as the one for whom he prays are both
affected by his prayer.
The real purpose of prayer is to accomplish some-
thing good. God is
good, and therefore we should
ask Him only for that which is
good. We really
pray in order that we may recognize a little more of
His good kingdom in our life and affairs. The king-
dom is already in our midst, but to see and appre-
ciate it, we must lift ourselves up in Spirit, for the
kingdom of God is the kingdom of Spirit.
We must
therefore lift ourselves upjnj>pirit3 through prayer,
in order to find the kingdom.
However, man sometimes offers
prayers that fall
short of the true standard of prayer. He asks for
things that he believes to be good, but that will not
result in good to him, because
tJiefnot^e>back of
his prayer is not in harmony with the laws govern-
2-7
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
ing the kingdom of heaven. The reason he prays
this lesser prayer is that he does not see clearly the
real desire of his own heart. He beclouds this per-
fect desire by selfish, personal ideas that somewhat
distort his spiritual vision; so he prays unwisely.
But since man's words have been given creative
power by the Almighty, they tend to produce in his
affairs the imperfect conditions he has prayed for.
It is fortunate that such prayers do not have so
much power as true, perfect prayers do. But when
we offer unwise prayers we must expect to abide
by the results they bring until such time as we are
able to set ourselves free from them.
We sometimes make mental laws for ourselves
that hinder our progress and disturb our poise and
peace of mind. If I should pray, "Lord, make me
better than others," I should be offering an unwise
and unfair prayer; for God is no respecter of per-
sons, and such a distorted attempt to use God's
power v/ould bring only unpleasant situations into
my affairs. I should not expect the Spirit of good to
separate itself from a part of itself in order to make
me better than other members of the spiritual body
of mankind. Such a prayer would be an expression
of a mere human desire and could not receive the
full co-operation of the Spirit of truth. The Christ
says: "And I, if I be lifted
up from the earth, will
draw all men unto myself."
I should not make a prayer or affirmation of Truth
about myself unless I am willing that this affirma-
tion should also
apply to everyone else. Then, in-
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
stead of saying, "Lord, make me better than others,"
I should say, "Lord, make me good." There is no
better or best in Spirit.
If I become good there is
plenty of room in the universe for others to be good
also without subtracting from my goodness. The
more nearly others approach that state of goodness
the better will the whole world become. Then should
I not rejoice enthusiastically when many persons be-
come good instead of remaining the same while I
alone rise to a pedestal ?
If I am really interested in goodness I want every-
body to be good. The more good people there are
the better pleased I should be.
If I make a prayer or affirmation about some other
person, I should be sure that I am willing to be
included in the results of such an affirmation; that
is, I should not affirm for another anything that I
do not want to have made manifest for myself. If
I
pray that someone else may come to harm, I must
be willing to abide by that prayer myself and be
included in it; for the destructive thought is in my
own mind and the power of my word will be work-
ing for me, to limit me and place me under a harm-
ful mental law.
On the contrary, if I pray that someone else may
be prospered and helped, I shall be praying for my-
self also; the universal law of good will be put into
operation in my consciousness and affairs as well as
in the consciousness and affairs of the one for whom
I
pray, and I also shall be prospered and helped.
And since this prayer is in harmony with God's true
39
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
law, it will be much more powerful than a prayer
that invokes harm upon someone else.
Someone may ask a metaphysician to pray for
him to win a certain lawsuit. Such a prayer would
be out of harmony with divine justice. His cause
may or may not be just. The metaphysician cannot
know the merits of the case. The petitioner himself
may not fully realize what is just. If such a prayer,
then, is to be offered up, it
may be asking God to
do an injustice to someone, which of course He
could not do. The proper prayer would be this:
"Divine justice is now regulating your affairs, and
divine love is
protecting and guiding you." If you
knew that your winning the lawsuit would work an
injustice on someone else, you would not want
it decided in your favor. On the other hand, if the
other side were right and should win, you would
want God to bring your own good to you, and you
would be assured that the good that really belongs
to you cannot be taken away from you. There is
enough for all; and you cannot lose your good un-
less you drive it away by destructive thinking.
Remember, then, that our prayers must fit in har-
moniously with universal love, Truth, and justice.
We cannot expect divine love to do for us some-
thing that would make others unhappy. Let us watch
that we make no prayer through spite, or to prove
to others that we are better than they are. When
our prayer is answered, we should be filled with
such a generous spirit
of joy and appreciation of
God's goodness that we should take delight in
40
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
seeing our one-time enemies happy and satisfied,
too. When our prayers have a sharp edge they cut
both ways. When they are harmonizing and con-
structive, they also work both ways smoothing out
our rough places and bringing us peace and plenty.
Prayer is a wonderful spiritual tool that has been
given to mankind and, like all wonderful tools, it
should be used properly. Used impulsively and ig-
norandy, it may do harm to the user. There is no
need of making a mistake however if before we
pray we first invoke divine guidance, filling our
heart with good will and love towards all. Then we
can bless everybody and everything, and in so doing
pile up great reserves of blessings for ourselves.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Under the divine law of righteousness and justice,
my own comes to me. No one can take away what
truly belongs to me.
MONDAY
I
praise God that His goodness is for all
people and
that there is an abundance of good for all.
TUESDAY
No little selfish prayer shall disrupt the harmony of
God's kingdom in my world. My prayers shall be
generous and free.
41
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
WEDNESDAY
"Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven,
so on earth."
THURSDAY
"Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our
debtors."
FRIDAY
The Lord watch between thee and me, and make us
to know that there is no separation in Spirit.
SATURDAY
"Praise is comely for the upright." I
praise and
/give thanks for God's abundant life, love, harmony,
and substance now being manifested in my affairs
and in the affairs of all mankind.
42
8
Helping Others through Prayer
IT
is POSSIBLE and practicable to help others
through prayer. Our Silent Unity department has
been demonstrating for more than thirty years
that prayers are effective in healing the sick. Many
healers in all parts of the world are proving the
power of prayer to heal. Anyone may help others
through his prayers when he understands how to
pray aright. Throughout the ages devout men and
women have used prayer in healing. Perhaps there
are more prayers being offered now for health and
prosperity than at any previous time.
The question has been asked why, if God has
already given us freely of all good things, including
health, we need to pray for anyone's health or
prosperity. This is a good question because it
helps
to bring out a fundamental principle that may not
be clearly understood by everyone who uses prayer
in trying to help his friends.
Nobody has a "pull" with God. But God is in-
finitely interested in everyone and has placed at the
disposal of every human being all the good that
43
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
each one can comprehend and properly use. God's
gift of good to us is in some respects like the prin-
ciples of mathematics. The principles of mathe-
matics are unchanging and are for the benefit of
any and all who will use them. But one must under-
stand their use. One must fulfill the requirements
that are necessary to the perfect use of these prin-
ciples.
So God's good is ready for us every one, waiting
for us in the realm of Spirit. Through his mind
man is able to take hold of God's infinite abun-
dance. No gift of God can possibly be used or en-
joyed by one who has no degree of intelligence. As
one's intelligence, which does not necessarily mean
book learning, but which includes faith and under-
standing, increases, one is able to appreciate and
use more of God's abundance.
In the beginning God created man a perfect spir-
itual being, in His own image and likeness. Then,
later, the Lord God created Adam out of "the dust
of the ground," and he "became a living soul" in
the manifest world. However, the real man, the
spark of Spirit that dwelt in Adam, had its
origin
in that perfect-idea man which God created in the
beginning. That real man who was created in the
beginning is Christ. In other words, God's idea of
man, the spiritual basis of me and of you, is
perfect.
There is no sin, sickness, poverty, or death in that
spiritual man. My work as well as your work is to
bring that perfect idea into expression in our life
in as high a degree as we can. We must let Christ
44
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
be formed in us.
*
Our words are creative. Through our mind and
our words of faith and understanding it is
possible
to bring this ideal man gradually into our life.
When we pray for someone, we do not beseech God
to send him something, but we realize the perfection
that God has already created for him, and thus we
help him to realize it. This is done by quickening
his faith, and arousing his spiritual vision. Through
the power of our word we help him to realize that
perfect spiritual reality which God has already cre-
ated, and which has not been separated from him
at any time.
Healing comes about by our realizing the actu-
ality of the true creation of GodyA good way to use
*the law of health is to give thanks to God for a
perfect body. We are told to pray as though we had
already received. "We have truly received every
good thing in Spirit, therefore it is
perfectly proper
to thank God for the good that we expect, since
it has already been provided for us even before we
ask. Our faith makes it a reality, for faith is truly the
substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things
not seen.
True prayer for another is in no way an effort to
meddle in his affairs. True prayer for him is a real-
ization on our part of the perfection of his spiritual
nature. True prayer is not a beseeching in an en-
deavor to urge God to do something different from
what He is doing, but is rather a song of thanks-
giving; thanksgiving because of the assurance that
45
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the one prayed for is a perfect child of God and
therefore is not subject to the ills caused by igno-
rance on the part of sense consciousness.
A prayer for another should not be personal. One
should not pray, "O God, make my husband bring
his salary home to me Saturday night," but rather,
"I thank You, Father, that You have supplied my
every need and that my husband is Your perfect
child/' By this treatment the prayer becomes an ac-
ceptance of the good that is already prepared in
Spirit; By thankfulness the acceptance is acknowl-
edged and the supply becomes manifest, while in
the first
prayer there is
simply a supplication that
God turn out of His way and interfere with the free
will of an individual. God does not interfere with
man's freedom of will.
If God does not interfere with the affairs of our
friends, surely we have no right to meddle either*
Praying for others therefore resolves itself into an
acknowledgment of the spiritual perfection of the
one prayed for, thereby helping him to realize his
true relationship to God. Such prayer does not in-
terfere with anyone's personal affairs; it
helps God's
spiritual Truth to become manifest.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
In the beginning God created the universe and all
that is in it, and it is a good universe.
46
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
I am willing to believe that God created man perfect.
TUESDAY
I am willing to believe that God created the uni-
verse perfect, and that it is still
perfect.
WEDNESDAY
By quickening my spiritual understanding of God's
perfect man I am renewed and strengthened in
mind and in body.
THURSDAY
Through giving thanks to the Father for the good
that He has created I
accept that good and incor-
porate it into my body and affairs.
FRIDAY
By knowing the word of Truth for my friends,
help them to health and prosperity.
SATURDAY
Father, I thank You that You have heard my prayer
even before I ask, and that Your good is manifest
now according to my faith.
47
The Power of Blessing
EVERYONE,
no matter what his position in life
may be, can do something fine, helpful, and
outstanding. Nearly everyone feels that he
would like to do something worth while, something
that will be really helpful to others.
However we usually are too prone to put of! the
doing of helpful things until a more convenient
season, until we have more money or a larger ex-
perience. It is true that we may possibly be able to
do some things better after we have gained more
experience and have more time and money at our
disposal. But when we put off doing a good work
we usually postpone it indefinitely.
The fact is that we can begin right now doing
something that will be very helpful to us and to
others, something that will also afford us a great
deal of pleasure and satisfaction. If you can discover
a human soul need that perhaps is felt but not ana-
lyzed by the needy one, and you can supply that
need, your efforts will surely be appreciated. The
world needs spiritual uplift and one does not have
48
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
to be a preacher in order to help supply this need.
A Unity teacher recently told me of an interesting
experience that she had had, and the story of it may
be helpful to those who desire to do something
worth while. Stopping at a hotel in a Western city,
she was impressed by the unusual atmosphere of the
room she occupied. The room seemed to be charged
with joy and peace.
Living in that room proved to be an inspiration
to her. She felt rested and peaceful after her journey.
The room itself and the furniture, both of which
were very good, did not account for this joyful, peace-
ful feeling that seemed to pervade its very walls.
She was so impressed by the presence of good in
that room that she spoke of it to the maid who
took care of the room.
The maid seemed much pleased and, taking the
teacher into her confidence, explained that she had
blessed that room; in fact she had been blessing all
the rooms in which she worked while she was busy
cleaning and making beds. She said that when she
finished a room she always stood in the doorway for
a moment before she left it
affirming peace and joy
for it and blessing the one who would occupy it.
She derived a great deal of pleasure from this
practice and had been blessing the room for years
for the pure joy that it
brought her. The manage-
ment had noticed the effect of her work upon die
guests and had spoken in praise of her helpful serv-
ice. They perhaps did not understand why she was
so helpful to the hotel, but they realized that she
49
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
did more than manual work. Someone had said that
they could not run the hotel without her !
Of course every guest was not so sensitive to the
presence of peace and joy in his room as our Truth
teacher had been and perhaps did not realize con-
sciously that there was something more helpful and
beautiful in the room than its furniture. But every-
one who stayed in these rooms must have uncon-
sciously been helped. Doubtless many a weary, dis-
couraged person found rest and peace in them.
Surely this maid is
doing something that few in
higher positions are able to accomplish. She is
bringing peace and joy into the lives of strangers;
not by spending money, not by influence and leader-
ship, not by artistic ability, or even by a pleasant
'
word or smile; but by quiet application of the prin-
ciples of Truth in blessing she is
doing a mighty
\work. She is a great soul, she is
happy, she is suc-
cessful even though her name does not appear in
"Who's Who." After all there is no reward equal to
the approval of one's inner Christ.
^We get out of life only what we put into it.
Everybody cannot be a ruler, leader, or manager,
or have his name in the headlines of the daily
papers or on the lips of the multitudes. But every-
one can be a success, everyone can be happy, every-
one can have abundance for all his needs; for the
Spirit of blessing that was called into action through
the lovely spirit
of that maid is at the service of
every man, woman, and child in the whole world.
Sless your affairs and bless what substance comes
50
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
into your life. It will increase and be multiplied so
that it will supply all your needs.
The power of blessing is
amazing. You can cul-
tivate the power of blessing by beginning now to
-Mess everything that comes into your life. Bless your
home. If you have old and wornout rugs, clothes, and
furniture, bless them, and you will see something
happen that will surprise and please you. Things
and persons that you felt like condemning will be-
gin changing and will begin bringing good to you.
The power of blessing will actually build a new
world about you.
It is
just as easy to bless as it is to find fault. When
we criticize and complain we are intensifying the
very unpleasant conditions that we are complaining
about, put blessing such things takes the power of
evil out of them and turns on the power of good.
The power to bless is more marvelous than the
power of Aladdin's lamp. Why not use it? If you
had Aladdin's lamp in your house you would not
leave it on a shelf. You would get it out and rub it
often. Why not get out your power of blessing and
use it today and everyday and prove its magic? You
cannot afford to leave your power to bless unused.
51
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
God bless this day. It is filled with peace, joy, har-
mony, and success.
MONDAY
I bless this money. It
represents the true substance of
Spirit,
which God has provided for me and mine.
TUESDAY
I bless this room, for God is here protecting, healing,
and prospering me and mine.
WEDNESDAY
I bless this food, for God has supplied it abundantly.
It is rich in substance and quickening life.
THURSDAY
I bless my family. I
place them in the Father's lov-
ing hands. He is caring for them and loving them.
They are safe and happy.
FRIDAY
Jesus Christ is the head of this house. He is
blessing
and healing all who enter here.
SATURDAY
I bless my body. It is the temple of the living God,
hence it is strong, well, and beautiful.
52
Section III
NEW VIEWS OF AN OLD WORLD
Living Now
EE
EVERY minute as it comes, just as though it
were the only minute you had on earth. Let it
be filled with love, joy, harmony, courage,
faith, all that you hope to enjoy sometime in the fu-
ture. Too many of us are putting off our good from
day to day, from month to month, and from year to
year so that we never quite catch up with it. Live
now. Forget your troubles of the past and stop dread-
ing the future.
The expression of your powers and abilities is
governed by your thoughts. If your thoughts are
dwelling in the past or in the future, your powers
and abilities will be lessened in the present, because
they will be trying to follow your thoughts to
realms that do not exist. We need all our abilities
here in the present moment. We cannot afford to
dissipate them by letting our mind dwell in the past
or by worrying about the future. A certain amount
of sound planning for the future is all right, but
negative dreams and worries concerning the future
are not desirable, because they put off the coming of
53
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
our good. Such dreams are wasteful; they sap the
substance of the present moment.
Now is the acceptable time; now is the time to
bring the kingdom of heaven into the earth; now
is the time to be happy. "Let the dead past bury its
dead." live now in the knowledge that you are a
perfect child of God.
Remember that you are what you think. There-
fore resolve to think only good, pure, loving
thoughts, and you will manifest more of the good,
the pure, and the true. If you persist in thinking over
the error thoughts of the past you will become en-
tangled in them. If you would become free from
past sins, stop thinking about past mistakes.
If you live every present moment aright, you will
have no occasion to mourn over the past. Begin to
live now in earnest and to help others to live now
through your good example.
\.Resolve to know the truth now. The truth is that
you are in reality a child of God. You are Spirit, and
Spirit is not subject to sickness, poverty, or any neg-
ative condition. Spirit is not affected by time, place,
or events. As a child of the living God you are good,
wise, loving, truthful, pure, happy, kind, and true.
All that God is He has given to spiritual man, who
is made in His image and likeness. No matter what
shortcomings seem to be manifested in your life, by
keeping your mind on the Christ perfection you will
bring the true conditions into manifestation. They
will crowd out the error conditions because the lat-
ter have their existence only in a false conception.
54
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
When you bring the true conception into your life
expression by your belief in it, the Truth then be-
comes the reality and the false goes back into its
nothingness.
Now is the time to remember your spiritual
source. In giving thanks for your present good do not
be impatient if it does not manifest itself as fast as
you think it should. Impatience is not an element
of the kingdom of God. Instead of spending your
energy in being impatient, invest it in faith. Faith
brings results, but impatience only scatters your good.
Impatience is a negative quality; faith is
positive.
Your good must be based upon positive, spiritual
realities.
Impatience will not make a seed grow any
faster than the natural law will permit. Your good
will unfold under the direction of faith in a natural
and satisfactory way, like the growing of the seed.
Give thanks each day for the amount of good that
has been manifested. Do not find fault jif
the plant
of good is not full-grown in a day. JThe joy of
growth is in the unfoldment of your good from day
to day. The growth that takes place today is just as
important and just as interesting as the growth that
will take place tomorrow or the next day. Enjoy
yourself in your present stage of progress. Do not
try to force the growth.
In Truth there is only the now. The Spirit of
God does not change, but is the same yesterday,
today, and forever. God lives in eternity now, and
is unaffected by time, place, or events. Should we
not continually rejoice in the consciousness of God's
55
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
loving presence which gives us an everlasting foun-
dation of stability and firmness ? In God there is no
beginning, no end, no failure, no unhappiness, no
discord, no anger, no weakness, no untruth, no lack,
no sickness, no death. In God is all success, happi-
ness, harmony, love, strength, truth, abundance,
health, and life. All that the Father has is at your
disposal. Use it now. Live!
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Through the help of the Christ mind my mind and
body are illumined.
MONDAY
I remember no more the mistakes of the past; I live
in the perfection of the present.
TUESDAY
I am not bound by thoughts of the past; I am living
anew in the Christ consciousness of today.
WEDNESDAY
The recital of past mournful experiences does not
affect me; the sound of it is lost in the music o
present joys.
56
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
I now concentrate my powers and ability in doing
God's work this minute.
FRIDAY
I do not mourn over past mistakes. I so live now
that I shall not make any mistake the second time.
SATURDAY
I now cleanse my mind and body of all
thought of
past sins.
57
Freeing Yourself from the Past
ROSES
ARE just as fragrant today as they were
when you first smelled them in the garden of
your childhood. If they are not so sweet to
you as they used to be, do not blame the roses. Look
to yourself and discover what you have lost that
you now need to reveal the present sweetness of the
roses to you. You will find that the sweetness, or the
lack of it, is really in your own mind.
The mind is
capable of sweetening many things
that we become aware of through the palate and
through the nose. Through an appreciative state of
mind, fruits, vegetables, flowers, and everything else
that we use can be improved.
Some of us think of the days when life held more
joy for us than it holds now, We yearn for the good
in the past, forgetting that time spent in thinking
about the past is
largely wasted. We dwell on the ex-
cellence of the past because we do not know how to
appreciate the good in the present. The fact is that
there never was more good at any time in the past
than there is now. "Now is the acceptable time/'
58
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
We are held back in our present progress when
we try to live again in the experiences of the past.
As a race we have unwisely let our ancestors domi-
nate us. They plan our bodily health and mold our
characters. We let them do these things because we
take it for granted that they knew how to live
aright. We have much to learn about life before
we can really begin to live, and before we can be-
gin to learn to live we have much of ancestral prec-
edent to unlearn. We should be growing toward
perfection instead of building upon the haphazard
foundation laid by our ancestors.
Our parents inherited certain characteristics from
their parents, and we calmly accept these characteris-
tics as they are passed on to us frail bodies that last
at best but three score years and ten, and that are
subject meanwhile to all kinds of disease, and emo-
tional natures dominated by hatred, lust, greed, envy,
fear, discouragement, and the like. We accept them
in the belief that they belong to the normal man
and woman. Our ancestors experienced many un-
pleasant things and, in their ignorance, tolerated
them, but the fact that they did so cannot possibly
prove that these things are normal. We would not
accept from our ancestors an inheritance of personal
property consisting of rags and rubbish. We do not
need to accept from them a negative heritage in our
mind and body if we do not choose to do so.
The way to refuse an undesirable inheritance is to
deny that you are a child of the flesh. Deny that you
inherit weakness, lust, fear, disease, or any other
59
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
negative thing, and affirm your inheritance from
your heavenly Father, which includes life, health,
joy, peace, purity, and harmony. These are yours for
the asking. If you ask for them and believe in them
and use them, then you are truly an heir of God.
"Call no man your father on the earth: for one is
your Father, even he who is in heaven/*
We can never make real progress in self-mastery
until we break away from the dominance of our
ancestors and of the past in general. We thought-
lessly believe in and do many foolish things merely
because our ancestors did them and believed in them.
The whole array of troubles, hardships, wars, sin,
and death is a relic of the blunders of our ancestors,
who, instead of depending on God their Father,
ignorantly relied on their own strength to solve their
problems.
We must learn to deny the power of heredity and
must think of God as our Father. When we do this
we shall break away from a vast accumulation of
mental and physical error that has been holding us
down, and we shall then find in our new freedom
possibilities of growth and life that we never be-
fore dreamed of.
There are no "good old days." Today, if you find
God in it, is the best day that you have ever lived.
You are a child of God, created in the image of the
Father, but if you wish to manifest your sonship
you must believe in it. You must believe also in the
power and goodness of your Father, and live like a
son.
60
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I deny that I inherit disease and inharmony from my
ancestors. One is my Father, even God.
MONDAY
I inherit life and health from my heavenly Father.
TUESDAY
I do not fear the heritage of my ancestors. God is
my Father, and from Him I receive all good things.
WEDNESDAY
I do not inherit weakness from my earthly ancestors;
I am strong in the Lord.
THURSDAY
There is no power in the past to keep my good
from me.
FRIDAY
All good comes from God.
SATURDAY
God, the Father, supplies all my needs.
61
Taking Can of the Future
UFFICIENT unto the day is the evil thereof."
With the help of God we are able to solve
the problems of today. Why borrow trou-
ble from tomorrow?
Millions of strong, intelligent people are trem-
bling with fear in anticipation of what may happen
in the future. Here, for example, is a man who,
since he lost his position, has been living on his
savings. He daily sees his reserve melting away. He
has figured out just how long his money will last;
in. a few weeks it will be gone and he will be in
want; his family will be starving. At the thought he
becomes frantic. He does not stop to consider that
they have not starved before, and are not starving
now. He is completely upset by the thought that they
may starve when his savings are gone. This thought
paralyzes him and takes the joy out of today. His
family have enough to eat today, but they cannot
eat it in peace, and there is no appetite for the food,
because the fear of want in the future has cast its
shadow over the present. The savings account has
62
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
become a stumbling block, because the man's faith
has been clinging to it instead of to God. Many
people who have no savings to rely on are actually
happier than this man, who is
letting himself down
into the pit of destitution by degrees, as his savings
vanish.
The truth is that God can care for us just as well
during a depression as He can during good times.
It seems that in times of depression we let our faith
be affected, and God seems less able to help us for
this reason. When we see so many about us who are
under the law of lack, we often lose faith. At such
times we should try to be more steadfast. We should
endeavor more earnestly to make direct contact with
God, the source of all
supply. We must learn to see
our supply coming from God. No matter how many
men are out of work, no matter what conditions are,
we must have faith and know that God is supplying
us, in Spirit and in Truth, and that He will supply
all who have faith in Him.
When a person is
gripped by fear of the future,
his power to imagine constructive things and to
vision opportunities is held in check, and he may
pass by good prospects without seeing them. His
tear-dimmed eyes cannot behold the blessings that
God has prepared for him. One needs bright, joy-
ous eyes to see all the good that is about one. Joseph,
sold by his brothers to be a slave in Egypt, would
have remained only a slave if he had spent his time
in weeping and indulging in fearful thoughts. On
the contrary, he kept his mind upon God and was
63
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
able, through keen spiritual vision, to rise to a high
place in that foreign land and to render a great
service to the whole nation, besides repaying his
erring brothers' treachery with bountiful good. On
his way to Egypt Joseph could have visioned the
future as a long life of toil and hardships, but in-
stead in his mind's eye he doubtless saw sheaves
and stars bowing down to him.
Do not be afraid. God has given dominion to
man, but remember that dominion was given to men,
not to cowards. Jesus taught wonderful lessons to
strengthen man's trust in God. Farrar Fenton, in
his "Bible in Modern English," brings out this
teaching in a beautiful way in the 6th chapter of
Matthew, beginning with the 25th verse: "Because
of this I tell you, do not embitter your lives how you
shall eat; how you shall drink; nor respecting your
body, how you shall be clothed. Is not the life more
important than the food, and the body itself than
its
clothing?
"Just look at the birds in the sky! They neither
sow nor reap, nor collect into barns; yet your heav-
enly Father feeds them! Are you not much more im-
portant than they ? Yet who among you, by fretting,
is able to add a single foot to his height? And why
should you fret about clothing? Reflect upon the
lilies of the field, how they grow; they neither toil
nor spin; and yet, I tell you, that even Solomon in
all his glory, arrayed not himself like one of them.
. . . Your heavenly Father knows that you need
them all. But first secure the Kingdom of God, and
64
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
His righteousness; and all these things will be ready
for you. Do not therefore fret about to-morrow,
for the morrow has its own trouble. The care of
each day by itself is quite enough."
Surely fretting will get us nowhere. By rejoic-
ing, and by realizing the presence of God's abun-
dant supply, we shall find all things working to-
gether for our good. God has provided all things
for us, but we must accept them in the same spirit
in which they are given; that is, in the spirit of
truth, trustfulness, love, joy, and assurance. You
push away God's good when you are afraid and
when you doubt. Thank God today for all His
blessings whether or not you see any visible signs
of them. Blessings are all about you, waiting for
you to let them become manifest in your affairs.
Get to work with a song^on your lips and do what
your hands find to do, never doubting that God
is now supplying your every need, in Spirit and in
Truth.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I joyously seek the kingdom of God, knowing that
all that I need in the physical world will be provided.
MONDAY
I do not fear the future; God is here now, my abun-
dant supply and my protector at this time.
65
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
TUESDAY
In the name and through the power of Jesus Christ
I
acknowledge the Father's bounty, which is now
being poured out upon me.
WEDNESDAY
No material thing shall stand between me and my
faith in God as my abundant supply.
THURSDAY
During the day, during the night, during prosperous
times and times of depression at all times God
supplies all my needs bountifully.
FRIDAY
I thank You, my heavenly Father, because You have
o abundantly provided for me, and I rejoice in the
wonderful manifestation of Your substance.
SATURDAY
There is but one presence and one power in my life,
God, the good omnipotent. All my needs are abun-
dantly provided for in God.
66
Getting Justice
TO
THE AVERAGE man justice means getting
what he wants. Both the plaintiff and the
defendant in a civil lawsuit want only jus-
tice, but their ideas of justice as involved in that par-
ticular case are usually directly opposed.
Since ideas of justice concerning details may vary
so greatly, who can be sure what is the just and fair
thing to do in any controversy? Perhaps both con-
testants are partly right; perhaps both are wrong.
The judge or jury is
supposed to be able to decide
what justice is in a case that is being tried. The
judge however must decide according to the letter of
the law, and often this kind of decision is manifestly
unjust. The judge instructs the jury, but it is difficult
for either the judge or the jury to make a decision
unaffected by prejudices acquired in their own per-
sonal experience.
There is however a law of perfect justice under
which everyone must receive what he is entitled to.
This law governs our affairs even though we may
not realize it. The law is
*
"Whatsoever a man sow-
67
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
eth, that shall he also reap."
God's law is a just law, and He has provided an
abundance of good things for all
people. He loves
His children. The children however are willful, like
the prodigal son. They like to have clean hands, but
they are forever sticking their fingers into mud pud-
dles. They leave the clean paths of love, co-opera-
tion, and peace to play in the mire of hate, selfish-
ness, and strife. They take things away from one
another instead of looking to the one source to supply
their needs.
I have seen a chicken pick up a morsel of food
and run with it while all the rest followed, leaving
many luscious crumbs on the ground untouched.
Does their behavior suggest a human failing to you?
Under God's law everyone should receive bounti-
fully, because there is no lack. We can live in ac-
cord with God's law or we can establish a law for
ourselves. When we disregard God's law, we must
abide by the law that we have made for ourselves.
Under God's law everyone receives freely, but
perhaps all do not share equally because all have
not developed equal capacities for using God's good.
God's abundance includes love, life, peace, joy, as
well as substance. You can easily understand how
one person can use more love or more joy than an-
other. It is because he has cultivated his capacity for
using more of these God qualities. For example, air
is abundant. Everyone may have as much air as he
can breathe. There is no need to quarrel with any-
body about air even if some men do use more of
68
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
it than others. Since there is also an abundance of
wisdom, life, joy, and love at hand, there is no need
to quarrel over these divine gifts. Those who enlarge
their capacity for using them benefit most. The same
is true of joy, life, and divine substance* There is
no lack of these, because there is no lack in God.
If we want more of these qualities we must increase
our ability to appreciate and use them. If each one
would devote his energy to the development of ap-
preciation, faith, and understanding of God's gifts,
he would not have time to complain about injustice,
and he would not need to quarrel with his neighbors
about their injustice to him. He would find perfect
justice in God's law. In the kingdom of heaven,
which is right at hand, all good will be as free as the
air when we enter into that consciousness.
The present dilemma in which the world seems
to be caught is caused by man's lack of understand-
ing of God's abundance. We are attributing our
troubles to an oversupply of good things. We plow
under part of our wheat, destroy hogs and cotton in
our effort to bring back prosperity, while some of
us are going without enough to eat and wear. Since
God is able to provide this surplus of blessings in
the land, do you not believe that He can find a way
to supply your little needs? If you have perfect
faith in Him and co-operate with Him by following
the principles taught by His Son, the Christ incar-
nated in the man Jesus, you will find that He is more
willing to give than you are to receive. If God's
children are not wise enough to use rightly the
69
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
abundance that their Father has given them, no
wonder hard times come periodically. No matter
what business conditions may be, we can individu-
ally go straight to the divine source for our justice
and supply and get it.
Why contend with those who
do not understand the law of justice? When you
go direct to God for your supply, He opens the way
for it to come to you. Perhaps the way may be
through your next-door neighbor, perhaps it
may be
through some other channel. If everyone would stop
his outer seeking long enough to ask God for guid-
ance he would be shown ways in which- he could
co-operate in just the right way to bring his good
to him and help others to receive their good also.
If only a few ask and work with the law, then those
few will find a way to co-operate and discover their
good. This may not result in external organization,
for God's law finds a way with or without man's
organized aid.
Remember justice comes from the Lord, not from
people. Justice cannot be destroyed or upset by greed,
ignorance, or foolishness, because justice is eternal.
Justice abides everywhere and is found anywhere
by those who seek it in Spirit and in Truth.
70
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"My justice comes from the Lord, and I trust Him
to regulate all my affairs."
MONDAY
Perfect love casts all injustice out of my life.
TUESDAY
All that I need is bountifully supplied by my heav-
enly Father.
WEDNESDAY
Because I trust in God my good comes to me under
divine law. Nothing can keep my good from me.
THURSDAY
Perfect justice is established in me and my affairs
through the power of Jesus Christ.
FRIDAY
I delight in justice and righteousness, and all my
paths are peaceful.
SATURDAY
Divine order is now established in the earth and
God's riches are being abundantly supplied to all
who will receive them.
71
Overcoming Hate
THE
COST o hating is more than anyone can
afford to pay. Prices o commodities may be-
come quite reasonable at times, but the price
of hatred will never be reasonable.
Hating is like something that one buys on the
installment plan it is easy to acquire, but to pay
for it requires a long time. And what is the high
price that must be paid for hating? Loss of friend-
ship, unhappy feelings, loss of appetite, sickness,
wasted energies, as well as financial losses. Worst of
all, hating obscures the kingdom of heaven from
our view. Hating is a heavy liability.
In the act of hating we are using up our perfectly
good vitality and mind power in destroying our-
selves. We would not think of shutting ourselves up
in prison or of pounding our fingers with a ham-
mer to get even with someone else, but by hating
others we really punish ourselves more severely than
we would if we did these unreasonable acts. When
we hate we shut ourselves away from many joys and
from those who would be our friends if we, through
72
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
hatred, did not shut them out of our life.
While we hate we are not happy, and we cannot
be truly healthy in such a state of mind. When we
are praying we must forgive those whom we hate
if we wish our prayers to be answered. "And when-
soever ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have aught
against anyone; that your Father also who is in
heaven may forgive you your trespasses."
Hate causes wars and deaths. Hate causes mur-
der, and is
responsible for the hater's punishment.
Hate always makes the hater unhappy. Hate plunges
the hater into the very depths of hell. Hate is usually
indulged in for the purpose of getting even with
some enemy, but only love and good will can square
us with our enemy.
Hating will not get us anywhere. It uses up our
good energy, which might be applied to the accom-
plishment of something worth while. You have cer-
tain energies that may be either used in rendering
useful services or wasted in destructive acts. Energy
can be expended for accomplishing either good or
evil. But remember that energy is God's gift to you.
He that hates is thereby expending some of his
valuable God-given energy in harmful activity. No
one is rich enough to aflford to hate.
A woman in a certain city was left a widow, but
her husband's fortune in some way fell into the
hands of her sister-in-law. The widow was left with
several small children to care for, and with no in-
come wherewith to support her family. She could
earn only enough to supply the bare necessities of
73
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
life. She received no help from her relatives, and she
began to hate her sister-in-law. The impoverished
widow spent her spare moments in brooding over
the injustice done to her and the children. She be-
came bitter, and life lost its joy for her. As she culti-
vated hate she found it
increasingly hard to make a
living.
One day she attended a lecture on forgiveness.
The speaker explained that every person, by his way
of thinking and acting, draws to himself his own
experiences in life; that nothing can happen with-
out a cause; that God is just and does not send
trouble upon His children, but that they, having
free will, often bring unhappiness upon themselves
by the destructive exercise of their freedom. Noth-
ing comes to us, claimed the lecturer, except what
we have earned: therefore we should not condemn
others for our troubles. The lecture caused the woman
to search her soul. She realized that she was blaming
all her misfortune upon her sister-in-law; that she
was expending so much energy on thinking thoughts
of resentment that she had not enough left for her
work and her homemaking. She resolved to forgive
her sister-in-law and to clear her own mind of the
burden of ill will.
After she had succeeded in mastering her nega-
tive feelings and when she was again able to think
with real kindliness of her sister-in-law, the widow
went to see this woman whom she had thought the
cause of all her troubles.
She rang the doorbell, and was met at the door
74
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
by her sister-in-law, whom she had not seen for
years. The caller wasted no time, but went right to
the point. "I have hated you for years," she said
pleasantly to her sister-in-law, "because I thought
you had taken the money and property that right-
fully belonged to me and my children. Now I know
that these things did not belong to us, or you could
not have taken them. They all are yours, and it is
right that you have them. I no longer have any ill
will toward you. I have received what is mine, and
I have come to tell you that I no longer have any
hard feelings toward you."
Having spoken words to this affect, she left her
relative standing in the doorway, too much aston-
ished to reply.
The mother went home to her children with a
light heart and with a song on her lips.
She had
dropped a heavy burden from her soul. Several days
later she received a cordial note from her rich
sister-in-law, saying that she wanted to see the chil-
dren; that she was fixing up a beautiful home for
the family, and that she would provide a sum of
money abundantly sufficient to care for them.
This incident illustrates the power of forgiveness
to destroy our so-called enemies and to bring good
out of those whom we may have thought it
proper to
condemn.
Forgive and bless, and you will be able to draw
sweetness out of life.
75
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
My own comes to me according to the perfect law.
MONDAY
I forgive all who have been my enemies.
TUESDAY
I forgive my friends.
WEDNESDAY
The forgiving love of Jesus Christ now frees me
from want and woe.
THURSDAY
The love of God is able to dissolve all hate out of
my heart.
FRIDAY
Praise God, I am free from ill will and condem-
nation!
SATURDAY
My heart is filled with- love for all creatures.
76
Your Divine Birthright
GOD
HAS PLACED at man's disposal the whole
creation, including the spiritual, mental,
and physical realms. He has provided so
abundantly for man's needs that no one can begin
to guess the extent of the fabulous treasures await-
ing man's use. God has also placed within man's
being an almost unlimited potential capacity for
using these gifts. Man is slowly developing his in-
ner abilities by exercising them. They expand as he
uses them. Through his inner powers he will one
day achieve full dominion over the world and his
own mind and body. His ability already has been
cultivated in many fields of endeavor and he has
accomplished some very wonderful results, but even
so he has scarcely scratched the surface of his pos-
sible conquests. True, he has learned to read and
write, figure, build, dig, cultivate the land, mine
metals, drill for oil and gas, float, fly, and dive by
means of machinery, and talk through the air by
means of wires and without wires. He has also
learned to make clothing, utensils, and tools. He
77
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
prints books and makes pictures, and he has made
great progress in the development of ability to un-
derstand better his relationship to his Creator. By
means of faith, imagination, love, and other spir-
itual abilities man has been able to grow in appre-
ciation of his heavenly Father.
When a person concentrates earnestly and gives
thought and time to a given field of work, he
produces something new in that field, and his ca-
pacity for using God's gifts increases. He may be
an inventor, an artist, a builder, a writer, or a gar-
dener; no matter what his line of endeavor may be,
he will receive new ideas when he gives freely of
himself to his work. God's blessings are ready for
us, but we must give something of ourselves be-
fore we can fully appropriate them. As we are able
to give of ourselves in more perfect service to the
Spirit of love and wisdom, we should be able to un-
derstand better how to use the greater gifts that God
has provided for us. Jesus said: "He that findeth
his life shall lose it; and he that loseth his life for
my sake shall find it."
As long as we are content to live our life for our-
self, keeping it
selfishly for our own comfort, we
are losing it. But when we are wilUiigJoj^vejziir lifg.
forjDthers, that is, give it in living sacrifice or serv-
ice to God's cause, we shall find out what life
really holds in store for us. The more a person
gives of himself in love, wisdom, and faith, the
more will he receive. However, giving does not
mean wasting. In the 1st
chapter of Genesis we are
78
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
told that man was given dominion over the earth
and commanded to subdue it. He is slowly accom-
plishing this task as he puts his laziness and his
desire for comfort and ease in the background and
gives his energy, thought, and time to the pursuit of
new understanding and new powers. He has been
given power over circumstances. "Thou shalt also
decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee."
We have been given power to make decrees that
will accomplish many things. God's abundance
awaits our decree to become manifest. It has been
ready for use since the beginning of the world,
waiting for us to do something with it. "Ask, and
it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock,
and it shall be opened unto you." "With what meas-
ure ye mete, it shall be measured unto you."
There are no bargains in the kingdom of heaven.
You get what you pay for. You do not need always
to pay in money, but in some kind of sincere effort
you must pay. Money merely represents the expend-
iture of some such effort. We cannot get something
for nothing.
If you are accepting services without pay you are
not enjoying the full benefit of them. I know of
a number of large families in which one of the
younger members has taken over the financial re-
sponsibilities of the whole family after the passing
on of the father. These younger members have sup-
ported the others, standing as a buffer between them
and the trials of the world. They have fought their
battles, fed them, cared for them, almost thought
79
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
for them. In each of these cases the individual who
accepted the responsibility grew stronger in the joy
of service while those who were served became
weaker and less able to enjoy life. They developed
a tendency to be pettish
and unhappy because they
were not giving value received for what they got,
Of course there are many families in which every
member does his share, and they are all
growing.
Even though each one may not be earning money
he is still
giving something to life. Earning money
is not by any means the only way to pay one's way.
I know spiritual teachers who are giving freely
and generously of their time in service to those who
come to them for help. These teachers often re-
ceive nothing from persons who demand much of
their time. Those who receive such aid but do not
make compensation in any way cannot possibly get
the full benefit of the teacher's work. However, the
law of compensation is building up power and joy
for the teacher even though some who are served
do not compensate him. You cannot render a service
without receiving compensation of some kind.
The pioneers who subdued our untamed country
in the early days gave freely of themselves and suf-
fered what we call hardship in clearing the way for
our comfortable, modern civilization, but in spite of
all their sacrifices they found a keen joy in living
and overcoming obstacles. They grew strong by
overcoming. Some of our pampered, modern chil-
dren are living in the conquered, transformed wilder-
ness are restless and unhappy because they have
80
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
nothing to do. Everything is being done for them.
They go to picture shows, parties, dances, and en-
tertainments, have more than enough to eat, and
are surfeited and unhappy* None of the pioneers
was unhappy because food and entertainment came
too easily. For them life was a struggle, but it was
interesting; they were growing, they were achieving
new conquests.
I do not recommend that we return to these fron-
tier hardships, but I do believe that we must not
rest on our oars and let our inner powers drift just
because conveniences in abundance have made life
easy. We must still be alert and awake, ready to
make new progress. The great field of spiritual
achievement is before us. We do not need to strug-
gle against the wilderness as our ancestors did, and
for that reason we can give more of our time to
spiritual pioneering.
Jesus Christ promised that we should do even
greater things than He did and that He would be
with us always to help us.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I am willing to share my best so that I can become
associated with the best everywhere.
81
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
I am alive and alert, and I am glad to use the life
and intelligence that God has given me for the
establishing of His kingdom in the earth.
TUESDAY
God has supplied me abundantly with substance
and has given me brains and muscles and life with
which to enjoy that substance. To Him I give praise
and thanks for all these blessings.
WEDNESDAY
There is no lack in God and I, a child of God, can-
not lack for any good thing.
THURSDAY
I joyfully cultivate the talents that God has given
me by using them to His glory.
FRIDAY
I am quick to do the will of God. Therefore I am
filled with life and directed by intelligence.
SATURDAY
I am glad to give up my little ideas to make room
for Christ's large ideas.
82
Bless Your Money
MANIFEST
THINGS may be thought of as sym-
bols that represent intangible things. One
manifest thing may serve as a symbol of
a number of different mental and spiritual condi-
tions. For instance, water used in baptism may be
thought of as representing a mental cleansing proc-
ess. To the engineer water may represent power; to
the soul athirst it may represent refreshment and
inspiration.
The fact that one material substance may rep-
resent so many different conditions should not be
confusing. We are not perplexed when a certain
word in our language represents many meanings.
For example, the word "cleave" has opposite mean-
ings: "to part or divide by force," and "to adhere
closely/' The word "draft" has many meanings;
such as "act of drawing a load/' "act of selecting
soldiers/' "the quantity drawn in at once in drink-
ing/' "a sketch/' "an order for payment of money/*
"a current of air moving through an inclosed place/'
"the depth of water necessary to float a vessel/'
83
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the thing "drawn directly from a barrel/' All these
meanings and a number of others may be expressed
by the one word "draft." We are not puzzled when
the word appears in a sentence, because the context
makes its meaning clear. As a word may represent
many different things, so the physical thing known
as water may symbolize different mental or spiritual
characteristics.
A rock may represent faith, solidity, a burden,
or even danger, according to the idea one has in
mind. Jesus spoke of Peter as the rock upon which
He would build His church. We think of Peter as
representing faith. We sometimes speak of "stand-
ing on a rock" when we feel that we are well es-
tablished in understanding. Again, when we think
someone is
heading for disaster we say he is
going
"on the rocks."
There should be no confusion because of the
varied symbolism of which one object is capable.
Money may represent several mental and spiritual
qualities. It may symbolize God's bounty. It may mere-
ly mean poor reward for hard work, or it may repre-
sent a good time that we are to enjoy. Money may
even represent poverty when we believe it is hard
to get. Money represents a vyide range of ideas, from
those of the man who thitfks it is the most worth-
while thing in life down io the one who believes
it is the root of all evil, 4le who wishes to 'be on
friendly terms with money, yet not dominated by it,
should think of it as a symbol of God's abundant,
inexhaustible substance. Whether the amount of
84
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
money a person has in his possession be large or
small, it may represent God's inexhaustible abun-
dance if he desires to have it
perform that office for
him. He may consider it a messenger from God as-
suring him of God's loving care and His ability to
supply all our needs. He may acknowledge this
messenger and accept the promise contained in the
message that each coin brings, by blessing all money
that comes to him.
Even though money may seem to come to us as
the result of hard work, we should see back of it
the spiritual source of all
good. Try to think of
every cent you get as coming straight from God's
loving hand. If we look beyond the employer to
our loving Father-God and thank Him for this man-
ifestation of His supply, and then bless it, think-
ing of it as more than a hard-earnedTalary, we can
magnify its usefulness. In doing this we magnify our
ability to receive more of the good that God has
prepared for us; we bring ourselves into a closer
understanding and contact with the great invisible
storehouse. When we bless His little messengers
we bless Him who sends them.
Blessing money in the name of God stamps that
money with a new spiritual value. A dollar to which
spiritual value has been imparted is
capable of
bringing us much greater good than it could bring
us if it were a mere material dollar. "It is the Spirit
that giveth life." When spiritual blessings are
placed on material objects, such objects are sur-
rounded with spiritual, quickening energy. Money
85
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
of itself can do nothing. It has value only because
the mind of man has set a value on it.
By blessing it
-we still further enhance its value. Why not treat our
money in a large way by letting it
represent God's
values in addition to man's values! One may not
feel like blessing a mere penny when one receives it,
yet a penny is just as much a symbol of God's sub-
stance as is a hundred-dollar bill.
Do not forget that in blessing our substance we
.are dealing with ideas and not with material ob-
jects. We can place as high a spiritual value upon
ideas as we choose. We can see our money as rep-
resenting supreme value since it comes from God. If
we can do this, we shall find that the money com-
ing to us will do many things for us that we did
not dream it could do.
It is a good idea to set aside one tenth of one's
money income for the Lord's work, especially bless-
ing it. However the blessing will do much good
whether you tithe or not. Also it is
helpful to bless
all money spent. The blessing does not need to be
spoken audibly, just a silent blessing will do. Let it
go with the payment of a bill, a purchase, a gift,
whatever the money may be used for. Send each
coin on its way as a messenger of God's abundance
to others and die channels for the circulation of sub-
stance through your affairs will be widened. Like an
electric current, your good flows in a circuit. You
receive freely from God, and you must give freely.
What you spend should go freely with a blessing
and not grudgingly. You complete the circuit by
86
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
giving in the same spirit of thankfulness in which
you receive. This free attitude opens the way for a
larger current of giving and receiving to come into
your life. "I will bless thee . . . and be thou a
blessing/'
The power of blessing is a mystery. We do not
know how it works, but we know that it does work.
A wholehearted blessing not only helps our affairs,
but it fills us with an inner light that seems to satisfy
our soul and make us happy. In blessing we are
blessed.
You will never be sorry for having pronounced a
blessing upon anybody or anything. Bless even what
seems to be not good, and by the mysterious power
that blessing brings it will be made to bring good to
you, in addition to affording you the wonderful
opportunity of experiencing the joy that comes from
blessing. Bless the good and it will increase* Bless
what seems to be evil, and something good will
come out of it to justify your blessing.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"The blessing of Jehovah, it maketh rich;
And he addeth no sorrow therewith/'
87
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
"I will bless thee . . . and be thou a blessing."
TUESDAY
I bless the human hand that brings this money to
me, and I see back of it the hand of God supplying
my every need bountifully.
WEDNESDAY
I thank You, Father, for this substance which I know
has emanated from Your generous, loving Spirit. I
bless it and use it in the name of Jesus Christ.
THURSDAY
As I
pay out this money I bless it.
May it enrich
everyone who touches it with the knowledge that
there is
plenty for all.
FRIDAY
The value of this substance which I hold in my hand
is this day magnified, for I perceive that it is truly a
symbol of my heavenly Father's inexhaustible riches.
SATURDAY
I am rich in the consciousness of God's riches.
88
Section IV
LOOKING AT YOURSELF
How to Relax
YOUR
PHYSICAL body is made up of millions
of little
parts called cells. These little fel-
lows are intelligent, and they are busy doing
things for your good.
You do not know these little cells very well, even
though they are very close to you. You would find
them very interesting entities if you could know
every one of them individually. But since there are
so many of them, to know them all would be like
knowing everybody in the world.
Since you cannot know all these cells individually,
there is a way in which you can appeal to their
intelligence; for they are your servants. They are
your faithful subjects, although you do not direct
their activities individually. You have efficient as-
sistants who pass your orders on to the multitude
of cells.
You are like a mighty king upon whom millions
are depending for their inspiration and their very
existence.
These little cells make up the various parts and
89
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
function centers of your body. Some form your
head; some, your hands; some, your feet; one group
forms your stomach, and still another group forms
your lungs.
There are nerve centers in various parts of your
body that are directing the activities of the function
centers under their control. These nerve centers are
like broadcasting stations; they are constantly send-
ing messages through the nervous system to all the
cells in their locality. These nerve centers receive
messages from the subconscious mind, which in
turn receives instructions from the conscious mind.
The nerve centers are like a chain *of
broadcasting
stations, which take up a program from headquar-
ters and distribute it in their respective localities.
Your subconscious mind controls these centers
for you, thus carrying on a vast and intricate work.
If you did not have this faithful assistant and if you
had to think of drawing in the air each time you
breathe, you would be so busy with supervising
your breathing that you could not do much- else,
and while you were busy directing your breathing
your heart might stop beating. However, the faith-
ful subconscious mind and the nerve centers relieve
you of this detail work and faithfully perform
these operations and many others for you, including
the renewing of injured parts, the growing of finger-
nails and hair, the digesting of food, and the cir-
culating of the blood, which keeps the interior of the
body clean and in order.
The subconscious mind had its
original instruo
90
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
tions from the Creator to the effect that the body
is to be kept in perfect running order and that all
its functions are to remain harmonious and healthy.
The subconscious mind has tried to follow these di-
vine instructions and does so except when you direct
it otherwise.
Your conscious mind dominates your subconscious
mind. You can tell your subconscious mind the truth
or you can tell it error. It is very obedient and it
will carry your instructions on to the nerve centers
and the cells.
One of the most unfortunate error messages that
you can give to your subconscious mind to pass on
to your body-cell people is a decree of condemna-
tion. You may condemn some person outside, but
your subconscious mind inside is impressed with
the condemnation idea and carries it into your body,
where it
plays havoc among your cell people. Con-
demnation snarls them up, stops their free and
natural functioning, and makes them very unhappy.
Such thoughts as fear, unhappiness, and hate also
affect the cell people of your body adversely.
When your little cells receive the broadcast mes-
sage of condemnation their free expression is hin-
dered. They become inharmonious; and when you
command a large group of cells in a certain locality
to resist or to become tense you develop a chronic
ailment.
Physicians and scientists are telling us to relax so
that nature may have a chance to do its
perfect
work in us.
91
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
We sleep in order to relax, but sometimes we do
not sleep and so do not relax.
The reason we do not relax is that some de-
structive or unpleasant message has disturbed our
body-cell community.
The idea of condemnation often holds our body
nation in bondage.
Forgiveness is one of the most important mes-
sages that you can broadcast to your cells. When
you lie down at night to go to sleep, forgive every-
body and everything. Send everyone thoughts of
love and good will. As you forgive, a message of
harmony will at the same time be broadcast in your
body, and there will be an unloosing and a freeing
of your functions. The little cells that before were
inactive will respond to your message of love and
go joyously back to work. The blood and lymph
will circulate freely through your organs again, and
you will rest while your bodily conditions have an
opportunity to improve.
You are the one who has full charge of the
broadcasting programs that are being sent to your
body-cell people. You have, in fact, a monopoly of
the broadcasting business in your realm. Therefore
if your cells are not getting the right kind of in-
structions, no one but yourself is to blame.
You can open your broadcasting station to the
Christ or superconscious mind. The Christ will
"put on a program" for you that will thrill and
revive your cell subjects.
You must first forgive everybody and everything
92
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
in order that the Christ mind may bless your body
with its healing life. Your cells must be set free by
forgiveness before they can relax and receive the
great message. The Christ message will then reach
them and heal them.
You are a mighty monarch ruling over a popu-
lous domain, and you have at your disposal a won-
derful system for broadcasting to every member of
that domain.
Your very life and happiness depend upon your
mental attitude.
As you make your cells happy they in turn make
you happy; therefore be good to your body-cell
people. Be a wise and loving ruler and broadcaster.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I forgive everybody and everything.
MONDAY
I am now broadcasting Truth to my whole body.
TUESDAY
Only harmonious, constructive programs shall be
sent by me to my body-cell helpers.
93
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
WEDNESDAY
I am now open and receptive to the Christ mind,
and every cell in my body is
quickened and healed
by its
power.
THURSDAY
The healing, vitalizing power of the Christ mind is
now active in all
parts of my body consciousness.
FRIDAY
As I erase all
thoughts of condemnation from my
mind, I know that all tenseness will be taken from
my body members and that they will relax under the
influence of the perfect healing power of love.
SATURDAY
The Christ mind in me is mighty to heal, to save,
and to bless every one of my body-cell people.
94
18 i
Setting Yourself Free
FORGIVENESS
is essential to the attainment of
spiritual growth. Forgiveness must include
everything and everybody, which of course
means the forgiving of oneself.
You may have made mistakes, and others may
have made mistakes, but you must forgive them all
if you would rise above the realm of mistakes. For-
give yourself, and sin no more. God forgives you
when you forgive yourself. Forgive seventy times
seven times if need be. Forgiving is a freeing process.
When you forgive anybody, you are setting your
own soul free from the bondage of condemnation.
Condemnation binds and limits those who condemn
by their thoughts or words. Condemnation is a
heavy burden, which the race is bearing because
of ignorance.
Forgiveness sets you free. Forgiveness opens the
way for better things to come to you. Do not carry
the mental load of your past sins about with you.
Forgive yourself, ask God to forgive you, and let
your burdens roll away. Let the pastgp^iid begin
95
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
again to live with God's help. Do what is
right
today; make reparation for the past as much as
you can, but stop worrying about the past, and stop
condemning yourself for past mistakes. Begin to
praise and to give thanks. Do your best; praise the
power of God in you. Know that God is
helping
you to do better.
Do all things to the glory of God, and you will
no longer be under the law of condemnation. Let
the dead past go. Live now; radiate forgiveness,
love, service, joy now. Do not let
past mistakes
remain a handicap to your present achievements.
You can do all
things through Christ who strength-
ens you. Christ cannot help you while you are think-
ing thoughts of condemnation or hatred; for Christ
works by means of love. Christ spoke through Jesus
these words: "Love your enemies."
Forgive yourself for past mistakes and know
that you will not make the same ones again. Give
thanks for freedom from these mistakes. Rejoice in
the freedom that Christ is now giving you from all
your mistakes and sins.
Open your mind to receive
His peace, His harmony, His love, and His joy.
"Have this mind in you, which was also in Christ
Jesus."
The world needs forgiveness. It is under a terrific
weight of condemnation. Will you help to lift this
load by forgiving yourself and others? "Forgive us
our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors."
We are admonished by Jesus to forgive seventy
times seven times. We must give before we can re-
96
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
ceive. Forgiveness is a way of giving. It is giving up
unpleasant thoughts in exchange for good thoughts.
We give to make room for something better. Give
love, and you shall receive more love.
"And judge not, and ye shall not be judged: and
condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: re-
lease, and ye shall be released: give, and it shall be
given unto you; good measure, pressed down, shaken
together, running over, shall they give into your
bosom."
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I willingly forgive all who have wronged me.
MONDAY
There is no condemnation in me for anyone: I
love everybody.
TUESDAY
I forgive myself.
WEDNESDAY
The forgiving love of Jesus Christ has set me free
from the bondage of condemnation.
97
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
The Spirit
of love sets me free from the bondage of
hate and fear.
HODAY
By forgiving everybody I
open the way for God's
love to enter my heart.
SATURDAY
I hold no malice toward anybody. Divine love fills
my soul with its
healing power.
98
Overcoming Loneliness
GOD
is EVERYWHERE present. He always has
been everywhere present and always will
be everywhere present. God never goes
away and leaves anybody.
A story is told of a wandering Indian who, when
asked if he was lost, replied: "Indian no lost; In-
dian's tent lost/' The tent was lost. The Indian could
not be lost from the tent because he was more im-
portant than the tent.
When God seems to be absent from us, He is not
lost: it is we who are lost. The prodigal son sepa-
rated himself from his father and became lost in sin.
This was his own doing, not the father's. His father
was not lost. If there are times when God seems to
have gone away and left you, your feeling of lone-
liness should be a reminder to you that you have
lost your way. When things do not go to suit you,
and you are tempted to believe that God has de-
serted you, stop and check yourself up, for you
are straying away from God.
Thinking about self and being sorry for self is
99
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
a lonely practice. No wonder that selfish
people are
lonesome. If you should feel that God has forsaken
you, take the following thought for meditation:
"Not my will, but thine, be done." It is God's
will that you be well, happy, and prosperous, but
if you interpose your self-will, God's will cannot
have its
perfect way in you. Selfishness may some-
times assume an unselfish guise; a person may be
selfish in helping the needy. He may want to render
his service in his own way without asking God's
help. One may be selfish in giving, expecting to re-
ceive a reward in return.
If yousEouldstart down the road of loneliness,
discouragement, and self-pity, believing that some-
how God had forgotten all about you, stop and
remember that God is the very life that fills your
being; not the blood exactly, but the spirit of life
that causes the blood to be and to flow. God is
indeed very close to you, because He is in you and
you are in Him. There is no separation in Spirit;
separation exists only in the thoughts of your own
mind. Know this, and let His joy well up in you as
His life
pulsates in you. Dry your tears and put away
all anxiety. Stop trying to feel His presence as you
would the presence of a person or a thing, and
know that God is even closer to you than any per-
son can possibly be. Even though mountains of ad-
verse conditions seem to be piled up all about you,
know that the Father is closer to you than all these.
They shall be as shadows that will disappear as
you allow the light of His presence to shine in you.
100
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
The very air that you breathe has Its source in
God. If you are under self-condemnation, believing
that you have committed some terrible sin, remem-
ber that God's love is greater than any sin. By medi-
tating upon His love and forgiveness, and by for-
giving everyone and everything, you will begin to
realize God's love for you. When you do this there
will be a quickening of love in your heart. Attune
yourself to the spirit of God's love through believ-
ing in Christ, the perfect Son dwelling within you.
Your feeling sincere love for all about you will help
you to find divine love. Feel Christ's love deep
down in your heart as you repeat softly, "Love,
love, love," and forgive everyone, no matter what
he may have done to you or to anyone else. Clear
old grudges and hurts out of your mind and heart.
Rejoice because you are on holy ground, though you
have not known it. God is with you whether you
will to be conscious of Him or not, but the full
glory of His presence is yours only when you actu-
ally believe in that presence. You will find God
through your exercise of love and faith.
God is Spirit, and we must know Him in Spirit.
Remember that God is
all-powerful and that at the
same time He is all-good. Therefore you have noth-
ing to fear when you have placed yourself and all
your affairs in His hands.
101
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
There is but one God, and He is everywhere present.
MONDAY
I am now in the presence of the one God.
TUESDAY
Divine love is now expressed freely in all that I
think and say and do.
WEDNESDAY
I am continually in the presence of infinite love and
wisdom.
THURSDAY
,
All doubt and fear are cast out of my mind and my
"
affairs because I dwell consciously in the presence of
the Father.
FRIDAY
The Father within me is guiding and prospering
me in all my ways.
SATURDAY
I forgive everybody and everything while I let divine
love have its
perfect way in me.
102
Your True Home
\ LTHOUGH A PERSON may live in a pretty little
/\ cottage by the sea bearing some quaint and
/ \ refreshing name, it is
possible for him at the
same time to be dwelling in a very inharmonious,
unpleasant place quite unlike the cottage and its sur-
roundings. This is true of him if in his mental dwell-
ing place discord prevails, and he is living in a state
of worry, resentment, or inharmony.
Each person lives in a place that is not known to
the efficient postman, who has a way of finding all
the out-of-the-way places to deliver letters, or even
to his closest friends. Each one o us has an abiding
place that is known only to himself and can be
reached only through his own thoughts. It is really
built of our thoughts. We live in it more truly than
we live in any cottage, apartment, or palace. We can
leave our physical home if we choose, but this in-
visible abiding place will go with us. Our friends
cannot see this place in which we dwell, but they
surely will know something about it whether it is
beautiful or ugly from our behavior.
103
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Everyone has an abiding place with which he
alone is familiar. It is his state of consciousness.
Jesus said that He had no place to lay His head,
yet we know that He lived in a rich and beauti-
ful realm of spiritual understanding. He promised
that He would prepare a place in the Father's house
for others to enjoy. He has invited us all to join Him
in that place. This is His invitation: "If ye abide in
me, and my words abide in you, ask whatsoever ye
will, and it shall be done unto you."
The place that Jesus has prepared for us is in the
invisible heavens. It is not a place built with hands.
It is a state of consciousness, a state of perfect unity
with the Father in which the Father's riches of life,
love, peace, harmony, wisdom, and substance are
available for the use of mankind. Before we can en-
ter this place we must be willing to open the doors
of our thought dwelling so that His words may enter
and live in us. They will help us to reconstruct our
mental dwelling. When we open the door and let His
words abide in us, then we shall abide in Him and
have whatever we ask for.
In a modern house you have many things for the
asking. Electric lights illumine your room when you
push the button which is one way of asking! You
have hot and cold water to bathe in, music and en-
tertainment from the radio, books, magazines, com-
fortable chairs, a bed to rest on, and satisfying meals.
The place that Jesus Christ has prepared is much
more wonderful than a modern house, for in it we
can ask anything we desire and it will be done for us.
104
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
There is no limit set except that of our own ability
to think of what to ask for, provided of course that
we abide in Jesus Christ and His words abide in us.
"If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ask
whatsoever ye will, and it shall be done unto you."
To be able to abide in any state of consciousness
the words or thoughts of that consciousness must first
abide in us. When we live in a house, the beauties of
that house will live in us to the extent that we are
able to appreciate them with our senses and our
power of imagination to idealize their pleasant qual-
ities. The place that Jesus Christ has prepared for us
cannot be made manifest to us through our five
senses. Our faith will help us to find it and our
prayers will bring us into it.
Jesus also said: "Abide in me, and I in you. As
the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide
in the vine; so neither can ye, except ye abide in me.
I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in
me, and I in him, the same beareth much fruit: for
apart from me ye can do nothing." All of our power,
strength, and ability come from the Father. When
we realize this and come to the Father through the
Christ, who is the Father's perfect idea of man, then
we become truly a part of the vine and draw our sub-
stance, life, and energy from that source. But when
we believe that we are separate earthly beings be-
gotten of the flesh, we are separating ourselves from
the vine and we are therefore lacking in power and
spiritual strength to endure. We are either on the
vine or off the vine, according to the kind of dwelling
105
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
place we have established in our consciousness. If our
dwelling place is one of mortal limitations we are
separated from the vine. This is
manifestly not a very
substantial or worth-while dwelling place. It can be
remodeled, however, and brought into the Father's
house, where there are many mansions. All of these
are parts of God's one plant or vine.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"My consciousness is
open and receptive to Christ
ideas.
MONDAY
My mental dwelling place is
being gloriously recon-
structed under the guidance of Jesus Christ.
TUESDAY
I abide continually in a place of loveliness because
my thoughts are pure and sweet.
WEDNESDAY
The words of Jesus Christ abide in me as I abide in
Him, and all of my needs are therefore supplied by
Him.
106
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
Through faith I dwell in the kingdom o God, which
is
right at hand.
FRIDAY
I am drawing abundant life, wisdom, and supply
from the Father through the true vine, Jesus Christ.
SATURDAY
I am one with God through Christ.
107
Rename Your Enemies
EVERYONE
is like old Father Adam in one re-
spect at least. He has the privilege of naming
everything and everybody about him. In the
2d chapter of Genesis we find this record: "And out
of the ground Jehovah God formed every beast of the
field, and every bird of the heavens; and brought
them unto the man to see what he would call them:
and whatsoever the man called every living creature,
that was the name thereof." Jehovah God is still
bringing His creations before man to see what he will
call them.
We are continually naming and renaming not
only animals and things but the people who are about
us. They may already have names, but we name them
over again with such names as these: beautiful, ugly,
good, bad, graceful, awkward, honest, dishonest,
truthful, liar, prig, bird, pig, goose, cat, fox, peach,
pippin, and the like. We select these names to fit our
impressions of people and our experiences with them.
Our thoughts about the character of people and
things are the "names" to which I refer. We may
108
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
say that God had brought certain experiences and per-
sons into our life to see what we would call them,
and whatsoever we have called them, that has been
their name to us.
The question whether a person merits the name
we have given him has nothing to do with the point
I am trying to make. People and things exist for us
only in our own mind. If we had no mind we should
not know that they exist Perhaps no two of us see
another person just alike or think about htm in the
same way. In other words, that third person is a dif-
ferent kind of creature in the mind of each of us. We
have created a picture of him in our own mind, and
he is what he is for us because of our way of think-
ing. Our picture of him may be altered somewhat
from time to time because of his behavior, but we
should remember also that his behavior toward us
will be altered by our mental picture of him.
Is someone by his actions interfering with your
plans ? Then change his actions by altering your men-
tal
picture of him. In other words, change the name
by which you have identified him in your mind to
a better name.
If you have named someone unfair and dishonest
because he is out of harmony with your plans, you
are losing an opportunity to help him and to help
yourself if you do not at once rename him. If you
will not do this for his sake, you should do it for
your own sake. Do you want him to continue to in-
terfere with your plans? Of course you do not. Then
why use your mental power to help him to do so?
109
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
There is a thorn sticking into me. Because it has
hurt me do I
sharpen it and poison it and push it
deeper into my flesh? No, I
pull it out and throw it
'
N away. Why cling to your hurtful idea of others?
-^Why not rename the one who interferes with you
and change him in your mental world to a helper?
Call him honest, just, and a good co-operator. Do
not rename him with the idea of trying to make him
over in his world, but with the thought that he is
truly a perfect child of God and therefore, as a citizen
of your world, will respond to the good name that
you are giving him. It may not be necessary to tell
him in spoken, words that you have changed his name.
It is your divine privilege to name the people who
live in your mental world so that they will be helpful
to you. Fill your world with goodLjyad..helpful
people by your power to name them with good
names. You cannot afford to have bad people about
you, and you do not need to have them.
The old-fashioned way to get rid of enemies was
to kill them, spirit
them away, or lock them up. The
modem, Christ way to dispose of enemies is to trans-
form them into friends and helpers. To do this you
must cease to worry about their shortcomings. You
must put the full
power of your faith and thought
into seeing them as new creatures in Christ Jesus and
expect them to manifest traits or qualities according
to the name you give them.
When you attempt to rename an undesirable per-
son, you may find that, even after you thought you
had given him a good name, a subtle hope seems to
110
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
persist in the back of your consciousness that some-
thing may happen to punish him. Such a thought
should prove to you that you really have not whole-
heartedly renamed him. This undercurrent of nega-
tive thought must be totally erased and be replaced
by a consciousness of trust in the power of his new
name to wipe out the old record and make of him a
new, glorious creature in your world.
When you find unpleasant people or unpleasant
conditions roaming about in your world, rename
them and make of them such characters as you are
certain will add to the pleasure of your world. Make
it the kiod^LworHjou^wish it to be. Stop whin-
ing, stop complaining, stop getting worried and con-
fused about the misbehavior of the creatures that you
have misnamed. Use the thought energy that you
have been wasting in negative emotions to rename
your creatures.
I do not mean that you will change a criminal to
an honest man in the twinkling of an eye, but I do
say that you can, in so far as you are concerned,
remove him from your own world.
Fill your world with good people and good things.
Forget to pout, forget to cry, forget to complain,
and remember to rejoice and give thanks to God for
the perfect creation He has put at your disposal.
Ill
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
^' I
recognize you. You cannot disguise yourself. You
are a radiant child of God.
MONDAY
God's creations are all excellent, I shall therefore be
very sure to give them fitting names.
TUESDAY
My good shall not be discredited. I bless it as I
recognize it everywhere.
WEDNESDAY
Through the love of Jesus Christ I am able to give
good names to all
people and to all things in my
world.
THURSDAY
i
^
I bless you in the name of Jesus Christ. You are a
child of the living God, and I love you.
FRIDAY
Because you are a child of God you speak the truth
and you are ever honest, just, and harmonious.
SATURDAY
i
si
My world is filled with splendid people, and I love
them all.
112
Leave It with God
GOD
DOES not forget.
Someone has asked the question "How
often shall we tell our problems to God?"
Surely we should not repeat the same problem over
and over again, for God knows what we need even
before we ask, and He invites us to cast our burdens
upon Him.
If God already knows what we need, then why
pray at all ? The reason for prayer is not to get things
but to understand what God is doing for us, so that
we can co-operate in His plan for us to enjoy His
good things.
Jesus gave a parable showing that we ought al-
ways to pray and not to faint. He told of the widow
who through her persistence, influenced the judge to
give a verdict in her favor. The judge was worn out
by her persistence and wished to get rid of her.
"The Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge
saith." The judge was unrighteous because the judg-
ment he gave was based on his own personal feel-
ings. But Jesus explains that God is ever ready to
113
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
grant our prayers and that if it is
possible for a
woman to be so persistent
in calling on a judge, why
should not we be persistent in^pur service of the
Lord? Of course the Lord wilL.not^grant our wish
because we tire
Him^Juj^because we make it
possi-
ible for Him to serve us. We do not need to tell Him
our problems many times, but we do need to give
thanks continually and to realize that all that we
.have comes from Him, the one source of good. By
giving thanks continually we are able to keep in
constant touch with Him, thus making it
possible for
His goodness to work out in the solving of our prob-
lems. In using electricity we must see that the wire
bringing it into our house is connected continually
with the power house. Prayer is the wire that connects
us with the great power house of God's life and love.
How often do we need to eat or drink or breathe?
Eating once is not enough; drinking once is not
enough, or is
breathing once sufficient to keep us
alive. To keep our body in proper condition, we
must keep persistently doing these things. However,
the doing of these things is not enough; for "man
shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceedeth out of the mouth of God/' How necessary
it is for us to lgp close to the source of our spiritual
"food supply!
While it is not necessaxy to tell our problem over
and over to God, it is necessary to renew our con-
scious faith in God daily and to feel that He is now
taking care of all our problems. Prayer is
practiced
not for the purpose of changing God's mind or in-
114
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
fluencing Him to do something that He does not
have a mind to do, but for the purpose of changing
us: opening our consciousness so that His spirit may ;
freely enter our life; strengthening our faith; culti-
'
vating our love. God cannot be changed, but our
'
mind can be changed and lifted up. Therefore we
need to be constant in prayer, in order that more
of God may enter into our life. It is the conscious
receiving of God into our life that solves our prob-
lems. God's love and supply will take care of all our
needs when we give Him proper co-operation.
In presenting our problem to God we should real-
ize that co-operation with Him is much more impor-
tant than the solution of our problem. We should
minimize the problem and magnify the Lord. Prob-
lems are already solved by divine love when we put
at the disposal of the divine plan every ounce of our
ability and energy to carry out their righteous solu-
tion. We need to ask God for the wisdom to comply
with the divine plan, for under it all
problems are
solved.
Human ignorance causes problems in the first
place. Divine love and wisdom solve them by throw-
ing light upon them. Problems exist only in us, not
in God. We should concentrate our attention not
upon the problem but
upon J3pd, and as we do
Truth will be revealed to us and the problems will
disappear.
When you go to God with your troubles, put the
emphasis of your thought upon God's power and
love more than upon your trouble. Concentration
115
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
upon the difficulty simply builds it to greater propor-
tions in your own mind. By concentrating your at-
tention upon the power and love of God, you will
be able to fill
your mind with life and power to over-
come the error. We might therefore say: "Turn your
problem over to God and forget it. But do not forget
God."
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
God's supply is greater than man's demand. God is
greater than any problem. Therefore I will not worry
any more about problems.
MONDAY
I joyously center my attention upon divine love, tak-
ing my thoughts away from fear.
TUESDAY
In Divine Mind all
problems are solved. Divine love
is here, and my affairs are in perfect harmony.
WEDNESDAY
Infinite wisdom guides me and divine love prospers
me.
116
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
All that I can use of God's abundant supply is now
mine under the divine law.
FRIDAY
Through obedience to divine will I am learning how
to use God's abundance.
SATURDAY
I freely and joyously drop my burdens as I give at-
tention to divine sufficiency.
117
Section V
THE USEFULNESS OF TRUTH
E
Thinking for Prosperity
\
VERY FINANCIAL condition has its
beginning in
an idea. A prosperous idea in your mind per-
sistently held will bring prosperity into your
affairs. First decide upon a prosperity idea and then
fill
your consciousness with it.
What is a prosperous idea? Perhaps we shall be
able better to understand what a prosperous idea is
by first
considering what it is not. Of course we all
know that discouragement is not a prosperous idea.
Neither is doubt concerning our ability a prosperous
idea. Here is another expression of an idea that is
not in accord with prosperity: "I lack prosperity/
1
This expression stresses the need more than it does
the thing desired. If I accent the idea of need as a
reality, I am thinking poverty, not prosperity. '1 am
prosperous" would be a better way to think, for that
expression carries a prosperous idea. Even metaphy-
sicians make the mistake of accenting lack instead of
affirming sufficiency. They cultivate poor ideas in-
stead of prosperous ideas. A poverty thought can-
not produce prosperity in anyone's affairs.
118
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
The true prosperity idea is the one that recognizes
that there is an abundance of good in everywhere-
present Spirit substance and that that good is not
separated from the individual who is making the af-
firmation. Faith enters in when we acknowledge that
jDur good is at hand. First we must have faith that
there is an abundance of good in Spirit Then we
must have faith that this good is now manifesting
itself in our life. If I say, "I need happiness," I ex-
press a thought based upon a belief in the absence
of happiness. We all admit that an abundance of
-happiness exists in God. Let us use it by affirming
our oneness with that happiness. By letting it find
expression in our consciousness as ideal joy we shall
begin the planting of the seed of happiness in our
affairs and we shall reap happiness.
Since the essence of all the good we can ever need
is
right at hand, even in our own inner self, we must
learn how to bring it forth. We must have faith
in it. But we are told that "faith apart from works is
barren." Bring out the good by beginning to work
with it. The way to bring out happiness is to begin
,t bejiappy. begin to spread happiness to others.
Realize that God has filled you with happiness and
then it will become active in you.
God has given you strong muscles which you can
enjoy if you care to develop them by proper exercise.
God has given you prosperity which will grow for
you as you exercise your prosperity ideas.
Tithing has been suggested as one way to pro-
mote and use ideas of prosperity. Some persons who
119
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
would like to tithe hesitate to do so because they
think, "I have nothing to give. I have no job. I have
no income. How can I give?" "I have nothing to
give" is a poverty thought and can produce nothing
but poverty injour affairs. But the moment you feel
that
yo^c^^^^sometfiing^ be it ever so small, you
start a praspentytEought going in your conscious-
ness. Money is not the only thing you can give. You
can tithe your time. Select a certain time during each
day to devote to God. Ask for guidance and you
will be led to do something thatlvill help spread
His gospel.
Tithing means giving back one tenth of our in-
come to God. God has given us so much that we shall
find that we have sufficiency for all our needs and
enough to give a tenth back to Him. As long as you
have life, love, strength, faith, joy, intelligence, and
^imagination you have something to give. You can
devote one tenth of your time to God, doing some-
thing that will help bring His kingdom into the
earth. Meditate upon the omnipresence of God. Give
thanks for His wonderful love and His healing,
prospering presence. Devote some of your time to
blessing others about you. Perhaps you can say some-
Thing to someone that will help him feel more
surely the presence and nearness of God's love.
Tithe your happiness and you will find that you have
a real, unfailing supply of happiness within you
that you can draw upon perennially.
Should you receive a gift, you can make a tithe of
it in some way. When you decide to give a tenth to
120
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
God you make a momentous decision that will
change your way of looking at finances. You put
your faith "on the spot/' as it were, and you enter
a new life in which you know that there is enough
substance for your physical needs and more you
have enough to give a tithe to God. When you realize
that you can give a tithe to God, you are rich even -
though the tithe be a very small one. Jesus said:
"For he that hath, to him shall be given: that he that
hath not, from him shall be taken away even that
which he hath.*' When you begin to tithe you put
yourself in the class of those who have, and when
you feel that you are too poor to tithe you put your-
self in the class of those who have not.
Never say or think, "I cannot afford it," because
thoughts become things. Such a thought becomes a
"can't-afford" thing that dains up the flow of pros-
perity in your affairs. When you are moved to give
something to help a person in need, be sure you
give to his prosperity. Do not give to his poverty.
You can give to his prosperity by denying that he
has any need that cannot be supplied by God's
bounty. Give with the thought that your gift is open-
ing the way for an inflow into his consciousness of
God's infinite bounty. This is what I mean by giving
to his prosperity. If you give to another's poverty,
you give with a feeling that you are giving as a duty
because you are sorry for him. But you are holding
him in poverty because you are thinking that he has
no way of getting his good from God, therefore
you must give it to him. Your thought accompanying
121
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the gift can be one of poverty or prosperity for him.
Never give to anyone's poverty but give to his suc-
cess, eive to hisjgiosperity. Let your gift be afseed
idea <5Tprosperity for him and for you also. See him
rich; see the possibilities
God has provided him
with which to enrich himself. Never allow yourself
to think of him as unable to tap that great spiritual
supply which God has provided for him. Help him
to find true prosperity in ideas. Cultivate rich
thoughts, be rich toward God. *----
The widow who gave the mite was a rich giver
even though the amount she dropped in the box was
small. Jesus remarked that she had given more than
the others. Put rich thoughts into everything you do.
JExpect rich returns, and be thankful. Giving thanks
continually will keep your rich thoughts from being
discouraged by your poverty thoughts.
This is the way the law works: First the thought,
then the activity following the thought, then the re-
sults in the manifest world. A good thought is fol-
lowed by activity that produces good results. A
poverty thought is followed by activity that brings
about lack. A weed seed is
planted, growth follows,
and the result is weeds. A flower seed is
planted in
the ground and growth follows that produces flow-
ers.
WatdLX2HL^2u^ r*k
in the splendor of the ever-present God o plenty.
Never doubt; do not be discouraged. Fill your mind
with the kind of thoughts that you want expressed in
your affairs. God will work mightily with you. There
is
nothing to fear. Step out boldly and fearlessly in
122
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the consciousness that you are working with a sci-
entific law. Here is the law: As you sow in ideas so
shall you reap in your body and your affairs.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I am prosperous because my heavenly Father is rich.
MONDAY
Only rich thoughts shall have a place in my con-
sciousness.
TUESDAY
I receive richly and I give richly because God is
sup-
plying me bountifully.
WEDNESDAY
I am putting prosperity to work in my affairs by
putting ideas of prosperity to work in my mind.
THURSDAY
I am filled with happiness that becomes active as I
express it.
123
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
FRIDAY
I know that I am prosperous, because I am rich to-
ward man and God.
SATURDAY
Rich ideas fill my mind and dominate my finances>
praise God!
124
Christ the Way
IN
ATTAINING anything worth while one must
follow some kind of way or method. The early
Christians were known as followers "of the
Way." When Paul said, "And I persecuted this
Way/' he referred to the Christians. They were
doubtless called followers of the Way because Jesus
taught, "I am the way, and the truth, and the life."
He also proclaimed, "I am the true vine/* and
again, "I am the door." He explained very clearly
that the Father could be reached only through Him.
Many years before, Moses and the prophets had
pointed out the way by means of commandments and
precepts. Jesus Christ boldly acknowledged that all
their teachings were fulfilled in Him. He made many
startling statements concerning His importance, yet
these were by no means egotistical or vain, because
He spoke not of Himself as a physical man, but of
the Christ within Him.
We often include in our affirmations and prayers
the phrase "through Jesus Christ." This is done to
acknowledge Christ as the way through which our
125
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
affirmation must be worked out and our good ac-
complished. If we consider the statement that "no
one cometh unto the Father, but by me" as coming
merely from the man Jesus we may well wonder
what opportunity for contacting God anyone who
lived before His time could have had. We know that
the prophets did commune with God before the time
of Jesus. This fact is
proved by the Christ's state-
ments that follow: "Before Abraham was born, I
am," "And now, Father glorify thou me with
thine own self with the glory which I had with thee
before the world was." These texts show that Christ
lived even before the physical world was created.
Let us consider the original creation mentioned
in the 1st chapter of Genesis. We have there men-
tion of the spiritual creation wherein man was made
in God's image and after His likeness. This spiritual-
'man creation is the Christ, the perfect Son of God,
the pattern man for all creation.
After the spiritual creation the material world was
created, as told in the 2nd chapter of Genesis. At
this time the Adam man was formed out of the dust
of the ground, and the breath of life was breathed
into his nostrils by the Christ, who is
spoken of as
"Lord God" or "Jehovah," Thus we see that the
Christ, the perfect Son, was created in the beginning
and has been the inspiration and the true reality
back of mankind ever since.
As Adam's descendants drifted away from God's
perfect ideal man they found troubles, unhappiness,
and death in their world of good and evil. To over-
126
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
come these, we must turn back to the perfect Christ
ideal and through Christ become one with God again.
No man can know God except he unify himself
with the perfect Christ man within him. Jesus was
not referring to Himself as a man when He asked
people to believe on Him, but to that spiritual self
within Him which had existed before Abraham.
Jesus, the physical man, was meek and humble
enough to overcome personal selfishness, pride, and
desire for the praise of men. He said, "I can of
myself do nothing/' Yet again He said that the
Father had given Him everything, and that the
only way that men could reach the Father was
through Him.
Here is an apparent contradiction which is cleared
up when we catch the spirit of Jesus' teaching. If we
take His words literally we may feel that Jesus de-
sired us to worship Him personally as a man; but the
spirit of His teaching is that the Father alone de-
serves all credit and is the one who should be wor-
shiped. One of the temptations that Jesus overcame
in the wilderness was this very human weakness
which craves power over men and worldly praise.
When Satan offered Jesus all the kingdoms of the
world He refused them.
We may be sure that it was Jesus Christ's love
for all men and women that prompted the instruc-
tion to come through Him as a door to God. He,
the man Jesus of Nazareth, was calling attention
to the fact that Christ, or the perfect Son of God,
abiding in Him and in each one of them, was the
127
NEVC* WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
only hope for them. He pointed away from the
world toward the within as the true path of salva-
tion. He told them plainly, 'The kingdom of God
is within you.'* He also said: "Is it not written in
your law, I said, Ye are gods?" Here He refers to
the Christ as potential within every individual.
As human personalities we are far from being
gods, but in our true spiritual nature we are chil-
dren of God. As such we are truly superbeings in
comparison with the mere flesh and blood man. We
are indeed very close to the kingdom, and may find
it at any time by turning to that perfect spiritual
One within us who is "the door."
Jesus, the man, was so quickened by the Christ
Spirit that He expressed the universal love of God
in its fullness. He desired with all the intensity
of the great Father love that all men and women
should know the loving Father for themselves. He
was absolutely meek and unselfish when He asked
His followers to believe on Him; for He said, "He
that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on
him that sent me/' The man Jesus did not mean
that He was the way, but He pointed to the Christ,
the perfect spiritual man within Him, as the way,
and it was His great desire that all men under-
stand their unity with this perfect One. He expressed
it in this way: "I in them, and thou in me, that
they may be perfected into one."
Jesus, in showing the way, always pointed to the
1vithi|iJ/He did not ask us to follow any set form,
creed, or ritual, but He referred us to spiritual
128
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
realities or principles such as "Love one another";
believe on the Christ and serve Him; believe that
Christ is the Son of the living God; believe that
prayers are answered, and that the kingdom of
heaven is brought into the earth.
The Jewish teaching was so largely made up of
instructions for definite procedures and rules that
it was difficult for its adherents to grasp the meaning
of a purely spiritual teaching such as Jesus gave. It
was also difficult for those wr
ho, like the Romans,
were living a purely materialistic life to understand
spiritual teachings. And it is even now difficult for
the average man and woman to understand the
true, spiritual import of the teachings of Jesus.
There is always a strong tendency to try to fit them
into forms and ceremonies and to try to fasten them
to some particular locality or circumstance.
We must learn that Jesus' teachings are universal
in their application; that they do not refer to any
particular time, place, person, or group of persons,
but that they do refer to God the Father, to His
spiritual Son, Christ, and to mankind everywhere.
They are as universal in their application as the
principles of mathematics.
The teachings of Jesus are absolutely impersonal.
Each person has the opportunity to use them, and it
is for each one to demonstrate how much of the
spiritual teaching he will manifest in his own life.
Jesus Christ, I feel sure, did not wish to be
worshiped as a personal man in a historical setting;
He yearned to have all men join Him in a glorious
129
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
reunion, in an understanding of the spiritual sonship
of all in the Christ body, which is a spiritual body
and the perfect man that God created in the be-
ginning.
This perfect man is the true life
principle back'-
of ever)
7
person. Those who do not realize this are
shutting themselves away from the true source of
their fullness of life and joy and prosperity. They
are like the prodigal son who brought unhappiness
upon himself by going away from his father. Jesus
has pointed out the way back to the Father's house.
-
This way is the Christ, and it means our under-
standing and appreciation of our perfect sonship.
God is infinite love, infinite harmony, infinite wis-
dom, infinite peace, infinite life, but these wonderful
qualities are focused and directed into the human
race through the Christ ideal. It makes no difference
whether or not you call this ideal Christ, it is God's
perfect thought of man, which existed long before
the Christ was manifested in Jesus of Nazareth. All
the prophets were more or less familiar with Him as
Jehovah. He is that in each of us which makes it
possible for us to live at all, and which calls us to a
realization of our better nature.
So we find that "the Way" is based on an under-
standing of what pure goodness is as personalized
by Jesus Christ. The Way is found through faith in'
spiritual love and goodness. As a matter of fact, it
can be known at first only through faith, because it
is not perceived through any of the five senses.
Spiritual things must be spiritually discerned.
130
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Men who depend for their inspiration and their
living entirely upon the five senses are cutting them-
selves off from the very source from which they
sprang. They seek thrills through the five senses,
yet they are never satisfied. Jesus Christ said: "But
whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give
him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall
give him shall become in him a well of water spring-
ing up into eternal life."
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"I am the way, and the truth, and the life/*
MONDAY
"Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every
word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God/'
TUESDAY
"I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall
not hunger, and he that believeth on me shall never
thirst"
WEDNESDAY
"And he that beholdeth me beholdeth him that
sent me/'
131
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
'The things which are impossible with men are
possible with God/'
FRIDAY
"In that day ye shall know that I am in my Father,
and ye in me, and I in you."
SATURDAY
"All authority hath been given unto me in heaven
and on earth/'
132
Spirit, Soid, and Body
EVEN
THOUGH your body has many parts it is
nevertheless one body. Head, torso, legs,
arms, feet, hands any one of these mem-
bers by itself is not your body, yet your body needs
them all and is in fact the sum total of them all. I
say "your body" because I believe your body is not
you. It is only one of the three parts of you, as your
head is one of the parts of your body.
You are more than your body. Your body is a
necessary part of you, as your heart is a necessary
part of your body. Your body is one of the three
essentials that make up your real being. You are
primarilyspirit, but you are expressing yourself as
souTancT Sody. One of our chief aims in life should
be to unify and harmonize soul and body with spirit
so that all three will function together perfectly. Jesus
Christ demonstrated this unity of spirit, soul, and
body after the Resurrection. His body and soul be-
came so unified with His spirit that He was lifted
out of the plane of human vision. He is with us
always in the invisible heavens ready to help every-
133
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
one who asks of Him. His promise is "Lo, I am with
you always/'
As your head is a part of your body and your
body a part of your being, so your being is a part of
the body of Christ, who is God's perfect idea of
man. Thus you are one of the expressions of God's
man, who is
perfect. This Christ man is a part of
God. Here we have the Trinity: the mind of God, the
idea of the perfect man in God-Mind, and the ex-
"pression of that idea as the Christ.
-
God is our Father in the same sense that we are
"the father of our ideas. You have your being in the
mind of God.\In Truth there is but one presence
and one power in the universe, God^You have your
being in God. You cannot He separate "from God
'Because your life and intelligence are God life and
God intelligence. ^T^J^^^^n^elligQncc is^in'God.
YoiTcannot run away from God. You may forget
Him and think that you have put Him out of your
life, but you are only deceiving yourself and attempt-
ing to find satisfaction in darkness of your own mak-
ing. You cannot live apart from God, for HeJsjour
life. As your conscious mind begins to perceive the
magnitude of this truth, you will begin to co-operate
more fully with the God life in you and you will
know assuredly that God is your life. "When you
know that God is your life, you know that QUjife
is good, that it is
pure, that it is healthy, that it is
sinless and deathless. By practice your ability to
realize this truth will expand so that you will be able
to co-operate more fully with the God life in you.
134
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
God has provided you with the power to create by
your thinking, and by the right use of this power
you can increase your ability to co-operate with
God's harmonious plans for your happiness and
well-being. You can also learn to understand better
your divine relationship to all
people, so that har-
mony, peace, and love will be manifest in all your
contacts with other persons everywhere. Seek God
with your whole heart and you shall find Him within
you.
When we at Unity speak of Spirit we mean God,
the one mind or intelligence of the universe. An-
other name for God is '1 AM." Jehovah told Moses
to tell the people that "I AM THAT I "AM" was send-
ing him to lead them out of bondage. This was in
answer to Moses* question "When I come unto the
children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The
QQd^ofjrour fathers hath sent me unto you; and
they shalF say unto me, What is his name? what
shall I say unto them?"
For Unity's definition of^soul, let us quote the
Metaphysical Bible Dictionary: "Soul is
man'jS con-
sciousness that which he has apprehended or de-
veloped out of Spirit:
also the impressions that he
has received from the outer world. Soul is
bqth^con-
scious and subconscious. 'Body is the form of ex-
presSfofr 'of'both Spirit and soul. V7."
""'"The body is the outer court of the soul, and an'
exact representative, in form, of the ideals that are
revolving in the inner realms of its domain. . . .
"The soul touches both the inner realm^of Spirit,
135
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
from which it receives direct inspiration, and the
external world, from which it receives impres-
sions. . . .
"The Spirit is the divine center in man and is al-
ways in the Absolute; it does not become involved
in effects, but stands as the creative Cause of the
absolute good."
Your soul includes all your stored-up memories
and experiences, your reasoning mind, arid your
emotional nature. It is in the soul tat any misun-
derstanding of God originates. The soul dominates
the body's condition, causing health or sickness.
Through the soul you accept Truth or deny it. The
soul is able to reveal God to you or hide Him from
you. Through the power of Christ your soul is
up-
lifted and illumined when you so desire with all
your mind and might and strength.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
God is
everywhere present as life, love, and intelli-
gence.
MONDAY
I am in harmony with all
people in Christ.
136
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
TUESDAY
Since there is but one life, and that life is
good, I
have no enemy in Truth.
WEDNESDAY
Christ in me heals and inspires me.
THURSDAY
I am a helpful, harmonious member of the body of
Christ.
FRIDAY
There is but one God and He is
good. I let hfm rule
my life and it is
good.
SATURDAY
I love God with all my heart and soul and strength.
137
The Body of Christ
CHRISTIANS
OUGHT to be the most joyous peo-
ple on earth. There is, however, a notion in
many minds that to follow Christ here on
earth means to suffer and to be unhappy. Isaiah
prophesied the coming of Christ to the earth cen-
turies before the birth of Jesus. He described the
coming Christ as a man of sorrows. He accurately
foretold many things concerning Jesus Christ, but at
the same time he threw a cloak of austerity and
suffering about Christ that partially concealed the
joyous nature of His character. The prophet evi-
dently saw the event "in a mirror, darkly/' The
haze of the intervening centuries darkened the bright-
ness of the joy that was to come.
^_^
When Jesus came He proclaimed joy. He said,
"I came that they may have life, anomay have it
abundantly." He also saidj^T^hese things have I
spoken unto you, that my joy ,,tnay be in you, and
that your joy may be madelfiilL" He spoke often of
His loving Father, of little children, of birds, and
of flowers. He attended a wedding feast and ban-
138
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
queted. Evidently He found real joy in associating
with people as He helped them. He was even ac-
cused of being a winebibber and a glutton. Isaiah
leaves the impression with us that God took real
pleasure in bruising Jesus in order to appease His
anger because of the sins of mankind.
The testimony of Jesus concerning His loving
Father and the glory that He was manifesting
through Jesus* work refutes this prophecy of anger.
It is true that the man Jesus suffered on the cross,
but He did this to prove the power of God to resur-
rect His body. The Crucifixion is the symbol of the
crossing out of the sins and shortcomings of the
mortal man. The Resurrection should be empha-
sized rather than the Crucifixion.
Many men have been crucified even the thieves
and robbers at Jesus' side but how many have ever
resurrected their bodies? The Resurrection brought
joy to the whole world. It proved that Christ is mas-
ter over death, the last enemy.
There is a great difference between the body of
Jesus and the body of Christ. The body of Jesus was
crucified; the body of Christ is a spiritual body.
Christ was created in the beginning; He was with
God in the beginning as the perfect^ idea of man.
This idea is formed in the very image and likeness
of God. The Christ in Jesus told the Jews that He
lived before Abraham was born. This Christ Spirit
or Christ idea in the mind of God was incarnated
in the man Jesus. Paul pleaded: "Have this mind'*
in you, which was also in Christ Jesus."
139
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Ever}' one of us should cultivate the Christ Spirit
If we are able to receive and to use a fullness of the
Christ Spirit,
we shall be able to do the wonderful
works of Jesus. He promised that greater things
than He did would be done by those following Him.
The Christ body is not confined to one physical
man's life. Jesus said at one time, speaking of His
disciples,
"Neither for these only do I
pray, but for
them also that believe on me through their word;
that they may all be one; even as thou, Father, art
in me, and I in thee, that they also may be in us:
.that the world may believe that thou didst send me.
And the glory which thou hast given me I have
given unto them; that they may be one, even as we
are one; I in them, and thou in me, that they may
be perfected into one; that the world may know
thou thou didst send me, and lovedst them, even as
thou lovedst me." Since the body of Christ is
spir-'
itual, it is
omnipresent. All those who let the Christ
Spirit be foimed in them are members of the body
of Christ. Paul said, "Now ye are the body of Christ,
and severally members thereof." He said at another
time, "Or know ye not that your body is a temple of^
the Holy Spirit which is in you, which ye have from
God?"
When we come to the place where we cai JfflgS
iat the Christ in. us and the Christ in our neighbor
are parts of the one body of Christ, then we shall
be able toTSHHerstand how Christ is the true Son,
the expression of God Himself. "God is
Spirit/' We
realize that there is
/do^eparation in Spirit and that
140
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
we are all one in Truth. This realization of oneness
will do away with all worries and troubles.
Christianity is not a long- faced religion. Chris-
tians should be earnest, of course, but they should be
joyous. They should be full of enthusiasm, and they
should be healthy, strong, prosperous, and wise be-
cause of their understanding of the secret of man's
perfection in spirit, soul, and body. The true Chris-
tian knows that Christ is the perfect spiritual man
made in the beginning, and that his physical body,
rightly understood, is the temple of the true man
that is one with the Father.
Therefore the body should be perfect. Perfection
is its natural estate. Imperfection is caused by a lack
of understanding of the part that the Christ plays in
our life. Let us rejoice ^greatly that we are members
of the body of Christ, Let us drop the old idea of
pain, sorrow, sadness, punishment, and death in
connection with the Christ. Let us enter into the
spirit
of the thought that old things are passed
away and that we are new creatures in Christ Jesus,
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
The joy o Jehovah is my strength.
141
WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
The joy of Christ is
being made full in my life.
TUESDAY
"I am the resurrection, and the life."
WEDNESDAY
The Christ of God is the quickening power in me.
THURSDAY
I am an obedient member of Christ's body.
FRIDAY
"Lo, I am with you always."
SATURDAY
My body is the temple of the living God. I rejoice
in this
responsibility.
142
,27
A Personal God
THERE
SHOULD BE no controversy between
those who hold that God is
principle and
those who believe that God is
personal.
We all agree that God is infinite, all-powerful,
and everywhere present. Since God is infinite the
possibilities of His expression must be infinite.
Surely then He must be capable of manifesting
Himself both as principle and in a personal way.
If God were only a person He would be greatly
limited in His scope of expression, but since He is
principle too He is not limited to mere personal ex-
pression. Because man* is
masquerading as a person-
ality is no reason for him to try to limit God to so
small a field of activity.
Love is one of the principles abiding in God,
and it is as boundless as the universe, because God is
infinite. But when God love is
expressed by an in-
dividual it becomes personal.
God is love, and God's love, when it touches an
individual capable of consciously receiving it, be-
comes as personal as any father's love for his child.
143
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Intelligence is another principle existing in God.
Intelligence is also infinite, and it is so marvelous
that it
guides the movements of billions of stars set
in the vastness of space, as well as directing the
growth of the intricate and perfectly formed micro-
scopic organisms contained in a drop of water. These
wonderful things are governed by an intelligence
that is beyond our comprehension. We do not under-
stand how our body prepares magic compounds that
help us to live and grow; how the marrow of our
bones manufactures red corpuscles.
Divine intelligence is so perfect and uniform and
expresses itself in forms of life and activity so sys-
tematically that we must conclude that it is a great
underlying principle of all life and existence. Yet
when man speaks to God, perhaps without realizing
that he is
using God's very intelligence principle to
form his very words to God, he receives a personal
response from God.
God is more than a superhuman man. It is not pre-
sumptuous for a mere man to try to make God con-
form to his limited standard? Man the true, spir-
tual Christ man was indeed created in the image
and likeness of God, and he is the spiritual pattern
that lies back of every manifest man. Man at present
sees the teal man imperfectly, as "in a mirror,
darkly/* Jesus beheld the perfect man clearly, face to?
face, and unified Himself with spiritual perfection
(the Christ), and became Jesus the Christ
We should all strive to
P^onChrist or, in other
words, try to make manifest in ou? being the perfect
144
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
Spn-of-God principle as Jesus did. None of us has
as yet approached the glorious possibilities
of that
perfect manhood.
God cannot be measured by the standard of our
human imperfections. We know that principles
are
eternal, having no beginning and no ending. They
are unchanging, underlying ail that is. God is all
principle and more, for He has love and under-
standing for the problems of the least of us. You
cannot think of a place where God is not, yet you
may fail to find Him even in a church.
Each man's -conception- of God determines for
him wha^Jkind of God he must face. He can serve
an angry God or a loving Father. God is as power-
ful, wise, and helpful as a man is
capable of be-
lieving Him to be. God may be, according to a
man's measure, a personal, loving Father, cold prin-
ciple, or even nonexistent. >-
A man can crate just the kind of heaven or hell
he chooses, but "the possibilities of creating a sub-
lime heaven are endless, for even in his wildest
flights of imagination man cannot begin to uncover
the fullness of the infinite, glorious character of God.
God gives us freely of His life, intelligence, and
all other resources at all times, but we make use
of these blessings more or less ignorantly, and shall
continue to do so until we realize that all these
riches have their source in God. Realizing this, we
begin more intelligently to utilize the divine source
and of course get better results from life. To know
that these things emanate from a loving Father and
145
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
to respond to His love brings us a new understand-
ing of life. A new joy comes into our consciousness
when we begin to understand the meaning of the
good things that have been so bountifully provided
for us.
When we accept as a matter of course the gifts
that God has given us and use them without recog-
nition of the love that prompted them, we eat the
skins and throw away the flesh of this heavenly
fruit
A child who accepts his toys, food, and clothing
as if they were things provided by an institution
without a heart and who does not realize that Jove
sent jthem to him, would miss a great deal in life.
Children who feel the love of a father permeating
these material things find food for their souls.
Intelligence as a divine principle should,; not be
measured by mere brain power. Of cours^ intelli-
gence finds a means of expression through the brain,
but the brain does not produce intelligence.
Because the principles of harmony are used in a
musical composition does not mean that the prirv
ciple is limited to that one style of composition. We
should not confuse a mathematical problem with
the principles of mathematics even though those
principles are the very basis of the solution of such a
problem.
While principles may seem cold and unsympa-
thetic, they are after all more dependable than the
love of any human being, because they never change.
They are your friends and helpers as long as you
146
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
conform to Truth and righteousness. All love and
sympathy are dependent upon so-called cold prin-
ciple.
If the underlying principles of life were not
absolute and unyielding, man could not exist at all,
nor find opportunity to indulge his fickle sentiments
in doubting man or God.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
God's love embraces the universe, yet I am not for-
gotten by Him.
MONDAY
My heavenly Father cares for billions of creatures,
yet He does not forget the beating of my heart.
TUESDAY
Infinite love speaking through my indwelling Christ
whispers, "Come unto me . . . and I will give you
rest"
WEDNESDAY
God in the midst of me is
mighty to heal, to save,
and to bless.
147
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
God never changes. He is always my loving, wise,
and generous Father.
FRIDAY
God's riches are now abundantly manifest here in
my affairs. J praise Him and give thanks for His
kindness.
SATURDAY
God never forgets. His love endures and His watch-
ful eye never sleeps. He is my refuge and my
strength.
148
The Blood of Christ
W'HILE THE LAW of cause and effect may
seem a hard law at times, it is neverthe-
less a just law. As stated by Paul, it is
"Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap." c
Many of us trangress the law because of our ig-
norance concerning its full significance. Thoughts
are the dynamic forces of the mind. Destructive
thinking therefore brings devastating results in our
body and affairs.
Since God is love He has provided a higher law
to save us from the harsh results of our unwise
sowing. This is the law of grace. It operates as for-
giveness and might be stated as follows: "Forgive
and ye shall be forgiven."
Repentance has its
place in the saving law. Many
times Jeitr"advised" His" followers to repent, saying
the kingdom of heaven was at hand. If we go on
making mistakes under the law of sowing and reap-
ing without repentance, without forgiving others as
well as ourselves, we shall bring many unhappy
results of our sowing into our life. But if we
149
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
really make a definite decision to change our way of
thinking, giving up our mistakes and accepting the
healing love of Christ, this law of grace will erase
the effects of the causes that we have ignorantly put
into action, so that we shall be- freed from harsh
experiences. To do this we must repent,
we must be
humble, and we must decide to^change the kind of
seeds we are sowing; because the law of sowing
and reaping will continue to operate just the same
as it did in the past,jbut, only good results will be
manifested for us because we shall be planting only
good seed. The law of grace simply
weed seed that we have already planted. Jesus for-
gave the woman who sinned but He told her to go
and sin no more.
'
^
"Forgive and ye shall be forgiven" wipes away
our mistakes so that we can make a fresh start. Paul
says: "But God, being rich in mercy, for his great
love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead
through our trespasses, made us alive together with
Christ (by grace have ye been saved) ." We can be
saved from our mistakes by.tbe love of God through
Qhydst^His perfect Soc(in us.. God has shown His
love for us by giving this Son, the living Christ, to
us. "Love therefore is the fulfillment of the law/'^
We may continue to reap the effects of our ig-
norance in the past/or^Ve may accept the law of
grace and be saved by Jesus Christ from our sins.
Our sins are our mistakes and they are bringing
unpleasant results into our life. If we accept the law
of grace, which is love and forgiveness, we must
150
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
believe in it and live by it. We cannot be saved
from our mistakes if we continue to accuse others
and condemn them for their mistakes. The Son that
God gave to us is His perfect ideal of man, His
ideal of us. We must give up our son, who is our
erroneous idea of man as one who is sinful, sickly,
and dying, and accept in his place the Son that God
has given. The blood of this Christ man is the very
essence of His life. It will cleanse our life if we ac-
cept it, and we shall become new creatures.
In order that this may be done we must believe
that Godj_Son is
perfect and that God has given to
all men the opportunity to express perfection through
Christ. We must learn how to become unified in
Christ so that we can measure up to the ideal that
God holds for us. In order to drink the blood of
Christ we must actually appropriate^ and use it in.
every thought of life. The crucifixion of Jesus illus-
trates the crossing out of the son of man, which is
followed by the resurrection of the Son of God. The
blood thus shed on the cross represents the denial'
or erasing of the natural life from consciousness and
the Resurrection, the substitution in its
place of the
life of the spiritual man. The Christ Jplood_jm\l
cleanse us from all sin if we are willing to repent
and change our min-d about life, its source and how
to raise it
up as Jesus Christ raised His life. "As
Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even
so must the Son of man be lifted up."
""""
Our mind and our body will then be filled with
new inspiration and vitality. When we have accepted
151
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
God's love and proved it by believing that His Son
in us is
charging our life blood with spiritual life
and energy, we shall be saved indeed. We must let
-Christ be formed in us. Then all our sins will be
washed away and we shall truly be new creatures in
Christ Jesus. This coming of Christ into the con-
sciousness is not to be put off until a future time.
"Lo, I am with you always." The time is now at
hand for you, and you, and you every one to
receive Christ and be saved from your every mistake.
Every one of us who will believe that Christ is the
true man can be saved now if he opens his mind
and heart to Him.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
I am sowing good seed by thinking harmonious
thoughts.
MONDAY
I freely forgive and forget all
unpleasant experiences.
TUESDAY
I freely give up old, erroneous beliefs, and in their
place I gladly accept the righteous ideas of the liv-
ing Christ.
152
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
WEDNESDAY
I am saved from my sins by the grace of God through
Christ who has forgiven me as I have forgiven
others.
THURSDAY
Old thoughts of sin and sorrow pass away as the sun
of righteousness rises in my consciousness.
FRIDAY
The cleansing blood of Jesus Christ is healing and
purifying me in mind and body.
SATURDAY
I believe in the blood of Jesus Christ, the life stream
that cleanses, renews, and heals me.
153
Physicians and Prayers
THERE
ARE usually three possible methods of
dealing with every question. Two of them
are extremes, while the third is a method
falling midway between the other two.
"What shall be my attitude toward doctors and
material remedies since I am depending upon God
for my health?" This is a question that often, puzzles
the Truth student. Every person has his choice of
three answers.
Some have taken the extreme view that doctors
are directly opposed to divine methods, and that they
and all their devices should be shunned. Others are
inclined to go to the opposite extreme and con-
sider physicians as all-wise and almost superhuman
in their ability to cure every ailment. These people
run to the doctors for every little ache and pain.
Neither of these viewpoints seems wise or satis-
factory. The attitude of the Truth student toward
the medical profession should be quite different from
either of these.
A Truth student should realize that divine heal-
154
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
ing employs quite a different system from that used
by any medical school Each has its
special equip-
ment. Medical doctors employ drugs, serums, lights,
instruments, and appliances. Divine healing em-
ploys right thinking, and faith in God. The Chris-
tian metaphysician depends upon God directly for
healing, while the physician depends upon God indi-
rectly. Each school has its own method. There should
be no hard feeling between schools, but a patient
who is
receptive toward spiritual healing should
strengthen his faith in the healing power of God
by depending upon Him.
There should be no condemnation in the mind
of the Truth student for doctors or their methods,
nor should he have any criticism for any student
who calls on a doctor for help, nor for himself if
he should ever feel it necessary to call upon a doctor.
But one who wishes divine healing should fix his*
faith so firmly on God as the one source of health''
that he does not waver. He shouldjiot^ivide his at-
tention between the two methods. When a person
realiaes clearly that his life^comes from God he will
depend upon God and will feel that it is not neces-
sary to depend upon any other means of healing.
Faith is such a powerful force in man that when
he accepts God as the healing agent, so called mir-
acles result. Jesus Christ, the great healer, promised
that our prayers would be answered according to our
faith. While a Truth student should have the most
loving feeling toward doctors at all times he should
not divide his faith between God and them.
155
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
We give thanks that there are so many efficient
and able physicians and surgeons, because the world
needs them. Those who are not yet strong enough
to trust God must have other help.
I am sure that all doctors admit that they do not
accomplish the healing, but that the invisible forces
of nature do the work. The doctor's part is to help
make conditions favorable for these forces to do
their best. That a person under a doctor's care can
receive help through prayer is
proved true every day.
Often the hand of a surgeon is
guided by prayer,
but if we who know Truth continue to depend
upon material means for our healing, how are we
ever going to develop our faith and cultivate the
healing power within us? If we would strengthen
our faith we must begin to depend upon it and use
the power of Spirit within us. l"he~ possibilities of
spiritual healSglire greater than those of any other
method, because with God all things are possible.
If a mother would not let her little child try to
walk because she feared it would be too difficult for
the poor little
thing to manage its feet, so far as she
is concerned the child would never learn to walk.
If we continually protect our faith from actual use
by substituting material remedies for it, how shall
we ever make it
strong enough to serve us ?
Since God life is manifest in every living thing
and the effects of God wisdom may be seen on every
hand directing the wonders of nature, the seasons,
and the courses of the stars, there is no reason why
we should not have implicit faith in God, who made
156
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
us, to keep us in repair.
A man who has faith can endure much greater
hardships than one who has no faith. A recent
newspaper story tells of a group of men who were
lost in the jungle. One had no faith and he died,
The others had faith. They came through and got
back to civilization. The person who has faith finds
it
easy to keep his head during great catastrophes.
Faith is one of man's powers by which he is able
to co-operate with God.
According to the measure of our faith divine
%
healing power becomes active in us. One who di-
vides his faith between material remedies and God,
doubting God's ability to heal, cannot expect to
receive the good results that a unified and awak-
ened faith would produce. Fear and doubt are both
enemies of health.
We must not fear the doctor or accept his pro-
nouncements as final when they are discouraging.
We must realize that there is One greater than any
material remedy, of whom we say, "Closer is He
than breathing, and nearer than hands and feet/'
and with whom all things are possible. This in-
visible, all-powerful One accomplished marvelous
healings through Jesus Christ two thousand years
ago. Jesus testified that it was the Father within
Him that did the work. In the Lord's Prayer Jesus
referred to Him as "our Father." Since He is our
Father He is in every one of us, ready to heal and
bless us if we will but call upon Him.
Millions of people are healed every year through
157
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the power of prayer. Thousands of unsolicited tes-
timonials pour in to Unity every year praising God
for healings that came through this divine power.
This being so, we know that the healing power of
God is a fact. When we ask for healing, God is
ready to heal, but we must make our mental condi-
tions right for Him to reach us. Remember how
perfect faith healed the woman who merely touched
the hem of Jesus* garment.
Healing played an important part in Christ's
teachings and His disciples also did healing. Doubt-
less the members of the early church depended on
God for their healings. As the years went by the
original healing faith seems to have been lost, until
healing has come to be thought of as pertaining to
the soul and not to the body. To excuse our lack of
faith we Christians have said that Jesus merely did
the healing to prove that He was the Son of God.
But according to Matthew Jesus said, "Heal the
sick/' and in Luke we find this: "He sent them
forth ... to heal the sick."
-"True healing belongs to God. All other methods
are but patchwork compared with His true healing
power. When a skillful surgeon sets a bone he can
do no more. He must wait for the life forces in the
body to knit the parts of the bone together. If these
bodily forces do not function properly, then there
is little he can do to make the bone whole.
When a man cuts his finger he takes for granted
that the cut will grow together and heal, and so it
does. The healing life in the body is on the job all
158
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
the time and it heals when it is not too much in-
hibited by fear and other emotions. It is continually
repairing many frazzled and ragged places that we
never know about. This sendee of nature is the
working out of the perfect idea of God's life in us,
and by consciously co-operating with it
through
harmonious thinking we may keep open the way for
God's perfect healing power to work in us in full
measure.
Bless the doctors. Bless the hospitals. Bless the
remedies, and co-operate in prayer with those whose
faith is not strong enough to depend entirely upon
God. But we urge every Truth student to strengthen
his faith, to cultivate the true healing power within
himself and thus be saved body, soul, and spirit by
the Christ indwelling in him.
Worry, greed, anger, grief, and all emotional up-
sets prevent the divine power from doing its
perfect
work in us. We must learn to be peaceful, poised,
and obedient to the Spirit within. We must be
patient and relaxed, and we must have faith.
There are wonderful healings taking place today.
They are often referred to as miracles. But they are
not miracles in the true sense, because they are done
according to a law that is
higher than the known
laws of nature.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"With God all
things are possible."
159
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
My faith in God quickens His life in me, and I am
healed.
TUESDAY
The healing power of God's Spirit is now renew-
ing and harmonizing every part of my body, and I
am being healed.
WEDNESDAY
My faith is fixed in God as my omnipresent healer,
THURSDAY
I bless the life and substance in my body, because it
belongs to God.
FRIDAY
My body is the pure, holy, perfect temple of the
living God.
SATURDAY
I am being healed and renewed by the power of Goc
working in me through the Christ Spirit.
160
The Power of Nonresistance
w'E SOMETIMES try to make ourselves be-
lieve that memories of bygone mistakes
are valuable. The other day I heard a
true story about a small-town merchant who has
been successful through both lean and good years.
He always did well even when other merchants had
difficulties. A friend once asked him why he was so
successful, and he replied that it was because he
did not kid himself. He explained that statement by
saying that when at the end of a season he had a
stock of out-of-date goods left over, he charged off his
loss on it at once instead of carrying the old valuation
on his inventory. In this way his books showed what
his sound assets really were, and he conducted
his business successfully on the basis of the actual
value of his assets, forgetting all fictitious values.
If we would charge off from our mental inven-
tories those experiences which are no longer valu-
able and would give our attention to the business of
the present, we should be able to keep out of mental
and physical bankruptcy even under strenuous cir-
161
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
cumstances.
That nothing plus nothing equals nothing, and
that nothing plus something equals something, every-
one will agree, but few of us realize that this law
holds true in all our affairs. If something happens
in our daily program that we realize is
unprofitable
perhaps a quarrel, a lie about us, or gossip the
question arises, What can we add to such an expe-
rience to give it value? Can we avoid thinking,
saying, or doing something else that is
equally un-
profitable? If we can, we are in a position to con-
tribute something to the experience that is valu-
able. We can express something by thought and
word, if not by deed, that will promote love, for-
giveness, and good will, so that the final results of
the occurrence will be worth while.
There is a universal principle of nonresistance
that if
properly applied will add value to every
negative experience. This principle may be stated in
several ways: Agree with your adversary. If some-
body asks you to go with him a mile, go with him
two miles. If you are struck on one cheek turn the
other. Do not resist evil. The meek shall inherit the
earth. Satan cannot cast out Satan.
He who expressed these ideas understood the prin-
ciple of nonresistance. He proved the power of the
principle and by its use He made a lasting impression
upon the human race that no amount of selfishness
has been able to efface.
The only way to overcome evil is to replace it or
redeem it with good. By fighting evil with evil we
162
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
merely add evil to evil, and the result is more evil*
But good overcomes evil as light overcomes dark-
ness. Darkness added to darkness results only in
darkness.
We sometimes feel that we should like to thrash
an offender. This is an immature idea. Reason tells
us that two wrongs cannot make a right. The wrong
done cannot be corrected by a thrashing. It can be
corrected only by something constructive. Some-
thing true and good must replace the wrong. A
pupil's mistake in working a problem can be cor-
rected only when he learns the right principle or
idea. The teacher helps the student to correct his mis-
take by giving him a correct idea. Giving him an-
other mistaken idea would not help. If I have taken
upon myself the responsibility of correcting an error
made by my neighbor I must give him a correct or
true idea and not another wrong idea. Thrashing
him will never show him the right way, but will
only confuse him the more. The world moves on
ideas. False ideas cause wrongdoing. Only right
ideas can produce righteousness.
Wars are based on the fallacy that strife added
to strife will make peace. It cannot be brought about
in that way. Strife added to strife will produce
superstrife. Strife is caused by ideas of disorder, ig-
norance, hate, and the like. It can be overcome only
by harmonious ideas backed up by intelligence and
love.
There is a barbaric notion in the race mind that
good will has no power to change adverse will, and
163
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
that evil must be fought with evil. Through thou-
sands of years we have been trying to work out our
problems according to this notion, and have always
failed because every fight stirs
up more ill will.
Jesus Christ has shown us the true principles, but
we are as yet not courageous enough to use them.
We are afraid to do the loving, generous thing; so
we fight. We are too weak and ignorant to stand up
in our divine right and prove that we are real civ-
ilized men and women instead of untamed barbarians.
It
requires true bravery to express nonresistance
and love. When we are truly brave we shall over-
come the strife of the world. The world will never
know peace, and men will never be happy in asso-
ciation with one another before they learn that evil
must be overcome with good. There is no other way.
*>
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
Forgetting the mistakes of the past, I
press forward
to a realization of the Christ within me.
MONDAY
I am love, I am peace within you. Stop your strife
and listen to Me.
TUESDAY
"I am the way, and the truth, and the life."
164
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
WEDNESDAY
I am the power of success in you.
THURSDAY
I am the Father within you. Trust Me, for I am your
power to succeed.
FRIDAY
I am the good within you. I am able to overcome evil.
SATURDAY
I am the door to peace, health, joy, and prosperity.
Knock and it shall be opened to you.
165
There Is No Adverse Law
BY
THE LAW of gravity falling objects may break
our bones and by the same law flour is ground
at the water mill to feed us. Gravitation
causes us to carry heavy loads but it also keeps us
from flying off into space.
We cannot truthfully say that the law of gravity
is evil. The fact that it sometimes causes us trouble
is not sufficient to establish its guilt. We know that it
must be good because it is a universal law and that
we could not live upon the earth if it did not operate.
We find ourselves in difficulty with it only when we
get in its way. When we run under its feet we are
stepped on.
A good sharp ax will cut off a toe more easily than
a dull ax will. The better the tool or law the more
harm it can do in the hands of a careless person.
There is no adverse law or principle. Such a law
would destroy itself. All true law brings us more good
than evil. Only when we misapply a law or work
contrary to its
purposes do we suffer.
There can be no law acting adversely to God's
166
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
law, for all law is involved in GocTs original plan.
Adverse law can exist only in our imagination. The
onerous laws that we decree for ourselves are the
only adverse laws there are, and these are only in
our mind.
The laws that we make are but our personal plans,
which at some points may be in harmony with divine
law and at others contrary to it. We can make bad
laws for ourselves by decreeing such things as: "I
can't do anything right." "I catch cold easily." "I
get tired quickly/' Such negative statements come as
near being adverse laws as they possibly could. But
they are not divine laws and are not enduring. What-
soever a man decrees for himself becomes his burden.
He can decree that he will carry a light burden
or a heavy one.
We may turn a good law against ourselves. If you
believe that divine law or any law of the universe is
evil it must be because you have been trying to go
contrary to them. If the law seems adverse to you
you should ask for divine guidance and begin at
once to work with that law in a humble spirit
of ac-
cord, and you will be happy to see how much that
law will benefit you. You may need to learn more
about the law before you can act fully in accord with
it. Get knowledge first and you will find that the law
is
friendly.
Law is good because it emanates from Divine
Mind. Divine Mind always works in an orderly way.
Any universal law or principle must be harmonious
and consistent, always the same. If the law brings
167
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
you unhappiness it is because you are out of step
with it, not because it is designed to harm you. Get
in step with all laws by becoming harmonious
with the Christ in you. When you are in accord with
the divine law of harmony you will meet no inhar-
mony anywhere.
Seek the kingdom of heaven first, then you will
have the key to peace, power, and plenty. When we
have become so harmonious and orderly in our think-
ing that we can act in harmony with the law instead
of following our own lawless impulses, we shall find
that it works for our good and that as we work with
it
everything we undertake moves along smoothly
and joyously.
Those who work contrary to the laws of the land
have certain liberties taken away from them. Like-
wise those who go contrary to the laws of the universe
are deprived of certain liberties. Disease, sorrow and
even death are the result of broken laws. Jesus came
to bring us life, but few have learned to follow the
law of life.
All the principles underlying the universe are
friendly to man, the son of God. They are at his
service, but they must be used with wisdom, humility,
and thankfulness. "The earth is the Lord's, and the
fulness thereof.*
1
~&
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"The law of the Lord is
perfect."
168
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
I will cease making adverse laws for myself. Here-
after I will live according to the laws of God.
TUESDAY
The divine law brings only good to me. All that I
need is now mine under the divine law.
WEDNESDAY
I
place myself in accord with the laws of harmony
and success by realizing that God's will and not my
own will is being done in me.
THURSDAY
-''Order is heaven's first law." I am receptive to the
law of order and I find that the kingdom of God
is indeed at hand.
FRIDAY
There is no evil law. All enduring law is good.
SATURDAY
"I am in step with the divine law, and all my "ways
are ways of pleasantness," and all my "paths are
peace."
169
Section VI
HELPING OTHERS
T
Just Another Mother
HE FOLLOWING letter, signed "Just Another
Mother," came to us.
I am facing a situation that I seem unable to meet. I am
helpless, and I am wondering if you will print your an-
swer to this letter for the help and guidance of bewildered
parents.
My worry over a seventeen-year-old daughter who seems
to be running wild has all but floored me spiritually,
men-
tally, and physically. It seems to me now that I have never
known the meaning of the word worry before. I should
never have believed that one could suffer such anguish, such
utter misery. In a case like this, it is impossible to state truth-
fully that one is no longer going to be sad about this thing,
that one will forget the person who has caused this un-
happiness, that one is at eace with the world.
This is
my responsibility; I must do something about it.
Until the situation is changed there is no peace for me. I
have been a Truth student for a number of years. This situ-
ation developed during the time when I felt I was receiving
God's help in the care of my child. I have done all I
could. Maybe I have been too frantic, but the Bible is full
of anguish. Even Christ cried out from a suffering soul,
"My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" If I
must wait until I can better control myself, I shall never
170
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
get His help. Doesn't God understand? Doesn't He have
compassion on us in our suffering? Can't you do something
to help me?
Remember, dear "Just Another Mother," that
worry and frantic anguish are not going to help you
a bit in this seeming emergency. They use up the
energy that ought to be directed in ways that will
help your daughter. You say, "If I must wait until
I can better control myself I shall never get His help."
Let me ask you this question: Is it fair to expect your
daughter to control herself when you admit you can-
not control yourself? Should you not set the example
of self-control? Now is the time to set a good ex-
ample for her, not only in controlling your words
and actions but also in controlling the secret proc-
esses of your inner thought world.
If you are disturbed mentally, even though you
do not show it outwardly, your child will feel your
lack of poise and doubt your ability to guide her cor-
rectly. She wants a firm, loving, directing hand, and
will doubtless respond to a prayer for divine guid-
ance. If she senses that there is firm helpfulness
in you, she will be steadied by it and seek your ad-
vice. Do not try to dominate her by your personality,
but set her free in Spirit to do the will of God. Put
her in God's hands and know that He is taking care
of her. Stand by ready to help but not to worry and
fear.
Realize that your daughter is a child of God, just
as you are, and must live her own life just as you
must live yours. You should not try to make her
171
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
do your will but help her to do God's will. It is
necessary that you become poised in Spirit before
you can help her very much spiritually.
When you
can loose her and let her go in your mind, knowing
that God is caring for her, you will receive assurance
that all is well with her. In this way you will be able
to put her into the hands of God and to take your
fear thoughts off her. Your freeing attitude of
mind will make it much easier for her to respond
to her higher impulses. Your very worry and anxiety
tend to distract and muddle her spiritual vision. You
ask: "Doesn't God understand? Doesn't He have
compassion on us in our suffering?" Is it not more
important that we understand God than that we
worry about whether He understands us?
Of course God has compassion on you and your
daughter, but He also has given you freedom. You
are free to accept His compassion in faith and trust.
If you doubt Him, you are refusing His compassion.
God is
lovingly, earnestly offering everything that
He has to His children. He loves His children more
than it is
possible for them to love Him. Unless we
are willing to accept His love on faith, knowing that
He is able to help us safely through every situation,
we are like willful, stubborn children who will not
trust their parents.
Perhaps your daughter thinks she knows better
than you do how to conduct her affairs. You love her
and you want to help her. But it is difficult for you
to help her unless she is willing to accept your help.
Just so does God want to help you, but if you refuse
172
NEW WAYS TO SOLV OLD PROBLEMS
to accept His help because you are upset and full of
doubts and fears and worries which indicates a
certain personal willfulness He cannot give you the
help that He would like to give. The prodigal son
who went to the far country could not be helped by
his father until he returned.
You should begin to affirm the truth about your
child with a poised assurance that God is working in
your affairs and in the affairs of your daughter. Have
perfect faith that His will is being done His will,
not your will.
I do not know what the details of your problem
are, because you have not told them in your letter,
but it may be possible that you have certain personal
ideas of what your daughter should do that are some-
what selfish and biased. I can say this much to you
without personal criticism or feeling, because I do
not know who you are or what the circumstances
of the case are. You have a responsibility in the care
of your daughter, it is true, but are you exercising
it? Are you not worrying about your responsibilities
rather than discharging them? God will lovingly
share your responsibility if you will let Him. Have
faith. Pray, knowing that His will will be done.
You need divine guidance and help. You need to
realize that there is One greater than you that can
help you. Enter into His peace that passes under-
standing. Have faith in the power of God to help
you. According to your faith you will be helped. If
you do not want to work your problem out in God's
way, then of course the ways of the world are open
173
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
to you. But they are difficult and harsh and might re-
quire the assistance of the law of the land, which is
restraining but not healing. Remember that all
things
are possible with God through the power of His
love. Your problem is already solved in Spirit. God
bless you!
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
N I am sustained and guided by God's abiding love
and wisdom.
MONDAY
I am not disturbed by circumstances, for I know that
there is One within me who is
greater than all
these things.
TUESDAY
"*
I am strong in the Lord. Through Christ I am mas-
ter of myself and my world.
WEDNESDAY
My child, I set you free from my fears. Henceforth
you are in the loving hands of God.
174
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
THURSDAY
He has given His angels charge over you. No harm
can come to you.
FRIDAY
Dear Father-God, I place my child in Your loving
care. You are wise and strong and ever present with
her. I trust You to guide her, protect her, and bless
her. Show me what I can do to help.
SATURDAY
I have perfect faith in Thy omnipresent love. No evil
can stand against Thy love.
,33,
Helping Children
\ s A POSTAGE stamp sticks to a letter until it
gets
/\ to its destination, so an impression stamped
7 JL,upon a childish mind by a suggestion sticks
to him through his life, often playing an important
part in his future success or failure.
Children are serious-minded and receptive. There-
fore they are easily stamped with a suggestion. We
grownups should be careful what we say to children,
making sure that our suggestions conform to Truth
and that our words inspire and ennoble rather than
repress and inhibit the child. Speaking words of con-
demnation to a child dwarfs his soul. If you insist
on calling your child a little scamp you may some
day have to deal with a big scamp when he grows up.
A man recently told me of an experience in his life
that I think bears this out in a remarkable way. It
seems that he and his uncle had the same name
Fred. His uncle was unable to memorize poetry, not
even the short Mother Goose rhymes that boys usual-
ly pick up so easily. Young Fred's mother referred
a number of times in the presence of the boy to the
176
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
uncle's failing, saying that Fred could not commit
verses to memory. Young Fred thought she was
talking about him and he unwittingly accepted the
suggestion that he could not learn poetry. As a re-
sult he has always been unable to commit poetry
to memory.
When he was a boy he could not take part in the
Friday afternoon programs for this reason. Of course
he now realizes that it is all because he believed
what his mother said about Fred, thinking she was
speaking of him.
Another strange thing was that his uncle had an
almost uncanny faculty for finding lost articles, and
young Fred accepted this good suggestion also. He
has always had remarkable success in finding things
that have been misplaced. No doubt if his mother had
said "Young Fred is able to remember everything he
sets his mind to," and young Fred had listened
seriously to her suggestion, he would now be able to
remember many things and would have had no
trouble in memorizing poetry and rhymes during
his boyhood.
When I was a little boy a certain man with whisk-
ers, which I thought made him appear very distin-
guished, took quite an interest in me. One thing he
said to me a number of times impressed me greatly.
Taking my hand in his, looking me straight in the
eye, he would say, "Lowell is a good boy." I had
great confidence in this man's opinion; it somehow
made me feel that he was discovering something in
me that I had not yet found myself, and that it must
177
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
be true. His words made a lasting impression on me
and they have often encouraged me to feel that I
really was a good boy.
There is no telling how bad I might have been if it
had not been for this and other good suggestions
from my parents. I can well remember the thrill of
pleasure that went through me when this gentleman
so seriously repeated those magic words.
I have heard a mother say in the presence of her
child: "He is a bad boy, and I cannot do anything
with him/' Of course the boy felt that he must meas-
ure up to her expectations, and if he did turn out to
be a good man it was in spite of this smudgy stamp
that was impressed upon him by a well-meaning but
unwise mother.
If your child has done something naughty correct
him of course, but do not accuse him of being bad.
Direct his attention toward the good and call forth
the good in him by referring to it.
Perhaps you
could say, "He did something that was not right
this time, but he is really a good boy, and I know
he will not do it
again."
Children do not know how to take jokes and so-
called kidding. The man who makes fun of them
and gets a big laugh out of it himself fails to under-
stand how flat his joking falls upon the youngsters'
ears and how puzzled and disgusted they are.
A little boy used to sell magazines in our neigh-
borhood. His method was to cry and whine when
asking anyone to buy. Someone had instructed him
to do this on the theory that people would purchase
178
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
from him out of sympathy, and this practice was
making a hypocrite and a crybaby out of him.
Certain good neighbors, who understood child
psychology, took him aside and explained to him
that he was really a businessman and not a crybaby,
and that he should therefore use straightforward
business methods like any other salesman. After sev-
eral such talks he caught the idea and became a
changed boy. He had a naturally frank, open face
and a pleasant manner, and he grew up to be a fine
young man.
"Just as the twig is bent, the tree's inclined" is an
old saying, but it tells a life story. If you bend a
child's ideal into crooked ways by crooked sugges-
tions how can you expect his character to grow up
straight?
Metaphysicians, because they know the Truth, have
splendid opportunities for dropping good suggestions
into the hearts of children. We do not need to preach
to little ones, but when we say anything let us be
sure that it is constructive and in accord with spirit-
ual Truth, not merely a statement of what appears
to be evil. If you want a child to be honest let him
know that you believe he is honest. Say so frankly
even though he may not seem to be expressing the
honesty that you know God gave him. Encourage the
real honesty in him by calling his attention to it. Do
not threaten a child but guide him. If punishment is
necessary give it without threatening, but punishment
will seldom be necessary if you point the good way
and make it more interesting than the negative way.
179
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
You can often speak a prayer aloud to a child
that would need to be repeated silently for a grown-
up. Pray for your child and encourage him to repeat
affirmations of Truth also. Do not force them upon
him but encourage him to say and do that which is
uplifting and good. There is no need to preach or
to talk down to a child. Be frank, be straightforward,
be loving and friendly; be his partner rather than
a dictator.
If inanimate matter is impressed with your words
of Truth how much more will the receptive, intelli-
gent mind of your child be influenced by good words!
Your example before your child should keep pace
with your good words also. Let your actions conform
to your admonitions. Children are very keen to
she you up. Be a hero for your child's sake even
though you do not care to be one for your own sake.
Spend some time each day in silent meditation in
preparation so that you will say the right words
when you speak to your child. Never speak thought-
lessly or in anger. Remember that the child's mind is
like wax and takes an impression very easily.
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
My words are wise, for I
speak only the Truth to
children.
180
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
MONDAY
You are wise and good because you are a child of
God.
TUESDAY
God is your help in every need.
WEDNESDAY
God walks beside you, guides your way, through
every moment of the day.
THURSDAY
God is your wisdom and therefore you know just
what to do at all times.
FRIDAY
"Suffer the little children, and forbid them not, to
come unto me." I do not stand in any child's way to
keep him from Christ.
SATURDAY
The love of God cares for me and for all His
children.
181
,34,
Trusting in People
HUMAN
BEINGS are trustworthy only because
the Spirit of God moves in them. Jehovah
God breathed the breath of life into Adam
and he became a living soul. This is
typical of how
we all are animated. The breath or spirit of God is
the force that gives us life. It is this life that enables
the clay body to live and move and talk and think.
It is God in our fellow beings whom we must trust
rather than personality.
If we place our faith in the human personality
alone, we shall very likely be disappointed. When I
make an agreement, express or implied, with any-
one, I may have in mind certain things that I expect
him to do that are not in his mind. We may not
fully understand each other's viewpoint He may
have a certain understanding about some phases
of the agreement, while I have quite a different
notion about them. We may both be so indefi-
nite in expressing our understanding of the agree-
ment that neither of us has a very clear idea of
what the other expects. Later I may judge him
182
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
harshly for not fulfilling his part of the agreement.
Yet it is
quite unfair to blame him because he failed
to do all that I
expected him to do when I had not
made myself clear to him. If we are depending on
human personality instead of God's goodness we
should make quite sure that everything is thoroughly
understood between us, and a man's past record
should be checked before we sign any important
agreement with him.
However, if we are depending upon God instead
of man, we must look to God for the fulfillment
and not be disappointed even if the personality fails.
We know that God cannot fail. We must be fair
with God, however, and comply with His laws. We
cannot expect to plant pigweeds and get poppies. We
cannot expect to plant suspicion, distrust, and crit-
icism in the garden of invisible thought stuff and
reap a reward of confidence, contentment, and Truth.
It is easy to pick flaws in the other fellow's conduct
when he does not measure up to his agreement, but
we should not forget to look within ourselves for
possible causes that may have interfered with the
carrying out of the agreement.
Were you ever disappointed in yourself? Can
you trust the human or personal nature in you?
Doubtless you have at some time promised yourself
that you would do a certain good deed that you
knew you should do. When you failed to do it you
made some shoddy excuse for your failure. Perhaps
you decided to go to church on Sunday, and then
because it rained you let the rain be your excuse
183
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
for not going. But you knew very well that if you had
planned to go to a picture show and it had rained,
you would have gone anyway. You agree with your-
self that you will quit gossiping, but the first
thing
you know you are trifling with someone's good
name again, and you excuse yourself by saying that
certain news was so startling that when you heard it
you just forgot your resolve. But if you had asked
someone else not to gossip and he had continued to
do so, you would have felt very much disappointed
in him.
However, you should not criticize yourself or any-
one else for such failures. Criticism is just another
failure. If one dish is broken, breaking another dish
does not help matters. Instead of indulging in feel-
ings of criticism, remorse, or anger when you or some-
one else fails to make good, you should use your
God-given energy and redouble your efforts to avoid
belief in the power of failure.
We all are on the road to perfection, and we need
to keep reminding ourselves of this. We need to re-
mind ourselves momently that Truth is the only
eternal thing to tie to and that our satisfaction and
peace of mind can come from no other source than
Truth. We need to keep reminding ourselves that
we can help other people as well as ourselves to
measure up to the Truth by seeing the true Christ self
in them as well as in ourselves. Disappointment be-
cause of faith placed in the Christ self of a neighbor
will never be felt, because Christ is
perfect and can-
not disappoint anyone. The Christ in you is one
184
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
with the Christ in the other fellow and there can be
no disagreement among the members of the body of
Christ. There can be no disagreement between two
persons when Truth is finding expression in both
of them. In Truth they understand each other; in
Truth they are co-operating; in Truth there is no
division or opposition; their purpose is one in Christ.
Do not trust people as people, but trust the Christ
that is in them. Do not be foolishly sentimental about
trusting personality. We must be "wise as serpents,
and harmless as doves/' Our chief aim should be to
measure up within ourselves to the Christ standard
and not be too quick to point out the shortcomings of
those who have failed to please us.
Nobody can take anything away from you that
really belongs to you. If you desire more of God's
supply, harmony, peace, and love, begin to enlarge
your soul to make room for these things. But re-
member you cannot enlarge your soul by finding
fault with the other fellow's soul. Christ, the true
Son of God, is with you always, ready to help you.
Do not look for Him in the woods, in the church,
or in books, for He is within you. He will prove to
be an ever-present help to you when you let Him
take full charge of your affairs. Get your own little
personal ideas out of the way and He will help you.
185
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
The breath of Jehovah in me gives me life and in-
telligence.
MONDAY
I
place my faith in Christ, not in personality.
TUESDAY
I place my trust in God, and He never disappoints
me.
WEDNESDAY
I am just and true because I trust the Spirit of right-
eousness in me.
THURSDAY
I quickly forget unpleasant things as I press "on to-
ward the goal unto the prize of the high calling of
God in Christ Jesus."
FRIDAY
I am established in peace because I have placed my
faith in eternal Truth.
SATURDAY
The Christ in me greets the Christ in you, and we
are agreed in righteousness.
186
Freeing Our Friends
THERE
ARE MILLIONS of slaves in the world to-
day whose masters are their own kin.
Do not be offended at what I say, but listen
to a definition o "slave" that I found in the dic-
tionary: "One wholly subject to the will of another,"
The slaves I have in mind are the loved ones who
pay the price of being loved by being dominated.
Someone has said, "Deliver me from my friends."
We often place the ones we love under the bondage
of our most misguided solicitude for their welfare.
I had to wear red-flannel underwear when I was a
boy because my mother loved me so much.
Friends should be helpful, not dictatorial. When
we love a pet animal we usually keep its daily routine
closely under our control. We must remember that
relatives and friends are not pets, but persons like
ourselves. Each individual must bring forth his ideals
in his own, way. No one can express his highest
good when he is being limited by the personal though
loving domination of another person.
It is
quite true that children and certain other per-
187
NEW VAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
sons need to be guided and trained and restrained at
times, but children should be set free from the moth-
er's and father's personal fears and ignorant notions
and placed in God's loving care. When a child feels
that he is free to do his best that is, that he is
being
wisely guided instead of restricted he will react
more favorably to suggestions and to discipline.
A mother's fear for a child's safety is one source
of restraint that may cause difficulty. Her fear that
he may be harmed when he is out of sight, or that
he may fall among bad associates interferes with the
child's unfoldment and peace of mind.
A child should be sent to school with the thought
that God is
infolding and protecting him. The parent
should mentally place him in God's loving care
knowing that he will do what is right and that he
will be protected from harm and evil.
No one can do his best while he is under the
handicap of a loved one's fear for his safety or his
behavior. But one who has been set free by a friend
or parent to do the will of God is much safer and
much more likely to do right.
Actually many mothers unconsciously torment
their cherished children because of their love for
them. These mothers should remember that perfect
love casts out fear and also gives freedom in spirit to
the loved one. I refer to freedom in the parent's
mind from negative imaginings, worries, and distrust.
A child cannot of course be allowed freedom to
do everything he wants to do, but he can be freed
from that awful pressure of doubt, worry, suspicion,
188
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
and fear that so often causes the parent to nag at
and to overdo his supervision of the child. A single
child in a family sometimes is to be pitied because the
parents concentrate their fears upon him, while if
there were a number of children their fears would
be divided.
Many of us treat certain grown members of our
family as though we think they are still children
who need to be closely supervised. We expect them
to do just as we think they ought, and we are disap-
pointed and grieved if they disobey us. We must learn
to place everyone we love in God's loving care and
work with him as a child of God, not as someone
who must be trained like a pet.
When a person feels that he is free, there is a great
load lifted from his mind, and his actions, thoughts,
and ways will be more natural, free, and harmonious.
When we doubt people we deny them the right to
express their true spiritual nature. A husband may
dominate his wife or a wife may dominate her hus-
band, offering as a reason that he or she is
giving
his or her life to care for the other and the other is
therefore under great obligation.
One whose freedom is inhibited by the domina-
tion of someone who loves him cannot express his
best nature toward his ''master" any more than an
auto that has its radiator covered up can give perfect
service to the driver. A person can do his best only
when he is free to think and act as God within him
directs.
It is also true that many of us are bound by our
189
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
own consciousness and therefore are not free to do
our best. But we can be helped by our friends
7
declar-
ing that divine love is
freeing us. We can help free
ourselves by declaring that divine love is
casting out
of our consciousness all ideas of fear and bondage.
We should declare freedom for ourselves and for
our friends and relatives, and rejoice in the freedom
that Jesus Christ proclaims.
When we are burdened with care, worry, and
fear, we respond to the thought of freedom like a
wilted flower to a refreshing shower.
Let us free all the slaves of our household and en-
joy the wonderful freedom of the kingdom of God
here and now in the spirit
of love that Jesus Christ
brings to us. "Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there
is liberty."
SUGGESTIONS FOR DAILY MEDITATION
SUNDAY
"I am free from selfishness and fear, and I am setting
my loved ones free also.
MONDAY
I have placed ail my loved ones in the care of our
loving Father, who is
protecting and guiding them.
190
NEW WAYS TO SOLVE OLD PROBLEMS
TUESDAY
I will no longer interfere with the spiritual growth
of my loved ones; I have set them free to do the
will of God.
WEDNESDAY
The Spirit of the Lord goes before my child today,
making safe, happy, and successful his way.
THURSDAY
The love of Jesus Christ is setting me free from all
thoughts of personal domination.
FRIDAY
I am not ruled by personal will but am guided by
the will of the Father.
SATURDAY
God has created all things good in Spirit and in
Truth, and I trust in His power to maintain that
goodness.
191
(Publisher's (^Announcement
Ways to Solve Old Problems, by Lowell Fillmore is
published by the Unity School of Christianity, an inde-
pendent educational institution devoted to teaching the
principles of Christianity and the application of these prin-
ciples to everyday life and affairs. In addition to New
Ways to Solve Old Problems, Unity School publishes the
dfollowing other books:
BEGINNING AGAIN, by Frank B. Whitney
BEST LOVED UNITY POEMS
BOTH RICHES AND HONOR, by Annie Rix Militz
CHRIST ENTHRONED IN MAN, by Cora Fillmore
CHRISTIAN HEALING, by Charles Fillmore
EFFECTUAL PRAYER, by Frances W. Foulkes
GOD A PRESENT HELP, by H. Emilie Cody
GOD is THE ANSWER, by Dana Gatlin
GREAT PHYSICIAN, by Ernest C, Wilson
HAVE WE LIVED BEFORE ?, by Ernest C. Wilson
How I USED TRUTH, by H. Emilie Cody
JESUS CHRIST HEALS, by Charles Fillmore
KNOW THYSELF, by Richard Lynch
LESSONS IN TRUTH, by H, Emilie Cody
LETTERS OF MYRTLE FILLMORE
LOVINGLY IN THE HANDS OF THE FATHER, by Evelyn Whitell
MIGHTIER THAN CIRCUMSTANCE, by Frank B. Whitney
MYSTERIES OF GENESIS, by Charles Fillmore
MYSTERIES OF JOHN, by Charles "Fillmore
PROSPERITY, by Charles Fillmore
PROSPERITY'S TEN COMMANDMENTS, by Georgiana Tree West
THE SUNLIT WAY, by Ernest C. Wilson
TALKS ON TRUTH, by Charles Fillmore
TEACH Us TO PRAY, by Charles and Cora 'Fillmore
TRUTH IDEAS OF AN M. D., by Dr C. O. Southard
THE TWELVE POWERS OF MAN, by Charles Fillmore
WHAT ARE You?, by Imelda Ottawa Shanklin
WHATSOEVER YE SHALL ASK, by Zelia M. Walters
WORKING WITH GOD, by Gardner Hunting
You AND YOUR CHILD, by Zelia M. Walters
You CAN BE HEALED, by Clara Palmer
These books cover so many subjects of general and vital interest
that among them you are sure to find one that meets a need of your
own or that of a friend Beautifully bound and gilt stamped, these
lovely Unity books are priced at $1 each.
UNITY SCHOOL OF CHRISTIANITY
917 Tracy Ave., Kansas Qty 6, Missouri
PRINTED U.S.A. 2SF-13M-10-47
